savage New Mexican scenery. The low hills covered with pines and piñons,
the romantic glens, and the wide views from the elevations about the
hotel, make it an attractive place; and a great deal has been done, in
the erection of bath-houses, ornamental gardening, and the grading of
roads and walks, to make it a comfortable place. The latitude and the
dryness of the atmosphere insure for the traveller from the North in our
winter an agreeable reception, and the elevation makes the spot in the
summer a desirable resort from Southern heat. It is a sanitarium as well
as a pleasure resort. The Hot Springs have much the same character as
the Töplitz waters in Bohemia, and the saturated earth--the
Mütterlager--furnishes the curative "mud baths" which are enjoyed at
Marienbad and Carlsbad. The union of the climate, which is so favorable
in diseases of the respiratory organs, with the waters, which do so much
for rheumatic sufferers, gives a distinction to Las Vegas Hot Springs.
This New Mexican air--there is none purer on the globe--is an enemy to
hay-fever and malarial diseases. It was a wise enterprise to provide
that those who wish to try its efficacy can do so at the Montezuma
without giving up any of the comforts of civilized life.
It is difficult to explain to one who has not seen it, or will not put
himself in the leisurely frame of mind to enjoy it, the charms of the
desert of the high plateaus of New Mexico and Arizona. Its arid
character is not so impressive as its ancientness; and the part which
interests us is not only the procession of the long geologic eras,
visible in the extinct volcanoes, the barrancas, the painted buttes,
the petrified forests, but as well in the evidences of civilizations
gone by, or the remains of them surviving in our day--the cliff
dwellings, the ruins of cities that were thriving when Coronado sent his
lieutenants through the region three centuries ago, and the present
residences of the Pueblo Indians, either villages perched upon an almost
inaccessible rock like Acamo, or clusters of adobe dwellings like Isleta
and Laguna. The Pueblo Indians, of whom the Zuñis are a tribe, have been
dwellers in villages and cultivators of the soil and of the arts of
peace immemorially, a gentle, amiable race. It is indeed such a race as
one would expect to find in the land of the sun and the cactus. Their
manners and their arts attest their antiquity and a long refinement in
fixed dwellings and occupations. The whole region is a most interesting
field for the antiquarian.
We stopped one day at Laguna, which is on the Santa Fé line west of
Isleta, another Indian pueblo at the Atlantic and Pacific junction,
where the road crosses the Rio Grande del Norte west of Albuquerque.
Near Laguna a little stream called the Rio Puerco flows southward and
joins the Rio Grande. There is verdure along these streams, and gardens
and fruit orchards repay the rude irrigation. In spite of these
watercourses the aspect of the landscape is wild and desert-like--low
barren hills and ragged ledges, wide sweeps of sand and dry gray bushes,
with mountains and long lines of horizontal ledges in the distance.
Laguna is built upon a rounded elevation of rock. Its appearance is
exactly that of a Syrian village, the same cluster of little, square,
flat-roofed houses in terraces, the same brown color, and under the same
pale blue sky. And the resemblance was completed by the figures of the
women on the roofs, or moving down the slope, erect and supple, carrying
on the head a water jar, and holding together by one hand the mantle
worn like a Spanish rebozo. The village is irregularly built, without
much regard to streets or alleys, and it has no special side of entrance
or approach. Every side presents a blank wall of adobe, and the entrance
seems quite by chance. Yet the way we went over, the smooth slope was
worn here and there in channels three or four inches deep, as if by the
passing feet of many generations. The only semblance of architectural
regularity is in the plaza, not perfectly square, upon which some of the
houses look, and where the annual dances take place. The houses have the
effect of being built in terraces rising one above the other, but it is
hard to say exactly what a house is--whether it is anything more than
one room. You can reach some of the houses only by aid of a ladder. You
enter others from the street. If you will go farther you must climb a
ladder which brings you to the roof that is used as the sitting-room or
door-yard of the next room. From this room you may still ascend to
others, or you may pass through low and small door-ways to other
apartments. It is all haphazard, but exceedingly picturesque. You may
find some of the family in every room, or they may be gathered, women
and babies, on a roof which is protected by a parapet. At the time of
our visit the men were all away at work in their fields. Notwithstanding
the houses are only sun-dried bricks, and the village is without water
or street commissioners, I was struck by the universal cleanliness.
There was no refuse in the corners or alleys, no odors, and many of the
rooms were patterns of neatness. To be sure, an old woman here and there
kept her hens in an adjoining apartment above her own, and there was the
litter of children and of rather careless house-keeping. But, taken
altogether, the town is an example for some more civilized, whose
inhabitants wash oftener and dress better than these Indians.
We were put on friendly terms with the whole settlement through three or
four young maidens who had been at the Carlisle school, and spoke
English very prettily. They were of the ages of fifteen and sixteen, and
some of them had been five years away. They came back, so far as I could
learn, gladly to their own people and to the old ways. They had resumed
the Indian dress, which is much more becoming to them, as I think they
know, than that which had been imposed upon them. I saw no books. They
do not read any now, and they appear to be perfectly content with the
idle drudgery of their semi-savage condition. In time they will marry in
their tribe, and the school episode will be a thing of the past. But not
altogether. The pretty Josephine, who was our best cicerone about the
place, a girl of lovely eyes and modest mien, showed us with pride her
own room, or "house," as she called it, neat as could be, simply
furnished with an iron bedstead and snow-white cot, a mirror, chair, and
table, and a trunk, and some "advertising" prints on the walls. She said
that she was needed at home to cook for her aged mother, and her present
ambition was to make money enough by the sale of pottery and curios to
buy a cooking stove, so that she could cook more as the whites do. The
house-work of the family had mainly fallen upon her; but it was not
burdensome, I fancied, and she and the other girls of her age had
leisure to go to the station on the arrival of every train, in hope of
selling something to the passengers, and to sit on the rocks in the sun
and dream as maidens do. I fancy it would be better for Josephine and
for all the rest if there were no station and no passing trains. The
elder women were uniformly ugly, but not repulsive like the Mojaves; the
place swarmed with children, and the babies, aged women, and pleasing
young girls grouped most effectively on the roofs.
The whole community were very complaisant and friendly when we came to
know them well, which we did in the course of an hour, and they enjoyed
as much as we did the bargaining for pottery. They have for sale a great
quantity of small pieces, fantastic in form and brilliantly
colored--toys, in fact; but we found in their houses many beautiful jars
of large size and excellent shape, decorated most effectively. The
ordinary utensils for cooking and for cooling water are generally pretty
in design and painted artistically. Like the ancient Peruvians, they
make many vessels in the forms of beasts and birds. Some of the designs
of the decoration are highly conventionalized, and others are just in
the proper artistic line of the natural--a spray with a bird, or a
sunflower on its stalk. The ware is all unglazed, exceedingly light and
thin, and baked so hard that it has a metallic sound when struck. Some
of the large jars are classic in shape, and recall in form and
decoration the ancient Cypriote ware, but the colors are commonly
brilliant and barbaric. The designs seem to be indigenous, and to betray
little Spanish influence. The art displayed in this pottery is indeed
wonderful, and, to my eye, much more effective and lastingly pleasing
than much of our cultivated decoration. A couple of handsome jars that I
bought of an old woman, she assured me she made and decorated herself;
but I saw no ovens there, nor any signs of manufacture, and suppose
that most of the ware is made at Acoma.
It did not seem to be a very religious community, although the town has
a Catholic church, and I understand that Protestant services are
sometimes held in the place. The church is not much frequented, and the
only evidence of devotion I encountered was in a woman who wore a large
and handsome silver cross, made by the Navajos. When I asked its price,
she clasped it to her bosom, with an upward look full of faith and of
refusal to part with her religion at any price. The church, which is
adobe, and at least two centuries old, is one of the most interesting I
have seen anywhere. It is a simple parallelogram, 104 feet long and 21
feet broad, the gable having an opening in which the bells hang. The
interior is exceedingly curious, and its decorations are worth
reproduction. The floor is of earth, and many of the tribe who were
distinguished and died long ago are said to repose under its smooth
surface, with nothing to mark their place of sepulture. It has an open
timber roof, the beams supported upon carved corbels. The ceiling is
made of wooden sticks, about two inches in diameter and some four feet
long, painted in alternated colors--red, blue, orange, and black--and so
twisted or woven together as to produce the effect of plaited straw, a
most novel and agreeable decoration. Over the entrance is a small
gallery, the under roof of which is composed of sticks laid in straw
pattern and colored. All around the wall runs a most striking dado, an
odd, angular pattern, with conventionalized birds at intervals, painted
in strong yet fade colors--red, yellow, black, and white. The north
wall is without windows; all the light, when the door is closed, comes
from two irregular windows, without glass, high up in the south wall.
The chancel walls are covered with frescos, and there are several quaint
paintings, some of them not very bad in color and drawing. The altar,
which is supported at the sides by twisted wooden pillars, carved with a
knife, is hung with ancient sheepskins brightly painted. Back of the
altar are some archaic wooden images, colored; and over the altar, on
the ceiling, are the stars of heaven, and the sun and the moon, each
with a face in it. The interior was scrupulously clean and sweet and
