'It is more than a rumour. The tribes are even now assembling towards
Riad, and before many days are past the end will come. Abdullah is the
chief mover in this. But with your help, my brother, we will make his
plotting empty and his scheming fruitless as a twig of ghada stuck into
the sand, which will neither strike root nor bear leaves.'
When the Sheikh of the beggars heard that he was expected to give help
in frustrating Abdullah's plans he was troubled and much astonished.
'Shall the blind sheep go out and fight the lion?' he inquired
tremulously.
'Even so,' replied the Bedouin unmoved, 'and, moreover, without danger
to himself. Hear me first. Abdullah and his tribe will encamp in the low
hills, in a few days, as usual, but somewhat earlier than in other
years, and a great number of other Bedouins will be in the neighbouring
valleys at the same time. Then Abdullah will come into the city openly
and go to his house with his wife and slaves, and during several days he
will receive the visits of his friends and return them, and go to the
palace and salute Khaled, as though nothing were about to happen. But in
the meantime he will make everything ready, for it is his intention to
go into the palace at night, disguised in a woman's garment, with his
wife, and they will slay Khaled in his sleep, and bind Zehowah, and
distribute much treasure among the guards and slaves, and before morning
the city will be full of Bedouins all ready to proclaim Abdullah Sultan.
And you alone can prevent all this.'
But the blind man laughed in his beard.
'This is a good jest!' he cried. 'You have sought out a valiant warrior
to stand between the Sultan and death! I am blind and old, and a beggar,
and you would have me stand in the path of Abdullah and a thousand armed
men. They would certainly laugh, as I do. Let me take with me a few
lepers and the Egyptian jackass without legs, who has flown among us
lately like a locust out of the clear air. Verily, their strength shall
avail against the lances of the desert.'
'This is no jest, my brother,' answered the Bedouin, gravely. 'Neither
I, nor a hundred armed horsemen with me could do what you will do
unhurt. But I will save Khaled. For in the battle of the pass before we
came to Haïl last summer when I had an arrow in my right arm and a spear
thrust in my side, certain dogs of Shammars encompassed me, and darkness
was already descending upon my eyes when Khaled rode in like a whirlwind
of scythes, and sent four of them to hell, where they are now drinking
molten brass like thirsty camels. Then I swore by Allah that I would
defend him in the hour of need.'
'Why do you not then lie in wait for Abdullah yourself and slay him as
he passes you in the dark?'
'Is he not the sheikh of my tribe? How then can I lay a hand on him? But
I have thought of this during many nights in my tent, and you alone can
do what is needed.'
'Surely this is folly,' said the Sheikh of the beggars. 'You have met a
hot wind in the desert and your mind is unsettled by it. I pray you come
with me into the city to my dwelling, and take some refreshment, or at
least let me send to the well for a drink of water.'
'My head is cool and I am not thirsty, nor is the hot wind blowing at
this time of year. Hear me. I will tell you how to save Khaled from
destruction, and you shall receive more gold than you have dreamed of,
and a house, and rich garments, and a young wife of a good family to
comfort your old age. For the deed is easy and safe, but the reward will
be great, and you alone can do the one and earn the other.'
'I perceive,' said the blind man, 'that you are indeed in earnest, but I
cannot understand what I can do. We know that Khaled is forewarned, for
it is not many days since he summoned the chief men in Riad, with the
Kadi, to the palace, and refused to tell them the name of his father,
but said that if they attacked him he would kill as many of them as he
could.'
'I did not know this,' answered the Bedouin. 'But the knowledge does not
change my plan. Now hear me. You are the Sheikh of all the beggars in
Riad--may Allah send you long life and much gain--they are an army and
you are a captain. Moreover the beggars are doubtless attached to Khaled
by his generosity, and all of you say in your hearts that under Abdullah
there may be more sticks and less barley for you.'
'This is true. But then, my brother, it is otherwise with you, for you
are of Abdullah's tribe and will have honour and riches if he is made
Sultan. How then is my advantage also yours?'
'And did not this Abdullah in the first place divorce with ignominy his
second wife, who is my kinswoman, being the daughter of my father's
sister? And has he restored the dowry as the law commands? Truly his new
wife is even now sitting upon my cousin's carpet. And secondly Abdullah
made himself sheikh unjustly, for our sheikh should be Abdul Kerim's
son.'
'Yet you accepted Abdullah and promised him allegiance.'
'Does the camel say to his driver: "I do not like to carry a load of
barley, I would rather bear a basket of dates"? "Eat what you please in
your tent, but dress as other men," says the proverb. Hear me, for I
speak wisdom. Abdullah will come into the city and go to his house,
intending to prepare the way for evil. And he will walk about the
streets as usual, without attendants, both because he knows that the
people are mostly with him, and also in order not to attract notice. Now
Abdullah is the spring from which all this wickedness flows, he is the
chief camel whom the others follow, the coal in the ashes by which the
fire is kept alive, the head without which the body cannot live. Dry up
the spring, therefore, let the chief camel fall into a pit suddenly,
extinguish the coal, strike off the head. Let them ask in the morning:
"Where is he?" And let him not be found anywhere. Then the people will
be amazed and will not know what to do, having no leader. This is for
you to do, and it can easily be done.'
'What folly is this?' asked the blind man, shaking his head. 'And how
can I do what you wish?'
'It is very easy, for I know that you and your companions are as one
man, living together for the common good. Go to the beggars therefore
and tell them what I have told you, and be not afraid, for they will not
betray you. And when Abdullah walks about the city alone lie in wait for
him, for you will easily catch him in a narrow street, and two or three
score of you can run after him begging for alms, until he is surrounded
on all sides. Then fall upon him, and bind him, and take him secretly to
one of your dwellings and keep him there, so that none find him, until
the storm is past. In this way you will save Khaled and the kingdom, and
when all is quiet you can deliver him up to be a laughing-stock at the
palace and to all who believed in him. For there is nothing to fear, and
I, for my part, am sure that Abdul Kerim's son will immediately be made
sheikh of our tribe so that Abdullah will not return to us.'
'You are subtle, my brother,' said the Sheikh of the beggars, smiling
and stroking his beard. 'This is a good plan, being very simple, and
Khaled will be grateful to us, and honour us beggars exceedingly. Said I
not well that the jest was good? Surely it is better than I had thought,
and more profitable.'
'I have thought of it long in the nights of winter, both by the camp
fire and in my tent and on the march. But I have told no one, nor will
tell any one until all is done. But so soon as you have taken Abdullah
and hidden him, let me know of it. To this end, when we are encamped
outside the city I will come every evening to prayers in the great
mosque and afterwards will wait for you near the door. As soon as I know
that Abdullah is out of finding I will spread the report that he is
lost, and before long all our tribe will give up the search, being
indeed glad to get rid of him. And the rest is in the hand of Allah. I
have done what I can, you must now do your share.'
'By Allah! You shall not complain of me,' answered the blind man, 'nor
of my people, for the jest is surpassingly good, and shall be well
carried out.'
'I will therefore go into the city, where I have business,' said the
Bedouin. 'For I gave a reason for coming alone to Riad, and must needs
show myself there to those who know me.'
So the Bedouin filled the blind beggar's sack with barley and dates from
his own supply and embraced him and went into the city, but the Sheikh
of the beggars remained sitting in the same place for some time, at a
distance from the rest, in an attitude of inward contemplation, though
he was in reality listening to what the hunchback was telling the new
cripple from Egypt. The Sheikh's ears were sharper than those of other
men and he heard very clearly what was said.
'This Bedouin,' said the hunchback, 'is a near relation of our Sheikh,
and holds him in great veneration, coming frequently to see him even
from a considerable distance, and always bringing him a present of food.
And you may see by his mare and by his weapons that he is a person of
consideration in his tribe. For our Sheikh is not a negro, nor the son
of a Syrian camel-driver, but an Arab of the best blood in the desert,
and wise enough to sit in the council in the Sultan's palace. You, who
are but lately arrived, being transported into our midst by the mercy of
Allah, must learn all these things, and you will also find out that our
Sheikh has eyes in his ears, and in his fingers and in his staff, though
he is counted blind, and you cannot deceive him easily as you might
suppose.'
The Sheikh of the beggars was pleased when he heard this and listened
attentively to hear the answer made by the Egyptian, whom he did not yet
trust because he was a newcomer and a stranger.
'Truly,' replied the cripple, 'Allah has been merciful and
compassionate to me, for he has brought me into the society of the wise
and the good, which is better than much feasting in the company of the
ignorant and the ill-mannered. And as for the Sheikh, he is evidently a
very holy man, to whom eyes are not in any way necessary, his inward
sight being constantly fixed upon heavenly things.'
This answer did not altogether please the blind man, for it savoured
somewhat of flattery. But the other beggars approved of the speech,
deeming that it showed a submissive spirit, and readiness to obey and
respect their chief.
