over a million inhabitants, could make 
a terrific noise, and when that noise 
I was applause, the recipient found it 
 heady. Nero got drunk on popularity, 
 and heredity aiding where the prince 
 had been emerged the cad, a poseur 
I that bored, a beast that disgusted, a 
caricature of the impossible in a crimson frame. 
"What an artist the world is to 
lose! " he exclaimed as he died ; 
and artist he was, but in the Roman 
sense; one that enveloped in the same 
contempt the musician, acrobat and 
actor; one that branded every public 
performer with an appellation which 
even yet has not been rehabilitated. 
It was the artist that played the tlute 
while gladiators died and lovers em- 
braced; it was the artist that enter- 
tained the crowd. 
As an artist Nero would have made 
the fortune of a dozen concert-halls. 
Fancy the attraction — an emperor 
before the footlights; but fancy the 
boredom also. The joy at the announcement of his first appearance was 
so great that thanks were offered to 
the gods; and the verses he was to 
sing, graven in gold, were dedicated 
 
to the Capitoline Jove. The joy was 
brief. The exits of the theatre were 
closed. It was treason to attempt to 
leave. People pretended to be dead, 
in order to be carried out, and well 
they might. The star was a fat man 
with a husky tenorino voice, who sang 
drunk and half-naked to a, protecting 
claque of ten thousand hands. 
But it was in the circus that Nero 
was at his best ; there, no matter 
though he were last in the race, it 
was to him the palm was awarded, or 
rather it was he that awarded the 
palm to himself, and then quite magnificently shouted, "Nero, Caesar, victor in the race, gives his crown to 
the People of Rome!" 
On the stage he had no rivals, and 
by chance did one appear, he was 
invited to die. In that respect he 
was artistically susceptible. When 
he turned acrobat, the statues of 
former victors were tossed in the 
latrina;. Yet, as competitors were 
needed, and moreover, all emperor 
that he was, as he, singly, could fill 
neither a stage nor a track, it was the 
nobility of Rome that he ordered to 
appear with him. The nobility was 
willing enough to appear, only there 
were few that cared to be forced, and 
for this command the unforgiving 
nobility never forgave him. On the 
other hand, the proletariat loved him 
all the better. What greater salve 
could it have than the sight of the 
conquerors of the world entertaining 
the conquered, lords amusing their 
lackeys ? 
Greece meanwhile sent him crowns 
and prayers ; crowns for anticipated! 
victories, prayers that he would come  
and win them. Homage so delicate! 
was not to be disdained. Nero set 
forth, an army at his heels; a legioa 
 
of claqueurs, a phalanx of musicians, 
cohorts of comedians, and with these 
for retinue, through sacred groves that 
Homer knew, through intervales 
which Hesiod sang, through a year of 
festivals he wandered, always victorious. It was he who conquered at 
Olympia; it was he who conquered 
at Corinth. No one could withstand 
him. Alone in history he won in 
every game, and with eighteen hundred crowns as trophies of war he repeated Cesar's triumph. In a robe 
immaterial as a moonbeam, the 
Olympian wreath on his curls, the 
Isthmian laurel in his hand, his army 
behind him, the clown that was em- 
peror entered Rome. Victims were 
immolated as he passed, the Via Sacra 
was strewn with saffron, the day 
was rent with acclaiming shouts. 
Throughout the empire sacrifices 
Lwere ordered. Old people that lived 
 
in the country fancied him, Philostratus says, the conqueror of new na- 
tions, and sacrificed with dehght. 
But if as artist he bored everybody 
to death, he was yet an admirable 
impresario. The spectacles he gave 
were unique. At one which was held 
in the Taurian amphitheatre it must 
have been deli<i;htfui to assist. Fancy 
eighty thousand people on ascending 
galleries, protected from the sun by a 
canopy of spangled silk ; an arena 
three acres large carpeted with sand, 
cinnabar and borax, and in that arena 
death in every form, on those galleries 
colossal delight. 
The lowest gallery, immediately 
above the arena, was a wide terrace 
where' the senate sat. There were 
the dignitaries of the empire, and 
with them priests in their sacerdotal 
robes; vestals in linen, their hair 
arranged in the six braids that were 
 
symbolic of virginity; swarms of 
oriental princes, rainbows of foreign 
ambassadors; and in the centre, the 
imperial pulvinar, an enclosed pavilion, in which Nero lounged, a 
mignon at his feet. 
In the gallery above were the 
necklaced knights, their tunics bor- 
dered with the augusticlave, their 
deep-blue cloaks fastened to the 
shoulder; and there, too, in their wide 
white togas, were the citizens of 
Rome. 
Still higher the people sat. In the 
topmost gallery were the women, and 
in a separate enclosure a thousand 
musicians answered the cries of the 
multitude with the blare and the 
laugh of brass. 
Beneath the terraces, behind the 
barred doors that punctuated the 
marble wall which circled the arena, 
were Mauritian panthers that had 
been entrapped with rotten meat ; 
hippopotami from Sals, lured by the 
smell of carrots into pits; the rhinoceros of Gaul, taken with the net; lions, 
lassoed in the deserts; Lucanian 
bears, Spanish bulls; and, in remoter 
dens, men, unarmed, that waited. 
By way of foretaste for better 
things, a handful of criminals, local 
desperadoes, an impertinent slave, a 
machinist, who in a theatre the night 
before had missed an effect — these, 
together with a negligent usher, were 
tossed one after the other naked into 
the ring, and bound to a scaffold that 
surmounted a miniature hill. At a 
signal the scaffold fell, the hill crumbled, and from it a few hyenas issued, 
who indolently devoured their prey, 
With this for prelude, the gods 
avenged and justice appeased, a 
rhinoceros ambled that way, stimulated from behind by the point of a 
