not hope to see it now--you understand? Those things are always
inherited."
A deadly paleness came over Arden's face, and his clear brown eyes
seemed unsteady for a moment. His face twitched nervously, and his hands
were strained as they grasped the arms of his chair. Ghisleri looked
very grave.
"I repeat that I believe the doctor to be wholly mistaken. It would
hardly be the first time that doctors have made such mistakes.
Consumptive people do not behave as you do. They always feel that they
are getting well, until the very last, and they have a regular cough,
not to be mistaken, and they eat a great deal. You are quite different."
"But he examined, me so carefully," objected Arden, though he could not
help seeing a ray of hope.
"I cannot help that. He was mistaken."
That afternoon Ghisleri telegraphed to a great European celebrity whom
he knew in Paris, to come if possible at once, no matter at what
sacrifice of money. Forty-eight hours later the man of genius was
breakfasting with Pietro in his rooms.
"I will ask leave to bring you as a friend," said the latter. "I have
begged you to come on my own responsibility."
He wrote a note to Laura, explaining that an old acquaintance, a man of
world-wide fame, was spending a couple of days with him, and begged
permission to introduce him. He might amuse Arden, he said. He did not
mention the doctor's profession. It was just possible that neither Arden
nor Laura had ever heard of the man who was so great in a world not
theirs. Laura asked them both to tea by way of answer.
As it turned out, the Ardens had a very vague idea that the Frenchman
was a man of science. In the course of conversation he admitted that he
had studied medicine, and then went on to talk about the latest news
from Paris, social, artistic, and literary. Arden was charmed with him,
and Laura was really grateful to Ghisleri for helping to amuse her
husband.
Would they both come to luncheon the next day? They would, with
pleasure, and they went away together.
"Well?" asked Ghisleri, as they walked towards the Pincio in the early
dusk, just to breathe the air.
"I think he may live," answered the great man. "I believe it is a
trouble of the heart with an almost exhausted vitality."
Laura was left alone with her husband. Whether it was the doctor's
personal influence, or whether Arden was really momentarily better, she
could not tell, but he looked as he had not looked for two months.
"That man delights me," he said dreamily. "I do not know what there is
about him, and it is very foolish--but I fancy that if he were a doctor,
he might cure me--or keep me alive longer," he added, with a sort of
reluctant sadness.
Laura looked at him in surprise.
"He said he had studied medicine," she answered. "Shall I ask Signor
Ghisleri, if, as a friend, he would come and give his opinion?"
"It is too much to ask of a stranger."
"Nothing is too much to ask," she said quietly. In her own room she
wrote a note to Pietro.
With many apologies, she explained to him that her husband was so
delighted with Ghisleri's friend, that she believed it might make a
difference if, as a doctor--since he was one--the latter would be
willing to see him once and give his opinion.
Pietro smiled when he read the note. On the following day the great man
went again to the Tempietto, and with many protestations of incompetence
did as he was requested, assuring Lady Herbert that it was only in
deference to her wishes that he did so.
"You are not consumptive--in the least, and you may even become strong,"
he said, after a very long and thorough examination. "That, at least,"
he added, "is my humble opinion."
Arden's face brightened suddenly. But Laura and Ghisleri remained alone
together for a moment afterwards, while the doctor was already putting
on his coat.
"After all," said Laura, despondently, "it was to please Herbert. The
man says that his opinion is not worth very much."
"He is the greatest living authority on the subject," answered Ghisleri.
"You may safely take his opinion."
Laura's face expressed her surprise, and at the same time, an
unspeakable relief.
"Are you sure?" she asked, in trembling tones.
"Ask your doctor. He will tell you. Will you forgive me my little trick,
Lady Herbert? As he was here, I thought you might like to see him."
Ghisleri put out his hand to take his leave, and Laura pressed it
warmly.
"If I had ever had anything to forgive, I would forgive you--for your
great kindness to me," she said, and the tears were almost in her eyes.
"It is you who should forgive me for not trusting you when you first
spoke. How wrong I was!"
"Nonsense!" exclaimed Ghisleri. "It was very natural."
And so it seemed to him, perhaps. But such little tricks, as he called
what he had done, cost money, and that year Ghisleri did not buy the bit
of land which stood next on the list in his scheme for reacquiring the
old estate.
CHAPTER VII.
Arden's health improved, at first very rapidly, and then more slowly, as
he seemed to approach what, for him, was a normal condition of strength.
The month of December was fine, and he was able to drive out constantly,
to be up most of the day, and to talk with acquaintances without any
great fatigue. As a natural consequence, too, Laura regained in a very
short time all that she had lost, and her eyes no longer looked sunken
and haggard nor her face unnaturally pale.
Her gratitude to Ghisleri was boundless, and as the days went on and
Arden had no relapse, she began to wonder how she could ever have felt
anything approaching to dislike for the man to whom she almost owed her
husband's life. Pietro, on his part, came often to the house and saw the
change that had taken place in her manner towards him. He was pleased,
though he had not thought of producing any impression upon her by what
he had done solely for Arden's sake, for he had long admired her, and
felt that she was very like a certain ideal of woman of which he never
talked. But his pleasure was not very genuine, after all. He hardly
believed that Laura's mood would last, because he had hitherto had
little experience of lasting moods in women. For the present, at least,
she believed in him and was grateful.
About this time Donna Adele, her husband, and his father and mother all
came back from the country, and at or near the same period the great
majority of the old society stagers appeared again as forerunners of the
coming season. The gay set was not yet all assembled, and it was even
reported that some of them would not come at all, for there was
financial trouble in the air, and many people had lost money, or found
their incomes diminished by the general depression. Nevertheless, when
Christmas came, few of the familiar faces of the previous year were
missing, and those few have not been seen in this history.
"This is the beginning," said Gouache to Ghisleri. "You may remember
that charming description of chaos in the sacred writings: 'in the
beginning darkness was over all the earth'--very like Rome before the
season begins. The resemblance ends there, my dear friend. The sentence
which follows would hardly be applicable. Are we to have another Shrove
Tuesday feast this year for the sake of giving sin a last chance? Have
you another diabolical production ready?"
"I am afraid not," answered Ghisleri. "Besides, one should never repeat
a good thing."
"That is what my wife says," observed Anastase, thoughtfully. "That dear
woman! But for her, I should do nothing but repeat my successful
pictures--if possible by a chemical process. It would be so easy! That
is the way the modern galleries of old masters are formed. There is a
little man in the Via da' Falegnami who turns out the article at a fixed
price, including the cost of the green wood for smoking the Rembrandts,
and the genuine old panels for doing the Botticellis. I often go to see
him. He knows more about grinding colours, and about vehicles and
varnishes, and the price of lamp-black than any artist I ever knew. He
painted that portrait of Raphael by himself--by Raphael, I mean, for
Prince Durakoff last year, and found the documents to prove its
existence among his papers. It took him six months, but it was well
done, especially the parchments. There was even the receipt for the
money paid to Raphael for the picture by the Most Excellent House of
Frangipani, signed by the painter himself--I mean by Raphael. Cheap, at
ten thousand francs. Durakoff paid the dealer eighty thousand without
bargaining. He did not reflect that if it had been genuine it would have
been worth five hundred thousand, and, if not, that it was not worth
fifty centimes."
"Rather like a friend," observed Ghisleri.
"Friendship is a matter of fortune," said Gouache, "as love is a
question of climate."
"You are not usually so cynical. What has happened?"
"My wife has been amusing me, this morning, with an account of society's
opinions on various subjects. One-half of her friends assure her that
black is white, and the other half tell her it is a vivid yellow. That
is called conversation. They give it you with tea, milk, and sugar,
between five and seven in the afternoon."
Gouache seemed to be in a somewhat communicative frame of mind. As a
matter of fact he often was with Ghisleri, whom he trusted more than
most men.
"What was it all about?" inquired the latter.
"People, people, and then people again. What does everybody talk about?
Silly stories about Lady Herbert Arden and Savelli, and about Lord
Herbert himself, and his dissipated life. The Ardens do not seem to be
liked. He is a great friend of yours, is he not?"
"Yes, we have known each other almost ten years." Ghisleri began to
