"Meaning yourself?"
"No, I mean the dead boy--that is the orphan's estate--without settling
with me. I am a man of influence, I'd have you know, and I'll put the
matter in the hands of the lawyer right off."
"It might be well, first, to listen to what I have to say."
"Aha! he's scared!" thought John Fox.
"I'm ready to hear what you've got to say," he answered, "but it won't
influence me a particle."
"I think it will. Harry Vane is alive!"
"What!" ejaculated John Fox, his face expressing his dismay. "It's a
lie. I don't believe it."
"Georgie," said Mr. Howard to his little son, who just then entered the
room, "go to my desk and bring me Harry Vane's letter."
This was done at once, John Fox meanwhile sitting in painful suspense.
"This letter," said Mr. Howard, taking it in his hand, "was posted, as
you see, at Melbourne, Australia. Harry was shipwrecked on an island,
from which he finally escaped, and was carried to Melbourne. He writes
me that he has gone to the mines, and is hoping to find some gold
there."
"Is this true?" asked Fox in a hollow voice.
"I will read you the letter, and show you the signature."
"I think it's a forgery."
"No chance of that. I know Harry Vane's handwriting well. But you don't
look well, Mr. Fox. I thought you would be pleased to hear that Harry
had escaped from the perils of shipwreck and is alive."
John Fox did not reply, but after examining the letter he rose with a
rueful countenance, and departed unceremoniously, a badly disappointed
man.
"It'll cost me three dollars to get back," he groaned, "and I shall have
to stop at a hotel, for there is no train till to-morrow. 'Most ten
dollars gone altogether--just thrown away! I'm a very unlucky man."
The news he carried home brought grief to Mrs. Fox and Joel. Only Sally
seemed glad that Harry was still living. For so expressing herself she
was severely rebuked by her mother.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
HOME AGAIN.
It was a bright, beautiful morning when our three friends landed in New
York. Their voyage had been a favorable one, and they had made some
pleasant acquaintances, but they were overjoyed to tread once more the
familiar streets and see the familiar sights of the American
metropolis.
They registered at a quiet hotel on the European system, intending to
remain in the city a few days. They sought out a prominent broker and
asked his advice about the investment of their money. He received them
in a friendly manner, and gave them the best advice in his power. Each
reserved three hundred dollars for present use.
It was a novelty to all of them to be free from anxiety on the score of
money, and it may well be believed that all enjoyed the feeling.
The second morning, as they were walking down Broadway, their eyes fell
upon a familiar figure. Directly in front of them they beheld a slender
young man, dressed in the extreme of fashion, swinging a light cane. As
he walked along it was easy to see that he was on the most comfortable
and agreeable terms with himself, and firmly persuaded that he was an
object of general admiration.
"Montgomery Clinton!" exclaimed Harry and Jack simultaneously.
"You don't mean to say you know that critter!" said Obed, eying Mr.
Clinton with evident curiosity.
"Yes, he was one of the Nantucket passengers, and shipwrecked with
us," said Harry. "He did not remain in Australia, but took a return
vessel at once."
"That was lucky. A critter like that wouldn't be of much account at the
mines."
"Stop! I am going to speak to him."
Harry quickened his step, and touched Mr. Clinton on the shoulder.
Clinton turned languidly, but when he saw who it was his face expressed
undisguised pleasure.
"Mr. Vane!" he exclaimed. "I'm awfully glad to see you, don't you
know?"
"You haven't forgotten my friend Jack, I hope," said Harry, indicating
the young sailor.
"I am glad to see him, too," said Mr. Clinton, with modified pleasure,
offering two fingers for Jack to shake, for he had not forgotten that
Jack had been a sailor.
"When did you come from Australia?" asked Clinton.
"We only arrived day before yesterday."
"And what luck did you have at the mines?"
"We struck it rich. We are all capitalists, Jack and all."
"You don't say so! I wish I had gone with you, really now."
"I don't think you'd have liked it, Mr. Clinton. We had a hard time. We
had to wade through mud and mire, and sleep on the ground, and twice we
were captured by bushrangers. They wanted Jack and myself to join the
band."
"You don't say so--really?"
"They might have made you a bushranger, Mr. Clinton, if they had caught
you."
"I never would consent, never!" said Mr. Clinton, with emphasis.
Jack smiled at the idea of the elegant Mr. Clinton being transformed
into an outlaw and bushranger.
"I am awfully glad I did not go with you," he said, shuddering.
"Let me make you acquainted with my friend, Mr. Obed Stackpole, Mr.
Clinton," said Harry. "He was with us in all our trials and dangers."
Montgomery Clinton surveyed Obed with evident curiosity. The long gaunt
figure of the Yankee was clad in a loose rough suit which was too large
for him, and Clinton shuddered at the barbarous way in which he was
attired.
"Glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Stickpole," he said politely.
"Stackpole, if it's all the same to you, friend Clinton," corrected
Obed. "Glad to see any friend of Harry's and Jack's. You look as if you
had just come out of a bandbox."
"Ob, thank you," said the gratified dude. "You're awfully kind. My
friends think I have a little taste in dress."
"My friends never paid me that compliment," said Obed. "Say, how do you
like my fit out?"
"I--I don't think they have very good tailors in Australia," said
Clinton hesitatingly.
"Have you as many pairs of trousers as ever, Mr. Clinton?" asked Harry.
"I have only nineteen, Mr. Vane, but I shall order some more soon."
"Nineteen pairs of breeches!" ejaculated Obed in amazement. "What in the
name of Jehoshaphat do you want of so many?"
"Well, I don't want to have people get used to seeing me in the same
trousers, don't you know, so every day I wear a different pair."
"It must cost a mint of money to buy so many clothes."
"Oh, I have accounts with four or five tailors. They're willing to wait,
don't you know. They appreciate a gentleman's custom."
"How long do they wait?" asked Harry.
"I'm owing some two years. There's lots of fellows make them wait as
long."
"That aint my way," said Obed. "I pay cash. Don't they make a fuss?"
"Oh, they send in their bills, but I don't take any notice of them,"
said Clinton languidly.
"Then, young man," said Obed, "let me advise you to pay your bills, and
get back your self-respect. I'd go six months with only a single pair of
breeches, sooner than cheat a tailor out of a new pair."
"I never wear breeches," drawled Clinton, with a shudder. "I don't know
what they are. Mr. Vane, those trousers you have on are very unbecoming.
Let me introduce you to my tailor. He'll fit you out in fashionable
style."
"Thank you. I believe I do need a new pair."
"Will he fit me, too?" asked Obed.
"He don't make--breeches!" said Clinton disdainfully.
"A good hit, by Jehoshaphat!" exclaimed Obed, slapping Clinton on the
back with such emphasis that he was nearly upset.
"Don't hit quite so hard," said the dude ruefully. "You nearly upset me,
don't you know?"
"I know it now. The fact is, friend Clinton, you ought to be shut up in
a glass case, and put on exhibition in a dime museum."
"How awfully horrid!" protested Clinton.
"You're more fit for ornament than use."
"You're awfully sarcastic, Mr. Stackpole, don't you know?" said Clinton,
edging off cautiously. "I must bid you good-morning, Mr. Vane, as I have
to buy a new neck tie. I will go to the tailor's any day."
"What was such a critter made for, anyway?" queried Obed, when Clinton
was out of hearing. "He looks for all the world like a tailor's dummy."
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
THE BOYS SECURE POSITIONS.
Before leaving New York, Harry Vane decided to call upon the nephew to
whom Mr. Woolson of Melbourne had given him a letter of introduction.
Upon inquiry, he found that John Woolson & Co. (the style of the firm)
were large importers in the lower part of the city.
Accompanied by Jack, he called one morning. Mr. John Woolson, a
courteous gentleman, about forty years of age, received him with
politeness, which changed to cordiality when he had read his uncle's
letter.
"My uncle writes here that you two young gentlemen recently rendered him
an important service."
"We were fortunate enough to save him from being robbed," said Harry
modestly.
"And maltreated, also, I presume," said the nephew. "When did you arrive
in New York?"
"Last Thursday, sir."
