met. I hate introducing people. They’re apt to remember it against one.
Griggs is an old friend, Miss Lauderdale.”
Katharine looked at the painter and thought he was less repulsive than
usual.
“I know,” she answered. “Do you really want me to sit this morning, Mr.
Crowdie? You know, we said Friday--”
“Of course I do! There’s your chair, all ready for you--just where it
was last time. And the thing--it isn’t a picture yet--is in the corner
here. Hester, dear, just help Miss Lauderdale to take off her hat, won’t
you?”
He crossed the room as he spoke, and began to wheel up the easel on
which Katharine’s portrait stood. Griggs said nothing, but watched the
two women as they stood together, trying to understand the very opposite
impressions they made upon him, and wondering with an excess of cynicism
which Crowdie thought the more beautiful. For his own part, he fancied
that he should prefer Hester’s face and Katharine’s character, as he
judged it from her appearance.
Presently Katharine seated herself, trying to assume the pose she had
taken at the first sitting. Crowdie disappeared behind the curtain in
search of paint and brushes, and Hester sat down on the edge of a huge
divan. As there was no chair except Katharine’s, Griggs seated himself
on the divan beside Mrs. Crowdie.
“There’s never more than one chair here,” she explained. “It’s for the
sitter, or the buyer, or the lion-hunter, according to the time of day.
Other people must sit on the divan or on the floor.”
“Yes,” answered Griggs. “I see.”
Katharine did not think the answer a very brilliant one for a man of
such reputation. Hitherto she had not had much experience of lions.
Crowdie came back with his palette and paints.
“That’s almost it,” he said, looking at Katharine. “A little more to the
left, I think--just the shade of a shadow!”
“So?” asked Katharine, turning her head a very little.
“Yes--only for a moment--while I look at you. Afterwards you needn’t
keep so very still.”
“Yes--I know. The same as last time.”
Meanwhile, Hester remembered that she had not yet asked Griggs to stay
to luncheon, though she had taken it for granted that he would.
“Won’t you stay and lunch with us?” she asked. “Miss Lauderdale says she
will, and I’ve told them to set a place for you. We shall be four. Do,
if you can!”
“You’re awfully kind, Mrs. Crowdie,” answered Griggs. “I wish I could. I
believe I have an engagement.”
“Oh, of course you have. But that’s no reason.” Hester spoke with great
conviction. “I daresay you made that particular engagement very much
against your will. At all events, you mean to stay, because you only say
you ‘believe’ you’re engaged. If you didn’t mean to stay, you would say
at once that you ‘had’ an engagement which you couldn’t break. Wouldn’t
you? Therefore you will.”
“That’s a remarkable piece of logic,” observed Griggs, smiling.
“Besides, you’re a lion just now, because you’ve been away so long. So
you can break as many engagements as you please--it won’t make any
difference.”
“There’s a plain and unadorned contempt for social rules in that, which
appeals to me. Thanks; if you’ll let me, I’ll stay.”
“Of course!” Hester laughed. “You see I’m married to a lion, so I know
just what lions do. Walter, Katharine and Mr. Griggs are going to stay
to luncheon.”
“I’m delighted,” answered Crowdie, from behind his easel. He was putting
in background with an enormous brush. “I say, Griggs--” he began again.
“Well?”
“Do you like Rockaways or Blue Points? I’m sure Hester has forgotten.”
“‘When love was the pearl of’ my ‘oyster,’ I used to prefer Blue
Points,” answered Griggs, meditatively.
“So does Walter,” said Mrs. Crowdie.
“Was that a quotation--or what?” asked Katharine, speaking to Crowdie in
an undertone.
“Swinburne,” answered the painter, indistinctly, for he had one of his
brushes between his teeth.
“Not that it makes any difference what a man eats,” observed Griggs in
the same thoughtful tone. “I once lived for five weeks on ship biscuit
and raw apples.”
“Good heavens!” laughed Hester. “Where was that? In a shipwreck?”
“No; in New York. It wasn’t bad. I used to eat a pound a day--there were
twelve to a pound of the white pilot-bread, and four apples.”
“Do you mean to say that you were deliberately starving yourself? What
for?”
“Oh, no! I had no money, and I wanted to write a book, so that I
couldn’t get anything for my work till it was done. It wasn’t like
little jobs that one’s paid for at once.”
“How funny!” exclaimed Hester. “Did you hear that, Walter?” she asked.
“Yes; but he’s done all sorts of things.”
“Were you ever as hard up as that, Walter?”
“Not for so long; but I’ve had my days. Haven’t I, Griggs? Do you
remember--in Paris--when we tried to make an omelet without eggs, by the
recipe out of the ‘Noble Booke of Cookerie,’ and I wanted to colour it
with yellow ochre, and you said it was poisonous? I’ve often thought
that if we’d had some saffron, it would have turned out better.”
“You cooked it too much,” answered Griggs, gravely. “It tasted like an
old binding of a book--all parchment and leathery. There’s nothing in
that recipe anyhow. You can’t make an omelet without eggs. I got hold of
the book again, and copied it out and persuaded the great man at
Voisin’s to try it. But he couldn’t do anything with it. It wasn’t much
better than ours.”
“I’m glad to know that,” said Crowdie. “I’ve often thought of it and
wondered whether we hadn’t made some mistake.”
Katharine was amused by what the two men said. She had supposed that a
famous painter and a well-known writer, who probably did not spend a
morning together more than two or three times a year, would talk
profoundly of literature and art. But it was interesting, nevertheless,
to hear them speak of little incidents which threw a side-light on their
former lives.
“Do people who succeed always have such a dreadfully hard time of it?”
she asked, addressing the question to both men.
“Oh, I suppose most of them do,” answered Crowdie, indifferently.
“‘Jordan’s a hard road to travel,’” observed Griggs, mechanically.
“Sing it, Walter--it is so funny!” suggested Hester.
“What?” asked the painter.
“‘Jordan’s a hard road’--”
“Oh, I can’t sing and paint. Besides, we’re driving Miss Lauderdale
distracted. Aren’t we, Miss Lauderdale?”
“Not at all. I like to hear you two talk--as you wouldn’t to a reporter,
for instance. Tell me something more about what you did in Paris. Did
you live together?”
“Oh, dear, no! Griggs was a sort of little great man already in those
days, and he used to stay at Meurice’s--except when he had no money, and
then he used to sleep in the Calais train--he got nearly ten hours in
that way--and he had a free pass--coming back to Paris in time for
breakfast. He got smashed once, and then he gave it up.”
“That’s pure invention, Crowdie,” said Griggs.
“Oh, I know it is. But it sounds well, and we always used to say it was
true because you were perpetually rushing backwards and forwards. Oh,
no, Miss Lauderdale--Griggs had begun to ‘arrive’ then, but I was only a
student. You don’t suppose we’re the same age, do you?”
“Oh, Walter!” exclaimed Hester, as though the suggestion were an insult.
“Yes, Griggs is--how old are you, Griggs? I’ve forgotten. About fifty,
aren’t you?”
“About fifty thousand, or thereabouts,” answered the literary man, with
a good-humoured smile.
Katharine looked at him, turning completely round, for he and Mrs.
Crowdie were sitting on the divan behind her. She thought his face was
old, especially the eyes and the upper part, but his figure had the
sinewy elasticity of youth even as he sat there, bending forward, with
his hands folded on his knees. She wished she might be with him alone
for a while, for she longed to make him talk about himself.
“You always seemed the same age, to me, even then,” said Crowdie.
“Does Mr. Crowdie mean that you were never young, Mr. Griggs?” asked
Katharine, who had resumed her pose and was facing the artist.
“We neither of us mean anything,” said Crowdie, with a soft laugh.
“That’s reassuring!” exclaimed Katharine, a little annoyed, for Crowdie
laughed as though he knew more about Griggs than he could or would tell.
“I believe it’s the truth,” said Griggs himself. “We don’t mean anything
especial, except a little chaff. It’s so nice to be idiotic and not to
have to make speeches.”
“I hate speeches,” said Katharine. “But what I began by asking was this.
Must people necessarily have a very hard time in order to succeed at
anything? You’re both successful men--you ought to know.”
“They say that the wives of great men have the hardest time,” said
Griggs. “What do you think, Mrs. Crowdie?”
“Be reasonable!” exclaimed Hester. “Answer Miss Lauderdale’s
question--if any one can, you can.”
“It depends--” answered Griggs, thoughtfully. “Christopher Columbus--”
“Oh, I don’t mean Christopher Columbus, nor any one like him!” Katharine
laughed, but a little impatiently. “I mean modern people, like you two.”
“Oh--modern people. I see.” Mr. Griggs spoke in a very absent tone.
“Don’t be so hopelessly dull, Griggs!” protested Crowdie. “You’re here
to amuse Miss Lauderdale.”
“Yes--I know I am. I was thinking just then. Please don’t think me rude,
Miss Lauderdale. You asked rather a big question.”
“Oh--I didn’t mean to put you to the trouble of thinking--”
“By the bye, Miss Lauderdale,” interrupted Crowdie, “you’re all in black
