back at the sound of the bell.
“What is it? What’s happened?” asked old Lauderdale, and there was an
unwonted colour in his face.
“I don’t know, Mr. Lauderdale,” answered the nurse, a calm, ugly,
middle-aged woman from New England. “It was a woman’s voice. Shall I go
and ask?”
“No--no!” he cried, huskily. “It was my niece--help me up, Mrs.
Deems--help me up. I’ll go as I am.”
He was clad in loose garments of white velvet--the only luxurious fancy
of his old age. He got up on his feet, steadying himself by the nurse’s
arm.
“Let me ring for the men, Mr. Lauderdale,” she said, rather anxiously.
“No, no! I can go so, if you’ll help me a little--oh, God! The child
must be hurt! Quick, Mrs. Deems--I can walk quicker than this--hold your
arm a little higher, please. Yes--we shall get along nicely so--why
didn’t I have a lift in the house! I was always so strong! Quickly, Mrs.
Deems--quickly.”
When Robert Lauderdale entered the drawing-room, he saw a crowd of
people gathering together round something which they hid from him.
“Go away! Go away!” he cried, in his hollow, broken voice.
The servants fell back at the voice of the master, only the butler
remaining at hand. Katharine was lying back in a deep arm-chair, her
broken arm resting upon a little table which had been hastily pushed to
her side. John Ralston was bending over it, and looking at it rather
helplessly, as pale as death. Opposite him, on Katharine’s left, stood
her father, his face still darkly flushed, his lips swollen and purple
from Ralston’s blow.
“Clear the room--and send for Doctor Routh,” said old Lauderdale,
turning his head a little towards Leek as he passed him.
“Yes, sir.”
“I’m afraid it’s broken,” Ralston was saying, and his hands trembled
violently as he softly passed them over Katharine’s arm.
Mrs. Deems was already undoing the buttons of the tight sleeve which
chanced to be the fashion at that time. Robert Lauderdale pushed
Alexander aside, and bent down over the chair, supporting himself with
his hands.
“Katharine--little girl--you’re hurt, dear,” he said, as gently as his
hoarseness would let him speak. “How did it happen?”
“It won’t be anything,” she said, in answer, shaking her head and trying
to smile.
“How did it happen?” repeated the old man, standing up again, and
steadying himself, as he looked anxiously at Ralston.
But Ralston did not answer at once. Across the old gentleman’s shoulder
his eyes met Alexander’s for an instant.
“Are you going to tell what you did, or shall I?” he asked, fiercely.
“What? What?” asked old Robert, in surprise. “What’s this?” He looked
from one to the other.
“Well--” Alexander began, “it’s rather hard to explain--”
“You’re mistaken,” interrupted Ralston, promptly. “It’s perfectly
simple. You threw Katharine down, and she broke her arm.”
“You--threw Katharine--down!” repeated the old man, the first words
spoken in wonder, the last in wrath.
“Not at all, uncle Robert,” protested Alexander. “Do you suppose for a
moment that I’m such a man as to--”
“I don’t care what sort of man you are!” retorted Robert Lauderdale. “If
you’ve laid hands on Katharine, you shall leave the house--for the last
time. Tell me what happened, Jack--Katharine--both of you!”
“We quarrelled and didn’t see Katharine,” said John, his brown eyes on
fire. “She thought we’d fight, and ran forward and held me round the
neck to keep us apart. Her father dragged her away violently and she
fell. Then I hit him.”
“I didn’t drag her violently--”
“Katharine--isn’t that what happened?” asked Ralston.
Old Lauderdale bent down towards her again--but there was no need of
looking into her eyes to find the truth there. Her only thought was for
Ralston, and he was speaking the truth. She loved him as few women love.
She had loved him through good and evil report, with all her soul. And
she was ruthless of others, as loving women are. For his sake, she would
have sent her father to the gallows, if he had done murder, and if the
one word which might have saved him could have done Ralston the least
hurt.
“It’s exactly as Jack says,” she answered, in clear tones. “He pulled me
from Jack and threw me down.”
Then the old man’s wrath broke out like flame. But there was a little
pause first. The blood rushed to his pale cheeks, his bony hands were
clenched, and the old veins swelled to bursting in his throat and at his
temples. The broken, harsh voice thundered and crashed as he cursed his
nephew.
“God damn you, sir! Leave my house this instant!”
Alexander Lauderdale Junior had got his deserts and more also, and he
knew it. But he stood still where he was.
“It’s useless to argue with a man in your state--” he began.
“Are you going, you damned coward?” roared old Robert. “Ring the bell,
Jack--send for the men--turn that brute out--”
He was beside himself with rage, but John glanced at Alexander, and then
walked slowly towards the nearest bell. He was not inclined to spare the
man who had injured Katharine. Perhaps most men in his position would
have carried out the orders of the master of the house. Seeing that he
was in the act to press the button, Alexander yielded. It was not at all
probable that the millionaire’s half dozen Englishmen would disobey
their master, and Robert was capable at the present moment of having him
literally kicked into the middle of the street. He had the temper that
ran through all the blood of the Lauderdale tribe, and it was up--the
fierce, Lowland Scotch temper that is hard to rouse, and long
controllable, but dangerous at the last. He had disliked and despised
his nephew for years, but had not sought occasion against him. The
occasion had come suddenly and by violence, and the wild beast in him
was let loose.
Katharine’s eyes followed her father’s tall figure, as he stalked out of
the room, with an odd expression. She was avenged for much in that
moment.
“Brute!” growled Robert Lauderdale, as he disappeared behind the
curtain.
“Infernal scoundrel!” answered Ralston, through his closed teeth.
“I’m so sorry I screamed, uncle Robert,” said Katharine. “I waked you--”
Mrs. Deems interrupted her. She had ripped the seam of the tight sleeve,
for she knew that it could not be drawn over the broken arm. On the
white flesh there were two sets of marks--the one red, and evidently
produced in the late struggle. The others were black and blue. They were
side by side, the one set a little higher than the second. The arm was
already much swollen. Mrs. Deems had listened in silence to what had
been said, and her womanly heart had risen in sympathy for Katharine.
She touched Robert Lauderdale’s sleeve, and pointed to the old marks on
Katharine’s arm, calling his attention to them.
“Those weren’t made now, Mr. Lauderdale,” she said, in a low,
matter-of-fact tone.
“No--it was last night,” said Katharine, rather faintly. “Jack,
dear--get me a cup of tea. I don’t feel well.”
Ralston hurried away, saying something to himself which was not audible
to the others, and which may as well be omitted here. The black and
white of paper and ink make youth’s blood seem too red. Old Lauderdale’s
anger was still at the boiling-point, and broke out again.
“Do you mean to say that he’s been maltreating you, child?” he asked,
his face reddening again. “If he has--”
“No--not exactly, uncle dear--I’ll tell you--but--I’m a little faint.
Don’t worry.”
She sighed and closed her eyes, as she finished speaking. She was in
great pain now that the arm was swelling.
“Best not talk, Mr. Lauderdale,” said Mrs. Deems. “I’ll get some ice and
napkins.”
And she also left the room. The old man, alone with Katharine, bent over
her with difficulty, and kissed her white forehead. His old head
trembled as he raised himself again and looked shyly round, as though he
had done something to be ashamed of. The young girl opened her eyes,
smiled a little, and closed them again at once.
“Do you feel very ill, little girl?” asked Robert Lauderdale.
There was something pathetic in the evident attempt to make his
unnatural, hollow voice sound gentle and kind, and he stroked her thick
black hair with one bony hand, while the other rested on the back of the
chair.
“Oh, no--it’s nothing--only the pain in my arm. Don’t be frightened,
uncle Robert--I’m not going to die!”
She tried to laugh to reassure him. Then a sharp twinge from the broken
limb drew her face. The expression of her suffering was instantly
reflected in the old man’s features, and his bushy white eyebrows bent
themselves.
“Routh will be here in a minute,” he said, as though reassuring her.
“I’ve sent for him.”
She nodded her thanks, but said nothing. Then with her left hand she
found one of his, and pressed it affectionately. He lifted hers, and
pressed his bearded lips to it softly.
“It will be the worse for him,” he said, consoling her, as many men
console women, with the promise of vengeance.
In his mouth the words might mean much. There are few things which a
just man, justly angry, cannot accomplish against an offender, with the
aid of eighty millions of working capital, so to say. Moreover, Robert
Lauderdale was not dead yet, and could so change his will, if he
pleased, as to keep Alexander from ever receiving any share whatsoever
of the great fortune.
But Katharine was avenged already, and wished no further evil to her
