moment the sun falls. Perhaps, too, he was 
troubled by a vague foreboding, such as comes 
to mortals sometimes in spite of their 
limitations : he never saw Fort Ross again. 

On the horizon the fog crouched and moved ; 
marched like a battalion of ocean's ghosts ; 
suddenly cohered and sent out light puffs of 
smoke, as from the crater of a spectral volcano. 
The moon, full and bright and cold, hung low 
in the dark sky : one hardly noted the stars. 
The vast sweep of water was as calm as a lake, 
dark and metallic like the sky, barely reflect- 
ing the silver light between. But although 
calm it was not quiet. It greeted the forbid- 
ding rocks beyond the shore, the long irregu- 
lar line of stark, storm-beaten cliffs, with omi- 
nous mutter, now and again throwing a cloud 
of spray high in the air, as if in derisive proof 
that even in sleep it was sensible of its power. 
Occasionally it moaned, as if sounding a 
dirge along the mass of stones which storms 
had hurled or waves had wrenched from the 
crags above, —r-a dirge for beheaded Russians, 
for him who had walked the plank, or for the 
lover of Natalie Ivanhoff. 

Here and there the. cliffs were intersected by 

deep straggling gulches, out of whose sides 
grew low woods of brush ; but the three tables 
rising successively from the ocean to the forest 
on the mountain, were almost bare. On the 
highest, between two gulches, on a knoll so 
bare and black and isolated that its destiny 
was surely taken into account at creation, was 
a tall rude cross and a half hundred neglected 
graves. The forest seemed blacker just behind 
it, the shadows thicker in the gorges that 
embraced it, the ocean grayer and more illimi- 
table before it. '* Natalie Ivanhoff is there in 
her copper coffin," said Estenega, ''forgotten, 
already. " 

The curve of the mountain was so perfect 
that it seemed to reach down a long arm on 
either side and grasp the cliffs. The redwoods 
on its crown and upper slopes were a mass of 
rigid shadows, the points, only, sharply etched 
on the night sky. They might have beei,i a 
wall about an undiscovered country. 

"Come," cried Rotscheff, " we are ready, to 
start." And Estenega sprang to his horse. 

'*I don't envy you," said the Princess Helene 
from the veranda, her silveren head barelf 
visible above the furs which enveloped her. 
" I prefer the fire." 

"You are warmly clad?'' asked Estenega 

ofChonita. '*But you have the blood of the 
South in your veins. " 

They climbed the steep road between the 
levels, slowly, the women chattering and ask- 
ing questions, the men explaining and advis- 
ing. Estenega and Chonita having much to 
say, said nothing. 

A cold volume of air, the muffled roar of a 
mountain torrent, rushed out of the forest, 
startling with the suddenness of its impact. 
Once a panther uttered its human cry. 

They entered the forest. It was so dark 
here that the horses wandered from the trail 
and into the brush again and again. Conversa- 
tion ceased ; except for the muffled footfalls of 
the horses and the speech of the waters there 
was no sound. Chonita had never known a 
stillness so profound ; the giant trees crowding 
together seemed to resent intrusion, to menace 
an eternal silence. She moved her horse 
close to Estenega's and he took her hand. Oc- 
casionally there was an opening, a well of 
blackness, for the moon had not yet come to 
the forest. 

They reached the summit, and descended. 
Half-way down the mountain they rode into a 
farm in a valley formed by one of the many 
basins. 


The Indians were waiting, and killed a bul- 
lock at once, placing the carcass in a conspicu- 
ous place. Then all retired to the shade of the 
trees. In less than a half-hour a bear came 
prowling out of the forest and began upon the 
meal so considerately provided for him. When 
his attention was fully engaged, Rotscheff and 
the officers, mounted, dashed down upon him, 
swinging their lassos. The bear showed fight 
and stood his ground, but this was an occasion 
when the bear always got the worst of it One 
lasso caught his neck, another his hind foot, 
and he was speedily strained and strangled to 
death. No sooner was he despatched than 
another appeared, then another, and the sport 
grew very exciting, absorbing the attention of 
the women as well as the energies of the men. 

Estenega lifted Chonita from her horse. 
" Let us walk," he said. " They will not miss 
us. A few yards farther, and you will be on my 
territory. I want you there. " 

She made no protest, and they entered the 
forest. The moon shone down through the 
lofty redwoods that seemed to scrape its crys- 
tal ; the monotone of the distant sea blended 
with the faint roar of the tree-tops. The vast 
gloomy aisles were unbroken by other sound. 

He took her hand and held it a moment, then 


drew it through his arm. " Now tell me all, " 
he said "They will be occupied for a long 
while. The night is ours." 

"I have come here to tell you that I love 
you, " she said. " Ah, can /make you tremble ? 
It was impossible for me not to tell you this ; 
I could not rest in my retreat without having 
the last word with you, without having you 
know me. And I want to tell you that I have 
suffered horribly ; you may care to know that, 
for no one else in the world could have made 
me, no one else ever can. Only your fingers 
could twist in my heart-strings and tear my 
heart out of my body. I suffered first because 
I doubted you, then because I loved you, then 
the torture of jealousy and the pangs of 
parting, then those dreadful three months when 
I heard no word. I could not stay at Casa 
Grande ; everything associated with you drove 
me wild. Oh, I have gone through all varieties !
But the last was the worst, after I heard 
from you again, and all other causes were
removed, and I knew that you were well and still 
loved me : the knowledge that I never could be 
anything to you, — and I could be so much ! 
The torment of this knowledge tvas so bitter 
that there was but one refuge, — imagination. 
I shut my eyes to my little world and lived 
with you ; and it seemed to me that I grew into 
absolute knowledge of you. Let me tell you 
