burden than to cast it down and seek in idle joys to banish penitence;
for thorns would lie amid the flowers. Farewell! Forget me, and in happy
England find some other heart to gladden with thy love. Oh, may she
prove as fond and faithful as thy Moorish Zara.
Ernest. I will plead no more, nor add to that sad heart another sorrow.
I will be worthy such true love, and though we meet no more on earth, in
all my wanderings sweet tender thoughts of thee shall dwell within my
heart. I will bear my sorrow as a brave man should. The life thou hast
saved and brightened by thy love shall yet be worthy thee. Farewell! May
all the blessings a devoted heart can give rest on thee, dearest. Heaven
bless thee, and grant that we shall meet again.
                                                                [Exit.
Zara. Gone, gone, forever! Oh, Father, couldst thou know the deep grief
and despair thy cruelty has brought two loving hearts, thou wouldst
relent, and call them back to happiness. Where can I look for comfort
now? [Weeps.] I will seek the good priest who hath so long watched
above the motherless child. I must find rest in some kind heart, and he
will cheer, and teach me how to suffer silently. I will seek old
Hernando's cell.
                                                           [Exit Zara.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE EIGHTH.
                         [Cell of the priest.
                   Hernando reading. Enter Zara.]
Zara. Father, I have come for help and counsel. Wilt thou give it now as
thou hast ever done to her who comes to learn of thee how best to bear a
sorrow cheerfully and well?
Her. Speak on, dear child. I know thy sorrow. Thou hast loved, and
sacrificed thy own life's joy to win a brave heart's freedom. Thou hast
done nobly and well; thy sorrow will but render thee more worthy of the
happiness thou hast so truly won.
Zara. No, no; we shall never meet again on earth. Ah, holy father, they
who told thee of my love for one who well might win the noblest heart,
have told thee but the lightest part of the deep grief that bears me
down. Listen to me, Father, and then give me comfort if thou canst. To
win my lover's freedom, I have sworn a solemn oath to wed none but of my
father's race. Ernest came from sunny England, and I am the daughter of
a Moorish lord. Alas, 'tis vain to hope! The vow is given, and must be
kept.
Her. Ay, Zara, and it may be kept; but these sad tears will change to
sighs of joy when I have told thee all. Then thou wilt bless the vow
which brings thee sorrow now.
Zara. Oh, speak! Tell me what joy canst thou give to lighten grief like
mine! Give me not too much hope; for if it fail, despair thou canst not
banish will cast a deeper gloom o'er this poor heart. Now, tell me all.
Her. Calm thyself, poor child; it will be well with thee, and thou shalt
yet blossom in thy loveliness beside the heart thou hast won. I will
tell thee the true tale of thy fair mother's life. She loved and wed a
stranger, and thus won the hatred of her Moorish kindred, who sought to
win her for their prince's bride. And when she fled away with him to
whom her true heart's love was given, they vowed a fierce revenge. Years
passed away; she drooped and died. Thy father perished bravely on the
field of battle, and left his child to me. I stood beside thy mother's
dying bed, and vowed to guard her babe till thou wert safe among thy
Moorish kindred. I have watched thee well, and thou art worthy all the
happiness thy true heart hath won. Bernardo of Castile is but thy
mother's friend; thy father was an English lord, and thou canst keep thy
vow, and yet wed the brave young Englishman who hath won thy love.
Zara. Heaven pardon this wild, wilful heart that should mourn the sorrow
sent, when such deep joy as this is given. Ah, Father, how can I best
thank thee for the blessed comfort thou hast given?
Her. Thy joy, dear child, is my reward. When thou art safe with him
thou lovest, my task on earth is done, and I shall pass away with happy
thoughts of the sweet flower that bloomed beside the old man's path
through life, and cheered it with her love. Bless thee, my Zara, and may
the spirit of thy mother watch above thee in the happy home thou hast
gained by thy noble sacrifice.
Zara. Oh, Father, may the joy thy words have brought me brighten thine
own life as they have mine. The blessings of a happy heart be on thee.
Farewell, Father!
                                       [Kneels, kisses his hand. Exit.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE NINTH.
                         [Hall in the castle.
                             Enter Zara.]
Zara. Selim said the packet would be here [takes the paper]. Ah, 'tis
from Ernest! He is near me,--we may meet again [opens letter and
reads].
    Lady,--Thy father will this night betray the city to the
    Spanish king, who hath promised his life and liberty for this
    treachery. He will not keep his oath, and thy father will be
    slain. Then bid him fly, and save all he most loves, for no
    mercy will be shown to those within the walls when once the
    Spanish army enters there. Save thyself. Heaven bless thee.
                                                            Ernest.
Brave and true unto the last! O heart! thou mayst well beat proudly, for
thou hast won a noble prize in the love of Ernest L'Estrange. Time
flies; this night the city is betrayed, and we must fly. Bernardo, lord
of fair Castile, is a traitor. Ah, thank Heaven he is not my father!
Yet for the love I bore him as a child, he shall be saved; and I will
cheer and comfort him now that the dark hour of his life has come.
                                                      [Enter Bernardo.
Ber. Zara, why dost thou look thus on me? I come to bid thee gather all
thou dost most prize, for the army is before the city, and we may be
conquered ere to-morrow's sun shall set.
Zara. Seek not to deceive me. I know all; and the love I bore thee as my
father is now turned to pity and contempt for the traitor who will this
night betray Castile.
Ber. Girl, beware, lest thy wild folly anger me too far! What meanest
thou? Who has dared to tell thee this?
Zara. Thou wouldst betray, and art thyself betrayed; and were it not for
him whom thou hast wronged and hunted, ere to-morrow's dawn thou wouldst
be no more, and I a homeless wanderer. Here! read the scroll, and see
how well the false king keeps his word he plighted thee for thy deed of
treachery.
Ber. [reads, and drops the paper]. Lost! lost! Fool that I was to
trust the promise of a king! Disgraced, dishonored, and betrayed! Where
find a friend to help me now? [Weeps.]
Zara. Here,--in the child who clings to thee through danger, treachery,
and death. Trust to the love of one whom once thou loved, and who still
longs to win thee back to happiness and honor.
Ber. Nay, child, I trust thee not. I have deceived thee and blighted all
thy hopes of love. Thou canst not care for the dishonored traitor. Go!
tell my guilt to those I would this night deliver up to death, and win a
deep revenge for all the wrong I have done thee. I am in thy power now.
Zara [tearing the paper]. And thus do I use it! No eye shall ever read
these words that do betray thee; no tongue call down dishonor on thy
head. Thy plot is not yet known, and ere to-night the gates may be well
guarded. Thou mayst fly in safety, and none ever know the stain upon thy
name. Thou whom I once called father, this is my revenge. I know all the
wrong thou hast done me,--the false vow I made to save the life of him I
loved. Zara's pity and forgiveness are thine, freely given; and her
prayer is that thou mayst find happiness in some fair land where only
gentle thoughts and loving memories may be thine.
Ber. Thou hast conquered, Zara; my proud heart is won by thy tender pity
and most generous pardon to one who hath so deeply wronged thee. But I
will repay the debt I owe thee. Thou shalt find again the loving father
and the faithful friend of thy young life. Thou shalt know how well
Bernardo can atone for all the sorrow he hath brought thee.
Zara. And I will be again thy faithful child.
Ber. 'Tis well; and now, my Zara, ere the dawn of another day we must
be far beyond the city gates. Selim shall guide us, and once free,
together we will seek another and a happier home. Courage, my child, and
haste thee. I will prepare all for our flight. Remember, when the turret
bell strikes seven, we meet again.
                                           [Embraces Zara, and exit.
Zara. Farewell! I will not fail thee. Love, joy, and hope may fade, but
duty still remains. Oh, Ernest, couldst thou but see thy own true Zara
now! Wouldst thou could aid me! [Enter Ernest disguised.] Ah, who
comes? A stranger. Speak! thine errand!
Ernest [kneeling, presents a scroll]. An English knight without the
gates did bid me seek thee with this scroll. May it please thee, read.
Zara [opens and reads].
    Lady,--Thou mayst trust the messenger. He will lead thee in
    safety to one who waits for thee. Delay not; danger is around
    thee.
        Thine,                                           Ernest.
Ah, here! so near me! Hope springs anew within my heart. Yes, I will go.
Homeless, friendless no more! Happy Zara! joy now awaits thee. Yet
stay!--my promise to Bernardo! I cannot leave him thus in danger, and
alone. What shall I do? Oh, Ernest, where art thou now?
Ernest [throwing off disguise, and kneeling before her]. Here, dearest
Zara! here at thy feet, to offer thee a true heart's fond devotion. To
thee I owe life, liberty, and happiness. Ah, let me thus repay the debt
of gratitude. Thy love shalt be my bright reward; my heart thy refuge
from all danger now. Wilt thou not trust me?
Zara. Ernest, thou knowest my heart is thine, and that to thee I trust
with joy my life and happiness. No vow stands now between us. I am
thine.
Ernest. Then let us hence. All is prepared; thy father shall be saved.
