her disposition was not in the least revengeful--a quiet, tall, fair
young woman, whose clear eyes looked every one calmly in the face and
whose strong white hands touched things delicately but could hold
firmly when she chose; carrying herself straight through a crowd, as
she bore herself upright through life. Those who knew her face best
admired especially her mouth and the small, well-cut, advancing chin,
which seemed made to meet difficulties as a swimmer's divides the
water. In figure, as in face, too, she was strong, the undulating
curves were those of elasticity and energy, rather than of indolence
and repose.
As Harry Brett talked and watched her he honestly tried not to wish
that she might have been his wife, and when his resolution broke down
he conscientiously talked on and did his best to interest himself in
his own conversation. The effort was familiar to him of old, and had so
often ended in failure that he was glad when the distant tinkle of the
door bell announced the coming of a third person. John rarely lunched
at home and old Mr. Darche was never summoned until the meal was
served. Brett broke off in the middle of his story and laughed a
little.
"I believe you have not understood a word of what I have been telling
you," he said.
Mrs. Darche looked up suddenly, abandoned the study of the burning logs
and leaned back in her chair before she answered. Then she looked at
him quietly and smiled, not even attempting to deny the imputation.
"It is very rude of me, is it not? You must forgive me, to-day. I am
very much preoccupied."
"You often are, nowadays," answered Brett, with a short, manlike sigh,
which might have passed for a sniff of dissatisfaction.
"I know I am. I am sorry."
The door opened and Dolly Maylands entered the room, followed closely
by Russell Vanbrugh.
CHAPTER III.
Simon Darche was undoubtedly a bore. Since bores exist and there is no
other name for them, the strong word has some right to pass into the
English language. The old gentleman belonged to the unconscious and
self-complacent variety of the species, which is, on the whole, less
unbearable than certain others. Generally speaking, it is true that
people who are easily bored are bores themselves, but there are many
very genuine and intolerable bores who go through life rejoicing and
convinced that their conversation is a blessing and their advice a
treasure to those who get it.
Bores always have one or two friends. Simon Darche had found one in his
daughter-in-law and he availed himself of her friendship to the utmost,
so that it was amazing to see how much she could bear, for she was as
constantly bored by him as other people, and appeared, indeed, to be
his favourite victim. But no one had ever heard her complain. Day after
day she listened to his talk, smiled at his old stories, read to him,
and seemed rather to seek his society than to avoid it. She was never
apparently tired of hearing about John's childhood and youth and she
received the old man's often repeated confidences concerning his own
life with an ever-renewed expression of sympathy.
"I simply could not stand it for a day!" exclaimed Dolly occasionally.
"Why, he is worse than my school children!"
Miss Maylands could not put the case more strongly. Perhaps no one else
could.
"I like him," answered Mrs. Darche. "I know he is a bore. But then, I
suppose I am a bore myself."
"Oh, Marion!" And Dolly laughed.
That was generally the end of the conversation. But Dolly, who was by
no means altogether frivolous and had a soul, and bestowed now and then
considerable attention upon its religious toilet, so to say--Dolly
fancied that Papa Darche, as she called him, took the place of a baby
in her friend's heart. Rather a permanent and antique baby, Dolly
thought, but better than nothing for a woman who felt that she must
love and take care of something helpless. She herself did not care for
that sort of thing. The maternal instinct developed itself in another
direction and she taught children in a kindergarten. The stupid ones
tired her, as she expressed it, but then her soul came to the rescue
and did its best, which was not bad. Dolly was a good girl, though she
had too many "purposes" in life.
Not many minutes after she and Vanbrugh had entered the room on the
morning described in the previous chapters, luncheon was announced.
"Tell Mr. Darche that luncheon is ready, Stubbs," said Marion, and
Stubbs, gray-haired, portly, rosy-cheeked and respectful, disappeared
to summon the old gentleman.
Vanbrugh looked at Brett and both smiled, hardly knowing why. Neither
of them had ever lunched at the house without hearing the same order
given by the hostess. People often smile foolishly at familiar things,
merely because they are familiar. Dolly and Mrs. Darche had sat down
together and the two men stood side by side near a table on which a
number of reviews and periodicals were neatly arranged in order. Brett
idly took up one of them and held it in his hand.
"By the bye," he said, "to-day is not Sunday. You are not ill, I hope."
"Only lazy," answered Vanbrugh.
"So am I," answered Brett after a moment's pause.
There they stood in silence, apathetically glancing at the two ladies,
at the fire and at the window, as two men who know each other very well
are apt to do when they are waiting for luncheon. Brett chanced to look
down at the magazine he held in his hand. It was bound in white paper
and the back of the cover was occupied by a huge advertisement in large
letters. The white margin around it was filled with calculations made
in blue and red pencil, with occasional marks in green. Mechanically
Brett's eyes followed the calculations. The same figure, a high one,
recurred in many places, and any one with a child's knowledge of
arithmetic could have seen that there was a constant attempt to make
up another sum corresponding to it,--an attempt which seemed always to
have failed. Brett remembered that Darche carried a pencil-case with
leads of three colours in it, and he tossed the magazine upon the table
as though he realised that he had been prying into another person's
business. He glanced at Mrs. Darche who was still talking with Dolly,
and a moment later he took up the magazine again and cautiously tore
off the back of the cover, crumpled it in his hands, approached the
fire and tossed it into the flames. Mrs. Darche looked up quickly.
"What is that?" she asked.
"Oh, nothing," answered Brett, "only a bit of paper."
Just then Simon Darche entered the room and all rose to go in to
luncheon together.
The old gentleman shook hands with Dolly and with both the men, looking
keenly into their faces, but mentioning no names. He was cheerful and
ruddy, and a stranger might have expected his conversation to be
enlivening. In this however, he would have been egregiously
disappointed.
"What have you been doing this morning?" asked Mrs. Darche turning to
him.
She had asked the question every day for years, whenever she had
lunched at home.
"Very busy, very busy," answered Mr. Darche.
His hands did not tremble as he unfolded his napkin, but he seemed to
bestow an extraordinary amount of attention on the exact position of
the glasses before him, pushing them a little forwards and backwards
and glancing at them critically until he was quite satisfied.
"Busy, of course," he said and looked cheerfully round the table.
"There is no real happiness except in hard work. If I could only make
you understand that, Marion, you would be much happier. Early to bed
and early to rise."
"Makes a man stupid and closes his eyes," observed Brett, finishing the
proverb in its modern form.
"What, what? What doggerel is that?"
"Did you never hear that?" asked Dolly, laughing. "It is from an
unwritten and unpublished book--modern proverbs."
Simon Darche shook his head and smiled feebly.
"Dear me, dear me, I thought you were in earnest," he said.
"So he is," said Dolly. "We may have to get up at dawn sometimes, but
we are far too much in earnest to go to bed early."
This was evidently beyond Simon Darche's comprehension and he relapsed
into silence and the consumption of oysters. Mrs. Darche glanced
reproachfully at Dolly as though to tell her that she should not chaff
the old gentleman, and Vanbrugh came to the rescue.
"Do you often get up at dawn, Miss Maylands?" he inquired.
"Do I look as if I did?" retorted the young lady.
"How in the world should I know," asked Vanbrugh. "Do I look as though
I associated with people who got up at dawn?"
Brett laughed.
"It always amuses me to hear you and Vanbrugh talk, Miss Maylands."
"Does it, I am so glad," said Dolly.
"Yes, you seem perfectly incapable of saying one word to each other
without chaffing."
Old Mr. Darche had finished his oysters.
"Yes--yes," he observed. "A pair of chaffinches."
A moment of silence followed this appalling pun. Then Mrs. Darche
laughed a little nervously, and Brett, who wished to help her, followed
her example. The old gentleman himself seemed delighted with his own
wit.
"We are beginning well," said Dolly. "Puns and proverbs with the
oysters. What shall we get with the fruit?"
Vanbrugh was inclined to suggest that the dessert would probably find
them in an idiot asylum, but he wisely abstained from words and tried
to turn the conversation into a definite channel.
"Did you read that book I sent you, Mrs. Darche?" he asked.
"Yes," answered the latter, "I began to read it to my father-in-law but
