pets of an Oriental prince--at no expense? Is it nothing to them to be
able to dazzle this poor little town with thousand-dollar rewards--at no
expense? Wilson, there isn't any such knife, or your scheme would have
fetched it to light. Or if there is any such knife, they've got it yet.
I believe, myself, that they've seen such a knife, for Angelo pictured
it out with his pencil too swiftly and handily for him to have been
inventing it, and of course I can't swear that they've never had it; but
this I'll go bail for--if they had it when they came to this town,
they've got it yet."
Blake said--
"It looks mighty reasonable, the way Tom puts it; it most certainly
does."
Tom responded, turning to leave--
"You find the old woman, Blake, and if she can't furnish the knife, go
and search the twins!"
Tom sauntered away. Wilson felt a good deal depressed. He hardly knew
what to think. He was loath to withdraw his faith from the twins, and
was resolved not to do it on the present indecisive evidence; but--well,
he would think, and then decide how to act.
"Blake, what do you think of this matter?"
"Well, Pudd'nhead, I'm bound to say I put it up the way Tom does. They
hadn't the knife; or if they had it, they've got it yet."
The men parted. Wilson said to himself:
"I believe they had it; if it had been stolen, the scheme would have
restored it, that is certain. And so I believe they've got it yet."
Tom had no purpose in his mind when he encountered those two men. When
he began his talk he hoped to be able to gall them a little and get a
trifle of malicious entertainment out of it. But when he left, he left
in great spirits, for he perceived that just by pure luck and no
troublesome labor he had accomplished several delightful things: he had
touched both men on a raw spot and seen them squirm; he had modified
Wilson's sweetness for the twins with one small bitter taste that he
wouldn't be able to get out of his mouth right away; and, best of all,
he had taken the hated twins down a peg with the community; for Blake
would gossip around freely, after the manner of detectives, and within a
week the town would be laughing at them in its sleeve for offering a
gaudy reward for a bauble which they either never possessed or hadn't
lost. Tom was very well satisfied with himself.
Tom's behavior at home had been perfect during the entire week. His
uncle and aunt had seen nothing like it before. They could find no fault
with him anywhere.
Saturday evening he said to the Judge--
"I've had something preying on my mind, uncle, and as I am going away,
and might never see you again, I can't bear it any longer. I made you
believe I was afraid to fight that Italian adventurer. I had to get out
of it on some pretext or other, and maybe I chose badly, being taken
unawares, but no honorable person could consent to meet him in the
field, knowing what I knew about him."
"Indeed? What was that?"
"Count Luigi is a confessed assassin."
"Incredible!"
"It's perfectly true. Wilson detected it in his hand, by palmistry, and
charged him with it, and cornered him up so close that he had to
confess; but both twins begged us on their knees to keep the secret, and
swore they would lead straight lives here; and it was all so pitiful
that we gave our word of honor never to expose them while they kept that
promise. You would have done it yourself, uncle."
"You are right, my boy; I would. A man's secret is still his own
property, and sacred, when it has been surprised out of him like that.
You did well, and I am proud of you." Then he added mournfully, "But I
wish I could have been saved the shame of meeting an assassin on the
field of honor."
"It couldn't be helped, uncle. If I had known you were going to
challenge him I should have felt obliged to sacrifice my pledged word in
order to stop it, but Wilson couldn't be expected to do otherwise than
keep silent."
"Oh, no; Wilson did right, and is in no way to blame. Tom, Tom, you have
lifted a heavy load from my heart; I was stung to the very soul when I
seemed to have discovered that I had a coward in my family."
"You may imagine what it cost me to assume such a part, uncle."
"Oh, I know it, poor boy, I know it. And I can understand how much it
has cost you to remain under that unjust stigma to this time. But it is
all right now, and no harm is done. You have restored my comfort of
mind, and with it your own; and both of us had suffered enough."
The old man sat awhile plunged in thought; then he looked up with a
satisfied light in his eye, and said: "That this assassin should have
put the affront upon me of letting me meet him on the field of honor as
if he were a gentleman is a matter which I will presently settle--but
not now. I will not shoot him until after election. I see a way to ruin
them both before; I will attend to that first. Neither of them shall be
elected, that I promise. You are sure that the fact that he is an
assassin has not got abroad?"
"Perfectly certain of it, sir."
"It will be a good card. I will fling a hint at it from the stump on the
polling-day. It will sweep the ground from under both of them."
"There's not a doubt of it. It will finish them."
"That and outside work among the voters will, to a certainty. I want you
to come down here by and by and work privately among the rag-tag and
bobtail. You shall spend money among them; I will furnish it."
Another point scored against the detested twins! Really it was a great
day for Tom. He was encouraged to chance a parting shot, now, at the
same target, and did it.
"You know that wonderful Indian knife that the twins have been making
such a to-do about? Well, there's no track or trace of it yet; so the
town is beginning to sneer and gossip and laugh. Half the people believe
they never had any such knife, the other half believe they had it and
have got it still. I've heard twenty people talking like that to-day."
Yes, Tom's blemishless week had restored him to the favor of his aunt
and uncle.
His mother was satisfied with him, too. Privately, she believed she was
coming to love him, but she did not say so. She told him to go along to
St. Louis, now, and she would get ready and follow. Then she smashed her
whisky bottle and said--
"Dah now! I's a-gwyne to make you walk as straight as a string,
Chambers, en so I's bown' you ain't gwyne to git no bad example out o'
yo' mammy. I tole you you couldn't go into no bad comp'ny. Well, you's
gwyne into my comp'ny, en I's gwyne to fill de bill. Now, den, trot
along, trot along!"
Tom went aboard one of the big transient boats that night with his heavy
satchel of miscellaneous plunder, and slept the sleep of the unjust,
which is serener and sounder than the other kind, as we know by the
hanging-eve history of a million rascals. But when he got up in the
morning, luck was against him again: A brother-thief had robbed him
while he slept, and gone ashore at some intermediate landing.
CHAPTER XVI.
Sold Down the River.
If you pick up a starving dog and make him prosperous, he will not bite
you. This is the principal difference between a dog and a
man.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
We know all about the habits of the ant, we know all about the habits of
the bee, but we know nothing at all about the habits of the oyster. It
seems almost certain that we have been choosing the wrong time for
studying the oyster.--Pudd'nhead Wilson's Calendar.
When Roxana arrived, she found her son in such despair and misery that
her heart was touched and her motherhood rose up strong in her. He was
ruined past hope, now; his destruction would be immediate and sure, and
he would be an outcast and friendless. That was reason enough for a
mother to love a child; so she loved him, and told him so. It made him
wince, secretly--for she was a "nigger." That he was one himself was far
from reconciling him to that despised race.
Roxana poured out endearments upon him, to which he responded
uncomfortably, but as well as he could. And she tried to comfort him,
but that was not possible. These intimacies quickly became horrible to
him, and within the hour he began to try to get up courage enough to
tell her so, and require that they be discontinued or very considerably
modified. But he was afraid of her; and besides, there came a lull, now,
for she had begun to think. She was trying to invent a saving plan.
Finally she started up, and said she had found a way out. Tom was almost
suffocated by the joy of this sudden good news. Roxana said:
"Here is de plan, en she'll win, sure. I's a nigger, en nobody ain't
gwyne to doubt it dat hears me talk. I's wuth six hund'd dollahs. Take
en sell me, en pay off dese gamblers."
Tom was dazed. He was not sure he had heard aright. He was dumb for a
moment; then he said:
"Do you mean that you would be sold into slavery to save me?"
"Ain't you my chile? En does you know anything dat a mother won't do for
her chile? Day ain't nothin' a white mother won't do for her chile. Who
made 'em so? De Lord done it. En who made de niggers? De Lord made 'em.
In de inside, mothers is all de same. De good Lord he made 'em so. I's
gwyne to be sole into slavery, en in a year you's gwyne to buy yo' ole
mammy free ag'in. I'll show you how. Dat's de plan."
Tom's hopes began to rise, and his spirits along with them. He said--
"It's lovely of you, mammy--it's just--"
"Say it ag'in! En keep on sayin' it! It's all de pay a body kin want in
dis worl', en it's mo' den enough. Laws bless you, honey, when I's
slavin' aroun', en dey 'buses me, if I knows you's a-sayin' dat, 'way
off yonder somers, it'll heal up all de sore places, en I kin stan'
'em."
"I do say it again, mammy, and I'll keep on saying it, too. But how am I
going to sell you? You're free, you know."
