boys." But at the moment while the pha 
lanx turned, to march singing down the 
street, a little bouquet came tossing lightly 
in and dropped at Fay Fleet 's feet. It was 
gracefully done. The flowers were South 
ern jonquils, and they were thrown by Lee 
Calhoun. 
Fay was to go to Boston that night with 
her father, on her way to Vermont. Don 
ald had no opportunity now to see her alone. 
" I shall come up this vacation," he said 
excitedly. " I shall be sure to come, if I 
may?" 
" I shall be glad to see you," murmured 
Fay, with some timidity. They did not 
talk much together. Donald ordered the 
carriage, and they all rode to the station, 
he and Jamie, Dr. Fleet and Fay. The 
talk was general, but it was generally 
 
particular ; about the young people and 
their plans and hopes. Jamie with the 
valedictory next year, God willing Donald 
and his De Courtney Fay and her diploma, 
they were a hopeful, merry lot. 
They spoke of the school in Massachusetts 
which Fay would take in September, wherein 
she would " cultivate the Greek expression " 
in dead earnest, having charge of the Greek 
department. They spoke of Jamie 's longing 
to follow his father 's profession, " if he could 
pull through." And Donald said he was 
to have money when he became of age next 
January, and that he'd see Jamie through ; 
but Jamie shook his head ; he did not like 
a debt, he said, even to his dear old Don. 
They spoke of Don, then, and of his future ; 
and Donald thought he should study for the 
bar. His head swam with visions of some 
day rivaling the eminent Rufus Choate him 
self, and being cribbed by plagiarists in 
Harle University, who were detected by 
young lady visitors, just in time to save the 
honest competitor from defeat, and the 
unworthy one from disgrace. 
Donald wrung Fay 's hand in silence when 
they parted at the train. She had dropped 
her veil, and looked at him through it with 
sweet, bright eyes, that fell before his steady 
gaze. And Dr. Fleet said : 
" God bless you, boys ! " and they were 
gone. 
Don and Jamie walked home together, 
not inclined to talk. The fellows were still 
out singing, and the streets stirred rest 
lessly ; the boys were singing the university 
chorus, " The College by the Sea." 
" Oh, the college by the sea ! 
Like thy waves, thine honor be ! 
Fair and free, 
Fair and free, 
Harle ! Harle ! Forever ever be ! " 
Donald 's soul thrilled with the passion of 
the chorus, with the college loyalty so dear 
to every student 's heart. 
" Bless her, anyhow, J. ! " he cried. " I 
wouldn't miss being an alumnus of old 
Harle for all I ever expect to be worth." 
As the two boys came up College Street 
to their rooms, which were probably packed 
now with fellows, waiting for them, a West 
ern Union Telegraph boy met them, walking 
quite fast for a messenger boy. He 
stopped, and touched his cap. 
" A dispatch for you, Mr. Marcy." 
Donald took the yellow envelope 
leisurely ; lie had lived a life in which a tele 
gram meant nothing in particular : he was 
laughing at something his chum had said, 
and looked the very dream of youth and 
beauty, and health and wealth, and hope 
and ambition, as he cast his merry eyes 
upon the paper, and read aloud : 
"Misfortune at home. Come immedi 
ately." 
The dispatch was signed with the name of 
an uncle, his father 's brother : " Francis 
Marcy" 
CHAPTER XXI. 
TERRIBLE TROUBLE. 
IT was nearly nine o clock in the morning 
when Donald rang the bell of his father 's 
door, in Lexington Avenue. His dreary 
journey home had been varied by the pro 
tecting presence of Jerry McCarty, who had 
been sent on special business to New York, 
by the chief of the Harle police. There 
was a safe-robbery case, whereon Jerry was 
working a theory involving a Sophomore 
with a doubtful reputation (Jerry 's theories 
seldom advanced beyond the Sophomore 
class), and Jerry was in conmunication with 
a city gang, for whom, he was pleased to 
believe, the Sophomore had acted as cat's
paw. 
Jerry was very confidential and conver 
sational with Marcy ; and Donald, glad to 
be diverted from the misery into which the 
vague alarm of his uncle 's telegram had 
plunged him, allowed Jerry to be as friendly 
as his heart could desire. Secretly, Jerry 
 
was fond of the young collegian, as every 
body else was, and lie perceived that Marcy 
was in real trouble. The policeman 
regretted this. He tried to entertain the boy. 
He treated him to a choice selection of the 
most blood-curdling anecdotes of his profes 
sion ; he could think of nothing more calculated 
to calm the mind in view of a great 
domestic affliction. Jerry 's own view of 
the case was, that Mr. T. B. Marcy had 
embezzled to the tune of half a million, and 
gone to Canada. 
He made up his mind to this, when Don 
ald, with the instinctive confidence of a lonely 
and anxious fellow, showed his telegram to 
the big policeman, who had nabbed him and 
let him off so many times in Freshman and 
Sophomore days, and toward whom he had 
something of the feeling of a little boy to 
ward an old family coachman, who shook 
him on the sly for unbuckling the harness. 
Donald and Jerry did not take the 
sleeper ; Don could not sleep and did not 
want to ; so they could talk on the train 
freely. 
Donald, as the dawn came on, began to 
be acutely anxious to get the morning paper. 
Jerry began to be equally anxious that 
he should not. As they approached the 
suburbs of New York, Jerry made what he 
thought to be a shrewd effort to get Don 
into the sleeper. 
"A foive - minute nap, now, Misther 
Marcy. It would, beloike, favor ye up a bit. 
I 'll go for ard and bespake yez a bunk. 
Ye 'll need a wink or two, sir, not knowin 
whatever 's loike to befall yez. This here 's 
a wurreld of sorproisin developmints, Mr. 
Marcy," urged Jerry mysteriously. " An 
American citizen, Mr. Don, had beloike best 
be prepared to fix his moind on any well, 
on any part of the map, sir. I've known 
affliction to take a geographical turn in the 
first of families. I'd advoise ye to turn in 
and take a snooze, agin ye're ready to meet 
poor luck. I 'll see to it, that naygur of a 
porter 's callin ye in airly season." 
" What in the world can you mean, 
