
The air was brisk; he buttoned his coat about 
him. Here and there a moonbeam touched the 
lapping edge of the water, or flashed out in the 
open stretch beyond the point of pines. High 
over the pines hung a cliff, blackening the water 
all around with fathomless shadow. 

A waiter came lounging by, his hands tucked 
beneath his coat-tails. "What point is that? 
The one which overhangs the pines there ?" asked 
Rex. 

"Gracious sir!" said the waiter, "that is the 
Schicksalfels." 

"Why Schicksal-fels ?" 

"Has the gracious gentleman never heard the 
legend of the Rock of Fate ?" 

"No, and on second thoughts, I don't care to 
hear it now. Another time. Good- night!" 

"Ah! the gentleman is too good! Thousand 
thanks! Gute Nacht, gnadiger Herr!" 



Gethryn remained looking at the crags. 

"They cannot be half a mile from here," he 
thought. "I suppose the path is good enough; 
if not, I can turn back. The lake will look well 
from there by moonlight." And he found him 
self moving up a little footpath which branched 
below the hotel. 

It was pleasant, brisk walking. The air had 
a touch of early frost in it. Gethryn swung 
along at a good pace, pulling his cap down, 
and fastening the last button of his coat. 
The trees threw long shadows across the path, 
hiding it from view, except where the moonlight 
fell white on the moist gravel. The moon her 
self was past the full, and not very bright; a 
film of mist was drawing over the sky. Geth 
ryn, looking up, thought of that gentle moon 
which once sailed ghost-like at high noon 
through the blue zenith among silver clouds 
while a boy lay beside the stream with rod and 
creel; and then he remembered the dear old 
yellow moon that used to flood the nursery with 
pools of light and pile strange moving shades 
about his bed. And then he saw, still looking 
up, the great white globe that hung above the 



frozen river, striking blue sparks from the ring 
ing skates. 

He felt lonely, and a trifle homesick. For 
the first time in his life, he was still so young, 
he thought of his childhood and his boyhood 
as something gone beyond recall. 

He had nearly reached his destination; just 
before him the path entered a patch of pine 
woods, and emerged from it, shortly, upon the 
flat-topped rock which he was seeking. Under 
the first arching branches he stopped and looked 
back at the marred moon in the mist-covered 
sky. 

"I am sick of this wandering," he thought. 
"Wane quickly! Your successor shall shine on 
my home: Yvonne's and mine." 

And, thinking of Yvonne, he passed into the 
shadows which the pines cast upon the Schicksal- 
fels. 



CHAPTER XVII. 

Paris lay sparkling under a cold, clear sky. 
The brilliant streets lay coiled along the Seine, 
and stretched glittering from bank to bank, 
from boulevard to boulevard; cafes, brasseries, 
concert halls, and theatres, in the yellow blaze 
of gas and the white and violet of electricity. 

It was not late, but people who entered the 
lobby of the Theatre Fauvette turned away be 
fore the placard "Standing room only." 

Somewhere in the city a bell sounded the 
hour, and with the last stroke the drop-curtain 
fell on the first act of "La Belle Helene." 

It fell amidst a whirlwind of applause, in 
which the orchestra led. 

The old leader of the violins shook his head, 
however. He had been there twenty years, 
and he had never before heard of singing in 
comic opera. 

"No, no," he said, "she can't stay here. 



Dame! she sings!" 




Madame Bordier was pale and happy; her 
good husband was weak with joy. The mem 
bers of the troupe had not yet had time to be 
jealous, and they, too, applauded. 

As for the house, it was not only conquered, 
it was wild with enthusiasm. The lobbies were 
thronged. 

Braith ran up against Rowden and Elliott. 

"By Jove!" they cried, with one voice, "who'd 
have thought the little girl had all that in her? 
I say, Braith, does Rex know about her? When 
is he coming?" 

"Rex doesn't know and doesn't care. Rex is 
cured," said Braith. "And he's coming next 
week. Where's Clifford?" he added, to make a 
diversion. 

"Clifford promised to meet us here. He'll be 
along soon." 

The pair went out for refreshments, and Braith 
returned to his seat. 

The wait between the acts proved longer than 
was agreeable, and people grumbled. The 
machinery would not work, and two heavy 
scenes had to be shifted by hand. Good Mon 
sieur Bordier flew about the stage in a delirium 



 

of excitement. No one would have recognized 
him for the eminently reasonable being he ap 
peared in private life. He called the stage 
hands "Prussian pigs!" and "Spanish cattle !" and 
