human joy the only reality, the sole value, the decreed and eternal
end of life. Upon this rare and scanty substitute for happiness he
fed; and from it he fled.
Between his devotions and his desertions the woman stood mute and
inscrutable. And while they still moved apart, saying, “The summer
is before us,” lo, the petals of the Cape roses had flown on the
hot winds, the goldenrod was lifting its sword of flame on the
undulating gray downs, and the summer was spent.
And yet, at every march and countermarch in the drill of duty, he
was aware of her. It could not be said that she ever overstepped
the invisible line which he had elected to draw between them;
though it might be said that she had the fine pride which did not
seem to see it. Helen had the quiet, maidenly reserve of an elder
and more delicate day than ours. To throw her young enthusiasm
into his work without obtruding herself upon his attention, was a
difficult procedure, for which she had at once the decorum and the
wit.
At unexpected crises and in unthought-of ways he came upon her
footprints or her sleight-of-hand. Helen’s methods were purely her
own. She followed neither law nor gospel; no rules or precedents
controlled her. She relieved what suffering she chose, and omitted
where she did elect; and he was sometimes astonished at the common
sense of her apparent willfulness. She had no more training in
sociological problems than the goldenrod upon the bosom of her
white gown; yet she seldom made a serious mistake. In a word, this
summer girl, playing at charity for a season’s amusement, poured
a refreshing amount of novelty, vigor, ingenuity, and feminine
defiance of routine into the labors of the lonely man. His too
serious and anxious people found her as diverting as a pretty
parlor play. A laugh ran around like a light flame whenever she
came upon the sombre scene. She took a bevy of idle girls with her,
and gave entertainments on which Angel Alley hung, a breathless
and admiring crowd. She played, she sang, she read, she decorated.
Pictures sprang on barren walls; books stood on empty shelves;
games crowded the smoking-room; a piano replaced the painstaking
melodeon; life and light leaped where she trod, into the poor and
unpopular place. The people took to her one of the strong, loyal
fancies of the coast. Unsuspected by her, or by himself, she began,
even then, to be known among them as “the minister’s girl.” But
this hurt nobody, neither herself nor him, and their deference to
her never defaulted. In the indulgence of that summer’s serious
mood, Helen seldom met, he was forced to suspect that she purposely
avoided, the preacher. Often he entered a laughing home from which
she had just vanished. Sometimes--but less often--he found that
she had preceded him where death and trouble were. Their personal
interviews were rare, and of her seeking, never.
“She is amusing herself with a novelty,” he thought. Then came the
swift, unbidden question, If this is her beautiful whim, what would
her dedication be?
Since, to play at helping a man’s work, though at the tip of the
sceptre by which he held her back, meant sense and sympathy, fervor
and courage like this, what would it be to the great and solemn
purpose of his life, if she shared it, crowned queen?
It was an August evening, sultry and smoky. Forest fires had been
burning for a week on the wooded side of the harbor, and the air
was thick. It was Sunday, and the streets and wharves and beaches
of Windover surged with vacuous eyes and irritable passions. The
lock-ups were full, the saloons overflowed. The ribald song and
excessive oath of the coast swept up and down like air currents.
There had been several accidents and some fights. Rum ran in
streams. It was one of the stifling evenings when the most decent
tenement retains only the sick or the helpless, and when the
occupants of questionable sailors’ boarding-houses and nameless
dens crawl out like vermin fleeing from fire. It was one of the
nights when the souls of women go to perdition, and when men do
not argue with their vices. It was one of the nights when ease and
cool, luxury and delicacy, forget the gehenna that they escape; and
when only the strong few remember the weakness of the many.
Upon the long beach of fine white sand which spanned the space
between the docks and the cliffs of the wooded coast, there
gathered that evening a large and unusual crowd. Angel Alley was
there en masse. The wharves poured out a mighty delegation. Dories
put out from anchored vessels whose prows nodded in the inner
harbor, and their crews swarmed to the beach in schools, like fish
to a net.
A few citizens of another sort, moved, one might say, from
curiosity, innocent or malicious, joined themselves to the
fishermen and sailors. Their numbers were increased by certain of
the summer people from the Point, drawn from their piazzas and
their hammocks by rumors of a sensation. An out-of-door service,
said to be the first of its kind conducted by the remarkable young
preacher of such excellent family and such eccentric career, was
not without its attractions even on the hottest evening of the
season. There might have been easily eight hundred or a thousand
people facing the light temporary desk or pulpit which had been
erected at the head of the beach for the speaker’s use.
The hour was early, and it would have been very light but for
the smoke in the air, through which the sun hung, quivering and
sinister, with the malevolent blood-red color of drought and
blasting heat.
“Statira,” in a low tone said the puzzled voice of the Professor
of Theology, “this is--I must say--really, a most extraordinary
gathering. It quite impresses me.”
“I have read something somewhere it reminds me of,” mused Mrs.
Carruth, with a knot between her placid brows. “Where was it,
Haggai?--Helen! Helen! What have I read that is like this? I can’t
think whether it is George Eliot, or Fox’s Book of Martyrs. Perhaps
it is the Memoirs of Whitefield; but certainly”--
“Possibly,” suggested Helen, “it may have been the New Testament.”
“That’s it! You have it!” cried Mrs. Carruth, with mild relief.
“That’s the very thing. How extraordinary! It is the New
Testament I have got into my head.”
The Professor of Theology changed color slightly, but he made no
answer to his wife. He was absorbed in watching the scene before
him. There were many women in the crowd, but men predominated in
proportion significant to the eye familiar with the painfully
feminine character of New England religious audiences. Of these
men, four fifths were toilers of the sea, red of face, uncertain of
step, rough of hand, keen of eye, and open of heart,--
  “Fearing no God but wind and wet.”
The scent of bad liquor was strong upon the heavy, windless air;
oaths rippled to and fro as easily as the waves upon the beach, and
(it seemed) quite as much according to the laws of Nature. Yet the
men bore a decent look of personal respect for the situation. All
wore their best clothes, and most were clean for the occasion. They
chatted among themselves freely, paying small heed to the presence
of strangers, these being regarded as inferior aliens who did not
know how to man a boat in a gale.
The fisherman’s sense of his own superior position is, in any
event, something delightful. In this case there was added the
special aristocracy recognized in Angel Alley as belonging to
Bayard’s people. Right under the ears of the Professor of Theology
uprose these awful words:--
“D---- them swells. He don’t care a ---- for them. We get along
up to Christlove without ’em, don’t we, Bob? The parson’s ourn,
anyhow. He can’t be bothered with the likes o’ them.”
“Look a’ Job Slip yonder! See the face of him, shaved like a dude.
That’s him, a-passin’ round hymn-books. Who’d believe it? Job!
Why, he ain’t teched a ---- drop sence he swore off! Look a’ that
young one of his taggin’ to his finger! That’s his wife, that
bleached-out creetur in a new bunnet. See the look of her now!”
“It’s a way women have,--lookin’ like that when a man swears off,”
replied a young fellow, wriggling uncomfortably. “It kinder puts my
eyes out--like it was a lamp turned up too high.”
He winked hard and turned away.
“Ben Trawl! Hello, Trawl! You here? So fond of the minister as
this?”
“I like to keep my eye on him,” replied Ben Trawl grimly.
Captain Hap, distributing camp-chairs for the women of the
audience, turned and eyed Ben over his shoulder. The Captain’s
small, keen eyes held the dignity and the scorn of age and
character.
“Shut up there!” he said authoritatively. “The minister’s comin’.
Trot back to your grogshop, Ben. This ain’t no place for Judases,
nor yet for rummies.”
“Gorry,” laughed a young skipper; “he ain’t got customers enough to
okkepy him. They’re all here.”
Now there sifted through the crowd an eager, affectionate whisper.
“There! There’s the preacher. Look that way--See? That tall, thin
fellar--him with the eyes.”
“That’s him! That’s him. That long-sparred fellar. Three cheers for
him!” shouted the mate of a collier, flinging up his hat.
A billow of applause started along the beach. Then a woman’s voice
called out:--
“Boys, he don’t like it!” and the wave of sound dropped as suddenly
as it rose.
“He comes!” cried an Italian.
“So he does, Tony, so he does!” echoed the woman. “God bless him!”
“He comes,” repeated Tony. “Hush you, boys--the Christman comes!”
The Professor of Theology pressed the tips of his scholarly fingers
