disappearance of the enemy in the bog," said the officer.

As soon as he received the information, the major hastened to the guard
tent, where the sentinel who had brought the news was detained. The
trooper repeated his information to the commander. It was hardly light
enough in the bog to see anything, but he and his mate had satisfied
themselves that the Rangers had all disappeared; but of how or where
they had made their escape he had no knowledge.

"Did you hear no noise of any kind?" asked the major.

"Nothing at all; it was as still as a tomb all the time I was on guard,"
replied the sentinel. "We were not sure they were gone till we walked
out a piece on the meadow, and found the hay, of which they had made a
road to solid ground; but it did not lead to the causeway."

"Where did it lead?" demanded the major.

"In the direction of the farmer's house; but we did not follow it, for
it was decided that I should come up to the camp and report what we had
found out."

"Who was with you, More?" asked the officer of the guard.

"Bunch; and he was to follow the hay-road after I left him," replied the
sentinel.

Major Lyon was very prompt in deciding upon his action, and the first
company was soon in line, and ready to march. Deck belonged in one of
its ranks, and Artie was in close attendance upon the commander. As the
former had conducted the detachment "across lots" the afternoon before,
the major sent for him; and the two young soldiers rode side by side
behind their father, who had Captain Gordon at his side.

"It seems that we are to have a long tramp of it after this; and we are
not likely to be at home Christmas or Thanksgiving this year," said
Artie, as the column descended the hill to the by-road.

"Wherever we may be, it looks like a lively time ahead; for things seem
to be very much mixed in the State," replied Deck.

"How do you suppose the Texans got out of the mud-hole, Deck?"

"I don't know; but I have no doubt the farmer who lives near it and owns
the farm helped them out of it. He is a surly fellow, and I saw that he
was a Secessionist when I met him."

"What do these two darkies want?" asked Artie, pointing to a couple of
colored men, who were running down the hill from the northward as though
their very lives depended upon their speed.

"Probably they are messengers who have come from the vicinity of the
bridge by the same route I did," replied Deck, as he noticed that one
of them was flourishing what looked like a letter in the air.

The two men reached the brook before the column turned in at the
by-road, and had a chance to catch their breath before the officers came
up to them. They had probably seen the column come out from the camp,
and had hurried to intercept it before it turned into the highway they
saw ahead; and it was probable that they were familiar with the
locality.

"W'ich o' you uns is Mars'r Major Lyon?" asked the man with the letter
of the first one he met, who happened to be Deck.

"The one with the plume in his hat," replied the private. "Where do you
come from, Cæsar?"

"From de souf road; more'n a t'ousand so'diers dar. De man wid de feder
in his hat," replied the negro, as he rushed forward to the major and
delivered his letter, with a jumbled speech, of which the recipient took
no notice.

Major Lyon drew up his horse at the side of the brook, his sons
remaining with him, while the column continued on the march. He tore
open the envelope, and read the epistle written with a pencil.

"Be'n a-lookin' fo' you all night, Mars'r," said the bearer. "De gin'ral
done gib me de letter 'fo' dark, an done tell me to find you. Done tramp
seben miles on de roleraid; but we done couldn't found you."

"Where did you sleep?" asked the major, who was evidently pleased with
the information contained in the letter.

"In a swotch-house," replied the messenger, who was very much confused,
and his small stock of English was badly mixed. "In a swotch-house on de
roleraid."

"He means a switch-house," laughed Deck, who could not see why the
fellow upset his words so badly.

The major read the missive a second time, and then took a sort of
portfolio from his pocket, and hastily wrote a reply to it, which he
folded and pinned together in the absence of an envelope.

"How did you find us this morning?" asked the major.

"We done find de hoss-tracks an' de wagon-tracks, an' we follers dem."

"Here's a dollar for your service; but don't spend it for apple-jack, my
boy," said the major, as he handed a couple of half-dollars to the
messengers. "You may go to the camp yonder, and get something to eat, if
you like, before you return."

The men were grateful; and the one who received the money gave half of
it to his companion. The major and his orderlies hurried forward, and
found that Captain Gordon had halted the company at the causeway, where
the inquiry must begin.

"The Home Guards arrived at the bridge last night, and the captain of
the company reports to me as directed. I have written out what
information I have to give him, and you will send a couple of your men
to deliver the paper."

Two troopers were despatched at once as the bearers of the order. It was
possible that the men might encounter some of the Rangers who had
escaped from the other side of the meadow; and they were cautioned by
the major to be on the lookout for them, and to return as soon as
possible. They departed at a gallop, which promised a speedy return.

"One thing is plain enough: the Texans did not come out of the mire by
this causeway," said the major, as he turned his attention to the
question under consideration.

"The sentinels were here all night," replied Captain Gordon.

"But we can easily discover where they did escape," added the commander
as he dismounted, indicating that he intended to conduct the inquiry
personally; and Deck and Artie followed his example. "Detail ten men to
go with us, dismounted, and you will go with us, Captain."

Deck and Artie were directed to go ahead as guides. They descended the
causeway, and came to the sod that covered and concealed the mud
beneath. The turf was strong enough to support men on foot, as had been
seen the afternoon before in the movements of the Rangers. But the hoofs
of the horses cut through it, and they were mired as soon as they
advanced, though some of them wallowed a considerable distance before
they gave up the struggle.

The meadow was nearly round in form, and about half a mile in diameter.
The orderlies, as both of them soon came to be called, advanced safely,
though they were compelled to avoid the places where the Texans' horses
had cut up the sod and brought the mud to the surface. The material of
the hay causeway, which had at first been extended in the direction of
the solid one, had been removed; but leading from the brook, towards a
point above the farmer's house, they saw the one that must have been
used by the Rangers.

The two haystacks seen the day before had been entirely removed, and the
road built of it was about a foot deep of hay. The officers and the ten
men followed the guides; and the hay causeway conducted them to an
inclined plane built of old boards and planks, which the party mounted,
and came to a field near the road. The mysterious disappearance of the
Texans was fully explained.




CHAPTER XXIX

