peaceful and comfortable, enough to make a body 
cry, it was so beautiful. 

Jim did cry, and rip and dance and carry on, 
he was so thankful and out of his mind for joy. It 
was my watch, so I had to stay by the works, but 
Tom and Jim dumb down and drunk a barrel 
apiece, and fetched me up a lot, and I've tasted a 
many a good thing in my life, but nothing that 
ever begun with that water. Then they went down 
and had a swim, and then Tom come up and spelled 
me, and me and Jim had a swim, and then Jim 
spelled Tom, and me and Tom had a foot-race and 
a boxing-mill, and I don't reckon I ever had such a 
good time in my life. It warn't so very hot, 
because it was close on to evening, and we hadn't 
any clothes on, anyway. Clothes is well enough 
in school, and in towns, and at balls, too, but there 
ain't no sense in them when there ain't no civilisa- 
tion nor other kinds of bothers and fussiness 
around. 

' Lions a-comin' ! — lions ! Quick, Mars Tom ! 
Jump for yo' life, Huck ! ' 

Oh, and didn't we? We never stopped for 
clothes, but walzed up the ladder just so. Jim 
lost his head straight off — he always done it when- 
ever he got excited and scared : and so now, 
'stead of just easing the ladder up from the ground 
a little, so the animals couldn't reach it, he turned 
on a raft of power, and we went whizzing up and 
was dangling in the sky before he got his wits to- 
gether and seen what a foolish thing he was doing. 
Then he stopped her, but had clean forgot what 
to do next ; so there we was, so high that the 
lions looked like pups, and we was drifting off on 
the wind. 

But Tom he shinned up and went for the works 
and begun to slant her down, and back towards the 
lake, where the animals was gathering like a camp 
meeting, and I judged he had lost his head, too ; 
for he knowed I was too scared to climb, and did 
he want to dump me amongst the tigers and 
things '? 

But no ; his head was level — he knowed what he 
was about. He swooped down to within thirty or 
forty foot of the lake, and stopped right over the 
centre, and sung out : 

' Leggo, and drop ! ' 

I done it, and shot down, feet first, and seemed 
to go about a mile towards the bottom ; and when 
I come up, he says : 

' Now lay on your back and float till you're 
rested and got your pluck back ; then I'll dip the 
ladder in the water and you can climb aboard.' 

I done it. Now, that was ever so smart in Tom, 
because if he had started off somewheres else to 
drop down on the sand, the menagerie would 'a' 
come along too, and might 'a' kept us hunting a 
safe place till I got tuckered out and fell. 

And all this time the lions and tigers was sorting 
out the clothes, and trying to divide them up so 
there would be some for all, but there was a mis- 
understanding about it somewheres, on accounts of 
some of them trying to hog more than their share ; 
so there was another insurrection, and you never see 
anything like it in the world. There must 'a' been 
fifty of them, all mixed up together, snorting and 
roaring and snapping and biting and tearing, legs and 
tails in the air, and you couldn't tell which belonged 
to which, and the sand and fur a-flying. And when 
they got done, some was dead, and some was limping 
off crippled, and the rest was setting around on the 
battlefield, some of them licking their sore places 
and the others looking up at us and seemed to be 
kind of inviting us to come down and have some 
fun, but which we didn't want any. 

As for the clothes, there warn't any any more. 
Every last rag of them was inside of the animals ; 
and not agreeing with them very well, I don't reckon, 
for there was considerable many brass buttons on 
them, and there was knives in the pockets, too, and 
smoking-tobacco, and nails and chalk and marbles 
and fishhooks and things. But I wasn't caring. 
All that was bothering me was that all we had now 
was the professor's clothes — a big enough assort- 
ment, but not suitable to go into company with, if 
we come across any, because the britches was as 
long as tunnels, and the coats and things according. 
Still, there was everything a tailor needed, and Jim 
was a kind of a jack-legged tailor, and he allowed he 
could soon trim a suit or two down for us that 
would answer. 


CHAPTER IX 

Still, we thought we would drop down there a 
minute, but on another errand. Most of the pro- 
fessor's cargo of food was put up in cans, in the 
new way that somebody had just invented, the rest 
was fresh. When you fetch Missouri beefsteak to 
the Great Sahara, you want to be particular and 
stay up in the coolish weather. Ours was all right 
till we stayed down so long amongst the dead people. 
That spoilt the water, and it ripened up the beef- 
steak to a degree that was just right for an English- 
man, Tom said, but was 'most too gay for 
Americans ; so we reckoned we would drop down 
into the lion market and see how we could make 
out there. 

We hauled in the ladder and dropped down till 
we was just above the reach of the animals, then 
we let down a rope with a slip knot in it and hauled 
up a dead lion, a small tender one, then yanked up 
a cub tiger. We had to keep the congregation off 
with the revolver, or they would 'a' took a hand in 
the proceedings and helped. 

We carved off a supply from both, and saved 
the skins, and hove the rest overboard. Then we 
baited some of the professor's hooks with the fresh 
meat and went a-fishing. We stood over the lake 
just a convenient distance above the water, and 
catched a lot of the nicest fish you ever see. It 
was a most amazing good supper we had : lion 
steak, tiger steak, fried fish, and hot corn-pone. I 
don't want nothing better than that. 

We had some fruit to finish off with. We got 
it out of the top of a monstrous tall tree. It was 
a very slim tree, that hadn't a branch on it from the 
bottom plumb to the top, and there it busted out 
like a feather duster. It was a pam tree, of course ; 
anybody knows a pam tree the minute he sees it, 
by the pictures. We went for coco-nuts in this 
one, but there warn't none. There was only big 
loose bunches of things like over-sized grapes, 
and Tom allowed they was dates, because he 
said they answered the description in the ' Arabian 
Nights ' and the other books. Of course they 
mightn't be, and they might be p'ison ; so we had 
to wait a spell, and watch and see if the birds et 
them. They done it ; so we done it too, and they 
was most amazing good. 

By this time monstrous big birds begun to come 
and settle on the dead animals. They was plucky 
creturs ; they would tackle one end of a lion that 
was being gnawed at the other end by another 
