the roses. "Lawdy--ef I ain't clean ferget!" remarked the waitress,
genially, to the company in general.
"You clar out, good-fer-nutt'n nigger!" muttered the offended cook, in
an undertone to her coadjutor.
With the tray, or rather behind it, a lady came in.
"Just in time for coffee, Genevieve," remarked Dolly, cheerfully.
"Thanks; I do not take it at night," Genevieve answered.
This was a dialogue often repeated in one form or another, for Dolly
kept it up. The younger Mrs. Franklin did not like evening dinners, and
Dolly even maintained that her sister-in-law thought them wicked. "She
sees a close connection between a late dinner with coffee after it, and
the devil." The Franklins had always dined at the close of the day, for
the elder Jared Franklin, having been the editor of a daily paper, had
found that hour the most convenient one. The editor was gone; his family
had moved from the North to the South, and life for them was changed in
many ways; but his habit of the evening dinner they had never altered.
The younger Mrs. Franklin greeted Chase cordially. Dolly listened,
hoping to hear her call him "Horrie." But Genevieve contented herself
with giving him her hand, and some frank words of welcome. Genevieve
was always frank. And in all she said and did, also, she was absolutely
sincere. She was a beautiful woman with golden hair, fair skin, regular
features, and ideally lovely eyes; her tall figure was of Juno-like
proportions. Chase admired her, that was evident. But Dolly (who was
noting this) had long ago discovered that men always admired her
sister-in-law. In addition to her beauty, Genevieve had a sweet voice,
and an earnest, half-appealing way of speaking. She was appealing to
Chase now. "There is to be an entertainment at the rink to-night,
Horace, for the benefit of the Mission; won't you go? I hope so. And,
mamma, that is what I have come over for; to tell you about it, and beg
you to go also." She had seated herself beside Chase; but, as she said
these last words, she put out her hand and laid it affectionately on
Mrs. Franklin's shoulder.
"I believe I am to have the pleasure of spending the evening here?"
Chase answered, making a little bow towards his hostess.
"But if mamma herself goes to the rink, as I am sure she will, then
won't you accompany her? The Mission and the Colored Home, Horace,
are--"
But here Chase, like a madman, made a sudden bound, and grasped the top
of Miss Billy Breeze's head.
Quick as his spring had been, however, Ruth's was quicker. She pulled
his hands away. "Don't hurt him! Don't!"
But the squirrel was not under Chase's fingers; he had already escaped,
and, running down the front of Miss Billy's dress (to her unspeakable
terror), he now made another leap, and landed on Dolly's arm, where Ruth
caught him.
"What in creation is it?" said Chase, who had followed. "A bird? Or a
mouse?"
"Mouse!" said Ruth, indignantly. "It's Bob, my dear little
flying-squirrel; I saw him on the cornice, but I thought he would fly to
me. It's amazing that any one can possibly be afraid of the darling,"
she added, with a reproachful glance towards Miss Billy, who was still
cowering. "I had him when he was nothing but a baby, Mr. Chase--he had
fallen from his nest--and I have brought him up myself. Now that he is
getting to be a big boy, he naturally likes to fly about a little. He
cannot be always climbing his one little tree in the dining-room. He is
so soft and downy. Look at his bright eyes." Here she opened her hand so
that Chase could see her pet. "Would you like to hold him for a moment?"
"Oh, I'll look at you holding him," answered Chase. "Hollo! here's
another." For Petie Trone, Esq., his jealousy roused by his mistress's
interest in the squirrel, had come out from under the sofa, and was now
seated on his hind-legs at the edge of her dress, begging. "Wouldn't you
like an owl?" Chase suggested. "Or a 'possum? A 'coon might be tamed, if
caught young."
Ruth walked away, offended.
This made him laugh still more as he returned to his place beside
Genevieve.
"She is only eighteen," murmured the younger Mrs. Franklin,
apologetically. Her words were covered by a rapturous "Gen'lem!" from
Rinda at the door. For Rinda was always perfectly delighted to see
anybody; when, therefore, there were already two or three guests, and
still another appeared, her voice became ecstatic. The new-comer was
Anthony Etheridge.
"How fortunate!" said Genevieve. "For it makes another for our little
charity party. There is to be an impromptu entertainment at the rink
to-night, commodore, for the benefit of the Mission, and mamma is going,
I hope. Won't you accompany her? Let me introduce Mr. Chase--a very old
friend of mine. Mr. Chase, Commodore Etheridge."
"Happy to meet you," said Chase, rising in order to shake hands.
"Gen'lem!" called Rinda again; this time fairly in a yell.
The last "gen'lem" was a slender man of thirty-five, who came in with
his overcoat on. "Thanks; I did not take it off," he said, in answer to
Mrs. Franklin, "because I knew that you were all going to the"--(here
Ruth gave a deep cough)--"because I thought it possible that you might
be going to the rink to-night," he went on, changing the form of his
sentence, with a slight smile; "and in that case I hoped to accompany
you."
"Yes," said Genevieve, "mamma is going, Mr. Larue. I only wish I could
go, also."
The cheeks of Miss Billy Breeze had become flushed with rose-color as
the new-comer entered. Noticing instantly the change he had made in his
sentence when Ruth coughed, she at once divined that the girl had gone,
bareheaded and in the darkness, to his residence during that long
absence before dinner, in order to secure his co-operation in the frolic
of the evening. Ruth had, in fact, done this very thing; for nothing
amused her so much as to watch Billy herself when Larue was present. The
girl was now wicked enough to carry on her joke a little longer. "I am
so sorry, Miss Billy, that you do not care to go," she said,
regretfully.
Miss Billy passed her handkerchief over her mouth and tried to smile.
But she was, in fact, winking to keep back tears.
And then Mrs. Franklin, always kind-hearted, came to the rescue. "Did
you tell Ruth that you could not go, Billy? Change your mind, my dear;
change it to please me."
"Oh, if you care about it, dear Mrs. Franklin," murmured Billy,
escaping, and hurrying happily up the stairs to put on her wraps.
The rink was a large, bare structure of wood, with a circular arena for
roller-skating. This evening the place was lighted, and the gallery was
occupied by the colored band. The members of this band, a new
organization, had volunteered their services with the heartiest
good-will. It was true that they could play (without mistakes) but one
selection, namely, "The lone starry hours give me, love." But they
arranged this difficulty by playing it first, softly; then as a solo on
the cornet; then fortissimo, with drums; by means of these alterations
it lasted bravely throughout the evening. Nearly the whole village was
present; the promenade was crowded, and there were many skaters on the
floor below. The Rev. Malachi Hill, the originator of the entertainment,
was distributing programmes, his face beaming with pleasure as he
surveyed the assemblage. Presently he came to the party from
L'Hommedieu. "Programmes, Mrs. Franklin? Programmes, gentlemen?" He had
written these programmes himself, in his best handwriting. "The
performance will soon begin," he explained. "The procession will skate
round the arena five times, and afterwards most of the characters will
join in a reel--" Here some one called him, and he hastened off.
Chase, who had received a programme, looked at it in a business-like
way. "Christopher Columbus," he read aloud; "Romeo and Juliet; the
Muses, Calliope, and--and others," he added, glancing down the list.
His Calliope had rhymed with hope, and a gleam of inward entertainment
showed itself for one instant in the eyes of Etheridge and Larue. Ruth
saw this scintillation; instantly she crossed to Chase's side, as he
still studied the programme, and bending to look at it, said, "Please,
may I see too?"
"Oh! I thought you had one," said Chase, giving her the sheet of paper.
"The Muses," read Ruth again, aloud. "Cally-ope," she went on, giving
the word Chase's pronunciation. "And Terp-si-core." She made this name
rhyme with "more." Then, standing beside her new acquaintance, she
glared at the remainder of the party, defiantly.
Mrs. Franklin was so much overcome by this performance of her daughter's
that she was obliged to turn away to conceal her laughter.
"What possesses her--the witch!" asked Etheridge, following.
"It is only because she thinks I don't like him. He has given her those
magnificent roses, and so she intends to stand up for him. I never know
whom she will fancy next. Do look at her now!"
"I am afraid you have spoiled her," commented Etheridge, but joining in
the mother's laugh himself, as he caught a glimpse of Ruth starting off,
with high-held head and firm step, to walk with Chase round the entire
promenade.
Owing to this sudden departure, Miss Billy Breeze found herself
unexpectedly alone with Larue. She was so much excited by this state of
things that at first she could hardly speak. How many times, during this
very month, had she arranged with herself exactly what she should say if
such an opportunity should be given her. Her most original ideas, her
most beautiful thoughts (she kept them written out in her diary),
should be summoned to entertain him. The moment had come. And this is
what she actually did say: "Oh!" (giggle), "how pretty it is, isn't it?"
(Giggle.) "Really a most beautiful sight. So interesting to see so many
persons, and all so happy, is it not? I don't know when I've seen
anything lovelier. Yes, indeed--lovely. But I hope you won't take
cold, Mr. Larue? Really, now, do be careful. One takes cold so easily;
and then it is sometimes so hard to recover." With despair she heard
herself bringing out these inanities. "I hope you are not in a draught?"
