it with a stylographic pen, his profile keener as his work went on.
In pausing to collect thoughts or choose words the inclination of his
eyes was upward. After his entrance profound silence settled upon the
central table. Not even the baby prattled. This singular taciturnity
took on significance to the alert wits of the unsuspected observer
when he saw a swift interchange of looks between the cripple and her
left-hand neighbor, attended by a grimace of such bitter disdain
directed by the junior of the pair at the student as fairly startled
the artist.

The unconscious object of the shaft put up paper and pen, and
addressed himself with deliberate dignity, upon the arrival of his
raw oysters, to the lower task of filling the material part of him.
He was discussing a juicy square of porterhouse steak, as March bowed
respectfully on his way out to the girl at the head of the board, a
smile in his pleasant eyes being especially intended for the dwarfed
cripple beside her.

Homer had bolted the last fragment of a huge segment of custard pie,
washed down the crust with a second jorum of coffee, and sat, satiate
and sheepish, upon the tall stool, awaiting orders.

“The most extraordinary combinery, taken in all its parts, it was ever
my luck to behold,” declared March Gilchrist at his father’s dinner
table that evening. “Intensely American throughout, though. I wish I
knew whether or not the man who appropriated the reserved seat was a
usurper. If he were, that spirited little economist of a courier was
quite capable of dispossessing him, or, at least, of calling the waiter
to account for neglect of duty. And what relation did blind Homer bear
to the party?”

“Dear old March!” said his sister affectionately. “Story weaving in the
old fashion! How natural it sounds! What jolly times you and I have
had over our amateur romances and make believes! Which reminds me of
a remarkable sermon preached Sunday before last by our new pastor. (I
told you we had one, didn’t I?) The text was: ‘Six waterpots of stone,
containing two or three firkins apiece!’”

“Absurd!”

“True; but listen! The text was only a hook from which he hung an
eloquent discourse upon the power of faith to make wine—‘old and mellow
and flavorous,’ he called it—out of what to grosser souls seems
insipid water. It was a plea for the pleasures of imagination—alias
faith—and elevated our favorite amusement into a fine art, and the fine
art into religion. I came home feeling like a spiritual chameleon,
fully convinced that rarefied air is the rightful sustenance of an
immortal being. According to our Mr. Wayt, what you haven’t got is the
only thing you ought to be sure of. Life is a sort of ‘Now you see it
and now you don’t see it’ business throughout. Only, when you don’t see
it you are richer and happier than when you do. Did you ever think to
hear me babble metaphysics? Now, where are those portfolios?”

“Make believe that you have overhauled them, and be blest,” retorted
her brother. “There’s a chance to practice your metaphysical cant—with
a new, deep meaning in it, too, which you will detect when you inspect
my daubs. I did some fairish things in Norway, however, which may prove
that your rule has an exception.”

The Gilchrists freely acknowledged themselves to be what the son and
daughter styled “a mutual admiration square.” March’s portfolios were
not the only engrossing subject that drew them together in the library,
where coffee and cigars were served.

May and her father turned over sketches and examined finished pictures
at the table, passing them afterward to the mother, who was a fixture
in her easy-chair by reason of a head, covered with crisp chestnut
curls, lying upon her lap. May was her companion and co-laborer,
dutiful and beloved, despite the impetuosity of mood and temper which
seemed inharmonious with the calmer nature of the matron. The mother’s
idol was the long-limbed fellow who, stretched upon the tiger-skin
rug, one arm cast about her waist, submitted to her mute fondling with
grace as cheerful as that with which she endured the scent of the cigar
she would not let him resign when he threw himself into his accustomed
place. She was a good wife, but she never pretended to like the odor
of the judge’s best weed. March’s cigars, she confessed, were “really
delightful.” Perhaps she recognized in his affluent, joyous nature
something hers lacked and had craved all her life; the golden side of
the iron shield. Assuredly, her children drew the ideality in which
they reveled from the father.

The tall, dignified woman who queened it in the best circles of
Fairhill society, and was the chiefest pillar in the parish which had
just called Mr. Wayt to become its spiritual head, was the embodiment
of what is known as hard sense. Mind and character were laid out and
down in straight lines. Right was right; duty was duty, and not to be
shirked. Wrong was wrong, and the shading off of sin into foible was of
the devil. She believed in a personal devil, comprehended the doctrines
of the Trinity, of election and reprobation, and the resurrection
of the physical body. Twice each Sabbath, once during the week, she
repaired to the courts of the Lord with joys unknown to worldly souls.
The ministry she held in the old-fashioned veneration we have cast
behind us with many worse and a few better things. Others might and did
criticise the men who wore white neckties upon weekdays and had their
hair cut straight behind. The hands of the presbytery had been laid
in ordination upon them. That was a sacred shield to her. In spirit
she approached the awful circle of the church with bared feet and bent
brow. Within it was her home. To her church her toils were literally
given. For it her prayers continually ascended.

She had looked grave during May’s flippant abstract of the new
preacher’s discourse anent the six stone waterpots. Her family might
suspect that she could not easily assimilate spiritual bread so unlike
that broken to his flock by a good man who had been gathered to his
fathers six months before, after a pastorate of thirty years in
Fairhill. Nobody could elicit a hint to this effect from her lips. Mr.
Wayt was the choice of a respectable majority of church and parish. The
presbytery had accepted his credentials and solemnly installed him in
his new place. Henceforward he was her pastor, and as such above the
touch of censure. He had been the guest of the Gilchrists for a week
prior to the removal of his family to the flourishing suburban town,
and received such entertainment for body and spirit as strengthened his
belief in the Divine authority of the call he had answered.

He left Fairhill four days before March landed in New York, to meet
his wife and children in Syracuse and escort them to their new abiding
place. During these days the mothers and daughters of the household of
faith had worked diligently to prepare the parsonage for the reception
of the travelers, Mrs. Gilchrist being the guiding spirit. And while
she drew the shining silk of her boy’s curls through fingers that
looked strong, yet touched tenderly, the Rev. Percy Wayt, A. M. and M.
A., with feet directed by gratitude and heart swollen with pastoral
affection, was nearing the domicile of his best “member.”

A long French window upon the piazza framed the tableau he halted to
survey, his foot upon the upper step of the broad flight leading from
the lawn. It was a noble room, planned by March and built with his
proud father’s money. Breast-high shelves filled with choice books
lined the wall; above them were a few fine pictures. Oriental rugs were
strewed upon the polished floor; lounging and upright chairs stood
about in social attitudes. The light of the shaded reading lamp shone
silvery upon Judge Gilchrist’s head and heightened the brightness of
May’s face. March’s happy gaze, upturned to meet his mother’s look of
full content, might have meant as much in a cottage as here, but they
seemed to the spectator accessories of the luxurious well-being which
stamped the environment.

He sighed deeply—perhaps at the contrast the scene offered to the half
furnished abode he had just left—perhaps under the weight of memories
aroused by the family group. He was as capable of appreciating beauty
and enjoying ease as were those who took these as an installment of the
debt the world owed them. The will of the holy man who preaches the
great gain of godliness when wedded to contentment, ought to be one
with that of the Judge of all the earth. Sometimes it is. Sometimes——

“Ah, Mr. Wayt!” Judge Gilchrist’s proverbially gracious manner was
never more urbane than as he offered a welcoming hand to his wife’s
spiritual director. “You find us in the full flood of rejoicing over
our returned prodigal,” he continued, when the visitor had saluted the
ladies. “Let me introduce my son.”

Mr. Wayt was “honored and happy at being allowed to participate in
the reunion,” yet apologetic for his “intrusion upon that with which
strangers should not intermeddle.”

While saying it he squeezed March’s hand in a grasp more nervous than
firm, and looked admiringly into the sunny eyes.

“Your mother’s son will forgive the interruption when he learns why I
am here,” he went on, tightening and relaxing his hold at alternate
