was in danger or got crippled but the seconds and 
the outsiders had nothing ridiculous about it for 
these gentlemen, his pointing out that feature would 
probably not help them to see it. 





 

He invited them in to take a nightcap, and 
Howard and the Judge accepted, but the doctor 
said he would have to go and see how Angelo's 
principal wound was getting on. 

[It was now Sunday, and in the afternoon Angelo was to be 
received into the Baptist communion by immersion — a doubtful 
prospect, the doctor feared.) 



CHAPTER Vn 

LTJIGI DEFIES GALEN 

WHEN the doctor arrived at Aunt Patsy 
Cooper's house, he found the lights going 
and everybody up and dressed and in a great 
state of solicitude and excitement. The twins were 
stretched on a sofa in the sitting-room, Aunt Patsy 
was fussing at Angelo's arm, Nancy was flying 
around under her commands, the two young boys 
were trying to keep out of the way and always 
getting in it, in order to see and wonder, Rowena 
stood apart, helpless with apprehension and emo- 
tion, and Luigi was growling in unappeasable fury 
over Angelo's shameful flight. 

As has been reported before, the doctor was a 
fool — a kind-hearted and well-meaning one, but 
with no tact; and as he was by long odds the most 
learned physician in the town, and was quite well 
aware of it, and could talk his learning with ease 
and precision, and liked to show off when he had an 
audience, he was sometimes tempted into revealing 
more of a case than was good for the patient. 

He examined Angelo's wound, and was really 
minded to say nothing for once; but Aunt Patsy 
was so anxious and so pressing that he allowed his 
caution to be overcome, and proceeded to empty 
himself as follows, with scientific relish: 





 

"Without going too much into detail, madam — 
for you would probably not understand it, anyway 
— I concede that great care is going to be necessary 
here; otherwise exudation of the esophagus is 
nearly sure to ensue, and this will be followed by 
ossification and extradition of the maxillaris superi- 
oris. which must decompose the granular surfaces of 
the great infusorial ganglionic system, thus obstruct- 
ing the action of the posterior varioloid arteries, and 
precipitating compound strangulated sorosis of the 
valvular tissues, and ending unavoidably in the dis- 
persion and combustion of the marsupial fluxes and 
the consequent embrocation of the bicuspid populo 
redax referendum rotulorum." 

A miserable silence followed. Aunt Patsy's heart 
sank, the pallor of despair invaded her face, she was 
not able to speak ; poor Rowena wrung her hands in 
privacy and silence, and said to herself in the bitter- 
ness of her young grief, "There is no hope — it is 
plain there is no hope"; the good-hearted negro 
wench, Nancy, paled to chocolate, then to orange, 
then to amber, and thought to herself with yearning 
sympathy and sorrow, "Po' thing, he ain' gwyne 
to las' throo de half o' dat"; small Henry choked 
up, and turned his head away to hide his rising 
tears, and his brother Joe said to himself, with a 
sense of loss, "The baptizing's busted, that's sure." 
Luigi was the only person who had any heart to 
speak. He said, a little bit sharply, to the doctor: 

"Well, well, there's nothing to be gained by 
wasting precious time; give him a barrel of pills — 
I'll take them for him." 





 

"You?" asked the doctor. 

"Yes. Did you suppose he was going to take 
them himself?" 

"Why, of course." 

"Well, it's a mistake. He never took a dose of 
medicine in his life. He can't." 

"Well, upon my word, it's the most extraordi- 
nary thing I ever heard of!" 

"Oh," said Aunt Patsy, as pleased as a mother 
whose child is being admired and wondered at, 
"you'll find that there's more about them that's 
wonderful than their just being made in the image 
of God like the rest of His creatures, now you can 
depend on that, I tell you," and she wagged her 
complacent head like one who could reveal marvel- 
ous things if she chose. 

The boy Joe began: 

"Why, ma, they ain't made in the im — " 

"You shut up, and wait till you're asked, Joe. 
I'll let you know when I want help. Are you look- 
ing for something, doctor?" 

The doctor asked for a few sheets of paper and a 
pen, and said he would write a prescription; which 
he did. It was one of Galen's; in fact, it was 
Galen's favorite, and had been slaying people for 
sixteen thousand years. Galen used it for every- 
thing, applied it to everything, said it would remove 
everything, from warts all the way through to lungs 
— and it generally did. Galen was still the only 
medical authority recognized in Missouri; his prac- 
tice was the only practice known to the Missouri 
doctors, and his prescriptions were the only ammu- 





 

nition they carried when they went out for game. 
By and by Dr. Claypool laid down his pen and read 
the result of his labors aloud, carefully and deliber- 
ately, for this battery must be constructed on the 
premises by the family, and mistakes could occur; 
for he wrote a doctor's hand — the hand which from 
the beginning of time has been so disastrous to the 
apothecary and so profitable to the undertaker : 

"Take of afarabocca, henbane, corpobalsamum, 
each two drams and a half: of cloves, opium, 
