seen nothing; that, like Holger, I had gone and had stood upon the
mound; and I remembered how, when I came back, sure that there was
nothing there, I had felt the sudden conviction that there was something
after all if I would only look behind me. I remembered the strong
temptation to look back, a temptation I had resisted as unworthy of a
man of sense, until, to get rid of it, I had shaken myself just as
Holger did.
And now I knew that those white, misty arms had been round me too; I
knew it in a flash, and I shuddered as I remembered that I had heard the
night owl then too. But it had not been the night owl. It was the cry of
the Thing.
I refilled my pipe and poured out a cup of strong southern wine; in less
than a minute Holger was seated beside me again.
"Of course there's nothing there," he said, "but it's creepy, all the
same. Do you know, when I was coming back I was so sure that there was
something behind me that I wanted to turn round and look? It was an
effort not to."
He laughed a little, knocked the ashes out of his pipe, and poured
himself out some wine. For a while neither of us spoke, and the moon
rose higher, and we both looked at the Thing that lay on the mound.
"You might make a story about that," said Holger after a long time.
"There is one," I answered. "If you're not sleepy, I'll tell it to you."
"Go ahead," said Holger, who likes stories.
       *       *       *       *       *
Old Alario was dying up there in the village behind the hill. You
remember him, I have no doubt. They say that he made his money by
selling sham jewellery in South America, and escaped with his gains when
he was found out. Like all those fellows, if they bring anything back
with them, he at once set to work to enlarge his house, and as there are
no masons here, he sent all the way to Paola for two workmen. They were
a rough-looking pair of scoundrels--a Neapolitan who had lost one eye
and a Sicilian with an old scar half an inch deep across his left cheek.
I often saw them, for on Sundays they used to come down here and fish
off the rocks. When Alario caught the fever that killed him the masons
were still at work. As he had agreed that part of their pay should be
their board and lodging, he made them sleep in the house. His wife was
dead, and he had an only son called Angelo, who was a much better sort
than himself. Angelo was to marry the daughter of the richest man in the
village, and, strange to say, though the marriage was arranged by their
parents, the young people were said to be in love with each other.
For that matter, the whole village was in love with Angelo, and among
the rest a wild, good-looking creature called Cristina, who was more
like a gipsy than any girl I ever saw about here. She had very red lips
and very black eyes, she was built like a greyhound, and had the tongue
of the devil. But Angelo did not care a straw for her. He was rather a
simple-minded fellow, quite different from his old scoundrel of a
father, and under what I should call normal circumstances I really
believe that he would never have looked at any girl except the nice
plump little creature, with a fat dowry, whom his father meant him to
marry. But things turned up which were neither normal nor natural.
On the other hand, a very handsome young shepherd from the hills above
Maratea was in love with Cristina, who seems to have been quite
indifferent to him. Cristina had no regular means of subsistence, but
she was a good girl and willing to do any work or go on errands to any
distance for the sake of a loaf of bread or a mess of beans, and
permission to sleep under cover. She was especially glad when she could
get something to do about the house of Angelo's father. There is no
doctor in the village, and when the neighbours saw that old Alario was
dying they sent Cristina to Scalea to fetch one. That was late in the
afternoon, and if they had waited so long, it was because the dying
miser refused to allow any such extravagance while he was able to speak.
But while Cristina was gone matters grew rapidly worse, the priest was
brought to the bedside, and when he had done what he could he gave it as
his opinion to the bystanders that the old man was dead, and left the
house.
You know these people. They have a physical horror of death. Until the
priest spoke, the room had been full of people. The words were hardly
out of his mouth before it was empty. It was night now. They hurried
down the dark steps and out into the street.
Angelo, as I have said, was away, Cristina had not come back--the simple
woman-servant who had nursed the sick man fled with the rest, and the
body was left alone in the flickering light of the earthen oil lamp.
Five minutes later two men looked in cautiously and crept forward toward
the bed. They were the one-eyed Neapolitan mason and his Sicilian
companion. They knew what they wanted. In a moment they had dragged from
under the bed a small but heavy iron-bound box, and long before any one
thought of coming back to the dead man they had left the house and the
village under cover of the darkness. It was easy enough, for Alario's
house is the last toward the gorge which leads down here, and the
thieves merely went out by the back door, got over the stone wall, and
had nothing to risk after that except the possibility of meeting some
belated countryman, which was very small indeed, since few of the people
use that path. They had a mattock and shovel, and they made their way
here without accident.
I am telling you this story as it must have happened, for, of course,
there were no witnesses to this part of it. The men brought the box down
by the gorge, intending to bury it until they should be able to come
back and take it away in a boat. They must have been clever enough to
guess that some of the money would be in paper notes, for they would
otherwise have buried it on the beach in the wet sand, where it would
have been much safer. But the paper would have rotted if they had been
obliged to leave it there long, so they dug their hole down there, close
to that boulder. Yes, just where the mound is now.
Cristina did not find the doctor in Scalea, for he had been sent for
from a place up the valley, halfway to San Domenico. If she had found
him, he would have come on his mule by the upper road, which is smoother
but much longer. But Cristina took the short cut by the rocks, which
passes about fifty feet above the mound, and goes round that corner. The
men were digging when she passed, and she heard them at work. It would
not have been like her to go by without finding out what the noise was,
for she was never afraid of anything in her life, and, besides, the
fishermen sometimes come ashore here at night to get a stone for an
anchor or to gather sticks to make a little fire. The night was dark,
and Cristina probably came close to the two men before she could see
what they were doing. She knew them, of course, and they knew her, and
understood instantly that they were in her power. There was only one
thing to be done for their safety, and they did it. They knocked her on
the head, they dug the hole deep, and they buried her quickly with the
iron-bound chest. They must have understood that their only chance of
escaping suspicion lay in getting back to the village before their
absence was noticed, for they returned immediately, and were found half
an hour later gossiping quietly with the man who was making Alario's
coffin. He was a crony of theirs, and had been working at the repairs in
the old man's house. So far as I have been able to make out, the only
persons who were supposed to know where Alario kept his treasure were
Angelo and the one woman-servant I have mentioned. Angelo was away; it
was the woman who discovered the theft.
It is easy enough to understand why no one else knew where the money
was. The old man kept his door locked and the key in his pocket when he
was out, and did not let the woman enter to clean the place unless he
was there himself. The whole village knew that he had money somewhere,
however, and the masons had probably discovered the whereabouts of the
chest by climbing in at the window in his absence. If the old man had
not been delirious until he lost consciousness, he would have been in
frightful agony of mind for his riches. The faithful woman-servant
forgot their existence only for a few moments when she fled with the
rest, overcome by the horror of death. Twenty minutes had not passed
before she returned with the two hideous old hags who are always called
in to prepare the dead for burial. Even then she had not at first the
courage to go near the bed with them, but she made a pretence of
dropping something, went down on her knees as if to find it, and looked
under the bedstead. The walls of the room were newly whitewashed down to
the floor, and she saw at a glance that the chest was gone. It had been
there in the afternoon, it had therefore been stolen in the short
interval since she had left the room.
There are no carabineers stationed in the village; there is not so much
as a municipal watchman, for there is no municipality. There never was
such a place, I believe. Scalea is supposed to look after it in some
mysterious way, and it takes a couple of hours to get anybody from
there. As the old woman had lived in the village all her life, it did
not even occur to her to apply to any civil authority for help. She
simply set up a howl and ran through the village in the dark, screaming
out that her dead master's house had been robbed. Many of the people
looked out, but at first no one seemed inclined to help her. Most of
them, judging her by themselves, whispered to each other that she had
probably stolen the money herself. The first man to move was the father
of the girl whom Angelo was to marry; having collected his household,
all of whom felt a personal interest in the wealth which was to have
come into the family, he declared it to be his opinion that the chest
had been stolen by the two journeyman masons who lodged in the house. He
headed a search for them, which naturally began in Alario's house and
ended in the carpenter's workshop, where the thieves were found
discussing a measure of wine with the carpenter over the half-finished
coffin, by the light of one earthen lamp filled with oil and tallow. The
search party at once accused the delinquents of the crime, and
threatened to lock them up in the cellar till the carabineers could be
fetched from Scalea. The two men looked at each other for one moment,
and then without the slightest hesitation they put out the single light,
seized the unfinished coffin between them, and using it as a sort of
battering ram, dashed upon their assailants in the dark. In a few
