Still steadying himself by the reading-desk, he 
went on to speak of other things, of those of his 
followers who listened, of the great mass swirling 
about them in the streets who did not listen and 
did not care ; of the little life that now is so full of 
pain and hardship and disappointment, of good in- 
tentions frustrated, of hopes that deceive, and of 
fair prospects that turn to ashes, of good lives that 
go wrong, of sweet natures turned to bitterness in 
the unaided struggle. His voice grew stronger 
and clearer, as his body responded to the kindling 
theme in his soul. He stepped away from the desk 
nearer the rail, the bowed head was raised. "What 
does it matter ?" he said. " It is only for a little 
while, my children." Those who heard him that 
day say that his face shone like that of an angel, 
and that his voice was like a victorious clarion, so 
clear, so sweet, so inspiring, as he spoke of the life 
that is to come, and the fair certainty of that City 
where he with them all wished to be. 
As he closed, some were kneeling, many were 
crying; all, profoundly moved, watched him as, 
with the benediction and the sign of the cross, he 
turned and walked swiftly to the door of the sac- 
risty. It opened, and then Ruth Leigh heard a 
cry, " Father Damon ! Father Damon !" and there 
was a rush into the chancel. Hastening through 
the throng, which promptly made way for the 
doctor, she found Father Damon lying across the 
threshold, as he had fallen, colorless and uncon- 
scious. She at once took command of the situa- 
tion. The body was lifted to the plain couch in 
the room, a hasty examination was made of pulse 
and heart, a vial of brandy was produced from her 
satchel, and messengers were despatched for things 
needed, and especially for beef-tea. 
" Is he dead, Dr. Leigh ? Is he any better, doc- 
tor ? What is the matter, doctor ?" 
" Want of nourishment," replied Dr. Leigh, sav- 
agely. 
The room was cleared of all except a couple of 
stout lads and a friendly German woman whom, 
the doctor knew. The news of the father's sudden 
illness had spread rapidly, with the report that he 
bad fallen dead while standing at the altar ; and 
the church was thronged, and the street rapidly 
blocked up with a hushed crowd, eager for news 
and eager to give aid. So great was the press that 
the police had to interfere, and push back the 
throng from the door. It was useless to attempt 
to disperse it with the assurance that Father Damon 
was better; it patiently waited to see for itself. 
The sympathy of the neighborhood was most im- 
pressive, and perhaps the thing that the public 
best remembers about this incident is the pathetic 
solicitude of the people among whom Father Damon 
labored at the rumor of his illness, a matter which 
was greatly elaborated by the reporters from the 
city journals and the purveyors of telegraphic news 
for the country. 
With the application of restoratives the patient 
revived. When he opened his eyes he saw figures 
in the room as in a dream, and his mind struggled 
to remember where he was and what had hap- 
pened ; but one thing was not a dream : Dr. Leigh 
stood by his bedside, with her left hand on his 
brow and the right grasping his own right hand, 
as if to pull him back to life. He saw her face, 
and then he lost it again in sheer weariness at the 
effort. After a few moments, in a recurring wave 
of strength, he looked up again, still bewildered, 
and said, faintly, 
"Where am I?" 
" With friends," said the doctor. " You were a 
little faint, that is all ; you will be all right pres- 
ently." 
She quickly prepared some nourishment, which 
was what he most needed, and fed him from time 
to time, as he was able to receive it. Gradually he 
could feel a little vigor coming into his frame ; and 
regaining control of himself, he was able to hear 
what had happened. Yery gently the doctor 
told him, making light of his temporary weak- 
ness. 
"The fact is, Father Damon," she said, "you've 
got a disease common in this neighborhood hun- 
ger." 
The father smiled, but did not reply. It might 
be so. For the time he felt his dependence, and 
he did not argue the point. This dependence upon 
a woman a sort of Sister of Charity, was she not? 
was not altogether unpleasant. When he at- 
tempted to rise, but found that he was too weak, 
and she said "Not yet," he submitted, with the 
feeling that to be commanded with such gentle- 
ness was a sort of luxury. 
But in an hour's time he declared that he was 
almost himself again, and it was decided that he 
was well enough to be removed to his own apart- 
ments in the neighborhood. A carriage was sent 
for, and the transfer was made, and made through 
a crowd in the streets, which stood silent and un- 
covered as his carriage passed through it. Dr. 
Leigh remained with him for an hour longer, and 
then left him in charge of a young gentleman 
from the Neighborhood Guild, who gladly volun- 
teered to watch for the night. 
Ruth walked slowly home, weary now that the 
excitement was over, and revolving many things in 
her mind, as is the custom of women. She heard 
again that voice, she saw again that inspired face ; 
but the impression most indelible with her was the 
prostrate form, the pallid countenance, the help- 
lessness of this man whose will had before been 
strong enough to compel the obedience of his de- 
spised body. She had admired his strength; but it 
was his weakness that drew upon her woman's 
heart, and evolved a tenderness dangerous to her 
peace of mind. Yet it was the doctor and not the 
woman that replied to the inquiries at the dispen- 
sary. 
" Yes, it was fasting and overwork. Men are so 
stupid ; they think they can defy all the laws of 
nature, especially priests." And she determined to 
be quite plain with him next day. 
And Father Damon, lying weary in his bed, be- 
fore he fell asleep, saw the faces in the dim chapel 
turned to him in strained eagerness the moment 
before he lost consciousness; but the most vivid 
image was that of a woman bending over him, 
with eyes of tenderness and pity, and the smile 
with which she greeted his awakening. He could 
feel yet her hand upon his brow. 
When Dr. Leigh called next day, on her morning 
rounds, she found a brother of the celibate order, 
Father Monies, in charge. He was sitting by the 
window reading, and when the doctor came up the 
steps he told her in a low voice to enter without 
knocking. Father Damon was better, much better ; 
but he had advised him not to leave his bed, and 
the patient had been dozing all the morning. The 
doctor asked if he had eaten anything, and how 
much. The apartment was small and scantily fur- 
nished a sort of anchorite cell. Through the 
drawn doors of the next room the bed was in 
sight. As they were talking in low voices there 
came from this room a cheerful 
" Good-morning, doctor." 
" I hope you ate a good breakfast," she said, as 
she arose and went to his bedside. 
" I suppose you mean better than usual," he re- 
plied, with a faint attempt at a smile. " Xo doubt 
you and Father Monies are satisfied, now you've 
got me laid up." 
"That depends upon your intentions." 
" Oh, I intend to get up to-morrow." 
" If you do, without other change in your inten- 
tions, I am going to report you to the Organized 
Charity as a person who has no visible means of 
support." 
