looked in the woods for some yest’day.”
Wild roses! She had set herself to bear her lot, bruised and wrecked in
an evil moment, with all the bravery of true repentance.
“Yes,” in a soft, constrained tone. “I have always loved them. And last
summer where I was staying there were hundreds of them.”
“Oh,” cried Dil eagerly, “that was jest what he said. It was clear
away to las’ summer. Patsey was up to Grand Cent’l deepo’. He carried
bags an’ such. An’ a beautiful young lady gev him a great bunch. Casey
made a grab fer thim, but Patsey snatched, an’ he’s strongest, ’n’ he
gev it to Casey good till a cop come, ’n’ then he run all the way to
Barker’s Court an’ brought thim to Bess an’ me.”
“A great bunch of wild roses! Oh, then I know something about Patsey. It
was one day in August. And—and I had the roses.”
Dil’s face was a rare study. Virginia Deering bent over and kissed it.
Then the ice of strangeness was broken, and they were friends.
This was Patsey’s “stunner.” She was very sweet and lovely, with pink
cheeks, and teeth like pearls. Dil looked into the large, serious eyes,
and her heart warmed until she gave a soft, glad, trusting laugh.
“Patsey’ll be so glad to have me find you! They were the beautifullest
things, withered up some, but so sweet. Me an’ Bess hadn’t never seen
any; an’ I put them in a bowl of water, an’ all the baby buds come out,
an’ they made Bess so glad she could a-danced if she’d been well, ’cause
she used to ’fore she was hurted, when the hand-organs come. They was on
the winder-sill by where she slept, an’ every day we’d take out the poor
dead ones. ’N’ there was jes’ a few Sat’day when we went up to the
Square an’ met the man. ’N’ I allers had to wheel Bess, ’cause she
couldn’t walk.”
“What hurt her?”
“Well—pappy did. He was dreadful that night along a-drinkin’, an’ he
slammed her against the wall, an’ her poor little hurted legs never grew
any more. An’ the man said jes’ the same as you,—that he’d been stayin’
where there was hundreds of thim, an’ he made the beautifullest picture
of Bess—she was pritty as an angel.”
Miss Deering’s eyes fell on the little trail of freckles across Dil’s
nose. They were very small, but quite distinct on the waxen, pale skin.
“And he painted a picture of you! He put you in that wild-rose dell. I
know now. I thought I must have seen your face.”
Dil looked almost stupidly amazed.
“Bess was so much prittier,” she said simply. “Do you know ’bout him?
He went away ever so far, crost the ’Lantic Oshun. But he said he’d come
back in the spring.”
She lifted her grave, perplexed eyes to a face whose wavering tints were
struggling with keen emotion.
“He couldn’t come back in the spring. He went abroad with a cousin who
loved him very much, who was ill, and hoped to get well; but he grew
worse and weaker, and died only a little while ago. And Mr. Travis came
in on Monday, I think.”
Her voice trembled a little.
“Oh, I knew he would come!” The glad cry was electrifying.
And she, this little being, one among the waifs of a big city, had
looked for him, had a right to look for him.
“He ain’t the kind to tell what he don’t mean. Bess was so sure. An’ I
want to ast him so many things I can’t get straight by myself. I ain’t
smart like Bess was, an’ we was goin’ to heaven when he come back; he
said he’d go with us. An’ now Bess is dead.”
“My dear little girl,” Virginia held her close, and kissed the cool,
waxen cheek, the pale lips, “will you tell me all the story, and about
going to heaven?”
It was an easy confidence now. She told the plans so simply, with that
wonderful directness one rarely finds outside of Bible narratives. Her
own share in the small series of tragedies was related with no
consciousness that it had been heroic. Virginia could see the Square on
the Saturday afternoon, and Bess in her wagon, when she “ast Mr. Travis
to go to heaven with them.” And the other time—the singing. Ah, she well
knew the beauty and pathos of the voice. How they had hoped and
planned—and that last sad night, with its remembrance of wild roses.
Dil’s voice broke now and then, and she made little heart-touching
pauses; but Virginia was crying softly, moved from the depths of her
soul. And Dil’s wonderful faith that she could have brought Bess back to
life bordered on the sublime.
“Oh, my dear,” and Virginia’s voice trembled with tenderness, “you need
never doubt. Bess is in heaven.”
“No,” returned Dil, with a curious certainty in her tone, “she ain’t
quite gone, ’cause I’ve seen her. We all went up to Cent’l Park, Sunday
week ago. I was all alone, the boys goin’ off walkin’, an’ me bein’
tired. I wanted her so much, I called to her; an’ she come, all
beautiful an’ well, like his picture of her. I c’n talk to her, but
she can’t answer. There’s a little ketch in it I can’t get straight, not
bein’ smart like to understand. But she’s jes’ waitin’ somewheres, ’n’
he kin tell me how it is. You see, Bess wouldn’t go to heaven ’thout me,
an’ he would know just where she is. For she couldn’t get crost the
river ’n’ up the pallis steps ’les I had hold of her hand. For she never
had any one to love her so, ’n’ she wouldn’t go back on me for a whole
world.”
Miss Deering could readily believe that. But, oh, what should she say to
this wonderful faith? Had it puzzled John Travis as well?
“And who sent you here?” she asked, to break the tense strain.
Dil told of the fainting spell, and Mrs. Wilson and Miss Lawrence, who
had been so good.
“But now he’s come, you see, I must get well an’ go down. He’ll be there
waitin’. I’d like to stay with the boys, but somethin’ draws me to Bess.
I feel most tore in two. An’ ther’s a chokin’ in my throat, an’ my head
goes round, an’ I can’t hardly wait, I want to see her so. When I tell
Patsey and Owny all about it, I’m most sure they’ll want me to go, for
they know how I loved Bess. An’ when he comes, he’ll know what’s jes’
right.”
They were silent a long while. The bees crooned about, now and then a
bird lilted in the gladness of his heart. Virginia Deering was asking
herself if she had ever loved like this, and what she had suffered
patiently for her love. For her self-will and self-love there had been
many a pang. But she let her soul go down now to the divinest
humiliation. Whatever he did henceforth, even to the dealing out of
sorest punishment, must be right evermore in her eyes.
The children were coming back from their ride, joyous, noisy, exuberant;
their eyes sparkling, their cheeks beginning to color a little with the
vivifying air and pleasurable excitement. Dil glanced at them with a
soft little smile.
“I think they want you,” she said. “They like you so. An’ I like you
too, but I’ve had you all this time.”
“You are a generous little girl.” Virginia was struck by the simple
self-abnegation. “I will come back again presently.”
She did not let the noisy group miss anything in her demeanor. And yet
she was thinking of that summer day, and the poor roses she had taken so
unwillingly. How she had shrunk from them all through the journey! How
she had tossed them out, poor things, to be fought over by street arabs.
They had come back to her with healing on their wings. And that John
Travis should have seen them, and the two little waifs of unkind
fortune. Ah, how could she have been so fatally blind and cruel that
day among the roses? And all for such a very little thing.
What could she say to this simple, trustful child? If her faith and her
beliefs had gone outside of orthodox lines, for lack of the training all
people are supposed to get in this Christian land, was there any way in
which she could amend it? No, she could not even disturb it. John Travis
should gather in the harvest he had planted; for, like Dil, she believed
him in sincere earnest. She “almost knew that he meant to set out on the
journey to heaven,” if not in the literal way poor, trusting little Dil
took it. And she honored him as she never had before.
She came back to Dil for a few moments.
“Don’t you want to hear about the picture?” she asked. “It quite went
out of my mind. Mr. Travis exhibited it in London, and a friend bought
it and brought it home. I saw it a fortnight ago. So you brought him a
great deal of good fortune and money.”
“I’m so glad,” her eyes shone with a soul radiance; “for he gev us some
money—it was for Bess, an’ we buyed such lots of things. We had such a
splendid time! Five dollars—twicet—an’ Mrs. Bolan, an’ she was so glad
’bout the singin’. But I wisht it had been Bess. He couldn’t make no
such beautiful picture out’n me. Bess looked jes’ ’s if she could talk.”
“He put you in that beautiful thicket of roses.” Ah, how well he had
remembered it! “I do not think any one would have you changed, but you
were not so thin then.”
“No;” Dil gave the soft little laugh so different from the other
children. “I was quite a little chunk, mammy alwers said, an’ I don’t
mind, only Patsey wants me to get fatter. Mebbe they make people look
beautifuller in pictures,” and she gave a serious little sigh.
Then the supper-bell rang. Dil held tightly to the slim hand.
“They’re all so good,” she said earnestly. “But folks is diff’rent. Some
come clost to you,” and she made an appealing movement of nearness.
“Then they couldn’t understand ’bout me an’ Bess—that she’s jes’ waitin’
somewheres till I kin find out how to go to her, an’ then he’ll tell us
which way to start for heaven. I’m so glad you know him.”
Dil tried again to eat, but did not accomplish much. She was brimful of
joy. Her eyes shone, and a happy smile kept fluttering about her face,
flushing it delicately.
“You have made a new child of her,” said Miss Mary delightedly. “I
thought her a dull and unattractive little thing, but such lives as
theirs wear out the charms and graces of childhood before they have time
to bloom. We used to think the poor had many compensations, and amongst
them health, that richer people went envying. Would any mother in
comfortable circumstances change her child’s physique for these stunted
frames and half-vitalized brains?”
