luted current by which he refused to be stirred. 
In the first fire of his enthusiasm as a preacher, 
he made one apparent mistake. He went to Naza- 
reth. What minister of any times and of any 
people recalls without wincing his first sermon in 
his native place, or in the village of his childhood ? 
The tenderness for old associations, the innocent 
pleasure in appearing before old friends, the inex- 
perienced belief that they would be more glad to 
hear him preach than other people, how reluc- 
tantly these have given place to the surprised pain, 
the slow suspicion, the smarting realization of the 
truth ! In his oldest acquaintances the young ex- 
horter finds his severest critics, his coldest hearers, 
unwilling appreciation. It is the way of the world, 
not one of its noble ways, and Jesus, like other 
leadei'S of men, must needs take the world as he 
found it. 
He arrived in Nazareth, let us think, on a Fri- 
day afternoon. The sun was about to set. The 
Seventh Day was at hand. Already the signs of 
preparation for the Jewish Sabbath stirred across 
the village. Domestic and field work, trade and 
travel, hurried to cessation. The women indoors 
and the men without ran to and fro with busy 
interest. The little town, occupied along the length 
of its rough highway, turned indifferent eyes to 
the mountains which were blazing in the dying 
day, and paid scant attention to the appearance o 
the young citizen who had left a while ago, un- 
known, and was returning famous. Jesus looked 
126 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
at the familiar hills, grand, silent, these in solemn 
shadow, those transfigured with color, all carrying 
the thoughts up ; but the villagers scarcely looked 
at Jesus. Their eyes were on the level earth, his 
on the heights. What wonder that they coiJld not 
meet? 
He had scarcely arrived when there broke upon 
the evening air the clear, strong call of a trum- 
pet uttering itself authoritatively, a double blast. 
The synagogue minister stood on the roof of his 
house with his face towards Jerusalem. Ho an- 
nounced the arrival of the Sabbath. He summoned 
every Hebrew soul within reach of his official cry 
to cease labor and to begin worship. The trumpet 
called three times. When it ceased, the trumpeter 
laid it reverently down by his side, that ho might 
not profane the sacred day by carrying the instru- 
ment. Now, all over the darkening village, from 
every house, there sprang out a gentle spark. The 
Sabbath lamp had been lighted. A gen HO of fes- 
tivity glittered with it. The Sabbath was the 
pledge of affection between God and Israel, and 
every home was arrayed to meet it, like a bride or a 
queen. Every one wore his best clothes* Kvery 
table held its best meal. Benedictions wore spoken 
over the wine and water. The suspension of labor, 
the coming on of rest, the glory of worship, made 
holiday of holyday. The traveler sliared tbo gen- 
eral happiness. 
Sleeping with the peacefulnoss which comes with 
return from more stirring scenes nnd noisier loca- 
tions to a country "home, he awoke refreshed and 
IN HIS OWN* COUNTRY 127 
vigorous. The day rose bright and warm. The 
early hour of worship approached. Jesus antici- 
pated it gladly. He walked rapidly (for such was 
Jewish law) to the sombre place where he had wor- 
shiped since he could remember, the old, stiff 
building, dreaded and loved, wherein to laugh or 
joke, or eat or sleep, was sinful, and wherein no 
man but a rabbi might seek shelter from a storm. 
The rustic synagogue was crowded. Jesus mod- 
estly took his accustomed seat among his old neigh- 
bors. His heart was full of thoughts and feelings 
which he wished he could share with them. He 
was so loving, so gentle a man ! He felt tenderly 
towards all these people, among whom he had lived 
so many humble years. He watched for their well- 
known forms and faces as they came in and took 
their seats, the men by themselves, lordly, as 
Jewish men were wont, putting the women apart in 
a gallery of their own. The elders of the meeting 
pompously took their places on the raised platform ; 
behind, stood the movable chest, representative of 
the great Ark of the Temple, and itself containing 
the rolls of the sacred writings. A curtain hung 
across it, and the holy lamp burned before it. 
While he sat there, lost in reverie, modest, gen- 
tle, thinking not of himself, the chief ruler of the 
synagogue came up and spoke to Jesus, formally 
asking him to act for that day as the conductor of 
the services. This request was not unexpected to 
him, as it might have been an act of courtesy or of 
curiosity on the part of his neighbors to extend the 
invitation : due certainly to any rabbi with much. 
128 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
less than the fame already gathered about the name 
and personality of their townsman. At all events, 
the politeness was paid him. Trusting in the sin- 
cerity of his old friends, believing with his secret 
instincts in their better motives, he confidingly 
accepted their invitation, and rising, stepped to his 
place at the lectern. 
He began the service of the morning in the for- 
mulated manner by repeating the Jewish liturgy. 
This was one of the prayers with which he opened 
that Sabbath meeting in the Nazareth Syna- 
gogue: 
"Blessed be Thou, O Lord, King of the world, 
who formest the lights and Greatest the darkness, 
who makest peace and Greatest everything ; who in 
mercy givest light to the earth, and to those who 
dwell upon it, and in Thy goodness day by day and 
every day renewest the works of creation. Blessed 
be the Lord our God for the glory of his handi- 
works and for the light-giving lights which He lias 
made for our praise. Selah. Blessed be the Lord 
our God who has formed the lights.' 5 
The invocation sounds a little cold or dull to our 
ears. The young preacher of that summer morn- 
ing was accustomed to do it reverence ; it was the 
liturgy of his church, and of his childhood; yet, 
certain public prayers of his own, uttered later in 
the course of his ministry, and immortal to human 
needs and worship, indicate something of the dis- 
tance of his nature from the formality to which he 
deferred. 
He deferred, however, and he conformed to the 
UST HIS OWN COUNTET 129 
customs of Hs church, like a man of acquaintance 
with life, up to a certain point. When he reached 
that point he departed promptly and thoroughly. 
He followed the usual order of exercise; another 
prayer and a better one succeeding the first ; then 
came the repetition of the creed, another prayer and 
six eulogies or benedictions ; at their close a distin- 
guished rabbi was at liberty to add certain prayers 
of his own which might be fixed or free. At last 
the time for his discourse arrived. The sacred roll 
was taken from the ark and handed to him by the 
chazzan or minister. 
On this occasion the lesson for the day was from 
one of the greatest of Jewish prophets. Jesus se- 
lected as his text from Isaiah, these impressive 
words : 
" The spirit of the Lord is upon me because He 
hath anointed me to preach the good tidings to the 
poor ; ... to preach release to the captives, and re- 
covering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them 
that are bruised, to proclaim the acceptable year of 
the Lord." 
Having read the text in Hebrew, translating as 
he went into the common tongue, he gave the roll 
back to the minister, and according to the custom 
of his church sat down to preach. 
He looked for a moment silently over his audi- 
ence. Familiar faces answered his gaze with curi- 
osity or with that doubt of his ability to give them 
