what it meant myself for ever so long. But now I do, and it's all
simple. I shall just stay quietly here. This is the best place. And you
mustn't mind, for it makes me very happy."
"My darling, have you written? What do you mean?" asked Mrs. Tracy.
"What do I mean?" Dorothy repeated. She smiled; into her white face came
a flush of color. "I mean that I shall see him very soon now. It won't
be long to wait."
"She has sent for him," thought the aunt. "I was right; it is Owen."
"That is why I wish to stay here," Dorothy went on. "Everything here is
associated with Alan; he liked Belmonte so much."
"Alan?" breathed the aunt, amazed, but instantly concealing her
amazement. Mrs. North quickly measured some drops from a phial
containing a sedative.
Dorothy let her head sink back against the cushions. "In the beginning
I didn't in the least know that I was going to feel it so. But that ache
came, and it wouldn't stop. I tried all sorts of things--don't you
remember? I tried studying. I tried music lessons. He used to urge me to
sing. He liked long walks, and I never would go; so then I took long
walks. You haven't forgotten them, have you? But the ache went on, and I
could not stand it. So I asked you to go to Paris. Paris has always been
so funny and amusing. But it wasn't funny any more. When we came back
here I thought that perhaps some one coming up every day and staying a
long time would make me forget. But having Waddy was worse than being
alone, and at last I hated him. Owen Charrington, too! Owen used to make
me laugh; I thought he would make me laugh again. But he didn't at all.
And when he asked me that last day to ride it was like a knife; for Alan
always went with me, and would never say anything to spoil my pleasure.
Yet he did not care about it really, though I insisted upon going day
after day. That is the way it was about everything. But I'm paying for
it now; I miss him so--I miss him so! Alan! Alan!--" And putting her
thin hands over her face, Dorothy burst into miserable heart-broken
sobs.
Nora came running in; Mrs. North handed her the medicine glass.
"Hysterics," she said. "Give her those drops as soon as you can."
"I look to you, doctor, to get us out of this new difficulty," said this
lady the next day to Dr. Hotham. "She has taken this fixed idea that she
does not wish to leave Belmonte. But the fixed idea of a girl of
nineteen ought not to be a trouble to you. Can't you suggest
something? Has science no resources for such a case?"
Dr. Hotham's resource was to send to Rome for a colleague. The most
distinguished English physician in Italy was called to Florence, and
there was a consultation at Bellosguardo. When it was over Mrs. North
came in to see the great man.
His sentences were agreeable; they were also encouraging. After a time
he spoke of the varying forms of nervous prostration; then he asked
whether this very interesting young lady could have, by any possibility,
something weighing upon her mind?
"No, nothing," replied the mother.
"Ah! In that case time, I trust, is all that is necessary for a complete
recovery."
"My own idea would be to take her north in spite of her disinclination
to go," Mrs. North went on. "A disinclination ought not to be important.
The journey would soon be over. She could be kept under the influence of
sedatives. But Dr. Hotham will not give his consent."
"I agree with him, madam. Do not force her; the effect upon the nervous
system might be bad. Let her do whatever she fancies. Amuse her. What a
pity there is no Corney Grain in Italy!"
"Everything in the way of amusement has been tried. That is why I wish
to take her away."
"Ah! I understood you to say, I think, that there is no hidden cause, no
wish, no mental--ah--err--strain?"
"Nothing of any consequence. She is hysterical sometimes; but that is
owing to her physical weakness," Mrs. North answered. And she said what
she believed.
A month later Dorothy, lying on a couch in her room, put out her hand to
Nora. "I must give you some of my money, Nora, for your poor
people--your orphans and the school and the hospital. I will give it to
you to-morrow."
"You can help Nora to distribute it," said Mrs. Tracy.
"Dear Aunt Charlotte, how you hate to hear me speak of it! But I talk to
Nora, you know, just as I please in the night."
"No; talk to me, too. Say whatever you like," answered Mrs. Tracy,
quickly.
"It is so warm this evening that I can have all the windows open,"
Dorothy went on. "Take the lamp out, Nora, please, and let in the
moonlight; I like to see it shining across the floor." She lay in
silence for some minutes looking at the radiance. They had cut off her
hair, thinking that its length and thickness might be taking something
from her small store of strength. Her face, with the boyish locks,
looked very childlike. "Do you remember that song, Aunt
Charlotte,'Through the long days'? The moonlight makes me think of it.
First, Felicia Philipps sang it one moonlight evening over at Villa
Dorio. Then, after we were married, some one sang it here in the garden,
and Alan said, when it was over-- Oh, if I could only tell him once, just
once, that I did love him! He never believed it--he never knew--"
"Don't cry, dear. Don't."
"No; I don't cry very often now," Dorothy answered, her breast rising in
one or two long sobs. "Last spring Waddy dared to sing that song
again--Alan's song! I could not see him after that.
    "Through the long days, the long days and the years--"
"It will tire you to sing, dear."
"No; I like it." And then, in a faint little thread of a voice, barely
audible, but very sweet, she sang, lying there in the moonlight, the
beautiful song:
    "Through the long days, the long days and the years,
             What will my loved one be,
             Parted from me, parted from me,
     Through the long days and years?
    "Never, ah, never on earth again--"
It was her last song. Three days later she died. She passed away so
quietly that they did not know it was death; they thought she was
asleep.
When at last they learned what it was, Mrs. North, standing beside the
couch, white and stern, said, with rigid lips, "The doctors did not tell
us."
But the doctors did not know.
A TRANSPLANTED BOY
I
Lorenzo came into the hall, bell in hand.
Putting down his white gloves at the feet of the goddess Flora, he began
his promenade: ding-dong past Jupiter and Juno; ding-dong past Mars and
Venus, Neptune and Diana, Minerva and Apollo, until the last pedestal on
the east was reached; here there was no goddess, only a leaping flame.
There was a corresponding tongue of fire on the last pedestal of the
west side opposite, and both of these architectural ornaments were made
of wood, painted scarlet. On the north side there towered six windows as
high as those of a church. These windows faced a flight of stone steps
that went down in a dignified sweep, eighteen feet wide, to a landing
adorned with a Muse; here, dividing into two wings, the staircase turned
to the right and the left in noble curves, and descended to the square
hall below. The massive iron-clamped portals of this lower hall were
open; they were swung back early in the morning, in order that the
horses might pass through on their way to the street; for there were
horses in the stables of the court-yard within. They did pass through,
making with the carts to which they were harnessed a thundering clatter
which would have deafened the inmates of an American dwelling. But the
old Pisan palace had been built in another fashion. This lower hall with
its heavy pavement and great doors, the gallery above with the rows of
life-sized statues, the broad sweep of the stone stairways--all these, a
space that could have swallowed many modern houses entire, were but its
entrance; and so massive were the floors that no one in the long ranges
of rooms above had any intimation of the moment when their hallway was
turned into a street. The outer portals remained swung back all day; but
the light inner doors were opened and closed on demand by old Bianca,
the portress, who lived in a dusky den under the staircase. This evening
the sunset was so brilliant that even these inner doors stood open, and
Bianca herself had come to the threshold, blinking a little as the
radiance fell upon her patient, cloistered face.
She was looking at a boy who was leaning over the parapet opposite. This
boy, with one arm round a small dog whom he had lifted to the top of the
wall by his side, was gazing at the tawny water of the Arno as it glided
past the house; for the old palace was in the Lung' Arno of Pisa, the
sunny street that follows the river like a quay, its water-side lying
open to the stream, protected by a low wall. Bianca was evidently
thinking of this boy and the summons of the clanging bell above; whether
he cared for the bell or not, he seemed to feel at last the power of her
mild gaze directed upon his back, for, swinging himself down from the
parapet, he crossed the street, and with his dog at his heels, entered
the palace. He went up the right-hand stairway, glancing as he passed at
the two stone caryatides which upheld the balustrade at the landing;
these were girls who had probably been intended for mermaids; but their
fish endings were vague compared with the vividly human expression of
their anxious young countenances--an anxiety oddly insisted upon by the
unknown house-sculptor who had chiselled them according to his fantasy
hundreds of years before. Freshly arrived Americans, not yet broken in
to the light foreign breakfast, and frozen from January to March, were
accustomed to declare that the faces of these caryatides reflected in
advance all the miseries of the pension, that is, all the hardship of
winter life in Italy which assails the surprised and undefended pilgrim
from the United States. But the boy who was coming up the stairs, though
