
"Still, do you know sometimes I would give it all for the fresh odor of
the fields at home, in the country, and the old scent of lilacs," said
Mrs. Lenox.

"Do you care for lilacs?" said Claudia. "If you had said roses--"

"No, I mean lilacs--the simple country lilacs. And I want to see some
currant bushes, too; yes, and even an old wooden garden fence," replied
Mrs. Lenox, laughing, but nevertheless as if she meant what she said.
She went with them only that once in the evening, for when she reached
home she found that the little boy had been wakeful, and that he had
refused to go to sleep again because she was not there. After this the
others went without her in a gondola holding four. At last, although the
moonlight lingers longer in Venice than anywhere else, there was, for
that month at least, no more. Yet still the evening air was delicious,
and the music did not cease; the effect of the shadows was even more
marvellous than the mingled light and shade had been. They continued to
go out and float about for an hour or two in the warm, peopled
darkness. They went also, but by daylight, to Torcello, and this time
Theocritus was of the party. During half of the day he was more despotic
than he had ever been, but later he seemed very tired; he slept in his
aunt's arms all the way home. Once she made an effort to transfer him to
her husband, as the weight of his little muffled figure lay heavily on
her slender arm; but Theocritus was awake immediately, and began to beat
off his uncle's hands with all his might.

"Do let me take him, Elizabeth; he will soon fall asleep again," said
Lenox. He looked annoyed. "You are overtaxing your strength; I can see
that you are tired out."

"It will not harm me; I know when I am really too tired," answered his
wife. She gave him a little trusting smile as she spoke, and his frown
passed off.

They were all together in one of the large gondolas; Blake noted this
little side-scene.

That night Theocritus had a slight attack of fever. Mrs. Lenox said that
it came from over-fatigue, and that he must not go on any of the longer
expeditions. When they went to Murano, therefore, and down to Chioggia,
she did not accompany them, but remained at home with her charge.

Mrs. Marcy was enjoying this last month in Venice greatly. "Naturally,
it is much pleasanter when one has some one to attend to one, and one
too who knows one's tastes and looks after one's little comforts," she
remarked to her niece, with some intricacy of impersonal pronouns. The
lily did not observe that the attentions she found so agreeable were
being offered to her niece also by another impersonal pronoun. As she
would herself have said, "naturally," when they went here and there
together, the two elders often sat down to rest awhile when Claudia and
Lenox did not feel the need of it.

"Of course, with her beauty, her attractive qualities, and her fortune,
Miss Marcy has had many suitors," said Blake to the aunt during one of
these rests.

"Several," answered that lady, moderately. "But Claudia is not at all
susceptible. Neither is she so--so generally attractive as you might
suppose. She has too little thought for the opinions of others. She
says, for instance, just what she thinks, and that, you know, is seldom
agreeable."

"True; we much prefer that people should say what they don't. I have
myself noticed some plainly evident faults in her: a most impolitic
honesty; and, when stirred, an impulsiveness which is sure to be
unremunerative in the long-run. I should say, too, that she had an
empyrean sort of pride."

"Yes," replied the lily, not knowing what he meant, but concluding on
the whole that he spoke in reprobation. "As I said before, she has not
quite enough of that true feminine softness one likes so much to
see--I mean, of course, in a woman."

"Her pride will be her bane yet. It will make her blind to the most
obvious pitfall. However, I'll back her courage against it when once she
sees where she has dropped."

"What?" said the lily.

"She will in time learn from you; she could not follow a more lovely
example," said Blake, coming back from his reflections.

Towards the last of June a long expedition was planned, an expedition
into "Titian's country," which was to last three days. This little
pilgrimage had been talked about for a long time, Mrs. Lenox being as
much interested in it as the others. Whether she would have had the
courage to take Theocritus, even in his best estate, is a question; but
after the time was finally set and all the arrangements made, his worst
asserted itself, and so markedly that it was plain to all that she could
not go. Something was said about postponement, but it was equally plain
that if they were to go at all they should go at once, as the weather
was rapidly approaching a too great heat. Claudia wished particularly to
take this little journey; she had set her heart upon seeing the Titians
and reputed Titians said to be still left in that unvisited
neighborhood. Blake asserted that she even expected to discover one. It
was next proposed (although rather faintly) that Mr. Lenox should be
excused from the pilgrimage. But it could not be denied that the little
boy had been quite as ill (and irritable) several times before in
Venice, and that he had always recovered in a day or two. Not that Mrs.
Lenox denied it; on the contrary, she was the one to mention it. She
urged her husband's going; it was the excursion of all others to please
him the most. It ended in his consenting; it seemed, indeed, too much to
give up for so slight a cause.

"She looks a little anxious," observed Blake, as they waited for him in
the gondola which was to take them to the railway station. Lenox had
said good-bye to her, and was now coming down the long stairway within,
while she had stepped out on her balcony to see them start.

"Do you think so?" said Mrs. Marcy. "To me she always looks just the
same, always so unmoved."

Lenox now came out, and the gondola started. Claudia looked back and
waved her hand, Mrs. Lenox returning the salutation.

On the evening of the third day, at eleven o'clock, a gondola from the
railway station stopped at the larger palace's lower door, and three
persons ascended the dimly lighted stairs.

At the top Mrs. Lenox's servant was waiting for them. "Oh, where is
signore? Is he not with you? He has not come? Oh, the poor signora--may
the sweet Madonna help her now!" cried the girl, with tears in her
sympathetic Italian eyes. "The poor little boy is dead."

They rushed up the higher stairway and across the hall bridge. But it
was as the woman had said. There, on his little white bed, lay the
child; he would be troublesome no more on this earth; he was quiet at
last. Mrs. Lenox stood in the lighted doorway of her room as they came
towards her. When she saw that her husband was not with them, when they
began hurriedly to explain that he had not come, that he had stayed
behind, that he had sent a note, she swayed over without a word and
fainted away.

It was only over-fatigue, she explained later. The child had lain in her
arms for thirty hours, most of the time in great pain, and she had
suffered with him. She soon recovered consciousness and was quite
calm--more calm than they had feared she would be. They were anxiously
watchful; they tended her with the most devoted care. Blake did what he
could, and then waited. After a while, when Mrs. Lenox had in a measure
recovered, he softly beckoned Mrs. Marcy out.

"You must tell her that her husband will not be back in time for--that
he will not be back for at least six days, and very likely longer. And
as his route was quite uncertain, we cannot reach him; there is no
telegraph, of course, and even if I were to go after him I could only
follow his track from village to village, and probably come back to
Venice behind him."

"How can I tell her!" said the tearful lady. "Perhaps Claudia--"

"No, on no account. You are the one, and you must do it," replied Blake,
and with so much decision that she obeyed him. Thus the wife was told.

What Blake had said was true; it was hopeless to try to reach Lenox
before the time when he would probably be back of his own accord. He had
started on a hunt after some early drawings of Titian's, of which they
had unearthed dim legends. One was said to be in an old monastery, among
others of no importance; two more were vaguely reported as now here, now
there. Lenox had not been certain of his own route, but expected to be
