The commander communicated the intelligence he had just received to his
two lieutenants; and it was heard by some of the cavalrymen, from whom
it passed along the ranks, till all of them knew that a battle would
soon be fought, perhaps within a couple of hours. The captain rode back
to the head of the column. He had increased the speed of the company
from a walk to a trot while conversing with Colonel Halliburn.
The captain had no doubt that the information he had received was
entirely correct; and he hurried his men somewhat, hoping to find a
better place for the coming combat than he had yet seen along the road,
with woods on each side of the way. But he rode about three miles
farther before he came to a location that suited him. It was a hill
with a rude farmhouse at the top of it, on the right. The land on this
side had been cleared, and the crops had been harvested from it. At the
ascent of the hill on the left, about ten acres had been recently
cleared, while a continuous forest began at the crest of the hill, and
extended as far as he could see.
The captain realized that he could not have found a better location for
his purpose in the whole State of Kentucky; and he gave the order to
halt and to remain at ease when the company was not more than half-way
up the hill. He preferred to make his charge, when it came to that,
down the hill; and he had come to a halt where his force could not be
seen by an enemy on the other side of the elevation.
Captain Gordon was accounted a skilful strategist; and as he sat on his
horse at the head of the column, he matured his plan to meet the
attack, or to begin it, as the case might be. He had not waited much
more than an hour when the Millersville Home Guard galloped up to the
foot of the hill, and halted. The captain rode back to the head of
their column, and the colonel in command saluted him. The horses were
reeking with foam, and seemed to be well nigh winded, so great was the
speed to which they had been urged. It was a horse-raising country, and
the animals were of the highest grade.
"My men are now under your command, Captain Gordon, and personally I
will obey your orders," said the colonel. "I have explained the matter
to my men; and they all understand it, and will recognize you as the
commander of the whole force."
"I shall give my orders to you, sir, as the captain of the company, as
far as practicable," replied Captain Gordon. "How many men have you?"
"Sixty-four, besides the two lieutenants."
"How many of them are armed with rifles?"
"More than I thought when I spoke to you about them, for there are
forty-two of them; and they are skilled in the use of their weapons."
"Call them from the ranks, if you please, and have the first lieutenant
march them to the top of the hill," continued the captain. "If you will
go with me, I will explain my plan of action."
"I obey your orders, Captain."
The men with rifles were called out at once, and formed in fours by
Lieutenant Ripley. The second lieutenant formed the other twenty-two in
the same order. They had muskets slung on their backs, and most of them
had heavy revolvers in their belts, the only uniform any of the company
wore. The captain sent for a quartermaster-sergeant, and ordered him to
bring twenty-two sabres from one of the wagons.
Sergeant Fronklyn was sent for, and he was directed to drill these men
in the most important cuts and thrusts of the manual until the men were
needed for service. The captain, with Colonel Halliburn, returned to
the head of the column, when the plan was explained; and his companion
declared that it would make short work of the approaching company.
The riflemen were posted in the woods on the left, and their lieutenant
was fully informed what was expected of him. They were to dismount,
leave their horses farther in the forest, and then station themselves
behind the trees. When the enemy came within rifle-shot of them, they
were to pick them off, the column being divided among them, so that all
might not fire at the same mark. This was to be the greeting of the
Confederate company.
The captain explained to his companion in what manner the main body of
the company and its re-enforcement were to go into the action. Twenty
men were sent to take away the fence on the right hand of the road; and
it was soon removed, in spite of the protest of the farmer. The rails
and posts were carried far enough to be out of the way. This work was
performed under the supervision of the second lieutenant. It was hardly
completed before Deck discovered the proprietor stealing to the east,
and evidently intending to reach the road on the descent of the hill.
He arrested the man, and he was conducted to the head of the column.
The captain ordered him to be tied to a tree in the shelter of his
cabin; for it was plain that he meant to inform the enemy of the
presence of the Union company. The lieutenants were then instructed
what they were to do; and this had hardly been done, before Life and
Milton were discovered riding furiously up the road. They reported the
enemy approaching very leisurely towards the hill, and not more than
half a mile from it. The sergeant was confident they had not been seen,
for they had been careful to keep out of sight around a bend in the
road.
The company were still too far down the declivity to be seen till the
enemy came to the top of the hill, and the riflemen were likely to
bring them to a halt before they could reach that point. The captain
had taken a position where he could see without being seen. Sooner than
he expected he saw the head of the Confederate column, and ten minutes
later the riflemen began the discharge of their pieces. The first man
to drop from his saddle was the commander of the company, who was the
most conspicuous mark at the head of his command.
CHAPTER X
THE SHARPSHOOTERS OF MILLERSVILLE
The forty-two riflemen of the Home Guard were sharpshooters who had
practised for many years with the weapon, both as hunters and by firing
at a mark. Some of them were past the military age; and the lieutenant
in command of the detachment was sixty years old, and he had won his
spurs as the best shot in the town. He was a man of influence, and his
skill had procured him his present position in the company.
Lieutenant Ripley was at the right of the line of sharpshooters. He had
stationed his men in the woods, and ordered them not to fire till he
did so; and they were to load and fire at will after he had given the
first discharge. When the captain of the Confederate cavalry dropped
from his horse, it was known by whose shot he had fallen. A couple of
men were ordered to dismount, and bear him to the side of the roads;
and the lieutenant who succeeded to the command ordered a halt.
Captain Gordon and Colonel Halliburn were behind the farmer's house,
where they had retired, not to avoid the bullets of the enemy, but to
obtain a position where they could see without being seen. The horse of
the former stood on a knoll, from which his rider could look over the
corner of the low building, and the latter was at his side. Both of
them saw the captain of the company fall from his horse.
"Ripley fired that shot," said the colonel. "He was never known to miss
his aim when he had fair play."
"That was a good beginning, at any rate," added the captain.
"But why don't the next man in the line fire?" mused the commander of
the Home Guard, uttering his thought.
They could not know then the reason; but they learned afterwards that
the lieutenant had ordered them not to do so, as he wished to observe
the effect of the death of the captain, for he had not moved after he
fell. The company seemed to be staggered by the event for the space of
a minute. The men all turned their heads towards the woods; and as no
shot followed the first one at once, they might have inferred that the
fatality to the commander had been the work of an assassin.
This view was immediately confirmed by the captain's successor; for he
ordered four troopers to dismount, and go into the woods in search of
the murderer. But they did not reach the edge of the forest before fire
was opened upon them, and every one of them dropped dead or wounded.
The rifle was a terribly effective weapon in the hands of the
sharpshooters. The company had certainly fallen into an ambush. The
troopers could do nothing on their horses in the woods, and for the
moment they were practically helpless.
The fire continued all along the line of riflemen, one discharge at a
time, so that no two men should aim at the same soldier or officer; and
all along the detachment every one seemed to bring down his man. The
lieutenant saw the havoc made in his command; but Captain Gordon did
not give the order for his company to advance on the plan he had
arranged.
The battle appeared to be fighting itself without any assistance from
the summit of the hill, and it was evident that the enemy had no
knowledge of any force outside of the forest.
"That lieutenant has just given an order, but I could not make out what
he said," observed the colonel. "He is in a tight place, and you have
set a very ugly trap for that company to fall into, Captain Gordon."
"The assistance of your company, Colonel, has given me a very decided
advantage," replied the captain.
"And you have made excellent use of it. My men are safe in the woods,
and the lieutenant seems to be losing his time."
"You can see what his order meant now, for his men are dismounting.
They are going into the woods to clean out the enemy, and that is
really the only thing he can do," replied Captain Gordon. "It will be
time for me to put a finger in the pie very soon, for the protection of
your men, if for nothing else."
"You need not trouble your head about the riflemen, for they all have
legs; and even Ripley, the oldest man among them, can use his
walking-pins as well as any of them. They will retreat through the
woods, using their rifles as they retire."
Every alternate man of the company was dismounted, giving the
bridle-rein of his horse to one mounted. They double-quicked into the
forest; but they began to drop, to cling to the trees for support, or
to retire from the field before the observers on the hill lost sight of
them. Still Captain Gordon did not give the word to advance.
