pathy with JeflE's action. He was not aware of an 
intention of going, but he thought he had better not 
correct Mrs. Vostrand's error. 

" Yes, I really must, now," he said. 

" Well, then," she returned distractedly, " do come 
often." 

He hurried out to avoid meeting Genevieve. He 
passed her on the public stairs of the hoilse, but he 
saw that she did not recognize him in the dim light. 

Late that night he was startled by steps that seemed 



 

to be seeking their way up the stairs to his landing, 
and then by a heavy knock on his door. 

He opened it, and confronted JeflE Durgin. 

" May I come in, Mr. Westover ? " he asked with 
unwonted deference. 

" Yes, come in," said Westover, with no great rel- 
isli, setting his door open, and then holding on to it a 
moment, as« if he hoped that, having come in, JeflE 
might instantly go out again. 

His reluctance was lost upon Jeff, who said, uncon- 
scious of keeping his hat on, " I want to talk with 
you — I want to tell you something — " 

" All right. AVon't you sit down ? " 

At this invitation JeflE seemed reminded to take his 
hat oS, and he put it on the floor beside his chair. 
" I'm not in a scrape, this time ; or, rather, I'm in the 
worst kind of a scrape, though it isn't the kind that 
you want bail for." 

" Yes," Westover prompted. 

" I don't know whether you've noticed — and if you 
haven't it don't make any difference — that I've seemed 
to — care a good deal for Miss Vostrand ? " 

Westover saw no reason why he should not be 
frank, and said, " Too much, I've fancied sojnetimes, 
for a student in his Sophomore year." 

" Yes, I know that. Well, it's over, whether it was 
too much or too little." He laughed in a joyless, 
helpless way, and looked deprecatingly at Westover. 
" I guess I've been making a fool of myself ; that's 
all." 

" It's better to make a fool of one's self than to 



 

make a fool of some one else," said Westover, oracu- 
larly. 

" Yes," said Jeff, apparently finding nothing more 
definite in the oracle than people commonly find in 
oracles. " But I think," he went on with a touch of 
bitterness, " that her mother might have told me that 
she was engaged — or the same as engaged." 

" I don't know that she was bound to take you se- 
riously, or to suppose you took yourself so, at your 
age, and with your prospects in life. If you want to 
know" — -Westover faltered, and then went on — "she 
began to be kind to you because she was afraid that 
you might think she didn't take your coming home 
second-cabin in the right way ; and one thing led to 
another. You mustn't blame her for what's hap- 
pened." 

Westover defended Mrs. Vostrand, but he did not 
feel strong in her defence ; he was not sure that Dur- 
gin was quite wrong, absurd as he had been. He sat 
down and looked up at his visitor under his brows. 
"What are you here for, Jeff? Not to complain of 
Mrs. Vostrand?" 

Jeff gave a short, shamefaced laugh. " No, it's this. 
You're such an old friend of Mrs. Vostrand's that I 
thought she'd be pretty sure to tell you about it ; and 
I wanted to ask — to ask — that you wouldn't say any- 
thing to mother." 

"You are a boy! I shouldn't think of meddling 
with your affairs," said Westover ; he got up again, 
and Jeff rose too. 

Before noon the next day, a district messenger 



 

brought Westover a letter which he easily knew, from 
the now belated tall, angular hand, to be from Mrs. 
Vostrand. It announced on a much criss-crossed little 
sheet that she and Genevieve were inconsolably taking 
a very sudden departure, and were going on the twelve- 
o'clock train to New York, where Mr. Vostrand was 
to meet them. " In regard to that affair which I men- 
tioned last night, he withdraws his objections (we 
have had an overnight telegram), and so I suppose all 
will go well. I cannot tell you how sorry we both are 
not to see you again ; you have been such a dear, good 
friend to us ; and if you don't hear from us again at 
New York, you will from the other side. Genevieve 
had some very strange news when she came in, and we 
both feel very sorry for the poor young fellow. You 
must console him from us all you can. I did not know 
before how much she was attached to Gigi: but it 
turned out very fortunately that she could say she con- 
sidered herself bound to him, and did everything to 
save Mr. D.'s feelings." 



XX. 

Westover was not at Lion's Head again till the 
summer before JeS's graduation. In tte meantime 
the hotel had grown like a living thing. He could 
not have imagined wings in connection with the main 
edifice, but it had put forth wings, one that sheltered 
a new and enlarged dining-room, with two stories of 
chambers above, and another that hovered a parlor and 
ball-room under a like provision of chambers. An ell 
had been pushed back on the level behind the house ; 
the barn had been moved farther to the southward, 
and on its old site a laundry built, with quarters for 
the help over it. All had been carefully, frugally, yet 
sufficiently done, and Westover was not surprised to 
learn that it was all the eSect of Jackson Durgin's in- 
genuity and en"ergy. Mrs. Durgin confessed to having 
no part in it; but she had kept pace, with Cynthia 
AVhitwell's help, in the housekeeping. As Jackson 
had cautiously felt his way to the needs of their pub- 
lic in the enlargement and rearrangement of the hotel, 
the two housewives had watchfully studied, not merely 
the demands, but the half-conscious instincts of their 
guests, and had responded to them simply and ade- 
quately, in the spirit of Jackson's exterior and struct- 



 
