beguilers,' said Bertrand. ' She was full of interest, and 
asked a thousand questions, all of which I answered 
according to my ability. Then she sat thinking over these 
replies until I thought she was lost in a dream and would 
wake no more. But it was not so. At last she said, slowly, 
and as if she were talking to herself: ' A child of seven- 
teen — a girl — country bred — untaught —ignorant of war, 
the use of arms, and the conduct of battles — modest, gentle, 
shrinking — yet throws away her shepherd's crook and 
clothes herself in steel, and fights her way through a 
hundred and fifty leagues of hostile territory, never losing 
heart or hope and never showing fear, and comes — she to 
whom a king must be a dread and awful presence — and 
will stand up before such a one and say. Be not afraid, 
God has sent me to save you ! Ah, whence could come 
a courage and conviction so sublime as this but from 
very God Himself ! ' She was silent again awhile, thinking, 
and making up her mind; then she said, ''And whether 
she comes of God or no, there is that in her heart that 
raises her above men-high above all men that breathe in 
France to-day~for in her is that mysterious something- 
that puts heart into soldiers, and turns mobs of cowards 
mto armies of fighters that forget what fear is when they 
are in that presence-fighters who go into battle with jov 
in their eyes and songs on their lips, and sweep over the 
field like a storm-that is the spirit that can save France 
and that alone, come It whence it may ! It is in her I do 
truly believe, for what else could have borne up that' child 
on that great march, and made her despise Its dangers and 
fatigues ? The King must see her face to face-and shall ' - 
She dismissed me with those good words, and I know her 
promise will be kept. They will delay her all they can- 
those animals— but she will not fail, in the end ' 
' Would she were King ! ' said the other knlg-ht, fer- 
vently. ' For there is little hope that the King himself can 
be stirred out of his lethargy. He is wholly without hope, 
and IS only thinking of throwing away everything and fly- 
ing to some foreign land. The commissioners say there 
IS a spell upon him that makes him hopeless-yes, and that 
it IS shut up in a mystery which they cannot fathom ' 
' I know the mystery,' said Joan, with quiet confidence : 
I know It, and he knows it, but no other but God. When 
I see him I will tell him a secret that will drive away his 
trouble, then he will hold up his head again ' 
I was miserable with curiosity to know what it was 
that she would tell him, but she did not say, and I did not 
expect she would. She was but a child, it is true ; but she 
was not a chatterer to tell great matters and make herself 
important to little people ; no, she was reserved, and kept 
things to herself, as the truly great always do. 
The next day Queen Yolande got one victory over the 
King s keepers, for in spite of their protestations and ob- 
structions she procured an audience for our two knlg-hts 
and they made the most they could out of their opportunity' 
They told the King what a spotless and beautiful character 
Joan was, and how great and noble a spirit animated her, 
and they implored him to trust in her, believe in her, and 
have faith that she was sent to save France. They begged 
him to consent to see her. He was strongly moved to do 
this, and promised that he would not drop the matter out 
of his mind, but would consult with his council about it. 
This began to look encouraging. Two hours later there 
was a great stir below, and the innkeeper came flying up 
to say a commission of illustrious ecclesiastics was come 
from the King — from the King his very self, understand ! 
think of this vast honour to his humble little hostelry ! — 
and he was so overcome with the glory of it that he could 
hardly find breath enough in his excited body to put the 
facts into words. They were come from the King to speak 
with the Maid of Vaucouleurs. Then he flew downstairs, 
and presently appeared again, backing into the room and 
bowing to the ground with every step, in front of four 
imposing and austere bishops and their train of servants. 
Joan rose, and we all stood. The bishops took seats, 
and for a while no word was said, for it was their preroga- 
tive to speak first, and they were so astonished to see 
what a child it was that was making such a noise in the 
world and degrading personages of their dignity to the 
base function of ambassadors to her in her plebeian tavern, 
that they could not find any words to say, at first. Then 
presently their spokesman told Joan they were aware that 
she had a message for the King, wherefore she was now 
commanded to put it into words, briefly and without waste 
of time or embroideries of speech. 
As for me, I could hardly contain my joy — our message 
was to reach the King at last ! And there was the same 
joy and pride and exultation in the faces of our knights, 
too, and in those of Joan's brothers. And I knew that they 
were all praying — as I was — that the awe which we felt in 
the presence of these great dignitaries, and which would 
have tied our tongues and locked our jaws, would not 
affect her in the Hke degree, but that she would be enabled 
to word her message well, and with little stumbling, and 
so make a favourable impression here, where it would be 
so valuable and so important. 
Ah dear, how little we were expecting what happened 
then ! We were aghast to hear her say what she said. 
She was standing in a reverent attitude, with her head 
down and her hands clasped in front of her ; for she was 
always reverent toward the consecrated servants of God 
When the spokesman had finished, she raised her head and 
set her calm eye on those faces, not any more disturbed 
by their state and grandeur than a princess would have 
been, and said, with all her ordinary simplicity and modesty 
of voice and manner : 
' Ye will forgive me, reverend sirs, but I have no mes- 
sage save for the King's ear alone.' 
Those surprised men were dumb for a moment, and 
their faces flushed darkly ; then the spokesman said : 
' Harkye, do you fling the King's command in his face 
and refuse to deliver this message of yours to his servants 
appomted to receive it ? ' 
' God has appointed one to receive it, and another's 
commandment may not take precedence of that. I pray 
you let me have speech of his grace the Dauphin.' 
' Forbear this folly, and come at your message ! De- 
liver It, and waste no more time about it.' 
' You err indeed, most reverend fathers in God, and it 
is not well. I am not come hither to talk, but to deliver 
Orleans, and lead the Dauphin to his good city of Rheims 
and set the crown upon his head.' ' 
' Is that the message you send to the King ? ' 
But Joan only said, in the simple fashion which was 
her wont : 
' Ye will pardon me for reminding you again— but I 
have no message to send to any one.' 
The King's messengers rose in deep anger and swept 
out of the place without further words, we and Joan 
kneeling as they passed. 
Our countenances were vacant, our hearts full of a 
sense of disaster. Our precious opportunity was thrown 
away ; we could not understand Joan's conduct, she who 
had been so wise until this fatal hour. At last the Sieur 
Bertrand found courage to ask her why she had let this 
great chance to get her message to the King go by. 
' Who sent them here ? ' she asked. 
'The King.' 
' Who moved the King to send them ? ' She waited 
for an answer ; none came, for we began to see what was 
in her mind — so she answered herself : ' The Dauphin's 
council moved him to it. Are they enemies to me and to 
the Dauphin's weal, or are they friends ? ' 
' Enemies,' answered the Sieur Bertrand. 
' If one would have a message go sound and ungarbled, 
does one choose traitors and tricksters to send it by ? ' 
I saw that we had been fools, and she wise. They 
saw it too, so none found anything to say. Then she 
went on : 
' They had but small wit that contrived this trap. 
They thought to get my message and seem to deliver it 
straight, yet deftly twist it from its purpose. You know 
that one part of my message is but this — to move the 
Dauphin by argument and reasonings to give me men-at- 
arms and send me to the siege. If an enemy carried these 
in the right words, the exact words, and no word missing, 
yet left out the persuasions of gesture and supplicating 
tone and beseeching looks that inform the words and 
make them live, where were the value of that argument — 
whom could it convince ? Be patient, the Dauphin will 
hear me presently ; have no fear.' 
