"I don't know; anywhere that the club wish to go."
"Up to Squaw Rock," suggested one.
"Down to Rippleton," said another.
"Over to the sawmill," added a third.
"Way enough!" cried Frank. "Lay on your oars, and we will decide it."
"What do you say to circumnavigating the lake?" said Fred Harper.
"So I say," cried several.
"Those in favor of going round the lake say 'Ay.'"
"Ay," shouted a large majority.
"Round it is," said Frank. "Give way!"
Taking a course in the direction of Rippleton village, Frank kept the
boat as near the shore as her safety would permit. The boys rowed with
remarkable precision, but with a very slow and measured stroke, so as
to reserve their strength for the long pull before them.
"I wonder where the Bunkers are," said Charles.
"They haven't been seen on their raft for several days."
"I suppose they got sick of it when they saw the Zephyr," suggested
Fred Harper.
"Very likely; their old raft didn't look much like our craft when we
went round them the other day," added Mark Leman.
Charles laughed at the contrast.
"What do you say to landing at Rippleton?" suggested he, as they
approached the outlet of the lake.
"What for?" asked Frank.
"They haven't seen our new uniform down here," replied Charles.
"I think we had better not," said the coxswain.
"Why not, Frank? Let us march through the streets, and get up a
sensation."
"I would rather not. Some accident might happen to the boat while we
are gone."
"Oh, nonsense!"
"Suppose the Bunkers should happen to see it?" suggested Frank.
"They wouldn't dare to touch it," replied Charles.
"I am afraid they would."
"If I were coxswain, I would let you land," said Charles sulkily.
"That isn't fair," said Tony.
"Humph!" sneered Charles.
"Don't get cross, Charley," interposed Frank.
"Who's cross?" said Charles, throwing down his oar.
"Mutiny!" laughed Fred Harper.
"Well, I ain't a-going to be snubbed round in that way."
"Charley, I haven't said a word that you need take offence at," said
Frank in a conciliatory tone.
"That he hasn't," interposed several.
"Yes, you have; and you needn't think you are going to tyrannize over
me in that way," persisted Hardy.
"Pull steady," said Frank calmly, as he put the helm hard up.
The boat came round in a graceful circle; and to the surprise of all,
the coxswain headed her directly for the boat-house.
"I thought you were going round the lake," said Sam Harper.
"Not now," replied Frank quietly.
The boys pulled in silence for several minutes, and Charles Hardy
leaned over the gunwale and moodily watched the ripples on the side of
the boat. He was conscious that he was introducing dissension into the
club; but it seemed to him that Frank was ill-natured in not gratifying
him when he proposed to land at Rippleton.
The Zephyr was rapidly approaching the boat-house, and Frank was
sweeping her round so as to run her into the slip. The consequences of
his behavior occurred to him. The provisions of article six of the
constitution, and the penalty, came to his mind with appalling force.
His conduct would be immediately reported to the Director, and probably
he would be suspended, or expelled from the club. He could not bear to
think of such a thing.
The boat in a minute more would shoot into the boat-house, and it would
be too late to apologize. He could not endure the idea of "giving up,"
and owning that he was in the wrong, but to be suspended or expelled
was a more bitter reflection.
"Frank," said he in a gentle, insinuating tone.
"Way enough!" cried the coxswain promptly. "Stern all!"
"Forgive me, Frank," said the rebellious oarsman.
"You are rather late, Charley; but better late than never. We are
almost into the boat-house."
"I won't give you any more trouble, I solemnly promise it, if you won't
say anything about it this time."
"According to the constitution your conduct must be reported."
"Let him slide this time," interposed Fred Harper.
"I freely forgive the offence, so far as I am concerned."
"Your father won't say anything."
"He must know it," insisted Frank firmly.
"What is the matter, boys?" called Captain Sedley from the shore.
"Now we are in for it!" added Fred.
Charles Hardy hung his head with shame. Gladly would he have recalled
his hasty words of anger, but it was too late. They had been spoken,
and he must abide the consequences.
"Give way!" said Frank sadly, for he would fain have avoided the
explanation which his father demanded.
The oarsmen pulled, and the boat was run into the house.
"Keep your places," said Frank, as he leaped out of the boat, and
hastened to meet his father.
Captain Sedley was much astonished when he heard the story of Charles's
sulkiness, and insisted that he should come ashore; but Frank pleaded
for him, and the Director finally consented, as it was the first
offence under the new constitution, to pardon it.
Frank, delighted with his success, returned to the boat. Giving the
necessary orders, the Zephyr shot out from her berth; and he steered,
as before, towards Rippleton. Charles was deeply mortified when he
reflected upon his quarrelsome behavior, and mentally resolved never to
be guilty of such conduct again. But he was anxious to know what
disposition Captain Sedley had made of his case, and whether he should
be held to answer for his disobedience when they went ashore. He did
not like to say anything about it, though, at first; but after more
reflection, his better nature overcame his pride.
"Frank," said he with a smile.
"Well, Charley."
"I am sorry for what I did."
"I knew you were; and for that reason I begged my father to excuse it,
and have nothing more said about it."
"You are too generous, Frank; I don't deserve it of you."
"It was an offence against the club more than against me," replied
Frank. "I am glad you think better of it."
"I never will do it again."
"I hope not, Charley. You know the constitution provides for a new
coxswain every two weeks; when you are chosen, I shall obey your
orders."
"I don't deserve to be coxswain."
"Well, never mind it. It is all right now."
Good feeling was again restored, and the boys once more began to enjoy
themselves. The Zephyr worked admirably, and Frank deported himself
with so much dignity and firmness that the boys rendered the most
unqualified obedience to all his orders. But he was not tyrannical nor
overbearing. When there was a difference of opinion, he was always
ready to yield his own inclination to the wishes of the majority.
The boat passed round the lower end of the lake, and was approaching
its upper extremity.
"What's that?" exclaimed Frank, rising from his seat, as he discovered
a boat lying near the shore full of boys.
"Way enough!" said he.
"It is the Bunkers!" exclaimed Tony. "I see Tim in the stern."
"It is Joe Braman's boat," added Fred Harper. "Here they come."
"Twig the flags!" cried Charles Hardy.
"In imitation of the Zephyr," said Frank, laughing heartily.
The boat approached near enough for them to examine her. It was, as
Fred had declared, Joe Braman's boat; but she had been very much
altered. Apparently she had been sawed in two and lengthened out. She
had been painted bright yellow, with a red streak round her; and on the
bows, after the manner of the Zephyr, was inscribed, in black letters,
the name "Thunderbolt," which was in accordance with Tim Bunker's
taste. She was pulled by eight oars, and the redoubtable leader of the
gang sat in the stern-sheets as coxswain. Forward floated a blue cotton
rag, with the letter "T" daubed upon it in white paint, and surrounded
by half a dozen ill-shaped stars. At the stern was a ragged piece of
bunting, which had once been the flag of the Republic, but which had
been curtailed of nine of its stripes and a part of its stars.
The Bunkers evidently had not practised rowing much; for their stroke
was irregular, and they splashed the water about like so many
porpoises. Occasionally one of them got hit in the back by his
neighbor's oar, which produced a great deal of swearing and wrangling
among them. They made but slow progress through the water, and the
Zephyrs could scarcely refrain from laughing at the singular spectacle.
CHAPTER XIV
THE COLLISION
Joe Braman, the alleged proprietor of the Thunderbolt, was an idle,
dissolute fellow, who employed his time in gunning, fishing, and
loitering about the dramshops of Rippleton. He lived on the north
shore. How he obtained his living, it would have been difficult to
determine.
Tim Bunker was an especial favorite with Braman, and people said it was
because there was a natural sympathy between them. Joe's boat was a
long, flat-bottomed affair, not very graceful in its form or
construction. With the exception of Captain Sedley's sailboat and the
