"Under the bridge at the other side. She 
had been caught, she was held, in the slow cur 
rent, by some obstruction, and by the pier. Don't 
ask me how when I arrived by the mercy of 
Heaven, she had been brought to the bank. But 
she was gone." With a movement of the head 
toward the room she had quitted, "We carried 
her back here," she went on. Vidal's face, which 
was terrible in the intensity of its sudden vision, 
struck her apparently as, for an instant, an echo, 
wild but interrogative, of what she had last said ; 
so she explained quickly : " To think to get 
more time." He turned straight away from her ; 
he went, as she had done, to the window and, 
with his back presented, stood looking out in 
the mere rigour of dismay. 
She was silent long enough to show a respect 
for the particular consternation that her manner 
of watching him betrayed her impression of hav 
ing stirred ; then she pursued : " How long were 
you at Bounds with Rose?" 
Vidal turned round without meeting her eyes 
or, at first, understanding her question. "At 
Bounds?" 
"When, on your joining her, she went over 
with you." 
He thought a moment. "She didn't go over 
with me. I went alone after the child came 
out." 
" You were there when Manning brought her ? " 
 
-Mrs. Beever wondered. "Manning didn't tell 
me." 
" I found Rose on the lawn with Mr. Bream 
when I brought back your boat. He left us 
together after inviting me to Bounds and then 
the little girl arrived. Rose let me hold her, and 
I was with them till Miss Martle appeared. Then 
I rather uncivilly went off." 
" You went without Rose ? " Mrs. Beever asked. 
" Yes I left her with the little girl and Miss 
Martle." The vivid effect of this statement made 
him add : " Was it your impression I didn't? " 
His companion, before answering him, dropped 
into a seat and stared up at him ; after which she 
brought out: "I'll tell you later. You left 
them," she demanded, "in the garden with the 
child?" 
"In the garden with the child." 
" Then you hadn't taken her ? " 
Dennis had for some seconds a failure either of 
memory or of courage ; but, whichever it was, he 
completely overcame it. " By no means. She 
was in Rose's arms." 
Mrs. Beever, at this image, attached her eyes to 
the carpet; after which, raising them again, she 
continued: "You went to Bounds?" 
"No I turned off short. I was going, but if 
I had a great deal to think of," he explained, 
"after I had learned from you she was here, the 
quantity wasn't, of course, diminished by our 
personal encounter." He hesitated. " I had seen 
her with him." 
" Well ? " said Mrs. Beever as he paused again. 
"I asked you if she was in love with him." 
" And I bade you find out for yourself." 
"I've found out," Dennis said. 
"Well?" Mrs. Beever repeated. 
It was evidently, even in this tighter tension, 
something of an ease to all his soreness to tell her. 
"I've never seen anything like it and there's 
not much I've not seen." 
" That's exactly what the Doctor says ! " 
Dennis stared, but after a moment, " And does 
the Doctor say Mr. Bream cares?" he artlessly 
inquired. 
"Not a farthing." 
"Not a farthing. I'm bound to say I could 
see it for myself," he declared, "that he has be 
haved very well." Mrs. Beever, at this, turning 
in torment on her seat, gave a smothered wail 
which pulled him up so that he went on in sur 
prise: "Don't you think that?" 
 
"I'll tell you later," she answered. "In the 
presence of this misery I don't judge him." 
" No more do I. But what I was going to say 
was that, all the same, the way he has with a 
woman the way he had with Tier there, and his 
damned good looks and his great happiness " 
" His great happiness ? God help him ! " Mrs. 
Beever broke out, springing up again in her emo 
tion. She stood before him with pleading hands. 
" Where were you then ? " 
" After I left the garden ? I was upset, I was 
dissatisfied I didn't go over. I lighted a cigar ; 
I passed out of the gate by your little closed 
pavilion and kept on by the river." 
"By the river?" Mrs. Beever was blank. 
" Then why didn't you see ? " 
" What happened to the child ? Because, if it 
happened near the bridge, I had left the bridge 
behind." 
" But you 'were in sight " 
"For five minutes," Dennis said. "I was in 
sight perhaps even for ten. I strolled there, 
I turned things over, I watched the stream, 
and, finally just at the sharp bend I sat a 
little on the stile beyond that smart new boat- 
house." 
" It's a horrid thing." Mrs. Beever considered. 
" But you see the bridge from the boat-house." 
Dennis hesitated. " Yes it's a good way, but 
you've a glimpse." 
"Which showed you nothing at all?" 
" ' Nothing at all ' ? " his echo of the question 
was interrogative, and it carried him uneasily to 
the window, where he again, for a little, stared 
out. The pink of the sky had faded, and dusk 
had begun in the room. At last he faced about. 
" No I saw something. But I'll not tell you 
what it was, please, till I've myself asked you a 
thing or two." 
Mrs. Beever was silent at this ; they stood face 
to face in the twilight. Then she slowly exhaled 
a part of her anguish. " I think you'll be a help." 
"How much of one," he bitterly demanded, 
" shall I be to myself ? " But he continued before 
she could meet the question. "I went back to 
the bridge, and as I approached it Miss Martle 
came down to it from your garden." 
Mrs. Beever grabbed his arm. "Without the 
child ? " He was silent so long that she repeated 
it: "Without the child?" 
He finally spoke. "Without the child." 
She looked at him as she showed that she felt 
 
she had never looked at any man. "On your 
sacred honour ! " 
" On my sacred honour." 
She closed her eyes as she had closed them at 
the beginning of their talk, and the same defeated 
spasm passed over her face. "You are a help," 
she said. 
"Well," Dennis replied straightforwardly, "if 
it's being one to let you know that she was with 
me from that moment " 
Breathless, she caught him up. " With you ? 
till when?" 
" Till just now, when we again separated at the 
gatehouse: I to go over to Bounds, as I had 
promised Mr. Bream, and Miss Martle " 
Again she snatched the words from him. " To 
come straight in ? Oh, glory be to God ! " 
Dennis showed some bewilderment. " She did 
come ?" 
" Mercy, yes to meet this horror. She's with 
Effie." She returned to it, to have it again. " She 
was with you ? " 
"A quarter of an hour perhaps more." At 
