hair."
Between the parlor and the back room was a space made into a library on
one side and some closets on the other. Sliding doors shut this from the
back room. This was large, with a splendid, high-post bedstead that had
yellow silk curtains around it, a velvet sofa, and over by the window
some arm-chairs and a table. And out of one chair rose a curious little
old man, who seemed somehow to have shrunken up, and yet he was a
gentleman from head to foot. His hair was long and curled at the ends,
but it looked like floss silk. His eyes were dark and bright, his face
was wrinkled, and his beard thin. Hanny thought of the old man at the
Bowling Green who had been in the Bastille. His velvet coat, very much
cut away, was faced with plum-colored satin, his long waistcoat was of
flowered damask, his knee-breeches were fastened with silver buckles,
and his slippers had much larger ones. There really were some diamonds
in them. His shirt frill was crimped in the most beautiful manner, and
the diamond pin sparkled with every turn.
"This is grandpa," said Mrs. French. "We are all very proud of him that
he has kept his faculties, and we want him to live an even hundred
years."
The old man smiled and shook his head slowly. He took Hanny's hand, and
his was as soft as a baby's. He said he was very glad to see them both;
he and their father had been talking over old times and relationships.
His voice had a pretty foreign sound. It was a soft, trained voice, but
the accent was discernible.
"And you were here through the War of the Revolution," said Ben, who
had been counting back.
"Yes. My father had just died and left nine children. I was the oldest,
and there were two girls. So I couldn't be spared to go. The British so
soon took possession of New York. But in 1812 I was free to fight for
liberty and the country of my adoption. We were never molested nor badly
treated, but of course we could give no aid to our countrymen. It was a
long, weary struggle. No one supposed at first the rebels could conquer.
And all that is seventy years ago, seventy years."
He leaned back and looked weary.
"You must come down some Saturday morning when he feels fresh and he
will tell you all about it," said Mrs. French. "His memory is excellent,
but he does get fatigued."
"I wonder if you ever saw the statue of King George that was in Bowling
Green," Hanny asked, with a little hesitation. "They made bullets of
it."
"Ah, you know that much?" He smiled and leaned over on the arm of the
chair. "Yes, my child. The soldiers met to hear the Declaration of
Independence read for the first time. Washington was on horseback with
his aides around him. The applause was like a mighty shout from one
throat. Then they rushed to the City Hall and tore the picture of the
king from its frame, and then they dragged the statue through the
streets. Yes, its final end was bullets for the rebels, as they were
called. As my daughter says, come and see me again, and I will tell you
all you want to hear. You are a pretty little girl," and he pressed
Hanny's hand caressingly.
Then they said good-by to him and went back to the parlor.
"He always dresses up on holidays," said Mrs. French smilingly, "though
he continues to wear the old-fashioned costume. He has had a number of
calls to-day. People are still interested in the old times. And believe
me, I shall take a great deal of pleasure in continuing the
acquaintance. You may expect me very soon."
Luella kissed Hanny with frantic fervor and begged her to come again.
She was so used to boys, she cared nothing about Ben.
The little girl had so much to tell Jim, who had been skating. The
quarrelling parrots, the beautiful house, the queer little guinea-pigs,
and the splendid hobby-horse that they didn't seem to care a bit about.
"And Lu is a good deal like Dele, only not so nice or so funny, and her
hair is awful black. She ran down-stairs with me in her arms and I was
'most frightened to death. I don't believe I would want to be her little
sister. And the grandpa is like a picture of the old French people. And
to think that he doesn't read English very well and always uses his
French Bible. There were so many foreign people in New York at that
time, I s'pose they couldn't all talk English."
"And they had preaching in Dutch after 1800 in the Middle Dutch Church,"
said Jim. "And even after the sermons were in English the singing had to
be in Dutch. Aunt Nancy said the place used to be crowded just to hear
the people sing."
"It's queer how they could understand each other. Do you suppose the
children had to learn every language?"
Jim gave a great laugh at that.
CHAPTER XIV
JOHN ROBERT CHARLES
The new President was inaugurated on the fourth of March. The little
girl sighed to think how many Democratic people there were on her block.
They put out flags and bunting, and illuminated in the evening. They had
tremendous bonfires, and all the boys waived personal feeling and danced
and whooped like wild Indians. No healthy, well-conditioned boy could
resist the fragrance of a tar barrel.
Miss Lily Ludlow wore a red, white, and blue rosette with a tiny
portrait of Mr. Polk in the centre. The public-school girls often walked
up First Avenue and met Mrs. Craven's little girls going home. Lily used
to stare at Hanny in an insolent manner. She and her sister could not
forgive the fact that Miss Margaret had not called.
And now the talk was that Miss Margaret Underhill had a beau, a handsome
young doctor.
"They do think they're awful grand," said Lily to some of her mates.
"But they take up with that Dele Whitney, who sometimes does the
washing on Saturdays. It's a fact, girls; and the sister works in an
artificial-flower place down in Division Street. And the Underhills
think they're good enough to company with."
But the fact remained that the Underhills kept a carriage, and that Mr.
Stephen had married in the Beekman family, and Chris had heard that Dr.
Hoffman was considered a great catch. She was almost twenty and had
never kept company yet. Young men called at the house, to be sure, and
attended her home from parties, but the most desirable ones seemed
unattainable.
Her mother fretted a little that she didn't get to doing something. Here
were girls earning five or six dollars a week, and her father's wages
were so small it was a pinch all the time.
"I'm sure I make all our dresses and sew for father, and do lots of
housework," replied Chris, half-crying.
There were people even then who considered it more genteel not to work
out of the house. And since servants were not generally kept, a
daughter's assistance was needed in the household.
And to crown the little girl's troubles her dear mayor was retired to
private life and a Democrat ruled in his stead.
But there were the new discoveries to talk about, and the reduction of
postage due to the old administration. Now you could send a letter
three hundred miles for five cents. Hanny wrote several times a year to
her grandmother Underhill, so this interested her. At the end of the
century we are clamoring for penny postage, and our delivery is free.
Then they had to pay the carrier.
The electro-magnetic telegraph was coming in for its share of attention.
Scientific people were dropping into the old University of New York,
where Mr. Morse was working it. The city had been connected with
Washington. There were people who believed "there was a humbugging
fellow at both ends," and that the scheme couldn't be made to work. It
was cumbersome compared to modern methods. And Professor John W. Draper
took the first daguerreotype from the roof of that famous building. That
was the greatest wonder of the day. What was more remarkable, a picture
or portrait could be copied in a few moments. Then there was a hint of
war with Mexico, and the Oregon question was looming up with its
cabalistic figures of "54, 40, or fight." Indeed, it seemed as if war
was in the air.
Children too had trials, especially John Robert Charles. He had been
allowed to go to Allen Street Sunday-school with the Dean children, and
he went over on Saturday afternoon to study the lesson. Hanny used to
come in, and occasionally they had a little tea. They played in the
yard and the wide back area. The boys did tease him; the target was too
good to miss. Hanny sympathized with him, for he was so nice and
pleasant. They couldn't decide just what name to call him. Bob did well
enough for the boys, but it was a little too rough for girls.
His mother still made him put on a long, checked pinafore to come to
meals. His father used a white napkin. And he did wipe dishes for her,
and help with the vegetables on Saturday. He could spread up a bed as
neatly as a girl, but he kept these accomplishments to himself.
There was another excitement among the small people. Mr. Bradbury, who
for years was destined to be the children's delight, was teaching
singing classes and giving concerts with his best pupils. Mrs. Dean
decided to let the girls go to the four o'clock class. Hanny would join
them. They could study the Sunday lesson before or afterward.
"If I only could go," sighed the boy. The tears came into his eyes.
"And you can sing just lovely!" declared Tudie.
Josie stood up with a warmly flushing face.
"I do believe I'd raise an insurrection. It isn't as if you wanted to do
anything wicked, like swearing or stealing. And my father said God gave
beautiful voices to people to sing with."
"But if I asked mother she wouldn't let me go. And--I couldn't run away.
You see that would be just for once. Perhaps then I wouldn't be let to
come over here, afterward," the boy replied sadly.
"Couldn't you coax?" asked Hanny.
"I could just ask, and she'd say no."
Hanny felt so sorry for him. He was very fair and had pretty, but rather
timid eyes.
"You can't raise an insurrection when you know for certain it'll be put
