prodigality meant as little as her menace of retrenchment, and nobody
comprehended this better than he. The owner of the money-bags is
entitled by popular verdict to his or her jest. Her pretended railing
was "clear fun."

The deeper and juster significance of the much derided clause of the
marriage vow is the second I have offered. "Live and let live" is a
motto that should begin, continue and be best exemplified at home. The
wife either earns an honorable livelihood, or she is a licensed
mendicant. The man who, after a careful estimate of the services
rendered by her who keeps the house, manages his servants, or does the
work of the servants he does not hire; who bears and brings up his
children in comfort, respectability and happiness; who looks after his
clothing and theirs; nurses him and them in illness, and makes the
world lovely for him in health--does not consider that his wife has
paid her way thus far, and is richly entitled to all he has given or
will ever give her--is not fit to conduct any business upon business
principles. If he be sensible and candid, let him decide what salary
he can afford to pay this most useful of his employés--and pay it as a
debt, and not a gratuity. The probability is that he will find that
the sum justifies her in regarding herself as a partner in his craft
or profession, with a fair amount of working-capital.

There is but one equitable and comfortable way of relieving the
husband from the charge and the fact of injustice, and the wife from
the sorer burden of conscious pauperism. She ought to have a stated
allowance for household expenses, to be disbursed by herself and, if
he will it, to be accounted for to the master of the house, and a
smaller, but sure sum which is paid to her as her very own, which she
may appropriate as she likes. He should no more "give" her money,
than he makes a present of his weekly wages to the porter who sweeps
his store, or to the superintendent of his factory. The feeling that
their gloves, gowns, underclothing--everything that they wear, and the
very bread that keeps life in their bodies, are gifts of grace from
the husbands they serve in love and honor, has worn hundreds of
spirited women into their graves, and made venal hypocrites of
thousands. The double-eagle laid in the palm of the woman whose home
duties leave her no time for money-making, burns sometimes more hotly
than the penny given to her who, for the first time, begs at the
street-corner to keep herself from starving.

The strangest of anomalies that have birth in a condition of affairs
which everybody has come to regard as altogether right and becoming,
is that the wife whose handsome wedding portion has been absorbed by
her husband's business is as dependent upon his favor for her "keep"
as she who brought no dot. She does not even draw interest upon the
money invested. Is it to be wondered at that caustic critics of human
nature and inconsistencies catalogue marriage for the wife under the
head of mendicancy? Would it not be phenomenal if women with eyes, and
with brains behind the eyes, did not gird at the necessity of suing
humbly for really what belongs to them?

I have known two, or at most three women, who averred that they "did
not mind asking their husbands for money." Out of simple charity I
preferred to believe that they were untruthful, to discounting their
disrespect and delicacy to the extent implied by the assertion. Yet
the street beggar gets used to plying his trade, and I may have been
mistaken.

Let us not overlook another side of the question under perplexed
debate. The woman who considers herself defrauded by present
privations and what seem to her needless economies, loses sight,
sometimes, of what John keeps before him as the load-star of his
existence and endeavor; to wit, that toil and economy are for the
common weal. He is not a miser for his individual enrichment, nor does
he plan with deliberate design for the shadowy second wife. It is not
to be denied that No. 2 often lives like a queen upon the wealth which
No. 1 helped to accumulate, and killed herself in so doing. But John
does not look so far as this. Much scrimping and hoarding may engender
a baser love of money for money's self. In the outset of the task, and
usually for all time, he means that wife and children shall have the
full benefit of what he has heaped up in the confident belief that he
knows who will gather with him. Men take longer views in these matters
than women. To "draw money out of the business" is a form of speech
to a majority of wives. To him whose household expenses overrun what
he considers the bounds of reason, this "drawing" means harder work
and to less purpose for months to come; clipped wings of enterprise,
and occasionally loss of credit. He who has married a reasonably
intelligent woman cannot make her comprehend this too soon. If he can
enlist her sympathies in his plans for earning independence and
wealth, he has secured a valuable coadjutor. If he can show her that
he is investing certain moneys which are due to her in ways approved
by her, which will augment her private fortune, he will retain her
confidence with her respect.

Each of us likes to own something in his or her own right. The custom
and prejudice that, since the abolition of slavery, make wives the
solitary exception to the rule that the "laborer is worthy of his
hire," are unworthy of a progressive age. The idea that such having
and holding will alienate a good woman from the husband who permits
it, degrades the sex. He whose manliness suffers by comparison with a
level-headed, clear-eyed wife capable of keeping her own bank account,
makes apparent what a mistake she made when she married him.




CHAPTER III.

THE PARABLE OF THE RICH WOMAN AND THE FARMER'S WIFE.


The rich woman was born and brought up in New York City; the farmer's
wife in Indiana.

They were as far apart in education and social station as if they had
belonged to different races and had lived in different hemispheres.

They were as near akin in circumstances and in suffering as if they
had been twin sisters, and brought up under the same roof.

The husband of one wrote "Honorable" before his name, and reckoned his
dollars by the million. He was, moreover, a man of imposing
deportment, bland in manner and ornate in language. As riches
increased he set his heart upon them and upon the good things that
riches buy. He had four children, and he erected ("built" was too
small a word) a palatial house in a fashionable street.

Each child had a suite of three rooms. Each apartment was elaborately
decorated and furnished. The drawing-rooms were crowded with
bric-a-brac and monuments of the upholsterer's ingenuity. It was a
work of art and peril to dust them every day. He developed a taste for
entertaining as time went on and honors thickened upon him, and he
mistook, like most of his guild, ostentation for hospitality. Every
dish at the banquets for which he became famous was a show piece. He
swelled with honest pride in the perusal of a popular personal
paragraph estimating the value of his silver and cut glass at $50,000.

The superintendent, part owner, and the slave of all this magnificence
was his wife. She was her own housekeeper, and employed, besides the
coachman, whose business was in the stables and upon his box, five
servants. There were twenty-five rooms in the palatial house, giving
to each servant five to be kept in the spick-and-span array demanded
by the master's position and taste. As a matter of course something
was neglected in every department, the instinct of self-preservation
being innate and cultivated in Abigail, Phyllis and Gretchen, "Jeems"
and "Chawls." Even more as a matter of course, the nominal mistress
supplemented the deficiencies of her aids.

The house was as present and forceful a consciousness with her as his
Dulcinea with David Copperfield at the period when the "sun shone
Dora, and the birds sang Dora, and the south wind blew Dora, and the
wild flowers were all Doras to a bud." No snail ever carried her abode
upon her back more constantly than our poor rich woman the
satin-lined, hot-aired and plate-windowed stone pile, with her. The
lines that criss-crossed her forehead, and channeled her cheeks, and
ran downward from the corners of her mouth, were hieroglyphics
standing in the eyes of the initiated for the baleful legend--

"HOUSE AND HOUSEKEEPING."

When she drove abroad in her luxurious chariot, behind high-stepping
bays, jingling with plated harness, or repaired in the season to
seashore or mountain, she was striving feebly to push away the tons of
splendid responsibility from her brain.

One day she gave over the futile attempt. Something crashed down upon
and all around her, and everything except inconceivable misery of soul
was a blank.

