distinguished men in the denomination cordially 
supplied. On the whole, perhaps the parish enjoyed 
their rector's vacation as much as he did. 
Now, upon the vestry there chanced at that time 
to be one man who was "different." One does find 
such people even among the officers of fashionable 
churches. This man (he was, by the way, a grand- 
nephew of the old lady who built the church when 
Saint Agatha's was an unendowed experiment) had 
occasional views not wholly in harmony with the 
policy of his brother officers ; and, being himself 
a heavy rate-payer, was allowed, sometimes, by the 
courtesy of the majority, when his notion was not 
really in bad form, you know, to have his way. 
He did not get it so often but that he was glad to 
make the most of it when he did; and when his 
turn came to control the supply for that Sunday 
with which this narrative has to do, he asked the 
privilege of being intrusted with the details of the 
business. This request, as from a useful man of 
certain eccentricities, was indulgently granted ; and 
thus there occurred the events which I am privileged 
to relate. 
It was just before Lent, and the winter had been 
a cold one. One Friday evening in early March 
there came up, or came down, a drifting snow-storm. 
It was bad enough in town, but in the suburbs it 
was worse, and in the country it was little less than 
dangerous to passengers through the wide, wind 
swept streets, the choking lanes, and bitter moors. 
An old clergyman, the pastor of a scattered 
parish, sat in his study on that Friday night, and 
thanked God that the weekly evening service was 
over, and his day's work done. He would have 
regretted being called out again that night, for he 
had got quite wet in walking to church and back, 
and the cold from which he had been suffering for 
a week past might not be benefited thereby. This 
fact in itself was a matter of no concern, under 
ordinary conditions, to the old clergyman, who, being a 
lonely man in a forlorn country boarding-house, with 
nobody to take care of him, was accustomed to live 
under the shadow of a " common cold," and who 
paid no more attention to his own physical 
discomforts in the face of daily duty than he paid to the 
latest fashion in sable trimmings in the front pews 
at Saint Agatha s. There was no fur trimming on 
his overcoat, which was seven years old and pitiably 
thin. But he had been invited to supply at Saint 
Agatha's next Sunday, and to that unexampled honor 
and opportunity he gave the pathetic attention 
half personal pleasure, half religious fervor of an 
overlooked and devout man. In the course of a 
forty-years ministry he had not been asked to 
preach in a city pulpit. The event was tremendous 
to him. He had been agitated by the invitation, 
which ran in some such way as this : 
" He had been invited to supply at St. Agath 
. . . "In closing, permit me to say, sir, that it 
would be agreeable to us to welcome among us the 
grandson of our first pastor, that young rector who 
died in the bud of his youth and Christian originality. 
The fact of your ancestry will give to your 
presence a peculiar interest for our people at large. 
But I beg to be allowed to add on behalf of the 
committee, that certain qualities in yourself and in 
your own work have led us to believe that you may 
exert positive influences upon us of which we stand 
in need. In your remote and rural parish your 
life has not passed unobserved. Your labors as a 
pastor, and your methods of preaching, have been 
an object of study to some of us. We have come 
to rate you, sir, as one of the men of God. There 
are not many. In meeting with our people, the 
writer personally hopes that you may be able to 
teach us something of the secret of your own happy 
and successful experience as a minister of Christ our 
Lord." . . . 
The old clergyman sat with his feet upon the 
base of his little cylinder coal-stove. His thin 
ankles shrank in the damp stockings which he had 
not been able to change since he came in out of the 
storm, because, owing to some personal preference 
of the laundress, he could not find any dry ones. 
His worn slippers flapped upon his cold feet when 
he moved. But he had on his flowered dressing- 
gown of ancient pattern and rustic cut ; his high 
arm-chair was cushioned in chintz and excelsior 
behind his aching head ; the green paper shade was 
on his study-lamp ; his best-beloved books (for the 
old saint was a student) lay within reach upon the 
table ; piled upon them were his manuscript sermons ; 
and he sighed with the content of a man who 
feels himself to be, although unworthy, in the loving 
arms of luxury. A rap at the door undeceived him. 
His landlady put in her withered face. 
" Sir," she said, " the widder Peek's a-dying. 
It's just like her to take a night like this but 
she's sent for you. I must say I don't call you fit 
to go." 
" A man is always fit to do his duty," said the 
old clergyman, rising. "I will go at once. Did 
she send any conveyance ? " 
"Catch her!" retorted the landlady. "Why, 
she hain't had the town water let in yet and she 
wuth her fifteen thousand dollars; nor she won't 
have no hired girl to do for her, not that none of 
em will stay along of her a week, and Dobson's 
boy's at the door, a drippin and cussin to get you, 
for he's nigh snowed under. She's a wuthless old 
heathen miser, the widder Peek." 
" Then there is every reason why I should not 
neglect her," replied the clergyman, in his authoritative, 
clerical voice. " Pray call the lad in from 
the weather, and tell him I will accompany him at 
once." 
He did look about his study sadly while he was 
making ready to leave it. The fire in the base- 
burner was quite warm, now, and his wet, much- 
darned stockings were beginning to dry. The room 
looked sheltered and pleasant ; his books ran to the 
ceiling, though his floor was covered with straw 
matting, with odd pieces of woolen carpet for rugs ; 
his carpet-covered lounge was wheeled out of the 
draft ; his lamp with the green shade made a little 
circle of light and coziness ; his Bible and prayer- 
book lay open within it, beside the pile of sermons. 
He had meant to devote the evening to the agreeable 
duty of selecting his discourse for Saint Agatha s. 
His mind and his heart were brimming over with 
the excitement of that great event. He would have 
liked to concentrate and consecrate his thoughts 
upon it that evening. As he went, coughing, into 
the cold entry, it occurred to him that the spot in 
his lung was more painful than he had supposed ; 
but he pulled his old cap over his ears, and his thin 
overcoat up to meet it, and tramped out cheerfully 
into the storm. 
" Well, well, my lad ! " he said in his warm 
hearted way to Dobson's boy ; " I'm  sorry for you 
that you have to be out a night like this." 
The boy spoke of this af terwards ? and remembered 
it long for a boy. But at the time he did but 
stare. He stopped grumbling, however, and plunged 
on into the drifts, ahead of the old rector, kicking 
a path for him to right and left in the wet, packed 
snow ; for the widow Peek lived at least a mile away, 
and the storm was now become a virulent thing. 
What passed between the unloved, neglected, 
dying parishoner and her pastor was not known to 
any but themselves, nor is there witness now to tes 
tify thereof. Neither does it in any way concern 
the record of this narrative, except as the least may 
concern the largest circumstance in human story. 
For, in view of what came to pass, it is impossible 
not to put the old, judicial question : Did it pay ? 
Was it worth while ? When the miser's soul went 
out, at midnight, on the wings and the rage of that 
blind, black storm, did it pass gently, a subdued, 
forgiven spirit, humble to learn how to live again, 
