Law of Rhythm ; and the oscillation, having 
vibrated just about so far, is liable or likely 
to swing back. But, if you are to recover, the 
chances are that you must do it in your own 
way, not in other people's ways. To a cer 
tain extent, respect your own judgment, if you 
have any, as to the necessities of your 
condition. 
Cease to trouble yourself whether you are un 
derstood or sympathized with, by your friends, 
or even by your physicians. Probably you 
never will be, because you never can be. At 
all events, it is of the smallest importance 
whether you are or not. . The expression of 
sympathy is the first luxury which the sick 
should learn to go without. This is peculiarly 
and always true of nervous disorder. A tooth 
ache or an influenza, a cough or a colic, calls 
forth more commiseration than these trifles 
deserve. Disease of the nervous system is, as 
a rule, and among enlightened and kindly people, 
regarded with the instinctive suspicion 
and coldness natural to a profound ignorance 
of the subject. Do not be afraid to act for 
yourself. Define your own conditions of cure. 
Follow them faithfully. Do not be impatient 
to be as you were before the liberty of healthy 
 
nerves departed from you. It may become 
needful for you to readjust your life, and all 
that is therein. 
Obey the laws which you have discovered 
for yourself to be good government for you ; 
and probably, by respecting them, you will 
regain yourself, and receive once more the 
natural renovation of your soul and body. Com 
mon, human sleep, once indifferently accepted, 
like light, or air, or food, will then become the 
ecstasy of living. With it, all hardships can be 
borne ; without it, none. 
Guy de Maupassant, in his piteous condition 
at the last, chased, we are told, imaginary but 
terflies. "Where," he cried, "are my lost 
thoughts ? Who will tell me where to find 
my thoughts ? " Then, he beheld them blue 
for love, and silver for joy, and black for sorrow 
winged creatures, flitting from his grasp, and 
returning to his hand. 
So, I like to think, it will be with all of us 
who have ever had any thoughts to chase and 
who, through the physical disabilities of life, 
or any of its apparent refusals, have missed 
certain of our own best possibilities. Our but 
terflies will all dip on before, and circle round 
us the blue and the silver, the rose and the 
gold wings of what we might have done, 
and yet may do. For winged things know 
 
their course through space ; and life and death 
alike, I think, are flowers to them. 
" Tragic Gloucester," a friend once called it, 
who resented the effect upon myself of the 
troubled side of seaport life. But beautiful 
Gloucester, the same yesterday, to-day, and 
forever, it remains to me. Her tides may tell 
the saddest stories to those who have ears to 
hear them ; but, like many other sad racon 
teurs, they tell the sweetest, too. 
The autumn of 1888 brushed the palette of 
Gloucester Harbor. The face of the leaf and 
the tint of the lining of the wave took on their 
own strong colors. The October storms and 
the October suns, equally welcome to those 
who love the sea, changed places like figures 
in a graceful walking-dance ; and the first
delicate sheath of ice upon the top of the hogshead 
of rainwater which had always been my ther 
mometer at the chalet, and told me when it 
was time to go back to my father's house, 
called me to Andover Hill no more. 
The Old Maids Paradise was closed that 
year forever. 
Mr. Alger, in his " Friendships of Women," 
prudently observes : " A man's best friend is a 
wife of good sense and good heart, whom he 
loves, and who loves him." We might well 
 
say : A woman's best friend is a husband of 
intellect and of heart, whom she loves, and 
who loves her. And I should like to add : A 
literary woman's best critic is her husband ; 
and I cannot express in these few words the 
debt which I am proud to acknowledge to 
him who has never hindered my life's work 
by one hour of anything less than loyal 
delight in it, and who has never failed to urge 
me to my best, of which his ideal is higher 
than my own. 
The great semi-tropical region of the South 
ern States has many a choice spot hidden 
away from the glance of the fashionable tour 
ist, who cares to do only what his neighbor 
does ; and he whose eyes are fine discovers 
these winter gardens, and shelters himself in 
them till they, too, come into the fashion, and 
are ruined accordingly. Among these luxuri 
ant Edens in 1888 was the village of Summerville, 
South Carolina. It was, and is, to my 
mind and I know something of the South 
one of the very best places upon the map be 
low Washington in which a Northerner may 
take his turn at the fancy of losing the winter 
out of his year. Most of us try it, and most 
of us get over it ; and we of New England, in 
particular, return to our own country by an 
other way, and forthwith develop a respect for 
 
it never known before we exchanged the snow 
drift for the sand-flats, the Northeaster for the 
soft, weak, stationary thermometer, and the 
coast pines for the everglades. "An orange 
tree is a stick beside an apple-orchard ! " cried 
one homesick Massachusetts invalid, exiled 
for dear life to Florida. Though I confess 
to something of the same prejudice, I must 
admit that Summerville is a land of lovely 
dreams, with more conveniences and fewer 
discomforts, more tonic and less enervation, 
than any other Southern health or pleasure 
resort that I have seen. 
Summerville is a village dropped into a pine 
forest. Roses run riot over it ; its homes are 
gardens, and gardens are its homes. There 
the winds are laid ; a blind may hang loosely 
half the winter, and will never flap from dark 
to dawn against your rose-wreathed window. 
If there is wind enough to blow a little girl's 
hat off, one calls it a gale. There it is always 
dreamland, and there the knotted Northern 
nerves may relax and rest. 
The winter of 1888-89 found us in this kindly 
place. Longfellow wrote once to a friend of 
his early home life, " We are happy in our own 
hired house." Our " hired house " was one of 
the prettiest, I make bold to believe, upon 
which the American traveler might happen, 
 
though he sought from Maryland to Florida. 
The cottage was set in a bower of roses, 
the Cherokee, the blush, and the yellow. 
Japonicas, azaleas, violets, and magnolias blazed 
across box and myrtle, touched in with the 
soft lights of Southern garden blossoms whose 
names I did not know, and never had the 
intellectual initiative to ask, since, to tell 
the truth, I liked them the better for my 
ignorance. I have never seen at the North 
anything to compare with the feeling of the 
Charleston people (who made their summer 
homes in this village) for their flowers. This 
