said, when he should be rich enough, but those who knew him did not
believe that he could be satisfied to settle down as a well-to-do
proprietor in the Argentine Republic. The Moscio always said that Mauro
would yet repent of his ways, enter a monastery, mortify the flesh, and
die in the odour of sanctity. Whereat Mauro generally nodded
thoughtfully, as though he himself regarded such a termination to his
career as quite within the bounds of possibility.
As for the rest of the band, none of them were in any way so remarkable
as their leader. The man known as Leoncino was believed to be a son of
the famous Leone, and boasted of it. He had stabbed a rival in a village
love affair, after having been brought up rather mysteriously in the
house of a rich farmer. Schiantaceci was undoubtedly a gentleman by
birth, a sad young fellow, with a drooping brown moustache, fiery eyes,
and a very sweet voice in which he often sang softly on a summer's
evening when it was not dangerous to make a noise in the camp. No one
knew his real name. In a fight he always behaved as though he wished to
be killed, which is generally the surest way of killing others.
Among the rest there were men of all classes. There was a man who had
been mayor of his village, there was a butcher, there were three or four
deserters from the army, who had each killed a comrade, and one who had
attacked his lieutenant but had not killed him. There was a chemist's
apprentice who had poisoned his master, and an actor who had strangled
his manager's wife in a love quarrel. There were also two anarchists who
had escaped imprisonment under Crispi's rule. But there was not one in
the number who had done less than two murders at the time when Tebaldo
went up to the camp.
One of the outlaws led his horse away, and he sat down by Mauro a little
apart from the rest. In the middle of the open space a fire was burning
down to a bed of coals. It had been very carefully built and slowly fed
so as to produce the smallest possible amount of smoke. A well-cleaned
gridiron was stuck upright in the earth by the handle, and at the
entrance to one of the huts the man who was a butcher was cutting a huge
piece of fresh meat into steaks.
After the first greetings, the men relapsed into silence, and paid
little attention to Tebaldo. Mauro talked with him in low tones. The
chief seemed, indeed, unable to speak loud. He asked many questions
about the Saracinesca, but he would have considered it a breach of
civility to refer to the truth about Francesco's death.
'These Saracinesca are naturally antipathetic to you,' he observed, 'and
I daresay you would not be sorry if one of them put his ears in pawn at
my bank.'
'They are a powerful family,' answered Tebaldo, cautiously. 'If one of
them were taken by you, there would be reinforcements of carabineers
throughout Sicily.'
'These carabineers are much like flies,' said Mauro, thoughtfully. 'They
come in swarms, they buzz, and they fly away again, leaving nobody much
the worse. It means a little more caution for a month or two. That is
all. But the Saracinesca would pay a good sum to keep the young heir's
nose on his face, and San Giacinto would probably write a cheque at my
dictation before he were half roasted.'
He spoke quietly and in a reflective tone.
'For my part,' replied Tebaldo, 'I wish them no good, as you may
imagine. But the younger Saracinesca is in Rome. San Giacinto came back
last night, it is true, but he is safe at Camaldoli.'
'Safe is a relative term when we are in the neighbourhood,' remarked
Mauro. 'Especially if you will give us your assistance,' he added. 'On
the whole, it would be more convenient to take San Giacinto. He could
write the cheque, and I could cash it almost before there were any
alarm, holding him until we got the money. If we took the young one, we
should have to communicate with the family. That is always
disagreeable.'
'You might have difficulty in cashing the cheque,' suggested Tebaldo.
'None whatever,' replied Mauro. 'You are quite mistaken. That is always
easy, though of course money in cash is preferable. A cash transaction
is always better, as a mere matter of business.'
Tebaldo had not by any means anticipated that he was to be called in as
an ally in such an affair, and did not like the prospect at all. He
promised himself that he would return to Rome as soon as possible. For
the present he put aside the extremely complicated position in which he
was placed by having given two promises of marriage. He felt
uncomfortable, too, and chilly. He shivered a little, and Mauro noticed
it, and called for a cup of wine. Tebaldo swallowed it eagerly and felt
better.
'It will be necessary for you to help us,' said Mauro, presently, and in
a tone of quiet decision. 'No one knows the land about Camaldoli as
well as you do, and the approaches to the house.'
'I would rather not be involved in the capture,' answered Tebaldo.
'I am sure you will not refuse,' replied Mauro, smiling at him. 'It will
be a little return for the service the Moscio has done you. He was very
glad to help you, of course, but you must not forget that you are one of
us now, and that we always help each other when we can. I am sure you
will not refuse.'
Tebaldo glanced sideways at the quiet, priest-faced man who had been the
terror of Sicily for years. He realised that the outlaw had spoken the
truth, and that he might at any moment have to turn outlaw himself, if
the secret of the knife were known. He knew the brigands and their ways.
They would keep faith with him, even at the risk of their own lives, but
he must submit to their conditions. They had him in their power, and he
must help them if they required him to do so. If he refused, information
would be in the hands of the carabineers in twelve hours, which would
drive him into outlawry, if he escaped at all. But if he helped them,
they would stand by him. He had not foreseen such a situation.
'What is it that you wish me to do?' he enquired after a short pause.
'I will tell you,' answered Mauro. 'There are now only four carabineers
quartered at Camaldoli, and as they ride on patrol duty like the rest,
there are never more than two in the house at a time. There is San
Giacinto himself, so that there are three men to deal with. The rest of
the people are Sicilians, and will give no trouble.'
'San Giacinto is equal to two or three ordinary men,' observed Tebaldo.
'Is he?' Mauro spoke indifferently. 'One man is very like another, at
the end of a rifle-barrel,' he continued, 'and if one pulls the trigger,
they are all exactly alike. The point is this. We intend to surprise
Camaldoli to-morrow night. You must lead us by the ways you know to the
low rampart at the back, behind the stables and over the river. There is
a way up on that side, but we do not know it. We shall find a ladder
resting against the wall on that side. A friend will place it there.'
'Why do you not get him to show you the way?' asked Tebaldo.
'He lives in the house,' answered Mauro. 'The gates are shut at Ave
Maria, and there is a roll-call of the servants and men. San Giacinto,
or whichever of the Saracinesca is there, locks the gate himself and
keeps the keys in his own room. They all go to bed early, and the house
is always quiet between midnight and two o'clock. There is no moon just
now, and if we can get round to the back without rousing the dogs, or
attracting attention in any way, we can get possession of the place in
five minutes. The carabineers sleep in a room on the court. They have to
sleep sometimes, like other people. Barefooted we shall make no noise on
the stones. Leave the rest to us.'
'And have they no sentinels at night?' enquired Tebaldo. 'Do they keep
no watch?'
'No. The house would be hard to enter without a ladder at the one weak
point. One would be sure to rouse everybody before one got in. But once
in the court, we can silence the two carabineers in a moment, and then
we shall be fifteen to one against San Giacinto. I would not give much
for his safety, then. The main thing is to reach the ladder quietly and
all together. The paths are difficult, there is water in the stream
still, and we must know where to ford it in the dark, for we could not
safely approach from the other side. Your help is absolutely necessary
to this enterprise. As I said, I am quite sure that you will give
it--quite sure.'
He emphasised the last words a little, and Tebaldo knew what he meant.
There was no choice.
'I will do as you wish,' he said reluctantly. 'I will come here before
sunset, and when it is time I will lead you by the shortest way.'
The Moscio's eyes were watching him and met his own as he looked up.
CHAPTER XXXV
The two carabineers who had met Tebaldo in the field had treated him
with the greatest civility, but when he was out of hearing they
discussed the rather singular meeting. The more they thought of it, the
more strange it seemed to them that he should have been riding alone,
without so much as a portmanteau, by way of luggage, towards the Maniace
woods, and at such an hour. It must be remembered that before
Francesco's death, and since Ferdinando's, the authorities had
everywhere been warned against the Corleone family, in the expectation
of some outrage against the Saracinesca or their property; and the
impression was universal that Ippolito had not killed Francesco, while
many who had known the brothers since they had been wild boys at
Camaldoli believed that Tebaldo had done the deed, or that he had caused
it to be done, and had cleverly managed to throw the guilt upon the
priest. The carabineers quartered in the neighbourhood all believed this
and scouted Tebaldo's story of a race. They had no more opinion of the
law's wisdom than the outlaws whom they were continually hunting, for
their experience had shown them how easily the law could be defeated in
a country where the whole population was banded together to defy it.
The troopers discussed the question as they rode down to Randazzo. They
had seen nothing else worth mentioning, on their patrol, and when they
reported themselves to the sergeant at quarters, they told him exactly
what had passed. The sergeant was the one who had at first accompanied
the Saracinesca to Camaldoli. He dismissed the troopers to their supper,
thought the matter over, and went to the inn to find the lieutenant.
The latter was playing dominoes, as usual, with the deputy prefect,
