needles with an arm tucked under her 
head. And, oh, the feasting of the eye ! 
line upon line of trembling branches, 
enthralling shadows of leaf on sunlit 
leaf! The remembrance of it, to one 
who has had that rich surfeit, is like a 
song in the heart. Perhaps that is what 
the thrush sings in forest aisles, when 
twilight falls : the shapes of things, the 
form and color, all the glorified remem- 
brance of his golden day. Who shall say 
no f For after all, what but a thrush's 
song could trace upon the mind's fine 
tablet the outline of a leaf ? 
This it is to be fortunate at home ; 
but he who crosses the sea earns a 
double blessing : and if he go to tramp, 
to gypsy, he has found out what it is 
to gather up the gold of the year and 
gamer it away for winter spending. To 
walk is truly to live. When the morning 
 
shines before you and with it a broad 
highway, stretching straight into bliss, 
you may throw up your heels at fate. 
But there are roads and roads ; some of 
them lie in the mind forever, in lines of 
light. One such is the way out of Bre- 
con to Llansaintfraed, where the bones 
of Henry Vaughan have long been cry- 
ing from a neglected grave : another is 
the Roman road out of good Shrewsbury, 
and a third the broad highway where- 
by, after Monmouth, you go on to the 
beauties of Tintem and the Severn Sea. 
There they wait for you, conscientious in 
milestones, relics of a conquering past, 
and some of them beguilingly setting 
forth the number of miles from London; 
thereby, no matter what your loyalty to 
green fields and beneficent sky, drawing 
the heart out of your breast with long- 
ing. Your only companioning there 
shall be the infrequent farmer's wain, 
the wandering tinker and the unmistak- 
able genus tramp, sometimes pursuing 
his slouching way, but oftener asleep on 
his face under a hedge. But fear him 
not. He is our cousin, and the comrade- 
ship of wandering is strong between us. 
You shall learn strange things of the 
 
English churl and what serves him for 
mind, while you invade his roads and 
valleys. It will not be long before you 
formulate the axiom that he knows not 
one hand from t'other; for when he 
sends you to the right, it is well estab- 
lished out of the mouths of many wit- 
nesses that he honestly means the left. 
You must never ask him a question on a 
sudden, for haste addles his wits, and he 
will swear he knows not Joseph. Two 
of us, one day, after manifold disappoint- 
ments in such queries, which served only 
to lock up the knowledge indubitably 
there, arranged a set of questions which 
might have proved of unfailing excel- 
lence had time and the hour given a 
margin for their use. For instead of 
the crass query, " Can you tell me the 
way to Babine.?" we would invent a 
cunning preamble, thus: "Good morn- 
ing, goodman. A fine day ! It is very 
pleasant walking. We hope to get on to 
the next village. We do not know it 
by name. We think it may be Babine. 
Pray you, what is the name of the next 
village ? " Thus delicately jogged. Mas- 
ter Shepherd's wits might of themselves 
leave their wool-gathering, and he would 
 
send us on equipped. But jarred too 
rudely, denial seems his only refuge. 
" Is this Tretower .? " I asked a rustic 
one day when that heaven lay palpably 
before us. 
" No, miss," he responded. 
" Is n't that Tretower ? " 
"No, miss." 
I turned away, adrift, but with one last 
impulse varied the phrase. 
" What is that village ? " 
"Tretower." He had recovered. 
And when such are awakened to the 
point of directing you, they do it by a 
system calculated to induce madness in 
the natural mind. 
" You see that church ? " begins your 
informant. 
"Yes." Naturally you make a mental 
note of the church. 
" Well, £-0 you by that You see that 
woman walking } " 
"Yes." You speak hastily, for mean- 
time she is in motion. You begin to 
see what life must have been for Alice, 
playing croquet when the wickets would 
walk about the ground. 
" There the road turns. But go 
straight on. Yours will be the next 
one." And so by indirection, a certain 
negative process, you learn what you 
must not do, and come, by slow and 
painful steps, to what you may. 
" Turn up on your right hand at the 
next turning, but at the next turning of 
all, on your left ; marry, at the very next 
turning, turn of no hand, but turn down 
indirectly to the Jew's house." 
Here have we historic precedent. 
And ever, having finished some complicated 
direction, they conclude in 
triumph : " You can't miss it ! " To some 
of us who have missed it many times, 
even while the echo of that prophecy 
died upon the air, it is a terrifying 
phrase. I have grown to consider it 
the equivalent of the evil eye. 
The good walker eats lightly in the 
middle of the day. Save at happy 
moments of active good fellowship, he 
talks little. His feet settle into the 
rhythm of the road, and his mind re- 
poses on the happy continuance of meas- 
ured effort. He never thinks. He is 
conscious only of ecstatic being, or the 
richer state of an acquiescent content. 
He has learned what it must be to fly 
like the pigeon, to live under water, to 
 
take root in the earth and grow. How 
effortless life may become they only 
know who have tasted the joys of the 
road. Here- are pretty paradoxes. The 
feel of the pack is no burden, but an 
added gift ; but so, too, is the freedom 
of casting it aside for the noonday rest. 
One loses respect for clothes in the 
main, yet conceives a tender liking for 
some benignant article like a pair of 
ragged gaiters, a dress too impossible 
to be spoiled, or an old hat gloriously 
adorned with a mad -cap pheasant's 
feather, found by the way. The track 
is diversified like life itself. In one 
summer you may learn what it is to 
tread the highway, to flee over Egdon 
Heath, pursued by thunder-clouds and 
Dorset tragedies, to lose breath in the 
