ety as the tailors. Sometimes the head 
was polled; sometimes the hair was 
curled, and then suffered to grow long 
like a woman's locks, and many times 
cut off, above or under the ears, round 
as by a wooden dish. And so with the 
beards : some shaved from the chin, like 
the Turks ; some cut short, like the beard 
of the Marquis Otto ; some made round, 
like a rubbing - brush ; some peaked, 
others grown long. If a man have a 
lean face, the Marquis Otto's cut makes 
it broad ; if it be platter-like, the long, 
slender beard makes it seem narrow ; 
"if he be weasel-beaked, then much 
hair left on the cheeks will make the 
owner look big like a bowdled hen, and 
so grim as a goose." Some courageous 
gentlemen wore in their ears rings of 
gold and stones, to improve God's work, 
which was otherwise set off by mon- 
strous quilted and stuffed doublets, that 
puffed out the figure like a barrel. 
There is some consolation, though I 
don't know why, in the knowledge that 
writers have always found fault with 
women's fashions, as they do to-day. 
Harrison says that the women do far 
exceed the lightness of the men ; " such 
staring attire as in time past was sup- 
posed meet for light housewives only is 
now become an habit for chaste and so- 
ber matrons." And he knows not what 
to say of their doublets, with pendant 
pieces on the breast full of jags and cuts ; 
their " galligascons," to make their 
dresses stand out plumb round ; their 
farthingales and divers colored stock- 
ings. " I have met," he says, " with 
some of these trulls in London so disguised 
that it hath passed my skill to 
determine whether they were men or 
women." Of all classes the merchants 
were most to be commended for rich but 
sober attire ; " but the younger sort of 
their wives, both in attire and costly 
housekeeping, cannot tell when and how 
to make an end, as being women in- 
deed in whom all kind of curiosity is to 
be found and seen." Elizabeth's time, 
like our own, was distinguished by new 
fashionable colors, among which are 
mentioned a queer greenish-yellow, a 
pease-porridge-tawny, a popinjay of blue, 
a lusty gallant, and the " devil in the 
hedge." These may be favorites still, 
for aught I know. 
Mr. Furnivall quotes a description of 
a costume of the period, from the man- 
uscript of Orazio Busino's " Anglipo- 
trida." Busino was the chaplain of Piero 
Contarina, the Venetian ambassador to 
 
James I., in 1617. The chaplain was 
one day stunned with grief over the 
death of the butler of the embassy ; and 
as the Italians sleep away grief, the 
French sing, the Germans drink, and 
the English go to plays to be rid of it, 
the Venetians, by advice, sought conso- 
lation at the Fortune Theatre ; and there 
a trick was played upon old Busino, by 
placing him among a bevy of young 
women, while the concealed ambassa- 
dor and the secretary enjoyed the joke. 
" These theatres," says Busino, " are 
frequented by a number of respectable 
and handsome ladies, who come freely 
and seat themselves among the men 
without the slightest hesitation. . . . 
Scarcely was I seated ere a very elegant 
dame, but in a mask, came and placed 
herself beside me. . . . She asked me 
for my address both in French and Eng- 
lish ; and, on my turning a deaf ear, 
she determined to honor me by show- 
ing me some fine diamonds on her fin- 
gers, repeatedly taking off no fewer than 
three gloves, which were worn one over 
the other. . . . This lady's bodice was 
of yellow satin, richly embroidered, her 
petticoat* of gold tissue with stripes, 
her robe of red velvet with a raised pile, 
lined with yellow muslin with broad 
stripes of pure gold. She wore an 
apron of point lace of various patterns ; 
her head-tire was highly perfumed, and 
the collar of white satin beneath the 
delicately wrought ruff struck me as ex- 
ceedingly pretty." It was quite in keep- 
ing with the manners of the day for a 
lady of rank to have lent herself to this 
hoax of the chaplain. 
* It is a trifle in human progress, perhaps 
scarcely worth noting, that the " round 
gown," that is, an entire skirt, not open in 
front and parting to show the under petti- 
coat, did not come into fashion till near the 
close of the eighteenth century. 
Van Meteren, a Netherlander, 1575, 
speaks also of the astonishing change or 
changeableness in English fashions, but 
says the women are well dressed and 
modest, and they go about the streets 
without any covering of mantle, hood, 
or veil ; only the married women wear 
a hat in the street and in the house ; 
the unmarried go without a hat ; but 
ladies of distinction have lately learned 
to cover their faces with silken masks 
or vizards, and to wear feathers. The 
English, he notes, change their fashions 
every year, and when they go abroad 
riding or travelling they don their best 
clothes, contrary to the practice of other 
nations. Another foreigner, Jacob Rath- 
geb, 1592, says the English go dressed 
in exceeding fine clothes, and some will 
even wear velvet in the street, when 
they have not at home perhaps a piece 
of dry bread. " The lords and pages of 
the royal court have a stately, noble air, 
but dress more after the French fashion, 
only they wear short cloaks and some- 
times Spanish caps." 
Harrison's arraignment of the English 
fashions of his day may be considered 
as almost commendative beside the dia- 
tribes of the old Puritan Philip Stubbes, 
in " The Anatomie of Abuses," 1583. The 
English language is strained for words 
hot and rude enough to express his in- 
dignation, contempt, and fearful expec- 
tation of speedy judgments. The men 
escape his hands with scarcely less dam- 
age than the women. First he wreaks 
his indignation upon the divers kinds of 
hats, stuck full of feathers, of various 
colors, "ensigns of vanity," "fluttering 
sails and feathered flags of defiance to 
virtue" ; then upon the monstrous ruffs 
that stand out a quarter of a yard from 
the neck. As the devil, in the fulness of 
his malice, first invented these ruffs, so 
has he found out two stays to bear up 
this his great kingdom of ruffs — one is a 
kind of liquid matter they call starch ; 
the other is a device made of wires, for 
an under-propper. Then there are shirts 
of cambric, holland, and lawn, wrought 
