longer look upon the candy without a shudder she climbed to the old
gentleman’s shoulder and scratched his bald pate with her ragged nails.
It was her emphatic way of expressing gratitude, and beloved by Mr.
Foord above pipe and enchilada.

Patience took Byron home with her that evening, Mr. Foord merely
shrugging his shoulders. After supper she read until dark, then hid the
book under the bed and went over to the tower. She ran up the twisted
stair, and astonished the owl by clasping him in her arms and kissing
him passionately. He manifested his disapproval by biting at her
shoulder fiercely. She shrieked and boxed his ears smartly. He flapped
his large wings wildly. A battle royal was imminent in that sacred tower
where once the silver bells had called the holy men to prayer. But
Patience suddenly broke into a laugh and sank on her knees by the
window, while Solomon retreated to the wall, and regarded her with a
round unwinking stare, brooding over problems which he did not in the
least understand.

Patience brooded also, but her lids drooped, and she barely saw the
beauty of ocean and rock and spray. The moon was not yet up, and the
half revealed intoning sea was full of mystery.

She was conscious that her mood was not quite what it had been during
her last visit. All of that was there—but more. She felt higher above
the earth than ever before, but more conscious of its magnetism.
Something hummed along her nerves and stirred in her veins. Her musings
shaped to definite form, inasmuch as they assumed the semblance of man.
Inevitably Byron was exhumed for duty; and if his restless soul were
prowling space and Carmel Valley, his famous humour, desuetous in
Eternity, must have echoed in the dull ears of roaming shapes.

Beside the white face of the child was the solemn and hebraic visage of
the owl. Some outworn chord of Solomon’s youth may have been stirred by
his friend’s tumultuous greeting, for he had stepped, with the dignity
of his years, to her side, and stood regarding, with introspective
stare, the reflection of the rising moon.

Patience did not see him. She was gazing upon Byron, whose moody
passionate face was distinctly visible among the stars. Alas! her vision
was suddenly obscured by a hideous black object. A bat flew straight at
Carmel tower. Patience sprang to her feet, tossed her skirt over her
head, and fled down the stair. The owl stepped to the stair’s head and
gazed into the winding darkness, his eyes full of unutterable nothing.


                                  VIII

On Monday school re-opened, and Patience was late as usual. She loitered
through the woods, conning her lessons, having been too much occupied
with her poet to give them attention before. As she ascended the steps
of the schoolhouse the drone of the Lord’s Prayer came through the open
window, and she paused for a moment on the landing, swinging her bag in
one hand and her tin lunch-pail in the other.

She was not a picturesque figure. Her sunbonnet was of faded blue calico
dotted with white. The meagre braid projecting beneath the cape was tied
with a shoe string. The calico frock was faded and mended and much too
short, although the hem and tucks had been let out. The copper-toed
boots were of a greyish-green hue, and the coarse stockings wrinkled
above them. The nails of her pretty brown hands looked as if they had
been sawed off. But the eyes under the old sunbonnet were dreamy and
happy. The brain behind was full of new sensations. In the sparkling
atmosphere was an electric thrill. The day was as still as only the days
of Monterey can be. The pines, and the breakers had never intoned more
sweetly.

A voluminous A—men! startled Patience from her reverie. She went
hastily within, hung her bonnet and pail on a peg, and entered the
schoolroom, smiling half deprecatingly half confidently, at Miss Galpin.
The young teacher’s stern nod did not discompose her. As she passed
Rosita she received a friendly pinch, and Manuela looked up and smiled;
but while traversing the width of the room to her desk she became aware
of something unfriendly in the atmosphere. As she took her seat she
glanced about and met the malevolent eyes of a dozen turned heads. One
girl’s lip was curled; another’s brows were raised significantly, as
would their owner query: “What could you expect?”

Patience blushed until her face glowed like one of the Castilian roses
on the garden wall opposite the window. “They’ve found out about Byron,”
she thought. “Horrors, how they’ll tease me!”

School girls have a traditional habit of “willing” each other to “miss”
when in aggressive mood. To-day some twenty of the girls appeared to
have concerted to will that Patience should forget what little lore she
had gathered on her way to school. Patience, always sensitive to
impressions, was as taut as the strings of an Æolian harp from her
experience of the past week. Such natures are responsive to the core to
the psychological power of the environment, and once or twice this
morning Patience felt as if she must jump to her feet and scream. But
even at that early age she divined that the sweetest revenge is success,
and she strove as she had never striven before to acquit herself with
credit.

All morning the silent battle went on. Miss Galpin, who was beloved of
her pupils because she was pretty and dressed well, was a graduate of
the San Francisco High School, and an excellent teacher. Frankly as she
liked Patience she had never shown her any partiality in the schoolroom;
but to-day, noting the antagonism that was brought to bear on the girl,
she exerted all her cleverness to assist her in such subtle fashion that
Patience alone should appreciate her effort. In consequence, when the
morning session closed, Patience wore the doubtful laurels and the bad
blood was black.

As the girls trooped down into the yard Rosita laid her arm about
Patience and endeavoured to lead her away. Manuela conferred in a low
tone with the foe, voice and gestures remonstrant. But there was blood
in the air, and Patience squared her shoulders and awaited the
onslaught. Incidentally she inspected her nails and copper toes.

Several of the girls walked rapidly up to her. They were smiling
disagreeably.

“Can’t you keep her at home?” asked one of them.

“Think she’ll marry him?” demanded another.

Patience, completely taken aback, glanced helplessly from one to the
other.

“What do you mean?” she asked.

“Come, Patita,” murmured Rosita, on the verge of tears.

Manuela exclaimed: “You are fiends, fiends!” and walked away.

“Mean? Do you mean to say she got off without you knowing it?”

“Knowing what?” A horrible presentiment assailed Patience. Her fingers
jerked and her breath came fast.

“Why,” said Panchita McPherson, brutally, “your mother was in here
Saturday night with her young man and regularly turned the town upside
down. They were thrown out of three saloons. Can’t you keep her at
home?”

Patience stared dully at the girls, her dry lips parted. She knew that
they had spoken the truth. She had gone to bed early on Saturday night.
Shortly afterward she had heard the sound of buggy wheels and Billy’s
uncertain gait. Many hours later she had been awakened by the sound of
her mother stumbling upstairs; but she had thought nothing of either
incident at the time.

Panchita continued relentlessly, memories of many class defeats rushing
forward to lash her spleen: “You’ll please understand after this that we
don’t care to have you talk to us, for we don’t think you’re
respectable.” Whereupon the other girls, nodding sarcastically at
Patience, entwined their arms and walked away, led by the haughty Miss
McPherson.

For a few moments Patience hardly realised how she felt. She stood
impassive; but a cyclone raged within. All the blood in her body seemed
to have rushed to her head, to scorch her face and pound in her ears.
She wondered why her hands and feet were cold.

“Come, Patita, don’t mind them,” said Rosita, putting her arm round her
comrade. “The mean hateful nasty—pigs!” Never before had the indolent
little Californian been so vehement; but Patience slipped from her hold,
and running through a gate at the back of the yard crouched down on a
box. Rosita’s words had broken the spell. She was filled with a volcano
of hate. She hated the girls, she hated Monterey, she hated life; but
