husband. I am the friend of his son, Jasper. As the friend of both, I
ask you your reason."
"I will answer you, though I do not acknowledge your right to ask. I
refuse to let Jasper go back to school, because I wish to punish him for
his insolence and disobedience."
"It cannot be any satisfaction to you to have him at home, I should
think."
"It is not. I have no reason to like his society."
"Then it appears that you punish yourself in keeping him here."
"Yes."
"Do you think, Mrs. Kent, that you have any right to deprive him of the
opportunity to obtain an education?"
"He can attend school in this village," said Mrs. Kent.
"You know as well as I that there is neither a classical nor a high
school here. He would be compelled to give up the course of study upon
which he has commenced."
"That is his own fault," returned Mrs. Kent, doggedly.
"This, then, is your unalterable determination?"
"For the present, yes. If Jasper repents his ill-conduct, and makes up
his mind to yield me that implicit obedience which is my due, I may
hereafter consent to return him to school. But he must turn over a new
leaf."
"Madam," said Mr. Miller, disgusted at the woman's manner, "do you
consider that you are carrying out his father's wishes in reference to
his son?"
"That is a question for me to decide," said Mrs. Kent, coldly. "I have
undertaken the responsibility, and I have no fears about carrying out
his wishes. I must trust my own judgment, not that of others."
"Madam," said Mr. Miller, after a pause, "there is one other question
which I should like to put to you."
"Very well, sir."
"This guardianship imposed upon you is a certain amount of care. Are you
willing to relinquish it to another?"
"To you, perhaps?" suggested Mrs. Kent, with a sneer.
"I should be willing to undertake it for Jasper's sake."
"I have no doubt you would, and I presume Jasper would be very glad to
have you do so."
"I think he would, though he didn't authorize me to speak to you about
it," said Mr. Miller.
"Then, sir, I refuse in the most emphatic terms. I shall not relinquish
the power which his father's will gives me over him. He shall yet repent
his insolence."
"I regret your animosity, Mrs. Kent," said Mr. Miller, with dignity,
rising as he spoke. "I was inclined to think that Jasper had exaggerated
his account of the difficulties. I see now that he was correct. I have
only, in wishing you good-morning, to predict that you will yet regret
the manner in which you have treated your step-son."
"I will take my chance of that," said Mrs. Kent. "You may report to
Jasper that my only terms are unconditional submission."
"I will do so, madam; but you know, as well as I, what his answer will
be. His nature is too manly to submit to tyranny, even from his
step-mother."
"You are not over-polite, sir," said Mrs. Kent, angrily.
"I am truthful, madam," was the grave reply.
CHAPTER XV.
GOOD-BYE.
"Without exception, Jasper," said Mr. Miller, on his return, "I consider
your step-mother the most disagreeble woman I ever met."
Jasper could not help smiling at the look of disgust upon the features
of his father's friend.
"Then, sir, I infer that you did not succeed in your mission," he said.
"Succeed? No. She will offer no terms except unconditional submission on
your part."
"That I won't agree to." said Jasper, promptly.
"I don't blame you--not a particle," said Mr. Miller.
"So much is settled, then," said Jasper. "Now the question comes
up--what am I to do?"
"How old are you?"
"Nearly sixteen."
"Then five years must elapse before you come into possession of your
property?"
"Yes, sir."
"And for that length of time you are to be under the guardianship of
Mrs. Kent?"
"Yes, sir."
"It is unfortunate," said the old gentleman, shrugging his shoulders. "I
took the liberty to suggest to your step-mother that if the cares of a
guardian should prove burdensome to her I would assume them."
"What did she say?"
"She replied in a sarcastic manner, and avowed her determination to
remain your guardian."
"What would you advise me to do, then, Mr. Miller?"
"Before answering, Jasper, I will tell you a secret."
Jasper looked curious.
"Your father left in my hands a paper to be opened two years after his
death. It undoubtedly relates to you."
"What do you think it is?"
"It may relate to the guardianship, but that is only conjecture."
"Does my step-mother know of this?"
"Neither she nor anyone else, save you and myself."
"It will do us no good at present?"
"No; but it influences my advice. Go to school for the next two years. I
will advance the money to pay your bills. If at the end of that time the
paper is what I hope it is, you will then be able to pay me, and for the
balance of your minority I can become your guardian."
"I wish you might, Mr. Miller; but I don't think, under the
circumstances, I want to go back to school."
"What do you wish to do, Jasper?"
"I am young, and I would like to see something of the world. I would
like to imagine myself a poor boy, as I really am just now, and see if I
cannot make my own way."
"I hardly know what to say to that, Jasper. I am afraid you do not
appreciate the difficulties in your way."
"To battle against them will make me strong."
"Suppose you get in a tight place?"
"Then I will write to you for help."
"That's better. On this condition I will make no further opposition to
your wishes. But have you any money?"
"Ten dollars."
"Rather a small sum to begin the world with."
"Yes, sir. If you are willing to lend me fifty more I think I can get
along till I can earn some."
"Willingly. Where do you propose to go?"
"To the West. My father has a cousin, a lady, married, and living in a
small town on the banks of the Mississippi. I have never been to the
West. I should like to go out there and see if I can't find some
employment in that neighborhood."
"I suppose I must not object, but your plan appears to me rather
quixotic."
"You might not have thought so at my age, Mr. Miller."
"No; we look upon such things differently as we grow older. When do you
want to start?"
"To-morrow."
"Stay at my house till then."
"Thank you, sir. I will go home this afternoon and get my carpet-bag and
a few underclothes, and then I shall be ready to start to-morrow
morning."
Jasper did as proposed. He would gladly have dispensed with this call at
the house which had once been a home to him, but was so no longer; but
it was necessary to make it.
He caught sight of Tom Forbes near the house.
"Tom," he called out, "do you know if Mrs. Kent is at home?"
"No, Master Jasper, she went out riding, and her cub went with her."
"I am afraid you're not respectful, Tom," said Jasper, laughing.
"He don't deserve respect. He puts on as many airs as a prince. I
warrant he was poor enough before his mother took him home. What do you
think he said to me?"
"What was it?"
"'Look here, Tom, you harness the horse right up, do you hear? Don't
stand dawdling there, for I and mother are going out to ride.'"
"That sounds like Nicholas."
"You may be sure he ain't used to prosperity, or he wouldn't put on so
many airs!"
"Well, Tom, I'm glad Mrs. Kent is out. I don't want to meet her, nor
Nicholas, either."
"You'll see 'em at supper, won't you?"
"No; I shall not be here to supper."
"When are you coming back?"
"Not at all."
"You don't mean that, Master Jasper?"
"Yes, I do."
"Are you going to school?"
"No; I'm going out West."
"Out West?" exclaimed Tom Forbes, stopping work in surprise.
"Yes, Tom, I'm going out there to seek my fortune."
"But there ain't any need of that, Master Jasper. Didn't your father
leave you a fortune?"
"I'm not to have it till I'm twenty-one, and till then my step-mother is
my guardian. Now, I put it to you, Tom, can I stay at home to be treated
as you saw me treated this morning?"
