"A friendship is said to be certain when you have held it seven years.
Have you met Mrs. Osgood before?"
"No, ma'am; but I saw her quite a long while ago at Fordham."
"At Fordham! Then you must have known the poet Edgar Allan Poe."
"A little," returned Hanny, timidly.
"There's such a romance to his life at that place,--his lovely young
wife dying, and the devotion of Mrs. Clemm. Oh, tell me about your
episode!"
Hanny told the story, very simply, charmingly as well.
"Oh," exclaimed Mrs. Kirtland, "Frances must hear that!" Then she
glanced around. Mrs. Osgood was no longer receiving guests, but mingling
with the company. Some one was going to the piano; and everybody
listened to an exquisite voice singing a beautiful Italian melody. When
that was finished, a young man who was to be famous in after years read
a sweet, simple poem that touched every one's heart. Then the talk began
in little groups again.
Mrs. Kirtland signalled to her hostess, who came over to them.
"Frances," she said, "here is a youthful worshipper who remembers you as
a lovely lady all in cerulean blue, and with long curls, going up to the
Poe cottage. See how you have lived in the child's memory. And she sings
a song of yours."
Hanny's face was scarlet for a moment; but Mrs. Osgood sat down beside
her, and they talked of the poet and Mrs. Clemm, and touched lightly
upon the sad after-happenings. He had at one time been a frequent guest.
There was even yet a deep interest in him, though opinion was sharply
divided. And Mrs. Osgood had known the beautiful Virginia, whose sad
fate even then was hardly realised. They talked a little about "Annabel
Lee" and the "high-born kinsman;" and Hanny thought she had a delightful
time.
There was coffee and chocolate and lemonade, with plates of dainty cakes
and confectionery, in an ante-room. Then a gentleman sang a
hunting-song in a fine tenor voice; and another paper on Art was read.
If people came early, they also dispersed at a reasonable hour. It was
not quite ten when Delia, Hanny, and Ben made their adieus to the
hostess, who stooped and kissed Hanny for "old remembrance' sake," she
said.
Mr. Whitney was going down with some of the older men. Ben saw his
little sister safe in Stephen's hands, and then went on with Delia.
"I've had such a splendid time!" exclaimed Hanny. "I wouldn't have
missed it for the world."
When she told the home-folks about it, her mother made no comment; but
Joe and her father were very much interested. And when, not long after
that, "the high-born kinsman" came for the charming woman who had given
much pleasure in her brief way through the world, and who had not
disdained to write a verse and her name in many a society album, Hanny
felt quite as if she had lost a dear friend.
Two other poets, sisters, Alice and Ph[oe]be Cary, came to New York, and
held receptions that were quite famous as time went on. To be sure,
there was the old name of blue-stocking applied to them now and then;
for people, women especially, were taking a wider interest in other
affairs beside literature, prefiguring the new woman. Miss Delia Whitney
was very much interested. They were not quite up to clubs in those days,
or she would have been a charter-member.
But the child Hanny had enough to do to study her lessons, practise her
music, and make her visits, with a little sewing in between. She did
make her father a set of shirts; but underclothing of all kinds was
being manufactured; and though the older-fashioned women sneered at it,
as rather poor stuff, the men seemed to like it. At gentlemen's
furnishing stores, you could buy shirts cut and made in the latest
style, the neckbands of which always seemed to fit, or else the men
discreetly refrained from grumbling when they had spent so much money.
And women began to find it eased their burdens.
No one wanted home-knit stockings, the English and French and Germans
sent us such perfect ones. White was still all the style, unless you
wore black, or blossom-coloured silk. Of course there were common people
who put slate-colour on their children, because white made so much
washing. And as for pantalets, there were none left.
There were other people called away beside poets, and changes made in
families. Grandmother Underhill went to the country wherein the faithful
abide, and Aunt Katrina. Grandmother Van Kortlandt came to make her home
with her daughter. Aunt Crete and Cousin Joanna Morgan, and here and
there some of the old people, as well as the young, passed over the
narrow river.
But there seemed new babies all around. Dolly and Margaret had little
sons, and Cleanthe a daughter. John was quite jealous of Hanny's notice;
for his little girl was fair, and had light hair, and they were quite
sure it looked like her. John wanted to call her Hannah Ann.
"Oh, no," said Hanny; "there are so many beautiful names now!" Then she
laughed. "I shall not promise her a hundred dollars, nor my string of
gold beads. I am not sorry, for I have loved both grandmothers; and one
is gone--"
"Why don't we name her after her grandmothers?" exclaimed Cleanthe.
"One of hers is gone," and she sighed. "It seems such a long name for a
wee baby."
"Margaret Elizabeth,--it is a beautiful name," said Hanny, with delight.
"Mother will give her something, I know. And I will be her godmother,
and endow her for the Elizabeth."
"With all your worldly goods?" asked John.
"Not quite all--"
"You'll be impoverished, Hanny," interrupted John, with a glint of
humour. "Six nephews and nieces already! And there are four of us still
to marry, if George ever comes back. He hasn't made his fortune yet. He
was crazy to go. The good times here suit me well enough."
Grandmother Underhill put fifty dollars in the bank for the new baby,
and gave it a silver spoon. Hanny gave her a silver cup with her name
engraved on it, and, with Dolly's help, made her a beautiful christening
robe, which Cleanthe saved up for her, the sewing and tucking on it was
so exquisite. She used to show it to visitors with a great deal of
pride.
CHAPTER XV
THE BEGINNINGS OF ROMANCE
There was Saratoga and Newport; and Long Branch laid claim to some
distinction; even Cape May was not unknown to fame,--still the Jersey
coast, with all its magnificent possibilities, really had not been
discovered, and was rather contemptuously termed sand wastes. It was
getting to be quite the thing to go off awhile in the summer. Some of
the style had spent a "season" in London, and seen the young Queen and
the Prince Consort and the royal children, and gone over to Paris to see
"the nephew of his uncle," who was taking a hand in the new French
Republic.
But plain people still visited their relatives a good deal. Ben had
taken a holiday, and gone up to Tarrytown after Hanny; and they had made
pilgrimages along to different cousins. They sat on the old porch at
Fordham; but one of the cousins was married, and gone to her own home,
taken the tall, bright-eyed young man who had been about so much the
olden summer.
It was really a delightful walk over there. Ben was finding out odd
places for Delia, who was now interested in some Revolutionary sketches.
They had explored Kingsbridge; they had found Featherbed Lane; they
learned the Harlem River once had borne the Indian name of Umscoota.
Here, more than forty years before, Robert Macomb had built his dam, in
defiance of certain national laws, as he wanted a volume of water for
his mill.
Many and ineffectual were the efforts made to remove it by the
surrounding property-owners who had large and beautiful estates. For no
one dreamed then that the great city would sometime absorb everything,
and that here was to stand a beautiful bridge, the pride of the city.
But the old dam was one dark night assaulted by a "piratical craft,"
that demanded entrance, and, on being refused a right through the
waterway, demolished the old affair; and the freed and happy river went
on to the sea unvexed, and still kept Manhattan an island, to be bridged
over as convenience required.
Down in one of the pretty valleys was the home of Cousin Jennie, that
Hanny always connected with Mrs. Clemm and the poet. All about were
green fields and orchards, hills and valleys. Between them and the
Harlem lay a high wooded ridge from whose top you could see the Hudson,
and the Harlem was like a cord winding in and out of green valleys.
There was Fort George and Harlem plains; and Hanny recalled the two old
Underhill ladies whose lives had reached back to Revolutionary times.
They rambled about the historic ground, peaceful enough then. There was
the old Poole house, the De Voe house, and further up the Morris
mansion. What names they recalled!--Washington, Rochambeau, the Hessian
General Knyphausen.
And then Cousin Jennie's husband pointed out a place with a romantic
story. When the Hessian Army had swept on in the steps of General
Washington's retreating men, they had been encamped for some time,
foraging about for food and demanding supplies of the farmers,--an
ill-fed, and ill-clothed set of conscripts, without much enthusiasm,
many of them torn from home and friends, neither knowing nor caring
about the land where they had gone to fight, and perhaps lay their
bones.
Among them a young fellow, Anthony Woolf by name, whose mother, in a
district in distant Germany, had yielded to the blandishments of a
second husband, thus rendering her son liable to conscription, as he was
no longer her sole protector. Young Anthony knew his stepfather grudged
him the broad acres of his patrimony, and guessed whose influence had
sent the press-gang one night, and hurried him off, without even a
good-bye to his mother, to the nearest seaport town, and there embarked
him for a perilous ocean-journey, to fight against people struggling for
their liberty.
