on board would have been wholly without means of escape. 
The owners of that boat were not technically guilty of 
conspiracy to commit murder, but they were morally guilty 
of it. 
I had a cattle-stall in the main stable — a cavern fitted up 
with a long double file of two-storied bunks, the files separated 
by a calico partition — twenty men and boys on one side of it, 
twenty women and girls on the other. The place was as dark 
as the soul of the ITnio]i Company, and smelt like a kennel. 
When the vessel got out into the heavy seas and began to 
pitch and wallow, the cavern prisoners became immediately 
sea-sick, and then the peculiar results that ensued laid all my 
previous experiences of the kind well away in the shade. 
And the wails, the groans, the cries, 
the shrieks, the strange ejacula- 
tions — it was wonderful. 
The women and children 
and some of the men 
and boys spent the 
night in that place, for 
they were too ill to 
leave it; but the rest 
of us got up, by and 
by, and finished the 
night on the hurricane- 
deck. 
That boat was the 
foulest I was ever in ; 
and the smell of the 
breakfast saloon when 
we threaded our way 
among the layers of 
steaming passengers 
stretched tipon its floor and its tables was incomparable for 
eificiency. 
A good many of us got ashore at the first way-port to seek 
another ship. After a wait of three hours we got good rooms 
in the Mahinapua, a wee little bridal-parlor of a boat — only 
205 tons burthen ; clean and comfortable ; good service ; good 
beds; good table, and no crowding. The seas danced her 
about like a duck, but she was safe and capable. 
Next morning early she went through the French Pass — a 
narrow gateway of rock, between bold headlands — so narrow, 
in fact, that it seemed no wider than a street. The current 
tore through there like a mill-race, and the boat darted 
through like a telegram. The passage was made in half a 
minute ; then we were in a wide place where noble vast eddies 
swept grandly round and round in shoal water, and I won- 
dered what they would do with the little boat. They did as 
they pleased with her. They picked her up and flung her 
around like nothing and landed her gently on the solid, smooth 
bottom of sand— so gently, indeed, that we barely felt her 
touch it, barely felt her quiver when she came to a standstill. 
The water was as clear as glass, the sand on the bottom was 
vividly distinct, and the fishes seemed to be swimming about 
in nothing. Fishing lines were brought out, but before we 
could bait the hooks the boat was off and away again. 
CHAPTEK XXXIII. 
Let us be grateful to Adam our benefactor. He cut us out of the " blessing" 
of idleness and won for us the " curse " of labor. 
— PudcVnhead Wilson''s New Calendar. 
WE soon reached the town of Nelson, and spent the 
most of the day there, visiting acquaintances and 
driving with them about the garden — the whole 
region is a garden, excepting the scene of the " Maungatapu 
Murders," of thirty years ago. That is a wild place — wild and 
lonely ; an ideal place for a murder. It is at the base of a 
vast, rugged, densely timbared mountain. In the deep twilight 
of that forest solitude four desperate rascals — Burgess, 
Sullivan, Levy, and Kelley  ambushed themselves beside the 
mountain trail to murder and rob four travelers — Kempthorne, 
Mathieu, Dudley, and De Pontius, the latter a New Yorker. 
A harmless old laboring man came wandering along, and as his 
presence was an embarrassment, they choked him, hid him, and 
then resumed their watch for the four. They had to wait a 
while, but eventually everything turned out as they desired. 
That dark episode is the one large event in the history of 
Nelson. The fame of it traveled far. Burgess made a con- 
fession. It is a remarkable paper. For brevity, succinctness, 
and concentration, it is perhaps without its peer in the litera- 
ture of murder. There are no waste words in it ; there is no 
obtrusion of matter not pertinent to the occasion, nor any de- 
parture from the dispassionate tone proper to a formal business 
statement — for that is what it is : a business statement of a 
murder, by the chief engineer of it, or superintendent, or fore- 
man, or whatever one may prefer to call him. 
"We were getting impatient, when we saw four men and a pack-horse 
coming. I left my cover and had a look at the men, for Levy had told me 
that Mathieu was a small man and wore a large beard, and that it was a chest- 
nut horse. I said, 'Here they come.' They were then a good distance 
away ; I took the caps off my gun, and put fresh ones on. I said, ' You 
keep where you are, I'll put them up, and you give me your gun while you 
tie them.' It was arranged as I have described. The men came ; they 
arrived within about fifteen yards when I stepped up and said, ' Stand ! bail 
up ! ' That means all of them to get together. I made them fall back on the 
upper side of the road with their faces up the range, and Sullivan brought 
me his gun, and then tied their hands behind them. The horse was very 
quiet all the time, he did not move. When they were all tied, Sullivan took 
the horse up the hill, and put him in the bush ; he cut the rope and let the 
swags* fall on the ground, and then came to me. We then marched the men 
down the incline to the creek ; the water at this time barely running. Up 
this creek we took the men ; we went, I daresay, five or six hundred yards 
up it, which took us nearly half-an-hour to accomplish. Then we turned to 
the right up the range ; we went, I daresay, one hundred and fifty yards 
from the creek, and there we sat down with the men. I said to Sullivan, ' Put 
down your gun and search these men,' which he did. I asked them their 
several names ; they told me. I asked them if they were expected at Nelson. 
They said, 'No.' If such their lives would have been spared. In money 
we took £60 odd. I said, ' Is this all you have ? You had better tell me.' 
Sullivan said, ' Here is a bag of gold.' I said, ' What's on that pack-horse? 
Is there any gold ? ' when Kempthorue said, ' Yes, my gold is in the port- 
manteau, and I trust you will not take it all.' ' Well,' I said, ' we must take 
you away one at a time, because the range is steep just here, and then we will 
let you go.' Theysaid, ' All right,' most cheerfully. We tied their feet, and 
took Dudley with us ; we went about sixty yards with him. This was 
through a scrub. It was arranged the night previously that it would be best 
to choke them, in case the report of the arms might be heard from the road, 
and if they were missed they never would be found. So we tied a handker- 
chief over his eyes, when Sullivan took the sash off his waist, put it round 
his neck, and so strangled him. Sullivan, after I had killed the old laboring 
man, found fault with the way he was choked. He said, ' The next we do 
I'll show you my way.' I said, 'I have never done such a thing before. I 
have shot a man, but never choked one.' We returned to the others, when 
Kempthorne said, ' What noise was that ?' I said it was caused by breaking 
through the scrub. This was taking too much time, so it was agreed to shoot 
them. With that I said, ' We'll take you no further, but separate you, and 
then loose one of you, and he can relieve the others.' So with that, Sullivan 
took De Pontius to the left of where Kempthorne was sitting. I took 
Mathieu to the right. I tied a strap round his legs, and shot him with a re- 
volver. He yelled, I ran from him with my gun in my hand, I sighted 
Kempthorne, who had risen to his feet. I presented the gun, and shot him 
behind the right ear ; his life's blood welled from him, and he died instan- 
taneously. Sullivan had shot De Pontius in the meantime, and then came to 
me. I said, 'Look to Mathieu,' indicating the spot where he lay. He shortly 
returned and said, ' I had to " chiv " that fellow, he was not dead,' a cant word, 
meaning that he had to stab him. Returning to the road we passed where 
De Pontius lay and was dead, Sullivan said, ' This is the digger, the others 
were all storekeepers ; this is the digger, let's cover him up, for should the 
others be found, they'll think he done it and sloped,' meaning he had gone. 
So with that we threw all the stones on him, and then left him. This bloody 
work took nearly an hour and a half from the time we stopped the men." 
Anyone who reads that confession will think that the man 
who wrote it was destitute of emotions, destitute of feeling. 
That is partly true. As regarded others he was plainly with- 
out feeling — utterly cold and pitiless ; but as regarded him- 
self the case was different. While he cared nothing- for the 
future of the murdered men, he cared a great deal for his 
own. It makes one's flesh creep to read the introduction to 
his confession. The judge on the bench characterized it as 
" scandalousl} blasphemous," and it certainly reads so, but 
Burgess meant no blasphemy. He was merely a brute, and 
whatever he said or wrote was sure to expose the fact. His 
redemption was a very real thing to him, and he was as jubi- 
lantly happy on the gallows as ever was Christian martyr at 
the stake. We dwellers in this world are strangely made, and 
mysteriously circumstanced. We have to suppose that the 
murdered men are lost, and that Burgess is saved ; but we 
cannot suppress our natural regrets : 
" Written in my dungeon drear this 7th of August, in the year of Grace, 1866. 
To God be ascribed all power and glory in subduing the rebellious spirit of a 
