only attenuation she could think of was 
after a minute to add: "But they didn't 
come up." 
Sir Claude broke into a laugh Maisie 
herself could guess what it was at : while he 
now walked about, still laughing, and at the 
fireplace gave a gay kick to a displaced log, 
she felt more vague about almost everything 
than about the drollery of such a " they ! " 
She in fact could scarce have told you if it 
was to deepen or to cover the joke that she 
bethought herself to remark: "Perhaps it 
was her maid." 
 
Mrs. Wix gave her a look that, at any 
rate, deprecated the wrong tone. "It was 
not her maid." 
" Do you mean there are, this time, two ? " 
Sir Claude asked as if he had not heard. 
" Two maids ? " Maisie went on as if she 
might assume he had. 
The reproach of the straighteners dark- 
ened; but Sir Claude cut across it with a 
sudden " See here what do you mean ? 
And what do you suppose she meant ? " 
Mrs. Wix let him for a moment in silence 
understand that the answer to his question, 
if he didn't take care, might give him more 
than he wanted. It was as if, with this 
scruple, she measured and adjusted all that 
she gave him in at last saying : " What she 
meant was to make me know that you 're 
definitely free. To have that straight from 
her was a joy I, of course, had n't hoped for: 
it made the assurance, and my delight at it, 
a thing I really proceed upon. You already 
know I would have started even if she had n't 
pressed me ; you already know what, so long, 
we have been looking for and what, as soon 
as she told me of her step taken at Folke- 
stone, I recognized with rapture that we 
have. It 's your freedom that makes me 
right " she fairly bristled with her logic. 
"But I don't mind telling you that it 's her 
action that makes me happy! " 
"Her action?" Sir Claude echoed. 
" Why, my dear woman, her action is just a 
heinous crime. It happens to satisfy our 
sympathies in a way that's quite delicious; 
but that doesn't in the least alter the fact 
that it 's the most abominable thing ever 
done. She has chucked our friend here 
overboard not a bit less than if she had 
shoved her, shrieking and pleading, out of 
that window and down two floors upon the 
paving-stones." 
Maisie surveyed serenely the parties to the 
discussion. " Oh, your friend here, dear Sir 
Claude, doesn't plead and shriek! " 
He looked at her a moment. "Never. 
Never. That's one only one, but charm- 
ing so far as it goes of about a hundred 
things we love her for." Then he pursued 
to Mrs. Wix: "What I can't for the life of 
me make out is what Ida is really up to, what 
game she was playing in turning to you with 
that cursed cheek after the beastly way she 
has used you. Where to explain her at all 
does she fancy she can presently, when 
we least expect it, take it out of us? " 
"She doesn't fancy anything nor want 
anything out of any one. Her cursed 
cheek, as you call it, is the best thing I 've 
ever seen in her. I don't care a fig for the 
beastly way she used me I forgive it all a 
thousand times over ! " Mrs. Wix raised 
her voice as she had never raised it; she 
quite triumphed in her lucidity. " I under- 
stand her I almost admire her ! " she 
proclaimed. She spoke as if this might 
practically suffice; yet in charity to fainter 
lights she threw out an explanation. "As 
I 've said, she was different; upon my word 
I would n't have known her. She had a 
glimmering she had an instinct : they 
brought her. It was a kind of happy 
thought, and if you could n't have supposed 
she would ever have had such a thing, why, 
of course, I quite agree with you. But she 
did have it. There ! " 
Maisie could see that, from what it with 
liveliness lacked, this demonstration gathered 
a certain something that might almost have 
exasperated. But as she had often watched 
Sir Claude in apprehension of displeasure 
that did n't come, so now, instead of his 
saying " Oh, hell ! " as her father used, she 
observed him only to take refuge in a ques- 
tion that, at the worst, was abrupt. " Who 
is it this time, do you know ? " 
Mrs. Wix tried blind dignity. "Who is 
what, Sir Claude ? " 
"The man who stands the cabs. Who 
was in the one that waited at your door ? " 
At this challenge she faltered so long that 
it occurred to Maisie' s conscience to give 
her a hand. " It was n't the Captain." 
Her good intention, however, only changed 
her old friend's scruple to a more ambiguous 
stare ; besides, of course, making Sir Claude 
go off. Mrs. Wix fairly appealed to him. 
"Must I really tell you?" 
His amusement continued. "Did she 
make you promise not to ? " 
Mrs. Wix looked at him still harder. " I 
mean before Maisie. " 
Sir Claude laughed again. "Why, she 
can't hurt him ! " 
Maisie felt herself, as it passed, brushed 
by the light humor of this. "Yes, I can't 
hurt him ! " 
The straighteners again roofed her over; 
after which they seemed to crack with the 
explosion of their wearer's honesty. Amid 
the flying splinters Mrs. Wix produced a 
name. "Mr. Tischbein." 
There was for an instant a silence that, 
under Sir Claude's influence and while he 
and Maisie looked at each other, suddenly 
pretended to be that of gravity. "We don't 
know Mr. Tischbein do we, dear ? " 
Maisie gave the point all needful thought. 
"No not Mr. Tischbein." 
It was a passage that worked visibly on 
their friend. "You must excuse me, Sir 
Claude," she said with an austerity of which 
the note was real, " if I thank God to your 
face that he has in his mercy I mean his 
mercy to our charge allowed me to achieve 
this act." She gave out a long puff of pain. 
"It was time!" Then as if still more to 
point the moral : " I said just now I under- 
stood your wife. I said just now I admired 
her. I stand to it: I did both of those 
things when I saw how even she, poor thing, 
saw. If you want the dots on the i's you 
shall have them. What she came to me for, 
in spite of everything, was that I 'm just 
" she quavered it out " well, just clean ! 
What she saw for her daughter was that 
there must at last be a decent person ! " 
Maisie was quick enough to jump a little 
at the sound of this implication that such 
a person was what Sir Claude was not; the 
next instant, however, she more profoundly 
guessed against whom the discrimination 
was made- She was therefore left the more 
surprised at the complete candor with which 
he embraced the worst. "If she 's bent on 
decent persons, why has she given her to me ? 
