
She roused when the doctor went away. Mr. 
Palmer had made some coffee, and she arranged 
a tempting breakfast, studying him furtively mean 
while. Surely she could not be to blame. 

About nine, Mrs. Ostrom came, and Mrs. 
Austen went home. Then neighbors and friends 
dropped in with kindly sympathy and ready 
offers of help. It was a strange, exciting day. 
Jane Mason staid at night, and she and Bessie 
took the room Miss Helen had occupied. Bessie 
was curiously awe-stricken, and it stood her in 
the stead of deeper emotion. Her frightened 
eyes appealed to Roy with something beyond 
pity, yet not love, as he had come to consider 
the divine passion. 

Miss Gage died without recovering conscious 
ness. Mrs. Ostrom was one of the kindly, help- 



 

ful women with a pleasant nature, and she felt 
really sorry for Bessie, who seemed stunned by 
the sad affair. The funeral was a large one, for 
Miss Gage had been held in general esteem. 

That very evening lawyer Ralston came over 
with the will. But it had been made several years 
before. He questioned Palmer as to whether she 
had expressed any desire to alter it after her niece 
came, wondering a little that it had not been done. 

"We never dreamed of her dying," answered 
Roy. " I do not suppose she thought about it at 
all. You see she has had a very busy summer." 

With the exception of several gifts to friends 
her few thousands went to different charities in 
which she had been interested. 

" Of course she knew nothing about Bessie 
then," said Mrs. Ostrom, " but it leaves the poor 
child in an awkward position, without a penny. 
I am sorry it doesn't go to her. Hasn't she some 
other relatives ? " 

" Not that I know of," returned Palmer. Had 
fate consigned her to him ? " You will remain 
with us awhile ? " to Mrs. Ostrom. 

" If you desire it yes. She is too young and 
inexperienced to kee"p house, and besides 

Mrs. Ostrom did not finish the sentence. But 
Royal Palmer knew she could not remain unless 
he married her. 



 

Bessie was bitterly disappointed at the will. 
She threw herself upon Roy's sympathies. She 
had no friend but him, and it would have taken a 
harder heart than his to resist her in her sorrow. 
She felt that he really ought to marry her, and he 
accepted what seemed a direct interposition of 
fate, and announced his intention to Mrs. Ostrom, 
who did not seem at all surprised. 

There had not been much real love-making. It 
seemed the only course to Palmer, and Bessie ac 
cepted without being at all exigent. She had not 
loved Aunt Hannah, though she was shocked at 
her death. It seemed in a curious way to Bessie 
she did not like to say a judgment but a result 
of opposing an event that had been marked out 
by Providence. If Aunt Hannah had accepted 
and resigned herself to a conclusion so eminently 
proper, the accident might never have happened. 

She hated the sombreness of mourning, but it 
would not do to defy the opinion of Westhorpe. 
She was married in a plain white gown, in the old 
parlor. So the rose had bloomed for both funeral 
and wedding. Roy took her away on a little jour 
ney, but she felt she did not dare plead for any 
dissipations. They stopped a night in New York, 
and she wondered if they could find Thirza Rolfe. 

" Some other time we will look her up," was the 
quiet, decisive reply. Somehow he did not want 



 

to see Thirza just yet. There had been an ideal 
manliness in his mind, and he had not lived up to 
it. He had not meant his sympathy for Bessie to 
be construed into 'love. He had begun to look upon 
her as a little sister thrown on his sympathy by a 
turn of fate ; but she had taken up the only idea 
possible to her narrow mind and her longing for 
liberty marriage. His tenderness prefigured that, 
of course, he would have loved her openly before, 
but for Aunt Hannah ; and then these two women 
had infected him with their nonsensical ideas ; but 
he would soon be trained out of them, and make 
just the sort of indulgent husband she wanted. 

She would have liked to surprise Thirza with her 
husband, and have her tell the news to Miss Otis. 
They would remain friends, for a while at least ; 
yet she doubted if the Otis relatives would approve 
altogether. But she did not dare insist, and she 
acquiesced sweetly, simply biding her time with an 
obstinate faith. 

She ventured, on her return, to discuss some kind 
of reception. 

" But you are in deep mourning," he answered, 
rather surprised, " and Aunt Hannah has always 
been such a good friend to me that I feel almost 
as if I had lost a relative. Then," hesitating, while 
a little crease settled between his eyes, " you know 
so few people in Westhorpe." 




" That is the very reason I should be introduced 
into my new position," and Bessie flushed with 
vexation. " No one really understood why I was 
almost like a servant in the summer. I think 
Aunt Hannah delighted to mortify me, and I had 
been educated and trained for society. But for 
Mr. Deane's misfortune we should no doubt have 
had a summer at some fashionable place, and I 
should have married very well indeed." 

She tossed her head with a touch of injured 
dignity, then added : " You cannot put me in my 
proper place too soon." 

He made no reply, but that night consulted Mrs. 
Ostrom, who looked surprised. 

"I don't think I would do it," she said. "You 
might send out cards, and people would call by 
degrees. Aunt Hannah's awful death has given 
everybody a shock, you see, and it would make a 
talk. I would wait awhile." 


