alone,” and explained that she had promised Mrs. Deering we would come to
their hotel for them after tea, and go with them to hear the music at the
United States and the Grand Union, I protested.  I said that I always
felt too sneaking when I was prowling round those hotels listening to
their proprietary concerts, and I was aware of looking so sneaking that I
expected every moment to be ordered off their piazzas.  As for convoying
a party of three strangers about alone, I should certainly not do it.

“Not if I’ve a headache?”

“Not if you’ve a headache.”

“Oh, very well, then.”

“What are you two quarrelling about?” cried a gay voice behind us, and we
looked round into the laughing eyes of Miss Dale.  She was the one
cottager we knew in Saratoga, but when we were with her we felt that we
knew everybody, so hospitable was the sense of world which her kindness
exhaled.

“It was Mrs. March who was quarrelling,” I said.  “I was only trying to
convince her that she was wrong, and of course one has to lift one’s
voice.  I hope I hadn’t the effect of halloaing.”

“Well, I merely heard you above the steam harmonicon at the switchback,”
said Miss Dale.  “I don’t know whether you call that holloaing.”

“Oh, Miss Dale,” said my wife, “we are in such a fatal—”

“Pickle,” I suggested, and she instantly adopted the word in her
extremity.

“—pickle with some people that Providence has thrown in our way, and that
we want to do something for”; and in a labyrinth of parentheses that no
man could have found his way into or out of, she possessed Miss Dale of
the whole romantic fact.  “It was Mr. March, of course, who first
discovered them,” she concluded, in plaintive accusation.

“Poor Mr. March!” cried Miss Dale.  “Well, it is a pathetic case, but it
isn’t the only one, if that’s any comfort.  Saratoga is reeking with just
such forlornities the whole summer long; but I can quite understand how
you feel about it, Mrs. March.”  We came to a corner, and she said
abruptly: “Excuse my interrupting your quarrel!  Not quite so loud, Mr.
March!” and she flashed back a mocking look at me as she skurried off
down the street with astonishing rapidity.

“How perfectly heartless!” cried my wife.  “I certainly thought she would
suggest something—offer to do something.”

“I relied upon her, too,” I said; “but now I have my doubts whether she
was really going down that street till she saw that it was the best way
to escape.  We’re certainly in trouble, my dear, if people avoid us in
this manner.”




V


“I AM doing it entirely on Mrs. Deering’s I account,” said my wife that
evening after tea, as we walked down the side-street that descended from
our place to Broadway.  “She has that girl on her hands, and I know she
must be at her wits’ end.”

“And I do it entirely on Deering’s account,” I retorted.  “He has both of
those women on his hands.”

We emerged into the glistening thoroughfare in front of the vast hotels,
and I was struck, as I never fail to be, with its futile and unmeaning
splendour.  I think there is nothing in our dun-coloured civilisation
prettier than that habit the ladies have in Saratoga of going out on the
street after dark in their bare heads.  When I first saw them wandering
about so in the glitter of the shop-windows and the fitful glare of the
electrics everywhere, I thought they must be some of those
Spanish-Americans mistaking the warm, dry air of the Northern night for
that of their own latitudes; but when I came up with them I could hear,
if I could not see, that they were of our own race.  Those flat and
shapeless tones could come through the noses of no other.  The beauty and
the elegance were also ours, and the fearless trust of circumstance.
They sauntered up and down before the gaunt, high porticoes of the
hotels, as much at home as they could have been in their own houses, and
in much the same dress as if they had been receiving there.  The effect
is one of incomparable cheer, and is a promise of social brilliancy which
Saratoga no more keeps than she does that of her other characteristic
aspects; say the forenoon effect of the same thoroughfare, with the
piazzas banked with the hotel guests, and the street full of the light
equipages which seem peculiar to the place passing and repassing, in the
joyous sunlight and out of it, on the leaf-flecked street.  Even the
public carriages of Saratoga have a fresh, unjaded air; and to issue from
the railway station in the midst of those buoyant top-phaetons and
surreys, with their light-limbed horses, is to be thrilled by some such
insensate expectation of pleasure as fills the heart of a boy at his
first sally into the world.  I always expect to find my lost youth
waiting for me around the corner of the United States Hotel, and I accuse
myself of some fault if it disappoints me, as it always does.  I can
imagine what gaudy hopes by day and by night the bright staging of the
potential drama must awaken in the breast of a young girl when she first
sees it, and how blank she must feel when the curtain goes down and there
has been no play.  It was a real anguish to me when that young girl with
the Deerings welcomed my wife and me with a hopeful smile, as if we were
the dramatis personæ, and now the performance must be going to begin.
I could see how much our chance acquaintance had brightened the
perspective for her, and how eagerly she had repaired all her illusions;
and I thought how much better it would have been if she had been left to
the dull and spiritless resignation in which I had first seen her.  From
that there could no fall, at least, and now she had risen from it only to
sink again.

But, in fact, the whole party seemed falsely cheered by the event of the
afternoon; and in the few moments that we sat with them on their
verandah, before going to the music at the Grand Union, I could hear the
ladies laughing together, while Deering joyously unfolded to me his plan
of going home the next morning and leaving his wife and Miss Gage behind
him.  “They will stay in this hotel—they might as well—and I guess they
can get along.  My wife feels more acquainted since she met Mrs. March,
and I shan’t feel so much like leavin’ her among strangers here I don’t
know when she’s taken such a fancy to any one as she has to your wife, or
Miss Gage either.  I guess she’ll want to ask her about the stores.”

I said that I believed the fancy was mutual, and that there was nothing
my wife liked better than telling people about stores.  I added, in
generalisation, that when a woman had spent all her own money on dress,
it did her quite as much good to see other women spending theirs; and
Deering said he guessed that was about so.  He gave me a push on the
shoulder to make me understand how keenly he appreciated the joke, and I
perceived that we had won his heart too.

We joined the ladies, and I thought that my sufferings for her authorised
me to attach myself more especially to Miss Gage, and to find out all I
could about her.  We walked ahead of the others, and I was aware of her
making believe that it was quite the same as if she were going to the
music with a young man.  Not that she seemed disposed to trifle with my
grey hairs; I quickly saw that this would not be in character with her;
but some sort of illusion was essential to her youth, and she could not
help rejuvenating me.  This was quite like the goddess she looked, I
reflected, but otherwise she was not formidably divine; and, in fact, I
suppose the goddesses were, after all, only nice girls at heart.  This
one, at any rate, I decided, was a very nice girl when she was not
sulking; and she was so brightened by her little adventure, which was
really no adventure, that I could not believe I had ever seen her
sulking.

The hotel people did not keep us from going into the court of the hotel,
as I was afraid they might, and we all easily found places.  In the
pauses of the music I pointed out such notables and characters as I saw
about us, and tried to possess her of as much of the Saratoga world as I
knew.  It was largely there in that bold evidence it loves, and in that
social solitude to which the Saratoga of the hotels condemns the denizens
of her world.  I do not mean that the Saratoga crowd is at all a
fast-looking crowd.  There are sporting people and gamblers; but the
great mass of the frequenters are plain, honest Americans, out upon a
holiday from all parts of the country, and of an innocence too inveterate
to have grasped the fact that there is no fashion in Saratoga now but the
fashion of the ladies’ dresses.  These, I must say, are of the newest and
prettiest; the dressing of the women always strikes me there.  My
companion was eager to recognise the splendours which she had heard of,
and I pointed out an old lady by the door, who sat there displaying upon
her vast person an assortment of gems and jewels which she seemed as
personally indifferent to as if she were a show-window, and I was glad to
