change, be less than the admirable creature he had loved when he was
something more than himself, would have seemed no less a calamity than
had the stars turned black. She sat up very straight in her prim little
way and talked of Helena's new project; which was to build bath-houses
down by the lagoon at Ravenswood and bathe when the tide was in. He told
her that he too had a project: to persuade the men of Menlo to build a
Club House, and thus have some sort of informal social centre. She told
him that she thought that would be nice, and added that she wished she
had a project too, but she was hopelessly unoriginal. Trennahan assured
her that she did herself injustice; and in these admirable platitudes
they pushed along a half-hour like a wheel-barrow, while both thought of
the great oak staring at them from the foot of the garden.
It will come easier with time, she thought that night, as she pulled her
clothes off with heavy fingers. I can almost look him in the eyes
without wanting to fling myself at him. His voice does not matter so
much, for I always hear it anyway. They say that when you no longer hear
a person's voice in your memory the love has gone too. They will be away
for a year after they marry. Perhaps I shall forget then. My memory is
not very good.
She opened the upper drawer of her bureau and lifted out her large
handkerchief box. In its lower part, carefully hidden away, were
Trennahan's letters, several of his faded boutonnières, and one of his
gloves. She had made up her mind the day she heard of his engagement to
Helena that these things must be burnt, but had dreaded their sight and
touch. Now, however, they must go. She was always conscious of their
presence; something of her weakness might pass with their destruction.
As she lifted out the handkerchiefs she came upon the dagger. It was a
beautiful toy, but she pushed it aside resentfully. Its magic was not
for her. She gathered up her tokens with trembling fingers, resisted the
impulse to sit down and weep over them, laid them in the grate, and
flung a bunch of lighted matches into the pyre.
       
Helena immediately gave a party. The Belmont house, like most of the
others of Menlo, had been designed for comfort rather than for
entertaining; but the dining-room was large, and when stripped of the
many massive pieces of furniture which Colonel Belmont had brought from
his Southern home, would have accommodated more dancing folk than the
neighbours and their guests. The famous Four were not present; nor were
they seen in Menlo that summer. Immediately after the announcement of
Helena's engagement some cruel wag had sent each a miniature tub with
"For Tears" inscribed with black paint upon the bottom. It was generally
supposed that the afflicted quartette were spending their leisure over
these tubs, for they had retired into as complete an obscurity as their
various callings would permit. Helena told Magdaléna that she lived in
terror of their poisoned or perforated bodies being found in the dark
byways of Golden Gate Park; but the youth of the modern civilisation,
while amenable to suffering, thinks highly of himself as a factor in
current history.
Trennahan was not allowed to spend the evening in the smoking-room with
the older men; he must keep himself in sight even while his Helena was
dancing with another. He wandered about with a grim smile on his mouth,
talking occasionally to the older ladies who sat in a corner;
wall-flowers there were none. He wished that Magdaléna would take pity
on him, for he was unmercifully bored; but she danced with exasperating
regularity. Occasionally Helena slipped her hand through his arm and
took him out in the garden, purring upon his shoulder and begging him
not to be bored; but she must look at him! If he insisted upon it, she
would not dance. He refused to countenance such a sacrifice, and
protested that he was just beginning to understand the pleasure of
evening parties. Once he did slip away, and was lying, with his coat
off, a cigar between his lips, crosswise on a bed upstairs with Colonel
Belmont and Mr. Washington, when he received a peremptory message to go
downstairs at once. He threw his cigar away, jerked himself into his
coat, and left the room with jeering condolences in his wake. He felt
cross for the moment; but when he reached the hall below he smiled
humorously as he met the protesting eyes of his lady.
"I can't bear to have you out of my sight!" she exclaimed. "It's
horribly selfish, but I feel as if everything were a blank when you are
out of the room."
What could a man do in the face of so much beauty and so much affection,
but to vow to hold up the wall for the rest of the evening?
As he was taking Magdaléna to her carriage a little after midnight, she
said to him shyly,--
"I hope you are quite happy."
And he answered with unmistakable fervour, "I am indeed."
Mrs. Yorba was detained by Mrs. Cartright, who was delivering herself of
many words.
"Do you believe that love is everything in life?" Magdaléna asked him.
"By no means. Not even to woman, in spite of the poets. It induces
intense concentration for the time, consequently looms larger in the
affairs of life than the million other scraps that go to make up the
vast patchwork. But it is as well to remember that it is but an
occasional patch in the quilt, even if it be of the most vivid hue. And
there is a lot to be got out of the other patches!"
"If you lost Helena, could you feel like that?"
"In time; beyond a doubt. Memory simply cannot hold water beyond a
certain strain; there comes a rift at last, and the flood pours
through."
"Then if you lost Helena, should you feel as--as--you did when you came
here first? You were--tired of everything--you remember. You told
me--you don't mind my speaking of it?" She was aghast at her
inconsistency, but the magnet in the man was as irresistible as ever.
"Mind? From you? I have never talked to a human being about myself as I
have talked to you. I don't know what would happen to me in such an
event. I am neither a fool nor a drunkard, remember. I think I should
seek entirely new, barely comprehended, lands,--the South Sea Islands,
for instance. I have wasted my life. I have neither the energies nor the
ambitions to pull up now. I should simply seek new oranges and squeeze
them dry. There are always the intellectual pleasures, you know. I
should not be proud of myself, but I should get through the remaining
years somehow."
"There was something else--I should not speak of it--"
They were standing in the shadow of the char-à-banc. Trennahan raised
her hand to his lips. "I was in a state of moral chaos when I met
you,--that is what you mean. I do not think I ever shall be again. Even
Helena could never do for me what you did. You and I made a great
mistake, but we generated one of those singular friendships which no
circumstances nor time can annihilate. Some day we shall take up the
threads where they broke off. I always look forward to that. A man may
be contented with one woman's love, but not with one woman's friendship.
I am glad that you are as dear to Helena as you are to me. In time,
perhaps we may all three live more or less together."
He was a man of humour, but he said that. She was a woman of little
humour, but she laughed.
XX
The breathless state of Helena's affections did not interfere with her
desire to lead in all things those favoured of her acquaintance.
Although, in deference to Trennahan's emphatic wish, she forswore
eccentricities, she taxed her fertile brain to keep Menlo Park in a
whirl of excitement.
"It can't be done," said Rose. "The climate has poppy dust in it instead
of oxygen, but she may wake us up for a while."
She did. The bath-houses were built, and the big char-à-bancs rolled
down the dusty road to Ravenswood every morning. The salt water and the
sun brought out the red in the girls' hair, so the pastime promised to
weather one season, at least. She gave dances and picnics on alternate
weeks, and her hospitality in the matter of luncheons and dinners was
unbounded. The Colonel built a bowling-alley and a proper tennis-court;
in short, there was no doubt about "The Belmonts'" being the nucleus of
Menlo Park. Several times Helena persuaded the owner of the stage line
between Redwood City and La Honda to let her drive; and she took a
select few of her friends on the top of the lumbering coach, relegating
the uneasy passengers to the stuffy interior. The road is one of the
most picturesque in California, but the grades are steep, the turnings
abrupt, dangerous in many places. Nevertheless, Helena, balancing on her
narrow perch high above the wheelers' heels, managed her rapid mustangs
so admirably that Trennahan, balancing beside her, wondered if he should
be able to manage her one half so well.
"What Helena Belmont needs," said Mrs. Montgomery, with some asperity,
"is six babies; and I hope for Mr. Trennahan's sake she'll have them.
Otherwise, I should like to know where the poor man is to get any rest;
she's a human cyclone."
"I never thought she'd marry so soon," replied Mrs. Brannan. "It looked
as if she were going to be a regular old-time belle; and it took them
years to get through."
"She's not married yet," remarked Mrs. Montgomery.
But these enormous energies, as Rose had predicted, reached their
meridian in something under two months, after which, much to Trennahan's
relief, Helena succumbed to Menlo Park, and manifested an increasing
desire for long hours alone with him under the trees on the lawn,
although she by no means allowed her neighbours to rest for more than
seventy-two hours at a time.
XXI
Don Roberto and Mr. Polk took no part in these festivities; Mrs. Yorba
and Magdaléna took less and less; the picture made by Don Roberto in his
shirt-sleeves, manipulating a hose as the char-à-banc drove off, finally
forbade his wife to riot while her husband toiled. She was angry and
resentful; but she was a woman of stern principles, and she had a
certain measure of that sort of love for her husband which duty prompts
in those who are without passion.
