
"I don't know where he can have gone, Juba. Do you think he's gone and
left me?"

"I can't tell, chile. Wait till your papa comes home. He will find
him."

Frank had to wait an hour and a half before his father's return. All
this time he was buoyed up by the hope that Ernest would come back. He
was continually watching the portal to see if the runaway would not
come, but in vain.

James Fox entered the room with grave face and heavy step. He had not
heard of his brother's escape, and thought him still an inmate of
Crampton jail.

He looked about for his young captive.

"Where is Ernest, Frank?" he asked.

"I don't know, papa. I miss him ever so much," said the little boy
tearfully.

"But he must be somewhere about. When did you miss him?"

"He went away when I was asleep."

The outlaw's suspicions were aroused.

"I will look for him," he said.

But Ernest was in none of the rooms, nor could Juba give any account
of him.

"Did you walk with him into the interior of the cave, Frank?" he
asked.

"Yes, papa."

"Ha, that explains it. Go with me, and tell me just where you went."

The little boy led the way through the vacant apartments till he
reached the one through which the light came from above.

The rope was still hanging from the projection, and this explained
Ernest's escape. James Fox went up and examined it.

"He must have got out this way," said the outlaw.

"Won't he come back, papa?" said Frank, sadly.

"Yes," said his father, resolutely. "I will bring him back."




CHAPTER XXIII.

GIVEN IN TRUST.

"Well, lad, have you had enough of Emmonsville?"

The speaker was Luke Robbins, and the time was two days after the
series of exciting incidents recorded in the last few chapters.

"Why do you ask, Luke?" replied Ernest. "Are you tired of it?"

"Yes, lad, I want to move on. There is nothing more for us here."

"But what about the reward you are entitled to for the capture of John
Fox?"

"The cashier thinks I will only receive a part of it, as Fox has
escaped and is now at large."

"That is unlucky. You will have to wait until the matter is decided,
won't you?"

"No. He has offered me an advance of a hundred dollars, and is
authorized to collect whatever prize-money may be awarded to me. You
have some money left?"

"Yes, about seventy-five dollars."

"Then we both have enough to start on. I propose to go to California
by cars, getting there as soon as possible. When we reach there we
will see what we can do to increase our pile."

"I like that plan. When shall we go?"

"It is now Thursday. We will start on Monday."

Before they departed there was some sensational news. Peter Longman,
one of the Fox band, taking offence at some slight put upon him by
James Fox, went to the authorities and revealed the existence and
location of the cave, with other information of a like nature. The
result was that a strong police force was sent to surprise and capture
the notorious outlaws. The visit was made at night, and under guidance
of Peter himself. Wholly unsuspicious of treachery, the outlaws were
captured in their beds, and the valuable articles contained in trunks
and boxes in the store-room were confiscated.

James Fox was reclining on the sofa when the officers entered.

"Is your name Fox?" asked the leader of the invading party.

"Yes," answered the outlaw, proudly.

"Then you are my prisoner."

"Who has betrayed me?" demanded Fox, quickly.

There was no answer, but just behind the invading party the outlaw
caught sight of Peter Longman, apparently trying to screen himself
from observation.

"I need not ask," he said. "There is the treacherous hound. He shall
not live to profit by his baseness."

Before any one could interfere, James Fox leveled his revolver at
Longman, and a sharp scream showed that his aim was true. His
treacherous follower fell to the ground mortally wounded.

James Fox looked at him disdainfully, then threw the revolver upon the
floor of the cave, and held out his hands. "Now bind me if you will,"
he said; "I am your captive."

Little Frank was a terrified witness of this scene.

"What are they doing to you, papa?" he asked. "They are bad men."

In spite of his fortitude the outlaw showed traces of emotion. "That
is my little son," he said to the lieutenant commanding. "Don't let
him suffer for the sins of his father."

"He shall be taken care of. Do not be anxious about him."

"There is an old colored woman here--Juba," went on the outlaw. "The
boy is used to her. If possible, let them be together."

Under a strong guard the famous robbers were carried to jail, and the
cave which had been for years their meeting-place was dismantled and
was never again used for a criminal resort.

When Ernest read the story his feelings were mixed. He rejoiced that
the outlaws were taken, but he felt a sympathy for little Frank, and
understood what a shock it must be to the father and son to be
separated, and to have their home so suddenly and violently broken up.

He learned where Frank was, and called upon him. He had been taken to
his own home by the police commander, and it was there that Ernest
found him.

When he entered the room where Frank sat disconsolately at the window,
the little fellow uttered a cry of joy.

"Is it you, Ernest?" he said, running forward. "I thought I should
never see you again."

Ernest stooped over and kissed the little boy.
