lar lines, the smoke of camp-fires rose in curhng 
wreaths, and bag and baggage, pack and parcel, were 
opened and the contents spread out. As if for some 
great festival, men and women chose their gayest 
clothes and richest ornaments, so that when they 
met again before the open tents which were set 
up for chapels, one for each little band of fellow- 
townsmen and neighbours at home, and afterwards 
when they ate and drank together according to their 
rank, under wide awnings at noontide, or beneath 
the clear sky in the cool of the evening, it was a 
goodly sight, and every man's heart was lightened 
and his courage returned as he felt that he himself 
had his share and part of the glorious whole. For 
it was as it always is and always must be, where 
power and wealth are masters of the scene, and there 
is no acting room for misery or sorrow or such poor 
strolling players as sickness and death. The things 
which please not the eye are quick to offend souls 
nursed in a faultless taste, and the charnel-house of 
failure receives whatsoever things have not the power 
of pleasing. 
Now when they came to Nicsea, hope was high, 
and the light of victory to come seemed to be 
shining in every man's eyes. There for the first 
time Queen Eleanor led out her three hundred 
ladies in battle array, clad in bright mail, with skirts 
of silk and cloth of gold, and long white mantles, 
each with the scarlet cross upon the shoulder ; and 
on their heads they wore light caps of steel orna- 
mented with chiselled gold and silver, and here and 
there with a metal crest or a bird's wing, beaten 
out of thin silver plate. 
It was at noonday under the fair autumn sun. A 
broad meadow, green still in patches, where the grass 
had not been burned brown by the early summer heat, 
stretched toward the Lake of Ascanius, where the 
ground rose in hillocks, to end abruptly in a sheer 
fall of thirty or forty feet to the water's edge. 
There were places where there was no grass at all, 
and where the dry gravel lay bare and dusty, yet on 
the whole it was a fair field for a great assembly of 
men on horseback and on foot. To southward the 
meadow rose, rolling away to the distant hills, 
whither the German host was already gone. The 
great lords, with their men-at-arms and squires, 
riding each in the midst of his vassal knights, went 
out thither to see such a sight as none had seen 
before, and ranged themselves by ranks around the 
field, so that there was room for all. And thither 
Gilbert went also with his man Dunstan, in the 
King's train, for he owed no service nor allegiance 
to any man there. But they waited long for the 
Queen. 
She came at last, leading her company and mounted 
on a beautiful white Arab mare, the gift of the 
Greek Emperor, as gentle a creature as ever obeyed 
voice and hand, and as swift as the swiftest of the 
breed of Nejd. She rode alone, ten lengths before 
the rest, tall and straight in the saddle as any man, 
a lance in her right hand, while her left held the 
bridle low and lightly ; and at the very first glance 
every soldier in that great field knew that there 
was none like her in the troop. Yet her fair ladies 
made a good showing and rode not badly as they 
cantered by, brilliant and changing as a shower 
of blossoms, with black eyes, and blue, and brown, 
 
fair cheeks and dark, and laughing lips not made to 
talk of rough deeds save to praise them in husband 
or lover. 
Next to the Queen and before the following ranks 
rode one who bore the standard of Eleanor's ancient 
house, Saint George and the Dragon, displayed on a 
white ground and now for the first time quartered 
in a cross. The Lady Anne of Auch was very dark, 
and her black hair streamed like a shadow in the 
air behind her, while her dark eyes looked upward 
and onward. Splendidly handsome she was, and 
doubtless Eleanor had chosen her for her beauty to 
be standard bearer of the troop, well knowing that 
no living face could be compared with her own, and 
willing to outshine a rival whose features and form 
were the honour and boast of the South. 
They rode in a sort of order, in squadrons of fifty 
each, but not in serried ranks, for they had not the 
skill to keep in line, though they rode well and 
boldly. And before each squadron rode a lady who 
for her beauty or her rank, or for both, was captain, 
and wore upon her steel cap a gilded crest. Each 
squadron had a colour of its own, scarlet and green 
and violet, and the tender shade of anemones in 
spring, and their mantles had been dyed with each 
hue in the dyeing- vats of Venice, and were lined with 
delicately tinted silks from the East, brought to the 
harbours of France by Italian traders. For the 
merchants of Amalfi filled the Mediterranean with 
their busy commerce and had quarters of their own 
in every Eastern city, and had then but lately 
founded the saintly order of the Knights Hospi- 
tallers of Saint John of Jerusalem, whence grew the 
noble community of the Knights of Malta, which 
was to live through many centuries even to our 
day. 
Nor could the Queen's ladies have worn mail and 
steel and wielded sword and lance, so that at a long 
stone's throw they might almost have passed for 
men, but that cunning jewellers and artificers of 
Italy, and Moorish smiths from Spain, had been 
brought at great pains and cost to France to make 
such armour and weapons as had never been wrought 
before. The mail was of finest rings of steel sewn 
upon soft doeskin, fitted so closely that there was 
no room for gambison or jerkin ; and though it might 
have stopped a broad arrow or turned the edge of a 
blade, a sharp dagger could have made a wound 
beneath it, and against a blow it afforded less pro- 
tection than a woollen cloak. Many had little rings 
of gold sewn regularly in the rows of steel ones, 
that caught the light with a warmer sparkle, and 
the clasps of their mantles were of chiselled gold and 
silver. The trappings of each horse were matched 
in colour with the ladies' mantles, and the captains of 
the squadrons wore golden spurs. 
They dropped the points of their lances as they 
passed the King where he sat on his horse, a stone's 
throw from the high shore of the lake, in the 
midst of his chief barons, his pale face expressing 
neither interest nor pleasure in what he saw, and 
his eyes distrustful, as always, of his Queen and her 
many caprices. She, when she had saluted him with 
a smile that was almost a laugh, rode on a little way, 
 
and then, with a sharply uttered word of command, 
she wheeled by the left, crossed half the broad field, 
and led her ladies back straight toward the King. 
Within five lengths of him she halted suddenly, 
almost bringing her horse's haunches to the ground, 
and keeping her seat in a way that would have done 
credit to a man brought up in the saddle. To tell 
the truth, verj'- few of her ladies were able to per- 
form such a feat with any ease or assurance, and in 
the sudden halt there was more than a little disorder, 
accompanied by all sorts of exclamations of annoy- 
ance and ejaculations of surprise ; yet, in spite of 
difficulty, the whole troop came to a standstill ; 
moreover, a hundred thousand or more of knights 
and soldiers on horseback and on foot were so much 
more interested in the looks of the riders than in their 
horsemanship, and the whole effect of the gay con- 
fusion, with its many colours, its gleams of gold 
and glint of silver, was so pretty and altogether 
novel, that a great cry of enthusiasm and delight 
rang in the sunny air. A faint flush of pleasure 
rose in the Queen's cheeks, and her eyes sparkled 
with triumph at the long applause which was on her 
side against the King's disapproval. She dropped 
the point of her lance until it almost touched the 
ground, and spoke to her husband in a high clear 
voice that was heard by many. 
