breaking it up for a few days. The time hung heavily on her hands. She
did miss Betty's freshness and bright, argumentative ways. So she was
glad to see Doris, for Polly sat out in the kitchen half asleep most of
the time.

Solomon as well always seemed very glad to see Doris. He came and sat in
her lap, and Aunt Priscilla told about the days when she was a little
girl, more than fifty years ago. Doris thought life must have been very
hard, and she was glad not to have lived then.

She did like Miss Recompense the best, but she felt very sorry for Aunt
Priscilla's loneliness.

"She and Polly have grown old together, and they need some younger
person to take care of them both," said Uncle Leverett. "She ought to
take her comfort; she has money enough."

"It is so difficult to find anyone to suit," and Aunt Elizabeth sighed.

"I shall crawl out in the spring," declared Mrs. Perkins; but her tone
was rather despondent.

Doris wondered when the spring would come. The snow and ice had never
been entirely off the ground.

Besides going to Uncle Winthrop's,--and she went every other
Saturday,--she had been asked to Madam Royall's to tea with the
children. The elder lady had not forgotten her. Indeed, this was one of
the houses that Mr. Adams thoroughly enjoyed, though he was not much of
a hand to visit. But people felt then that they really owed their
neighbors some social duty. There were not so many public amusements.

The Chapman children had real dolls, not simply rag babies; and the
clothes were made so you could take them off. Doris was quite charmed
with them. Helen's had blue eyes and Eudora's brown, but both were
red-cheeked and had black hair, which was not really hair at all, but
shaped of the composition and curled and painted over.

They had a grand long slide in their garden at the back. The servant
would flood it over now and then and make it smooth as glass. Doris
found it quite an art to stand up. Helen could go the whole length
beautifully, and balance herself better than Eudora. But if you fell you
generally tumbled over in the bank of snow and did not get hurt.

Playing graces was a great delight to her and after several trials she
became quite expert. Then on one occasion Madam Royall found that she
had a very sweet voice.

"You are old enough to learn some pretty songs, my child," she said. "I
must speak to your uncle. When the weather gets pleasanter he must place
you in a singing class."

Singing was quite a great accomplishment then. Very few people had
pianos. But young ladies and young men would sometimes spend a whole
evening in singing beautiful old songs.

In March there was a new President, Mr. Madison. Everybody was hoping
for a new policy and better times, yet now and then there were quite
sharp talks of war.

One day Mrs. Manning and the baby came in and made quite a visit. The
baby was very sweet and good, with pretty dark eyes, and Mrs. Manning
looked very much like Aunt Elizabeth. Mrs. Hollis Leverett came and
spent the day, and young married women who had been Mary Leverett's
friends came to tea. Warren went over in the old chaise and brought Aunt
Priscilla. Everybody seemed personally aggrieved that Betty should stay
away so long.

But Betty was having a grand time. Her letters to her mother were very
staid and respectful, but there were accounts of dinners and evening
parties and two or three weddings. Her brother King had given her a
pretty pink silk, and that was made pompadour waist and had a full
double plait at the back that hung down to the floor in a train. He had
taken her and Electa to a grand affair where there were crowds of
beautifully attired ladies. Betty did not call it a ball, for she knew
they would all be shocked. And though her mother had written for her to
come home, Mrs. King had begged for a little longer visit, as there
seemed to be something special all the time.

"What extravagance for a young girl!" exclaimed Mrs. Manning. "Pink silk
indeed, and a train! Betty will be so flighty when she comes back there
will be no getting along with her. 'Lecty has grown very worldly, I
think. I have never found any occasion for a pink silk."

Mrs. Leverett sighed. And Betty was not yet seventeen!

Mrs. Manning took James home with her, for she said grandmother was
spoiling him. She kept the children with a pretty strict hand at home,
and they soon jumped over the traces when you gave them a little
liberty. She was very glad to have him go to school all winter and hoped
he had made some improvement.

She was very brisk and energetic and was surprised to think they were
letting Doris grow up into such a helpless, know-nothing sort of girl.
And her daughter of nine was like a steady little woman.

"Still it isn't wise to put too much on her," said Mrs. Leverett in mild
protest. "Where one cannot help it, why, you must; but I think life is
getting a little easier, and children ought to have their share of it."

"I'm not asking anything of her that I did not do," returned Mrs.
Manning. "And I am proud of my training and my housekeeping."

"But it was so different then. Your father and I began life with only a
few hundred dollars. Then there was his three years in the war, and
people were doing everything for themselves--spinning and weaving and
dyeing, and making clothes of every kind. To be sure I make soap and
candles," laughing a little; "but we have only one cow now and give half
the milk for her care. I really felt as if I ought not have Martha, but
father insisted."

"I don't see why Doris couldn't have done a good deal instead of poring
over books so much."

"Well--you see she isn't really our own. Cousin Winthrop has some ideas
about her education. She will have a little money, too, if everything
turns out right."

"It's just the way to spoil girls. And you will find, mother, that Betty
will be none the better for her visit to 'Lecty. Dear me! I don't see
how 'Lecty can answer to her conscience, spending money that way. We
couldn't. It's wrong and sinful. And it's wrong to bring up any child in
a helpless, do-little fashion."

They were sitting by the south window sewing, and Doris was at the other
side of the chimney studying. Now and then she could not help catching a
sentence. She wondered what little Elizabeth Manning was like, who could
cook a meal, work butter, tend babies, and sew and knit stockings. She
only went to school in the winter; there was too much work to do in the
summer. She was not left alone now; one of the Manning aunts had been
staying some time. This aunt was a tailoress and had been fitting out
Mr. Manning, and now James must go home to have some clothes made.

Jimmie boy privately admitted to Doris that he would rather stay at
grandmother's. She was a good deal easier on him than his mother, and he
didn't mind Mrs. Webb a bit. "But you just ought to see Mr. Green. He
does lick the boys like fury! And there's such lots of errands to do
home. Mother never gives you a chunk of cake either. I don't see why
they couldn't all have been grandmothers instead of mothers."

James was not the first boy who had wished such a thing. But he knew he
had to go home, and that was all there was about it.

Martha wanted to go also. She had bought a good stout English
cambric--lively colored, as she called it--and a nice woolen or stuff
frock, as goods of that kind was often called. She was going to do up
her last summer's white frock to be married in. They would have a
wedding supper at her father's and then go home, and begin housekeeping
the next morning. Mrs. Leverett added a tablecloth to her store.

Betty must be sent for imperatively. Her mother was afraid she would be
quite spoiled. And she could not help wishing that Mrs. King would be a
little more careful and not branch out so, and Mary take life a little
easier, for Mr. Manning was putting by money and had his large farm
clear.

Then Aunt Priscilla was suddenly at sea. Jonas Field had bought a place
of his own where he could live over the store. In spite of a changed
name, King Street had dropped down and down, and was now largely given
to taverns. The better class had kept moving out and a poorer class
