toward her.
For the two sat in silence for a minute or so; and then Clif went on:
"You told this officer that I was his rival," said he; "that you loved
me and that I was the only barrier to his hopes?"
"I did," said the girl.
"And he still was willing to save my life?"
"You see what he has done," answered the other. "He said that he loved
me, that he would risk his life to make me happy. And here we are."
"But not happy," Clif added, half under his breath.
Then again there was a long silence. One cannot say much when one feels
as deeply as those two felt then.
Clif thought of the heroism of that quiet Spanish officer. And his heart
went out toward him. He fancied what the man's own feelings must be, the
loneliness and the desolation.
He had ruined himself, accepted voluntarily disgrace and a shameful
death. And all in order that a woman who had been kind to him might be
set free and made happy.
Of the death there could be no doubt. When that officer was caught he
would have it to face. And he would face it for the sake of Bessie
Stuart.
And moreover, he was aiding Clif, his rival, the one who was robbing him
of his heart's desire; he was helping him to freedom so that the cadet,
when his work in the war was done, might claim the woman he loved as his
reward.
That was heroism; not the noisy kind in the battle, which every one sees
and applauds, but the quiet kind that knows it is right and cares for
no one else.
Clif felt that he could worship such a man as that.
And it is needless to say that his conscience troubled him. What right
had he to accept such a sacrifice?
But the alternative was a terrible one. The lieutenant might flee with
them to the United States; and then----
Clif could not finish the thought; it made him shudder.
Just then Bessie Stuart spoke again.
"Clif," she said, "I have something to say to you. And I shall speak
plainly, for there is no time to hesitate. I have told you how I feel
toward you; I have told you that I loved you. Neither of us would have
declared our feelings, I suppose, if it had not been for this situation.
But I have been with you for months, and I have never known you to do
anything I could not admire. And mine is no childish fancy, Clif, for we
have been doing the work of men, you and I. Clif----"
The girl choked back a sob--and then went on:
"We must stop," she said, "stop where we are."
Clif knew what was coming, and he felt his blood surging. Bessie
Stuart's hand was in his and it was trembling.
For a moment she could not speak; the words would not come.
But then with that terrible self-command she sometimes displayed, she
mastered her emotion and turned to look into her companion's face.
"Clif," she said, "you know what I mean. You must let me marry this
officer."
Clif had known, and so he did not move when he heard those awful words.
He sat perfectly motionless, almost frozen; he felt the girl's hand turn
cold in his.
The carriage rolled on, and for at least one long, long minute there was
not a sound. The girl was listening, trembling again; and Clif, half
dazed was thinking to himself, thinking again and again of that death
knell, "You must let me marry this officer."
And it was true. Clif knew it. It was his duty; and the feeling lingered
in his mind that if he had half the heroism of that Spaniard he would
have said so long ago.
At last he spoke. His mouth was dry and his voice husky, but he forced
the words out.
And they were the right ones.
"Yes," said he, "you must marry him. And we must never meet again."
And then once more came the terrible silence. Bessie Stuart heard him
choke down a sob; and her heart was ready to break.
For this cadet was the dearest friend she had. She had been through
terrible dangers with him, coming to love him more every day, as she saw
the brave man's daring. And no one could ever know now how she felt
toward him.
But there was her duty; and though she was nearly ready to faint, she
sat perfectly motionless by his side.
And so for two or three minutes they rode on in silence; then suddenly
they heard the driver of the carriage stopping his horses.
"We are there," said Clif, in a husky voice.
He turned to look at the girl once more; he found that she was gazing at
him, and their eyes met.
There was anguish in both of their faces; Miss Stuart could scarcely see
for her tears.
But Clif took her hands in his. All the emotion of his lifetime seemed
crowded into that moment. He bent toward her and their lips met in one
trembling kiss.
And then with a set look on his face the cadet rose from his seat and
opened the door of the carriage, which had stopped.
CHAPTER XIX.
A FAREWELL.
Clif found Lieutenant Hernandez waiting for them to come out. Both he
and the driver had descended from the carriage.
It was quite dark where they were, apparently surrounded by a lonely
woods. But by such light as there was Clif looked at the officer
anxiously.
Now since he had heard that story he was more than anxious to study his
face, to see what manner of man this was.
The lieutenant still wore the calm, quiet look; he seemed almost
inspired.
"If you will follow me a short distance," he said, "we shall reach a
place where we can remain concealed until morning."
He started across the country, after a few words with the driver of the
carriage; they had not gone very far before the faint roaring of the
breakers on the beach became audible.
"You see," said the Spaniard, "we are near the sea. We are only about
four miles from Havana harbor, and you may make an effort to reach the
blockading fleet in the morning."
Obviously, it would not do to try it in the darkness. They might be run
down or lost or fired on or swept out to sea.
"But it will be daylight in a few hours," said the lieutenant.
And then the three went on in silence until suddenly a small hut loomed
up in the darkness.
"It is deserted," said their guide. "We can conceal ourselves there."
And accordingly, they crept through the low doorway, and finding the
place covered with straw inside, sat down to wait.
There was no conversation among them, for each one of the trio was
wrapped in his own sad thoughts. The place was in absolute darkness, and
so they could not see each other.
But Clif was revolving a plan over in his thoughts, and it was not very
many minutes before he made up his mind.
He rose to his feet again.
"Excuse me for a while," he said. "I will return."
And with that he hurried out of the hut.
Bessie Stuart knew why he had gone, and after a moment's silence she
turned toward the lieutenant.
"My friend has left," she said, "in order that I may have a chance to
talk to you."
The officer answered nothing; the girl went on slowly.
"Lieutenant Hernandez," she said "will you answer me a question?"
"What is it?"
"What do you intend to do?"
"How do you mean?"
"I mean that you will be court-martialed if you return to Havana----"
"Yes," said the other, "I know that."
"Do you mean to return there?"
"Such are my plans at present," was the quiet response.
Miss Stuart thought a moment before she began again.
"Lieutenant Hernandez," she said at last, "you have been a hero to-day."
"I have done my best," said the man.
"You have done what few men would have. You have given your life for our
safety."
"Yes," answered he, "I have."
"But there are other heroes, Lieutenant Hernandez," said the girl. "You
have inspired us two. That is what I wish to speak to you about. I have
a better plan than your return to Havana."
"What is it?"
"Come to America with us----"
"And then?"
"Then I will do my best to repay your favor. I will do as you have asked
me."
"You mean----"
"I mean that I will marry you the day that we arrive."
The girl said those words in a low, earnest tone. She saw the officer
give a start, she even fancied she heard his heart begin to beat louder.
But he said nothing. The two sat as they were in silence. The Spaniard
was having his struggle then.
The pause continued for at least five minutes; it was broken only once.
"Does Cadet Faraday know of this?" asked the officer.
"He does," said the girl. "We talked it over in the carriage."
"And he said that he was willing to give you up?"
"He did."
"I am glad that I saved him," muttered the man.
Bessie Stuart was a little puzzled to catch the drift of that last
remark. But she soon saw what it meant.
