for you?"
"I am in trouble, and wish your advice."
"Proceed."
Rose unfolded her story, and concluded by asking Mr. Codicil if he
would exert his influence toward obtaining her some pupils in music.
The lawyer's eyes twinkled behind his spectacles.
"I hardly know what to say to that request," he answered.
"I did not suppose you would be prejudiced against me by Mrs.
Tilton's false and groundless accusations," said Rose, with a
troubled air.
"I am not. That is not the point. I am only questioning the
expediency of your teaching at all."
"But I know of no better way of earning a livelihood."
"Still, it is not customary for wealthy young ladies to take pupils."
"I don't understand you, Mr. Codicil," said Rose, bewildered.
"Then I will no longer keep you in suspense. Your poor cousin,
Philip, is dead, and you inherit your grandfather's fortune--that
is, you, your sister, and brother."
"When did poor Philip die?" asked Rose, unaffectedly shocked. "It
must have been very sudden."
"On the contrary, he died last year."
"Last year! How happens it, then, that we did not know of it before?"
"Because there has been a wicked scheme to defraud you of the
inheritance. Ben, come here."
Ben entered, and the story was soon told. Of course it need not be
repeated.
"Now, Miss Beaufort, if you insist on taking pupils, I will do what
I can to procure you some," said the lawyer.
"If I take them it will be without compensation," answered Rose,
smiling. "Can you tell me how soon we may expect to come into our
property? I ask, because we are near the end of our money."
"It will take perhaps two months to obtain legal proof of Philip's
death, but that will not inconvenience you. I will advance you
whatever money you require in the meantime."
"You are very kind. If you could let me have twenty dollars----"
"You are very modest," said the lawyer, smiling. "Suppose we say two
hundred?"
"Two hundred!" ejaculated Rose.
"I think you will be able to find a use for it," said the lawyer.
"Remember, though I don't want to encourage you in extravagance,
that is less than two weeks' income."
There was great joy in the Beaufort household when Rose carried
home the great news, though it was mingled with sorrow for the
untimely fate of poor Philip.
                          CHAPTER XXXVII.
                       BEN MEETS HIS COUSIN.
Ben supposed that his new guardian would be in favor of making an
immediate call upon his uncle, but the Cuban counselled delay.
"First," he said, "I wish to find, if I can, the broker through
whom your uncle sold the securities of which he robbed your father.
We can make out a case without it, but with this our case will be
complete."
"Won't it be difficult to find out, Mr. Novarro?" asked Ben.
"Difficult, but not impossible. To begin with, I know the date of
probable transfer. Next, I know the securities. By visiting the
offices of different brokers I may obtain some information. At any
rate, I have mapped out my plan of procedure, and hope within a week
to obtain a clew."
Ben asked no questions, feeling that he could safely leave the whole
matter in the hands of so experienced a business man as his new
guardian.
They did not go to a hotel, but to a boarding-house kept by a
Cuban lady, a friend of his guardian, which they found quite as
comfortable and more homelike than the Metropolitan or the Windsor.
Meanwhile Ben thought it best not to make a call at the office of
his uncle. Indeed, remembering the cruel way in which he had wronged
his mother, he would have found it disagreeable to meet him.
But one day, on Broadway, he met his cousin, Clarence Plantagenet.
He would have avoided the encounter, but it was too late, for
Clarence had seen him.
"What! Ben!" he exclaimed. "I had no idea you were back in New York.
When did you arrive?"
"Three days since," answered Ben.
"Where are you staying?"
"At a boarding-house in Forty-second street."
"How is Major Grafton?"
"I don't know; I am no longer with him."
"What!" exclaimed Clarence, pricking up his ears. "You are no longer
in his employ?"
"No."
"Where is he?"
"I left him in Europe."
"What did he discharge you for?" asked Clarence, cheerfully.
"He didn't discharge me. He was opposed to my leaving him, but we
couldn't agree."
"I think you are a fool!" said Clarence, bluntly. "With him you
could live like a gentleman. You haven't got another place, have
you?"
"No."
"And you won't get one very soon, I can tell you that, except as a
boy at three or four dollars a week."
Ben smiled.
"I can look round, at any rate," he answered.
"That's all the good it'll do. You mustn't expect my father to help
you."
"I don't. If I had, I should have called before this."
"After throwing up a good place, if you were not discharged, you
don't deserve help."
"I am not sure that I shall look for another place," said Ben.
"You are not?" asked Clarence, mystified.
"No; I may go to school a little longer. I haven't as good an
education as I should like."
"But how are you going to live while you are doing all this?"
"Don't you think your father would give me a home in his family and
let me attend school in the city?"
"Well, Ben Baker, you have got cheek, I declare! If that is what you
are counting on, you may as well give it up."
"It's as well to know the worst," said Ben, tranquilly.
"I shall have to be going along," said Clarence, coldly.
He told his father at dinner about his meeting with Ben.
"I'll tell you what, father," he said. "I couldn't account at first
for Ben's seeming so cool and independent. I think I understand it
now."
"Well, suppose you explain, then."
"I think he's robbed Major Grafton of a sum of money and taken
French leave. He said he was not 'bounced' and that the major did
not want him to leave."
"I hope you are wrong, my son. I haven't the highest opinion of your
cousin, but I earnestly hope he is honest. To have him guilty of
such a crime would be a disgrace to our family. Always be honest,
Clarence! Depend upon it, honesty is the best policy, and a boy or
man makes a great mistake who appropriates what is not his own."
"Of course, pa, I know all that. Do you think I would steal? As to
Ben Baker, that's a different matter. He's always been poor, and I
suppose the temptation was too strong for him."
"Let us hope not. Dishonesty I could not overlook, even in a
relation."
Who would imagine that this man, so strict in his ideas of honesty,
had deliberately stolen a hundred thousand dollars from his widowed
sister and her son!
                         CHAPTER XXXVIII.
             M. BOURDON HAS A BAD QUARTER OF AN HOUR.
Major Grafton was quite easy in mind after consigning Ben to the
safe custody of an insane asylum.
"Serves the boy right!" he said. "What business had he to interfere
with my plans? M. Bourdon will see that he does not annoy me any
further."
His confidence in the wisdom of his plan was maintained by the
frequent letters he received from the director of the asylum, in all
of which he spoke encouragingly of the effect of discipline upon
Ben. Major Grafton regularly transmitted the compensation agreed on
between them.
This continued until one day Major Grafton, who had now returned to
Geneva, was dumbfounded by receiving the following telegram from Mr.
Codicil:
    "Your scheme is revealed, and your guardianship at an end.
    No further drafts of yours will be honored.
    N. CODICIL."
"Confusion! What does this mean?" ejaculated Major Grafton. "That
wretched boy must have found means of writing to America. If this is
so, I will haul M. Bourdon over the coals. It must have been through
his criminal negligence."
He lost no time in setting out for the asylum, which he reached in
due season.
"I wish to see M. Bourdon," he said, sternly, to the attendant who
had admitted him.
The doctor, who would rather have seen any one else, could hardly
conceal his dismay when he set eyes on the major.
"Can he have found out?" he asked.
"Dr. Bourdon, how is my ward?" he demanded.
