Thrupp 's and all the other great places 
were at luncheon, or, as the young men used 
vulgarly to say, while the animals were 
feeding. She had forty minutes in advance 
of this to go home for her own dinner ; and 
when she came back, and one of the young 
men took his turn, there was often half an 
hour during which she could pull out a bit of 
work or a book a book from the place where 
she borrowed novels, very greasy, in fine 
print and all about fine folks, at a ha penny 
a day. This sacred pause was one of the 
numerous ways in which the establishment 
kept its finger on the pulse of fashion and 
fell into the rhythm of the larger life. It 
had something to do, one day, with the particular vividness marking the advent of a 
lady whose meals were apparently irregular, 
yet whom she was destined, she afterwards 
found, not to forget. The girl was blaste; 
nothing could belong more, as she perfectly 
knew, to the intense publicity of her profession ; but she had a whimsical mind and 
wonderful nerves ; she was subject, in short, 
to sudden flickers of antipathy and sympathy, 
red gleams in the grey, fitful awakings and 
followings, odd caprices of curiosity. She 
had a friend who had invented a new career 
for women that of being in and out of 
people 's houses to look after the flowers. 
Mrs. Jordan had a manner of her own of 
sounding this allusion; "the flowers," on 
her lips, were, in happy homes, as usual as 
the coals or the daily papers. She took 
charge of them, at any rate, in all the rooms, 
at so much a month, and people were quickly 
finding out what it was to make over this 
delicate duty to the widow of a clergyman. 
The widow, on her side, dilating on the 
initiations thus opened up to her, had been 
splendid to her young friend over the way 
she was made free of the greatest houses, 
the way, especially when she did the dinner- 
tables, set out so often for twenty, she felt 
that a single step more would socially, would 
absolutely, introduce her. On its being 
asked of her, then, if she circulated only in 
a sort of tropical solitude, with the upper 
servants for picturesque natives, and on her 
having to assent to this glance at her limitations, 
she had found a reply to the girl 's 
invidious question. "You've no imagination, 
my dear!" that was because the social door 
might at any moment open so wide. 
Our young lady had not taken up the 
charge, had dealt with it good-humouredly, 
just because she knew so well what to think 
of it. It was at once one of her most cher 
ished complaints and most secret supports 
that people didn' t understand her, and it 
was accordingly a matter of indifference to 
her that Mrs. Jordan shouldn t; even though 
Mrs. Jordan, handed down from their early 
twilight gentility and also the victim of 
reverses, was the only member of her circle 
in whom she recognized an equal. She was 
   
perfectly aware that her imaginative life was 
the life in which she spent most of her time ; 
and she would have been ready, had it been 
at all worth while, to contend that, since her 
outward occupation didn' t kill it, it must be 
strong indeed. Combinations of flowers and 
green stuff forsooth? What she could handle 
freely, she said to herself, was combinations 
of men and women. The only weakness in 
her faculty came from the positive abundance 
of her contact with the human herd; 
this was so constant, had the effect of becoming so cheap, that there were long stretches 
in which inspiration, divination and interest, 
quite dropped. The great thing was the 
flashes, the quick revivals, absolute accidents 
all and neither to be counted on nor to be 
resisted. Some one had only sometimes to 
put in a penny fora stamp, and the whole 
thing was upon her. She was so absurdly 
constructed that these were literally the 
moments that made up made up for the 
long stiffness of sitting there in the stocks, 
made up for the cunning hostility of Mr. 
Buckton and the importunate sympathy of 
the counter-clerk, made up for the daily, 
deadly, flourishy letter from Mr. Mudge, 
made up even for the most haunting of her 
worries, the rage at moments of not knowing how her mother did "get it." 
She had surrendered herself moreover, of 
late, to a certain expansion of her conscious 
ness; something that seemed perhaps vulgarly 
accounted for by the fact that, as the 
blast of the season roared louder and the 
waves of fashion tossed their spray further 
over the counter, there were more impressions 
to be gathered and really for it came 
to that more life to be led. Definite, at 
any rate, it was that by the time May was 
well started the kind of company she kept 
at Cocker 's had begun to strike her as a 
reason a reason she might almost put for 
ward for a policy of procrastination. It 
sounded silly, of course, as yet, to plead 
such a motive, especially as the fascination 
of the place was, after all, a sort of torment. 
But she liked her torment; it was a torment 
she should miss at Chalk Farm. She was 
ingenious and uncandid, therefore, about 
leaving the breadth of London a little longer 
between herself and that austerity. If she 
had not quite the courage, in short, to say 
to Mr. Mudge that her actual chance for a 
play of mind was worth, any week, the three 
shillings he desired to help her to save, she 
yet saw something happen in the course of 
the month that, in her heart of hearts at 
least, answered the subtle question. This 
was connected precisely with the appearance 
of the memorable lady. 
She pushed in three bescribbled forms 
which the girl 's hand was quick to appropriate, 
Mr. Buckton having so frequent a perverse instinct for catching first any eye that 
promised the sort of entertainment with 
which she had her peculiar affinity. The 
amusements of captives are full of a desperate 
contrivance, and one of our young 
friend 's ha penny worths had been the 
charming tale of Picciola. It was of course 
the law of the place that they were never to 
take no notice, as Mr. Buckton said, whom 
they served ; but this also never prevented, 
certainly on the same gentleman 's own part, 
what he was fond of describing as the under 
hand game. Both her companions, for that 
matter, made no secret of the number of 
favourites they had among the ladies ; sweet 
familiarities in spite of which she had 
repeatedly caught each of them in stupidities 
and mistakes, confusions of identity and lapses of observation that never failed to 
remind her how the cleverness of men ended 
where the cleverness of women began. 
"Marguerite, Regent Street. Try on at six. 
All Spanish lace. Pearls. The full length. 
That was the first; it had no signature. 
"Lady Agnes Orme, Hyde Park Place. 
Impossible to-night, dining Haddon. Opera 
to-morrow, promised Fritz, but could do play 
Wednesday. Will try Haddon for Savoy, 
and anything in the world you like, if you 
can get Gussy. Sunday, Montenero. Sit 
Mason Monday, Tuesday. Marguerite awful. 
Cissy." That was the second. The third, 
the girl noted when she took it, was on a 
foreign form: "Everard, Hotel Brighton, 
Paris. Only understand and believe. 22nd 
