horses in the neighbouring corrals 
whinnied ; the cows in the fields bellowed. It 
was a vocal night, and few slept. 
Nevertheless everybody was excited and 
good-natured next morning. Immediately 
after breakfast they went out to the corral, 
and by means of a ladder mounted the 
wall and stood on the broad summit. At 
a signal from Don Emilio a vaquero 
opened the gate cautiously and drove in 
a large bull, who had been carefully 
irritated since sunrise. 
The two unamiable beasts, glad of an 
object to vent their spleen upon, flew at 
each other. The bear, giant as he was, 
was ignominiously rolled in the dust by 
the furious onslaught of bulk and horns. 
He recovered himself with surprising 
alacrity, however, and rushed at the bull. The 
latter, off guard for the moment, and strug 
gling for his lost breath, was hurled on his 
back. He rolled over quickly, but before 
he could gather his legs under him, the 
bear sat himself squarely upon the heavy 
flanks. The bull jerked up his head, his 
eyes injected, his tongue rolling out. The 
bear raised one of his mighty paws and 
dealt him a box on the ear. The head 
fell with an ugly thud on the hard floor 
of the corral. The bear adjusted himself 
comfortably and licked his paws. 
On the wall the onlookers were far 
more excited than the gladiators in the 
arena. The Perez sympathised with their 
personal property, but Roldan and Adan 
felt that the bear was their menagerie, and 
that their honour was at stake. Party 
feeling ran very high. Roldan and Benito 
were twice separated by their anxious 
elders. 
"Ay! yi!" cried Carlos. "The bull 
wakes." 
The poor bull, in truth, despite the 
crushing weight on his vitals, raised his 
head again, shook himself feebly, and was 
once more boxed into unconsciousness. 
The side of his face was crushed ; his 
body was slowly flattening. The family 
encouraged him with tears and spirit. 
" Ay, Ignacio, Ignacio, my poor one ! "
cried Don Jose. " Arouse thyself and 
kill the brute. Ay ! thou wert so beautiful, 
so elegant, thy sleek sides like the satin of 
Dona Theresa and he like a wild man 
that has never washed. Where is thy 
pride, Ignacio? .Arouse thyself!" 
Thus encouraged, the bull raised his 
head once more. The bear gave him a 
whack that snapped his spinal cord, then 
rose and swung himself round the enclosure
with the arrogant mien of a bloated 
sultan who has swept off a troublesome 
head. This attitude aroused Benito to 
fury. 
" Ay, the cheat ! the assassin ! " he cried. 
" It was not a fair fight. Our Ignacio had 
no chance " 
" That is not true ! " exclaimed Roldan. 
" He had the same chance at the first. If 
you are not satisfied, Senorito Benito, then 
fight me." 
No sooner said than done. The boys, 
who stood some distance from the others, 
doubled their fists and rushed at each 
other like two fighting cocks. They pom 
melled for several minutes, then locked 
their arms about each other and went 
reeling about the wall, to the horror of the 
others, who dared not approach lest they 
should inflame them further. 
" Jump down ! Jump down, you im 
beciles ! " cried Don Jose. " Do you wish 
 
to be food for the bear ? A misstep " 
The words ended in a hoarse gurgle. 
Dona Theresa shrieked. Adan and Car 
los sobbed. The young men turned cold 
and weak. The two boys had fallen head 
long into the corral. 
They were sobered and fraternal in a 
moment. The bear stood upon his hind 
legs and opened his arms invitingly. He 
stood in front of the gate. 
" Ay! ay!" gasped Benito. "He wili 
eat us!" 
" No ; he will eat the bull first ; but he 
will hug us to death that is, if he gets 
us which he won t. Adan!" he cried, 
" lower the ladder." 
Benito began to cry, his terror enhanced 
by the babel of voices on the wall, each of 
which was suggesting a different measure. 
On the opposite wall and in the branches 
of a neighbouring tree were the Indian 
servants and "the vaqueros. They stared 
stupidly, with shaking lips. 
Adan had recovered his presence of 
mind. With a firm hand, he lowered the 
ladder. But his wit was not quick. He 
should have carried it along the wall and 
placed it behind the boys. Instead, it de 
scended several yards away. The bear, 
who appeared to be no fool, lowered his 
forepaws and trotted slowly toward the 
boys. 
"Juan ! " shouted Roldan to a vaquero. 
" Lasso the bull and drag him to the west 
side far from the gate." 
The vaquero, alert enough under orders, 
swung the lasso with supple wrist and 
missed. The boys dodged the bear, who 
seemed in no haste, but stalked them 
methodically, nevertheless. The vaquero 
swung again. This time the rope caught 
the horns, was tightened by a quick turn, 
and the carcass went thudding across the 
yard. The bear gave a furious howl and 
plunged after. The boys scampered up the 
ladder. Don Jose took each by the collar 
and shook them soundly. When they 
were released they embraced each other. 
"Ay! but I was inhospitable to fight 
my guest," sobbed Benito. 
" Ay, my friend," said Roldan, with dig 
nity, winking back the tears started by 
various emotions. " It is I who should have 
had my ears boxed by the bear for insult 
ing my host, and bringing anguish to the 
house of Perez." Then he embraced Adan, 
but this time mutely. 
Doila Theresa had been carried to her 
room, where she lay prcstrated with a ner 
vous headache; but her family and guests 
did ample justice to the chickens stewed 
in tomatoes, the red peppers and onions, 
the fried rice, tomales, and dulces which 
her cook had prepared in honour of the 
event. Excitement and good will reigned ; 
even Don Jose had forgiven the young 
offenders, and they all talked at once, at 
the top of their voices, as fast as they could 
rattle and with no falling inflection.
Roldan and Adan were pressed to remain at 
the Hacienda Perez until the search was 
over, and although the former had a secret 
yearning for adventure he was more than 
half inclined to consent. 
After a brief siesta the entire male
population of the hacienda retired to the wall 
of the corral to pot the bear. It was 
