abandonment, to rest. Her mother's little cricket was by her side, and
she put her feet on it and exhaled a long sigh of content. Her eyes
rested on the dark cavern which was the fireplace; and there fell upon
her a sweet sense of completed bliss, as if it were alight and she could
watch the dancing flames. And suddenly Dilly was aware that the Joyces
were all about her.
She had been sure, in her coming through the woods, that they knew and
cared; now she was certain that, in some fashion, they recognized their
bondage and loyalty to the place, as she recognized her own, and that
they upheld her to her task. She thought them over, as she sat there,
and saw their souls more keenly than if she had met them, men and women,
face to face. There was the shoe-maker among them, who, generations
back, was sitting on his bench when news came of the battle of
Lexington, and who threw down hammer and last, and ran wildly out into
the woods, where he stayed three days and nights, calling with a loud
voice upon Almighty God to save him from ill-doing. Then he had drowned
himself in a little brook too shallow for the death of any but a
desperate man. He had been the disgrace of the Joyces; they dared not
think of him, and they know, even to this day, that he is remembered
among their townsmen as the Joyce who was a coward, and killed himself
rather than go to war. But here he stood--was it the man, or some secret
intelligence of him?--and Dilly, out of all his race, was the one to
comprehend him. She saw, with a thrill of passionate sympathy, how he
had believed with all his soul in the wickedness of war, and how the
wound to his country so roused in him the desire of blood that he fled
away and prayed his God to save him from mortal guilt,--and how, finding
that he saw with an overwhelming delight the red of anticipated
slaughter, and knew his traitorous feet were bearing him to the ranks,
he chose the death of the body rather than sin against the soul. And
Dilly was glad; the blood in her own veins ran purer for his sake.
There was old Delilah Joyce, who went into a decline for love, and
wasted quite away. She had been one of those tragic fugitives on the
island of being, driven out into the storm of public sympathy to be
beaten and undone; for she was left on her wedding day by her lover, who
vowed he loved her no more. But now Dilly saw her without the pathetic
bravery of her silken gown which was never worn, and knew her for a
woman serene and glad. That very day she had unfolded the gown in the
attic, where it had lain, year upon year, wrapped about by the poignant
sympathy of her kin, a perpetual reminder of the hurts and faithlessness
of life. It had become a relic, set aside from modern use. She felt now
as if she could even wear it herself, though silk was not for her, or
deck some little child in its shot and shimmering gayety. For it came
to her, with a glad rush of acquiescent joy, that all his life, the man,
though blinded by illusion, had been true to her whom he had left; and
that, instead of being poor, she was very rich. It was from that moment
that Dilly began to understand that the soul does not altogether weld
its own bonds, but that they lie in the secret core of things, as the
planet rushes on its appointed way.
There was Annette Joyce, who married a Stackpole, and, to the disgust of
her kin, clung to him through one debauch after another, until the world
found out that Annette "couldn't have much sense of decency herself, or
she wouldn't put up with such things." But on this one night Dilly found
out that Annette's life had been a continual laying hold of Eternal
Being, not for herself, but for the creature she loved; that she had
shown the insolence and audacity of a thousand spirits in one, besieging
high heaven and crying in the ear of God: "I demand of Thee this soul
that Thou hast made." And somehow Dilly knew now that she was of those
who overcome.
So the line stretched on, until she was aware of souls of which she had
never heard; and she knew that, faulty as their deeds might be, they had
striven, and the strife was not in vain. She felt herself to be one drop
in a mighty river, flowing into the water which is the sum of life; and
she was content to be absorbed in that great stream. There was human
comfort in the moment, too; for all about her were those whom she had
seen with her bodily eyes, and their presence brought an infinite cheer
and rest. Dilly felt the safety of the universe; she smiled lovingly
over the preciousness of all its homely ways. She thought of the
twilights when she had sat on the doorstone, eating huckleberries and
milk, and seeing the sun drop down the west; she remembered one night
when her little cat came home, after it had been lost, and felt the warm
touch of its fur against her hand. She saw how the great chain of things
is held by such slender links, and how there is nothing that is not most
sacred and most good. The hum of summer life outside the window seemed
to her the life in her own veins, and she knew that nothing dwells apart
from anything else, and that, whether we wot of it or not, we are of one
blood.
The night went on to that solemn hush that comes before the dawn. Dilly
felt the presence of the day, and what it would demand of her; but now
she did not fear. For Jethro, too, had been with her; and at last she
understood his power over her and could lay it away like a jewel in a
case, a precious thing, and yet not to be worn. She saw him, also, in
his stream of being, as she was swept along through hers, and knew how
that old race had given him a beauty which was not his, but
theirs,--and how, in the melancholy of his eyes, she loved a soul long
passed, and in the wonder of his hand the tender lines of other hands,
waving to fiery action. He was an inheritor; and she had loved, not him,
but his inheritance.
Now it was the later dusk of night, and the cocks crowed loudly in a
clear diminuendo, dying far away. Dilly pressed her hands upon her eyes,
and came awake to the outer world. She looked about the room with a warm
smile, and reviewed, in feeling, her happy night. It was no longer hard
to dismantle the place. The room, the house, the race were hers forever;
she had learned the abidingness of what is real. When she closed the
door behind her, she touched the casing as if she loved it, and,
crossing the orchard, she felt as if all the trees could say: "We know,
you and we!"
As she entered the Pike farmyard, Eli was just going to milking, with
clusters of shining pails.
"You're up early," said he. "Well, there's nothin' like the mornin'!"
"No," answered Dilly, smiling at him with the radiance of one who
carries good news, "except night-time! There's a good deal in that!" And
while Eli went gravely on, pondering according to his wont, she ran up
to smooth her tumbled bed.
After breakfast, while Mrs. Pike was carrying away the dishes, Dilly
called Jethro softly to one side.
"You come out in the orchard. I want to speak to you."
Her voice thrilled with something like the gladness of confidence, and
Jethro's own face brightened. Dilly read that vivid anticipation, and
caught her breath. Though she knew it now, the old charm would never be
quite gone. She took his hand and drew him forward. She seemed like a
child, unaffected and not afraid. Out in the path, under the oldest tree
of all, she dropped his hand and faced him.
"Jethro," she said, "we can't do it. We can't get married."
He looked at her amazed. She seemed to be telling good news instead of
bad. She gazed up at him smilingly. He could not understand.
"Don't you care about me?" he asked at length, haltingly; and again
Dilly smiled at him in the same warm confidence.
"Oh, yes," she said eagerly. "I do care, ever and ever so much. But it's
your folks I care about. It ain't you. I've found it all out, Jethro.
Things don't al'ays belong to us. Sometimes they belong to them that
have gone before; an' half the time we don't know it."
Jethro laid a gentle hand upon her arm. "You're all tired out," he said
soothingly. "Now you give up picking over things, and let me hire
somebody. I'll be glad to."
But Dilly withdrew a little from his touch. "You're real good, Jethro,"
she answered steadily. She had put aside her exaltation, and was her old
self, full of common-sense and kindly strength. "But I don't feel tired,
an' I ain't a mite crazed. All you can do is to ride over to town with
Eli--he's goin' after he feeds the pigs--an' take the cars from there.
It's all over, Jethro. It is, truly. I ain't so sorry as I might be; for
it's borne in on me you won't care this way long. An' you needn't, dear;
for nothin' between us is changed a mite. The only trouble is, it ain't
the kind of thing we thought."
She looked in his eyes with a long, bright farewell glance, and turned
away. She had left behind her something which was very fine and
beautiful; but she could not mourn. And all that morning, about the
house, she sang little snatches of song, and was content. The Joyces had
done their work, and she was doing hers.
THE WAY OF PEACE
It was two weeks after her mother's funeral when Lucy Ann Cummings sat
down and considered. The web of a lifelong service and devotion still
clung about her, but she was bereft of the creature for whom it had been
spun. Now she was quite alone, save for her two brothers and the cousins
who lived in other townships, and they all had homes of their own. Lucy
Ann sat still, and thought about her life. Brother Ezra and brother John
would be good to her. They always had been. Their solicitude redoubled
with her need, and they had even insisted on leaving Annabel, John's
daughter, to keep her company after the funeral. Lucy Ann thought
longingly of the healing which lay in the very loneliness of her little
house; but she yielded, with a patient sigh. John and Ezra were
men-folks, and doubtless they knew best.
A little more than a week had gone when school "took up," rather earlier
than had been intended, and Annabel went away in haste, to teach. Then
Lucy Ann drew her first long breath. She had resisted many a kindly
office from her niece, with the crafty innocence of the gentle who can
only parry and never thrust. When Annabel wanted to help in packing away
grandma's things, aunt Lucy agreed, half-heartedly, and then deferred
the task from day to day. In reality, Lucy Ann never meant to pack them
away at all. She could not imagine her home without them; but that,
Annabel would not understand, and her aunt pushed aside the moment,
