I deserve to suffer for it. And I mean to punish myself by telling you
the whole truth."
In the energy of her resolve, she, too, arose to her feet. A sort of
ague went from her head to her feet. For an instant there was not a sign
of color in her cheeks, then, a great billow of blushes beat her face
down upon her hands. If I had not been clinging to her skirt I could
hardly have got the meaning of the muffled words. Her lover had to bend
his head to catch them.
"I had on a suit of Burwell's clothes!"
She threw up her head so abruptly that her face almost touched his
before he could start back.
"Now"--she flung out passionately--"you will despise me! And you ought
to!"
Her rush toward the door was intercepted by his quicker action. He
seized both of her hands and would not let her pass.
"On the contrary, I never respected you before as I do this moment. You
shall believe this, Molly Belle!"
Not a symptom of a "Miss"! And he the most punctilious of men in
everything pertaining to polite address and chivalric reverence for
women! His eyes had strange flashes in them when he turned to me. He was
grave, but with a gravity that overlaid smiles. His voice was very
gentle:--
"Molly, run away to play--there's a dear child!"
As I obeyed, I saw that he had not let go of Cousin Molly Belle's
hands.
[Illustration]
Chapter IX
My Pets
[Illustration]
Like my games, my stockings, and my frocks, they were home-made. We had
no caged birds. Our yards and woods thrilled with bird-song all day long
for eight months of the year, and mocking-birds filled June and July
nights with music sweeter and more varied than the storied strain of the
nightingale. I had never seen a canary, and knew nothing of him except
as I had read of one in what I called a "pair of verses" to which I took
a fancy. I used to sing them to a tune of my own making when
grown-uppers were not listening:--
   "Mary had a little bird,
     Feathers bright and yellow,
   Slender legs--upon my word
     He was a pretty fellow.
   "Sweetest songs he often sung
     Which much delighted Mary,
   And often where his cage was hung
     She stood to hear Canary."
I classed Mary 'Liza with the grown-uppers. She loved cats, adopting two
when they were blind kittens, and bringing them up in just such staid
habits as made her incomparable among children. At six months of age
they would doze at her feet on the rug while she studied, or ciphered,
or read aloud, or stitched upon those everlasting chemises. When she
took a walk for exercise (she never ran, or hopped, or skipped) they
trotted demurely in the path, beside or behind her, indifferent to
butterflies and grasshoppers, and as intent upon Behavior as their
mistress. They were always fat and sleek, and ate civilized
victuals,--bread, milk, and cooked meats cut into decent, miminy-piminy
mouthfuls. Not one of them was ever known to commit the vulgarity of
catching a mouse. Mary 'Liza considered it cruel, and eating raw flesh
"a dirty habit." She, the cats, and Dorinda composed a Happy Family in
which--barring the Rozillah episode--no accidents ever happened.
From earliest childhood my love for living creatures as companions and
pets was a passion that wrought much anguish to me, and more casualties
in the dumb animal kingdom than would be credited, were I to set down
the full tale of my bantlings, and the fate of each. At a tender age, I
sturdily refused to "call mine" the downiest darlings of the
poultry-yard. There would be a few weeks of having, and loving, and
fattening, and then the axe and the bloody log at the woodpile, and the
stormy tears of bereavement. It mattered not to Aunt 'Ritta that my
foster-children had names to which they answered, that they would feed
from my hand, and hop on my shoulder, and run quacking, or squawking,
or piping, or chirping, at my heels across the yard, and follow me to
the field like dogs. When the day and the hour--always unexpected to
me--came, I "called and they answered not again," until, taught by
bitter experience, I "struck" petting tame and edible living things,
once and finally.
The miniature menagerie I then set up on my own account, and, as I shall
show, to the detriment of everything entered upon the rolls, was stocked
principally by the services of my colored contingent.
Among the first inmates--they all became patients in the long, or short
run--were two striped ground squirrels (chipmunks) who were caught in a
box with a falling door, and presented to me by Barratier. He lent me
the box to keep them in. I fed and watered them warily and successfully
for a couple of days by lifting the door an inch, having previously
rapped upon it to scare the prisoners to the other end, then slipping in
the dish of water and the nuts, sugar, or fruit that were the day's
rations. Supposing that kindness and comfortable quarters had tamed them
into appreciation of my services and intentions, I raised the door two
inches higher on the third day, and took a good look at the beauties
huddled trembling in their safe corner. Their bright eyes were alluring,
their quiescence was encouraging. I spoke to them in dulcet accents, and
advanced a friendly hand. They met it more than half-way, one leaping
upon my bare arm, running up to my shoulder, and, with one bound over my
head, regaining his lost freedom. I caught his less active brother by
the tail as he was sneaking under the door, and held him tight. In a
quarter-jiffy he whisked his little body around and dug his teeth into
my finger, and, as I still held on to his tail, incontinently shed the
skin of the same, leaving it in my grasp. The last I ever saw of him was
the flaunt of a gory, ghastly pennant, as the bearer vanished under a
heap of stones. I flung the bloody casing from me with abhorrence. Now I
can hope that another grew upon the denuded bones. Then I hoped it
would not. The insult was gross.
The immediate successor of the ingrates was a mouse bestowed upon me by
one of the stable hands. I named the waif "Caspar Hauser" forthwith,
being fresh from the perusal of the history of that engaging fraud, and
inducted him into a spare rat-trap set about closely with wires. A
horsehair sparrow's nest was lined with raw cotton and put in one
corner, a toy saucer of water in the other, and in the third a toy plate
filled with cracked hickory nuts, interspersed with bits of sugar. Then
I sat down upon the floor beside him, and began the business of taming
him by getting him used to seeing me, cultivating his acquaintance by
poking my finger between the bars, talking and singing to him, and
endeavoring, by other ingenious devices, to make him feel at home. He
scampered around the confines of his domicile, as in a treadmill, all
the time I was thus employed, and could not be induced to touch his
food.
Mary 'Liza and I had outgrown the trundle-bed, and had a room to
ourselves upstairs. Into this I surreptitiously conveyed the improvised
cage that night and hid it under the bed. When my bedfellow had fallen
asleep, I got up softly, lighted a candle, and took a peep at my pet. He
had gone regularly to bed after disposing of some of the nuts and
scattering the remnants in every direction, and now lay curled up in the
cotton-wool in the prettiest, most homelike way imaginable, fast asleep.
I hung over him, entranced. He was tamed! Before long he would be
following me all over the house, playing hide-and-seek in corners,
sitting upon his hind legs beside my plate at table, and nibbling such
tidbits as I might give him. One particularly bright picture of our
common future was of taking him to church, smuggling him into the pocket
of my Sunday frock, and after settling myself comfortably upon my knees
before a corner seat during the "long prayer," taking Caspar Hauser out
and letting him play on the bench. What a boon his society would
be--what a relief his antics while Mr. Lee droned through innumerable
"We pray Thees!"
After I went back to bed I pursued these and other enchanting visions
into dreamland. The next day I took Caspar Hauser into the garden for
air and sunshine. His liveliness was something inconceivable by the
human imagination. He chased himself frantically around the cage,
regardless of my tender exhortations, until I began to fear that taming
was a more tedious process than I had supposed. I set the cage upon the
grass where the sun was hottest, withdrawing myself into the shade as
less in need of light and warmth, and read a volume of Berquin's
Children's Friend in full sight of Caspar Hauser. Whenever I turned a
page I would stick my finger between the wires and chirrup encouragingly
to the captive, all with a single eye to getting him used to me. His
speed and staying powers were equally extraordinary, but I was cheered,
when the forenoon was spent and I picked up the cage to take him in, by
observing that he ran more deliberately and with occasional pauses. By
the time I got him upstairs he lay down for a nap. He was still
slumbering at my supper-time, and had not got his nap out when I went to
bed, nor yet when breakfast was eaten and lessons said, next morning.
I had made up my mind by now that he was sick, and carried him into the
garden once more. I had read that wild creatures physic themselves if
allowed to seek such plants as instinct tells them are specifics for
their ailments. Lifting Caspar Hauser from his woolly bed, I stroked him
and called him by name. He was so tame by now that he did not struggle
upon my palm. Only the rise and fall of his furry sides showed that he
was alive. He was limp and helpless, and to me very lovable. I laid him
upon a strip of turf hot with the sunshine that had steeped it for five
hours. He had a liberal choice of healing herbs. Parsley, sage, mint,
tansy, peppergrass, catnip, and sweet marjoram, rue and bergamot and
balsam, flourished within a hundred lengths of his small body. While I
watched him he stretched himself as a baby at awakening, and began to
