
" What is it ? " asked Ned. " Larry ? He must have 
wandered off somewhere." 

" Dat boy know ebery inch er groun' fer miles an' 
miles. But he's awful reckless." 

"Get out the dogs and the lanterns. Let us go at 
once and hunt him up," exclaimed Sherburne in alarm. 

Juno whined and sprang from one to the other. Caesar 
was quieter, but moved his tail with a dawning sense of 
responsibility. They rushed on ahead and were soon 
lost to sight as well as sound. 

"Something has happened to him," began Bertram, 
gravely. " He wouldn't have stayed out in the woods all 
day with nothing to eat." 

" He could have gone in some cabin. It wouldn't 
have been the first time." 





"We have spoiled him some way," subjoined Ber- 
tram, seriously. "He won't mind one of us, and he 
always did obey mamma." 

Sherburne felt quite helpless on the subject of parental 
authority. The Beaumanoirs had been trained in truth- 
telling and promise-keeping, and Lawrence had said 
" Honest and true. " 

They went stumbling on, calling now and then to the 
boy and to the dogs. They heard an occasional bay. 
Should they take this path or that ? They had no heart 
for any but the briefest sentences. 

Then Caesar came rushing with a swish through the 
darkness. Bertram held up the lantern and the eager 
fiery eyes blinked. 

"Good dog, good Caesar, what is it? " 

He ran a few steps, barking loudly, then turned wist- 
fully and ran on again. They followed rapidly on 
through the woods that had been partly cleared. 

Juno was keeping watch over something and gave low, 
melancholy howls. When they reached the spot Sher- 
burne stooped and picked up his little brother, pallid and 
cold. 

"O, he isn't dead ! " cried Bertram. 

" Let us get back as quickly as possible." Then he 
tried to think what would be best. " Brad, run on ahead 
and get out the big carriage. Come down the road and 
meet us. We had better get over to Doctor Underwood's 
with all speed." 

" Let me carry him," said Ned, presently. " You are 
tired and we can get along faster." 

It was true. Sherburne settled the limp body on his 
cousin's shoulder, and they almost ran. The carriage 
was waiting. 





" We shall not all be needed," exclaimed Sherburne. 
" Bert, you and Randolph go home and comfort the 
girls. We will send Brad back with a message as soon 
as there is any word." 

The boys went reluctantly. The others entered the 
carriage with their burthen, and drove swiftly to their 
haven. 

"O," cried Aunt Fanny, "the doctor went to the 
hospital not more than ten minutes ago. Little Larry — 
what could have happened ! Drive right over. He has a 
rather serious case and will be gone half an hour or so. 
Yes, go at once." 

In five minutes they were there and Doctor Under- 
wood had taken the apparently lifeless body to one of the 
wards. Miss Eunis came and disrobed it. There was 
a broken leg, how much more they could not tell, or 
whether, at first, there was any life left in him. Sher- 
burne paced up and down in a state of agonizing ap- 
prehension. Ned knew any attempt at comfort was 
useless and wisely kept quiet. 

It seemed hours before Doctor Underwood came in, 
with a grave face. 

" He is not dead," he said, but from present indica- 
tions he has been unconscious a long while. He has a 
broken leg, a very clean break, which will cause no 
trouble and it is set. Tell me how it happened." 

Sherburne repeated the day's events in a rather un- 
steady tone. 

"Well — I don't see that you were to blame," an- 
nounced his uncle, anxious to relieve the dreadful sense 
of responsibility he read in the young face. "Maybe 
it would have been better if you had switched him all the 
way home. Boys are trying conglomerates. Now — both 





of you get back to Sherburne House as soon as you can. 
Stop and tell Aunt Fanny I shall stay here all night. 
Try and get some sleep. You can't help nor hinder." 

"But — " began Sherburne, eagerly. 

"You can't do me an atom of good; you will only be 
a bother. Come over as soon as you like in the morn- 
ing. Meanwhile — don't do anything until we know 
what we have to do." 

"Not send for " 

" He will be dead or better before Carew could get 
here," said the doctor, testily. "And your father and 
mother can't fly over. I am capable of doing all that 
can be done, and I have trained watchers and helpers. 
There — go. I can't spend any more time talking." 

Thus dismissed in Doctor Underwood's peremptory 
fashion, they returned to the carriage. Aunt Fanny was 
more amenable and sympathized warmly with them. 

" If anything can be done the doctor is equal to it," 
said she, with wifely pride and confidence. 

But if nothing could be done ! 

They drove silently homeward. It was past mid- 
night. The girls had gone to bed and cried themselves 
to sleep in awesome terror. The boys still sat on the 
porch, and had no heart to retire. 

He could have prevented all this by taking the child 
with him. It would have been a nuisance, of course, for 
all of them would have had to give up a little of their 
enjoyment for his entertainment, and already Sherburne 
had devoted days to the children's pleasure. Inexpe- 
rience could not tell when to indulge and when to deny 
likewise motherhood. But would not the days and nights 
of anxiety more than counterbalance the one day's grati- 
