"How soon are you going back?"
"Not very soon. Of course it would be pleasant to me to be able to see
you every day, Percy, but----"
"You needn't flatter yourself that I would take any notice of you. What
are you doing for a living?"
"I am going yachting in a few days."
"What! Oh, I understand. You have hired out as a sailor."
"Well no, not exactly."
"What yacht are you working on?"
"Perhaps you would like to visit it?"
"Yes, I would," said Percy, feeling puzzled and curious.
"Come to the Battery with me, then. We'd better board the next car."
Percy followed Jed into a Broadway car, and Jed, to his surprise, paid
the fare.
"I was going to pay the fare," said Percy.
"Oh never mind!" returned Jed carelessly.
"I don't want to put you to expense."
"Oh! it's not worth minding."
Arrived at the Battery, Jed called a boatman and said, "Row me out to
the Juno, beyond Governor's Island."
Jed leaned back in the boat, and Percy stared at him in wonder. When
they reached the yacht one of the men produced a ladder, and Jed led the
way on board.
"Any orders, Mr. Gilman?" asked the sailor respectfully.
"No, Kimball; I haven't seen Mr. Roper since morning, and don't know if
he wants anything done."
"Do you think you can spare me to go on shore for a couple of hours?"
"Yes, you may go."
Jed went to the side and said to the boatman, "You may take this man on
shore, and come back in an hour and a half for my friend and myself.
"Now, Percy, allow me to offer you a little refreshment."
Jed went to the pantry and brought out some cold meat, bread and butter,
and two bottles of ginger ale, with the necessary dishes.
"I can't offer you anything very tempting," he said, "but the boat ride
may have given you an appetite for plain fare."
Percy could hardly conceal his surprise. He stared at Jed as if
fascinated.
"Won't you get into trouble by making so free with your master's
things?"
"Who told you I had a master?"
"Who owns this yacht?"
"Mr. Schuyler Roper."
"He must be rich."
"I hear that he is worth half a million dollars," said Jed in an
off-hand manner.
"And how did you get in with him?" asked Percy rather enviously.
"It was an accident," answered Jed, by no means disposed to tell Percy
the particulars of his first meeting with Mr. Roper.
"Suppose he should come now, what would he say to your making so free?"
"That he was glad to have me entertain my friends."
"You seem to be pretty sure of your footing with him."
"I have reason to be. He tells me to look upon him as an older brother."
"He may find you out some time," suggested Percy with disagreeable
significance.
"What do you mean?"
"He may find out that his younger brother was raised in a poorhouse."
"I have no doubt he will learn it if he gets acquainted with you."
"What do you mean?" asked Percy coloring.
"That you would probably tell him. By the way, has Mr. Holbrook got home
from Chicago yet?"
"I believe not. Do you expect he will take you back?"
"No; I prefer my present position. I shall probably sail for Bar Harbor
with Mr. Roper on Saturday."
"It's strange how you've got on since you left the poorhouse," said
Percy uncomfortably.
"Yes; I think even you will agree that I did well to leave it."
"Your luck may turn," added Percy hopefully.
"Perhaps it will, but I hope not."
Presently the boatman came back, and Jed sent Percy back to the city,
paying the boatman in advance.
"It beats all how that pauper gets along!" reflected Percy, but from his
expression the reflection gave him no pleasure.
CHAPTER XXXI.
JED RETURNS GOOD FOR EVIL.
In the short time before the Juno left for Bar Harbor, Schuyler Roper
became quite intimate with Jed. There was never a trace of condescension
in his manner to his boy friend, but Jed was always treated as if in
birth and position he was the equal of the young patrician. Together
they walked about the city, and frequently dined together, always at
some expensive hotel or restaurant.
"What time is it, Jed?" asked Mr. Roper one day as they were passing the
Star Theatre.
"I am afraid I left my watch at home," answered Jed, smiling.
"Then we shall have to supply its place."
Schuyler Roper turned the corner of Fourteenth Street, and led the way
to Tiffany's well-known establishment on the corner of Fifteenth Street
and Union Square.
"Let us see some gold watches," he said to a salesman.
A tray of handsome timepieces was produced.
"How expensive a watch would you like, sir? Is it for yourself?"
"No, for this young gentleman. Look over these watches, Jed, and see
what one you like best."
Jed made choice of a very neat gold watch with a handsome dial.
"What is the price?" asked Mr. Roper.
"A hundred and twenty-five dollars."
Jed opened his eyes wide in astonishment. A hundred and twenty-five
dollars seemed to him a very large sum, and so unaccustomed was he to
expensive jewelry that he had not known that there were any watches so
costly.
"Very well; we will take it. Show me some gold chains."
Choice was made of a fifty-dollar gold chain. It was attached to the
watch, and Mr. Roper, handing it to Jed, said, "Put it in your pocket."
"Do you really mean the watch and chain for me?" asked Jed, almost
incredulous.
"Certainly."
"How can I thank you, Mr. Roper?" said Jed gratefully.
"My dear boy," rejoined Roper kindly, "I want your appearance to do me
credit. That you will do me credit I feel confident."
It was about this time that Jed met an old acquaintance--one whom he had
no reason to remember with kindly feelings. He had occasion to go across
Cortlandt Street ferry, when on board the boat he saw in front of him a
figure that seemed familiar. He walked forward till he could see the
face of the young man to whom it belonged. Then it flashed upon him that
it was Maurice Graham, the young man who had invited him to his room on
Twenty-Seventh Street and robbed him of his small stock of money.
Now that the tide had turned, Jed did not feel so incensed against the
fellow as at first. Still he determined to let him understand that he
knew exactly how he had been swindled.
He touched Graham on the shoulder, and the young man wheeled round with
an apprehensive look, which he did not lose when he saw and recognized
Jed.
"Did you touch me?" he asked, with an evident intention of ignoring
Jed's acquaintance.
"Yes, Mr. Graham. We parted rather suddenly, you remember," said Jed
significantly.
"Oh, I see. You are----"
"Jed Gilman."
"I was wondering what became of you. I was called up town to the house
of a sick friend that evening, and when I went back the next day Mrs.
Gately told me you had gone away."
"Indeed! Did she tell you that I was robbed of thirty-five dollars
during the night, and that I awoke penniless?"
"No," answered Graham faintly. "I am surprised."
"I thought you might be. Are you in the habit of borrowing money from
people who are asleep?"
"What do you mean? You don't think I took the money?"
"Yes, I think you did."
"Why, didn't I tell you that I spent the night with a sick friend
in--in Eighty-Seventh Street. How could I rob you?"
"You came back during the evening and found me asleep."
"That's a mistake!" said Graham quickly.
"It is true. Mrs. Gately let you in, as she informed me the next
morning."
Maurice Graham looked very much disconcerted, and looked eagerly to the
Jersey shore, which they were fast approaching.
"Do you know that I would have had no breakfast if Mrs. Gately had not
taken compassion on me?"
"You don't look--very destitute--now."
"I am not. I have been lucky enough to find a good position. But that
thirty-five dollars belonged to me. How much of it can you return to
me?"
Maurice Graham colored and looked embarrassed.
"I--the fact is," he stammered, "I'm almost broke."
"Is this true?"
"On my honor I've only got a dollar and ten cents in my pocket, and I
don't know what will become of me when that is gone."
"You have got rid of it very quick."
"I've been a fool," said Graham gloomily. "I spent it mostly on pool and
drinks. Then of course I've had to live."
"But your situation----"
