"Oh, yes, they understand their duties. Things will go on like
clockwork. You see we have a perfect system."
"You don't do business alone, do you?"
"No, there are several of us in the firm. I may say frankly that I only
have one-fourth interest in the business. Still I am well paid, very
well paid."
"I s'pose you have to pay a big rent."
"Ten thousand dollars a year."
"You don't say! Why, you can get a big store where I live for only
twelve dollars a month."
"Very likely; but there is a good deal of difference between the country
and the city. Now let us walk along Broadway, down to the Battery. We
will sit down there, and I will tell you what I can offer your son."
In a few minutes they were sitting on one of the benches, looking out to
Governor's Island.
"It's a great privilege to live in New York, Mr. Onthank. I think your
son would enjoy it."
"I know he would. Why, Ephraim would give all his old boots to be at
work here."
"If they were all cowhide boots like yours the offer wouldn't be very
tempting," thought Clayton.
"Yes," he said, "I can easily believe it. May I ask what wages your son
would expect."
"Well, I reckon twenty-five to thirty dollars a month would satisfy
him."
"Twenty-five to thirty dollars a month! Why, my dear friend, what are
you thinking of?"
"I thought he couldn't live in the city in good style for less," said
the farmer, deprecatingly.
"Of course, of course, but you don't understand me. I wouldn't think of
offering him less than seventy-five dollars a month, to begin with."
"Gosh! you don't mean it?" said the farmer, his eyes opened wide.
"Certainly I do. That is the minimum salary I pay my clerks."
"Why, Ephraim would feel as rich as a king with that salary. When can
you make room for him?" he added anxiously.
"I must ask a few questions first. Has your son a fair education?"
"He attended the district school till he was fifteen."
"Then I suppose he is well up in the fundamental rules of arithmetic?"
"What's them?"
"I suppose he can add, subtract and multiply."
"Oh, yes."
"And write a fair hand?"
"He's pooty good at writin'."
"I presume he will do. Now, Mr. Onthank, I will tell you how I am
placed. There will be a vacancy next week, but a merchant up town wants
me very much to take his son. He will pay a liberal premium."
"What's that?"
"We always expect our clerks to pay a premium on entering our service.
How much money have you brought with you?"
"I've got two hundred dollars in my wallet. But what has that to do with
it?"
"A great deal, my friend. The premium must be paid down at once, and
that guarantees your son the place."
"How much do you ask?"
"The merchant I refer to is willing to pay two hundred dollars, but
between ourselves I don't favor engaging his son. I have been told that
he drinks. I hope your son doesn't drink?"
"Ephraim drinks cider at Thanksgivin', but he never drinks anything
stronger."
"I am glad to hear it. Intemperance is very objectionable in our
business. Now about the premium. I will agree to take your son for a
hundred and fifty dollars, though I have never before accepted less than
two hundred."
"A hundred and fifty dollars is a good deal of money," said Ezekiel,
cautiously.
"So it is, but think of the advantages. Think of his getting
seventy-five dollars a month, to begin with. Why in six months I shall
probably raise him to a hundred dollars a month."
Ezekiel Onthank was dazzled, and Clayton saw that he was. He felt that
he had almost landed the fish for which he was angling.
"I guess I'll take a day to think on't," said the farmer.
"I would advise you to accept at once. The other party may get in ahead
of you."
"Can't you give us the refusal of it for a day?"
"Really I don't see how I can."
"A hundred and fifty dollars is a good deal of money, and I want to
think it over."
"My dear friend, I don't see the need of it. Such situations are not to
be had every day. Why, the young man's salary the first year, supposing
he were promoted in six months, would amount to over a thousand dollars.
Deducting the premium, that would leave your son nearly nine hundred
dollars. That's a good income, isn't it?"
"Yes, so 'tis. Why our minister only gets six hundred dollars a year,
and he's a man of forty-odd."
"Exactly. You see what a brilliant prospect Ephraim will have. Really I
ought to insist on the full premium of two hundred dollars."
Clayton did his utmost to induce the farmer to decide at once, but Mr.
Onthank had promised Rupert not to do anything without talking the
matter over with him, and he kept his word.
"Well," said Clayton, "I'll give in to you. I'll give you twenty-four
hours to think over the matter, but of course I must ask you to pay me
something for the favor. Give me five dollars on account of the premium,
and you shall have a day to make up your mind."
This Mr. Onthank finally agreed to, and when the matter was settled they
walked back to the Somerset Hotel.
"You had better not say much about our negotiation," Clayton advised,
"till the matter is decided."
CHAPTER XIII.
CLAYTON'S DISAPPOINTMENT.
Josiah Onthank never for a moment doubted the good faith of the clever
swindler who was dazzling him with the prospect of a fine situation for
his son. He was a man well to do, and over and above his farm was easily
worth five thousand dollars in bonds and money interest.
Still he was reluctant to part with a hundred and fifty dollars, for
this seemed to him a good deal of money. Yet if it would secure his son
a position in the city with a large income it would be worth while. At
any rate he would lay the matter before Rupert, and ask his advice.
During the afternoon he had a chance to speak with the bell-boy.
"I've got something to tell you," he said.
"All right, sir."
"I've seen the young man I spoke to you about."
"Did he make you any offer?"
"Yes; he promised to give my son a place in his office at seventy-five
dollars a month."
"Where is his office?"
"In Wall Street. It's big and fine. He must do a raft of business."
"He is very kind to give your son a place."
"Yes, but he wants a premium of a hundred and fifty dollars. That's what
bothers me. A hundred and fifty dollars is a pile of money. What do you
think of it?"
"If you could really get a place for your son at seventy-five dollars a
month--a permanent place--it would be worth the money."
"So 'twould, so 'twould. Then you'd advise me to pay the money?"
"He wants it in advance, doesn't he?"
"Yes."
"Did you get into the office?"
"Yes."
"How do you know it is his?"
"He told me so," answered Mr. Onthank, in surprise.
"Is that all the evidence you have?"
"He went and spoke to one of the men--his cashier, he told me. You don't
think there's anything wrong, do you?"
"I think, Mr. Onthank, the man is trying to swindle you."
"You don't say!" ejaculated the farmer.
"Have you given him any money?"
"No. Yes, come to think on't, I have. I gave him five dollars for a
refusal of the place. He said another man was after it."
"You haven't lost much yet. If you should give him a hundred and fifty
dollars you would lose it all."
"What makes you think so? He seems like a gentleman."
"My information comes from a private detective."
"Well, well, I guess I've been a fool," said the farmer, in a tone of
disappointment and mortification. "What do you advise me to do?"
"I will consult with the detective first, and tell you."
The next day Clarence Clayton made his appearance. Though, not quite so
sanguine as at first, he still hoped to carry out his original plan and
obtain possession of the bulk of the farmer's money.
He found Mr. Onthank waiting for him in the reading room.
"Well, my friend," he said, "I presume you have made up your mind to
secure a position for your son?"
"You don't think you could let me have it for less?" asked Mr. Onthank,
who had been instructed what to say.
"I don't see how I can. Nor can I give you long to decide. The other
party is waiting for me at the Fifth Avenue Hotel, and if you don't come
to terms he will."
"You see it's rather a risk," said the farmer. "Suppose I pay my money
and you don't keep your part of the agreement."
"You seem to be very suspicious, Mr. Onthank," returned Clayton,
assuming indignation. "I am well known in the city as a man of the
highest honor."
