take her at all ?" Then as the Duchess hung fire a mo- 
ment : " Have you got it by chance from Lord Petherton?" 
The eyes of the two women met for a little on this, 
and there might have been a consequence of it in the 
manner of the rejoinder. "Fve got it from not being a 
fool. Men, I repeat, like the girls they marry — " 
"Oh, I already know your old song ! The way they 
like the girls they donH marry seems to be,'' Mrs. Brook- 
enham mused, "what more immediately concerns us. 
You had better wait till you liave made Aggie's fortune, 
perhaps, to be so sure of the working of your system. 
Excuse me, darling, if I don't take you for an example 
until you've a little more successfully become one. The 
sort of men I know anything about, at any rate, are not 
looking for mechanical dolls. They're looking for smart, 
o„p  -.-nsible English girls." 
  
The Duchess glanced at the clock. "What is Mr. 
Yanderbank looking for ?" 
Her hostess appeared to oblige her by anxiously think- 
ing. " Oh, he, Tm afraid, poor dear — for nothing at all" 
The Duchess had taken off a glove to appease her ap- 
petite, and now, drawing it on, she smoothed it down. 
" I think he has his ideas." 
" The same as yours ?" 
''Well, more like them than like yours." 
''Ah, perhaps then — for he and I," said Mrs. Brooken- 
ham, "don't agree, I think, on two things in the world. 
You think poor Mitchy then," she went on, '  who's the 
son of a shoemaker and who might be the grandson of a 
grasshopper, good enough for my child." 
The Duchess appreciated for a moment the superior fit 
of her glove. "I look facts in the face. It's exactly 
what I'm doing for Aggie." Then she broke into a cer- 
tain conscious airiness. " What are you giving her ?" 
But Mrs. Brookenham took without wincing whatever, 
as between a masterful relative and an exposed frivolity, 
might have been the sting of it. " That you must ask 
Edward. I haven't the least idea." 
" There you are again — the virtuous English mother ! 
I've got Aggie's little fortune in an old stocking, and I 
count it over every night. If you've no old stocking for 
Nanda, there are worse fates than shoemakers and grass- 
hoppers. Even with one, you know, I don't at all say 
that I should sniff at poor Mitchy. We must take what 
we can get, and I shall be the first to take it. You can't 
have everything for ninepence." And the Duchess got 
up, shining, however, with a confessed light of fantasy. 
" Speak to him, my dear — speak to him !" 
" Do you mean offer him my child ?" 
The Duchess laughed at the intonation. " There you 
are once more — vous autres! If you're shocked at the 
idea, you place drolement your delicacy. I'd offer mine 
 
to the son of a chimney-sweep if the principal guarantees 
were there. Nanda's charming — you don't do her jus- 
tice. I don't say Mr. Mitchett is either beautiful or 
noble, and he hasn't as much distinction as would cover 
the point of a pin. He takes, moreover, his ease in talk 
— but that," added the Duchess with decision,  ''is much 
a matter of whom he talks with. A.nd after marriage, 
what does it signify ? He has forty thousand a year, an 
excellent idea of how to take care of it and a good dis- 
position." 
Mrs. Brookenham sat still ; she only looked up at her 
friend. '  Is it by Lord Petherton that you know of his 
excellent idea ?" 
The Duchess showed she was challenged, but also that 
she was indulgent.  'I go by my impression. But Lord 
Petherton has spoken for him.'  
'' He ought to do that," said Mrs. Brookenham — 
'' since he wholly lives on him." 
" Lord Petherton— on Mr. Mitchett ?" The Duchess 
stared, but rather in amusement than in horror,  '  Why, 
hasn't he a — property ?" 
" The loveliest. Mr. Mitchett's his property. Didn't 
you ? There was an artless wail in Mrs. Brooken- 
ham's surprise. 
'  How should I know — still a stranger as I'm often 
rather happy to feel myself here, and choosing my friends 
and picking my steps very much, I can assure you — how 
should I know about all your social scandals and things ?" 
 ' Oh, we don't call tliat a social scandal !" Mrs. Brook- 
enham inimitably returned. 
" Well, if you should wish to, you'd have the way that 
I told you of to stop it. Divert the stream of Mr. Mitch- 
ett's wealth." 
" Oh, there's plenty for every one !" — Mrs. Brooken- 
ham kept up her tone.  '' He's always giving us things — 
bonbons and dinners and opera boxes." 
  
"He has never given me any," the Dnchess content- 
edly declared. 
Mrs. Brookenham waited a little. "Lord Petherton 
has the giving of some. He has never in his life before, 
I imagine, made so many presents." 
"Ah then, it's a shame one has nothing !" On which, 
before reaching the door, the Duchess changed the sub- 
ject. " You say I never bring Aggie. If yon like. Til 
bring her back." 
Mrs. Brookenham wondered. " Do you mean to-day ?" 
" Yes, when Fve picked her up. It will be something 
to do with her till Miss Merriman can take her." 
" Delighted, dearest ; do bring her. And I think she 
should see Mr. Mitchett." 
" Shall I find him too, then ?" 
" Oh, take the chance." 
The two women, on this, exchanged, tacitly and across 
the room — the Duchess at the door, which a servant had 
arrived to open for her, and Mrs. Brookenham still at her 
tea-table — a further stroke of intercourse, over which the 
latter was not, on this occasion, the first to lower her lids. 
" I think Fve shown high scruples," the Duchess said, 
"but I understand, then, that I'm free." 
" Free as air, dear Jane." 
"Good." Then just as she was off, "Ah, dear old 
Edward !" the visitor exclaimed. Her kinsman, as she 
was fond of calling him, had reached the top of the stair- 
case, and Mrs. Brookenham, by the fire, heard them meet 
on the landing — heard also the Duchess protest against 
his turning to see her down. Mrs. Brookenham, listen- 
ing to them, hoped that Edward would accept the protest 
and think it sufficient to leave her with the footman. 
Their common consciousness, not devoid of satisfaction, 
that she was a kind of cousin, was quite consistent with 
a view, early arrived at, of the absurdity of any fuss 
about her. 
 
VI 
When Mr. Brookenliam appeared his wife was prompt. 
" She's coming back for Lord Petherton." 
'  Oh" he simply said. 
'• There's something between them.'' 
 '  Oh !" he merely repeated. But it would have taken 
many such sounds on his part to represent a spirit of re- 
sponse discernible to any one but his wife. 
"There have been things before," she went on, "but 
I haven't felt sure. Don't you know how one has some- 
times a flash ?" 
It could not be said of Edward Brookenham, who 
seemed to bend, for sitting down, more hinges than most 
men, that he looked as if he knew either this or any- 
thing else. He had a pale, cold face, marked and made 
regular, made even in a manner handsome, by a hardness 
of line in which, oddly, there was no significance, no ac- 
cent. Clean shaven, slightly bald, with unlighted gray 
eyes and a mouth that gave the impression of not work- 
ing easily, he suggested a stippled drawing by an in- 
ferior master. Lean moreover and stiff, and with the 
air of having here and there in his person a bone or two 
more than his share, he had once or twice, at fancy-balls, 
been thought striking in a dress copied from one of 
Holbein's English portraits. But when once some such 
meaning as that had been put into him it took a long 
time to put another, a longer time than even his ex- 
treme exposure, or anybody's study of the problem, had 
yet made possible. If anything particular had finally 
been expected from him it might have been a summarj , 
or an explanation, of the things he had always not said, 
but there was something in him that had long since paci- 
