on the East Side and the West Side, and then she 
said that the Middlemout House must take the prize 
from them all this year, or she should never come 
near his house again. He answered, with a dignity 
and spirit he rarely showed with Mrs. Milray 's class 
of custom, " I 'm goin to drive our hossis myself." 



 

She gave her whole time to imagining- and organ 
izing the personal display on the coaeh. She eon- 
suited with the other ladies as to the kind of dresses 
that were to be worn, but she decided everything 
herself ; and when the time came she had all the young 
men ravaging the lanes and pastures for the goldenrod 
and asters which formed the keynote of her decora 
tion for the coach. 

She made peace and kept it between factions that 
declared themselves early in the affair, and of all who 
could have criticized her for taking the lead perhaps 
none would have willingly relieved her of the trouble. 
She freely declared that it was killing her, and she 
sounded her accents of despair all over the place. 
When their dresses were finished she made the per 
sons of her drama rehearse it on the coach top in the 
secret of the barn, where no one but the stable men 
were suffered to see the effects she aimed at. But 
on the eve of realizing these in public she was over 
whelmed by disaster. The crowning glory of her 
composition was to be a young girl standing on the 
highest seat of the coach, in the character of the 
Spirit of Summer, wreathed and garlanded with flow 
ers, and invisibly sustained by the twelve months of 
the year, equally divided as to sex, but with the more 
difficult and painful attitudes assigned to the gentle 
men who were to figure as the fall and winter months. 
It had been all worked out and the actors drilled in 
their parts, when the Spirit of Summer, who had been 
chosen for the inoffensiveness of her extreme youth, 
was taken with mumps, and withdrawn by the doctor 's 



 

orders. Mrs. Milray had now not only to improvise 
another Spirit of Summer, but had to choose her from 
a group of young ladies, with the chance of alienating 
and embittering those who were not chosen. In her 
calamity she asked her husband what she should do, 
without the least hope that he could tell her. But he 
answered promptly, "Take Clementina; I 'll let you 
have her for the day," and then waited for the storm 
of her renunciations and denunciations to spend itself. 

" To be sure," she said, when this had happened, 
" it isn 't as if she were a servant in the house ; and 
the position can be regarded as a kind of public func 
tion, anyhow. I can 't say that I 've  hired her to take 
the part, but I can give her a present afterwards, and 
it will be the same thing." 

The question of clothes for Clementina Mrs. Milray 
declared was almost as sweeping in its implication as 
the question of the child 's creation. u She has got to 
be dressed new from head to foot," she said, " every 
stitch, and how am I to manage it in twenty-four 
hours?" 

By a succession of miracles with cheese-cloth, and 
sashes and ribbons, it was managed ; and ended in a 
triumph so great that Mrs. Milray took the girl in her 
arms and kissed her for looking the Spirit of Summer 
to a perfection that the victim of the mumps could 
not have approached. The victory was not lastingly 
marred by the failure of Clementina 's shoes to look 
the Spirit of Summer as well as the rest of her cos 
tume. No shoes at all would have been the very 
thing, but shoes so shabby and worn down at one side 



 

of the heel as Clementina 's were very far from the 
thing. Mrs. Milray decided that another fold of 
cheese-cloth would add to the statuesque charm of 
her figure, and give her more height; and she was 
richly satisfied with the effect when the Middlemount 
coach drove up to the great veranda the next morning, 
with all the figures of her picture in position on its 
roof, and Clementina supreme among them. She her 
self mounted in simple, undramatized authority to her 
official seat beside the landlord, who in coachman 's 
dress, with a bouquet of autumnal flowers in his lapel, 
sat holding his garlanded reins over the backs of his 
six horses ; and then the coach as she intended it to 
appear in the parade set out as soon as the turnouts 
of the other houses joined it. They were all to meet 
at the Middlemount, which was thickly draped and 
festooned in flags, with knots of evergreen and the 
first red boughs of the young swamp maples holding 
them in place over its irregular fagade. The coach 
itself was a mass of foliage and flowers, from which it 
defined itself as a wheeled vehicle in vague and partial 
outline ; the other wagons and coaches, as they drove 
tremulously up, with an effect of having been mired 
in blossoms about their spokes and hubs, had the un- 
wieldiness which seems inseparable from spectacular- 
ity. They represented motives in color and design 
sometimes tasteless enough, and sometimes so nearly 
very good that Mrs. Milray 's heart was a great deal 
in her mouth, as they arrived, each with its hotel-cry 
roared and shrilled from a score of masculine and 
feminine throats, and finally spelled for distinctness 



 

sake, with an ultimate yell or growl. But she had 
not finished giving the lady-representative of a Sun 
day newspaper the points of her own tableau, before 
she regained the courage and the faith in which she 
remained serenely steadfast throughout the parade. 

It was when all the equipages of the neighborhood 
had arrived that she climbed to her place ; the ladder 
was taken away ; the landlord spoke to his horses, 
and the Middleinount coach led the parade, amid the 
renewed slogans, and the cries and fluttered handker 
chiefs of the guests crowding the verandas. 

The line of march was by one road to Middlemount 
Centre, where the prize was to be awarded at the 
judges stand, and then the coaches were to escort the 
triumphant vehicle homeward by another route, so as 
to pass as many houses on the way as possible. It 
was a curious expression of the carnival spirit in a 
region immemorial ly starved of beauty in the lives of 
its people ; and whatever was the origin of the moan- 
tain coaching parade, or from whatever impulse of 
sentimentality or advertising it came, the effect was of 
undeniable splendor, and of phantasmagoric strange 
ness. 

Gregory watched its progress from a hill-side past 
ure as it trailed slowly along the rising and falling 
road. The songs of the young girls, interrupted by 
the explosion of hotel slogans and college cries from 
the young men, floated off to him on the thin breeze 
of the cloudless August morning, like the hymns and 
shouts of a saturnalian rout going in holiday proces 
sional to sacrifice to their gods. Words of fierce 



