so he paid me a dime for five apples."
"Dodger is very brave," said Florence. "Sometimes I think he is too
daring. He is liable to get into trouble."
"If he does he'll get himself out of it, never you fear. Dodger can
take care of himself."
Nine o'clock came, and Florence became alarmed. She had not been aware
how much she had depended upon the company of her faithful friend,
humble as his station was.
Again she went into Mrs. O'Keefe's room. The apple-woman had been out
to buy some groceries and had just returned.
"I am getting anxious about Dodger," said Florence. "It is nine
o'clock."
"And what's nine o'clock for a boy like him? Shure he's used to bein'
out at all hours of the night."
"I shall feel relieved when he comes home. What should I do without
him?"
"Shure I'd miss him myself; but it isn't the first time he has been
out late."
"Perhaps that terrible Tim Bolton has got hold of him," suggested
Florence.
"Tim isn't so bad, Florence. He isn't fit company for the likes of
you, but there's worse men nor Tim."
"Didn't he send out Dodger to commit a burglary?"
"And if he hadn't you'd never made Dodger's acquaintance."
"That's true; but it doesn't make burglary any more excusable. Don't
you really think Tim Bolton has got hold of him?"
"If he has, he won't keep him long, I'll make oath of that. He might
keep him over night, but Dodger would come back in the morning."
Florence was somewhat cheered by Mrs. O'Keefe's refusal to believe
that Dodger was in any serious trouble, but she could not wholly free
herself from uneasiness. When eleven o'clock came she went to bed very
unwillingly, and got very little rest during the night. Morning came,
and still Dodger did not show up. As we know, he was fairly started on
his long voyage, though he had not yet recovered consciousness.
Florence took a very light breakfast, and at the usual time went to
Mrs. Leighton's to meet her pupil. When the study hour was over, she
did not remain to lunch, but hurried back, stopping at Mrs. O'Keefe's
apple-stand just as that lady was preparing to go home to prepare
dinner.
"Have you seen anything of Dodger, Mrs. O'Keefe?" asked Florence,
breathlessly.
"No, I haven't, Florence. I've had my eye out watchin' for him, and he
hasn't showed up."
"Is there anything we can do?" asked Florence, anxiously.
"Well, we might go around and see Tim--and find out whether he's got
hold of him."
"Let us go at once."
"Shure I didn't know you cared so much for the boy," said Mrs.
O'Keefe, with a shrewd look at Florence's anxious face.
"Why shouldn't I care for him? He is my only friend."
"Is he now? And what's the matter wid Bridget O'Keefe?" asked the
apple-woman.
"Excuse me, Mrs. O'Keefe. I know very well you are my friend, and a
kind friend, too. I should not have forgotten you."
"It's all right, Florence. You're flustrated like, and that's why you
forget me."
"I have so few friends that I can't spare one," continued Florence.
"That's so. Come along wid me, and we'll see what Tim has to tell us."
A short walk brought the two strangely assorted companions to the
entrance of Tim Bolton's saloon. "I'm afraid to go in, Mrs. O'Keefe,"
said Florence.
"Come along wid me, my dear, I won't let anything harm you. You ain't
used to such a place, but I've been here more than once to fill the
growler. Be careful as you go down the steps, Florence."
Tim Bolton was standing behind the bar, and as he heard steps he
looked carelessly toward the entrance, but when he saw Florence, his
indifference vanished. He came from behind the bar, and advanced to
meet her.
"Miss Linden," he said.
Florence shrank back and clung to her companion's arm.
"Is there anything I can do for you? I am a rough man, but I'm not so
bad as you may think."
"That's what I told her, Tim," said Mrs. O'Keefe. "I told Florence
there was worse men than you."
"Thank you, Mrs. O'Keefe. Can I offer you a glass of whiskey?"
The apple-woman was about to accept, but she felt an alarmed tug at
her arm, and saw that Florence would be placed in an embarrassing
position if she accepted. So, by an exercise of self-denial--for Mrs.
O'Keefe was by no means insensible to the attractions of whiskey,
though she never drank to excess--she said:
"Thank you kindly, Mr. Bolton. I won't take any just now; but I'll
remind you of your offer another day."
"Have it your own way, Mrs. O'Keefe. And now, what can I do for you
and Miss Linden?"
"Oh, Mr. Bolton," broke in Florence, unable to bear the suspense
longer, "where is Dodger?"
Chapter XXV.
Finding The Clew.
Tim Bolton looked at Florence in undisguised astonishment.
"Dodger!" he repeated. "How should I know? I supposed that you had
lured him away from me."
"He didn't like the business you were in. He preferred to make a
living in some other way."
"Then why do you ask me where he is?"
"Because he did not come home last night. Shure he rooms at my house,"
put in Mrs. O'Keefe, "and he hasn't showed up since----"
"And you thought I might have got hold of him?" said Bolton,
inquiringly.
"Then you are mistaken. I haven't seen the boy for weeks."
Tim Bolton spoke so straightforwardly that there was no chance to
doubt his word.
"When he was living with you, Mr. Bolton," continued Florence, "did he
ever stay away like this?"
"No," answered Bolton. "Dodger was always very regular about comin'
home."
"Then something must have happened to him," said Florence, anxiously.
"He might have got run in," suggested the apple-woman. "Some of them
cops is mighty officious."
"Dodger would never do anything to deserve arrest," Florence said,
quickly.
"Thrue for you, Florence, but some innersent parties are nabbed. I
know of one young man who was standin' on a strate corner waitin' for
the cars, when a cop came up and arristed him for disorderly conduct."
"But that is shameful!" said Florence, indignantly.
"Thrue for you, my dear. We might go round to the police headquarters
and inquire if the boy's been run in."
"What do you think, Mr. Bolton?" asked Florence.
Tim Bolton seemed busy thinking. Finally he brought down his hand
forcibly on the bar, and said: "I begin to see through it."
Florence did not speak, but she fixed an eager look of inquiry on the
face of the saloon-keeper.
"I believe Curtis Waring is at the bottom of this," he said.
"My cousin!" exclaimed Florence, in astonishment.
"Yes, your cousin, Miss Linden."
"But what can he have against poor Dodger! Is it because the boy has
taken my part and is a friend to me?"
"He wouldn't like him any better on account of hat; but he has another
and a more powerful reason."
"Would you mind telling me what it is? I cannot conceive what it can
be."
"At present," answered Bolton, cautiously, "I prefer to say nothing on
the subject. I will only say the boy's disappearance interferes with
my plans, and I will see if I can't find out what has become of him."
"If you only will, Mr. Bolton, I shall be so grateful. I am afraid I
have misjudged you. I thought you were an enemy of Dodger's."
"Then you were mistaken. I have had the boy with me since he was a
kid, and though I've been rough with him at times, maybe, I like him,
and I may some time have a chance to show him that old Tim Bolton is
one of his best friends."
"I will believe it now, Mr. Bolton," said Florence, impulsively,
holding out her hand to the burly saloon-keeper.
He was surprised, but it was evident that he was pleased, also, and he
took the little hand respectfully in his own ample palm, and pressed
it in a friendly manner.
"There's one thing more I want you to believe, Miss Linden," he said,
"and that is, that I am your friend, also."
"Thank you, Mr. Bolton. And now let us all work together to find
Dodger."
"You can count on me, Miss Linden. If you'll tell me where you live
I'll send or bring you any news I may hear."
"I live with Mrs. O'Keefe, my good friend, here."
"I haven't my kyard with me, Tim," said the apple-woman, "but I'll
give you my strate and number. You know my place of business?"
"Yes."
"If you come to me there I'll let Florence know whatever you tell me.
She is not always at home."
The two went away relieved in mind, for, helpless and bewildered as
they were, they felt that Tim Bolton would make a valuable ally.
When they had gone Tim turned to Hooker and Briggs, who were lounging
at a table, waiting for some generous customer to invite them to the
