The tourist hadn’t exaggerated his appetite. He ate so heartily that
when the meal was concluded there wasn’t a crumb left. All the dishes
were empty.
“I ought to apologize for my appetite,” he said, “but I have been
rambling about ever since breakfast, and I find the air here very
stimulating.”
“Don’t think of apologizing!” returned Gerald. “I am glad you relished
my simple supper.”
“Now, if I were only sure of a bed, I should feel quite easy in mind.”
“I will gladly offer you a bed. This is the first night that I should
have been alone, and the solitude depressed me.”
“I will accept your kind offer thankfully. But you ought to know whom
you are obliging.”
The stranger drew from his pocket a card on which Gerald read the name:
  THE HON. NOEL BROOKE.
“I should be glad to give you my card, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald, “but
here in this wilderness cards are not customary. My name is Gerald
Lane.”
“I am delighted to know you, Mr. Lane,” said the tourist offering his
hand cordially.
It seemed odd to Gerald to be called “Mr. Lane.”
“If you don’t mind, Mr. Brooke,” he said, “please call me Gerald. I
never thought of myself as Mr. Lane.”
“I will do so with pleasure, and it will seem easy and familiar, for I
have a Cousin Gerald. His name, too, is not unlike yours. He is Lord
Gerald Vane, son of the Marquis of Dunbar.”
“There is one essential difference,” said Gerald. “I am plain
Gerald—I can’t call myself a lord.”
“Oh, you are all sovereigns in America,” laughed the Englishman, “and
that is higher than the title of lord.”
“Perhaps you are a lord also?” suggested Gerald.
“No, Gerald, not at present. My father has a title, but my elder
brother will inherit that. However, that is of little importance here.”
“Have you been long in Colorado, Mr. Brooke?”
“About a month. I was told it was the Switzerland of America. So after
visiting your principal cities and having seen your famous Niagara, I
pushed on out here, but I didn’t reckon on there being no hotels, or I
might have stayed away.”
“There will be plenty of hotels in a few years. There are few
settlements as yet.”
“Just so. Excuse my saying so, but until that time comes I should
rather keep away. And you have actually lived here for three years?”
“Yes.”
“But why come here when there are plenty of places where you would have
enjoyed greater advantages?”
“We came here on account of my father’s health. He was in a
consumption, and the dry, clear air of this region is especially
favorable for any lung troubles.”
“Did he experience benefit?”
“Yes; he lived three years, when elsewhere he would probably have died
in twelve months.”
“But now you won’t stay here? You haven’t got consumption.”
“Not that I am aware of,” answered Gerald with a smile.
“Have you formed any plans?”
“No; I have not had time.”
“You ought to go to New York or Chicago. There would surely be an
opening in one of those cities for a clever boy like yourself.”
“Thank you for the compliment. There is one good reason, however, why I
cannot follow your advice.”
“Name it.”
“Money is necessary, and my poor father was unable to leave me any.”
“But this cabin?”
“That indeed belongs to me and the eighty acres adjoining, but it would
be difficult to sell it, nor do I care to do so. Some day, when the
country is more settled, it may be worth much more than at present.”
“You are right, Gerald. But you are not obliged to remain here. The
cabin and the land won’t run away.”
“That’s true. I mean to leave it and go somewhere, but my plans are not
formed yet.”
“Then let me help you form them. I want to make a prolonged tour in
this country, and I find it beastly dull without a companion. Come with
me!”
“But, Mr. Brooke, I am poor. I have less than two dollars in my
possession.”
“My dear fellow, what difference does that make?”
“But I can’t travel without money.”
“I offer you a position as my—private secretary, with a salary of—I
say now, I don’t know how much to pay you. We’ll call it four pounds a
week, twenty dollars in your money, if that is satisfactory.”
“But, Mr. Brooke,” exclaimed Gerald in astonishment. “I don’t
understand the duties of a private secretary, and I can’t possibly be
worth that money.”
“You won’t find your duties difficult. I call you my secretary, but
you’ll only have to keep me company.”
“I will do that with pleasure, Mr. Brooke.”
“Then it’s all settled, Gerald. Your hand upon it!”
The two clasped hands, and Gerald felt that this new friend would be a
good offset for his powerful enemy.
CHAPTER XI.
JAKE AMSDEN MAKES AN EARLY CALL, AND HAS A WARM RECEPTION.
THE next morning Gerald was up bright and early. He felt bound to
entertain his new employer, who was temporarily his guest, as royally
as possible. So he decided to make some fresh bread for breakfast, and
this would take him some time. Still all his preparations were made,
and breakfast all ready to be served before his companion awoke.
“He must be pretty tired,” thought Gerald. “I won’t wake him up, for
his business isn’t very pressing, and he will be glad of a good long
rest.”
He ate a little himself, for he had been up long enough to have a good
appetite, and seated himself on the settee in front of the cabin.
It was a charming morning, and as Gerald sat there, he felt that he had
good reason to be thankful. Yesterday he had felt alone in the world,
and had very little idea how he was going to make a living, but to-day
he found himself with a bright prospect ahead, and the promise of an
income which would have been satisfactory to many of double his age.
The state of the weather is apt to affect our spirits, and the clear
sunshine and cool bracing air had its effect on Gerald. From his seat
he could see at a distance of twenty-five miles the snowy top of
Pike’s Peak, looking on account of the clearness of the atmosphere not
more than five miles away. There were intermediate summits which, had
he been nearer, would have hidden the snowy crest of the grand old
mountain, but from where he was he could see clearly, rising above the
wooded slope.
“Colorado may be a wilderness, but it has grand scenery!” thought
Gerald. “Some time I must go to the top of Pike’s Peak. The view from
there must be great.”
He had entertained this wish before, but his father would not consent,
and, indeed as there was some danger of losing one’s way in case of a
sudden fog, his apprehensions were justified.
“How peaceful and beautiful everything looks this morning,” thought
Gerald.
But though Gerald was right, the peacefulness of the scene was soon
to be broken in upon by a human intruder on whom it produced no
impression.
As Gerald sat in quiet contemplation the figure of a man approached
rapidly. When he came nearer Gerald recognized his visitor as Jake
Amsden.
There was something hostile in Jake’s appearance, and there was an ugly
look on his face that indicated anything but friendship.
“Hallo, you young rascal!” he called out roughly, when he arrived
within earshot. “Why don’t you answer me?” he continued as Gerald
remained silent.
“I am no rascal, Mr. Amsden,” said Gerald in a dignified tone, “and I
don’t choose to be called one.”
“Oh, you’re puttin’ on frills, are you?” retorted Jake, halting where
he stood, and eying the boy with evident malevolence.
“If that’s what you call it, I am. If you will speak to me in a civil
manner I will answer you.”
“Oh, you will, will you?” sneered Amsden. “You’ll answer me any way.”
“Have you any business with me?”
“Yes, I have. You don’t think I’d come round here so early in the
mornin’ if I hadn’t?”
“I don’t know. I am not acquainted with your habits.”
“Has the gentleman gone that was stoppin’ here?”
“You mean Mr. Wentworth?”
“Like as not. I don’t know his name.”
“He went away yesterday.”
Jake Amsden appeared to receive this answer with satisfaction. He
wanted to be sure that Gerald was alone and unprotected.
“Ho ain’t comin’ back, is he?”
“Not that I know of.”
“Then you’re livin’ alone?”
“My poor father is dead as you know. Yes, I am alone in the world.”
“Look here, boy!” he commenced abruptly, “you asked me if I came on
business.”
“Yes.”
“Well, I have,” and the visitor eyed Gerald with a sinister glance.
Gerald suspected that Jake had heard of his visit to Pete Johnson’s
saloon, and wanted to hold him responsible for the loss of the stolen
wallet. He was not alarmed, knowing, as Jake Amsden did not, that he
