must have been a symptom.) It’s the first time I’ve felt nervous since I
died. I beg your pardon.
LADDIE (running to meet them). Papa! Maidie’s got wings on her feet.
Why don’t I have some? Papa! Papa! Come into your new house. It grew
up out of the woods--like--like acorns.
DR. THORNE (addressing MRS. FAYTH, looking towards the cottage). It
is a shelter for the child, at all events. Quite in accordance with my
present social position in this place--a mere cottage--but it makes him
a home, poor little fellow!
MRS. FAYTH. It’s just what Helen would like. She hates palaces.
DR. THORNE (starts as if stabbed; makes no reply).
LADDIE (suddenly). Oh, Papa, Mrs. Fayth’s got wings on her feet, too.
Her dress covers them up. I like her better than I did that lady you
were so cross to.
MRS. FAYTH (laughing). I am so well!--oh, so well! I am a-shamed to be
so happy! I walk on air. I float on clouds. I move on waves. All nature
seems to be under my feet, and her glory in my heart.... Poor Doctor!
(Breaks off and looks at him with quick sympathy.) And yet I tru-ly
think you im-prove in spirits. You don’t look armed to the teeth, all
the time--now.
DR. THORNE (smiles cheerfully). A man must respect law, whatever state
he is in. I would conform to the customs of this place, so far as I can.
I would do this for the boy’s sake, at least. I don’t wish to be a
disgrace to him in this system of things.
MRS. FAYTH. Does Doctor Harvey treat you by scien-ti-fic ev-olu-tion?
That’s a man’s way. It’s a pretty slow one.
LADDIE (insistently). Papa, she has got wings on her feet.
MRS. FAYTH (blushing). Go away and play, children.
(The children run to the cottage. The little girl bounds before, with a
light, flying motion. They play in the cottage at “keeping house,”
running in and out.)
(Suddenly a change takes place upon the landscape. Its colors soften
and melt. Flying tints, like light broken through many prisms, float
upon the white flowers, rest upon the annunciation lilies, and
delicately touch the white robe of MRS. FAYTH. In fact, the whole
atmosphere takes on the appearance of a vast rainbow. Music from the
temple sounds clearly.)
VOICES (can be heard singing):--
    “Thou that takest away the
     Sins of the world!”
MRS. FAYTH (starts with a listening, devout expression). Do you hear
that?... Oh, watch, Doctor! Watch for what will happen!
(Spirits can be seen suddenly moving from all directions. They hurry,
and exhibit signs of joyful excitement. The singing continues;
repeats:--
    “Thou that takest away the
     Sins of the world!”)
(Now over the brilliant landscape falls a long, sharp, strange shadow.
It is seen to be the shadow of a mighty cross, which, if raised upright,
would seem to reach from earth to heaven. The children run back from the
cottage.)
LADDIE. Papa! who is worship? Is it a kind of game? Papa, what is Lord?
Is it people’s mother? What is it for?
DR. THORNE (with embarrassment). Alas, my boy, your father is not a
learned man.
LADDIE (imperiously). Teach me that pretty song! I cannot sing it. All
the other children can--
VOICES (chanting):--
    “Thou givest,
     Thou givest,
     Eternal life!”
DR. THORNE (sadly). My son, I cannot sing it, either.
LADDIE (with reproach, and with a certain dignity). Father, I wish you
were a learned man. (Walks away from his father; goes up the path.
The little girl follows him.)
(The evidences of public excitement increase visibly. From every part
of the country spirits can be seen moving, with signs of acute pleasure.
Some hasten towards the Temple; others gather in groups in the roads and
paths; all present a reverent but joyful aspect.)
MRS. FAYTH (gliding away). I cannot lose a moment. (Beckons to DR.
THORNE as she moves out of the grove and up the path. Calls.) Doctor!
Doctor!
DR. THORNE (shakes his head). I do not understand.
(MRS. FAYTH remains still full in sight, standing as if to watch a
pageant or to see the prominent figure of a procession.)
(LADDIE runs on beyond her, watching eagerly; shades his eyes with his
little hand.)
(MAIDIE flits along with him.)
(DR. THORNE stands quite alone. He, too, shades his eyes with his
hand, and scans the horizon and the foreground closely.)
(The shadow of the great cross falls upon him where he stands.)
(It can now be seen that the happy people beyond give evidence of
greeting some one who is passing by them. Some weep for joy; others
laugh for rapture. Some stretch their arms out as if in ecstasy. Some
throw themselves on the ground in humility. Some seem to be entreating a
benediction. But the figure of Him who passes by them remains invisible.
The excitement now increases, and extends along the group of spirits
until it reaches those in the foreground. Here can now be seen and
recognized some old patients of DR. THORNE’S--MRS. TRUE, NORAH, and
JERRY.)
(These wear the golden cross upon the breast. HARVEY enters
unnoticed, and mingles with the crowd. He stands behind MRS. FAYTH,
who remains rapt and mute, full in the light. She has forgotten DR.
THORNE.)
(DR. THORNE watches the scene with pathetic perplexity. He does not
speak.)
(The chanting continues, and the strain swells louder.)
[Illustration:
dolce.
Thou that tak-est a-way the sins of the
world! And givest, and giv-est e-ter-nal life!
]
(Now the Invisible Figure makes the impression of having reached the
nearer groups.)
(NORAH falls upon her knees.)
(JERRY salutes respectfully, as if he recognized a dear and honored
employer whom he wished to serve and please.)
(MRS. TRUE reaches out her arms with reverent longing.)
(MAIDIE kisses her little hands to the Unseen.)
(HARVEY stands devoutly with bowed head.)
(MRS. FAYTH holds out both hands lovingly. Then she sinks to the ground
upon her knees and makes the delicate motion of one who puts to her lips
the edge of the robe of the Unseen Passer. Her whole expression is
rapturous.)
(LADDIE, breaking away from his elders, now boldly steps out into the
path. He looks up; shades his eyes, as if from a brilliance; then
confidingly puts out his hand, as if he placed it in an Unseen Hand, and
walks along, smiling like a child who is led by One whom he trusts and
loves.)
DR. THORNE (in distress). I see nothing!--No one! I am blind--blind!
(Chanting.)
    “Thou that takest away
     The sins of the world!” ...
(DR. THORNE covers his face. The music ceases. The air grows dimmer
than twilight. But there is no moon, nor is it dark. The groups in the
foreground move away in quiet happiness, like those who have had their
heart’s wish granted.)
(Harvey, MRS. TRUE, NORAH, JERRY, and MAIDIE mingle with the other
spirits.)
(MRS. FAYTH rises from her knees; melts slowly in the dusk.)
(LADDIE runs into the grove, and disappears in the gloom. He acts as if
looking for some one.)
DR. THORNE (remains alone. He paces the grove, irresolute--then
suddenly turns in the direction whence the Invisible had come; walks
uncertainly up the path; searches, as if for signs of the Passer;
examines the grass, the shrubbery; touches the flowers, to see if they
had bent beneath His feet; stoops; examines the pathway reverently;
speaks in a low tone). The footprint! I have found the footprint! There
was One passing. And He stepped here. But I was blind! (Hesitates;
lifts his face to the sky; drops it to his breast; murmurs
inarticulately. Then slowly--as if half his nature battled with the
other half, and every fibre of his being yielded hard--he drops upon his
knees. He remains silent in this posture.)
(From the depth of the grove behind DR. THORNE’S cottage,)
Enter CLEO stealthily. (She watches
DR. THORNE with an expression in
which love, fear, reproach, and astonishment
contend. She makes no
sign, nor in any way is her presence
revealed to DR. THORNE. Taking a
few steps forward, she touches the
shadow of one arm of the mighty
cross. CLEO retreats in confusion.)
Enter The Child (running down the
path). Papa! Papa! (Points up the
path. Beckons to his father. Points
ecstatically.) Look, look, Papa!
(DR. THORNE arises to his full height; looks where The Child
points.)
(Slowly and solemnly,)
