duties in a satisfactory manner.
CHAPTER IV.
A NEW PRESIDENT.
The inaugurations at New York and Philadelphia had been marked with
a certain degree of pomp and stateliness. The first one in Washington
had been simple almost to indifference. There had preceded it a bitter
campaign, and the Federalists kept the peace with a silent dignity that
was chilling in the extreme. Mr. Adams left Washington at once. And the
city then was in a dismal stage, with few improvements perfected. There
was really no accommodation for visitors, and many still believed the
Capital would be removed. They delighted to call it "The Wilderness
City," "Capital of Miserable Huts," and "A mudhole almost equal to
the great Serbonian bog." Mrs. Abigail Adams had not been charmed
with the White House nor the city. The great marsh stretched out in a
most forbidding and discouraging manner. Piles of rubbish and heaps
of stone, with unsightly masses of timber, gave the place anything
but a homelike aspect. There was no accommodation for the wives of
congressmen if they had chosen to come. Gay New York and charming
Philadelphia disdained Washington.
Eight years had changed much of this. True, Georgetown was more
attractive and growing faster, but streets were beginning to be cleared
up, mudholes filled in, walks laid, and handsome houses erected. The
wife of the secretary of state, charming Dolly Madison, had healed many
differences, and Mrs. Madison's drawing room was a favorite resort for
senators, ministers, and diplomats. She was often asked to preside at
the White House. Mrs. Randolph, the President's daughter, on her very
first visit had been delighted with her, and the two became lifelong
friends.
Her bright and vivacious sister, Anna Payne, had added no little zest
to social life, and her marriage had been quite an event in the slowly
growing city. The Van Ness mansion was also the scene of much gayety.
Old Virginia belles came up for a few weeks, and there were balls and
parties at Georgetown, and no end of tea drinkings. The young women
found plenty of cavaliers, and when riding was possible gay parties
sallied out, stopping at some country inn for midday refreshments.
And though there were many grave questions pending, this promised to be
a day of unwonted satisfaction. For the first time great preparations
were made. Washington and Georgetown people invited friends, as in
those days people were given to hospitality.
Mrs. Jettson had kept her sister Marian a large part of the winter,
much to Dolly's discomfiture, but Mr. Floyd had sent for Marian and
refused them both the anticipated pleasure of the inauguration.
Jaqueline had come home an undeniable young lady, with her hair done
high on her head and sundry touches in her attire that made her very
attractive and coquettish. There was great rejoicing, from least to
greatest, much envying on Patricia's part, much delight on Varina's and
Charles', and a pretty, shy, winsome admiration from Annis.
There was of course the duty visit to the Pineries. Then Jaqueline came
down to her Aunt Jane's.
"I'd planned such a delightful time!" declared Mrs. Jettson, between
satisfaction and vexation. "There is to be a gay season, with balls and
parties and dinners. And, really, the young men are getting to be quite
factors in society. I wanted both the girls and you; and, Jaqueline,
you've grown monstrously pretty, and your manners have improved so
much that you might be fresh from London or Paris. There have been
so many fine people here the last two or three years, and building is
going on at a rapid rate. Philadelphia and New York will not be able to
look down on us much longer. I meant to give you young people a dance
and supper, and father won't let the girls come. Marian was mad as a
hornet, and poor Dolly stamped around. Father grows queerer about them.
But I wanted the company as well. I'm not an old woman, if I have two
babies. And I'm quite sure it will be a success if you will come."
"Of course I shall be delighted. Why, it's just charming!" and the
pretty face was alight with smiles.
"I shall ask all the folks up for the grand event. You see, brother
Randolph is a true Madison man. And, do you know, I like your new
mother wonderfully. She is quite like an elder sister, and you'll
have a fine time. You'll be just spoiled," laughingly. "But you're
not to call me Aunt Jane any more. I won't have it from a tall girl
like you, who will no doubt be married herself next winter. How many
disconsolates did you leave at Williamsburg?"
"None, I think, so deeply smitten but that a course of Greek and Latin
will restore them. I did have a splendid time, though Aunt Catharine
would persist in considering me about twelve. It was positively funny.
But I had Louis to manage for me. Oh, Jane, I'm awfully sorry about the
girls! They cried with disappointment. And they did not know about the
party!"
"No, I hadn't the cruelty to speak of that. But I'll whisper to you,
Jaqueline, and you must not breathe it. Somebody here has taken
a tremendous fancy to Marian. He is well connected, a young civil
engineer, and a militia lieutenant; but we are afraid father will blaze
out and perhaps refuse to listen. He has quite set his heart on Marian
marrying their next neighbor, that Mr. Greaves who lost his wife last
summer and has no one to look after his four children but the slave
mammy. And Marian just hates him. The idea! Oh, Jaqueline, it is just
comforting to have someone to talk to, a young person that you can say
anything to!"
"Marian told me. Of course there is the fine estate and the slaves.
I do suppose old people think a great deal of that," and there was a
touch of regretful wisdom that sat oddly upon the young girl. "And four
children! I wouldn't want 'em."
"A young girl has no business with another woman's children. I want
you to see this young man. And I want to get your father interested. I
think after a little I'll bring it about."
"Mr. Greaves doesn't seem very"--Jaqueline knit her pretty brows,
thinking of the fervent tones and impassioned glances that had marked
her victorious sway--"very deeply smitten. He and grandfather talked
politics and war all the evening."
"But he means business. He has asked for her. He thinks it only
respectful to wait a year before beginning his new addresses. So we
have until July."
"I wouldn't marry him," declared Jaqueline with much vigor.
"I dare say your father will be easy enough about lovers if they are of
the right kind. Don't be in a hurry. Have a good time first. You are so
young."
Mrs. Jettson had insisted upon taking in the whole family, and they
came the evening before, being comfortably stowed away, although some
of Mrs. Mason's relatives who had lately come to Washington insisted
upon sharing the honors.
Annis and Charles had been much interested, and questioned Mr. Evans in
every conceivable manner as to what it was for, and why America did not
have a king or an emperor. Patricia was bubbling over with delight.
Fortunately the day was fair, and everything seemed auspicious. Salutes
of cannon were fired from the navy yard at dawn, and responded to
from Fort Warburton. The militia from Alexandria and Georgetown, in
fine array, marched into the city to escort the new President to the
Capitol. Thousands of people gathered along the way, and there was a
great hurrahing, emphasized by the waving of hats and handkerchiefs.
Mr. Mason and his wife and the two younger children were in a carriage,
while the two girls went with Mr. and Mrs. Jettson.
Annis looked out curiously at the scene. There was the tall form of Mr.
Jefferson, quite in contrast with the smaller one of his friend, who
bore himself with becoming dignity. At twelve Mr. Madison reverently
took the oath of office and made his inaugural address, when the cheers
and enthusiasm became deafening. It was the first really grand ceremony
of the kind that Washington had witnessed.
And now the new President reviewed the array of soldiers, and eager
interest marked every step. It was indeed a gala day. Many people were
driving around in their carriages, enjoying the sunshine and the crowd.
Then the President, with most of the officers and senators, returned
to his home, where Mrs. Madison had prepared tables of refreshments for
all who chose to call and pay their respects to the new magistrate.
A fine young fellow in Continental uniform paused at the carriage of
the Jettsons, and greeted them cordially.
"This is something like," he said. "Simplicity may be very good in its
way, when one cannot help himself, but the nation ought to honor its
ruler. I am proud to be in it."
Mrs. Jettson turned and introduced Mr. Ralston to the girls, who
smilingly acknowledged his presence.
"Then you could not persuade Miss Floyd?" and he glanced up wistfully.
"Father is not quite in accord with the administration, and he would
not consent to her return."
"I am desperately sorry. I managed at the eleventh hour, which was
early this morning, to get a ticket to the ball. Some dear friends
of mine would have been delighted to chaperone Miss Floyd, if she
could have consented to so short a notice. And there will be so many
festivities!"
"I regret it deeply," returned Mrs. Jettson. "What a shame!" she said
to her husband when Mr. Ralston had left them. "At Long's there could
be only a given number accommodated. And to have missed such a fine
array of people! I should like to be there myself."
The ball was considered quite a sumptuous affair. A host of beautiful
women in their most elegant attire, military men who had not laid
aside their trappings "in the piping times of peace," and the brilliant
uniforms of the different legations, made a picture quite worthy of the
young Capital. Mrs. Madison, in her robe of yellow velvet, her Paris
turban with its bird-of-paradise plume, her neck and arms adorned with
pearls, dispensed her smiles and greetings with the wonderful tact and
sweetness which were never to desert her; jest and repartee ran round
the circle; and Mr. Jefferson shone in his genial cordiality. Someone
