sobbed vigorously.
"Get up and go away at once!" said Giovanni, much disgusted by the sight
of the blood.
"I will not go till you hear me, sir," answered the boy dramatically. "I
am a free glass-blower's son and I have been beaten like this by the
porter of the glass-house! This is the way we are treated, though we
work to learn the art as our fathers worked before us."
"You probably went to sleep, you little wretch," observed Giovanni. "Get
out of my way, and go home!"
"Justice, sir! Justice!" moaned the boy, dropping himself on his knees.
"Nonsense! Go away!" Giovanni pushed him aside, and began to walk on.
The boy sprang up and followed him, and running beside him as Giovanni
tried to get away, touched the skirt of his coat respectfully, and then
kissed the back of his own hand.
"If you will listen to me, sir," he said in a low voice, "I will tell
you something you wish to know."
Giovanni stopped short and looked at him with curiosity.
"I will tell you of something the master did on the Sunday night before
he went on his journey," continued the lad. "I am one of the night boys
in the laboratory, and I saw with my eyes while the others were asleep,
for we had been told to wait till we were called."
Giovanni looked about, to see whether any one was within hearing. They
were still in the covered footway above which the first story of the
house was built, but were near the end, and the shutters of the lower
windows were closed.
"Tell me what you saw," said Giovanni, "but do not speak loud."
At this moment the other two boys came running up with noisy
lamentations. With the wisdom of their kind they had patiently watched
to see whether their companion would get a hearing of the master, and
judging that he had been successful at last, they came to enjoy the
fruit of his efforts.
"We also have been beaten!" they wailed, but they bore no outward and
visible signs of ill-treatment on them.
The elder boy turned upon them with righteous fury, and to their
unspeakable surprise began to drive them away with kicks and blows. They
could not stand against him, and after a brief resistance, they turned
and ran at full speed. The victor came back to Giovanni's side.
"They are cowardly fellows," he said, with disdain. "They are ignorant
boys. What do you expect? But they will not come back."
"Go on with your story," said Giovanni impatiently, "but speak low."
"It was on Sunday night, sir. The master came to talk with Zorzi in the
laboratory. I was in the garden, at the entrance of the other passage.
When the door opened there was not much light, and the master was
wrapped in his cloak, and he turned a little, and went in sideways, so
I knew that he had something under his arm, for the door is narrow."
"He was probably bringing over some valuable materials," said Giovanni.
"I believe he was bringing the great book," said the boy confidently,
but almost in a whisper.
"What great book?"
The lad looked at Giovanni with an expression of cunning on his face, as
much as to say that he was not to be deceived by such a transparent
pretence of ignorance.
"He was afraid to leave it in his house," he said, "lest you should find
it and learn how to make the gold as he does. So he took it over to the
laboratory at night."
Giovanni began to understand, though it was the first time he had heard
that the boys, like the common people, suspected Angelo Beroviero of
being an alchemist. It was clear that the boy meant the book that
contained the priceless secrets for glass-making which Giovanni and his
brother had so long coveted. His interest increased.
"After all," he said, "you saw nothing distinctly. My father went in and
shut the door, I suppose."
"Yes," answered the boy. "But after a long time the door opened again."
He stopped, resolved to be questioned, in order that his information
should seem more valuable. The instinct of small boys is often as
diabolically keen as that of a grown woman.
"Go on!" said Giovanni, more and more interested. "The door opened
again, you say? Then my father came out--"
"No, sir. Zorzi came out into the light that fell from the door. The
master was inside."
"Well, what did Zorzi do? Be quick!"
"He brought out a shovel full of earth, sir, and he carefully scattered
it about over the flower-bed, and then he went back, and presently he
came out with the shovel again, and more earth; and so three times. They
had buried the great book somewhere in the laboratory."
"But the laboratory is paved," objected Giovanni, to gain time, for he
was thinking.
"There is earth under the stones, sir. I remember seeing it last year
when the masons put down several new slabs. The great book is somewhere
under the floor of the laboratory. I must have stepped over it in
feeding the fire last night, and that is why the devils that guard it
inspired the porter to beat me this morning. It was the devils that sent
us to sleep, for fear that we should find it."
"I daresay," said Giovanni with much gravity, for he thought it better
that the boy should be kept in awe of an object that possessed such
immense value. "You should be careful in future, or ill may befall you."
"Is it true, sir, that I have told you something you wished to know?"
"I am glad to know that the great book is safe," answered Giovanni
ambiguously.
"Zorzi knows where it is," suggested, the boy in a tone meant to convey
the suspicion that Zorzi might use his knowledge.
"Yes--yes," repeated Giovanni thoughtfully, "and he is ill. He ought to
be brought over to the house until he is better."
"Then the furnace could be allowed to get out, sir, could it not?"
"Yes. The weather is growing warm, as it is. Yes--the furnace may be put
out now." Giovanni hardly knew that he was speaking aloud. "Zorzi will
get well much sooner if he is in a good room in the house. I will see to
it."
The boy stood still beside him, waiting patiently for some reward.
"Are we to come as usual to-night, sir, or will there be no fire?" he
asked.
"Go and ask at the usual time. I have not decided yet. There--you are a
good boy. If you hold your tongue there will be more."
Giovanni offered the lad a piece of money, but he would not take it.
"We are glass-blowers' sons, sir, we are not poor people," he said with
theatrical pride, for he would have taken the coin without remark if he
had not felt that he possessed a secret of great value, which might
place Giovanni in his power before long.
Giovanni was surprised.
"What do you want, then?" he asked.
"I am old enough to be an apprentice, sir."
"Very well," answered Giovanni. "You shall be an apprentice. But hold
your tongue about what you saw. You told me everything, did you?"
"Yes, sir. And I thank you for your kindness, sir. If I can help you,
sir--" he stopped.
"Help me!" exclaimed Giovanni. "I do not work at the furnaces! Wash your
face and come by and by to my glass-house, and you shall have an
apprentice's place."
"I shall serve you well, sir. You shall see that I am grateful,"
answered the boy.
He touched Giovanni's sleeve and kissed his own hand, and ran back to
the steps before the front door. There he knelt down, leaning over the
water, and washed his face in the canal, well pleased with the price he
had got for his bruising.
Giovanni did not look at him, but turned to go on, past the corner of
the house, in deep thought. From the narrow line into which the back
door opened, Marietta and Nella emerged at the same moment. Nella had
made sure that Giovanni had gone out, but she could not foresee that he
would stop a long time to talk with the boy in the covered footway. She
ran against him, as he passed the corner, for she was walking on
Marietta's left side. The young girl's face was covered, but she knew
that Giovanni must recognise her instantly, by her cloak, and because
Nella was with her.
"Where are you going?" he asked sharply.
"To church, sir, to church," answered Nella in great perturbation. "The
young lady is going to confession."
"Ah, very good, very good!" exclaimed Giovanni, who was very attentive
to religious forms. "By all means go to confession, my sister. You
cannot be too conscientious in the performance of your duties."
But Marietta laughed a little under her veil.
"I had not the least intention of going to confession this morning," she
said. "Nella said so because you frightened her."
"What? What is this?" Giovanni looked from one to the other. "Then where
are you going?"
"To the glass-house," answered Marietta with perfect coolness.
"You are not going to the laboratory? Zorzi is living there alone. You
cannot go there."
"I am not afraid of Zorzi. In the first place, I wish to know how he is.
Secondly, this is the hour for making the tests, and as he cannot stand
he cannot try the glass alone."
Giovanni was amazed at her assurance, and immediately assumed a grave
and authoritative manner befitting the eldest brother who represented
the head of the house.
"I cannot allow you to go," he said. "It is most unbecoming. Our father
would be shocked. Go back at once, and never think of going to the
laboratory while Zorzi is there. Do you hear?"
"Yes. Come, Nella," she added, taking her serving-woman by the arm.
Before Giovanni realised what she was going to do, she was walking
quickly across the wooden bridge towards the glass-house, holding
Nella's sleeve, to keep her from lagging, and Nella trotted beside her
