that they were lifted up to commercial respect, and some 
even then dreamed of a great future, but no one’s 
imaginings could have surpassed the reality. For Louisi- 
ana had been transplanted for the last time. There 
were Spaniards who insisted Spain’s rule had been 
judicious and that her eclipse as a great power was only 
temporary; that when she arose in her might she would 
receive her colonies back with open arms ; there were 
French who looked for a quarrel with America and a 
recession, but neither came. Old things had passed 
away. A new New Orleans was rising on the foundation 
of the old. 
All this had caused no little excitement at the old 
house on the St. John Road. The Lavalettes had been 
full of enthusiasm at first, and then filled with such bitter 
disappointment that Zenobie did not conceal her indigna- 
tion from her young admirer. The De Longpres were 
more prudent ; perhaps the head of the house saw clearly 
where his best interest lay. The western trade was 
coming down the river from the great country, the rivers 
and lakes above. The agricultural resources would be 
enormous. 
‘‘We may not adore our new masters,” said Monsieur 
de Longpre to Hugh de Brienne, “but what will you? 
We did not adore the old. These give us more privileges. 
They are broader. It brings business.” 
Monsieur de Brienne had already fallen into a certain 
friendliness with the merchant. And though he eyed the 
American with a faint distrust, the two were such friends 
that he understood a coldness to him would be resented. 
They as well as some others knew of the grand scheme 
that had received its death-blow from various sources 
before it had perfected any real organization. 
“It is the best thing that could have happened,” said 
Norton. '‘One can see such a division would have led 
to endless bickerings. England is ready to spring upon 
us again, and France captious and overbearing. Some 
day we shall be united for another grand fight, and then 
we shall learn the advantages of union. Florida must 
be ours.” 
Norton was ofifered a position under the new govern- 
ment ; and though he did not admire Wilkinson, indeed, 
knew too much about his intrigues, he felt he might be 
able to serve his country in more ways than translating 
between French and English and attending to cor- 
respondence. 
They had all gone down in the town to see the Spanish 
flag lowered. It was a happy day for Mere Milhet as 
well as many another. Old scores were repaid. The new 
French ruler could dictate terms to Spain, ah, that was 
glorious ! And though the Lavalettes were in mourning 
and went into no society, they must be witnesses of this 
grand event. There was Aunt Melanie, and Hortense, 
quite closely guarded now, as she was a young lady. 
Sylvie had been a very unhappy little girl. After a 
few days Gervaise began to act quite as if nothing had 
happened between them. He would much rather have put 
his arm about her and strolled up and down the old 
garden as they used ; she was not only cold and 
resentful, but her very air suggested that she would not 
listen with any degree of reason. And he was enjoying 
his new-found freedom so much. He had felt curiously 
irked since his return until the word had come about his 
cousin. And now he was light-hearted enough, and gay 
with Angel. 
Monsieur de Brienne was very gentle and fatherly. 
He admired Telano, he haunted the little lake, he talked 
garden and fruit to Jaques, government and the future 
of the country with Gervaise, and dropped into confi- 
dences with Angelique. She tried very hard to resist his 
kindness, but he seemed not to remark that. 
The Marquis de Brienne did not lack for social 
recognition if he was not handsome and vivacious. And 
now down on the plaza Sylvie felt really proud to be in his 
charge. To be sure, Gervaise went at once to the side of 
Madame Lavalette and Zenobie, who was extremely dec- 
orous and nodded gravely to her friends. Hortense, 
on the contrary, was all brightness and animation, and 
full of enthusiasm. 
Gervaise made many errands up to the plantation for 
the next fortnight. Sometimes Hugh accompanied him, 
and while he would talk to Madame Mere, the young 
people down at the end of the gallery found many things 
to say to each other. 
But when the French flag came down, Zenobie’s 
indignation knew no bounds. 
'‘Why, the matter was settled before that,” said Ger- 
vaise. ‘Tt was because you people did not want to believe 
it. The bargaining had been going on a long time. At 
first the United States would not pay what Bonaparte 
asked.” 
“And the Americans are such petty bargain-makers !” 
cried the scornful girl. “To buy up a country whether 
the people will or no ! To beat down, to give the lowest 
price — why, it is like a slave-dealer!” 
“And they give the whole province such liberty as 
they never had before. They can elect their own officers, 
they can trade where they will. They are a self-govern- 
ing territory except in a few matters, and some day may 
be a splendid State.” 
“vSelf-governing !” The tone was both bitter and in- 
credulous. “Then they send a governor, an American, 
they are forming military companies, they are putting 
their men in the offices as fast as possible ” 
‘‘As if the French wouldn’t have turned out the 
Spaniards fast enough if they had the power. And your 
governor would have come from France.” 
“We should have given him a welcome, Monsieur. 
He would have been of our own people. We are 
French.” 
Politics and religion make bitter quarrels. And these 
young people, the girl knowing nothing about the cir- 
cumstances of the last two years that had brought about 
this culmination, the young fellow, whose soul had been 
broadened by travel and contact with his kind, plunged 
into an unequal warfare. 
“Good-evening, Monsieur,” said Zenobie, loftily, and 
swept across the gallery. 
Gervaise was angry. There were no more idle morn- 
ings or pleasant evenings at the Lavalettes’. 
The mornings indeed were soon devoted to more sub- 
stantial matters. M. de Longpre had found a very 
pleasant and suitable position for the young friend of his 
son, a fine young fellow, he thought. 
And since even the best of girls gossip a little, Hortense 
was not slow in retailing this to Sylvie, and the little girl 
took a malicious sort of pleasure in it. She hoped Ger- 
vaise loved Zenobie extravagantly, for the more he loved, 
the more deeply he would suffer. And now he would 
know ! 
There were two other circumstances occupying her a 
good deal. One was the departure of Cousin Hugh. 
She had grown quite used to him, and somehow, she 
thought him improved in looks. He was not so thin, 
that made a difference. His nose was less prominent, 
and when he smiled — it was a grave sort of smile, but 
had a certain sweetness in it that one could recall so 
easily — it softened all his face. His eyes were dark and 
resolute, she had called them fierce at first, but occasion- 
ally there came a shade of tenderness in them that almost 
won her against herself. 
The other was a very curious interest in Monsieur 
Norton, who might be considered a regular evening 
visitor. Hylas was very glad to come as well. Sylvie 
always upbraided him for not loving her best, and then 
they had a royal romp up and down the old garden. 
Sometimes Angel and M’sieu walked about, for it was 
still very pleasant ; sometimes he read verses to her, 
or made her read to him. Sylvie liked him very much. 
He often brought her bonbons — they had them even then, 
and little girls were fond of them. 
One evening Cousin Hugh took Angel down the 
oleander walk. Sylvie came skipping along. 
‘T have something quite confidential to say to Angel,” 
and he made a little gesture of dismissal. “Then I have 
something for your ear alone that Angel must not hear.” 
“But if it is alike ” 
“Ah, but it isn’t alike,” he interrupted, smiling at 
Sylvie. 
She returned to the court reluctantly. “Telano,” she 
