calm?  Now she wondered not at all.  There was nothing dramatic or
exciting, or even solemn, in her condition.  All her being resolved
itself into the simple effort to get her breath.
Suddenly this effort ceased.  She had struggled up against the pillows
to call "Molly!  Molly!" when she found that she could not call Molly.
As if her head had been under water, the function of breathing battled,
and surrendered.  Then there befell her swiftly the most beatific
instant that she had ever known.
"I am tired out," she thought; "and I am going to sleep.  I did not
die, after all."  She was aware of turning her face, as her head
dropped back on her pillows, before she sank into ecstasy.
The night was fair and cool.  There was some wind, and the trees in the
Park winced under a glittering frost.  Avery noticed this as he hurried
to Dr. Armstrong's.  The leaves seemed to curl in a sensitive, womanish
fashion, as if their feelings had been hurt before they received their
death-stroke.
"It is the third of November," he thought.  His feet rang on the
sidewalk sharply, and he ran up the long steps with his gloved hand
held to his cheek.
Physical pain always made him angry.  He was irritable with Armstrong,
who had none too good a temper himself; and the two men sparred a
little before the dentist consented to remove the tooth.
Avery was surprised to find how short and simple an affair this was.
"I believe I 'll run into the Club," he observed as he put on his coat.
"Better go home," replied the dentist.  "No?  Then I 'll go along with
you."
The two men started out in silence.
Avery looked across at the wincing leaves on the trees of the Park.
The tower of the Church of the Happy Saints showed black against the
sky.  The club was only around the corner, and he was glad of it, for
the night felt unpleasantly cold to him; he shivered as he entered the
hot, bright, luxurious place; it was heavy with tobacco; the click of
billiard-balls and the clink of a glass sounded to his ear with a
curious distinctness above the laughter and the chat with which the
house seemed to rock and echo.
Romer was there--Tom Romer; and he was uncommonly glad to see Avery.
The two gentlemen, with Armstrong and another man, grouped upon a game
of billiards.  Romer proposed whist, but Armstrong said it was too late
for whist.  Avery did not say anything, and he played stupidly, and
after a while asked to be excused, and got up to go home.
"You 're looking fagged," observed Tom Romer, knocking the ashes from
his cigar artistically.  "You 're overworked.  Most of you professional
chaps are.  Come yachting with me, on the Dream.  We 're going to the
Sound after ducks.  Back in a week.  Start at seven o'clock to-morrow
morning.  Stay and put up here, and get off with me.  Oh!  I forgot.
You 're one of those married men."
"Yes," replied Avery, with a consciousness of superior virtue.  "I
could n't go without saying good-by to my wife.  I wouldn't think of it
for a moment," he added loftily.  "Give me a minute, Romer, to think it
over, will you?"
He strolled to the window, and looked out at the waters of the black
river which rushed whirling past the rear of the clubhouse.  It
occurred to him that Armstrong watched him anxiously.  But Armstrong
did not speak.
"I 'll go--thanks!" said Avery, coming back, with his hands in his
pockets.  "I 'll get word to the office; they can manage without me,
somehow--that is, if you 'll promise to get me back in a week?"
"I 'll set you ashore at the back yard of this club six days from
to-morrow," answered Romer.  "The Dream 's a dandy," added the
yachtsman, swelling a little.  "She can do it."
Avery replied absently, and hurriedly started for home.  In fact, he
ran most of the way (Dr. Armstrong could not keep up with him), for he
was shocked to find that it was now one o'clock.
"Poor Jean!" he thought; "I stayed too long."  Then he remembered for
the first time that he had got to tell Jean that he was going.  It
occurred to him for a moment that he would rather give up going with
Romer than tell Jean.  But it was now too late to do that.
"You see," he said, stopping for Armstrong to overtake him, "I 've
got to go, now."  But Armstrong did not reply; he turned in at his
own house with a manner which his friend felt to be superfluous.  Avery
experienced a certain resentment against the dentist.  He was relieved
to be alone, and walked more slowly.
When he came into his own hall, the house was perfectly still.  He took
off his shoes, and tiptoed upstairs, pausing at the door of his wife's
room.  She was sleeping so soundly that she did not hear him--an
unusual circumstance, for Jean, though a good sleeper, as we said, was
a light one.  The husband was conscious that he had fallen on better
chance than he deserved.  He had expected to find her awake, and more
or less nervous over his belated return.
"What luck!" he thought.  Yes, he was really very glad that Jean was
asleep, poor girl.  She would take it hard--to-morrow.  He moved about
like a cat, packing his valise.  He had several letters to write,
too,--one to his partner, one or two to clients, and one--well, why
not?  Why not write one to his wife?  It would obviate a great deal of
trouble on both sides; in fact, it would save him so much that he
persuaded himself, without undue difficulty, that it would save her
too.  So he wrote the letter.  It was a very affectionate letter.  It
set forth in the tenderest terms his devotion to her, and to her true
interests, which, plainly, would be best served by some attention to
his own health; he was really overworked; the Electric case had got
where it could be left for a few days, and he would distinctly be gone
but a few days; he promised her that--a week at the outside--and she
was always so glad to have him get any sort of a vacation.  He felt
sure that he could count upon her sympathy in going.  He would think of
her constantly, and fly back to her with that constant--etc.--faithful,
true, and tender--etc.--etc.  He had to start so early in the morning
that he would not wake her up.  He would  telegraph  her from the first
port they made.  She must remember that the yacht was as safe as a
Cunarder; they were only going  to the Sound.  He said nothing about
ducks or guns.  He gave her a Cape address to which she could send any
message she chose.  She must not get nervous.  She must take the best
care of herself for his sake.  And he was her devoted husband.
He slipped this letter under her door--slept a few hours--and waked at
five.  At half-past five he crept downstairs, his valise in his hand,
and his heart in his throat.  He heard Pink talking and grinding her
teeth in her sleep; but Jean did not stir, thank Heaven.  He slid out
of the front door like a burglar, and ran.  It was a brisk morning, and
promised to be a fresh southwesterly.  He walked a little way in the
direction of the club.  Abruptly he stopped, turned, and ran back.
"It would n't do," he said; "I must see her; I must if the Dream sails
without me.  Let her sail!" he added.  He pushed open the front door,
and rushed noisily upstairs.
The family was astir; the baby was crying; Pink was trotting about the
upper hall, unnoticed, in her little nightgown and bare feet.  He did
not hear Jean's voice, but Molly's struck upon his ear in an agitated,
incoherent manner.  He went in through his own room; he was relieved to
find that the letter under the door had not been disturbed.  He caught
it up, and slipped it swiftly into his pocket.
"It would not have done at all," he thought.  He felt ashamed of
himself that he had ever supposed for a moment it would have done.  He
really felt very thankful that he had decided to come back and break
the news to her in person.  It occurred to him that it was the least he
could do under the circumstances.  With a certain self-satisfaction on
his face, he pushed his way into his wife's room.
Jean was not on the bed; she was lying on the lounge, across whose blue
pillow he saw that the white silk Spanish shawl he gave her was tossed
in a disorderly way.  The lace frill of her nightdress was torn open at
the throat.  Her abundant yellow hair was loose, and partly concealed
her face.  She was imperfectly covered with a blanket that she had
dragged with her from her bed in some desperate endeavor, whose pitiful
story might never be known, to summon help.
"I did n't hear me bell!" cried Molly.  "An' there she do be lyin' when
I come in."
"Jean!" called Avery loudly; "Jean!"
PART II
At the claim of his voice she responded; smiling, she stirred.  He
could not help remembering how she had once said, "If I were dead, I
should answer you if you called me, Marshall."  And for the moment, she
had looked--but it was not death.
She opened her large eyes and regarded him--strangely, he thought, for
the instant; then with the lambent look which belonged to Jean, and
quite steadily.  He knelt by her, and drew the blanket up, and buttoned
the nightdress at her throat with clumsy fingers.
"I have come back to say"--he began.  But he could not say it.  "Have
you had an ill turn?" he temporized.
"I don't know," said Jean.
"How did you happen to be on the lounge?"
"I don't know," repeated Jean.
"Are you suffering, dear?"
"I fell asleep," said Jean, after some thought.
"Don't you remember when you got out of bed?"
"I have had a wonderful sleep," said Jean.  "I never had anything of
the kind before.  It was like heaven."
"Are you suffering now?"
"No--I think not--no.  I feel pretty weak.  But I am not suffering."
"Shall I call the doctor?"
"I sha'n't need the doctor.  I don't want ... I don't need anybody but
you."
She turned and put her hand to his cheek.  Her long hair fell away from
her face and revealed its expression; he turned his own away at sight
