“You told me something else,” laughed Arthur. “You spent all the
morning instructing me for it, you know.”
“Oh!” said Helen. It was a broad and very much prolonged “Oh,” for a
sudden light was dawning upon the girl; as it came her frown gave
place to a look of delight.
“You have been writing me a poem!” she cried, eagerly.
“Yes,” said Arthur.
“Oh, you dear boy!” Helen laughed. “Then I do forgive you; but you
ought to have told me, for I had to walk home all alone, and I’ve
been worrying about you. I never once thought of the poem.”
“The muses call without warning,” laughed Arthur, “and one has to
obey them, you know.”
“Oh, oh!” exclaimed the other. “And so you’ve been wandering around
the woods all this time, making verses! And you’ve been waving your
arms and talking to yourself, and doing all sorts of crazy things, I
know!” Then as she saw Arthur flush, she went on: “I was sure of it!
And you ran away so that I wouldn’t see you! Oh, I wish I’d known;
I’d have hunted you up and never come home until I’d found you.”
As was usual with Helen, her momentary vexation had gone like April
rain, and all her seriousness had vanished with it. She forgot all
about the last scene in the woods, and Arthur was once more the
friend of her girlhood, whom she might take by the hand when she
chose, and with whom she might be as free and happy as when she was
alone with the flowers and the wind. It seemed as if Arthur too had
vented all his pent up emotion, and returned to his natural cheerful
self.
“Tell me,” she cried, “did you put in all the things I told you
about?”
“I put all I could,” said Arthur. “That is a great deal to ask.”
“I only want it to be full of life,” laughed Helen. “That’s all I
care about; the man who wants to write springtime poetry for me must
be wide awake!”
“Shall I read it to you?” asked Arthur, hesitatingly.
“Yes, of course,” said Helen. “And read it as if you meant it; if I
like it I’ll tell you so.”
“I wrote it for nothing but to please you” was the reply, and Arthur
took a much bescrawled piece of paper from his pocket; the girl
seated herself upon the piano stool again and gazed up at him as he
rested his elbow upon the top of the piano and read his lines. There
could not have been a situation in which the young poet would have
read them with more complete happiness, and so it was a pleasure to
watch him. And Helen’s eyes kindled, and her cheeks flushed brightly
as she listened, for she found that the verses had taken their
imagery from her very lips.
  In the May-time’s golden glory
    Ere the quivering sun was high,
  I heard the Wind of Morning
    Through the laughing meadows fly;
  In his passion-song was throbbing
    All the madness of the May,
  And he whispered: Thou hast labored;
    Thou art weary; come away!
  Thou shalt drink a fiery potion
    For thy prisoned spirit’s pain;
  Thou shalt taste the ancient rapture
    That thy soul has sought in vain.
  I will tell thee of a maiden,
    One who has thy longing fanned--
  Spirit of the Forest Music--
    Thou shalt take her by the hand,
  Lightly by her rosy fingers
    Trembling with her keen delight,
  And her flying steps shall lead thee
    Out upon the mountain’s height;
  To a dance undreamed of mortal
    To the Bacchanal of Spring,--
  Where in mystic joy united
    Nature’s bright-eyed creatures sing.
  There the green things of the mountain,
    Million-voiced, newly-born,
  And the flowers of the valley
    In their beauty’s crimson morn;
  There the winged winds of morning,
    Spirits unresting, touched with fire,
  And the streamlets, silver-throated,
    They whose leaping steps ne’er tire!
  Thou shalt see them, ever circling
    Round about a rocky spring,
  While the gaunt old forest-warriors
    Madly their wide branches fling.
  Thou shalt tread the whirling measure,
    Bathe thee in its frenzied strife;
  Thou shalt have a mighty memory
    For thy spirit’s after life.
  Haste thee while thy heart is burning,
    While thine eyes have strength to see;
  Hark, behind yon blackening cloud-bank,
    To the Storm-King’s minstrelsy!
  See, he stamps upon the mountains,
    And he leaps the valleys high!
  Now he smites his forest harp-strings,
    And he sounds his thunder-cry:--
  Waken, lift ye up, ye creatures,
    Sing the song, each living thing!
  Join ye in the mighty passion
    Of the Symphony of Spring!
And so the young poet finished, his cheeks fairly on fire, and, as
he gazed down at Helen, his hand trembling so that he could hardly
hold the paper. One glance told him that she was pleased, for the
girl’s face was flushed like his own, and her eyes were sparkling
with delight. Arthur’s heart gave a great throb within him.
“You like it!” he exclaimed.
“Oh, Arthur, I do!” she cried. “Oh, how glorious you must have
been!” And trembling with girlish delight, she took the paper from
his hand and placed it in front of her on the music rack.
“Oh, I should like to write music for it!” she exclaimed; “for those
lines about the Storm-King!”
And she read them aloud, clenching her hands and shaking her head,
carried away by the image they brought before her eyes. “Oh, I
should like music for it!” she cried again.
“I don’t know very much about poetry, you know,” she added, laughing
excitedly. “If it’s about the things I like, I can’t help thinking
it’s fine. It’s just the same with music,--if a man only makes it
swift and strong, so that it leaps and flies and never tires, that
is all I care about; and if he just keeps his trombones till the
very last, he can carry me off my feet though he makes the worst
noise that ever was! It’s the same as a storm, you know, Arthur; do
you remember how we used to go up on our hillside when the great
wind was coming, and when everything was growing still and black;
and how we used to watch the big clouds and the sheets of rain, and
run for home when we heard the thunder? Once when you were away,
Arthur, I didn’t run, for I wanted to see what it was like; and I
stayed up there and saw it all, singing the ‘Ride of the Valkyries,’
and pretending I was one of them and could gallop with the wind. For
the wind is fine, Arthur! It fills you so full of its power that you
stretch out your arms to it, and it makes you sing; and it comes,
and it comes again, stronger than ever, and it sweeps you on, just
like a great mass of music. And then it howls through the trees and
it flies over the valleys,--that was what you were thinking of,
weren’t you, Arthur?”
And Helen stopped, breathlessly, and gazed at him; her cheeks were
flushed, and her hands still tightly clasped.
“Yes,” said Arthur, half mechanically, for he had lost himself in
the girl’s enthusiasm, and felt the storm of his verses once more.
“Your poem made me think of that one time that was so gloriously,”
 Helen went on. “For the rain was almost blinding, and I was
drenched, but I did not even know it. For oh, the thunder! Arthur,
you’ve no idea what thunder is like till you’re near it! There fell
one fearful bolt quite near me, a great white, living thing, as
thick as a man’s body, and the crash of it seemed to split the air.
But oh, I didn’t mind it a bit! ‘Der Sanger triumphirt in Wettern!’
I think I was a real Valkyrie that time, and I only wished that I
might put it into music.”
The girl turned to the piano, and half in play struck a great
rumbling chord, that rolled and echoed through the room; she sounded
it once more, laughing aloud with glee. Arthur had sunk down upon a
chair beside her, and was bending forward, watching her with growing
excitement. For again and again Helen struck the keys with all the
power of her arms, until they seemed to give forth real storm and
thunder; and as she went on with her reckless play the mood grew
upon her, and she lost herself in the vision of the Storm-King
sweeping through the sky. She poured out a great stream of his wild
music, singing away to herself excitedly in the meantime. And as the
rush continued and the fierce music swelled louder, the phantasy
took hold of the girl and carried her beyond herself. She seemed to
become the very demon of the storm, unbound and reckless; she smote
the keys with right royal strength, and the piano seemed a thing of
life beneath her touch. The pace became faster, and the thunder
rattled and crashed more wildly, and there awoke in the girl’s soul
a power of musical utterance that she had never dreamed of in her
