Lexington company re-forming on the trodden village green. Their
captain, Parker, called out to me: "Forest-runner! We need your rifle!
Will you fight with us?"

"I cannot," I said, and ran towards the post-chaise, rifle on
shoulder.

The women and children of Lexington were gathered around it. I saw at
a glance that Silver Heels had given her seat to a frightened old
woman, and that other women were thrusting their children into the
vehicle, imploring Mount and Foxcroft to save them from the British.

"Michael," said Silver Heels, looking up with cool gray eyes, "the
British are firing at women in the farm-houses on the Concord Road
above here. We must get the children away."

"And you?" I asked, sharply. She lifted a barefooted urchin into the
chaise without answering.

A yoke of dusty, anxious oxen, drawing a hay-cart, came clattering up,
the poor beasts running heavily, while their driver followed on a trot
beside them, using his cruel goad without mercy.

"Haw! Haw! Gee! Gee! Haw!" he bellowed, guiding his bumping wagon into
the Bedford Road.

"The children here!" called out Silver Heels, in her clear voice, and
caught up another wailing infant, to soothe it and lift it into the
broad ox-wagon.

In a moment the wagon was full of old women and frantic children; a
young girl, carrying a baby, ran alongside, begging piteously for a
place, but already other vehicles were rattling up behind gaunt, rusty
horses, and places were found for the frightened little ones in the
confusion.

Some boys drove a flock of sheep into the Bedford Road; a herd of
young cattle broke and ran, scattering the sheep. Mount and I sprang
in front of Silver Heels, driving the cattle aside with clubbed
rifles. Then there came a heavy pounding of horses' hoofs in the mud,
a rush, a cry, and a hatless, coatless rider drew up in a cloud of
scattering gravel.

"More troops coming from Boston!" he shouted in his saddle. "Lord
Percy is at Roxbury with three regiments, marines, and cannon! Paul
Revere was taken at one o'clock this morning!" And away he galloped,
head bent low, reeking spurs clinging to his horse's gaunt flanks.

Silver Heels, standing beside me in the hanging morning mist, laid her
hand on my arm.

"If the British are at Roxbury," she said, "we are quite cut off, are
we not?"

I did not answer. Mount turned a grave, intelligent eye on me;
Foxcroft came up, wiping the mud and sweat from his eyes.

At that moment the drum and fife sounded from the green; the Lexington
company, arms trailing, came marching into the Bedford Road, Indian
file, Captain Parker leading.

Beside him, joyous, alert, transfigured, trotted the Weasel. "We've
got them now!" he called out to Mount. "We'll catch the redskins with
our hands at Charlestown Neck!"

The little barelegged drummer nodded seriously; the old Louisburg drum
rumbled out the route-march.

Into "Buckman's Tavern" filed the Lexington men and fell to slamming
and bolting the wooden shutters, piercing the doors and walls for
rifle-fire, piling tables and chairs and bedding along the veranda for
a rough breastwork.

"You must come with the convoy," I said, taking Silver Heels by the
hand.

Her grave, gray eyes met mine in perfect composure.

"We must stay," she said.

"They are bringing cannon--can you not understand?" I repeated,
harshly.

"I will not go," she said. "Every rifle is required here. I cannot
take you from these men in their dire need. Dear heart, can you not
understand me?"

"Am I to sacrifice you?" I asked, angrily. "No!" I cried. "We have
suffered enough--"

Tears sprang to her eyes; she laid her hand on my rifle.

"Other women have sent their dearest ones. Am I less brave than that
woman whose husband died yonder on his own door-sill? Am I a useless,
passionless clod, that my blood stirs at naught but pleasure? Look at
those dead men on the tavern steps! Look at our people's blood on the
grass yonder! Would you wed with a pink-and-white thing whose veins
run water? I saw them kill that poor boy behind his own barn!--these
redcoat ruffians who come across an ocean to slay us in our own land.
Do you forget I am a soldier's child?"

A loud voice bellowing from the tavern: "Women here for the
bullet-moulds! Get your women to the tavern!"

She caught my hand. "You see a maid may not stand idle in Lexington!"
she said, with a breathless smile.




CHAPTER XXVIII


Silver Heels stood in the tap-room of "Buckman's Tavern" casting
bullets; the barefoot drummer watched the white-hot crucible and baled
out the glittering molten metal or fed it with lumps of lead stripped
from the gate-post of Hooper's house in Danvers.

Near the window sat some Woburn Minute Men, cross-legged on the worn
floor, rolling cartridges. From time to time the parson of Woburn, who
had come to pray and shoot, took away the pile of empty powder-horns
and brought back others to be emptied.

The tavern was dim and damp; through freshly bored loopholes in the
shutters sunlight fell, illuminating the dark interior.

In their shirts, barearmed and bare of throat to the breast-bone, a
score of Lexington Minute Men stood along the line of loopholes, their
long rifles thrust out. They had no bayonets, but each man had driven
his hunting-knife into the wall beside him.

Jack Mount and the Weasel lay, curled up like giant cats, at the door,
blinking peacefully out through the cracks into the early sunshine. I
could hear their low-voiced conversation from where I stood at my
post, close to Silver Heels:

"Redcoats, Cade, not redskins," corrected Mount. "British
lobster-backs--eh, Cade? You remember how we drubbed them there in
Pittsburg, belt and buckle and ramrod--eh, Cade?"

"That was long ago, friend."

"Call me Jack! Why don't you call me Jack any more?" urged Mount. "You
know me now, don't you, Cade?"

"Ay, but I forget much. Do you know how I came here?"

"From Johnstown, Cade--from Johnstown, lad!"

"I cannot remember Johnstown."

Presently the Weasel peered around at Silver Heels.

"Who is that young lady?" he asked, mildly.

Silver Heels heard and smiled at the old man. The faintest quiver
curved her mouth; there was a shadow of pain in her eyes.

The fire from the crucible tinted her cheeks; she raised both bared
arms to push back her clustering hair. Hazel gray, her brave eyes met
