something that I can only compare, in its present effect, to the scent
of a strange flower passed rapidly under my nose. I seem in other words
to recall that I received in that brush the very liveliest impression
that my whole adventure was to yield--the impression that is my reason
for speaking of myself as having at the juncture in question "studied"
Mrs. Brissenden's back. Study of a profound sort would appear needed in
truth to account for it. It was as handsome and affirmative that she at
once met and evaded my view, but was not the affirmation (as
distinguished from the handsomeness, which was a matter of stature and
mass,) fairly downright and defiant? Didn't what I saw strike me as
saying straight at me, as far as possible, "I am young--I am and I
will be; see, see if I'm not; there, there, there!"--with "there's"
as insistent and rhythmical as the undulations of her fleeing presence,
as the bejewelled nod of her averted brow? If her face had not been
hidden, should I not precisely have found myself right in believing that
it looked, exactly, for those instants, dreadfully older than it had
ever yet had to? The answer ideally cynical would have been: "Oh, any
woman of your resources can look young with her back turned! But you've
had to turn it to make that proclamation." She passed out of the room
proclaiming, and I did stand there a little defeated, even though with
her word for another chance at her. Was this word one that she would
keep? I had got off--yes, to a certainty. But so too had not she?
Naturally, at any rate, I didn't stay planted; and though it seemed long
it was probably for no great time after this that I roamed in my
impatience. I was divided between the discourtesy of wishing the ladies
would go to bed and the apprehension that if they did too soon go I
might yet lose everything. Was Mrs. Briss waiting for more privacy, or
was she only waiting for a complete escape? Of course, even while I
asked myself that, I had to remember how much I was taking for granted
on her part in the way of conscious motive. Still, if she had not a
motive for escaping, why had she not had one, five minutes before, for
coming to the point with me? This inquiry kept me hovering where she
might at any instant find me, but that was not inconsistent with my
presently passing, like herself, into another room. The first one I
entered--there were great chains of them at Newmarch--showed me once
more, at the end opposite the door, the object that all day had been,
present or absent, most in my eyes, and that there now could be no
fallacy in my recognising. Mrs. Server's unquenchable little smile had
never yet been so far from quenched as when it recognised, on its own
side, that I had just had time to note how Ford Obert was, for a change,
taking it in. These two friends of mine appeared to have moved together,
after the music, to the corner in which I should not have felt it as
misrepresenting the matter to say that I surprised them. They owed
nothing of the harmony that held them--unlike my other couple--to the
constraint of a common seat; a small glazed table, a receptacle for
minute objects of price, extended itself between them as if it had
offered itself as an occasion for their drawing toward it a pair of low
chairs; but their union had nevertheless such an air of accepted
duration as led it slightly to puzzle me. This would have been a reason
the more for not interrupting it even had I not peculiarly wished to
respect it. It was grist to my mill somehow that something or other had
happened as a consequence of which Obert had lost the impulse to repeat
to me his odd invitation to intervene. He gave me no notice as I passed;
the notice was all from his companion. It constituted, I felt, on her
part, precisely as much and precisely as little of an invitation as it
had constituted at the moment--so promptly following our arrival--of my
first seeing them linked; which is but another way of saying that
nothing in Mrs. Server appeared to acknowledge a lapse. It was nearly
midnight, but she was again under arms; everything conceivable--or
perhaps rather inconceivable--had passed between us before dinner, but
her face was exquisite again in its repudiation of any reference.
Any reference, I saw, would have been difficult to me, had I unluckily
been forced to approach her. What would have made the rare delicacy of
the problem was that blankness itself was the most direct reference of
all. I had, however, as I passed her by, a comprehension as inward as
that with which I had watched Mrs. Briss's retreat. "What shall I see
when I next see you?" was what I had mutely asked of Mrs. Briss; but
"God grant I don't see you again at all!" was the prayer sharply
determined in my heart as I left Mrs. Server behind me. I left her
behind me for ever, but the prayer has not been answered. I did see her
again; I see her now; I shall see her always; I shall continue to feel
at moments in my own facial muscles the deadly little ache of her heroic
grin. With this, however, I was not then to reckon, and my simple
philosophy of the moment could be but to get out of the room. The result
of that movement was that, two minutes later, at another doorway, but
opening this time into a great corridor, I found myself arrested by a
combination that should really have counted for me as the least of my
precious anomalies, but that--as accident happened to protect me--I
watched, so long as I might, with intensity. I should in this connection
describe my eyes as yet again engaging the less scrutable side of the
human figure, were it not that poor Briss's back, now presented to me
beside his wife's--for these were the elements of the combination--had
hitherto seemed to me the most eloquent of his aspects. It was when he
presented his face that he looked, each time, older; but it was when he
showed you, from behind, the singular stoop of his shoulders, that he
looked oldest.
They had just passed the door when I emerged, and they receded, at a
slow pace and with a kind of confidential nearness, down the long avenue
of the lobby. Her head was always high and her husband's always low, so
that I couldn't be sure--it might have been only my fancy--that the
contrast of this habit was more marked in them than usual. If I had
known nothing about them I should have just unimaginatively said that
talk was all on one side and attention all on the other. I, of course,
for that matter, did know nothing about them; yet I recall how it came
to me, as my extemporised shrewdness hung in their rear, that I mustn't
think anything too grossly simple of what might be taking place between
them. My position was, in spite of myself, that of my having mastered
enough possibilities to choose from. If one of these might be--for her
face, in spite of the backward cock of her head, was turned to him--that
she was looking her time of life straight at him and yet making love
to him with it as hard as ever she could, so another was that he had
been already so thoroughly got back into hand that she had no need of
asking favours, that she was more splendid than ever, and that, the same
poor Briss as before his brief adventure, he was only feeling afresh in
his soul, as a response to her, the gush of the sacred fount.
Presumptous choice as to these alternatives failed, on my part, in time,
let me say, to flower; it rose before me in time that, whatever might
be, for the exposed instant, the deep note of their encounter, only one
thing concerned me in it: its being wholly their own business. So for
that I liberally let it go, passing into the corridor, but proceeding in
the opposite sense and aiming at an issue which I judged I should reach
before they would turn in their walk. I had not, however, reached it
before I caught the closing of the door furthest from me; at the sound
of which I looked about to find the Brissendens gone. They had not
remained for another turn, but had taken their course, evidently, back
to the principal drawing-room, where, no less presumably, the procession
of the ladies bedward was even then forming. Mrs. Briss would fall
straight into it, and I had accordingly lost her. I hated to appear to
pursue her, late in the day as it may appear to affirm that I put my
dignity before my curiosity.
Free again, at all events, to wait or to wander, I lingered a minute
where I had stopped--close to a wide window, as it happened, that, at
this end of the passage, stood open to the warm darkness and overhung,
from no great height, one of the terraces. The night was mild and rich,
and though the lights within were, in deference to the temperature, not
too numerous, I found the breath of the outer air a sudden corrective to
the grossness of our lustre and the thickness of our medium, our general
heavy humanity. I felt its taste sweet, and while I leaned for
refreshment on the sill I thought of many things. One of those that
passed before me was the way that Newmarch and its hospitalities were
sacrificed, after all, and much more than smaller circles, to material
frustrations. We were all so fine and formal, and the ladies in
particular at once so little and so much clothed, so beflounced yet so
denuded, that the summer stars called to us in vain. We had ignored them
in our crystal cage, among our tinkling lamps; no more free really to
alight than if we had been dashing in a locked railway-train across a
lovely land. I remember asking myself if I mightn't still take a turn
under them, and I remember that on appealing to my watch for its
sanction I found midnight to have struck. That then was the end, and my
only real alternatives were bed or the smoking-room. The difficulty with
bed was that I was in no condition to sleep, and the difficulty about
rejoining the men was that--definitely, yes--there was one of them I
desired not again to see. I felt it with sharpness as I leaned on the
sill; I felt it with sadness as I looked at the stars; I felt once more
what I had felt on turning a final back five minutes before, so
designedly, on Mrs. Server. I saw poor Briss as he had just moved away
from me, and I knew, as I had known in the other case, that my troubled
sense would fain feel I had practically done with him. It would be well,
for aught I could do for him, that I should have seen the last of
him. What remained with me from that vision of his pacing there with
his wife was the conviction that his fate, whatever it was, held him
fast. It wouldn't let him go, and all I could ask of it now was that it
should let me. I would go--I was going; if I had not had to accept
the interval of the night I should indeed already have gone. The
admonitions of that moment--only confirmed, I hasten to add, by what was
still to come--were that I should catch in the morning, with energy, an
earlier train to town than anyone else was likely to take, and get off
alone by it, bidding farewell for a long day to Newmarch. I should be in
small haste to come back, for I should leave behind me my tangled
theory, no loose thread of which need I ever again pick up, in no stray
