servant were not a thing a visitor could take action on; and the third
was the fact that the particular attribution of motive did him after
all no wrong. It was his own fault if the vulgar view, the view that
might have been taken of an inferior man, happened so incorrigibly to
fit him. He apparently wasn't so different from inferior men as that
came to. If therefore, in fine, Eugenio figured to him as "my friend"
because he was conscious of his seeing so much of him, what he made him
see on the same lines in the course of their present interview was ever
so much more. Densher felt that he marked himself, no doubt, as
insisting, by dissatisfaction with the gondolier's answer, on the
pursuit taken for granted in him; and yet felt it only in the
augmented, the exalted distance that was by this time established
between them. Eugenio had of course reflected that a word to Miss
Theale from such a pair of lips would cost him his place; but he could
also bethink himself that, so long as the word never came--and it was,
on the basis he had arranged, impossible--he enjoyed the imagination of
mounting guard. He had never so mounted guard, Densher could see, as
during these minutes in the damp loggia where the storm-gusts were
strong; and there came in fact for our young man, as a result of his
presence, a sudden sharp sense that everything had turned to the
dismal. Something had happened--he didn't know what; and it wasn't
Eugenio who would tell him. What Eugenio told him was that he thought
the ladies--as if their liability had been equal--were a "leetle"
fatigued, just a "leetle leetle," and without any cause named for it.
It was one of the signs of what Densher felt in him that, by a
profundity, a true deviltry of resource, he always met the latter's
Italian with English and his English with Italian. He now, as usual,
slightly smiled at him in the process--but ever so slightly this time,
his manner also being attuned, our young man made out, to the thing,
whatever it was, that constituted the rupture of peace.

This manner, while they stood a long minute facing each other over all
they didn't say, played a part as well in the sudden jar to Densher's
protected state. It was a Venice all of evil that had broken out for
them alike, so that they were together in their anxiety, if they really
could have met on it; a Venice of cold lashing rain from a low black
sky, of wicked wind raging through narrow passes, of general arrest and
interruption, with the people engaged in all the water-life huddled,
stranded and wageless, bored and cynical, under archways and bridges.
Our young man's mute exchange with his friend contained meanwhile such
a depth of reference that, had the pressure been but slightly
prolonged, they might have reached a point at which they were equally
weak. Each had verily something in mind that would have made a hash of
mutual suspicion and in presence of which, as a possibility, they were
more united than disjoined. But it was to have been a moment for
Densher that nothing could ease off--not even the formal propriety with
which his interlocutor finally attended him to the portone and bowed
upon his retreat. Nothing had passed about his coming back, and the air
had made itself felt as a non-conductor of messages. Densher knew of
course, as he took his way again, that Eugenio's invitation to return
was not what he missed; yet he knew at the same time that what had
happened to him was part of his punishment. Out in the square beyond
the fondamenta that gave access to the land-gate of the palace, out
where the wind was higher, he fairly, with the thought of it, pulled
his umbrella closer down. It couldn't be, his consciousness, unseen
enough by others--the base predicament of having, by a concatenation,
just to take such things: such things as the fact that one very acute
person in the world, whom he couldn't dispose of as an interested
scoundrel, enjoyed an opinion of him that there was no attacking, no
disproving, no (what was worst of all) even noticing. One had come to a
queer pass when a servant's opinion so mattered. Eugenio's would have
mattered even if, as founded on a low vision of appearances, it had
been quite wrong. It was the more disagreeable accordingly that the
vision of appearances was quite right, and yet was scarcely less low.

Such as it was, at any rate, Densher shook it off with the more
impatience that he was independently restless. He had to walk in spite
of weather, and he took his course, through crooked ways, to the
Piazza, where he should have the shelter of the galleries. Here, in the
high arcade, half Venice was crowded close, while, on the Molo, at the
limit of the expanse, the old columns of the Saint Theodore and of the
Lion were the frame of a door wide open to the storm. It was odd for
him, as he moved, that it should have made such a difference--if the
difference wasn't only that the palace had for the first time failed of
a welcome. There was more, but it came from that; that gave the harsh
note and broke the spell. The wet and the cold were now to reckon with,
and it was to Densher precisely as if he had seen the obliteration, at
a stroke, of the margin on a faith in which they were all living. The
margin had been his name for it--for the thing that, though it had held
out, could bear no shock. The shock, in some form, had come, and he
wondered about it while, threading his way among loungers as vague as
himself, he dropped his eyes sightlessly on the rubbish in shops. There
were stretches of the gallery paved with squares of red marble, greasy
now with the salt spray; and the whole place, in its huge elegance, the
grace of its conception and the beauty of its detail, was more than
ever like a great drawing-room, the drawing-room of Europe, profaned
and bewildered by some reverse of fortune. He brushed shoulders with
brown men whose hats askew, and the loose sleeves of whose pendent
jackets, made them resemble melancholy maskers. The tables and chairs
that overflowed from the cafés were gathered, still with a pretence of
service, into the arcade, and here and there a spectacled German, with
his coat-collar up, partook publicly of food and philosophy. These were
impressions for Densher too, but he had made the whole circuit thrice
before he stopped short, in front of Florian's, with the force of his
sharpest. His eye had caught a face within the café--he had spotted an
acquaintance behind the glass. The person he had thus paused long
enough to look at twice was seated, well within range, at a small table
on which a tumbler, half-emptied and evidently neglected, still
remained; and though he had on his knee, as he leaned back, a copy of a
French newspaper--the heading of the Figaro was visible--he stared
straight before him at the little opposite rococo wall. Densher had him
for a minute in profile, had him for a time during which his identity
produced, however quickly, all the effect of establishing
connexions--connexions startling and direct; and then, as if it were
the one thing more needed, seized the look, determined by a turn of the
head, that might have been a prompt result of the sense of being
noticed. This wider view showed him all Lord Mark--Lord Mark as
encountered, several weeks before, the day of the first visit of each
to Palazzo Leporelli. For it had been all Lord Mark that was going out,
on that occasion, as he came in--he had felt it, in the hall, at the
time; and he was accordingly the less at a loss to recognise in a few
seconds, as renewed meeting brought it to the surface, the same
potential quantity.

It was a matter, the whole passage--it could only be--but of a few
seconds; for as he might neither stand there to stare nor on the other
hand make any advance from it, he had presently resumed his walk, this
time to another pace. It had been for all the world, during his pause,
as if he had caught his answer to the riddle of the day. Lord Mark had
simply faced him--as he had faced him, not placed by him, not at
first--as one of the damp shuffling crowd. Recognition, though hanging
fire, had then clearly come; yet no light of salutation had been struck
from these certainties. Acquaintance between them was scant enough for
neither to take it up. That neither had done so was not, however, what
now mattered, but that the gentleman at Florian's should be in the
place at all. He couldn't have been in it long; Densher, as inevitably
a haunter of the great meeting-ground, would in that case have seen him
before. He paid short visits; he was on the wing; the question for him
even as he sat there was of his train or of his boat. He had come back
for something--as a sequel to his earlier visit; and whatever he had
come back for it had had time to be done. He might have arrived but
last night or that morning; he had already made the difference. It was
a great thing for Densher to get this answer. He held it close, he
hugged it, quite leaned on it as he continued to circulate. It kept him
going and going--it made him no less restless. But it explained--and
that was much, for with explanations he might somehow deal. The vice in
the air, otherwise, was too much like the breath of fate. The weather
had changed, the rain was ugly, the wind wicked, the sea impossible,
because of Lord Mark. It was because of him, a fortiori, that the
palace was closed. Densher went round again twice; he found the visitor
each time as he had found him first. Once, that is, he was staring
before him; the next time he was looking over his Figaro, which he
had opened out. Densher didn't again stop, but left him apparently
unconscious of his passage--on another repetition of which Lord Mark
had disappeared. He had spent but the day; he would be off that night;
he had now gone to his hotel for arrangements. These things were as
plain to Densher as if he had had them in words. The obscure had
cleared for him--if cleared it was; there was something he didn't see,
the great thing; but he saw so round it and so close to it that this
was almost as good. He had been looking at a man who had done what he
had come for, and for whom, as done, it temporarily sufficed. The man
had come again to see Milly, and Milly had received him. His visit
would have taken place just before or just after luncheon, and it was
the reason why he himself had found her door shut.

He said to himself that evening, he still said even on the morrow, that
he only wanted a reason, and that with this perception of one he could
now mind, as he called it, his business. His business, he had settled,
as we know, was to keep thoroughly still; and he asked himself why it
should prevent this that he could feel, in connexion with the crisis,
