a rock, the flush of anger still staining his weather-ravaged visage,
his small, wrathful eyes fixed on the north.
Behind him rode Colonels Cox and Paris, long, heavy swords drawn,
heading the Canajoharie regiment, which pressed forward excitedly. The
remaining regiments of Tryon County militia followed, led by Colonel
Seeber, Colonel Bellenger, Majors Frey, Eisenlord, and Van Slyck. Then
came the baggage-wagons, some drawn by oxen, some by four horses; and in
the rear of these rode Colonel Visscher, leading the Caughnawaga
regiment, closing the dusty column.
"Damn them!" growled Elerson to Murphy, "they're advancing without
flanking-parties or scouts. I wish Dan'l Morgan was here."
"'Tis th' Gineral's jooty to luk out f'r his throops, not Danny Morgan's
or mine," replied the big rifleman in disgust.
The column halted. I signalled my men to follow me and hastened along
the flanks under a fire of chaff: "Look at young buckskins! There go
Morgan's macaronis! God help the red-coats this day! How's the scalp
trade, son?"
Herkimer was sitting his horse in the middle of the road as I came up;
and he scowled down at me when I gave him the officer's salute and stood
at attention beside his stirrup.
"Veil, you can shpeak," he said, bluntly; "efery-body shpeaks but me!"
I said that I and my riflemen were at his disposal if he desired leaders
for flanking-parties or scouts; and his face softened as he listened,
looking down at me in silence.
"Sir," he said, "it iss to my shame I say dot my sodgers command me, not
I my sodgers."
Then, looking back at Colonel Cox, he added, bitterly:
"I haff ordered flanking-parties and scouts, but my officers, who know
much more than I, haff protested against dot useless vaste of time. I
thank you, sir; I can your offer not accept."
The drums began again; the impatient Palatine regiment moved forward,
yelling their approval, and we fell back to the roadside, while the
boisterous troops tramped past, cheering, singing, laughing in their
excitement. Mechanically we fell in behind the Caughnawagas, who formed
the rear-guard, and followed on through the dust; meaning to go with
them only a mile or so before we started back across country with the
news which I was now at liberty to take in person to General Schuyler.
For I considered my mission at an end. In one thing only had I failed:
Walter Butler was still free; but now that he commanded a company of
outlaws and savages in St. Leger's army, I, of course, had no further
hope of arresting him or of dealing with him in any manner save on the
battle-field.
So at last I felt forced to return to Varick Manor; but the fear of the
dread future was in me, and all the hopeless misery of a hopeless
passion made of me a coward, so that I shrank from the pain I must
surely inflict and endure. Kinder for her, kinder for me, that we should
never meet again.
Not that I desired to die. I was too young in life and love to wish for
death as a balm. Besides, I knew it could not bring us peace. Still, it
was one solution of a problem otherwise so utterly hopeless that I,
heartsick, had long since wearied of the solving and carried my hurt
buried deep, fearful lest my prying senses should stir me to disinter
the dead hope lying there.
Absence renders passion endurable. But at sight of her I loved I knew I
could not endure it; and, uncertain of myself, having twice nigh failed
under the overwhelming provocations of a love returned, I shrank from
the coming duel 'twixt love and duty which must once more be fought
within my breast.
Nor could my duty, fighting blindly, expect encouragement from her I
loved, save at the last gasp and under the heel of love. Then, only, at
the very last would she save me; for there was that within her which
revolted at a final wrong, and I knew that not even our twin passion
could prevail to stamp out the last spark of conscience and slay our
souls forever.
Brooding, as I trudged forward through the dust, I became aware that the
drums had ceased their beating, and that the men were marching quietly
with little laughter or noise of song.
The heat was intense, although a black cloud had pushed up above the
west, veiling the sun. Flies swarmed about the column; sweat poured from
men and horses; the soldiers rolled back their sleeves and plodded on,
muskets a-trail and coats hanging over their shoulders. Once, very far
away, the looming horizon was veined with lightning; and, after a long
time, thunder sounded.
We had marched northward on a rutty road some two miles or more from
our camp at Oriska, and I was asking Mount how near we were to the old
Algonquin-Iroquois trail which runs from the lakes across the wilderness
to the healing springs at Saratoga, when the column halted and I heard
an increasing confusion of voices from the van.
"There's a ravine ahead," said Elerson. "I'm thinking they'll have
trouble with these wagons, for there's a swamp at the bottom and only a
log-road across."
"Tis the proper shpot f'r to ambuscade us," observed Murphy, craning his
neck and standing on tiptoe to see ahead.
We walked forward and sat down on the bank close to the brow of the
hill. Directly ahead a ravine, shaped like a half-moon, cut the road,
and the noisy Canajoharie regiment was marching into it. The bottom of
the ravine appeared to be a swamp, thinly timbered with tamarack and
blue-beech saplings, where the reeds and cattails grew thick, and
little, dark pools of water spread, all starred with water-lilies,
shining intensely white in the gloom of the coming storm.
"There do be wild ducks in thim rushes," said Murphy, musingly. "Sure I
count it sthrange, Jack Mount, that thim burrds sit quiet-like an' a
screechin' rigiment marchin' acrost that log-road."
"You mean that somebody has been down there before and scared the ducks
away?" I asked.
"Maybe, sorr," he replied, grimly.
Instinctively we leaned forward to scan the rising ground on the
opposite side of the ravine. Nothing moved in the dense thickets. After
a moment Mount said quietly: "I'm a liar or there's a barked twig
showing raw wood alongside of that ledge."
He glanced at the pan of his rifle, then again fixed his keen, blue
eyes on the tiny glimmer of white which even I could distinguish now,
though Heaven only knows how his eyes had found it in all that tangle.
"That's raw wood," he repeated.
"A deer might bark a twig," said I.
"Maybe, sorr," muttered Murphy; "but there's divil a deer w'ud nibble
sheep-laurel."
The men of the Canajoharie regiment were climbing the hill on the other
side of the ravine now. Colonel Cox came galloping back, shouting:
"Bring up those wagons! The road is clear! Move your men forward there!"
Whips cracked; the vehicles rattled off down hill, drivers yelling,
soldiers pushing the heavy wheels forward over the log-road below which
spurted water as the bumping wagons struck the causeway.
I remember that Colonel Cox had just drawn bridle, half-way up the
opposite incline, and was leaning forward in his saddle to watch the
progress of an ox-team, when a rifle-shot rang out and he tumbled clean
out of his saddle, striking the shallow water with a splash.
Then hell itself broke loose in that black ravine; volley on volley
poured into the Canajoharie regiment; officers fell from their horses;
drivers reeled and pitched forward under the heels of their plunging
teams; wagons collided and broke down, choking the log-road. Louder and
louder the terrific yells of the outlaws and savages rang out on our
flanks; I saw our soldiers in the ravine running frantically in all
directions, falling on the log-road, floundering waist-deep in the water
and mud, slipping, stumbling, staggering; while faster and faster
cracked the hidden rifles, and the pitiless bullets pelted them from the
heights above.
"Stand! Stand! you fools!" bawled Elerson. "Take to the timber! Every
man to a tree! For God's sake remember Braddock!"
"Look out!" shouted Mount, dragging me with him to a rock. "Close up,
Elerson! Close up, Murphy!"
Straight into the stupefied ranks of the Caughnawaga company came
leaping the savages, shooting, stabbing, clubbing the dazed men,
dragging them from the ranks with shrieks of triumph. I saw one
half-naked creature, awful in his paint, run up and strike a soldier
full in the face with his fist, then dash out his brains with a
death-maul and tear his scalp off.
Murphy and Mount were loading and firing steadily; Elerson and I kept
our rifles ready for a rush. I was perfectly stunned; the spectacle did
not seem real to me.
The Caughnawaga men, apparently roused from their momentary stupor, fell
back into small squads, shooting in every direction; and the savages,
unable to withstand a direct fire, sheered off and came bounding past us
to cover, yelping like timber-wolves. Three darted directly at us; a
young warrior, painted in bars of bright yellow, raised his hatchet to
hurl it; but Murphy's bullet spun him round like a top till he crashed
against a tree and fell in a heap, quivering all over.
The two others had leaped on Mount. Swearing, threatening, roaring with
rage, the desperate giant shook them off into our midst, and cut the
throat of one as he lay sprawling--a sickening spectacle, for the poor
wretch floundered and thrashed about among the leaves and sticks,
squirting thick blood all over us.
The remaining savage, a chief, by his lock and eagle-quill, had fastened
to Elerson's legs with the fury of a tree-cat, clawing and squalling,
while Murphy dealt him blow on blow with clubbed stock, and finally was
forced to shoot him so close that the rifle-flame set his greased
scalp-lock afire.
"Take to the timber, you Tryon County men! Remember Braddock!" shouted
Colonel Paris, plunging about on his wounded horse; while from every
tree and bush rang out the reports of the rifles; and the steady stream
