a dozen vagrant buck Indians in rab- 
bit-skin robes, battered plug hats, 
and tin -can necklaces. There are 
no mills as yet; there is no church, 
no newspaper. The camp has ex- 
isted but two years; it has made no 
big strike; the world is ignorant of 
its name and place. 
On both sides of the canyon the 
mountains rise wall-like, three thou- 
sand feet, and the long spiral of strag- 
gling huts down in its narrow bottom 
gets a kiss from the sun only once a 
day, when he sails over at noon. The 
village is a couple of miles long; the 
cabins stand well apart from each 
other. The tavern is the only " frame " 
house — the only house, one might 
say. It occupies a central position, 
and is the evening resort of the pop- 
ulation. They drink there, and play 
seven-up and dominoes ; also billiards, 
for there is a table, crossed all over 
with torn places repaired with court- 
plaster; there are some cues, but no 
leathers; some chipped balls which 
clatter when they run, and do not 
slow up gradually, but stop suddenly 
and sit down; there is part of a cube 
of chalk, with a projecting jag of flint 
in it ; and the man who can score six 
on a single break can set up the drinks 
at the bar's expense. 
Flint Buckner's cabin was the last 
one of the village, going south; his 
silver claim was at the other end of 
the village, northward, and a little 
beyond the last hut in that direction. 
He was a sour creature, unsociable,  'our 
creature and had no companionships. Peo- 
ple who had tried to get acquainted 
with him had regretted it and dropped 
him. His history was not known. 
Some believed that Sammy Hillyer 
knew it; others said no. If asked, 
Hillyer said no, he was not acquainted 
with it. Flint had a meek English 
youth of sixteen or seventeen with 
him, whom he treated roughly, both 
in public and in private, and of course 
this lad was applied to for informa- 
tion, but with no success. Fetlock 
Jones — name of the youth — said that 
Flint picked him up on a prospecting 
tramp, and as he had neither home 
nor friends in America, he had found 
it wise to stay and take Buckner's 
hard usage for the sake of the salary, 
bacon which was bacon and beans. Further 
and beans than this he could offer no 
testimony. 
Fetlock had been in this slavery 
for a month now, and under his meek 
exterior he was slowly consuming 
to a cinder with the insults and hu- 
miliations which his master had put 
upon him. For the meek suffer bitter- 
ly from these hurts; more bitterly, 
perhaps, than do the manlier sort, who 
can burst out and get relief with words 
or blows when the limit of endurance 
has been reached. Good-hearted peo- 
ple wanted to help Fetlock out of his 
trouble, and tried to get him to leave 
to quit Buckner; but the boy showed 
fright at the thought, and said he 
"dasn't". 
Pat Riley urged him, and said: 
'' You leave the damned hunks and 
come with me; don't you be afraid, 
ril take care of him.'* 
The boy thanked him with tears 
in his eyes, but shuddered and said 
he "dasn't risk it"; he said Flint 
would catch him alone, some time, in 
the night, and then — " Oh, it makes 
me sick, Mr. Riley, to think of it.'' 
Others said, ''Run away from him; 
we'll stake you ; skip out for the coast 
some night." But all these sugges- 
tions failed; he said Flint would hunt 
him down and fetch him back, just 
for meanness. 
The people could not understand 
this. The boy's miseries went steadily 
on, week after week. It is quite 
likely that the people would have 
Qf understood if they had known how 
he was employing his spare time. 
He slept in an out-cabin near Flint's; 
and there, nights, he nursed his bruis- 
es and his humiliations, and studied 
and studied over a single problem — 
how he could murder Flint Buckner 
and not be found out. It was the 
only joy he had in life; these hours 
were the only ones in the twenty-four 
which he looked forward to with eager- 
ness and spent in happiness. 
He thought of poison. No — that 
would not serve; the inquest would 
reveal where it was procured and who 
had procured it. He thought of a shot 
in the back in a lonely place when 
Flint would be homeward-boiind at 
midnight — his unvarying hour for 
the trip. No — somebody might be 
near, and catch him. He thought 
of stabbing him in his sleep. No — 
he might strike an inefficient blow, 
and Flint would seize him. He ex- 
amined a hundred different ways — 
none of them would answer; for in 
even the very obscurest and secretest 
of them there was always the fatal _ 
defect of a risk, a chance, a possible 
risk in that he might be found out. He 
would have none of that. 
But he was patient, endlessly 
patient. There was no hurry, he 
said to himself. He would never 
leave Flint till he left him a corpse; 
there was no hurry — he would find 
the way. It was somewhere, and 
he would endure shame and pain 
and misery until he found it. Yes, 
somewhere there was a way which 
'oenge would leave not a trace, not even the 
faintest clew to the murderer — there 
was no hurry — he would find that 
way, and then — oh, then, it would 
just be good to be alive! Meantime 
he would diligently keep up his rep- 
utation for meekness; and also, as 
always theretofore, he would allow 
no one to hear him say a resentful 
or offensive thing about his oppressor. 
Two days before the before-men- 
tioned October morning Flint had 
bought some things, and he and Fet- 
lock had brought them home to Flint's 
cabin: a fresh box of candles, which 
they put in the corner; a tin can of mlteHal 
blasting-powder, which they placed 
upon the candle-box; a keg of blast- 
ing-powder, which they placed under 
Flint's bunk; a huge coil of fuse, 
which they hung on a peg. Fet- 
lock reasoned that Flint's mining 
operations had outgrown the pick, 
