" Oh ! I saw him associating with you, and I 
thought he was a boy, too. Pardon me!" Lottie 
turned from giving Boyne his coup-de-grace, to 
plant a little stab in Ellen 's breast. " To be sure, 
now Mr. Breckon has found those friends of his, I 
suppose he won 't want to flirt with Ellen any more." 
"Ah, ha, ha!" Boyne broke in. "Lottie is mad 
because he stopped to speak to some ladies he knew. 
Women, I suppose she d call them." 
"Well, I shouldn 't call him a gentleman, any 
way," said Lottie. 
The pretty, smooth-faced, fresh-faced young fel 
low whom their varying debate had kept in abey 
ance, looked round at them over his shoulder as 
he leaned on the rail, and seemed to discover Boyne 
for the first time. He came promptly towards the 
Kentons. 
" Now," said Lottie, rapidly, " you 'll just have to." 
The young fellow touched his cap to the whole 
group, but he ventured to address only Boyne. 
" Every one seems to be about this morning," he 
said, with the cheery English-rising inflection. 
" Yes," answered Boyne, with such snubbing cold 
ness that Ellen 's heart was touched. 
 
"It 's so pleasant," she said, "after that dark 
weather." 
"Isn 't it?" cried the young fellow, gratefully. 
" One doesn 't often get such sunshine as this at 
sea, you know." 
"My sister, Miss Kenton, Mr. Pogis," Boyne 
solemnly intervened. "And Miss Lottie Ken- 
ton." 
The pretty boy bowed to each in turn, but he 
made no pretence of being there to talk with Ellen. 
"Have you been ill, too?" he actively addressed 
himself to Lottie. 
"No, just mad," she said. "I wasn 't very sick, 
and that made it all the worse being down in a 
poky state-room when I wanted to walk." 
"And I suppose you ve been making up for lost 
time this morning?" 
" Not half," said Lottie. 
"Oh, do finish the half with me!" 
Lottie instantly rose, and flung her sister the 
wrap she had been holding ready to shed from the 
moment the young man had come up. " Keep that 
for me, Nell. Are you good at catching ?" she asked 
him. 
"Catching?" 
"Yes! People," she explained, and at a sudden 
twist of the ship she made a clutch at his shoul 
der. 
"Oh! I think I can catch you." 
As they moved off together, Boyne said, "Well, 
upon my word!" but Ellen did not say anything 
 
in comment on Lottie. After a while she asked, 
" Who were the ladies that Mr. Breckon met ?" 
"I didn 't hear their names. They were some 
body he hadn 't seen before since the ship started. 
They looked like a young lady and her mother. 
It made Lottie mad when he stopped to speak with 
them, and she wouldn 't wait till he could get 
through. Kan right away, and made me come, 
too." 
XIII 
BRECKON had not seen the former interest between 
himself and Ellen lapse to commonplace acquaint 
ance without due sense of loss. He suffered justly, 
but he did not suffer passively, or without several 
attempts to regain the higher ground. In spite of 
these he was aware of being distinctly kept to the 
level which he accused himself of having chosen, 
by a gentle acquiescence in his choice more fatal 
than snubbing. The advances that he made across 
the table, while he still met Miss Kenton alone 
there, did not carry beyond the rack supporting 
her plate. She talked on whatever subject he start 
ed with that angelic sincerity which now seemed 
so far from him, but she started none herself; she 
did not appeal to him for his opinion upon any 
question more psychological than the barometer; 
and, 
"In a tumultuous privacy of storm," 
he found himself as much estranged from her as 
if a fair-weather crowd had surrounded them. He 
did not believe that she resented the levity he had 
shown; but he had reason to fear that she had 
finally accepted it as his normal mood, and in her 
efforts to meet him in it, as if he had no other, 
 
he read a tolerance that was worse than contempt. 
When he tried to make her think differently, if 
that was what she thought of him, he fancied her 
rising to the notion he wished to give her, and then 
shrinking from it, as if it must bring her the dis 
appointment of some trivial joke. 
It was what he had taught her to expect of him, 
and he had himself to blame. Now that he had 
thrown that precious chance away, he might well 
have overvalued it. She had certain provincial 
isms which he could not ignore. She did not know 
the right use of will and shall, and would and 
should, and she pronounced the letter r with a 
hard mid- Western twist. Her voice was weak and 
thin, and she could not govern it from being at 
times a gasp and at times a drawl. She did not 
dress with the authority of women who know more 
of their clothes than the people they buy them of; 
she did not carry herself like a pretty girl; she 
had not the definite stamp of young-ladyism. Yet 
she was undoubtedly a lady in every instinct; she 
wore with pensive grace the clothes which she 
had not subjected to her personal taste; and if she 
did not carry herself like a pretty girl, she had a 
beauty which touched and entreated. 
More and more Breckon found himself studying 
her beauty her soft, brown brows, her gentle, dark 
eyes, a little sunken, and with the lids pinched 
by suffering; the cheeks somewhat thin, but not 
colorless; the long chin, the clear forehead, and 
the massed brown hair, that seemed too heavy for 
 
the drooping neck. It was not the modern athletic 
type ; it was rather of the earlier period, when beau 
ty was associated with the fragility despised by a 
tanned and golfing generation. Ellen Kenton 's 
wrists were thin, and her hands long and narrow. 
As he looked at her across the racks during those 
two days of storm, he had sometimes the wish to 
take her long, narrow hands in his, and beg her to 
believe that he was worthier her serious friendship 
than he had shown himself. What he was sure 
of at all times now was that he wished to know the 
secret of that patient pathos of hers. She was not 
merely, or primarily, an invalid. Her family had 
treated her as an invalid, but, except Lottie, whose 
rigor might have been meant sanatively, they treat 
ed her more with the tenderness people use with 
a wounded spirit; and Breckon fancied moments 
of something like humility in her, when she seemed 
to cower from his notice. These were not so imag 
inable after her family took to their berths and 
left her alone with him, but the touching mystery 're 
mained, a sort of bewilderment, as he guessed it, a 
surprise such as a child might show at some incom 
prehensible harm. It was this grief which he had 
refused not merely to know he still doubted his 
right to know it but to share; he had denied not 
only his curiosity but his sympathy, and had exiled 
himself to a region where, when her family came 
back with the fair weather, he felt himself farther 
from her than before their acquaintance began. 
He had made an overture to its renewal in the 
 
book he lent her, and then Mrs. Rasmith and her 
daughter had appeared on deck, and borne down 
upon him when he was walking with Lottie Kenton 
and trying to begin his self-retrieval through her. 
