She would have given anything to have seen him somewhere else, in new
surroundings, anywhere except in her own drawing-room, where every
familiar object oppressed her and reminded her of her mistakes and
illusions. She felt that she must say something, but the blood rose in
her brain and confused her. He saw her embarrassment, or guessed it.
"So far things have gone better than I expected," he said at last, "but
that only makes the end more doubtful."
She turned to him slowly and with an involuntary look of gratitude for
having broken the silence.
"I mean," he went on, "that since Guido is so ready to grasp at any
straw you throw him, it will be hard to make him understand you, when
things have gone a little further."
"Is that all you mean?" She asked the question almost sharply.
"Yes."
"You do not mean that you still wish I would marry him after--after what
I told you the other evening?"
The interrogation was in her voice, and that was hard, and demanded an
answer. Lamberti looked away, and did not reply at once, for he meant to
tell the exact truth, and was not quite sure where it lay. He felt, too,
that her manner had changed notably since they had last talked, and
though he had no intention of taking the upper hand, it was not in his
nature to submit to any dictation, even from the woman he loved.
"Answer me, please," said Cecilia, rather imperiously.
"Yes, I will. I wish it were possible for you to marry him, that is
all."
"And you know that it is not."
"I am almost sure that it is not."
"How cautious you are!"
"The matter is serious. But you said that you had something to say to
me. What is it?"
"I wanted to tell you that I am sick of all this deception, of writing
notes that are meant to deceive a man for whom I have the most sincere
friendship, of letting the whole world think that I will do what I would
not do, if I were to die for it."
He looked at her, then clasped his hands upon his knees and shook his
head.
"I must see him," she said, after a pause, "I must see him at once, and
you must help me. If I could only speak to him I could make him
understand, and he would be glad I had spoken, and we should always be
good friends. But I must see him alone, and talk to him. Make it
possible, for I know you can. I am not afraid of the consequences. Take
me to him. It is the only true and honest thing to do!"
Lamberti believed that this was true; he was a man of action and had no
respect for society's prejudices, when society was not present to
enforce its laws. It would have seemed incredible to Romans that an
Italian girl could think of doing what Cecilia proposed, and if it were
ever known, her reputation would be gravely damaged. But Cecilia was not
like other young girls; society should never know what she had done, and
she was quite right in saying that her plan was really the best and most
honourable.
"I can take you to him," Lamberti said. "I suppose you know what you are
risking."
"Nothing, if I go with you. You would not let me run any risk."
She did not raise her voice, she hardly changed her tone, but nothing
she had ever said had given him such a thrilling sensation of pleasure.
"Do you trust me as much as that?" he asked.
"Yes, as much as that."
She smiled, and looked down at her hand, and then glanced at him
quickly, and almost happily. If she had studied men for ten years she
could not have found word or look more certain to touch him and win him
to her way.
"Thank you," he said, rather curtly, for he was thinking of another
answer. "If I take you to Guido, what shall you say to him?"
She drew herself up against the back of the sofa, but the smile still
lingered on her lips.
"You must trust me, too," she answered. "Do you think I can compose set
speeches beforehand? When shall we go? How is it to be managed?"
"You often go out with your maid, do you not? What sort of woman is she?
A dragon?"
"No!" Cecilia laughed. "She is very respectable and nice, and thinks I
am perfection. But then, she is terribly near-sighted, and cannot wear
spectacles because they fall off her nose."
"Then she loses her way easily, I suppose?" said Lamberti, too much
intent on his plans to be amused at trifles.
"Yes. She is always losing her way."
"That might easily happen to her in the Palazzo Farnese. It is a huge
place, and you could manage to go up one way while she went up the
other. Besides, there is a lift at the back, not to mention the
servants' staircases, in which she might be hopelessly lost. Can you
trust her not to lose her head and make the porters search the palace
for you, if you are separated from her?"
"I am not sure. But she will stay wherever I tell her to wait for me.
That might be better. You see, my only excuse for going to the Palazzo
Farnese would be to see the ambassador's daughter, and she is in the
country."
"I think she must have come to town for a day or two, for I met her this
afternoon. That is a good reason for going to see her. At the door of
the embassy send your maid on an errand that will take an hour, and tell
her to wait for you in the cab at the gate. If the girl is at home you
need not stay ten minutes. Then you can see Guido during the rest of the
time. It will be long enough, and besides, the maid will wait."
"For ever, if I tell her to! But you, where shall you be?"
"You will meet me on the stairs as you come down from the embassy. Wear
something simple and dark that people have not seen you wear before, and
carry a black parasol and a guide-book. Have one of those brown veils
that tourists wear against the sun. Fold it up neatly and put it into
the pocket of the guide-book instead of the map, or pin it to the inside
of your parasol. You can put it on as soon as you have turned the corner
of the stairs, out of sight of the embassy door, for the footman will
not go in till you are as far as that. If you cannot put it on yourself,
I will do it for you."
"Do you know how to put on a woman's veil?" Cecilia asked, with a little
laugh.
"Of course! It is easy enough. I have often fastened my sister's for her
at picnics."
"What time shall I come?"
"A little before eleven. Guido cannot be ready before that."
"But he has a servant," said Cecilia, suddenly remembering the detail.
"What will he think?"
"He has two, but they shall both be out, and I shall have the key to his
door in my pocket. We will manage that."
"Shall you be sure to know just when I come?"
"I shall see you, but you will not see me till we meet on the landing."
"I knew you could manage it, if you only would."
"It is simple enough. There is not the slightest risk, if you will do
exactly what I have told you."
It seemed easy indeed, and Cecilia was almost happy at the thought that
she was soon to be freed from the intolerable situation into which she
allowed herself to be forced. She was very grateful, too, and beyond her
gratitude was the unspeakable satisfaction in the man she loved. Instead
of making difficulties, he smoothed them; instead of prating of what
society might think, he would help her to defy it, because he knew that
she was right.
"I should like to thank you," she said simply. "I do not know how."
He seemed to say something in answer, in a rather discontented way, but
so low that she could not catch the words.
"What did you say?" she asked unwisely.
"Nothing. I am glad to be of service to you. Say the right things to
Guido; for you are going to do rather an eccentric thing in order to say
them, and a mistake would be fatal."
He spoke almost roughly, but she was not offended. He had a right to be
rough, since he was ready to do whatever she asked of him; yet not
understanding him, while loving him, her instinct made her wish him
really to know how pleased she was. She put out her hand a little
timidly and touched his, as a much older woman might have done. To her
surprise, he grasped it instantly, and held it so tightly that he hurt
her for a moment. He dropped it then, pushing it from him as his hold
relaxed, almost throwing it off.
"What is the matter?" Cecilia asked, surprised.
But at that moment her mother entered the room from the boudoir.
                              CHAPTER XXIV
In agreeing to the dangerous scheme, Lamberti had yielded to an impulse
founded upon his intuitive knowledge of women, and not at all upon his
inborn love of anything in which there was risk. The danger was for
Cecilia, not for himself, in any case; and it was real, for, if it
should ever be known that she had gone to Guido's rooms, nothing but her
marriage with him would silence the gossips. Society cannot be blamed
for drawing a line somewhere, considering how very far back it sets the
limit.
Lamberti, without reasoning about it, knew that no woman ever does well
what she does not like doing. If he persisted in making Cecilia attempt
to break gradually with Guido, she would soon make mistakes and spoil
everything. That was his conviction. She felt, at present, that if she
could see Guido face to face, she could persuade him to give her up; and
the probability was that she would succeed, or else that she would be
moved by real pity for him and thus become genuinely ready to follow
Lamberti's original advice. The sensible course to follow was,
therefore, to help her in the direction she had chosen.
Early in the morning Lamberti was at his friend's bedside. Guido was
much better now, and there was no risk in taking him to his sitting
