“Thank you, sir. I should have remembered it without a card, but I will
keep it.”
“Referring to my conversation with you yesterday, I have made some
inquiries of my business acquaintances.”
“What did you learn, sir?”
“That his reputation is not of the best. He is not a man who is above
suspicion, but he takes care to keep within the law. In fact, as far as
I can learn, he is a tricky man.”
“I hope that will never be said of me, Mr. Franklin.”
“It could never be said of your father. He was as straight and honorable
a man as ever lived.”
“I am proud to hear you say so,” said Bernard, flushing with pleasure.
“I may be a little hasty, but I can’t help feeling that in some way Mr.
McCracken has wronged you.”
“In what way, sir?”
“I think he has not accounted to you for property your father placed in
his hands.”
“The same thought came into my mind, Mr. Franklin, but I did not wish to
suspect my guardian, with nothing to go upon.”
“He seems to be just the man to cheat an orphan. A man who is dishonest
in one way is likely to be dishonest in another.”
“Even if it is so, I suppose I have no way of proving it.”
“Probably not. If there were any proofs of the trust reposed by your
father, Mr. McCracken would be likely to destroy them. I will think over
the matter, and if I can hit upon any course that would benefit you I
will let you know.”
Bernard and his new friend talked further of his father. It was a
delight to the boy to meet some one who had known the parents of whom he
could scarcely remember anything. All that Mr. Franklin had to say of
the elder Brooks redounded to his credit, and this was naturally
gratifying to his son.
When they parted, Bernard asked, “Shall I mention to Mr. McCracken
meeting you?”
“I think not--at present.”
But chance ordered otherwise...
When Bernard was drawing his handkerchief out of his side pocket after
supper, he twitched out the card, which fell to the floor.
Mr. McCracken’s sharp eye detected it.
“What is that?” he asked.
“A card.”
“Of course. What name is on it?”
“Alvin Franklin.”
“Who is he? Is it a man you know?”
“Yes, sir. It is an acquaintance of my father.”
“When did you see him?”
“To-day, at the St. Nicholas Hotel.”
“Did he talk to you about your father?”
“Yes, sir.”
“What did he say, and how did he happen to know him?”
Bernard answered this question, but did not think it necessary to speak
of the money which his father was said to have left.
Mr. McCracken made no comment, but did not seem pleased. When Bernard
went up to bed, he said to himself, “I must get the boy out of the city.
This man may tell him too much.”
CHAPTER XIII.  PROFESSOR PUFFER.
|Three days later Mr. McCracken said to Bernard at the breakfast table:
“Well, I have secured a position for you.”
“Indeed, sir, what is it?” inquired Bernard, with interest. “Is it in
the city?”
“No; did you particularly wish to live in the city?”
“No, sir; as long as the position is a good one, and is likely to lead
to something, I am not particular.”
“You are a sensible boy. Let me say, then, that my friend Professor
Puffer--Ezra Puffer--perhaps you have heard of him--requires a boy of
fair education as secretary and literary assistant. Though he has never
seen you, he will take you on my recommendation.”
“But, sir,” said Bernard, considerably amazed, “am I qualified to be
literary assistant to a professor?”
“As to that, I don’t think anything will be required beyond the ability
of a fair scholar. You have a fair education, I take it.”
“Yes, sir.”
“You know a little Latin and French, eh?”
“Yes, sir.”
“And write a good hand?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Then I have no doubt you will suit my friend Puffer.”
“Of what is he professor?”
“I can’t tell you exactly, but I believe he is interested in
antiquities. By the way, he is going to Europe. I suppose you won’t
object to going with him.”
“No; I shall like it,” said Bernard, in a tone of satisfaction.
“I thought you would. How soon can you be ready?”
“Whenever you wish.”
“Professor Puffer will sail to-morrow in a packet ship, and I have
promised to take you on board. He is so busy making preparations that he
cannot call here.”
“I should like to make his acquaintance before I start.”
“Why?” asked Mr. McCracken sharply. “Can’t you accept him on my
recommendation?”
“I hope he isn’t like Mr. Snowdon.”
“You will find him to be a gentleman. Is that satisfactory?”
“Oh, yes, sir. Don’t imagine I want to make trouble. Only I had a little
curiosity in regard to him; that is all. Have you any idea how I shall
be employed?”
“Well, to tell the truth, I can’t give you much idea. Your labors will
be light, and you will have a chance to see the world. Upon my word,
young man, you are very fortunate. If at your age I had such an
opportunity I should have been delighted. If, however, you would prefer
to go back to the care of Mr. Snowdon, I won’t object to gratifying
you.”
“Oh, no; I am quite satisfied,” said Bernard hastily. “I shall certainly
prefer Professor Puffer. What is his appearance?”
“I should say that he was about my age. He has but one eye, the other
having been destroyed by an accident when he was a young man. I think
the other eye is weak, and it is probably for this reason that he
requires a secretary.”
“Very likely, sir.”
“You can pack your valise to-day, and to-morrow morning I will take you
to the vessel.”
Mr. Stackpole had left the city, and Bernard did not have an opportunity
of seeing his father’s old friend Alvin Franklin, so that he was unable
to inform either of his departure for Europe. He was sorry for this, as
he looked upon both as friends, and would have liked to have had their
good wishes.
Somehow he never looked upon his guardian as a friend. The information
he had received from Mr. Franklin, moreover, had excited in his mind a
suspicion as to Mr. McCracken’s honesty.
However, he was to have an opportunity of supporting himself. Mr.
McCracken had told him that Professor Puffer would pay him twenty-five
dollars a month, besides his board and traveling expenses, and this he
rightly considered as an unusual salary for a boy of his age.
About nine o’clock the next morning he started with Mr. McCracken for
the ship Vesta. It lay at a North River pier, and half an hour or less
brought them to it. It was a ship of fair size, but as Bernard knew very
little about ships of any kind--he had never been on one--he was not in
a condition to judge on this point.
They boarded the ship, and Mr. McCracken addressed the second mate, whom
he knew slightly.
“Is Professor Puffer on board?” he asked.
“Yes, sir; he is in the cabin.”
“Thank you.”
They proceeded to the cabin, where they found the professor. He was a
short, rather stout man, with a red face, scanty hair, and a green shade
covering the lost eye.
Mr. McCracken went up and shook his hand.
“Professor Puffer,” he said, “I have brought Bernard Brooks, your new
secretary. I hope he will prove satisfactory.”
Professor Puffer turned his glance towards Bernard, whom he examined
attentively. Then he said, in a deep bass voice: “I have taken him on
your recommendation, Mr. McCracken. You know what I want. If you say he
will suit me I have no doubt he will. Young man, I hope we shall get on
well together.”
“I hope so, sir.”
“Has your guardian acquainted you with the details of your engagement?”
“He hasn’t told me exactly what I will have to do.”
“You will learn in good time,” said the professor, with a wave of his
hand.
“Whatever the duties are I will try to give you satisfaction.”
“All right!”
“You can look about the vessel, Bernard,” said Mr. McCracken, “while the
professor and I have a little conversation.”
“All right, sir. I shall be glad to do so.”
So Bernard walked about the ship and watched with interest the
preparations for departure. It was all new to him, and he could not help
feeling elated when he reflected that he was about to see something of
foreign countries, while at the same time earning his living.
He was obliged to confess that Professor Puffer did not come up to his
expectations. In fact, he looked like anything but a literary man or
professor. Bernard had imagined a tall, slender man, with a high
intellectual brow, a pale face, an air of refinement and cultivation,
