a moment, " quite what it's open to Bilham to spoil." 
" It can't be a good American," Waymarsh lucidly 
enough replied, "for it didn't strike me the young man had 
developed much in that shape." 
. " Ah," Miss Gostrey sighed, " the name of the good 
  American is as easily given as taken away ! What is it,  
to begin with, to be one, and what's the extraordinary 
hurry? Surely nothing that's so pressing was ever so  
little defined. It's such an order, really, that before we 
' cook you the dish we must at least have your receipt. ;, 
Besides, the poor chicks have time! What I've seen so 
often spoiled," she pursued, " is the happy attitude itself,  
the state of faith and — what shall I call it ? — the sense of   
beauty. You're right about him" — she now took ~in   
Strether — " little Bilham has them to a charm ; we must   
keep little Bilham along." Then she was all again for 
Waymarsh. " The others have all wanted so dreadfully 
to do something, and they've gone and done it, in too 
many cases, indeed. It leaves them never the same after- 
wards ; the charm is always somehow broken. Now he, 
I think, you know, really won't. He won't do the least 
dreadful little thing. VVe shall continue to enjoy him 
just as he is. No — he's quite beautiful. He sees every- 
thing. He isn't a bit ashamed. He has every scrap of 
the courage of it that one could ask. Only think what 
he might do. One wants really, for fear of some accident, 
to keep him in view. At this very moment, perhaps, 
what mayn't he be up to? I've had my disappointments 
— the poor things are never really safe ; or only, at least, 
when you have them under your eye. One can never 
completely trust' them. One is uneasy, and I think that's 
why I most miss him now." 
She had wound up with a laugh of enjoyment over her 
embroidery of her idea, an enjoyment that her face com- 
municated to Strether, who would yet have wished, at 
this moment, that she might let poor Waymarsh alone. 
He knew, more or less, what she meant, but the fact was 
not a reason for her not pretending to Waymarsh that he 
didn't. It was craven of him, perhaps, but he would, for 
the high amenity of the occasion, have liked Waymarsh 
not to be so sure of his wit. Her recognition of it gave 
him away, and, before she had done with him or with that 
article, would give him worse. What was he, all the same, 
to do ? He looked across the box at his friend ; their 
eyes met ; something queer and stiff, something that bore 
on the situation, but that it was better not to touch, passed 
in silence between them. Well, the effect of it for Strether 
was an abrupt reaction, a final impatience of his own 
tendency to temporise. Where was that taking him, any- 
way.? It was one of the quiet instants that sometimes 
settle more matters than the outbreaks dear to the historic 
muse. The only qualification of the quietness was the 
synthetic " Oh, hang it ! " into which Strether's share of the 
silence soundlessly flowered. It represented, this mute 
ejaculation, a final impulse to burn his ships. These ships, 
to the historic muse, may seem of course mere cockles, 
but when he presently spoke to Miss Gostrey it was 
with the sense at least of applying the torch. " Is it then 
a conspiracy? " 
" Between the two young men ? Well, I don't pretend to 
be a seer or a prophetess," she presently replied ; " but if 
I'm simply a woman of sense he's working for you to-night. 
I don't quite know how — but it's in my bones." And she 
looked at him at last as if, little material as she yet gave 
him, he would really understand. " For an opinion, that's 
my opinion. He makes you out too well not to." 
"Not to work for me to-night?" Strether wondered. 
" Then I hope he isn't doing anything very bad." 
" They've got you fast," she portentously answered. 
" Do you mean he is ? " 
" They've got you," she merely repeated. Though she 
disclaimed the prophetic vision, she was at this instant the 
nearest approach he had ever met to the priestess of the 
oracle. The light was in her eyes. " You must face it now." 
He faced it on the spot. " They /laci arranged ? " 
" Every move in the game. And they've been arrang- 
ing ever since. He has had every day his little telegram 
from Cannes." 
It made Strether open his eyes. " Do you know that?" 
" I do better. I see it. This was what I wondered, 
before I met him, if I zvas to see. But as soon as I met 
him I ceased to wonder, and our second meeting made me 
sure. I took him all in. He was acting — he is still — on 
his daily instructions." 
"So that Chad has done the whole thing?" 
" Oh no — not the whole. We've done some of it. You 
and I and ' Europe.' " 
lOO 
" Europe — yes," Strether mused, 
" Dear old Paris," she seemed to explain. But there 
was more, and, with one of her turns, she risked it. " And 
dear old Waymarsh. You," she declared, " have been a 
good bit of it." 
He sat massive. " A good bit of what, ma'am ? " 
" Why, of the wonderful consciousness of our friend 
here. You've helped, too, in your way, to float him to 
where he is." 
" And where the devil is he ? " 
She passed it on with a laugh. " Where the devil, 
Strether, are you ? " 
He spoke as if he had just been thinking it out. " Well, 
quite, already, in Chad's hands, it would seem." And he 
had had, with this, another thought. " Will that be —  just 
all through Bilham — the way he's going to work it? It 
would be, for him, you know, an idea. And Chad with an 
idea ! " 
" Well ? " she asked while the image held him. 
" Well, is Chad — what shall I say ? — monstrous ? " 
" Oh, as much as you like ! But the idea you speak of," 
she said, " won't have been his best. He'll have a better. 
It won't be all through little Bilham that he'll work it." 
This already sounded almost like a hope destroyed. 
" Through whom else then ? " 
"That's what we shall see!" But quite as she spoke 
she turned, and Strether turned ; for the door of the box 
had opened, with the click of the ouvreusc, from the lobby, 
and a gentleman, a stranger to them, had come in with a 
quick step. The door closed behind him, and, though 
their faces showed him his mistake, his air, which was 
striking, was all good confidence. The curtain had just 
again risen, and, in the hush of the general attention, 
Strether's challenge was tacit, as was also the greeting, 
with a quick, deprecating hand and smile, of the un- 
announced visitor. He signed, discreetly, that he would 
wait, would stand, and these things and his face, one look 
from which she had caught, had suddenly worked for 
Miss Gostrey, She fitted to them all an answer for Strether's 
last question. The solid stranger was simply the answer 
— as she now, turning to her friend, indicated. She brought 
loi 
it straight out for him — it presented the intruder. " Why, 
through this gentleman ! " The gentleman indeed, at the 
same time, though sounding for Strether a very short name, 
did practically as much to explain. Strether gasped the 
name back — then only had he seen. Miss Gostrey had 
said more than she knew. They were in presence of Chad 
himself. 
Our friend was to go over it afterwards again and again 
— he was going over it much of the time that they were 
together, and they were together, constantly, for three or 
four days : the note had been so strongly struck during 
that first half-hour that everything happening since was 
comparatively a minor development. The fact was that 
his perception of the young man's identity — so absolutely 
checked for a minute — had been quite one of the sensa- 
tions that count in life ; he certainly had never known one 
that had acted, as he might have said, with more of a 
crowded rush. And the rush, though both vague and 
multitudinous, had lasted a long time, protected, as it 
were, yet at the same time aggravated, by the circumstance 
of its coinciding with a stretch of decorous silence. They 
couldn't talk without disturbing the spectators in the part 
of the balcony just below them ; and it, for that matter, 
came to Strether — being a thing of the sort that did come 
to him — that these were the accidents of a high civilisa- 
tion ; the imposed tribute to propriety, the frequent ex- 
posure to conditions, usually brilliant, in which relief has 
to await its time. Relief was never quite near at hand for 
kings, queens, comedians and other such people, and, 
though you might be yourself not exactly one of those, 
