hair out, and that glory would not have come to 
me. But to-day I was filled with it — it lived in 
me and burned in me — I had but to go on and 
go on. 
The Captive! It was the burst of rage — the 
first glow in the ashes of despair. I was walking 
up and down the room for an hour, thundering 
it to myself. I have not gotten over the joy of it 
yet: "Thou in thy mailed insolence!" 
I wonder if any one who reads those thirty 
lines will realize that they meant eight hours of 
furious toil on my part! 
Stone by stone I build it. 
The whole possibility of a scene — that is what 
I pant for, always; that it should be all there, and 
yet not a line to spare; compact, solid, each 
phrase coming like a blow; and above all else, 
that it should be inevitable! When you stand 
upon the height of your being, and behold the 
thing with all your faculties — the thing and the 
phrase are one, and one to all eternity. 
April 24th. 
I was looking at a literary journal to-day. 
Oh, my soul, it frightens me! All these libraries 
of books — who reads them, what are they for? 
And each one of them a hope ! And I am to leap 
over them all — I — I? I dare not think about it. 
I have been helpless to-day. I can not find 
what I want — I struggled for hours, I wore my- 
self out with struggling. And I have torn up 
what I wrote. 
Blank verse is such a — such a thing not to be 
spoken of! Is there anything worse, except it 
be a sonnet? How many miles of it are ground 
out every day — sometimes that kind comes to 
me to mock me — I could have written a whole 
poem full of it this afternoon. If there are two 
lines of that sort in The Captive, I'll bum it all. 
An awful doubt came to me besides. Somebody 
had sown it long ago, and it sprouted to- 
day. " Yes, but will it be interesting? " 
Heaven help me, how am I to know if it will 
be interesting? The question made me shudder; 
I have never thought anything about making it 
interesting — I've been trying to make it true. 
Can it possibly be that the ecstasy of one soul, 
the reality of one soul, the quivering, exulting 
life of it — will not interest any other soul? 
" How can you know that what you are do- 
ing is real, anyhow? " The devil would plague 
me to death to-day. " But how many millions 
write poems and think they are wonderful! " 
— I do not believe in my soul to-day, because 
I have none. 
April 25th. 
Would you like to know where I am, and 
how I am doing all these things? I am in a 
lodging-house. I have one of three hall rooms 
in a kind of top half-story. There is room for me 
to take four steps; so it is that I " walk up and 
down " when I am excited. I have tried — I have 
not kept count of how many places — and this is 
the quietest. The landlady's husband has a car- 
penter shop down-stairs, but he is always drunk 
and doesn't work; it has also been providentially 
arranged that the daughter, who sings, is sick for 
some time. Next door to me there is a man who 
plays the 'cello in a dance hall until I know not 
what hour of the night. He keeps his 'cello at 
the dance hall. Next to him is a pale woman who 
sits and sews all day and waits for her drunken 
husband to come home. In front there is some 
kind of foolish girl who leaves her door open in 
the hope that I'll look in at her, and a couple of 
inoffensive people not worth describing. 
I get up — I never know the time in the morn- 
ing; and sometimes I lie without moving for 
hours — thinking — thinking. Or sometimes I 
go out and roam around the streets; or sit per- 
fectly motionless, gazing at the wall. When it 
will not come, I make it. I breakfast on bread 
and milk, and I eat bread and milk at all hours 
of the day when I am hungry. For dinner I cook 
a piece of meat on a little oil-stove, and for sup- 
per I eat bread and milk. The rest of the time I 
am sitting on the floor before the window, writing; 
or perhaps kneeling by the bed with my head 
buried in my arms, and thinking until the room 
reels. When I am not doing that I wander 
around like a lost soul; I can not think of any- 
thing else. — Sometimes when I am tired and 
must rest, I force myself to sit down and write 
some of this. 
I have just forty dollars now. It costs me 
three dollars a week, not including paper and 
typewriting. Thus I have ten or twelve weeks 
in which to finish The Captive — that many and 
no more. 
If I am not finished by that time it will kill 
me; to try to work and earn money in the state 
that I am in just at present would turn me into a 
maniac — I should kill some one, I know. 
I am quivering with nervous tension — every 
faculty strained to breaking; the buzz of a fly is 
a roar to me. I build up these towering castles 
of emotion in my soul, castles that shimmer in 
the sunlight: 
Banners yellow, glorious, golden ! 
And then something happens, and they fall 
upon me with the weight of mountains. 
Ten weeks! And yet it is not that which 
goads me most. 
What goads me most is that I am a captive 
in a dungeon, and am fighting for the life of my 
soul. 
I shall win, I do not fear — the fountains of 
my being will not fail me. I saw my soul a sec- 
ond time to-day; it was no longer the bubble, 
blown large, palpitating. It was a bird resting 
upon a bough. The bough was tossed and flung 
about by a tempest; and a chasm yawned below; 
but the bough held, and the bird was master of 
its wings, and sang. 
The name of the bough was Faith. 
April 27th. 
I have read a great deal of historical romance, 
and a great deal of local color fiction, and a great 
deal of original character-drawing — and I have 
wished to get away from these things. 
There is no local color, and no character- 
drawing, in The Captive. You do not know the 
name of the hero; you do not know how old he 
is, or of what rank he is, at what period or in 
what land he lives. He is described but once. 
He is " A Man." 
My philosophy is a philosophy of will. All 
virtue that I know is conditioned upon freedom. 
The object of all thinking and doing, as I see it, 
is to set men free. 
There is the tyranny of kings — the tyranny 
of force; there is the tyranny of priests — the tyr- 
anny of ignorance; there is the tyranny of soci- 
ety — the tyranny of selfishness and indolence; 
and above all, and including all, and causing all — 
there is the tyranny of self — the tyranny of sin, 
the tyranny of the body. So it is that I see the 
world. 
So it is that I see history; I can see nothing 
else in history. The tyranny of kings and 
nobles, the tyranny of the mass and the in- 
quisition, the tyranny of battle and murder 
and crime — how was a man to live in those 
ages? 
How is a man to live in this age? The tyr- 
anny of kings and of priests is gone, and from 
the tyranny of industrialism the individual can 
escape. But the lightning — is not that an inqui- 
sition? And if it comes after you, will it not find 
out all your secrets? And the tyranny of hurri- 
cane and shipwreck, of accident, disease, and 
