wide awake now, in spite of being tired, and he sat 
down in his armchair and smoked for some time. Sud- 
denly he noticed the state of his hands, and he realized 
what his appearance must be. 
Without making any noise, though he was sure that 
Sabina was in a deep sleep by this time, he went back 
through the first door and quietly got a supply of 
clothes, and took them with him to Masin's room, and 
washed there, and dressed himself as carefully as if he 
were going out. Then he went back to his study and 
sat down wearily in his armchair. Worn out at last, 
he was asleep in a few minutes, asleep as men are 
after a battle, whether the fight has ended in victory 
or defeat. Even the thought of Sabina did not keep 
him awake, and he would not have thought of her at 
all as he sat down, if he could have helped it. 
After such a night as they had passed it was not 
likely that they should wake before ten o'clock on 
the following morning. 
But the porter was up early, as usual, with his 
broom, to sweep the stairs and the paved entrance 
under the arch. When he had come back from the 
errand on which Malipieri had sent him, it had been 
 
already dusk. He had gone up and had rung the bell 
several times, but as no one opened he had returned 
to his lodge. It was not unusual for Malipieri and 
Masin to be both out at the same time, and he thought 
it likely that they were in the vaults. He cursed them 
both quietly for the trouble they had given him of 
mounting the stairs for nothing, and went to his 
supper, and in due time to bed. 
He must go up again at eight o'clock, by which 
time Malipieri was always dressed, and as it was now 
only seven o'clock he had plenty of time to sweep. So 
he lit his pipe deliberately and took his broom, and 
went out of his lodge. 
The first thing that met his eye was a dark stain on 
the stones, close to the postern. He passed his broom 
over it, and saw that it was dry ; and it was red, but 
not like wine. Wine makes a purple stain on stones. 
He stooped and scratched it with his thick thumbnail. 
It was undoubtedly blood, and nothing else. Some one 
had been badly hurt there, or being wounded had stood 
some moments on the spot to open the door and get out. 
The old man leaned on his broom awhile, considering the matter, and debating whether he should call 
his wife. His natural impulse was not to do so, but 
to get a bucket of water and wash the place before she 
could see it. The idea of going out and calling a 
policeman never occurred to him, for he was a real 
Roman, and his first instinct was to remove every 
trace of blood from the house in which he lived, 
whether it had been shed by accident or in quarrel. 
On the other hand, his wife might come out at any 
moment, to go to her work, and find him washing the 
pavement, and she would of course suppose that he 
had killed somebody or had helped to kill somebody 
during the night, and would begin to scream, and call 
him an assassin, and there would be a great noise, and 
much trouble afterwards. According to his view, any 
woman would naturally behave in this way, and as his 
views were founded on his own experience, he was 
probably right, so far as his wife was concerned. He 
therefore determined to call her. 
She came, she saw, she threw up her hands and 
moaned a little about the curse that was on the house, 
and she helped him to scrub the stones as quickly as 
possible. When that was done, and when they had 
flooded the whole pavement under the arch, in order 
to conceal the fact that it had been washed in one 
place, it occurred to them that they should look on the 
stairs, to see if there were any blood there, and in the 
courtyard, too, near the entrance; but they could not 
find anything, and it was time for the woman to go to 
the place where she worked all day at ironing fine 
linen, which had been her occupation before she had 
been married. So she went away, leaving her husband 
alone. 
He smoked thoughtfully and swept the stone gutter, 
towards the other end of the courtyard. He noticed 
nothing unusual, until he reached the door of the 
coach-house, and saw that it was ajar, whereas it was 
always locked, and he had the key in his lodge. He 
 
opened it, and looked in. The flood of morning light 
fell upon a little heap of broken brick and mortar, and 
he saw at a glance that a small breach had been made 
in the wall. This did not surprise him, for he knew 
that Malipieri and Masin had made holes in more than 
one place, and the architect had more than once taken 
the key of the coach-house. 
What frightened him was the steady, roaring sound 
that came from the breach. He would as soon have 
thought of trusting himself to enter the place, as of 
facing the powers of darkness, even if his big body 
could have squeezed itself through the aperture. But 
he guessed that the sound came from the " lost water," 
which he had more than once heard in the cellar below, in its own channel, and he was instinctively sure 
that something had happened which might endanger 
the palace. The cellars were probably flooded. 
On the mere chance that the door of the winding 
staircase might not be locked, he went out and turned 
into the passage where it was. He found it wide 
open. He had in his pocket one of those long wax 
tapers rolled into a little ball, which Eoman porters 
generally have about them ; he lit it and went down. 
There was water at the foot of the steps, water 
several feet deep. He retreated, and with more haste 
than he usually showed to do anything, he crossed 
the courtyard and went up to call Malipieri. ' 
But Malipieri was asleep in his armchair in the 
inner room, and the bell only rang in the outer hall. 
The old man rang it again and again, but no one came. 
Then he stood still on the landing, took off his cap 
and deliberately scratched his head. In former times, 
it would have been his duty to inform Sassi, in whom 
centred every responsibility connected with the palace. 
But the porter did not know whether Sassi were dead 
or alive now, and was quite sure that the Baron would 
not approve of sending for him. 
There was nothing to be done but to inform the 
Baron himself, without delay, since Malipieri was 
apparently already gone out. The Baron would take 
the responsibility, since the house was his. 
The porter went down to his lodge, took off his 
old linen jacket and put on his best coat and cap, put 
some change into his pocket, went out and turned 
the key of the lock in the postern, and then stumped 
off towards the Piazza Sant' ApoUinare to get a cab, 
for there was no time to be lost. 
It was eight o'clock when he rang at the smart 
new house in the Via Ludovisi. Sabina and Malipieri had slept barely five hours. 
A footman in an apron opened the door, and with- 
out waiting to know his business, asked him why he 
did not go to the servants' entrance. 
" I live in a palace where there is a porter," answered the old man, assuming the overpowering manner that belongs to the retainers of really great old 
Roman houses. "Please inform the Baron that the 
' lost water ' has broken out and flooded the cellars of 
the Palazzo Conti, and that I am waiting for instructions." 
CHAPTER XVII 
VoLTEKKA went to bed early, but he did not rise 
late, for he was always busy, and had many interests 
that needed constant attention ; and he had preserved 
the habits of a man who had enriched himself and 
succeeded in life by being wide awake and at work 
when other people were napping or amusing themselves. At eight o'clock in the morning, he was 
already in his study, reading his letters, and waiting 
for his secretary. 
He sent for the porter, listened to his story attentively, and without expressing any opinion about what 
had happened, went directly to the palace in the cab 
which had brought the old man. He made the latter 
sit beside him, because it would be an excellent opportunity of showing the world that he was truly 
democratic. Half of Rome knew him by sight at 
least, though not one in twenty thousand could have 
defined his political opinions. 
At the palace he paid the cabman instead of keep- 
ing him by the hour, for he expected to stay some 
time, and it was against his principles to spend a 
farthing for what he did not want. As he entered 
through the postern, he glanced approvingly at the 
