When they rose she lingered. "I ought to go out and dry the dishes for
Joanna," the girl said laughingly.
"Indeed, you will do no such thing," was the quick reply. "And let me
whisper a secret in your ear, though I don't know as it need be that.
Mrs. Van Dorn wrote me a note, asking me to invite you here and keep you
as much of the time as Aunt Jane would be willing to spare you. And she
inclosed a check. I'd been ready enough to do it just for the pleasure."
"She is very generous," said Helen, much moved.
"And some people think her mean. She is unduly exact, but I guess the
world would be better if more people paid their just debts instead of
buying you a dollar gift when they owed you forty or fifty. But run out
on the porch and talk to Mr. Warfield. He came purposely to see you.
I'll be out and join the fray presently," her eyes overflowing with an
amused light. "If you were older I should say--there, run along."
She checked herself just in time. It was on the tip of her tongue to
add--"he is half in love with you." But the girl's face was so
innocently frank that it would have been both ill-bred and cruel to
suggest such a thing.
On the whole, it was a pleasant evening, though Helen was not a little
puzzled by several things in Mr. Warfield's demeanor, and his resolutely
keeping to his opinion that she would have been better off at the High
School. Some way would have opened for her, he was confident.
Still, he gave her the most cordial good wishes. She had the making of a
splendid girl and woman in her. He took great credit in the
consciousness that he had seen this, and roused her from a commonplace
existence, for now, whatever happened, she could not be commonplace; as
if, indeed, the every-day lives were not often doing heroic and lovely
deeds in their every-day sphere.
He was going for nine weeks to a summer college term, on the borders of
a beautiful lake, where he would have refreshment of body as well as
mind. So he might not see her again under a year.
"I do hope they will not have you spoiled," he said with his good-by.
And as he walked down the street he muttered under his breath:
"That old woman will make a waiting maid of her in the end." He was
jealous that the old woman should be able to dictate the girl's life
just because she was rich.
She had such a happy morning with Mrs. Dayton, talking over last summer;
Joanna studied her with admiring eyes and declared that she was not
changed a bit, only had grown taller, and the mysterious alteration that
comes to a girl on the boundary line, for which she had no words.
Uncle Jason came in quite early and was delighted with his warm welcome,
more frank than Joanna's.
"My, you're growed every way!" he said, "and you're pretty as a pink,
and fine as a lady! I declare I don't know what Aunt Jane will do with
you. And the children are just crazy to see you. My! My!"
He studied her from head to foot and turned her round. His eyes
twinkled, he screwed up his face until it was a bed of wrinkles. His
hair was faded and grayer, the fringe of beard ragged. But there was
such a gladness, such an utter satisfaction that she felt doubly assured
of his love.
When she had gone to pick up a few articles Mrs. Dayton made a little
explanation that she felt would ease Helen's course. She would have a
good deal of studying to do, and Mrs. Van Dorn had made arrangements for
her to stay here part of the time, as it would be quiet, with no
interruptions to break in upon her time.
"Why, I thought it was vacation!" looking puzzled. "Mother's planned a
lot of things. And she's mortal afraid Helen will forget all about
housekeeping."
"She belongs to Mrs. Van Dorn for the two years, you know, since that
lady is taking care of her. You see now that is only fair. Helen's time
is planned out."
"Sho, now!" and he bit at the end of a wheat stem he found hanging to
his clothes.
"Helen knows a good deal about housework and if she should ever have it
to do, it will come back to her. But her heart is set upon teaching, and
I think that is about as easy a way of earning money as any, if you are
fitted for it."
Mr. Mulford said no more, but he felt there would be a clash between
Aunt Jane and Helen.
The rosy, bright-eyed girl said good-by to her dear friend, with the
promise of returning soon, and stepped into the rickety old wagon.
It seemed curious to her, but everything about looked so much smaller.
The houses appeared to have shrunk, fences were dilapidated, gates hung
by one hinge, the paths at the roadside were overgrown with weeds.
Every street and plot of ground at Westchester was so pretty and tidy,
the hills were so high and grand, and there was the beautiful river. To
be sure the great Creator of all had placed it there, had raised the
mountains to their height, but the residents had added the thriftiness
and beauty. Oh, she could never live here! She wondered how her father
had taken to it, and how Mr. Warfield endured it.
Uncle Jason was a better farmer than most of his neighbors. Aunt Jane
took the credit of that; perhaps she did deserve most of it. People and
towns seldom remain stationary; if they do not improve they retrograde.
The railroad was building up North Hope at the expense of the Center.
The house and the front fence needed painting sadly. The flower-beds
looked rather ragged, the grass wanted cutting. Sam had gone in the
spring to learn a mason's trade and only came home for over Sunday. So
Uncle Jason was short-handed.
The children made a rush, then paused. Helen sprang down with a dignity
that checked them, but she kissed them all round, and Aunt Jane, who
was wiping her arms and hands on her apron.
"I thought I'd get trigged up before anyone came," she exclaimed, "but
there's so much to do on Saturday. You might have opened the front door,
'Reely, but never mind," and they all trailed around through the
kitchen. Off the end of the dining room was a small room that Jenny had
used for sewing and odds and ends, and they went thither.
"Now take off your hat. My, didn't you bring anything but that satchel!
And here's a fan--it's hot in here, and as for flies, they eat you up!
'Reely, you and Fan set the table. How you've changed, Helen, you're
most grown up. But land! When I was fourteen I was grown up and did a
woman's work. And you're fifteen! Well, I suppose you've had a grand
good time, and forgot all the useful things you ever knew."
Aunt Jane's tone was good-humored, but it had a certain air of
authority, indicating that Helen could never outgrow her right or
proprietorship.
"No, I do not think I have forgotten much, and certainly have learned a
great deal more," she replied quietly.
"Well, book-learnin' isn't everything. I'd like to know how houses and
farms would go on if everybody kept to books."
"There's Jenny," and Helen was delighted with the break. Jenny was
sunburned but looked well, quite like a country farmer's wife, and was
gayly cordial, laughed because her mother's supper was late; they always
had theirs early on Saturday afternoon.
"You wait until you get a house full of children," said her mother with
a touch of annoyance.
The girls sat out on the old bench that had gone a little more to
splinters. Uncle Jason came in; he had not quite worked Nathan up to the
point of Sam's usefulness. Aunt Jane didn't mean to lead off with any
fuss for Helen, so supper was in the kitchen, but the tablecloth was
clean--the other had met with a big accident at noon.
Nothing was much changed except the children were a year older and
larger. Two or three of them still talked at once. Jenny sat by and had
a cup of tea. Aurelia and Fanny were a little awed by Helen's fine ways,
and began to eye her furtively. Jenny kept most of the talk and when the
meal was through took Helen out on the front stoop. What was the school
like and were there many rich girls in it? And what did Mrs. Van Dorn
mean to do with her when she was through with school?
Helen was relieved when she branched off on her own affairs. How much
the egg and butter money had amounted to, and another scheme she had
struck. She helped mother out with her sewing, but she found in the
winter she had a good deal of time on her hands, so she began to sew for
the neighbors. "You know I always did like running the machine," she
declared. "And you'd be surprised at the money I've earned. I don't see
how women can dawdle away their time so, when they've small families. I
think working in a shop is a grand good training. You must be there at a
certain hour, you must put in every moment if you are going to be a
success, and you get brisk ways if there's anything at all to you."
Joe came over presently, and the two farmers smoked and talked. Then
Jenny said she would take Helen home with her, she had such a nice spare
room, and she and Aunt Jane had some words over it, but Jenny carried
her point. It was lovely and quiet, and Helen was thankful.
Yes, she had grown away from them; while she loved them just as well,
she thought she loved Uncle Jason better. The life was so different. It
need not be so hard and,--yes, it was coarse, really untender. Aunt Jane
would have suffered anything for her children's sake, but it must be in
her way. After all these years of married life, children, and a
certain degree of hard-won prosperity, she knew better than anyone else
how the world could be managed.
'Reely and Fan were fascinated with Helen, and Jenny said she had a good
deal of common sense, and she supposed all the airish ways were just
right at school, but they seemed queer among common folks. It was
inevitable that Helen and Aunt Jane should clash, and Helen felt even at
the risk of being misunderstood and wrongfully accused, she must
establish her own standing. She had not come home to help with
housework.
"I wish I'd never let you gone over there to wait on that old woman, and
have your head filled with airs and graces that you think sets you up
above your family. I knew that day I should be sorry for it. And this is
all the thanks I get for what I've done for you, while you'll crawl on
the ground after her."
