passing?"
Breton looked out of the port-hole.  As he did so the count grasped the
vicomte's arm.  The vicomte turned quickly, and for the first time his
eyes encountered the grey cloak.  His breath came sharply, while his
hand stretched forth mechanically and touched the garment, sinister and
repelling though it was.  There followed his touch a crackling sound,
as of paper.  D'Hérouville paled.  On the contrary, the vicomte smiled.
"Messieurs," said Breton, "your eyes deceived you.  The horizon is
clear.  But take care, or you will have monsieur's clothes from the
hooks."
"Tell your master," said the vicomte, "that we shall pay him a visit
later, when he wakes."  He opened the door, and followed D'Hérouville
out.
Once outside the two men gazed into each other's eyes.  Each sought to
discover something that lay behind.
"The cloak!"  D'Hérouville ran his fingers through his beard.  "The
Chevalier has never searched the pockets."
"Let us lay the matter before him and acquaint him with our
suspicions," said the vicomte, his eyes burning.  "His comrade's danger
is common to both of us.  We will ask the Chevalier for his word, and
he will never break it."
"No! a thousand devils, no!  Place my neck under his heel?  Not I."
"You have some plan?"
"Beaufort offers five thousand livres for that paper, and Gaston will
give five thousand more to have proof that it is destroyed.  That is
ten thousand, Monsieur."
"Handsome!"
"And I offer to share with you."
"You do not need money, Monsieur."
"I?  The Jews have me tied in a thousand knots!" replied the count,
bitterly.
"I am not the least inclined toward partnership.  You must manoeuver to
reach the inside of that cloak before I do.  There is nothing more to
be said, Monsieur."
"Take care!" menacingly.
"Faith!  Monsieur," the vicomte said, coolly, "my sword is quite as
long as yours.  And there is the Chevalier.  You must fight him first."
"And if you find the paper?" forcing a calm into his tones.
"I shall take the next ship back to France.  I will see Beaufort and
Gaston, and the bubble will be pricked."
"Perhaps you may never return."
"As to that, we shall see.  Come, is there not something more than ten
thousand livres behind that paper?"
"You banter.  I do not understand."
"Is not madame's name there?"
"Well?"
"She is a widow, young, beautiful, and rich.  And this incriminating
signature of hers,--what a fine thing it would be to hold over her
head!  She is a woman, and a woman is easily duped in all things save
love."
D'Hérouville trembled.  "You are forcing war."
"So be it," tranquilly.  "I will make one compact with you; if I find
the paper I will inform you.  Will you accept a like?"
"Yes."
"Good.  Now, then, once in Paris, I will stake ten thousand livres
against your tentative claims to madame's hand.  We will play at
vingt-et-un.  That is true gambling, Monsieur, and you are a good
judge."
"I pick up the gauntlet with pleasure, under all conditions.  Besides,
an idea has occurred to me.  The paper may not be what we think it is.
The man who killed De Brissac is not one to give up or throw away the
rewards.  Eh, Monsieur?"
"Perhaps he was pressed for time.  His life perhaps depended upon his
escape.  He may have dropped the cloak," shrewdly, "and some friend
found it and returned it to the Chevalier.  A plausible supposition, as
you will agree."
"You may tell me a lie," said D'Hérouville, thoughtfully.
"It would not be necessary, Monsieur le Comte," returned the vicomte,
suggestively tapping his sword.
CHAPTER XIV
BRETON FINDS A MARKER FOR HIS COPY OF RABELAIS
After the calm the storm came, after the storm the rough winds and
winnowed skies.  At one moment the ship threatened to leap to heaven,
at another, to plunge down to the sea's floor.  Breton had a time of it
one afternoon in the cabin.  He was buffeted about like maize in a
heated pan.  He fell, and in trying to save himself he clutched at the
garments hanging from the hooks.  The cloth gave.  The pommel of the
Chevalier's rapier hit him in the forehead, cutting and dazing him.  He
rose, staggering, and indulged in a little profanity which made him
eminently human.  One by one he gathered up the fallen garments and
cloaks.  It was haphazard work: for now the floor was where the
partition had been, and the ceiling where the bunk had stood.  Keys had
rolled from the Chevalier's pockets--keys, coins, and rings; and Breton
scrambled and slid around on his hands and knees till he had recovered
these treasures, which he knew to be all his master had.  He thought of
the elegant rubies and sapphires and topaz of the garters he had
ordered for his master but four months gone.  And that mysterious lady
of high degree?  Paris!  Alas, Paris was so far away that he, Breton,
was like to see it never again.
He stood up, balanced himself, and his eye caught sight of the grey
cloak, which lay crumpled under the bunk.
"Ah! so it is you, wretched cloak, that gave way when I clung to you
for help?"  He stooped and dragged it forth by its skirts.  "So it was
you?" swinging it fiercely above his head and balancing himself nicely.
The bruise on his forehead made him savage.  "Whatever made me bring
you to the Corne d'Abondance?  What could you not tell, if voice were
given to you?  And Monsieur Paul used to look so fine in it!  You make
me cold in the spine!"  He shook it again and again, then hung it up by
the torn collar, which had yielded over-readily to his frenzied grasp.
As the ache in his head subsided, so diminished the strength of his
wrath; and he went out to ask the Chevalier if he should keep the
valuables in his own pocket or replace them in the pocket of the
pantaloons from which they had fallen.  The Chevalier took the rings
and slipped them on his fingers, all save the signet ring, which he
handed to his lackey.
"Keep this, lad, till I ask for it," was all he said.
Breton put the ring in the little chamois bag which his mother had
given him.  The ring rattled against a little silver crucifix.  The lad
then returned to the cabin and read his favorite book till his eyes
grew weary.  He looked about for a marker and espied some papers on the
floor.  These he thrust into his place and fell to dreaming.
Each afternoon the Chevalier was carried up to the deck; and what with
the salt air and the natural vigor which he inherited from his father,
the invalid's bones began to take on flesh and his interest in life
became normal.  It is true that when left alone a mask of gloom
shadowed his face, and his thin fingers opened and closed nervously and
unconsciously.  Diane, Diane, Diane!  It was the murmur of far-off
voices, it was the whisper of the winds in the shrouds, it was the cry
of the lonely gull and the stormy petrel.  To pass through the weary
years of his exile without again seeing that charming face, finally to
strive in vain to recall it in all its perfect beauty!  This thought
affected him more than the thought of the stigma on his birth.  That he
could and would live down; he was still a man, with a brain and a heart
and a strong arm.  But Diane!
The Comte d'Hérouville, for some reason best known to himself, appeared
to be acting with a view toward partial conciliation.  The Chevalier
did not wholly ignore this advance.  D'Hérouville would fight fair as
became a gentleman, and that was enough.  Since they were soon to set
about killing each other, what mattered the prologue?
The vicomte watched this play, and it caused him to smile.  He knew the
purpose of these advances: it was to bring about the freedom of the
Chevalier's cabin.  As yet neither he nor the count had found the
golden opportunity.  The Chevalier was never asleep or alone when they
knocked at the door of his cabin.
Each day D'Hérouville approached the Chevalier when the latter was on
deck.
"You are improving, Monsieur?" was the set inquiry.
"I am gaining every hour, Monsieur," always returned the invalid.
"That is well;" and then D'Hérouville would seek some other part of the
ship.  He ignored Victor as though he were not on board.
"Victor, you have not yet told me who the woman in the grey mask was,"
said the Chevalier.
"Bah!" said Victor, with fictitious nonchalance.
"She is fleeing from some one?"
"That may be."
"Who is she?" directly.
"I regret that I must leave you in the dark, Paul."
"But you said that you knew something of her history; and you can not
know that without knowing her name."
Victor remained silent.
"Somehow," went on the Chevalier, "that grey mask continually intrudes
into my dreams."
"That is because you have been ill, Paul."
"Is she some prince's light-o'-love?"
"She is no man's light-o'-love.  Do not question me further.  I may
tell you nothing.  She is a fugitive from the equivocal justice of
France."
"Politics?"
"Politics."
"She comes from a good family?"
