papers and gave 'em to him. And that's all I know."
"Very good," commented the squire, tapping his cane with approval. "Very
good! And what did he say about these West Point examinations?"
"He said, says he, 'If I win these here and git the appointment, I ain't
a-going to do nothin' but skin through the others with cribs.'"
"That's right!" cried the squire, triumphantly. "There now! What more do
you want?"
He glanced at the superintendent inquiringly, and the superintendent
gazed at Mark. As for Mark, he was simply too dumfounded to move. He
stood as if glued to the spot and stared in blank consternation from one
to the other.
"Well," said the colonel at last, "what have you to say for yourself?"
Mark was too amazed to say much.
"So that is their plan!" he gasped. "So they seek to rob me of my
cadetship by this--this----"
He stopped then, unable to express his feelings.
"Colonel Harvey," he inquired at last, "may I ask if you believe this
story?"
"I do not see, Mr. Mallory," was the response, "what else I am to
believe. I do not like to accuse these three gentlemen of a plot to ruin
you. And yet--and yet----"
"May I ask a question or two?" inquired Mark, noticing the puzzled and
worried look upon his superior's face.
"Most certainly," was the answer.
"In the first place, if you please, according to this story, if I gave
this man a hundred dollars, why did he tell about it afterward?"
"His conscience troubled him," cried the old squire excitedly. "As yours
would have if you had any. He knew that he had done wrong, robbed my
son, and he came and told me. And I was wild, sir, wild with anger. I
have brought this man on all the way from Colorado, and I propose to see
my son into his rights, if I die for it!"
"Oh!" said Mark. "So you want Benny made a cadet. But tell me how, if I
had the papers, did Benny beat me so badly, anyhow?"
"My son always was brighter than you," sneered the old man.
"And all the examinations weren't from printed papers," chimed in
Benny's crowing voice. "There was spelling, and reading and
writing--that was where I beat you."
"I see," responded Mark. "It is a clever scheme. And I'm told I passed
here because I cheated; how came you to fail?"
"My son was sick at the time," cried Squire Bartlett, "and I can prove
it, too."
Mark smiled incredulously at that; Benny Bartlett nodded his head in
support of his father's assertion.
"Well?" inquired the squire. "Is there anything more you want to know?"
"No," said Mark. "Nothing."
"Satisfied now, are ye?" sneered the other; and then he turned to
Colonel Harvey. "I think that is all, sir," he said. "What more do you
want?"
The colonel stood gazing into space with a troubled look. He did not
know what to say; he did not know what to think. He could not call these
three men conspirators; and yet the handsome, sturdy lad who had done so
much to win his approval, surely he did not look like a thief!
"Mr. Mallory," he inquired at last. "What have you to say to this?"
"Nothing," responded Mark. "Nothing, except to denounce it as an
absolute and unmitigated lie from beginning to end."
"But what proof can you bring?"
"None whatever, except my word."
After that there was no more said for some minutes. The silence was
broken by the superintendent's rising.
"Mr. Mallory," he said, "you may go now. I must think this matter over."
And Mark went out of the door, his brain fairly reeling. He was lost!
lost! West Point, his aim in life, his one and only hope, was going! He
was to be dismissed in disgrace, sent home branded as a criminal! And
all for a lie! An infamous lie!
A few minutes later Benny and the printer's devil, his accomplice, came
out of that same door. But it was with a far different look. Benny was
chuckling with triumph.
"It worked!" he cried. "By Heaven, it worked to perfection! Even the old
man hasn't caught on!"
"Squire Bartlett's as blind as Mallory," laughed the other. "And
Mallory'll be out in a week. Remember, you owe me that hundred to-day."
CHAPTER XIX.
TEXAS TURNS HIGHWAYMAN.
There were six terrified plebes up at Camp McPherson, when Mark rushed
in, pale and breathless, to tell them the reason for his summons to
headquarters. The Banded Seven had not had such a shock since they
organized to resist the yearlings.
"Benny Bartlett!" cried Texas, springing up in rage. "Do you mean that
little rascal I licked the day he got sassy during exams?"
"That's he," said Mark, "and he's come back to get his revenge."
"And you don't mean," cried the six, almost in one breath, "Colonel
Harvey believes it?"
"Why shouldn't he?" responded Mark, despairingly. "I cannot see any way
out of it. The whole thing's a dirty lie from beginning to end, but it
makes a straight story when it is told, and I can't disprove it."
"But I thought you said," cried Texas, "that you saw Benny himself
cheating, or tryin' to, at the examinations right hyar."
"So I did," said the other. "But I cannot prove that. I know lots of
things about him, but I can't prove one of them. They've simply got me
and that's all there is of it. There are three of them, and it's almost
impossible to make the superintendent think they're lying. Think of a
rich old man like the squire's doing a trick like that!"
"Perhaps he ain't," suggested Texas, shrewdly.
"Perhaps not," admitted Mark. "Benny would not hesitate to lie to his
own father. But all the same I have no proof. And what in Heaven's name
am I to do?"
Mark sat down upon the locker in his tent and buried his face in his
hands. His wretchedness is left to the imagination. The whole thing had
come so suddenly, so unexpectedly, right in the midst of his triumph!
And it was so horrible!
The six could think of no word of comfort; for they were as cast down,
as thunderstruck, as he. Their regard for Mark was deep and true, and
his ruin they felt was theirs. They sat or stood about the tent in
characteristic attitudes, and with dejection written upon every line of
their countenances.
First to move was the wild Texas, ever impulsive and excitable. And
Texas leaped to his feet, with a muttered whoop!
"I'm a-goin' to prove them air fellers are lyin', by thunder, ef I have
to resign to do it!"
By the time that brief resolution was finished Texas was out of the tent
and gone. The six glanced up as he left, and then once more resumed
their dejected and bewildered discussion.
"I can see no way out of it. No way!" groaned Mark. "I am gone."
And the others could see no other way to look at it.
Texas was rather more bizarre and unconventional, more daring than his
companions from the "effete East," and his detective efforts were apt to
be more interesting for that reason. He paced up and down the company
street, hearing and seeing no one, thinking, thinking for all he was
worth.
"Proof! Proof!" he kept muttering to himself over and over again.
"Proof! Proof!"
Perhaps it was ten minutes before he did anything else. Texas was like a
fisherman waiting for a bite during that time. He was waiting for an
inspiration. And then suddenly the inspiration came. He stopped short in
his tracks, opened his eyes wide and staring, and his mouth also; his
fingers began to twitch with a sudden wave of excitement; his face
flushed and he trembled all over. The next moment with a joyful
"durnation!" he had turned and was off like a shot down the street.
"I've got it! I've got it! Whoop!"
And then suddenly he halted again.
"I won't tell 'em," he muttered to himself. "I'll keep it for a
surprise! But then, I'll want some one to help me. Who'll I--oh, yes!"
Texas had turned and started with no less haste the other way.
"I'll git one o' them ole cadets," he chuckled, "some one the ole man'll
believe. I know!"
At the eastern side of the camp, in A Company Street, and facing the
sentry post of Number Three, stood a single spacious tent. It belonged
to the first cadet captain, Fischer by name. And at that tent, trembling
with impatience, the plebe halted and knocked.
"Come in," called a voice, and Texas entered.
There was but one occupant in the tent--the first captain has a tent to
himself, if you please. It was Fischer, tall and stately and handsome as
usual, with his magnificent uniform and sash and chevrons. He was
engaged in writing a letter at the moment; he looked up and then arose
to his feet, a look of surprise upon his face as he recognized the
plebe.
"Mr. Powers," said he.
Texas bowed; and then he started right in to business.
"Mr. Fischer," he began, "I know it ain't customary for plebes to visit
first classmen, and especially B. J. plebes. But I got something to say
right naow that's important, more important than ceremonies an' such.
Will you listen?"
The officer bowed courteously, though he still looked surprised.
"It's about Mr. Mallory," said Texas. "I reckon you've heard the stories
'bout him?"
"I have heard rumors," said the other. "I shall be glad to hear more."
Texas told him the story then, just as Mark had told it a few minutes
ago. And the look of surprise on the captain's face deepened.
"This is a serious business, Mr. Powers," he said.
"It's one lie from beginning to end!" growled the other. "Now look
