
"I reckon," put in Texas, after a moment's thought, "I reckon we'll have
to put off aformin' o' thet ere new organization we were a-talkin'
'bout. Cuz we kain't git anybody to join ef they won't any of 'em speak
to us."

"I guess we three are enough for the present," said Mark, "at least
while all the cadets leave us alone. And if they try to haze us I think
we can fight about as well as the rest of them. Then there's Indian,
too, you know; I don't think he can fight much, but he's----"

"Now, see here!" cried an indignant voice from the doorway, "now see
here, you fellows! I think that's real mean, now, indeed I do. Didn't I
tell you fellows I was going to learn to fight?" he expostulated.
"Didn't I? Bless my soul, now, what more can a man do?"

Mark winked slyly to his companions, and put on his most solemn air.

"Do?" he growled. "You ask what more can a man do? A man might, if he
were a man, rise up and prove his prowess and win himself a name. He
might gird up his loins and take his sword in his hand and sally forth,
to vindicate his honor and the honor of his sworn friends and allies.
That is what he might do. And instead what does he do? In slothfulness
and cowardice he sits and suffers beneath the rod of tyranny and
oppression!"

Mark finished out of breath and red in the face.

"Bless my soul!" cried Indian.

"Such a course is by no means entirely unprecedented," put in Stanard,
solemnly. "It is common in the mythology of antiquity and in the legends
of mediæval times. Such was the course of Hercules, and thus did Sir
Galahad and the Knights of the Round Table."

Poor Joe Smith was gazing at the two speakers in perplexity. He wasn't
quite sure whether they were serious or not, but he thought they were,
and he was on the verge of promising to go out and kill something,
whether a cadet or a grizzly, at once. The only trouble was that the
tall, sedate-looking officer of the day, in his spotless uniform of
gray and white and gold with a dazzling red sash thrown in, strode out
of the guardhouse just then; a moment later came the cry, "New cadets
turn out!" and Indian drew a breath of relief at being delivered from
his uncomfortable situation.

Saturday afternoon is a holiday at West Point. The luckless plebe,
having been drilled and shouted at for a week, gets a much-needed chance
to do as he pleases, with the understanding, of course, that he does not
happen to fall into the hands of the yearlings. If he does, he does as
they please, instead.

Saturday afternoon is also a holiday time for the yearling, too, and he
is accustomed to amuse himself with variety shows and concerts,
recitations and exhibition drills, continuous performances that are
free, given by the "beasts," the "trained animals," or plebes.

It may be well at the start to have a word to say about "hazing" at West
Point. Hazing is abolished there, so people say. At any rate, there are
stringent measures taken to prevent it. A cadet is forbidden in any way
to lay hands upon the plebe; he is forbidden to give any degrading
command or exact any menial service; and the penalty for breaking these
rules is dismissal. The plebe is called up daily before the tactical
officer in charge of his company, and asked if he has any complaint to
make.

Such are the methods. The results are supposed to be a complete stopping
of "deviling" in all its forms. The actual result has been that when a
yearling wants to "lay hands upon the plebe" he does it on the
sly--perhaps "yanks" him, as one peculiar form of nocturnal torture is
termed. When the yearling wants some work done, instead of "commanding"
he "requests," and with the utmost politeness. If he wants his gun
cleaned he kindly offers to "show" the plebe how to do it--taking care
to see that the showing is done on his own gun and not on the plebe's.
And the plebe is not supposed to object. He may, but in that case there
are other methods. If he reports anybody he is ostracised--"cut" by
every one, his own class included.

This being the case, we come to the events of this particular Saturday
afternoon.

    "There were three wily yearlings
      Set out one summer's day
    To hunt the plebe so timid
      In barracks far away."

Only in this case there were half a dozen instead of three.

Now, of all the persons selected for torment that year, with the
possible exception of Mark and Texas, the two "B. J.'s," Indian was the
most prominent. "Indian," as he was now called by the whole corps, was a
rara avis among plebes, being an innocent, gullible person who
believed implicitly everything that was told him, and could be scared to
death by a word. It was Indian that this particular crowd of merry
yearlings set out to find.

Mark and Texas, it chanced, had gone out for a walk; "Parson" Stanard
had, wandered over to the library building to "ascertain the extent of
their geological literature," and to get some information, if possible,
about a most interesting question which was just then troubling him.

And poor Joe Smith was all alone in his room, dreading some visitation
of evil.

The laughing crowd dashed up the steps and burst into the room. Indian
had been told what to do. "Heels together, turn out your toes, hands by
your sides, palms to the front, fingers closed, little fingers on the
seams of the trousers, head up, chin in, shoulders thrown back, chest
out. Here, you! Get that scared look off your face. Whacher 'fraid of.
If you don't stop looking scared I'll murder you on the spot!"

And with preliminary introduction the whole crowd got at him at once.

"Can you play the piano? Go ahead, then. What! Haven't got any? Why
didn't you bring one? What's the use of being able to play the piano if
you haven't a piano? Can you recite? Don't know anything? You look like
it. Here, take this paper--it's a song. Learn it now! Why don't you
learn it? What do you mean by staring at me instead of at the paper?
There, that's right. Now sing the first six verses. Don't know 'em yet?
Bah, what will you do when you come to trigonometry with a hundred and
fourteen formulas to learn every night? Have you learned to stand on
your head yet? What! Didn't I tell you to do it? Who taught you to stand
on your feet, anyhow? Why don't you answer me, eh? Let's see you get up
on that mantelpiece. Won't hold you? Well, who said it would? What's
that got to do with it? No! Don't take that chair. Vault up! There. Now
flap your wings. What! Haven't got any? What kind of an angel are you,
anyhow? Flap your ears. Let's hear you crow like a hen. Hens don't crow?
What do you know about hens, anyway? Were you ever a hen? Well, why
weren't you? Were you ever a goose, then? No? Well, you certainly look
like it! Why don't you crow when we tell you? What kind of crowing is
that--flap your arms, there. Have you got any toothpicks? What! No
toothpicks? Don't suppose you have any teeth, either. Oh, so you have
toothpicks, have you? Well, why did you say you didn't? Take 'em out of
your pockets and row yourself along that mantelpiece with 'em. 'Fraid
you'll fall off, eh? Well, we'll put you up again. Humpty Dumpty! Row
fast now! Row! Get that grin off your face. How dare you smile at a
higher classman! You are the most amazingly presumptuous beast that I
ever heard of. Get down now, and don't break any bones about it,
either!"

All these amazing orders, rattled off in a breath, and interspersed with
a variety of comment and ejaculation, poor Indian obeyed in fear and
trembling. He was commanded to fall down, and he fell; he was commanded
to fall up, and he protested that the law of gravitation----"Bah! why
don't you get the law repealed?" He wiped off a smile from his terrified
face and threw it under the bed. Then, gasping, spluttering, he went
under and got it. He strove his very best to go to sleep, amid a
variety of suggestions, such as which eyes to shut and which lung to
breathe through.

This went on till the ingenuity of the cadets was nearly exhausted. Then
one individual, more learned than the rest, chanced to learn the
identity of the Indian's name with that of the great Mormon leader. And
instantly he elbowed his way to the front.

"Look here, sir, who told you to be a Mormon? You're not a Mormon? Got
only one wife, hey? None? Then what sort of a Mormon are you? Why have
you got a Mormon's name? Did you steal it? Don't you know who Joseph
Smith was? No? Not you, the great Joseph Smith! Suppose you think you're
the great Joseph Smith. Well, now, how on earth did you ever manage to
get into this academy without knowing who Joseph Smith was? Didn't ask
