off with a cheerful good-night. But it was past mid 
night when he returned. 
It seemed so strange to walk on the edge of some 
suspected but unknown danger, as if the ground was 
mined somewhere along the way. I was outwardly 
cheerful, I sang about the house, I tried to answer 
blithely, I cooked the things Dan liked, I begged him 
to come home early. I indulged in little caressing 
ways, such as he used to fairly extort years before. I 
put on whatever semblance of love I could use without 
being effusive. It did not warm him at all, and he had 
been so easily roused. What was this stone that I 
surged against? 
"Ruth," father said one morning, "what is Dan 
about, "has he told you of any new plans?" 
"No," I answered in a kind of surprise. 
"He is putting money in the copper mines up at Lake 
 
Superior. He has sold that Lake Street property, at a 
sacrifice, I think, and he asked me for a settlement. 
He wants to go up to the copper fields himself." 
"No, I have heard nothing about it." 
Father came nearer and took both of my hands. 
"Ruth, you cannot go up there, even with your hus 
band," he exclaimed solemnly. 
"He has not asked me. I do not think he would 
want me." Yet I shuddered at the prospect. 
"One cannot fathom him any more. Of course, he 
was very plausible and all that, considering my interest, 
and saying he had not time to attend to it, that he 
might be away for months, and that now I was so 
much improved a good overseer would answer my pur 
pose. But I say again he shall not take you. I would 
as soon hand you over to a pack of ravening wolves ! 
Oh, my darling, I have no one in the world but you, 
a broken, disabled, lonely old man." 
He pressed me to his heart, and I felt the sob there. 
The strong arms about me gave me inexpressible com 
fort. 
"You need not fear," I returned. "He shall not even 
drag me away." 
"He will not try force. He may try fraud. I dis 
trust him. He used to be so frank and outspoken. 
Will you be careful? Do not be trapped into any 
thing, for he is deep as the sea. It may be all this cop 
per business. I have seen men go mad about specula 
tion before, when they could dance a hornpipe standing 
on their heads, their brains were so befuddled. It is 
not drink, but some curious influence I cannot divine." 
"I shall stay with you always. It was one of the 
conditions of my marriage. It was as solemn a prom 
ise as anything else." 
"Thank God, my darling." 
There certainly was what I should call an intense 
change in Dan, not any superficial emotion. He some 
times sat with his lips compressed, and his brow in a 
frown, then it would suddenly lighten in such a won 
derful glow, an absolute radiance. What was he think 
ing of? 
Once, when I saw it, I went over and kissed him in 
a kind of fascinated mood. 
"Don't !" He pushed me away roughly. 
A month before I would have cried, and felt stabbed 
to the heart. Now I walked quietly away. 
What weeks they were, not many of them, but the 
days seemed shodden with lead, the sun hung high in 
the heavens, as if loth to leave her throne. 
I stayed mostly at home, helping father to go over 
accounts. I remember the last week. Norman was 
not in at all. 
Was I longing for him? Was life drearier without 
him ? Well, if I was as weak as that then I must make 
a new and greater effort. But it was fighting with 
no line of defence behind me, no husband to stretch out 
a hand. 
Dan came in awhile before noon one day and began 
to pack a valise. He had taken away some of his 
belongings before. I had been mending a few articles 
rather too bulky to be carried downstairs. 
"I am going away," he announced, "up to Lake 
Superior. The Prairie Bird starts this afternoon." 
 
"Oh, Dan!" What should I say? "How long are 
you likely to stay ?" and I tried to make my voice solici 
tous. 
There was no answer for a moment or two. Then 
he turned around in a fierce fashion, and his eyes were 
black as night. 
"I may as well tell you," he began in a desperate 
tone, "that I am not coming back at all." 
I glanced up at him. I knew the color went out of 
my face. I was so utterly amazed. 
"You'll hear the story, but I may as well have the 
gratification of telling you." His voice had a peculiar 
depth, and his face was set with some tremendous emo 
tion. "I am going with the woman I love, and who 
loves me with a passion you never could know if you 
lived a hundred years ! I should have married her in 
the beginning, but I was a blind, idiotic fool, and she 
had a temper. We were never sure of each other. 
She made a pretence of caring for this or that one 
when I ought to have wrung the secret out of her heart 
and mastered her once for all. A woman like that 
gives royally when she is compelled. You have to ex 
tort it out of her, but the drop of honey is worth it all. 
The old man who took her in hand never found the 
way to the heart of the flower. That was saved for me. 
And it is a delicious draught. We are going away to 
gether we shall never come back. What people say 
is of no importance to us." 
"It is Polly Morrison," I gasped. "Oh, Dan, if you 
loved her, then why did you marry me?" I cried, 
wounded to the heart's core. 
"Because I was a fool. She had gone out of my life, 
and I said she could not have loved me as she pro 
fessed. And you were a silly little white kitten, never 
quite sure whether you would jump on my knee or 
not, so I made you. But what is there to you? 
Some cold Puritan blood, some petty sort of tender 
ness that has no fire in it nothing to kindle a man 
to the height of rapture. I tired of you even before 
she came, and then my life was set aflame. She is 
the one woman for me. A month, even, with her 
would outweigh any other woman on the face of the 
earth." 
I sprang up. "Dan, your solemn promise !" At that 
moment I hated to be thrust aside for Polly Morrison. 
"You were not compelled to marry me. You you did 
love me then a little." 
He laughed scornfully. "You have just hit it a 
little. A man sometimes takes second best, more fool 
he! You might have done if Polly with all her 
witchery had not crossed my path. Or it might have 
been some one else. There is no need of making a fuss 
now. I have not wasted any of your patrimony. You 
can hand it all over to John Gay nor if you like, and you 
and your father can maunder on through life. And I 
shall have a glowing, thrilling, absorbing atmosphere, 
in which one really lives. No, don't come near 
me" 
The bed had stood between us as I sat by the 
window. Perhaps I had unconsciously stepped for 
ward. I had a wild idea that I must plead, that I must 
exert all my wifely powers to keep him from commit 
ting this dreadful sin. 
 
"Don't come near me," he continued. "We will say 
good-by with this space between us and no tomfoolery. 
Perhaps I was idiotic to come and tell you this, but I 
wanted you to know how the other woman was loved, 
how a man loves when a woman fills every thought of 
his soul. There you and your father are well rid 
of me!" 
He picked up his valise and strode out of the room, 
down the stairs. I dropped on the bed. I did not 
faint or cry. I could hardly be any more deserted than 
I had been the last two months. A deserted wife ! A 
husband by all of God's sacred ordinances who gloried 
in his shameful love for another woman! 
It stunned me. One moment it seemed incredible, 
