She could almost have smiled at last, troubled as she yet knew herself,
to show how richly she was harmless; she held up her volume, which was
so weak a weapon, and while she continued, for consideration, to keep
her distance, she explained with as quenched a quaver as possible. “I
saw you come out--saw you from my window, and couldn’t bear to think you
should find yourself here without the beginning of your book. THIS is
the beginning; you’ve got the wrong volume, and I’ve brought you out the
right.”
She remained after she had spoken; it was like holding a parley with a
possible adversary, and her intense, her exalted little smile asked for
formal leave. “May I come nearer now?” she seemed to say--as to which,
however, the next minute, she saw Charlotte’s reply lose itself in a
strange process, a thing of several sharp stages, which she could stand
there and trace. The dread, after a minute, had dropped from her face;
though, discernibly enough, she still couldn’t believe in her having, in
so strange a fashion, been deliberately made up to. If she had been made
up to, at least, it was with an idea--the idea that had struck her at
first as necessarily dangerous. That it wasn’t, insistently wasn’t, this
shone from Maggie with a force finally not to be resisted; and on that
perception, on the immense relief so constituted, everything had by the
end of three minutes extraordinarily changed. Maggie had come out to
her, really, because she knew her doomed, doomed to a separation
that was like a knife in her heart; and in the very sight of her
uncontrollable, her blinded physical quest of a peace not to be grasped,
something of Mrs. Assingham’s picture of her as thrown, for a grim
future, beyond the great sea and the great continent had at first found
fulfilment. She had got away, in this fashion--burning behind her,
almost, the ships of disguise--to let her horror of what was before
her play up without witnesses; and even after Maggie’s approach had
presented an innocent front it was still not to be mistaken that she
bristled with the signs of her extremity. It was not to be said for
them, either, that they were draped at this hour in any of her usual
graces; unveiled and all but unashamed, they were tragic to the Princess
in spite of the dissimulation that, with the return of comparative
confidence, was so promptly to operate. How tragic, in essence, the very
change made vivid, the instant stiffening of the spring of pride--this
for possible defence if not for possible aggression. Pride indeed,
the next moment, had become the mantle caught up for protection and
perversity; she flung it round her as a denial of any loss of her
freedom. To be doomed was, in her situation, to have extravagantly
incurred a doom, so that to confess to wretchedness was, by the same
stroke, to confess to falsity. She wouldn’t confess, she didn’t--a
thousand times no; she only cast about her, and quite frankly and
fiercely, for something else that would give colour to her having burst
her bonds. Her eyes expanded, her bosom heaved as she invoked it, and
the effect upon Maggie was verily to wish she could only help her to it.
She presently got up--which seemed to mean “Oh, stay if you like!” and
when she had moved about awhile at random, looking away, looking at
anything, at everything but her visitor; when she had spoken of the
temperature and declared that she revelled in it; when she had uttered
her thanks for the book, which, a little incoherently, with her second
volume, she perhaps found less clever than she expected; when she had
let Maggie approach sufficiently closer to lay, untouched, the tribute
in question on a bench and take up obligingly its superfluous mate: when
she had done these things she sat down in another place, more or less
visibly in possession of her part. Our young woman was to have passed,
in all her adventure, no stranger moments; for she not only now saw her
companion fairly agree to take her then for the poor little person she
was finding it so easy to appear, but fell, in a secret, responsive
ecstasy, to wondering if there were not some supreme abjection with
which she might be inspired. Vague, but increasingly brighter, this
possibility glimmered on her. It at last hung there adequately plain
to Charlotte that she had presented herself once more to (as they said)
grovel; and that, truly, made the stage large. It had absolutely, within
the time, taken on the dazzling merit of being large for each of them
alike.
“I’m glad to see you alone--there’s something I’ve been wanting to say
to you. I’m tired,” said Mrs. Verver, “I’m tired--!”
“Tired--?” It had dropped the next thing; it couldn’t all come at once;
but Maggie had already guessed what it was, and the flush of recognition
was in her face.
“Tired of this life--the one we’ve been leading. You like it, I know,
but I’ve dreamed another dream.” She held up her head now; her lighted
eyes more triumphantly rested; she was finding, she was following
her way. Maggie, by the same influence, sat in sight of it; there was
something she was SAVING, some quantity of which she herself was judge;
and it was for a long moment, even with the sacrifice the Princess
had come to make, a good deal like watching her, from the solid
shore, plunge into uncertain, into possibly treacherous depths. “I see
something else,” she went on; “I’ve an idea that greatly appeals to
me--I’ve had it for a long time. It has come over me that we’re wrong.
Our real life isn’t here.”
Maggie held her breath. “‘Ours’--?”
“My husband’s and mine. I’m not speaking for you.”
“Oh!” said Maggie, only praying not to be, not even to appear, stupid.
“I’m speaking for ourselves. I’m speaking,” Charlotte brought out, “for
HIM.”
“I see. For my father.”
“For your father. For whom else?” They looked at each other hard now,
but Maggie’s face took refuge in the intensity of her interest. She
was not at all even so stupid as to treat her companion’s question as
requiring an answer; a discretion that her controlled stillness had
after an instant justified. “I must risk your thinking me selfish--for
of course you know what it involves. Let me admit it--I AM selfish. I
place my husband first.”
“Well,” said Maggie smiling and smiling, “since that’s where I place
mine--!”
“You mean you’ll have no quarrel with me? So much the better then;
for,” Charlotte went on with a higher and higher flight, “my plan is
completely formed.”
Maggie waited--her glimmer had deepened; her chance somehow was at hand.
The only danger was her spoiling it; she felt herself skirting an abyss.
“What then, may I ask IS your plan?”
It hung fire but ten seconds; it came out sharp. “To take him home--to
his real position. And not to wait.”
“Do you mean--a--this season?”
“I mean immediately. And--I may as well tell you now--I mean for my own
time. I want,” Charlotte said, “to have him at last a little to myself;
I want, strange as it may seem to you”--and she gave it all its weight
“to KEEP the man I’ve married. And to do so, I see, I must act.”
Maggie, with the effort still to follow the right line, felt herself
colour to the eyes. “Immediately?” she thoughtfully echoed.
“As soon as we can get off. The removal of everything is, after all,
but a detail. That can always be done; with money, as he spends it,
everything can. What I ask for,” Charlotte declared, “is the definite
break. And I wish it now.” With which her head, like her voice rose
higher. “Oh,” she added, “I know my difficulty!”
Far down below the level of attention, in she could scarce have said
what sacred depths, Maggie’s inspiration had come, and it had trembled
the next moment into sound. “Do you mean I’M your difficulty?”
“You and he together--since it’s always with you that I’ve had to see
him. But it’s a difficulty that I’m facing, if you wish to know; that
I’ve already faced; that I propose to myself to surmount. The struggle
with it--none too pleasant--hasn’t been for me, as you may imagine, in
itself charming; I’ve felt in it at times, if I must tell you all, too
great and too strange, an ugliness. Yet I believe it may succeed.”
She had risen, with this, Mrs. Verver, and had moved, for the emphasis
of it, a few steps away; while Maggie, motionless at first, but sat and
looked at her. “You want to take my father FROM me?”
The sharp, successful, almost primitive wail in it made Charlotte turn,
and this movement attested for the Princess the felicity of her deceit.
Something in her throbbed as it had throbbed the night she stood in
the drawing-room and denied that she had suffered. She was ready to lie
again if her companion would but give her the opening. Then she should
know she had done all. Charlotte looked at her hard, as if to compare
her face with her note of resentment; and Maggie, feeling this, met it
with the signs of an impression that might pass for the impression of
defeat. “I want really to possess him,” said Mrs. Verver. “I happen also
to feel that he’s worth it.”
Maggie rose as if to receive her. “Oh--worth it!” she wonderfully threw
off.
The tone, she instantly saw, again had its effect: Charlotte flamed
aloft--might truly have been believing in her passionate parade. “You’ve
thought YOU’VE known what he’s worth?”
“Indeed then, my dear, I believe I have--as I believe I still do.”
She had given it, Maggie, straight back, and again it had not missed.
Charlotte, for another moment, only looked at her; then broke into the
words--Maggie had known they would come--of which she had pressed the
spring. “How I see that you loathed our marriage!”
“Do you ASK me?” Maggie after an instant demanded.
Charlotte had looked about her, picked up the parasol she had laid on
a bench, possessed herself mechanically of one of the volumes of the
relegated novel and then, more consciously, flung it down again: she was
in presence, visibly, of her last word. She opened her sunshade with
a click; she twirled it on her shoulder in her pride. “‘Ask’ you? Do I
need? How I see,” she broke out, “that you’ve worked against me!”
“Oh, oh, oh!” the Princess exclaimed.
Her companion, leaving her, had reached one of the archways, but on this
turned round with a flare. “You haven’t worked against me?”
Maggie took it and for a moment kept it; held it, with closed eyes, as
