"Yes, they are--but how can I help it? Somehow or other, whatever is
done or said or even thought in this devilish supply camp is immediately
reported to Jeb Stuart; every movement of trains and troops leaks out;
he'll know to-night what I ate for breakfast this morning--I'll bet on
that. And, Messenger, let me tell you something. Joking aside, this
thing is worrying me sick. Can you help me?"
"I'll try," she said. "Headquarters sent me. They're very anxious up
there about the railroad."
"I can't help it!" cried the distracted officer. "On Thursday I had to
concentrate the line-patrol to drive Maxon's bushwhackers out of Laurel
Siding; and look what Stuart did to me. No sooner were we off than he
struck the unguarded section and tore up two miles of track! What am I
to do?"
The Special Messenger shook her pretty head in sympathy.
"There's a leak somewhere," insisted the angry officer; "it smells to
Heaven, but I can't locate it. Somewhere there's a direct, intelligent
and sinister underground communication between Osage Court House and Jeb
Stuart at Sandy River--or wherever he is. And what I want you to do is
to locate that leak and plug it."
"Of course," murmured the Special Messenger, gently tapping her riding
skirt with her whip.
"Because," continued the Colonel, "headquarters is stripping this depot
of troops. The Bucktails go to-day; Casson's New York brigade and
Darrel's cavalry left yesterday. What remains is a mighty small garrison
for a big supply depot--eleven hundred effectives, and they may take
some of them at any moment. You see the danger?"
"Yes, I do."
"I've protested; I've pointed out the risk we run; I sent my third
messenger to headquarters this afternoon. Of course, they don't intend
to leave this depot unguarded--probably they'll send the Vermont troops
from the North this week--but between the departure of Casson's column
and the theoretical arrival of reënforcements from Preston, we'd be in a
bad way if Stuart should raid us in force. And with this irritating and
constant leaking out of information I'm horribly afraid he'll strike us
as soon as the Bucktails entrain."
"Why don't you hold the Pennsylvania infantry until we can find out
where the trouble lies?" asked the girl, raising her dark eyes to the
nervous young Colonel.
"I haven't the authority; I've asked for it twice. Orders stand; the
Bucktails are going, and I'm worried to death." He shoved his empty pipe
into his mouth and bit viciously at the stem.
"Then," she said, "if I'm to do anything I'd better hurry, hadn't I?"
The young officer's face grew grimmer. "Certainly; but I've been a month
at it and I'm no wiser. Of course I know you are very celebrated, ma'am;
but, really, do you think it likely that you can pick out this hidden
mischief-maker before he sends word to Stuart to-night of our deplorable
condition?"
"How long have I?"
"About a day."
"When do the Bucktails go?"
"At nine to-night."
"Who knows it?"
"Who doesn't? I can't move a regiment and its baggage in a day, can I?
I've given them twenty-four hours to break camp and entrain."
"Does the train master know which troops are going?"
"He has orders to hold three trains, steam up, night and day."
"I see," she murmured, strapping her soft riding hat more securely to
her hair with the elastic band. Her eyes had been wandering restlessly
around the tent as though searching for something which she could not
find.
"Have you a good map of the district?" she asked.
He went to his military chest, opened it, and produced a map. For a
while, both hands on the table, she leaned above the map studying the
environment.
"And Stuart? You say he's roaming around somewhere in touch with Sandy
River?" she asked, pointing with a pencil to that metropolis on the map.
"The Lord knows where he is!" muttered the Colonel. "He may be a
hundred miles south now, and in my back yard to-morrow by breakfast
time. But when he's watching us he's usually near Sandy River."
"I see. And these"--drawing her pencil in a wavering line--"are your
outposts? I mean those pickets nearest Sandy River."
"They are. Those are rifle pits."
"A grand guard patrols this line?" she asked, rising to her feet.
"Yes; a company of cavalry and a field gun."
"Do you issue passes?"
"Not to the inhabitants."
"Have any people--civilians--asked for passes?"
"I had two applications; one from a Miss Carryl, who lives about a mile
beyond here on the Sandy River Road; another from an old farmer, John
Deal, who has a fruit and truck farm half a mile outside our lines. He
wanted to come in with his produce and I let him for a while. But that
leakage worried me, so I stopped him."
"And this Miss Carryl--did she want to go out?"
"She owns the Deal farm. Yes, she wanted to drive over every day; and I
let her until, as I say, I felt obliged to stop the whole business--not
permit anybody to go out or come in except our own troops."
"And still the leakage continues?"
"It certainly does," he said dryly.
The Special Messenger seated herself on one end of the military chest
and gazed absently at space. Her booted foot swung gently at intervals.
"So this Miss Carryl owns John Deal's farm," she mused aloud.
"They run it on shares, I believe."
"Oh! Was she angry when you shut out her tenant, John Deal, and shut her
inside the lines?"
"No; she seemed a little surprised--said it was inconvenient--wanted
permission to write him."
"You gave it?"
"Yes. I intimated it would save time if she left her letters to him
unsealed. She seemed quite willing."
"You read them all, of course, before delivering them?"
"Of course. There was nothing in them except instructions about plowing,
fruit picking, and packing, and various bucolic matters."
"Oh! Nothing to be read between the lines? No cipher? No invisible ink?
No tricks of any sort?"
"Not one. I had a detective here. He said there was absolutely no harm
in the letters, in Miss Carryl, or in John Deal. I have all the letters
if you care to look at them; I always keep the originals and allow only
copies to be sent to old man Deal."
"Let me see those letters," suggested the Messenger.
The Colonel, who had been sitting on the camp table, got off wearily,
rummaged in a dispatch box, and produced three letters, all unsealed.
Two were directed in a delicately flowing, feminine hand to John Deal,
Waycross Orchard. The Messenger unfolded the first and read:
    Dear Mr. Deal:
    Colonel Gay has thought it necessary, for military reasons, to
    revoke my pass; and I shall, therefore, be obliged hereafter to
    communicate with you by letter only.
    I wish, if there are negroes enough remaining in the quarters,
    that you would start immediately a seedling orchard of white
    Rare-ripe peaches from my orchard here. I have permission to
    send the pits to you by the military post-rider who passes my
    house. I will send you twenty every day as my peaches ripen.
    Please prepare for planting. I hope your rheumatism is better.
                                        Yours very truly,
                                                 Evelyn Carryl.
The Messenger's dark eyes lifted dreamily to the Colonel:
"You gave her permission to send the pits by your post-rider?"
"Yes," he said, smiling; "but I always look over them myself. You know
the wedding gown of the fairy princess was hidden in a grape seed."
"You are quite sure about the pits?"
"Perfectly."
"Oh! When does the next batch of twenty go?"
"In about an hour. Miss Carryl puts them in a bag and gives them to my
messenger who brings them to me. Then I inspect every pit, tie up the
bag, seal it, and give it to my messenger. When he takes the mail to the
outposts he rides on for half a mile and leaves the sealed bag at Deal's
farm."
"Does your messenger know what is in the bag?"
"No, he doesn't."
She nodded, amused, saying carelessly:
"Of course you trust your post-rider?"
"Absolutely."
The Special Messenger swung her foot absently to and fro, and presently
opened another letter:
    Dear Mr. Deal:
    I am sending you twenty more peach pits for planting. What you
    write me about the bees is satisfactory. I have received the
    bees you sent. There is no reason why you should not make the
    exchange with Mr. Enderly, as it will benefit our hives as well
    as Mr. Enderly's to cross his Golden Indias with my Blacks.
The Messenger studied the letter thoughtfully; askance, the officer
watched the delicate play of expression on her absorbed young face,
perhaps a trifle incredulous that so distractingly pretty a woman could
be quite as intelligent as people believed.
She looked up at him quietly.
"So you gave Deal permission to send some bees to Miss Carryl and write
her a letter?"
"Once. I had the letter brought to me and I sent her a copy. Here it
is--the original."
He produced Deal's letter from the dispatch pouch, and the Messenger
