respect which the most flippant spirit would 
not have refused him. 
Olin Steele held up his hands, and so grasp- 
ing both of hers, he entreated her ; one would 
have said not that he poured out his love so 
much as that he lifted it, a worship ennobled 
by despair, and offered as much in belated 
justice to himself as in hope of melting her. 
" I 'll be whatever you loved ! " he pleaded. 
" I will become the man you can love ! Name 
the price of your forgiveness ! I will pay it to 
the uttermost ! " 
Miriam, mute and miserable, shook her head. 
"I will abandon it — all," cried Steele. "I 
will give up experimentation. I will resign my 
professorship. I will fling away my ambition 
— everything that I hoped to do. I will begin 
 
all over again. I will become a plain doctor 
and heal the sick. All I want is you." 
The man stopped. His lips trembled before 
the miracle of the vows that he had uttered. 
Reverently he pressed his face into her hands, 
which he was still holding, and he left upon 
them the kiss of consecration that a perfect 
love offers to a woman whether she be won 
or lost. 
But Miriam was silent. Her wide eyes were 
as wretched as his. With a gentle, maternal 
movement she drew him to his feet, and re- 
leased her hands. 
" You make it so hard — You make it so 
hard ! " she breathed. 
Her fathomless tenderness, her solemn 
beauty, all the lost preciousness of her, 
flooded his being with an anguish like a 
mortal pain. 
" You torture me ! " he groaned. 
" Oh, no ! Oh, no ! " she gasped. " I do 
forgive you for this. May God go with you — 
if you do what you say — what you mean 
— but I cannot." 
Now Dr. Steele uttered these uncontrollable 
words : 
 
" You are more cruel to me than I was to 
that dog. You vivisect me." 
Miriam caught her breath. It was as if the 
recording angel had read from the Book of 
Life a sentence in an unknown tongue, and 
challenged her soul to translate it. She felt 
how easy it would be to make an eternal mis- 
take in that sacred language. But she did not 
flinch. Slowly and kindly she stirred from his 
side. She was blinded with her tears, and 
groped for the door. He thought she said, 
" Oh, good-by — good-by ! " 
But he was not sure. 
CHAPTER XII 
Mrs. Percy B. Jeffries arrived at the town 
house the next morning, and Miriam found 
herself denied that luxury of solitude which, 
to a nature like hers, is the first craving of 
acute trouble. Perhaps it is one of the values 
of misfortune that it shall not seem bearable 
until it has become so ; and not the least of its 
veiled advantages, that the superficial relations 
of life must go on in the teeth of emergency. 
Aunt Cornelia found a disturbed house- 
hold, nor was she the woman to soothe the 
nervous tension. She precipitated into the 
electric atmosphere the cook, the chamber- 
maid, and the laundress. She was surcharged 
with the achievements of a forced flitting, as 
well as with the mortification of the necessity 
for it. 
Before Mrs. Jeffries had time, or perhaps 
before Miriam had given opportunity, for re- 
proaches or inquiries, Maggie brought in a 
special delivery letter. This ran : 
 
My dear Mrs. Jeffries : Under the pre- 
sent painful circumstances, of whose nature 
you will doubtless by this time have been in- 
formed, I find myself under the necessity of 
resigning the presidency of the Society for 
the Prevention of Docking and Cropping 
Tails and Ears. That this noble and neces- 
sary work will find under your leadership 
recognition at the hands of the Legislature, I 
have no doubt. I am forced to feel that my 
connection with the cause would be an injury 
to it now. With thanks to you for your gen- 
erous hospitality, and with deep appreciation 
of the many pleasant hours that we have 
passed together, I am, 
Very truly yours, 
Olin Steele. 
Mrs. Jeffries was about to ring for Miriam 
to come and explain this blasting communica- 
tion when she looked down and perceived a 
little white statuette on the carpet at her feet. 
Trixy sat up in the begging attitude, but 
there was no beggar in her eyes. These re- 
garded Mrs. Jeffries complacently, and rather 
patronizingly ; in fact, Trixy had the air of 
being the hostess of the occasion. Mrs. Jef- 
fries put on her eye-glasses and examined this 
incident. Her courtesy overcame her per- 
plexity, and she held out her ringed hand to 
the little dog. At this moment Dan limped 
apologetically in. 
"She wants to shake hands with you, marm. 
Trixy 's glad to see you home again." 
" You mean paws," corrected Mrs. Jef- 
fries. 
" No, I don't," persisted Dan, falling back 
upon his old phrase. " Trixy don't know 
she 's got paws." 
Dan picked up his dog, perched her on his 
crooked shoulder, and left the room. Mrs. 
Jeffries, going out into the hall to call Miriam, 
heard the lad's uneven step wearily climbing 
the back stairs ; a fact which at the time she 
but half noted. 
"Come up, Auntie," answered Miriam. 
"I've got something to show you. I can't 
talk. But if you won't ask any questions, you 
had better come up and see." 
What new blow awaited ? With apjn-ehen- 
sion, Mrs. Jeffries mounted the stairs. With 
weariness in her nerves, and disapprobation on 
 
her lips, the lady entered her niece's room. 
In his basket before the fireplace lay the weak 
and mangled spaniel. Miriam, in her white 
negligee, was kneeling beside him. 
" It 's Caro, Auntie. Speak kindly to him. 
Don't ask me a question. Philip will tell you. 
Don't blame me for anything !" 
The painful color burned Aunt Cornelia's 
cheeks. 
" I didn't know I was as bad as that, my 
dear." Then she stooped and saw. 
A colder-hearted woman than Mrs. Jeffries 
might have melted at the sight before her, and 
Aunt Cornelia's tears fell fast upon the mu- 
tilated dog. 
Mrs. Jeffries and her dearest lawyer sat to- 
gether in the library. It was now mid-after- 
noon, and Surbridge, cheerfully cutting an 
hour from the busiest portion of his day, had 
already surrendered himself to the task of 
soothing the soul of his most adoring and 
most difficult client. 
"Put yourself in my place," said Aunt 
Cornelia solemnly. 
" That, my dear madam," returned Philip 
with his perfect manner, " I have often done 
— with envy." 
