correct. Owing to the formation of the mountains I could not see more
than half a mile into the unknown country. What I could see appeared
to be nothing but the continuation of the glacier's path, scored out
by the cloud-burst, and swept as smooth as a floor.
Sitting there, my heart beating heavily with excitement, I looked
through the evening glow at the endless, pine-crowned mountain-wall
with its giant's gateway pierced for me! And I thought of all the
explorers and the unknown heroes--trappers, Indians, humble
naturalists, perhaps--who had attempted to scale that sheer barricade
and had died there or failed, beaten back from those eternal cliffs.
Eternal? No! For the Eternal Himself had struck the rock, and it had
sprung asunder, thundering obedience.
In the still evening air the smoke from the fire below mounted in a
straight, slender pillar, like the smoke from those ancient altars
builded before the first blood had been shed on earth.
The evening wind stirred the pines; a tiny spring brook made thin
harmony among the rocks; a murmur came from the quiet camp. It was
William adjuring his mules. In the deepening twilight I descended the
hillock, stepping cautiously among the rocks.
Then, suddenly, as I stood outside the reddening ring of firelight,
far in the depths of the unknown country, far behind the
mountain-wall, a sound grew on the quiet air. William heard it and
turned his face to the mountains. The sound faded to a vibration which
was felt, not heard. Then once more I began to divine a vibration in
the air, gathering in distant volume until it became a sound, lasting
the space of a spoken word, fading to vibration, then silence.
Was it a cry?
I looked at William inquiringly. He had quietly fainted away.
I got him to the little brook and poked his head into the icy water,
and after a while he sat up pluckily.
To an indignant question he replied: "Naw, I ain't a-cussin' you.
Lemme be or I'll have fits."
"Was it that sound that scared you?" I asked.
"Ya-as," he replied with a dauntless shiver.
"Was it the voice of the mammoth?" I persisted, excitedly. "Speak,
William, or I'll drag you about and kick you!"
He replied that it was neither a mammoth nor a dingue, and added a
strong request for privacy, which I was obliged to grant, as I could
not torture another word out of him.
I slept little that night; the exciting proximity of the unknown land
was too much for me. But although I lay awake for hours, I heard
nothing except the tinkle of water among the rocks and the plover
calling from some hidden marsh. At daybreak I shot a ptarmigan which
had walked into camp, and the shot set the echoes yelling among the
mountains.
William, sullen and heavy-eyed, dressed the bird, and we broiled it
for breakfast.
Neither he nor I alluded to the sound we had heard the night before;
he boiled water and cleaned up the mess-kit, and I pottered about
among the rocks for another ptarmigan. Wearying of this, presently, I
returned to the mules and William, and sat down for a smoke.
"It strikes me," I said, "that our instructions to 'await further
orders' are idiotic. How are we to receive 'further orders' here?"
William did not know.
"You don't suppose," said I, in sudden disgust, "that Miss Smawl
believes there is a summer hotel and daily mail service in the Hudson
Mountains?"
William thought perhaps she did suppose something of the sort.
It irritated me beyond measure to find myself at last on the very
border of the unknown country, and yet checked, held back, by the
irresponsible orders of a maiden lady named Smawl. However, my salary
depended upon the whim of that maiden lady, and although I fussed and
fumed and glared at the mountains through my glasses, I realized that
I could not stir without the permission of Miss Smawl. At times this
grotesque situation became almost unbearable, and I often went away by
myself and indulged in fantasies, firing my gun off and pretending I
had hit Miss Smawl by mistake. At such moments I would imagine I was
free at last to plunge into the strange country, and I would squat on
a rock and dream of bagging my first mammoth.
The time passed heavily; the tension increased with each new day. I
shot ptarmigan and kept our table supplied with brook-trout. William
chopped wood, conversed with his mules, and cooked very badly.
"See here," I said, one morning; "we have been in camp a week to-day,
and I can't stand your cooking another minute!"
William, who was washing a saucepan, looked up and begged me
sarcastically to accept the cordon bleu. But I know only how to cook
eggs, and there were no eggs within some hundred miles.
To get the flavor of the breakfast out of my mouth I walked up to my
favorite hillock and sat down for a smoke. The next moment, however, I
was on my feet, cheering excitedly and shouting for William.
"Here come 'further instructions' at last!" I cried, pointing to the
southward, where two dots on the grassy plain were imperceptibly
moving in our direction.
"People on mules," said William, without enthusiasm.
"They must be messengers for us!" I cried, in chaste joy. "Three
cheers for the northward trail, William, and the mischief take
Miss--Well, never mind now," I added.
"On them approachin' mules," observed William, "there is wimmen."
I stared at him for a second, then attempted to strike him. He dodged
wearily and repeated his incredible remark: "Ya-as, there
is--wimmen--two female ladies onto them there mules."
"Bring me my glasses!" I said, hoarsely; "bring me those glasses,
William, because I shall destroy you if you don't!"
Somewhat awed by my calm fury, he hastened back to camp and returned
with the binoculars. It was a breathless moment. I adjusted the lenses
with a steady hand and raised them.
Now, of all unexpected sights my fate may reserve for me in the
future, I trust--nay, I know--that none can ever prove as unwelcome as
the sight I perceived through my binoculars. For upon the backs of
those distant mules were two women, and the first one was Miss Smawl!
Upon her head she wore a helmet, from which fluttered a green veil.
Otherwise she was clothed in tweeds; and at moments she beat upon her
mule with a thick umbrella.
Surfeited with the sickening spectacle, I sat down on a rock and tried
to cry.
"I told yer so," observed William; but I was too tired to attack him.
When the caravan rode into camp I was myself again, smilingly prepared
for the worst, and I advanced, cap in hand, followed furtively by
William.
"Welcome," I said, violently injecting joy into my voice. "Welcome,
Professor Smawl, to the Hudson Mountains!"
"Kindly take my mule," she said, climbing down to mother earth.
"William," I said, with dignity, "take the lady's mule."
Miss Smawl gave me a stolid glance, then made directly for the
camp-fire, where a kettle of game-broth simmered over the coals. The
last I saw of her she was smelling of it, and I turned my back and
advanced towards the second lady pilgrim, prepared to be civil until
snubbed.
Now, it is quite certain that never before had William Spike or I
beheld so much feminine loveliness in one human body on the back of a
mule. She was clad in the daintiest of shooting-kilts, yet there was
nothing mannish about her except the way she rode the mule, and that
only accentuated her adorable femininity.
I remembered what Professor Lesard had said about blue stockings--but
Miss Dorothy Van Twiller's were gray, turned over at the tops, and
disappearing into canvas spats buckled across a pair of slim
shooting-boots.
"Welcome," said I, attempting to restrain a too violent cordiality.
"Welcome, Professor Van Twiller, to the Hudson Mountains."
"Thank you," she replied, accepting my assistance very sweetly; "it is
a pleasure to meet a human being again."
I glanced at Miss Smawl. She was eating game-broth, but she resembled
a human being in a general way.
"I should very much like to wash my hands," said Professor Van
Twiller, drawing the buckskin gloves from her slim fingers.
I brought towels and soap and conducted her to the brook.
She called to Professor Smawl to join her, and her voice was
crystalline; Professor Smawl declined, and her voice was batrachian.
"She is so hungry!" observed Miss Van Twiller. "I am very thankful we
are here at last, for we've had a horrid time. You see, we neither of
us know how to cook."
I wondered what they would say to William's cooking, but I held my
peace and retired, leaving the little brook to mirror the sweetest
face that was ever bathed in water.
VIII
That afternoon our expedition, in two sections, moved forward. The
first section comprised myself and all the mules; the second section
was commanded by Professor Smawl, followed by Professor Van Twiller,
armed with a tiny shot-gun. William, loaded down with the ladies'
toilet articles, skulked in the rear. I say skulked; there was no
other word for it.
"So you're a guide, are you?" observed Professor Smawl when William,
cap in hand, had approached her with well-meant advice. "The woods are
full of lazy guides. Pick up those Gladstone bags! I'll do the guiding
for this expedition."
Made cautious by William's humiliation, I associated with the mules
exclusively. Nevertheless, Professor Smawl had her hard eyes on me,
and I realized she meant mischief.
The encounter took place just as I, driving the five mules, entered
the great mountain gateway, thrilled with anticipation which almost
