that day of pristine virtue and pastoral simplicity! It was all very
well to be an idealist then, Mr. Lushington sometimes said to Margaret;
the world was young, then; there was time for everything, then; there
was room for everybody, then; even the seasons were different, then! At
least, all old people say so, and it can hardly be supposed that all
persons over fifty years of age belong to a secret and powerful
association of liars, organised and banded together to deceive the
young.
Mr. Lushington was somebody, even at the beginning of this truthful
little tale, and that was some time ago; and if anything about him
could have really irritated Margaret Donne, it was that she could not
understand the reason of his undeniable importance. The people who
succeed in life, and in the arts and professions, are not always the
pleasantest people, nor even the nicest. Miss Donne had found this out
before she was twenty, and she was two years older now. She had learned
a good many other things more or less connected with human nature, and
more or less useful to a young woman in her position.
She remembered two or three of those comparatively recent discoveries
as she smiled at Mr. Lushington and observed that her smile annoyed
him. Not that Margaret was cruel or fond of giving pain for the sake of
seeing suffering; but she could be both when she was roused to defend
her beliefs, her ideals, or even her tastes. The cool ferocity of some
young women is awful. Judith, Jael, Delilah, and Athaliah were not
mythical. Is there a man who has not wakened from dreams, to find that
the woman he trusted has stolen his strength or is just about to hammer
the great nail home through his temples?
Margaret Donne was not actually cruel to her fellow-creatures. She was
not one of those modern persons who feel sick at the sight of a
half-starved horse dragging a heavy load, but will turn a man's life
into a temporary hell without changing colour. Such as these give women
a bad name among men. Margaret was merely defending herself, for Mr.
Lushington sometimes drove her to extremities; his very shyness was so
aggressive, that she could not pity him, even when she saw him blush
painfully, and noticed the slight dew which an attack of social
timidity brought to his smooth forehead.
She had excellent nerves, and was not at all timid; if anything, she
thought herself a little too self-possessed, and was slightly ashamed
of it, fancying it unwomanly. She had a great fear of ever being that,
and with Mr. Lushington, who seemed to take it for granted that she
ought to think as men do, and was to be blamed for thinking otherwise,
she took especial pains to claim a woman's privileges at every turn.
'I cannot imagine,' he said presently, 'how any intelligent person can
really believe in such arrant mythology.'
'But I make no pretension of "intelligence",' murmured Margaret Donne.
'That is absurd,' retorted Mr. Lushington, with a half-furtive,
half-angry glance. 'You know you are clever.'
Margaret knew it, of course, and she smiled again. The young man did
not need to see her to be sure how she looked at that moment, for he
knew her face well. It had fixed itself in the front of his memories
some time ago, and he had not succeeded in bringing any other image
there to drive it away. Perhaps he had not tried as hard as he
supposed.
It was not such a very striking face either, at first sight. The
features were not perfect, by any means, and they were certainly not
Greek. Anacreon would not have compared Margaret's complexion to roses
mixed with milk, but he might have thought of cream tinged with
peach-bloom, and it would have been called a beautiful skin anywhere.
Margaret had rather light brown eyes, but when she was interested in
anything the pupils widened so much as to make them look very dark.
Then the lids would stay quite motionless for a long time, and the
colour would fade a little from her whole face; but sometimes, just
then, she would bite her lower lip, and that spoiled what some people
would have called the intenseness of her expression. It is true that
her teeth were beyond criticism and her lips were fresh and creamy
red--but Mr. Lushington wished she would not do it. The muses are never
represented 'biting their lips'; and in his moments of enthusiasm he
liked to think that Margaret was his muse. She had thick brown hair
that waved naturally, but made no little curls and baby ringlets, such
as some young women have, or make. The line of her hair along her
forehead and temples, though curved, was rather severe. She had been
fair when a little girl, but had grown darker after she was fifteen.
When she thought of it, she rather liked her own face, for she was not
everlastingly trying to be some one else. It was a satisfactory face,
on the whole, she thought, perfectly natural and frank, and healthy. No
doubt it would have been nice to be as beautiful as a Madame de
Villeneuve, or a Comtesse de Castiglione, but as that was quite
impossible, it was easy to be satisfied with what she had in the way of
looks and not to envy the insolent radiance of the fair beauties, or
the tragic splendour of the dark ones. Besides, great beauty has
disadvantages; it attracts attention at the wrong moment, it makes
travelling troublesome, it is obtrusive and hinders a woman from doing
exactly what she pleases. It is celebrity, and therefore a target for
every photographing tourist and newspaper man.
And then, to lose it, as one must, is a kind of suffering which no male
can quite understand. Every great beauty feels that she is to be
unjustly condemned to death between forty and fifty, and that every day
of her life brings her nearer to ignominious public execution; and
though beauties manage to last longer, yet is their strength but sorrow
and weakness, depending largely on the hairdresser, the dentist, the
dressmaker and other functions of the unknown quantities x and y,
as the mathematicians say.
The Emperor Tiberius is reported to have said that if a man does not
know what is good for him when he is forty years old, he must be either
a fool or a physician. Similarly, a woman who does not know her own
good points at twenty is either very foolish, or a raving beauty--or a
saint. Perhaps women can be all three; it is not safe to assert
anything positively about them. Margaret Donne was clever, she was a
good girl but not a saint, and she was a little more than fairly
good-looking. That was all, and she knew her good points. If she was
not perpetually showing them to advantage, she at least realised what
they were and that she might some day have to make the most of them.
They were her complexion, her mouth and her figure; and she was clever,
if cleverness be a 'point' in a human being, which is doubtful. It is
not considered one in a puppy.
Mr. Lushington discouraged the familiarity of men who called him plain
'Lushington.' When they were older than he, he felt that they were
patronising him; if they were younger, he thought them distinctly
cheeky. Occasionally he fell in with a relation, or an old
schoolfellow, who addressed him as 'Ned,' or even as 'Eddie,' This made
him utterly miserable; in the language of Johnson, when Mr. Lushington
was called 'Eddie,' he was convolved with agony--especially if a third
person chanced to be present. Margaret sometimes wondered whether she
should ever be in a position to use that weapon.
There was a possibility of it, depending on her own choice. In fact,
there were two possibilities, for she could marry him if she pleased,
or she could make an intimate friend of him, and they might then call
each other by their Christian names. At the present time she knew him
so well that she avoided using his name altogether, and he called her
'Miss Margaret' when he was pleased, and 'Miss Donne' when he was not.
'It is a pity you think me clever,' she said demurely, after a little
pause.
'Why?' he inquired severely.
'The idea makes you so uncomfortable,' Margaret answered. 'If I were
just a nice dull girl, you would only have to lay down the law, and I
should have to accept it. Or else you would not feel obliged to talk to
me at all, which would be simpler.'
'Much,' said Lushington, with some acerbity.
'So much simpler, that I wonder why you do not follow the line of least
resistance!'
A short silence came after this suggestion, and Margaret turned over
the pages of her book as if making up her mind where to begin reading.
This was not quite a pretence, for Lushington had told her that it was
a book she ought to read, which it was her intellectual duty to read,
and which would develop her reasoning faculties. By way of
encouragement he had added that she would probably not like it. On that
point she agreed with him readily. To people who read much, every new
book has a personality, features and an expression, attractive, dull,
or repulsive, like most human beings one meets for the first time. This
particular book had a particularly priggish expression, like
Lushington's yellow shoes, which were too good and too new, and which
he was examining with apparent earnestness. To tell the truth he did
not see them, for he was wondering whether the blush of annoyance he
felt was unusually visible. The result of thinking about it was that it
deepened to scarlet at once.
'You look hot,' observed Margaret, with an exasperating smile.
'Not at all,' answered Lushington, feeling as if she had rubbed his
cheeks with red pepper. 'I suppose I am sunburnt.'
Tiny beads of perspiration were gathering on his forehead, and he knew
by her smile that she saw them. It would have been delightful to walk
into the pond just then, yellow shoes and all.
He told himself that he was Edmund Lushington, the distinguished critic
and reviewer, before whom authors trembled and were afraid. It was
absurd that he should feel too hot because a mere girl had said
something smart and disagreeable. In fact, what she had said was little
short of an impertinence, in his opinion.
The fool who does not know that he looks a fool is happy. The fool who
is conscious of looking one undergoes real pain. But of all the
miserable victims of shyness, the one most to be pitied is the
sensitive, gifted man who is perfectly aware that he looks silly while
rightly conscious that he is not. Margaret Donne watched Lushington,
