up in this way. Wife and daughter were to 
share the income just alike, the trustee was to 
pay the daughter her share. She went to a 
boarding school one year and on her return 
found her mother so much in debt that she took 
a small district school and taught and studied 
with the old clergyman of the place. Mrs. Kent 
was extravagantly fond of dress, and not pleased 
that she did not have the disposition of the whole 
income. The principal could not be touched; if 
the mother died first it went to the daughter and 
if otherwise to her mother. Last June Mrs. Kent 
married an Englishman and went abroad. Miss 
Kent paid up some debts and found her income 



 

would admit of her coming here, where her only 
friend, Miss Logan, had arranged to take a 
course. And the new Mrs. Burwind had a stroke 
of apoplexy about the middle of the month and 
lived only a few hours. The trustee came up 
with the letter, and it seems the husband thinks 
he ought to have his wife's share, but of course 
he cannot get it. So you see Miss Kent is quite 
an heiress. They both plan to go to college 
together. The income is about a thousand" a 
year," 

"So romances haven't gone out of date," com- 
mented Helen. "And here is a mother who dis- 
proves the tenderness we associate with mother- 
hood." A vague thought of her own mother 
came to Helen and she wondered if she would 
have loved her as she grew older. 

"Miss Logan was really very sweet and friendly 
and delicate in talking of her friend who had 
been always ambitious on educational lines. She 
had pinched and gone in the plainest attire, in- 
deed she had almost come to despise dress because 
her mother used every art to obtain it. The trus- 
tee, Mr. Carter, had to warn several shop-keepers 
not to trust her. And the mother used to say — 
'Just wait until I come into possession of this 
money, you make it fly,' as if she was sure she 



would outlive Elizabeth. Miss Logan admitted 
that she had had a very hard life. And she spent 
the little money she had been saving up for a 
year to study higher branches, on her mother's 
wedding trousseau. Mr. Carter would not ad- 
vance a dollar, and I think he was right. Then 
her mother said she went to England looking like 
some one's servant girl." 

"It's queer," remarked Helen thoughtfully, 
"that so many of the girls eager for education 
have such a struggle to compass it. And they do 
not get honored for their efforts. I think a boy 
would. It isn't fair !" and she glanced up indig- 
nantly as she ended her sentence. 

"I wish there might be a little more kindliness 
among girls. I am sure there is with boys and 
men. But the girls study each other's clothes 
and rate a girl accordingly, though they really 
did not pay much attention to mine. But I was 
diffident and awkward. I still half envy girls 
who walk right into one's heart like Daisy Bell." 

"Miss Kent might have been a little more ap- 
proachable," said Helen. "I tried. And — she 
might have made herself look a little more girlish, 
a little prettier. I think you ought to look as 
well as you can, and your mother and aunts ought 
to allow you to. I don't believe vanity is a bit 



 

worse than the dissatisfaction of faded and out- 
grown frocks children are made to wear. Your 
clothes ought to be so you would not give them 
a second thought" 

"You might not, perhaps. Mrs. Kent would 
give them many thoughts. Anything inharmo- 
nious does fret some people." 

"I don't know but gowns and caps and 'round 
tires like the moon' and 'wimples and crisping 
pins' ought to be made a subject of special study," 
laughed Helen. "Well, I shall renew my efforts 
toward Miss Kent. She must have had a hard, 
unhappy life, and think how delightfully they 
might have spent it together! Oh, why must 
people throw away not only their own chances 
but those of other folks they have no right to! 
Why, that is taking what doesn't belong to you." 

"I never thought of that before. It has a wide 
aspect. It is not just to defraud another of hap- 
piness." 

"And what else has happened at this wonderful 
Aldred House where stories of life are being 
made all the time ?" 

"Two new scholars came yesterday, girls about 
sixteen. One is an orphan and will stay three 
years, her guardian plans; a rather aggressive 
looking girl. The other cried nearly all night 





from homesickness, so she had a home to leave. ' 
The fair was a success, the Christmas celebration 
delightful. Oh, and Mrs. Danforth told me 
Gordon had sent her a check for fifty dollars to 
buy Christmas for the rest of the parson's flock." 

"That was splendid," cried Helen, aflush with 
delight. She wondered why she should be so 
proud to have him remember. 

"It is curious," Juliet said after a pause, "but 
these few days I have felt like being in a real 
home. There was time for interest in so many 
things. One really forgot the school part. Oh, 
and you have not had your letters. How could I 
be so remiss!" 

Uncle Jason had sent her five dollars with his 
dear love. He knew she did not need it, but it 
was all the dearer for that. Nat had written a 
long letter. His violet bed was coming on splen- 
didly, and his young fruit trees were standing the 
cold robustly. The hens were bringing in money 
every week. There was so much interest in 
farming. She had sent him a book of travels and 
he was delighted with it. 

Mrs. Wilmarth had remembered both girls, but 
Helen's letter was especially dear. She was 
learning to be of some use in the world, to minis- 
ter to others as well as to be ministered to. Mrs. 



 

Gilbert had proved such a help. Mr. and Mrs. 
