"Ma, I want another piece," came promptly from Fred.
"You've had two pieces already, Fred."
"I want another."
"Not to-day."
"Just a little piece!"
"Not another mouthful!" And Mrs. Balberry placed the remainder of the
pie in the cupboard.
"I can't never have nothing!" cried Fred, kicking the leg of the table.
"You'll have a box on the ears, Fred Guff, if you don't behave
yourself," answered his mother, and then there was silence.
After dinner, Nat talked with his uncle for a while, and then putting on
an old coat, went up into the dusty garret, and hauled out the old
trunk. It was strapped, but not locked, so he had no trouble in opening
it.
"What are you going to do?" asked Fred, who had followed him.
"Look over some papers," answered our hero, briefly.
"Want me to help you?"
"No."
"What are you going to do with the papers?"
"Take some of them to the city with me."
"Are they yours?"
"Yes."
"Say, don't you think it would be a good plan for me to go to the city
and git a job at ten dollars a week?" went on Fred, sitting down on the
top garret step.
"Yes, if you could get the ten-dollar job."
"Why can't I git it? You got it."
"I was lucky, that's all, Fred. Before I got it I might have starved to
death."
"Huh! Couldn't you git me a job with your boss?"
"I don't think so."
"I'm just as smart as you are, Nat Nason."
To this our hero made no reply. He had brought out some of the papers,
and was looking them over with much interest.
"If you don't want to help me git a job, I'll git one on my own hook,"
continued Fred, who was as dull as he considered himself bright.
"Well, you have a right to do as you please," said Nat. "But please
leave me alone now, Fred; I want to read these very carefully."
"Huh! I'm going to stay in the garret as long as I please."
Nat said no more, and Fred began to kick the step upon which he was
sitting. Then, he began to thump on the rafters of the garret, bringing
down some dirt on Nat's head.
"Stop that, Fred!" cried our hero, sharply. "Stop it, I say!"
"I ain't goin' to stop."
"If you don't stop, I'll put you downstairs, first thing you know."
"You can't do it."
"Yes, I can."
"Do you want to fight?" demanded Fred, rising and squaring off.
"No, but I want you to leave me alone."
"I ain't touched you."
"No, but you were knocking the dirt down on me. Why can't you leave me
alone?"
"I've got as much right in this garret as you have, that's why."
"You are mean."
"Don't you call me mean!" blustered Fred, and coming closer, he hit Nat
on the shoulder. At once our hero hit back, and Fred received a thump
in the mouth that caused him to topple backwards.
"Don't!" he screamed. "Don't--don't hit me again."
"Now, are you going to leave me alone?" demanded Nat.
"I'll tell my ma on you."
"If you do, I shall tell her how you annoyed me," answered Nat.
"Come down in the barnyard and I'll fight with you," said Fred, but, as
he spoke, he retreated down the stairs.
"Don't be a fool, Fred. Behave yourself, and we'll get along all right,"
said Nat, and then Fred passed to the lower floor, banging the stairway
door after him. There was a hook on the door, and this he fastened after
him.
"Now, Nat can stay in the garret till I let him out," he muttered to
himself.
When left to himself, Nat dragged the old trunk to one of the windows of
the garret, and then began a systematic investigation of all the papers
the box contained. He soon learned that the majority of the documents
were of no importance, but there were half a dozen which looked of
possible value, and these he placed in his pocket. Two of the sheets
referred directly to the land in New York City.
"I hope these are what Mr. Garwell is looking for," he said to himself.
Having put the trunk back where it belonged, Nat started to go below,
only to find the door hooked fast from the other side.
"Fred!" he called out loudly. "Fred, open the door!"
"Ha! ha! Nat Nason, how do you like being a prisoner?" came from Fred,
who had been resting on a bed in a nearby room.
"I want you to open the door."
"What will you give me if I do?"
"I'll tell you what I'll give you if you don't!" cried Nat, angrily.
"What?"
"A good thrashing."
"You can't do it."
"Are you going to open the door?"
"No."
Fred had scarcely spoken when Nat pressed on the door, and the hook flew
from its fastening. As the door burst open, Nat leaped from the stairway
and caught the other boy by the collar.
"Now, then, that for locking me in," he cried, and boxed Fred's ears
soundly.
"Stop!" roared Fred. "Stop, Nat Nason."
"Will you behave yourself after this, and leave me alone?"
"Yes! yes!"
"Then, see that you do," went on Nat, and flung the other boy from him.
Fred picked himself up in a hurry, and ran below. He vowed he would get
square, but during Nat's stay at the farm he could not muster up courage
to do so.
CHAPTER XXV
BACK TO THE CITY
On the following day Nat arose at five o'clock, and put on an old suit
of clothes. Slipping downstairs he hurried to the barn, where he fed the
horses and then milked the cows. He was just finishing up when his uncle
appeared.
"Well, I never!" ejaculated Abner Balberry. "Right back into harness
ag'in, eh?"
"Yes, Uncle Abner; I thought I'd like a little taste of old times."
"You've done putty good to get through so quick, Nat. I wish Fred was
such good help."
"Doesn't he help at all?"
"Not unless you drive him all the time. His mother gits after him, an'
so do I, but it don't appear to do no good."
"He wants to go to the city and try his luck."
"Humph! He'd starve to death."
"Perhaps it might teach him a lesson."
"Well, he's got to do somethin' putty soon. I ain't goin' to support him
if he won't work."
For the balance of the day Nat helped his uncle around the farm. It was
rather hard work, but he did not complain, and Abner was greatly
pleased.
"Nat, if you git tired o' the city, you come back here," said his uncle,
on parting. "Remember, I'll make it right with you."
"I'll remember, Uncle Abner," responded Nat.
"Somehow, I guess I didn't use to understand you. You're a putty good
boy after all."
"It's kind to say so."
"An' it wasn't right fer me to say you sot the barn afire," added Abner,
earnestly.
"We'll let bygones be bygones," answered Nat, and then he shook hands
with his uncle.
When Nat started back for New York, his Uncle Abner drove him to the
railroad station at Brookville. Fred wanted to go for the ride, but his
mother told him he must stay at the farm.
"You go and cut the wood," said she, sharply. "If you don't you'll get
no supper to-night."
"I ain't goin' to cut no wood," growled Fred.
"Yes, you are--and do it right now, too."
"Hang the wood," muttered Fred, savagely. "I ain't going to stay on the
farm. I'm going to New York, same as Nat."
At the depot Nat and his uncle parted on the best of terms.
"If you kin git off at Christmas, come an' see us," said Abner Balberry.
"We'll have a good fat turkey for dinner, with all the fixin's."
"Thank you very much," said Nat. "Perhaps I'll come--if I can get away."
The run to Cleveland was quickly made, and here our hero found that he
would have an hour to wait before the arrival of the train for New York.
As his dress-suit case had been checked, he felt at liberty to walk
around, to see the sights.
"How different matters are from when I first struck this city," he
thought, as he walked along one of the streets. "Then I was a real
greeny, but I didn't know it."
Nat was returning to the railroad station when he suddenly heard his
name called, and turning, found himself confronted by Paul Hampton.
"Oh, how do you do, Mr. Hampton?" he cried, and shook hands. "I am real
glad to see you."
"And I am glad to see you," answered the young man. "But how comes it
you are in Cleveland. I thought you were in New York."
"I've been back to the farm for a couple of days--on business and
