mechanic lucky enough to find a nugget of gold brought his wife in the
front rank and dressed her in velvet, loaded her with jewels. The
keeper of an ordinary restaurant branched out presently in a very
respectable hotel. It was difficult to keep up with all the changes.
Then, it must be admitted, that many of these people were from the
East and had good educations, had, indeed, been accustomed to the
refinements of civilized life, but the thought of making a fortune in
a few years had given them courage to breast the vulgarity and rough
life until they could advance themselves to the old standard.
The children had a party in the evening. Howard had gone to a
preparatory school in the East, as his keen-eyed stepmother found he
was in a rather dangerous circle of young men--girls, too, for that
matter--who were likely to lead one astray, and this had also
influenced Isabel and was bringing her forward much more rapidly than
was judicious. So they were principally schoolgirls, with the cousin
from Oaklands and the young sons of a few friends and neighbors. At
first Isabel was rather stiff and important, but she thawed presently.
Mrs. Personette remembered her own youth and how much these pleasures
had been to her, and really exerted herself in a delightful manner to
keep them well entertained.
Victor Savedra, one of the cousins from Oaklands, took a great fancy
to the shy little girl, and asked her to dance.
"I don't know how," she said, flushing and drawing back.
"Why--don't you dance?" in surprise.
"Just a little, with the girls at school. But--I am afraid----"
"Why, I'll take you through. This is just the plainest quadrille. Oh,
Aunt Grace, don't you think this--" little girl, he was about to
say--"your name is Laverne, isn't it--can't she dance? She looks as if
she could--she's as light as a feather."
"Oh, you can never learn younger. All the children dance here. I think
it comes natural. But you are too late for that. And, Victor, you
might be explaining the figures to her and be ready for the next one."
Victor led her a little to one side. "Aunt Grace is just a trump," he
said. "We thought at first we shouldn't like her, some of the Yankees
are so queer, and talk so outlandish and all that, through their
noses, you know, but she is just a lady all through, and full of fun.
Now, look at this--it's an easy figure--balancing to corners, turning
your partner and a galop down the middle----"
"Why, it's like the fairy rings you read about--I have a splendid
fairy book uncle brought me, and on moonlight nights the little people
go out and dance on the green. The Irish stories are just enchanting.
They love the little people."
Her eyes had been following the dances and she moved her head faintly
as if she was keeping time. Then the fiddles gave a sharp staccato and
stopped.
"Oh," she exclaimed, in bewilderment.
He laughed at the startled look.
"They'll tune up and begin again." Oh, what eager eyes she had. Why,
she was really very pretty, with that soft rose flush and fair hair.
Olive had called her "a plain little thing."
Sure enough that was long ago, remember, before we heard of Strauss
and Sousa. Many a quadrille has begun with "Life let us cherish."
Victor took her hand and fairly impelled her out on the floor. "Now,
I'll tell you everything, and you just mind and don't feel afraid."
She never knew whether she minded or not. She was thinking of Nora of
the Mill when she stepped in the magic ring, and Laudeen, with the
blue coat and a firefly for each button all the way down, just whisked
her around until the air was full of fireflies. It was splendid.
"Oh, you've done very well," Victor said, in a delighted tone. "You
didn't mind the mistakes at all, but just kept on, and that's the way
to do. But you must learn to dance regularly. And I hope we shall
dance together often. You are just like a fairy. That Larkin girl trod
on my foot about every other step. Oh, that is the Cheat. That's rare
fun. Now, see--when it is 'All hands round,' and your partner turns
the other girls, come straight back to him, to me, will you? The
fellows left out get laughed at. Now, you'll see."
When the Cheat came he told her again. She turned away from the
outstretched arms and looked for Victor, whose face was flushed. For
he felt he had been really rude to one of the best dancers in the
room. And in the next Cheat some one picked up Laverne, almost lifting
her off her feet, while Esta Collins paid him back with interest and a
triumphant smile.
"I didn't do it right," Laverne said ruefully. "He was so big and
strong, and I never saw him----"
"Oh, that's a good deal of the fun when you know all about it. The
girls flirt awfully, but now and then one gets left in the lurch. The
next is the Spanish Galop, and then the refreshments. Who is going to
take you in?"
"Why--I don't know----" hesitatingly.
"Then I will, and we will have this galop."
"Victor," Isabel said, rather sharply, in the pause. "You take Miss
Payne in for refreshments."
"Can't, my dear cousin. I wouldn't dare poach on Leon Sturges' manor."
"Victor!" But he had gone.
"Just see how that little thing holds on to Victor! Olive, you put a
stop to it as soon as supper is over. I didn't think Victor would make
such a fool of himself. He's danced three times with her. And she's
just crazy over it. She's making a sight of herself."
Olive nodded. She had had all the attention she wanted, and had never
once thought of Laverne, or Victor either.
Victor was asking if Laverne didn't most blow away up on the hill
where she lived, and if she didn't get lost in the dreadful fogs. And
she told him about her squirrel and the gull.
"Why, I thought they were the shyest, wildest things, and that you
couldn't touch them while they were alive. And he really stays with
you?" in amaze.
"He can't fly very far. You see, his wing isn't quite right, though he
can raise it, but it doesn't seem strong. Still he flies so
beautifully a short distance it is a pleasure to see him. Sometimes I
make believe he is an albatross. And I tell him about the 'Ancient
Mariner.'"
"Oh, do you know that queer old thing! And do you love verses? We're
reading the Iliad at school. It isn't verse exactly, but it's poetry
all the same. There are some splendid heroes in it."
She didn't know exactly what it was, but she liked reading about
heroes and her eyes kindled.
"Do you think I might come to visit you and the gull? Are there any
more pets?"
"Oh, yes, a splendid big dog; and I never feel afraid with him. And
the loveliest Mexican pony. Then the birds are very tame. There is the
sauciest mocking bird, and we whistle to each other. He will come for
crumbs, and when the weather is very dry we put out a pan of water and
it is fun to see them bathe. And the jays chatter and scold so."
"How much you must love everything!"
"Well--there are no children near by. Though now I go to school."
"And you came from Maine, Aunt Grace said, all the way round the Horn.
Do you know they are talking of a railroad across the Continent? Oh,
what lots of things we would have to talk about. I'll ask father to
let me come over here and then I'll come up and see you--some
Saturday."
"Oh, I shall be just delighted." The little face was all rosy
eagerness.
"You're not eating anything. Oh, here are the mottoes. Now, we'll have
some fun."
They were prizes to children in those days. A candy in a pretty
colored fringed paper, with two or four printed rhymes, sometimes very
funny, at others sentimental. Victor had numbers sent to him by
different girls, who were beginning to think the little Maine damsel
was getting more than her share of him.
Olive stood ready to pounce upon him. But Miss Holmes was there at the
doorway.
"Uncle Jason has come," she said, in a low tone. "Are you not tired
and almost ready to go home?"
Laverne took the outstretched hand.
"Remember," Victor said, "I shall come before long."
"Really," began Olive tauntingly, "you seem very fond of small fry."
"Why--she is your friend. You have told us ever so much about her. And
she's a nice little thing."
"Oh, a mere child! A flower of the field sort of thing," rather
disdainfully.
He thought her very ungracious when she had been quite eloquent over
Laverne at Oaklands.
She leaned against Miss Holmes' shoulder and talked of the dancing,
while two or three men discussed the prospect of a road across the
continent. The hardships of the overland journey were almost
incredible. Congress could hardly be roused on the subject. Daniel
Webster, broad statesman as he was, opposed it with energy. The Great
American Desert was a formidable thing. And there were the Rocky
Mountains. The gold fields might give out--it was not an agricultural
region--how could manufactures ever be established so remote from
every centre! Spain and Mexico had tried their hands. There was enough
to do nearer home.
The little girl listened with a curious interest. It was a wonderful
country to her. Maine had nothing to compare with it. And though she
began to feel sleepy now that she was quiet, she winked her eyes hard
so as not to lose a word.
"We must go," Miss Holmes said at length; so they rose and wished
their host good-night.
What a glorious night it was! There was no moon, but the wide blue
vault was studded so thick with stars, great golden, twinkling globes,
