"Her Highness is being forced into marriage with a man who is old
enough to be her grandfather.  She holds him in horror, and will go to
any length to make this marriage an impossibility.  For my part, I have
tried to convince her of the futility of resisting her royal uncle's
will."  (Sensible little Britisher!)  "What she is about to do will be
known only to four persons, one of whom is a downright rascal."
"A rascal?" slipped my lips, half-unconsciously.  "I trust that I
haven't given you that impression," I added eagerly.  (A rascal?  The
plot was thickening to formidable opaqueness.)
"No, no!" she cried hastily, with a flash of summer on her lips.  (What
is more charming than an English woman with a clear sense of the
humorous?)  "You haven't given me that impression at all."
"Thank you."  My vanity expanded under the genial warmth of this
knowledge.  It was quite possible that she looked upon me favorably.
"To proceed.  There is to be a kind of mock marriage here to-night, and
you are to witness it."  She watched me sharply.
I frowned.
"Patience!  Not literally a mock marriage, but the filling out of a
bogus certificate."
"I do not understand at all."
"You have heard of Hermann Steinbock, a cashiered officer?"
"Yes.  I understand that he is the rascal to whom you refer."
"Well, this certificate is to be filled out completely.  To outwit the
duke, her Highness commits--"
"A forgery."
"It is a terrible thing to do, but she has gone too far to withdraw
now.  She is to become the wife of Hermann Steinbock.  She wishes to
show the certificate to the duke."
"But the banns have not been made public."
"That does not matter."
"But why detain me?"  I was growing restless.  It was all folly, and no
good would come of it.
"It is necessary that a gentleman should be present.  The caretaker is
not a gentleman.  I have said that Steinbock is a rascal.  As I review
the events, I begin to look upon your arrival as timely.  Steinbock is
not a reliable quantity."
"I begin to perceive."
"He is to receive one thousand crowns for his part in the ceremony;
then he is to leave the country."
"But the priest's signature, the notary's seal, the iron-clad
formalities which attend all these things!" I stammered.
"You will recollect that her Highness is a princess of the blood.
Seldom is she refused anything in Barscheit."  She went to a small
secretary and produced a certificate, duly sealed and signed.  There
lacked nothing but Steinbock's name.
"But the rascal will boast about it!  He may blackmail all of you.  He
may convince the public that he has really married her Highness."
"I thank not.  We have not moved in this blindly.  Steinbock we know to
have forged the name of the minister of finance.  We hold this sword
above his head.  And if he should speak or boast of it, your word would
hold greater weight than his.  Do you understand now?"
"Yes, I understand.  But I believe that I am genuinely sorry to have
blundered into this castle to-night."
"Oh, if you lack courage!"--carelessly.
I laughed.  "I am not afraid of twenty Steinbocks."
Her laughter echoed mine.  "Come, Mr.--by the way, I believe I do not
know your name."
"Warrington--Arthur Warrington."
"That is a very good English name, and a gentleman possessing it will
never leave two women in a predicament like this.  You will understand
that we dare not trust any one at court.  Relative to her Highness, the
duke succeeds in bribing all."
"But a rascal like Steinbock!"
"I know,"--a bit wearily.
"It is pardonable to say that I believe her Highness has been very
foolish."
The girl made a gesture which conceded this fact.  "It is too late to
retreat, as I have told you.  Steinbock is already on the way.  We must
trust him.  But you?"
"After all, what does a consulate amount to?"
This seemed to be answer enough.  She extended her hand in a royal
fashion.  I took it in one of mine, bent and kissed it respectfully.
Apparently she had expected the old-fashioned handshake familiar to our
common race, for I observed that she started as my lips came into
contact with the back of her hand.  As for me, when my lips touched the
satin flesh I knew that it was all over.
"Your Highness!" she called.
The princess returned.  She looked at me with a mixture of fierceness
and defiance, humility and supplication.  I had always supposed her to
be a sort of hobbledehoy; instead, she was one of those rare creatures
who possess all the varying moods of the sex.  I could readily imagine
all the young fellows falling violently in love with her; all the young
fellows save one.  I glanced furtively at the Honorable Betty.
"He knows all?" asked her Highness, her chin tilted aggressively.
"Everything."
"What must you think of me?"  There was that in her Highness' tone
which dared me to express any opinion that was not totally
complimentary.
"I am not sufficiently well-born to pass an opinion upon your Highness'
actions," I replied, with excusable irony.
"Excellent!" she exclaimed.  "I have grown weary of sycophants.  You
are not afraid of me at all."
"Not in the slightest degree," I declared.
"You will not regret what you are about to do.  I can make it very
pleasant for you in Barscheit--or very unpleasant."  But this
threatening supplement was made harmless by the accompanying smile.
"May I offer the advice of rather a worldly man?"
"Well?"
"When Steinbock comes bid him go about his business."
The Honorable Betty nodded approvingly, but her Highness shrugged.
"Since you are decided,"--and I bowed.  "Now, what time does this
fellow put in his appearance?"
Her Highness beamed upon the Honorable Betty.  "I like the way he says
'this fellow'; it reassures me.  He is due at nine o'clock; that is to
say, in half an hour.  I will give you these directions.  I do not wish
Steinbock to know of your presence here.  You will hide in the salon,
close to the portières, within call.  Moreover, I shall have to impose
upon you the disagreeable duty of playing the listener.  Let nothing
escape your ear or your eye.  I am not certain of this fellow
Steinbock, though I hold a sword above his head."
"But where are your men?" I asked.
She smiled.  "There is no one here but Leopold."
"Your Highness to meet Steinbock alone?"
"I have no fear of him; he knows who I am."
"Everything shall be done as you wish."  I secretly hoped I might have
the opportunity to punch Steinbock's head.
"Thank you."  The transition of her moods always left me in wonder.
"Play something; it is impossible to talk."  She perched herself on the
broad arm of the Honorable Betty's chair, and her arm rested lightly
but affectionately on her shoulder.
It was something for a man to gain the confidence, in so short a time,
of two such women.  I felt as brave as Bavard.  So I sat down before
the piano and played.  My two accomplishments are horseback riding and
music, and I candidly tell you that I am as reckless at one as at the
other.  I had a good memory.  I played something from Chaminade, as her
fancies are always airy and agreeable and unmelancholy.  I was
attacking The Flatterer when her Highness touched my arm.
"Hark!"
We all listened intently.  The sound of beating hoofs came distinctly.
A single horseman was galloping along the highway toward the castle.
The sound grew nearer and nearer; presently it ceased.  I rose quietly.
"It is time I hid myself, for doubtless this rider is the man."
The princess paled for a moment, while her companion nervously plucked
at the edges of her handkerchief.
"Go," said the former; "and be watchful."
I then took up my position behind the portières.  Truly I had stumbled
into an adventure; but how to stumble out again?  If the duke got wind
of it, it would mean my recall, and I was of a mind, just then, that I
was going to be particularly fond of Barscheit.
All was silent.  A door closed, and then came the tread of feet.  I
peered through the portières shortly to see the entrance of two men,
one of whom was the old caretaker.  His companion was a dark, handsome
fellow, of Hungarian gipsy type.  There was a devil-may-care air about
him that fitted him well.  It was Steinbock.  He was dressed with
scrupulous care, in spite of the fact that he wore riding clothes.  It
is possible that he recognized the importance of the event.  One did
not write one's name under a princess' signature every day, even in
mockery.  There was a half-smile on his face that I did not like.
"Your Highness sees that I am prompt,"--uncovering.
"It is well.  Let us proceed at once to conclude the matter in hand,"
she said.
"Wholly at your service!"
(Hang the fellow's impudence!  How dared he use that jovial tone?)
I heard the crackle of parchment.  The certificate was being unfolded.
(It occurred to me that while she was about it the princess might just
as well have forged the rascal's name and wholly dispensed with his
services.  The whole affair struck me as being ineffective; nothing
would come of it.  If she tried to make the duke believe that she had
married Steinbock, her uncle would probe the matter to the bottom, and
in the end cover her with ridicule.  But you can not tell a young woman
