
"And as for me, I never dreamt I could be so unromantic.  Now," said I,
pushing aside my plate, and dropping sugar into my coffee, and vainly
hunting in my pockets for a cigar, "there remains only one mystery to
be cleared up."

"And what might this mystery be?" she asked.  "The whereabouts of the
bogus Haggerty?"

"The bogus Haggerty will never cross our paths again.  He has skipped
by the light of the moon.  No, that's not the mystery.  Why did you
tell me you were an impostor; why did you go to the cellars with me,
when all the while you were at the ball on Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds'
invitation?"

She leaned on her elbows and smiled at me humorously.

"Would you really like to know, Signor?  Well, I was an impostor."  She
sat with her back to the fire, and a weird halo of light seemed to
surround her and frame her.  "Mrs. Hyphen-Bonds accidentally dropped
that invitation in my studio, a few days before she sailed for Europe.
I simply could not resist the temptation.  That is all the mystery
there is."

"And they still think you were there rightfully!"

"You are no longer mystified?"

"Yes; there is yet another mystery to solve: myself."  I knew it.
Without rhyme or reason, I was in love; and without rhyme or reason, I
was glad of it.

"Shall you ever be able to solve such a mystery?"--quizzically.

"It all depends upon you."

"Mr. Comstalk, you will not mar the exquisite humor of our adventure by
causing me any annoyance.  I am sure that some day we shall be very
good friends.  But one does not talk of love on eight hours'
acquaintance.  Besides, you would be taking advantage of my
helplessness; for I really depend upon you to see me safe back to New
York.  It is only the romance, the adventure; and such moonlight nights
often superinduce sentimentality.  What do you know of me?  Nothing.
What do I know of you?  Nothing, save that there is a kindred spirit
which is always likely to lead us into trouble.  Down in your heart you
know you are only temporarily affected by moonshine.  Come, make me a
toast!"--lifting her cup.

"You are right," said I.  "I am a gentleman.  But it was only
consistent that, having been the fool, I should now play the ass.
Here's!"--and I held up my cup.

But neither of us drank; there wasn't time.

For the door opened quietly, and in walked the two men we had seen upon
entering the Inn.  One of them gently closed the door and locked it.
One was in soiled every-day clothes, the other in immaculate evening
dress.  The latter doffed his opera hat with the most engaging smile
imaginable.  The girl and I looked up at him in blank bewilderment, and
set our cups down so mechanically that the warm amber liquid spattered
on the table-cloth.

Galloping Dick and the affable inspector of the cellars stood before us!




VIII

"The unexpected always happens," began the pseudo-detective, closing
his hat, drawing off his gloves and stuffing them into a pocket.  "As a
friend of mine used to say, it is the unexpected that always surprises
us.  We never expected to see these charming masqueraders again, did
we, William?"

"No, sir," said William, grinning affably, "we didn't.  The gentleman
was very nice and obliging to me, sir, when I was in the cellars."

"So I understand.  Now," continued the late Mr. Haggerty, with the
deadly affability of a Macaire, "I beg of you, Mr. Comstalk, I beg of
you not to move or to become unduly excited.  Physicians tell us that
excitement wastes the red corpuscles, that is to say, the life of the
blood."

"Your blood, sir, must be very thin," I returned coolly.  But I cursed
him soundly in my mind.  William's bulging side-pocket convinced me
that any undue excitement on my part would be exceedingly dangerous.

"William, you can always tell a gentleman," said the chief rogue
admiringly.  "A gentleman always recognizes his opportunities, and
never loses his sense of the balance of things."

"And he is usually witty, too, sir," William assented.

The girl sat pale and rigid in her chair.

"What do you want?" I demanded savagely.

"For one thing, I should like to question the propriety of a
gentleman's sitting down to dine with a lady without having washed his
face.  The coal-dust does not add to your manly beauty.  You haven't a
cake of soap about you, William, have you?"

"No, sir."  William's face expressed indescribable enjoyment of the
scene.

The girl's mouth stiffened.  She was struggling to repress the almost
irresistible smile that tickled her lips.

"In times like these," said I, determined not to be outdone, "we are
often thoughtless in regard to our personal appearances.  I apologize
to the lady."

"Fine, fine!  I sincerely admire you, Mr. Comstalk.  You have the true
spirit of adventure.  Hasn't he, William?"

"He certainly has, sir."

"Comes to a private ball without an invitation, and has a merry time of
it indeed.  To have the perfect sense of humor--that is what makes the
world go round."

"Aren't you taking extra risk in offering me these pleasantries?" I
asked.

"Risks?  In what manner?"

"The man you so cleverly impersonated is at the club."  I do not know
what prompted me to put him on his guard.

The rogue laughed lightly.  "I know Mr. Haggerty's habits.  He is
hustling back to New York as fast as he can.  He passed here ten
minutes ago in the patrol, lickety-clip!  He wishes to warn all
pawnbrokers and jewelers to be on the lookout for me to-morrow.  Ten
thousand in a night!"--jovially.

"A very tidy sum, sir," said William.

"A fourth of which goes to you, my good and faithful friend."

"Thank you, sir," replied William.

Two cooler rogues I never wish to meet!

"But wouldn't it be well, sir, to hasten?" asked William.

"We have plenty of time now, my son."

"You have not entered this room," said the girl, her terror slipping
from her, "simply to offer these banalities.  What do you wish?"

"What perspicacity, William!" cried the rogue, taking out a cigarette
case.

"I don't know what that word means, sir, but as you do, it seems to fit
the occasion proper enough."

"It means, William, that this charming young lady scents our visit from
afar."

