him; she had no doubt of it now. The solitary fisherman was Gorlias
Pietrogliant, the astrologer.
Omobono had scarcely noticed him, for his own natural curiosity made
him look steadily up at the high windows, on the chance that the
imperial prisoner might look out just then. He had seen him once or
twice before the revolution, and wondered whether he was much changed
by his long confinement. But instead of the handsome bearded face the
secretary remembered, a woman appeared and looked towards Pera for a
moment, and drew back hastily as she caught sight of the skiff; she
was rather a stout woman with red cheeks, and she wore the Greek
head-dress of the upper classes. So much Omobono saw at a glance,
though the window was fully ninety feet above him, and she had only
remained in sight a few seconds. He had always had good eyes.
But without seeing her at all Zoë had understood that communication
between the prisoner and the outer world was carried on through
Gorlias, and that by him a message could be sent directly to the
Emperor. She did not speak till the boat had passed the whole length
of the palace and was turning in the direction of the Sweet Waters.
'That astrologer,' she said, 'do you remember him? Why has he never
come again?'
Omobono promised to send for him the very next day. After that there
was silence for a while, and the skiff slipped along upstream, till
the secretary spoke again, to correct what he had last said.
'He had better not come to-morrow. I will tell him to come the next
morning.'
'Why?' Zoë asked, in some surprise.
'To-morrow,' said Omobono, 'Messer Sebastian Polo comes to dine with
the master. There will be confusion in the house.'
'Confusion, because one guest comes to dinner?' Zoë spoke
incredulously.
'I believe,' said Omobono rather timidly, 'that he will not be the
only guest.'
'He brings his daughter with him, then?' Zoë felt that she changed
colour under her veil.
'I do not know,' the secretary said smoothly; 'but there will be
several guests.'
Zoë turned towards him impatiently.
'You will have orders to keep me out of the way while they are in the
house,' she said. 'I shall receive through you the master's commands
not to show myself at my window!'
'How can you think such a thing?' cried Omobono, protesting. 'Rather
than put you to such inconvenience I am sure the master will beg his
guests to enter by the other side of the house.
If it was his object to exasperate her, he had succeeded, but if he
expected her to break out in anger he was mistaken. She was too proud,
and she already regretted the few hasty words she had spoken.
Moreover, her anger told her something that surprised her, and wounded
her self-respect. She understood for the first time how jealous she
was, and that she could feel no such jealousy if she were not in love.
She was not a child, and but for misfortune she would have been
married at least two years by this time. This was not the dreamy and
slowly stealing dawn of girlhood's day; her sun had risen in a flash
amidst angry clouds, as he does in India in mid-June, when the
south-west monsoon is just going to break and the rain is very near.
When Omobono had spoken she leaned back in her seat and drew the folds
of her mantle more closely round her, as if to separate herself from
him more completely, and she did not speak again for a long time. On
his side, the secretary understood, and instead of feeling rebuked by
her silence, he was pleased with himself because his curiosity had
made another step forward in the land of discovery.
It occurred to him that it would be very interesting to bring Zoë and
Giustina within sight of each other, if no nearer. Zeno had not said
that his guests were to come by land instead of by water; the
secretary had only argued that he would request them to do so, to
avoid their seeing Zoë if she happened to be at her window. Omobono
had power to do whatever he thought necessary for keeping the house
and the approach to it in repair without consulting any one. That was
a part of his duty.
It was usual to repair the road in the spring. Omobono chose to have
the work done now, sent for a gang of labourers, and gave a few simple
orders. Before Zeno knew what was going on the way to the main
entrance was quite impassable, though a narrow passage had been left
to the door of the kitchen for the servants and slaves. The secretary
had suddenly discovered that the road was in such a deplorable
condition as to make it necessary to dig it out to the depth of a
yard here and there, where the soil was soft, thus making a series of
pits, over which no horse could pass.
'What in the world possessed you to do this now?' asked Zeno, with
annoyance, 'I told you that Messer Sebastian and his daughter were
coming to dine with me to-morrow, as well as other friends.'
'They will see nothing, sir,' answered the secretary imperturbably.
'The guests always come by water, they dine on that side of the house,
and they go away by water. How could they see the road, sir? It is
beyond the court!'
Zeno did not choose to explain that he had especially begged Polo and
the others to come by land, and he now concealed his displeasure, or
believed that he did. But when Omobono had gone to his own room Zeno
sent for the running footmen and bade them go to each of the invited
guests early the next morning to say that the road was torn up and
that they must be good enough to come in their boats.
Then he went upstairs, for he had not seen Zoë all day, and it pleased
him to sup with her. As soon as he entered the room and saw her he
felt that something was wrong, but he made as if he noticed nothing,
and sat down in his usual place.
'We will have supper together,' he said in a cheerful tone, settling
himself in his big chair, and rubbing his hands, like a man who has
finished his day's work and looks forward to something pleasant.
As a matter of fact he had done nothing in particular, and had set
himself a rather disagreeable task; for he did not wish Messer
Sebastian to know that Zoë or any other woman was in the house, and he
was reduced to the necessity of telling the girl not to show herself.
She was legally his chattel, and if he chose he might lock her up in a
room on the other side of the house for a few hours, or in the cellar.
He told himself this; and for the hundredth time he recalled her own
story of her birth and bringing up, which was logical and clear, and
explained both her gentle breeding and the careful education she had
evidently received. But logic is often least convincing when it is
most unanswerable, and Zeno remained in the belief that the most
important part of Zoë's story was still a secret.
She said nothing now in answer to his announcement, but she beckoned
to Yulia to bring supper, and the maid disappeared. Being out of
temper with him at that moment, she was asking herself how she could
possibly be jealous of Giustina Polo; she mentally added that she
would no more think of sitting at the window to see her go by, than of
looking at her through a keyhole. Also, she wished Zeno would sit
where he was for an hour or two, and not utter a word, so that she
might show him how utterly indifferent she was to his presence, and
that she could be just as silent as he; and women much older than Zoë
have felt just as she did then.
But Zeno, who was uncomfortable, was also resolved to be cheerful and
at his ease.
'It has been a beautiful day,' he observed. 'I hope you had a pleasant
morning on the water.'
'Thanks,' Zoë answered, and said no more.
This was not encouraging, but Zeno was not easily put off.
After a few moments he tried again.
'I fear you do not find my secretary very amusing,' he said.
Zoë was on the point of asking him whether he himself considered
Omobono a diverting person, but she checked herself with a little
snort of indignation which might have passed for a laugh without a
smile. Zeno glanced at her profile, raised his eyebrows, and said
nothing more till the slave-girls came with the supper. While they
brought the small table and set it between the two, he leaned back in
his carved chair, crossed one shapely leg over the other, and drummed
a noiseless tattoo with the end of his fingers on his knee, the
picture of unconcern. Zoë half sat and half lay on her divan,
apparently scrutinising the nail of one little finger, pushing it and
rubbing it gently with the thumb of the same hand, and then looking at
it again as if she expected to observe a change in its appearance
after being touched.
The maids placed the dishes on the table and poured out wine, and Zoë
began to eat in silence, without paying any attention to Zeno. That is
one way of showing indifference, and both men and women use it, yet it
still remains surprisingly effective.
'What is the matter with you?' Zeno asked, suddenly.
Zoë pretended to be surprised and then smiled coldly.
'Oh! you mean, because I am hungry, I suppose. I have been in the open
air. It must be that.'
She at once took another mouthful, and went on eating.
'No,' answered Zeno, watching her. 'I did not mean that.'
She raised her beautiful eyebrows, just as he had raised his a few
minutes earlier, but she said nothing and seemed very busy with the
fish. Carlo took another piece, swallowed some of it deliberately, and
drank a little before he leaned back in his chair and spoke again.
'Something has happened,' he said at last with great conviction.
'Really?' Zoë pretended surprised interest. 'What?' she asked with
affected eagerness.
'You understand me perfectly,' he replied with a shade of sternness,
for he was growing tired of her mood.
She glanced at him sideways, as a woman does when she hears a man's
