scheme of things. . . . Now to have been brutal. But — 
I'm easily coloured by my environment." 

She sat, smiling maliciously down at the water, 
smoothing out the soaked skirt of her swimming suit, 
and swinging her legs reflectively. 

" Are you reconciled.'' " she asked presently. 

"To what?" 

" To leaving Shotover. To-day is our last day, you 
know. To-morrow we all go; and next day these fa- 
miliar walls will ring with other voices, my poor friend : 

" ' Yon rising moon that looks for us again — 
How oft hereafter will she wax and wane; 
How oft hereafter, rising, look for us 

Through this same mansion — and for one in vain! 

" That is I — the one, you know. You may be here 
again ; but I — I shall not be I if I ever come to Shotover 
again." 

Her stockinged heels beat the devil's tattoo against 
the marble sides of the pool. She reached up above her 
head, drawing down a flowering branch of Japanese 
orange, and caressed her delicate nose with the white 
blossoms, dreamily, then, mischievously : " I'm accustom- 









ing myself to this most significant perfume," she said, 
looking at him askance. And she deliberately hummed 
the wedding march, watching the colour rise in his sullen 
face. 

" If you had the courage of a sparrow you'd make 
hfe worth something for us both," he said. 

" I know it ; I haven't ; but I seem to possess the 
remainder of his lordship's traits — inconsequence, self- 
centred selfishness, the instinct for Fifth Avenue nest- 
building — all the feathered vices, all the unlovely per- 
sonality and futility and uselessness of my prototype. 
. . . Only, as you observe, I lack the quality of 
courage." 

" I don't know how much courage it requires to do 
what you're going to do," he said sulkily. 

" Don't you ? Sometimes, when you wear a scowl 
like that, I think that it may require no more courage 
than I am capable of. . . . And sometimes — I don't 
know." 

She crossed her knees, one slender ankle imprisoned in 
her hand, leaning forward thoughtfully above the water. 

" Our last day," she mused ; " for we shall never be 
just you and I again — never again, my friend, after we 
leave this rocky coast of Eden. ... I shall have hints 
of you in the sea-wind and the sound of the sea ; in the 
perfume of autumn woods, in the whisper of stirring 
leaves when the white birches put on their gold crowns 
next year." She smiled, turning to him, a little 
gravely : " When the Lesser Children return with April, 
I shall not forget you, Mr. Siward, nor forget your 
mercy of a day on them ; nor your comradeship, nor your 
sweetness to me. . . . Nor your charity for me, nor all 
that you overlook so far in me, — under the glamour of a 
spell that seems to hold you still, and that still holds me. 





 

... I can answer for my constancy so far, until one 
more spring and summer have come and gone — until one 
more autumn comes, and while it lasts — as long as any 
semblance of the setting remains which had once framed 
you; I can answer for my constancy as long as that. 
. . . Afterwards, the snow ! — symbol of our separation. 
I am to be married a year from November first." 

He looked up at her in dark surprise, for he had heard 
that their wedding date had been set for the coming 
winter. 

" A year's engagement.? " he repeated, unconvinced. 

" It was my wish. I think that is sufficient for every- 
body concerned." Then, averting her face, which had 
suddenly lost a little of its colour : '' A year is little 
enough," she said impatiently. " I — what has hap- 
pened to us requires an interval — a decent interval for its 
burial. . . . Death is respectable in any form. What 
dies between you and me can have no resurrection . . . 
under the snow. ... So I bring to the burial my tribute 
— a year of life, a year of constancy, my friend ; symbol 
of an eternity I could have given you had I been worth 
it." She looked up, flushed, the forced smile stamped on 
lips still trembling. " Sentiment in such a woman as I ! 
' A spectacle for Gods and men,' you are saying — are 
you not.'' And perhaps sentiment with me is only an 
ancient instinct, a latent ancestral quahty for which 
I, ages later, have no use." She was laughing easily. 
" No use for sentiment, as our bodies have no use for that 
fashionable little cul-de-sac, you know, though wise men 
say it once served its purpose, too. . . . Stephen Siward, 
what do you think of me now ? " 

" I am learning," he replied simply. 

" What, if you please? " 

" Learning a little about what I am losing." 








" You mean — me? " 

" Yes." 

She bent forward impulsively, balancing her body on 
the pool's rim with both arms, dropping her knee until her 
ankles swung interlocked above the water. " Listen," 
she said in a low, distinct voice : " What you lose is no 
other man's gain ! If I warm and expand in your pres- 
ence — if I say clever things sometimes — if I am intelli- 
gent, sympathetic, and amusing — it is because of you. 
You inspire it in me. Normally I am the sort of girl 
you first met at the station. I tell you that I don't know 
myself now — that I have not known myself since I knew 
you. Qualities of understanding, abihty to appreciate, 
to express myself without employing the commonplaces, 
subtleties of intercourse — all, maybe, wre latent in me, 
but sterile, until you came into my life. . . . And when 
you go, then, lacking impulse and incentive, the new 
facility the new sensitive alertness, the unconscious self- 
confidence, all will smoulder and die out in me. ... I 
know it; I realise that it was due to you — part of me 
that I should never have known, of which I should have 
remained totally ignorant, had it not blossomed sud- 
denly, stimulated by you alone." 

