“Rob told mamma his mittens wanted mend- 
ing, and I thought I could do it;” and so she 
did, darning very well for a little girl ; and she 
was very glad the next morning when she 
heard Rob remind mamma that she had forgotten 
all about his mittens. 

Rob came home in a state of felicity. 

“I had a splendid talk with Dick Grayson,” 
he said, “and he is n’t half so proud as the boys 
make out, although he does go to the Acad- 
emy. He asked me to come over some even- 
ing ; and, oh ! Kathie, he has such lots of books, 
and a little study all by himself, where he reads 
and tries experiments, and his father is so 
pleasant and kind. Mrs. Grayson praised me 
for not letting mamma go out alone, and I 
wanted to tell her that it was your thought, 
not mine. I ought to do it always. And, 
Kathie, I shall not want the paints — at least, 
not for pay.” 





“You can have them to paint your boat/’ 
she rejoined, yielding of her own free will a 
point that she had refused Rob several times. 

“You ’re a darling,” exclaimed Rob, boy 
fashion. 

She took a long look at the star before she 
went to bed. Did it never get tired shining 
steadily on and on? Did n’t it want to go to 
some other place, or do something else — 
become a sun, or moon for instance, as any 
little boy or girl would in its place? God 
wanted it just to shine, and it did its duty. And 
He wanted her to be a helpful little girl, or else 
He would have given her a beautiful house, 
plenty of servants, and plenty of money, and 
nothing to do. There were princesses in the 
fairy stories who had everything they called 
for, but the real fairies ran to and fro, did as 
they were bidden, and never complained of the 
hard work: and a little while ago she was 
wishing to be a fairy. One of the working 
kind it must be. 


 


Kathie did not forget her resolves the next 
morning. I don’t mean you to think that she 
did everything without a bit of trouble, and 
that it was easy for her to give up her own 
wishes and pleasures. Sometimes it seemed 
very hard, and it was difficult to think in time, 
even when she was quite willing to perform a 
good action; but she remembered the star 
going on and on, and prayed for strength, for 
love, instead of wishing for idle things no one 
can ever have. 

But one day, a long while after this, some- 
thing just like a fairy-story did happen to 
Kathie. Coming home from school, she found 
a tall, foreign-looking gentleman in the sitting- 
room, talking very familiarly to her mother 
and Aunt Ruth. Cousin Robert they called 
him ; and then Kathie remembered the stories 
she had heard of Cousin Robert going to China 
years and years ago. He took her up on his 
knee and studied her face. 

‘‘What a charming little fairy you are!” he 





said, kissing her, and the warm color came to 
her cheeks. “I think I shall spirit you away to 

 


a palace I am going to have, and if your 
mother and Aunt Ruth ever want to see you 
again, they must come, too.” 

It was n’t a palace exactly, but a delightful 
home, and Cousin Robert insisted upon their 
sharing it with him, as he was all alone in the 
world. Mrs. Alston grew young and rosy 
again when relieved from the necessity of con- 
stant toil, and Aunt Ruth, always sweet and 
patient, enjoyed many things in the new life. 
But Kathie gave a wonderful charm to the 
household. She did not forget the lessons she 
had learned in adversity, and I think she 
proved a fairy to many outside of her home 
circle. Rob and Fred always thought her the 
dearest little body in the world. 





IT had come to be pretty hard lines with 
us, you see. The gov’ner had never 
held up his head, so to speak, since the 
accident on his train. He had been 
switch-tender at North Lumberton Junction 
for years and years, and I do say he was n’t to 
blame for the accident then; but big ’uns 
always do crowd out little ’uns. The way it 
was — there was an extry, you see, going up, 
a ’xcursion train, and no one had telegraphed 
a sound. The reg’lar train had gone up, the 
down was coming in about ten minutes. Gov- 
’ner went out and fixed the switch, and stood 
there with the flag in his hand looking up, 
when something come a thundering along 
right back of him. 

“‘Switch right?” sung out some one. 

“Gov’ner jumped and was blind confused. 



The train ran right off and smashed into a lot 
of coal cars standing there. It was a mercy 
he was n’t killed. 

‘‘ I would n’t so much minded bein’ killed at 
my post, like that chap you was readin’ about 
t’ other day,’ he said to me, privately after- 
ward. ‘But if I had been killed, I never 
could a’ told the truth ’bout myself, though 
nobody ’ll ever write verses ’bout me.’ 

“If I ’d had a gift that way, and known any 
newspaper man, I ’d a done it myself. 

“ ’T was n’t so bad as it might ha’ been. 
Smoking car was about empty, engineer give 
a spring, but, my! did n’t they go to flinders! 
Four killed, and lots of ’em hurt, and there was 
an awful time ! There was an inquest and tes- 
timony ’bout everything. The real truth was 
— telegram was n’t quite soon enough ; but the 
railroad people would n’t allow that. They 
compared watches and wrangled and talked, 
and smoothed matters over for everybody but 
