curtain and a window on which certain figures seem to have been cut.
. . . Look, Captain Harren, can you see them?"
"I see some marks--some squares."
"You can't see anything written on that pane--as though cut by a
diamond?"
"Nothing distinct."
"But you see her?"
"Perfectly."
"In minute detail?"
"Yes."
The Tracer thought a moment: "Does she wear a ring?"
"Yes; can't you see?"
"Draw it for me."
They seated themselves side by side, and Harren drew a rough sketch of
the ring which he insisted was so plainly visible on her hand:
"Oh," observed the Tracer, "she wears the Seal of Solomon on her ring."
Harren looked up at him. "That symbol has haunted me persistently for
three years," he said. "I have found it everywhere--on articles that I
buy, on house furniture, on the belts of dead ladrones, on the hilts of
creeses, on the funnels of steamers, on the headstalls of horses. If
they put a laundry mark on my linen it's certain to be this! If I buy a
box of matches the sign is on it. Why, I've even seen it on the
brilliant wings of tropical insects. It's got on my nerves. I dream
about it."
"And you buy books about it and try to work out its mystical meaning?"
suggested the Tracer, smiling.
But Harren's gray eyes were serious. He said: "She never comes to me
without that symbol somewhere about her. . . . I told you she never
spoke to me. That is true; yet once, in a vivid dream of her, she did
speak. I--I was almost ashamed to tell you of that."
"Tell me."
"A--a dream? Do you wish to know what I dreamed?"
"Yes--if it was a dream."
"It was. I was asleep on the deck of the Mindinao, dead tired after a
fruitless hike. I dreamed she came toward me through a young woodland
all lighted by the sun, and in her hands she held masses of that wild
flower we call Solomon's Seal. And she said--in the voice I know must be
like hers: 'If you could only read! If you would only understand the
message I send you! It is everywhere on earth for you to read, if you
only would!'
"I said: 'Is the message in the seal? Is that the key to it?'
"She nodded, laughing, burying her face in the flowers, and said:
"'Perhaps I can write it more plainly for you some day; I will try very,
very hard.'
"And after that she went away--not swiftly--for I saw her at moments far
away in the woods; but I must have confused her with the glimmering
shafts of sunlight, and in a little while the woodland grew dark and I
woke with the racket of a Colt's automatic in my ears."
He passed his sun-bronzed hand over his face, hesitated, then leaned
over the photograph once more, which the Tracer was studying intently
through the magnifying glass.
"There is something on that window in the photograph which I'm going to
copy," he said. "Please shove a pad and pencil toward me."
Still examining the photograph through the glass which he held in his
right hand, Mr. Keen picked up the pencil and, feeling for the pad,
began very slowly to form the following series of symbols:
"What on earth are you doing?" muttered Captain Harren, twisting his
short mustache in perplexity.
"I am copying what I see through this magnifying glass written on the
window pane in the photograph," said the Tracer calmly. "Can't you see
those marks?"
"I--I do now; I never noticed them before particularly--only that there
were scratches there."
When at length the Tracer had finished his work he sat, chin on hand,
examining it in silence. Presently he turned toward Harren, smiling.
"Well?" inquired the younger man impatiently; "do those scratches
representing Solomon's Seal mean anything?"
"It's the strangest cipher I ever encountered," said Mr. Keen--"the
strangest I ever heard of. I have seen hundreds of
ciphers--hundreds--secret codes of the State Department, secret military
codes, elaborate Oriental ciphers, symbols used in commercial
transactions, symbols used by criminals and every species of malefactor.
And every one of them can be solved with time and patience and a little
knowledge of the subject. But this"--he sat looking at it with eyes half
closed--"this is too simple."
"Simple!"
"Very. It's so simple that it's baffling."
"Do you mean to say you are going to be able to find a meaning in
squares and crosses?"
"I--I don't believe it is going to be so very difficult to translate
them."
"Great guns!" said the Captain. "Do you mean to say that you can
ultimately translate that cipher?"
The Tracer smiled. "Let's examine it for repetitions first. Here we have
this symbol
repeated five times. It's likely to be the letter E. I think--" His
voice ceased; for a quarter of an hour he pored over the symbols, pencil
in hand, checking off some, substituting a letter here and there.
"No," he said; "the usual doesn't work in this case. It's an absurdly
simple cipher. I have a notion that numbers play a part in it--you see
where these crossed squares are bracketed--those must be numbers
requiring two figures--"
He fell silent again, and for another quarter of an hour he remained
motionless, immersed in the problem before him, Harren frowning at the
paper over his shoulder.
CHAPTER X
"Come!" said the Tracer suddenly; "this won't do. There are too few
symbols to give us a key; too few repetitions to furnish us with any key
basis. Come, Captain, let us use our intellects; let us talk it over
with that paper lying there between us. It's a simple cipher--a
childishly simple one if we use our wits. Now, sir, what I see repeated
before us on this sheet of paper is merely one of the forms of a symbol
known as Solomon's Seal. The symbol is, as we see, repeated a great many
times. Every seal has been dotted or crossed on some one of the lines
composing it; some seals are coupled with brackets and armatures."
"What of it?" inquired Harren vacantly.
"Well, sir, in the first place, that symbol is supposed to represent the
spiritual and material, as you know. What else do you know about it?"
"Nothing. I bought a book about it, but made nothing of it."
"Isn't it supposed," asked Mr. Keen, "to contain within itself the nine
numerals, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and even the zero symbol?"
"I believe so."
"Exactly. Here's the seal
Now I'll mark the one, two, and three by crossing the lines, like this:
one,
two,
three,
Now, eliminating all lines not crossed there remains
the one,
the two,
the three,
And here is the entire series:
and the zero--"
A sudden excitement stirred Harren; he leaned over the paper, gazing
earnestly at the cipher; the Tracer rose and glanced around the room as
though in search of something.
"Is there a telephone here?" he asked.
"For Heaven's sake, don't give this up just yet," exclaimed Harren.
"These things mean numbers; don't you see? Look at that!" pointing to a
linked pair of seals,
"That means the number nineteen! You can form it by using only the
crossed lines of the seal.
Don't you see, Mr. Keen?"
"Yes, Captain Harren, the cipher is, as you say, very plain; quite as
easy to read as so much handwriting. That is why I wish to use your
telephone--at once, if you please."
"It's in my bedroom; you don't mind if I go on working out this cipher
while you're telephoning?"
"Not in the least," said the Tracer blandly. He walked into the
Captain's bedroom, closing the door behind him; then he stepped over to
the telephone, unhooked the receiver, and called up his own
headquarters.
"Hello. This is Mr. Keen. I want to speak to Miss Borrow."
In a few moments Miss Borrow answered: "I am here, Mr. Keen."
"Good. Look up the name Inwood. Try New York first--Edith Inwood is the
name. Look sharp, please; I am holding the wire."
He held it for ten full minutes; then Miss Borrow's low voice called him
over the wire.
"Go ahead," said the Tracer quietly.
"There is only one Edith Inwood in New York, Mr. Keen--Miss Edith
Inwood, graduate of Barnard, 1902--left an orphan 1903 and obliged to
support herself--became an assistant to Professor Boggs of the Museum of
Inscriptions. Is considered an authority upon Arabian cryptograms. Has
written a monograph on the Herati symbol--a short treatise on the
Swastika. She is twenty-four years of age. Do you require further
details?"
"No," said the Tracer; "please ring off."
Then he called up General Information. "I want the Museum of
Inscriptions. Get me their number, please." After a moment: "Is this the
Museum of Inscriptions?"
