common with the cordiality otherwise shown him. 
He foresaw that he might be obliged to reveal the 
 
more pressing object of his visit without further 
diplomacy, and the thought irritated him beyond 
endurance. 
Whether Concha were giving him her promised 
aid he had no means of discovering, and herein 
lay another cause of his general vexation. He 
had dined every day at the Comandante's, 
danced there every night. Concha had been vivacious, friendly — impersonal. Not so much as a 
coquettish lift of the brow betrayed that the distinguished stranger eclipsed the caballeros for 
the moment; nor a whispered word that he retained the friendship she had offered him on the 
day of their meeting. He had not, indeed, had a 
word with her alone. But his interest and admiration had deepened. It was evident that her 
father and the Governor adored her, would deny 
her little. Her attitude to them was alternately 
that of the petted child and the chosen companion. 
As her mother was indisposed she occupied her 
place at the table, presiding with dignity, guiding 
the conversation, revealing the rare gift of making everyone appear at his best. In the evening 
she had sometimes danced alone for a few moments, but more often with her Eussian guests, 
and readily learning the English country-dances 
they were anxious to teach. Eezanov would have 
found the gay informality of these evenings delightful had his mind been at ease about his Sitkans, and Concha a trifle more personal. He had 
begun by suspecting that she was manoeuvring 
for his scalp, but he was forced to acquit her ; for 
not only did she show no provocative favor to 
another, but she seemed to have gained in dignity 
and pride since his arrival, actually to have kissed 
her hand in farewell to the childhood he had been 
so slow in divining; grown — he felt rather than 
analyzed — above the pettiness of coquetry. Once 
more she had stirred the dormant ideals of his 
early manhood; there were moments when she 
floated before his inner vision as the embodiment 
of the world's beauty. Nor ever had there been 
a woman born more elaborately equipped for the 
position of a public man's mate; nor more ingenerate, perhaps, with the power to turn earth 
into heaven. 
He had wondered humorously if he were fallen 
in love, but although he retained little faith in 
the activities of the heart after youth, he was beginning seriously to consider the expedience of 
marrying Concha Argiiello. He had not intended 
to marry again, and it was this old and passionate 
love of personal freedom that alone iield him 
back, for nothing would be so advantageous to the 
Kussian colonies in their present crisis as a strong 
individual alliance with California. Concha Argiiello was the famous daughter of its first subject, 
and with the powerful friends she would bring to 
her husband, the consummation of ends dearer to 
his heart than aught on earth would be a matter of 
months instead of years. And he thrilled with 
pride as he thought of Concha in St. Petersburg. 
Two years of court life and she would be one of the 
greatest ladies in Europe. That he could win her 
he believed, and without undue vanity. He had 
much to offer an ambitious clever girl conscious 
of her superiority to the men of this province of 
Spain, and chafing at the prospect of a lifetime in 
a bountiful desert. His only hesitation lay in his 
own doubt if she were worth the loss of his freedom, and all that word involved to a man of his 
position and adventurous spirit. 
He shrugged his shoulders at this argument; 
he had walked off some of his ill-humor, and reverted willingly to a theme that alone had given 
him satisfaction during the past few days. 
At the same time he made a motion as if flinging 
aside an old burden. 
It is time for such nonsense to end," he 
thought contemptuously. " And in truth these 
three years have wrought such changes in me I 
doubt I should have patience for an hour of the 
old trifling. My greatest need from this time on, 
I fancy, is work. I could never be idle a month 
again. And when a man is in love with work — 
and power — and has passed forty — does he want 
a constant companion! That is the point. At my 
time of life power exercises the most irresistible 
and lasting of all fascinations. A man that wins 
it has little left for a woman." 
He had reached the summit of the rocky out- 
post, the highest of the hills where the peninsula 
turned abruptly to the south, and, scrupulously 
refraining from a downward glance at the Battery 
of Yerba Buena, stood looking out over the bay 
to the eastern mountains : dark, almost formless, 
wrapped in the intense and menacing mystery of 
that last hour before dawn. 
" Seiior ! " called a low cautious voice. 
Eezanov stepped hastily back from the point 
of the bluff and glanced about in wonder, his 
pulses suddenly astir. But he could see no one. 
"Senor! " 
This time the direction was unmistakable, and 
he went to the edge of the plateau facing the south 
and looked over. Half-way down a shallow and 
almost perpendicular gully, he saw a girl 
forcing a mustang up the harsh loose path. The 
girl's white and oval face looked from the 
folds of a black reboso like the moon emerging 
from clouds, and its young beauty was out of 
place in that wild and forbidding setting. She 
reined in her horse as she caught his eye and 
beckoned superfluously; then guided her mustang 
to a little ledge where he could plant his feet 
firmly, permitting her to reassume her usual 
pride of carriage and averting the danger of a 
sudden scramble or need of assistance. 
As Eezanov reached her side she gave him a 
grave and friendly smile, but no opportunity to 
kiss her hand. 
" I have followed your excellency,'' she said. 
" I saw you leave the Juno and as I am often 
up at this hour, and as no one else ever is, my 
father ignores the fact that I sometimes ride 
alone. I have never come as far as this before, 
but there is something I wish to say to you, and 
there is no opportunity at home. I asked Santiago to find me one last night, but he was in a bad 
temper and would not. Men! However — I suppose you have heard nothing of the cargo ? ' ' 
 
" I have not, ' ' said Rezanov grimly, although 
acutely sensible that the subject suited neither 
his mood nor the hour. 
" But the Governor has ! Madre de Dios ! all 
the women of the Presidio and the Mission have 
pestered him. They are sick with jealousy at the 
shawls you gave us that day — those that did not 
go to the ship. How clever of your excellency to 
give us just enough for ourselves and nothing for 
our friends ! And those that went want more and 
more. They have called upon him — one, two, 
four, and alone. They have wept and scolded and 
pleaded. I did not know until yesterday that your 
commissary had also shown the things to the 
priests from San Jose — Father Jose Uria and 
Father Pedro de la Cueva. They and the priests 
of San Francisco have argued with the Governor 
not once but three times. Dios ! how his poor excellency swore yesterday. He threatened to return at once to Monterey. I flew into a great rage 
and threatened in turn to follow with all the other 
girls and all the priests, vowed he should not have 
one moment of peace until that cargo was ours." 
" Well! '' asked Rezanov sharply, in spite of 
his amusement. 
Concha shook her head. '' When he does not 
swear he answers only: ' Buy if yon have the 
money. I have never broken a law of Spain and 
I shall not begin in my old age.' He knows well 
that we have no money to send out of New Spain ; 
but I have conceived a plan, senor. It is for 
you, not for me, to suggest it. You will never 
betray that I have been your friend, Excellency ? ' ' 
" I will swear it if you wish," said Eezanov 
frigidly. 
"" Pardon, senor. If I thought you could I 
should not be here. One often says such things. 
This is the plan: You shall suggest that we buy 
your wares, and that you buy again with our 
money. The dear Governor only wants to save 
his conscience an ache, for we have driven him 
nearly distracted. I am sure he will consent, for 
