mind has become curiously clear during the last year--strangely and
unusually limpid and precise. Why, my poor friend, every plot of yours
and of your friends--every underhand attempt to discredit and injure me
has been perfectly apparent to me. You supposed that my headaches, my
outbursts of anger, my wretched nights, passed in tears--and the long,
long days spent kneeling in the ashes of dead memories--all these you
supposed had weakened--perhaps unsettled--my mind. . . . You lie if you
deny it, for you have had doctors watching me for months. . . . You
didn't know I was aware of it, did you? But I was, and I am. . . . And
you told them that my father died of--of brain trouble, you coward!"

Still he stood there, jaw loose, gazing at her as though fascinated; and
she smiled and settled deeper in her chair, framing the gilded
foliations of the back with her beautiful arms.

"We might as well understand one another now," she said languidly. "If
you mean to get rid of me, there is no use in attempting to couple my
name with that of any man; first, because it is untrue, and you not only
know it, but you know you can't prove it. There remains the cowardly
method you have been nerving yourself to attempt, never dreaming that I
was aware of your purpose."

A soft, triumphant little laugh escaped her. There was something almost
childish in her delight at outwitting him, and, very slowly, into his
worn and faded eyes a new expression began to dawn--the flickering stare
of suspicion. And in it the purely personal impression of rage and
necessity of vengeance subsided; he eyed her intently, curiously, and
with a cool persistence which finally began to irritate her.

"What a credulous fool you are," she said, "to build your hopes of a
separation on any possible mental disability of mine."

He stood a moment without answering, then quietly seated himself. The
suspicious glimmer in his faded eyes had become the concentration of a
curiosity almost apprehensive.

"Go on," he said; "what else?"

"What do you mean?"

"You have been saying several things--about doctors whom I have set to
watch you--for a year or more."

"Do you deny it?" she retorted angrily.

"No--no, I do not deny anything. But--who are these doctors--whom you
have noticed?"

"I don't know who they are," she replied impatiently. "I've seen them
often enough--following me on the street, or in public places--watching
me. They are everywhere--you have them well paid, evidently; I suppose
you can afford it. But you are wasting your time."

"You think so?"

"Yes!" she cried in a sudden violence that startled him, "you are
wasting your time! And so am I--talking to you--enduring your personal
affronts and brutal sneers. Sufficient for you that I know my enemies,
and that I am saner, thank God, than any of them!" She flashed a look of
sudden fury at him, and rose from her chair. He also rose with a
promptness that bordered on precipitation.

"For the remainder of the spring and summer," she said, "I shall make my
plans regardless of you. I shall not go to Newport; you are at liberty
to use the house there as you choose. And as for this incident with
Gerald, you had better not pursue it any further. Do you understand?"

He nodded, dropping his hands into his coat-pockets.

"Now you may go," she said coolly.

He went--not, however, to his room, but straight to the house of the
fashionable physician who ministered to wealth with an unction and
success that had permitted him, in summer time, to occupy his own villa
at Newport and dispense further ministrations when requested.

       

On the night of the conjugal conference between Nina Gerard and her
husband--and almost at the same hour--Jack Ruthven, hard hit in the
card-room of the Stuyvesant Club, sat huddled over the table, figuring
up what sort of checks he was to draw to the credit of George Fane and
Sanxon Orchil.

Matters had been going steadily against him for some time--almost
everything, in fact, except the opinions of several physicians in a
matter concerning his wife. For, in that scene between them in early
spring, his wife had put that into his head which had never before been
there--suspicion of her mental soundness.

And now, as he sat there, pencil in hand, adding up the score-cards, he
remembered that he was to interview his attorney that evening at his own
house--a late appointment, but necessary to insure the presence of one
or two physicians at a consultation to definitely decide what course of
action might be taken.

He had not laid eyes on his wife that summer, but for the first time he
had really had her watched during her absence. What she lived on--how
she managed--he had not the least idea, and less concern. All he knew
was that he had contributed nothing, and he was quite certain that her
balance at her own bank had been nonexistent for months.

But any possible additional grounds for putting her away from him that
might arise in a question as to her sources of support no longer
interested him. That line of attack was unnecessary; besides, he had no
suspicion concerning her personal chastity. But Alixe, that evening in
early spring, had unwittingly suggested to him the use of a weapon the
existence of which he had never dreamed of. And he no longer entertained
any doubts of its efficiency as a means of finally ridding him of a wife
whom he had never been able to fully subdue or wholly corrupt, and who,
as a mate for him in his schemes for the pecuniary maintenance of his
household, had proven useless and almost ruinous.

He had not seen her during the summer. In the autumn he had heard of her
conduct at Hitherwood House. And, a week later, to his astonishment, he
learned of her serious illness, and that she had been taken to Clifton.
It was the only satisfactory news he had had of her in months.

So now he sat there at the bridge-table in the private card-room of the
Stuyvesant Club, deftly adding up the score that had gone against him,
but consoled somewhat at the remembrance of his appointment, and of the
probability of an early release from the woman who had been to him only
a source of social mistakes, domestic unhappiness, and financial
disappointment.

When he had finished his figuring he fished out a check-book, detached a
tiny gold fountain-pen from the bunch of seals and knick-knacks on his
watch-chain, and, filling in the checks, passed them over without
comment.

Fane rose, stretching his long neck, gazed about through his spectacles,
like a benevolent saurian, and finally fixed his mild, protruding eyes
upon Orchil.

"There'll be a small game at the Fountain Club," he said, with a grin
which creased his cheeks until his retreating chin almost disappeared
under the thick lower lip.

Orchil twiddled his long, crinkly, pointed moustache and glanced
interrogatively at Harmon; then he yawned, stretched his arms, and rose,
pocketing the check, which Ruthven passed to him, with a careless nod of
thanks.

As they filed out of the card-room into the dim passageway, Orchil
leading, a tall, shadowy figure in evening dress stepped back from the
door of the card-room against the wall to give them right of way, and
Orchil, peering at him without recognition in the dull light, bowed
suavely as he passed, as did Fane, craning his curved neck, and Harmon
also, who followed in his wake.

But when Ruthven came abreast of the figure in the passage and bowed his
way past, a low voice from the courteous unknown, pronouncing his name,
halted him short.

"I want a word with you, Mr. Ruthven," added Selwyn; "that card-room
will suit me, if you please."

But Ruthven, recovering from the shock of Selwyn's voice, started to
pass him without a word.

