her and the brilliant but declining afternoon. He 
did not speak, nor she. Afterwards she recalled 
his countenance as it had been that of an angel 
 
— the angel of compassion whose sacred mission 
it may be to smite and solace, too. Her startled 
eyes traveled slowly from his face to his hand ; 
this held a folded paper, an envelope, and yellow ; 
his fingers were purple from the knuckles to the 
tips where he had clenched them when he crushed 
the envelope. 
" Let me read the telegram," said Cara, 
distinctly. " I would rather do it. Hand it to me." 
He obeyed her, without a word, and without a 
word she read : — 
" Killed in the charge at San Juan? 
The yellow paper fell and fluttered to the grass. 
The child saw it, and laughed, and snatched at it. 
His little white lap blazed full of nasturtiums, and 
with one of these, a flame-red one, he beat the 
telegram. Then he gurgled merrily : — 
" Mum — mumma ? Pup — puppa ? Pup-pa ? " 
CHAPTER XII 
Dane had died easily, if not instantly — shot through 
the head. After a little delay he was brought home, 
and a grave in the country churchyard of Balsam 
Groves received him, for Carolyn had wished this 
to be so. Thus it befell that Dane did not lie in 
the burial-place of his wife's family, and for 
himself, he slept, as he had waked, disconnected from 
the traditions, an unrelated man. It might almost 
be said that he was a non-conformer to the end. 
In death, as in life, he did not seem to belong dis- 
tinctly anywhere, or he did not find the place where 
he belonged. 
Sterling Hart read the burial service over the 
shattered and disfigured dead, and himself gave 
over to the wife the last sign and the only comfort 
left to her, — a handful of bright, black hair ; upon 
it lay the gray lock which had crossed Dane's 
young head. 
Sterling Hart thought of everything. Nothing 
was overlooked or undone. All the chances of 
war which one does not discuss with the be- 
reaved, Cara's kinsman had considered thoroughly. 
Against every freak of fate, which it was neither 
 
in her nature nor experience to imagine, he had 
protected her. He sheltered her from every shock, 
from every care ; he spared her all the pangs he 
could. If, when he buried Chanceford Dane, he 
believed in his great, honest heart that she was re- 
moved from the surest and the most incurable pain 
of all, Carolyn will never know. 
Against the preacher's mighty tenderness she 
leaned without knowing it, as unconsciously, as 
inevitably, as upon the everlasting arms of the 
sacred metaphor. Her mind and heart were not 
occupied with her cousin. She mourned her husband, 
and reared her child, and began to turn the 
unread pages of widowhood slowly. On Sundays 
her sad feet, like those of other desolate women, 
carried her to the country churchyard. She re- 
mained in the nasturtium cottage as the climbing 
blossoms clung to the white walls. She had set her 
tendrils there. 
For a time such methods of presenting her pe- 
cuniary circumstances to her mind as it was possi- 
ble for a truthful man to pursue sufficed her ; but 
Sterling Hart knew that this could not last long. 
He stood between her and the facts, ingeniously 
averting the time when her grief would yield to her 
practical sense, and her pride and intelligence unite 
against him. 
Soon after her husband's death, her maid Kath- 
 
leen returned and attached herself to Mrs. Dane. 
Whether Kathleen had left her waiter, or he her, 
no one asked ; but that he drank madly everybody 
knew. The procession of cheap cooks filed 
out of the nasturtium cottage ; the affectionate 
face of the loyal family servant slipped in, and 
Carolyn reassumed that measure of domestic comfort 
which after all goes so much farther to make 
life endurable than a bereaved person is willing 
to admit. 
To her at this time came, on one excuse or an- 
other, her country neighbor, Nannie Hops. Nan- 
nie in a way cherished a genuine attachment for 
Mrs. Dane. This dated back to the era of art 
portfolios, and the gown of gray and white which 
Miss Sterling had honored Nannie by wearing 
on her betrothal day. But that was not the whole 
story. 
Against the brutal scandal which had well-nigh 
swept the " native " belle of Balsam Groves off her 
pretty feet, Mrs. Dane had set herself with the 
quiet force of her still powerful social influence. 
She had fought for Nannie persistently, with the 
indifference to popular opinion which was the 
privilege of her caste. She had trampled on the 
slander with a scorn equaled only by her determination. 
Nannie thought that she would have given 
her saddened life for Mrs. Dane. 
 
It was more than a year by several months after 
the death of Chanceford Dane when there befell 
in late October one of the most memorable storms 
that the East Shore has known in recent days. 
It set in slowly, having threatened for forty-eight 
hours, and reached its climax with the ferocity of 
the deliberate. The sun had not been visible for 
two days, and the sky presented a mask like gray 
felt. The sense of a dying year was everywhere. 
The sumac and ivy which embellished the boul- 
ders left by a fine taste undisturbed in the great 
places of the summer people, burned dully, and 
the yellow maples that bordered the village roads 
stood in rows, like torches half extinguished; many 
of them were bared before the storm came on, and 
all day the air had been thick with the ruins of the 
remainder. Driving, dizzy leaves slapped one in 
the face if one turned against the wind, and piled 
under foot on sidewalks and over the long avenues, 
— chiefly deserted and closed, but still open here 
and there for a few lingerers on the coast that is 
earliest sought, latest left, and most beloved of 
all our pleasure shores. 
The temper of the storm was gloomy in the ex- 
treme, and there was, from the first, something sin- 
ister about it. In the afternoon the blow mounted 
to an ominous gale. The offshore fishermen (for 
there were a few who still pursued their natural 
calling in this land of luxury, where the " native " 
fattened on the city strangers) flapped down in 
oilskins and rubber boots beyond the life-saving 
station and below the great cliffs of the Sterling 
place to see to their dories. These picturesque 
figures hauled on their mooring lines to tauten 
them, and yelled to one another — a fisherman 
shouts, but does not speak — through the roar of 
wind and surf : — 
"There's goin' to be a breeze o' wind." 
By three o'clock the telephone wires began to 
go down. Before dusk it was raining wildly. All 
the afternoon the cliffs were black with people 
watching the sea. This raged with an infuriated 
will, which was as if it were heavy with an unac- 
complished purpose, malign and unthwarted; or if 
benign, too inscrutable for human intelligence. All 
day the water line trembled with scudding schoon- 
ers and sloops, reefed to the last possible stitch, 
and laboring painfully. Everything caught out, 
got in, if it could; and nothing that was in went 
out. Every harbor from Boston to Portland was 
full; after two o'clock no steamer left her dock. 
The staggering sails on the horizon grew fewer. 
One white sloop, that ventured too much canvas, 
drove before the wind for a while, and suddenly 
went down, bow first. She sank as a stone sinks 
