angry, Potts, and it's not your fault, so keep out of the way.'
She was generous at all events, but she looked dangerous, and Potts
seemed positively to shrivel through the crack of the door as she
disappeared. She was so extremely glad to keep out of the way! There
were legends already about the great singer's temper, as there are
about all her fellow-artists. It was said, without the slightest
foundation, that she had once tossed a maid out of the window like a
feather, that on another occasion she had severely beaten a coachman,
and that she had thrown two wretched lap-dogs into a raging fire in a
stove and fastened the door, because they had barked while she was
studying a new part. As a matter of fact, she loved animals to
weakness, and was kindness itself to her servants, and she was
generally justified in her anger, though it sometimes made her say
things she regretted. Oedipus found the right answer to the Sphinx's
riddle in a moment, but the ingenious one about truth propounded by
Pontius Pilate has puzzled more than sixty generations of Christians.
If the Sphinx had thought of it, Oedipus would never have got to
Thebes and some disgustingly unpleasant family complications would
have been prevented by his premature demise.
Margaret's wrath did not subside quickly, and as it could not spend
itself on any immediate object, it made her feel as if she were in a
raging fever. She had never been ill in her life, it was true, and
therefore did not know what the sensation was. Her only experience of
medical treatment had been at the hands of a very famous specialist
for the throat, in New York, to whom she went because all her
fellow-artists did, and whose mere existence is said by grateful
singers to effectually counteract the effects of the bad climate
during the opera season. He photographed her vocal chords, and the
diagrams produced by her best notes, made her breathe
pleasant-smelling sprays and told her to keep her feet dry in rainy
weather. That was the sum of her experience with doctors, and it was
not at all disagreeable.
Now, her temples throbbed, her hands trembled and were as hot as fire,
her lips were drawn and parched, and when she caught sight of herself
in the looking-glass she saw that she was quite white and that her
eyes were bloodshot.
But she was really a sensible English girl, although she was so very
angry.
'This is ridiculous!' she said aloud, with emphasis. 'I won't be so
silly!' And she sat down to try and think quietly.
It was not so easy. A Tartar girl indeed! More probably a handsome
Greek. How could they know the difference in a London Police Court?
She was not aware that in London and other great cities the police
disposes of interpreters for every known language, from the Malay
dialects to Icelandic. Besides, it did not matter! She would have been
angry if Logotheti had made love to the Duchess of Barchester, or to
Lady Dick Savory, the smartest woman in London, or to Mrs.
Smythe-Hockaday, the handsomest woman in England; she would have been
angry of course, but not so furious as she was now, not in a white
rage that made her teeth chatter, and her eyes burn as if they were
red-hot in her head. An ignorant Eastern girl! A creature that
followed him about in man's clothes! A thief! Pah! Disgusting!
Each detail that occurred to her made it more unbearable. She
remembered her conversation with him through the telephone when she
was at Versailles, his explanation the next day, which she had so
foolishly accepted, his kiss! Her blood raged in her eyes, and her
hands shook together. On that evening he had refused to stay to
dinner; no doubt he had gone back to his house in Paris, and had dined
with the girl--in the hall of the Aphrodite! It was not to be
believed, and after that memorable moment under the elm-tree, too,
when the sun was going down--after an honest girl's first kiss, the
first she had given any man since she had been a child and her lips
had timidly touched her dead father's forehead! People would not
believe it, perhaps, because she was an artist and an opera-singer;
but it was true.
It was no wonder that they had succeeded in deceiving her for a while,
the two Orientals together! They had actually made Rufus Van Torp
believe their story, which must have been a very different matter from
lying to a credulous young woman who had let herself fall in love! But
for her friend Lady Maud she would still be their victim. Her heart
went out to the woman who had saved her from her fate, and with the
thought came the impulse to send a message of gratitude; and the
first fury of her anger subsided with the impulse to do so. By and by
it would cool and harden to a lasting resentment that would not soften
again.
Her hand still shook so that she could hardly hold the pen steady
while she wrote the telegram.
'Unspeakably grateful. If can join me here will gladly wait for you.
Must see you at once. Do come.'
She felt better as she rose from the table, and when she looked at
herself in the mirror she saw that her face had changed again and that
her natural colour was returning. She rang for Potts, remembering that
the half-hour must be almost up.
The maid appeared at once, still looking very small and mild; but one
glance told her that the worst was past. She raised her head, threw
back her shoulders and stood up straight, apparently growing visibly
till she regained her ordinary size.
'Potts,' Margaret said, facing round upon her, 'I've been in a rage,
but I'm only angry now. Do I look like a human being again?'
'Yes, ma'am,' answered the maid, inspecting her gravely. 'You are
still a bit pale, ma'am, and your eye is a trifle wild, I may say. A
motor veil, perhaps, if you are thinking of going out, ma'am.'
'I haven't got such a thing, have I? I never motor now.'
Potts smiled the smile of the very superior maid, and moved towards a
perfectly new leather hat-box that stood in the corner.
'I always put in two for sea, ma'am,' she said. 'You wore one when we
crossed the Channel the last time, if you remember.'
'Potts, you're a treasure!'
'Yes, ma'am,' Potts answered vaguely in her meek voice, as she dived
into one of the curious secret pockets of the hat-box. 'That is,
ma'am,' she said, correcting herself, 'I mean, it's very kind of you
to say so.'
Without further consulting Margaret, who had seated herself before the
dressing-table, Potts proceeded to fasten a broad-brimmed black straw
hat on the thick brown hair; she then spread an immense white veil
over it, drew it under her mistress's chin and knotted in a way that
would have amazed a seaman.
When Margaret was putting on her gloves, Mrs. Rushmore herself came to
the door, knocked and opened discreetly before there was any answer.
'My dear child,' she asked, 'what in the world is the matter? Nothing
serious, I trust?'
'Oh, nothing,' Margaret answered, going forward to meet her, and
finding her natural voice. 'I'm sorry if I've kept you waiting.'
'It's so unlike you, my dear,' Mrs. Rushmore said, with emphasis; 'and
Potts looked quite grave when she brought me your message half an hour
ago.'
'You would have been more surprised if she had burst out laughing,'
Margaret said viciously.
'My dear,' Mrs. Rushmore answered, 'I'm astonished at you! I know
something has happened. I know it. You are not yourself this
morning.'
This was a statement so evidently absurd that it could not be answered
except by a flat contradiction; so Margaret said nothing, and went on
working her hand into a perfectly new glove.
'I see that you have not even opened your letters,' Mrs. Rushmore
continued severely. 'Except that,' she added, noticing the loose
sheets of Lady Maud's letter on the toilet-table.
Margaret gathered them up hastily, folded them into a crumpled package
and thrust them into the empty envelope. For once, she had forgotten
her caution, but she retrieved herself by pushing the thick letter
into her long glove, much to Potts' distress, for it made an ugly
lump. She made it worse by forcing in the second envelope, which
contained the newspaper cutting.
'I'm ready now,' she said.
Mrs. Rushmore turned and led the way with stately steps; she was
always imposing, but when she was offended she was monumental. The two
went out in silence, opened their parasols, the one black, the other
scarlet, and walked slowly down the straight, dull street side by
side. Mrs. Rushmore spoke first, after they had gone some distance.
'I know,' she said, 'that something has happened. It was in that
letter. You cannot deny it, Margaret. It was in the letter you folded
in that hurried manner.'
'The news was,' answered the Primadonna, still vicious.
'I told you so. My dear child, it's not of the slightest use to try to
deceive me. I've known you since you were a child.'
'I'm not trying to deceive you.'
'When I asked what had happened, you answered, "Nothing." I do not
call that very frank, do you?'
'Potts was there, to begin with,' explained Margaret rather crossly.
But Mrs. Rushmore no longer heard. Her head was up, her parasol lay
back upon her shoulder, her faded eyes were brighter than before, and
the beginning of a social smile wreathed her hitherto grave lips.
There was game about, and she was pointing; there were lions to
windward.
'There's Mr. Van Torp, my dear,' she said in quite another tone, and
very low, 'and unless I'm much mistaken--yes, I knew it! He's with
Count Kralinsky. I saw the Count from the window yesterday when he
arrived. I hope our friend will present him.'
'I daresay,' Margaret answered indifferently, but surveying the two
men through the white mist of her thick veil.
