trying to get some of it the way I want it, I will sit down and think it
out and know what it is I want to say before I begin. An inspirer cannot
inspire for Mrs. Eddy and keep his reputation. I have never seen such
slipshod work, bar the ten that interpreted for the home market the
“sell all thou hast.” I have quoted one “spiritual” rendering of the
Lord’s Prayer, I have seen one other one, and am told there are
five more. Yet the inspirer of Mrs. Eddy the new Infallible casts a
complacent critical stone at the other Infallible for being unable to
make up its mind about such things. Science and Health, edition 1899,
page 33:
“The decisions, by vote of Church Councils, as to what should and
should not be considered Holy Writ, the manifest mistakes in the ancient
versions: the thirty thousand different readings in the Old Testament
and the three hundred thousand in the New--these facts show how a mortal
and material sense stole into the divine record, darkening, to some
extent, the inspired pages with its own hue.”
To some extent, yes--speaking cautiously. But it is nothing, really
nothing; Mrs. Eddy is only a little way behind, and if her inspirer
lives to get her Annex to suit him that Catholic record will have to “go
‘way back and set down,” as the ballad says. Listen to the boastful song
of Mrs. Eddy’s organ, the Christian Science Journal for March, 1902,
about that year’s revamping and half-soling of Science and Health,
whose official name is the Holy Ghost, the Comforter, and who is now
the Official Pastor and Infallible and Unerring Guide of every Christian
Science church in the two hemispheres, hear Simple Simon that met the
pieman brag of the Infallible’s fallibility:
“Throughout the entire book the verbal changes are so numerous as to
indicate the vast amount of time and labor Mrs. Eddy has devoted to this
revision. The time and labor thus bestowed is relatively as great as
that of--the committee who revised the Bible.... Thus we have additional
evidence of the herculean efforts our beloved Leader has made and is
constantly making for the promulgation of Truth and the furtherance of
her divinely bestowed mission,” etc.
It is a steady job. I could help inspire if desired; I am not doing
much now, and would work for half-price, and should not object to the
country.
PRICE OF THE PASTOR-UNIVERSAL
The price of the Pastor-Universal, Science and Health, called in Science
literature the Comforter--and by that other sacred Name--is three
dollars in cloth, as heretofore, six when it is finely bound, and shaped
to imitate the Testament, and is broken into verses. Margin of profit
above cost of manufacture, from five hundred to seven hundred per
cent., as already noted In the profane subscription-trade, it costs
the publisher heavily to canvass a three-dollar book; he must pay the
general agent sixty per cent. commission--that is to say, one dollar and
eighty-cents. Mrs. Eddy escapes this blistering tax, because she owns
the Christian Science canvasser, and can compel him to work for nothing.
Read the following command--not request--fulminated by Mrs. Eddy, over
her signature, in the Christian Science Journal for March, 1897, and
quoted by Mr. Peabody in his book. The book referred to is Science and
Health:
“It shall be the duty of all Christian Scientists to circulate and to
sell as many of these books as they can.”
That is flung at all the elect, everywhere that the sun shines, but no
penalty is shaken over their heads to scare them. The same command was
issued to the members (numbering to-day twenty-five thousand) of The
Mother-Church, also, but with it went a threat, of the infliction, in
case of disobedience, of the most dreaded punishment that has a place
in the Church’s list of penalties for transgressions of Mrs. Eddy’s
edicts--excommunication:
“If a member of The First Church of Christ, Scientist, shall fail to
obey this injunction, it will render him liable to lose his membership
in this Church. MARY BAKER EDDY.”
It is the spirit of the Spanish Inquisition.
None but accepted and well established gods can venture an affront like
that and do it with confidence. But the human race will take anything
from that class. Mrs. Eddy knows the human race; knows it better than
any mere human being has known it in a thousand centuries. My confidence
in her human-beingship is getting shaken, my confidence in her godship
is stiffening.
SEVEN HUNDRED PER CENT.
A Scientist out West has visited a bookseller--with intent to find fault
with me--and has brought away the information that the price at which
Mrs. Eddy sells Science and Health is not an unusually high one for the
size and make of the book. That is true. But in the book-trade--that
profit-devourer unknown to Mrs. Eddy’s book--a three-dollar book that
is made for thirty-five or forty cents in large editions is put at
three dollars because the publisher has to pay author, middleman, and
advertising, and if the price were much below three the profit accruing
would not pay him fairly for his time and labor. At the same time, if
he could get ten dollars for the book he would take it, and his morals
would not fall under criticism.
But if he were an inspired person commissioned by the Deity to receive
and print and spread broadcast among sorrowing and suffering and poor
men a precious message of healing and cheer and salvation, he would have
to do as Bible Societies do--sell the book at a pinched margin above
cost to such as could pay, and give it free to all that couldn’t; and
his name would be praised. But if he sold it at seven hundred per cent.
profit and put the money in his pocket, his name would be mocked and
derided. Just as Mrs. Eddy’s is. And most justifiably, as it seems to
me.
The complete Bible contains one million words. The New Testament by
itself contains two hundred and forty thousand words.
My ‘84 edition of Science and Health contains one hundred and twenty
thousand words--just half as many as the New Testament.
Science and Health has since been so inflated by later inspirations that
the 1902 edition contains one hundred and eighty thousand words--not
counting the thirty thousand at the back, devoted by Mrs. Eddy to
advertising the book’s healing abilities--and the inspiring continues
right along.
If you have a book whose market is so sure and so great that you
can give a printer an everlasting order for thirty or forty or fifty
thousand copies a year he will furnish them at a cheap rate, because
whenever there is a slack time in his press-room and bindery he can
fill the idle intervals on your book and be making something instead
of losing. That is the kind of contract that can be let on Science and
Health every year. I am obliged to doubt that the three-dollar Science
and Health costs Mrs. Eddy above fifteen cents, or that the six dollar
copy costs her above eighty cents. I feel quite sure that the average
profit to her on these books, above cost of manufacture, is all of seven
hundred per cent.
Every proper Christian Scientist has to buy and own (and canvass for)
Science and Health (one hundred and eighty thousand words), and he must
also own a Bible (one million words). He can buy the one for from three
to six dollars, and the other for fifteen cents. Or, if three dollars is
all the money he has, he can get his Bible for nothing. When the Supreme
Being disseminates a saving Message through uninspired agents--the New
Testament, for instance--it can be done for five cents a copy, but when
He sends one containing only two-thirds as many words through the shop
of a Divine Personage, it costs sixty times as much. I think that
in matters of such importance it is bad economy to employ a wild-cat
agency.
Here are some figures which are perfectly authentic, and which seem to
justify my opinion.
“These [Bible] societies, inspired only by a sense of religious duty,
are issuing the Bible at a price so small that they have made it the
cheapest book printed. For example, the American Bible Society offers an
edition of the whole Bible as low as fifteen cents and the New Testament
at five cents, and the British Society at sixpence and one penny,
respectively. These low prices, made possible by their policy of selling
the books at cost or below cost,” etc.--New York Sun, February 25, 1903.
CHAPTER IX
We may now make a final footing-up of Mrs. Eddy, and see what she is, in
the fulness of her powers. She is:
The Massachusetts Metaphysical College Pastor Emeritus; President; Board
of Directors; Board of Education; Board of Lectureships; Future Board of
Trustees, Proprietor of the Publishing-House and Periodicals; Treasurer;
Clerk; Proprietor of the Teachers; Proprietor of the Lecturers;
Proprietor of the Missionaries; Proprietor of the Readers; Dictator of
the Services; sole Voice of the Pulpit; Proprietor of the Sanhedrin;
Sole Proprietor of the Creed. (Copyrighted.); Indisputable Autocrat
of the Branch Churches, with their life and death in her hands; Sole
Thinker for The First Church (and the others); Sole and Infallible
Expounder of Doctrine, in life and in death; Sole permissible
Discoverer, Denouncer, Judge, and Executioner of Ostensible Hypnotists;
Fifty-handed God of Excommunication--with a thunderbolt in every hand;
Appointer and Installer of the Pastor of all the Churches--the Perpetual
Pastor-Universal, Science and Health, “the Comforter.”
CHAPTER X
There she stands-painted by herself. No witness but herself has been
allowed to testify. She stands there painted by her acts, and decorated
by her words. When she talks, she has only a decorative value as
a witness, either for or against herself, for she deals mainly in
unsupported assertion; and in the rare cases where she puts forward a
verifiable fact she gets out of it a meaning which it refuses to furnish
to anybody else. Also, when she talks, she is unstable, she wanders,
she is incurably inconsistent; what she says to-day she contradicts
tomorrow.
But her acts are consistent. They are always faithful to her, they never
misinterpret her, they are a mirror which always reflects her exactly,
