
“But we are not Altrurians; we are Americans.”

“I am an American, too, and I work three hours every day, unless I am
passing from one point to another on public business with my husband.
Even then we prefer to stop during the work-hours, and help in the
fields, or in the shops, or wherever we are needed. I left my own mother
at home doing her kitchen work yesterday afternoon, though it was out of
hours, and she need not have worked.”

“Very well, then, we will do nothing of the kind, neither I, nor my
daughter, nor my husband. He has worked hard all his life, and he has
come away for a much-needed rest. I am not going to have him breaking
himself down.”

I could not help suggesting, “I suppose the men at work in his mines, and
mills, and on his railroads and steamship lines are taking a much-needed
rest, too. I hope you are not going to let them break themselves down,
either.”

Aristides gave me a pained glance, and Cyril and his wife looked grave,
but she not quite so grave as he. Lord Moors said, “We don’t seem to be
getting on. What Mrs. Thrall fails to see, and I confess I don’t quite
see it myself, is that if we are not here in forma pauperis--”

“But you are here in forma pauperis,” Cyril interposed, smilingly.

“How is that? If we are willing to pay--if Mr. Thrall’s credit is
undeniably good--”

“Mr. Thrall’s credit is not good in Altruria; you can pay here only in
one currency, in the sweat of your faces.”

“You want us to be Tolstoys, I suppose,” Mrs. Thrall said,
contemptuously.

Cyril replied, gently, “The endeavor of Tolstoy, in capitalistic
conditions, is necessarily dramatic. Your labor here will be for your
daily bread, and it will be real.” The inner dullness of the woman came
into her eyes again, and he addressed himself to Lord Moors in
continuing: “If a company of indigent people were cast away on an English
coast, after you had rendered them the first aid, what should you do?”

The young man reflected. “I suppose we should put them in the way of
earning a living until some ship arrived to take them home.”

“That is merely what we propose to do in your case here,” Cyril said.

“But we are not indigent--”

“Yes, you are absolutely destitute. You have money and credit, but
neither has any value in Altruria. Nothing but work or love has any value
in Altruria. You cannot realize too clearly that you stand before us in
forma pauperis. But we require of you nothing that we do not require of
ourselves. In Altruria every one is poor till he pays with work; then,
for that time, he is rich; and he cannot otherwise lift himself above
charity, which, except in the case of the helpless, we consider immoral.
Your life here offers a very corrupting spectacle. You are manifestly
living without work, and you are served by people whose hire you are not
able to pay.”

“My dear sir,” Mr. Thrall said at this point, with a gentle smile, “I
think they are willing to take the chances of being paid.”

“We cannot suffer them to do so. At present we know of no means of your
getting away from Altruria. We have disused our custom of annually
connecting with the Australasian steamers, and it may be years before a
vessel touches on our coast. A ship sailed for Boston some months ago,
with the promise of returning in order that the crew may cast in their
lot with us permanently. We do not confide in that promise, and you must
therefore conform to our rule of life. Understand clearly that the
willingness of your servants to serve you has nothing to do with the
matter. That is part of the falsity in which the whole capitalistic world
lives. As the matter stands with you, here, there is as much reason why
you should serve them as they should serve you. If on their side they
should elect to serve you from love, they will be allowed to do so.
Otherwise, you and they must go to work with the neighbors at the tasks
they will assign you.”

“Do you mean at once?” Lord Moors asked.

“The hours of the obligatory labors are nearly past for the day. But if
you are interested in learning what you will be set to doing to-morrow,
the Communal authorities will be pleased to instruct you during the
Voluntaries this afternoon. You may be sure that in no case will your
weakness or inexperience be overtasked. Your histories will be studied,
and appropriate work will be assigned to each of you.”

Mrs. Thrall burst out, “If you think I am going into my kitchen--”

Then I burst in, “I left my mother in her kitchen!”

“And a very fit place for her, I dare say,” she retorted, but Lady Moors
caught her mother’s arm and murmured, in much the same distress as showed
in my husband’s mild eyes, “Mother! Mother!” and drew her within.




XIII


Well, Dolly, I suppose you will think it was pretty hard for those
people, and when I got over my temper I confess that I felt sorry for the
two men, and for the young girl whom the Altrurians would not call Lady
Moors, but addressed by her Christian name, as they did each of the
American party in his or her turn; even Mrs. Thrall had to answer to
Rebecca. They were all rather bewildered, and so were the butler and
the footmen, and the chef and his helpers, and the ladies’ maids.
These were even more shocked than those they considered their betters,
and I quite took to my affections Lord Moors’ man Robert, who was in an
awe-stricken way trying to get some light from me on the situation. He
contributed as much as any one to bring about a peaceful submission to
the inevitable, for he had been a near witness of what had happened to
the crew when they attempted their rebellion to the authorities; but he
did not profess to understand the matter, and from time to time he seemed
to question the reality of it.

The two masters, as you would call Mr. Thrall and Lord Moors, both took
an attitude of amiable curiosity towards their fate, and accepted it with
interest when they had partly chosen and partly been chosen by it. Mr.
Thrall had been brought up on a farm till his ambition carried him into
the world; and he found the light gardening assigned him for his first
task by no means a hardship. He was rather critical of the Altrurian
style of hoe at first, but after he got the hang of it, as he said, he
liked it better, and during the three hours of the first morning’s
Obligatoires, his ardor to cut all the weeds out at once had to be
restrained rather than prompted. He could not be persuaded to take five
minutes for rest out of every twenty, and he could not get over his
life-long habit of working against time. The Altrurians tried to make
him understand that here people must not work against time, but must
always work with it, so as to have enough work to do each day;
otherwise they must remain idle during the Obligatoires and tend to
demoralize the workers. It seemed that Lady Moors had a passion for
gardening, and she was set to work with her father on the border of
flowers surrounding the vegetable patch he was hoeing. She knew about
flowers, and from her childhood had amused herself by growing them, and
so far from thinking it a hardship or disgrace to dig, she was delighted
to get at them. It was easy to see that she and her father were cronies,
and when I went round in the morning with Aristides to ask if we could do
anything for them, we heard them laughing and talking gayly together
before we reached them. They said they had looked their job (as Mr.
Thrall called it) over the afternoon before during the Voluntaries, and
had decided how they would manage, and they had set to work that morning
as soon as they had breakfast. Lady Moors had helped her mother get the
breakfast, and she seemed to regard the whole affair as a picnic, though
from the look of Mrs. Thrall’s back, as she turned it on me, when I saw
her coming to the door of the marquee with a coffee-pot in her hand, I
decided that she was not yet resigned to her new lot in life.

Lord Moors was nowhere to be seen, and I felt some little curiosity about
him which was not quite anxiety. Later, as we were going back to our
quarters in the village, we saw him working on the road with a party
of Altrurians who were repairing a washout from an overnight rain. They
were having all kinds of a time, except a bad time, trying to understand
each other in their want of a common language. It appeared that the
Altrurians were impressed with his knowledge of road-making, and were
doing something which he had indicated to them by signs. We offered
our services as interpreters, and then he modestly owned in defence of
his suggestions that when he was at Oxford he had been one of the band of
