Munich, had there been an evil glint in her light cool blue eyes. The
fleeting query crossed his mind as to what she might have been if born
in one of the generations before the pioneers of her sex had opened so
many gates for the irruption of overburdened femininity. But he merely
remarked:
"I am suddenly inspired With a desire to see San Francisco. Are you too
busy? Are we too late for the tide?"
"Just in time," said Isabel, promptly; "and I shall be ready as soon as
the launch is. Do you know that it is Saturday? You could not have
chosen a better day."
       *       *       *       *       *
As they pushed off, all the marsh and its creek was covered with a low
white mist that gave it the appearance of a great lake, a ghost lake
through which the little steamer just leaving Rosewater two miles above
coiled its way like a monstrous white bird feeling uneasily for a
foothold. Overhead the sky was covered with the pink fleece of dawn. The
mass of mountains in Marin County looked black and formless, but above
them rose the granite crest of Tamalpais, like an angular lifted
shoulder.
"That mountain has marched north five feet in the last forty years,"
said Isabel, as she carefully steered through the mist. "Either that, or
the earthquake of 1868 moved her off her base."
"For heaven's sake don't tell me any more weird tales about this
country; it gives me the horrors often enough as it is. This morning the
hills and mountain on the other side of the valley looked like
antediluvian monsters just ready to turn over."
"Well, they have turned over a few times, and may again. One reason we
all love California is because we never know what she will do next, and
because she is still primeval under this thin coat of civilization that
is too tight for her. I admire England, but I could not live in it. It
is too peaceful, too done. It is impossible to imagine any further
change, for civilization can go no further. But out here--the whole
country may stand on its head any day; and we may yet have cities as
great as Babylon and Nineveh."
"Well, we'll not be here to see. This fog is just high enough to filter
into one's very marrow--even your picturesque pioneer days are over; I
will confess they might have made me feel that life on the edge of the
world was worth while. I should have liked to lay the foundations of a
great isolated city like San Francisco; but I don't see any sign of
another big city. Los Angeles is a little Chicago and may live to be a
big one, but nothing would induce me to live in the south. However, no
man is ever conscious of the fact that he is in at the birth of a great
city; our pioneer forefathers were just a parcel of adventurers crazed
with the lust of gold, and with no sense of any future beyond the
present."
Isabel leaned forward eagerly. "You have been thinking about San
Francisco!" she exclaimed, triumphantly. "The old Otis blood is
beginning to wake up! Hooray!"
Gwynne laughed outright, and for the first time without resentment; he
was tired of having California "rammed down his throat." Isabel's eyes
were dancing with so purely youthful and feminine a triumph that he
could not but feel indulgent.
"I am growing reconciled to my lot. Here I am and here I remain."
"Yes, you are much happier," said Isabel, softly. She half closed her
eyes and looked a trifle older. "It worried me dreadfully at first to
know that you were unhappy, and that it was my fault."
"Unhappy!" exclaimed Gwynne, reddening haughtily. "I have not been
mooning about like a homesick ass--"
"Oh, your outside was as tranquil as your pride demanded--and it was
splendid! But I couldn't help knowing--feeling. A thousand little things
appeal so directly to a woman's intuitions."
"Indeed! I am delighted to learn that you possess the common intuitions
of a woman."
"Am I unwomanly? Masculine?" asked Isabel, anxiously.
"Not in the ordinary sense; but you are much too strong. No woman should
be as strong--as, well--as psychically independent as you are. It is as
flagrant a usurpation of prerogative as a pretty complexion on a man."
"I only say one prayer: 'Give me strength. Give me strength.'"
"For what, in heaven's name? What use have you for so much strength? You
have forsworn matrimony. You disclaim the intention of going forth and
entering the great battle of the intellects--having, as you say, no
talents. You have isolated yourself from love, so you need no uncommon
supply of strength to meet suffering. You will always have money enough,
and you appear to have been born with the gift of making it. Even if you
elect to be the leader of fashion in San Francisco, your equipment need
not be of unadulterated steel. But I cannot fancy why you entertain any
such ambition."
"That is the least of my ambition--although I intend to become the most
notable woman in San Francisco, not only because I must gratify a
healthy natural ambition in some way, and because I want my life to have
a sufficiency of incident in it, but because it is a part of my general
scheme."
"What is this precious scheme?"
"You would not understand if I should tell you. Men have no time for
subjectivities--except poets, psychological fictionists, and the like,
who do not seem to me men at all. Now, one reason I have liked you from
the first, in spite of many things that made my American blood boil, is
that you are a man, a real masculine arrogant dense man, with no
feminine morbid tendency to analyze your ego, in spite of your Celtic
blood. I met too many of that sort in Europe."
Gwynne, with his elbows on his knees, regarded the bottom of the boat
and colored guiltily, while congratulating himself that for all her
insight and cleverness she had barely penetrated his outer envelope. She
had thought him merely homesick, when his ego had been tottering, his
soul racked with doubt and terror; when he had spent long hours in
self-analysis; until the law had come to his rescue and reinvigorated
his brain. At the same time a wave of sadness swept over him. How little
human beings knew one another, no matter how intimate. As he raised his
eyes he seemed to see Isabel across a chasm as vast as the Atlantic; and
he was reminded that he knew her as little as she him. She had confessed
to the throes of what she believed to have been a great passion, but
when he had rehearsed the story away from the influence of her curious
cold magnetism and the sinister setting of its recital, he had
recognized it for what it was, the first violent embrace of an ardent
unshackled imagination with positive experience, in which the ego had
played an insignificant part. Her immediate recovery upon beholding the
disintegrating clay, without one regret for the vanished soul, or even
for the magnetic warmth of the living shell, suggested to his groping
masculine intelligence, totally unaccustomed to analysis of woman, that
her attack had been little more personal than if the man had infected
her with the microbe of influenza. Surely a woman that had loved a man
well enough to kiss him must have been stabbed with pity for the ardent
vigorous life thrust out into the dark. Then he felt a quick resentment
that anything so stainlessly statuesque as this girl--for all her trim
tailoring and large black hat--should have been even superficially
possessed by any man.
"Did that Johnny ever kiss you?" he asked, abruptly.
"Of course," replied Isabel. "Did I not have to, being engaged to him?
Not that there was much chance, for I never saw him alone between four
walls. Perhaps that was one reason that side of love seemed to me much
overrated. I was happiest when sitting alone in a sort of trance and
thinking about him."
"Humph!" said Gwynne.
The mist was gone. The east was a vast alcove of gold in which the hills
were set like hard dark jewels. The creek was narrowing. On either side,
and far on all sides, stretched the marsh. The guileless duck disported
himself on the ponds, but Gwynne, for once, was insensible to its
subversive charms, felt no regret that he had forgotten his gun. He came
and sat closer to Isabel, wondering if she felt as young as he did in
the wonderful freshness and beauty of the dawn. She certainly looked
very young and fresh and girlish, not in the least fateful, as when she
turned her profile against a hard background and forgot his presence.
"I think I could quite understand anything you cared to tell me," he
said, smiling into her eyes. "Please give me your reasons for
cultivating the character of a Toledo blade. Is it your intention
to marshal all the clans of all the advanced women and lead them
against the more occupied and disunited sex? I am told that it is
a standing grievance in Rosewater that you will not join that
Literary--Political--Improvement--and all the rest of it Club. I should
think with your ambitions and--well--masterful disposition, you would
assume its leadership as a sort of preliminary course."
"I intend to be a whole club in myself."
"Appalling! But what do you mean by that cryptic assertion? I told you
that I could understand anything you chose to explain, but, as they say
out here, I am not good at guessing."
"I am working out a theory of my own. It has been demonstrated that
labor, capital, all the known forces, are far stronger when concentrated
and organized. I believe in concentrating all the faculties about a will
strong enough not only to conquer life but all the inherited weaknesses
that beset one daily within. That is a minor matter, however. I believe
that our higher faculties were given to us for no purpose but to create
within ourselves an individual strength that will add to the sum of
strength in the world. It is not necessary to proclaim this strength
from the house-tops, nor to search for windmills--a positive enemy it
would leap at automatically--nor even to seek to improve the world by
all the tried and generally futile devices. It is enough to be. I alone
may not add greatly to this subjective strength of the world; but think
what life would be did each individual succeed in making himself but one
degree less strong than God himself! It may be my destiny to make
propaganda without noise; but if not, the achievement of absolute
