whenever Osmond's name was mentioned, he seemed to have the vision of
the mountain again before him and to hear the laughter and the sound of
dancing feet. The picture, little by little, faded and would not be
recalled, and by afternoon it had quite gone. Sobered, his feet on the
earth again, he went away in the early evening, to see Electra.
Rose waited until the dark had really fallen and evening sounds had
begun. Then she stole out of the house and, a black cloak about her,
this time, went across the fields to the oak tree. At a little distance
from it she paused, her heart too imperious to let her speak and find
out whether he was there. But when she was about to venture it, a voice
came from under the tree.
"Don't stay there, playmate. Come into the house."
Then she went on.
"Where are you?" she asked. There was an eloquent quiver in her voice.
"Never mind. I'm in the house. Stop where you are. There's a little
throne. I made it for you."
She had her hand on the back of a rough chair. At once she seated
herself.
"I never heard of a throne in a playhouse," she said, with that new
merriment he made for her.
"You never saw a playhouse just like this. That's a beautiful throne. It
fits together like a chair. It's here in the playhouse by night, but
before daylight I draw it up into the tree and hide it."
"What if somebody finds it?"
"They'll think it's a chair."
"What if they break it?"
"That's easy. We'll make another. There's nothing so easy as to make a
throne for a playhouse, if you know the way. Well, playmate, how have
you been, all this long time?"
When she came across the field she had meant to tell him how sad she
was, how perplexed, how incapable of meeting the ills confronting her.
But immediately it became unnecessary, and she only laughed and said,--
"It hasn't been a long time at all."
"Hasn't it? Oh, I thought it had!"
"Have you been here every night?"
"Every night."
"But it rained."
"I know it, outside. It doesn't rain in a playhouse."
"Did you truly come?"
"Of course. What did I tell you? I said 'every night.'"
"Did you have an umbrella?"
"An umbrella in a playhouse? You make me laugh."
"You must have got wet through."
"Not always. Sometimes I climbed up in the branches--in the roof, I
mean. You're eclipsed to-night, aren't you?"
"What do you mean?"
"That dark cloak. The other night you were a white goddess sitting there
in the moonlight. You were terribly beautiful then. It's almost a shame
to be so beautiful. This is better. I rather like the cloak. You're
nothing but a voice to-night, coming out of the dark."
Immediately she had a curious jealousy of the white dress that made her
beautiful to him when he did not really know her face.
"You have never seen me," she said involuntarily.
"Oh yes, I have. In the shack, that night. Then the day you came. I saw
you driving by."
"Where were you?"
"In the yard looking at some grafted trees. Peter was late from the
train. I got impatient, so I went round fussing over the trees, to keep
myself busy. Then you came up the drive, and I saw you and retreated in
good order."
"You needn't have hated me so. You hadn't really seen me."
"I saw enough. I saw your cheek and one ear and the color of your hair.
Take care, playmate, you mustn't do that."
"What?"
"You mustn't say I hated you. You know it wasn't hate."
Some daring prompted her to ask, "What was it, then?" but she folded her
hands and crossed her feet in great contentment and was still.
"Tell me things," she heard him saying.
"What things? About the house up there? About grannie? About Peter?"
"No, no. I know all about grannie and Peter. Tell me things I never
could know unless we were here in the playhouse, in the dark."
Her mind went off, at that, to the wonder of it. She was here in strange
circumstances, and of all the occurrences of her life, it seemed the
most natural. Immediately she had the warmest curiosity, the desire that
he should talk inordinately and tell her all the things he had done
to-day, yesterday, all the days.
"You tell," she said. "Begin at the beginning, and tell me about your
life."
"Why, playmate!" His voice had even a sorrowful reproach. "There's
nothing in it. Nothing at all. I have only dug in the ground and made
things grow."
"What people have you known?"
"Grannie."
"She isn't people."
"She's my people. She's all there is, except Peter, and he hasn't been
here."
Something like jealousy possessed her. She was stung by her own
ignorance.
"But there are lots of years when we didn't meet," she said.
"Lots of them. But I don't care anything about them. I told you so the
other night."
"Don't you care about mine?"
"Not a bit."
She was lightheaded with the joy of it. There were things she need not
tell him.
"Not the years before we met?" Then because she was a woman, she had to
spoil the cup. "Nor the years after I go away?"
"No, not the years when you've gone away. You can't take this night with
you, nor the other night."
He had hurt her.
"That's enough, then--a memory."
Osmond laughed a little. It was a tender sound, as if he might scold
her, but not meaning it.
"You mustn't be naughty," he said. "There's nothing naughtier in a
playhouse than saying what isn't true. You know if you go away you'll
come back again. You can't help it. It may be a long time first. You
were twenty-five years in coming this time. But you'll have to come. You
know that, don't you?"
"Yes," she said gravely, "I know that." Then the memory of her wandering
life and the sore straits of it voiced itself in one cry, "I don't want
to go. I want to stay."
"Stay, dear playmate," said the other voice. "There never will be a
night when I'm not here. Is the playhouse key in your hand, all tight
and warm? I wear mine round my neck. We shan't lose them."
Immediately she felt that she must tell him her new trouble.
"My father is coming here," she said, in a low tone.
"Ah!" he answered quickly. "You won't like that."
"How do you know?"
"From what you said the other night. You don't like him."
"Is it dreadful to you, if I don't like my father?"
She put it anxiously, with timidity, and he answered,--
"It's inevitable. He hasn't treated you well."
She was staring at him through the darkness, though she could see
nothing.
"You are a wizard," she said, "a wizard. Why do you say he has not
treated me well?"
"Because I see how you hate him. You would never hate without reason.
You are all gentleness. You know you are. You'd go on your knees to the
man that was your father, and beg him to be good enough so you could
love him. And if you couldn't--George! that settles him. Why, playmate,
you're not crying!"
She was crying softly to herself. But for a little unconsidered sniff he
need not have known it.
"I like to cry," she said, in a moment. "I like to cry--like this."
"It's awful," said the other voice, apparently to itself, "to make you
cry and not know how to stop you. Don't do it, playmate!"
She laughed then.
"I won't cry," she promised. "But if you knew how pleasant it is when it
only means somebody understands and likes you just as well--"
"Better," said the voice. "I always like you better. Whatever you do,
that's the effect it has. Now let's talk about your father. We can't
stop his coming?"
"No. Nobody ever stopped him yet in anything."
"Then what can we do to him after he gets here?"
"That's what I am trying to think. Sometimes I'm afraid I must run
away--before he comes."
"Yes, playmate, if you think so." There was something sharp in the tone:
a quick hurt, a premonition of pain, and it was soothing to her.
"But I've so little money." She said that to herself, and his answer
shocked her.
"There's money, if that's all. I'll bury it here under a stone, and you
shall find it."
"No! no! no! How could you! oh, how could you!"
The voice was hurt indeed now, and willing to be thought so.
"Why, playmate, is that so dreadful? Money's the least important thing
there is."
"It is important," said she broodingly. "It seems to me all my miseries,
my disgraces have come from that."
"You don't want to tell me about them? You don't think it would make
them better?"
