
She didn't want to a bit. "Why, I would be very quiet and not disturb
Cousin Elizabeth," she said, with beseeching eyes.

"Will you not do it to please me?"

She choked down a great lump. "Oh, yes," she answered in a low tone,
without looking up. But it seemed very queer to her to be left this way.

There was company in the evening--quite a party playing cards. She had
a pretty story book to read until Susan came to put her to bed. And what
a delightful little bed it was, like her little pallet at home, so much
nicer than the big bed at Salem.

She would not show that she was homesick, for so many nice things were
being done for her. A note came from Chilian--Cousin Elizabeth was very
ill, and he hoped she would be content. Some clothes were sent for her,
some of her very best ones, and she was glad to have them.

There were so many things to see in Boston, really much more than at
Salem. They were putting up some fine public buildings. And there was
Bunker Hill and Copp's Hill, and, down near the bay, Fort Hill. There
seemed little rivers running all about and submerged lands.

There were many other entertainments and her days were full. Mrs.
Stevens sent out some cards and seven or eight young girls came in and
chatted quite like the grown-up ladies, asking her about Salem, and
being not a little surprised that she had lived in India. They had a
pretty sort of half tea, cakes and delicacies after the thin bread and
butter, and a most delightful cool drink that seemed to have all flavors
in it. One of the girls played on the spinet afterward. So she had her
first party at Cousin Giles', instead of Salem.

Notes came from Cousin Chilian, and at last the welcome news that he was
coming down for her.

She had come to like Cousin Giles very much. He was so different from
Chilian--breezy and rather teasing--and, oh, what would Cousin Elizabeth
have said to his fashion of getting things about, putting papers or
books on chairs, mislaying his glasses and his gloves, and she would
think the fine furniture, and the servants, and the little feasts
awfully extravagant.

Poor Elizabeth! She had never come back to consciousness. She had shrunk
intensely from the last moment when she would have to face death and the
judgment, though she had been striving all her life to prepare for it.
But God had mercifully spared her that, the two worlds had touched and
merged with each other and left her to God.

There had been a quiet funeral, though it was well attended, but the
coffin was closed and a pall thrown over it, for the poor face had never
recovered its natural look.

All this was softened to Cynthia, as she sat with Cousin Chilian's arm
about her. She had the sweet remembrance of that last day, and the smile
that somehow had made the wrinkled face pretty. It had been thoughtful
and tender in Cousin Chilian to spare her the rest.

They went over to Cambridge and he took her through the place that was
to be so much grander before she was done with life. And here was the
house where he had lived through the week, going home to spend Sundays,
for his father was alive then. And he told her stories about old Boston,
some quaintly funny, but she was rather proud that Salem had been the
first capital of the State.

"I've had such a nice time," she said with her adieu. "Every day has
been full of pleasure. I thank you both very much."

She was to come again, and again, they rejoined cordially.

"What a nice child!" Cousin Giles said. "She doesn't seem to consider
what an heiress she is. And she's enough like Chilian to be his own
child. He always had that dainty way with him, like a woman, and
everything must be fine and nice, yet he never was ostentatious. She'll
make a charming young woman. I wish I could persuade Chilian to come to
Boston."

Chilian had driven in with the carriage. There had been a shower in the
night and the travelling was delightful. He had missed his little girl
so much, yet he knew it had been better to save her the poignancy of the
sad occurrence. So her father had thought in his trusting appeal.




CHAPTER XII

CHANGES IN THE OLD HOUSE


There was not as much change in household affairs as Cynthia supposed
there would be. Elizabeth had been laid by so long that her place at the
table had been filled by Eunice. Indeed, the former had an unfortunate
habit of running out in the kitchen to see to something, then returning,
pouring a cup of tea, passing some article of food, then disappearing
again. It had grown on her, the belief that she must be everywhere or
something would go wrong. It did annoy Chilian. And no one hustled up
the dishes when you had eaten the last crumb of cake. He liked to linger
over the table.

Eunice was very glad to see her. Rachel took her wrap and her parcel
upstairs, for supper had been waiting. Eunice poured the tea, Rachel
passed the eatables, and they were both eager to hear how it had fared
with the little girl.

"It's been just splendid! Mrs. Stevens is--well, she is grand, and, oh,
you ought to see the beautiful gowns she wears; but she doesn't hold you
way off. You can come up close and lean on her shoulder or her lap. They
were both so good. And, look! Cousin Giles would buy me these two
rings;" and she held up her hand laughingly. "And an elegant necklace. I
told him there were so many things here that were my mother's, but he
wouldn't mind. And slippers! There's white, and a kind of gray, and a
bronze, and a red pair. The little girls wear them when they come from
school and go out to companies. Oh, Cousin Chilian, doesn't any one play
on the spinet? I'd like to learn."

"It's very old. It was mother's. I think we must have a new one. And you
can learn."

"Oh, I shall be so glad."

Mrs. Taft was out in the kitchen. "Now you all go your ways," she began.
"'Taint nothing to clear off the supper table."

They sat out on the front porch. But through the talk Cynthia kept
thinking of poor Cousin Elizabeth and feeling sorry she had not enjoyed
more of the pleasures of life. Was there so much real virtue in making
life hard and cold? But there were some girls in school who were very
much afraid of dancing and reading story-books.

Truth to tell, as Chilian listened, he came to experience a queer
feeling--he would have scouted the idea of jealousy about Cousin Giles,
but that he should have devoted himself so much to her and taken her
about, wanted to buy trinkets for her and all that! There was still a
week of vacation left. They would go somewhere to-morrow.

He had asked Mrs. Taft to stay with them.

"Well, I can't exactly promise. You see, I like to 'wrastle' with things
and fight off the worst. Though I hadn't much hope of 'Lisbeth when the
doctor said her spine was hurt. That's a kind of queer hidden thing that
even doctors can't see into. And the poor creature suffered a good deal.
My, but she was spunky and was bound not to die, and I fought for her
all I could. But the last few weeks there was a change. She liked Cynthy
to come in with the posies and say something bright. And now it's all
done and over, and she was a good upright woman in the old-fashioned
way. So I'll stay a spell till Miss Eunice gets used to the change, and
when I see another good fight somewhere, you mustn't have hard feelings
if I go."

They went out the next morning and found a boat going up to Plum Island.
It was like going to sea to go around Rockport Point. Captain Green
declared "he wan't much on passengers, but he had a nice cabin and an
awning on the for'ard deck, and there was a woman and some children
whose husband living up there had bespoke passage."

It was a fine day with the right sort of wind. Oh, how splendid it was
as they went out oceanward. She had been on the water such a very little
since her long voyage.

