Railroad?”
“You can phrase it that way if you choose,” said Haskins, quietly;
“but I wouldn’t advise you to let Price hear you.”
“I thank you,” responded Montague, and brought the interview to an
end.
He took a day to think the matter over. It was not his habit to act
upon impulse. He saw that the time had come for him to speak, but he
wished to be sure of his course of action before he began. He had
dinner at the Club that evening, and, seeing his friend Major
Venable ensconced in a big leather chair in the reading-room, he
went and sat down beside him.
“How do you do, Major?” he said. “I’ve got another case that I want
to ask you some questions about.”
“Always at your service,” said the Major.
“It has to do with a railroad,” said Montague. “Did you ever hear of
such a thing as a railroad president organising a company to sell
supplies to his own road?”
The Major smiled grimly. “Yes, I have heard of it,” he said.
“Is it common?” asked Montague.
“Not so common as you might suppose,” answered the other. “A
railroad president is commonly not an important enough man to be
permitted to do it. If it happens to be a big road, and the
president is a power in it, why, then he may do it.”
“I see,” said Montague.
“That was Higgins’s trick,” said the Major. “Higgins used to go
around making speeches to Sunday schools; he was the kind of man
that the newspapers like to refer to as a model citizen and a leader
of enterprise. His brothers, and his brothers-in-law, and his
cousins, and all his family went into business in order to sell
things to his railroads. I heard of one story--it has never come
out, but it’s very amusing. Every year the road would advertise its
contract for stationery. It used about a million dollars’ worth, and
there’d be long and most elaborate specifications published--columns
and columns. But sandwiched away somewhere in the middle of a
paragraph was the provision that the paper must all bear a certain
watermark; and that watermark was patented by one of Higgins’s
companies! It didn’t even own so much as a mill--it sublet all the
contracts. When Higgins died, he left eighty million dollars; but
they juggled the records, and you read in all the newspapers that he
left ‘a few millions.’ That was in Philadelphia, where you can do
such things.”
Montague sat thinking for a few moments. “But I can’t see why they
should do it in this case,” he said. “The men who are doing it own
nearly all of the stock of the road.”
“What difference does that make?” asked the Major.
“Why, they are simply plundering their own property,” said Montague.
“Tut!” was the reply. “What do they care about the value of the
property? They’ll unload it before the public finds out; and in the
meantime they are probably manipulating the stock. That’s the scheme
they’re working with the street railroads over in Brooklyn, for
instance; the more irregular the dividends are, the more violently
the stock fluctuates, and the better they like it.”
“But this is the case of a railroad that is being built,” said
Montague; “and they are putting up the money to build it.”
“Yes,” said the Major, “of course; and then they are paying it back
to themselves by this dodge; and they’ll still have the stock, and
whatever they can get for it will be profit. And if the State
Legislature comes along and asks any impertinent questions, they can
open their books and say: ‘See, we have spent this much for
improvements. This is the cost of the road; and if you reduce our
freight-rates, you will cut off our dividends and confiscate our
property.’”
And the Major gazed at Montague with a mischievous twinkle in his
eye. “Besides,” he said, “another thing. You say they are putting up
the money. Are you sure it’s their own money? Commonly the greater
part of the cost of railroad building is paid by bonds, and they
work those bonds off on banks and insurance companies and trust
companies. Have you thought of that?”
“No, I hadn’t,” said Montague.
“I know very few men in Wall Street who use their own money,” the
Major added. “Take the case of Wyman, for instance. Wyman’s railroad
keeps a cash surplus of twenty or thirty millions, and Wyman uses
that in Wall Street. And when he has made his profit, he takes it
and salts it away in village improvement bonds all over the country.
Do you see?”
“I see,” said Montague. “It’s a bad game for the small stockholder.”
“It’s a bad game for the small man of any sort,” said the Major.
“When I was young, I can remember, a man would save a little money
and put it into an enterprise of some sort, and whatever the profits
were, he would get his share of them. But now, you see, the big men
have got control, and they are greedier than they used to be. There
is nothing hurts them so much as to see the little fellow get any
share of the profits, and they’ve all sorts of schemes for doing him
out of it. I could take a week off and tell you about them. You are
manufacturing soap, we will say. You find there are too many soap
manufacturers and too much soap, and so you propose to combine, and
put your rivals out of business, and monopolise the soap market.
Your properties are already capitalised at twice what they cost you,
because you are naturally hopeful, and that is what you expected
they would earn; but now for this new combination you issue stock to
the amount of three times this imagined value. Then you fill the
street with rumours of the wonders of your soap combination, and all
the privileges and monopolies that you’ve got, and you unload your
stock on the public, we’ll say at eighty. You may have sold all your
stock, but you’ve still got control of the corporation. The public
is helpless and unorganised, and your men are in. Then the Street
begins to hear disturbing rumours about the soap trust, and your
board of directors meet and declare that it is impossible to pay any
dividends. There is great indignation among the stockholders, and an
opposition is organised, but you set the clock an hour ahead, and
elect your ticket before the other fellow comes around. Or perhaps
the troubles have already knocked the stock down sufficiently low to
satisfy you, and you buy a majority of it back. Then the public
hears that a new interest has purchased the soap trust, and that a
new and honest administration is to be elected; and once more there
is hope for soap. You buy a few more plants, and issue more stocks
and bonds, and soap begins to boom, and you sell once more. You can
work that regularly every two or three years, for there is always a
new crop of investors, and nobody but a few people in Wall Street
can possibly keep track of what you are doing.”
The Major paused for a while, and sat with a happy smile on his
countenance. “You see,” he said, “there are floods and floods of
wealth, pouring into Wall Street from all over the country. It comes
to me like a vision. The crops are growing, the mines and the mills
and the factories are working, and here is all the money. People
don’t like to take it and hide it up their chimneys--few people have
chimneys nowadays. They want to invest it; and so you prepare
investments for them. Take the street railroads here in New York,
for instance. What could be a safer investment than the street
railroads of the Metropolis? An absolute monopoly, and traffic
growing so fast that construction can’t keep up with it. Profits are
sure. So people buy street railway stocks and bonds. In this case
it’s the politicians who organise the construction companies; that’s
their share, in return for the franchises. The insiders have a new
scheme--the best yet; it’s like a Gatling gun against bows and
arrows. They organise a syndicate, and get the franchises for
nothing, and then sell them to the company for millions. They’ve
even sold franchises they didn’t own, and railroad lines that hadn’t
been built. You’ll find some improvements charged for four or five
times over, and the improvements haven’t yet been made. First and
last they have paid themselves about thirty million dollars. And, in
the meantime, the poor stockholder wonders why he doesn’t get his
dividends!”
“That’s the investment market,” the Major continued after a pause;
“but of course the biggest reservoirs of wealth are the insurance
companies and the banks. It’s there the real fortunes are made;
you’ll find you lose the greater part of your profits, unless you’ve
got your own banks to take your bonds. I heard an amusing story the
other day of a man who was manufacturing electrical supplies. He
prides himself on being an honest business man, and having nothing
to do with Wall Street. His company wanted to extend its business,
and it issued a couple of hundred thousand dollars’ worth of bonds,
and went to the Fidelity Insurance Company and offered them at
ninety. ‘We aren’t buying any bonds just at present,’ said they,
‘but suppose you try the National Trust Company.’ So the man went
there, and they offered him eighty for the bonds. That was the best
he could do, and in the end he had to take it. And then the trust
company turns the bonds over to the insurance company at par. I
could name you half a dozen trust companies in New York that are
simply syndicates of insurance people for the working of that little
game.”
The Major paused. “You see it?” he asked.
“Yes, I see,” Montague replied.
“Is there a trust company by any chance back of this railroad you
are talking of?”
“There is,” said Montague; and the Major shrugged his shoulders.
“There you have it,” he said. “By and by they will find their first
bond issue inadequate to meet the cost of the proposed improvements.
The estimates of the engineers will be found too low, and there will
be another issue of bonds, and your president’s company will get
