hole through the idiocy of that thrice-confounded Legate!'
'It is indeed,' agreed Trombin. 'I wonder what has become of the lady.'
'I thought you were thinking of the girl,' said the other
discontentedly. 'It would complete the situation if you should find her
and fall in love with her yourself!'
'That is possible. It has pleased Providence to make me susceptible,
whereas you are designed by nature for a monastic life. Our friend's
description of his niece calls up an enchanting picture! The "Bella" of
the late Titian, but younger and slimmer! Heaven send such a sweet
creature to cheer my declining years! I do not wonder that the Maestro
lost his heart and carried her off. And at this very moment she must be
hiding somewhere in Ferrara, perhaps not a quarter of a mile from here!
In a convent, no doubt, in some gloomy old house full of yellow-faced
Carmelite or Franciscan nuns, with her glorious hair and her matchless
complexion! I can see her in my imagination, a gilded rose amongst
cabbages, a luscious peach in a heap of turnips.'
'For goodness' sake stop raving!' interrupted Gambardella. 'Why should
she be in a convent, I should like to know?'
'Where else could two respectable women without money go? They could not
possibly travel, and no one in the town would take them in without
baggage or cash. I tell you they went from here to a convent and asked
for shelter and protection. It is the most natural thing in the world.
It is what the girl's middle-aged serving-woman would certainly think of
first.'
'You may be right,' answered the other, his tone changing. 'Drink more
wine, for it always stimulates your imagination, and you may imagine a
way of getting Stradella out of the Lion Tower. I think you are right
about the girl. We will make inquiries at the convents after dinner.'
Trombin filled his glass, which was quite empty, drank half the contents
and set it down.
'In the first place,' he said, 'we had better try simple persuasion with
the Legate. If you agree, I will go and see him late in the afternoon.
He may make some little difficulty about receiving me, but that will
only be in order to impress me with his greatness. Besides, you will
give me a letter of introduction which I shall ask to present in
person.'
'I?' Gambardella looked at his friend across his glass with an
expression of inquiry.
'Certainly,' answered Trombin. 'I could not ask such a favour of any one
who knows me better, could I? If any one can vouch for me, you can.'
Gambardella condescended to smile faintly, and suggested an outline of
the letter.
'"I have the honour to introduce to your lordship's good graces the very
noble Count Tromblon de la Trombine, who is here at great personal
inconvenience for the express purpose of cutting Alessandro Stradella's
throat, and will be much obliged if your worship will at once order the
Maestro to be let out for that purpose." Would that do? I could sign
Pignaver's name to it!'
'You have no imagination. I will make a rough draft, which you will then
write out much better than I could. You shall see. While I am at the
castle, you may make inquiries at the different convents.'
As their servant Tommaso had foreseen, they sat at table two hours, and
on the whole, though they were highly experienced epicures, they were
not dissatisfied with the dinner. Gambardella even admitted that one
more day in Ferrara would not be intolerable, but that was as much as
his second bottle of Burgundy could bring him to say. At dessert,
Trombin called for writing materials and quickly drafted the letter of
introduction he wished his friend to write out for him. The latter
watched him, and from time to time picked out a fat red cherry from a
quantity that floated in a large bowl of water, and ate it thoughtfully.
An hour and a half later the Legate returned from his daily airing,
which he generally took on a handsome brown mule, accompanied by his
private secretary or by the captain of the halberdiers of the garrison.
He came home early, though the weather was warm, for he was beginning to
be a little rheumatic, and he established himself in the sunny room
which he used as his study. He had not been seated ten minutes in his
high-backed chair, with a red cotton quilt spread over his knees and
tucked in round his legs, dictating letters to his secretary, when word
was brought him that a Venetian gentleman desired to be received, in
order to present a letter of introduction from a high personage.
Monsignor Pelagatti had an almost exaggerated respect for high
personages, though he was now considered to be one of them himself. Even
kings may be snobs, when they are not very big kings, and much more,
therefore, the lay governor of a papal province who had climbed to
distinction from a steward's office in a Roman patrician's household.
The Legate sent his secretary downstairs to bring up the visitor with
all the ceremony due to the bearer of an important letter.
In a few minutes Trombin entered the sunny room, and the Governor, who
had dropped his red cotton quilt and kicked it out of sight under the
table, rose to receive him. Trombin's round cheeks were rounder and
pinker than ever, his long yellow hair was as smooth as butter, his bow
was precisely suited to the dignity of the Legate, and his manner
inspired confidence by its quiet self-possession. His right hand held
out the letter he brought, which Monsignor Pelagatti received with a
gracious smile after returning his visitor's bow, at the same time
inviting the latter to be seated on his right, where the secretary had
already placed a comfortable chair.
'With your permission,' said the Governor politely, before proceeding to
read the letter.
Trombin bowed his acquiescence from his chair and smiled again. The
succulent dinner and rich Burgundy seemed to have made him sleeker and
pinker than ever, and he watched the Legate's face with a pleasantly
benevolent expression.
But Monsignor Pelagatti's jaw dropped as he read the missive, and his
shrivelled lids seemed to shrink back from all round his little red eyes
till they looked as if they were starting from his head, while Trombin
watched him with quiet satisfaction.
The letter purported to be from the acting Chief of the Council of Ten
in Venice, and was really a miracle of official style in its way.
The writer took the liberty of introducing a gentleman to whom he
entrusted a delicate business, the noble Signor Trombin del Todescan.
His high regard for the Legate, and his desire to avert all unpleasant
consequences from so friendly and distinguished an official, had led him
to treat directly and privately of a matter which would otherwise have
to go through the hands of the Venetian Ambassador in Rome. The Legate
had accidentally imprisoned a distinguished musician who had lately been
the guest of the Republic, a matter which, in itself, might not be
thought to have great importance. But the Maestro Stradella was on his
wedding journey, and his young bride was no less a person than the noble
lady Ortensia Grimani, the writer's niece. As for Bartolo, the
counterfeiter, he had just been caught at Treviso, and, at the time of
writing, was safely lodged in the Pozzi, either to be tried in Venice or
sent to Rome, as might hereafter be agreed between the respective
governments. Under the circumstances the Legate would see the propriety
of setting the Maestro at liberty without delay, and of extending every
courtesy to him and his young wife, who must be in despair at his
arrest. The letter concluded by saying that if the Legate 'did not feel
justified' in complying with these requests, the noble Signor Trombin
del Todescan had instructions to proceed to Rome with the utmost haste
and to place the matter in the hands of the Venetian Ambassador there,
on behalf of the noble lady Ortensia Grimani, unjustly deprived of her
husband, a Spanish subject, within the States of the Church.
The letter left nothing to be desired in the way of clearness, and the
Legate's consternation was considerable. He had actually made a mistake
which could not be glossed over by the simple process of condemning an
innocent person to fine or imprisonment without appeal. He had never
done such a thing in his life, and it was not pleasant to feel the
coming humiliation of being forced to revoke an order given in court and
to restore property he had summarily confiscated to the Treasury.
He felt himself shrinking in his chair, while the noble Signor Trombin
del Todescan, the secret envoy of the Venetian Republic, seemed to grow
bigger and more imposing every moment.
'I need not say that I am delighted to be set right, after making such a
grave mistake,' said Monsignor Pelagatti humbly. 'The circumstances were
very suspicious, as I hope your lordship will explain to the most
illustrious Chief. Our information seemed very exact, and as I was in
correspondence with the police of Venice in regard to the capture of
Bartolo, I could not doubt but that the Republic would be pleased with
the news that I had taken him, as I believed I had.'
'The Chief is persuaded of your worship's good intentions,' Trombin
answered blandly. 'I can promise your worship, in his name, that the
matter shall not be mentioned again. Will you be so good as to order
Signor Stradella to be set at liberty? I will conduct him to the inn
myself and see to his requirements. I am informed, however, that the
Lady Ortensia and her serving-woman left the house immediately after the
arrest on Saturday morning, and have not been seen since. Your worship
doubtless knows where I can find them.'
'Certainly,' answered the Legate, proud to show that nothing escaped his
vigilance. 'They went directly to the Ursuline nuns and asked to be
taken in. The Mother Superior very properly sent to ask my permission
before agreeing to let them stay, and I granted it. The most illustrious
Chief will be glad to know that her ladyship, his niece, has enjoyed the
protection of a religious order throughout this lamentable
misunderstanding.'
Monsignor Pelagatti dictated and signed the order for Stradella's
liberation, and then bade his secretary accompany the noble Signor and
see that there was no delay, and that his property was duly returned.
Trombin expressed the thanks of the most illustrious Chief of the Ten in
appropriately flowery language, bowed, as before, with precisely the
right show of mixed regard and condescension, and left the Legate to
