" It happens very well, though, for the ghost-seeing 
that people don't know she's here. After that I shall 
tell them. In fact, she wants me to, for she must be 
on the lookout for other engagements. I am going to 
do everything I can for her, and if you hear of any- 
thing—" 
Verrian bowed, with a sense of something offensive 
in her words which he could not logically feel, since 
it was a matter of business and was put squarely on 
a business basis. " I should be very glad," he said, non- 
committally. 
" She was sure from the first," Mrs. Westangle went 
on, as if there were some relation between the fact and 
her request, " that you were not the actor. She knew 
you were a writer." 
" Oh, indeed !" Verrian said. 
" I thought that if you were writing for the news- 
papers you might know how to help her — " 
" I'm not a newspaper writer," Verrian answered, 
 
with, a resentment which, she seemed to feel, for she said, 
with a sort of apology in her tone : 
" Oh ! Well, I don't suppose it matters. She doesn't 
know I'm speaking to you about that ; it just came into 
my head. I like to help in a worthy object, you know. 
I hope you'll have a good night's rest." 
She turned and looked round with the air of distrac- 
tion which she had after speaking to any one, and which 
Verrian fancied came as much from a paucity as from 
a multiplicity of suggestion in her brain, and so left him 
standing. But she came back to say, " Of course, it's 
all between ourselves till after to-morrow night, Mr. 
Verrian." 
" Oh, certainly," he replied, and went vaguely off 
in the direction of the billiard-room. It was light and 
warm there, though the place was empty, and he de- 
cided upon a cigar as a proximate or immediate solu- 
tion. He sat smoking before the fire till the tobacco's 
substance had half turned into a wraith of ash, and 
not really thinking of anything very definitely, except 
the question whether he should be able to sleep after 
he went to bed, when he heard a creeping step on the 
floor. He turned quickly, with a certain expectance in 
his nerves, and saw nothing more ghostly than Bush- 
wick standing at the corner of the table and apparently 
hesitating how to speak to him. 
He said, " Hello !" and at this Bushwick said : 
"Look here!" 
" Well ?" Verrian asked, looking at him. 
" How does it happen you're up so late, after every- 
body else is wrapped in slumber?" 
" I might ask the same of you." 
" Well, I found I wasn't making it a case of sleep, 
exactly, and so I got up." 
" Well, I hadn't gone to bed for much the same 
reason. Why couldn't you sleep ? A real-estate broker 
ought to have a clean conscience." 
" So ought a publisher, for that matter. What do 
you think of this ghost-dance, anyway?" 
" It might be amusing — if it fails." Verrian was 
tempted to add the condition by the opportunity for a 
cynicism which he did not feel. It is one of the privi- 
leges of youth to be cynical, whether or no. 
Busbwick sat down before the fire and rubbed his 
shins with his two hands unrestfully, drawing in a 
long breath between his teeth. " These things get on 
to my nerves sometimes. I shouldn't want the ghost- 
dance to fail." 
" On Mrs. Westangle's account ?" 
" I guess Mrs. Westangle could stand it. Look here !" 
It was rather a customary phrase of his, Verrian noted. 
As he now used it he looked alertly round at Verrian, 
with his hands still on his shins. " What's the use of 
our beating round the bush ?" 
Verrian delayed his answer long enough to decide 
against the aimless pun of asking, " What Bushwick ?" 
and merely asked, " What bush ?" 
" The bush where the milk in the cocoanut grows. 
You don't pretend that you believe Mrs. Westangle has 
been getting up all these fairy stunts ?" 
Verrian returned to his cigar, from which the ashen 
wraith dropped into his lap. " I guess you'll have to 
be a little clearer." But as Bushwick continued silent- 
ly looking at him, the thing could not be left at this 
point, and he was obliged to ask of his own initiative, 
" How much do you know ?" 
Bushwick leaned back in his chair, with his eyes still 
on Verrian's profile. " As much as Miss Macroyd could 
tell me." 
" Ah, I'm still in the dark," Verrian politely re- 
 
gretted, but not without a tacit wish to wring Miss 
Macroyd's neck, which he would not have known how 
to account for. 
" Well, she says that Mrs. Westangle has a profes- 
sional assistant who's doing the whole job for her, and 
that she came down on the same train with herself and 
you." 
" Did she say that she grabbed the whole victoria for 
herself and maid at the station?" Verrian demanded, 
in a burst of rage, " and left us to get here the best 
way we could ?" 
Bushwick grinned. " She supposed there were other 
carriages, and when she found there weren't she hur- 
ried the victoria back for you." 
" You think she believes all that ? I'm glad she has 
the decency to be ashamed of her behavior." 
" I'm not defending her. Miss Macroyd knows how 
to take care of herself." 
The matter rather dropped for the moment, in which 
Bushwick filled a pipe he took from his pocket and 
lighted it. After the first few whiffs he took it from 
his mouth, and, with a droll look across at Verrian, said, 
" Who was your fair friend ?" 
If Verrian was going to talk of this thing, he was not 
going to do it with the burden of any sort of reserve 
or contrivance on his soul. " This afternoon ?" Bush- 
wick nodded ; and Verrian added, " That was she." Then 
he went on, wrathf ully : " She's a girl who has to make 
her living, and she's doing it in a new way that she's 
invented for herself. She has supposed that the stupid 
rich, or the lazy rich, who want to entertain people 
may be willing to pay for ideas, and she proposes to 
supply the ideas for a money consideration. She's not 
a guest in the house, and she won't take herself on a 
society basis at all. I don't know what her history is, 
 
and I don't care. She's a lady by training, and, if she 
had the accent, I should say she was from the South, 
for she has the enterprise of the South that comes 
North and tries to make its living. It's all inex- 
pressibly none of my business, but I happen to be 
knowing to so much of the case, and if you're knowing 
to anything else, Mr. Bushwick, I want you to get it 
straight. That's why I'm talking of it, and not because 
I think you've any right to know anything about it." 
" Thank you," Bushwick returned, unruffled. " It's 
about what Miss Macroyd told me. That's the reason 
I don't want the ghost-dance to fail." 
Verrian did not notice him. He found it more im- 
portant to say : " She's so loyal to Mrs. Westangle that 
she wouldn't have wished, in Mrs. Westangle's inter- 
est, to have her presence, or her agency in what is going 
on, known; but, of course, if Mrs. Westangle chooses 
to tell it, that's her affair." 
" She would have had to tell it, sooner or later, Mrs. 
Westangle would ; and she only told it to Miss Macroyd 
this afternoon on compulsion, after Miss Macroyd and 
I had seen you in the wood-road, and Mrs. Westangle 
had to account for the young lady's presence there in 
your company. Then Miss Macroyd had to tell me; 
but I assure you, my dear fellow, the matter hasn't 
gone any further." 
" Oh, it's quite indifferent to me," Verrian retorted. 
" I'm nothing but a dispassionate witness of the situa- 
tion." 
" Of course," Bushwick assented, and then he added, 
with a bonhomie really so amiable that a man with even 
an unreasonable grudge could hardly resist it, " If 
you call it dispassionate." 
