me--everything!"
"That was what he was told to do," said Oliver. "Did you like him?"
"I don't know," said the girl. "He's queer--I never met a man like that
before. But he was awfully kind; and the people just turned their
stores inside out for us--half a dozen people hurrying about to wait on
you at once!"
"You'll get used to such things," said Oliver; and then, stepping
toward the bed, "Let's see what you got."
"Most of the things haven't come," said Alice. "The gowns all have to
be fitted.--That one is for to-night," she added, as he lifted up a
beautiful object made of rose-coloured chiffon.
Oliver studied it, and glanced once or twice at the girl. "I guess you
can carry it," he said. "What sort of a cloak are you to wear?"
"Oh, the cloak!" cried Alice. "Oliver, I can't believe it's really to
belong to me. I didn't know anyone but princesses wore such things."
The cloak was in Mrs. Montague's room, and one of the maids brought it
in. It was an opera-wrap of grey brocade, lined with unborn baby
lamb--a thing of a gorgeousness that made Montague literally gasp for
breath.
"Did you ever see anything like it in your life?" cried Alice. "And
Oliver, is it true that I have to have gloves and shoes and
stockings--and a hat--to match every gown?"
"Of course." said Oliver. "If you were doing things right, you ought to
have a cloak to match each evening gown as well."
"It seems incredible," said the girl. "Can it be right to spend so much
money for things to wear?"
But Oliver was not discussing questions of ethics; he was examining
sets of tinted crepe de chine lingerie, and hand-woven hose of spun
silk. There were boxes upon boxes, and bureau drawers and closet
shelves already filled up with hand-embroidered and lace-trimmed
creations-chemises and corset-covers, night-robes of "handkerchief
linen" lawn, lace handkerchiefs and veils, corsets of French coutil,
dressing-jackets of pale-coloured silks, and negligees of soft
batistes, trimmed with Valenciennes lace, or even with fur.
"You must have put in a full day," he said.
"I never looked at so many things in my life," said Alice. "And Mr.
Mann never stopped to ask the price of a thing."
"I didn't think to tell him to," said Oliver, laughing.
Then the girl went in to dress--and Oliver faced about to find his
brother sitting and staring hard at him.
"Tell me!" Montague exclaimed. "In God's name, what is all this to
cost?"
"I don't know," said Oliver, impassively. "I haven't seen the bills.
It'll be fifteen or twenty thousand, I guess."
Montague's hands clenched involuntarily, and he sat rigid. "How long
will it all last her?" he asked.
"Why," said the other, "when she gets enough, it'll last her until
spring, of course--unless she goes South during the winter."
"How much is it going to take to dress her for a year?"
"I suppose thirty or forty thousand," was the reply. "I don't expect to
keep count."
Montague sat in silence. "You don't want to shut her up and keep her at
home, do you?" inquired his brother, at last.
"Do you mean that other women spend that much on clothes?" he demanded.
"Of course," said Oliver, "hundreds of them. Some spend fifty
thousand--I know several who go over a hundred."
"It's monstrous!" Montague exclaimed.
"Fiddlesticks!" was the other's response. "Why, thousands of people
live by it--wouldn't know anything else to do."
Montague said nothing to that. "Can you afford to have Alice compete
with such women indefinitely?" he asked.
"I have no idea of her doing it indefinitely," was Oliver's reply. "I
simply propose to give her a chance. When she's married, her bills will
be paid by her husband."
"Oh," said the other, "then this layout is just for her to be exhibited
in."
"You may say that," answered Oliver,--"if you want to be foolish. You
know perfectly well that parents who launch their daughters in Society
don't figure on keeping up the pace all their lifetimes."
"We hadn't thought of marrying Alice off," said Montague.
To which his brother replied that the best physicians left all they
could to nature. "Suppose," said he, "that we just introduce her in the
right set, and turn her loose and let her enjoy herself--and then cross
the next bridge when we come to it?"
Montague sat with knitted brows, pondering.' He was beginning to see a
little daylight now. "Oliver," he asked suddenly, "are you sure the
stakes in this game aren't too big?"
"How do you mean?" asked the other.
"Will you be able to stay in until the show-down? Until either Alice or
myself begins to bring in some returns?"
"Never worry about that," said the other, with a laugh.
"But hadn't you better take me into your confidence?" Montague
persisted. "How many weeks can you pay our rent in this place? Have you
got the money to pay for all these clothes?"
"I've got it," laughed the other--"but that doesn't say I'm going to
pay it."
"Don't you have to pay your bills? Can we do all this upon credit?"
Oliver laughed again. "You go at me like a prosecuting attorney," he
said. "I'm afraid you'll have to inquire around and learn some respect
for your brother." Then he added, seriously, "You see, Allan, people
like Reggie or myself are in position to bring a great deal of custom
to tradespeople, and so they are willing to go out of their way to
oblige us. And we have commissions of all sorts coming to us, so it's
never any question of cash."
"Oh!" exclaimed the other, opening his eyes, "I see! Is that the way
you make money?"
"It's one of the ways we save it," said Oliver. "It comes to the same
thing."
"Do people know it?"
"Why, of course. Why not?"
"I don't know," said Montague. "It sounds a little queer."
"Nothing of the kind," said Oliver. "Some of the best people in New
York do it. Strangers come to the city, and they want to go to the
right places, and they ask me, and I send them. Or take Robbie Walling,
who keeps up five or six establishments, and spends several millions a
year. He can't see to it all personally--if he did, he'd never do
anything else. Why shouldn't he ask a friend to attend to things for
him? Or again, a new shop opens, and they want Mrs. Walling's trade for
the sake of the advertising, and they offer her a discount and me a
commission. Why shouldn't I get her to try them?"
"It's quite intricate," commented the other. "The stores have more than
one price, then?"
"They have as many prices as they have customers," was the answer. "Why
shouldn't they? New York is full of raw rich people who value things by
what they pay. And why shouldn't they pay high and be happy? That
opera-cloak that Alice has--Reval promised it to me for two thousand,
and I'll wager you she'd charge some woman from Butte, Montana,
thirty-five hundred for one just like it."
Montague got up suddenly. "Stop," he said, waving his hands. "You take
all the bloom off the butterfly's wings!"
He asked where they were going that evening, and Oliver said that they
were invited to an informal dinner-party at Mrs. Winnie Duval's. Mrs.
Winnie was the young widow who had recently married the founder of the
great banking-house of Puval and Co.--so Oliver explained; she was a
chum of his, and they would meet an interesting set there. She was
going to invite her cousin, Charlie Carter--she wanted him to meet
Alice. "Mrs. Winnie's always plotting to get Charlie to settle down,"
said Oliver, with a merry laugh.
He telephoned for his man to bring over his clothes, and he and his
brother dressed. Then Alice came in, looking like the goddess of the
dawn in the gorgeous rose-coloured gown. The colour in her cheeks was
even brighter than usual; for she was staggered to find how low the
gown was cut, and was afraid she was committing a faux pas. "Tell me
about it," she stammered. "Mammy Lucy says I'm surely supposed to wear
some lace, or a bouquet."
"Mammy Lucy isn't a Paris costumier," said Oliver, much amused. "Dear
me--wait until you have seen Mrs. Winnie!"
Mrs. Winnie had kindly sent her limousine car for them, and it stood
throbbing in front of the hotel-entrance, its acetylenes streaming far
up the street. Mrs. Winnie's home was on Fifth Avenue, fronting the
park. It occupied half a block, and had cost two millions to build and
furnish. It was known as the "Snow Palace," being all of white marble.
At the curb a man in livery opened the door of the car, and in the
vestibule another man in livery bowed the way. Lined up just inside the
door was a corps of imposing personages, clad in scarlet waistcoats and
velvet knee-breeches, with powdered wigs, and gold buttons, and gold
buckles on their patent-leather pumps. These splendid creatures took
their wraps, and then presented to Montague and Oliver a bouquet of
flowers upon a silver salver, and upon another salver a tiny envelope
bearing the name of their partner at this strictly "informal"
dinner-party. Then the functionaries stood out of the way and permitted
them to view the dazzling splendour of the entrance hall of the Snow
Palace. There was a great marble staircase running up from the centre
of the hall, with a carved marble gallery above, and a marble fireplace
below. To decorate this mansion a real palace in the Punjab had been
bought outright and plundered; there were mosaics of jade, and
wonderful black marble, and rare woods, and strange and perplexing
carvings.
The head butler stood at the entrance to the salon, pronouncing their
names; and just inside was Mrs. Winnie.
