He nodded pleasantly.
"Does it do any good--when one is very, very ill--to see--"
The doctor made a motion with his head. "Who is that young girl?" he
asked coolly.
"Mrs. Malcourt--"
"Oh! I thought it might have been this Shiela he is always talking about
in his delirium--"
"It is," whispered Constance.
For a moment they looked one another in the eyes; then a delicate colour
stole over the woman's face.
"I'm afraid--I'm afraid that my boy is not making the fight he could
make," she whispered.
"Why not?"
She was speechless.
"Why not!" ... And in a lower voice: "This corridor is a
confessional. Miss Palliser--if that helps you any."
She said: "They were in love."
"Oh! Are they yet?"
"Yes."
"Oh! She married the other man?"
"Yes."
"Oh!"
Young Lansdale wheeled abruptly and entered the sick-room. Shiela
returned in a few minutes with her nurse, a quick-stepping, cool-eyed
young woman in spotless uniform. A few minutes afterward the sounds
indicated that oxygen was being used.
An hour later Miss Race came into the hallway and looked at Shiela.
"Mr. Hamil is conscious," she said. "Would you care to see him for a
second?"
A dreadful fear smote her as she crouched there speechless.
"The danger of infection is slight," said the nurse--and knew at the
same instant that she had misunderstood. "Did you think I meant he is
dying?" she added gently as Shiela straightened up to her slender
height.
"Is he better?" whispered Constance.
"He is conscious," said the nurse patiently. "He knows"--turning to
Shiela--"that you are here. You must not speak to him; you may let him
see you for a moment. Come!"
In the shadowy half-light of the room Shiela halted at a sign from the
nurse; the doctor glanced up, nodding almost imperceptibly as the girl's
eyes fell upon the bed.
How she did it--what instinct moved her, what unsuspected reserve of
courage prompted her, she never understood; but looking into the
dreadful eyes of death itself there in the sombre shadows of the bed,
she smiled with a little gesture of gay recognition, then, turning,
passed from the room.
"Did he know you?" motioned Constance.
"I don't know--I don't know.... I think he was--dying--before he saw
me--"
She was shuddering so violently that Constance could scarcely hold her,
scarcely guide her down the stairs, across the lawn toward her own
house. The doctor overtook and passed them on his way to his own
quarters, but he only bowed very pleasantly, and would have gone on
except for the soft appeal of Constance.
"Miss Palliser," he said, "I don't know--if you want the truth. You
know all that I do; he is conscious--or was. I expect he will be, at
intervals, now. This young lady behaved admirably--admirably! The thing
to do is to wait."
He glanced at Shiela, hesitated, then:
"Would it be any comfort to learn that he knew you?"
"Yes.... Thank you."
The doctor nodded and said in a hearty voice: "Oh, we've got to pull him
through somehow. That's what I'm here for." And he went away briskly
across the lawn.
"What are you going to do?" asked Constance in a low voice.
"I don't know; write to my father, I think."
"You ought not to sit up after such a journey."
"Do you suppose I could sleep to-night?"
Constance drew her into her arms; the girl clung to her, head hidden on
her breast.
"Shiela, Shiela," she murmured, "you can always come to me. Always,
always!--for Garry's sake.... Listen, child: I do not understand your
tragedy--his and yours--I only know you loved each other.... Love--and a
boy's strange ways in love have always been to me a mystery--a sad one,
Shiela.... For once upon a time--there was a boy--and never in all my
life another. Dear, we women are all born mothers to men--and from birth
to death our heritage is motherhood--grief for those of us who
bear--sadness for us who shall never bear--mothers to sorrow
everyone.... Do you love him?"
"Yes."
"That is forbidden you, now."
"It was forbidden me from the first; yet, when I saw him I loved him.
What was I to do?"
Constance waited, but the girl had fallen silent.
"Is there more you wish to tell me?"
"No more."
She bent and kissed the cold cheek on her shoulder.
"Don't sit up, child. If there is any reason for waking you I will come
myself."
"Thank you."
So they parted, Constance to seek her room and lie down partly dressed;
Shiela to the new quarters still strange and abhorrent to her.
Her maid, half dead with fatigue, slept in a chair, and young Mrs.
Malcourt aroused her and sent her off to bed. Then she roamed through
the rooms, striving to occupy her mind with the negative details of the
furnishing; but it was all drearily harmless, unaccented anywhere by
personal taste, merely the unmeaning harmony executed by a famous New
York decorator, at Portlaw's request--a faultless monotony from garret
to basement.
There was a desk in one room; ink in the well, notepaper bearing the
name of Portlaw's camp. She looked at it and passed on to her bedroom.
But after she had unlaced and, hair unbound, stood staring vacantly
about her, she remembered the desk; and drawing on her silken
chamber-robe, went into the writing-room.
At intervals, during her writing, she would rise and gaze from the
window across the darkness where in the sick-room a faint, steady glow
remained; and she could see the white curtains in his room stirring like
ghosts in the soft night wind and the shadow of the nurse on wall and
ceiling.
   "Dear, dear dad and mother," she wrote; "Mr. Portlaw was so
   anxious for Louis to begin his duties that we decided to come at
   once, particularly as we both were somewhat worried over the
   serious illness of Mr. Hamil.
   "He is very, very ill, poor fellow. The sudden change from the
   South brought on pneumonia. I know that you both and Gray and
   Cecile and Jessie will feel as sorry as I do. His aunt, Miss
   Palliser, is here. To-night I was permitted to see him. Only his
   eyes were visible and they were wide open. It is very dreadful,
   very painful, and has cast a gloom over our gaiety.
   "To-night Dr. Lansdale said that he would pull him through. I am
   afraid he said it to encourage Miss Palliser.
   "This is a beautiful place--" She dropped her pen with a shudder,
   closed her eyes, groped for it again, and forced herself to
   continue--"Mr. Portlaw is very kind. The superintendent's house
   is large and comfortable. Louis begins his duties to-morrow.
   Everything promises to be most interesting and enjoyable--" She
   laid her head in her arms, remaining so, motionless until
   somewhere on the floor below a clock struck midnight."
At last she managed to go on:
   "Dad, dear; what you said to Louis about my part of your estate
   was very sweet and generous of you; but I do not want it. Louis
   and I have talked it over in the last fortnight and we came to
   the conclusion that you must make no provision for me at present.
   We wish to begin very simply and make our own way. Besides I know
   from something I heard Acton say that even very wealthy people
   are hard pressed for ready money; and so Phil Gatewood acted as
   our attorney and Mr. Cuyp's firm as our brokers and now the Union
   Pacific and Government bonds have been transferred to Colonel
   Vetchen's bank subject to your order--is that the term?--and the
   two blocks on Lexington Avenue now stand in your name, and Cuyp,
   Van Dine, and Siclen sold all those queer things for me--the
   Industrials, I think you call them--and I endorsed a sheaf of
   certified checks, making them all payable to your order.
   "Dad, dear--I cannot take anything of that kind from you.... I am
   very, very tired of the things that money buys. All I shall ever
   care for is the quiet of unsettled places, the silence of the
   hills, where I can study and read and live out the life I am
   fitted for. The rest is too complex, too tiresome to keep up with
   or even to watch from my windows.
   "Dear dad and dear mother, I am a little anxious about what Acton
   said to Gray--about money troubles that threaten wealthy people.
   And so it makes me very happy to know that the rather
   overwhelming fortune which you so long ago set aside for me to
   accumulate until my marriage is at last at your disposal again.
   Because Gray told me that Acton was forced to borrow such
   frightful sums at such ruinous rates. And now you need borrow no
   more, need you?
   "You have been so good to me--both of you. I am afraid you
   won't believe how dearly I love you. I don't very well see how
   you can believe it. But it is true.
