with an array of pictorial feebleness, the place being surmounted by
a thinly-painted wooden roof, strongly suggestive of summer heat,
of winter cold, of frequent leakage, those amateurs who had had the
advantage of foreign travel would be at small pains to conceal their
contempt. Contemptible or respectable, to the judicial mind, this quaint
old loggia of the Uffizi admitted me into twenty chambers where I found
as great a number of ancient favourites. I don’t know that I had a
warmer greeting for any old friend than for Andrea del Sarto, that most
touching of painters who is not one of the first. But it was on the
other side of the Arno that I found him in force, in those dusky
drawing-rooms of the Pitti Palace to which you take your way along
the tortuous tunnel that wanders through the houses of Florence and is
supported by the little goldsmiths’ booths on the Ponte Vecchio. In the
rich insufficient light of these beautiful rooms, where, to look at the
pictures, you sit in damask chairs and rest your elbows on tables of
malachite, the elegant Andrea becomes deeply effective. Before long he
has drawn you close. But the great pleasure, after all, was to revisit
the earlier masters, in those specimens of them chiefly that bloom
so unfadingly on the big plain walls of the Academy. Fra Angelico and
Filippo Lippi, Botticelli and Lorenzo di Credi are the clearest,
the sweetest and best of all painters; as I sat for an hour in
their company, in the cold great hall of the institution I have
mentioned--there are shabby rafters above and an immense expanse of
brick tiles below, and many bad pictures as well as good--it seemed
to me more than ever that if one really had to choose one couldn’t do
better than choose here. You may rest at your ease at the Academy, in
this big first room--at the upper end especially, on the left--because
more than many other places it savours of old Florence. More for
instance, in reality, than the Bargello, though the Bargello makes great
pretensions. Beautiful and masterful though the Bargello is, it smells
too strongly of restoration, and, much of old Italy as still lurks in
its furbished and renovated chambers, it speaks even more distinctly
of the ill-mannered young kingdom that has--as “unavoidably” as you
please--lifted down a hundred delicate works of sculpture from the
convent-walls where their pious authors placed them. If the early Tuscan
painters are exquisite I can think of no praise pure enough for the
sculptors of the same period, Donatello and Luca della Robbia, Matteo
Civitale and Mina da Fiesole, who, as I refreshed my memory of them,
seemed to me to leave absolutely nothing to be desired in the way of
straightness of inspiration and grace of invention. The Bargello is full
of early Tuscan sculpture, most of the pieces of which have come from
suppressed religious houses; and even if the visitor be an ardent
liberal he is uncomfortably conscious of the rather brutal process by
which it has been collected. One can hardly envy young Italy the number
of odious things she has had to do.
The railway journey from Florence to Rome has been altered both for the
better and for the worse; for the better in that it has been shortened
by a couple of hours; for the worse inasmuch as when about half the
distance has been traversed the train deflects to the west and leaves
the beautiful old cities of Assisi, Perugia, Terni, Narni, unvisited.
Of old it was possible to call at these places, in a manner, from the
window of the train; even if you didn’t stop, as you probably couldn’t,
every time you passed, the immensely interesting way in which, like a
loosened belt on an aged and shrunken person, their ample walls held
them easily together was something well worth noting. Now, however,
for compensation, the express train to Rome stops at Orvieto, and in
consequence... In consequence what? What is the result of the stop of
an express train at Orvieto? As I glibly wrote that sentence I suddenly
paused, aware of the queer stuff I was uttering. That an express train
would graze the base of the horrid purple mountain from the apex of
which this dark old Catholic city uplifts the glittering front of
its cathedral--that might have been foretold by a keen observer of
contemporary manners. But that it would really have the grossness to
hang about is a fact over which, as he records it, an inveterate, a
perverse cherisher of the sense of the past order, the order still
largely prevailing at the time of his first visit to Italy, may well
make what is vulgarly called an ado. The train does stop at Orvieto,
not very long, it is true, but long enough to let you out. The same
phenomenon takes place on the following day, when, having visited the
city, you get in again. I availed myself without scruple of both of
these occasions, having formerly neglected to drive to the place in a
post-chaise. But frankly, the railway-station being in the plain and the
town on the summit of an extraordinary hill, you have time to forget
the puffing indiscretion while you wind upwards to the city-gate. The
position of Orvieto is superb--worthy of the “middle distance” of an
eighteenth-century landscape. But, as every one knows, the splendid
Cathedral is the proper attraction of the spot, which, indeed, save
for this fine monument and for its craggy and crumbling ramparts, is a
meanly arranged and, as Italian cities go, not particularly impressive
little town. I spent a beautiful Sunday there and took in the charming
church. I gave it my best attention, though on the whole I fear I found
it inferior to its fame. A high concert of colour, however, is the
densely carved front, richly covered with radiant mosaics. The old white
marble of the sculptured portions is as softly yellow as ancient ivory;
the large exceedingly bright pictures above them flashed and twinkled
in the glorious weather. Very striking and interesting the theological
frescoes of Luca Signorelli, though I have seen compositions of this
general order that appealed to me more. Characteristically fresh,
finally, the clear-faced saints and seraphs, in robes of pink and azure,
whom Fra Angelico has painted upon the ceiling of the great chapel,
along with a noble sitting figure--more expressive of movement than most
of the creations of this pictorial peace-maker--of Christ in judgment.
Yet the interest of the cathedral of Orvieto is mainly not the visible
result, but the historical process that lies behind it; those three
hundred years of the applied devotion of a people of which an American
scholar has written an admirable account.{1}
1877.
{1} Charles Eliot Norton, Notes of Travel and Study in Italy.
A ROMAN HOLIDAY
It is certainly sweet to be merry at the right moment; but the right
moment hardly seems to me the ten days of the Roman Carnival. It was
my rather cynical suspicion perhaps that they wouldn’t keep to my
imagination the brilliant promise of legend; but I have been justified
by the event and have been decidedly less conscious of the festal
influences of the season than of the inalienable gravity of the place.
There was a time when the Carnival was a serious matter--that is a
heartily joyous one; but, thanks to the seven-league boots the kingdom
of Italy has lately donned for the march of progress in quite other
directions, the fashion of public revelry has fallen woefully out of
step. The state of mind and manners under which the Carnival was kept in
generous good faith I doubt if an American can exactly conceive: he can
only say to himself that for a month in the year there must have been
things--things considerably of humiliation--it was comfortable to
forget. But now that Italy is made the Carnival is unmade; and we are
not especially tempted to envy the attitude of a population who have
lost their relish for play and not yet acquired to any striking extent
an enthusiasm for work. The spectacle on the Corso has seemed to me, on
the whole, an illustration of that great breach with the past of which
Catholic Christendom felt the somewhat muffled shock in September, 1870.
A traveller acquainted with the fully papal Rome, coming back any time
during the past winter, must have immediately noticed that something
momentous had happened--something hostile to the elements of picture
and colour and “style.” My first warning was that ten minutes after
my arrival I found myself face to face with a newspaper stand. The
impossibility in the other days of having anything in the journalistic
line but the Osservatore Romano and the Voce della Verità used to
seem to me much connected with the extraordinary leisure of thought and
stillness of mind to which the place admitted you. But now the slender
piping of the Voice of Truth is stifled by the raucous note of eventide
vendors of the Capitale, the Libertà and the Fanfulla; and Rome
reading unexpurgated news is another Rome indeed. For every subscriber
to the Libertà there may well be an antique masker and reveller less.
As striking a sign of the new régime is the extraordinary increase of
population. The Corso was always a well-filled street, but now it’s
a perpetual crush. I never cease to wonder where the new-comers are
lodged, and how such spotless flowers of fashion as the gentlemen who
stare at the carriages can bloom in the atmosphere of those camere
mobiliate of which I have had glimpses. This, however, is their own
question, and bravely enough they meet it. They proclaimed somehow, to
the first freshness of my wonder, as I say, that by force of numbers
Rome had been secularised. An Italian dandy is a figure visually
to reckon with, but these goodly throngs of them scarce offered
compensation for the absent monsignori, treading the streets in their
purple stockings and followed by the solemn servants who returned on
their behalf the bows of the meaner sort; for the mourning gear of the
cardinals’ coaches that formerly glittered with scarlet and swung with
the weight of the footmen clinging behind; for the certainty that you’ll
not, by the best of traveller’s luck, meet the Pope sitting deep in the
shadow of his great chariot with uplifted fingers like some inaccessible
idol in his shrine. You may meet the King indeed, who is as ugly, as
imposingly ugly, as some idols, though not so inaccessible. The other
day as I passed the Quirinal he drove up in a low carriage with a single
attendant; and a group of men and women who had been waiting near
the gate rushed at him with a number of folded papers. The carriage
slackened pace and he pocketed their offerings with a business-like
air--hat of a good-natured man accepting handbills at a street-corner.
Here was a monarch at his palace gate receiving petitions from his
subjects--being adjured to right their wrongs. The scene ought to have
thrilled me, but somehow it had no more intensity than a woodcut in an
illustrated newspaper. Homely I should call it at most; admirably so,
