she was the mother of a duchess, the potential 
grandmother of a prince, and dismissing 
grammar, she cried: "But you are; you 
have." 

Malakoff looked at her much as though 
she were a wriggling worm, and it was with 
utter indifference to her anguish that he answered: "Not by the Church, and in my 
world it is only the religious ceremony that 
counts." 

"And you mean to say!" Mrs. Kandy 
screamed. Then, English failing, she soared 
into French. "Mais, c est indigne! You 
leave my child neither fish, flesh nor fowl." 

Malakoff caught the statement and with 
a shrug of his shoulders tossed it back. 

"It is only what you leave me. In the 
Americas, I am aware, matters arrange 
themselves otherwise. There a man may 
work. I believe a man is even expected to. 





Here it is different. A man, such as I am 
at least, not only is not expected to work, 
but would not be tolerated if he tried. Imagine to yourself the Due de Malakoff, grocer, stockbroker even! Alors, quoi?" 

From purple, Mrs. Kandy turned livid. 

"I shall appeal to the embassy. I will 
send for my lawyer!" 

Malakoff took up his hat. "I earnestly 
recommend you to do both. Meanwhile 
favour me by conveying my homage to 
your daughter. I have had the honour to bid 
you good-day." 

But when he had gone, and Mrs. Kandy 
had loosened her stays, she felt better and 
thought better, at least of one of her threats. 
The embassy could do nothing. To appeal 
there would be but to bill the whole ridiculous story to all the cynical world. She 
telephoned instead to Ridgeway, who shortly 
was announced. 

Mr. Ridgeway's mouth was full of gold 


teeth. While listening to her tale, he exhib 
ited them very freely. He was thinking 
what an amazing fool she was. 

"Of course/ he said at last, placing as he 
spoke a forefinger in the middle of his forehead, "the marriage has not been consumma 
ted, and an action to nullify the contract can 
be brought. Even otherwise, the attitude 
of this gentleman has been foreseen. It 
constitutes what the Code terms a sevice 
grave, and a divorce can be had. But any 
proceedings in the matter will cause a 
scandal, one that unfortunately will reflect on your daughter. Now it is 
evident that this gentleman wants money. 
They all do, the majority of the aristos 
that is, and they rarely marry unless 
they get it. My advice is, give it to 
him. Probably a hundred thousand francs 
will suffice. I will see his avoue and let 
you know." 

"It is outrageous," said Mrs. Kandy, sniffling and snuffing at a vinaigrette. "No 
lady was ever so treated." 

Mrs. Kandy was then in a loose flowing 
robe, tenderly pink, which lace befluttered. 
In spite of her plaint, she felt better. 

The relief was transient. Mr. Bidgeway 
on visiting Malakoff's attorney found that a 
hundred thousand was a mere fraction of the 
amount required. Malakoff demanded five 
million francs. 

When these figures were recited to Mrs. 
Kandy, instantly the woman in that tender 
gown was ousted by a female. She grimaced 
queerly. Epilepsy of the epiglottis attacked 
her. Instead of employing the language of 
the ornate, she dropped into that of the fish 
wife. 

"Pay a man a million dollars to sleep with 
my daughter! Never!" 

Never is a long word. Before the inter 
view was concluded, she decided to do 
so. 



 

"I am ruining myself," she sobbed. 

"It is very noble of you," said Mr. Ridgeway, who, for that remark of his, and for 
that other of hers, charged extra. 



When the five million francs had been paid 
and Sally Kandy became definitely Sally 
Malakoff, an act interrelated with the drama 
of her life was occurring in New York. 

There in the library of a large house, situ 
ated in that part of Madison avenue, which, 
with Gramercy Park, still represents what 
residential New York used to be, a man was 
talking to a girl. 

The man was Welden, the girl was Maud 
Barhyte. She was standing. He was seated. 

Beside him was a table on which was an 
Oxford edition, in Greek, of the old Sicilian 
poets. At the moment, it was the only book 
that the library contained. Opposite was a 



 

mantel, above it, a mirror. To the right was 
a piano, at the left a sofa. On the walls were 
pictures of former Barhytes, women with 
pointed bodices and powdered hair; men in 
vermilion with swords and lace jabots. In 
addition to the book, the table had on it a 
buvard, an elaborate service for writing, and 
a jewelled bag of gold mesh, which the girl 
had put down. 

A little before, letting herself in with a 
latch-key, as was her custom, she had come 
from a drive. She wore a costume of light 
cloth, faintly blue, exquisitely embroidered. 
Beneath was silk and mousseline de soie, less 
durable, and more costly than the garment. 
On her head was a hat for which she had 
been charged eighty dollars. She had worn 
it once before, and might wear it once 
again. 

The girl was not on that account a fool. 
She read Plato in the original, and what is 
