hilariously.

"I ask you frankly not to let them question me. When I left the city
last night I never expected to return."

"I'll do what I can."

Carmichael bared his head and leaned out of the window. He recognized
one of the guards. A policeman in military uniform!

"Good morning!" said Carmichael.

"Herr Carmichael?" surprised. "Your excellency?"

"Yes. I've been having a little junket, I and my friend here." And
Carmichael winked.

"Ah!"

"But what--"

"Sh! Very important affair," said the disguised officer. "Go on."

But after the carriage had passed it occurred to him that Carmichael
wore a dress like a vintner's and that his friend was a mountaineer! Du
lieber Himmel! What kind of a mix-up was this? The chancellor never
could have meant Carmichael!

"Thanks!" whispered the old man.

"Did you see the soldier?"

"Yes."

"He is one of the police in disguise. Be on your guard. If you don't
mind I'll use this carriage to the hotel."

"You are a thousand times welcome. I will leave you here. And take the
advice of an old man who has seen the four sides of humanity: leave
falling in love to poets and to fools!"

The mountaineer got out quickly, closed the door, spoke a word to the
driver, and slipped into an alleyway.

Carmichael arrived at the Grand Hotel in time to see her serene
highness, accompanied by two of her ladies and an escort of four
soldiers, start out for her morning ride. The zest of his own strange
adventure died. He waited till they had passed, then slunk into the
hotel. The concierge gazed at him in amazement. Carmichael winked. The
concierge smiled. He understood. Americaner or Ehrensteiner, the
young fellows were all the same.

"Police at the gates," mused Carmichael, as he soaked his head and face
in cold water. "By George, it looks as if my friend the vintner was in
for some excitement! Far be it that I should warn him. He had his little
joke; I can wait for mine."

Gretchen! Carmichael stopped, his collar but half-way around his throat.
Gretchen, brave, kindly, beautiful Gretchen! Now, by the Lord, that
should not be! He would wring the vintner's neck. He snapped the collar
viciously. He was not in an amiable mood this fair September morning.
And when some one hammered on the door he called sharply.

Grumbach entered.

"You are angry about something," he said.

"So I am, but you are always welcome."

"You have overslept?"

"No; on the contrary."

"Poker?"

"After a fashion," said Carmichael, the grumble gone from his voice. "I
was beaten by three of a kind."

"So?"

"But I found a good hand later."

"Kings."

"Four?"

"Oh, no; only one. I haven't drawn yet."

"You are not telling me all."

"No. You are going to the ball to-night?"

"I would not miss it for five thousand crowns," sadly.

"You look as if you were going to a funeral instead of the greatest
event of the year in Dreiberg."

"I didn't sleep well either."

"Out?"

"No; one does not have to go out in order not to sleep."

"I'd like to know what's going on in that bullet-head of yours."

"Nothing is going on; everything has stopped."

"Can't you make a confidant of me, Hans?"

"Not yet, Captain."

"When you are ready it may be too late. I leave Dreiberg for good in a
few weeks."

"No!" For the first time Grumbach showed interest.

"I have resigned the consulship."

"And for what reason?"

Carmichael silently drew on his coat.

"Ach! So you have one, too?"

"One what?"

"One secret."

"Yes. But it's the kind we can't talk about."

"I understand. Have you had breakfast?"

"Neither have I. Let us go together. It may be we need each other's
company this morning. You and I won't have to bother about talking."

"You make a good comrade, Hans."

       *       *       *       *       *

There was a large crowd outside the palace that night, which was clear
and starry. A troop of cavalry patrolled the fence. Carriage after
carriage rolled in through the gates, coming directly from the opera. It
was eleven o'clock. All the great in the duchy were on hand that night.
Often a cheer rose from the ranks of the outsiders as some popular
general or some famous beauty passed. It was an orderly crowd, jostling
and good-natured, held only by curiosity. Every window in the palace
presented a glowing square of light; and beams crisscrossed the emerald
lawns and died in the arms of the lurking shadows. The gardens were
illuminated besides. It was fairy-land, paid for by those who were not
entitled to enter. Few, however, thought of this inconsistency. A duchy
is a duchy; nothing more need be said.

Carmichael was naturally democratic. To ride a block in a carriage was
to him a waste of time. And he rather liked to shoulder into a press.
With the aid of his cane and a frequent push of the elbow he worked his
way to the gates. And close by the sentry-box he saw Gretchen and her
vintner. Carmichael could not resist stopping a moment. He raised his
hat to Gretchen, to the wonder of those nearest. The vintner would have
gladly disappeared, but the human wall behind made this impossible. But
he was needlessly alarmed. Carmichael only smiled ironically.
