sense could resent. 
Helen saw points she could wisely bring out, 
now that she knew the trend of their home 
life. 
There was no need of games to pass away 
the evening. There were so many subjects of 
conversation. The younger children retired 
without a demur, and when Mrs. Henderson 
asker her niece to play she made no flimsy 
excuse, though the color overspread her face. 
The piano was magnificent, and young as 
she was her training had been excellent, Helen 
noted at once. 
“ I am very fond of music,” said Mrs. Hen- 
derson, “ but I am afraid the twins will not 
have much ability that way. Little Doris has. 
They have good voices though, and that is a 
real delight in a home. Nina has quite a taste 
for art and paints dainty little flowers from 
nature. Meta is the better scholar in solid 
things. Their father wants them really well 
educated if they do not have so many accom- 
plishments. Miss Grant, I am so glad you are 
their teacher.” 
“ You may be sure I will try to do my best,” 
Helen answered warmly. 
“ It is comforting to find a conscientious 
teacher for your children, who is not so rigid 
but that she can see on all sides. Children of 
one family are so different, I have found. And 
I do hope we shall see you as often as your 
duties will admit. When the weather gets 
settled into positive springtime we are fond 
of driving about, and you must go with 
us.” 
“ Oh, thank you. I am always glad and 
thankful to find a friend in the mother of my 
pupils.” 
They parted with a most cordial feeling on 
both sides. Mr. Henderson walked home with 
her and said he did not know when he had 
enjoyed an evening so much. 
Helen did begin to note a change presently. 
Dick Eastman did not seem to rule altogether. 
Mark was drawing some of the boys to his 
side. They talked of summer pleasures. Mark 
would have a boat. Couldn’t they get up a 
boat club? And baseball — wouldn’t they join 
and make up a nine? 
“ Mark Henderson will find he isn’t going 
to be the great Panjandrum in this school,” 
declared Dick. “ They’re making a great 
splurge now, but father heard that the mill 
was on a rather shaky foundation and there’s 
a big payment ahead of Mr. Henderson. I 
suppose they couldn’t afford to keep the chil- 
dren at boarding-school. As for the boat — I’ll 
believe it when I see it,” wagging his head and 
laughing sneeringly. 
The children had been much interested in 
their boxes of bulbs, and they could have 
kissed the first beautiful pink hyacinth that 
came out. Then followed others, and one 
magnificent red tulip burst open one day so 
gayly that it almost looked as if it laughed, 
 
Allen Millard said. February seemed so short, 
and March came in like a lamb. The skating 
was spoiled, the snow disappeared, when sud- 
denly the traditional lion asserted itself and 
quite a blizzard appeared on the scene. 
The girls had persevered and launched their 
whist dub, after much discussion. They 
would have no prizes, they concluded. 
“ The boys will enjoy a little spread a great 
deal better,” said Georgia Winters. “ I want 
the first one to meet at my house. Mother is 
much interested in it. Oh, I don’t wonder the 
Hendersons didn’t want to join ! They haven’t 
any parlor furnished, and mother said the sit- 
ting-room was just a conglomeration of things. 
She thinks they are of no great account.” 
The first meeting was all that heart could 
wish. Every one came. They played without 
disputing, but the boys were rather noisy over 
the refreshments and stayed until after eleven. 
“ I think you ought to break up about ten,” 
said Mrs. Winters. “ And it seemed to me 
that Dick was rude. His mother ought to tone 
him down a little.” 
CHAPTER XV 
March dropped into April in a truly 
spring-like fashion. In the outskirts farmers 
were plowing, buds were swelling, and birds 
calling to each other. There had been an un- 
usually warm week and the children were rest- 
less, impatient, inattentive. The hyacinth had 
bloomed out and only a few tulips were left. 
Now the ferns were the more beautiful in their 
soft greenery. 
It was Friday afternoon and the pupils had 
been dismissed, though a few of them had 
pleaded for a walk in the woods with Miss 
Grant. She had been out one day with the 
botany class, which had suddenly enlarged its 
borders if not its pursuit of knowledge. Then 
Thursday afternoon she and Miss Parker and 
Mr. Underwood had a very earnest talk about 
the general arrangement. He had his heart 
set on a senior class for the next year. 
“ There may possibly be five to go in it,” 
Helen said in a rather despondent tone. “If 
they only cared! If they were ambitious! 
But the girls are planning pleasures, looking- 
forward to vacation and how spring suits are 
to be made. The boys certainly haven’t as 
much of an excuse as the girls for their lack 
of interest, though it is baseball time. Do you 
mean to have the standard high enough to 
admit to college?” 
“ Oh, I should like that above all things, for 
the rank of the school!” and Mr. Under- 
wood’s eyes were alight with desire. 
“ There will have to be some hard study, 
then.” 
“ Well, we may not reach it this year. We 
have done well, I think. Why that little crease 
of dissatisfaction marring your usually serene 
brow, Miss Grant ? ” 
“ Thank you — is it usually serene ? I am 
sometimes annoyed at the general tendency to 
leakiness in young people’s brains.” 
“ You may as well admit it is the general 
tendency,” declared Miss Parker. “ Then you 
must hammer and hammer until the leakiness 
gets closed up, and you have overcome the an- 
tipathy to learning. Children may be inter- 
ested on the surface when the thing is pleasur- 
able, but few of them love learning for its own 
sake.” 
“ That's rather discouraging,” and Mr. Un- 
derwood laughed. 
“ But you seem to awaken it,” and Helen 
glanced wonderingly at the severe lines in her 
face. “ Your scholars are Miss Jaynes's ad- 
miration. I winder if I let them drop down ? ” 
“ Oh, you see mine haven't come to the time 
of dress and whist clubs and fashions, and pos- 
sible lovers. Not but that there is some fool- 
ishness and heart-burnings over sweethearts. 
After all I am content to stay in my groove 
and teach what I do know. If I knew more 
and could not make much impression with it, I 
should wish I had not taken the trouble of 
acquiring it. Miss Grant, you are in the ro- 
mance of teaching. When you reach the plain 
prose you will do your duty and be satisfied 
with that.” 
Helen sighed. She would not want to teach 
if the fire and enthusiasm should die out. 
