tells you to! But I don't believe that He was 
God in any such sense as that. He was a man, 
like you and mel He was a poor man, who suf- 
fered and starved! And the rich men of His 
time despised Him and spit upon Him and cru- 
cified Him I " 
Here a new member of the vestry entered the 
arena. This was the venerable Mr. Curtis, who 
looked like a statue of the Olympian Jove. 
" Boy," he said sternly, " you object to being put 
out of the church — and yet you confess to being 
an infidel." 
" I may be an infidel, Mr. Curtis," rephed the 
other, quickly; "but I never paid two hundred 
dollars to Slattery so that the police would let 
me block the sidewalks of the town." 
And Mr. Curtis subsided and took no further 
part in the discussion. 
" The church cast out Jesus!" went on Sam- 
uel, taking advantage of the confusion. " And 
it was the rich and powerful in the church who 
did it. And he used about them language far 
more violent than I have ever used. ' Woe imto 
you, scribes and pharisees, hypocrites ! ' he said. 
' Woe unto you also, you lawyers! — Ye serpents, 
ye generation of vipers, how can ye escape the 
damnation of hell? ' And if He were here to- 
night He would be on my side — and the rich 
evil-doers who sit on this board would cast Him 
out again! You have cast Him out already! You 
have shut your ears to the cry of the oppressed — 
you make mockery of justice and truth! You 
are crucifying Him again every day! " 
"This is outrageous!" cried Mr. Hickman. 
"It is blasphemy!" 
" It must stop instantly," put in Mr. Wy- 
gant. And Samuel knew that when Mr. Wy- 
gant spoke, he meant to be obeyed. 
" Then there is no one here who will hear me? " 
he exclaimed. " Mr. Hamerton, won't you help 
me?" 
" What do you want us to do? " demanded Mr, 
Hamerton. 
" I want the vestry to investigate these charges. 
I want you to find out whether it is true that 
members of St. Matthew's have been corrupting 
the government of Lockmanville. And if it is 
true, I want you to drive such men from the 
church! They have no place in the church, sir! 
Men who spend their whole time in trying to get 
the people's money from them! Men who openly 
declare, as Mr. Wygant did to me, that it is neces- 
sary to bribe lawmakers in order to make money! 
Such men degrade the church and drag it from 
its mission. They are the enemies the church 
exists to fight " 
" Are we here to listen to a sermon from this 
boy? " shouted Mr. Hickman furiously. 
" Samuel, leave this rooml " commanded Dr. 
Vince. 
" Then there is no one here who will help me? " 
" I told you you could accomplish nothing hy 
such behavior. Leave the rooml " 
" Very well, then," cried the boy wildly, " I 
will go. But I tell you I will not give up with- 
out a fight. I will expose you and denounce you 
to the world! The people shall know you for 
what you are — cowards and hypocrites, faithless 
to your trust! Plunderers of the public! Cor- 
rupters of the state! " 
" Get out of here, you young villain! " shouted 
Hickman, advancing with a menace. 
And the boy, blazing with fury, pointed his 
finger straight into his face. " You, Henry 
Hickman!" he cried. "You are the worst of 
them all! You, the great lawyer — the eminent 
statesman! I have been among the lowest — I 
have been with saloon keepers and criminals — 
with publicans and harlots and thieves — but 
never yet have I met a man as merciless and as 
hard as you! You a Christian — you might be 
the Roman soldier who spat in Jesus' face! " 
And with that last thunderbolt Samuel turned 
and went out, slamming the door with a terrific 
bang in the great lawyer's face. 
For at least a couple of hours Samuel paced 
the streets of Lockmanville, to let his rage and 
grief subside. And then he went home, and to 
his astonishment fomid that Sophie Stedman had 
been waiting up for him all this while. 
She listened breathlessly to the story of his 
evening's adventures. Then she said, " I have 
been trying to do something, too." 
" What have you done? " he asked. 
" I went to see httle Ethel," she replied. 
" Ethel Vince! " he gasped. 
" Yes," said she. " She is your friend, you 
know; and I went to ask her not to let her father 
turn you off." 
" And what came of it? " 
" She cried," said Sophie. " She was terribly 
unhappy. She said that she knew that you were 
a good boy; and that she would never rest imtil 
her father had taken you back." 
" You don't mean it! " cried Samuel in amaze- 
ment. 
" Yes, Samuel; but then her mother came." 
"Oh! And what then? " 
" She scolded me! She was very angry with 
me. She said I had no right to fill the child's 
mind with falsehoods about her uncle. And she 
wouldn't listen to me — she turned me out of the 
house." 
There was a long silence. " I don't think I 
did any good at all," said Sophie in a low voice. 
" We are going to have to do it all by ourselves." 
CHAPTER XXVI 
SAMUEL' slept not a wink all that night. 
First he lay wrestling with the congregation. 
And then his thoughts came to Miss Gladys, and 
what he was going to say to her. This kindled 
a fire in his blood, and when the first streaks of 
dawn were in the sky, he rose and went out to 
walk. 
Throughout all these adventiu-es, his feelings 
had been mingled with the excitement of his love 
for her. Samuel hardly knew what to make of 
himself. He had never kissed a woman in his 
life before — but now desire was awake, and from 
the deeps of him the most imexpected emotions 
came surging, sweeping him away. He was a 
prey to longings and terrors. Wild ecstasies 
came to him, and then followed plunges into mel- 
ancholy. He longed to see her, and other things 
stood in the way, and he did not know why he 
should be so tormented. 
Just to be in love would have been enough. But 
to have been given the love of a being like Miss 
Gladys — peerless and imapproachable, almost 
imimaginable! 
after hours of pacing the streets, he called 
to see Her. And she came to him, her face aKght 
with eager curiosity, and crying, " Tell me all 
about it! " 
She listened, almost dumb with amazemeM. 
" And you said that to my father! " she exclaimed 
again and again. " And to Mr. Hickman! And 
to old Mr. Ciui;is ! Samuel! Samuel!" 
" It was all true. Miss Gladys," he insisted. 
" Yes," she said — " but — to say it to them! " 
" They turned me out of the chru-ch," he went 
on. " Had they a right to do that? " 
" I don't know," she answered. " OH, my, what 
a time there will be! " 
" And what are you going to do now? " she 
asked after a pause. 
" I don't know. I wanted to talk about it with 
you." 
" But what do you think of doing? " 
" I must expose them to the people." 
