captain into spinning yarns; and well-salted hair-breadth escapes they
were.  He understood that the admiral's guests always expected these
flights, and he was in nowise niggard.  An ordinary sailor would have
been dead these twenty years, under any one of the exploits.
"Marvelous!" said M. Ferraud from the depths of his rugs.  "And he
still lives to tell it?"
"It's the easiest thing in the world, sir, if y' know how," the captain
declared complacently.  Indeed, he had recounted these yarns so many
times that he was beginning to regard them as facts.  His statement,
ambiguous as it was, passed unchallenged, however; for not one had the
daring to inquire whether he referred to the telling or the living of
them.  So he believed that he was looked upon as an apostle of truth.
Only the admiral had the temerity to look his captain squarely in the
eye and wink.
"Captain, would you mind if I put these tales in a book?"  Fitzgerald
put this question with a seriousness which fooled no one but the
captain.
"You come up t' the bridge some afternoon, when we've got a smooth sea,
and I'll give y' some real ones."  The captain's vanity was soothed,
but he was not aware that he had put doubt upon his own veracity.
"That's kind of you."
"An' say!" went on the captain, drinking his tea, not because he liked
it but because it was customary, "I've got a character forwards.  I'm
allus shippin' odds and ends.  Got a Frenchman; hands like a lady."
Breitmann leaned forward, and M. Ferraud sat up.
"Yessir," continued the captain; "speaks I-talyan an' English.  An' if
I ever meets a lady with long soft hands like his'n, I'm for a pert
talk, straightway."
"What's the matter with his hands?" asked the admiral.
"Why, Commodore, they're as soft as Miss Laura's here, an' yet when th'
big Swede who handles th' baggage was a-foolin' with him this mornin',
it was the Swede who begs off.  Nary a callous, an' yet he bowls the
big one round the deck like he was a liner being pierced by a sassy
tug.  An' what gets me is, he knows every bolt from stem to stern, sir,
an' an all-round good sailor int' th' bargain; an' it don' take me
more'n twelve hours t' find that out.  Well, I'm off t' th' bridge.
Good day, ladies."
When he was out of earshot the admiral roared.  "He's the dearest old
liar since Münchhausen."
"Aren't they true stories?" asked Hildegarde.
"Bless you, no!  And he knows we know it, too.  But he tells them so
well that I've never had the courage to sheer him off."
"It's amusing," said Laura; "but I do not think that it's always fair
to him."
"Why, Laura, you're as good a listener as any I know.  Read him a
tract, if you wish."
Breitmann rose presently and sauntered forward, while M. Ferraud
snuggled down in his rugs again.  The others entered into a game of
deck-cricket.
But M. Ferraud was not so ill that he was unable to steal from his
cabin at half after nine, at night, without even the steward being
aware of his departure.  It can not be said that he roamed about the
deck, for whenever he moved it was in the shadow, and always forward.
By and by voices drifted down the wind.  One he knew and expected,
Breitmann's; of the other he was not sure, though the French he spoke
was of classic smoothness.  M. Ferraud was exceedingly interested.  He
had been waiting for this meeting.  Only a phrase or two could be heard
distinctly.  But words were not necessary.  What he desired above all
things was a glimpse of this Frenchman's face.  After several minutes
Breitmann went aft.  M. Ferraud stepped out cautiously, and luck was
with him.  The sailor to whom Breitmann had spoken so earnestly was
lolling against the rail, in the act of lighting a cigarette.  The
light from the match was feeble, but it sufficed the keen eyes of the
watcher.  He gasped a little.  Strong hands indeed!  Here in the garb
of a common sailor, was one of the foremost Orleanists in France!
CHAPTER XVII
A QUESTION FROM KEATS
Breitmann and the admiral usually worked from ten till luncheon, unless
it was too stormy; and then the admiral took the day off.  The business
under hand was of no great moment; it was rather an outlet for the
admiral's energy, and gave him something to look forward to as each day
came round.  Many a morning he longed for the quarter-deck of his old
battle-ship; the trig crew and marines lined up for inspection; the
revelries of the foreign ports; the great manoeuvres; the target
practice.  Never would his old heart swell again under the full-dress
uniform nor his eyes sparkle under the plume of his rank.  He was
retired on half-pay.  Only a few close friends knew how his half-pay
was invested.  There remained perhaps ten of the old war-crew, and
among them every Christmas the admiral's half-pay was divided.  This
and his daughter were the two unalloyed joys of his life.
Since his country had no further use for him, and as it was as
necessary as air to his lungs that he tread the deck of a ship, he had
purchased the Laura; and, when he was not stirring up the bones of
dead pirates, he was at Cowes or at Brest or at Keil or on the Hudson,
wherever the big fellows indulged in mimic warfare.
"That will be all this morning, Mr. Breitmann," he said, rising and
looking out of the port-hole.
"Very well, sir.  I believe that by the time we make Corsica we shall
have the book ready for the printers.  It is very interesting."
"Much obliged.  You have been a good aid.  As you know, I am writing
this rubbish only because it is play and passable mental exercise."
"I do not agree with you there," returned the secretary, with his
pleasant smile.  "The book will be really a treasure of itself.  It is
far more interesting than any romance."
The admiral shook his head dubiously.
"No, no," Breitmann averred.  "There is no flattery in what I say.
Flattery was not in our agreement.  And," with a slight lift of the
jaw, "I never say what I do not honestly mean.  It will be a good book,
and I am proud to have had a hand, however light, in the making."
The admiral chuckled.  "That is the kind of flattery no man may shut
his ears to.  It has been a great pleasure to me; it has kept me
out-of-doors, in the open, where I belong.  Come in, Laura, come in."
The girl stood framed in the low doorway, a charming picture to the old
man and a lovely one to the secretary.  She balanced herself with a
hand on each side of the jam.
"Father, how can you work when the sun is so beautiful outside?  Good
morning, Mr. Breitmann," cordially.
"Good morning."
"Work is over, Laura.  Come in."  The admiral reached forth an arm and
caught her, drawing her gently in and finally to his breast.
Breitmann would have given an eye for that right.  The picture set his
nerves twitching.
"I am not in the way?"
"Not at all," answered the secretary.  "I was just leaving."  And with
good foresight he passed out.
"A thing of beauty is a joy for ever," murmured the admiral.
"Fudge!" and she laughed.
"We are having a fine voyage."
"Splendid!  Why is it that I am always happy?"
"It is because you do not depend upon others for it, my dear.  I am
happy, too.  I am as happy as a boy with his first boat.  But never has
a ship gone slower than this one of mine.  I am simply crazy to drop
anchor in the Gulf of Ajaccio.  I find it on the tip of my tongue,
every night at dinner, to tell the others where we are bound."
"Why not?  Where's the harm now?"
"I don't know, but something keeps it back.  Laura," looking into her
eyes, "did we ever cruise with brighter men on board?"
"What is it you wish to know, father?" merrily.  "You dear old sailor,
don't you understand that these men are different?  They are men who
accomplish things; they haven't time to bother about young women."
"You don't say!" pinching the ear nearest.
"This is the seventh day out, and not one of them has ceased to be
interesting yet."
"Would they cease to be interesting if they proposed?" quizzing.
These two had no unshared secrets.  They were sure of each other.  He
knew that when this child of his divided her affection with another
man, that man would be deserving.
"I would rather have them all as they are.  They make fine comrades."
He sighed thankfully.  "Arthur seems to be out of the race."
"Rather say I am!" with laughter.  "Why, a child could read Arthur
Cathewe's face when he looks at her.  Isn't she simply beautiful?"
"Very.  But there are types and types."
"Am I really pretty?"  Sometimes she grew shy under her father's open
admiration.  She was afraid it was his love rather than his judgment
that made her beautiful in his eyes.
"My child, there's more than one man who will agree with me when I say
that there is no one to compare with you.  You are the living quotation
from Keats."
"I shall kiss you for that."  And straightway she did.
"What do you think of Mr. Breitmann?" soberly.
"He is charming sometimes; but he has a little too much reserve.
Doubtless he sees his position too keenly.  He should not."
"Do you like him?"
"Yes," frankly.
"So do I; and yet there are moments when I do not."  The admiral filled
his pipe carefully.
"But your reason?" surprised.
"That's just the trouble.  I haven't any tangible reason.  The doubt
exists, and I can't explain it.  The sea often looks smooth and mild,
and the sky is cloudless; yet an old sailor will suddenly grow
