clothes, sat down before a rather thin roasted turkey.  But the
bird proved tender and juicy, and it was beautifully cooked; and a
glass of wine sent the colour into Letty's pale cheeks, and
straightened Ailsa's drooping neck.
Candles, laurel branches, evergreens, bits of red ribbon, and flags
made the office very gay and attractive.  Dr. West rose and
delivered an unexpected speech, complimenting the ladies and
praising their skill and devotion; then dinner began, and Dr.
Hammond told about an intensely interesting operation, which made
the negro waiter turn almost white.
"Christmas comes but once a year!" cried jolly Dr. Hammond, warming
up.  "Let's be merry!" And he told about another operation even
more wonderful than the first; and Letty, catching a glimpse of the
negro's wildly rolling eyes, threw back her head and laughed.  It
was the first genuine laughter of the evening, and rested everybody.
A few moments later there came a jingle of metal from outside, and
Hallam walked in, his wonderfully handsome face aglow, and plenty
of red mud frozen on his boots.
"I've a green orderly outside.  Where can I stow him?" he asked,
shaking hands and exchanging preliminary Christmas greetings all
around.
"I'll attend to him," said Ailsa, flushed and a little shy as she
felt the significant pressure of Hallam's hand and saw him glance
at her ring.
"No," he insisted, "I'll see to him myself, if you'll tell me where
he can put the horses and find some supper."
"Poor fellow," said Ailsa.  "Tell him to stable the horses in the
new barn, and go to the kitchen.  Wait a moment, Captain Hallam,
I'd rather do it myself!"  And she turned lightly and ran out to
the dark porch.
The trooper holding Hallam's horse: sat his own saddle, wrapped to
the eyes in his heavy overcoat, long lance with its drooping pennon
slanting stiffly athwart the wintry wilderness of stars.
"Soldier!" she called gently from the porch.  "Stable, blanket, and
feed; then come back to the kitchen, and there will be a good hot
dinner waiting."
The cavalryman slowly turned his head at the sound of her voice.
And, as he made no movement to obey:
"There is the stable over there," she said, pointing across the
frozen field. "Follow that gate path.  There's a lantern in the
barn."
An orderly, passing, added:
"Come on, lancer.  I'm going to the barn myself;" and very slowly
the trooper turned both tired horses and walked them away into the
darkness.
When she returned to the table there was considerable laughter over
a story chat Hallam had been telling.  He jumped up, seated Ailsa,
hovered over her for a second with just a suspicion of proprietary
air which made her blush uncomfortably.  Talking had become
general, but everybody noted it, and Letty's eyes grew wide and
velvety, and the blood was making her cheeks and lips very pink.
Dr. West said: "The new regiment on Pine Knob was recruited from
the Bowery.  I happened to be with Kemp, their surgeon, when sick
call sounded, and I never saw such a line of impudent, ruffianly
malingerers as filed before Kemp.  One, I am convinced, had
deliberately shot off his trigger finger; but it couldn't be
proven, and he'll get his discharge.  Another, a big, hulking
brute, all jaw and no forehead, came up and looked insolently at
Kemp.
"Kemp said: 'Well, what's the matter with you?' "'Aw,' said the
soldier, with a leer, 'I've got de lapsy-palls, and I wanter go to
de horspittle, I do.'
"I never saw such a mad man as Kemp was.
"'So you've got the lapsy-palls, have you?'
"'Bet yer boots, I have.'
"'And you want to go to the hospital?'
"Aw--w'ats der matter wit youse, Doc.?'
"And Kemp gave him a bang on the eye with his fist, and another on
the nose, and then began to hit him so quickly that the fellow
reeled, about, yelling for mercy.
"'Sure cure for the lapsy-palls,' said Kemp; and, turning his glare
on the rest of the shivering line: 'Anybody else got 'em?' he asked
briskly.
"At that a dozen big brutes sneaked out of the line and hurriedly
decamped; and I don't think that disease is going to be popular in
that regiment."
A shout of laughter greeted the story.  All present had seen too
many instances of malingering not to appreciate Surgeon Kemp's cure
for a disease which never existed.
A plum pudding was brought on and set afire.  Ailsa poured the
burning sauce over and over it.  Dr. Hammond got up and threw some
more pine logs on the fire.  Huge shadows rose up and danced in the
ruddy light, as the candles burned lower.  Then Dr. West began
another story, but was checked by the appearance of a hospital
steward:
"Davis, Ward A, No. 3, is very bad, sir."
"Going?"
"Yes, sir."
The doctor bent above the table, took a hasty spoonful of pudding,
nodded to the company, and went out.
"Speaking of malingerers," began Hammond, "I saw the Colonel of the
forty Thieves put down in a most amusing manner the day before Bull
Run.  Shall I tell it?  It involves some swearing."
Ailsa laughed.  "Proceed, Dr. Hammond.  Do you think Miss Lynden
and I have been deaf since we arrived at the front?"
"Does anybody in this hospital use bad language?" demanded the
doctor sharply.
"Not to us," said Ailsa, smiling.  "But there's an army just
outside the windows.  Go on with your story, please."
"Well, then," said the jolly surgeon, "I was talking with Colonel
Riley, when up walks the most honest-looking soldier I think I ever
saw; and he gazed straight into the Colonel's eyes as he saluted.
He wanted a furlough, it appeared, to go to New York and see his
dying wife.
"Riley said: 'Is she very sick?'
"'Yes, Colonel.'
"'You have a letter: saying she is very sick?'
"'Yes, Colonel.'
"'Well, I also have a letter from your wife.  I wanted to make
certain about all the applications for furlough you have been
making, so I wrote her.'
"'Yes, Colonel.'
"'And she says that she is perfectly well, and does not want you to
come home!'
"The soldier smiled.
"'Did you write a letter to my wife, Colonel?'
"'I did."
"'Did my wife write to you?'
"'She did.  And what do you mean by coming here to me with a lie
about your sick wife!  Have you anything to say to that?'
"'Yes, Colonel.'
"'Then say it!'
"'Well, Colonel, all I have to say is that there are two of the
damnedest, biggest liars that ever lived, right here in this
regiment!'
"'What!'
"The soldier grinned.
"'I'm not married at all,' he said, 'and I'm the biggest liar--and
you can ask the boys who the damnedest liar is.'"
When the merriment and laughter had subsided, Hallam told another
story rather successfully; then Hammond told another.  Then Dr.
West returned; the tiny Christmas tree, cut in the forest, and
loaded with beribboned cakes and sticks of chocolate and a few
presents tied in tissue-paper, was merrily despoiled.
Ailsa and Letty had worked slippers for the two doctors, greatly
appreciated by them, apparently; Hallam had some embroidered
handkerchiefs from Ailsa, and she received a chain and locket from
him--and refrained from opening the locket, although everybody
already had surmised that their engagement was a fact.
Letty sent an orderly for her guitar, and sang very sweetly an
old-fashioned song:
  "When the moonlight
  Shines bright
  Silvery bright on the sea."
Ailsa sang "Aileen Aroon," and "Oft in the Stilly Night," and
everybody, later, sang "The Poor Old Soldier."
The fire glowed red in the chimney; gigantic shadows wavered on
wall and ceiling; and, through the Christmas candles dimly burning,
the branches of the little evergreen spread, laden with cake and
candy.
"They're to have a tree in every ward to-morrow," said Ailsa,
turning toward Hallam.  Her eyes smiled, but her voice was
spiritless.  A tinge of sadness had somehow settled over the
festivity; Hammond was staring at the fire, chin in hand; West
sipped his wine reflectively; Letty's idle fingers touched her
guitar at intervals, as her dark eyes rested on Ailsa and Hallam.
Hallam had found in camp a copy of a Southern newspaper; and,
thinking it might amuse the company to read it, produced it.
Ailsa, looking over his shoulder, noticed a poem called
"Christmas," printed on the first page.
