restful to her to have escaped that surge of passions. 
" Come upstairs," she said. " I 've got to talk to you." 
In her own room, while Bess waited, eager to do a service, 
she languidly took off her hat and gloves, and then turned 
to regard her sister. She did not want to sit. That seemed 
to begin an interview from which she might not easily es- 
cape. 
" Bess," she said, " Mr. Lovell is coming here to-morrow. 
He is going to marry me." 
Bess looked at her a moment. 
" Sit down, dear," she said then, soothingly. " No, you 
lie down. You 're all tired out." 
 
Celia saw she had not understood. But she could not 
argue it. 
"It will be at ten," she said drearily. " Could you help 
me drag in my trunks from the back hall f I must do my 
packing." 
Now Bess believed it, but she was confounded by the 
pace the world was making. 
" Celia," she implored, " what is it ? What 's set you off 
to do a thing like that? O Celia, not to get away from 
here?" 
Celia felt that the way to attain silence was to give a rea- 
son. It was impossible to enter into talk. 
" We have been engaged to be married for — " She was 
about to say " for a long time," and then that frightened 
consciousness told her here were lies again. " We are to be 
married," she ended. " Come, let 's get the trunks." 
There was no way but to agree. She was keyed to a point 
where she could have dragged them in alone, and Bess 
helped her, working noiselessly, and then stood by in frozen 
misery while Celia folded delicate things and packed them 
with a care. It was not the part of Bess to dally while work 
went on, and presently she too began folding and laying 
cleverly. The task was an anguish to her. She had some- 
times thought, in a shy, hidden way, of Celia's marrying. 
Celia was so beautiful that the most wonderful lot of all 
seemed decreed for her, and now here the dewy moment had 
come and they were making ready for it as if destiny were 
behind. But she could not speak. Once the tears came, but 
she wiped them away lest they touch her sister's clothes 
and make an omen. When they had finished and Celia 
shut down the last lid, she looked at Bess, and aware of the 
trouble of it all, yet now not much moved by it, said imperi- 
ously, though in a quiet way, — 
 
" One thing. You must not speak of it." 
" Not speak of it ? Not to her ? " 
"No." 
" But, Celia, I must speak to him." 
" No. If they are here when I go downstairs, they can be 
told. They can be there if they like. I would have gone 
away, but — " She was about to say that Lovell had for- 
bidden it, but she could not use his name. He seemed to 
belong to her and yet was alien to her. "It wouldn't be fair 
to them." 
"But this isn't fair to them. It's their house. O Celia, 
we couldn't use it so and not tell them." 
Celia stood a moment thinking bitterly. Was this another 
point, her outraged vanity asked her, where she was dense 
to the propriety of life ? Was Bess, who always counselled 
the unselfish thing, more gently bred than she ? 
" Very well," she said. " Tell them then. But don't tell her 
till morning. She 'd have things to eat. She 'd talk with me. 
And tell him that. Tell him I won't be talked to." 
Bess, without a look at her, because she seemed to herself 
now to have helped bring this incredible destiny about, and 
she would plague her sister no more, was softly going. But 
Celia came after her, with a little rush, and threw passionate 
arms about her. 
" You can live with me," she whispered, in her fierce devo- 
tion to the tie of blood, " if you 're willing to. He says so." 
They kissed, and Bess dared the question some one, she 
felt, must ask. 
"O Celia, do you like him? Enough, Celia, do you like 
him well enough ? " 
" You 're to live with me," Celia threw at her. " There ! 
go, and I'll lie down." 
 
XXXI 
WINTERBOURNE, after such an afternoon in 
the city as he had not had for years, and loathed 
at any period of his life, came home aglow all 
over at the pleasure of it. Gregory had insisted on dropping 
in at a vaudeville where a girl with a sweet voice sang a top- 
ical song charmingly. Winterbourne hated topical songs and 
close theatres, but it seemed to him he could spend more 
time than that in alien pursuits at Gregory's side, watching 
him bathe himself in life. Then, when Gregory cpuld escape 
the seductions of the world of sound, they retired to his 
library in the quiet house whence women-folk had fled to 
the country, and sat down at a table for a stiff business talk, 
while Winterbourne drew models and explained and learned 
to know the promoter, the man to whom affairs were an open 
book. The upshot of it was that Gregory would take hold 
of pan-pipes and disseminate it with an enthusiasm to make 
it earn its way. Winterbourne liked him. There was some- 
thing that tickled his sense of fun in Gregory's baby like de- 
bauch among the things of sense, a hard nut like him. 
He came home in abounding good-humor, yet bent on 
one task, this concerning Tim. He would have been pre- 
pared to find Bess waiting for him with some simple comfort 
or other, or even Celia, picturesquely affectionate, or per- 
haps his wife, risen from her bed of languor to resuscitate 
romance ; but what he did meet knocked him into an unex- 
pected flurry. He entered his own sitting-room and halted 
at the vision there, — Mrs. Ramsay clothed in her perfect 
mind, rather majestic, so that you might laugh a little at her 
 
if you would, seeing how she recalled the intellectual ladies of 
a long-past day, the tinge of old-fashioned grandiosity, but 
very direct and purposeful. 
She began at once. She had been waiting for him. 
" Mr. Winterbourne, I have recovered the use of my 
speech." 
" I am delighted, Mrs. Ramsay." He put his hat and stick 
away — he was a more careful man in these days, having 
found Bess setting his confusions in order — and sank into 
his chair. " You 've had a nasty time." 
" During my stay," said Mrs. Ramsay, in her careful Eng- 
lish, " for which I shall never cease to be grateful, I have 
been endeavoring to make a certain statement to you. But 
my tongue would not serve me. Now I have command of 
it. Mr. Winterbourne, my son Timothy possessed himself 
of your ear-trumpet. He — stole it." 
Winterbourne felt like groaning. He had come home at 
peace with all the world, knowing that the only task left him 
was castigating Timothy for Timothy's good, and here was 
the ear-trumpet cropping up again. But he rose bravely to 
the assault. 
" Don't mention it, Mrs. Ramsay. I'll settle that with 
Tim when I get round to it." 
She sat majestically and now shook her head. 
" No, Mr. Winterbourne. For the sake of Timothy we 
must go into it very thoroughly. When my boy told me 
he was about to patent an invention, I thought he had de- 
vised something unaided. Then I found he had in some 
way possessed himself of — something that belonged to 
you." 
Winterbourne remembered the day in the arbor, and 
thought he could explain the way. But chiefly was he anxious 
to escape more parleying. 
 
" It docsn't matter, Mrs, Ramsay," he said kindly. 
But then at once it became apparent to him that she felt 
disgraced in her child, that she had felt it all these weeks, 
and that she was suffering with shame, and his heart grew at 
once compassionate toward her; she seemed to him some- 
thing to be protected, like one of her own children. She had 
passed into that changed estate where we are, because we 
suffer, again like little children. She was not storming bat- 
tlements now, and disturbing his ears with the whanging of 
her steel on steel. She was the normal woman, and he could 
see how Ramsay had very naturally loved her. 
" Something," she said, " must be done for my son. I have 
not spoken to his father. We have not talked about the 
children very much." 
Immediately he saw that she, absentee as she had been 
from her own household, had wished to save Ramsay, also an 
