took fiery offence.
"There is not a man living who has the right to look sideways at Valerie
West! Everybody knows it--Neville, Querida, Sam, John Burleson--even you
know it! If a man or two has touched her finger tips--her waist--her
lips, perhaps--no man has obtained more than that of her--dared more
than that! I have never heard that any man has ever even ventured to
offend her ears, unless"--she added with malice, "that is the reason
that she accepts no more invitations from you and your intimate
friends."
Allaire managed to smile and continue to paint. But later he found use
for his palette knife--which was unusual in a painter as clever as he
and whose pride was in his technical skill with materials used and
applied premier coup.
With October came the opening of many theatres; a premature gaiety
animated the hotels and restaurants; winter fabrics, hats, furs, gowns,
appeared in shops; the glittering windows along Fifth Avenue reflected
more limousines and fewer touring bodies passing. Later top hats
reappeared on street and in lobby; and when the Opera reopened, Long
Island, Jersey, and Westchester were already beginning to pour in
cityward, followed later by Newport, Lenox, and Bar Harbour. The police
put on their new winter uniforms; furs were displayed in carriages,
automobiles, and theatres; the beauty of the florist's windows became
mellower, richer, and more splendid; the jewellery in the restaurants
more gorgeous. Gotham was beginning to be its own again, jacked up by
the Horse Show, the New Theatre, and the Opera; and by that energetic
Advertising Trust Company with its branches, dependencies, and mergers,
which is called Society, and which is a matter of eternal vigilance and
desperate business instead of the relaxation of cultivated security in
an accepted and acceptable order of things.
Among other minor incidents, almost local in character, the Academy and
Society of American Artists opened its doors. And the exhibition
averaged as well as it ever will, as badly as it ever had averaged.
Allaire showed two portraits of fashionable women, done, this time, in
the manner of Zorn, and quite as clever on the streaky surface. Sam
Ogilvy proudly displayed another mermaid--Rita in the tub--and two
babies from photographs and "chic"--very bad; but as usual it was very
quickly marked sold.
Annan had a portrait of his sister Alice, poorly painted and even
recognised by some of her more intimate friends. Clive Gail offered one
of his marines--waves splashing and dashing all over the canvas so
realistically that women instinctively stepped back and lifted their
skirts, and men looked vaguely around for a waiter--at least Ogilvy said
so. As for Neville, he had a single study to show--a full length--just
the back and head and the soft contour of limbs melting into a
luminously sombre background--a masterpiece in technical perfection,
which was instantly purchased by a wise and Western millionaire, and
which left the public staring but unmoved.
But it was José Querida who dominated the whole show, flooding
everything with the splendour of his sunshine so that all else in the
same room looked cold or tawdry or washed out. His canvas, with its
superbly vigorous drawing, at once became the sensation of the
exhibition. Sunday supplements reproduced it with a photograph of
Querida looking amiably at a statuette of Venus which he held in his
long, tapering fingers; magazines tried to print it in two colours, in
three, in dozens, and made fireworks of it to Querida's inwardly
suppressed agony, and their own satisfaction. Serious young men wrote
"appreciations" about it; serious young women published instructive
discourses concerning it in the daily papers. Somebody in the valuable
columns of the Tribune inquired whether Querida's painting was meant
to be symbolical; somebody in the Nation said yes; somebody in the
Sun said no; somebody in something or other explained its
psychological subtleties; somebody in something else screamed, "bosh!"
Meanwhile the discussion was a god-send to fashionable diners-out and to
those cultivated leaders of society who prefer to talk through the Opera
and philharmonic.
In what the educated daily press calls the "world of art" and the "realm
of literature," Querida's picture was discussed intelligently and
otherwise, but it was discussed--from the squalid table d'hôte, where
unmanicured genius punctures the air with patois and punches holes in it
with frenzied thumbs, to quiet, cultivated homes, where community of
taste restricts the calling lists--from the noisy studio, where pianos
and girls make evenings lively, to the austere bare boards or the velvet
elegance of studios where authority and preciousness, and occasionally
attainment, reside, and sometimes do not.
    Cognatis maculis similis fera.
Neville was busy, but not too busy to go about in the evening among his
own kind, and among other kinds, too. This unexpected resurgance within
him of the social instinct, he made no attempt to account for to others
or to himself. He had developed a mental and physical restlessness,
which was not yet entirely nervous, but it had become sufficiently
itching to stir him out of fatigue when the long day's work had
ended--enough to drive him out of the studio--at first merely to roam
about at hazard through the livelier sections of the city. But to the
lonely, there is no lonelier place than a lively one; and the false
brilliancy and gaiety drove him back upon himself and into his lair
again, where for a while he remained meditating amid the sombre menace
of looming canvases and the heavy futility of dull-gold hangings, and
the mischievous malice of starlight splintering into a million
incandescent rainbow rays through the sheet of glass above.
Out of this, after some days, he emerged, set in motion by his
increasing restlessness. And it shoved him in the direction of his kind
once more--and in the direction of other kinds.
He dined at his sister's in Seventy-ninth Street near Madison Avenue; he
dined with the Grandcourts on Fifth Avenue; he decorated a few dances,
embellished an opera box now and then, went to Lakewood and Tuxedo for
week ends, rode for a few days at Hot Springs, frequented his clubs,
frequented Stephanie, frequented Maxim's.
And all the while it seemed to him as though he were temporarily
enduring something which required patience, which could not last
forever, which must one day end in a great change, a complete
transformation for himself, of himself, of the world around him and of
his aim and hope and purpose in living. At moments, too, an odd
sensation of expectancy came over him--the sense of waiting, of
suppressed excitement. And he could not account for it.
Perhaps it concerned the finishing of his great mural frieze for the
Court House--that is, the completion of the section begun in September.
For, when it was done, and cleared out of his studio, and had been set
in its place, framed by the rose and gold of marble and ormolu, a heavy
reaction of relief set in, leaving him listless and indifferent at
first, then idle, disinclined to begin the companion frieze; then again
restless, discontented, tired, and lonely in that strange solitude which
seemed to be growing wider and wider around him in rings of silence. Men
praised and lauded the great frieze; and he strove to respond, to
believe them--to believe in the work and in himself--strove to shake off
the terrible discouragement invading him, lurking always near to reach
out and touch him, slinking at his heels from street to street, from
room to room, skulking always just beyond the shadows that his reading
lamp cast.
Without envy, yet with profound sadness, he stood and faced the
splendour of Querida's canvas. He had gone to Querida and taken him by
both of his thin, olive-skinned hands, and had praised the work with a
heart clean of anything unworthy. And Querida had laughed and displayed
his handsome teeth, and returned compliment for compliment.... And
Neville had seen, on his dresser, a photograph of Valerie, signed in her
long, girlish, angular hand--"To José from Valerie"; and the date was of
mid-winter.
Christmas came; he sent Valerie some furs and a note, and, before he
went to Aiken to spend the holidays with his father and mother, he tried
to get her on the telephone--tried half a dozen times. But she was
either busy with business or with pleasure somewhere or other--and he
never found her at home; so he went South without hearing from her.
[Illustration: "Querida had laughed ... and returned compliment for
compliment."]
After he arrived, it is true, he received from her a cigarette case and
a very gay and frank Christmas greeting--happy and untroubled
apparently, brimming with gossip, inconsequences, and nonsense. In it
she thanked him for his letter and his gift, hoped he was happy with his
parents, and expressed an almost conventional desire to see him on his
return.
Then his parents came back to New York with him. Two days before New
Year's Day they went to Spindrift House instead of sailing for Egypt,
where for some years now they had been accustomed to spend the winters
shivering at Shepherd's. And he and his sister and brother-in-law and
Stephanie dined together that evening. But the plans they made to
include him for a New Year's Eve home party remained uncertain as far as
he was concerned. He was vague--could not promise--he himself knew not
why. And they ceased to press him.
"You're growing thin and white," said Lily. "I believe you're getting
painter's colic."
"House painters acquire that," he said, smiling. "I'm not a member of
their union yet."
"Well, you must use as much white lead as they do on those enormous
canvases of yours. Why don't you start on a trip around the world,
Louis?"
He laughed.
Later, after he had taken his leave, the suggestion reoccurred to him.
He took enough trouble to think about it the next morning; sent out his
servant to amass a number of folders advertising world girdling tours of
various attractions, read them while lunching, and sat and pondered. Why
not? It might help. Because he certainly began to need help. He had gone
