while.  Have you?"

"Well, I’ll fix it somehow."

"Mr. Edgerton!" she said excitedly, "Silvette and I have got to go!"

"No," he said laughing, "you’ve only got to go on with your story, Miss
Tennant.  I am a very interested and sympathetic listener."

"Yes," she said desperately, "I must go on with that, too.  Listen, Mr.
Edgerton; we thought a long while and discussed everything, and we
concluded to stake everything on an idea that came to Silvette.  So we
drew out all the money we had and we paid all our just debts, and we
parted with our chaperone—who was a perfect d-darling—I’ll tell you
about her sometime—and we took Argent, our cat, and came straight to New
York, and we hunted and hunted for an apartment until we found this!
And then—do you know what we did?" she demanded excitedly.

"I couldn’t guess!" said Edgerton, smiling.

"We bought clothes—beautiful clothes! And everything luxurious that we
didn’t have we bought—almost frightened to death while we were doing
it—and then we advertised!"



"Advertised!"

"From here!  Can you ever forgive us?"

"Of course," he said, mystified; "but what did you advertise?"

"Ourselves!"

"What!"

"Certainly; and we’ve had replies, but we haven’t liked the people so
far.  Indeed, we advertised in the most respectable daily, weekly and
monthly papers—"  She sprang to her feet, trotted over to the sofa,
picked up an illustrated periodical devoted to country life, and
searching hastily through the advertising pages, found and read aloud to
him, still standing there, the following advertisement:

"Two ladies of gentle birth and breeding, cultivated linguists,
musicians, thoroughly conversant with contemporary events, efficient at
auction bridge, competent to arrange dinners and superintend
decorations, desire employment in helping to entertain house parties,
week-ends, or unwelcome but financially important relatives and other
visitations, at country houses, camps, bungalows, or shooting boxes.

"For terms write to or call at Apartment Five——"

She turned her flushed face toward him.

"Your address in full follows," she said. "Can you ever bring yourself
to forgive us?"

His astonished gaze met hers.  "That doesn’t worry me," he said.

"It is generous and—splendid of you to say so," she faltered.  "You
understand now, don’t you?  We had to spend all our money on clothes;
and we thought ourselves so fortunate in this beautiful apartment
because it was certain to impress people, and nobody could possibly
suspect us of poverty with that great picture by Goya over the mantel
and priceless tapestries and rugs and porcelains in every direction—and
our cat to make it look as though we really belonged here."  Her voice
trembled a moment on the verge of breaking and her eyes grew brilliant
as freshly washed stars, but she lifted her resolute little head and
caught the tremulous lower lip in her teeth.  Then, the crisis over, she
dropped the illustrated paper, came slowly back to her chair and sank
down, extending her arms along the velvet upholstery in silence.

Between them, on the floor, a sapphire rug stretched its ancient Persian
folds.  He looked at it gravely, thinking that its hue matched her eyes.
Then he considered more important matters, plunging blindly into
profound abstraction; and found nothing in the depths except that he had
no money to go anywhere, but that he must go nevertheless.

He looked up after a moment.

"Would you and your sister think it inhospitable of me if I ask when
you—I mean—if I——"

"I know what you mean, Mr. Edgerton. Silvette and I are going at once.

"You can’t.  Do you think I’d permit it? Please remember, too, that
you’ve advertised from here, and you’ve simply got to remain here.  All
I meant to ask was whether you think it might be for a week or two yet,
but, of course, you can’t tell—and forgive me for asking—but I was
merely trying to adjust several matters in my mind to conditions——"

"Mr. Edgerton, we cannot remain.  There is not in my mind the slightest
doubt concerning your financial condition.  If you could let us stay
until we secured employment, I’d ask it of you—because you are James
Edgerton; but you can’t"—she rose with decision—"and I’m going up to the
roof to tell Silvette."

"If you stir I’ll take those suit cases and depart for good."

"You are very generous—the Edgertons always were, I have heard, but we
cannot accept——"

He interrupted, smiling: "I think the Tennants never needed instruction
concerning the finer points of obligation." ... He stood a moment
thoughtfully, turning over and over the two dollars in his pocket; then
with a laugh he walked across the studio and picked up his suit cases.

"Don’t do that!" she said in a grave voice.

"There is nothing else to do, Miss Tennant."

"There’s another bedroom."

They stood, not regarding one another, considering there in the
sunshine.

"Will you wait until I return?" she asked, looking up.  "I want to talk
to Silvette.... I’d like to have Silvette see you.  Will you wait?
Because I’ve come to one of my quick conclusions—I’m celebrated for
them, Mr. Edgerton.  Will you wait?"

"Yes," he said, smiling.

So she trotted away in her little straw sandals and flowery vestments
and butterfly sash; and he began to pace the studio, hands clasped
behind him, trying to think out matters and ways and means—trying to see
a way clear which offered an exit from this complication without forcing
him to do that one thing of which he had a steadfast horror—borrow money
from a friend.

Mingled, too, with his worried cogitations was the thought of Henry
Tennant’s nieces—these young California girls of whom he had vaguely
heard without any particular interest. New Yorkers are never interested
in relatives they never saw; seldom in any relatives at all. And, long
ago, there had been marriage between Tennant and Edgerton—in colonial
days, if he remembered correctly; and, to his own slight surprise, he
felt it now as an added obligation.  It was not enough that he efface
himself until they found employment; more than that was due them from an
Edgerton. And, as he had nothing to do it with, he wondered how he was
to do anything at all for these distant cousins.

Standing there in the sunshine he cast an ironical glance around him at
the Beauvais tapestries, the old masters, the carved furniture of
Charles II’s time, rugs dyed with the ancient splendor of the East, made
during the great epoch when carpets of Ispahan, Damascus—and those
matchless hues woven with gold and silver which are called
Polish—decorated the palaces of Emperor and Sultan.

Not one thing could he sell under the will of Peter Edgerton to save his
body from starvation or his soul from anything else; and he jingled the
two dollars in his pocket and thought of his talents, and wondered what
market there might be for any of them in a city where bricklayers were
paid higher wages than school teachers, and where the wealthy employed
others to furnish their new and gorgeous houses with everything from
pictures and books to the ancient plate from which they ate.

And, thinking of these things, his ears caught a slight rustle of silk;
and he lifted his head as Diana Tennant and her sister Silvette came
toward him through the farther room.

