"Oh, I don't mean that silly make-up," he said, raising his head.
"What do you mean?"
"I mean my own face and figure. What you did to me--your netting me,
doping me, and all that wasn't a patch on what you said afterward."
"What do you mean? What did I say?"
"You asked me if I supposed that you would dream of netting a man with a
face and f-figure like----"
"Mr. Langdon!"
"Didn't you?"
"I--you--we----"
"You did! And can any man suffer any humiliation to compare with words
like those? I merely ask you."
With eyes dilated, breath coming quickly, she stared at him, scarcely yet
comprehending the blow which her words had dealt to one of the lords of
creation.
"Mr. Langdon," she said, "do you suppose that I am the sort of girl to
deliberately criticise either your features or your figure?"
"But you did."
"I merely meant that you should infer----"
"I inferred it all right," he said bitterly.
Perplexed, not knowing how to encounter such an unexpected reproach,
vaguely distressed by it, she instinctively attempted to clear herself.
"Please listen. I hadn't any idea of mortifying you by explaining that
you are not qualified by nature to interest the modern woman in----"
He turned a bright red.
"Do you suppose such a condemnation--such a total ostracism--is agreeable
to a man? . . . Is there anything worse you can say about a man than to
inform him that no woman could possibly take the slightest interest in
him?"
"I didn't say that. I said the modern woman----"
"You're all modern."
"It is reported that there are still a few women sufficiently
old-fashioned to----"
"They don't interest me." He looked up at her. "What you've said
has--simply--and completely--spoiled--my life," he said slowly.
"What I said?"
"Yes."
"What have--what could--what I--how--where--who is----" and she checked
herself, eyes on his.
"Yes," he repeated with a curious sort of satisfaction, "you have spoiled
my entire life for me."
"What an utterly--what a wildly absurd and impossible----"
"And you know it!" he insisted, with gloomy triumph.
"Know what?"
"That you've spoiled----"
"Stop! Will you explain to me how----"
"Is it necessary?"
"Necessary? Of course it is! You have made a most grave and serious
and--and heartless charge against a woman----"
"Yes, a heartless one--against you!"
"I? Heartless?"
"Cold, deliberate, cruel, unfeeling, merciless, remorseless----"
"Mr. Langdon!"
"Didn't you practically tell me that no woman could endure the sight of a
face and figure like mine?"
"No, I did not. What a--a cruel accusation!"
"What did you mean, then?"
"That--that you are not exactly--qualified to--to become an ancestor of
the physically perfect race which----"
"What is wrong with me, then?"
She looked at him helplessly. "What do you mean?"
"I mean where am I below proof? Where am I lacking? What points count me
out?"
Her sensitive underlip began to tremble.
"I--I don't want to criticise you----" she faltered.
"Please do. I beg of you. There are beauty doctors in town," he added
earnestly. "They can fix up a fellow--and I can go to a gymnasium, and
take up deep-breathing and----"
"But, Mr. Langdon, do you want to--to be--captured----"
He looked into her bright and melting eyes.
"Yes," he said. "I'd like to give you another chance at me."
"Me? After what I did to you?"
"Will you?"
"Why, what a perfectly astonishing----"
"Not very. Look me over and tell me what points count against me. I know
I'm not good-looking, but I'd like to go into training for the bench--I
mean----"
"Mr. Langdon," she said slowly, "surely you would not care to develop
the featureless symmetry and the--the monotonous perfection necessary
to----"
"Yes, I would. I wish to become superficially monotonous. I'm too varied;
I realise that. I want to resemble that make-up I wore----"
"That! Goodness! What a horrid idea----"
"Horrid? Didn't you like it well enough to net me?"
"I--there was nothing expressive of my personal taste in my capturing
you--I mean the kind of a man you appeared to be. It was my duty--a
purely scientific matter----"
"I don't care what it was. You went after me. You wouldn't go after me as
I now appear. I want you to tell me what is lacking in me which would
prevent you going after me again--from a purely scientific standpoint."
She sat breathing irregularly, rather rapidly, pretty head bent,
apparently considering her hands, which lay idly in her lap. Then she
lifted her blue eyes and inspected him. And it was curious, too, that,
now when she came to examine him, she did not seem to discover any
faults.
"My nose doesn't suit you, does it?" he asked candidly.
"Why, yes," she said innocently, "it suits me."
"That's funny," he reflected. "How about my ears?"
"They seem to be all right," she admitted.
"Do you think so?"
"They seem to me to be perfectly good ears."
"That's odd. What is there queer about my face?"
She looked in vain for imperfections.
"Why, do you know, Mr. Langdon, I don't seem to notice anything that is
not entirely and agreeably classical."
"But--my legs are thin."
"Not very."
"Aren't they too thin?"
"Not too thin. . . . Perhaps you might ride a bicycle for a few
days----"
"I will!" he exclaimed with a boyish enthusiasm which lighted up his face
so attractively that she found it fascinating to watch.
"Do you know," she said slowly, "the chances are that I would have netted
you anyway. It just occurred to me."
"Without my make-up?" he asked, in delighted surprise.
"I think so. Why not?" she replied, looking at him with growing interest.
"I don't see anything the matter with you."
"My chest improver exploded," he ventured, being naturally honest.
"I don't think you require it."
"Don't you? That is the nicest thing you ever said to me."
"It's only the truth," she said, flushing a trifle in her intense
interest. "And, as far as your legs are concerned, I really do not
believe you need a bicycle or anything else. . . . In fact--in fact--I
don't see why you shouldn't go with me to the University if--if you--care
to----"
"You darling!"
"Mr. Langdon! Wh-what a perfectly odd thing to s-say to me!"
"I didn't mean it," he said with enthusiasm; "I really didn't mean it.
What I meant was--you know--don't you?"
She did not reply. She was absorbed in contemplating one small thumb.
"I'm all ready to go," he ventured.
She said nothing.
"Shall we?"
She looked up, looked into his youthful eyes. After a moment she rose, a
trifle pale. And he followed beside her through the sun-lit woods.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
VIII
AT the gate of the New Race University and Masculine Beauty Preserve the
pretty gate-keeper on duty looked at Langdon, then at his fair captor, in
unfeigned astonishment.
"Why, Ethra!" she said, "is that all you've brought home?"
"Did you think I was going to net a dozen?" asked Ethra Leslie, warmly.
"Please unlock the gate. Mr. Langdon is tired and hungry, and I want the
Regents to finish with him quickly so that he can have some luncheon."
The gate-keeper, a distractingly pretty red-haired girl, regarded Langdon
with dubious hazel eyes.
"He'll never pass the examination," she whispered to Ethra. "What on
earth are you thinking of?"
"What are you thinking of, Marcella? You must be perfectly blind not to
see that he complies with every possible requisite! The Regents'
inspection is bound to be only a brief formality. Be good enough to unbar
the gates."
Marcella slowly drew the massive bolts; hostile criticism was in the gaze
with which she swept Langdon.
"Well, of all the insignificant looking young men," she murmured to
herself as Ethra and her acquisition walked away along the path, side by
side.
[Illustration]
[Illustration]
