holding your breath; just as soon as you cry out, 
it releases the diaphragm, and the pressure stops, and 
the pain passes. You must bear each one just as long 
as you can. I don't want you to faint, of course but 
the longer the pressure lasts, the sooner it will all be 
over.' 
The girl was staring at him with her wild eyes she 
looked like a hunted creature in a trap. It sounded all 
so very simple but the horror of it drove Thyrsis 
mad. Ah, God, it was monstrous it was superhuman 
it was a thing beyond all thinking ! It wrung all his 
soul, it shook him as the tempest shakes a leaf the 
sight of this awful agony. 
It was like the sudden closing of a battle; the shock 
of squadrons, the locking of warriors in a grip of 
death. There was no longer time for words now, no 
longer time for a glance about him ; the spasms came, 
one after another, relentless, unceasing, inevitable 
each trooping upon the heels of the last ; they were 
uncounted uncountable piling upon one another like 
waves upon the sea, like the gusts of a raging storm. 
And this girl, this child, that he had watched over so 
hungrily, that was so tender and so sensitive it was 
like wild horses tearing her apart ! The agony would 
flame up in her, he would see her body turn rigid, her 
face flush scarlet, her teeth become set and her gums 
fleshed. The muscles would stand out in her cheeks, 
the perspiration start upon her forehead. She would 
grip Thyrsis' hand until all the might of both his 
arms was not enough to match her. 
On the other side of the bed knelt the young nurse, 
wrestling with the other hand; and Thyrsis could see 
 
her face flush too, each time until at last a cry would 
seem to tear its way from the girl's throat, and she 
would sink back, faint and white. 
It was a new aspect of life to Thyrsis, a new revela- 
tion of being ; it was pain such as he had never dreamed, 
it was horror the like of which was unknown in his 
philosophy. All the suffering of the night was nothing 
to a minute of this ; it came upon her with the rush of 
a flood of waters it seized her instant, insistent, re- 
lentless as the sweep of the planets. Thyrsis had been 
all unprepared for it; he cried out for time to think 
to realize it. But there was no time to think or to 
realize it. The thing was here now ! It glared into 
his eyes like a fiend of hell ; it was fiery, sharp as steel 
and it had to be seized with the naked hands ! 
The pangs came, each one worse than the last. They 
built themselves up in his soul in a symphony of terror; 
they lifted him out of himself, they swept him away be- 
yond all control, like a -leaf in the autumn wind. He 
had never known such a sensation before his soul 
seemed whirled into pieces. His feeling was apart from 
his action ; he could not control his thoughts ; he was 
going mad ! He loved her so she was so beautiful ; 
and to see her thus, in the grip of horror ! 
He tried to get hold of himself again he talked to 
himself, pinning his attention on the task of his hands. 
Perhaps maybe it was his fancy it did not really hurt 
her so ! Maybe 
He spoke to her, calling to her, in between the 
crises. She turned her eyes upon him, looking unutter- 
able agony ; she could not speak. And then again came 
the spasm, and she reared herself to meet it. She 
seemed to loom before his eyes ; she was no longer human, 
but in her agony transfigured. She was the suffering 
 
of being, made flesh ; a figure epic, colossal, worthy 
of an Angelo ; the mighty mother herself, the earth- 
mother, from whose womb have come the races ! 
And then "Perhaps she would be more comfortable 
with another pillow," said the doctor, and the spell was 
broken. 
Corydon shook her head with swift impatience. This 
was her conflict, the gesture seemed to say. They had 
only to let her alone she had no words to spare for 
them. 
"How long does this last?" Thyrsis asked, his voice 
trembling. The doctor made a motion to him to be 
silent evidently he did not wish Corydon to hear the 
answer to that question. 
9. FOR the girl's soul was rising within her ; per- 
haps from the deeps of things there came comfort to 
her, from the everlasting, universal motherhood of life. 
Nature must have told her that this at least was pain 
to some purpose ; something was being accomplished. 
And she shut her jaws together again, and closed with 
it driving, driving, with all the power of her being. 
A feeling of awe stole over Thyrsis as he watched her 
a feeling the like of which he had never known in 
his life before. She was a creature consecrated, made 
holy by suffering ; she was the sacredness of life in- 
carnate, a thing godlike, beyond earth. It came as a 
revelation, changing the whole aspect of life to him. 
It was hard to realize that woman, woman who en- 
dured this, was the same being that he had met in the 
world all his life laughing and talking, careless and 
commonplace. This this was woman's fate! It was 
the thing for which woman was made, and the lowest, 
meanest of them might have to bear it ! He swore vows 
 
of reverence and knighthood ; he fell upon his knees 
before her, weeping, his soul white-hot with awe. Ah, 
what should he do that he might be worthy to live upon 
the earth with a woman? 
And this was no mere fine emotion ; there was no 
room for imagination in it the reality exceeded all 
imagination. Overwhelming it was, furious, relentless ; 
his thoughts strove to roam, but it seized him by the 
hair and dragged him back. Here here! 
She was wrung and shaken with her agony, her eyes 
shut, her face uplifted, her muscles turned to stone. 
And the minutes dragged out into hours there was no 
end to it there was no end to it ! There was no mean- 
ing it was only naked, staring terror. It beat him 
up again and again ; he would sink back exhausted, 
thinking that he could feel no more ; but it dragged 
him up once more to agony without respite ! The 
caverns of horror were rent open ; they split before 
his eyes deeper, deeper in vistas and abysses from 
which he shrunk appalled. Here dwelt the furies, 
despair and madness here dwelt the demon-forces of 
being, grisly phantoms which come not into the light 
of day. Their hands were upon him, their claws were 
in his flesh ; and over their chasms he shuddered he 
scented the smoke of that seething pit of life, whose 
top the centuries have sealed, and into which no mortal 
thing may gaze and live. 
Life life- here was life, he felt. What had he 
known of it before this? the rest was pageantry 
and sham. Beauty, pleasure, love here they were in 
the making of them here they were in the real truth 
of them ! Raw, naked, hideous it was ; and it was the 
source of all things else ! His being rose in one titan 
throb of rebellion. It was monstrous it was unthink- 
 
able! He wanted no such life he had no right to it! 
Let there be an end of it ! No life that ever was could 
be worth such a price as this ! It was a cheat, a horror 
there could be no justice in such a thing! There 
could be no God in it it was oppression, it was wrong ! 
He thought of the millions that swarmed on the earth 
-they had all come from this ! And it was happening 
every hour every second! He saw it, the whole of it 
the age-long agony, the universal birth-pang of be- 
ing. And he hated it, hated it with a wild, raging 
hatred he would have annihilated it with one sweep 
of his arm. 
And yet there was no way to annihilate it ! It was 
here it was inevitable. And it was everlasting it 
was an everlasting delusion, an everlasting madness. 
It was a Snare! 
Yes, he came back to the thought that was the 
image for it ! It mattered not how much you might 
cry out, you were in it, and it held you! It held you 
as it held Corydon, in throb after throb of torment. 
She moaned, she choked, she tossed from side to side; 
but it held her. It seemed to him that the storm of 
her agony beat upon her like the tempest upon a moun- 
