"I know it. Give me a little time, Jim. It is all so new to me, and
there is no precedent to follow--and I haven't very much wisdom. I am
only trying to find myself so I shall know how best to serve you----"

"I don't want to be served, Jacqueline! I want you to love me----"

"I do."

"You do in a hurt, reproachful, frightened, don't-touch-me sort of
way----"

"Jim!"

"I'm sorry; I don't know what I'm saying. There isn't anything for me to
say, I suppose. But I don't seem to have the spirit of endurance in
me--humble submission isn't my line; delay makes me impatient. I want
things to be settled, no matter what the cost. When I repent, I repent
like the devil--just as hard and as fast as I can. Then it's over and
done with. But nobody else seems to notice my regeneration."

For a moment her face was a study in mixed emotions, then a troubled
smile curved her lips, but her eyes were unconvinced.

"You are only a boy, aren't you?" she said gently. "I know it, somehow,
but there is still a little awe of you left in me, and I can't quite
understand. Won't you be patient with me, Jim?"

He bent over and caught her hand.

"Only love me, Jacqueline----"

"Oh, I do! I do! And I don't know what to do about it! All my thoughts
are concentrated on it, how best to make it strong, enduring, noble! How
best to shelter it, bind up its wounds, guard it, defend it. I--I know
in my heart that I've got to defend it----"

"What do you mean, my darling?"

"I don't know--I don't know, Jim. Only--if I knew--if I could always
know----"

She turned her head swiftly and stared out of the window. On the glass,
vaguely, Elena's shadowy features seemed to smile at her.

Was that what tortured her? Was that what she wished to know when she
and this man separated for the day--where the woman was? Had her
confidence in him been so utterly, so shamefully destroyed that it had
lowered her to an ignoble level--hurled down her dignity and
self-respect to grovel amid unworthy and contemptible emotions? Was it
the vulgar vice of jealousy that was beginning to fasten itself upon
her?

Sickened, she closed her eyes a moment; but on the lids was still
imprinted the face of the woman; and her words began to ring in her
brain. And thought began to gallop again, uncurbed, frantic, stampeding.
How could he have done it? How could he have carried on this terrible
affair after he had met her, after he had known her, loved her, won her?
How could he have received that woman as a guest under the same roof
that sheltered her? How could he have made a secret rendezvous with the
woman scarcely an hour after he had asked her to marry him?

Even if anybody had come to her and told her of these things she could
have found it in her heart to find excuses, to forgive him; she could
have believed that he had received Elena and arranged a secret meeting
with her merely to tell her that their intrigue was at an end.

She could have accustomed herself to endure the knowledge of this
concrete instance. And, whatever else he might have done in the past she
could endure; because, to her, it was something too abstract, too vague
and foreign to her to seem real.

But the attitude and words of Elena Clydesdale--the unmistakable
impression she coolly conveyed that this thing was not yet ended, had
poisoned the very spring of her faith in him. And the welling waters
were still as bitter as death to her.

What did faith matter to her in the world if she could not trust this
man? Of what use was it other than to believe in him? And now she could
not. She had tried, and she could not. Only when he was near her--only
when she might see him, hear him, could she ever again feel sure of him.
And now they were to separate for the day. And--where was he going? And
where was the other woman?

And her heart almost stopped in her breast as she thought of the days
and days and years and years to come in which she must continue to ask
herself these questions.

Yet, in the same quick, agonised breath, she knew she was going to fight
for him--do battle in behalf of that broken and fireless altar where
love lay wounded.

There were many ways of doing battle, but only one right way. And she
had thought of many--confused, frightened, unknowing, praying for
unselfishness and for light to guide her.

But there were so many ways; and the easiest had been to forgive him,
surrender utterly, cling to him, love him with every tenderness and
grace and accomplishment and art and instinct that was hers--with all of
her ardent youth, all of her dawning emotion, all of her undeveloped
passion.

That had been the easier way in the crisis which stunned and terrified
her--to seek shelter, not give it; to surrender, not to withhold.

But whether through wisdom or instinct, she seemed to see farther than
the moment--to divine, somehow, that his salvation and hers lay not only
in forgiveness and love, but in her power to give or withhold; her
freedom to exact what justly was her due; in the preservation of her
individuality with all its prerogative, its liberty of choice, its
self-respect unshaken, its authority unweakened and undiminished.

To yield when he was not qualified to receive such supreme surrender
boded ill for her, and ultimately for him; for it made of her merely an
instrument.

Somehow she seemed to know that sometime, for her, would come a moment
of final victory; and in that moment only her utter surrender could make
the victory eternal and complete.

And until that moment came she would not surrender prematurely. She had
a fight on her hands; she knew it; she must do her best, though her own
heart were a sword that pierced her with every throb. For his sake she
would deny; for his sake remain aloof from the lesser love, inviolate,
powerful, mistress of herself and of her destiny.

And yet--she was his wife. And, after all was said and done, she
understood that no dual sovereignty ever is possible; that one or the
other must have the final decision; and that if, when it came to that,
his ultimate authority failed him, then their spiritual union was a
failure, though the material one might endure for a while.

And so, believing this, honest with herself and with him, she had
offered him her fealty--a white blossom and her key lying beside it in
the palm of her hand--in acknowledgment that the supreme decision lay
with him.

He had not failed her; the final authority still lay with him. Only that
knowledge had sustained her during the long night.

The car stopped at her establishment; she came out of her painful
abstraction with a slight start, flushed, and looked at him.

"Will you lunch with me, Jim?"

"I think I'll lunch at the club," he said, coolly.

"Very well. Will you bring the car around at five?"

"The car will be here for you."

"And--you?" She tried to smile.

"Probably."

"Oh! If you have any engagements----"

"I might make one between now and five," he said carelessly. "If I do,
I'll come up on the train."

She had not been prepared for this attitude. But there was nothing to
