word he uttered, he spoke now with a certain simplicity and self-control
that sounded unusual to her ears--so noticeably unlike what she knew of
him that it commanded her unwilling attention.
For his unpardonable brutality and violence he asked forgiveness,
promising to serve her faithfully and in friendship for the privilege of
attempting to win back her respect and regard. He asked only that.
He said that he scarcely knew what to do with his life without the hope
of recovering her respect and esteem; he asked for a beggar's chance,
begged for it with a candour and naïveté almost boyish--so directly to
the point tended every instinct in him to recover through caution and
patience what he had lost through carelessness and a violence which
still astonished him.
The Bermuda lilies were in bloom and Strelsa stood near them, listening
to him, touching the tall stalks absently at intervals. And while she
listened she became more conscious still of the great change in
herself--of her altered attitude toward so much in life that once had
seemed to her important. After he had ceased she still stood pensively
among the lilies, gray eyes brooding. At length, looking up, she said
very quietly:
"Why do you care for my friendship, Langly? I am not the kind of woman
you think me--not even the kind I once thought myself. To me friendship
is no light thing either to ask for or to give. It means more to me than
it once did; and I give it very seldom, and sparingly, and to very, very
few. But toward everybody I am gently disposed--because, I am much
happier than I ever have been in all my life.... Is not my good will
sufficient for any possible relation between you and me?"
"Then you are no longer angry with me?"
"No--no longer angry."
"Can we be friends again? Can you really forgive me, Strelsa?"
"Why--yes, I could do that.... But, Langly, what have you and I in
common as a basis for friendship? What have we ever had in common?
Except when we encounter each other by hazard, why should we ever meet
at all?"
"You have not pardoned me, Strelsa," he said patiently.
"Does that really make any difference to you? It doesn't to me. It is
only because I never think of you that it would be an effort to forgive
you. I'll make that effort if you wish, but really, Langly, I never
think about you at all."
"If that is true, let me be with you sometimes, Strelsa," he said in a
low voice.
"Why?"
"Because I am wretchedly unhappy. And I care for you--more than you
realise."
She said seriously: "You have no right to speak that way to me, Langly."
"Could you ever again give me the right to say I love you?"
A quick flush of displeasure touched her cheeks; he saw it in the dusk
of the garden, and mistook it utterly:
"Strelsa--listen to me, dear! I have not slept since our quarrel. I must
have been stark mad to say and do what I did.... Don't leave me! Don't
go! I beg you to listen a moment----"
She had started to move away from him and his first forward step broke a
blossom from its stalk where it hung white in the dusk.
"I ask you to go," she said under her breath. "There are people here--on
the veranda----"
Every sense within him told him to go, pretending resignation. That was
his policy. He had come here for martyrdom, cuirassed in patience. Every
atom of common sense warned him to go.
But also every physical sense in him was now fully aroused--the silvery
star-dusk, the scent of lilies, a slender woman within arm's reach--this
woman who had once been so nearly his--who was still rightfully
his!--these circumstances were arousing him once more to a temerity
which his better senses warned him to subdue. Yet if he could only get
nearer to her--if he could once get her into his arms--overwhelm her
with the storm of passion rising so swiftly within him, almost choking
him--so that his voice and limbs already trembled in its furious
surge----
"Strelsa--I love you! For God's sake show me some mercy!" he stammered.
"I come to you half crazed by the solitude to which your anger has
consigned me. I cannot endure it--I need you--I want you--I ask for your
compassion----"
"Hush!" she pleaded, hastily retreating before him through the snowy
banks of rockets--"I have asked you not to speak to me that way! I ask
you to go--to go now!--because----"
"Will you listen to me! Will you wait a moment! I am only trying to tell
you that I love you, dear----"
He almost caught her, but she sprang aside, frightened, still retreating
before him.
"I cannot go until you listen to me!--" he said thickly, trampling
through the flowers to intercept her. "You've got to listen!--do you
hear?"
She had almost reached the terrace; the shadowy veranda opened widely
beyond.
"There are people here! Don't you understand?" she said once more in a
choking voice; but he only advanced, and she fell back before him to the
very edge of the porch lattice.
"Now listen to me!" he said between his teeth. "I love you and I'll
never give you up----"
Suddenly she turned on him, hands tightly clenched:
"Be silent!" she whispered fiercely. "I tell you what you say is
indecent, revolting! If there were a man here he'd kill you! Do you
understand?"
At the same instant his eyes became fixed on a figure in white which
took shadowy shape on the dark veranda, rising and coming slowly
forward.
Ghostlike as it was he knew it instantly, stood rooted in his tracks
while Strelsa stole away from him through the star-lit gloom, farther,
farther, slipping forever from him now--he knew that as he stood there
staring like a damned man upon that other dim shape in the darkness
beyond.
It was his first glimpse of her since her return from Reno. And now,
unbidden, memories half strangled were already in full resurrection,
gasping in his ears of things that had been--of forgotten passion, of
pleasure promised; and, because never tasted, it had been the true and
only pleasure for such a man as he--the pleasure of anticipation. But
the world had never, would never believe that. Only he, and the phantom
there in the dusk before him, knew it to be true.
Slightly reeling he turned away in the darkness. In his haunted ears
sounded a young wife's voice, promising, caressing; through and through
him shot a thrill of the old excitement, the old desire, urging him
again toward belated consummation.
And again the old impatience seized him, the old ruthlessness, the old
anger at finding her weak in every way except one, the old contempt
which had turned to sullen amazement when she wrote him that she had
gone to Reno and that they must wait for their happiness until the
courts decreed it legal.
Now as he swung along under the high stars he was thinking of these
things. And he felt that he had not tried her enough, had not really
exerted himself--that women who are fools require closer watching than
clever ones; that he could have overcome her scruples with any real
effort and saved her from giving him the slip and sowing a wind in Reno
which already had become enough of a breeze to bother him.
With her, for a while, he might be able to distract his mind from this
recent obsession tormenting him. To overcome her would interest him;
and he had no doubt it could be done--for she was a little fool--silly
enough to slap the world in the face and brave public opinion at Reno.
No--it was not necessary to marry such a woman. She might think so, but
it wasn't.
He had behaved unwisely, too. Why should he not have gone to see her
when she returned? By doing so, and acting cleverly, he could have
avoided trouble with his aunt, and also these annoying newspaper
paragraphs. Also he could have avoided the scene with Ledwith--and the
aborted reconciliation just now with Strelsa, where he had stood staring
at the apparition of Mary Ledwith as lost souls stand transfixed before
the pallid shades of those whom they have destroyed.
At his lodge-gate a half-cowering dog fawned on him and he kicked it
aside. The bruised creature fled, and Sprowl turned in at his gates and
walked slowly up the cypress-bordered drive.
       *       *       *       *       *
He thought it all out that night, studied it carefully. What he needed
was distraction from the present torment. Mary Ledwith could give that
to him. What a fool she had been ever to imagine that she could be
anything more than his temporary mistress.
"The damned little idiot," he mused--"cutting away to Reno before I knew
what she was up to--and involving us both in all that talk! What did she
flatter herself I wanted, anyway.... But I ought to have called on her
at once; now it's going to be difficult."
Yet he sullenly welcomed the difficulty--hoped that she'd hold out. That
was what he wanted, the excitement of it to take his mind from
Strelsa--keep him interested and employed until the moment arrived once
more when he might venture to see her again. He was, by habit, a patient
man. Only in the case of Strelsa Leeds had passion ever prematurely
betrayed him; and, pacing his porch there in the darkness, he set his
teeth and wondered at himself and cursed himself, unable to reconcile
what he knew of himself with what he had done to the only woman he had
ever wished to marry as a last resort.
       *       *       *       *       *
For two weeks Sprowl kept to himself. Few men understood better than he
what was the medicinal value of time. Only once had he dared ignore it.
So one evening, late in August, still dressed in knickerbockers and
heather-spats, he walked from his lawn across country to make the first
