mind when he saw a pretty woman. It did not require very keen scrutiny on
his part to arrive swiftly at the conclusion that this one was not quite
in the picture. Her cheeks were not red with that redness which has a
permanency of tone, neither waxing nor waning, abashed in daylight. Nor
had her lips found their scarlet moisture from out the depths of certain
little porcelain boxes. Decidedly she was out of place here, yet she
evinced no embarrassment; she was cool, at ease. Courtlandt's interest
strengthened.

"Why do you think I am lonely, Mademoiselle?" he asked, without smiling.

"Oh, when one talks to one's self, strikes the table, wastes good wine,
the inference is but natural. So, Monsieur is lonely."

Her lips and eyes, as grave and smileless as his own, puzzled him. An
adventure? He looked at some of the other women. Those he could
understand, but this one, no. At all times he was willing to smile, yet to
draw her out he realized that he must preserve his gravity unbroken. The
situation was not usual. His gaze came back to her.

"Is the comparison favorable to me?" she asked.

"It is. What is loneliness?" he demanded cynically.

"Ah, I could tell you," she answered. "It is the longing to be with the
one we love; it is the hate of the wicked things we have done; it is
remorse."

"That echoes of the Ambigu-Comique." He leaned upon his arms. "What are
you doing here?"

"I?"

"Yes. You do not talk like the other girls who come here."

"Monsieur comes here frequently, then?"

"This is the first time in five years. I came here to-night because I
wanted to be alone, because I did not wish to meet any one I knew. I have
scowled at every girl in the room, and they have wisely left me alone. I
haven't scowled at you because I do not know what to make of you. That's
frankness. Now, you answer my question."

"Would you spare me a glass of wine? I am thirsty."

He struck his hands together, a bit of orientalism he had brought back
with him. The observant waiter instantly came forward with a glass.

The young woman sipped the wine, gazing into the glass as she did so.
"Perhaps a whim brought me here. But I repeat, Monsieur is lonely."

"So lonely that I am almost tempted to put you into a taxicab and run away
with you."

She set down the glass.

"But I sha'n't," he added.

The spark of eagerness in her eyes was instantly curtained. "There is a
woman?" tentatively.

"Is there not always a woman?"

"And she has disappointed Monsieur?" There was no marked sympathy in the
tone.

"Since Eve, has that not been woman's part in the human comedy?" He was
almost certain that her lips became firmer. "Smile, if you wish. It is not
prohibitory here."

It was evident that the smile had been struggling for existence, for it
endured to the fulness of half a minute. She had fine teeth. He
scrutinized her more closely, and she bore it well. The forehead did not
make for beauty; it was too broad and high, intellectual. Her eyes were
splendid. There was nothing at all ordinary about her. His sense of
puzzlement renewed itself and deepened. What did she want of him? There
were other men, other vacant chairs.

"Monsieur is certain about the taxicab?"

"Absolutely."

"Ah, it is to emulate Saint Anthony!"

"There are several saints of that name. To which do you refer?"

"Positively not to him of Padua."

Courtlandt laughed. "No, I can not fancy myself being particularly
concerned about bambini. No, my model is Noah."

"Noah?" dubiously.

"Yes. At the time of the flood there was only one woman in the world."

"I am afraid that your knowledge of that event is somewhat obscured.
Still, I understand."

She lifted the wine-glass again, and then he noticed her hand. It was
large, white and strong; it was not the hand of a woman who dallied, who
idled in primrose paths.

"Tell me, what is it you wish? You interest me, at a moment, too, when I
do not want to be interested. Are you really in trouble? Is there anything
I can do ... barring the taxicab?"

She twirled the glass, uneasily. "I am not in actual need of assistance."

"But you spoke peculiarly regarding loneliness."

"Perhaps I like the melodrama. You spoke of the Ambigu-Comique."

"You are on the stage?"

"Perhaps."

"The Opera?"

"Again perhaps."

He laughed once more, and drew his chair closer to the table.

"Monsieur in other moods must have a pleasant laughter."

"I haven't laughed from the heart in a very long time," he said, returning
to his former gravity, this time unassumed.

"And I have accomplished this amazing thing?"

"No. You followed me here. But from where?"

"Followed you?" The effort to give a mocking accent to her voice was a
failure.

"Yes. The idea just occurred to me. There were other vacant chairs, and
there was nothing inviting in my facial expression. Come, let me have the
truth."

"I have a friend who knows Flora Desimone."

"Ah!" As if this information was a direct visitation of kindness from the
gods. "Then you know where the Calabrian lives? Give me her address."

There was a minute wrinkle above the unknown's nose; the shadow of a
frown. "She is very beautiful."

"Bah! Did she send you after me? Give me her address. I have come all the
way from Burma to see Flora Desimone."

"To see her?" She unguardedly clothed the question with contempt, but she
instantly forced a smile to neutralize the effect. Concerned with her own
defined conclusions, she lost the fine ironic bitterness that was in the
man's voice.

"Aye, indeed, to see her! Beautiful as Venus, as alluring as Phryne, I
want nothing so much as to see her, to look into her eyes, to hear her
voice!"

"Is it jealousy? I hear the tragic note." The certainty of her ground
became as morass again. In his turn he was puzzling her.
