round her eager to hear. And how Rilla would 
like her new coat and hat ! 

“ ril have to come and read you to sleep. And 
you haven’t eaten scarcely any supper,” said 
nurse. 

“ That’s because I’m chock full of delight. 
There wasn’t any room,” he laughed. 

However, Chan was none the worse. 

Little Wilmer was taken to the sunshine room 
to be with the convalescents. He said “ good-by ” 
to Chan in a glad tone, and the boy could not 
blame him. 

“ We’re going to bring a little boy here who 
was so delighted to hear you sing yesterday. He 
has a bad spinal trouble, but we hope sometime 
he will be better. His father and mother are 
away in Europe.” 

“ Oh, I’m glad my mother isn’t that far off. 
You know she has to be father, too.” 

They brought Arthur on his cot, and settled 
him in the other place. Oh, how white and thin 
he was ! Chan was startled. The nurse arranged 




the pillows about him and gave him some milk. 

'‘Would the little boy sing?” he asked in a 
faint tone. 

" I guess so. Chan ” — he had asked nurse to 
call him that so he wouldn’t be homesick — " would 
you mind singing in that low tone?” 

" Like the birds,” said Arthur. " Not songs 
with rhyme to them.” 

" Oh, no,” returned Chan cheerfully. 

So he sang, and some of the others listened as 
well. It was very sweet, and he tried to think 
of what the birds said to each other in the spring 
mornings. 

" That’s lovely for headache,” said Arthur. 
“ My head doesn’t ache as much. Does yours 
ache often? ” 

" Oh, no, unless I hit it a hard bump. Nothing 
about me ached until I hurt my hip.” 

“ How did you do it ? ” 

" Fell out of a tree. Discated something. 
No, the word’s longer’n that. I’ve left out a part 
in the middle. But it’s getting well, so it doesn’t 
need such a long word. I don’t know about the 
spine, except it’s the chain of joints that go down 
your back. Is yours hurt very much ? ” 

" Oh, there’s a big hump between my shoulders, 
and that can never be taken away. Father thought 



“Would the little boy sino?” he asked. 



 

maybe it might. Oh, will you sing again? The 
headache is coming back.” 

ril have to sing the same things over. I don’t 
know very much — a few Sunday-school hymns.” 

'' Oh, I like that best because it’s like the birds ! 
Our house is in the country, so I’ve heard them 
sing. I don’t know how you can do it.” 

‘‘ Why, it’s just as easy — as talking.” 

So he sang, and put in little calls and whistles 
and variations, and when Nurse Jane came she 
found Arthur asleep. 

“ Why, Chan, you have charmed him,” and she 
bent over and kissed him. “ Chan, you have a 
well of happiness somewhere about you and it 
overflows, but you mustn’t tax yourself too much.” 

So Chan lay quiet and thought about his mother 
and the others, but his mother mostly, and he was 
so glad she was “ dressed up ” and looked so pretty. 
Some women came in to see their invalids who 
wore very fine clothes and beautiful gold chains, 
but there was something in his mother’s face — he 
could not make it quite clear to himself — but it 
was the mother-love that made her different from 
every one else. Oh, how the time stretched out! 
Weeks never were so long before, but they would 
come to an end. It was splendid here with the 
kind nurses, the great rooms, the cleanliness, the 




flowers that came in every day. But there was 
the suffering, too, only how wonderful it was that 
little boys could come and be mended. There was 
a ward of little girls, too, and he had heard that 
some of them — well, there was heaven. And if 
you didn’t have anybody it would be nice to go 
there, but there were eight of them and mother, 
and they could never leave mother. 


CHAPTER XII 


A SONG IN THE NIGHT 

The two boys were soon great friends. Arthur 
really seemed to improve. When he told of the 
handsome house and fine grounds, the conservatory 
where they had flowers all winter, the two gar- 
deners, the horses and the automobile, the com- 
pany coming and going and the pictures, the piano 
and the organ, it seemed very grand. Chan was 
almost ashamed of their little old house. 

‘‘ Oh, you wouldn’t think us a bit nice ! ” he ex- 
claimed deprecatingly. 

But I do think you are nice,” very earnestly, 
the nicest boy I ever knew. You know so many 
funny things and you are all so jolly together, and 
I like your names. Tip is such a cute name, and 
his crying without any reason just makes you feel 
like laughing. And Prim’s funny stories, and 
Marigold ! Oh, I wish I could get well enough to 
come and see you. And your mother who cuddles 
you all. No one cuddles me except the nurse. The 
nurses here are so nice. The one I had home 





 

