not far below, and we ought to strike it before sunset.
"Halt here," said I, pretending to remain still unconvinced. "Sagamore,
do you come with me a rod or so upstream."
"There is no ford within a rod or two," said the Wyandotte stolidly.
And, after we had left the others, the Mohican murmured, as we hastened
on:
"No, not with one rod or two, but the third rod marks it."
Presently, speeding under the outer fringe of trees, I caught sight of
a thin line across the water, slanting from shore to shore--not a
ripple, but as though the edge of an invisible reef slightly affected
the smooth-flowing, glassy surface of the stream.
"He might have overlooked that," said I.
The Sagamore's visage became very smooth; and we climbed down among the
willows toward the sand below, and there the Mohican dropped on his
hands and knees.
Directly under his eyes I saw the faint print of a moccasin. Startled,
I said nothing; the Mohican studied the print for a few moments, then,
crouching, crept forward among the sand-willows. I followed; and at
long intervals I could make out the string of moccasin tracks, still
visible in the loose, dry sand.
"Could it be the St. Regis?" I whispered. "He may have been here
spearing fish. These tracks are not new.... And the Wyandotte might
have overlooked these, too."
"Maybe St. Regis," he said.
We had now crept nearly to the edge of the water, the dry and scarcely
discernible tracks leading us. But they were no fresher in the damp
sand. However, the Mohican did not seem satisfied, so we pulled off our
thigh-moccasins and waded out.
Although the water looked deep enough along the unseen reef, yet we
found nowhere more than four feet, and so crossed to the other side.
But before I could set foot on the shelving sand the Mohican pulled me
back into the water and pointed. There was no doubting the sign we
looked upon. A canoe had landed here within an hour, had been pushed
off again with a paddle without anybody landing. It was as plain as the
nose on your face.
Which way had it gone, upstream or down? If it had gone upstream, the
Wyandotte must have seen it and passed it without reporting it. In
other words, he was a traitor. But if the canoe had gone downstream
from this spot, or from some spot on the left bank a little above it,
there was nothing to prove that the Wyandotte had seen it. In fact,
there was every probability that he had not seen it at all. And I said
as much to the Sagamore.
"Maybe," he replied calmly.
We now cautiously recrossed the stream, scarcely liking our exposed
position, but there was no help for it. After we had dressed, I marked
the trees from the ford across the old path, which was visible here,
and so through to our main, spotted trail; the Mohican peeled a square
of bark, I wiped the white spot dry, and wrote with my wood-coal the
depth of water at the crossing; then we moved swiftly forward to join
the halted scouts.
Mayaro said to me: "We have discovered old moccasin tracks, but no ford
and no canoe marks. It is not necessary for the Black-Snake to know."
"Very well," said I calmly. "Do you suspect him!"
"Maybe. Maybe not. But--he once wore his hair in a ridge."
"What!"
"I looked down on him while he ate fish at the St. Regis fire. He has
not shaved his head since two weeks. There is a thin line dividing his
head, where the hairs at their roots are bent backward. Much oil and
brushing make hairs grow that way."
"But--what Indians wear their hair that way--like the curved ridge on a
dragoon's helmet?"
"The Eries."
I stared at him without comprehension, for I knew an Erie scalp when I
saw one.
"Not the warriors," he added quietly.
"What in heaven's name do you mean?" I demanded. But we were already
within sight of the others, and I heeded the cautioning touch of his
hand on my arm, and was silent.
When we came up to them I said:
"There are no riffles to indicate a ford"--which was true enough--"and
on the sand were only moccasin tracks a week old."
"The Black-Snake saw them," said the Wyandotte, so frankly and calmly
that my growing but indefinite suspicions of his loyalty were arrested
for the moment.
"Why did not the Black-Snake report them?" I asked.
"They were St. Regis, and a week old, as my brother says." And he
smiled at us all so confidingly that I could no longer believe ill of
him.
"Nevertheless," said I, "we will range out on either flank as far as
the ford which should be less than a mile down stream." And I placed
the Wyandotte between both Oneidas and on the forest side; and as the
valley was dry and open under its huge standing timber, I myself led,
notching the trail and keeping a lively eye to the left, wherever I
caught a glimpse of water sparkling.
Presently the Mohican halted in view of the river-bank, making a sign
for me to join him, which I did, briefly bidding the Stockbridge Mole
to notch the trees in my stead.
"A canoe has passed," said the Sagamore calmly.
"What! You saw it?"
"No, Loskiel. But there was spray on a boulder in a calm pool."
"Perhaps a deer crossed, or a mink or otter crawled across the stone."
"No; the drops were many, but they lay like the first drops of a rain,
separate and distinct."
"A great fish leaping might have spattered it."
"There was no wash against the rock from any fish-swirl."
"Then you believe that there is a canoe ahead of us going with the
current?"
"An hour ahead--less, I think."
"Why an hour?"
"The sun is low; the river boulders are not hot. Water might dry on
them in an hour or less. These drops were nearly dry, save one or two
where the sun made them shine."
"A careless paddle-stroke did it," I said in a low voice.
"No Indian is careless."
"What do you mean by that?"
"I mean, Loskiel, that the boulder was splashed purposely, or that
there are white men in that canoe."
"Splashed purposely?" I said, bewildered.
"Perhaps. The Black-Snake had the river watch--until you changed our
stations."
"You think it might have been a sign for him from possible
confederates."
"Maybe. Maybe clumsy white men."
"What white men? No forest runners dare range these woods at such a
time as this. Do you mean a scalping party of Butler's men?"
"Maybe."
We had been walking swiftly while we spoke together in low and guarded
tones; now I nodded my comprehension, sheered off to the right, took
the trail-lead, replacing the Stockbridge Mole, and signalled the
nearest Oneida, Grey-Feather, to join Mayaro on the left flank. This
made it necessary for me to call the Wyandotte into touch, which I did;
and the other Oneida, the "Night-Hawk," or Tahoontowhee, closed in from
the extreme outer flank.
The presence of that canoe worried me, nor could I find any explanation
for it. None of our surveyors was out--no scouts had gone in that
direction. Of course I knew that we were likely to run across scouts or
scalping parties of the enemy almost anywhere between the outlet to
Otsego Lake and Tioga Point, yet somehow had not expected to encounter
them until we had at least reached the Ouleout.
Another thing; if this phantom canoe was now within an hour of us, and
going with the current, it must at one time have been very, very close
to us--in fact, just ahead and within sight of the Wyandotte, if,
indeed, it had not come silently downstream from behind us and shot
past us in plain view of the Black-Snake.
Was the Wyandotte a traitor? For only he could have seen this. And I
own that I felt more comfortable having him on our right flank in the
forest, and away from the river; and as I notched my trees I kept him
in view, sideways, and pondered an the little that I knew of him, but
came to no conclusion. For of all things in the world I know less of
treachery and its wiles than of any other stratagem; and so utterly do
I misunderstand it, and so profound is my horror of it, that I never
can credit it to anybody until I see them hanged by the neck for it or
shot in hollow square, a-sitting upon their coffins.
Presently I saw the Sagamore stop and make signs to me that the ford
was in sight. Immediately I signalled the Wyandotte and the farther
Oneida to close in; and a few moments later we were gathered in the
forest shadow above the river, lying on our bellies and gazing far down
stream at the distant line of ripples running blood-red under the
sunset light.
Was there an ambush there, prepared for us? God knew. Yet, we must
approach and examine that ford, and pass it, too, and resume our march
on the right bank of the river to avoid the hemlock swamps and rocky
hills ahead, which no wagons or artillery could hope to pass.
My first and naturally cautious thought was to creep nearer and then
send the Wyandotte out under cover of our clustered rifles. But if he
were truly in any collusion with an unseen enemy they would never fire
on him, and so it would be useless to despatch him on such a mission.
"Wait for the moon," said the Sagamore very quietly.
His low, melodious voice startled me from my thoughts, and I looked
around at him inquiringly.
