Irrawaddy, so I'm told.  Never spoke to any one else.  Made him sit at
her side at table and jabbered Italian at him, as if she didn't want
others to know what she was talking about.  I know the man.  Fired him
from my plantation, when I found out what he was.  Can't recall his
name just now, but he is known out here as Warrington; Parrot & Co."
The consul-general was genuinely shocked.
"You can't blame me for thinking things," went on Mallow.  "What man
wouldn't?  Ask her about Warrington.  You'll find that I'm telling the
truth, all right."
"If you are, then she has made one of those mistakes women make when
they travel alone.  I shall see her at tea and talk to her.  But I do
not thank you, Mallow, for telling me this.  A finer, loyaler-hearted
girl doesn't live.  She might have been kind out of sympathy."
Mallow bit off the tip of his cigar.  "He's a handsome beggar, if you
want to know."
"I resent that tone.  Better drop the subject before I lose my temper.
I'll have your papers ready for you in the morning."  The
consul-general caught up his pen savagely to indicate that the
interview was at an end.
"All right," said Mallow good-naturedly.  "I meant no harm.  Just
naturally curious.  Can't blame me."
"I'm not blaming you.  But it has disturbed me, and I wish to be alone
to think it over."
Mallow lounged out, rather pleased with himself.  His greatest pleasure
in life was in making others uncomfortable.
The consul-general bit the wooden end of his pen and chewed the
splinters of cedar.  He couldn't deny that it was like Elsa to pick up
some derelict for her benefactions.  But to select a man who was
probably wanted by the American police was a frightful misfortune.
Women had no business to travel alone.  It was all very well when they
toured in parties of eight or ten; but for a charming young woman like
Elsa, attended by a spinster companion who doubtless dared not offer
advice, it was decidedly wrong.  And thereupon he determined that her
trip to Yokohama should find her well guarded.
"I beg your pardon," said a pleasant voice.
The consul-general had been so deeply occupied by his worry that he had
not noticed the entrance of the speaker.  He turned impatiently.  He
saw a tall blond man, bearded and tanned, with fine clear blue eyes
that met his with the equanimity of the fearless.
XIII
AFTER TEN YEARS
The consul-general had, figuratively, a complete assortment of masks,
such as any thorough play-actor might have, in more or less constant
demand, running the gamut from comedy to tragedy.  Some of these masks
grew dusty between ships, but could quickly be made presentable.
Sometimes, when large touring parties came into port, he confused his
masks, being by habit rather an absent-minded man.  But he possessed a
great fund of humor, and these mistakes gave him laughable
recollections for days.
He saw before him an exquisite, as the ancient phrase goes, backed by
no indifferent breed of manhood.  Thus, he believed that here was a
brief respite (as between acts) in which the little plastic hypocrisies
could be laid aside.  The pleasant smile on his high-bred face was all
his own.
"And what may I do for you, sir?"  He expected to be presented with
letters of introduction, and to while away a half-hour in the agreeable
discussion of mutual acquaintance.
"I should like a few minutes' private talk with you," began the
well-dressed stranger.  "May I close the door?"  The consul-general,
with a sense of disappointment, nodded.  The blond man returned and sat
down.  "I don't know how to begin, but I want you to copy this
cablegram and send it under your own name.  Here it is; read it."
So singular a request filled the consul-general with astonishment.
Rather mechanically he accepted the slip of paper, adjusted his
glasses, and read--
"The Andes Construction Company, New York: A former employee of yours
wishes to make a restitution of eight thousand dollars, with interest
to date.  He dares not give his name to me, but he wishes to learn if
this belated restitution will lift the ban against his returning to
America and resuming his citizenship.  Reply collect."
"This is an extraordinary request to make to me, sir."
"I know it."
"But why bring it to me?"
"Could I possibly offer that to the cable operator?  Without name or
address?  No; I could not do it without being subjected to a thousand
questions, none of which I should care to answer.  So I came to you.
Passing through your hands, no one will question it.  Will you do this
favor for a poor unfortunate devil?"
Oddly enough, the other could not get away from his original
impression.  The clothes, the way the man wore them, the clarity of his
eyes, the abundant health that was expressed by the tone of the skin,
derided such a possibility as the cablegram made manifest.
He forced the smile back to his lips.  "Are you sure you're not hoaxing
me?"
"No.  I am the victim of the hoax," enigmatically.  "If one may call
the quirks of fate by the name of hoax," the stranger added.  "Will you
send it?"
The years he had spent in the consular service had never brought before
him a situation of this order.  He did not know exactly what to do.  He
looked out of the window, into the hotel-court, at the sky which
presently would become overcast with the daily rain-clouds.  By and by
he remembered the man waiting patiently at his elbow.
"What is your name?"
"My real name, or the one by which I am known here?"
"Your real one."
"I'd rather not give that until I hear from New York."
"Well, that is reasonable."
"I am known out here by the name of Warrington."
Warrington.  The puzzlement vanished from the older man's face, and his
eyes became alert, renewing from another angle their investigation of
the stranger.  Warrington.  So this was the man?  He could understand
now.  Who could blame a girl for making a mistake when he, a seasoned
veteran, had been beguiled by the outward appearance of the man?
Mallow was right.  He was a handsome beggar.
"I promise to send this upon one condition."
"I accept without question," readily.
"It is that you must keep away from Elsa Chetwood, now and hereafter.
You made her acquaintance under false pretenses."
"I deny that.  Not under false pretenses."  How quickly things went
about!  "Let me tell you how I met her."
The consul-general listened; he listened with wonder and interest, and
more, with conviction that the young man had been perfectly honest.
But the knowledge only added to his growing alarm.  It would not be
difficult for such a man to win the regard of any young woman.
"And you told her what you had done?"
"Yes."
"Your first misstep?" touching the cablegram.
"My first and only misstep.  I was a careless, happy-go-lucky young
fool."  The sky outside also had attraction for Warrington.  A thousand
times a fool!
"How long ago did this happen?"
"Ten years this coming April."
"And now, after all this time, you wish to go back?"
"I have wished to go back many times, but never had money enough.  I
have plenty now.  Oh, I made it honestly," smiling.  "In oil, at Prome.
Here's a cutting from a Rangoon paper."
The other read it carefully.  It was romance, romance such as he liked
to read in his books, but which was mighty bewildering to have at his
elbow in actuality.  What a life the man must have led!  And here he
was, with no more evidence of the conflict than might be discerned in
the manliness of his face and the breadth and depth of his shoulders.
He dropped the cutting, impatiently.
"Don't you believe it?"
"Believe it?  Oh, this?  Yes," answered the consul-general.  "What I
can not believe is that I am awake.  I can not quite make two and two
equal four."
"Which infers?"
"That I can not . . .  Well, you do not look like a man who would rob
his employer of eight thousand dollars."
"Much obliged."
"Parrot & Co.  It's odd, but I recollect that title.  You were at
Udaipur during the plague."
Warrington brightened.  "So that's got about?  I happened to be there,
working on the prince's railway."
"I will send the cable at once.  You will doubtless hear from New York
in the morning.  But you must not see Miss Chetwood again."
"You will let me bid her good-by?  I admire and respect her more than
any other woman.  She does not know it, for as yet her soul is asleep;
but she is one of those few women God puts on earth for the courage and
comfort of man.  Only to say good-by to her.  Here in this office, if
you wish."
"I agree to that."
"Thank you again."  Warrington rose.
"I am genuinely sorry for you.  If they say no, what will you do?"
"Go back just the same.  I have another debt to cancel."
"Call in the morning.  I'll let you know what the charges are."
"I forgot.  Here are twenty pounds.  You can return the balance when I
call.  I am very grateful."
"By the way, there is a man here by the name of Mallow," began the
consul-general.
