blow, the indignity of both clouded and confused her. From without the
uproar mounted and suddenly, the uproar prompting, into the turmoil
that was her mind, a gleam of understanding shot. At the apperception
of it she shrieked, ran to the window where she shrieked again. The
loosened dogs had sprung at Verplank, who, overwhelmed had fallen.
Again she shrieked. Answering the shriek, mingling with it, were
snarls, the gnashing of fangs, the din of great hounds ferociously
struggling for blood, tearing vehemently at flesh, at a flesh, though,
that rebelled.
Verplank rose up between them. With a kick he sent one of them
sprawling. But, in the recoil, torn at by the other hound, he stumbled.
The dog was at his throat. In protection he held his left arm against
it. With his right hand he got at the revolver in his pocket, and,
through the pocket, fired twice into the brute. Gnashing still, it
rolled away.
But now, from the other side, the second hound was on him. He saw its
eyes, felt its breath, felt its fangs. Again he fired. As he did so,
his hand relaxed. He heard a woman shrieking, the sound of hurrying
feet. The wall before him mounted. His senses scattered into night.
Suddenly the garden was filled with people. Through the gate, two
sergents de ville had come. These, forms furtive and uncertain
followed. From the house, led by Barouffski, the footmen ran. Above,
from the window, still there issued a woman’s shrieks.
Barouffski stopped, and turned. He looked up at the window. He smiled.
With one hand he tapped his breast, with the other he pointed at
Verplank. Then, in French, reassuringly, he called:
“My dear! See! You may be tranquil. I, I am unharmed. It is the robber.”
At the ignominy of that flouting jeer, Leilah, impelled by the impulse
to do something, though it were but to beat her head against a wall,
rushed from the window, and, strangling with spasms, fled out of the
room and down the stair, where horror so suffocatingly enveloped her
that in it her brain tipped, and she fell.
XI
In the golden half light of the Opéra, a chorus, soprano voices on one
side of the stage alternating with contralto on the other, vaporised
the subtle sensuality of the scene.
Violet Silverstairs, turning to her husband, who was seated behind her,
remarked:
“How much better the Italian school is than the French.”
Silverstairs, ignorant of either, and indifferent to both, promenaded
his glass about the house.
“I wonder why Tempest doesn’t show up? There is Marie de Fresnoy! I saw
de Fresnoy to-day for the first time since his duel with Barouffski.
What a ridiculous affair that was! I suppose one of these days he will
have another with d’Arcy.”
Violet turned to him again.
“Because of Marie? How absurd you are! D’Arcy doesn’t interest her. No
man could unless he drove at her with a four-in-hand, and d’Arcy has
nothing.”
Silverstairs, still promenading his glass, exclaimed:
“There he is now!”
“Who? D’Arcy?”
“Yes, with the Helley-Quetgens, in that box between the columns. Isn’t
that your friend Leilah whom he is talking to? By Jove, it is, and
Barouffski is there, also.”
Violet, who had also been promenading her glass, put it down.
“Well, he ought to be. I do think she has acted scandalously. What is
said at the club?”
“About Verplank? It is forgotten already. Barouffski, you know, claimed
that it was a mistake, and as it appears that Verplank agreed with him,
as from neither the one nor the other any charge was forthcoming, the
police could do nothing but get Verplank back to the Ritz.”
Impatiently Violet unfurled her fan.
“Yes, where she has been every day; every day, that is, when she has
not been with d’Arcy.”
The statement was inexact. Leilah had indeed been at the Ritz but
d’Arcy she had seen but once, momentarily, by accident--if there
be such a thing, in any event through one of those seeming hazards
which, however fortuitous at first, afterward appear to have been
designed. It was a little, though, before Leilah took that view of
things. Meanwhile, when, on recovering from her swoon, she learned
that Verplank had also recovered she realised with thanksgiving that
Destiny which has its tyrannies has its mercies as well. So soon then
as she could get from the bed into which the horrors of the midspring
nightmare had thrown her, she went to the Ritz where she found Verplank
amply attended, abundantly bandaged, severely but not dangerously hurt.
“One of the brutes nearly chewed my arm off,” he told her. “If the
other omitted to eat me entirely, it was not because he did not try. I
did for them, though,” he added, and smiled as he said it. After the
manner of man, he took comfort in the feat.
“But not for the worst brute,” Leilah answered wishing in spite of
herself, wishing instinctively and even ungrammatically that some good
fate might.
From beneath a bandage, Verplank laughed:
“Bah! I’ll do for him, too.”
But Leilah did not hear. She was speaking to the surgeon, whom--with
a bravery which in itself was a little defiant, and which in any
event might have been more discreet--thereafter, daily and openly,
she supplied with that which every surgeon wants, a nurse obedient,
attentive, skilful, alert, and who, in addition ministers for love.
Presently, Verplank was able to be up. The surgeon said that in a day
he would be able to be out. Verplank, who knew as much without being
told, asked Leilah to go with him on the morrow.
Leilah refused. Verplank, for an invalid, became then surprisingly
demoniac. The demonism of him affected her less than a conception,
feminine perhaps but erroneous, of her own selfishness. If she went,
she knew beforehand that irremissibly she would be dishonoured. But
she knew also that any sense of dishonour must, if it is to ashame,
come not from without but from within. If she went, her conscience,
she thought, would acquit her. She thought that she would not feel
dishonoured, though she knew that she would be disgraced. To refuse on
that account seemed to her selfish. As a result finally she consented.
Yet in consenting she made one stipulation. Characteristic in itself,
it was that there must be nothing clandestine, that he must come for
her in the rue de la Pompe, and that from there, her boxes put on
whatever vehicle he brought, they would leave for darkness by daylight.
The plan pleased Verplank. He agreed at once. He told her that he
would come the next day.
When he had, she added: “To-night I go to the Opéra; the Helley-Quetgens
have asked me. It is my last look at this world.”
Then, shortly, the arrangements for the evasion completed, she left the
hotel.
Without, her motor waited. She told the groom to have it follow
her. The air tempted, though the sky was dirty. She thought of the
California glare, the eager glitter of New York. She wondered would
they go back there. Perhaps, she told herself, we shall at last see
Bora-Bora.
Her walk took her through the arcades of the rue de Rivoli to the
fountains of the Place de la Concorde. From there she was about to
enter the Champs Elysées when she became conscious of being accosted.
“Chère madame,” some one was saying, “I precipitate myself to renew the
expression of my homage.”
D’Arcy, hat in hand, was before her. At once, with a view to what the
French agreeably describe as the placing of landmarks--pour poser des
jalons--he asked to be permitted to accompany her.
Leilah smiled.
“Not for the world!”
She motioned at the motor. Then, with that graciousness which is
natural to the mondaine, with perhaps the desire also to attenuate
whatever there were of brusqueness in her reply, she added, as she got
in the car:
“I shall be at the Opéra with the Helley-Quetgens to-night. Could you
not look in?”
D’Arcy, habituated to the abruptest victories, accustomed to inflame,
with but a glance, by the mere exhibition of his Olympian good looks,
and, therefore, indifferent when not bored by the celerity of his
successes, but piqued by the tranquil air with which this woman had
always regarded him, thanked her, assured her that he would not fail to
be there, and replaced his hat.
Immediately he raised it again, straight from the head, high in the
air. Looking with brilliant eyes from a brilliant brougham, Violet
Silverstairs was dashing by.
Coincidentally, unobserved but observant, Barouffski was also passing
that way.
Leilah’s motor flew off and she sank back, wondering at herself,
wondering rather what influence, malign and unhallowed, could possibly
have prompted her to ask this man, whom she disliked as--in spite of a
theory to the contrary--honest women do dislike a man of his type. But
though, at the time, she could not understand what impelled her, later
it seemed to her that it must have been fate.
Barouffski had a different interpretation. At the Joyeuses he had
seen Leilah and d’Arcy together. Now, here they were again. The
circumstance, of which the fortuitousness was unknown to him, irritated
him for that very cause. But he could imagine and did. At once it was
clear to him that the brute was after the blue eyes of her bankbook.
The deduction, however erroneous, was easy. He was viewing the matter,
not, as he fancied, from d’Arcy’s standpoint, but from his own. In
spite of which, or rather precisely on that account, he told himself
that d’Arcy was a damned scoundrel. The humour of this quite escaped
him. But that perhaps was in the order of things.
