some one of them might play upon him the 
same vile trick. Even in the midst of his 
radiant happiness, when he knew that 
Henriette was hanging upon his every word, 
trembling with deHght when she heard his 
latchkey in the door — still he could not 
drive away the horrible thought that per- 
haps all this might be deception. 
 
There was his friend, Gustave, for exam- 
ple. He had been a friend of Henriette's 
before her marriage; he had even been in 
love with her at one time. And now he 
came sometimes to the house — once or 
twice when George was away! What did 
that mean? George wondered. He brooded 
over it all day, but dared not drop any 
hint to Henriette. But he took to setting 
little traps to catch her; for instance, he 
would call her up on the telephone, dis- 
guising his voice. '' Hello! hello! Is that 
you, Madame Dupont?'' And when she 
answered, ''It is I, sir," all unsuspecting, 
he would inquire, ''Is George there?" 
"No, sir," she replied. "Who is this 
speaking?" 
He answered, "It is I, Gustave. How 
are you this morning?" He wanted to see 
what she would answer. Would she per- 
haps say, "Very well, Gustave. How are 
you?" — in a tone which would betray too 
great intimacy! 
But Henriette was a sharp young person. 
The tone did not sound like Gustave's. 
She asked in bewilderment, "What?" And 
then again, "What?" 
 
So, at last, George, afraid that his trick 
might be suspected, had to burst out 
laughing, and turn it into a joke. But 
when he came home and teased his wife 
about it, the laugh was not all on his side. 
Henriette had guessed the real meaning of 
his joke! She did not really mind — she 
took his jealousy as a sign of his love, and 
was pleased with it. It is not until a third 
party comes upon the scene that jealousy 
begins to be annoying. 
So she had a merry time teasing George. 
''You are a great fellow! You have no 
idea how well I understand you — and after 
only a year of marriage!" 
''You know me?" said the husband, 
curiously. (It is always so fascinating 
when anybody thinks she know us better 
than we know ourselves!) ''Tell me, 
what do you think about me?" 
'' You are restless," said Henriette. ''You 
are suspicious. You pass your time putting 
flies in your milk, and inventing wise 
schemes to get them out." 
''Oh, you think that, do you?" said 
George, pleased to be talked about. 
 
''I am not annoyed.' she answered. 
''You have always been that way — and I 
know that it's because at bottom you are 
timid and disposed to suffer. And then, 
too, perhaps you have reasons for not 
having confidence in a wife's intimate 
friends — 'lady-killer that you are!" 
George found this rather embarrassing; 
but he dared not show it, so he laughed 
gayly. ''I don't know what you mean," 
he said — ''upon my word I don't. But 
it is a trick I would not advise every- 
body to try." 
There were other embarrassing moments, 
caused by George's having things to con- 
ceal. There was, for instance, the matter 
of the six months' delay in the marriage — 
about which Henriette would never stop 
talking. She begrudged the time, because 
she had got the idea that Httle Gervaise 
was six months younger than she otherwise 
would have been. ''That shows your 
timidity again," she would say. ''The 
idea of your having imagined yourself a 
consumptive!" 
Poor George had to defend himself. ''I 
 
didn't tell you half the truth, because I 
was afraid of upsetting you. It seemed 
I had the beginning of chronic bronchitis. 
I felt it quite keenly whenever I took a 
breath, a deep breath — 'look, like this. 
Yes — 'I felt — 'here and there, on each side 
of the chest, a heaviness — a difficulty — '' 
''The idea of taking six months to cure 
you of a thing like that!'' exclaimed 
Henriette. ''And making our baby six 
months younger than she ought to be!" 
"But," laughed George, "that means 
that we shall have her so much the longer! 
She will get married six months later!" 
"Oh, dear me," responded the other, 
"let us not talk about such things! I 
am already worried, thinking she will get 
married some day." 
"For my part," said George, "I see my- 
self mounting with her on my arm the 
staircase of the Madeleine." 
"Why the Madeleine?" exclaimed his 
wife. "Such a very magnificent church!" 
"I don't know — 'I see her under her 
white veil, and myself all dressed up, and 
with an order." 
I 
 
''With an order !'' laughed Henriette. 
''What do you expect to do to win an 
order?'' 
"I don't know that — 'but I see myself 
with it. Explain it as you will, I see my- 
self with an order. I see it all, exactly 
as if I were there — 'the Swiss guard with 
his white stockings and the halbard, and 
the little milliner's assistants and the 
scullion hned up staring." 
"It is far off — all that," said Henriette. 
"I don't like to talk of it. I prefer her 
as a baby. I want her to grow up — 'but 
then I change my mind and think I don't. 
I know your mother doesn't. Do you 
know, I don't beheve she ever thinks 
about anything but her little Gervaise." 
"I believe you," said the father. "The 
child can certainly boast of having a grand- 
mother who loves her." 
"Also, I adore your mother," declared 
Henriette. "She makes me forget my 
misfortune in not having my own mother. 
She is so good!" 
''We are all like that in our family," 
put in George. 
 
"Really!" laughed the wife. "Well, 
anyhow — 'the last time that we went down 
in the country with her — 'you had gone 
out, I don't know where you had gone — " 
"To see the sixteenth-century chest," 
suggested the other. 
"Oh, yes," laughed Henriette; "your 
famous chest!" (You must excuse this 
little family chatter of theirs — 'they were 
so much in love with each other!) 
"Don't let's talk about that," objected 
George. "You were saying — ?" 
"You were not there. The nurse was 
out at mass, I think — " 
