like system; you know just what to do. Now 
you go over to the kitchen and get a bottle 
of milk. The babies drink that, too. Then 
I’ll show you how to light up the stove. It’s 
the handiest little thing. I couldn’t manage 
without it.” 
Marilla had a pleasant greeting from Katie 
who declared, "she looked ten per cent 
better and hoped she would have a good 
appetite for her breakfast as she didn't eat 
enough to keep a bird alive last night.’ 
The babies were pretty good natured, as well. 
"You know they always were real sweet.’ 
said their mother, "and so easily amused. I 
hope you haven’t forgotten your knack of 
story telling; and how they used to laugh! 
That Ellen was the stupidest thing.” 
While she was feeding the babies, the growm 
folks went over to their breakfast. The kitchen 
and the servants’ table was in much better 
order, and there were some delightful muffins 
and fresh fish and muskmelons. The babies 
played about; Jack’s father took him out for 
a walk, then there was a long quiet time at the 
luncheon hour, and the babies were fed 
again. 
succeeded in getting a two-seat carriage, 
so we will all go out this afternoon,” said 
Mr. Borden. 'They say Braun is a queer 
Hungarian settlement and on Sunday the 
people are all out in their best. We’ll take a 
look at it.” 
‘Can we all go?” 
"Why Florence said she wouldn’t mind 
caring for one baby, and Marilla can take the 
other/’ 
The two nurses had the back seat, Florence 
made Marilla put her baby between them on 
the seat. We’ll change off when I get tired 
of holding mine,” she said. 
They went straight over to the Sound — the 
upper end of the great South Bay. Oh how 
splendid it was! Marilla almost held her 
breath with surprise, then they drove up the 
road a short distance, but she hated to leave 
the glorious views. Pansy dropped in her 
lap and went to sleep. As they turned they 
passed through one of the magnificent resi- 
dential settlements, then to the odd Hungarian 
town where a foreign Sunday was in full life 
and vivacity. 
Little tables were standing around, some 
filled with families, some having a couple of 
lovers ; other parties were walking up and down ; 
all in picturseque holiday attire. The tables 
were set out with small, hard brown cakes, slices 
of bread that each had brought to the feast. 
There was beer of course, merrymaking and 
jollity — but no one seemed to overstep the 
bounds. Children ran around, grotesque 
copies of their elders. Rows of cottages and 
gardens, great corn and hayfields, stubble 
where cattle were browsing, enclosures of 
fattening pigs whose squealing had a mirthful 
sound. 
'‘It is well worth looking at,'' said Mr. Bor- 
den. bit of Europe on one of our islands 
and really a lesson to our own thriftless poor.” 
Violet chattered in a funny fashion, but 
Pansy slept through it all. Marilla tried 
several times to shift her position, but the 
little form was too heavy to stir. Yet it was 
delightful, though she kept thinking of last 
Sunday and Dr. Richards. 
Mr. Borden stopped at the gate and helped 
them out. 
"Lift Pansy, she’s asleep,” said Aunt 
Florence. 
'Oh, Marilla, why didn’t you keep her 
awake! I’ve been trying not to let them 
sleep in the afternoon so they would go to 
bed the earlier.” 
"Just as you get a baby in good habits, 
someone comes along and spoils it all,” 
exclaimed Mrs. Borden in a vexed tone. She 
was a little tired, having answered at least 
fifty questions for Jack. 
But Pansy woke when her father stood 
her down, and said, rather drowsily —  "Nice 
horsey’ and sat squarely down in the path. 
Aunt Florence picked her up and led her to 
the porch. 
"Now, Marilla, get their suppers ready 
and feed them. And put away their things. 
I can’t bear to see them lying round on chairs.” 
Mr. Borden drove off, taking Jack. 
"Ont bedy-milk,” announced Violet. 
"Yes, yes; go to Marilla.” 
The child had laid the caps in the drawer 
and hung up the coats. Both children came 
out and clamored for supper and pulled on her 
skirt until they almost tipped her over. 
Then the great bell clanged for the boarders’ 
supper. They had dinner at noon on Sun- 
days. Mr. Borden returned and escorted 
the ladies over. This was always a rather 
chatty, long-drawn-out meal. 
Marilla fed the babies, washed and put 
away her few dishes, then took the children 
out on the porch. Violet wanted to be 
'Vocked,” so she sat beside her in the big 
porch chair. Pansy ran up and down utter- 
ing queer unmusical noises. The piano in the 
other part of the house was accompanying 
a singer. 
The mistress of that part leaned out of the 
window and said in a sharp tone — “Can't 
you keep that child still? She's an awful 
nuisance.’’ 
'Let us go indoors,” said Marilla. "Come, 
and I’ll tell you a story about a bunny that 
got lost away from all his folks.” 
But Pansy had no mind to come. She 
screamed when Marilla took hold of her arm 
and then kicked, jerking away, she rolled down 
the three steps, landing on the grass. Marilla, 
frightened, picked her up in her arms and ran 
through the hall with her. The suddenness 
had really taken the breath out of the little 
body for a moment, then she looked rather 
wildly at her rescuer. 
'It didn’t hurt you much and you were a 
naughty baby to run away! Don’t cry any 
more and you shall have ” she cast 
about to see what solace there was — "oh, 
you shall have some sugar — see — ” and 
she offered her some in a spoon. 
Pansy laughed and reached out for the 
sugar, quite restored to good humor. 
"Now, I’ll go out and get sister and you 
shall have some more sugar.” 
Violet came in quite willingly. She sat on 
the floor with them and thought of the stories 
she used to tell. This one was about a run- 
away squirrel. It grew dark and he was afraid, 
for he heard a queer noise that kept saying, 
"Who — who,” so he ran another way. Then 
a dog barked, and Marilla made the sound 
of a dog and both babies laughed delightedly. 
"So he ran as fast as he could but the dog 
ran, too, and the squirrel climbed up in a 
tree,” and Marilla climbed with her hands 
on the back of the chair in a funny fashion. 
'Come down,’ said the dog. T won’t,’ said 
the squirrel. 'Then I’ll climb up and eat you.’ 
But the squirrel laughed and said: 'You can’t 
climb a tree.’ ” 
The babies laughed, too, but Violet wanted to 
be 'Vocked” again. She really was sleepy. 
So Marilla put them both in the rocking chair 
