   true.

   "Dear little boy of my childhood, dear lad of my girlhood,
   and, of my womanhood, dearest of men, I pray that God will
   comfort you and yours.

   "I was twelve years old the only time I ever saw your father.
   He spoke so sweetly to me--put his arm around my
   shoulders--asked me if I were Red Riding Hood or the Princess
   Far Away.

   "And, to obey him, I went to find my father. And found him
   dead. Or what the world calls dead.

   "Later, as I stood there outside the door, stunned by what
   had happened, back through the doorway came running a boy.
   Clive, if you have forgotten what you said to that child
   there by the darkened doorway of life, the girl who writes
   this has never forgotten.

   "And now, since sorrow has come to you, in my turn I seek you
   where you stand by a darkened door alone, and I send to you
   my very soul in this poor, inky letter,--all I can
   offer--Clive--all that I believe--all that I am.
                                                    "ATHALIE."

So much for tribute and condolence as far as she could be concerned
where she remained among the other millions outside the sacred
threshold across which her letter and her flowers had gone, across
which the girl herself might never go.

After a few days he wrote and thanked her for her letter, not of
course knowing about the lilies:

   "It is the first time death has ever come very near me. I had
   been told and had always thought that we were a long-lived
   race.

   "I am still dazed by it. I suppose the sharper grief will
   come when this dull, unreal sense of stupefaction wears away.

   "We were very close together, my father and I. Oh, but we
   might have been closer, Athalie!--I might have been with him
   oftener, seen more of him, spent less time away from him.

   "I did try to be a good son. I could have been far better.
   It's a bitter thing to realise at such a time.

   "And I had so much to say to him. I cannot understand that I
   can never say it now.... Athalie dear, my mother wishes me to
   take her abroad. I made arrangements yesterday at the Cunard
   office. We sail Saturday. Could I see you for a moment before
   I go?
                                                    "CLIVE."

To which she replied:

   "I shall be here every evening."

He came Friday night looking very sallow and thin in his black
clothes. Catharine, who was sewing by the centre table, rose to shake
hands with him in sympathetic silence, then went away to her bedroom,
where, once or twice she caught herself whistling some gay refrain of
the moment, and was obliged to check herself.

He had taken Athalie's slender hands and was standing by the sofa,
looking intently at her.

"That night," he said with an effort, "you sent me home--saying that I
was needed."

"Yes, Clive."

"How did you know?"

"I knew."

"Did you see--anything?"

"Yes, dear," she said under her breath.

"Did you see him?"

"Yes."

"Tell me," he said, but his lips scarcely moved to form the words he
uttered.

"I recognised him at once. I had never forgotten him.... It is
difficult to explain how I knew that he was not--what we call living."

"But you knew?"

"Yes," she said gently.

"He--did he speak?" The young fellow turned away with a brusque,
hopeless gesture.

"God," he muttered--"and I couldn't either see or hear him!"

"He did not speak, Clive." The boy looked up at her, his haggard
features working.

She said: "When I first noticed him he was looking at you. Then he
caught my eye. Clive--it was this time as it had been before--when I
was twelve years old--his expression became so sweet and winning--like
yours when I amuse you--and you laugh at me but--like me--"

"Oh, Athalie--I can't seem to endure it! I--I can't be reconciled--"
His head fell forward; she put her arms around him and drew his face
against her breast.

"I know," she whispered. "I also have passed that way."

After a few moments he lifted his head, looked around, almost
fearfully.

"Where was it that he stood, Athalie?"

She hesitated, then took one of his hands in hers and he followed her
until she stopped between the sofa and the fireplace.

"Here?"

"Yes, Clive."

"So near!" he said aloud to himself. "Couldn't he have spoken to
me?--just one word--"

"Dearest--dearest!"

"God knows why you should see him and I shouldn't! I don't
understand--when I was his son--"

"I do not understand either, Clive."

He seemed not to hear her, standing there with blank gaze shifting
from object to object in the room. "I don't understand," he kept
repeating in a dull, almost querulous voice,--"I don't understand
why." And her heart responded in a passion of tenderness and grief.
But she found no further words to say to him, no explanation that
might comfort him.

"Will he ever come here--anywhere--again?" he asked suddenly.

"Oh, Clive, I don't know."

"Don't you know? Couldn't you find out?"

"How? I don't know how to find out. I never try to inquire."

"Isn't there some way?"

"I don't really know, Clive. How could I know?"

"But when you see such people--shadows--shapes--"

"Yes.... They are not shadows."

"Do they seem real?"
