brute.  The colonel and Bruce at once assumed charge.  The old zest
returned with all its vigor and allurement.  Even Kathlyn and Pundita
decided to join the expedition, though Pundita knew nothing of arms.
Now, this village was the home of the nine brigands, and whenever they
were about they dominated the villagers.  They were returning from a
foraging expedition into the hills, and discovered the trap cage with
the tiger inside.  Very good.  The tiger was no use to any but
themselves, since they knew where to sell it.  They were in the act of
pulling the brush away from the cage when they heard sounds of others
approaching.  With the suspicion which was a part of their business
they immediately ran to cover to see who it was.
Instantly the chief of the brigands discovered that these new arrivals
were none other than the white people who had given him and his men a
superdrug and thereby mulcted them out of the sacred white elephant
which was to have brought them a fortune.
Unfortunately, the men of Kathlyn's party laid aside their weapons on
approaching the cage to tear away the brush.  Eight brigands, at a sign
from their chief, surrounded the investigators, who found themselves
nicely caught.
The natives fled incontinently.  So did Bala Khan's camel men.
"Death if you move!" snarled the chief.  "Ah, you gave us bad opium,
and we dropped like logs!  Swine!"  He raised his rifle threateningly.
"Wait a minute," said Bruce coolly.  "What you want is money."
"Ay, money!  Ten thousand rupees!"
"It shall be given you if you let us go.  You will conduct us over the
hills to the sea, and there the money will be given you."
The chief laughed long and loudly.  "What!  Am I a goat to put my head
inside the tiger's jaws?  Nay, I shall hold you here for ransom.  Let
them bring gold.  Now, take hold," indicating the trap cage.  "We shall
take this fine man eater along with us.  I am speaking to you, white
men, and you, pig of a Hindu!  Chalu!  I will kill any one who falters.
Opium!  Ah, yes!  You shall pay for my headache and the sickness of my
comrades.  Chalu!  And your white woman; she shall give a ransom of her
own!"
The village jutted out into the desert after the fashion of a
peninsula.  On the west of it lay another stretch of sand.  They
followed the verdure till they reached the base of the rocky hills,
which were barren of any vegetation; huge jumbles of granite the color
of porphyry.  During the night they made about ten miles, and at dawn
were smothered by one of those raging sand-storms, prevalent in this
latitude.  They had to abandon the trap cage and seek shelter in a
near-by cave.  Here they remained huddled together till the storm died
away.
"It has blown itself out," commented the chief.  Then he spoke to
Ramabai.  "Who is this man?" with a nod toward the colonel.
"He is an American."
"He came for Allaha?"
"Yes," said Ramabai unsuspiciously.
"Ha!  Then that great prince did not lie."
"What prince?" cried Ramabai, now alarmed.
"The Prince Durga Ram.  Three fat bags of silver, he said, would he pay
me for the white hunter with the white hair.  It is the will of Allah!"
The colonel's head sank upon his knees.  Kathlyn patted his shoulder.
"Father, I tell you mind not the mouthings of a vile guru.  We shall
soon be free."
"Kit, this time, if I return to Allaha, I shall die.  I feel it in my
bones."
"And I say no!"
The chief turned to Ramabai.  "You and the woman with you shall this
day seek two camels of the five you borrowed from Bala Khan.  You will
journey at once to Allaha.  But do not waste your time in stopping to
acquaint Bala Khan.  At the first sign of armed men each of those left
shall die in yonder tiger cage."
"We refuse!"
"Then be the first to taste the tiger's fangs!"
The chief called to his men to seize Ramabai and Pundita, when Kathlyn
interfered.
"Go, Ramabai; it is useless to fight against these men who mean all
they say, and who are as cruel as the tiger himself."
"It shall be as the Mem-sahib says," replied Ramabai resignedly.
      *      *      *      *      *      *
One morning Umballa entered the judgment hall of the palace, disturbed
in mind.  Anonymous notes, bidding him not to persecute Ramabai and his
wife further, on pain of death.  He had found these notes at the door
of his zenana, in his stables, on his pillows.  In his heart he had
sworn the death of Ramabai; but here was a phase upon which he had set
no calculation.  Had there not been unrest abroad he would have scorned
to pay any attention to these warnings; but this Ramabai--may he burn
in hell!--was a power with the populace, with low and high castes
alike, and for the first time, now that he gave the matter careful
thought, his own future did not look particularly clear.  More than
ever he must plan with circumspection.  He must trap Ramabai, openly,
lawfully, in the matter of sedition.
Imagine his astonishment when, a few minutes after his arrival, Ramabai
and Pundita demanded audience, the one straight of back and proud of
look, the other serene and tranquil!  Umballa felt a wave of bland
[Transcriber's note: blind?] hatred surge over him, but he gave no
sign.  Ramabai stated his case briefly.  Colonel Hare and his daughter
were being held prisoners for ransom.  Three bags of silver--something
like five thousand rupees--were demanded by the captors.
The council looked toward Umballa, who nodded, having in mind the part
of the good Samaritan, with reservations, to be sure.  Having trod the
paths of the white man, he had acquired a certain adroitness in holding
his people.  They had at best only the stability of chickens.  What at
one moment was a terror was at another a feast.  For the present, then,
he would pretend that he had forgot all about Ramabai's part in the
various unsuccessful episodes.
To the council and the gurus (or priests) he declared that he himself
would undertake to assume the part of envoy; he himself would bring the
legal king of Allaha back to his throne.  True, the daughter had been
crowned, but she had forfeited her rights.  Thus he would return with
Colonel Hare as soon as he could make the journey and return.
"He is contemplating some treachery," said Ramabai to his wife.  "I
must try to learn what it is."
In his shop in the bazaars Lal Singh had resumed his awl.  He had, as a
companion, a bent and shaky old man, whose voice, however, possessed a
resonance which belied the wrinkles and palsied hands.
"The rains," said Lal Singh, "are very late this year.  Leather will be
poor."
"Aye."
All of which signified to Ahmed that the British Raj had too many
affairs just then to give proper attention to the muddle in Allaha.
"But there is this man Ramabai.  He runs deep."
"So!"
"He has been conspiring for months."
"Then why does he not strike?"
"He is wary.  He is wary; a good sign."  Lal Singh reached for his pipe
and set the water bubbling.  "In a few weeks I believe all will be
ready, even the British Raj."
"Why will men be sheep?"
Lal Singh shrugged.  "Only Allah knows.  But what about this guru's
curse you say follows the Colonel Sahib?"
"It is true.  I was there," said Ahmed.  "And here am I, with a price
on my head!"
"In the business we are in there will always be a price on our heads.
And Umballa will bring back the Colonel Sahib.  What then?"
"We know what we know, Lal Singh," and the face under the hood broke
into a smile.
Five days passed.  The chief of the brigands was growing restless.  He
finally declared that unless the ransom was delivered that night he
would rid himself of them all.  The tiger was starving.  In order to
prove that he was not chattering idly he had the prisoners tied to the
wheels of the cage.  It would at least amuse him to watch their growing
terror.
"Look!  Some one is coming!" cried Kathlyn.
The chief saw the caravan at the same time, and he set up a shout of
pleasure.  Three fat bags of silver rupees!
Umballa, the good Samaritan, bargained with the chief.  He did not want
all the prisoners, only one.  Three bags of silver would be forthcoming
upon the promise that the young woman and the young man should be
disposed of.
"By the tiger?"
Umballa shrugged.  To him it mattered not how.  The chief, weary of his
vigil, agreed readily enough, and Umballa turned over the silver.
"The guru, my Kit!  You see?  This is the end.  Well, I am tired.  A
filigree basket of gems!"
"So!" said Umballa, smiling at Kathlyn.  "You and your lover shall
indeed be wed--by the striped one!  A sad tale I shall take back with
me.  You were both dead when I arrived."
Presently Bruce and Kathlyn were alone.  They could hear the brute in
the cage, snarling and clawing at the wooden door.
CHAPTER XIII
LOVE
The golden sands, the purple cliffs, the translucent blue of the
heavens, and the group of picturesque rascals jabbering and
gesticulating and pressing about their chief, made a picture Kathlyn
was never to forget.
"Patience, my little ones!" said the chief, showing his white strong
teeth in what was more of a snarl than a smile.  "There is plenty of
time."
