"Dr. Perrin," I exclaimed, "even supposing 
we make the attempt to deceive her, we have 
not one plausible statement to make " 
"You are mistaken, Mrs. Abbott," said he. 
"We have the perfectly well-known fact that 
this disease is often contracted in ways which 
involve no moral blame. And in this case I 
believe I am in position to state how the accident 
happened." 
"What do you mean?'' 
"I don't know whether you heard that just 
before Mrs. van Tuiver's confinement, I was 
called away to one of the other keys to attend 
a negro-woman. And since this calamity has 
befallen us, I have reahzed that I was possibly 
not as careful in sterilizing my instruments as 
I might have been. It is of course a dreadful 
thing for any physician to have to believe " 
He stopped, and there was a long silence. I 
gazed from one to another of the men. Two of 
them met my gaze; one did not. "He is going 
to let you say that?" I whispered, at last. 
 
 
"Honor and fairness compel me to say it, 
Mrs. Abbott. I believe " 
But I interrupted him. "Listen to me, Dr. 
Perrin. You are a chivalrous gentleman, and you 
think you are helping a man in desperate need. 
But I say that anyone who would permit you 
to tell such a tale is a contemptible coward!" 
"Madam," cried Dr. Gibson, furiously, "there 
is a limit even to a woman's rights!" 
A silence followed. At last I resumed, in a 
low voice: "You gentlemen have your code: you 
protect the husband — you protect him at all 
hazards. I could understand this, if he were 
innocent of the offence in question; I could 
imderstand it, if there were any possibillty of his 
being innocent. But how can you protect him, 
when you know that he is guilty?" 
"There can be no question of such knowledge!" 
cried the old doctor. 
"I have no idea," I said, "how much he has 
admitted to you; but let me remind you of one 
circumstance, which is known to Dr. Perrin — 
that I came to this place with the definite in- 
formation that symptoms of the disease were to 
be anticipated. Dr. Perrin knows that I told 
that to Dr. Overton in New York. Has he ia- 
formed you of it?" 
There was an awkward interval. I glanced at 
van Tuiver, and I saw that he was leaning for- 
ward, staring at me. I thought he was about 
to speak, when Dr. Gibson broke in, excitedly, 
"All this is beside the mark! We have a serious- 
 
emergency to face, and we are not getting any- 
where. As the older of the physicians in charge 
of this case " 
And he went on to give me a lecture on the 
subject of authority. He talked for five min- 
utes, ten minutes — I lost all track of the time. 
I had suddenly begun to picture how I would 
act and what I would say when I went into 
Sylvia's room. What a state must Sylvia be in, 
while we sat out here in the blazing midday sun, 
discussing her right to freedom and knowledge! 
 
 
'I HAVE always been positive," Dr. Gibson 
was saying, "but the present discussion has 
made me more positive than ever. As the older 
of the physicians in charge of this case, I say 
most emphatically that the patient shall not be 
told!" 
I could not stand him any longer. "I am 
going to tell the patient," I said. 
"You shall not tell her!" 
"But how win you prevent me?" 
"You shall not see her!" 
"But she is determined to see me!" 
"She will be told that you are not there." 
"And how long do you imagine that that will 
satisfy her?" 
There was a pause. They looked at van 
Tuiver, expecting him to speak. And then I heard 
once more his cold, deliberate voice. "We have 
done all we can. There can no longer be any 
question as to the course to be taken. Mrs. 
Abbott will not return to my home." 
"What?" I cried. I stared at him, aghast. 
"What do you mean?" 
"I mean what I say — that you will not be 
taken back to the island." 
"But where will I be taken?" 
"You will be taken to the mainland." 
I stared at the others. No one gave a sign. 
At last I exclaimed, "You would dare?" 
 
"You leave us no other alternative," replied 
the master. 
"You — you will practically kidnap me!" My 
voice must have been rather wild at that moment. 
"You left my home of your own free will. 
I think I need hardly poiat out to you that I 
am not compelled to invite you back to it." 
"And what will Sylvia — " I stopped, dismayed 
at the vista the words opened up. 
"My wife," said van Tuiver, "will ultimately 
choose between her husband and her most re- 
markable acquaintance." 
"And you, gentlemen?" I turned to the others. 
"You would give yom- sanction to this outrageous 
action?" 
"As the older of the physicians in charge of 
this case — " began Dr. Gibson. 
I timaed to van Tuiver again. "When your 
wife finds out what you have done to me — what 
will you answer?" 
"We will deal with that situation when we 
come to it." 
"Of course," I said, "you understand that 
sooner or later I shall get word to her!" 
He answered, "We shall assume from now on 
that you are a mad woman, and shall take our 
precautions accordingly." 
Again there was a silence. 
"The launch will return to the mainland," 
said van Tuiver, at last. "It will remain there 
until Mrs. Abbott sees fit to go ashore. May 
I ask if she has sufficient money in her purse 
to take her to New York?" 
 
I coiild not help laughing. The thing was so 
wild — and yet I could see that from their point 
of view it was the only thing to do. "Mrs. 
Abbott is not certain that she is going back to 
New York," I replied. "If she does go, it will 
not be with Mr. van Tuiver's money." 
"One thing more," said Dr. Perrin. It was 
the first time he had spoken since van Tuiver's in- 
credible announcement. "I trust, Mrs. Abbott, 
that this imfortimate situation may at all costs 
be concealed from servants, and from the world 
in general." 
From which I reahzed how badly I had them 
frightened. They actually saw me making phys- 
ical resistance! 
"Dr. Perrin," I replied, "I am acting in this 
matter for my friend. I will add this: that I 
beheve that you are letting yourself be over- 
borne, and that you will regret it some day." 
He made no answer. Douglas van Tuiver put 
an end to the discussion by rising and signaling 
the other launch. When it had come alongside, 
he said to the captain, "Mrs. Abbott is going 
back to the railroad. You will take her at 
once." 
Then he waited; I was mallcious enough to 
