                      BREAKFAST IS MY BEST MEAL
                                  I
  Breakfast is my best meal, and I reckon it's always been
  Ever since I was old enough to know what breakfast could mean.
  I mind when we lived in the cabin out on the Illinoy,
  Where father had took up a quarter-section when I was a boy,
  I used to go for the cows as soon as it was light;
  And when I started back home, before I come in sight,
  I come in smell of the cabin, where mother was frying the ham,
  And boiling the coffee, that reached through the air like a mile o' ba'm,
  'N' I bet you I didn't wait to see what it was that the dog
  Thought he'd got under the stump or inside o' the hollow log!
  But I made the old cows canter till their hoof-joints cracked--you know
  That dry, funny kind of a noise that the cows make when they go--
  And I never stopped to wash when I got to the cabin door;
  I pulled up my chair and e't like I never had e't before.
  And mother she set there and watched me eat, and eat, and eat,
  Like as if she couldn't give her old eyes enough of the treat;
  And she split the shortened biscuit, and spread the butter between,
  And let it lay there and melt, and soak and soak itself in;
  And she piled up my plate with potato and ham and eggs,
  Till I couldn't hold any more, or hardly stand on my legs;
  And she filled me up with coffee that would float an iron wedge,
  And never give way a mite, or spill a drop at the edge.
                                  II
  What? Well, yes, this is good coffee, too. If they don't know much,
  They do know how to make coffee, I will say that for these Dutch.
  But my--oh, my! It ain't the kind of coffee my mother made,
  And the coffee my wife used to make would throw it clear in the shade;
  And the brand of sugar-cured, canvased ham that she always used--
  Well, this Westphalia stuff would simply have made her amused!
  That so, heigh? I saw that you was United States as soon
  As ever I heard you talk; I reckon I know the tune!
  Pick it out anywhere; and you understand how I feel
  About these here foreign breakfasts: breakfast is my best meal.
                                 III
  My! but my wife was a cook; and the breakfasts she used to get
  The first years we was married, I can smell 'em and taste 'em yet:
  Corn cake light as a feather, and buckwheat thin as lace
  And crisp as cracklin'; and steak that you couldn't have the face
  To compare any steak over here to; and chicken fried
  Maryland style--I couldn't get through the bill if I tried.
  And then, her waffles! My! She'd kind of slip in a few
  Between the ham and the chicken--you know how women'll do--
  For a sort of little surprise, and, if I was running light,
  To take my fancy and give an edge to my appetite.
  Done it all herself as long as we was poor, and I tell you
  She liked to see me eat as well as mother used to do;
  I reckon she went ahead of mother some, if the truth was known,
  And everything she touched she give a taste of her own.
                                  IV
  She was a cook, I can tell you! And after we got ahead,
  And she could 'a' had a girl to do the cookin' instead,
  I had the greatest time to get Momma to leave the work;
  She said it made her feel like a mis'able sneak and shirk.
  She didn't want daughter, though, when we did begin to keep girls,
  To come in the kitchen and cook, and smell up her clo'es and curls;
  But you couldn't have stopped the child, whatever you tried to do--
  I reckon the gift of the cookin' was born in Girly, too.
  Cook she would from the first, and we just had to let her alone;
  And after she got married, and had a house of her own,
  She tried to make me feel, when I come to live with her,
  Like it was my house, too; and I tell you she done it, sir!
  She remembered that breakfast was my best meal, and she tried
  To have all I used to have, and a good deal more beside;
  Grape-fruit to begin with, or melons or peaches, at least--
  Husband's business took him there, and they had went to live East--
  Then a Spanish macker'l, or a soft-shell crab on toast,
  Or a broiled live lobster! Well, sir, I don't want to seem to boast,
  But I don't believe you could have got in the whole of New York
  Any such an oyster fry or sausage of country pork.
                                  V
  Well, I don't know what-all it means; I always lived just so--
  Never drinked or smoked, and yet, here about two years ago,
  I begun to run down; I ain't as young as I used to be;
  And the doctors all said Carlsbad, and I reckon this is me.
  But it's more like some one I've dreamt of, with all three of 'em gone!
  Believe in ghosts? Well, I do. I know there are ghosts. I'm one.
  Maybe I mayn't look it--I was always inclined to fat;
  The doctors say that's the trouble, and very likely it's that.
  This is my little grandson, and this is the oldest one
  Of Girly's girls; and for all that the whole of us said and done,
  She must come with grandpa when the doctors sent me off here,
  To see that they didn't starve him. Ain't that about so, my dear?
  She can cook, I tell you; and when we get home again
  We're goin' to have something to eat; I'm just a-livin' till then.
  But when I set here of a morning, and think of them that's gone--
  Mother and Momma and Girly--well, I wouldn't like to let on
  Before the children, but I can almost seem to see
  All of 'em lookin' down, like as if they pitied me,
  After the breakfasts they give me, to have me have to put up
  With nothing but bread and butter, and a little mis'able cup
  Of this here weak-kneed coffee! I can't tell how you feel,
  But it fairly makes me sick! Breakfast is my best meal.
                                  X
                           THE MOTHER-BIRD
She wore around the turned-up brim of her bolero-like toque a band of
violets not so much in keeping with the gray of the austere November
day as with the blue of her faded autumnal eyes. Her eyes were
autumnal, but it was not from this, or from the lines of maturity
graven on the passing prettiness of her little face, that the notion
and the name of Mother-Bird suggested itself. She became known as the
Mother-Bird to the tender ironic fancy of the earliest, if not the
latest, of her friends, because she was slight and small, and like a
bird in her eager movements, and because she spoke so instantly and so
constantly of her children in Dresden: before you knew anything else
of her you knew that she was going out to them.
She was quite alone, and she gave the sense of claiming their
protection, and sheltering herself in the fact of them. When she
mentioned her daughters she had the effect of feeling herself
chaperoned by them. You could not go behind them and find her wanting
in the social guarantees which women on steamers, if not men, exact of
lonely birds of passage who are not mother-birds. One must respect the
convention by which she safeguarded herself and tried to make good her
standing; yet it did not lastingly avail her with other birds of
passage, so far as they were themselves mother-birds, or sometimes
only maiden-birds. The day had not ended before they began to hold her
off by slight liftings of their wings and rufflings of their feathers,
by quick, evasive flutterings, by subtle ignorances of her approach,
which convinced no one but themselves that they had not seen her. She
sailed with the sort of acquaintance-in-common which every one shares
on a ship leaving port, when people are confused by the kindness of
friends coming to see them off after sending baskets of fruit and
sheaves of flowers, and scarcely know what they are doing or saying.
But when the ship was abreast of Fire Island, and the pilot had gone
over the side, these provisional intimacies of the parting hour began
to restrict themselves. Then the Mother-Bird did not know half the
women she had known at the pier, or quite all the men.
It was not that she did anything obvious to forfeit this knowledge.
Her behavior was if anything too exemplary; it might be thought to
form a reproach to others. Perhaps it was the unseasonable band of
violets around her hat-brim; perhaps it was the vernal gaiety of her
dress; perhaps it was the uncertainty of her anxious eyes, which
presumed while they implored. A mother-bird must not hover too
confidently, too appealingly, near coveys whose preoccupations she
does not share. It might have been her looking and dressing younger
than nature justified; at forty one must not look thirty; in November
one must not, even involuntarily, wear the things of May if one would
have others believe in one's devotion to one's children in Dresden;
one alleges in vain one's impatience to join them as grounds for
joining groups or detached persons who have begun to write home to
their children in New York or Boston.
The very readiness of the Mother-Bird to give security by the mention
of well-known names, to offer proof of her social solvency by the
eager correctness of her behavior, created reluctance around her. Some
would not have her at all from the first; others, who had partially or
conditionally accepted her, returned her upon her hands and withdrew
from the negotiation. More and more she found herself outside that
hard woman-world, and trying less and less to beat her way into it.
The women may have known her better even than she knew herself, and it
may have been through ignorance greater than her own that the men were
more acquiescent. But the men too were not so acquiescent, or not at
all, as time passed.
It would be hard to fix the day, the hour, far harder the moment, when
the Mother-Bird began to disappear from the drawing-room and to appear
in the smoking-room, or say whether she passed from the one to the
other in a voluntary exile or by the rigor of the women's unwritten
law. Still, from time to time she was seen in their part of the ship,
after she was also seen where the band of violets showed strange and
sad through veils of smoke that were not dense enough to hide her
