"Of course not.  Otherwise we should not find each other agreeable."

She smiled, looking at him a little more seriously and more attentively.

"It is odd, is it not," she said under her breath, "how two people from
the opposite ends of the earth chance to meet and—and find each
other—agreeable?"

"It is delightful," he admitted smilingly.

"I don’t even know your name," she remarked, playing with her pencil.

"James."

"Tchames?"—with a pretty attempt to imitate his English.

"Jim is easier."

"Djeem?"

"Perfect!"

"Djeem," she repeated, looking musingly at the tall, well-built
American.  "C’est drôle, ce nom là!  Djeem? It is pleasant, too....  My
name is Jeanne."  She shrugged her youthful shoulders.  "Nothing
extraordinary, you see....  Still, I shall try to please you, Monsieur
Djeem."

"I dare not hope to please you——"

She laughed:

"You do please me.  Do you suppose, otherwise, I should dare enter
that frightful cellar?"

Under cover of her desk, she deftly detached a key from the bunch at her
belt, covered it with her hand, palm down, and let it rest on the
counter before him.

"Do you promise to keep away from the wine bins?" she asked lightly.

"I promise solemnly," he said, and took the key.

"Very well.  Then you may go and look at this dreadful cellar at once.
And when you behold it, ask yourself how great a goose a girl must be
who ventures into it at ten o’clock at night merely because a young man
desires to take a lesson in astronomy on the river Récollette."




                             *CHAPTER XVII*


He had little difficulty in gaining the cellar from the washroom.  Both
doors opened out of the pantry passage; he had only to watch the moving
figures silhouetted through the pantry doorway, and when they were out
of sight for the moment, he stepped out, unlocked the cellar door,
closed it gently behind him, flashed his electric torch, and started
down the broad stone steps.

It was one of the big, old-time cellars not unusual in provincial towns,
but built, probably, a century before the café and cabaret had been
erected on its solid stone foundations.

Two rows of squatty stone pillars supported the low arches of the roof;
casks, kegs, bins, empty bottles, broken bottles, and row after row of
unsealed wine bottles lined the alleyways leading in every direction
through the darkness.

On either side of the main central corridor stood wine casks of every
shape and size, some very ancient, to judge from the carving and quality
of the wood, some more or less modern, some of today.  Almost all were
hoisted on skids with bung and bung starter in place and old-time jugs
and measures of pewter or glass at hand; a few lay empty amid the cellar
debris, where the salts born of darkness and dampness dimly glimmered on
wall and pavement, and a rustling in unseen straw betrayed the lurking
place of rats.

Warner, playing his flashlight, walked swiftly forward, traversing the
three principal alleys in succession.  The third round included the
little dark runways twisting in and out among the bins, turning sudden
angles into obscurity, or curving back in a blind circle to the point of
entrance.

And as he stood resting for a moment, trying to get his bearings and
shifting his electric torch over the labyrinth within which he had
become involved, a slight but distinct sound broke the silence around
him.

It came from the cellar steps: somebody had opened the door above.

Instantly he extinguished his torch; the blackness walled him in,
closing on him so swiftly that he seemed to feel a palpable pressure
upon his body.

Listening, every nerve on edge, he heard footsteps falling cautiously
upon the stone stairway; a white radiance spread and grew brighter at
the far end of the vaulted place; and in a moment more the blinding star
of an electric torch dazzled his eyes, where he stood looking out
between the cracks of the piled-up boxes which made of the alley in
which he had halted a rampart and an impasse.

Two men were advancing, shining the way before them, turning their heads
from side to side with curiosity, but without apparently any suspicion.

They seemed to know the place and to be entirely familiar with every
alley, for, just before they passed the runway where he crouched behind
the boxes, they turned aside, played their light over the dusty banks of
bottles, chose one, coolly knocked off its neck, and leisurely drained
it between them.

Then, exchanging a few comments in voices too low to be understood, they
resumed their course, passed the entrance to the alley where Warner lay
hidden, and continued on a few paces.

He could see them as black shapes against the flare of light; saw them
halt a few paces from where he stood, saw them reach up and take hold of
a huge tun which blocked their progress.

Their torch was shining full upon it; he could follow minutely
everything they were doing.

One of the men stretched his arms out horizontally and grasped the edges
of the immense cask.  Then he threw his full weight to the right; the
cask swung easily outward, leaving a passageway wide enough for a man.
And there, full in the blaze of brilliant light, was a door, scarcely
ten feet away from where he was standing.

The man who had turned the cask went to the door, slid aside a panel,
reached in and unbolted it, and had already opened the door when a big
bulk loomed up in front of him; a gross, vibrant voice set the hollow
echoes growling under the arches of stone and mortar; Wildresse barred
their way.

He stood there, the torchlight falling full on his round, partly bald
and smoothly shaven head; his wicked little ratty eyes were two points
of black, his wicked mouth was twisted with profanity.

"Sacré tas de bougres!" he roared.  "I told you to come at nine o’clock,
didn’t I?  What are you doing here, then?  You, Asticot, you are
supposed to have more sense than Squelette, there!  Why do you interrupt
me before the hour I set?"

The man addressed as Asticot—a heavy, bench-legged young man with two
favoris pasted over his large wide ears—shuffled his shoes most
uncomfortably.

Squelette, tall, frightfully thin, with his long, furrowed neck of an
unclean bird swathed in a red handkerchief, stood sullen and motionless
while the glare of his torch streamed over Wildresse.

"Nom de Dieu!" shouted the latter.  "Aim at my belly and keep that light
out of my face, you stupid ass!"

Squelette sulkily shifted his torch; Asticot said in the nasal, whining
voice of the outer boulevards:

"Voyons, mon vieux, you have been at it for six hours, and the
Skeleton here and I thought you might require our services——"
