whole bunch sewed up in this here trench, oh 
my God!" 
I went over to him and stood leaning against 
the parapet beside him. 
"Duck," I said, amazed, "how did you come 
to enlist in the Foreign Legion?" 
"Aw," he replied with infinite disgust, "I got 
drunk." 
"Where?" 
"Me and Heinie and Joe was follerin the 
races down to Boolong when this here war 
come and put everything on the blink. Aw, 
hell, sez I, come on back to Parus an look 
em over before we skiddoo home rneanin 
the dames an all like that. Say, we done 
what I said; we come back to Parus, an we 
got in wrong! Listen, Doc; them dames had 
went crazy over this here war graft. Veeve 
France, sez they. An by God ! we veeved. 
"An one of em at Maxeems got me soused, 
and others they fixed up Heinie an Joe, an 
we was all wavin little American flags and 
yellin To hell with the Hun! Then there 
was a interval for which I can't account to 
nobody. 
"All I seem to remember is my marchin 
in the boolyvard along with a guy in baggy 
red pants, and my chewin the rag in a big, 
hot room full o soldiers; an Heinie an Joe 
they was shoutin , Wow! Lemme at em. 
Veeve la France! Wha'd ye know about me? 
Ain't I the mark from home?" 
"You didn't realize that you were enlisting?" 
"Aw, does it make any difference to these 
here guys what you reelize, or what you don t? 
I ask you, Doc?" 
He spat disgustedly upon the sand, rolled 
his quid into the other cheek, wiped his thin 
lips with the back of his right hand, then his 
fingers mechanically sought the trigger guard 
again and he cast a perfunctory squint up at 
the parapet. 
"Believe me," he said, "a guy can veeve him 
self into any kind of trouble if he yells loud 
enough. I'm getting mine." 
"Well, Duck," I said, "it's a good game " 
"Aw," he retorted angrily, "it ain't my graft 
an* you know it. What do I care who veeve's 
over here? An the 50th Ward goin to hell 
an all!" 
I strove to readjust my mind to understand 
what he had said. I was, you know, that year, 
the Citizen's Anti-Graft leader in the 50th 
Ward. ... I am, still, if I live; and if I 
ever can get anything into my head except the 
stupendous din of this war and the cataclysmic 
problems depending upon its outcome. . . . 
Well, it was odd to remember that petty political conflict as I stood there in the trenches 
under the gigantic shadow of world-wide disaster to find myself there, talking with this 
sallow, wiry, shifty ward leader this corrupt 
little local tyrant whom I had opposed in the 
50th Ward this ex-lightweight bruiser, ex- 
gunman this dirty little political procurer who 
had been and was everything brutal, stealthy, 
and corrupt. 
I looked at him curiously; turned and glanced 
along the line where, presently, I recognized 
his two familiars, Heinie Bauni and Pick-em- 
up Joe Brady with whom he had started off to 
"Parus" on a month's summer junket, and with 
whom he had stumbled so ludicrously into the 
riff-raff ranks of the 3rd Foreign Legion. 
Doubtless the 1st and 2nd Legions couldn't 
stand him and his two friends, although in one 
company there were many Americans serving. 
Thinking of these things, the thunder of the 
cannonade shaking sand from the parapet, I became conscious that the rat eyes of Duck Wer 
ner were furtively watching me. 
"You can do me dirt, now, can't you, Doc?" 
he said with a leer. 
"How do you mean?" 
"Aw, as if I had to tell you. I got some sense 
left." 
Suddenly his sallow visage under the iron 
helmet became distorted with helpless fury; he 
fairly snarled ; his thin lips writhed as he spat 
out the suspicion which had seized him: 
"By God, Doc, if you do that! if you leave 
me here caged up an go home an raise hell 
in the 50th with me an Joe here 
After a breathless pause: "Well," said I, 
"what will you do about it?" for he was look 
ing murder at me. 
Neither of us spoke again for a few mo 
ments; an officer, smoking a cigarette, came up 
between Heinie and Pick-em-up Joe, adjusted 
a periscope and set his eye to it. Through 
the sky above us the shells raced as though 
hundreds of shaky express trains were rushing overhead on rickety aerial tracks, deafening the world with their outrageous clatter. 
"Listen, Doc " 
I looked up into his altered face a sallow, 
earnest face, fiercely intent. Every atom of 
the man's intelligence was alert, concentrated 
on me, on my expression, on my slightest 
movement. 
"Doc," he said, "let's talk business. We're men, we are, you an me. I've fought you 
plenty times. I know. An I guess you are 
on to me, too. I ain't no squealer; you know 
that anyway. Perhaps I'm everything else 
you claim I am when you make parlor speeches 
to Gussie an Reggie an when you stand on 
a bar l in Avenoo A an say: my friends to 
Billy an Izzy an Pete the Wop. 
"All right. Go to it! I'm it. I got mine. 
That's what I'm there for. But when I get 
mine, the guys that back me get theirs, too. 
My God, Doc, let's talk business! What's a 
little graft between friends?" 
"Duck," I said, "you own the 50th Ward. 
You are no fool. Why is it not possible for 
you to understand that some men don't graft?" 
"Aw, can it!" he retorted fiercely. "What 
else is there to chase except graft? What 
else is there, I ask you? Graft! Ain't there 
graft into everything God ever made? An 
don't the smart guy get it an take his an
divide the rest same as you an me?" 
"You can't comprehend that I don't graft, 
can you, Duck?" 
"What do you call it what you get, then? 
The wages of Beeform? And what do you 
hand out to your lootenants an your friends ?" 
"Service." 
"Hey? Well, all right. But what's in it for 
you? Where do you get yours, Doc?" 
"There's nothing in it for me except to give 
honest service to the people who trust me." 
"Listen," he persisted with a sort of fero 
cious patience; "you ain't on no bar l now; an 
you ain't calling no Ginneys and no Kikes 
your friends. You're just talkin to me like 
there wasn't nobody else onto this damn 
planet excep us two guys. Get that?" 
"I do." 
"And I'm tellin you that I get mine same 
as any one who ain't a loonatic. Get that?" 
"Certainly." 
"All right. Now I know you ain't no nut. 
Which means that you get yours, whatever 
you call it. And now will you talk business?" 
"What business do you want to talk, Duck?" 
I added; "I should say that you already have 
your hands rather full of business and Lebel 
rifles " 
"Aw Gawd; this? This ain't business. I was 
a damn fool and I'm doin time like any souse 
what the bulls pinch. Only I get more than 
thirty days, I do. That's what's killing me, 
Doc! Duck Werner in a tin lid, suckin soup 
an shootin Fritzies when I oughter be in 
