met his; a sharp thrill of amazement passed through him as she held
out both gloved hands with a soft exclamation of recognition:
"Jim! Jim Neeland!"
"Rue Carew!" He could scarcely credit his eyesight, where he stood,
hat in hand, holding both her little hands in one of his.
No, there was no use in trying to disguise his astonishment. He looked
into the face of this tall young girl, searched it for familiar
features, recognised a lovely paraphrase of the freckled face and thin
figure he remembered, and remained dumb before this radiant
reincarnation of that other unhappy, shabby, and meagre child he had
known two years ago.
Ruhannah, laughing and flushed, withdrew her hands.
"Have I changed? You haven't. And I always thought you the most
wonderful and ornamental young man on this planet. I knew you at once,
Jim Neeland. Would you have passed without recognising me?"
"Perhaps I wouldn't have passed after seeing you----"
"Jim Neeland! What a remark!" She laughed. "Anyway, it's nice to
believe myself attractive enough to be noticed. And I'm so glad to
see you. Naïa is here, somewhere, watching for you"--turning her
pretty, eager head to search for the Princess Mistchenka. "Oh, there
she is! She doesn't see us----"
They made their way between the passing ranks of passengers and
porters; the Princess caught sight of them, came hastily toward them.
"Jim! It's nice to see you. Thank you for coming! So you, found him,
Rue? How are you, Jim? And where is the olive-wood box?"
"I'm well, and there's that devilish box!" he replied, laughing and
lifting it in his hand to exhibit it. "Naïa, the next time you want
it, send an escort of artillery and two battleships!"
"Did you have trouble?"
"Trouble? I had the time of my life. No moving picture can ever again
excite me; no best seller. I've been both since I had your cable to
get this box and bring it to you."
He laughed as he spoke, but the Princess continued to regard him very
seriously, and Rue Carew's smile came and waned like sunlight in a
wood, for she was not quite sure whether he had really encountered any
dangers on this mission which he had fulfilled so well.
"Our car is waiting outside," said the Princess. "Where is your
porter, Jim?"
Neeland glanced about him, discovered the porter, made a sign for him
to follow, and they moved together toward the entrance to the huge
terminal.
"I haven't decided where to stop yet," began Neeland, but the Princess
checked him with a pretty gesture:
"You stop with us, Jim."
"Thank you so much, but----"
"Please. Must I beg of you?"
"Do you really wish it?"
"Certainly," she replied absently, glancing about her. She added: "I
don't see my car. I don't see my footman. I told him to wait here.
Rue, do you see him anywhere?"
"No, I don't," said the girl.
"How annoying!" said the Princess. "He's a new man. My own footman was
set upon and almost killed by Apaches a week ago. So I had to find a
substitute. How stupid of him! Where on earth can he be waiting?"
They traversed the court of the terminal. Many automobiles were parked
there or just leaving; liveried footmen stood awaiting masters and
mistresses; but nowhere was the car of the Princess Mistchenka in
sight.
They stood there, Neeland's porter behind with his suitcase and
luggage, not knowing whether to wait longer or summon a taxicab.
"I don't understand," repeated the Princess impatiently. "I explained
very carefully what I desired. That new groom is stupid. Caron, my
chauffeur, would never have made a mistake unless that idiot groom
misunderstood his instructions."
"Let me go and make some inquiries," said Neeland. "Do you mind
waiting here? I'll not be long----"
He went off, carrying the olive-wood box, which his grasp never
quitted now; and presently the Princess and Ruhannah saw him disappear
among the ranks of automobiles and cabs.
"I don't like it, Rue," repeated the Princess in a low voice. "I
neither understand nor relish this situation."
"Have you any idea----"
"Hush, child! I don't know. That new groom, Verdier, was recommended
by the Russian Embassy. I don't know what to think of this."
"It can't be anything--queer, can it, dear?" asked Rue.
"Anything can have happened. Nothing is likely to have occurred,
however--unless--unless those Apaches were----"
"Naïa!"
"It's possible, I suppose. They may have attacked Picard as part of a
conspiracy. The Russian Embassy may have been deceived in Verdier. All
this may be part of a plan. But--I scarcely believe it.... All the
same, I dislike to take a taxicab----"
She caught sight of Neeland returning; both women moved forward to
meet him.
"I've solved the mystery," he said. "Naïa, your car was run into
outside the station a few minutes after you left it. And I'm sorry to
say that your chauffeur was badly enough hurt to require an
ambulance."
"Where on earth did you learn that?"
"The official at the taxicab control told me. I went to him because
that is where one is likely to receive information."
"Caron hurt!" murmured the Princess. "What a shame! Where did they
take him, Jim?"
"To the Charité."
"I'll go this afternoon. But where is that imbecile groom of mine?"
"It appears that he and a policeman went to a garage on the repair
truck that took your car."
"Was he arrested?"
"I believe so."
"What a contretemps!" exclaimed the Princess Mistchenka. "We shall
have to take a taxicab after all!"
"I've ordered one from the control. There it comes now," said Neeland,
as a brand new taxicab, which looked like a private car, drew up at
the curb, and a smiling and very spick and span chauffeur saluted.
Neeland's porter hoisted trunk and suitcase on top; the Princess
stepped into the limousine, followed by Rue and Neeland; the chauffeur
took the order, started his car, wheeled out into the square, circled
the traffic policeman, and whizzed away into the depths of the most
beautiful city in the world.
Neeland, seated with his back to the driver, laid the olive-wood box
on his knees, unlocked it, drew from his breast pocket the papers he
carried; locked them in the box once more, and looked up laughingly at
the Princess and Ruhannah as he placed it at his feet.
"There you are!" he said. "Thank heaven my task and your affair have
been accomplished. All the papers are there--and," to Ruhannah, "that
pretty gentleman you call the Yellow Devil is inside, along with some
assorted firearms, drawing instruments, and photographs. The whole
business is here, intact--and so am I--if that irrelevant detail
should interest you."
Rue smiled her answer; the Princess scrutinised him keenly:
"Did you have trouble, Jim?"
"Yes, I did."
"Serious trouble?"
"I tell you it was like a movie in five reels. Never before did I
believe such things happened outside a Yonkers studio. But they do,
Naïa. And I've learned that the world is full of more excitingly
melodramatic possibilities than any novel or scenario ever
contained."
"You're not serious, of course," began Rue Carew, watching the varying
expressions on his animated features; but the Princess Mistchenka
said, unsmiling:
"A film melodrama is a crude and tawdry thing compared to the real
drama so many of us play in every moment of our lives."
Neeland said to Rue, lightly:
"That is true as far as I have been concerned with that amazing box.
It's full of the very devil--of that Yellow Devil! When I pick it up
now I seem to feel a premonitory tingling all over me--not entirely
disagreeable," he added to the Princess, "but the sort of half-scared
exhilaration a man feels who takes a chance and is quite sure he'll
not have another chance if he loses. Do you understand what I mean?"
"Yes," said the Princess unsmilingly, her clear, pleasant eyes fixed
on him.
In her tranquil, indefinite expression there was something which made
him wonder how many such chances this pretty woman had taken in her
life of intellectual pleasure and bodily ease.
And now he remembered that Ilse Dumont apparently knew about
her--about Ruhannah, too. And Ilse Dumont was the agent of a foreign
government.
Was the Princess Mistchenka, patron and amateur of the arts, another
such agent? If not, why had he taken this journey for her with this
box of papers?
The passage of the Boulevard was slow; at every square traffic was
halted; all Paris crowded the streets in the early afternoon sunshine,
and the taxicab in which they sat made little speed until the Place de
la Concorde opened out and the great Arc--a tiny phantom of lavender
and pearl--spanned the vanishing point of a fairy perspective between
parallel and endless ramparts of tender green.
"There was a lot of war talk on the Volhynia," said Neeland, "but I
haven't heard any since I landed, nor have I seen a paper. I suppose
the Chancelleries have come to some agreement."
