dazed with astonishment, for they knew the bottle was already full
before he began. He emptied the whole of the bowl into the bottle, then
smiled out over the room, chuckled, and said, indifferently: “It is
nothing--anybody can do it! With my powers I can even do much more.”
  [Illustration: THE ASTROLOGER EMPTIED THE WHOLE OF THE BOWL
                 INTO THE BOTTLE]
A frightened cry burst out everywhere, “Oh, my God, he is possessed!”
and there was a tumultuous rush for the door which swiftly emptied
the house of all who did not belong in it except us boys and Meidling.
We boys knew the secret, and would have told it if we could, but we
couldn’t. We were very thankful to Satan for furnishing that good help
at the needful time.
Marget was pale, and crying; Meidling looked kind of petrified; Ursula
the same; but Gottfried was the worst--he couldn’t stand, he was so
weak and scared. For he was of a witch family, you know, and it would
be bad for him to be suspected. Agnes came loafing in, looking pious
and unaware, and wanted to rub up against Ursula and be petted, but
Ursula was afraid of her and shrank away from her, but pretending she
was not meaning any incivility, for she knew very well it wouldn’t
answer to have strained relations with that kind of a cat. But we boys
took Agnes and petted her, for Satan would not have befriended her if
he had not had a good opinion of her, and that was indorsement enough
for us. He seemed to trust anything that hadn’t the Moral Sense.
Outside, the guests, panic-stricken, scattered in every direction and
fled in a pitiable state of terror; and such a tumult as they made with
their running and sobbing and shrieking and shouting that soon all the
village came flocking from their houses to see what had happened, and
they thronged the street and shouldered and jostled one another in
excitement and fright; and then Father Adolf appeared, and they fell
apart in two walls like the cloven Red Sea, and presently down this
lane the astrologer came striding and mumbling, and where he passed
the lanes surged back in packed masses, and fell silent with awe, and
their eyes stared and their breasts heaved, and several women fainted;
and when he was gone by the crowd swarmed together and followed him
at a distance, talking excitedly and asking questions and finding out
the facts. Finding out the facts and passing them on to others, with
improvements--improvements which soon enlarged the bowl of wine to a
barrel, and made the one bottle hold it all and yet remain empty to the
last.
When the astrologer reached the market-square he went straight to a
juggler, fantastically dressed, who was keeping three brass balls in
the air, and took them from him and faced around upon the approaching
crowd and said: “This poor clown is ignorant of his art. Come forward
and see an expert perform.”
So saying, he tossed the balls up one after another and set them
whirling in a slender bright oval in the air, and added another,
then another and another, and soon--no one seeing whence he got
them--adding, adding, adding, the oval lengthening all the time, his
hands moving so swiftly that they were just a web or a blur and not
distinguishable as hands; and such as counted said there were now a
hundred balls in the air. The spinning great oval reached up twenty
feet in the air and was a shining and glinting and wonderful sight.
Then he folded his arms and told the balls to go on spinning without
his help--and they did it. After a couple of minutes he said, “There,
that will do,” and the oval broke and came crashing down, and the balls
scattered abroad and rolled every whither. And wherever one of them
came the people fell back in dread, and no one would touch it. It made
him laugh, and he scoffed at the people and called them cowards and old
women. Then he turned and saw the tight-rope, and said foolish people
were daily wasting their money to see a clumsy and ignorant varlet
degrade that beautiful art; now they should see the work of a master.
With that he made a spring into the air and lit firm on his feet on
the rope. Then he hopped the whole length of it back and forth on one
foot, with his hands clasped over his eyes; and next he began to throw
somersaults, both backward and forward, and threw twenty-seven.
The people murmured, for the astrologer was old, and always before had
been halting of movement and at times even lame, but he was nimble
enough now and went on with his antics in the liveliest manner. Finally
he sprang lightly down and walked away, and passed up the road and
around the corner and disappeared. Then that great, pale, silent, solid
crowd drew a deep breath and looked into one another’s faces as if
they said: “Was it real? Did you see it, or was it only I--and I was
dreaming?” Then they broke into a low murmur of talking, and fell apart
in couples, and moved toward their homes, still talking in that awed
way, with faces close together and laying a hand on an arm and making
other such gestures as people make when they have been deeply impressed
by something.
We boys followed behind our fathers, and listened, catching all we
could of what they said; and when they sat down in our house and
continued their talk they still had us for company. They were in a sad
mood, for it was certain, they said, that disaster for the village must
follow this awful visitation of witches and devils. Then my father
remembered that Father Adolf had been struck dumb at the moment of his
denunciation.
“They have not ventured to lay their hands upon an anointed servant of
God before,” he said: “and how they could have dared it this time I
cannot make out, for he wore his crucifix. Isn’t it so?”
“Yes,” said the others, “we saw it.”
“It is serious, friends, it is very serious. Always before, we had a
protection. It has failed.”
The others shook, as with a sort of chill, and muttered those words
over--“It has failed.” “God has forsaken us.”
“It is true,” said Seppi Wohlmeyer’s father; “there is nowhere to look
for help.”
“The people will realize this,” said Nikolaus’s father, the judge,
“and despair will take away their courage and their energies. We have
indeed fallen upon evil times.”
He sighed, and Wohlmeyer said, in a troubled voice: “The report of it
all will go about the country, and our village will be shunned as being
under the displeasure of God. The Golden Stag will know hard times.”
“True, neighbor,” said my father; “all of us will suffer--all in
repute, many in estate. And, good God!--”
“What is it?”
“That can come--to finish us!”
“Name it--um Gottes Willen!”
“The Interdict!”
It smote like a thunderclap, and they were like to swoon with the
terror of it. Then the dread of this calamity roused their energies,
and they stopped brooding and began to consider ways to avert it. They
discussed this, that, and the other way, and talked till the afternoon
was far spent, then confessed that at present they could arrive at no
decision. So they parted sorrowfully, with oppressed hearts which were
filled with bodings.
While they were saying their parting words I slipped out and set my
course for Marget’s house to see what was happening there. I met many
people, but none of them greeted me. It ought to have been surprising,
but it was not, for they were so distraught with fear and dread that
they were not in their right minds, I think; they were white and
haggard, and walked like persons in a dream, their eyes open but seeing
nothing, their lips moving but uttering nothing, and worriedly clasping
and unclasping their hands without knowing it.
At Marget’s it was like a funeral. She and Wilhelm sat together on the
sofa, but said nothing, and not even holding hands. Both were steeped
in gloom, and Marget’s eyes were red from the crying she had been
doing. She said:
“I have been begging him to go, and come no more, and so save himself
alive. I cannot bear to be his murderer. This house is bewitched, and
no inmate will escape the fire. But he will not go, and he will be lost
with the rest.”
Wilhelm said he would not go; if there was danger for her, his place
was by her, and there he would remain. Then she began to cry again,
and it was all so mournful that I wished I had stayed away. There was
a knock, now, and Satan came in, fresh and cheery and beautiful, and
brought that winy atmosphere of his and changed the whole thing. He
never said a word about what had been happening, nor about the awful
fears which were freezing the blood in the hearts of the community,
but began to talk and rattle on about all manner of gay and pleasant
things; and next about music--an artful stroke which cleared away
the remnant of Marget’s depression and brought her spirits and her
interests broad awake. She had not heard any one talk so well and so
knowingly on that subject before, and she was so uplifted by it and so
charmed that what she was feeling lit up her face and came out in her
words; and Wilhelm noticed it and did not look as pleased as he ought
to have done. And next Satan branched off into poetry, and recited
some, and did it well, and Marget was charmed again; and again Wilhelm
was not as pleased as he ought to have been, and this time Marget
noticed it and was remorseful.
I fell asleep to pleasant music that night--the patter of rain upon the
panes and the dull growling of distant thunder. Away in the night Satan
came and roused me and said: “Come with me. Where shall we go?”
“Anywhere--so it is with you.”
Then there was a fierce glare of sunlight, and he said, “This is China.”
That was a grand surprise, and made me sort of drunk with vanity and
gladness to think I had come so far--so much, much farther than anybody
else in our village, including Bartel Sperling, who had such a great
opinion of his travels. We buzzed around over that empire for more than
half an hour, and saw the whole of it. It was wonderful, the spectacles
we saw; and some were beautiful, others too horrible to think. For
instance--However, I may go into that by and by, and also why Satan
chose China for this excursion instead of another place; it would
