[Illustration: The Ohio State House at Columbus viewed from High
Street]
described the public opening of the new State House. I remember the
event vividly because I thought it signally important, and partly
because, to relieve myself from the stress of the crowd passing through
the doorways, I lifted my arms and was near having my breath crushed
out. There were a ball and a banquet, but somewhere, somehow, amidst the
dancing and the feeding and smoking, I found a corner where I could
write out my account of the affair and so escaped with my letter and my
life.
Much as I might have wished to share socially, with such small splendor
as might be, in this high occasion, the reporter's instinct was first
with me. I was there as the representative of a great Cincinnati
newspaper, and I cared more to please its management than to take any
such part as I might in the festivity. My part was to look on and tell
what I saw, and I must have done this in the manner of my most approved
good masters, no doubt with satirically poetic touches from Heine and
bits of worldly glitter from Thackeray. I should like to see that letter
now, and I should like to know how I contrived to get it, more or less
surreptitiously, into the hands of the express agent for delivery to my
newspaper. In those days there was a good deal of talk, foolish talk, I
am since aware, of having the post-office superseded in its functions by
the express companies. Now the talk and the fact are all the other way;
but then the mail was slow and uncertain, and if my letter was of the
nature of manuscript the express might safely carry it and deliver it in
time for the next day's paper. That was rightful and lawful enough, but
there was a show of secrecy in the transaction which was not unpleasing
to the enterprise of a young reporter.
My letters, as they went on from day to day, contented the managers of
the Gazette so well that when the session of the legislature ended
they gave me an invitation which might well have abused my modesty with
a sense of merit. This invitation was to come and be their city editor,
which then meant the local reporting, at a salary twice as great as that
which I had been getting as their legislative correspondent. I do not
know whose inspiration the offer was, but I should like to believe it
was that of the envoy from the paper who made it in person, after
perhaps more fully satisfying himself of my fitness. He is long since
dead, but if he were still alive I hope he would not mind my describing
him as of less stature than myself even, wearing the large, round
glasses which give certain near-sighted persons a staring look, and of
speech low almost to whispering, so that I could not quite be sure that
the incredible thing he was proposing was really expressed to me. I like
to recall the personal fact of him because he was always my friend, and
he would have found me another place on the paper if he could when I
would not take the one he had offered. He did make room for me in his
own department for as long as he could, or as I would stay, when I went
down to Cincinnati to look the ground over, and he kept me his guest as
far as sharing his room with me in the building where we worked
together, and where I used to grope my way toward midnight up a stairway
entirely black to his door. There I lighted the candle-end which I found
within and did what I could to sleep till he came, hours later, when the
paper went to press. I have the belief that the place was never swept or
dusted, and that this did not matter to the quiet, scholarly man whose
life was so wholly in his work that he did not care how he lived.
He was buoyed up, above all other things, by the interest of journalism,
which for those once abandoned to it is indeed a kind of enchantment. As
I knew it then and afterward, it has always had far more of my honor
and respect than those ignorant of it know how to render. One incident
of it at this time so especially moved me that I will give it place in
this wayward tale, though it is probably not more to the credit of the
press than unnumbered others which others could cite. A miserable man
came late one night to ask that a certain report which involved his good
name, and with it the good name of a miserable woman, and the peace of
their families, might be withheld. He came with legal counsel, and
together they threshed the matter out with our editorial force upon the
point whether we ought or ought not to spare him, our contention being
that as a prominent citizen he was even less to be spared than a more
unimportant person. Our professional conscience was apparently in that
scruple; how it was overcome I do not remember, but at last we promised
mercy and the report was suppressed.
It was one of the ironies of life that after the only suspected avenue
to publicity had been successfully guarded, the whole fact should have
cruelly come out in another paper the next morning. But I cannot feel
even yet that the beauty of our merciful decision was marred by this
mockery of fate, or that the cause of virtue was served by it, and I
think that if I had been wiser than I was then I would have remained in
the employ offered me, and learned in the school of reality the many
lessons of human nature which it could have taught me. I did not remain,
and perhaps I could not; it might have been the necessity of my morbid
nerves to save themselves from abhorrent contacts; in any case, I
renounced the opportunity offered me by that university of the streets
and police-stations, with its faculty of patrolmen and ward politicians
and saloon-keepers. The newspaper office was not the Capitol of Ohio; I
was not by the fondest imputation a part of the state government, and I
felt the difference keenly. I was always very homesick; I knew nobody
in the city, and I had no companionship except that of my constant
friend, whom I saw only in our hours of work. I had not even the poor
social refuge of a boarding-house; I ate alone at a restaurant, where I
used sadly to amuse myself with the waiters' versions of the orders
which they called down a tube into the kitchen below. The one which
cheered me most was that of a customer who always ordered a double
portion of corn-cakes and was translated as requiring "Indians, six on a
plate."
Nearly all the frequenters of this restaurant were men from their stores
and offices, snatching a hasty midday meal, but a few were women, clerks
and shop-girls of the sort who now so abound in our towns and cities,
but then so little known. I was so altogether ignorant of life that I
thought shame of them to be boldly showing themselves in such a public
place as a restaurant. I wonder what they would have thought, poor,
blameless dears, of the misgivings in the soul of the conscious youth as
he sat stealing glances of injurious conjecture at them while he overate
himself with the food which was the only thing that could appease for a
moment the hunger of his homesick heart. If I could not mercifully
imagine them, how could I intelligently endure the ravings of the
drunken woman which I heard one night in the police-station where my
abhorred duties took me for the detestable news of the place? I suppose
it was this adventure, sole of its sort, which clinched my resolve to
have no more to do with the money-chance offered to me in journalism. My
longing was for the cleanly respectabilities, and I still cannot think
that a bad thing, or if experience cannot have more than the goodly
outside in life, that this is not well worth having. There was a relief,
almost an atonement, or at least a consolation in being sent next day
to report a sermon, in fulfilment of my friend's ideal of journalistic
enterprise, and though that sermon has long since gone from me and was
perhaps at the time not distinctly with me, still I have a sense of
cleansing from the squalor of the station-house in listening to it. If
all my work could have been the reporting of sermons, with intervals of
sketching the graduating ceremonies of young ladies' seminaries, such as
that where once a girl in garnet silk read an essay of perhaps no
surpassing interest, but remained an enchanting vision, and the material
of some future study in fiction; if it could have been these things,
with nothing of police-stations in it, I might have tried longer to
become a city editor. But as it was I decided my destiny in life
differently.
V
I must not conceal the disappointment which my father delicately
concealed when I returned and took up my old work in the
printing-office. He might well have counted on my help in easing him of
his load of debt, from the salary I had forgone, but there was no hint
of this in the welcome given me in the home where I was again so doubly
at home with my books and manuscripts. Now and then my friend of the
Gazette management managed to have some sketch of mine accepted for
it, and my life went on in my sister's literary companionship on much
the same terms as before our venture into the world the winter before.
My father's clerkship had ended with the adjournment of the legislature
in the spring, but in the autumn, when it grew toward winter, I asked
again for the correspondence of the Gazette. I got this by favor of my
friend, and then I had courage to ask for that of the Cleveland
Herald, which the interest of the blithe sexagenarian sufficed to
secure me, and I returned to the capital with no pretense that I was
not now writing the letters solely and entirely myself. But almost
before my labors began my health quite broke under the strain of earlier
over-study and later overwork. I gave up my correspondence for both
those honored newspapers to my father, who wrote it till the close of
the session, and at his suggestion the letters of the Gazette fell the
next winter to the fit and eager hands of a young man who had just then
sold his country newspaper and had come to try his fortune in the
capital. His name was Whitelaw Reid, in the retrospect a tall, graceful
youth with an enviable black mustache and imperial, wearing his hair
long in the Southern fashion, and carrying himself with the native ease
which availed him in a worldly progress uninterrupted to the end. He
wrote the legislative letters so acceptably that when the Civil War
broke out the Gazette people were glad to make him their correspondent
in the field, where he distinguished himself beyond any other war
correspondent in the West, or the East for what I knew. The world knows
how riches and honors followed him all his days, and how when he died
the greatest Empire sent his dust home to the greatest Republic in such
a war-ship as the war correspondent of those years could not have
dreamed of. From time to time we saw each other, but not often; he was
about his business in the State House, and now I was about mine in the
