nishings. She gained enough composure to glance about 
her at the dull pink and gray walls, a paper very old, and 
beautiful beyond the dreams of any that saw it in this 
generation. It seemed to her a wonderful room. He 
seated himself opposite her in a straight-backed chair that 
fitted his own spareness and leaned forward, hands on his 
knees. 
"Well?" said he. There was insistence in his voice. 
" You've made up your mind to sell." 
The haste of it, assertion instead of any coaxing and 
sympathetic delay, only frightened her. 
" Oh, no, I ain't," said she, at once on the edge of her 
chair, and perched for flight. " I dunno's I could say 
that. I only come over to see if you had it in mind to 
buy." 
" Oh ! " said the squire. He sat a moment and consid- 
ered, realizing that he had to begin still farther back. 
He saw, too, that all the coynesses of the intending pur- 
chaser had to be brought to bear. " No," said he, " I 
don't know's I want to buy." 
Tabitha was at once on her feet. She was disap- 
pointed, but also she was relieved. The adventure had be- 
 
gun to seem a more ultimate one since she had been shut 
into the rose-gray room, 
well," said she, « I'll be goin'." 
No, no," said Greene. " What you want to be in 
such a hurry for? Set down an' we'll talk it over. We 
might make a trade, after all. If you should ask me 
what 'twas wise for you to do I should say, sell, a piece o' 
land like that. You can't eat it nor wear it. If a single 
woman like you's got a house, that's one thing. But a 
lot o' land, that's another." 
" One o' the boys spoke about it," said Tabitha faintly. 
" He said lumber's worth a lot nowadays." 
"Boys? What boys?" asked Greene ruthlessly. 
" One o' Neale's boys? " 
She nodded. 
" Well," said he satirically, " if you're goin' round 
takin' the word o' boys about your property — " 
" Ben's terrible knowin'," she ventured. 
" I dunno where ye'll come out. Why, yes, the tim- 
ber makes it more val'able. 'Course it does. But I 
wouldn't go to gettin' my ideas up too high." 
" That's it," said Tabitha. " That's what I come over 
to ask you. How much d'y ou think it's worth ? " 
Squire Greene's gaze dropped to the floor. He sat 
there considering, and Tabitha, her blue eyes upon him, 
eagerly waited. It was his great temptation. He had 
met others, in buying and selling, and been beaten by 
them or emerged in a fine bravado, telling himself he had 
not yielded at all and yet come out triumphant. But 
this was a bigger question than any he had dealt with for 
a long time. He knew how much the tall pine trees were 
worth, and what he was ready to give. But his inner 
devil kept whispering. At length he got up and went 
 
to the desk in the comer. There he took pencil and 
paper, and Tabitha understood he was figuring it out. 
But when he threw down the pencil there were no marks 
on the page. He had sought only to withdraw into a 
solitude where the temptation and he could whisper it 
out together, with no reminder of other expectations 
from those innocent eyes. He came back to his chair, 
but stood behind it, his hands gripping the straight 
back. 
" Well," said he, " it might be a matter o' nine hunderd 
dollars." 
Tabitha came out of her seat. Her cheeks were sud- 
denly scarlet. 
" My Lord in heaven ! " said she. " You don't say. 
I never thought o' such a thing, never in the world." 
" Well," said he harshly, " what do ye say ? " 
Tabitha drew her silk mantle about her. She was edg- 
ing toward the door. It might have been that she had 
forgotten him. She was absorbed in her own thoughts. 
" Nine hunderd dollars ! " she repeated. " Never did 
I hear o' such a thing." 
Innocently she had the whip-hand: for with all his 
shrewdness, he could not determine whether she was 
amazed at the smallness of it or, incredibly, at its big- 
ness. 
"Here!" he called. "You can't run off like that in 
the middle of a trade. What you got to say? " 
Tabitha, at the door, turned upon him her dazed and. 
joyous look. 
" Oh, I ain't got anything to say," she rejoined hap- 
pily. " Not to-day, anyways." 
" If you ain't satisfied, you can say so," he told her, 
following her out through the hall. " How do you know 
but I might go up twenty-five dollars or more? How'm I 
 
goin' to know whether you're satisfied or not, if you don't 
say so ? " 
Tabitha, on the front steps, was hoisting her steeple- 
crowned parasol. 
Oh, I ain't findin' any fault," she announced gaily. 
I'll say good-day." 
The Squire was done, and yet, he knew, unwittingly. 
That was the exasperating part of it. How to lay an 
arresting hand on an intelligence that slipped away when 
you were about to probe it? 
" Look here," he called after her, " you goin' home to 
tell Tom Neale I offered you nine hunderd dollars ? " 
" Oh, no," said Tabitha earnestly. " I wouldn't have 
him know it for the world. That's what I was goin' to 
beseech of you. Don't you say a word, an' I won't 
neither." 
She went hurrying down the path, almost running, he 
thought, in his exasperation against her, and he watched 
the steeple-crowned parasol bobbing along the road. 
And whether she knew him for the rascal he was he could 
not decide, long as he debated it, that night and follow- 
ing days. 
All the way home Tabitha hummed her little formless 
song. The world seemed to her a rich place. When she 
came into the house, Mary Neale, sewing by a front win- 
dow, looked up at her and smiled. She asked no ques- 
tions. Tabitha, so far as Mary could manage it, was a 
free inmate of the house. But she saw the little alien 
guest was in excellent spirits, and wondered. 
" It's proper dusty," said Tabitha, quite gaily as she 
went up the stairs. 
That night, when Hugh was going up to bed, she 
opened her door a crack and beckoned him. 
Don't you be discouraged," she said, nodding and 
smiling mysteriously. " When you want to go, I guess a 
way'll be found." 
Hugh, smiling back at her, but without interest, 
thought she'd been telling his fortune again by the cards. 
It was a long time before Aunt Tab went " abroad " 
again, in the speech of the place, to make a call. Squire 
Greene looked for her in vain to complete the trade, and 
one day, when Thomas and Mary Neale had driven off 
to Beckenham together, he went over to see her and renew 
his offer. But though he let the knocker fall with a 
clang that terrified Tabitha, above there in her chamber, 
a hand on her heart and her eyes starting, she did not 
answer, and he went away, hating the duplicity of woman 
with a fierceness that was like a curse. Tabitha, behind 
her curtain, watched his back and muttered her relief. 
" My soul ! " she said. " My soul ! " 
It was all a haze to her, the desire she had to sell, her 
fear of Brother Thomas if she did sell, her wonder at the 
tremendous sum the squire offered her and her sheer phys- 
ical panic at the squire himself. 
vin 
The neighborhoods, little settlements that made up 
the township of Bromley, were separated by acres of 
wood and meadow land that fed the fires of the home- 
steads and their stock. The neighborhoods were much 
alike, all farming except for the small industrial interests 
of a sawmill or a blacksmith's forge; but they were dif- 
ferent in atmosphere, a little unsympathetic on some 
points, somewhat jealous, it may be, if one got a bigger 
road appropriation than another or new maps . for the 
school-house or the repair of a bridge. They were ex- 
actly like families, these neighborhoods: they hung to- 
gether against other townships, in time of stress, but they 
knew one another's foibles too well to be over civil among 
