energy, both mental and physical, was consumed in en- 
during torment. If any one had told him the horror of 
attempting to work in a room five feet high, he would not 
have believed it. It was like some of the dreadful devices 
of torture which one saw in European castles, the " iron 
maiden " and the " spiked collar." Hal's back burned as 
if hot irons were being run up and down it ; every separate 
 
joint and muscle cried aloud. It seemed as if he could 
never learn the lesson of the jagged ceiling above his head 
— he bumped it and continued to bump it, until his scalp 
was a mass of cuts and bruises, and his head ached till he 
was nearly blind, and he would have to throw himself flat 
on the ground. 
Then old Mike Sikoria would grin. " I know. Like 
green mule ! Some day get tough ! " 
Hal recalled the great thick callouses on the flanks of 
his former charges, where the harness rubbed against them. 
" Yes, I'm a ' green mule  all right ! " 
It was amazing how many ways there were to bruise and 
tear one's fingers, loading lumps of coal into a car. He 
put on a pair of gloves, but these wore through in a day. 
And then the gas, and the smoke of powder, stifling one ; 
and the terrible burning of the eyes, from the dust and the 
feeble light. There was no way to rub these burning 
eyes, because everything about one was equally dusty. 
Could anybody have imagined the torment of that — any 
of those ladies who rode in softly upholstered parlour-cars, 
or reclined upon the decks of steam-ships in gleaming 
tropic seas? 
Old Mike was good to his new " buddy." Mike's spine 
was bent and his hands were hardened by forty years of 
this sort of toil, so he could do the work of two men, and 
entertain his friend with comments into the bargain. The 
old fellow had the habit of talking all the time, like a 
child ; he would talk to his helper, to himself, to his tools. 
He would call these tools by obscene and terrifying names 
— but with entire friendliness and good humour. " Get 
in there, you son-of-a-gun ! " he would say to his pick. 
" Come along here, you wop ! " he would say to his car. 
" In with you, now, you old buster ! " he would say to a 
lump of coal. And he would lecture Hal on the details 
of mining. He would tell stories of successful days, or 
of terrible mishaps. Above all he would tell about ras- 
 
cality — cursing the " G. F. C," its foremen and super- 
intendents, its officials, directors and stock-holders, and 
the world which permitted such a criminal institution to 
exist. 
Noon-time would come, and Hal would lie upon his 
back, too worn to eat. Old Mike would sit launching; his 
abundant whiskers came to a point on his chin, and as his 
jaws moved, he looked for all the world like an aged billy- 
goat. He was a kind-hearted and anxious old billy-goat, 
and sought to tempt his buddy with a bit of cheese or a swig 
of cold coffee. He believed in eating — no man could 
keep up steam if he did not stoke the furnace. Failing in 
this, he would try to divert HaPs mind, telling stories of 
mining-life in America and Russia. He was most proud 
to have an " American feller " for a buddy, and tried to 
make the work as easy as possible, for fear lest Hal might 
quit. 
Hal did not quit ; but he would drag himself out towards 
night, so exhausted that he would fall asleep in the cage. 
He would fall asleep at supper, and go in and sink down 
on his cot and sleep like a log. And oh, the torture of 
being routed out before daybreak! Having to shake the 
sleep out of his head, and move his creaking joints, and 
become aware of the burning in his eyes, and the blisters 
and sores on his hands! 
It was a week before he had a moment that was not 
pain ; and he never got fully used to the labour. It was 
impossible for any one to work so hard and keep his men- 
tal alertness, his eagerness and sensitiveness ; it was impos- 
sible to work so hard and be an adventurer — to be any- 
thing, in fact, but a machine. Hal had heard that phrase 
of contempt, " the inertia of the masses," and had won- 
dered about it. He no longer wondered, he knew. Could 
a man be brave enough to protest to a pit-boss when his 
body was numb with weariness? Could he think out a 
definite conclusion as to his rights and wrongs, and back 
 
his conclusion with effective action, when his mental facul- 
ties were paralysed by such weariness of body ? 
Hal had come here, as one goes upon the deck of a ship 
in mid-ocean, to see the storm. In this ocean of social 
misery, of ignorance and despair, one saw upturned, tor- 
tured faces, writhing limbs and clutching hands ; in one's 
ears was a storm of lamentation, upon one's cheek a spray 
of blood and tears. Hal found himself so deep in this 
ocean that he could no longer find consolation in the 
thought that he could escape whenever he wanted to : that 
he could say to himself, It is sad, it is terrible — but thank 
God, I can get out of it when I choose! I can go back 
into the warm and well-lighted saloon and tell the other 
passengers how picturesque it is, what an interesting ex- 
perience they are missing ! 
 During these days of torment, Hal did not go 
to see " Red Mary " ; but then, one evening, the Minettis' 
baby having been sick, she came in to ask about it, bring- 
ing what she called " a bit of a custard " in a bowl. Hal 
was suspicious enough of the ways of men, especially of 
business-men ; but when it came to women he was without 
insight — it did not occur to him as singular that an Irish 
girl with many troubles at home should come out to nurse 
a Dago woman's baby. He did not reflect that there were 
plenty of sick Irish babies in the camp, to whom Mary 
might have taken her " bit of a custard." And when he 
saw the surprise of Rosa, who had never met Mary before, 
he took it to be the touching gratitude of the poor ! 
There are, in truth, many kinds of women, with many 
arts, and no man has time to learn them all. Hal had ob- 
served the shop-girl type, who dress themselves with many 
frills, and cast side-long glances, and indulge in fits of 
giggles to attract the attention of the male ; he was familiar 
with the society-girl type, who achieve the same end with 
 
« 
more subtle and alluring means. But could there be a 
type who hold little Dago babies in their laps, and call 
them pretty Irish names, and feed them custard out of a 
spoon ? Hal had never heard of that kind, and he thought 
that "Red Mary" made a charming picture — a Celtic 
madonna with a Sicilian infant in her arms. 
He noticed that she was wearing the same faded blue 
calico-dress with a patch on the shoulder. Man though he 
was, he realised that dress is an important consideration 
in the lives of women. He was tempted to suspect that 
this blue calico might be the only dress that Mary owned ; 
but seeing it newly laundered every time, he concluded 
that she must have at least one other. At any rate, here 
she was, crisp and fresh-looking ; and with the new shining 
costume, she had put on the long promised "company 
manner": high spirits and badinage, precisely like any 
belle of the world of luxury, who powders and bedecks 
herself for a ball. She had been grim and complaining in 
former meetings with this interesting young man ; she had 
frightened him away, apparently; perhaps she could win 
him back by womanliness and good humour. 
She rallied him upon his battered scalp and his creaking 
back, telling him he looked ten years older — which he was 
fully prepared to believe. Also she had fun with him for 
working under a Slovak — another loss of caste, it ap- 
peared ! This was a joke the Minettis could share in — 
especially Little Jerry, who liked jokes. He told Mary 
how^ Joe Smith had had to pay fifteen dollars for his new 
job, besides several drinks at O'Callahan's. Also he told 
how Mike Sikoria had called Joe his " green mule." Lit- 
tle Jerry complained about the turn of events, for in the 
old days Joe had taught him a lot of fine new games — 
and now he was sore, and would not play them. Also, in 
the old days he had sung a lot of jolly songs, full of the 
most fascinating rhymes. There was a song about a 
" monkey puzzle tree " ! Had Mary ever seen that kind of 
 
tree? Little Jerry never got tired of trying to imagine 
what it might look like. 
The Dago urchin stood and watched gravely while Mary 
fed the custard to the baby ; and when two or three spoon- 
fuls were held out to him, he opened his mouth wide, and 
