relations as to which his character of acclaimed 
wooer left no doubt. He was in actual free use 
  
of the whole succession of events, and only wanted 
these pages, page after page, turned for him: 
much as if he had been seated at the harpsichord 
and following out a score while the girl beside 
him stirred the air to his very cheek as she guided 
him leaf by leaf. She seemed verily after that 
fashion to hold out to his eyes the solemn scroll 
of history, on which they rested an instant to 
such a further effect of danger dissipated that 
before either she or he knew it they were once 
more in each other's arms. It was as if this repeti 
tion, this prolongation had been potently deter 
mined, and for each alike, by her free knowledge 
of what had gone before he lagging a little be 
hind, it was true, in the rapid review of reasons, 
but suddenly confident and quite abreast of her 
after they had thus irrepressibly and for the 
second time exchanged their vows. He had for 
the next thing even the sense of being, and in 
the gallantest way, beforehand with her when 
he heard himself strike out as from the push of 
multiplied forces behind him: there was all the 
notoriety for what had it been but notoriety ? 
of the loyalism of the American Pendrels during, 
the Revolution, in the rigour of which they had 
emigrated, restoring themselves to England for 
a ten years' stay and not a little indebted under 
that stress to the countenance and even- the- 
charity of their English kindred. A freshness 
of interest in this adventure surged through our 
  
young man's blood and sought expression, with 
out the least difficulty, in an attitude about it 
to his young hostess as competent as if he had 
by some extraordinary turn become able to in 
form her ignorance. 
"My grandfather yes," he said, "must of 
course, thirty years ago have been rather a wild 
sort of character and anything but a credit to us. 
But he was terribly handsome, you know," Ralph 
smiled, "and if your great-aunt, while we hung 
on here, had cause to complain of his fickleness, 
I think we're all now aware that she fell quite 
madly in love with him and paid him attentions 
of an extravagance that he couldn't after all 
ignore not in common civility." He liked to 
go back to that since it was all indeed, under 
growing freedom of reference, so much more 
behind him than before; it was truly brave 
matter for talk, warming his blood, as we say, 
while it flowed; and he had at the end of another 
minute so mastered it that he would have liked 
to catch her mistaken in order to put her right. 
Her face, for that matter, glowed with the 
pleasure, wasn't it ? of his assurance thus made 
positive; assurances, roundabout them, couldn't, 
she showed, too much multiply, and it wasn't 
to be till considerably after that the sense of 
this moment marked her for him as really rather 
listening, though in all delight, to his recital of 
a learnt lesson, than as herself taking from him 
  
an inspiration she might have lacked. He was 
amused even if why so amused ? at the vivid 
ness of the image of the too susceptible or too 
adventurous daughter of their earlier house with 
whose affections, the acknowledged kinship of the 
two families offering approved occasion, his un 
scrupulous ancestor had atrociously trifled. The 
story had anything but grace, thanks to the facts 
of its hero's situation, his responsibility to a pa 
tient young wife and three children these kept 
indeed at a distance, quartered, by his care, in 
a small French town, during most of the term of 
his extravagance; the climax of which last had 
been the brutal indifference, as it at least ap 
peared, of his return to New York with nothing 
done for mitigation of the exposure awaiting the 
partner, as the phrase was, of his guilt. It didn't 
make the scandal less since a different face 
might somehow or other have been put upon it 
that he prospered in America against every 
presumption attaching to the compromised civil 
state of the family; that he succeeded in carry 
ing their name again almost insolently high, in 
recovering and enlarging their ancient credit, in 
retrieving their wasted, their forfeited resources, 
in putting them at last back into such a posture 
that after his death and with the lapse of the 
condoning years they could perfectly pass for 
people, had in fact conspicuously become people, 
incapable not only of gross infractions but of 
  
the least lapse from good manners. The defunct 
worthy, with whatever discomfort of conscience, 
had had a high hand for affairs of profit and had 
flourished as the undoer of virtue or confidence 
or whatever other shaky equilibrium is often 
observed to flourish. The proofs of his mastery 
were naturally, however, much more evident to 
the followers in his line than any ground for im 
putations less flattering; with which it seemed 
further unmistakable that a posterity in such 
good humour with itself and its traditions might 
have even enough of that grace to spare for cases 
of the minor felicity. How at ?ny rate had it 
come about that the minor felicity, of all things 
in the world, could be a distinguishable mark of 
trie English Pendrels, the legend of any awkward 
accident or any foregone advantage in whose 
annals would so scantly have emerged as matter 
Tor free reference ? This was a question that 
might with the extraordinary swell of our young 
man's present vision find itself as answerable as 
the next before or the next after. Every ques 
tion became answerable, in its turn, the moment 
it was touched; so that when his companion, as 
she had so bravely become, mentioned the repair 
of the family breach he jumped at the occasion 
for a full illustration of the subject. 
"You see how little difference your mother's 
marriage made to us, with the extinction of our 
name here involved in it; since if Pendrels had 
  
at last failed us, for the pleasure over there of 
thinking of them, we could make Midmores 
answer almost as well at the worst take them 
up even with a resignation which, now that I 
know you, cousin," Ralph went on, "seems to 
put our acquaintance in a light that couldn't 
possibly be bettered." 
"Certainly the Midmores are as good as any 
body," the young lady bearing their name flared 
out in the charmingest way to reply; "for we're 
not forgetting, are we? that it was a Pendrel 
after all, one of yours, though of mamma's own 
recognised blood too, who came out as if on pur 
pose to make the trouble among us; the trouble 
we doubtless needn't go into again now, even if 
it seems to have been thought as ill as possible 
of at the time." 
"No, we needn't go into that of course," Ralph 
smiled smiled verily through his exhilarated 
sense that whereas the best of reasons for their 
not doing so would have dwelt a few moments 
before in his imperfect grasp of that affair, he 
now enjoyed the superior view of it as well be 
fore him and only a bit embarrassing to handle. 
"You didn't like us then, and we must have 
been brought up not greatly to like you all the 
more even, no doubt, if we were in the wrong," 
he cleverly put it; "so that things got worse, 
and we thought still more evil, on both sides, 
than there was to think; which perhaps didn't 
  
matter, nevertheless," he added, "when once all 
commerce was quite broken off. Nothing can 
