"Yes, sir."
"Stephanie Quest?"
"Yes, sir."
"What shall I call you?  Steve?"
"Yes, sir," winningly grave.
"All right, then.  Steve, will you shake hands?"
The child laid her thin, red, water-marred fingers in his gloved hand.
He retained them, and drew her nearer.
"You’ve had a rather tough deal, Steve, haven’t you?"
The child was silent, standing with head lowered, her bronzed brown hair
hanging and shadowing shoulders and face.
"Do you go to school, Steve?"
"Yes, sir."
"Not to-day?"
"No, sir.  It’s Saturday."
"Oh, yes.  I forgot.  What do you learn in school?"
"Things—writing—reading."
"Do you like school?"
"Yes, sir."
"What do you like best?"
"Dancing."
"Do they teach that?  What kind of dancing do you learn to do?"
"Fancy dancing—folk-dances.  And I like the little plays that teacher
gets up for us."
"Do you like any other of your studies?" he asked drily.
"Droring."
"Drawing?"
"Yes, sir," she replied, flushing painfully.
"Oh.  So they teach you to draw?  Who instructs you?"
"Miss Crowe.  She comes every week.  We copy picture cards and things."
"So you like to draw, Steve," nodded Cleland absently, thinking of his
only son, who liked to write, and who, God willing, would have every
chance to develop his bent in life.  Then, still thinking of his only
son, he looked up into the grey eyes of this little stranger.
As fate would have it, she smiled at him.  And, looking at her in
silence he felt the child-hunger gnawing in his heart—felt it, and for
the first time, vaguely surmised what it really was that had so long
ailed him.
But the idea, of course, seemed hopeless, impossible! It was not fair to
his only son.  Everything that he had was his son’s—everything he had to
give—care, sympathy, love, worldly possessions.  These belonged to his
son alone.
"Are you happy here with these kind people, Steve?" he asked hastily.
"Yes, sir."
But though his conscience should have instantly acquitted him, deep in
his lonely heart the child-hunger gnawed, unsatisfied.  If only there
had been other children of his own—younger ones to play with, to have
near him in his solitude, to cuddle, to caress, to fuss over as he and
his dead wife had fussed over their only baby!——
"Steve?"
"Sir?"
"You are sure you will be quite happy here?"
"Yes, sir."
"Would you——" A pause; and again he looked up into the child’s face, and
again she smiled.
"Steve, I never had a little girl.  It’s funny, isn’t it?"
"Yes, sir."
A silence.
"Would you like to—to go to a private school?"
The child did not understand.  So he told her about such schools and the
little girls who went to them. She seemed deeply interested; her grey
eyes were clear and seriously intelligent, and very, very intently fixed
on him in the effort to follow and understand what he was saying.
He told her about other children who lived amid happy surroundings; what
they did, how they were cared for, schooled, brought up; what was
expected of them by the world—what was required by the world from those
who had had advantages of a home, of training, of friends, and of an
education.  He was committing himself with every word, and refused to
believe it.
At times he paused to question her, and she always nodded seriously that
she understood.
"But this," he added smilingly, "you may not entirely comprehend, Steve;
that such children, brought up as I have explained to you, owe the human
race a debt which is never cancelled."  He was talking to himself now,
more than to her; voicing his thoughts; feeling his way toward the
expression of a philosophy which he had heretofore only vaguely
entertained.
"The hope of the world lies in such children, Steve," he said.  "The
world has a right to expect service from them.  You don’t understand, do
you?"
Her wonderfully clear eyes were almost beautiful with intelligence as
they looked straight into his. Perhaps the child understood more than
she herself realized, more than he believed she understood.
"Shall I come to see you again, Steve?"
"Yes, sir, please."
There was a pause.  Very gently the slight pressure of his arm, which
had crept around her, conveyed to her its wistful meaning; and when she
understood she leaned slowly toward him in winning response, and offered
her lips with a gravity that captivated him.
"Good-bye, Steve, dear," he said unsteadily.  "I’ll come to see you
again very soon.  I surely, surely will come back again to see you,
Steve."
Then he put on his hat and went out abruptly—not down town to
Christensen’s, but back to the United Charities, and, after an hour,
from there he went down town to his attorney’s, where he spent the
entire day under suppressed excitement.
For there were many steps to take and much detail to be attended to
before this new and momentous deal could be put through—a transaction
concerning a human soul and the measures to be taken to insure its
salvage.
                             *CHAPTER III*
During the next few weeks John William Cleland’s instinct fought a
continuous series of combats with his reason.
Instinct, with her powerful allies, loneliness and love, urged the
solitary man to rash experiment; reason ridiculed impulse and made it
very clear to Cleland that he was a fool.
But instinct had this advantage; she was always awake, whispering to his
mind and heart; and reason often fell asleep on guard over his brain.
But when awake, reason laughed at the conspirators, always in ambush to
slay him; and carried matters with a high hand, rebuking instinct and
frowning upon her allies.
And John Cleland hesitated.  He wrote to his only son every day.  He
strove to find occupation for every minute between the morning awakening
in his silent chamber and the melancholy lying down at night.
But always the battle between reason and instinct continued.
Reason had always appealed to Cleland Senior.  His parents and later his
wife and son had known the only sentimental phenomena which had ever
characterized him in his career.  Outside of these exceptions, reason
had always ruled him.  This is usually the case among those who inherit
money from forebears who, in turn, have been accustomed to inherit and
hand down a moderate but unimpaired fortune through sober generations.
Such people are born logical when not born fools. And now Cleland
Senior, mortified and irritated by the increasing longing which obsessed
him, asked himself frequently which of these he really was.
Every atom of logic in him counselled him to abstain from what every
instinct in him was desiring and demanding—a little child to fill the
loneliness of his heart and house—something to mitigate the absence of
his son, whose absences must, in the natural course of events, become
more frequent and of longer duration with the years of college imminent,
and the demands of new interests, new friends increasing year by year.
He told himself that to take another child into his home would be unfair
to Jim; to take her into his heart was disloyal; that the dear past
belonged to his wife alone, the present and the future to his only son.
And all the while the man was starving for what he wanted.
Well, the arrangements took some time to complete; but they were fairly
complete when finished.  She kept her own name; she was to have six
thousand dollars a year for life after she became twenty-one.  He
charged himself with her mental, moral, spiritual, physical, and general
education.
It came about in the following manner:
First of all, he went to see a gentleman whom he had known for many
years, but whose status with himself had always remained a trifle
indefinite in his mind—somewhere betwixt indifferent friendship and
informal acquaintanceship.
The gentleman’s name was Chiltern Grismer; his business, charity and
religion.  He did not dispense either of these, however; he made a
living for himself out of both.  Cleland had learned at the United
Charities that Grismer was an important personage in the Manhattan
Charities Concern, a separate sectarian affair with a big office
building, and a book bindery in Brooklyn for the immense tonnage of
sectarian books and pamphlets published and sold by the "Concern," as it
called itself.  The profits were said to be enormous.
Grismer, tall, bony, sandy and with a pair of unusually light yellowish
eyes behind eye-glasses, appeared the classical philanthropist of the
stage.  With his white, bushy side-whiskers, his frock coat, and his
little ready-made black bow-tie, slightly askew under a high choker, he
certainly dressed the part.  In fact, any dramatic producer would have
welcomed him in the rôle, for he had no "business" to learn; it was
perfectly natural for him to join his finger tips together while
conversing; and his voice and manner left nothing whatever to criticize.
