above all, as against his own sense of fineness in 
these matters; and to have this thing count 
somehow very much in the matter of his relation 
with Cissy. I seem to want something like his 
having consented to be "put up" by her to the 
idea of offering Cissy something very handsome 
byway of a "kind" tribute to her mingled poverty 
and charm — jolly, jolly, I think I've exactly got 
it ! I keep in mind that Mrs. Bradham wants 
him to marry her — this amount of "disinterested- 
ness " giving the measure of Mrs. B. at her most 
exalted "best". Wherewith, to consolidate this, 
her delicacy being capable — well, of what we shall 
see, she works of course to exaggeration the idea 
of his "recognising" how nice Cissy was, over 
there in the other time, to his poor sick stepfather, 
who himself so recognised it, who wrote to her 
so charmingly a couple of times "about it", 
after her return to America and quite shortly 
before his death. Gray "knows about this", 
and of course will quite see what she means. 
 
Therefore wouldn't it be nice for Gray to give 
her, Cissy, something really beautiful and val- 
uable and socially helpful to her — as of course 
he can't give her money, which is what would 
be most helpful. Under this hustlement, in fine, 
and with a sense, born of his goodnature, his 
imagination, and his own delicacy, such a very 
different affair, of what Gussie Bradham has 
done for him, by her showing, he finds himself 
in for having bought a very rare single row of 
pearls, such as a girl, in New York at least, may 
happily wear, and presenting it to our young 
person as the token of recognition that Mrs. 
Bradham has imagined for them. The beauty 
in which, I see, is that it may be illustrational 
in more ways than one — illustrational of the 
hustle, of the length Gray has "appreciatively" 
let himself go, and, above all, of Cissy's really 
interesting intelligence and "subtlety". She 
refuses the gift, very gently and pleadingly, but 
as it seems to him really pretty well finally — 
refuses it as not relevant or proportionate or 
congruous to any relation in which they yet 
stand to each other, and as oh ever so much over- 
expressing any niceness she may have shown in 
Europe. She does, in doing this, exactly what 
he has felt at the back of his head that she would 
really do, and what he likes her for doing; — the 
effect of which is that she has furthered her in- 
terest with him decidedly more (as she of course 
 
says to herself) than if she had taken it. He is 
left with it for the moment on his hands, and 
what I want is that he shall the next thing find 
himself, in revulsion, in reaction, there being 
for him no question of selling it again etc., finds 
himself, I say, offering it to Mrs. Bradham her- 
self, who swallows it without winking. Yet, in 
a way, this little history of the pearls, of her not 
having had them, and of his after a fashion owing 
her a certain compensation for that, owing her 
something she can accept, is there between him 
and my young person. They figure again be- 
tween them, humorously, freely, ironically — the 
girl being of an irony! — in their appearances on 
Mrs. Bradham's person, to whose huge possession 
of ornament they none the less conspicuously 
add. 
But my point here is above all that Gray ex- 
actly doesn't put the question of what is becom- 
ing of his funds under Horty's care of them to 
the test by any cultivation of that courage for 
large drafts and big hauls, that nerve for be- 
lieving in the fairy-tale of his sudden fact of pos- 
session, which was briefly and in a manner amus- 
ingly possible to him at the first go off of his 
situation. He forbears, abstains, stands off, and 
finds himself, or in particular is found by others, 
to the extent of their observing, wondering and 
presently challenging him, to be living, to be 
drawing on his supposed income, with what might 
 
pass for the most extraordinarily timorous and 
limited! imagination. He likes this arrest, en- 
joys it and feels a sort of wondrous refreshing 
decency, at any rate above all a refreshing in- 
terest and curiosity about it, or, rather, for it; 
but what his position involves is his explaining 
it to others, his making up his mind, his having 
to, for a line to take about it,, without his thereby 
giving Horton away. He isn't to give Horton 
away the least scrap from this point on; but at 
the same time he is to have to deal with the world, 
with society, with the entourage consisting for 
him, in its most pressing form, of, say, three 
representative persons- — he has to deal with this 
challenge,, as I have called it, in some way that 
will sort of meet it without givings-away. These 
three persons are in especial Rosanna and the 
two Bradhams;, and it is before me definitely, I 
think, that I want to express, and in the very 
vividest way, his sense of his situation here, of 
what it means, and of what he means, in it, through 
what takes place for him about it with Rosanna 
and with the Bradhams. It is by what he "says" 
to the Bradhams and to Rosanna (in the way, 
that is largely, of not. saying) that I seem to see 
my values here as best got, and the presentation 
of their different states most vivified and drama- 
tised. These are scenes, and the function of them 
to serve up for us exactly, and ever so lucidly, 
what I desire them to represent. If the greatest 
 
interest of them, of sorts, belongs to them in so 
far as they are "with" Rosanna, there are yet 
particular values that belong to the relation with 
Davey, and the three relations, at any rate, work 
the thing for me. They are perfectly different, 
on this lively ground, though the "point" in- 
volved is the same in each; and the having each 
of them to do it with should enable me to do it 
beautifully; I mean to squeeze all the dramatic 
sense from it. The great beauty is of course for 
the aspects with Rosanna, between whom and 
him everything passes — and there is so much 
basis already in what has been between them — 
without his "explaining", as I have called it, 
anything. Even without explanations — or all 
the more by reason of their very absence — there 
is so much of it all; of the question and the dra- 
matic illumination. With Gussie Bradham — 
that aspect I needn't linger or insist on, here, so 
much as a scrap. I have that, see it all, it's then. 
But with Davey I want something very good, 
that is in other words very functional; and I 
think I even wonder if I don't want to see Davey 
as attempting to borrow money of him. This — - 
if I do see it — will take much putting on the right 
basis; and it seems to kind of glimmer upon me 
richly what the right basis is. My idea has been 
from the first that the Bradham money is all 
Gussie's; I have seen Davey, by the very type 
and aspect, by all his detached irony and humour 
 
and indiscretion and general value as the un- 
monied young man who has married the heiress, 
as Horton would have been had he been able 
to marry, Rosanna. But no interfering analogy 
need trouble me here; Horton's not having done 
that, and the essential difference between the 
men, eases off any such question. Only don't I 
seem to want it that Gussie's fortune, besides 
not having been even remotely comparable to 
Rosanna's, is, though with a fair outward face, 
a dilapidated and undermined quantity, much 
ravaged by Gussie's violent strain upon it, and 
representing thus, through her general enormous 
habit and attitude, an association and connec- 
