Entrance; also, the distant glitter of a policeman's shield and
buttons now extinguished all hope of pursuit.
Soane glared at the crowd out of enraged and blood-shot eyes:
"G'wan home, ye bunch of bums!" he said thickly, and slammed the door
to the Family Entrance of Grogan's notorious café.
At 42d Street and Madison Avenue the taxi stopped and Souchez and
Alost got out and went rapidly across the street toward the Grand
Central depot. Then the taxi proceeded west, north again, then once
more west.
Renoux, busy with a bleeding nose, remarked carelessly that Souchez
and Alost were taking a train and were in a hurry, and that he himself
was going back to the Astor.
"You do not mind coming with me, Barres?" he added. "In my rooms we
can have a bite and a glass together, and then we can brush up. That
was a nice little fight, was it not, mon ami?"
"Fine," said Barres with satisfaction.
"Quite like the old and happy days," mused Renoux, surveying wilted
collar and rumpled tie of his comrade. "You came off well; you have
merely a bruised cheek." His eyes began to sparkle and he laughed: "Do
you remember that May evening when your very quarrelsome atelier
barricaded the Café de la Source and forbade us to enter--and my
atelier marched down the Boul' Mich' with its Kazoo band playing our
atelier march, determined to take your café by assault? Oh, my! What a
delightful fight that was!"
"Your crazy comrades stuffed me into the fountain among the goldfish.
I thought I'd drown," said Barres, laughing.
"I know, but your atelier gained a great victory that night, and you
came over to Müller's with your Kazoo band playing the Fireman's
March, and you carried away our palms and bay-trees in their green
tubs, and you threw them over the Pont-au-Change into the Seine!----"
They were laughing like a pair of schoolboys now, quite convulsed and
holding to each other.
"Do you remember," gasped Barres, "that girl who danced the Carmagnole
on the Quay?"
"Yvonne Tête-de-Linotte!"
"And the British giant from Julien's, who threw everybody out of the
Café Montparnasse and invited the Quarter in to a free banquet?"
"McNeil!"
"What ever became of that pretty girl, Doucette de Valmy?"
"Oh, it was she who cheered on your atelier to the assault on
Müllers!----"
Laughter stifled them.
"What crazy creatures we all were," said Renoux, staunching the last
crimson drops oozing from his nose. Then, more soberly: "We French
have a grimmer affair over there than the joyous rows of the Latin
Quarter. I'm sorry now that we didn't throw every waiter in Müller's
after the bay-trees. There would have been so many fewer spies to
betray France."
The taxi stopped at the 44th Street entrance to the Astor. They
descended, Renoux leading, walked through the corridor to Peacock
Alley, turned to the right through the bar, then to the left into the
lobby, and thence to the elevator.
In Renoux's rooms they turned on the electric light, locked the door,
closed the transom, then spread their plunder out on a table.
To Renoux's disgust his own loot consisted of sealed envelopes full of
clippings from German newspapers published in Chicago, Milwaukee, and
New York.
"That animal, Lehr," he said with a wry face, "has certainly played us
a filthy turn. These clippings amount to nothing----" His eyes fell on
the packet of papers which Barres was now opening, and he leaned over
his shoulder to look.
"Thank God!" he said, "here they are! Where on earth did you find
these papers, Barres? They're the documents we were after! They ought
to have been in Lehr's pockets!"
"He must have passed them to the fellow who bumped into me near the
wash-room," said Barres, enchanted at his luck. "What a fortunate
chance that you sent me around there!"
Renoux, delighted, stood under the electric light unfolding document
after document, and nodding his handsome, mischievous head with
satisfaction.
"What luck, Barres! What did you do to the fellow?"
"Thumped him to sleep and turned out his pockets. Are these really
what you want?"
"I should say so! This is precisely what we are looking for!"
"Do you mind if I read them, too?"
"No, I don't. Why should I? You're my loyal comrade and you understand
discretion.... What do you think of this!" displaying a
typewritten document marked "Copy," enclosing a sheaf of maps.
It contained plans of all the East River and Harlem bridges, a tracing
showing the course of the new aqueduct and the Ashokan Dam, drawings
of the Navy Yard, a map of Iona Island, and a plan of the Welland
Canal.
The document was brief:
  "Included in report by K17 to Diplomatic Agent controlling
  Section 7-4-11-B. Recommended that detail plan of DuPont works be
  made without delay.
  "SKEEL."
Followed several sheets in cipher, evidently some intricate variation
of those which are always ultimately solved by experts.
But the documents that were now unfolded by Captain Renoux proved
readable and intensely interesting.
These were the papers which Renoux read and which Barres read over his
shoulder:
  "(Copy)
  Berlin Military Telegraph Office Telegram
  Berlin. Political Division of the General Staff
  Nr. Pol. 6431.
  (SECRET)
  8, Moltkestrasse,
    Berlin, NW, 40.
      March 20, 1916.
  "FEREZ BEY, N. Y.
  "Referring to your correspondence and conversations with Colonel
  Skeel, I most urgently request that the necessary funds be raised
  through the New York banker, Adolf Gerhardt; also that Bernstorff
  be immediately informed through Boy-Ed, so that plans of Head
  General Staff of Army on campaign may not be delayed.
  "Begin instantly enlist and train men, secure and arm power-boat
  assemble equipment and explosives, Welland Canal Exp'd'n. War
  Office No. 159-16, Secret U. K.:--T, 3, P."
       
  "Foreign Office, Berlin,
  "Dec. 28, 1914.
  "DEAR SIR ROGER:--I have the honour to acknowledge receipt of your
  letter of the 23d inst., in which you submitted to his Imperial
  Majesty's Government a proposal for the formation of an Irish
  brigade which would be pledged to fight only for the cause of
  Irish nationalism, and which is to be composed of any Irish
  prisoners of war willing to join such a regiment.
  "In reply I have the honour to inform you that his Imperial
  Majesty's Government agrees to your proposal and also to the
  conditions under which it might be possible to train an Irish
  brigade. These conditions are set out in the declaration enclosed
  in your letter of the 13th inst., and are given at foot. I have
  the honour to be, dear Roger, your obedient servant,
  "(Signed) ZIMMERMAN,
  "Under Secretary of State for the Foreign Office.
       
  "TO HIS HONOUR, SIR ROGER CASEMENT,
    "Eden Hotel, Kurfürstendamm, Berlin."
  "(SECRET)
  "COLONEL MURTAGH SKEEL,
    "Flying Division, Irish Expeditionary Corps,
      "New York.
  "For your information I enclose Zimmerman's letter to Sir Roger,
  and also the text of Articles 6 and 7, being part of our first
  agreement with Sir Roger Casement.
  "You will note particularly the Article numbered 7.
  "This paragraph, unfortunately, still postpones your suggested
  attempt to seize on the high seas a British or neutral steamer
  loaded with arms and munitions, and make a landing from her on the
  Irish Coast.
  "But, in the meantime, is it not possible for you to seize one of
  the large ore steamers on the Great Lakes, transfer to her
  sufficient explosives, take her into the Welland Canal and blow up
  the locks?
  "No more valuable service could be performed by Irishmen; no
  deadlier blow delivered at England.
  "I am, my dear Skeel, your sincere friend and comrade,
  "(Signed) VON PAPEN.
  "P. S.--Herewith appended are Articles 6 and 7 included in the
  Casement convention:
  "(SECRET)
  "Text of Articles 6 and 7 of the convention concluded between Sir
  Roger Casement and the German Government:
  "6. The German Imperial Government undertakes 'under certain
  circumstances' to lend the Irish Brigade adequate military
  support, and to send it to Ireland abundantly supplied with arms
  and ammunition, in order that once there it may equip any Irish
  who would like to join it in making an attempt to re-establish
