Comrade Stankewitz was as ready to fight the Germans in 
Leesville as in France. He got so excited arguing that he 
almost forgot the cigars and the show-cases which he had to 
get rid of in two days. To Jimmie it was an amazing thing to 
see this transformation not merely the new uniform and the 
new muscles of his Roumanian Jewish friend, but his sense of 
certainty about the war, his loyalty to the President for the bold 
deed he had done in pledging the good faith of America to 
securing the freedom and the peaceful future of the harassed 
and tormented subject-races of Eastern Europe. 
II 
Jimmie got a sheet of letter paper, and borrowed a scratchy 
pen and a little bottle of ink from Mrs. Meissner, and wrote 
a painfully misspelled letter to Comrade Evelyn Gerrity, nee 
Baskerville, to assure her of his sympathy and undying friend- 
ship. He did not tell her that he was beginning to wabble 
on the war; in fact, when he thought of Jack Gerrity, chained 
up to the bars of a cell-window, he un-wabbled he wanted 
the social revolution right away. But then as he went to drop 
the letter into the post-office, so that it might go more quickly, 
he bought a paper and read the story of what was happening 
in France. And again the war-fervour tempted him. 
By desperate, frenzied fighting the British had succeeded in 
holding up for a few days the colossal German drive. But help 
was needed instant help, if civilisation was to be saved. The 
cry came across the seas America must send assistance guns, 
shells, food, and above all else men. JimimV s blood was stirred ; 
he had an impulse to answer the call, to rush to the rescue of 
those desperate men, crouching in shell-holes and fighting day 
and night for a week without rest. If only Jimmie could have 
gone right to them ! If only it had not been necessary for him 
to go to a training-camp and submit himself to a military mar- 
tinet! If only it had not been for war-profiteers, and crooked 
politicians, and lying, predatory newspapers, and all the other 
enemies of democracy at home ! 
Jimmie dropped his letter in the slot, and turned to leave 
the post-office, when his eye was caught by a sign on the wall 
a large sign, in bold, black letters: "YOUR COUNTRY NEEDS 
YOU!" Jimmie thought it was more "Liberty Bond" busi- 
ness; they had been after him several times, trying to separate 
him from his earnings, but needless to say they hadn't succeeded. 
However, he stopped out of curiosity, and read that men were 
needed to go to France skilled men of all sorts. There was a 
long list of the trades, everything you could think of carpenters, 
E lumbers, electricians, lumbermen, stevedores, railwaymen, 
lundrymen, cooks, warehousemen so on for several columns. 
Jimmie came to "machinists," and gave a guilty start; then 
he came to "motor-cycle drivers" and "motor-cycle repairers" 
and suddenly he clenched his hands. A wild idea flashed 
over him, causing such excitement that he could hardly read 
on. Why should he not go to France he, Jimmie Higgins! 
He was a man without a tie in the world as free as the winds 
that blew across the ocean! And he was looking for a job 
why not take one of these? 
It was a way he might share all the adventures, see the 
marvellous sights of which he had been reading and hearing, and 
without the long delay in a training-camp, without waiting to 
be bossed about by a military martinet! Jimmie looked to see 
what pay was offered ; fifty-one dollars a month and an "allow- 
ance" for board and expenses. At the bottom of the sign he 
read the words : "Why not work for your Uncle Sam?" Jimmie 
as it happened was in a fairly friendly mood towards his 
Uncle Sam at that moment ; so he thought, why not give him a 
chance as a boss? After all, wasn't that what every Socialist 
was aiming at to be an employe of the community, a servant 
of the public, rather than of some private profiteer? 
Jimmie went to the window to inquire, and the clerk told 
him that the "war-labour recruiting office" was at the corner 
of Main and Jefferson. He came to the corner designated, and 
there in a vacant store was a big recruiting sign, "War Labour 
Wanted," and a soldier in khaki walking up and down. A 
week ago Jimmie could not have been bribed to enter a place 
presided over by a soldier; but he had learned from Emil and 
Stankewitz that a soldier might be a human being, so he went, 
up and said, "Hello." 
"Hello, yourself", said the soldier, looking him over with, 
an appraising eye. 
"If I was to hire here, when would I start for France?" 
"To-night," said the soldier. 
"Youkiddin'rne?" 
"They ain't payin' me to kid people," said the other; and 
then, "What's your hurry?" 
"Well, I don't want to be stalled in a trainin' camp." 
"You won't be stalled if you know your business. What 
are you?" 
"I'm a machinist; I've repaired bicycles, and I know a bit 
about motor-cycles." 
"Walk in," said the soldier, and led the way, and presented 
Jimmie to a sergeant at the desk. "Here's a machinist," he- 
said, "and he's in a hurry to get to work. Kunnin' away from 
his wife, may be." 
"There's a bunch of men starting for the training-camp 
to-night," said the sergeant. 
"Trainin'-camp ?" echoed Jimmie. "I want to go to France." 
The other smiled. "You wouldn't expect us to send you 
till we'd tried you out, would you?" 
"No, I suppose not," replied Jimmie, dubiously. He was 
on his guard against tricks. Suppose they were to enlist him as 
a worker, and then make him fight! 
The other went on. "If you're competent, you'll get to 
France all right. We need men over there in a hurry, and we 
won't waste your time." 
"Well now," said Jimmie, "I dunno's you'll want me at 
all when you hear about me. I'm a Socialist." 
"Thought you was a machinist," countered the ser- 
geant. 
"I'm a Socialist, too. I was in the strike at the Empire a 
coupla years ago, and they blacklisted me. I can't get no work 
in the big places here." 
"Well," said the sergeant, "it's a good town for you to quit, 
I should say." 
"You want a man like that?" persisted Jimmie. 
"What we want is men that know machinery, and'll dig in 
and work like hell to beat the Kaiser. If you're that sort, 
we don't ask your religion. We've got a bunch that start to- 
night." 
"Holy smoke !" said Jimmie. He had thought he would have 
time to ask questions and to think matters over, time to see his 
friends and say good-bye. But the sergeant was so efficient 
and business-like; he took it so completely for granted that any 
man who was worth his salt must be anxious to help wallop the 
Hun ! Jimmie, who had come in full of hurry, was now ashamed 
to back water, to hem and haw, to say, "I dunno; I ain't so 
sure." And so the trap snapped on him the monster of Mili- 
tarism grabbed him! 
IV 
"Sit down," said the sergeant, and the anxious little Socialist 
took the chair beside the desk. 
"What's your name?" 
"James Higgins." 
"Your address?" 
"I'm just stayin' with a friend." 
"The friend's address ?" and so on : where had Jimmie worked 
last, what work had he done, what references had he to offer. 
Jimmie could not help grinning as he realised how his record 
must sound to a military martinet. He had been fired and 
blacklisted at the motor-truck factory in Ironton, his last job; 
he had been fired and blacklisted at the Empire Shops ; he had 
 
been arrested and sent to jail for soap-boxing on the streets of 
Leesville ; he had been arrested in the bomb-conspiracy of Kumme 
and Heinrich von Hoist. The sergeant entered each of these 
items without comment,, but when he came to the last, he stared 
up at the applicant. 
"I didn't have nothin' to do with it," declared Jimmie. 
"You got to prove that to "me," said the sergeant. 
"I proved it once," replied Jimmie. 
"Who to?" 
"Mr. Harrod, the agent of the Department of Justice here." 
The other took up the telephone and called the post office 
building, Jimmie listened to one half of the conversation 
would Mr. Harrod look up the record of James Higgins, who 
was applying for enlistment in the Mechanical Department of 
the Motor Corps? There was some delay Mr. Harrod was 
talking while Jimmie sat, decidedly nervous; but it was all 
right apparently the sergeant hung up the receiver, and re- 
marked reassuringly, "He says you're just a dub. He told 
me to congratulate you on having got some sense." 
Jimmie made the most of this more than dubious statement, 
and proceeded to answer questions as to his competence. Was 
