She was still seated there when Marya came in, her tiger-red hair in
fascinating disorder from the wind, her skin fairly breathing the warm
fragrance of exotic youth.

"My Palla! How pale you seem!" she exclaimed, embracing her. "You are
quite well? Really? Then I am reassured!"

She went to the mirror and tucked in a burnished strand or two of
hair.

"These Chicago ladies--they have not arrived, I see. Am I then so
early? For I see that Ilse is not yet here----"

"It is only a quarter to eight," said Palla, smiling; but the brown
eyes were calmly measuring this lithe and warm and lovely thing with
green eyes--measuring it intently--taking its measure--taking, for the
first time in her life, her measure of any woman.

"Was Vanya's concert a great success?" she asked.

"Vanya has not yet returned." She shrugged. "There was nothing in New
York papers."

"I suppose you were very nervous last night," said Palla.

For a moment Marya continued to arrange her hair by the aid of the
mantel mirror, then she turned very lithely and let her green gaze
rest full on Palla's face.

What she might possibly have divined was hidden behind the steady
brown eyes that met hers may have determined her attitude and words;
for she laughed with frank carelessness and plunged into it all:

"Fancy, Palla, my encountering Jim Shotwell in the Biltmore, and
dining with him at that noisy Palace of Mirrors last night! Did he
tell you?"

"I haven't seen him."

"--Over the telephone, perhaps?"

"No, he did not mention it."

"Well, it was most amusing. It is the unpremeditated that is
delightful. And can you see us in that dreadful place, as gay as a
pair of school children? And we must laugh at nothing and find it
enchanting--and we must dance amid the hoi polloi and clap our hands
for the encore too!----"

A light peal of laughter floated from her lips at the recollections
evoked:

"And after! Can you see us, Palla, in Vanya's studio, too wide awake
to go our ways!--and the song I sang at that unearthly hour--the song
I sing always when happily excited----"

The bell rang; the first guest had arrived.




CHAPTER XIX


Vanya's concert had been enough of a success to attract the
attention of genuine music-lovers and an impecunious impresario--an
irresponsible promoter celebrated for rushing headlong into things
and being kicked headlong out of them.

All promising virtuosi had cut their wisdom teeth on him; all had
acquired experience and its accompanying toothache; none had acquired
wealth until free of this ubiquitous impresario.

His name was Wilding: he seized upon Vanya; and that gentle and
disconcerted dreamer offered no resistance.

So Wilding began to haunt Vanya's apartment at all hours of the day,
rushing in with characteristic enthusiasm to discuss the vast campaign
of nation-wide concerts which in his mind's eye were already
materialising.

Marya had no faith in him and was becoming very tired of his noise and
bustle in the stillness and subdued light which meant home to her, and
which this loud, excitable, untidy man was eternally invading.

Always he was shouting at Vanya: "It's a knock-out! It will go big!
big! big! We got 'em started in Baltimore!"--a fact, but none of his
doing! "We'll play Philadelphia next; I'm fixin' it for you. All you
gotta do is go there and the yelling starts. Well, I guess. Some riot,
believe me!"

Wilding had no money in the beginning. After a while, Vanya had none,
or very little; but the impresario wore a new fur coat and spats. And
Broadway winked wearily and said: "He's got another!"--doubtless
deeming specification mere redundancy.

Yet, somehow, Wilding did manage to book Vanya in Philadelphia--at a
somewhat distant date, it is true--but it was something with which to
begin the promised "nation-wide tour" under the auspices of Dawson B.
Wilding.

Marya had money of her own, but trusted none of it in Wilding's
schemes. In fact, she had come to detest him thoroughly, and whenever
he was announced she would rise like some beautiful, disgusted feline,
which something has disturbed in her dim and favourite corner, and
move lithely away to another room. And it almost seemed as though her
little, warm, closely-chiselled ears actually flattened with bored
annoyance as the din of Wilding's vociferous greeting to Vanya arose
behind her.

                  *       *       *       *       *

One day toward Christmas time, she said to Vanya, in her level,
satin-smooth voice:

"You know, mon ami, I am tiring rapidly of this great fool who comes
shouting and tramping into our home. And when I am annoyed beyond my
nerve capacity, I am likely to leave."

Vanya said gently that he was sorry that he had entered into financial
relations with a man who annoyed her, but that it could scarcely be
helped now.

He was seated at his piano, not playing, but scoring. And he resumed
his composition after he had spoken, his grave, delicate head bent
over the ruled sheets, a gold pencil held between his long fingers.

Marya lounged near, watched him. Not for the first time, now, did his
sweet temper and gentleness vaguely irritate her--string her nerves a
little tighter until they began to vibrate with an indefinable longing
to say something to arouse this man--startle him--awaken him to a
physical tensity and strength.... Such as Shotwell's for example....

"Vanya?"

He looked up absently, the beauty of dreams still clouding his eyes.

And suddenly, to her own astonishment, her endurance came to its end.
She had never expected to say what she was now going to say to him.
She had never dreamed of confession--of enlightening him. And now, all
at once, she knew she was going to do it, and that it was a needless
and cruel and insane and useless thing to do, for it led her nowhere,
and it would leave him in helpless pain.

"Vanya," she said, "I am in love with Jim Shotwell."

After a few moments, she turned and slowly crossed the studio. Her hat
and coat lay on a chair. She put them on and walked out.

                  *       *       *       *       *

The following morning, Palla, arriving to consult Marya on a matter of
the Club's business, discovered Vanya alone in the studio.

He was lying on the lounge when she entered, and he looked ill, but he
rose with all his characteristic grace and charm and led her to a
chair, saluting her hand as he seated her.

"Marya has not yet arrived?" she inquired.

