suddenly comprehended that his anxiety was on her account, and blushed
brightly in the moonlight. And he saw her teeth catch at her underlip;
saw her look up again at him, confused.
"If I dared leave you," he said, "I'd go into the hammock and start that
reptile. This won't do--this standing pat while he comes to some deadly
decision in the woods there."
"What else is there to do?" growled Recklow.
"Watch," said the girl. "Out-watch the Yezidee. If there is no
night-wind he may tire of waiting. Then you must shoot fast--very, very
fast and straight. But if the night-wind comes, then we must hunt him in
darkness."
Recklow, pistol in hand, stood straight and sturdy in the moonlight,
gazing fixedly at the forest. Cleves sat down at his wife's feet.
She touched her moon-lute tranquilly and sang in her childish voice:
    "Ring, ring, Buddha bells,
    Gilded gods are listening.
    Swing, swing, lily bells,
    In my garden glistening.
    Now I hear the Shaman drum;
    Now the scarlet horsemen come;
        Ding-dong!
        Ding-dong!
    Through the chanting of the throng
    Thunders now the temple gong.
        Boom-boom!
        Ding-dong!
    "Let the gold gods listen!
    In my garden; what care I
    Where my lily bells hang mute!
      Snowy-sweet they glisten
    Where I'm singing to my lute.
    In my garden; what care I
      Who is dead and who shall die?
    Let the gold gods save or slay
    Scented lilies bloom in May.
      Boom, boom, temple gong!
        Ding-dong!
        Ding-dong!"
"What are you singing?" whispered Cleves.
"'The Bells of Yian.'"
"Is it old?"
"Of the 13th century. There were few Buddhist bells in Yian then. It is
Lamaism that has destroyed the Mongols and that has permitted the creed
of the Assassins to spread--the devil worship of Erlik."
He looked at her, not understanding. And she, pale, slim prophetess, in
the moonlight, gazed at him out of lost eyes--eyes which saw, perhaps,
the bloody age of men when mankind took the devil by the throat and all
Mount Alamout went up in smoking ruin; and the Eight Towers were dark as
death and as silent before the blast of the silver clarions of Ghenghis
Khan.
"Something is stirring in the forest," whispered Tressa, her fingers on
her lips.
"Damnation," muttered Recklow, "it's the wind!"
They listened. Far in the forest they heard the clatter of palm-fronds.
They waited. The ominous warning grew faint, then rose again,--a long,
low rattle of palm-fronds which became a steady monotone.
"We hunt," said Recklow bluntly. "Come on!"
But the girl sprang from the hammock and caught her husband's arm and
drew Recklow back from the hibiscus hedge.
"Use me," she said. "You could never find the Yezidee. Let me do the
hunting; and then shoot very, very fast."
"We've got to take her," said Recklow. "We dare not leave her."
"I can't let her lead the way into those black woods," muttered Cleves.
"The wind is blowing in my face," insisted Recklow. "We'd better hurry."
Tressa laid one hand on her husband's arm.
"I can find the Yezidee, I think. You never could find him before he
finds you! Victor, let me use my own knowledge! Let me find the way.
Please let me lead! Please, Victor. Because, if you don't, I'm afraid
we'll all die here in the garden where we stand."
Cleves cast a haggard glance at Recklow, then looked at his wife.
"All right," he said.
The girl opened the hedge gate. Both men followed with pistols lifted.
The moon silvered the forest. There was no mist, but a night-wind blew
mournfully through palm and cypress, carrying with it the strange,
disturbing pungency of the jungle--wild, unfamiliar perfumes,--the acrid
aroma of swamp and rotting mould.
"What about snakes?" muttered Recklow, knee deep in wild phlox.
But there was a deadlier snake to find and destroy, somewhere in the
blotched shadows of the forest.
The first sentinel trees were very near, now; and Tressa was running
across a ghostly tangle, where once had been an orange grove, and where
aged and dying citrus stumps rose stark amid the riot of encroaching
jungle.
"She's circling to get the wind at our backs," breathed Recklow, running
forward beside Cleves. "That's our only chance to kill the dirty
rat--catch him with the wind at our backs!"
Once, traversing a dry hammock where streaks of moonlight alternated
with velvet-black shadow a rattlesnake sprang his goblin alarm.
They could not locate the reptile. They shrank together and moved
warily, chilled with fear.
Once, too, clear in the moonlight, the Grey Death reared up from bloated
folds and stood swaying rhythmically in a horrible shadow dance before
them. And Cleves threw one arm around his wife and crept past, giving
death a wide berth there in the checkered moonlight.
Now, under foot, the dry hammock lay everywhere and the night wind blew
on their backs.
Then Tressa turned and halted the two men with a gesture. And went to
her husband where he stood in the palm forest, and laid her hands on his
shoulders, looking him very wistfully in the eyes.
Under her searching gaze he seemed oddly to comprehend her appeal.
"You are going to use--to use your knowledge," he said mechanically.
"You are going to find the man in white."
"Yes."
"You are going to find him in a way we don't understand," he continued,
dully.
"Yes.... You will not hold me in--in horror--will you?"
Recklow came up, making no sound on the spongy palm litter underfoot.
"Can you find this devil?" he whispered.
"I--think so."
"Does your super-instinct--finer sense--knowledge--whatever it is--give
you any inkling as to his whereabouts, Mrs. Cleves?"
"I think he is here in this hammock. Only----" she turned again, with
swift impulse, to her husband, "--only if you--if you do not hold
me in--in horror--because of what I do----"
There was a silence; then:
"What are you about to do?" he asked hoarsely.
"Slay this man."
"We'll do that," said Cleves with a shudder. "Only show him to us and
we'll shoot the dirty reptile to slivers----"
"Suppose we hit the jar of gas," said Recklow.
After a silence, Tressa said:
"I have got to give him back to Satan. There is no other way. I
understood that from the first. He can not die by your pistols, though
you shoot very fast and straight. No!"
After another silence, Recklow said:
"You had better find him before the wind changes. We hunt down wind
or--we die here together."
She looked at her husband.
"Show him to us in your own way," he said, "and deal with him as he must
be dealt with."
A gleam passed across her pale face and she tried to smile at her
husband.
Then, turning down the hammock to the east, she walked noiselessly
forward over the fibrous litter, the men on either side of her, their
pistols poised.
They had halted on the edge of an open glade, ringed with young pines in
fullest plumage.
Tressa was standing very straight and still in a strange, supple,
agonised attitude, her left forearm across her eyes, her right hand
clenched, her slender body slightly twisted to the left.
The men gazed pallidly at her with tense, set faces, knowing that the
girl was in terrible mental conflict against another mind--a powerful,
sinister mind which was seeking to grasp her thoughts and control them.
Minute after minute sped: the girl never moved, locked in her psychic
duel with this other brutal mind,--beating back its terrible
thought-waves which were attacking her, fighting for mental supremacy,
struggling in silence with an unseen adversary whose mental dominance
meant death.
Suddenly her cry rang out sharply in the moonlight, and then, all at
once, a man in white stood there in the lustre of the moon--a young,
graceful man dressed in white flannels and carrying on his right arm
what seemed to be a long white cloak.
Instantly the girl was transformed from a living statue into a lithe,
supple, lightly moving thing that passed swiftly to the west of the
glade, keeping the young man in white facing the wind, which was blowing
and tossing the plumy young pines.
"So it is you, young man, with whom I have been wrestling here under
the moon of the only God!" she said in a strange little voice, all
vibrant and metallic with menacing laughter.
"It is I, Keuke Mongol," replied the young man in white, tranquilly; yet
