
"Fall in! Fall in!" cried Joe Scott, our captain; and everybody ran with
their packs and rifles to form in double ranks of sixteen files front
while the drums rolled like spring thunder, filling the woods with their
hollow sound, and the fifes shrilled like the swish of rain through
trees.

Standing at ease between Dries Bowman and Baltus Weed, I answered to the
roll call. Some among us lighted pipes and leaned on our long rifles,
chatting with neighbors; others tightened belts and straps, buttoned
spatter-dashes, or placed a sprig of hemlock above the black and white
cockades on their felt hats.

Balty Weed, who lived east of me, a thin fellow with red rims to his
eyes and dry, sparse hair tied in a queue with a knot of buckskin, asked
me in his stealthy way what I thought about our present business, and if
our Provincial Congress had not, perhaps, unjustly misjudged Sir John.

I replied cautiously. I had never trusted Balty because he frequented
taverns where few friends to liberty cared to assemble; and he was far
too thick with Philip and John Helmer and with Charlie Cady to suit my
taste.

We, in the little hamlet of Fonda's Bush, were scarce thirty families,
all counted; and yet, even here in this trackless wilderness, out of
which each man had hewed for himself a patch of garden and a stump
pasture along the little river Kennyetto, the bitter quarrel had long
smouldered betwixt Tory and Patriot--King's man and so-called Rebel.

And this was the Mohawk country. And the Mohawks stood for the King of
England.

The road, I say, ended here; but there was a Mohawk path through twenty
odd miles of untouched forest to those healing springs called Saratoga.

Except for this path and a deep worn war-trail north to the Sacandaga,
which was the Iroquois road to Canada, and except for the wood road to
Sir William's Mayfield and Fish House settlements, we of Fonda's Bush
were utterly cut off. Also, save for the new Block House at Mayfield, we
were unprotected in a vast wilderness which embodied the very centre of
the Mohawk country.

True, north of us stood that little pleasure house built for his hour of
leisure by Sir William, and called "The Summer House."

Painted white and green, it stood on a hard ridge jutting out into those
dismal, drowned lands which we call the Great Vlaie. But it was not
fortified.

Also, to the north, lay the Fish House, a hunting lodge of Sir William.
But these places were no protection for us. On the other hand, they
seemed a menace; for Tories, it had been rumoured, were ever skulking
along the Vlaie and the Sacandaga; and for aught we knew, these
buildings were already designed to be made into block-houses and to be
garrisoned by our enemies as soon as the first rifle-shot cracked out in
the cause of liberty.

       

Our company of the Mohawk Regiment numbered thirty-six rifles--all that
now remained of the old company, three-fourths of which had already
deserted to the Canadas with Butler. All our officers had fled; Joe
Scott of Maxon, formerly a sergeant, now commanded us; Benjamin de
Luysnes was our lieutenant; Dries Bowman and Phil Helmer our
sergeants--both already suspected.

Well, we got away from Stoner's, marching in double file, and only the
little creatures of the forest to hear our drums and fifes.

But the old discipline which had obtained in all our Tryon regiments
when Sir William was our Major General and the landed gentry our
officers seemed gone; a dull sense of bewilderment reigned, confusing
many among us, as when leaderless men begin to realize how they had
depended upon a sturdy staff now broken forever.

We marched with neither advanced guard nor flankers for the first half
mile; then Joe Scott halted us and made Nick Stoner put away his beloved
fife and sent him out on our right flank where the forest was heavy.

Me he selected to scout forward on the left--a dirty job where alders
and willows grew thick above the bogs.

But why in God's name our music played to advertise our coming I can not
guess, for our men needed no heartening, having courage and resolution,
only the lack of officers causing them any anxiety at all.

On the left flank of the little column I kept very easily in touch
because of this same silly drumming and fifing. And I was glad when we
came to high ground and breasted the hills which lead to that higher
plateau, over which runs the road to Johnstown.

Plodding along in the bush, keeping a keen watch for any enemy who might
come in paint or in scarlet coat, and the far rhythm of our drums
thumping dully in my ears, I wondered whether other companies of my
regiment were marching on Johnstown, and if other Tryon regiments--or
what was left of them--were also afoot that day.

Was this, then, the beginning of the war in the Northland? And, when we
made a prisoner of Sir John, would all the dusky forests glow with
scarlet war-paint and scarlet coats?

Today birds sang. Tomorrow the terrific panther-slogan of the Iroquois
might break out into hell's own uproar among these purple hills.

Was this truly the beginning? Would these still, leafy trails where the
crested partridge strutted witness bloody combats between old
neighbors--all the horrors of a fratricidal war?

Would the painted men of the woods hold their hands while Tory and
patriot fought it out? Or was this utter and supreme horror to be added
to this unnatural conflict?

Reflecting very seriously upon these matters, I trotted forward, rifle
a-trail, and saw nothing living in the woods save a big hare or two in
the alders, and the wild brown poultry of the woods, that ran to cover
or rose into thunderous flight among the thickets.

       

About four o'clock came to me Godfrey Shew, of Fish House, a private
soldier like myself, with news of a halt on the Johnstown road, and
orders that I eat a snack and rest in my tracks.

He told me that a company of horse from Albany was out scouting along
the Mohawk, and that a column of three thousand men under Colonel
Dayton were marching on Johnstown and had passed Schenectady about noon.

Other news he had none, excepting that our company was to remain where
we had halted, in order to stop the road to Fonda's Bush and Saratoga,
in case Sir John should attempt to retire this way.

"Well, Godfrey," said I, "if Sir John truly turns out to be without
shame and honour, and if he marches this way, there is like to be a
lively time for us of the Bush, because Sir John has three hundred
Highlanders to thirty odd of ourselves, and enough Borderers and Tory
militia to double the count."

"We all know that," said Shew calmly, "and are not afraid."

"Do you think our people mean to stand?"

"Yes," said he simply.

A hot thrill of pride tingled my every vein. Suddenly I completely
comprehended that these plain folk of Fonda's Bush were my own people;
that I was one of them; that, as they meant to stand for the ancient
liberties of all Englishmen, now wickedly denied them, so I also meant
to stand to the end.

And now, at last, I comprehended that I was in actual revolt against
that King and against that nobility and gentry who were deserting us
when we had so desperate need of them in this coming battle for human
freedom in a slave-cursed world.

The cleavage had come at last; the Northland was clean split; the red
livery of the King's men had suddenly become a target for every honest
rifle in Tryon.

"Godfrey," I said, "the last chance for truce is passing as you and I
stand here,--the last chance for any reconciliation and brotherly
