Peter had been longing to hear a voice; but now he shrunk terrified
into a corner. The voice was the voice of Guffey, and Peter knew
what it meant. His teeth began to rattle again, and he wailed, “I
dunno anything! I can’t tell anything!”
A hand reached in and took him by the collar, and he found himself
walking down the corridor in front of Guffey. “Shut up!” said the
man, in answer to all his wailings, and took him into a room and
threw him into a chair as if he had been a bundle of bedding, and
pulled up another chair and sat down in front of Peter.
“Now look here,” he said. “I want to have an understanding with you.
Do you want to go back into that hole again?”
“N-n-no,” moaned Peter.
“Well, I want you to know that you’ll spend the rest of your life in
that hole, except when you’re talking to me. And when you’re talking
to me you’ll be having your arms twisted off you, and splinters
driven into your finger nails, and your skin burned with
matches--until you tell me what I want to know. Nobody’s going to
help you, nobody’s going to know about it. You’re going to stay here
with me until you come across.”
Peter could only sob and moan.
“Now,” continued Guffey, “I been finding out all about you, I got
your life story from the day you were born, and there’s no use your
trying to hide anything. I know your part in this here bomb plot,
and I can send you to the gallows without any trouble whatever. But
there’s some things I can’t prove on the other fellows. They’re the
big ones, the real devils, and they’re the ones I want, so you’ve
got a chance to save yourself, and you better be thankful for it.”
Peter went on moaning and sobbing.
“Shut up!” cried the man. And then, fixing Peter’s frightened gaze
with his own, he continued, “Understand, you got a chance to save
yourself. All you got to do is to tell what you know. Then you can
come out and you won’t have any more trouble. We’ll take good care
of you; everything’ll be easy for you.”
Peter continued to gaze like a fascinated rabbit. And such a longing
as surged up in his soul--to be free, and out of trouble, and taken
care of! If only he had known anything to tell; if only there was
some way he could find out something to tell!
Section 7
Suddenly the man reached out and grasped one of Peter’s hands. He
twisted the wrist again, the sore wrist which still ached from the
torture. “Will you tell?”
“I’d tell if I could!” screamed Peter. “My God, how can I?”
“Don’t lie to me,” hissed the man. “I know about it now, you can’t
fool me. You know Jim Goober.”
“I never heard of him!” wailed Peter.
“You lie!” declared the other, and he gave Peter’s wrist a twist.
“Yes, yes, I know him!” shrieked Peter.
“Oh, that’s more like it!” said the other. “Of course you know him.
What sort of a looking man is he?”
“I--I dunno. He’s a big man.”
“You lie! You know he’s a medium-sized man!”
“He’s a medium-sized man.”
“A dark man?”
“Yes, a dark man.”
“And you know Mrs. Goober, the music teacher?”
“Yes, I know her.”
“And you’ve been to her house?”
“Yes, I’ve been to her house.”
“Where is their house?”
“I dunno--that is--”
“It’s on Fourth Street?”
“Yes, it’s on Fourth Street.”
“And he hired you to carry that suit-case with the bombs in it,
didn’t he?”
“Yes, he hired me.”
“And he told you what was in it, didn’t he?”
“He--he--that is--I dunno.”
“You don’t know whether he told you?”
“Y-y-yes, he told me.”
“You knew all about the plot, didn’t you?”
“Y-y-yes, I knew.”
“And you know Isaacs, the Jew?”
“Y-y-yes, I know him.”
“He was the fellow that drove the jitney, wasn’t he?”
“Y-y-yes, he drove the jitney.”
“Where did he drive it?”
“H-h-he drove it everywhere.”
“He drove it over here with the suit-case, didn’t he?”
“Yes, he did.”
“And you know Biddle, and you know what he did, don’t you?”
“Yes, I know.”
“And you’re willing to tell all you know about it, are you?”
“Yes, I’ll tell it all. I’ll tell whatever you--”
“You’ll tell whatever you know, will you?”
“Y-y-yes, sir.”
“And you’ll stand by it? You’ll not try to back out? You don’t want
to go back into the hole?”
“No, sir.”
And suddenly Guffey pulled from his pocket a paper folded up. It was
several typewritten sheets. “Peter Gudge,” he said, “I been looking
up your record, and I’ve found out what you did in this case. You’ll
see when you read how perfectly I’ve got it. You won’t find a single
mistake in it.” Guffey meant this for wit, but poor Peter was too
far gone with terror to have any idea that there was such a thing as
a smile in the world.
“This is your story, d’you see?” continued Guffey. “Now take it and
read it.”
So Peter took the paper in his trembling hand, the one which had not
been twisted lame. He tried to read it, but his hand shook so that
he had to put it on his knee, and then he discovered that his eyes
had not yet got used to the light. He could not see the print. “I
c-c-can’t,” he wailed.
And the other man took the paper from him. “I’ll read it to you,” he
said. “Now you listen, and put your mind on it, and make sure I’ve
got it all right.”
And so Guffey started to read an elaborate legal document: “I, Peter
Gudge, being duly sworn do depose and declare--” and so on. It was
an elaborate and detailed story about a man named Jim Goober, and
his wife and three other men, and how they had employed Peter to buy
for them certain materials to make bombs, and how Peter had helped
them to make the bombs in a certain room at a certain given address,
and how they had put the bombs in a suit-case, with a time clock to
set them off, and how Isaacs, the jitney driver, had driven them to
a certain corner on Main Street, and how they had left the suit-case
with the bombs on the street in front of the Preparedness Day
parade.
It was very simple and clear, and Peter, as he listened, was almost
ready to cry with delight, realizing that this was all he had to do
to escape from his horrible predicament. He knew now what he was
supposed to know; and he knew it. Why had not Guffey told him long
ago, so that he might have known it without having his fingers bent
out of place and his wrist twisted off?
“Now then,” said Guffey, “that’s your confession, is it?”
“Y-y-yes,” said Peter.
“And you’ll stand by it to the end?”
“Y-y-yes, sir.”
“We can count on you now? No more nonsense?”
“Y-y-yes, sir.”
“You swear it’s all true?”
“I do.”
“And you won’t let anybody persuade you to go back on it--no matter
what they say to you?”
“N-n-no, sir,” said Peter.
“All right,” said Guffey; and his voice showed the relief of a
business man who has closed an important deal. He became almost
human as lie went on. “Now, Peter,” he said, “you’re our man, and
we’re going to count on you. You understand, of course, that we have
to hold you as a witness, but you’re not to be a prisoner, and we’re
going to treat you well. We’ll put you in the hospital part of the
jail, and you’ll have good grub and nothing to do. In a week or so,
we’ll want you to appear before the grand jury. Meantime, you
understand--not a word to a soul! People may try to worm something
out of you, but don’t you open your mouth about this case except to
me. I’m your boss, and I’ll tell you what to do, and I’ll take care
of you all the way. You got that all straight?”
“Y-y-yes, sir,” said Peter.
Section 8
There was once, so legend declares, a darky who said that he liked
to stub his toe because it felt so good when it stopped hurting. On
this same principle Peter had a happy time in the hospital of the
American City jail. He had a comfortable bed, and plenty to eat, and
absolutely nothing to do. His sore joints became gradually healed,
and he gained half a pound a day in weight, and his busy mind set to
work to study the circumstances about him, to find out how he could
perpetuate these comfortable conditions, and add to them the little
luxuries which make life really worth living.
In charge of this hospital was an old man by the name of Doobman. He
had been appointed because he was the uncle of an alderman, and he
had held the job for the last six years, and during that time had
gained weight almost as rapidly as Peter was gaining. He had now
