"You?" he said.

"The cabin was stuffy. I couldn't sleep."

"I wonder."

"About what?"

"If there isn't a wild streak in you that corresponds with mine. You fall
into the picture naturally--curious and unafraid."

"Why should I be afraid, and why shouldn't I be curious?"

"The greatest honour a woman ever paid me. I mean that you shouldn't be
afraid of me when everything should warn you to give me plenty of sea
room."

"I know more about men than I do about women."

"And I know too much about both."

"There have been other women--besides the one who laughed?"

"Yes. Perhaps I was cruel enough to make them pay for that.

         "'Funny an' yellow an' faithful--
         Doll in a teacup she were,
         But we lived on the square, like a true-married pair,
         An' I learned about women from 'er!'

"But I wonder what would have happened if it had been a woman like you
instead of the one who laughed."

"I shouldn't have laughed."

"This damned face of mine!"

"You mustn't say that! Why not try to make over your soul to match it?"

"How is that done?"

The irony was so gentle that she fell silent for a space.

"Are you going to take Mr. Cleigh's paintings when you leave us?"

"My dear young lady, all I have left to be proud of is my word. I give it
to you that I am going after pearls. It may sound crazy, but I can't help
that. I am realizing a dream. I'm something of a fatalist--I've had to
be. I've always reasoned that if I could make the dream come true--this
dream of pearls--I'd have a chance to turn over a new leaf. I've had to
commit acts at times that were against my nature, my instincts. I've had
to be cruel and terrible, because men would not believe a pretty man could
be a strong one. Do you understand? I have been forced to cruel deeds
because men would not credit a man's heart behind a woman's face. I
possess tremendous nervous energy. That's the principal curse. I can't sit
still; I can't remain long anywhere; I must go, go, go! Like the Wandering
Jew, Ishmael."

"Do you know what Ishmael means?"

"No. What?"

"'God heareth.' Have you ever asked Him for anything?"

"No. Why should I, since He gave me this withered leg? Please don't preach
to me."

"I won't, then. But I'm terribly sorry."

"Of course you are. But--don't become too sorry. I might want to carry you
off to my atoll."

"If you took me away with you by force, I'd hate you and you'd hate
yourself. But you won't do anything like that."

"What makes you believe so?"

"I don't know why, but I do believe it."

"To be trusted by a woman, a good woman! I'll tell that to the stars. Tell
me about yourself--what you did and how you lived before you came this
side."

It was not a long story, and he nodded from time to time understandingly.
Genteel poverty, a life of scrimp and pare--the cage. Romance--a flash of
it--and she would return to the old life quite satisfied. Peace, a stormy
interlude; then peace again indefinitely. It came to him that he wanted
the respect of this young woman for always. But the malice that was ever
bubbling up to his tongue and finding speech awoke.

"Suppose I find my pearls--and then come back for you? Romance and
adventure! These warm stars always above us at night; the brilliant days;
the voyages from isle to isle; palms and gay parrakeets, cocoanuts and
mangosteens--and let the world go hang!"

She did not reply, but she moved a little away. He waited for a minute,
then laughed softly.

"My dear young lady, this is the interlude you've always been longing for.
Fate has popped you out of the normal for a few days, and presently she'll
pop you back into it. Some day you'll marry and have children; you'll sink
into the rut of monotony again and not be conscious of it. On winter
nights, before the fire, when the children have been put to bed, your man
buried behind his evening paper, you will recall Slue-Foot and the
interlude and be happy over it. You'll hug and cuddle it to your heart
secretly. A poignant craving in your life had been satisfied. Kidnapped by
pirates, under Oriental stars! Fifteen men on a dead man's chest--yo-ho,
and a bottle of rum! A glorious adventure, with three meals the day and
grand opera on the phonograph. Shades of Gilbert and Sullivan! And you
will always be wondering whether the pirate made love to you in jest or in
earnest--and he'll always be wondering, too!"

Cunningham turned away abruptly and clumped toward the bridge ladder,
which he mounted.

For some inexplicable reason her heart became filled with wild resentment
against him. Mocking her, when she had only offered him kindness! She
clung to the idea of mockery because it was the only tangible thing she
could pluck from her confusion. Thus when she began the descent of the
companionway and ran into Dennison coming up her mood was not receptive to
reproaches.

"Where have you been?" he demanded.

"Watching the stars and the phosphorescence. I could not sleep."

"Alone?"

"No. Mr. Cunningham was with me."

"I warned you to keep away from that scoundrel!"

"How dare you use that tone to me? Have you any right to tell me what I
shall and shall not do?" she stormed at him. "I've got to talk to someone.
You go about in one perpetual gloom. I purpose to see and talk to
Cunningham as often as I please. At least he amuses me."

With this she rushed past him and on to her cabin, the door of which she
closed with such emphasis that it was heard all over the yacht--so sharp
was the report that both Cleigh and Dodge awoke and sat up, half convinced
that they had heard a pistol shot!

Jane sat down on her bed, still furious. After a while she was able to
understand something of this fury. The world was upside down, wrong end
to. Dennison, not Cunningham, should have acted the debonair, the
nonchalant. Before this adventure began he had been witty, amusing,
companionable; now he was as interesting as a bump on a log. At table he
was only a poor counterfeit of his father, whose silence was maintained
admirably, at all times impressively dignified. Whereas at each encounter
Dennison played directly into Cunningham's hands, and the latter was too
much the banterer not to make the most of these episodes.

What if he was worried? Hadn't she more cause to worry than any one else?
For all that, she did not purpose to hide behind the barricaded door of
her cabin. If there was a tragedy in the offing it would not fall less
heavily because one approached it with melancholy countenance.

Heaven knew that she was no infant as regarded men! In the six years of
hospital work she had come into contact with all sorts and conditions of
men. Cunningham might be the greatest scoundrel unhung, but so far as she
