with her husband may hope to escape; and not always 
when in. Alexina had grown skillful in eluding the 
reckless verbalisms of love, but when one is packed into 
a small motor car with a determined man, desperately in 
love, one might as weU try to wave aside the whirlwind. 
Jimmie Thorne was a fine specimen of the college-bred 
young American of good family and keen professional 
mind. He has no place in this biography save in so far 
 
as he jarred the inner forces of Alexina's being, and he 
fell at Chateau-Thierry. 
n 
Alexina lifted her delicate profile and gave it as sulky 
an expression as she could assume. She really liked him, 
but was annoyed at being trapped. 
"I don't in the least wish to marry you." 
"Everybody knows you don't care a straw for Dwight. 
You could easily get a divorce " 
"On what grounds? Besides, I don't want to. I'd 
have to be really off my 'head about a man even to thiak 
of such a thing. Our family has kept out of the divorce 
courts. And I don't care two twigs for you, Jimmie 
dear." 
"I don't believe it. That is, I know I could make 
you care. You don't know what love is " 
' ' I suppose you are about to say that you think I think 
I am cold, and that if I labor under this delusion it is 
only because the right man hasn't come along. Well, 
Jimmie dear, you would only be the sixteenth. I suppose men will keep on saying it until I am forty — forty- 
five — what is the limit these days? I know exactly what 
I am and you don't." 
"I'm not going to be put off by words. Remember 
I'm a lawyer of sorts. God ! I wish I'd been here when 
you married that codfish, instead of studying law at 
Columbia. Do you mean to tell me I couldn't have won 
you?" 
' ' No. Almost any man can win a little goose of eighteen if circumstances favor him. Twenty-five is another 
matter. Oh, but V£istly another! Even if I'd never 
married before I 'm not at all sure I should have fallen in 
love with you." 
"Yes, you would. You're frozen over, that's all." 
Alexina sighed, and not with exasperation. He was 
very charming, magnetic, companionable. He was hand- 
some and clever and manly. She could feel the warmth 
of his young virile body through their fur coats, and her 
own trembled a little. ... It suddenly came to her that 
 
she no longer owed Mortimer anything. Their "partnership" had been dissolved by his own act. If she 
could have loved Jimmie Thorne with something beyond 
the agreeable response of the mating-season (any season 
is the mating season in California) . . . that was the 
trouble. He was not individual enough to hold her. 
Life had been too kind to him. Save for this unsatisfied passion he was perfectly content with life. Such 
men do not "live." They may have charm, but not fascination. . . . Perhaps it was as well after all that she 
had married Mortimer. Another man might not have 
been so easily disposed of. 
' ' Jimmie dear, if it were a question of a few months, 
and I made a cult of men as some women do, it would be 
all right. But marry another man that I am not sure — 
that I know I don't want to spend my life with. Oh, 
no." 
He looked somewhat scandalized. Like many Ameri- 
can men he was even more conventional than most 
women are; he was, moreover, a man's man, spending 
most of his leisure in their society, either at the club or 
in out-of-door sports, and he divided women rigidly into 
two classes. Alexina was his first love and his last ; and 
as he went over the top and crumpled up he thought of 
her. 
' ' I wouldn 't have a rotten affair with you. You 're not 
made for that sort of thing " 
"Well, you're not going to have one, so don't bother 
to buckle on your armor." She relented as she looked 
into his miserable eyes, and took his hand impulsively. 
"I'm sorry . . . sorry. ... I wish . . . you are worth 
it . . . but it's not on the map." 
CHAPTER XVIII 
I 
GORA'S novel was published in February. Aileen 
 Lawton, Sibyl Bascom, Alice Thorndyke, Polly 
Roberts, and Janet Maynard organized a campaign to 
 
make it the fashion. They went about with copies under 
their arms, on the street, in the shops, at luncheons, even 
at the matinee, and "could talk of nothing else." Sibyl 
and Janet bought a dozen copies each and sent them to 
friends and acquaintances with the advice to read it at 
once unless they wished to be hopelessly out of date: 
it was "all the rage in New York." 
As a matter of fact, with the exception of Aileen and 
possibly Janet, the book almost terrified them with its 
pounding vigor and grim relentless logic, even its romantic realism, which made its tragedy more poignant 
and sinister by contrast; and, again with the exception 
of Aileen, they were little interested in Gora. But they 
were loyally devoted to Alexina and obeyed, as a matter 
of course, her request to help her make the book a success. They worked with the sterner determination as 
Alexina in her own efforts was obliged to be extremely 
subtle. 
Besides, it was rather thrilling not only to know a real 
author but almost to have her in the family as it were. 
Their industrious sowing bore an abundant harvest and 
Gora's novel became the fashion. Whether people hated 
it or not, and most of them did, they discussed it continually, and when a book meets with that happy fate 
personal opinions matter little. 
Maria thought the book was "awful" and forbade 
Joan to read it. Joan thought (to Alexina) that it was 
simply the most terribly fascinating book she had ever 
read and made her despise society more than ever and 
more determined to light out and see life for herself 
first chance she got. Tom Abbott thought it a remarka- 
ble book for a woman to have written ; a man might have 
written it. Judge Lawton read it twice. Mortimer declined to read it. He had not forgiven Gora ; moreover, 
although his social position was now planetary, it annoyed him excessively to hear his sister alluded to continually as an author. Even the men at the club were 
reading the damned book. 
 
Bohemia stood off for some time. It was only recently 
they had learned that Gora Dwight was a Californian. 
They had read her stories, but as she had been the subject of no publicity whatever they had inferred that, 
like many another, she had dwelt in their midst only long 
enough to acquire material. When they learned the 
truth, and particularly after her inescapable novel appeared, they were indignant that she had not sought her 
muse at Carmel-by-the-Sea, or some other center of mutual admiration ; affiliated herself ; announced herself, at 
the very least. There was a very sincere feeling among 
them that any attempt on the part of a rank outsider to 
achieve literary distinction was impertinent as well as 
unjustifiable. ... It was impossible that he or she 
could be the real thing. 
When they discovered that she was affiliated more or 
less with fashionable society, nurse though she might be, 
and that those frivolous and negligible beings were not 
only buying her book by the ton but giving her luncheons 
and dinners and teas, their disgust knew no bounds and 
they tacitly agreed that she should be tabu in the only 
circles where recognition counted. 
But Gora, who barely knew of their existence, little 
recked that she had been weighed, judged, and condemned. Her old dream had come true. Society, the 
society which should have been her birthright and was 
not, had thrown open its doors to her at last and everybody was outdoing everybody else in flattering and entertaining her. 
Not that she was deceived for a moment as to the 
nature of her success with the majority of the people 
whose names twinkled so brightly in the social heavens. 
She more than suspected the "plot" but cared little for 
the original impulse of the book's phenomenal success in 
San Francisco and its distinguished faubourgs. She was 
square with her pride, her youthful bitterness had its 
 
tardy solace, her family name was rescued fom obscurity. She knew that this belated triumph rang hollow, 
and that she really cared very little about it; but the 
strength and tenacity of her nature alone would have 
forced her to quaff every drop of the cup so long withheld. Even if she had been desperately bored she would 
have accepted these invitations to houses so long indifferent to her existence, and as a matter of fact she welcomed 
the sudden lapse into frivolity after her years of hard 
and almost unremitting work. She had played little in 
her life ; and a year later when she was working eighteen 
hours a day without rest, in conditions that seemed to 
have leapt into life from the blackest pages of history, she 
looked back upon her one brief interval of irresponsibility, gratified vanity, and bodily indolence, as at a 
bright star low on the horizon of a dark and terrible 
night. 
There was one small group of women, Gora soon discovered, that stood for something besides amusement, 
