
"Somebody ought to get hold of that young man ' 
said Prudence, grimly, as she nodded in Spurlock's 
direction. " Look at him ! '' 

Ruth looked. He was draining a glass, and as he 
set it down he shuddered. A siphon and a whisky 
bottle stood before him. He measured out the 
portion of another peg, the bottle wavering in his 
hand. His food lay untouched about his plate. 
There was no disgust in Ruth's heart, only an infinite 
pity; for only the pitiful understand. 
"I'm sorry," she said. 

"I have no sympathy," replied Prudence, "with a 
man who deliberately fuddles himself with strong 
drink." 

"You would, if you had seen what I have. Men in 
this part of the world drink to forget the things they 
have lost." 

"And what should a young man like this one have 
to forget?" Prudence demanded to know. 

"I wonder," said Ruth. "Couldn't you speak to 
him?" 

"What? —  and be insulted for my trouble? No, 
thank you ! " 





" That is it. You complain of a condition, but you 
leave the correction to someone else." 

The spinster had no retort to oflFer such directness. 
This child was frequently disconcerting. Prudence 
attacked her chicken wing. 

"I spoke to him, my interest might be mis- 
interpreted." 

"Where did you go to school?" Prudence asked, 
seeking a new channel, for the old one appeared to be 
full of hidden reefs. 

"I never went to school." 

"But you are educated!" — astonished. 

" That depends upon what you call educated. Still, 
my tutor was a highly educated scholar —  my father.'' 
Neither spinster noticed the reluctance in the tones. 

"Ah! I see. He suddenly realized that he could 
not keep you for ever in this part of the world; so he 
sends you to your aunt. That dress ! Only a man — 
and an imworldly one —  would have permitted you to 
proceed on your adventure dressed in a gown thirty 
years out of date. What is your father's business?" 

The question was an impertinence, but Ruth was 
not aware of that. 

"Souls," she answered, drily. 

"A missioner! That illuminates everything." 
The spinster's face actually became warm. "You 
will finish your education in the East and return. I 



see. 



"No. I shall never come back. 



 



 

Something in the child's voice, something in her 
manner, warned the spinster that her well-meaning 
inquisitiveness had received a set-back and that it 
would be dangerous to press it forward again. What 
she had termed illuminative now appeared to be only 
another phase of the mystery which enveloped the 
child. A sinister thought edged in. Who could 
say that the girl's father had not once been a fashionable clergyman in the States and that drink had got 
him and forced him down, step by step, until —  to use 
the child's odd expression —  he had come upon the 
beach? She was cynical, this spinster. There was 
no such a thing as perfection in a mixed world. 
Clergymen were human. Still, it was rather terrible 
to suspect that one had fallen from grace, but nevertheless the thing was possible. With the last glim- 
mer of decency he had sent the daughter to his sister. 
The poor child! What frightful things she must 
have seen on that island of hers ! 

The noise of crashing glass caused a diversion; and 
Ruth turned gratefully toward the sound. 

The young man had knocked over the siphon. He 
rose, steadied himself , then walked out of the dining 
room. Except for the dull eyes and the extreme 
pallor of his face, there was nothing else to indicate 
that he was deep in liquor. He did not stagger in the 
least. And in this fact lay his danger. The man who 
staggers, whose face is flushed, whose attitude is 
either noisily friendly or truculent, has some chance; 





liquor bends him eventually. But men of the 
Spurlock type, who walk straight, who are unobtrusive and intensely pale, they break swiftly and 
inexplicably. They seldom arrive on the beack 
There are way-stations — even terminals. 

There was still the pity of understanding in Ruth's 
eyes. Perhaps it was loneliness. Perhaps he had 
lost his loved ones and was wandering over the world 
seeking forgetfulness. But he would die if he continued in this course. They were alike in one phase 
—  loveless and lonely. K he died, here in this hotel, 
who would care? Or if she died, who would care? 

A queer desire blossomed in her heart: to go to 
him, urge him to see the folly of trying to forget. 
Of what use was the temporary set-back to memory, 
when it always returned with redoubled poignancy? 

Then came another thought, astonishing. This 
was the first young man who had drawn from her 
something more than speculative interest. True, on 
board the ships she had watched young men from 
afar, but only with that normal curiosity which is 
aroused in the presence of any new species. But 
after Singapore she found herself enduing them with 
the characteristics of the heroes in the novels she had 
just read for the first time. This one was Henry 
Esmond, that one the melancholy Marius, and so 
forth and so on; never any villains. It wasn't 
worth while to invest imaginatively a man with evil 
projects simply because he was physically ugly. 



 

Some day she wanted to be loved as Marius loved 
Cosette; but there was another character which bit 
