In the darkness presented by fancy, array'd. 
 I thought of the scenes when that mother was nigh, 
In a soft sunny land, and beneath a mild sky. 
When at matins we walked to the heahli-giving spring, 
With the dew on the grass, and the birds on the wing. 
« Of the draughts at the fount as the white sun arose, 
And the views from the bluifs where the broad river 
flows — 
Of the sound from the shore of the fisherman's train, 
And the sight of the ship as it sailed to the main. 
  Of the wild-flowers pluck'd from the glen and the field, 
And the beauties the meadows and gardens revealed — 
Of all that she paused to explain or explore, 
'Till I learned, in my wonder, to think and adore. 
'And of joys that attended the fireside scene, 
When woodlands and meadows no longer were green— 
Of the sports, and the tales, and the holiday glee. 
That ever were rife at the fond mother's knee. 
' Of the duties of home, and the studies of school, 
With the many delights that divided their rule, 
'Till the sunshine of boyhood had ended, and brought 
The cares and the shadows of manhood and thought. 
  And I sighed for the scenes that had faded away, 
For the forms that had fallen from age to decay — 
For the friends who had vanished, while looking before, 
To paths that their feet were forbid to explore. 
  And glancing beyond, through the vista of time, 
With a soul full of hope, and with life in its prime, 
Though flowers by memory cherished had died 
Life's garden was still with some blossoms supplied. 
'And oft as that dream to my spirit comes back, 
A newness of thought re-illumines my track, — ' " 
" Pure and tender. The mother who called 
forth that heart-warm tribute was, doubtless, a good 
motlier," said Anna. 
" You remember Cowper's lines, written on re- 
ceiving his mother's picture ." remarked her hus- 
band, after musing for a short time. 
" O, yes. Very well. They have often affected 
me to tears. 
' O that those lips had language ! Life has passed 
But roughly with me since I heard thee last. 
Those lips are thine — thy own sweet smile I see, 
The same that oft in childhood solaced me ; 
Voice only fails, else how distinct they say 
  Grieve not. my child, chase all thy fears away.' ' 
"To him, how great was the loss he sustained 
in the death of his mother. Had she lived, the 
deep melancholy that seized him in after life might 
never have occurred. With what simple eloquence 
he describes his loss." And Mr. Hartley repeated 
a passage of the poem. 
"' My mother ! when I learned that thou wast dead, 
Say, wast thou conscious of the tears I shed? 
Hovered thy spirit o'er thy sorrowing son, 
Wretched, een then, life's journey just begun? 
Perhaps thou gavest me, though unfelt, a kiss : 
Perhaps a tear, if souls can weep in bliss 
Ah, that maternal smile ! it answers — Yes. 
I heard the bell toll on thy burial day, 
I saw the hearse that bore thee slow away, 
And turning from my nursery window, drew 
A long, long sigh, and wept a last adieu ! 
But was it such ? — It was. — Where thou art gone 
Adieus and farewells are a sound unknown. 
May I but meet thee on that peaceful shore. 
Thy parting word shall pass my lips no more ! 
Thy maidens grieved themselves at my concern, 
Oft gave me promise of thy quick return. 
What ardently I wished, I long believed, 
And disappointed still, was still deceived. 
By expectation every day beguiled. 
Dupe of to-morrow even from a child. 
Thus many a sad to-morrow came and went, 
'Till all my stock of infant sorrow spent, 
I learned at last submission to my lot. 
But, though I less deplored thee, ne'er forgot.' " 
Mrs. Hartley leaned her head upon her hus- 
band's shoulder, unable to restrain the tears that 
were springing to her eye. 
"If Heaven only spares me to my children, it is 
all J ask," she murmured. " I will be patient with 
 
[and forbearing towards them. I will discharge my 
'duties with unwearied diligence. Who can fill a 
mother's place ? Alas ! no one. If any voice had 
been as full of love for him when a child, if any 
hand had ministered to him as tenderly, this touch- 
ing remembrance of his mother would never have 
been recorded by Cowper. 
" ' Thy nightly visits to my chamber made, 
That thou might'st find me safe and warmly laid; 
Thy morning bounties ere I left my home, 
The biscuit or confectionary plum ; 
The fragrant waters on my cheek bestow'd 
By thy own hand, 'till fiesh they shone and glowed: 
All this, and more endearing still than all. 
Thy constant flow of love, that knew no fall, 
Ne'er roughened by those cataracts and breaks 
That humor interposed too often makes. 
Could Time, his flight reversed, restore the hours 
When, playing with thy vesture's tissued flowers, 
The violet, the pink, and jessamine, 
I prick'd them into paper with a pin, 
(And thou wast happier than myself the while, 
Would'st softly speak, and stroke my head and smile) 
Could those few pleasant days again appear, 
Might one wish bring them, would T wish them here? 
I would not trust my heart — the dear delight 
Seems so to be desired, perhaps I might — 
But no — what here we call our life is such, 
So little to be loved, and thou so muchj 
That I should ill requite thee to constrain 
Thy unbound spirit into bonds again.' 
" Ah, who could be unkind to a motherless one .'"' 
" The lot of an orphan child is not always as 
sad a one as must have been that of young Cow- 
per," said Mr. Hartley, " for it is but rarely that a 
child possesses the delicate or rather morbid sensi- 
bility that characterized him." 
" I could not bear to think that any child of 
mine would remember me with less tenderness," 
replied Mrs. Hartley. 
" Even though it embitter his whole life." 
"No — no. It was the mother's selfishness, not 
the mother's love that spoke," she instantly re- 
turned. 
" To recur to what we were first talking about," 
said Mr. Hartley, after a pause. " There cannot 
be a doubt, that the whole life of the child is 
affected by the mother's character, and the influ- 
ences she has brought to bear upon him. I could 
point to many instances that have come under my 
own observation that illustrate this. The father of 
one of my schoolmates was a man of a highly cul- 
tivated mind, and polished manners; his mother 
was the reverse. The son is like the mother. As 
a man, he did not rise in society at all, and is now 
  
 
the keeper of a billiard saloon. In another in- 
stance, the father was a low minded man, and in- 
clined to dissipation. Nearly the whole burden 
of the support of the family fell upon the mother; 
but her children always came to school neat and 
clean. Their behavior was good, and they studied 
Mith diligence. Only one of four sons turned out 
badly. Three of them are now merchants in good 
business, and the mother's declining years are 
blessed by their kindest attentions. You see, then, 
Anna, how much you have to encourage you." 
" If there was nothing to encourage me, love 
and duty would make me persevere." 
"But there is much. Cast thy bread upon the 
waters, and it shall be found after many days." 
CHAPTER VI. 
THE BIRTH-DAY PARTY. 
"Next Saturday is Marien's birth-day, Aunt 
Mary," said Mrs. Hardey. " She will be just 
eleven years old, and she must have a party." 
"She mustn't have any such thing, Anna.— 
What nonsense I" 
" Why do you call it nonsense ?" 
" It will only be putting silly notions into her head. 
You had a great deal better take the money it would 
cost and give it for some charitable purpose." 
" Take care, Aunt Mary, or I shall retort upon 
you," said Mrs. Hartley, smiling. 
"You can retort as much as you please. I'll 
warrant you can find no fooleries like giving par- 
ties to little misses, when they had better be in their 
beds, to charge upon me." 
" Perhaps not. But that giving of the money 
for charitable purposes, is what I should like to say 
a word about. Last week you bought a new satin 
coat, and gave three dollars a yard for the satin. 
Why didn't you buy one of good warm merino, 
or even silk, and give the balance to some charity } 
Answer me that. Aunt Mary !" 
" I am not going to be catechised by you. Miss 
