

watched over her with more fond tenderness than her adopted father did now. 

For several days after this he would hardly permit her to 
leave him. He made her bring her books and study where 
he was ; he went out and came in with her ; and kept her 
by his side whenever they joined the rest of the family at 
meals or in the evening. Whether Mr. Lindsay intended it 
or not, this had soon the effect to abate the displeasure of 
his mother and sister. Ellen was almost taken out of their 
hands, and they thought it expedient not to let him have 
the whole of her. And though Ellen could better bear their 
cold looks and words since she had Mr. Lindsay's favor 
again, she was veiy glad when they smiled upon her too, 
and went dancing about with quite a happy face. 

She was now very busy. She had masters for the 
piano and singing and different branches of knowledge ; she 
went to Mr. Muller regularly twice a week ; and soon her 
riding-attendance began. She had said no more on the 
subject, but went quietly, hoping they would find out their 
mistake before long. Lady Keith always accompanied her. 

One day Ellen had ridden near her usual time, when a 
young lady with whom she attended a German class, came 
up to where she was resting. This lady was several years 
older than Ellen, but had taken a fancy to her. 

How finely you got on yesterday," said she, — "making 
us all ashamed. Ah, I guess M. Muller helped you." 

" Yes," said Ellen, smihng, " he did help me a little ; 
he helped me with those troublesome pronunciations," 

" With nothing else, I suppose ? Ah well, we must submit to be stupid. How do you do to-day ?" 

"I am very tired, Miss Gordon." 

" Tired ? you're not used to it," 
No it isn't that," said Ellen ; — " I am used to it — that is 
the reason I am tired. I am accustomed to ride up and 
down the country at any pace I like ; and it is very tiresome 
to walk stupidly round and round for an hour." 

" But do you know how to manage a horse ? I thought 
you were only just beginning to learn." 

" no — I have been learning this great while ; — only they 
don't think I know how, and they have never seen rae. Are 
you just come, Miss Gordon?" 







" Yes, and they are bringing out Sophronisbe for me — do 
ou know Sophronisbe ? — look — that light grey — isn't she 
eautiful? she's the loveliest creature in the whole stud." 
"I know !" said Ellen ; " I saw you on her the other 
day ; she went charmingly. How long shall I be kept 
walking here, Miss Gordon ?" 

" Why I don't know — I should think they would find out 
— what does De Courcy say to you ?" 

" O he comes and looks at me and says, ' tres bien — tres 
bien,' and ' allez comme ga,' and then he walks off." 

Well I declare that is too bad," said Miss Gordon laughing. Look here — I've got a good thought in my head — 
suppose you mount Sophronisbe in my place, without saying 
anything to anybody, and let them see what you are up to. 
Can you trust yourself ? she's very spirited." 

I could trust myself," said Ellen ; " but, thank you, I 
think I had better not." 
" Afraid?" 

No, not at all ; but my aunt and father would not like it." 
" Nonsense ! how should they dislike it — there's no sort of 
danger,, you know. Come ! — I thought you sat wonderfully 
for a beginner. I am surprised De Courcy hadn't better eyes. 
I guess you have learned German before Ellen ? — Come, 
will you?" 

But Ellen declined, preferring her plodding walk round the 
ring to any putting of herself forward. Presently Mr. Lindsay came in. It was the first time he had been there. His 
eyes soon singled out Ellen. 

My daughter sits well," he remarked to the riding-master. 

" A merveille! — Mademoiselle Lindesay does ride remarquablement pour une beginner — qui ne fait que commencer. 
Would it be possible that she has had no lessons before ?" 

" Why, yes — she has had lessons — of what sort I don't 
know," said Mr. Lindsay, going up to Ellen. " How do you 
like it, Ellen ?" 

" I don't like it at all, sir." 

" I thought you were so fond of riding." 

" I don't call this riding, sir." 

" Ha ! what do you call riding ? Here, M. De Courcy — 
won't you have the goodness to put this young lady on an- 
other horse and see if she knows anything about handling him." 








" With great pleasure !" M. De Courcy would do any- 
thing that was requested of him. Ellen was taken out of the 
ring of walkers and mounted on a fine animal, and set by 
herself to have her skill tried in as many various ways as M. 
De Courcy 's ingenuity could point out. Never did she bear 
herself more erectly ; never were her hand and her horse's 
mouth on nicer terms of acquaintanceship ; never, even to 
please her master, had she so given her whole soul to the 
single business of managing her horse and herself perfectly 
well. She knew as little as she cared that a number of persons besides her friends were standing to look at her ; she 
thought of only two people there, Mr. Lindsay and her aunt ; 
and the riding-master, as his opinion might affect theirs. 

" C'est tres bien, — c'est tres bien," — he muttered, — c'est 
par-faite-ment — Monsieur, Mademoiselle votre fille has had 
good lessons — voila qui est entierement comme il faut." 

" Assez bien," said Mr Lindsay smiling. " The little 
gipsey!" 

" Mademoiselle," said the riding-master as she paused 
before them, — " pourquoi, wherefore have you stopped in 
your canter tantot — a little while ago — et puis recommence'?" 

" Monsieur, he led with the wrong foot." 

" C'est ca — justement!" he exclaimed. 

" Have you practised leaping, Ellen ?" 

"Yes sir." 

" Try her M. De Courcy. How high will you go Ellen ?" 
As high as you please, sir," said Ellen, leaning over and 
patting her horse's neck to hide her smile. 

" How you look, child !" said Mr. Lindsay in a pleased 
tone. " So this is what you call riding ?" 

" It is a little more like it, sir." 

Ellen was tried with standing and running leaps, higher 
and higher, till Mr. Lindsay would have no more of it ; 
and M. De Courcy assured him that his daughter had 
been taught by a very accomplished rider, and there was 
little or nothing left for him to do ; il n'y pouvoit plus ; — but 
he should be very happy to have her come there to practise, 
and show an example to his pupils. 

The very bright color in Ellen's face as she heard this 
might have been mistaken for the flush of gratified vanity : 
it was nothing less. Not one word of this praise did she take 







to herself, nor had she sought for herself ; — it was all for 
somebody else ; and perhaps so Lady Keith understood it, 
for she looked rather discomfited. But Mr. Lindsay was 
exceedingly pleased ; and promised Ellen that as soon as the 
