Nor did he. Many and various were the suggestions and suppositions of
the congregation touching the nature of the preacher's personal
allusion to the jeweller, and some dozen of little gossiping stories
got into circulation; but the truth did not find its way to the light.
And not until the day on which he was leaving the station for a new
field of labour, did the preacher himself understand the matter; and
then he had it from Mr. Grant's own lips.
FOR THE FUN OF IT.
"JUST look at them young lovers," said Harry Mears, glancing from his
companion to a young man and maiden, who, for the moment unconscious
that they were in the midst of a large company, were leaning towards
each other, and looking into each other's faces in rather a remarkable
manner. "Isn't it ridiculous? I thought Fisher had more sense than to
do so. As to Clara Grant, she always was a little weak."
The friend looked at the couple an smiled. "It is ridiculous,
certainly," he remarked. "Why havn't they sense enough to keep these
little love-passages for private occasions?"
"Clara, with all her silliness used to be a right pleasant companion,"
said Mears. "But since this love affair between her and Fisher, she has
become intolerably dull and uninteresting. She doesn't care a fig for
anybody but him, and really appears to think it a task to be even
polite to an old acquaintance. I don't think she has cause to be quite
so elated with her conquest as this comes to; nor to feel that, in
possessing the love of a man like Fisher, she is independent of the
world, and may show off the indifference she feels to every one. Fisher
is clever enough, but he is neither a Socrates nor a saint."
"He will suit her very well, I imagine."
"Yes; they will make a passable Darby and Joan, no doubt. Still, it
always vexes me to see people, who pretend to any sense, acting in this
way."
"I think it is more her fault than his."
"So do I. She has shown a disposition to bill and coo from the first.
At Mangum's party, last week, she made me sick. I tried to get her hand
for a dance, but no. Close to the side of Fisher she adhered, like a
fixture, and could hardly force her lips into a smile for any one else.
The gipsy! I'd punish her for all this, if I could just hit upon a good
plan for doing it."
"Let me see," remarked the friend, dropping his head into a thoughtful
position, "can't we devise a scheme for worrying her a little? She is
certainly a fair subject. It would be fine sport."
"Yes, it would."
"She evidently thinks Fisher perfection."
"Oh, yes! There never was such a man before! She actually said to
Caroline Lee, who was trying to jest with her a little, that Fisher was
one of the most pure-minded, honourable young men living."
"Oh, dear."
"It is a fact."
"Was she serious?"
"Yes, indeed! Serious as the grave. Caroline was laughing to me about
it. Nearly every one notices the silliness of her conduct, and the
weakness she displays in forever talking about and praising him."
"I would like to run him down a little when she could overhear me, just
for the fun of the thing."
"So would I. Capital! That will do, exactly. We must watch an
opportunity, and if we can get within earshot of her, any time that she
is by herself, we must abuse Fisher right and left, without appearing
to notice that she is listening to what we say, or, indeed, anywhere
near us."
"Right! That's the very thing. It will be capital fun."
Thus, the thoughtless young men, meddling themselves in a matter that
did not concern them, determined upon a very questionable piece of
folly. All that they said of the lovers was exaggeration. It was true
that they did show rather more preference for each other in company
than just accorded with good taste; but this, while it provoked a smile
from the many, irritated only the few.
Clara Grant, notwithstanding the light manner in which the two young
men had spoken of her, was a girl of good sense, good principles, and
deep feeling, She had been several times addressed by young men before
Fisher offered his hand; but, with all their attractions, there were
defects about them, which her habits of close observation enabled her
to see, that caused her to repel their advances, and in two instances
to decline apparently very advantageous offers of marriage. In the
integrity of Fisher's character, she had the most unbounded confidence;
and she really believed, as she had said to Caroline Lee and others,
that he was one of the purest-minded, most honourable young men living.
Judge, then, with what feelings she overheard, about half an hour after
the plan to disturb her peace had been formed, the following
conversation between Mears and his companion, carried on in low tones
and in a confidential manner. She was sitting close to one side of the
folding-doors that communicated between the parlours, and they were in
the adjoining room, concealed from her by the half-partition, yet so
close that every word they uttered was distinctly heard. Her attention
was first arrested by hearing one of them say--
"If she knew Fisher as well as I do."
To which the other responded--
"Yes; or as well as I do. But, poor girl! it isn't expected that she is
to know every thing about young men who visit her. It is better that
she should not."
"Still, I am rather surprised that common report should not have given
her more information about Fisher than she seems to possess."
"So am I. But she'll know him better one of these days."
"I'll warrant you that! Perhaps to her sorrow; though I hope things
will turn out differently from what they now promise. Don't you think
he is pretty well done with his wild oats?"
"Possibly. But time will tell."
"Yes, time proves all things."
Some one joining the young men at this point of their conversation, the
subject was changed. Greatly amused at what they had done, they little
thought how sad the effects of their unguarded words would be.
Five minutes afterwards, the young man named Mears, curious to see how
Clara had been affected by what he knew she must have heard, moved to
another part of the room, in order to observe her without attracting
her attention. But she had left the place where she was sitting. His
eye ranged around the room, but she was nowhere to be seen.
"I'm afraid we've hurt Clara more than we intended," he said, rejoining
his friend. "She has vanished."
"Ah! Where's Fisher?"
"He's at the other end of the room."
"We didn't say any thing against the young man."
"Not in particular. We made no specifications. There was nothing that
she could take hold of."
"No, of course not. But I wonder what is going to be the upshot of the
matter?"
"Nothing very serious, I apprehend."
"No. I suppose she will go home and cry her eyes half out, and then
conclude that, whatever Fisher may have been, he's perfection now. It's
a first-rate joke, isn't it?"
Clara Grant had not only left the parlours, but soon after quietly left
the house, and alone returned to her home. When her lover, shortly
afterwards, searched through the rooms for her, she was nowhere to be
seen.
"Where is Clara?" he asked of one and another. The answer was--
"I saw her here a moment since."
But it was soon very apparent that she was nowhere in the rooms now.
Fisher moved about uneasy for half an hour. Still, not seeing her, he
became anxious lest a sudden illness had caused her to retire from the
company. More particular inquiries were made of the lady who had given
the entertainment. She immediately ascertained for him that Clara was
not in the house. One of the servants reported that a lady had gone
away alone half an hour before. Fisher did not remain a single moment
after receiving this intelligence, but went direct to the house of
Clara's aunt, with whom she lived, and there ascertained that she had
come home and retired to her room without seeing any of the family.
His inquiry whether she were ill, the servant could not answer.
"Have you seen anything of Clara yet?" asked the friend of Mears, with
a smile, as they met about an hour after they had disturbed the peace
of a trusting, innocent-minded girl, "just for the fun of it."
"I have not," replied Mears.
"Where's Fisher?"
"He is gone also."
"Ah, indeed! I'm sorry the matter was taken so seriously by the young
lady. It was only a joke."
"Yes. That was all; and she ought to have known it."
On the next day, Fisher, who had spent a restless night, called to ask
for Clara as early as he could do so with propriety.
"She wishes you to excuse her," said the servant, who had taken up his
name to the young lady.
"Is she not well?" asked Fisher.
"She has not been out of her room this morning. I don't think she is
very well."
The young man retired with a troubled feeling at his heart. In the
evening he called again; but Clara sent him word, as she had done in
the morning, that she wished to be excused.
In the mean time, the young lady was a prey to the most distressing
doubts. What she had heard, vague as it was, fell like ice upon her
heart. She had no reason to question what had been said, for it was, as
far as appeared to her, the mere expression of a fact made in
confidence by friend to friend without there being an object in view.
If any one had come to her and talked to her after that manner, she
would have rejected the allegations indignantly, and confidently
pronounced them false. But they had met her in a shape so unexpected,
and with so much seeming truth, that she was left no alternative but to
believe.
Fisher called a third time; but still Clara declined seeing him. On the
day after this last attempt, he received a note from her in these, to
him, strange words:--
"DEAR SIR:--Since I last met you, I have become satisfied that a
marriage between us cannot prove a happy one. This conclusion is far
more painful to me than it can possibly be to you. You, I trust, will
soon be able to feel coldly towards her whose fickleness, as you will
call it, so soon led her to change her mind; but a life-shadow is upon
my heart. If you can forget me, do so, in justice to yourself. As for
me, I feel that--but why should say this? Charles, do not seek to
change the resolution I have taken, for you cannot; do not ask for
explanations, for I can give none. May you be happier than I can ever
be! Farewell.
"CLARA."
"Madness!" exclaimed Charles Fisher, as he crumpled this letter in his
hand. "Is there no faith in woman?"
He sought no explanation; he made no effort to change her resolution;
