that than some of his neighbours; but he issued an amount of
word-currency sufficient for the use of the county.
"He'll run himself agin a post pretty quick," said uncle
Joshua, in a confirmatory tone of voice.
Fleda had a confused idea that somebody was going to hang
himself.
"He aint a-workin' things right," said Douglass; "he aint a-
workin' things right; he's takin' hold o' everything by the
tail end. He aint studied the business; he doesn't know when
things is right, and he doesn't know when things is wrong; and
if they're wrong, he don't know how to set 'em right. He's got
a feller there that aint no more fit to be there, than I am to
be Vice-President of the United States; and I aint a-going to
say what I think I am fit for, but I ha'n't studied for that
place, and I shouldn't like to stand an examination for't; and
a man hadn't ought to be a farmer no more if he ha'n't
qualified himself. That's my idee. I like to see a thing done
well, if it's to be done at all; and there aint a stitch o'
land been laid right on the hull farm, nor a furrow driv' as
it had ought to be, since he came on to it; and I say, Squire
Springer, a man aint going to get along in that way, and he
hadn't ought to. I work hard myself, and I calculate to work
hard, and I make a livin' by't; and I'm content to work hard.
When I see a man with his hands in his pockets, I think he'll
have nothin' else in 'em soon. I don't believe he's done a
hand's turn himself on the land the hull season!"
And upon this Mr. Douglass brought up.
"My son, Lucas, has been workin' with him, off and on, pretty
much the hull time since he come; and he says he ha'n't begun
to know how to spell farmer yet."
"Ay, ay! My wife  she's a little harder on folks than I be 
I think it aint worth while to say nothin' of a man without I
can say some good of him  that's my idee; and it don't do no
harm, nother; but my wife, she says he's got to let down his
notions a peg or two afore they'll hitch just in the right
place; and I wont say but what I think she aint, maybe, fur
from right. If a man's above his business, he stands a pretty
fair chance to be below it some day. I wont say myself, for I
haven't any acquaintance with him, and a man oughtn't to speak
but of what he's knowing to; but I have heerd say, that he
wa'n't as conversationable as it would ha' been handsome in
him to be, all things considerin.' There seems to be a good
many things said of him, somehow, and l always think men don't
talk of a man if he don't give 'em occasion; but, anyhow, I've
been past the farm pretty often myself this summer, working
with Seth Plumfield; and I've took notice of things myself;
and I know he's been makin' beds o' sparrowgrass when he had
ought to ha' been makin' fences, and he's been helpin' that
little girl o' his'n set her flowers, when he would ha' been
better sot to work lookin' after his Irishman. But I don't
know as it made much matter, nother; for if he went wrong, Mr.
Rossitur wouldn't know how to set him right, and if he was a-
going right, Mr. Rossitur would ha' been just as likely to ha'
set him wrong. Well, I'm sorry for him!"
"Mr. Rossitur is a most gentlemanlike man," said the voice of
Dr. Quackenboss.
"Ay  I dare say he is," Earl responded, in precisely the same
tone. "I was down to his house one day last summer to see him.
He wa'n't to hum, though."
"It would be strange if harm come to a man with such a
guardian angel in the house as that man has in his'n." said
Dr. Quackenboss.
"Well she's a pretty creetur!" said Douglass, looking up with
some animation. "I wouldn't blame any man that sot a good deal
by her. I will say I think she's as handsome as my own darter;
and a man can't go no furder than that, I suppose."
"She wont help his farming much, I guess," said uncle Joshua,
"nor his wife nother."
Fleda heard Dr. Quackenboss coming through the doorway, and
started from her corner, for fear he might find her out there,
and know what she had heard.
He very soon found her out in the new place she had chosen,
and came up to pay his compliments. Fleda was in a mood for
anything but laughing, yet the mixture of the ludicrous which
the doctor administered set her nerves a-twitching. Bringing
his chair down sideways at one angle and his person at
another, so as to meet at the moment of the chair's touching
the floor, and with a look and smile, slanting to match, the
doctor said 
"Well, Miss Ringgan, has  a  Mrs. Rossitur  does she feel
herself reconciled yet?"
"Reconciled, Sir?' said Fleda.
"Yes  a  to Queechy?"
"She never quarrelled with it, Sir," said Fleda, quite unable
to keep from laughing.
"Yes  I mean  a  she feels that she can sustain her spirits
in different situations?"
"She is very well, Sir, thank you."
"It must have been a great change to her  and to you all 
coming to this place."
"Yes, Sir; the country is very different from the city."
"In what part of New York was Mr. Rossitur's former
residence?"
" In State-street, Sir."
"State-street  that is somewhere in the direction of the
Park?"
"No, Sir, not exactly."
"Was Mrs. Rossitur a native of the city?"
"Not of New York. Oh, Hugh! my dear Hugh!" exclaimed Fleda, in
another tone  "what have you been thinking of?"
"Father wanted me," said Hugh. "I could not help it, Fleda."
"You are not going to have the cruelty to take your  a 
cousin away, Mr. Rossitur?" said the doctor.
But Fleda was for once happy to be cruel; she would hear no
remonstrances. Though her desire for Miss Lucy's "help" had
considerably lessened, she thought she could not in politeness
avoid speaking on the subject, after being invited there on
purpose. But Miss Lucy said she "calculated to stay at home
this winter," unless she went to live with somebody at Kenton,
for the purpose of attending a course of philosophy lectures
that she heard were to be given there. So that matter was
settled; and, clasping Hugh's arm, Fleda turned away from the
house with a step and heart both lightened by the joy of being
out of it.
"I coudn't come sooner, Fleda," said Hugh.
"No matter  Oh, I'm so glad to be away! Walk a little faster,
dear Hugh. Have you missed me at home?"
"Do you want me to say no or yes?" said Hugh, smiling. "We did
very well  mother and I  and I have left everything ready to
have tea the minute you get home. What sort of a time have you
had?"
In answer to which Fleda gave him a long history, and then
they walked on a while in silence. The evening was still, and
would have been dark but for the extreme brilliancy of the
stars through the keen, clear atmosphere. Fleda looked up at
them, and drew large draughts of bodily and mental refreshment
with the bracing air.
"Do you know to-morrow will be Thanksgiving-day?"
"Yes; what made you think of it?"
"They were talking about it; they make a great fuss here
Thanksgiving-day."
"I don't think we shall make much of a fuss," said Hugh.
"I don't think we shall. I wonder what I shall do  I am
afraid uncle Rolf will get tired of coffee and omelettes in
the course of time; and my list of receipts is very limited."
"It is a pity you didn't beg one of Mrs. Renney's books," said
Hugh, laughing. "If you had only known "
" 'Tisn't too late!" said Fleda, quickly. "I'll send to New
York for one. I will! I'll ask uncle Orrin to get it for me.
That's the best thought!"
"But, Fleda, you're not going to turn cook in that fashion?"
"It would be no harm to have the book," said Fleda. "I can
tell you, we mustn't expect to get anybody here that can make
an omelette, or even coffee, that uncle Rolf will drink. Oh,
Hugh! "
"What?"
"I don't know where we are going to get anybody! But don't say
anything to aunt Lucy about it."
"Well, we can keep Thanksgiving-day, Fleda, without a dinner,"
said Hugh, cheerfully.
"Yes, indeed  I am sure I can  after being among these
people to-night. How much I have that they want! Look at the
Great Bear over there! Isn't that better than New York?"
"The Great Bear hangs over New York, too," Hugh said, with a
smile.
"Ah! but it isn't the same thing. Heaven hasn't the same eyes
for the city and the country."
As Hugh and Fleda went quick up to the kitchen-door, they
overtook a dark figure, at whom looking narrowly as she
passed, Fleda recognised Seth Plumfield. He was joyfully let
into the kitchen, and there proved to be the bearer of a huge
dish, carefully covered with a napkin.
"Mother guessed you hadn't any Thanksgiving ready," he said,
"and she wanted to send this down to you; so I thought I would
come and fetch it myself."
"Oh, thank her! and thank you, cousin Seth; how good you are!"
"Mother ha'n't lost her old trick at 'em," said he; "so I hope
that's good."
"Oh, I know it is," said Fleda. "I remember aunt Miriam's
Thanksgiving chicken-pies. Now, cousin Seth, you must come in,
and see aunt Lucy."
"No," said he, quietly: "I've got my farm boots on. I guess I
wont see anybody but you."
But Fleda would not suffer that; and finding she could not
move him, she brought her aunt out into the kitchen. Mrs.
Rossitur's manner of speaking, and thanking him, quite charmed
Seth, and he went away with a kindly feeling towards those
gentle, bright eves, which he never forgot.
"Now, we've something for to-morrow, Hugh !" said Fleda; "and
such a chicken-pie, I can tell you, as you never saw. Hugh,
