loveliest time down there you can possibly conceive. And, my
dear Fleda, he wears such a fur cloak!  lined with the most
exquisite black fox."
"But, Constance!" said Fleda, a little vexed, though laughing
 "any man may wear a fur cloak; the thing is, what is inside
of it."
"It is perfectly indifferent to me what is inside of it," said
Constance, ecstatically. "I can see nothing but the edges of
the black fox, especially when it is worn so very gracefully."
"But, in some cases, there might be a white fox within."
"There is nothing of the fox about Mr. Carleton," said
Constance, impatiently. "If it had been anybody else, I should
have said he was a bear two or three times; but he wears
everything as he does his cloak, and makes you take what he
pleases from him  what I wouldn't take from any- body else, I
know."
"With a fox lining," said Fleda, laughing.
"Then foxes haven't got their true character, that's all. Now
I'll just tell you an instance  it was at a party somewhere 
it was at that tiresome Mrs. Swinburne's, where the evenings
are always so stupid, and there was nothing worth going or
staying for but the supper  except Mr. Carleton  and he
never stays five minutes, except at two or three places; and
it drives me crazy, because they are places I don't go to very
often "
"Suppose you keep your wits, and tell me your story."
"Well  don't interrupt me  he was there, and he had taken me
into the supper-room, when mamma came along, and took it into
her head to tell me not to take something  I forget what 
punch, I believe  because I had not been well in the morning.
Now, you know, it was absurd. I was perfectly well then, and I
told her I shouldn't mind her; but do you believe, Mr.
Carleton wouldn't give it to me?  absolutely told me he
wouldn't, and told me why, as coolly as possible, and gave me
a glass of water, and made me drink it; and if it had been
anybody else, I do assure you I would have flung it in his
face, and never spoken to him again; and I have been in love
with him ever since. Now, is that tea going to be ready?"
"Presently. How long have you been here?"
"Oh, a day or two  and it has poured with rain every single
day since we came, till this one; and just think," said
Constance with a ludicrously scared face  "I must make haste,
and be back again. You see, I came away on principle, that I
may strike with the effect of novelty when I appear again; but
if I stay too long, you know  there is a point "
"On the principle of the ice-boats," said Fleda, "that back a
little to give a better blow to the ice, where they find it
tough?"
"Tough!" said Constance.
"Does Florence like this paragon of yours as well as you do?"
"I don't know  she don't talk so much about him, but that
proves nothing; she's too happy to talk to him. I expect our
family concord will be shattered by and by," said Constance,
shaking her head.
"You seem to take the prospect philosophically," said Fleda,
looking amused. "How long are you going to stay at the Pool?"
Constance gave an expressive shrug, intimating that the
deciding of that question did not rest with her.
"That is to say, you are here to watch the transit of this
star over the meridian of Queechy?"
"Of Queechy!  of Montepoole."
"Very well  of Montepoole. I don't wonder that nature is
exhausted. I will go and see after this refection."
The prettiest little meal in the world was presently forth for
the two. Fleda knew her aunt would not come down, and Hugh was
yet at the mill; so she led her visitor into the breakfast-
room alone  Constance, by the way, again fondly embracing
her, and repeating, "My dear little Fleda, how glad I am to
see you!"
The lady was apparently hungry, for there was a minute of
silence while the refection begun, and then Constance claimed,
perhaps with a sudden appreciation of the delicious bread and
butter, and cream and strawberries 
"What a lovely old room this is  and what lovely times you
have here, don't you, Fleda?"
"Yes  sometimes," Fleda said, with a sigh.
"But I shall tell mamma you are growing thin, and the first
minute we get home I shall send for you to come us. Mrs. Thorn
will be amazingly glad to see you."
"Has she got back from Europe?" said Fleda.
"Ages!  and she's been entertaining the world as hard as she
could ever since. I have no doubt Lewis has confided to the
maternal bosom all his distresses; and there never was
anything like the rush that I expect will be made to our
greenhouse next winter. Oh, Fleda, you should see Mr.
Carleton's greenhouses!"
"Should I?" said Fleda.
"Dear me! I hope mamma will come!" said Constance, with a
comical, fidgety shake of herself; "when I think of those
greenhouses I lose my self-command. And the park!  Fleda,
it's the loveliest thing you ever saw in your life; and it's
all that delightful man's doing; only he wont have a geometric
flower-garden, as I did everything I could think of to
persuade him. I pity the woman that will be his wife  she
wont have her own way in a single thing; but then he will
fascinate her into thinking that his way is the best  so it
will do just as well, I suppose. Do you know, I can't conceive
what he has come over here for. He has been here before, you
know, and he don't seem to me to know exactly what he means to
do; at least, I can't find out, and I have tried."
"How long has he been here?"
"Oh, a month or two  since the beginning of April, I believe.
He came over with some friends of his  a Sir George Egerton
and his family;  he is going to Canada, to be established in
some post there, I forget what; and they are spending part of
the summer here before they fix themselves at the North. It is
easy to see what they are here for  they are strangers, and
amusing themselves; but Mr. Carleton is at home, and not
amusing himself, at least, he don't seem to be. He goes about
with the Egertons, but that is just for his friendship for
them; and he puzzles me. He don't know whether he is going to
Niagara  he has been once already  and 'perhaps' he may go
to Canada  and 'possibly' he will make a journey to the West
 and I can't find out that he wants anything in particular."
"Perhaps he don't mean that you shall," said Fleda.
"Perhaps he don't; but you see that aggravates my state of
mind to a distressing degree. And then I'm afraid he will go
somewhere where I can't keep watch of him!"
Fleda could not help laughing.
"Perhaps he was tired of home, and came for mere weariness."
"Weariness! it's my opinion he has no idea there is such a
word in the language  I am certain, if he heard it, he would
call for a dictionary the next minute. Why, at Carleton, it
seems to me he was half the time on horseback, flying about
from one end of the country to the other; and, when he is in
the house, he is always at work at something; it's a piece of
condescension to get him to attend to you at all; only when he
does, my dear Fleda!  he is so enchanting that you live in a
state of delight till next time. And yet, I never could get
him to pay me a compliment to this minute  I tried two or
three times, and he rewarded me with some very rude speeches."
"Rude!" said Fleda.
"Yes  that is, they were the most graceful and fascinating
things possible, but they would have been rudeness in anybody
else. Where is mamma?" said Constance, with another comic
counterfeit of distress. "My dear Fleda, it's the most
captivating thing to breakfast at Carleton!"
"I have no idea the bread and butter is sweeter there than in
some other parts of the world," said Fleda.
"I don't know about the bread and butter," said Constance,
"but those exquisite little sugar-dishes! My dear Fleda, every
one has his own sugar-dish and cream-ewer  the loveliest
little things!"
"I have heard of such things before," said Fleda.
"I don't care about the bread and butter,"  said Constance 
"eating is immaterial, with those perfect little things right
opposite to me. They weren't like any you ever saw, Fleda 
the sugar-bowl was just a little, plain, oval box, with the
lid on a hinge, and not a bit of chasing, only the arms on the
cover  like nothing I ever saw but a old-fashioned silver
tea-caddy; and the cream-jug, a little, straight, up-and-down
thing to match. Mamma said they were clumsy, but they
bewitched me!"
"I think everything bewitched you," said Fleda, smiling.
"Can't your head stand a sugar-dish and milk-cup?"
"My dear Fleda, I never had your superiority to the ordinary
weaknesses of human nature  I can stand one sugar-bowl, but I
confess myself overcome by a dozen. How we have all wanted to
see you, Fleda! and papa  you have captivated papa!  and he
says "
"Never mind; don't tell me what he says," said Fleda.
"There!  that's your modesty that everybody rave about: I
wish I could catch it. Fleda, where did you get that little
Bible? While I was waiting for you I tried to soothe my
restless anticipations with examining all the things in all
the rooms. Where did you get it?"
"It was given me a long while ago," said Fleda.
"But it is real gold on the outside  the clasps and all. Do
you know it? it is not washed."
"I know it," said Fleda, smiling; "and it is better than gold
inside."
"Wasn't that mamma's favourite, Mr. Olmney, that parted from
you at the gate?" said Constance, after a minute's silence.
"Yes."
"Is he a favourite of yours, too?"
"You must define what you mean by a favourite," said Fleda,
gravely.
"Well, how do you like him?"
"I believe everybody likes him," said Fleda, colouring, and
vexed at herself that she could not help it. The bright eyes
