tell you what," he'd say, "we boys never stoned another 
kitten!" 
On the present occasion, Mrs. Bird rose quickly, with 
very red cheeks, which quite improved her general appearance, and walked up to her husband, with quite a resolute 
air, and said, in a determined tone, 
" Now, John, I want to know if you think such a law as 
that is right and Christian ? " 
" You won't shoot me, now, Mary, if I say I do ! " 
" I never could have thought it of you, John ! You didn't 
vote for it?" 
" Even so, my fair politician." 
"You ought to be ashamed, John! Poor, homeless, 
houseless creatures ! It's a shameful, wicked, abominable 
law, and I'll break it, for one, the first time I get a chance; 
and I hope I shall have a chance, I do ! Things have got to 
a'prelly "pass," if a woman can't give a warm supper and a 
bed to poor, starving creatures, just because they are slaves, 
and have been abused and oppressed all their lives, poor 
things!" 
"But, Mary, just listen to me. Your feelings are all 
quite right, dear, and interesting, and I love you for them ; 
but then, dear, we mustn't suffer our feelings to run away 
with our judgment. You must consider it's not a matter of 
private feeling; there are great public interests involved, 
there is such a state of public agitation rising, that we must 
put aside our private feelings." 
" Now, John, I don't know anything about politics, but I 
can read my Bible ; and there I see that I must feed the 
hungry, clothe the naked, and comfort the desolate ; and 
that Bible I mean to follow." 
" But in cases where your doing so would involve a great 
public evil" 
" Obeying G-od never brings on public evils. I know it 
can't. It's always safest, all round, to do as He bids us." 
" Now, listen to me, Mary, and I can state to you a very 
clear argument, to show " 
" Oh, nonsense, John ! you can talk all night, but you 
wouldn't do it. I put it to you, John, would you now turn 
away a poor, shivering, hungry creature from your door, 
Decause he was a runaway ? Would you, now ? " 
Now, if the truth must be told, our senator had the misfortune to be a man who had a particularly humane and 
accessible nature, and turning away anybody that was in 
trouble never had been his forte ; and what was worse for 
him in this particular pinch of the argument was, that his 
wife knew it, and, of course, was making an assault on rather 
an indefensible point. So he had recourse to the usual 
means of gaining time for such cases made and provided ; he 
said " ahem," and coughed several times, took out his pocket- 
handkerchief, and began to wipe his glasses. Mrs. Bird, 
seeing the defenceless condition of the enemy '.3 territory, 
had no more conscience than to push her advantage. 
"I should like to see you doing that, John I really 
should ! Turning a woman out of doors in a snow-storm, 
for instance, or may be you'd take her up and put her in 
gaol, wouldn't you? You would make a great hand at that!" 
" Of course, it would be a very painful duty," began 
Mr. Bird, in a moderate tone. 
" Duty, John ! don't use that word ! You know it isn't 
a duty it can't be a duty ! If folks want to keep their 
slaves from running away, let 'em treat 'em well that's my 
doctrine. If I have slaves (as I hope I never shall have) I'd 
risk their wanting to run away from me, or you either, John. 
I tell you folks don't run away when they are happy f and 
when they do run, poor creatures ! they suffer enough with 
cold, and hunger, and fear, without everybody's turning 
against them ; and, law or no law, I never will, so help me 
God!" 
* Mary ! Mary, my dear, let me reason with you." 
"I hate reasoning, John especially reasoning on such 
subjects. There's a way you political folks have of coming 
round and round a plain right thing ; and you don't 
believe in it yourselves, when it comes to practice. I 
know you well enough, John. You don't believe it's right, 
any more than I do ; and you wouldn't do it any sooner 
than I." 
At this critical juncture Old Cudjoe, the black man-of- 
all-work, put his head in at the door, and wished " Missis 
would come into the kitchen ; " and our senator, tolerably 
relieved, looked after his little wife with a whimsical mixture 
of amusement and vexation, and seating himself in the arm- 
chair, began to read the papers. 
After a moment his wife's voice was heard at the door, in 
a quick, earnest tone, " John ! John ! I do wish you'd come 
here a moment." 
He laid down his paper and went into the kitchen, and 
started, quite amazed at the sight that presented itself. A 
young and slender woman, with garments torn and frozen, 
with one shoe gone, and the stocking torn away from the cut 
and bleeding foot, was laid back in a deadly swoon upon two 
chairs. There was the impress of the despised race on her 
face, yet nolle could help feeling its mournful and pathetic 
beauty, while its stony sharpness, its cold, fixed, deathly 
aspect, struck a solemn chill over him. He drew his breath 
short, and stood in silence. His wife, and their only 
coloured domestic, old Aunt Dinah, were busily engaged in 
restorative measures ; while old Cudjoe had got the boy on 
his knee, and was busy pulling off" his shoes and stockings, 
and chafing his little cold feet. 
" Sure, now, if she ain't a sight to behold ! " said old 
Dinah, compassionately. " 'Pears like 'twas the heat that 
made her faint. She was tol'able peart when she cum in, 
and asked if she couldn't warm herself here a spell ; and I 
was just a askin' her where she cum from, and she fainted 
right down. Never done much hard work, guess, by the 
looks of her hands." 
" Poor creature !" said Mrs. Bird, compassionately, as the 
woman slowly unclosed her large dark eyes, and looked 
vacantly at her. Suddenly an expression of agony crossed 
her face, and she sprang up, saying, " Oh, my Harry! Have 
they got him ? " 
The boy, at this, jumped from Cudjoe's knee, and running 
to her side, put up his arms. " Oh, he's here ! he's here ! " 
she exclaimed. 
" Oh, ma'am ! " said she, wildly, to Mrs. Bird, " do protect us ! don't let them get him ! " 
" Nobody shall hurt you here, poor woman," said Mrs. 
Bird, encouragingly. " You are safe ; don't be afraid." 
" Q-od bless you ! " said the woman, covering her face and 
sobbing ; while the little boy, seeing her crying, tried to get 
into her lap. 
With many gentle and womanly offices, which none, knew 
better how to render than Mrs. Bird, the poor woman was 
in time rendered more calm. A temporary bed was provided 
for her on the settle, near the fire ; and, after a short time, 
she fell into a heavy slumber with the child, who seemed no 
less weary, soundly sleeping on her arm ; for the mother 
resisted, with nervous anxiety, the kindest attempts to take 
him from her ; and even in sleep her arm encircled him with 
an unrelaxing clasp, as if she could not even then be beguiled 
of her vigilant hold. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bird had gone back to the parlour, where, 
strange as it may appear, no reference was made on either 
side to the preceding conversation ; but Mrs. Bird busied 
herself with her knitting work, and Mr. Bird pretended to 
be reading the paper. 
" I wonder who and what she is ! " said Mr. Bird at last, 
as he laid it down. 
" When she wakes up and feels a little rested, we will 
see," said Mrs. Bird. 
" I say, wife ! " said Mr. Bird, after musing in silence 
over his newspaper. 
" Well, dear ? " 
" She couldn't wear one of your gowns, could she, by any 
letting down, or such matter ? She seems to be rather 
larger than you are." 
A quite perceptible smile glimmered on Mrs. Bird's face 
as she answered, " We'll see." 
Another pause, and Mr. Bird again broke out 
"I say, wife!" 
"Well! mat now?" 
" Why, there's that old bombazin cloak that you keep on 
purpose to put over me when I take my afternoon's nap ; 
you might as well give her that she needs clothes." 
At this instant Dinah looked in to say that the woman 
was awake, and wanted to see missis. 
Mr. and Mrs. Bird went into the kitchen, followed by the 
two eldest boys, the smaller fry having by this time been 
safely disposed of in bed. 
The woman was now sitting up on the settle by the fire. 
She was looking steadily into the blaze, with a calm, heart- 
broken expression, very different from her former agitated 
wildness. 
"Did you want me?" said Mrs. Bird, in gentle tones. 
" I hope you feel better now, poor woman ? " 
A long-drawn, shivering sigh, was the only answer ; but 
she lifted her dark eyes, and fixed them on her with such a 
forlorn and imploring expression that the tears came into the 
little woman's eyes. 
" You needn't be afraid of anything ; we are friends here, 
poor woman ! Tell me where you came from, and what you 
want," said she. 
"I came from Kentucky," said the woman. 
" When ? " said Mr. Bird, taking up the interrogatory. 
"To-night." 
" How did you come ? " 
"I crossed on the ice." 
" Crossed on the ice ! " said every one present. 
"Yes," said the woman slowly, " I did. G-od helping me, 
I crossed on the ice ; for they were behind me right behind 
and there was no other way ! " 
"Law, missis," said Cudjoe, " the ice is all in broken-up 
