passively, like one borne on the current of a down-rushing stream,
but resolutely, as one with a purpose to struggle--to suffer, and
yet be strong--

"Yes; my children will feel my loss. I could pass away and be at
rest. I could lie me down and sleep sweetly in the grave. But, is
all my work done? Can I leave these little ones to his tender mer--"

She checked herself in the mental utterance of this sentiment, which
referred to her husband. But, the feeling was in her heart; and it
inspired her with a new purpose. Her thought, turned from herself,
and fixed, with a yearning love upon her children, gave to the blood
a quicker motion through the veins, and to her mind a new activity.
She could no longer remain passive, as she had been for hours,
brooding over her own unhappy state, but arose and left her chamber.
In another room she found her unhappy child, who had gone off to
brood alone over her disappointment, and to weep where none could
see her.

"Madeline, dear!" said the mother, in a loving, sympathetic voice.

Instantly the child flung herself into her arms, and laid her face,
sobbing, upon her bosom.

Gently, yet wisely--for there came, in that moment, to Mrs. Leslie,
a clear perception of all her duty--did the mother seek to soften
Madeline's disappointment, and to inspire her with fortitude to
bear. Beyond her own expectation came success in this effort. The
reason she invented or imagined, for the father's refusal, satisfied
the child; and soon the clouded brow was lit up by the heart's
sunshine.

From that hour, Mrs. Leslie was changed. From that hour, a new
purpose filled her heart. She could not leave her children, nor
could she take them with her if she passed away; and so, she
resolved to live for them, to forget her own suffering, in the
tenderness of maternal care. The mother had risen superior to the
unhappy, unappreciated wife.

All marked the change; yet in none did it awaken more surprise than
in Mr. Leslie. He never fully understood its meaning; and, no
wonder, for he had never understood her from the beginning. He was
too cold and selfish to be able fully to appreciate her character or
relation to him as a wife.

Yet, for all this change--though the long drooping form of Mrs.
Leslie regained something of its erectness, and her exhausted system
a degree of tension--the shadow passed not from her heart or brow;
nor did her cheeks grow warm again with the glow of health. The
delight of her life had failed; and now, she lived only for the
children whom God had given her.

A man of Mr. Leslie's stamp of character too rarely grows wiser in
the true sense. Himself the centre of his world, it is but seldom
that he is able to think enough out of himself to scan the effect of
his daily actions upon others. If collisions take place, he thinks
only of the pain he feels, not of the pain he gives. He is ever
censuring; but rarely takes blame. During the earlier portions of
his married life, Mr. Leslie's mind had chafed a good deal at what
seemed to him Madeline's unreasonable and unwomanly conduct; the
soreness of this was felt even after the change in her exterior that
we have noticed, and he often indulged in the habit of mentally
writing bitter things against her. He had well nigh broken her
heart; and was yet impatient because she gave signs indicative of
pain.

And so, as years wore on, the distance grew wider instead of
becoming less and less. The husband had many things to draw him
forth into the busy world, where he established various interests,
and sought pleasure in their pursuits, while the wife, seldom seen
abroad, buried herself at home, and gave her very life for her
children.

But, even maternal love could not feed for very many years the flame
of her life. The oil was too nearly exhausted when that new supply
came. For a time, the light burned clearly; then it began to fail,
and ere the mother's tasks were half done, it went out in darkness.

How heavy the shadows which then fell upon the household and upon
the heart of Edward Leslie! As he stood, alone, in the chamber of
death, with his eyes fixed upon the pale, wasted countenance, no
more to quicken with life, and felt on his neck the clinging arms
that were thrown around it a few moments before the last sigh of
mortality was breathed; and still heard the eager, "Kiss me, Edward,
once, before I die!"--a new light broke upon him,--and he was
suddenly stung by sharp and self-reproaching thoughts. Had he not
killed her, and, by the slowest and most agonizing process by which
murder can be committed? There was in his mind a startling
perception that such was the awful crime of which he had been
guilty.

Yes, there were shadows on the heart of Edward Leslie; shadows that
never entirely passed away.




THE THANKLESS OFFICE.


"AN object of real charity," said Andrew Lyon to his wife, as a poor
woman withdrew from the room in which they were seated.

"If ever there was a worthy object, she is one," returned Mrs. Lyon.
"A widow, with health so feeble that even ordinary exertion is too
much for her; yet obliged to support, with the labor of her own
hands, not only herself, but three young children. I do not wonder
that she is behind with her rent."

"Nor I," said Mr. Lyon in a voice of sympathy. "How much did she say
was due to her landlord?"

"Ten dollars."

"She will not be able to pay it."

"I fear not. How can she? I give her all my extra sewing, and have
obtained work for her from several ladies; but, with her best
efforts she can barely obtain food and decent clothing for herself
and babes."

"Does it not seem hard," remarked Mr. Lyon, "that one like Mrs.
Arnold, who is so earnest in her efforts to take care of herself and
family, should not receive a helping hand from some one of the many
who could help her without feeling the effort? If I didn't find it
so hard to make both ends meet, I would pay off her arrears of rent
for her, and feel happy in so doing."

"Ah!" exclaimed the kind-hearted wife, "how much I wish that we were
able to do this. But we are not."

"I'll tell you what we can do," said Mr. Lyon, in a cheerful
voice--"or, rather what I can do. It will be a very light matter
for, say ten persons, to give a dollar a-piece, in order to relieve
Mrs. Arnold from her present trouble. There are plenty who would
cheerfully contribute for this good purpose; all that is wanted is
some one to take upon himself the business of making the
collections. That task shall be mine."

"How glad, James, to hear you say so," smilingly replied Mrs. Lyon.
"Oh! what a relief it will be to poor Mrs. Arnold. It will make her
heart as light as a feather. That rent has troubled her sadly. Old
Links, her landlord, has been worrying her about it a good deal,
and, only a week ago, threatened to put her things in the street if
she didn't pay up."

"I should have thought of this before," remarked Andrew Lyon. "There
are hundreds of people who are willing enough to give if they were
only certain in regard to the object. Here is one worthy enough in
every way. Be it my business to present her claims to benevolent
consideration. Let me see. To whom shall I go? There are Jones, and
Green, and Tompkins. I can get a dollar from each of them. That will
be three dollars--and one from myself, will make four. Who else is
there? Oh! Malcolm! I'm sure of a dollar from him; and, also, from
Smith, Todd, and Perry."

Confident in the success of his benevolent scheme, Mr. Lyon started
forth, early on the very next day, for the purpose of obtaining, by
subscription, the poor widow's rent. The first person he called on
was Malcolm.

"Ah, friend Lyon," said Malcolm, smiling blandly. "Good morning!
What can I do for you to-day?"

"Nothing for me, but something for a poor widow, who is behind with
her rent," replied Andrew Lyon. "I want just one dollar from you,
and as much more from some eight or nine as benevolent as yourself."

At the words "poor widow," the countenance of Malcolm fell, and when
his visiter ceased, he replied in a changed and husky voice,
clearing his throat two or three times as he spoke,

"Are you sure she is deserving, Mr. Lyon?" The man's manner had
become exceedingly grave.

"None more so," was the prompt answer. "She is in poor health, and
has three children to support with the product of her needle. If any
one needs assistance it is Mrs. Arnold."

"Oh! ah! The widow of Jacob Arnold."
