leading the people there to understand the position of the American
church and clergy. Mr. Birney says that, although the statements have
long been before the world, he has never known one of them to be
disputed; that, knowing the extraordinary nature of the sentiments, he
took the utmost pains to authenticate them.
We will first present those of the Southern States.
1. The Presbyterian Church.
                 HARMONY PRESBYTERY, OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
  Whereas, sundry persons in Scotland and England, and others in the
  north, east and west of our country, have denounced slavery as
  obnoxious to the laws of God, some of whom have presented before the
  General Assembly of our church, and the Congress of the nation,
  memorials and petitions, with the avowed object of bringing into
  disgrace slave-holders, and abolishing the relation of master and
  slave: And whereas, from the said proceedings, and the statements,
  reasonings and circumstances connected therewith, it is most
  manifest that those persons “know not what they say, nor whereof
  they affirm;” and with this ignorance discover a spirit of
  self-righteousness and exclusive sanctity, &c., therefore,
  1. Resolved, That as the kingdom of our Lord is not of this world,
  His church, as such, has no right to abolish, alter, or affect any
  institution or ordinance of men, political or civil, &c.
  2. Resolved, That slavery has existed from the days of those good
  old slave-holders and patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob (who are
  now in the kingdom of heaven), to the time when the apostle Paul
  sent a runaway home to his master Philemon, and wrote a Christian
  and fraternal letter to this slave-holder, which we find still
  stands in the canon of the Scriptures; and that slavery has existed
  ever since the days of the apostle, and does now exist.
  3. Resolved, That as the relative duties of master and slave are
  taught in the Scriptures, in the same manner as those of parent and
  child, and husband and wife, the existence of slavery itself is not
  opposed to the will of God; and whosoever has a conscience too
  tender to recognize this relation as lawful is “righteous over
  much,” is “wise above what is written,” and has submitted his neck
  to the yoke of men, sacrificed his Christian liberty of conscience,
  and leaves the infallible word of God for the fancies and doctrines
  of men.
                  *       *       *       *       *
                    THE CHARLESTON UNION PRESBYTERY.
  It is a principle which meets the views of this body, that slavery,
  as it exists among us, is a political institution, with which
  ecclesiastical judicatories have not the smallest right to
  interfere; and in relation to which, any such interference,
  especially at the present momentous crisis, would be morally
  wrong, and fraught with the most dangerous and pernicious
  consequences. The sentiments which we maintain, in common with
  Christians at the South of every denomination, are sentiments which
  so fully approve themselves to our consciences, are so identified
  with our solemn convictions of duty, that we should maintain them
  under any circumstances.
  Resolved, That in the opinion of this Presbytery, the holding of
  slaves, so far from being a SIN in the sight of God, is nowhere
  condemned in his holy word; that it is in accordance with the
  example, or consistent with the precepts, of patriarchs, apostles
  and prophets, and that it is compatible with the most fraternal
  regard to the best good of those servants whom God may have
  committed to our charge.
The New-school Presbyterian Church in Petersburgh, Virginia, Nov. 16,
1838, passed the following:
  Whereas, the General Assembly did, in the year 1818, pass a law
  which contains provisions for slaves irreconcilable with our civil
  institutions, and solemnly declaring slavery to be sin against God—a
  law at once offensive and insulting to the whole Southern community,
  1. Resolved, That, as slave-holders, we cannot consent longer to
  remain in connection with any church where there exists a statute
  conferring the right upon slaves to arraign their masters before the
  judicatory of the church—and that, too, for the act of selling them
  without their consent first had been obtained.
  2. Resolved, That, as the Great Head of the church has recognized
  the relation of master and slave, we conscientiously believe that
  slavery is not a sin against God, as declared by the General
  Assembly.
This sufficiently indicates the opinion of the Southern Presbyterian
Church. The next extracts will refer to the opinions of Baptist
Churches. In 1835 the Charleston Baptist Association addressed a
memorial to the Legislature of South Carolina, which contains the
following:
  The undersigned would further represent that the said association
  does not consider that the Holy Scriptures have made the fact of
  slavery a question of morals at all. The Divine Author of our holy
  religion, in particular, found slavery a part of the existing
  institutions of society; with which, if not sinful, it was not his
  design to intermeddle, but to leave them entirely to the control
  of men. Adopting this, therefore, as one of the allowed arrangements
  of society, he made it the province of his religion only to
  prescribe the reciprocal duties of the relation. The question, it is
  believed, is purely one of political economy. It amounts, in effect,
  to this,—Whether the operatives of a country shall be bought and
  sold, and themselves become property, as in this state; or whether
  they shall be hirelings, and their labor only become property, as in
  some other states. In other words, whether an employer may buy the
  whole time of laborers at once, of those who have a right to dispose
  of it, with a permanent relation of protection and care over them;
  or whether he shall be restricted to buy it in certain portions
  only, subject to their control, and with no such permanent relation
  of care and protection. The right of masters to dispose of the time
  of their slaves has been distinctly recognized by the Creator of all
  things, who is surely at liberty to vest the right of property over
  any object in whomsoever he pleases. That the lawful possessor
  should retain this right at will, is no more against the laws of
  society and good morals, than that he should retain the personal
  endowments with which his Creator has blessed him, or the money and
  lands inherited from his ancestors, or acquired by his industry. And
  neither society nor individuals have any more authority to demand a
  relinquishment, without an equivalent, in the one case, than in the
  other.
  As it is a question purely of political economy, and one which in
  this country is reserved to the cognizance of the state governments
  severally, it is further believed, that the State of South Carolina
  alone has the right to regulate the existence and condition of
  slavery within her territorial limits; and we should resist to the
  utmost every invasion of this right, come from what quarter and
  under whatever pretence it may.
The Methodist Church is, in some respects, peculiarly situated upon this
subject, because its constitution and book of discipline contain the
most vehement denunciations against slavery of which language is
capable, and the most stringent requisitions that all members shall be
disciplined for the holding of slaves; and these denunciations and
requisitions have been reäffirmed by its General Conference.
It seemed to be necessary, therefore, for the Southern Conference to
take some notice of this fact, which they did, with great coolness and
distinctness, us follows:
                     THE GEORGIA ANNUAL CONFERENCE.
  Resolved, unanimously, That, whereas there is a clause in the
  discipline of our church which states that we are as much as ever
  convinced of the great evil of slavery; and whereas the said
  clause has been perverted by some, and used in such a manner as to
  produce the impression that the Methodist Episcopal Church believed
  slavery to be a moral evil:—
  Therefore Resolved, That it is the sense of the Georgia Annual
  Conference that slavery, as it exists in the United States, is not
  a moral evil.
  Resolved, That we view slavery as a civil and domestic
  institution, and one with which, as ministers of Christ, we have
  nothing to do, further than to ameliorate the condition of the slave
  by endeavoring to impart to him and his master the benign influences
  of the religion of Christ, and aiding both on their way to heaven.
  On motion, it was Resolved, unanimously, That the Georgia Annual
  Conference regard with feelings of profound respect and approbation
  the dignified course pursued by our several superintendents, or
  bishops, in suppressing the attempts that have been made by
  various individuals to get up and protract an excitement in the
  churches and country on the subject of abolitionism.
  Resolved, further, That they shall have our cordial and zealous
  support in sustaining them in the ground they have taken.
                       SOUTH CAROLINA CONFERENCE.
The Rev. W. Martin introduced resolutions similar to those of the
Georgia Conference.
The Rev. W. Capers, D.D., after expressing his conviction that “the
sentiment of the resolutions was universally held, not only by the
ministers of that conference, but of the whole South;” and after stating
that the only true doctrine was, “it belongs to Cæsar, and not to the
church,” offered the following as a substitute:
  Whereas, we hold that the subject of slavery in these United States
  is not one proper for the action of the church, but is exclusively
  appropriate to the civil authorities,
  Therefore Resolved, That this conference will not intermeddle with
  it, further than to express our regret that it has ever been
  introduced, in any form, into any one of the judicatures of the
  church.
  Brother Martin accepted the substitute.
  Brother Betts asked whether the substitute was intended as implying
  that slavery, as it exists among us, was not a moral evil? He
  understood it as equivalent to such a declaration.
  Brother Capers explained that his intention was to convey that
  sentiment fully and unequivocally; and that he had chosen the form
  of the substitute for the purpose, not only of reproving some wrong
  doings at the North, but with reference also to the General
  Conference. If slavery were a moral evil (that is, sinful), the
  church would be bound to take cognizance of it; but our affirmation
  is, that it is not a matter for her jurisdiction, but is
  exclusively appropriate to the civil government, and of course
  not sinful.
The substitute was then unanimously adopted.
In 1836, an Episcopal clergyman in North Carolina, of the name of
Freeman, preached, in the presence of his bishop (Rev. Levi. S. Ives,
D.D., a native of a free state), two sermons on the rights and duties of
slave-holders. In these he essayed to justify from the Bible the slavery
both of white men and negroes, and insisted that “without a new
