"What a mountain you remove! I trembled at the supposition that you
were precipitated upon the frozen charities of a mercenary world. Ah,
my young friend! the most shameful part of human hypocrisy is the
heartless repudiation of unmerited exigency!"
"May we go, papa?" persisted the daughter. "I so want to learn!"
"My beloved! wariness is indispensable in the adjudication of a measure
vitally affecting your intellectual progress. Is your friend versed in
classical lore, Miss Ross?"
This absurdity was almost a match for Ida's forbearance. "Her
recommendations cannot be impeached, Mr. Pinely," she said, spiritedly.
"I solicit no further assurance, Miss Ross, than your approbation
of her qualifications. You have my paternal sanction, my daughter.
Moderate your transports, my love!" She had clapped her hands.
"Pray assign her extravaganzas to the intensity of her admiration
of your lovesome self, Miss Ross. I blush at the trivialness of the
reference--but my income is not what it was, when your father and
myself were twin-souls. The remorseless falchion of Time cleaves down
rank and fortune in his flight. The remuneration,--Miss Ross! If
the scanty pecuniary assistance I can render your fair friend will
ameliorate her hardships, my 'bosom's lord will sit lightly on its
throne!'"
Ida curtly told him, "no tuition fees were demanded."
"That materially alters the aspect of your proposition. My munificent
lady! this is a flagrant spoliation of yourself!"
"I do not consider it as such, sir."
"Your enthusiastic philanthropy misleads you. I cannot be an
accomplice to this generous fraud. My children remain in their own
habitation unless your friend accepts compensation for her toils."
Laura looked ashamed and sorrowful, and Ida restrained her indignant
contempt. "We will not differ about a trifle, Mr. Pinely. The terms
and time of payment are subject to your discretion and convenience. I
may enter your little ones--Laura included? There are three, besides
yourself, Laura?"
"They are docile to the flower-wreathed wand of moral suasion, Miss
Ross, but may betray obduration if sterner means are employed. Of
corporeal punishment we will not speak; the rod would fall barbless,
from the lily digits of gentle woman."
"You will come to school, Monday week;" Ida was saying to Laura: "but
do not wait until then to pay me a visit. I must have a long talk with
you. Good bye."
Tears stood in Laura's eyes. Already she regarded her benefactress with
feelings bordering upon devotion. Ida, in her sober ride, turning over
the degradation and misery whose alleviation seemed impracticable, had
no suspicion of the leaven she had hidden in the heavy lump.
CHAPTER XXIX.
Anna Talbot's sketch of Emma's privations was not over-drawn. If
her condition had been tolerable, an offer from Ida Ross, as she
recollected her,--proud and unsociable,--would not have tempted her to
change it. But Ida was honorable and liberal, despite her haughtiness;
and in her uncle's family, she was an ill-paid under-servant. Ida sent
her carriage and servants for her; and this regard for her comfort,
while it called forth the contumely of her employers, raised her hopes
of a friendly reception.
"There's my mistis in the porch," said Will, leaning down from his
perch, to speak to his fair passenger. They were driving up an avenue,
closed by a house, which, to Emma's modest eyes, was an imposing
architectural pile. A haze dimmed her vision; in her agitation, she
saw nothing of the awful figure Will pointed out, but the flutter of
white drapery. The great yard-gates were open, and the carriage rolled
over the gravelled circle which swept by the main entrance. She did not
recognise the frank, sweet face that appeared at the carriage-door, but
the voice was not to be forgotten. "I am very glad you are come!"
it said, and the kiss and the embrace verified the welcome. "How
changed!" was the thought of each. Emma was thin, and when the glow
of the meeting faded--dejected. She looked, to Ida, like one who had
been subjected to a constant weight, bending body and heart, almost
to breaking,--as if the one feather more would end the torture. And
her own spirit, gaining buoyancy day by day, under its discipline,
gathered force from the necessity of restoring the lost elasticity to
another's. She conducted her school-fellow to a chamber, once hers,
and adjoining that she now occupied; divested her of her heavy hat and
shawl, and commanded her imperatively to "lie down." Emma reposed her
weary limbs upon a luxurious mattress; the breeze waving the spotless
curtains, and whispering of green hills, and cool forests and violet
banks; her hostess, after vainly attempting to persuade her that she
required sleep--bathing her head with fragrant waters, and talking in
inspiriting, affectionate tones, which were more than manna to her
hungry heart. Mrs. Dana had gone the preceding day, and Emma was soon
convinced that she had done a charitable--most meritorious deed, in
arriving when she did; but she smiled, as she heard the lively voice
dilate upon the "horrors" and "azure imps," that had infested the
house while she was sole occupant--"always excepting my chaperon and
soi-disant housekeeper, good Miss Betsey--soi-disant as I am, in
point of fact, housekeeper myself. I have a great fancy to see to
everything with my own eyes. We are retired here--I wrote this, you
know--but there are some agreeable families within visiting distance. I
am delighted at having a helper in the labor of receiving and returning
visits; and my rides and walks will be doubly pleasant. Are you fond of
out-door exercise?"
"Very--but I have neglected the duty for a year or two past."
"You shall not be so remiss here. I intend to be exacting. A gallop
before breakfast, and a walk--not a promenade--before tea, will plant
bright roses in these white cheeks. When you are rested, we will unlock
our budget of news. Having been apart for so long, each will have a
week's steady talk."
When she arose, revived in spirits and strength, she was taken over
the premises "to see her home." Mr. Grant was introduced, and doffed
his hat as to a queen; the negroes were respectfully cordial to the
friend of their mistress; but more than all, Ida's bearing assured the
trampled-down orphan, that she was here second to none--superior in
command and importance to all, except the head of the establishment.
It may have been the earnestness, which was the prevailing element of
Ida's character, or her sympathetic nature, (Charley affirmed it was
the latter,) which made it impossible for those who knew her, to be
indifferent, or lukewarm in their sentiments towards her. Mr. Read,
Josephine and Pemberton, having seen the wrong side of her disposition,
hated her with a rancor, benefits nor patient efforts could appease.
Her chosen intimates found no mate for their affection, but in their
esteem and respect. Lynn's love for her was more like worship than that
he entertained for Ellen--adored as she was; with Carry, she had no
compeer of her sex; the exceeding tenderness of John Dana and his wife
was a mystery to themselves; and in Charley's heart she had the highest
place--taking rank even of the brother, to whom he had sacrificed his
hopes of earthly bliss. Emma experienced, and yielded to the charm;
she could not have resisted successfully, if she would; for Ida was
determined to attach her to herself, and her indomitable resolution
would have accomplished this, had her attractive qualities been less
winningly displayed. From the moment of her arrival, Emma improved,
and as the beautiful tracery of her character came out, to reward the
warm rays love poured over it, Ida was confirmed in her satisfaction
at her choice. She had not entire confidence in her ability to control
the restive spirits, which had run wild, without rule or rein; but
this fear vanished with a careful observation of her government and
its results. If the "wand" was "flower-wreathed," it was no supple or
brittle reed, to bend or snap in the storm. None, who had once rebelled
against her mild authority, were ever inclined to repeat the offence.
If, as had been asserted, Ida sought the Utopia of her fanciful dreams
in her "return to Palestine," as she playfully styled it; if her ideas
of country life were drawn from pastorals and romances, she would
have sunk under the drawbacks and iron realities she encountered.
Her influence over her servants was strong; but among so many,
insubordination reared its head, now and then. The idle and sulky,
deceived by her amenity and care for their welfare, appealed from Mr.
Grant's decisions to her clemency; and with so much plausibility,
that when this mode of undermining his laws was new, she was ready
to sustain them. Consistent, however, to her principle of examining
both sides of a question, she refused to reverse any decree, before
hearing all the circumstances; and invariably, when this was done,
ratified the original judgment. There were old and privileged
supernumeraries who talked of her father's childhood, as a thing of
yesterday; and volunteering the advantage of their experience for the
benefit of the "poor chile,"--tossed their heads high at the idea of
her controlling or enlightening them. Adding to self-righteousness,
the whims and peevishness of age, they caused Ida more annoyance
than the management of the whole estate besides; and hardly less than
the never-ending vexations of the Digganses, and their neighbors of
the same stamp, not to mention Pinely--most wearisome of all. He
penned voluminous epistles, to complain of "a trivial oversight in
her otherwise irreproachable system of philanthropy," or to convey a
"father's acknowledgments for the soul-elevating teachings of which
his beloved offspring were accipients;" and when they were unnoticed,
his visits were frequent. She received him with distant politeness;
and strove to repress his forwardness by chilling dignity--and he came
again next day. At last he presented himself in the parlor, where were
Emma and herself--so intoxicated, that he could not stand upright. His
tongue was oily as ever, notwithstanding his limbs refused to do their
office; and when Will entered, in answer to the vehement ring, he was
holding the door with both hands, swinging it with him in his attempts
to bow to the ladies, he was addressing as, "incomparable pair! whose
supereminent enchantments are confessed by the most hebete of created
intelligences."
Emma had shrunk into a corner, and Ida, her hand still upon the
bell-rope--her brow frowning--spoke in a lofty tone, "Uncle Will! you
will conduct this gentleman to the porch, and as much further as he
shall see convenient to go. It is necessary to teach him to exercise
some discrimination as to the times of his visits."
For Laura, the girls were strongly interested. Her progress in her
studies was incredibly rapid; and their wretched home, if comfortless,
was clean. She had no means of providing wardrobes or furniture;
and Ida, hailing the dawning reformation, contributed as delicately
as she could, such articles as they needed most. Laura's taste was
good; and her aptitude enabled her to catch the ways and language of
her friends, with fidelity and quickness. In six months after Ida's
business call, she would not have been ashamed to introduce her in
any company, however polished. But how was this to end? Would it
not be wiser benevolence to content themselves with bestowing the
rudiments of a common education, without exciting aspirations after
pursuits, so incongruous with the occupations of her lowly station, as
belles lettres, music and drawing? Ida put the objection down with an
irreversible negative.
