purpose ; the very baby in arms is taught to make a" pitiful 
little whine, and put out its fat hand, if your eye rests on it. 
The fact is, they are poor — poor because invention, enterprise, and intellectual vigor — all that surrounds the New 
England mountain farmer with competence and comfort — 
are quenched and dead, by the combined influence of a religion and government whose interest it is to keep people stupid 
that they may be manageable. Yet the Savoyard*, as a race, 
it seems to me, are naturally intelligent ; and I cannot but 
hope that the liberal course lately adopted by the Sardinian 
government may at hist reach them. My heart yearns over 
many of the bright, pretty children, whose little hands have 
been up. from time to time, around our carriage. I could not 
help thinking whal good schools and good instruction might do 
for them. It is not their fault, poor little things, that they are 
educated to whine and beg, and grow up rude, uncultured, 
to bring forth another set of children just like themselves ; 
but what to do with them is the question. One generally be- 
gins with giving money ; but a day or two of .experience shows 
that it would be just about as hopeful to feed the locusts of 
Egypt on a loaf of bread. But it is hard to refuse children, 
especially to a mother who has left five or six at home, 
and who fancies she sees, in some of these little eager, childish faces, something now and then that reminds her of her 
own. For my part, I got schooled so that I could stand them 
all, except the little toddling three-year olds — they fairly overcame me. So I supplied my pocket with a quantity of sugar 
lozenges, for the relief of my own mind. I usually found 
the little fellows looked exceedingly delighted when they discovered the nature of the coin. Children are unsophisticated, 
and like sugar better than silver, any day. 
In this auberge was a little chamois kid, of which fact we 
were duly apprised, when we got out, by a board put up, which 
said, " Here one can see a live chamois." The little live representative of chamoisdom came skipping out with the most 
amiable unconsciousness, and went through his paces for our 
entertainment with as much propriety as a New England child 
says Ins catechism. He hopped up on a table after some green 
leaves, which were then economically used to make him hop 
down again. The same illusive prospect was used to make 
him jump over a stick, and perform a number of other evolutions. I could not but admire the sweetness of temper with 
which he took all this tantalizing, and the innocence with 
which he chewed his cabbage leaf after he got it, not harboring a single revengeful thought at us for the trouble we had 
 
given him. Of course the issue of the matter was, that we 
all paid a few sous for the sight — not to the chamois, which 
would have been the most equitable way, but to those who had 
appropriated his gifts and graces to eke out their own convenience. 
"Where's his mother  ?" said I, desiring to enlarge my 
sphere of natural history as much as possible. 
" On a tue sa mere " — " They have killed his mother," was 
the reply, cool enough. 
. There we had the whole story. His enterprising neighbors 
had invaded the domestic hearth, shot his mother, and eaten 
her up, made her skin into chamois leather, and were keeping 
him till he got big enough for the same disposition, using his 
talents meanwhile to turn a penny upon ; yet not a word of 
all this thought he ; not a bit the less heartily did he caper ; 
never speculated a minute on why it was, on the origin of evil, 
cr any thing of the sort ; or, if he did, at least never said a 
word about it. I gave one good look into his soft, round, 
glassy eyes, and could see nothing there but the most tranquil 
contentment. He had finished his cabbage leaf, and we had 
finished our call ; so we will go on. 
It was now drawing towards evening, and the air began to 
be sensibly and piercingly cold. One effect of this mountain 
air on myself is, to bring on the most acute headache that 
I ever recollect to have felt. Still, the increasing glory and 
magnificence of the scenery overcame bodily fatigue. Mont 
Blanc, and his army of white-robed brethren, rose before us 
in the distance, glorious as the four and twenty elders around 
the great white throne. The "-wonderful gradations of coloring in this Alpine landscape are not among the least of its 
charms. How can I describe it? Imagine yourself standing 
"with me on this projecting rock, overlooking a deep, piny gorge, 
through which flow the brawling waters of the Arve. On the 
other side of this rise mountains whose heaving swells of vel- 
vet green, cliffs and dark pines, are fully made out and colored ; 
behind this mountain, rises another, whose greens are softened 
and shaded, and seem to be seen through a purplish veil ; be- 
hind that rises another, of a decided cloud-like purple ; and in 
the next still the purple tint changes to rosy lilac ; while above 
all, like another world up in the sky, mingling its tints with 
the passing clouds, sometimes obscured by them, and then 
breaking out between them, lie the glacier regions. These 
glaciers, in the setting sun, look like rivers of light pouring 
down from the clouds. Such was the scene, which I remember with perfect distinctness as enchaining my attention on one 
point of the road. 
We had now got up to the valley of Chamouni. I looked 
before me, and saw, lying in the lap of the green valley, a gi- 
gantic pile of icy pillars, which, seen through the trees, at first 
suggested the idea of a cascade. 
"What is that? " said I to the guide. 
" The Glacier de Boisson." 
I may as well stop here, and explain to you, once for all, 
what a glacier is. You see before you, as in this case, say 
thirty or forty mountain peaks, and between these peaks what 
seem to you frozen rivers. The snow from time to time melt- 
ing, and dripping down the sides of the mountain, and congealing in the elevated hollows between the peaks, forms a 
half-fluid mass — a river of ice — which is called a glacier. 
As it lies upon the slanting surface, and is not entirely solid 
throughout, the whole mass is continually pushing, with a 
gradual but imperceptible motion, down into the valleys below. 
 
At a distance these glaciers, as I have said before, look like 
frozen rivers ; when one approaches nearer, or where they 
press downward into the valley, like this Glacier de Boisson, 
they look like immense crystals and pillars of ice piled together in every conceivable form. The effect of this pile of 
ice, lying directly in the lap of green grass and flowers, is 
quite singular. The village of Chamouni itself has nothing 
in particular to recommend it. The buildings and every thing 
about it have a rough, coarse appearance. Before we had 
entered the valley this evening the sun had gone down; the 
sky behind the mountains was clear, and it seemed for a few 
moments as if darkness was rapidly coming on. On our right 
hand were black, jagged, furrowed walls of mountain, and on 
our left Mont Blanc, with his fields of glaciers and worlds of 
snow ; they seemed to hem us in, and almost press us down. 
But in a few moments commenced a scene of transfiguration, 
more glorious than any thing I had witnessed yet. The cold, 
white, dismal fields of ice gradually changed into hues of the 
most beautiful rose color. A bank of white clouds, which 
rested above the mountains, kindled and glowed, as if some 
spirit of light had entered into them. You did not lose your 
idea of the dazzling, spiritual whiteness of the snow, yet you 
seemed to see it through a rosy veil. The sharp edges of the 
glaciers, and the hollows between the peaks, reflected wavering tints of lilac and purple. The effect was solemn and spiritual above every thing I have ever seen. These words, 
which had been often in my mind through the day, and which 
occurred to me more often than any others while I was travelling through the Alps, came into my mind with a pomp and 
magnificence of meaning unknown before — " For by Him were 
all things created in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, 
or powers ; all things are by him and for him ; and he is be- 
fore all things, and by him all things subsist." 
In this dazzling revelation I saw not that cold, distant, un- 
feeling fate, or that crushing regularity of power and wisdom, 
which was all the ancient Greek or modern Deist can behold 
in God ; but I beheld, as it were, crowned and glorified, one 
who had loved with our loves, and suffered with our sufferings. 
Those shining snows were as his garments on the Mount of 
Transfiguration, and that serene and ineffable atmosphere of 
tenderness and beauty, which seemed to change these dreary 
deserts into worlds of heavenly light, was to me an image of 
the light shed by his eternal love on the sins and sorrows of 
time, and the dread abyss of eternity. 
LETTER XXXIII. 
My Dear : — 
Well, I waked up this morning, and the first thought was, 
" Here I am in the valley of Chamouni, right under the shadow of Mont Blanc, that I have studied about in childhood 
and found on the atlas." I sprang up, and ran to the window, to see if it was really there where I left it last night. 
Yes, true enough, there it was ! right over our heads, as it 
were, blocking up our very existence ; filling our minds with 
its presence ; that colossal pyramid of dazzling snow ! Its 
lower parts concealed by the roofs, only the three rounded 
domes of the summit cut their forms with icy distinctness on 
the intense blue of the sky ! 
On the evening before I had taken my last look at about 
nine o'clock, and had mentally resolved to go out before day- 
break and repeat Coleridge's celebrated hymn ; but I advise 
any one who has any such liturgic designs to execute them 
over night, for after a day of climbing one acquires an aptitude for sleep that interferes with early rising. When I left 
last evening its countenance was " filled with rosy light," and 
they tell us, that hours before it is daylight in the valley this 
mountain top breaks into brightness, like that pillar of fire 
which enlightened the darkness of the Israelites. 
I rejoice every hour that I am among these scenes in my 
familiarity with the language of the Bible. In it alone can I 
find vocabulary and images to express what this world of 
 
wonders excites. Mechanically I repeat to myself, " The ever- 
lasting mountains were scattered ; the perpetual hills did bow ; 
his ways are everlasting." But as straws, chips, and seaweed 
play in a thousand fantastic figures on the face of the ocean, 
sometimes even concealing the solemn depths beneath, so the 
prose of daily existence mixes itself up with the solemn 
poetry of life, here as elsewhere. 
You must have a breakfast, and then you cannot rush out 
and up Mont Blanc ad libitum ; you must go up in the regular appointed way, with mule and guides. This matter of 
guides is perfectly systematized here ; for, the mountains being 
the great overpowering fact of life, it follows that all that 
enterprise and talent which in other places develop themselves 
in various forms, here take the single channel of climbing 
mountains. In America, if a man is a genius he strikes out a 
new way of cleaning cotton ; but in Chamouni, if he is a genius he finds a new way of going up Mont Blanc. 
As a sailor knows every timber, rope, and spar of his ship, 
and seems to identify his existence with her, so these guides 
their mountains. The mountains are their calendar, their 
book, their newspaper, their cabinet, herbarium, barometer, 
