feelings. Twice, already, has her husband been seized with the
drunkard's madness; and, in the nervous prostration consequent upon
even a brief withdrawal of his usual strong stimulants, she sees the
fearful precursor of another attack of this dreadful and dangerous
malady. In the hope of supplying the needed tone she has given him
strong coffee; and this for the time, produces the effect desired. The
restlessness is allayed, and a quiet state of body and mind succeeds.
It needs but a suggestion to induce him to retire for the night. After
being a few minutes in bed, sleep steals over him, and his heavy
breathing tells that he is in the world of dreams.

And now there comes a tap at the door.

"Come in," is answered.

The latch is lifted, the door swings open, and a woman enters.

"Mrs. Slade!" The name is uttered in a tone of surprise.

"Fanny, how are you this evening?" Kindly, yet half sadly, the words
are said.

"Tolerable, I thank you."

The hands of the two women are clasped, and for a few moments they gaze
into each other's face. What a world of tender commiseration is in that
of Mrs. Slade!

"How is little Mary to-night?"

"Not so well, I'm afraid. She has a good deal of fever."

"Indeed! Oh, I'm sorry! Poor child! what a dreadful thing it was! Oh!
Fanny! you don't know how it has troubled me. I've been intending to
come around all day to see how she was, but couldn't get off until now."

"It came near killing her," said Mrs. Morgan.

"It's in God's mercy she escaped. The thought of it curdles the very
blood in my veins. Poor child! is this her on the settee?"

"Yes."

Mrs. Slade takes a chair, and sitting by the sleeping child, gazes long
upon her pale sweet face. Now the lips of Mary part--words are
murmured--what is she saying?

"No, no, mother; I can't go to bed yet. Father isn't home. And it's so
dark. There's no one to lead him over the bridge. I'm not afraid.
Don't--don't cry so, mother--I'm not afraid! Nothing will hurt me."

The child's face flushes. She moans, and throws her arms about
uneasily. Hark again.

"I wish Mr. Slade wouldn't look so cross at me. He never did when I
went to the mill. He doesn't take me on his knee now, and stroke my
hair. Oh, dear! I wish father wouldn't go there any more. Don't, don't,
Mr. Slade. Oh! oh!"--the ejaculation prolonged into a frightened cry,
"My head! my head!"

A few choking sobs are followed by low moans; and then the child
breathes easily again. But the flush does not leave her cheek; and when
Mrs. Slade, from whose eyes the tears come forth drop by drop, and roll
down her face, touches it lightly, she finds it hot with fever.

"Has the doctor seen her to-day, Fanny?"

"No, ma'am."

"He should see her at once. I will go for him"; and Mrs. Slade starts
up and goes quickly from the room. In a little while she returns with
Doctor Green, who sits down and looks at the child for some moments
with a sober, thoughtful face. Then he lays his fingers on her pulse
and times its beat by his watch--shakes his head, and looks graver
still.

"How long has she had fever?" he asks.

"All day."

"You should have sent for me earlier."

"Oh, doctor! She is not dangerous, I hope?" Mrs. Morgan looks
frightened.

"She's a sick child, madam."

"You've promised, father."--The dreamer is speaking again.--"I'm not
well enough yet. Oh, don't go, father; don't! There! He's gone! Well,
well! I'll try and walk there--I can sit down and rest by the way. Oh,
dear! How tired I am! Father! Father!"

The child starts up and looks about her wildly.

"Oh, mother, is it you?" And she sinks back upon her pillow, looking
now inquiringly from face to face.

"Father--where is father?" she asks.

"Asleep, dear."

"Oh! Is he? I'm glad."

Her eyes close wearily.

"Do you feel any pain, Mary?" inquired the doctor.

"Yes, sir--in my head. It aches and beats so."

The cry of "Father" had reached the ears of Morgan, who is sleeping in
the next room, and roused him into consciousness. He knows the doctor's
voice. Why is he here at this late hour? "Do you feel any pain, Mary?"
The question he hears distinctly, and the faintly uttered reply also.
He is sober enough to have all his fears instantly excited. There is
nothing in the world that he loves as he loves that child. And so he
gets up and dresses himself as quickly as possible; the stimulus of
anxiety giving tension to his relaxed nerves.

"Oh, father!" The quick ears of Mary detect his entrance first, and a
pleasant smile welcomes him.

"Is she very sick, doctor?" he asks, in a voice full of anxiety.

"She's a sick child, sir; you should have sent for me earlier." The
doctor speaks rather sternly, and with a purpose to rebuke.

The reply stirs Morgan, and he seems to cower half timidly under the
words, as if they were blows. Mary has already grasped her father's
hand, and holds on to it tightly.

After examining the case a little more closely, the doctor prepares
some medicine, and, promising to call early in the morning, goes away.
Mrs. Slade follows soon after; but, in parting with Mrs. Morgan, leaves
something in her hand, which, to the surprise of the latter, proves to
be a ten-dollar bill. The tears start to her eyes; and she conceals the
money in her bosom--murmuring a fervent "God bless her!"

A simple act of restitution is this on the part of Mrs. Slade, prompted
as well by humanity as a sense of justice. With one hand her husband
has taken the bread from the family of his old friend, and thus with
the other she restores it.

And now Morgan and his wife are alone with their sick child. Higher the
fever rises, and partial delirium seizes upon her over-excited brain.
She talks for a time almost incessantly. All her trouble is about her
father; and she is constantly referring to his promise not to go out in
the evening until she gets well. How tenderly and touchingly she
appeals to him; now looking up into his face in partial recognition;
and now calling anxiously after him, as if he had left her and was
going away.

"You'll not forget your promise, will you, father?" she says, speaking
so calmly, that he thinks her mind has ceased to wander.

"No, dear; I will not forget it," he answers, smoothing her hair gently
with his hand.

"You'll not go out in the evening again, until I get well?"

"No, dear."

"Father!"

"What, love?"

"Stoop down closer; I don't want mother to hear; it will make her feel
so bad."

The father bends his ear close to the lips of Mary. How he starts and
shudders! What has she said?--only these brief words:

"I shall not get well, father; I'm going to die."

The groans, impossible to repress, that issued through the lips of Joe
Morgan, startled the ears of his wife, and she came quickly to the
bedside.

"What is it? What is the matter, Joe?" she inquired, with a look of
anxiety.

