will make you happiest, and it shall be yours."
"You good little Fairies," said Eva, folding them in her arms, for
she was no longer the tiny child she had been in Fairy-Land, "you dear
good little Elves, what can I ask of you, who have done so much
to make me happy, and taught me so many good and gentle lessons,
the memory of which will never pass away?  I can only ask of you the
power to be as pure and gentle as yourselves, as tender and loving
to the weak and sorrowing, as untiring in kindly deeds to all.  Grant
me this gift, and you shall see that little Eva has not forgotten
what you have taught her."
"The power shall be yours," said the Elves, and laid their soft hands
on her head; "we will watch over you in dreams, and when you would have
tidings of us, ask the flowers in your garden, and they will tell you
all you would know.  Farewell.  Remember Fairy-Land and all your
loving friends."
They clung about her tenderly, and little Rose-Leaf placed a flower
crown on her head, whispering softly, "When you would come to us
again, stand by the brook-side and wave this in the air, and we will
gladly take you to our home again.  Farewell, dear Eva.  Think of your
little Rose-Leaf when among the flowers."
Long Eva watched their shining wings, and listened to the music of
their voices as they flew singing home, and when at length the last
little form had vanished among the clouds, she saw that all around her
where the Elves had been, the fairest flowers had sprung up, and the
lonely brook-side was a blooming garden.
Thus she stood among the waving blossoms, with the Fairy garland in
her hair, and happy feelings in her heart, better and wiser for her
visit to Fairy-Land.
"Now, Star-Twinkle, what have you to teach?" asked the Queen.
"Nothing but a little song I heard the hare-bells singing," replied
the Fairy, and, taking her harp, sang, in a low, sweet voice:--
THE FLOWER'S LESSON.
  THERE grew a fragrant rose-tree where the brook flows,
  With two little tender buds, and one full rose;
  When the sun went down to his bed in the west,
  The little buds leaned on the rose-mother's breast,
  While the bright eyed stars their long watch kept,
  And the flowers of the valley in their green cradles slept;
  Then silently in odors they communed with each other,
  The two little buds on the bosom of their mother.
  "O sister," said the little one, as she gazed at the sky,
  "I wish that the Dew Elves, as they wander lightly by,
  Would bring me a star; for they never grow dim,
  And the Father does not need them to burn round him.
  The shining drops of dew the Elves bring each day
  And place in my bosom, so soon pass away;
  But a star would glitter brightly through the long summer hours,
  And I should be fairer than all my sister flowers.
  That were better far than the dew-drops that fall
  On the high and the low, and come alike to all.
  I would be fair and stately, with a bright star to shine
  And give a queenly air to this crimson robe of mine."
  And proudly she cried, "These fire-flies shall be
  My jewels, since the stars can never come to me."
  Just then a tiny dew-drop that hung o'er the dell
  On the breast of the bud like a soft star fell;
  But impatiently she flung it away from her leaf,
  And it fell on her mother like a tear of grief,
  While she folded to her breast, with wilful pride,
  A glittering fire-fly that hung by her side.
  "Heed," said the mother rose, "daughter mine,
  Why shouldst thou seek for beauty not thine?
  The Father hath made thee what thou now art;
  And what he most loveth is a sweet, pure heart.
  Then why dost thou take with such discontent
  The loving gift which he to thee hath sent?
  For the cool fresh dew will render thee far
  More lovely and sweet than the brightest star;
  They were made for Heaven, and can never come to shine
  Like the fire-fly thou hast in that foolish breast of thine.
  O my foolish little bud, do listen to thy mother;
  Care only for true beauty, and seek for no other.
  There will be grief and trouble in that wilful little heart;
  Unfold thy leaves, my daughter, and let the fly depart."
  But the proud little bud would have her own will,
  And folded the fire-fly more closely still;
  Till the struggling insect tore open the vest
  Of purple and green, that covered her breast.
  When the sun came up, she saw with grief
  The blooming of her sister bud leaf by leaf.
  While she, once as fair and bright as the rest,
  Hung her weary head down on her wounded breast.
  Bright grew the sunshine, and the soft summer air
  Was filled with the music of flowers singing there;
  But faint grew the little bud with thirst and pain,
  And longed for the cool dew; but now 't was in vain.
  Then bitterly she wept for her folly and pride,
  As drooping she stood by her fair sister's side.
  Then the rose mother leaned the weary little head
  On her bosom to rest, and tenderly she said:
  "Thou hast learned, my little bud, that, whatever may betide,
  Thou canst win thyself no joy by passion or by pride.
  The loving Father sends the sunshine and the shower,
  That thou mayst become a perfect little flower;--
  The sweet dews to feed thee, the soft wind to cheer,
  And the earth as a pleasant home, while thou art dwelling here.
  Then shouldst thou not be grateful for all this kindly care,
  And strive to keep thyself most innocent and fair?
  Then seek, my little blossom, to win humility;
  Be fair without, be pure within, and thou wilt happy be.
  So when the quiet Autumn of thy fragrant life shall come,
  Thou mayst pass away, to bloom in the Flower Spirits' home."
  Then from the mother's breast, where it still lay hid,
  Into the fading bud the dew-drop gently slid;
  Stronger grew the little form, and happy tears fell,
  As the dew did its silent work, and the bud grew well,
  While the gentle rose leaned, with motherly pride,
  O'er the fair little ones that bloomed at her side.
  Night came again, and the fire-flies flew;
  But the bud let them pass, and drank of the dew;
  While the soft stars shone, from the still summer heaven,
  On the happy little flower that had learned the lesson given.
The music-loving Elves clapped their hands, as Star-Twinkle ceased;
and the Queen placed a flower crown, with a gentle smile, upon the
Fairy's head, saying,--
"The little bud's lesson shall teach us how sad a thing is pride,
and that humility alone can bring true happiness to flower and Fairy.
You shall come next, Zephyr."
And the little Fairy, who lay rocking to and fro upon a fluttering
vine-leaf, thus began her story:--
"As I lay resting in the bosom of a cowslip that bent above the brook,
a little wind, tired of play, told me this tale of
LILY-BELL AND THISTLEDOWN.
ONCE upon a time, two little Fairies went out into the world, to
seek their fortune.  Thistledown was as gay and gallant a little Elf
as ever spread a wing.  His purple mantle, and doublet of green, were
embroidered with the brightest threads, and the plume in his cap
came always from the wing of the gayest butterfly.
But he was not loved in Fairy-Land, for, like the flower whose
name and colors he wore, though fair to look upon, many were the
little thorns of cruelty and selfishness that lay concealed by his
gay mantle.  Many a gentle flower and harmless bird died by his hand,
for he cared for himself alone, and whatever gave him pleasure must
be his, though happy hearts were rendered sad, and peaceful homes
destroyed.
Such was Thistledown; but far different was his little friend,
Lily-Bell.  Kind, compassionate, and loving, wherever her gentle face
was seen, joy and gratitude were found; no suffering flower or insect,
that did not love and bless the kindly Fairy; and thus all Elf-Land
looked upon her as a friend.
Nor did this make her vain and heedless of others; she humbly dwelt
among them, seeking to do all the good she might; and many a houseless
bird and hungry insect that Thistledown had harmed did she feed and
shelter, and in return no evil could befall her, for so many
friends were all about her, seeking to repay her tenderness and love
by their watchful care.
She would not now have left Fairy-Land, but to help and counsel her
wild companion, Thistledown, who, discontented with his quiet home,
WOULD seek his fortune in the great world, and she feared he would
suffer from his own faults for others would not always be as gentle
and forgiving as his kindred.  So the kind little Fairy left her home
and friends to go with him; and thus, side by side, they flew beneath
the bright summer sky.
On and on, over hill and valley, they went, chasing the gay
butterflies, or listening to the bees, as they flew from flower to
flower like busy little housewives, singing as they worked; till
at last they reached a pleasant garden, filled with flowers and green,
old trees.
"See," cried Thistledown, "what a lovely home is here; let us rest
among the cool leaves, and hear the flowers sing, for I am sadly tired
and hungry."
So into the quiet garden they went, and the winds gayly welcomed them,
while the flowers nodded on their stems, offering their bright leaves
for the Elves to rest upon, and fresh, sweet honey to refresh them.
"Now, dear Thistle, do not harm these friendly blossoms," said
Lily-Bell; "see how kindly they spread their leaves, and offer us
their dew.  It would be very wrong in you to repay their care with
cruelty and pain.  You will be tender for my sake, dear Thistle."
Then she went among the flowers, and they bent lovingly before her,
and laid their soft leaves against her little face, that she might see
how glad they were to welcome one so good and gentle, and kindly
offered their dew and honey to the weary little Fairy, who sat among
their fragrant petals and looked smilingly on the happy blossoms, who,
with their soft, low voices, sang her to sleep.
While Lily-Bell lay dreaming among the rose-leaves, Thistledown went
wandering through the garden.  First he robbed the bees of their
honey, and rudely shook the little flowers, that he might get the dew
they had gathered to bathe their buds in.  Then he chased the bright
winged flies, and wounded them with the sharp thorn he carried for a
sword; he broke the spider's shining webs, lamed the birds, and soon
