intently listening. Hastily retreating into the summer-house, she
crouched low upon one of the seats, in order, if possible, to escape
observation. But nearer and nearer came the slow, heavy foot-fall of
a man, and ere she had time to repress, by a strong effort, the
agitation that made itself visible in every feature, Mr. Allison was
in her presence. It was impossible for her to restrain an
exclamation of surprise, or to drive back the crimson from her
flushing face.
"Pardon the intrusion," said the old gentleman, in his usual mild
tone. "If I had known that you were here, I would not have disturbed
your pleasant reveries."
Some moments elapsed, ere Fanny could venture a reply. She feared to
trust her voice, lest more should be betrayed than she wished any
one to know. Seeing how much his presence disturbed her, Mr. Allison
stepped back a pace or two, saying, as he did so, "I was only
passing, my child; and will keep on my way. I regret having startled
you by my sudden appearance."
He was about retiring, when Fanny, who felt that her manner must
strike Mr. Allison as very singular, made a more earnest effort to
regain her self-possession, and said, with a forced smile:
"Don't speak of intrusion; Mr. Allison. Your sudden coming did
startle me. But that is past."
Mr. Allison, who had partly turned away, now advanced toward Fanny,
and, taking her hand, looked down into her face, from which the
crimson flush had not yet retired, with an expression of tender
regard.
"Your father is still absent, I believe?" said he.
"Yes, sir."
"He will be home soon."
"We hope so. His visit to New York was unexpected."
"And you therefore feel his absence the more."
"Oh, yes," replied Fanny, now regaining her usual tone of voice and
easy address; "and it seems impossible for us to be reconciled to
the fact."
"Few men are at home more than your father," remarked Mr. Allison.
"His world, it might be said, is included in the circle of his
beloved ones."
"And I hope it will always be so."
Mr. Allison looked more earnestly into the young maiden's face. He
did not clearly understand the meaning of this sentence, for, in the
low tones that gave it utterance, there seemed to his ear a prophecy
of change. Then he remembered his recent conversation with her
father, and light broke in upon his mind. The absence of Mr.
Markland had, in all probability, following the restless,
dissatisfied state, which all had observed, already awakened the
concern of his family, lest it should prove only the beginning of
longer periods of absence.
"Business called your father to New York," said Mr. Allison.
"Yes; so he wrote home to mother. He went to the city in the
morning, and we expected him back as usual in the evening, but he
sent a note by the coachman, saying that letters just received made
it necessary for him to go on to New York immediately."
"He is about entering into business again, I presume."
"Oh, I hope not!" replied Fanny.
Mr. Allison remained silent for some moments, and then said--
"I thought your visitor, Mr. Lyon, went South several days ago."
"So he did," answered Fanny, in a quickened tone of voice, and with
a manner slightly disturbed.
"Then I was in error," said Mr. Allison, speaking partly to himself.
"I thought I passed him in the road, half an hour ago. The
resemblance was at least a very close one. You are certain he went
South?"
"Oh! yes, sir," replied Fanny, quickly.
Mr. Allison looked intently upon her, until her eyes wavered and
fell to the ground. He continued to observe her for some moments,
and only withdrew his gaze when he saw that she was about to look
up. A faint sigh parted the old man's lips. Ah! if a portion of his
wisdom, experience, and knowledge of character, could only be
imparted to that pure young spirit, just about venturing forth into
a world where mere appearances of truth deceive and fascinate!
"Does Mr. Lyon design returning soon from the South?"
"I heard him say to father that he did not think he would be in this
part of the world again for six or eight months."
And again the eyes of Fanny shunned the earnest gaze of Mr. Allison.
"How far South does he go?"
"I am not able to answer you clearly; but I think I heard father say
that he would visit Central America."
"Ah! He is something of a traveller, then?"
"Yes, sir; he has travelled a great deal."
"He is an Englishman?"
"Yes, sir. His father is an old business friend of my father's."
"So I understood."
There was a pause, in which Mr. Allison seemed to be thinking
intently.
"It is a little singular, certainly," said he, as if speaking only
to himself.
"What is singular?" asked Fanny, looking curiously at her companion.
"Why, that I should have been so mistaken. I doubted not, for a
moment, that the person I saw was Mr. Lyon."
Fanny did not look up. If she had done so, the gaze fixed upon her
would have sent a deeper crimson to her cheek than flushed it a few
moments before.
"Have you any skill in reading character, Fanny?" asked Mr. Allison,
in a changed and rather animated voice, and with a manner that took
away the constraint that had, from the first, oppressed the mind of
the young girl.
"No very great skill, I imagine," was the smiling answer.
"It is a rare, but valuable gift," said the old man. "I was about to
call it an art; but it is more a gift than an art; for, if not
possessed by nature, it is too rarely acquired. Yet, in all pure
minds, there is something that we may call analogous--a perception
of moral qualities in those who approach us. Have you never felt an
instinctive repugnance to a person on first meeting him?"
"Oh, yes."
"And been as strongly attracted in other cases?"
"Often."
"Have you ever compared this impression with your subsequent
knowledge of the person's character?"
Fanny thought for a little while, and then said--
"I am not sure that I have, Mr. Allison."
"You have found yourself mistaken in persons after some acquaintance
with them?"
"Yes; more than once."
"And I doubt not, that if you had observed the impression these
persons made on you when you met them for the first time, you would
have found that impression a true index to their character. Scarcely
noticing these first impressions, which are instinctive perceptions
of moral qualities, we are apt to be deceived by the exterior which
almost every one assumes on a first acquaintance; and then, if we
are not adepts at reading character, we may be a long time in
finding out the real quality. Too often this real character is
manifested, after we have formed intimate relations with the person,
that may not be dissolved while the heart knows a life-throb. Is
that not a serious thought, Fanny?"
"It is, Mr. Allison,--a very serious, and a solemn thought."
"Do you think that you clearly comprehend my meaning?"
"I do not know that I see all you wish me to comprehend," answered
Fanny.
"May I attempt to make it clearer?"
"I always listen to you with pleasure and profit, Mr. Allison," said
Fanny.
"Did you ever think that your soul had senses as well as your body?"
inquired the old man.
"You ask me a strange question. How can a mere spirit--an airy
something, so to speak--have senses?"
"Do you never use the words--'I see it clearly'--meaning that you
see some form of truth presented to your mind. As, for instance,--if
I say, 'To be good is to be happy,' you will answer, 'Oh, yes; I see
that clearly.' Your soul, then, has, at least, the sense of sight.
And that it has the sense of taste also, will, I think, be clear to
you, when you remember bow much you enjoy the reading of a good
book, wherein is food for the mind. Healthy food is sometimes
presented in so unpalatable a shape, that the taste rejects it; and
so it is with truth, which is the mind's food. I instance this, to
make it clearer to you. So you see that the soul has at least two
senses--sight and taste. That it has feeling needs scarcely an
illustration. The mind is hurt quite as easily as the body, and, the
path of an injury is usually more permanent. The child who has been
punished unjustly feels the injury inflicted on his spirit, days,
months, and, it may be, years, after the body has lost the smarting
consciousness of stripes. And you know that sharp words pierce the
mind with acutest pain. We may speak daggers, as well as use them.
Is this at all clear to you, Miss Markland?"
"Oh, very clear! How strange that I should never have thought of
this myself! Yes--I see, hear, taste, and feel with my mind, as well
as with my body."
"Think a little more deeply," said the old man. "If the mind have
senses, must it not have a body?"
"A body! You are going too deep for me, Mr. Allison. We say mind and
body, to indicate that one is immaterial, and the other
substantial."
"May there not be such a thing as a spiritual as well as a material
substance?"
"To say spiritual substance, sounds, in my ears, like a
contradiction in terms," said Fanny.
"There must be a substance before there can be a permanent
impression. The mind receives and retains the most lasting
impressions; therefore, it must be an organized substance--but
spiritual, not material. You will see this clearer, if you think of
the endurance of habit. 'As the twig is bent, the tree's inclined,'
is a trite saying that aptly illustrates the subject about which we
are now conversing. If the mind were not a substance and a form, how
could it receive and retain impressions?"
"True."
"And to advance a step further--if the mind have form, what is that
form?"
"The human form, if any," was the answer.
"Yes. And of this truth the minds of all men have a vague
perception. A cruel man is called a human monster. In thus speaking,
no one thinks of the mere physical body, but of the inward man.
