quietness, contrasted strangely with the busy, hurrying scene within.
"Miss Elmore," said Elliot, abruptly, "may I ask you, sincerely, had you
any design in a remark you made to me in the early part of the evening?"
Florence paused, and though habitually the most practised and
self-possessed of women, the color actually receded from her cheek, as
she answered,--
"Yes, Mr. Elliot; I must confess that I had."
"And is it possible, then, that you have heard any thing?"
"I have heard, Mr. Elliot, that which makes me tremble for you, and for
those whose life, I know, is bound up in you; and, tell me, were it well
or friendly in me to know that such things were said, that such danger
existed, and not to warn you of it?"
Elliot stood for a few moments in silence.
"Have I offended? Have I taken too great a liberty?" said Florence,
gently.
Hitherto Elliot had only seen in Florence the self-possessed, assured,
light-hearted woman of fashion; but there was a reality and depth of
feeling in the few words she had spoken to him, in this interview, that
opened to him entirely a new view in her character.
"No, Miss Elmore," replied he, earnestly, after some pause; "I may be
pained, offended I cannot be. To tell the truth, I have been
thoughtless, excited, dazzled; my spirits, naturally buoyant, have
carried me, often, too far; and lately I have painfully suspected my own
powers of resistance. I have really felt that I needed help, but have
been too proud to confess, even to myself, that I needed it. You, Miss
Elmore, have done what, perhaps, no one else could have done. I am
overwhelmed with gratitude, and I shall bless you for it to the latest
day of my life. I am ready to pledge myself to any thing you may ask on
this subject."
"Then," said Florence, "do not shrink from doing what is safe, and
necessary, and right for you to do, because you have once said you would
not do it. You understand me."
"Precisely," replied Elliot: "and you shall be obeyed."
It was not more than a week before the news was circulated that even
George Elliot had signed the pledge of temperance. There was much
wondering at this sudden turn among those who had known his utter
repugnance to any measure of the kind, and the extent to which he had
yielded to temptation; but few knew how fine and delicate had been the
touch to which his pride had yielded.
ART AND NATURE.
"Now, girls," said Mrs. Ellis Grey to her daughters, "here is a letter
from George Somers, and he is to be down here next week; so I give you
fair warning."
"Warning?" said Fanny Grey, looking up from her embroidery; "what do you
mean by that, mamma?"
"Now that's just you, Fanny," said the elder sister, laughing. "You dear
little simplicity, you can never understand any thing unless it is
stated as definitely as the multiplication table."
"But we need no warning in the case of Cousin George, I'm sure," said
Fanny.
"Cousin George, to be sure! Do you hear the little innocent?" said
Isabella, the second sister. "I suppose, Fanny, you never heard that he
had been visiting all the courts of Europe, seeing all the fine women,
stone, picture, and real, that are to be found. Such an amateur and
connoisseur!"
"Besides having received a fortune of a million or so," said Emma. "I
dare say now, Fanny, you thought he was coming home to make dandelion
chains, and play with button balls, as he used to do when he was a
little boy."
"Fanny will never take the world as it is," said Mrs. Grey. "I do
believe she will be a child as long as she lives." Mrs. Grey said this
as if she were sighing over some radical defect in the mind of her
daughter, and the delicate cheek of Fanny showed a tint somewhat deeper
as she spoke, and she went on with her embroidery in silence.
Mrs. Grey had been left, by the death of her husband, sole guardian of
the three girls whose names have appeared on the page. She was an
active, busy, ambitious woman, one of the sort for whom nothing is ever
finished enough, or perfect enough, without a few touches, and dashes,
and emendations; and, as such people always make a mighty affair of
education, Mrs. Grey had made it a life's enterprise to order, adjust,
and settle the character of her daughters; and when we use the word
character, as Mrs. Grey understood it, we mean it to include both
face, figure, dress, accomplishments, as well as those more unessential
items, mind and heart.
Mrs. Grey had determined that her daughters should be something
altogether out of the common way; and accordingly she had conducted the
training of the two eldest with such zeal and effect, that every trace
of an original character was thoroughly educated out of them. All their
opinions, feelings, words, and actions, instead of gushing naturally
from their hearts, were, according to the most approved authority,
diligently compared and revised. Emma, the eldest, was an imposing,
showy girl, of some considerable talent, and she had been assiduously
trained to make a sensation as a woman of ability and intellect. Her
mind had been filled with information on all sorts of subjects, much
faster than she had power to digest or employ it; and the standard which
her ambitious mother had set for her being rather above the range of her
abilities, there was a constant sensation of effort in her keeping up to
it. In hearing her talk you were constantly reminded, "I am a woman of
intellect--I am entirely above the ordinary level of woman;" and on all
subjects she was so anxiously and laboriously, well and
circumstantially, informed, that it was enough to make one's head ache
to hear her talk.
Isabella, the second daughter, was, par excellence, a beauty--a tall,
sparkling, Cleopatra-looking girl, whose rich color, dazzling eyes, and
superb figure might have bid defiance to art to furnish an extra charm;
nevertheless, each grace had been as indefatigably drilled and
manoeuvred as the members of an artillery company. Eyes, lips,
eyelashes, all had their lesson; and every motion of her sculptured
limbs, every intonation of her silvery voice, had been studied,
considered, and corrected, till even her fastidious mother could discern
nothing that was wanting. Then were added all the graces of belles
lettres--all the approved rules of being delighted with music,
painting, and poetry--and last of all came the tour of the continent;
travelling being generally considered a sort of pumice stone, for
rubbing down the varnish, and giving the very last touch to character.
During the time that all this was going on, Miss Fanny, whom we now
declare our heroine, had been growing up in the quietude of her mother's
country seat, and growing, as girls are apt to, much faster than her
mother imagined. She was a fair, slender girl, with a purity and
simplicity of appearance, which, if it be not in itself beauty, had all
the best effect of beauty, in interesting and engaging the heart.
She looked not so much beautiful as lovable. Her character was in
precise correspondence with her appearance; its first and chief element
was feeling; and to this add fancy, fervor, taste, enthusiasm almost up
to the point of genius, and just common sense enough to keep them all in
order, and you will have a very good idea of the mind of Fanny Grey.
Delightfully passed the days with Fanny during the absence of her
mother, while, without thought of rule or compass, she sang her own
songs, painted flowers, and sketched landscapes from nature, visited
sociably all over the village, where she was a great favorite, ran about
through the fields, over fences, or in the woods with her little cottage
bonnet, and, above all, built her own little castles in the air without
any body to help pull them down, which we think about the happiest
circumstance in her situation.
But affairs wore a very different aspect when Mrs. Grey with her
daughters returned from Europe, as full of foreign tastes and notions as
people of an artificial character generally do return.
Poor Fanny was deluged with a torrent of new ideas; she heard of styles
of appearance and styles of beauty, styles of manner and styles of
conversation, this, that, and the other air, a general effect and a
particular effect, and of four hundred and fifty ways of producing an
impression--in short, it seemed to her that people ought to be of
wonderful consequence to have so many things to think and to say about
the how and why of every word and action.
Mrs. Grey, who had no manner of doubt of her own ability to make over a
character, undertook the point with Fanny as systematically as one would
undertake to make over an old dress. Poor Fanny, who had an
unconquerable aversion to trying on dresses or settling points in
millinery, went through with most exemplary meekness an entire
transformation as to all externals; but when Mrs. Grey set herself at
work upon her mind, and tastes, and opinions, the matter became somewhat
more serious; for the buoyant feeling and fanciful elements of her
character were as incapable of being arranged according to rule as the
sparkling water drops are of being strung into necklaces and earrings,
or the gay clouds of being made into artificial flowers. Some warm
natural desire or taste of her own was forever interfering with her
mother's régime; some obstinate little "Fannyism" would always put up
its head in defiance of received custom; and, as her mother and sisters
pathetically remarked, do what you would with her, she would always come
out herself after all.
After trying laboriously to conform to the pattern which was daily set
before her, she came at last to the conclusion that some natural
inferiority must forever prevent her aspiring to accomplish any thing in
that way.
"If I can't be what my mother wishes, I'll at least be myself," said she
one day to her sisters, "for if I try to alter I shall neither be myself
nor any body else;" and on the whole her mother and sisters came to the
same conclusion. And in truth they found it a very convenient thing to
have one in the family who was not studying effect or aspiring to be any
thing in particular.
It was very agreeable to Mrs. Grey to have a daughter to sit with her
when she had the sick headache, while the other girls were entertaining
company in the drawing room below. It was very convenient to her sisters
to have some one whose dress took so little time that she had always a
head and a pair of hands at their disposal, in case of any toilet
emergency. Then she was always loving and affectionate, entirely willing
to be outtalked and outshone on every occasion; and that was another
advantage.
As to Isabella and Emma, the sensation that they made in society was
enough to have gratified a dozen ordinary belles. All that they said,
and did, and wore, was instant and unquestionable precedent; and young
gentlemen, all starch and perfume, twirled their laced pocket
handkerchiefs, and declared on their honor that they knew not which was
the most overcoming, the genius and wit of Miss Emma, or the bright eyes
of Miss Isabella; though it was an agreed point that between them both,
not a heart in the gay world remained in its owner's possession--a thing
which might have a serious sound to one who did not know the character
of these articles, often the most trifling item in the inventory of
worldly possessions. And all this while, all that was said of our
heroine was something in this way: "I believe there is another
