selled him to think of her when he felt like going 
astray. 
Bobby declared that he would try to be a good 
boy. He did not speak contemptuously of the an- 
ticipated perils, as many boys would have done, be- 
cause he knew that his mother would not make bug- 
bears out of things which she knew had no real ex- 
istence. 
The next day, Mr. Hardhand came ; and my young 
readers can judge how astonished and chagrined he 
was, when the widow Bright offered him the sixty 
dollars. The Lord was with the widow and the 
fatherless, and the wretch Avas cheated out of his 
revenge. The note was given up, and the mortgage 
cancelled. 
Mr. Hardhand insisted that she should pay the in- 
terest on the sixty dollars for one day, as it was then 
the second day of July ; but when Bobby reckoned it 
up, and found it was less than one cent, even the 
wretched miser seemed ashamed of himself, and 
changed the subject of conversation. 
He did not dare to say any thing saucy to the 
 
widow this time. He had lost his power over her, 
and there stood Bobby, who had convj to look just 
like a young lion to him, coward and knave as 
he was. 
The business was all settled now, and Bobby spent 
the rest of the week in getting ready for his great 
enterprise. He visited all his friends, and went each 
day to talk with Squire Lee and Annie. The little 
maiden promised to buy a great many books of 
him, if he would bring his stock to Riverdale, for 
she was quite as much interested in him as her 
father was. 
Monday morning came, and Bobby was out of bed 
with the first streak of dawn. The excitement of the 
great event which was about to happen had not per- 
mitted him to sleep for the two hours preceding ; yet 
when he got up, he could not help feeling sad. He 
was going to leave the little black house, going to 
leave his mother, going to leave the children, to de- 
part for the great city. 
His mother was up before him. She was even 
nore sad than he was, for she could see plainer than 
 the perils that environed him, and her maternal 
 
heart, in spite of the reasonable confidence she had in 
his integrity and good principles, trembled for his 
safety. 
As he ate his breakfast, his mother repeated the 
warnings and the good lessons she had before im- 
parted. She particularly cautioned him to keep out 
of bad company. If he found that his companions 
would lie and swear, he might depend upon it they 
would steal, and he had better forsake them at once. 
This was excellent advice, and Bobby had occasion at 
a later period to call it to his sorrowing heart. 
" Here is three dollars, Bobby ; it is all the money 
I have. Your fare to Boston will be one dollar, and 
you will have two left to pay the expenses of your 
first trip. It is all I have now," said Mrs. Bright. 
" I will not take the whole of it. You will want it 
yourself. One dollar is enough. When I find Mr. 
Bayard, I shall do very well." 
" Yes, Bobby, take the whole of it." 
" I will take just one dollar, and no more," replied 
Bobby, resolutely, as he handed her the other two 
dollars. 
"Do take it, Bobby." 
" No, mother ; it will only make me lazy and in- 
different." 
Taking a clean shirt, a pair of socks, and a hand- 
kerchief in his bundle, he was ready for a start. 
" Good by, mother," said he, kissing her and taking 
her hand. " I shall try and come home on Saturday, 
so as to be with you on Sunday." 
Then kissing the children, who had not yet got up, 
and to whom he had bidden adieu the night before, 
he left the house. He had seen the flood of tears 
that filled his mother's eyes, as he crossed the thresh- 
old ; and he could not help crying a little himself. 
It is a sad thing to leave one's home, one's mother, 
especially, to go out into the great world ; and we 
need not wonder that Bobby, who had hardly been 
out of Eiverdale before, should weep. But he soon 
restrained the flowing tears. 
" Now or never ! ' said he, and he put his best 
foot forward. 
It was an epoch in his history, and though he was 
too young to realize the importance of the event, he 
seemed to feel that what he did now was to give 
character to his whole future life. 
It was a bright and beautiful morning somehow, 
it is always a bright and beautiful morning when boys 
leave their homes to commence the journey of life; 
it is typical of the season of youth and hope, and it is 
meet that the sky should be clear, and the sun shine 
brightly, when the little pilgrim sets out upon his 
tour. He will see clouds and storms before he has 
gone far let him have a fair start. 
He had to walk five miles to the nearest railroad 
station. His road lay by the house of his friend, 
Squire Lee ; and as he was approaching it, he met 
Annie. She said she had come out to take her morn- 
ing walk ; but Bobby knew very well that she did not 
usually walk till an hour later ; which, with the fact 
that she had asked him particularly, the day before, 
what time he was going, made Bobby believe that she 
had come out to say good by, and bid him God 
speed on his journey. At any rate, he was very glad 
to see her. He said a great many pretty things to 
her, and talked so big about what he was going to do, 
that the little maiden could hardly help laughing in 
his face. 
Then at the house he shook hands with the squire, 
and sliook hands again with. Annie, and resumed his 
journey. His heart felt lighter for having met them, 
or at least for having met one of them, if not both ; 
for Annie's eyes were so full of sunshine that they 
seemed to gladden his heart, and make him feel truer 
and stronger. 
After a pleasant walk, for he scarcely heeded the 
distance, so full was he of his big thoughts, he 
reached the railroad station. The cars had not yet 
arrived, and would not for half an hour. 
" Why should I give them a dollar for carrying me 
to Boston, when I can just as well walk ? If I get 
tired, I can sit down and rest me. If I save the dol- 
lar, I shall have to earn only fifty-nine more to pay 
my note. So here goes ; " and he started down the 
track. 
 
CHAPTER VII. 
IN WHICH BOBBY STANDS UP FOR " CERTAIN IN- 
ALIENABLE RIGHTS." 
WHETHER it was wise policy, or " penny wise and 
pound foolish' policy for Bobby to undertake such a 
long walk, is certainly a debatable question ; but as 
my young readers would probably object to an argu-ment, we will follow him to the city, and let every 
one settle the point to suit himself. 
His cheerful heart made the road smooth beneath 
his feet. He had always been accustomed to an active, busy life, and had probably often walked more 
than twenty miles in a day. About ten o'clock, 
though he did not feel much fatigued, he seated himself on a rock by a brook, from which he had just 
taken a drink, to rest himself. He had walked slowly 
so as to husband his strength ; and he felt confident 
that he should be able to accomplish the journey uith- 
out injury to himself. 
After resting for half an hour, he resumed his walk. 
At twelve o'clock he reached a point from which he 
obtained his first view of the city. His heart bounded 
at the sight, and his first impulse was to increase his 
speed so that he should the sooner gratify his curios- 
ity ; but a second thought reminded him that he had 
eaten nothing since breakfast ; so, finding a shady 
tree by the road side, he seated himself on a stone to 
eat the luncheon which his considerate mother had 
placed in his bundle. 
Thus refreshed, he felt like a new man, and con- 
tinued his journey again till he was on the very out- 
skirts of the city, where a sign, " No passing over this 
bridge," interrupted his farther progress. Unlike 
many others, Bobby took this sign literally, and did 
not venture to cross the bridge. Having some doubts 
as to the direct road to the city, he hailed a man in a 
butcher's cart, who not only pointed the way, but 
gave him an invitation to ride with him, which Bobby 
was glad to accept. 
They crossed the Milldam, and the little pilgrim 
forgot the long walk he had taken forgot River- 
dale, his mother, Squire Lee, arid Annie, for the time, 
 
in the absorbing interest of the exciting scene. The 
Common beat Biverdale Common all hollow ; he had 
never seen any thing like it before. But when the 
wagon reached Washington Street, the measure of his 
surprise was filled up. 
" My gracious ! how. thick the houses are ! ' ex- 
claimed he, much to the amusement of the kind-hearted 
