of the soul, will have a bitterness and a gall in it, that will
corrode his whole being. Ah! what is this being? if one could but
understand one's own existence, what a relief it would be; but to
understand nothing--alas!
Life is a weary burden. I feel weighed down with it, and I do not
know what is in the pack that bows me so wearily to the earth. I do
know that in it are agonized feelings, bitter disappointments, and a
desolation of the heart. But there is a something else in it; for,
now and then, come vague, vast perceptions of a dim future; but I
shut my eyes. I cannot look beyond the earth. I could have been
satisfied here with a very little; a little of human love would have
made me so happy. Yes, I would never have dreamed of an unknown
heaven. Heaven! What is heaven? I remember when I was a little
child, lying on my bed in the early morning twilight (ah! that was a
twilight, unlike this, which is sinking into a black night, for that
was ushering in the beautiful golden day), but it was twilight when
I looked through the uncurtained window; and through the
intertwining branches of a noble tree I saw the far, dim, misty
sky--and I wondered, in my childish way, "if heaven is like that;"
and all at once it seemed to me that the dim, distant sky opened,
and my dead mother's face looked out upon me so beautifully, I did
not know her, for she died when I was an unconscious infant, and yet
I did know her. Yes, that beautiful face was my mother's, and my
heart was full of delight. That my mother could see me, and love me,
from the far heavens, was like a revelation to me. And often, on
other mornings, I awakened and looked through the very same branches
of the tree, out into the far sky, and thought to see my mother's
face shining through the window and watching over her lonely,
sleeping child. But my fancy never again conjured up the vision.
Fancy! What is fancy? If one could but understand, could grasp the
phantom and mystery of life! And above all, if one could but
understand what heaven is!
When I was a child, heaven was to me a peopled place, a wonderful
reality; and I remember a dream that I had--what a strange dream it
was! For I went to heaven, and I saw a shining One, sitting on a
throne, and many beautiful ones were standing and seated around the
throne, and my father and mother were there; and they had crowns on
their heads, and held each other by the hand, and looked down upon
me so lovingly. I knew that it was my father, because my mother held
him by the hand, though my father died the day I was born, and I
stood before them in the great light of a Heavenly Presence, as such
a poor little earth-child, but I was happy, inexpressibly happy,
only they did not touch me; but I was not fit to be touched by such
soft, shining hands. And what was yet a greater joy than ever to see
my unknown father and mother on the other side of the throne, I saw
my brother, my dear, gentle, beautiful little brother, who, seven
years older than I, had loved and played with me on the earth. He
was clothed in white garments, and was grown from a child to a
youth, and was so full of a noble and beautiful grace. He smiled
upon me; he did not speak; none spoke. All was so still, and serene,
and bright, and beautiful. Next morning I awoke as if yet in my
dream, so vivid was the whole scene before me. I could have danced
and sung all day, "I have seen my father and mother and brother in
the heavenly courts." But what are dreams?
Yet, it is wonderful to go back to the dreams and thoughts of
childhood; they are so distinct; such living realities. I often
remember a speech I made in those far childish days. I was lying in
bed with a friend in the early gray morning. All at once I started
up and said--"Oh, how I wish I had lived in the days when Jesus
lived upon the earth!"
I was asked why? And I replied, "Because I could have loved Him; I
would have followed as those women followed Him; I would have kissed
the hem of His garment."
A laugh checked the further flow of my talk; but I lay down again,
and then my thoughts wandered off to the mountains of Judea, and I
saw a Divine Man walking over the hills and valleys, and women
following Him. In those days I knew two passages in the Bible, and
that was all that I knew of it, for I never read it. But I learned
at Sunday school, Christ's Sermon on the Mount, and the first five
verses of the first chapter of John. And I remember how confused I
always was over the WORD, for some told me it meant "Logos."
What was "Logos?" I could never fathom it. Now I know what
"Logos" means. And yet the mystery is not fathomed. Well, let that
go. I could never understand the Bible. However, in those days it
was something holy and sacred to me; because the Bible that I owned
belonged to my dear father, and I often kissed it, and loved the
Book dearly, but I could not read it by myself. But I did read
occasionally in the Bible, to an old woman; she lived on the way to
the village school, in a dilapidated, deserted country store; she
occupied the little back room, in which was a fire-place, and I was
permitted to take a flask of milk to her every day, as I passed to
school; and with what a glad heart I always hurried off in the
morning, that I might gather broken brush-wood and dried sticks, for
her to kindle her fire with. Charitable people sent her wood, but it
was wet and hard to kindle, and the poor old woman, with her bent
back, would go out and painfully gather the dried sticks that lay
around her desolate home; but when I came, she would take my book
and dinner-basket into her house, and leave me the delight of
gathering the sticks. Ah! I was happy then--when I knelt on the rude
hearth and blew with my mouth instead of a bellows, the smoking,
smouldering wood into a blaze, and heard the loving words that the
good old woman lavished upon me. She loved me--but not as much as I
loved her. She was my peculiar treasure--something for me to live
for, and think of. I always left my dinner with her, and at noon
returned to eat it with her; though I would feel almost ashamed to
spread out the cold meat and bread before her, she looked so much
like a lady.
But she always asked a blessing; that was what I never did, and it
gave me an awe-stricken feeling, and my meal would have something of
a solemn and tender interest--what with the blessing, and the old
woman's love for me, and mine for her--and we ate it in a solemn and
gloomy room, for there was no table in the little back room, so we
used the counter of the old store; and the empty shelves and the
closed doors and shutters, with only the light from the back-door,
made me often look around shudderingly into the gloom and obscurity
of dark corners--for I abounded in superstitious terrors, and I
pitied the poor, lonely old woman for living in such a home more
than I ever pitied the cold and hunger she endured.
Often when our dinner was over, I read aloud to her in the Bible.
She could read it herself. But perhaps she liked to hear the sound
of a childish voice, and perhaps she thought that she was doing me
good. Did she do me good? heigho!--at all events, she left a
beautiful memory to gild this dark twilight that grows upon my soul.
But the loving, trusting childhood is gone, and why do I dwell upon
it? Why does its sensitive life yet move and stir in my memory? Has
it aught to do with the cold, dark present? The Present! Alas! what
a contrast it is to that childish faith! I almost wish that I could
now believe as I did then. But no. Reason has dissipated the
visions and dreams and superstitions of childhood. It has made
unreal to me that which was most real. In its cold, chilling light,
I have looked into the world of tangible facts and possible
realities.
Ah! this cold, cold light, how much of beauty and love it has
congealed! It has fallen like a mantle of snow over the warm, living
life of the earth; and blooming flowers, that sent up odours on the
soft air, have crumbled to dust, and bright summer waters that
reflected the heavens in their blue depths, and glittered in the
light of stars and moon and sun, have now been congealed into solid,
dull opaque masses, which yield not to the tread of man. Alas! no
bird of beauty dips its wing in these dead waters, and plumes itself
for an aerial flight of love and joy. But the cold contraction
chains down all the freer, beautiful life, into a hopeless, chilling
inanity.
MIDNIGHT.--The gloom has gathered into a darkness that may be felt;
and seeing nothing, I would stretch forth my hands to feel if there
is anything within my mind to stay my soul upon. But, alas! in a
deep sorrow, how little do mental acquisitions avail! All the
beautiful systems and theories that delighted my intelligence, and
filled my thought in my noon of hope and life, have sunk into
darkness. How is this? Sometimes I think that all light comes
through the heart into the mind; and when love is quenched, behold,
there is only darkness; the beauty and life and joy are gone. Ah,
woe is me! Have I nothing left?--no internal resources--no wealth of
knowledge, with which to minister to this poverty of hope and life?
It cannot be that all past efforts, all struggles and self-sacrifices,
to attain this coveted and natural knowledge, were useless, vain
mockeries. I thought I should live by this knowledge; that when the
outer life palled upon me, I could then retire within my own being
to boundless stores of riches and beauty. Well--this time has come,
and what do I find? Truly it is no Aladdin-palace, glittering with
gold and gems. It is more like a cavernous depth, stored with
rubbish, and from its dark deeps comes up an earthy odour, that almost
suffocates my spirit. But this is my all, and I must descend from the
life of the heart to the life of the mind, and scan my unsatisfactory
possessions.
Well, here is a world of childish, school-day lumber. Once it was a
great delight to me to learn that the world was round, and not
square; but I cannot see that a knowledge of that fact affords me
any great satisfaction now, for it has shaped itself to me as an
acute angle. And the earth's surface! how I used to glow with the
excitement of the bare thought of Rome! and Athens! and
Constantinople! and their thrilling histories and wonders of art,
and beauties of nature, seemed to me an indefinite world of
unattainable delight and ecstasy. But now, I have lived in all these
places, and the light and glory have gone. They have fallen within
the freezing light of reason. They are no longer like beautiful
dreams to me. They are squared down into fixed, unalterable facts. I
cannot gild them with any light of fancy; and I cannot extract from
them anything like the delight of my childhood. So I will turn from
these fixed facts and look out for those philosophical theories,
that gave me a later delight, as more interior mental pleasure.
Well, when I first broke through the shackles of the old childish
faith, Percy Bysshe Shelley was my high-priest. Through him I
thought I had come into a beautiful light of nature, vague, shadowy,
and grand, filling vast conceptions of the indefinite. He discarded
the God of the Hebrews, who was fashioned after their own narrow,
revengeful passions; a Being of wrath and war. And a brooding
spirit, an indefinite indwelling life of nature, was a new
revelation to me. I grew mystical and sublime and sentimental, in
this new mental perception. But I wearied of that. I could not walk
