go--it will kill me if you go."
The doctor took her hand; it was very hot; and her brow was terribly
throbbing and burning. He remained with her the greater part of the
day, but the attack of fever on the brain had been so violent that
no attempt for relief was of avail.
She grew worse and about midnight, with the words--
"O, do not go, Mr. Gorton,--do not go and leave me!"--her spirit
took its flight.
And the morning dawned on Ellen in her death-sleep--dawned as
beautiful as that bright one, when the bell rang merrily for her
bridal. Now the dismal death-note's pealed forth the departure of
her spirit to a brighter world. Would not even an angel weep to look
upon one morning, and then upon the other?
The birds, from the cage in the window, poured forth their songs;
but they fell unheeded on the ears they had so often delighted. The
voices of Fred and Georgie, ever as music to the loving heart of the
young mother, would fall thrillingly on her ear no more. She lay
there, still and cold--her dreams over--her hopes all passed by--the
sun of her young life set--and how?
People came in, one after another, to look upon her--and wept that
one so young and good should die. They closed her eyes--they laid
her in her grave-clothes, and folded her pale hands--and there she
lay!
And now we leave that chamber of the too-early dead. Mr. Gorton's
feelings of anger soon subsided. In a few hours he felt oppressed
with a sense of the grief Ellen would experience. His feelings
prompted him to return for her. Several times he put his head out of
the window to order the driver to return, but, his, pride
intervening, he as often desisted. Yet his mind was ill at ease. He,
also, involuntarily, reviewed the period of his wedded life. He
recalled the goodness, and patience, and sweetness, which Ellen had
ever shown him--the warm love she had ever evinced for him: and his
heart seemed to appreciate, for the first time, the value and
character of Ellen. He felt how unjust and unkind he had often been
to her--he wondered he could have been so,--and resolved that,
henceforth, he would show her more tenderness.
As he stopped for the night, at a public-house, his resolution was
to return early in the morning. Yet, his business must be attended
to. It was a case of emergency. He finally resolved to intrust it
with a lawyer acquaintance, who lived a half day's ride distant from
where he then was. Thus he did; and, about noon of the following
day, returned homeward. He was surprised at his own uneasiness and
impatience. He had never so longed to meet Ellen. He fancied his
meeting with her--her joy at his return--her tears for her
disappointment--his happiness in restoring her heart to happiness,
by an increasing tenderness of manner, and by instantly gratifying
her wish of a return home.
All day and night he travelled. It was early morning when he arrived
at his own door. He was surprised at the trembling emotions and
quickened beating of his heart, as he descended the steps of his
carriage, and ascended those to his own door. He passed on to the
room of his wife. The light gleamed through the small opening over
the door, and he thought he heard whispers. Softly he opened the
door. O! what a terrible, heart-rending scene was before him!--The
watchers left the room; and Mr. Gorton stood alone, in speechless
agony, before the being made voiceless by himself.
The sensibility so long slumbering within his worldly, hardened
heart, was aroused to the very keenness of torture. And Ellen,
gentle spirit that she was,--how would she have grieved to have seen
the heart she had loved so overwhelmed with grief, regret, remorse,
despair!
"Ellen! my own Ellen!"
But she could not hear!
"I have killed thee, gentlest and best!"
But the kindness of her heart was not open now!
"I forgive thee," could not fall from those lips so pale!
"I love thee," could never come upon his ear
again--never--"NEVER!" thrilled his soul, every chord of which was
strung to its intensity!
If anything could have added to the grief inconsolable of the man
stricken in his sternness and pride, it was the grief of his two
motherless boys, as they called on their mother's name in vain, and
asked him why she slept so long!
Few knew why Ellen died so suddenly and so young; but, while Mr.
Gorton preserved in his heart her memory and her virtues, he
remembered, and mourned in bitterness and unavailing anguish, that
it was him own thoughtless; but not the less cruel, unkindness, that
laid her in her early grave.
Never came the smile again upon his face; and never, though fond
mammas manoeuvred and insinuated, and fair daughters flattered and
praised, did he wed again; for his heart was buried with his Ellen,
whom he too late loved as he should have loved. His love--"It came
a sunbeam on a blasted flower."
Washington Irving, in his beautiful "Affection for the Dead," says:
"Go to the grave of buried love, and meditate. There settle the
account with thy conscience, for every past benefit unrequited,
every past endearment unregarded. Console thyself, if thou canst,
with this simple, yet futile tribute of regret, and take warning by
this, thine unavailing sorrow for the dead, and henceforward be more
faithful and affectionate in the discharge of thy duties to the
living!"
MAN AND WOMAN.
AN eloquent, true, and beautiful article from the pen of a woman and
a wife (and no woman not a wife, do we believe fully competent to
write on this subject), recently met our eyes in the pages of a
periodical. Its title was "Conjugial Love." The Latin word conjugial
was used by the writer to indicate the true spiritual union of man
and wife in contradistinction to the mere natural union as expressed
in the word conjugal. From this article let us make an extract--
"Man is an angular mathematical form, exactly true, but not
beautiful. Woman seizes this form, and from the crucible of her warm
love she moulds the truth into grace and beauty. For man's
understanding deals in outermost truths. But the Lord has blessed
woman with perceptive faculties above the sphere of man's reason,
and while he looks to the outermost relations of things she at a
glance perceives the inmost. Hence she becomes, as it were, the soul
of his thought; she is the will and he the intellectual principle;
she is governed and guided by him, while he in all things is
modified by her will, and scarce recognises his own crude thought in
her plastic feminine representation of it; hence he thinks
oftentimes that he acts from her wisdom, forgetting that she has no
wisdom except through him.
"Thus woman dwells in the heart of man, as in some fair and stately
palace, and she looks forth into his garden of Eden, his whole
spirit world of thought; she knows every lofty tree, every blooming
flower and odorous plant and herb for the use of man, and every
singing bird that soars heavenward in her beautiful domain, and she
culls the fairest of flowers and weaves bright garlands, and adorns
the brow of her beloved with his own thoughts, while he even thinks
that she is bestowing treasures out of herself upon him. This gives
to woman a sportive grace, a gentle lovingness, an apparent
wilfulness, a delight in the power which she has through man, while
she knows that he is the link that binds her to Heaven, and thus she
is humble and grateful and yielding in the height of her power. How
beautiful is the life of conjugial partners! The woman flows into
the thought of man like influent life; she knows all things that are
in him, hence she can adapt herself to his every variation; she
calms him when excited, elevates him when he is depressed, regulates
him by her heaven-given power, as a good heart regulates the
judgment. The Lord loves the man through the woman, and loves the
woman through the man, and these two distinct and separate confluent
streams, from the fountain of Divine life, rejoice in their blessed
and beautiful union, as like ever does when it meets its like. And
it is only when the two streams unite that they can reflect the
Divine image; they are noisy, turbulent, and turbid; until the
meeting of the waters of life, and then in a calm, serene, deep, and
beautiful blessedness they flow on so softly and smoothly that the
holy heavens and the Divine sun mirror themselves in the clear
waters; and if night, chill and drear, draws its darkening curtain
around them, soon the silver moon of a trusting faith floods them
with a gentle radiance, and bright stars of intelligence gild the
night's darkness, and they patiently await the dawn of an eternal
day, when their joyous waters will again flow in the sunshine of
heaven."
"When the Lord in His Divine Providence brings the two together,
in this life, that were created the one for the other, their union
is wrought out by slow degrees. The false and evil is to be put off
before the Divine life can ultimate itself--an unceasing
regeneration is going on--a purifying from self-love is the daily
life of two partners. The wisdom which the man has from the Lord,
and the love which the woman has from Him, are ever seeking
conjunction. But the false and the evil that clings to every earthly
being is constantly warring against this Heavenly union; in
conjugial partners, hell is opposed to heaven, and it is only by a
steady looking to the Lord, that Heavenly love can be preserved. The
Lord opens the inmost degree of thought and feeling in the two, and
elevates their love to higher planes, and thus increases their joys
and felicities; and when it is a true spiritual love, an entire
union of heart and mind, then the two have entered heaven, and enjoy
its beautiful blessedness even while their material bodies yet dwell
upon this coarse outer world.
"How wonderful is the wisdom of the Lord! How blessed is His love,
in thus creating two that they may become a one! The sympathy, the
gentle affection, the loving tender confidence, that, like magnetic
thrills, makes one conscious of the inmost life of the other, gives
a charm--a fulness of satisfaction--a serene blessedness to
existence, that no isolated being can possibly conceive of, let
external circumstances be what they may.
"Conjugial love is independent of external circumstances; it is
heaven-derived, and receives nothing from the earth. It gives
heavenly joy to all of its surroundings. It is that glorious inner
sunshine of life, that blesses the poor man as boundlessly as the
rich. And how beautiful it is for two to realize that time and
space have nothing to do with their union. In each other they see
eternity; they know from whence their emotions flow, and know that
the fountain is Infinite. The Lord is the beginning and end; to
them, the first and the last. They live in Him, from Him, and
to Him. They love only His Divine image in each other; they seek
to do good to others, as organs of His Divine life. He is the glory
and blessedness of their whole being.
