to lean her head upon her; they could not get near enough just
then. It was only to help each other weep, for neither could
comfort the other nor be comforted, for a time. Yet the
feeling of the two, like as it seemed outwardly, was far
unlike within. In the child it was the spring flood of a
little brook, bringing, to be sure, momentary desolation; in
the mother it was the flow of the great sea, still and mighty.
And when it grew outwardly quiet, the same depth was there.
They got into each other's arms at last, and pressed cheek to
cheek and kissed each other many times; but the first word was
Mrs. Landholm's, saying,
"Come -- we had better go and get tea -- Asahel will be back
directly."
Asahel came back in good spirits, having had his cry on the
road, and they all took tea with what cheerfulness they might.
But after tea Winifred sat in the chimney corner gazing into
the fire, very still and pale and worn-looking; her sober blue
eyes intently fixed on something that was not there. Very
intently, so that it troubled her mother; for Winifred had not
strength of frame to bear strong mind-working. She watched
her.
"What, mamma?" said the little girl with a half start, as a
hand was laid gently and remindingly upon her shoulder.
"I should rather ask you what," said her mother tenderly.
"Rest, daughter, can't you?"
"I wasn't worrying, mamma."
"Wa'n't you?"
"I was thinking of 'They have washed their robes and made them
white in the blood of the Lamb.'"
"Why, dear?"
"I am so glad I can wash mine, mother."
"Yes -- Why, my dear child?"
"There are so many spots on them."
Her mother stooped down beside her and spoke cheerfully.
"What are you thinking of now, Winnie?"
"Only, mamma, I am glad to think of it," she said, nestling
her sunny little head in her mother's neck. "I wanted
yesterday that Will and Governor should have better clothes."
"Well, Winnie, I wanted it too -- I would have given them
better if I had had them."
"But mamma, ought I to have wished that?"
"Why yes, dear Winnie; it is a pleasant thing to have
comfortable clothes, and it is right to wish for them,
provided we can be patient when we don't get them. But still I
think dear Governor and Will will be pretty comfortable this
winter. We will try to make them so."
"Yes mamma, --but I wanted them to be smart."
"It is right to be smart, Winnie, if we aren't too smart."
"I wish I could be always just right, mamma."
"The rightest thing will be for you to go to sleep," said her
mother, kissing her eyes and cheeks. "I'll be through my work
directly and then you shall sit in my lap and rest -- I don't
want to sew to-night. Winnie, the good Shepherd will gather my
little lamb with his arm and carry her in his bosom, if she
minds his voice; and then he will bring her by and by where
she shall walk with him in white, and there will be no spots
on the white any more."
"I know. Make haste, mother, and let us sit down together and
talk."
So they did, with Asahel at their feet; but they didn't talk
much. They kept each other silent and soft companionship, till
Winifred's breathing told that she had lost her troubles in
sleep on her mother's bosom.
"Poor little soul! she takes it hard," said Karen. "She's
'most as old as her mother now."
"You must get her to play with you, Asahel, as much as you
can," Mrs. Landholm said in a whisper.
"Why mamma? aint she well?"
"I don't know -- I'm afraid she wont keep so."
"She's too good to be well," said Karen.
Which was something like true. Not in the vulgar prejudice, as
Karen understood it. It was not Winifred's goodness which
threatened her well-being; but the very delicate spirits which
answered too promptly and strongly every touch; too strong in
their acting for a bodily frame in like manner delicate.
CHAPTER XIII.
Mess. -- He hath indeed, better bettered expectation, than you
must expect me to tell you how.
Leon. -- He hath an uncle here in Messina will be very much
glad of it.
MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING.
Mr. Landholm came back in excellent spirits from Shagarack.
The boys were well entered, Will Junior and Winthrop
Sophomore, and with very good credit to themselves. This had
been their hope and intention, with the view of escaping the
cost of one and two years of a college life. President Tuttle
had received them very kindly, and everything was promising;
the boys in good heart, and their father a proud man.
"Aint it queer, now," he said that evening of his return, as
he sat warming his hands before the blaze, "aint it queer that
those two fellows should go in like that -- one Junior and
t'other Sophomore, and when they've had no chance at all
beforehand, you may say. Will has been a little better, to be
sure; but how on earth Winthrop ever prepared himself I can't
imagine. Why the fellow read off Greek there, and I didn't
know he had ever seen a word of it."
"He used to learn up in his room o' nights, father," said
Asahel.
"He used to carry his books to the field and study while the
oxen were resting," said Winifred.
"He did! -- Well, he'll get along. I aint afeard of him. He
won't be the last man in the College, I guess."
"I guess not, father," said Asahel.
And now the months sped along with slow step, bringing toil-
work for every day. It was cheerfully taken, and patiently
wrought through; both at Shagarack and in the little valley at
home; but those were doing for themselves, and these were
truly doing love's work, for them. All was for them. The crops
were grown and the sheep sheared, that Rufus and Winthrop
might, not eat and be clothed, -- that was a trifle, -- but have
the full good of a College education. The burden and the joy
of the toilers was the same. There were delightful
speculations round the fireside about the professions the
young men would choose; what profound lawyers, what brilliant
ministers, should come forth from the learned groves of
Shagarack; perhaps, the father hinted, -- statesmen. There were
letters from both the boys, to be read and re-read, and loved
and prided in, as once those of Rufus. And clothes came home
to mend, and new and nice knitted socks went now and then to
replace the worn ones; but that commerce was not frequent nor
large; where there was so little to make, it was of necessity
that there should not be too much to mend; and alas! if shirt-
bosoms gave out, the boys buttoned their coats over them and
studied the harder. There were wants they did not tell; those
that were guessed at, they knew, cost many a strain at home;
and were not all met then. But they had not gone to Shagarack
to be' smart,' -- except mentally. That they were.
They were favourites, notwithstanding. Their superiors
delighted in their intellectual prominence; their fellows
forgave it. Quietly and irresistibly they had won to the head
of their respective portions of the establishment, and stayed
there; but the brilliancy and fire of Rufus and the manliness
and temper of his brother gained them the general good-will,
and general consent to the place from which it was impossible
to dislodge them. Admiration first followed elder brother, and
liking the younger; till it was found that Winthrop was as
unconquerable as he was unassuming; as sure to be ready as to
be right; and a very thorough and large respect presently fell
into the train of his deservings. The faculty confided in him;
his mates looked up to him. There was happily no danger of any
affront to Winthrop which might have called Rufus's fire
disagreeably into play. And for himself, he was too
universally popular. If he was always in the foreground,
everybody knew it was because he could not be anywhere else.
If Winthrop was often brought into the foreground, on great
occasions, every soul of them knew it was because no other
would have dignified it so well. And besides, neither Winthrop
nor Rufus forgot or seemed to forget the grand business for
which he was there. With all their diversity of manner and
disposition, each was intent on the same thing, -- to do what
he had come there to do. Lasting eminence, not momentary pre-
eminence, was what they sought; and that was an ambition which
most of their compeers had no care to dispute with them.
"Poor fellows!" said a gay young money-purser; "they are
working hard, I suppose, to get themselves a place in the eye
of the world."
"Yes sir," said the President, who overheard this speech; --
"and they will by and by be where you can't see them."
They came home for a few weeks in the summer, to the
unspeakable rejoicing of the whole family; but it was a break
of light in a cloudy day; the clouds closed again. Only now
and then a stray sunbeam of a letter found its way through.
One year had gone since the boys went to College, and it was
late in the fall again. Mr. Underhill, who had been on a
journey back into the country, came over one morning to Mr.
Landholm's.
"Good morning!" said the farmer. "Well, you've got back from
your journey into the interior."
"Yes," said Mr. Underhill, -- "I've got back."
"How did you find things looking, out there?"
"Middling; -- their winter crops are higher up than yours and
mine be."
"Ay. I suppose they've a little the start of us with the sun.
Did you come through Shagarack?"
"Yes -- I stopped there a night."
"Did you see my boys?"
"Yes -- I see 'em."
"Well -- what did they say?" said the father, with his eye
alive.
"Well -- not much," said Mr. Underhill.
