
" His little girl has just been here after him." 

 Very likely he hasn't been noiae for a week," 
idded Abner. " I should think his family would be 
very thankful if they never saw him again He ii 
t nuisance ;o himself and every body else." 

 Where does he live ? " 



 

" Just up in Avery Street — in a ten-footer there." 

" The little girl said her mother was very sick." 

" I dare say. She is always sick ; and I don't 
much wonder. Joe Flint is enough to make any one 
sick. He has been drunk about two thirds of the 
time for two months." 

" I don't see how his family get along." 

" Nor I, either." 

After Abner had warmed himself, he left the room. 
Harry was haunted by the sad look and the despond- 
ing tones of the poor lame girl. It was a bitter cold 
evening ; and what if Joe's family were suffering 
with the cold and hunger ! It was sad to think of 
such a thing ; and Harry was deeply moved. 

" She hoped I would be a good boy. She is very 
Kick now, and perhaps she will die," said Harry to 
himself. " What would she do, if she were here 
now r " 

He knew very well what she would do, and he de- 
tei mined to do it himself. His heart was so deeply 
(sieved by the picture of sorrow and suffering with 
which his imagination had invested the home of the 
intemperate ostler, that it required no argument to 
nduce him to go. 




But he must go prepared to do something. How 
iver sweet and consoling may be the sympathy of 
others to those in distress, it will not warm tha 
chilled limbs or feed the hungry mouths ; and Harry 
thanked God then that he had not spent his money 
foolishly upon gewgaws and gimcracks, or in gratify- 
ing a selfish appetite. 

After assuring himself that no one was approach- 
ing, he jumped on his bedstead, and reaching p into 
a hole in the board ceiling of the room, he took out 
a large wooden pill box, which was nearly filled with 
various silver coins, from a five-cent piece to a half 
dollar. Putting the box into his pocket, he went 
down to the stable, and inquired more particularly 
in relation to Joe's house. 

When he had received such directions as would 
enable him to find the place, he told Abner he wanted 
to be absent a little while, and left the stable. He 
had no difficulty in finding the home of the drunk- 
ard's family. It was a little, old wooden house, ill 
Avery Street, opposite Haymarket Place, which baa 
long since been pulled down, to make room for I 
more elegant dwelling. 




Harry knocked, and was admitted by the little 

.ame girl whom he had seen at the stable. 

" I have come to see if I can do any thing fos 
you," said Harry, as he moved forward into the room 
in which the family lived. 

" Have you seen any thing of father ? " asked the 
little girl. 

" I haven't ; Abner says he hasn't been to the sta- 
ble to-day. Haven't you any lights ? " asked Harry, 
as he entered the dark room. 

" We haven't got any oil, nor any candles." 

In the fireplace, a piece of pine board was blazing, 
which cast a faint and fitful glare into the room ; 
and Harry was thus enabled to behold the scene 
which the miserable home of the drunkard pre- 
sented. 

In one corner was a dilapidated bedstead, on which 
lay the sick woman. Drawn from under it was a 
trundle bed, upon which lay two small children, who 
had evidently been put to bed at that ea-ly hour to 
keep them warm, for the temperature of the apartment 
was scarcely more comfortable than that of the open 
Air. It was a cheeiless home: and the faint light 

a( the blazing board served only to increase thi 
deeolale app^-o-ice of the place. 

" Who is it ? " asked the sick woman, faintly. 

" The boy that works at the stable," replied the 
lame girl. 

" My name is Harry West, marm ; and I come tr» 
«ee if you wanted any thing," added Harry. 

" We want a great many things," sighed she. 
s Can you tell me where my husband is ? " 

" I can't ; he hasn't been at the stable to-day." 

" O God ! what will become of us ? " sobbed the 
woman. 

" I will help you, marm. Don't take on so. I 
have money ; and I will do every thing I can for 
you." 

When her mother sobbed, the lame girl sat down 
on the bed, and cried bitterly. Harry's tender heart 
was melted ; and he would have wept also, if he had 
not been conscious of the high mission he had to 
perform ; and he felt very grateful that he was able 
to dry up those tears, and carry gladness (o those 
Meeding hearts. 

" I don't kna-' what you can do for us," said the 




poor woman, " though I am sure I am very much 
obliged to you." 

" I can do a great deal, marm. Cheer up," replied 
Harry, tenderly. 

As he spoke, one of the children in the trundle 
bed sobbed in its sleep ; and the poor mother's heart 
aeemed to be lacerated by the sound. 

" Poor child ! " wailed she. " He had no supper 
but a crust of bread and a cup of cold water. He 
cried himself to sleep with cold and hunger. O 
Heaven ! that we should have come to this ! " 

" And the room is very cold," added Harry, glan- 
cing around him. 

" It is. Our wood is all gone but two great logs. 
Katy could not bring them up." 

" I worked for an hour trying to split some pieces 
off them," said Katy, the lame girl. 

" I will fix them, marm," replied Harry, who felt 
the strength of ten stout men in his limbs at thai 
noment. " But you have had no supper." 

" No." 

" Wait a minute. Have you a basket ? " 

Katy brought him a peck basket, and Harry rushed 


