‘I know that,’ said Candace; ‘but as nigh as I could judge in my
dream,’ she added, sinking her voice and looking mysterious, ‘as nigh
as I can judge, that boy’s soul was in his body!’
‘Why, how do you know?’ said Miss Prissy, looking astonished at the
confidence with which Candace expressed her opinion.
‘Well, ye see,’ said Candace, rather mysteriously, ‘the Doctor he don’t
like to have us talk much about these things, ’cause he thinks it’s
kind o’ heathenish. But then, folks as is used to seein’ such things,
knows the look of a sperit out of the body, from the look of a sperit
in the body, just as easy as you can tell Mary from the Doctor.’
At this moment Mrs. Scudder opened the pantry-door and put an end
to this mysterious conversation, which had already so affected Miss
Prissy that, in the eagerness of her interest, she had rubbed up her
cap border and ribbon into rather an elfin and goblin style, as if
they had been ruffled up by a breeze from the land of spirits; and she
flew around for a few moments in a state of great nervous agitation,
upsetting dishes, knocking down plates, and huddling up contrary
suggestions as to what ought to be done first, in such impossible
relations, that Mrs. Katy Scudder stood in dignified surprise at this
strange freak of conduct in the wise woman of the parish.
A dim consciousness of something not quite canny in herself appeared
to strike her, for she made a vigorous effort to appear composed; and
facing Mrs. Scudder, with an air of dignified suavity, inquired if it
would not be best to put Jim Marvyn in the oven now, while Candace was
getting the pies ready, meaning of course a large turkey which was to
be the first in an indefinite series to be baked that morning; and
discovering, by Mrs. Scudder’s dazed expression and a vigorous pinch
from Candace, that somehow she had not improved matters, she rubbed
her spectacles in a diagonal manner across her eyes and stood glaring
through them, with a helpless expression, which in a less judicious
person might have suggested the idea of a state of slight intoxication.
But the exigencies of an immediate temporal dispensation put an end to
Miss Prissy’s unwonted vagaries, and she was soon to be seen flying
round like a meteor, dusting, shaking curtains, counting napkins,
wiping and sorting china, all with such rapidity as to give rise to the
idea that she actually existed in forty places at once.
Candace, whom the limits of her corporeal frame restricted to an
altogether different style of locomotion, often rolled the whites of
her eyes after her, and gave vent to her views of her proceedings in
sententious expressions.
‘Do you know why dat ar never was married?’ she said to Mary, as
she stood looking after her. Miss Prissy had made one of those rapid
transits through the apartment.
‘No,’ answered Mary, innocently; ‘why was not she?’
‘Because never was a man could run fast enough to catch her,’ said
Candace; and then her portly person shook with the impulse of her own
wit.
By two o’clock a goodly company began to assemble. Mrs. Deacon Twitchel
arrived, soft, pillowy, and plaintive as ever, accompanied by Cerinthy
Ann, a comely damsel, tall and trim, with a bright black eye and a most
vigorous and determined style of movement.
Good Mrs. Jones, broad, expansive, and solid, having vegetated
tranquilly on in the cabbage garden of the virtues since three years
ago when she graced our tea-party, was now as well preserved as ever,
and brought some fresh butter, a tin pail of cream, and a loaf of cake
made on a new Philadelphia receipt. The tall, spare, angular figure of
Mrs. Simeon Brown only was wanting; but she patronized Mrs. Scudder
no more, and tossed her head with a becoming pride when her name was
mentioned.
The quilt-pattern was gloriously drawn in oak-leaves, done in indigo;
and soon all the company, young and old, were passing busy fingers over
it; and conversation went on briskly.
Madame de Frontignac, we must not forget to say, had entered with
hearty abandon into the spirit of the day. She had dressed the tall
china vases on the mantelpieces; and, departing from the usual rule
of an equal mixture of roses and asparagus bushes, had constructed
two quaint and graceful bouquets, where garden flowers were mingled
with drooping grasses and trailing wild vines, forming a graceful
combination, which excited the surprise of all who saw it.
‘It’s the very first time in my life that I ever saw grass put into a
flower-pot,’ said Miss Prissy; ‘but I must say it looks as handsome
as a pictur’. Mary, I must say,’ she added in an aside, ‘I think that
Madame de Frongenac is the sweetest dressing and appearing creature I
ever saw: she don’t dress up nor put on airs, but she seems to see in
a minute how things ought to go; and if it’s only a bit of grass, or
leaf, or wild vine, that she puts in her hair, why it seems to come
just right. I should like to make her a dress, for I know she would
understand my fit; do speak to her, Mary, in case she should want a
dress fitted here, to let me try it.’
At the quilting, Madame de Frontignac would have her seat, and soon
won the respect of the party by the dexterity with which she used her
needle; though, when it was whispered that she learned to quilt among
the nuns, some of the elderly ladies exhibited a slight uneasiness, as
being rather doubtful whether they might not be encouraging papistical
opinions by allowing her an equal share in the work of getting up their
minister’s bed-quilt; but the younger part of the company were quite
captivated by her foreign air, and the pretty manner in which she
lisped her English; and Cerinthy Ann even went so far as to horrify
her mother, by saying that she wished she’d been educated in a convent
herself,—a declaration which arose less from native depravity, than
from a certain vigorous disposition, which often shows itself in young
people, to shock the current opinions of their elders and betters. Of
course the conversation took a general turn, somewhat in unison with
the spirit of the occasion; and whenever it flagged, some allusion to a
forthcoming wedding, or some sly hint to the future young Madam of the
parish, was sufficient to awake the dormant animation of the company.
Cerinthy Ann contrived to produce an agreeable electric shock, by
declaring that for her part she never could see into it, how any girl
could marry a minister—that she should as soon think of setting up
housekeeping in a meeting-house.
‘O, Cerinthy Ann!’ exclaimed her mother, ‘how can you go on so?’
‘It’s a fact,’ said the adventurous damsel; ‘now other men let you have
some peace, but a minister’s always round under your feet.’
‘So you think the less you see of a husband the better?’ said one of
the ladies.
‘Just my views,’ said Cerinthy, giving a decided snip to her thread
with her scissors; ‘I like the Nantucketers that go off on four years’
voyages, and leave their wives a clear field. If ever I get married I’m
going up to have one of those fellows.’
It is to be remarked, in passing, that Miss Cerinthy Ann was at this
very time receiving surreptitious visits from a consumptive-looking,
conscientious, young theological candidate who came occasionally to
preach in the vicinity, and put up at the house of the Deacon, her
father. This good young man, being violently attacked on the doctrine
of election by Miss Cerinthy, had been drawn on to illustrate it
in a most practical manner, to her comprehension; and it was the
consciousness of the weak and tottering state of the internal garrison,
that added vigour to the young lady’s tones. As Mary had been the
chosen confidant of the progress of this affair, she was quietly amused
at the demonstration.
‘You’d better take care, Cerinthy Ann,’ said her mother; ‘they say that
“those who sing before breakfast, will cry before night.” Girls talk
about getting married,’ she said, relapsing into a gentle didactic
melancholy, ‘without realizing its awful responsibilities.’
‘Oh! as to that,’ said Cerinthy, ‘I’ve been practising on my pudding
now these six years, and I shouldn’t be afraid to throw one up chimney
with any girl.’ This speech was founded on a tradition, current in
those times, ‘that no young lady was fit to be married till she could
construct a boiled Indian-pudding, of such durability, that it could
be thrown up chimney and come down on the ground, outside, without
breaking;’ and the consequence of Cerinthy Ann’s sally was a general
laugh.
‘Girls a’n’t what they used to be in my day,’ sententiously remarked an
elderly lady. ‘I remember my mother told me when she was thirteen she
could knit a long cotton stocking in a day.’
‘I haven’t much faith in these stories of old times; have you, girls?’
said Cerinthy, appealing to the younger members at the frame.
‘At any rate,’ said Mrs. Twitchel, ‘our minister’s wife will be a
pattern; I don’t know anybody as goes beyond her either in spinning or
fine stitching.’
Mary sat as placid and disengaged as the new moon, and listened to the
chatter of old and young, with the easy quietness of a young heart that
has early outlived life, and looks on everything in the world from some
gentle, restful eminence far on towards a better home. She smiled at
everybody’s word, had a quick eye for everybody’s wants, and was ready
with thimble, scissors, or thread, whenever any one needed them; but
once when there was a pause in the conversation, she and Mrs. Marvyn
were both discovered to be stolen away. They were seated on the bed in
Mary’s little room, with their arms around each other, communing in low
and gentle tones. ‘Mary, my dear child,’ said her friend, ‘this event
is very pleasant to me, because it places you permanently near me. I
did not know but eventually this sweet face might lead to my losing
you, who are in some respects the dearest friend I have.’
‘You might be sure,’ said Mary, ‘I never would have married, except
that my mother’s happiness and the happiness of so good a friend seem
to depend on it. When we renounce self in anything, we have reason to
hope God’s blessing; and so I feel assured of a peaceful life in the
course I have taken. You will always be as a mother to me,’ she added,
laying her head on her friend’s shoulder.
‘Yes,’ said Mrs. Marvyn; ‘and I must not let myself think a moment how
dear it might have been to have you more my own. If you feel really,
truly happy, if you can enter on this life without any misgivings—’
‘I can,’ said Mary, firmly.
At this instant, very strangely, the string which confined a wreath
of sea-shells around her glass, having been long undermined by moths,
suddenly broke and fell down, scattering the shells upon the floor.
Both women started, for the string of shells had been placed there by
James; and though neither were superstitious, this was one of those odd
coincidences that make hearts throb.
‘Dear boy,’ said Mary, gathering the shells up tenderly; ‘wherever he
is, I shall never cease to love him; it makes me feel sad to see this
come down; but it is only an accident; nothing of him will ever fail
out of my heart.’
Mrs. Marvyn clasped Mary closer to her, with tears in her eyes.
‘I’ll tell you what, Mary; it must have been the moths did that,’
said Miss Prissy, who had been standing, unobserved, at the door for
a moment back; ‘moths will eat away strings just so. Last week Mrs.
Vernon’s great family picture fell down because the moths eat through
the cord; people ought to use twine or cotton string always. But I
came to tell you that the supper is all set, and the Doctor out of his
