if education is meant to be any thing more than nominal. The finest
lesson on the beauty of truth is enforced by a mother never herself
saying what is false; for children pay great regard to consistency,
and very soon detect any discrepancies between that which is taught
and that which is practised.

The best method of inculcating truth on the minds of children is by
analogy and illustration. They cannot follow an argument, though
they readily understand a comparison: and, by a judicious
arrangement, every thing, either animate or inanimate, might be made
to become a teacher. What lesson on industry would be so likely to
be instructive as that gathered from a bee-hive? The longest
dissertation on the evils of idleness and the advantages of industry
would not prove half so beneficial as directing the observation to
the movements of the bee--that ever-active insect, which, without
the aid of reason, exercises prudence and foresight, and provides
against the wants of winter. A child will readily understand such
instruction as this, and will blush to be found spending precious
hours in idleness. And in the same way with other duties, whether to
God or mankind, the fowls of the air and the flowers of the field
might be made profitable teachers, and the child would, wherever he
went, be surrounded with instruction.

This mode of teaching has this special recommendation--it raises up
no evil passions: and a child which would display an evil temper by
being reproved in words, will feel no such rancor at a lesson being
inculcated in a way like this.

This instruction will also be much longer remembered than one
delivered in words, forasmuch as the object upon which the
instruction is based would be continually presented to the eye.

And, we believe, almost all duties might be inculcated in this
manner. Thus, humility by the lily, patience by the spider,
affection by the dove, love to parents by the stork,--all might be
rendered teachers, and in a way never to be forgotten. And that this
mode of teaching is the best, we have the example of Christ himself,
who almost invariably enforced his instructions by an allusion to
some created thing. What, for instance, was so likely to teach men
dependence upon God as a reference to the 'ravens and the lilies,'
which without the aid of reason had their wants cared for? And in
the same way with children--what is so likely to teach them their
duties, as a reference to the varied things in nature with whose
uses and habits they are well acquainted?

God should be the object upon which the child's thoughts are taught
to dwell--for the minds even of children turn to the beautiful, and
the beautiful is the Divine. All thoughts and actions should be
raised to this standard; and the child would raise above the
feelings of self-gratification and vanity, and the panting for
applause, to the favor and love of God. Thus should religion be the
great and the first thing taught; and a mother should be careful
that neither in her own actions, nor in the motives she holds out to
her children, should there be any thing inimical or contrary to
religion.

And by this course the best and happiest results may be expected to
follow. The perverse and headstrong passions of the human heart are
so many, that numerous instructions may seem to be useless, and a
mother may have often to sigh over her child as she sees him
allowing evil habits to obtain the mastery, or unholy dispositions
to reign in his heart; but, as we have before said, we do not think
that the instruction will be lost, but that a time will come when
she will reap the fruits of her toil, care and anxiety.

Such then is the duty of woman as a mother--to tend and watch over
the wants of her child, to guard it in health, to nurse it in
sickness, to be solicitous for it in all the changes of life, and to
prevent, as much as possible, those many ills to which flesh is heir
from assailing her fondly cherished offspring.

It is also her province to instruct her children in those duties
which will fall to their lot both as reasonable and as immortal
creatures; and by so doing she will make her own life happy--leave
to her children a happy heritage on earth, and a prospect of a
higher one in heaven. But if a mother neglect her duty, she will
reap the fruits of her own negligence in the ingratitude of her
children--an ingratitude which will bring a double pain to her, from
the thought that her own neglect was the cause of its growth, as an
eagle with an arrow in his heart might be supposed to feel an agony
above that of pain on seeing the shaft now draining its life's blood
feathered from its own wing.

Mrs. Child, in her excellent "Mother's Book," a volume that should
be in the hands of every woman who has assumed the responsibilities
of a parent, gives some valuable suggestions on the subject of
governing children. I make a single extract and with it close my
present rambling work. She says:

"Some children, from errors in early management, get possessed with
the idea that they may have every thing. They even tease for things
it would be impossible to give them. A child properly managed will
seldom ask twice for what you have once told him he should not have.
But if you have the care of one who has acquired this habit, the
best way to cure him of it is never to give him what he asks for,
whether his request is proper or not; but at the same time be
careful to give him such things as he likes, (provided they are
proper for him,) when he does not ask for them. This will soon break
him of the habit of teasing.

"I have said much in praise of gentleness. I cannot say too much.
Its effects are beyond calculation, both on the affections and the
understanding. The victims of oppression and abuse are generally
stupid, as well as selfish and hard-hearted. How can we wonder at
it? They are all the time excited to evil passions, and nobody
encourages what is good in them. We might as well expect flowers to
grow amid the cold and storm of winter.

"But gentleness, important as it is, is not all that is required in
education. There should be united with it firmness--great firmness.
Commands should be reasonable, and given in perfect kindness; but
once given, it should be known that they must be obeyed. I heard a
lady once say, 'For my part, I cannot be so very strict with my
children. I love them too much to punish them every time they
disobey me.' I will relate a scene which took place in her family.
She had but one domestic, and at the time to which I allude, she was
very busy preparing for company. Her children knew by experience
that when she was in a hurry she would indulge them in any thing for
the sake of having them out of the way. George began, 'Mother, I
want a piece of mince-pie.' The answer was, 'It is nearly bed-time;
and mince-pie will hurt you. You shall have a piece of cake, if you
will sit down and be still.' The boy ate his cake; and liking the
system of being hired to sit still, he soon began again, 'Mother, I
want a piece of mince-pie.' The old answer was repeated. The child
stood his ground, 'Mother, I want a piece of mince-pie--I want a
piece--I want a piece,' was repeated incessantly. 'Will you leave
off teasing, If I give you a piece?' 'Yes, I will--certain true,' A
small piece was given, and soon devoured. With his mouth half full,
he began again, 'I want another piece--I want another piece.' 'No,
George; I shall not give you another mouthful. Go sit down, you
naughty boy. You always act the worst when I am going to have
company.' George continued his teasing; and at last said, 'If you
don't give me another piece, I'll roar.' This threat not being
attended to, he kept his word. Upon this, the mother seized him by
the shoulder, shook him angrily, saying, 'Hold your tongue, you
naughty boy!' 'I will if you will give me another piece of pie,'
said he. Another small piece was given him, after he had promised
that he certainly would not tease any more. As soon as he had eaten
it, he, of course, began again; and with the additional threat, 'If
you don't give me a piece, I will roar after the company comes, so
loud that they can all hear me.' The end of all this was, that the
boy had a sound whipping, was put to bed, and could not sleep all
night, because the mince-pie made his stomach ache. What an
accumulation of evils in this little scene! His health injured--his
promises broken with impunity--his mother's promises broken--the
knowledge gained that he could always vex her when she was in a
hurry--and that he could gain what he would by teasing. He always
acted upon the same plan afterward; for he only once in a while
(when he made his mother very angry) got a whipping; but he was
always sure to obtain what he asked for, if he teased her long
enough. His mother told him the plain truth, when she said the
mince-pie would hurt him; but he did not know whether it was the
truth, or whether she only said it to put him off; for he knew that
she did sometimes deceive. When she gave him the pie, he had reason
to suppose it was not true it would hurt him--else why should a kind
mother give it to her child? Had she told him that if he asked a
second time, she would put him to bed directly--and had she kept her
promise, in spite of entreaties--she would have saved him a
whipping, and herself a great deal of unnecessary trouble. And who
can calculate all the whippings, and all the trouble, she would have
spared herself and him? I do not remember ever being in her house
half a day without witnessing some scene of contention with the
children.

"Now let me introduce you to another acquaintance. She was in
precisely the same situation, having a comfortable income and one
domestic; but her children were much more numerous, and she had had
very limited advantages for education. Yet she managed her family
better than any woman I ever saw, or ever expect to see again. I
will relate a scene I witnessed there, by way of contrast to the one
I have just described. Myself and several friends once entered her
parlor unexpectedly, just as the family were seated at the
supper-table. A little girl, about four years old, was obliged to be
removed, to make room for us. Her mother assured her she should have
her supper in a little while, if she was a good girl. The child
cried; and the guests insisted that room should be made for her at
table. 'No,' said the mother; 'I have told her she must wait; and if
she cries, I shall be obliged to send her to bed. If she is a good
little girl, she shall have her supper directly.' The child could
not make up her mind to obey; and her mother led her out of the
