"Who told me what, my beauty?"

Faith's eye fell in doubt, then looked up searchingly.

"I believe you know everything; but you don't look displeased. How
did you know, Endecott?"--"I saw and heard. And have seen and heard
since," he added, smiling.

A question or two found out exactly how it had been; and then Faith put
the inquiry, simple to quaintness, "Did I do better to-day?"--"If you
are so anxious for me--" he said, stroking back her hair. "They did not
deserve to have one of my wife's words, but her words were admirable."

It was worth while to see Faith's cheeks.

"Will you trust me to ride with Mr. Middleton to-morrow?" she asked
presently, smiling.

"No. Yes--I will trust you but not him."

"Does that mean that you will trust me to go?"--"Not with him."

"But what shall I do?" said Faith, flushing after a different
fashion--half laughing too--"I told him I would go, or that I thought I
would go."

"Tell him that you think you will not."

Faith looked a little troubled: she foresaw a charge of questions she
did not like to meet.

"Are you afraid of the horse, Endy?" she said, after a pause, a little
timidly. "No, darling."

Faith was pretty just now, as she stood with her eyes cast down: like a
generous tempered horse first feeling the bit; you can see that the
creature will be as docile as possible, yet he is a little shy of your
curb. Anything like control was absolutely new to her; and though her
face was never more sweet, there was with that a touch of embarrassment
which made an inexpressibly pretty mixture. Mr. Linden might well be
amused and touched, and charmed too, all in one.

"Mr. Motley asked me to ride too," she said after a minute, blushing a
little deeper, and speaking as if it were a supplement to her former
words. "He wanted to show me the Belle Spring. I had better give them
both the same answer."

"Has nobody else preferred his request? they are just the two people
with whom I do not want you to ride," said Mr. Linden, smiling. "I
shall have to ask you myself, or claim you. Mrs. Linden, may I have the
honour?"--Faith gave him a very bright answer of a smile, but with a
little secret wish in her heart that the other people had not asked her.

Her denial, however, was perfectly well taken by Mr. Motley; not indeed
without a little bantering talk and raillery upon the excessive care
Mr. Linden bestowed on her. But Mr. Middleton, she saw, was not pleased
that she disappointed him. Within two or three days Faith had become
unmistakeably the centre of attraction to all the gentlemen of the
neighbourhood. To walk with her, to talk to her, to attend upon her,
were not a coveted honour merely, but a coveted pleasure. It was found
wonderfully refreshing to talk to Faith: her eyes were something
pleasant to look at, for more than George Alcott; and the truth of her
enjoyment and gratitude made it a captivating thing to be the means of
exciting them.

Mr. Middleton was one of those men who think very much indeed of the
value of their approbation, and never bestow it but where they are sure
the honour of their taste and judgment is like to be the gainer--one of
those men who in ordinary keep their admiration for themselves, and
bestow in that quarter a very large amount. Faith's refusal to ride
with him touched him very disagreeably. It was impossible to be
offended with her, but perhaps all the more he was offended with
somebody; and it happened unluckily that some reported light words of
Mr. Motley about Mr. Linden's care of his wife, and especial distrust
of the gentlemen who had asked her to ride, reached Mr. Middleton's ear
in a very exaggerated and opprobrious form. Mr. Middleton did not know
Mr. Linden, nor know much of him; his bottled-up wrath resolved that
Mr. Linden should not continue long in his reciprocal ignorance. And so
it fell out, that as this week began with showing Mr. Linden something
of Faith that he had not seen before, it did not end without giving her
a new view of him.

It was a captivating summer morning when the cavalcade set forth from
Rye House, on a picnic to Alderney, one of the show places in the
neighbourhood. It seemed fairyland to Faith. The beautiful country over
which they travelled, in summer's luxuriance of grass and grain; the
river rolling below at a little distance, sometimes hidden only to
burst upon the view again; and towering above all, unchanged beyond the
changing lights and shades of the nearer landscape, the long mountain
range. The air was perfection; the sounds of voice and laughter and
horses' brisk feet helped the exhilaration, and the lively colours and
fashion of caps and habits and feathers made pretty work for the eye.
Faith's ears and eyes were charmed. At a cross road the party was
joined by Mr. Middleton; whose good humour, at present in a
loose-jointed state, was nowise improved at the sight of Faith. She
rode then, at any rate; and she sat well and rode fearlessly, that he
could see; and his eye keen for such things, noted too the neat
appointments of her dress, and saw that they were all right, and fitted
her, and she fitted them; and that her figure altogether was what no
man might dislike to have beside him, even a man so careful of his
appearance as Mr. Middleton. Not near Faith did he come; but having
noted all these things with gathering ire, he sheered off to another
part of the troop.

It was a pretty day to Faith, the whole first part of it. The ride, and
the viewing the grounds they went to see. These were indeed naturally
very noble; and to Faith's eyes every new form of natural beauty, of
which her range had hitherto been so very small, was like a fresh
draught of water to thirsty lips. It was a great draught she had this
morning, and enjoyed almost to the forgetfulness of everything else.
Then came the lunch. And that was picturesque, too, certainly; on such
a bank, under such trees, with such a river and mountains in front; and
Faith enjoyed it and them so far. But it was splendid too, and noisy;
and her thoughts went at one time away very far, to Kildeer river, and
remembered a better meal taken under the trees, with better talk, and
only Bob Tuck to look at them. She stole a glance at Mr. Linden. He was
doing his part, and making somebody very comfortable indeed--Faith half
smiled to see it.

Mr. Middleton at another part of the assembled company, had been
getting his temper up with wine and his ill humour with the various
suggestions and remarks of some careless gossipers at his side. Finding
that he winced under the mention of Mrs. Linden and the ride, they gave
him that subject with as many variations as the Katydid polka,--the
simple "She did"--(or rather "She didn't")--skilfully diversified and
touched up,--which brought Mr. Middleton's heavy piece of displeasure,
already primed, loaded, and at full cock, to the very point where his
temper struck fire. He left the table and drew towards Mr. Linden, who
was talking in the midst of a group of ladies and gentlemen. Middleton
knew which was he that was all.

"You, sir!" he said, like a surly bull-dog, which term describes both
his mental and physical features, "my name's Middleton; I want you to
take back what you've said about me."

Mr. Linden at the moment was in the full tide of German talk with one
of his old fellow students from abroad; his excellent poise and play of
conversation and manner setting off the gesticulations of the
foreigner. With a look of more surprise than anything else he brought
eyes and attention to bear upon Mr. Middleton.

"What, sir?" he said.

"Will you take back what you've said about me?" The dogged wrath of the
man was beyond the use of many words, to which indeed he was never
given.

"I have not said anything, sir, which requires that." And with a bend
of the head, cool and courteous as his words, Mr. Linden dismissed the
subject; and placing himself on the grass with his friend and some
others, fell back into the German. Middleton followed fuming.

"I've come to speak to you!" he said, beginning with an execration,
"and you must get up and answer me. Will you take back what you said?"
Stooping down, he had thrown these words into Mr. Linden's ear in a way
to leave no doubt whom they were meant for.

"I have answered you, sir."

"That is to tell you what I think of it!" said Middleton, dashing in
his face the remains of a glass of wine which he had brought with him
from the board on purpose.

He was on his feet then! with what a spring! as in the fairy tale the
beautiful princess of a sudden became a sword. Just such eyes of fire
Mr. Middleton had never been privileged to see. But Faith saw the hands
drop and grasp each other, she saw the eyes fall, and the colour go and
come and go again, with a rush and swiftness that was startling to see.
Absolutely motionless, the very breath kept down, so he stood. And even
his assailant gazed, in a sort of spell-bound wonder. The twittering
birds overhead, how they carolled; how softly the leaves rustled, and
the river sent up its little waves: and the sunshine and shadow crept
on, measuring off the seconds. The pure peace and beauty of everything,
the hush of human voices, were but the setting of the deep human
struggle. The victory came.

With a face from which at last the colour had taken its permanent
departure, Mr. Linden looked up and spoke; and something made the very
low tones ring in the air.

