heart.
CHAPTER XX.
Almost daily, while the pleasant fall weather lasted, did I meet the
handsome carriage of Mrs. Dewey; but I noticed that she went less
through the town, and oftener out into the country. And I also noticed
that she rode alone more frequently than she had been accustomed to do.
Formerly, one fashionable friend or another, who felt it to be an honor
to sit in the carriage of Mrs. Dewey, was generally to be seen in her
company when she went abroad. Now, the cases were exceptional. I also
noticed a gathering shade of trouble on her face.
The fact was, opinion had commenced setting against her. The unhappy
affair at Saratoga was not allowed to sleep in the public mind of S----.
It was conned over, magnified, distorted, and added to, until it assumed
most discreditable proportions; and ladies who respected themselves
began to question whether it was altogether reputable to be known as her
intimate friends. The less scrupulous felt the force of example as set
by these, and began receding also. In a large city, like New York, the
defection would only have been partial; for there, one can be included
in many fashionable circles, while only a few of them may be penetrated
by a defaming rumor. But in a small town like S----, the case is
different.
I was surprised when I comprehended the meaning of this apparent
isolation of herself by Mrs. Dewey, and saw, in progress, the ban of
social ostracism. While I pitied the victim, I was glad that we had
virtue enough, even among our weak-minded votaries of fashion, to stamp
with disapproval the conduct of which she had been guilty.
“I saw Mrs. Dewey this morning,” said my wife, one day, late in
November. “She was in at Howard’s making some purchases.”
“Did you speak to her?”
“Yes, we passed a few words. How much she has changed!”
“For the worse?”
“Yes. She appears five years older than she did last summer, and has
such a sad, disappointed look, that I could not help pitying her from my
heart.”
“There are few who need your pity more, Constance. I think she must be
wretched almost beyond endurance. So young, and the goblet which held
the shine of her life broken, and all its precious contents spilled in
the thirsty sand at her feet. Every one seems to have receded from her.”
“The common sentiment is against her; and yet, I am of those who never
believed her any thing worse than indiscreet.”
“Her indiscretion was in itself a heinous offence against good morals,”
 said I; “and while she has my compassion, I have no wish to see a
different course of treatment pursued towards her.”
“I haven’t much faith in the soundness of this common sentiment against
her,” replied Constance. “There is in it some self-righteousness, a good
deal of pretended horror at her conduct, but very little real virtuous
indignation. It is my opinion that eight out of ten of her old
fashionable friends would be just as intimate with her as ever, though
they knew all about the affair at Saratoga, if they only were in the
secret. It is in order to stand well with the world that they lift their
hands in pretended holy horror.”
“We cannot expect people to act from any higher principles than they
possess,” said I; “and it is something gained to good morals, when even
those who are corrupt in heart affect to be shocked at departures from
virtue in their friends.”
“Yes, I can see that. Still, when I look beneath the surface, I feel
that, so far as the motives are concerned, a wrong has been done; and
my soul stirs with a feeling of pity towards Mrs. Dewey, and indignation
against her heartless friends. Do you know, dear, that since I met her
this morning, I have had serious thoughts of calling upon her?”
“You!”
Constance gave me one of her placid smiles in answer to my surprised
ejaculation.
“Yes; why not?”
“What will people say?”
“I can tell you what they will not say,” she replied,
“Well?”
“They will not say, as they do of her, that of all men, I care least for
my husband.”
“I am not afraid of their saying that; but--”
I was a little bewildered by this unexpected thought on the part of my
wife, and did not at first see the matter clear.
“She has held herself very high, and quite aloof from many of her old
friends,” Constance resumed. “While this was the case, I have not
cared to intrude upon her; although she has been kind and polite to me
whenever we happened to meet. Now, when the summer friends who courted
her are dropping away like autumn leaves, a true friend may draw near
and help her in the trial through which she is passing.”
“Right, Constance! right!” said I, warmly. “Your clearer eyes have gone
down below, the surface. Oh, yes; call upon her, and be her true friend,
if she will permit you to come near enough. There can be no loss to you;
there may be great gain to her. Was there any thing in her manner that
encouraged you to approach?”
“I think so. It was this, no doubt, that stirred the suggestion in my
mind.”
Constance waited a day or two, pondering the matter, and then made a
call at the Allen House.
“How were you received?” I asked, on meeting her.
“Kindly,” she said.
“But with indifference?”
“No. Mrs. Dewey was surprised, I thought, but evidently pleased.”
“How long did you stay?”
“Only for a short time.”
“What did you talk about?”
“Scarcely any thing beyond the common-place topics that come up on
formal visits. But I penetrated deep enough into her mind to discover
the ‘aching void’ there, which she has been so vainly endeavoring to
fill. I do not think she meant to let me see this abyss of wretchedness;
but her efforts to hide it were in vain. Unhappy one! She has been
seeking to quench an immortal thirst at broken cisterns which can hold
no water.”
“Can you do her any good, Constance?” I asked.
“If we would do good, we must put ourselves in the way,” she replied.
“Nothing is gained by standing afar off.”
“Then you mean to call upon her again?”
“She held my hand at parting, with such an earnest pressure, and looked
at me so kindly when she said, ‘Your visit has been very pleasant,’ that
I saw the way plain before me.”
“You will wait until she returns your call?”
“I cannot say. It will depend upon the way things shape themselves in my
mind. If I can do her good, I shall not stand upon etiquette.”
As I came in sight of my modest little home a few days afterwards, I
saw the stylish carriage of Mrs. Dewey dash away from my door, taking a
direction opposite to that by which I was approaching.
“How are the mighty fallen!” It was hardly a good spirit by whom this
thought was quickened, for I was conscious of something like a feeling
of triumph. With an effort I repressed the ungenerous state of mind.
“So your call has been returned,” said I, on entering our sitting room.
“Yes. How did you know?” Constance looked up, smiling, but curious.
“I saw Mrs. Dewey’s carriage leave our door as I turned into the street.
Did she come in, or only leave her card?”
“She came in, and sat for half an hour.”
“And made herself very agreeable,--was patronizing, and all that?”
“No--nothing of the kind suggested by your words.” And Constance looked
at me reproachfully. “She was, on the contrary, quiet, subdued, and
womanly. I called to see her, with the manner of one who had about her
no consciousness of inferiority; and she returned the call, without a
sign that I could regard as offensive.”
“It is well,” I answered, coming back into my better state. “If true
friends can take the place of false friends, who left her the moment a
shadow fell upon her good name, then the occasion of blame may pave the
way to life instead of ruin. There must be remains of early and better
states covered up and hidden away in her soul, but not lost; and by
means of these she may be saved--yet, I fear, that only through deep
suffering will the overlying accretions of folly be broken away.”
“She is in the hands of one to whom all spirits are precious,” said
Constance, meekly; “and if we can aid in His good work of restoration
and salvation, our reward shall be great.”
After the lapse of a week, Constance called again upon Mrs. Dewey. She
found her in a very unhappy state of mind, and failed, almost entirely,
in her efforts to throw a few sunbeams across the shadow by which she
was environed. Her reception was neither cold nor cordial.
“I think,” she said, “that my visit was untimely. Some recent occurrence
had, probably, disturbed her mind so deeply; that she was not able
to rise above the depression that followed. I noticed a bitterness of
feeling about her that was not apparent on the occasion of my first
call; and a hardness of manner and sentiment, that indicated a condition
of mental suffering having its origin in a sense of wrong. Mr. Dewey
passed through the hall, and went out a few minutes after I entered the
house, and before his wife joined me in the parlor. It may have been
fancy; but I thought, while I sat there awaiting her appearance, that I
heard angry words in the room above. The heavy tread of a man’s foot
was there; but the sound ceased all at once--so did the voices. A little
while afterwards Mr. Dewey came down stairs, and went out, as I have
said. Some minutes passed before I heard the rustle of Mrs. Dewey’s
garments. There was the air of one disturbed and ill at ease about her,
when she entered; and though she made an effort to seem pleased, all was
forced work. Poor woman! The path she selected to walk in through the
world has proved rough and thorny, I fear, beyond any thing dreamed of
in her young imagination.”
CHAPTER XXI.
Weeks passed after this second visit to the Allen House, but the call
was not returned by Mrs. Dewey. We talked the matter over, occasionally,
and concluded that, for some reason best known to herself, the friendly
overtures of Constance were not agreeable to the lady. She was not often
seen abroad, and when she did appear, the closed windows of her carriage
usually hid her face from careful observation.
Of late, Mr. Dewey was away from S----more than usual, business
connected with the firm of which he was a member requiring his frequent
presence in New York. He did not remain absent over two or three days at
a time.
Nearly opposite to where I resided lived Mr. Joshua Kling, the Cashier
of the new Clinton Bank. He and Mr. Dewey seemed to be on particularly
friendly terms. Often I noticed the visits of Mr. Dewey to the Cashier’s
house after bank hours, and many times in paying evening calls would I
meet the two gentlemen, arm in arm, engaged in close conversation.
It was pretty generally understood in S----that the Clinton Bank was
in the hands or parties in New York, and that a large proportion of the
discounts made were of paper bearing the endorsement of Floyd, Lawson,
Lee, & Co., which was passed by the directors as the legitimate business
