if he had had any to begin with, and after one more glance at Faith he
fairly turned his back and fled--without striking his colours. Faith
went back to the parlour.
"What is the matter with the boy?" she said, "I couldn't get anything
out of him, Mr. Linden."
A somewhat peculiar smile came with the words,
"Couldn't you?"
Faith noticed it, but her thought was elsewhere. She came back to the
table, took up the flowers, and said a little timidly,
"Do you know who put these here, Mr. Linden?"
The look changed. "I think I do," he said.
Her look did not change, except to a softened reflection of the one
with which she had first viewed them. She viewed them still, bending
over them doubtfully; then glancing up at him she shook her head and
said,
"You are dressed before me, after all, Mr. Linden!"
And ran away. She was back again in three minutes, with the flowers
upon her breast; and if there had been but one adornment in the world
that would have fitted her just then, the giver of the flowers had
found it. Faith had altered nothing, she had only put them in the right
place; and the effect was curious in its beauty. That effect of her
flowers was probably the only one unknown to Faith herself, though it
was with a face blushing with pleasure that she came in and sat gravely
down to be a philosopher.
She gave her teacher little trouble, and promised to give him less. She
had excellent capacity, that was plain; with the eager desire for
learning which makes the most of it; both the power and the will were
there to appropriate and use every word of Mr. Linden's somewhat
lawless but curiously skilful manner of instructing her. And the
simplicity of her attention was perfect. She did not forget her
flowers, probably, during this particular page of philosophizing, for a
little tinge on her cheek never ceased to speak of pleasure all through
the time; but that was the sole sign of distraction, if distraction
there were. Less grave, but more intent, than Mr. Linden himself, the
information that Mr. Skip had driven the little wagon round before the
door, came to her ears all too soon.
The drive to the Judge's was not very long; it might have been three
quarters of a mile; so even at the old horse's rate of travelling they
were soon there.
Judge Harrison's house was large and old-fashioned, yet had much more
style about it than any other house in Pattaquasset pretended to; and
the same was true of its arrangements and furniture. It was comfortable
and ample; so was everything in it; with besides that touch of ease and
fitness and adaptation which shews always--or generally--that people
have lived where there is a freedom from fixed standards. It was so
here; for Judge Harrison's family during the life-time of his wife had
always spent their winters and often part of their summers away from
Pattaquasset--in one of the great cities, New York generally, or at
some watering-place. There was also however an amount of good sense and
kind temper in the family which made no difference, of intention,
between them and the rest of Pattaquasset when they were there; so that
they were extremely popular.
Mr. Skip and old Crab were in very good time; there were not more than
half assembled of all the good company asked and expected this
afternoon. These were all over, in the house and out of the house;
observing and speculating. The house was surrounded with pleasant
grounds, spreading on two sides in open smooth lawns of considerable
extent, and behind the house and the lawns stretching back in a half
open shrubbery. On one of the lawns long tables already shewed their
note of preparation; on the other there was a somewhat ominous array of
benches and chairs; and among them all, round and about everything,
scattered the people.
Mrs. Derrick and Faith went upstairs to the unrobing room, where the
latter was immediately taken into consultation by Miss Harrison on some
matters which promised to keep them both busy for some time. Mr. Linden
meanwhile received a very cordial welcome from Judge Harrison, who was
cordiality itself.
"Well, Mr. Linden! we've got a good day! Good for the boys and good for
us. We've ventured to depart a little from your--instructions! but--I
hope--in such a way as not to compromise you. My son and daughter have
managed it. I'll introduce him to you"--said the old gentleman looking
about,--"but he's somewhere just now."
"I should like to know first, Judge Harrison, what my instructions
were," said Mr. Linden, as his eyes likewise made search for the
missing doctor.
"O," said the Judge, "all right! I understood your feelings exactly. I
used that word because the right one didn't come. I have to do that
often. I've heard of the 'pen of a ready writer'--I'm sure I'd rather
have the tongue of a ready speaker; but it don't matter for me now. My
friends take me as they find me, and so will you, I have little fear.
Julius!--Here's my son, Dr. Harrison, Mr. Linden."
Dr. Harrison must have a word of introduction to the reader, though he
was one of those who need very little in actual life. He was a handsome
man, young but not very young, and came up at his father's call and
honoured the introduction to his father's guest, with that easy grace
and address which besides being more or less born with a man, tell that
much attrition with the world has been at work to take away all his
outward roughnesses of nature. He was handsomely dressed too, though
not at all in a way to challenge observation. His coat would have
startled nobody in Pattaquasset, though it might have told another that
its wearer had probably seen France, had probably seen England, and had
in short lived much in that kind of society which recognizes the fact
of many kinds of coats in the world. His greeting of Mr. Linden was
both simple and graceful.
"I am very happy to see you," he said as he shook hands. "I should
certainly have come to see you before, but I am more a stranger in
Pattaquasset than anybody. I have hardly been at home since I returned;
business has drawn me to other quarters--and I am only fortunate enough
to be in time for this occasion. It's a good time for me," said he
looking round,--"I can renew my old acquaintance with everybody at
once--I think all Pattaquasset is here."
"Not grown out of your remembrance, has it?" said Mr. Linden. "How long
have you been away?"
"Well--it's had time to grow out of everything! especially out of my
memory. I have not been here for five years--and then only for a few
days--and before that at College; so I may say I have hardly been here
since my boyhood. I don't know anybody but the old ones. I shall apply
to you, if you will allow me," said he, drawing himself and Mr. Linden
a little more apart from the centre of reception. "Who, for instance,
is that very--well-dressed--young lady just entering the
hall?--good-looking too."
The doctor's face was very quiet--so were his words; but his eye was
upon Miss Cecilia Deacon, who in a low-necked blue silk, with an amber
necklace and jet bracelets, was paying her respects to the Judge and
his daughter. With equal quietness Mr. Linden made answer.
"By the way," said the doctor suddenly, "I believe we owe this pleasant
occasion--very pleasant I think it is going to be--to you."
"Accidentally and innocently, I assure you."
"Yes--of course,"--said Dr. Harrison, with the air of one who needed no
information as to Mr. Linden's view of the subject, nor explanation as
to its grounds. "But," said he speaking somewhat low,--"my father has
the interests of the school--and indeed of all Pattaquasset--truly at
heart, and my sister has entered into all his feelings. I am a kind of
alien. I hope not to be so.--But, as I was saying, my father and sister
putting their heads together, have thought it would have a good effect
upon the boys and upon certain interests of the community through them
and their parents too, to give some little honours to the best students
among them--or to the cleverest boys--which, as you and I know, are not
precisely synonymous terms. Would you think well of such an expedient?
My father is very anxious to do nothing which shall not quite meet your
judgment and wish in the matter."
"I shall leave it in Judge Harrison's hands," said Mr. Linden after a
moment's silence: "I should be very sorry to gainsay his wishes in any
respect. And some of the boys deserve any honours that can be given
them."
"Do they?" said the doctor. "Can you indicate them to me?"
"No," said Mr. Linden smiling. "I shall leave you to find out."
"Leave me"--said the other. "How did you know what office they had
charged upon me? Well--I am making as long a speech as if I were a
member of Congress. By the way, Mr. Linden, can you imagine what could
induce a man to be that particular member of the body politic? it
occupies the place of the feet, I think; such members do little but run
to and fro--though I remember I just seemed to give them the place of
the tongue--unjustly. They don't do the real talk of the world."
"The real talk?" said Mr. Linden. "Indeed I think they do their
share."
"Of talk?" said the doctor with an acute look at his neighbour.
"Well--as I was saying--my sister has provided I believe some red and
blue, or red and something, favours of ribband--to be given to the boys
who shall merit them. Now to find out that, which you won't tell me, I
am to do, under your pleasure, some more talking--to them in public--to
see in short how well they can talk to me. Do you like that?"
"Better than they will, perhaps--as merit is sometimes modest."
"I assure you I would happily yield the duty into your hands--who would
do it so much better--but I suppose you would say as somebody
else--'Let my friend tell my tale.'--Who is that?" said the doctor
slowly and softly,--"like the riding pole of a fence--as little to
spare--and as rigid--isn't he?--and as long! Don't I remember him?"
"You ought--that is Mr. Simlins."
"Yes"--said the doctor musingly--"I remember him! I incurred his
displeasure once, in some boyish way, and if I recollect he is a man
that pays his debts. And that unfortunate--next--looks like the
perspective of a woman."
But this lady Mr. Linden did not know. She was little, in form and
feature, and had besides a certain pinched-in look of
diminutiveness--that seemed to belong to mind as well as body, temper,
and life--and had procured her the doctor's peculiar term of
description.
"The next thing is," said Dr. Harrison, as his eye slowly roved over
the assembled and assembling people--"who is to give the favours? My
sister of course does not wish to be forward in the business and I
don't--and you don't. I say, the prettiest girl here."
"I think the hands that prepared the favours should dispense them,"
said Mr. Linden.
"But she won't do it--and ladies have sometimes the power of saying
no--they're generally persuadable!--Who's that?" said the doctor with a
change of tone, touching Mr. Linden's arm,--"the one in white with a
red bouquet de corsage--she's charming! She's the one!"
"That is Miss Derrick."
"She'll do,"--said the doctor softly to his companion, as Faith paused
