Paul did not feel quite so nervous as on the 
day before, for he was so confident of success that 
he did not feel uneasy even when he did not get 
a bite for quarter of an hour. The perch were ac- 
commodating in the main, and did not disappoint 
him, for at twelve o'clock — as he judged it to be 
by the height of the tide — he had seven dozen 
in the boat, and they were still biting as greedily 
as when he first commenced. He had two lines 
on board, and he tried the experiment of using 
them both at the same time, though without much 
success ; for perch are fastidious, and require a great 
deal of attention. While he was pulling in a fish 
upon one line, the §ly rogues in the brine stole his 



 

bait from the otlier, and he came to the conclusion 
it was not best to have too many irons in the 
fire at once. 

Paul did not like to abandon the field while 
it was yielding such a rich harvest ; but he was 
a prudent fisherman, and not disposed to run any 
risks. The tide would turn in less than two hours, 
and he knew it would be impossible to run up to 
Bayville against both wind and tide. The old 
boat was not equal to any such emergency, and he 
reluctantly wound up his line and made sail for 
home. 

The seven dozen perch were to be cleaned, and 
when he got fairly under way he missed John, 
for it was difficult for him to skin fish and work 
the boat at the same time. Seating himself in 
the stern, he passed his arm round the tiller, — 
for there was no comb to keep it in place, — and 
commenced his labors. He soon found that he was 
working at a great disadvantage, and he exerted his 
ingenuity to devise a plan for overcoming the diffi- 
culty. Taking a small line, he made the middle of it 


fast to the end of the tiller ; then passing it round 
the cleets, he tied the ends together. This apparatus 
kept the tiller in its place, and he could change 
it to any required position by pulling the line. 
Resuming his labors upon the fish, he found his 
plan worked very well, and the perch were in 
readiness for market when he reached the shore. 
After securing the boat, he hastened with the 
fish to the cottage, where his dinner was waiting 
for him. His mother congratulated him upon his 
success, and told him that Captain Littleton had 
been to see her during his absence, and that she 
was entirely reconciled to his new occupation. 

The most difficult part of the business, in Paul's 
estimation, was yet to come — that of selling the 
fish. As he left the house with his precious load 
of merchandise, he could not help feeling that the 
grand scheme was still an experiment, for it had 
not been demonstrated that Bayville would buy six 
or eight dozen of perch every day. It was a large 
place, containing about six thousand inhabitants ; 
and as he walked along, he brought his mathemat- 




ical knowledge into use in an attempt to convince 
himself that the market was large enough to keep 
him busy during the season. At the least calcu- 
lation there were six hundred families in the town, 
and probably a thousand. If each family would 
buy a mess of perch once in ten days, it would 
make six hundred dozen in that time, or sixty 
dozen a day ; but, to make allowance for over- 
estimates, he was willing to reduce the total one 
half, and call it thirty dozen a day. The fisher- 
man would supply a large portion of the demand, 
but he concluded that he should have no difficulty 
in selling all the perch he could catch. 

Passing the house of Captain Littleton, the next 
was that of Major Nettle, and he resolved to make 
his first attempt to sell. The gentleman was not 
at home, and the servants didn't know any thing 
about it ; and he was just leaving when Thomas 
Nettle accosted him. 

" What have you got, Paul ? " 

'' Perch ; do your folks want to buy any ? " 

" Yes, I guess they do. Where did you catch 
them ? " 



 

'' Down at Rock Island ; I am going down every 
day." 

" Are you, though ? I should like to go with 
you some time." 

" I shall be glad to have you. I have gone 
into this business." 

'' What for ? " 

" Since my father died, I have to do something 
to help my mother," replied Paul, not caring 
to announce to his friend the whole of his stu- 
pendous plan. 

" Do you expect to do any thing at this busi- 
ness ? " 

" Certainly I do ; I made two dollars at it yes- 
terday," 

" Did you though ? " 

" Do your folks want any perch to-day ? " 

" I guess they do ; how much a dozen ? " 

" Seventeen cents," replied Paul, who had de- 
cided to be moderate in his prices. 

" I will speak to my mother." 

Thomas returned in a short time, and took two 
dozen of the fish, and paid the money for them. 
Overjoyed at this success, he proceeded to the 
next house ; hut though he was eloquent in regard 
to the freshness and fineness of his wares, he could 
not make a trade. He met with no better success 
at the next three or four places at which he called, 
and he began to feel a little discouraged. But the 
next house in his way was a large, genteel board- 
ing house, and he had the satisfaction of selling 
four dozen at the price he had before fixed, though 
he had almost made up his mind to let them go 
at ninepence. The gentleman who kept the house 
was pleased to get the perch, and wanted the 
young fisherman to bring him some three times 
a week for the present, for his boarders were very 
fond of them. 

Paul could scarcely contain himself for the joy 
he felt, as he glanced at the only remaining dozen 
of his stock, and at the very next house he dis- 
posed of them. With a dollar and nineteen cents 
in his pocket, he walked towards home, proud as 
a lord of his success. The result of this day's 




 

work afforded him far more satisfaction than that 
of the preceding day, though the proceeds were 
considerably less ; for he was conscious of the in- 
fluence of Captain Littleton's generosity in the 
transaction. But the second day's triumph was 
achieved by his own unaided labor and skill. 
What he had done this day was a fair specimen 
of what he might hope to do in the future. 

"Sold out so soon, Paul?" said his mother, as 
he entered the kitchen. 

" Yes ; I had good luck. They took four doz- 
