can follow in a day or two."
"Ah, my Lord, if I might make so bold, why should you expose your
person by staying longer? You may be recognized and"--
"No danger," said the other, hastily.
"My Lord, you must forgive me, but I promised my dear lady, your
mother, on her death-bed"--
"To be a constant plague to me," said the cavalier, with a vexed smile
and an impatient movement; "but speak on, Paolo,--for when you once get
anything on your mind, one may as well hear it first as last."
"Well, then, my Lord, this girl,--I have made inquiries, and every one
reports her most modest and pious,--the only grandchild of a poor old
woman. Is it worthy of a great lord of an ancient house to bring her to
shame?"
"Who thinks of bringing her to shame? 'Lord of an ancient house!'"
added the cavalier, laughing bitterly,--"a landless beggar, cast out of
everything,--titles, estates, all! Am I, then, fallen so low that my
wooing would disgrace a peasant-girl?"
"My Lord, you cannot mean to woo a peasant-girl in any other way than
one that would disgrace her,--one of the House of Sarelli, that goes
back to the days of the old Roman Empire!"
"And what of the 'House of Sarelli that goes back to the days of the
old Roman Empire'? It is lying like weeds' roots uppermost in the
burning sun. What is left to me but the mountains and my sword? No, I
tell you, Paolo, Agostino Sarelli, cavalier of fortune, is not thinking
of bringing disgrace on a pious and modest maiden, unless it would
disgrace her to be his wife."
"Now may the saints above help us! Why, my Lord, our house in days past
has been allied to royal blood. I could tell you how Joachim VI."--
"Come, come, my good Paolo, spare me one of your chapters of genealogy.
The fact is, my old boy, the world is all topsy-turvy, and the bottom
is the top, and it isn't much matter what comes next. Here are shoals
of noble families uprooted and lying round like those aloes that the
gardener used to throw over the wall in springtime; and there is that
great boar of a Cæsar Borgia turned in to batten and riot over our
pleasant places."
"Oh, my Lord," said the old serving-man, with a distressful movement,
"we have fallen on evil times, to be sure, and they say his Holiness
has excommunicated us. Anselmo heard that in Naples yesterday."
"Excommunicated!" said the young man,--every feature of his fine face,
and every nerve of his graceful form seeming to quiver with the effort
to express supreme contempt. "Excommunicated! I should hope so! One
would hope through Our Lady's grace to act so that Alexander, and his
adulterous, incestuous, filthy, false-swearing, perjured, murderous
crew, would excommunicate us! In these times, one's only hope of
paradise lies in being excommunicated."
"Oh, my dear master," said the old man, falling on his knees, "what is
to become of us? That I should live to hear you talk like an infidel
and unbeliever!"
"Why, hear you, poor old fool! Did you never hear in Dante of the Popes
that are burning in hell? Wasn't Dante a Christian, I beg to know?"
"Oh, my Lord, my Lord! a religion got out of poetry, books, and
romances won't do to die by. We have no business with the affairs of
the Head of the Church,--it's the Lord's appointment. We have only to
shut our eyes and obey. It may all do well enough to talk so when you
are young and fresh; but when sickness and death come, then we must
have religion,--and if we have gone out of the only true Roman Catholic
Apostolic Church, what becomes of our souls? Ah, I misdoubted about
your taking so much to poetry, though my poor mistress was so proud of
it; but these poets are all heretics, my Lord,--that's my firm belief.
But, my Lord, if you do go to hell, I'm going there with you; I'm sure
I never could show my face among the saints, and you not there."
"Well, come, then, my poor Paolo," said the cavalier, stretching out
his hand to his serving-man, "don't take it to heart so. Many a better
man than I has been excommunicated and cursed from toe to crown, and
been never a whit the worse for it. There's Jerome Savonarola there in
Florence--a most holy man, they say, who has had revelations straight
from heaven--has been excommunicated; but he preaches and gives the
sacraments all the same, and nobody minds it."
"Well, it's all a maze to me," said the old serving-man, shaking his
white head. "I can't see into it. I don't dare to open my eyes for fear
I should get to be a heretic; it seems to me that everything is getting
mixed up together. But one must hold on to one's religion; because,
after we have lost everything in this world, it would be too bad to
burn in hell forever at the end of that."
"Why, Paolo, I am a good Christian. I believe, with all my heart, in
the Christian religion, like the fellow in Boccaccio,--because I think
it must be from God, or else the Popes and Cardinals would have had it
out of the world long ago. Nothing but the Lord Himself could have kept
it against them."
"There you are, my dear master, with your romances. Well, well, well! I
don't know how it'll end. I say my prayers, and try not to inquire into
what's too high for me. But now, dear master, will you stay lingering
after this girl till some of our enemies hear where you are and pounce
down upon us? Besides, the troop are never so well affected when you
are away; there are quarrels and divisions."
"Well, well," said the cavalier, with an impatient movement,--"one day
longer. I must get a chance to speak with her once more. I must see
her."
CHAPTER IX
THE ARTIST MONK
On the evening when Agnes and her grandmother returned from the
Convent, as they were standing after supper looking over the garden
parapet into the gorge, their attention was caught by a man in an
ecclesiastical habit, slowly climbing the rocky pathway towards them.
"Isn't that Brother Antonio?" said Dame Elsie, leaning forward to
observe more narrowly. "Yes, to be sure it is!"
"Oh, how glad I am!" exclaimed Agnes, springing up with vivacity, and
looking eagerly down the path by which the stranger was approaching.
A few moments more of clambering, and the stranger met the two women at
the gate with a gesture of benediction.
He was apparently a little past the middle point of life, and entering
on its shady afternoon. He was tall and well proportioned, and his
features had the spare delicacy of the Italian outline. The round brow,
fully developed in all the perceptive and æsthetic regions,--the keen
eye, shadowed by long, dark lashes,--the thin, flexible lips,--the
sunken cheek, where, on the slightest emotion, there fluttered a
brilliant flush of color,--all were signs telling of the enthusiast in
whom the nervous and spiritual predominated over the animal.
At times, his eye had a dilating brightness, as if from the flickering
of some inward fire which was slowly consuming the mortal part, and its
expression was brilliant even to the verge of insanity.
His dress was the simple, coarse, white stuff-gown of the Dominican
friars, over which he wore a darker traveling-garment of coarse cloth,
with a hood, from whose deep shadows his bright mysterious eyes looked
like jewels from a cavern. At his side dangled a great rosary and cross
of black wood, and under his arm he carried a portfolio secured with a
leathern strap, which seemed stuffed to bursting with papers.
Father Antonio, whom we have thus introduced to the reader, was an
itinerant preaching monk from the Convent of San Marco in Florence, on
a pastoral and artistic tour through Italy.
Convents in the Middle Ages were the retreats of multitudes of natures
who did not wish to live in a state of perpetual warfare and offense,
and all the elegant arts flourished under their protecting shadows.
Ornamental gardening, pharmacy, drawing, painting, carving in wood,
illumination, and calligraphy were not unfrequent occupations of the
holy fathers, and the convent has given to the illustrious roll of
Italian Art some of its most brilliant names. No institution in modern
Europe had a more established reputation in all these respects than the
Convent of San Marco in Florence. In its best days, it was as near an
approach to an ideal community, associated to unite religion, beauty,
and utility, as ever has existed on earth. It was a retreat from the
commonplace prose of life into an atmosphere at once devotional and
poetic; and prayers and sacred hymns consecrated the elegant labors of
the chisel and the pencil, no less than the more homely ones of the
still and the crucible. San Marco, far from being that kind of sluggish
lagoon often imagined in conventual life, was rather a sheltered hotbed
of ideas, fervid with intellectual and moral energy, and before the
age in every radical movement. At this period, Savonarola, the poet
and prophet of the Italian religious world of his day, was superior
of this convent, pouring through all the members of the order the fire
of his own impassioned nature, and seeking to lead them back to the
fervors of more primitive and evangelical ages, and in the reaction of
a worldly and corrupt Church was beginning to feel the power of that
current which at last drowned his eloquent voice in the cold waters of
martyrdom. Savonarola was an Italian Luther,--differing from the great
Northern Reformer as the more ethereally strung and nervous Italian
differs from the bluff and burly German; and like Luther, he became
in his time the centre of every living thing in society about him. He
inspired the pencils of artists, guided the counsels of statesmen, and,
a poet himself, was an inspiration to poets. Everywhere in Italy the
monks of his order were traveling, restoring the shrines, preaching
against the voluptuous and unworthy pictures with which sensual artists
had desecrated the churches, and calling the people back by their
exhortations to the purity of primitive Christianity.
Father Antonio was a younger brother of Elsie, and had early become
a member of the San Marco, enthusiastic not less in religion than in
Art. His intercourse with his sister had few points of sympathy, Elsie
being as decided a utilitarian as any old Yankee female born in the
granite hills of New Hampshire, and pursuing with a hard and sharp
energy her narrow plan of life for Agnes. She regarded her brother as
a very properly religious person, considering his calling, but was a
little bored with his exuberant devotion, and absolutely indifferent
to his artistic enthusiasm. Agnes, on the contrary, had from a child
attached herself to her uncle with all the energy of a sympathetic
nature, and his yearly visits had been looked forward to on her part
with intense expectation. To him she could say a thousand things which
she instinctively concealed from her grandmother; and Elsie was well
pleased with the confidence, because it relieved her a little from
the vigilant guardianship that she otherwise held over the girl. When
Father Antonio was near, she had leisure now and then for a little
private gossip of her own, without the constant care of supervising
Agnes.
"Dear uncle, how glad I am to see you once more!" was the eager
salutation with which the young girl received the monk, as he gained
the little garden. "And you have brought your pictures; oh, I know you
have so many pretty things to show me!"
"Well, well, child," said Elsie, "don't begin upon that now. A little
talk of bread and cheese will be more in point. Come in, brother, and
wash your feet, and let me beat the dust out of your cloak, and give
you something to stay Nature; for you must be fasting."
