Hill presently, aunt. Can I do any thing for you there, or 
on the way ?" 
" No, dear !" She petted her favorite " boy" more than 
ever now-a-days, from some indefinable maternal instinct 
that told her he stood in need of love and sympathy. " But 
I would like to have you come home by two o'clock, if you 
can, conveniently." 
Her manner of suggesting the wish was very unlike the 
imperious style in which she had laid down the law to 
Robert. 
" Do not wait for me ! If I dine here I shall return by 
that hour." 
" You ought not to go at all, I think. You are looking 
badly. Come back early and take a nap this afternoon. 
This evening's work will be no trifle to you, seeing you are 
first groomsman and Robert's brother." 
" You are very thoughtful, but I hope that I have strength 
to do and bear all that lies before me," responded Aleck, 
walking away. 
He nor she dreamed what unforeseen exigencies the evening would bring. 
CHAPTER IX. 
IT was not often that Aleck Lay's eyes played him false ; 
yet, notwithstanding their evidence in this case, Gabriel was 
Helen's messenger. She had arisen early on her wedding- 
morn before the herald ray that ended Aunt Ruth's uneasy 
slumbers pierced the darkness of the night and committed 
to paper the substance of a confession composed during the 
many sleepless hours she had consumed in prayer and 
thought. She no longer withheld from her intended husband the secret of her prior attachment, while she sedulously concealed the name of the one she had loved, and all circumstances that might assist in leading Robert to a correct 
surmise as to his identity with his brother. She had suffered 
an early disappointment, she said ; one that had, she was 
sometimes led to fear, deprived her of the power of ever 
loving again with equal fervor. While smarting under this 
blow, she had precipitately and wickedly received his attentions, and entered into the engagement of marriage now existing between them. 
" I beg that you will acquit me of having, in this transaction culpable as it was been guilty of wilful wrong to 
you," she wrote, in continuation. " I was persuaded, when 
I promised you my hand, as I am now, that I could give 
you all the heart I have left to bestow upon any man. I love 
you sincerely, appreciatively, as a friend who is nearer to 
me even than a brother could be. I can pledge you my 
faith without a sigh for a happier lot ; can take honestly upon 
me the vows of wedded fidelity. It will cost me no struggle to love, honor, and obey one whom I know to be, in all 
respects, worthy of my affection and duty. 
a Yet before we set the indissoluble seal to a contract that 
death only can render void, it is best, for both our sakes, 
that the work of self-examination should be severe and 
thorough, and its result undisguised from each other. I 
have unveiled my past history the saddest chapter of my 
life to you, and I have surely a right to expect, if not to 
demand, a corresponding degree of candor in you. Robert ! 
I charge you by every principle of truth, honor, and manliness, to answer me plainly one question Do you love Lily 
Calvert f I do not inquire if your conduct to her has been, 
in every respect, consistent with your engagements to my 
self; if you have ever given her cause to believe that your 
attachment for her transcended that which her old playfellow 
and friend might innocently indulge and manifest. I look 
deeper ; appeal solemnly to the innermost depths of your 
own consciousness depths unknown save to yourself and 
your God. Marriage is a momentous step. I have felt this 
within the past twelve hours as I never thought to do. I 
beseech you to give the subject your most earnest consideration. If, as I apprehend, from my knowledge of facts connected with your intercourse with Lily, and my acquaint 
ance with both your characters, you decide that your sentiments for her are more like those a husband should have for 
his wife than the love you bear me, your way and mine 
are plain. Do not act unfairly to yourself and to me cruel 
ly to her, from the consideration that you have gone too far 
to retrace your course with honor. I have excellent reasons 
for believing that Colonel Floyd is already cognizant of your 
affection for his niece, and that your union with her would 
be far more acceptable to him than the one you at present 
contemplate. 
" This is ray proposition, if the result of your deliberation 
should be what I expect. Write me a line by the bearer of 
this, advising me of your purpose : then ride over to see Lily, 
this morning. Ask boldly for her, and if you gain her con 
sent to the course we have concluded to adopt, afterwards 
keep your appointment with Colonel Floyd, and have the 
license filled up with your name and hers. I know what I 
say, when I assert that there is no likelihood of your meeting impediments in your path. Even if you should, it is the 
right one the only plan you can with rectitude pursue. 
This done, commit the rest to me. You have often praised 
my daring and self-possession, and I engage to afford you, 
in this instance, a notable display of both qualities. Instead 
of frowns you shall meet nothing but smiles from the wit 
nesses of your marriage ceremony ; congratulations upon the 
cleverness of the ruse that has deluded the community into 
the belief that you were betrothed to one cousin, while you 
were really, with her knowledge and approbation, plighted 
to the other. I am aware that this looks like a bold scheme, 
and that my programme of arrangements is unprecedented 
in the chronicles of courtship ; but, Robert, dear friend ! we 
have had enough of half-confidences and harrowing misun 
derstandings. Let us, at the very base of the altar, throw 
off the mask of unworthy deception, that must work out a 
weary weight of misery to us in the end, and appear in our 
real characters dare to tell the truth, and the whole truth ! 
I plead for Lily's sake no less than for ours. 
" But if, after all, my misgivings have been groundless, 
my penetration at fault with respect to your feelings in this 
affair ; if you are still prepared to attest your love for me by 
marrying me, I stand ready and willing to fulfil my part of 
our agreement. A line or word sent by Gabriel to the effect 
that  all is right will suffice to convey your intention to me. 
Since T have confided to no one the step I have resolved to 
take in the writing of this note, there need be no inconve 
nient explanations. Matters can go on in their present train, 
and I shall expect, you at the appointed hour. I leave the 
decision with you. It will be fraught with important con 
sequences to us, and I pray if indeed my unworthy peti 
tions ever reach Heaven that you may be guided aright. 
Whatever your determination may be, believe that I must 
ever remain 
" Yours affectionately and truly, 
"HELEN." 
If this novel epistle strike somewhat too boldly at the 
root of established prejudices and precedent in love and 
match-making, the shocked reader will please bear in mind 
that the writer was, as her betrothed had affirmed, " a singular girl a woman of marked character." This was 
further demonstrated by the exclamation with which she 
arose from her writing-table, when the departing footsteps 
of her post-boy had died away in the corridor. 
" Now, whatever comes, I can respect myself once 
more !" 
She had borrowed Gabriel privately from her aunt an 
accommodation arranged between them the preceding evening and to insure secrecy on the subject of his errand, 
rather than to enjoin him to the needful exercise of faithful 
ness and despatch, she had him summoned to her chamber 
and herself gave him his orders. The imp was agog with 
anticipations of " Christmas times," including the wedding, 
and Helen contributed further to his exhilaration by a bountiful douceur in honor of the day he was prepared to cel 
ebrate. But he hearkened with a tolerable semblance of 
decorous seriousness to her instructions, received the packet, and buttoned it with exceeding care inside of his round 
about, and pledged himself to inviolable discretion. He 
was very fond. of Helen, whose steady favor and kindness 
were in grateful contrast to Mrs. Floyd's fidgetiness, her 
lord's harshness, and Lily's caprices. His young mistress 
did not doubt that she could rely upon him in a matter 
requiring so much zeal and intelligence. 
She enacted her part well at breakfast-time ; was not only 
collected and cheerful in deportment, but vivacious in talk, 
with sprightliness more real in appearance than was Lily's 
factitious animation. The latter came down late, as she gen 
erally did, and, Helen fancied, avoided her cousin markedly 
and coldly. 
" By and by," was the elder's consolation, " I may be 
permitted to tell her all, and she will do my affection justice. 
Until then, the less we say to one another the better. I 
will not rush into temptation, and I must await his warrant 
for speech." 
Altogether, it was a merry party, with the exception of 
Colonel Floyd, whose settled moroseness did not affect 
them long, since he ate little, and withdrew from the table 
before any one else was half through the meal. The 
bride's room was the popular resort of the young ladies 
during the day, and Helen could not, without positive rude 
ness, seclude herself for thought or preparation. The 
gentlemen wisely dispersed to parts unknown directly after 
breakfast, most of them not showing themselves again until 
evening. 
Helen was affecting to attend to and bear a part in the 
frivolous chit-chat rung into her nervous ears by the knot 
of idle pleasure-lovers about her, when Sally opened the 
door just wide enough to allow her mistress a glimpse of 
her face, and made her signal, unobserved by the others. 
Helen felt the blood curdle suddenly about her heart, and 
numbness seize upon her limbs, at the apparition for which 
she had watched so long. The sign notified her of Gabriel's 
return. With an unintelligible murmur, intended as an 
apology to her associates for leaving them, she walked totteringly into the entry, where she found her messenger. It 
did not occur to her then that he looked or acted unlike 
himself, although his cowed, sulky behavior produced an 
unfavorable impression upon Sally, who was interrogating 
him with considerable asperity as to the causes of his dilatoriness. 
"You stopped to play long the road, I'll be bound!" 
she was saying when Helen emerged from her chamber, 
" or, you went out of your way to go by the Court House. 
That's always the way with you good-for-nothing chaps. 
So sure as you get a cent to spend, you're crazy till it's 
gone." 
" That will do, Sally !" interposed Helen, faintly. " Did 
you deliver that letter safely, Gabriel ?" 
