the principal announced a new regulation, requiring every member of the
Institute to be in-doors during the off time, from seven till nine in
the evening. Before, they had been permitted to go where they pleased
during these hours, as long as they did not leave the estate. But some
of the boys had been seen in the village of Tunbrook after eight in the
evening; and all efforts to discover who they were had been unavailing.
The prohibition had been made to correct this evil.
When the new regulation was announced, there was a general murmur of
disapprobation among the students, for some of their best sport had
been enjoyed out of doors, after dark. No one ventured to remonstrate,
but the order was exceedingly unpopular.
"I won't stand it," said one and another, during the first recreation
hour in the afternoon. "It's too bad; it will spoil all our fun."
"The fellows are all agreed on this point," said Redman.
"I am willing to observe all reasonable regulations, but we might as
well go into a monastery as submit to this thing," added Nevers. "What
do you say, Grant?"
"I don't like it. We intended to have a first-rate game of foot ball
these moonlight evenings."
"There isn't a fellow in the school that likes it," said Redman.
"That's so," replied Bailey. "I don't see the use of the rule either."
"Nor I."
"Some of the fellows have been down to Tunbrook almost every night."
"What's that to us, as long as we didn't go?" said Bailey. "The
innocent ought not to be punished with the guilty."
"The colonel couldn't find out who they were," said Redman, with a kind
of chuckle. "No fellow would 'blow' on the others."
"It is easy enough to talk," said Bailey, "but what are you going to
do?"
"Do? Why, resist it, of course," replied Redman. "I am ready to do so,
for one. Let us all stay out to-night till nine o'clock."
"Agreed," added some of the larger boys.
"We shall get punished if we do," suggested Bailey.
"No matter. They will have to punish the whole crowd. The guard house
won't hold us all," replied Redman.
"Let us have a plan about it. We will get up a regular mutiny," said
Nevers. "If we can get a hundred fellows to go with us, we shall make
the old man cave in."
"Good, Nevers! Let all the fellows that will join meet under the big
oak by the river, at five o'clock, or as soon as we get out of school.
Let each fellow talk it round in a quiet way, but don't let the
teachers hear a word."
"Will you be there, Grant?" asked Nevers.
"I don't know. I will see."
"Don't know?" said Nevers. "Don't you see all the fellows are in for
it?"
"I will think of it," replied Richard, as he walked away.
CHAPTER XIX.
RICHARD IS DETERMINED, AND SOME ALLUSION IS MADE TO "WATERMELONS."
There had been a time when Richard Grant would have desired no better
fun than to engage in such a mutiny as that proposed by Nevers and
Redman; and he was not yet so far removed from his evil propensities as
to be able to decline the proposition. The boys of the Institute
believed they had a real grievance, for it seemed harsh and needless to
deprive them of some of their best hours for amusement. It looked just
as though the principal was angry because he could not ascertain who
had broken the rules of the school, and spitefully intended to punish
the innocent with the guilty.
Probably none of them intended to carry their opposition any farther
than to express their disapprobation of the new regulation. The colonel
was a universal favorite, and they had full confidence in his judgment
and his justice. Perhaps the desire to have a little fun and excitement
was the strongest motive that actuated them.
During the afternoon, the plan to redress their grievance was whispered
among the boys. "All the fellows were going to join the mutiny" was the
strongest inducement that could be used to obtain the consent of the
timid ones; and if "all were going to join," it would require a great
deal of moral courage to stand aloof from the scheme.
Richard was sorely perplexed. With the others, he felt that the new
regulation was arbitrary and unnecessary; and such a scrape as the boys
proposed was exactly in accordance with his antecedents. He wanted to
join for the fun of the thing, and because the rest of the boys were
going to do so. He did not like to be singular. Besides, he might
injure his popularity, and lose some of the influence he possessed, if
he refused to join.
The temptation was so strong that he could not at first resist it; and
though he did not positively promise to meet the others under the big
oak, he gave them some encouragement that he would do so. The little
time he had to think of the matter during the study and recreation
hours did not enable him to arrive at a conclusion; and at five
o'clock, when school was dismissed, he was still halting between two
opinions.
When he left the school room, he fixed his mind upon the question, and
began to discuss it in the most vigorous manner. He knew that any
resistance to the authorities of the school was wrong. Colonel
Brockridge had made the rule, and it was his duty to observe it. What
would Bertha say, after he had given her such a glowing account of his
success in overcoming temptation, when she was informed that he had
joined a mutiny?
"I'll keep my resolution!" said he, stamping his foot upon the ground
to emphasize his determination. "I'll stand out against the whole of
them."
Half past five came, and nearly every boy in the school had gone to the
appointed place. Richard sat on the bench at the foot of the flagstaff
on the parade ground, thinking whether his duty required him to do any
thing more than simply refuse to join the mutiny. Somehow, it entered
into his head that it was his duty to prevent the rebellion if he
could. It even occurred to him that he ought to inform Colonel
Brockridge of the intention of the students, and thus place himself on
the side of law and order; but he rejected this suggestion, it was so
utterly repugnant to his nature. He could not "tell tales out of
school." If any body's life, property, or happiness had been at stake,
he might have felt differently. Richard was a novice in advocating the
claims of law and order, of truth and justice; and he was more easily
satisfied than some would have been in a similar situation.
"While he was debating this matter with himself, Nevers, Bailey, and
Redman approached, and interrupted his meditations. They appeared to be
a committee appointed to wait upon him, and ascertain his views upon
the momentous question.
"You didn't come down," said Nevers.
"No; I have concluded not to join in the scrape," replied Richard,
gravely.
"Why not?"
"Because I don't think it is right; and I think if we speak to the
colonel about the matter, he will make it all right."
"I tell you, Grant, he has no right to make such a regulation," added
Nevers, with energy; "and I, for one, am not going to beg him not to do
that which he has no right to do."
"Come, Grant, you are almost the only fellow in the school who won't
join the mutiny," said Redman.
"The fellows are all in for it, and you had better come," added Bailey.
"No; I won't join," replied Richard, decidedly.
"Come down to the grove, whether you join or not," suggested Nevers.
"I am willing to go down to the grove, but I shall not go in for this
scrape."
"Come along, then."
The boys walked over to the grove, the committee using all their
eloquence and logic to induce Richard to change his mind; but thus far
he remained firm and loyal to his good resolution. His arrival at the
grove created a sensation, for it seemed to be evidence that he was to
form one of the party.
The position of Richard Grant on the present occasion was so novel that
he could hardly believe in his own identity. Like the old woman with
the little pig, it did not seem to be he that was refusing an
invitation to join in a scrape so harmless as the one proposed; and he
almost needed an introduction to himself.
But Richard was himself, truly himself--himself in the highest and
noblest sense. His determination to keep his resolution seemed to
create around him an atmosphere of purity, and the more he breathed it,
the firmer and the stronger he became. The boys exhorted him singly, in
couples, and by squads, to join the foolish enterprise, but without
effect.
"Better come with us, Grant," said Nevers. "We have got a first-rate
plan, and we shall have a tip-top time."
"I have fully made up my mind not to go," replied Richard.
"I shall not go, if Grant doesn't," added Bailey.
"Nor I," said another.
"Back out--will you?" sneered Nevers, his face darkening with an
expression of anger.
"I said I would join if Grant did," replied Bailey, stung by the
reproach.
Most of the boys were silent for a time, for the decided and unexpected
stand taken by Richard, the favorite of the school, altered the
complexion of the whole affair. This silence was succeeded by a more
unequivocal demonstration. One after another followed the example of
Bailey, and deserted the bad cause, till Richard found himself no
longer alone, but supported by at least thirty of the best fellows in
the Institute; and then they began to come over in squads.
"You are the meanest set of cowards I ever saw in my life," exclaimed
Nevers, bitterly, when the enterprise appeared to be fully nipped in
the bud.
"Grant is right," several of the boys replied.
"Grant!" sneered Nevers, angrily. "He wasn't always so nice as he is
now."
"That's so," said Redman, as he placed himself by the side of the
bully. "We know a thing or two about Grant, before he became pious."
"What do you mean by pious?" demanded Richard, stepping up to the
speaker; and as he did so, his fists were involuntarily clinched.
"Watermelons!" replied Redman, vindictively.
"Watermelons!" added Nevers.
"Watermelons!" responded a dozen or more of the large boys, who had
gathered around Redman.
"Do you walk in your sleep any now, Grant?" said Redman, with a mocking
laugh. "You wasn't pious then."
Richard was so mortified and confused by these taunts that he wished
the earth might open and hide him from the exulting gaze of his
assailants. His blood boiled with shame and indignation, and more than
ever before he realized that "the way of the transgressor is hard." His
first impulse was to rush upon his dastardly foes, and crush them
beneath the weight of his strong arm.
