their curiosity as briefly as possible, for all knew the parties in
question and all waited anxiously to hear particulars.
"She married a Frenchman old enough to be her father, but very rich. She
thought she loved him, but when she got tired of her fine establishment,
and the novelties of Paris, she found she did not, and was miserable.
Many of her new friends had lovers, so why should not she; and presently
she began to amuse herself with this Louis Gustave Isadore Theodule de
Roueville--There's a name for a Christian man! Well, she began in play,
grew in earnest, and when she could bear her domestic trouble no longer
she just ran away, ruining herself for this life, and really I don't
know but for the next also."
"Poor soul! I always thought she was a fool, but upon my word I pity
her," said Mark.
"Remember she was very young, so far away from her mother, with no real
friend to warn and help her, and love is so sweet. No wonder she went."
"Sylvia, how can you excuse her in that way? She should have done her
duty whether she loved the old gentleman or not, and kept her troubles
to herself in a proper manner. You young girls think so much of love, so
little of moral obligations, decorum, and the opinions of the world, you
are not fit judges of the case. Mr. Warwick agrees with me, I am sure."
"Not in the least."
"Do you mean to say that Helen should have left her husband?"
"Certainly, if she could not love him."
"Do you also mean to say that she did right to run off with that Gustave
Isadore Theodule creature?"
"By no means. It is worse than folly to attempt the righting of one
wrong by the commission of another."
"Then what in the world should she have done?"
"She should have honestly decided which she loved, have frankly told the
husband the mistake both had made, and demanded her liberty. If the
lover was worthy, have openly married him and borne the world's
censures. If not worthy, have stood alone, an honest woman in God's
eyes, whatever the blind world might have thought."
Prue was scandalized to the last degree, for with her marriage was more
a law than a gospel; a law which ordained that a pair once yoked should
abide by their bargain, be it good or ill, and preserve the proprieties
in public no matter how hot a hell their home might be for them and for
their children.
"What a dreadful state society would be in if your ideas were adopted!
People would constantly be finding out that they were mismatched, and go
running about as if playing that game where every one changes places.
I'd rather die at once than live to see such a state of things as that,"
said the worthy spinster.
"So would I, and recommend prevention rather than a dangerous cure."
"I really should like to hear your views, Mr. Warwick, for you quite
take my breath away."
Much to Sylvia's surprise Adam appeared to like the subject, and placed
his views at Prue's disposal with alacrity.
"I would begin at the beginning, and teach young people that marriage is
not the only aim and end of life, yet would fit them for it, as for a
sacrament too high and holy to be profaned by a light word or thought.
Show them how to be worthy of it and how to wait for it. Give them a
law of life both cheerful and sustaining; a law that shall keep them
hopeful if single, sure that here or hereafter they will find that other
self and be accepted by it; happy if wedded, for their own integrity of
heart will teach them to know the true god when he comes, and keep them
loyal to the last."
"That is all very excellent and charming, but what are the poor souls to
do who haven't been educated in this fine way?" asked Prue.
"Unhappy marriages are the tragedies of our day, and will be, till we
learn that there are truer laws to be obeyed than those custom
sanctions, other obstacles than inequalities of fortune, rank, and age.
Because two persons love, it is not always safe or wise for them to
marry, nor need it necessarily wreck their peace to live apart. Often
what seems the best affection of our hearts does more for us by being
thwarted than if granted its fulfilment and prove a failure which
embitters two lives instead of sweetening one."
He paused there, but Prue wanted a clearer answer, and turned to Faith,
sure that the woman would take her own view of the matter.
"Which of us is right, Miss Dane, in Helen's case?"
"I cannot venture to judge the young lady, knowing so little of her
character or the influences that have surrounded her, and believing that
a certain divine example is best for us to follow at such times. I agree
with Mr. Warwick, but not wholly, for his summary mode of adjustment
would not be quite just nor right in all cases. If both find that they
do not love, the sooner they part the wiser; if one alone makes the
discovery the case is sadder still, and harder for either to decide. But
as I speak from observation only my opinions are of little worth."
"Of great worth, Miss Dane; for to women like yourself observation often
does the work of experience, and despite your modesty I wait to hear the
opinions."
Warwick spoke, and spoke urgently, for the effect of all this upon
Sylvia was too absorbing a study to be relinquished yet. As he turned to
her, Faith gave him an intelligent glance, and answered like one
speaking with intention and to some secret but serious issue--
"You shall have them. Let us suppose that Helen was a woman possessed of
a stronger character, a deeper nature; the husband a younger, nobler
man; the lover truly excellent, and above even counselling the step this
pair have taken. In a case like that the wife, having promised to guard
another's happiness, should sincerely endeavor to do so, remembering
that in making the joy of others we often find our own, and that having
made so great a mistake the other should not bear all the loss. If there
be a strong attachment on the husband's part, and he a man worthy of
affection and respect, who has given himself confidingly, believing
himself beloved by the woman he so loves, she should leave no effort
unmade, no self-denial unexacted, till she has proved beyond all doubt
that it is impossible to be a true wife. Then, and not till then, has
she the right to dissolve the tie that has become a sin, because where
no love lives inevitable suffering and sorrow enter in, falling not only
upon guilty parents, but the innocent children who may be given them."
"And the lover, what of him?" asked Adam, still intent upon his purpose,
for, though he looked steadily at Faith, he knew that Sylvia drove the
shuttle in and out with a desperate industry that made her silence
significant to him.
"I would have the lover suffer and wait; sure that, however it may fare
with him, he will be the richer and the better for having known the joy
and pain of love."
"Thank you." And to Mark's surprise Warwick bowed gravely, and Miss Dane
resumed her work with a preoccupied air.
"Well, for a confirmed celibate, it strikes me you take a remarkable
interest in matrimony," said Mark. "Or is it merely a base desire to
speculate upon the tribulations of your fellow-beings, and congratulate
yourself upon your escape from them?"
"Neither; I not only pity and long to alleviate them, but have a strong
desire to share them, and the wish and purpose of my life for the last
year has been to marry."
Outspoken as Warwick was at all times and on all subjects, there was
something in this avowal that touched those present, for with the words
a quick rising light and warmth illuminated his whole countenance, and
the energy of his desire tuned his voice to a key which caused one heart
to beat fast, one pair of eyes to fill with sudden tears. Moor could not
see his friend's face, but he saw Mark's, divined the indiscreet inquiry
hovering on his lips, and arrested it with a warning gesture.
A pause ensued, during which each person made some mental comment on the
last speech, and to several of the group that little moment was a
memorable one. Remembering the lost love Warwick had confessed to him,
Moor thought with friendliest regret--"Poor Adam, he finds it impossible
to forget." Reading the truth in the keen delight the instant brought
her, Sylvia cried out within herself, "Oh, Geoffrey, forgive me, for I
love him!" and Warwick whispered to that impetuous heart of his, "Be
still, we have ventured far enough."
Prue spoke first, very much disturbed by having her prejudices and
opinions opposed, and very anxious to prove herself in the right.
"Mark and Geoffrey look as if they agreed with Mr. Warwick in
his--excuse me if I say, dangerous ideas; but I fancy the personal
application of them would change their minds. Now, Mark, just look at
it; suppose some one of Jessie's lovers should discover an affinity for
her, and she for him, what would you do?"
"Shoot him or myself, or all three, and make a neat little tragedy of
it."
"There is no getting a serious answer from you, and I wonder I ever try.
Geoffrey, I put the case to you; if Sylvia should find she adored Julian
Haize, who fell sick when she was married, you know, and should inform
you of that agreeable fact some fine day, should you think it quite
reasonable and right to say, 'Go, my dear, I'm very sorry, but it can't
be helped.'"
The way in which Prue put the case made it impossible for her hearers
not to laugh. But Sylvia held her breath while waiting for her husband's
answer. He was standing behind her chair, and spoke with the smile still
on his lips, too confident to harbor even a passing fancy.
"Perhaps I ought to be generous enough to do so, but not being a Jaques,
with a convenient glacier to help me out of the predicament, I am afraid
I should be hard to manage. I love but few, and those few are my world;
so do not try me too hardly, Sylvia."
"I shall do my best, Geoffrey."
She dropped her shuttle as she spoke, and stooping to pick it up, down
swept the long curls over either cheek; thus, when she fell to work
again, nothing of her face was visible but a glimpse of forehead, black
lashes and faintly smiling mouth. Moor led the conversation to other
topics, and was soon deep in an art discussion with Mark and Miss Dane,
while Prue and Jessie chatted away on that safe subject, dress. But
Sylvia worked silently, and Warwick still leaned there watching the busy
hand as if he saw something more than a pretty contrast between the
white fingers and the scarlet silk.
When the other guests had left, and Faith and himself had gone to their
rooms, Warwick, bent on not passing another sleepless night full of
unprofitable longings, went down again to get a book. The library was
still lighted, and standing there alone he saw Sylvia, wearing an
expression that startled him. Both hands pushed back and held her hair
away as if she scorned concealment from herself. Her eyes seemed fixed
with a despairing glance on some invisible disturber of her peace. All
the light and color that made her beautiful were gone, leaving her face
worn and old, and the language of both countenance and attitude was that
of one suddenly confronted with some hard fact, some heavy duty, that
must be accepted and performed.
This revelation lasted but a moment, Moor's step came down the hall, the
hair fell, the anguish passed, and nothing but a wan and weary face
remained. But Warwick had seen it, and as he stole away unperceived he
pressed his hands together, saying mournfully within himself, "I was
mistaken. God help us all."
