“So you seceded from Secession right away, to pay for that
lip-service, hey?”
“No, Thorn, not right away,--to my shame be it spoken. I’ll tell you
how it came about. Margaret was not old Bent’s daughter, but a
Virginia girl on a visit, and a long one it proved, for she couldn’t
go till things were quieter. While she waited, she helped take care
of me; for the good souls petted me like a baby when they found that
a Rebel could be a gentleman. I held my tongue, and behaved my best
to prove my gratitude, you know. Of course, I loved Margaret very
soon. How could I help it? She was the sweetest woman I had ever
seen, tender, frank, and spirited; all I had ever dreamed of and
longed for. I did not speak of this, nor hope for a return, because
I knew she was a hearty Unionist, and thought she only tended me
from pity. But suddenly she decided to go home, and when I ventured
to wish she would stay longer, she would not listen, and said, ‘I
must not stay; I should have gone before.’”
“The words were nothing, but as she uttered them the color came up
beautifully over all her face, and her eyes filled as they looked
away from mine. Then I knew that she loved me, and my secret broke
out half against my will. Margaret was forced to listen, for I would
not let her go, but she seemed to harden herself against me, growing
colder, stiller, statelier, as I went on, and when I said in my
desperate way,--
“‘You should love me, for we are bid to love our enemies,’ she
flashed an indignant look at me and said,--
“‘I will not love what I cannot respect! Come to me a loyal man, and
see what answer I shall give you.’
“Then she went away. It was the wisest thing she could have done,
for absence did more to change me than an ocean of tears, a year of
exhortations. Lying there, I missed her every hour of the day,
recalled every gentle act, kind word, and fair example she had given
me. I contrasted my own belief with hers, and found a new
significance in the words honesty and honor, and, remembering her
fidelity to principle, was ashamed of my own treason to God and to
herself. Education, prejudice, and interest, are difficult things to
overcome, and that was the hottest fight I ever passed through,
for, as I tell you, I was a coward. But love and loyalty won the
day, and, asking no quarter, the Rebel surrendered.”
“Phil Beaufort, you’re a brick!” cried Dick, with a sounding slap on
his comrade’s shoulder.
“A brand snatched from the burnin’. Hallelujah!” chanted Flint,
seesawing with excitement.
“Then you went to find your wife? How? Where?” asked Thorn,
forgetting vigilance in interest.
“Friend Bent hated war so heartily that he would have nothing to do
with paroles, exchanges, or any martial process whatever, but bade
me go when and where I liked, remembering to do by others as I had
been done by. Before I was well enough to go, however, I managed, by
means of Copperhead influence and returned prisoners, to send a
letter to my father and receive an answer. You can imagine what both
contained; and so I found myself penniless, but not poor, an
outcast, but not alone. Old Bent treated me like a prodigal son, and
put money in my purse; his pretty daughters loved me for Margaret’s
sake, and gave me a patriotic salute all round when I left them, the
humblest, happiest man in Pennsylvania. Margaret once said to me
that this was the time for deeds, not words; that no man should
stand idle, but serve the good cause with head, heart, and hand, no
matter in what rank; for in her eyes a private fighting for liberty
was nobler than a dozen generals defending slavery. I remembered
that, and, not having influential friends to get me a commission,
enlisted in one of her own Virginia regiments, knowing that no act
of mine would prove my sincerity like that. You should have seen her
face when I walked in upon her, as she sat alone, busied with the
army work, as I’d so often seen her sitting by my bed; it showed me
all she had been suffering in silence, all I should have lost had I
chosen darkness instead of light. She hoped and feared so much she
could not speak, neither could I, but dropped my cloak, and showed
her that, through love of her, I had become a soldier of the Flag.
How I love the coarse blue uniform! for when she saw it, she came to
me without a word and kept her promise in a month.”
“Thunder! what a harnsome woman!” exclaimed Flint, as Phil, opening
the golden case that held his talisman, showed them the beautiful,
beloved face of which he spoke.
“Yes! and a right noble woman too. I don’t deserve her, but I will.
We parted on our wedding-day, for orders to be off came suddenly,
and she would not let me go until I had given her my name to keep.
We were married in the morning, and at noon I had to go. Other women
wept as we marched through the town, but my brave Margaret kept her
tears till we were gone, smiling, and waving her hand to me,--the
hand that wore the wedding-ring,--till I was out of sight. That
image of her is before me day and night, and day and night her last
words are ringing in my ears,--
“‘I give you freely, do your best. Better a true man’s widow than a
traitor’s wife.’
“Boys, I’ve only stood on the right side for a month; I’ve only
fought one battle, earned one honor; but I believe these poor
achievements are an earnest of the long atonement I desire to make
for five and twenty years of blind transgression. You say I fight
well. Have I not cause to dare much?--for in owning many slaves, I
too became a slave; in helping to make many freemen, I liberate
myself. You wonder why I refused promotion. Have I any right to it
yet? Are there not men who never sinned as I have done, and beside
whose sacrifices mine look pitifully small? You tell me I have no
ambition. I have the highest, for I desire to become God’s noblest
work,--an honest man,--living, to make Margaret happy, in a love
that every hour grows worthier of her own,--dying, to make death
proud to take me.”
Phil had risen while he spoke, as if the enthusiasm of his mood
lifted him into the truer manhood he aspired to attain. Straight and
strong he stood up in the moonlight, his voice deepened by unwonted
energy, his eye clear and steadfast, his whole face ennobled by the
regenerating power of this late loyalty to country, wife, and self,
and bright against the dark blue of his jacket shone the pictured
face, the only medal he was proud to wear.
Ah, brave, brief moment, cancelling years of wrong! Ah, fair and
fatal decoration, serving as a mark for a hidden foe! The sharp
crack of a rifle broke the stillness of the night, and with those
hopeful words upon his lips, the young man sealed his purpose with
his life.
THE KING OF CLUBS AND THE QUEEN OF HEARTS.
A STORY FOR YOUNG AMERICA.
FIVE and twenty ladies, all in a row, sat on one side of the hall,
looking very much as if they felt like the little old woman who fell
asleep on the king’s highway and awoke with abbreviated drapery, for
they were all arrayed in gray tunics and Turkish continuations,
profusely adorned with many-colored trimmings. Five and twenty
gentleman, all in a row, sat on the opposite side of the hall,
looking somewhat subdued, as men are apt to do when they fancy they
are in danger of making fools of themselves. They, also, were en
costume, for all the dark ones had grown piratical in red shirts,
the light ones nautical in blue; and a few boldly appeared in white,
making up in starch and studs what they lost in color, while all
were more or less Byronic as to collar.
On the platform appeared a pile of dumb-bells, a regiment of clubs,
and a pyramid of bean-bags, and stirring nervously among them a
foreign-looking gentleman, the new leader of a class lately formed
by Dr. Thor Turner, whose mission it was to strengthen the world’s
spine, and convert it to a belief in air and exercise, by setting it
to balancing its poles and spinning merrily, while enjoying the
“Sun-cure” on a large scale. His advent formed an epoch in the
history of the town; for it was a quiet old village, guiltless of
bustle, fashion, or parade, where each man stood for what he was;
and, being a sagacious set, every one’s true value was pretty
accurately known. It was a neighborly town, with gossip enough to
stir the social atmosphere with small gusts of interest or wonder,
yet do no harm. A sensible, free-and-easy town, for the wisest man
in it wore the worst boots, and no one thought the less of his
understanding; the belle of the village went shopping with a big
sun-bonnet and tin pail, and no one found her beauty lessened;
oddities of all sorts ambled peacefully about on their various
hobbies, and no one suggested the expediency of a trip on the wooden
horse upon which the chivalrous South is always eager to mount an
irrepressible abolitionist. Restless people were soothed by the
lullaby the river sang in its slow journey to the sea, old people
found here a pleasant place to make ready to die in, young people to
survey the world from, before taking their first flight, and
strangers looked back upon it, as a quiet nook full of ancient
legends and modern lights, which would keep its memory green when
many a gayer spot was quite forgotten. Anything based upon common
sense found favor with the inhabitants, and Dr. Turner’s theories,
being eminently so, were accepted at once and energetically carried
out. A sort of heathen revival took place, for even the ministers
and deacons turned Musclemen; old ladies tossed bean-bags till their
caps were awry, and winter roses blossomed on their cheeks;
school-children proved the worth of the old proverb, “An ounce of
prevention is worth a pound of cure,” by getting their backs ready
before the burdens came; pale girls grew blithe and strong swinging
their dumb namesakes; and jolly lads marched to and fro embracing
clubs as if longevity were corked up in those wooden bottles, and
they all took “modest quenchers” by the way.
August Bopp, the new leader of the class, was a German possessing
but a small stock of English, though a fine gynmast; and, being also
a bashful man, the appointed moment had no sooner arrived than he
found his carefully prepared sentences slipping away from his memory
as the ice appears to do from under unhappy souls first mounted upon
skates. An awful silence reigned; Mr. Bopp glanced nervously over
his shoulder at the staring rows, more appalling in their stillness
than if they had risen up and hooted at him, then piling up the bags
for the seventh time, he gave himself a mental shake, and, with a
crimson visage, was about to launch his first “Ladees und
gentlemen,” when the door opened, and a small, merry-faced figure
appeared, looking quite at ease in the novel dress, as, with a
comprehensive nod, it marched straight across the hall to its place
among the weaker vessels.
A general glance of approbation followed from the gentlemen’s side,
a welcoming murmur ran along the ladies’, and the fifty pairs of
eyes changed their focus for a moment. Taking advantage of which,
Mr. Bopp righted himself, and burst out with a decided,--
“Ladees und gentlemen: the time have arrived that we shall begin.
Will the gentlemen serve the ladees to a wand, each one, then spread
