Daisy did not say no, nor anything. She had taken care not to let Gary
get hold of her Bible; the rest she must manage as she could.

"This is benevolence!" went on the young man. "Teaching a spelling
lesson in a Belvidere with the thermometer at 90° in the shade? What
sinners all the rest of us are! I declare, Daisy, you make me feel bad."

"I should not think it, Mr. McFarlane."

"Daisy, you have à plomb enough for a princess, and gravity enough for
a Puritan! I should like to see you when you are grown up,--only then I
shall be an old man, and it will be of no consequence. What do you
expect to do with that little red head?--now do tell me."

"She don't know anything, Mr. McFarlane."

"No more don't I! Come Daisy--have pity on me. You never saw anybody
more ignorant than I am. There are half a dozen things at this moment
which I don't know--and which you can tell me. Come, will you?"

"I must go in, Mr. McFarlane."

"But tell me first. Come, Daisy! I want to know why is it so much
more wicked to sing a song than to make somebody else singsong?--for
that's the way they all do the spelling book, I know. Hey, Daisy?"

"How did you know anything about it, Mr. McFarlane?"

"Come, Daisy,--explain. I am all in a fog--or else you are. This
spelling book seems to me a very wicked thing on Sunday."

"I will take it, if you please, Mr. McFarlane."

"Not if I know it! I want my ignorance instructed, Daisy. I am persuaded
you are the best person to enlighten me--but if not, I shall try this
spelling book on Mrs. Randolph. I regard it as a great curiosity, and an
important question in metaphysics."

Poor Daisy! She did not know what to do; conscious that Gary was
laughing at her all the while, and most unwilling that the story of the
spelling book should get to Mrs. Randolph's ears. She stood hesitating
and troubled, when her eye caught sight of Preston near. Springing to
him she cried, "O Preston, get my little book from Mr. McFarlane--he
won't give it to me."

There began then a race of the most uproarious sort between the two
young men--springing, turning, darting round among the trees and bushes,
shouting to and laughing at each other. Daisy another time would have
been amused; now she was almost frightened, lest all this boisterous
work should draw attention. At last, however, Preston got the spelling
book, or Gary let himself be overtaken and gave it up.

"It's mischief, Preston!" he said;--"deep mischief--occult mischief. I
give you warning."

"What is it, Daisy?" said Preston. "What is it all about?"

"Never mind. Oh Preston! don't ask anything, but let me have it!"

"There it is then; but Daisy," he said affectionately, catching her in
his arms,--"you are going to sing to-night, aren't you?"

"Don't Preston--don't! let me go," cried Daisy struggling to escape from
him; and she ran away as soon as he let her, hardly able to keep back
her tears. She felt it very hard. Preston and Gary, and her mother and
her father,--all against her in different ways. Daisy kneeled down by
her window-sill in her own room, to try to get comfort and strength;
though she was in too great tumult to pray connectedly. Her little heart
was beating sadly. But there was no doubt at all in Daisy's mind as to
what she should do.--"If a man love me, he will keep my words." She
never questioned now about doing that.

The dreaded tea bell rang, and she went down; but utterly unable to eat
or drink through agitation. Nobody seemed to notice her particularly,
and she wandered out upon the verandah; and waited there. There
presently her father's arms came round her before she was aware.

"What are you going to do, Daisy?"

"Nothing, papa," she whispered.

"Are you not going to sing?"

"Papa, I can't!" cried Daisy dropping her face against his arm. Her
father raised it again and drawing her opposite one of the windows,
looked into the dark-ringed eyes and white face.

"You are not well," said he. "You are not fit to be up; and my orders to
you, Daisy, are to go immediately to bed. I'll send you some medicine by
and by. Good night!"

He kissed her, and Daisy needed no second bidding. She sprang away,
getting into the house by another door; and lost no time. Her fear was
that her mother might send for her before she could get undressed. But
no summons came; June was speedy, thinking and saying it was a very good
thing for Daisy to do; and then she went off and left her alone with the
moonlight. Daisy was in no hurry then. She knelt by her beloved window,
where the scent of the honeysuckle was strong in the dewy air; and with
a less throbbing heart prayed her prayer. But she was not at ease yet;
it was very uncertain in her mind how her mother would take this order
of her father's; and what would come after, if she was willing to let it
pass. So Daisy could not go to sleep, but lay wide awake and fearing in
the moonlight, and listening to every sound in the house that came to
her ears.

The moonlight shone in peacefully, and Daisy lying there and growing
gradually calmer, began to wonder in herself that there should be so
much difficulty made about anybody's doing right. If she had been set on
some wrong thing, it would have made but a very little disturbance--if
any; but now, when she was only trying to do right, the whole house was
roused to prevent her. Was it so in those strange old times that the
eleventh chapter of Hebrews told of?--when men, and women, were stoned,
and sawn asunder, and slain with the sword, and wandered like wild
animals in sheepskins and goatskins and in dens and caves of the earth?
all for the name of Jesus. But if they suffered once, they were happy
now. Better anything, at all events, than to deny that name!

The evening seemed excessively long to Daisy, lying there on her bed
awake, and listening with strained ears for any sound near her room. She
heard none; the hours passed, though so very slowly, as they do when all
the minutes are watched; and Daisy heard nothing but dim distant noises,
and grew pretty quiet. She had heard nothing else, when turning her head
from the moonlight window she caught the sight of a white figure at her
bedside; and by the noble form and stately proportions Daisy knew
instantly whose figure it was. Those soft flowing draperies had been
before her eyes all day. A pang shot through the child, that seemed to
go from the crown of her head to the soles of her feet.

"Are you awake, Daisy?"

"Yes, mamma," she said feebly.

"Get up. I want to speak to you."

Daisy got off the bed, and the white figure in the little night dress
stood opposite the other white figure, robed in muslin and laces that
fell around it like a cloud.

"Why did you come to bed?"

"Papa--papa ordered me."

"It's all the same. If you had not come to bed, Daisy if you had been
well,--would you have sung when I ordered you to-night?"

Daisy hesitated, and then said in a whisper:

"No, mamma--not that."

"Think before you answer me, for I shall not ask twice. Will you promise
to sing the gypsy song, because I command you, next Sunday in the
evening? Answer, Daisy."

Very low it was, for Daisy trembled so that she did not know how she
could speak at all, but the answer came,--

"I can't, mamma."

Mrs. Randolph stepped to the bell and rang it. Almost at the same
instant June entered, bearing a cup in her hand.

"What is that?" said Mrs. Randolph.

"Master sent Miss Daisy some medicine."

"Set it down. I have got some here better for her. June, take Daisy's
hands."

"Oh mamma, no!" exclaimed Daisy. "Oh please send June away!"

The slight gesture of command to June which answered this, was as
imperious as it was slight. It was characteristically like Mrs.
Randolph; graceful and absolute. June obeyed it, as old instinct told
her to do; though sorely against her will. She had held hands before,
though not Daisy's; and she knew very well the look of the little whip
with which her mistress stepped back into the room, having gone to her
own for it. In a Southern home that whip had been wont to live in Mrs.
Randolph's pocket. June's heart groaned within her.

The whip was small but it had been made for use, not for play; and there
