of the thoughts that crowded together. And when she raised it up, the
lovely hills of the island, with their novel outline and green
luxuriance, were nearer and clearer and higher than they had been a
minute before. Now she could discern here and there, she thought,
something that must be a dwelling-house; then trees began to detach
themselves from the universal mass; she saw smoke rising; and she
became aware too, that along the face of the island, fronting the
approach of the schooner, was a wall of surf; and a line of breakers
that seemed to stretch right and left and to be without an interval in
their white continuity. Eleanor did not see how the schooner was going
to get in; for the surf did not break evidently on the shore of the
island, but on a reef extending around the shore and at some little
distance from it. Yet the vessel stood straight on; and the sweet smell
of the land began to come with the freshness of the morning air.

"Is this Vuliva before us?" she asked of the skipper whom she found
standing near.

"Ay, ay!"

"Where are you going to get in? I see no opening."

"Ay, ay! There is an opening, though."

And soon, looking keenly, Eleanor thought she could discern it. Not
until they were almost upon it however; and then it was a place of
rough water enough, though the regular fall of the surf was interrupted
and there was only a general upheaving and commotion of the waves among
themselves. It was nothing very terrific; the tide was in a good state;
and presently Eleanor saw that they had passed the barrier, they were
in smooth water, and making for an opening in the land immediately
opposite which might be either the mouth of a river or an inlet of the
sea. They neared it fast, sailed up into it; and there to Eleanor's
mortification the skipper dropped anchor and swung to. She saw no
settlement. Some few scattered houses were plain enough now to be seen;
but nothing even like a village. Tufts of trees waved gracefully; rock
and hill and rich-coloured lowland spread out a variety of beauty;
where was Vuliva, the station? This might be the island. Where were the
people? Could they come no nearer than this?

Mr. Amos made enquiry. The village, the skipper said, was "round the
pint;" in other words, behind a woody headland which just before them
bent the course of the river into a sharp angle. The schooner would go
no further; passengers and effects were to be transported the rest of
the way in boats. People they would see soon enough; so the master of
the "Queen Esther" advised them.

"I suppose the natives will carry the news of the schooner being here,
and our friends will come and look after us," Mr. Amos said.

Eleanor changed colour, and sat with a beating heart looking at the
fair fresh landscape which was to be--perhaps--the scene of her future
home. The scene was peace itself. Still water after the upheavings of
the ocean; the smell and almost the fluttering sound of the green
leaves in the delicious wind; the ripple on the surface of the little
river; the soft stillness of land sounds, with the heavy beat of the
surf left behind on the reef outside. Eleanor drew a long breath.
People would find them out soon, the skipper had said. She was
exceedingly disposed to get rid of her sea dress and put on something
that looked like the summer morning; for without recollecting what the
seasons were in the Southern Ocean, that was what the time seemed like
to her. She looked round at Mrs. Amos, who was sitting up and beginning
to realize that she had done with the sea for the present.

"How do you do?" said Eleanor.

"I should feel better if I could get on something clean."

"Come, then!"

The two ladies disappeared down the companion way, into one of the most
sorry tiring rooms, surely, that ever nicety used for that purpose. But
it served two purposes with Eleanor just now; and the second was a
hiding place. She did not want to be taken unawares, nor to be seen
before she could see. So under the circumstances she made both Mrs.
Amos and herself comfortable, and was as helpful as usual in a new
line. Then she went to look out; but nobody was in sight yet, gentle or
savage; all was safe; she went back to Mrs. Amos and fastened the door.

"Let us kneel down and pray together, will you?" she said. "I cannot
get my breath freely till we have done that."

Mrs. Amos's lips trembled as she knelt. And Eleanor and she joined in
many petitions there, while the very stillness of their little cabin
floor reminded them they were come to their desired haven, and the long
sea journey was over. They rose up and kissed each other.

"I am so glad I have known you!" said Mrs. Amos. "What a blessing you
have been to us! I wish we might be stationed somewhere together."

"I suppose that would be too good to hope for," said Eleanor. "I am
going to reconnoitre again."

Mrs. Amos half guessed why, and smiled to herself at Eleanor's blushing
shyness. "Poor child, her hands were all trembling too," she said in
her thoughts. They were broken off by a low summons to the cabin door,
which Eleanor held slightly ajar. Through the crack of the door they
had a vision.

On the deck of the "Queen Esther" stood a specimen of the native
inhabitants of the land. A man of tall stature, nobly developed in
limbs and muscles, he looked in his native undress almost of giant
proportions. His clothing was only a long piece of figured native cloth
wound about his loins, one end falling like a train to the very sloop's
deck. A thorough black skin was the only covering of the rest of his
person, and shewed his breadth of shoulder and strength of muscle to
good advantage; as if carved in black marble; only there was sufficient
graceful mobility and dignified ease of carriage and attitude; no
marble rigidity. Black he was, this savage, but not negro. The features
were well cut and good. What the hair might be naturally could only be
guessed at; the work of a skilful hair-dresser had left it something
for the uninitiated to marvel at. A band of three or four inches in
breadth, completely white, bordered the face; the rest, a very
luxuriant head, was jet black and dressed into a perfectly regular and
smooth roundish form, projecting everywhere beyond the white inner
border. He had an uncouth necklace, made of what it was impossible to
say, except that part of it looked like shells and part like some
animal's teeth; rings of one or two colours were on his fingers; he
carried no weapon. But in his huge, powerful black frame, uncouth
hair-dressing, and strange uncoveredness, he was a sufficiently
terrible object to unused eyes. In Tonga the ladies had seen no such
sight.

"Do shut the door!" said Mrs. Amos. "He may come this way, and there is
nobody that knows how to speak to him."

Eleanor shut the door, and looked round at her friend with a smile.

"I am foolish!" said Mrs. Amos laughing; "but I don't want to see him
just yet--till there is somebody to talk to him."

The door being fast, Eleanor applied herself to a somewhat large
knot-hole she had long ago discovered in it; one which she strongly
suspected the skipper had fostered, if not originated, for his own
convenience of spying what was going on. Through this knot-hole Eleanor
had a fair view of a good part of the deck, savage and all. He was
gesticulating now and talking, evidently to the captain and Mr. Amos,
the former of whom either did not understand or did not agree with him.
Mr. Amos, of course, was in the former condition. Eleanor watched them
with absorbed interest; when suddenly this vision was crossed by
another, that looked to her eyes much as a white angel might, coming
across a cloud of both moral and physical blackness. Mr. Rhys himself;
his very self, and looking very much like it; only in a white dress
literally, which in England she had never seen him wear. But the white
dress alone did not make the impression to her eyes; there was that air
of freshness and purity which some people always carry about with them,
and which has to do with the clear look of temperance as well as with
great particularity of personal care, and in part also grows out of the
moral condition. In three breathless seconds Eleanor took note of it
all, characteristics well known, but seen now with the novelty of long
disuse and with the background of that huge black savage, to whom Mr.
Rhys was addressing some words, of explanation or exhortation--Eleanor
could not tell which. She noticed the quiet pleasant manner of his
speech, which certainly looked not as if Mrs. Amos had any reason for
her fears; but he was speaking earnestly, and she observed too the
unbending look of the savage in answer and a certain pleasant deference
with which he appeared to be listening. Mr. Rhys had taken off his hat
for a moment--it hung in his hand while the other brushed the hair from
his forehead. Eleanor's eye even in that moment fell to the hand which
carried the hat; it was the same,--she recognized it with a curious
sense of bringing great and little things together,--it was the same
white and carefully looked-after hand that she remembered it in
England. Mr. Rhys's own personal civilization went about with him.

Eleanor did not hear any of Mrs. Amos's words to her, which were
several; and though Mrs. Amos, half alarmed by her deafness, did not
know but she might be witnessing something dreadful on deck, and spoke
with some importunity. Eleanor was thinking she had not a minute to
lose. Beyond the time of Mr. Rhys's talking to the other visitor on the
schooner's deck, there could be but small interval before he would
learn all about her being on board; two words to the skipper or Mr.
Amos would bring it out; and if she wished to gain that first minute's
testimony of look and word, she must be beforehand with them. She
thought of all that with a beating heart in one instant's flash of
thought, hastily caught up her ship cloak without daring to stop to put
it on, slipped back the bolt of the door, and noiselessly passed out
upon the deck. She neither heard nor saw anybody else; she was
conscious of an intense and pitiful shame at being there and at thus
presenting herself; but everything else was second to that necessity,
to know from Mr. Rhys's look, with an absolute certainty, where he
