The sentinel took the paper, unfolded it, and turned it over two or three
times. It was too dark for him to read it if he had been able to do so,
for all the rebel soldiers are not gifted in this way.
"I reckon this won't do," he added, after patiently considering the
matter. "Just you tote this paper up to the corporal thar, and if he says
it's all right, you kin go on."
"But I can't stop to do all that. Here's my pass, and I want to go on. My
father may die before I get home."
"What regiment do you b'long to?" asked the guard, who evidently did not
wish to disoblige a fellow-soldier unnecessarily.
"The Second Virginia," replied Tom, at a venture.
"Where does your father live?" continued the sentinel.
"Just beyond the Gap, if he's living at all."
"What town?"
Tom was nonplussed, for he did not know the name of a single place on the
route before him; and, of course, he did not dare to answer the question.
"About five or six miles from here," he answered.
"Is it Salem or White Plains?" demanded the soldier, whose cunning was
inferior to his honesty.
"White Plains," added Tom, promptly accepting the suggestion.
"What's the matter with your father?"
"I don't know; he was taken suddenly."
"Pears like your uniform ain't exactly our sort," added the soldier.
"Mine was all used up, and I got one on the battle-field."
"I wouldn't do that. It's mean to rob a dead man of his clothes."
"Couldn't help it--I was almost naked," replied Tom, who perfectly agreed
with the rebel on this point.
"You kin go on, Old Virginny," said the soldier, whose kindly sympathy for
Tom and his sick father was highly commendable.
The soldier boy thanked the sentinel for his permission, of which he
immediately availed himself. Tom did not yet realize the force of the
maxim that "all is fair in war," and his conscience gave a momentary
twinge as he thought of the deception he had practised upon the honest and
kind-hearted rebel. He was very thankful that he had not been compelled to
put a bullet through his head; but perhaps he was more thankful that the
man had not been obliged to do him a similar favor.
The fugitive walked, with an occasional rest, till daylight the next
morning. He went through three or four small villages. After passing
through the Gap, he had taken the railroad, as less likely to lead him
through the more thickly settled parts of the country. Before him the
mountains of the Blue Ridge rose like an impassable wall, and when the day
dawned he was approaching Manassas Gap. He had walked twenty-five miles
during the night, and prudence, as well as fatigue, required him to seek a
place of rest.
CHAPTER XX.
DOWN THE SHENANDOAH.
In that wild mountain region, Tom had no difficulty in finding a secluded
spot, where there was no probability that he would be molested. He had
been in a state of constant excitement during the night, for the country
was full of soldiers. The mountaineers of Virginia were rushing to the
standard of rebellion. They were a wild, rude set of men, and they made
the night hideous with their debauchery. Tom succeeded in keeping out of
the way of the straggling parties which were roaming here and there; but
he was filled with dread and anxiety lest he should, at the next moment,
stumble upon a camp, or a squad of these marauders.
The nook in the mountains which he had chosen as his resting place was a
cleft in the rocks, concealed by the overhanging branches of trees. Here
he made his bed, as the sun rose, and, worn out with fatigue and anxiety,
he dropped asleep.
When he awoke, the sun was near the meridian. He rose and walked out a
short distance from his lodging place, and listened for any sounds which
might indicate the presence of an enemy. All was still; silence deep and
profound reigned through the solitudes of the mountains. Tom returned to
his place of concealment, and after eating the remainder of the food he
had brought with him, he stretched himself upon the ground, and went to
sleep again. He had nothing else to do, and he needed all the rest he
could obtain. It was fortunate for him that he had self-possession enough
to sleep--to banish his nervous doubts and fears, and thus secure the
repose which was indispensable to the success of his arduous enterprise.
It was after sundown when he finished his second nap. He had slept nearly
all day,--at least ten hours,--and he was entirely refreshed and restored.
He was rather stiff in some of his limbs when he got up; but he knew this
would wear off after a little exercise. He had no supper with which to
brace himself for the night's work; so he took a drink from the mountain
stream, and made his way back to the railroad. But it was too early then
to commence the passage of the Gap, and he sat for a couple of hours by
the side of the road, before he ventured to resume his journey.
While he was passing through the narrow gorge in the mountains, he met
several persons, on foot and on horseback; but as he was armed with a
pistol, he did not turn out for them; but when a party of soldiers
approached, he sought a hiding place by the side of the road until they
were out of hearing. When he had passed through the Gap, he came to a road
crossing the track, and after debating the question thoroughly, he decided
to abandon the railroad, and pursued his course by the common highway
towards the North.
Continuing his journey diligently for a time longer, he came to another
road, branching off to the left from the one he had chosen, which required
further consideration. But his conclusion was satisfactory, and he
continued on the same road, which soon brought him to a more thickly
settled country than that through which he had been travelling.
By this time Tom's stomach began to be rebellious again, and the question
of rations began to assume a serious aspect. He was not suffering for
food, but it was so much more comfortable to travel upon a full stomach
than an empty one, that he could not pass a dwelling house without
thinking of the contents of the cellar and closets. It was perfectly
proper to forage on the enemy; but he could not eat raw chicken and geese,
or the problem of rations would have been effectually settled by a
demonstration on the hen-coops of the Shenandoah valley.
He came to a halt before a large mansion, which had the appearance of
belonging to a wealthy person. Its larder and kitchen cupboards, he
doubted not, were plentifully supplied with the luxuries of the season;
and Tom thought he might as well obtain his provisions now, as wait till
he was driven to desperation by hunger. He entered the front gate of the
great house, and stepped upon the veranda in front of it. The windows
reached down to the floor. He tried one of them, and found that it was not
fastened. He carefully raised the sash and entered.
Tom was determined to put himself upon his impudence on the present
occasion; but he satisfied himself that his revolver was in condition for
instant use before he proceeded any farther. Passing from the front room
to an apartment in the rear, he found a lamp and matches, and concluded
that he would have some light on the subject, which was duly obtained.
Leaving this room, he entered another, which proved to be the kitchen. A
patient search revealed to him the lurking place of a cold roast chicken,
some fried bacon, bread, and crackers.
Placing these things on the table, he seated himself to partake of the
feast which the forethought of the occupants had provided for him. Tom
began to be entirely at home, for having thrown himself on his impudence
now; he did not permit any doubts or fears to disturb him; but the handle
of his pistol protruded from between the buttons of his coat. He ate till
he had satisfied himself, when he happened to think that the coffee pot he
had seen in the closet might contain some cold coffee; and he brought it
out. He was not disappointed, and even found sugar and milk. He poured out
a bowl of the beverage, and, having prepared it to his taste, was about to
conclude the feast in this genteel style, when he heard footsteps in the
adjoining entry.
Tom determined not to be cheated out of his coffee, and instead of putting
himself in a flurry, he took the bowl in one hand and the pistol in the
other. The door opened, and a negro timidly entered the room.
"Well, sar!" said the servant, as he edged along the side of the room.
"Hem! Well, sar!"
Tom took no notice of him, but continued to drink his coffee as coolly as
though he had been in his mother's cottage at Pinchbrook.
"Hem! Well, sar!" repeated the negro, who evidently wished to have the
interloper take some notice of him.
But the soldier boy refused to descend from his dignity or his impudence.
He finished the bowl of coffee as deliberately as though the darkey had
been somewhere else.
"Well, sar! Who's you, sar?"
"Eh, Blackee?"
"Who's you, sar?"
"Good chicken! Good bread! Good bacon!" added Tom. "Are the folks at home,
Blackee?"
"No, sar; nobody but de women folks, sar. Who's you, sar?"
"It don't make much difference who I am. Where's your master?"
"Gone to Richmond, sar. He's member ob Congress."
"Then he's in poor business, Blackee," said Tom, as he took out his
handkerchief, and proceeded to transfer the remnants of his supper to its
capacious folds.
"Better luff dem tings alone, sar."
But Tom refused to "luff dem alone," and when he had placed them on the
handkerchief, he made a bundle of them.
"Golly, sar! I'll tell my missus what's gwine on down here," added the
servant, as he moved towards the door.
"See here, Blackee," interposed Tom, pointing his pistol at the negro; "if
you move, I'll put one of these balls through your skull."
"De Lud sabe us, massa! Don't shoot dis nigger, massa."
"Hold your tongue then, and mind what I say."
"Yes, massa," whined the darkey, in the most abject tones.
"Now come with me, Blackee, and if you open your mouth, one of these pills
shall go down your throat."
Tom flourished his pistol before the negro, and led the way to the window
by which he had entered the house. Passing out upon the veranda, he
cautiously conducted the terrified servant to the road; and when they had
gone a short distance, he halted.
"Now, Blackee, what town is this?" demanded Tom.
"Leeds Manor, sar," replied the trembling negro.
"How far is it to the Shenandoah River?"
"Only two or tree miles, massa. Now let dis chile go home again."
"Not yet."
"Hab mercy on dis nigger dis time, and sabe him."
"I won't hurt you, if you behave yourself."
Tom questioned him for some time in regard to the river, and the towns
upon its banks; and when he had obtained all the information in regard to
the valley which the servant possessed, he resumed his journey, driving
the negro before him.
"Spare dis chile, massa, for de sake ob de wife and chil'n," pleaded the
unwilling guide.
"I tell you I won't hurt you if you behave yourself," replied Tom. "You'll
have the whole place down upon me in half an hour, if I let you go now."
"No, massa; dis nigger won't say one word 'bout you, nor de tings you took
