satisfied that he had won the money honestly, and he carefully bestowed
it with his clothing in his berth.
Early in the morning Mr. Watts went on shore with a boat's crew, to
commence bringing off the water casks. It required the whole forenoon to
remove the old casks, and stow the new ones in the hold. About eleven
o'clock the mate complained of a chilly sensation, and a pain in his
back, which was followed up by a severe headache. He was soon compelled
to leave his work, and take to his berth in the cabin. The next boat
from the shore brought off a surgeon, who promptly pronounced the
disease the yellow fever.
Before the Roebuck could get off, two of the sailors were attacked by
the terrible malady. The only safety for the rest was in immediate
flight; and the schooner got under way, and stood out to sea. The doctor
had left ample directions for the treatment of the disease, but the
medicines appeared to do no good. Mr. Watts was delirious before night.
The two men in the forecastle were no better, and the prospect on board
the vessel was as gloomy as it could be.
Mollie stood by the sufferer in the cabin, in spite of the protest of
her father. She knew what the fever was; but she seemed to be endued
with a courage which was more than human. She nursed the sick man
tenderly, and her simple prayer for his recovery ascended every hour
during the long night. One of the men forward died before morning, and
was committed to the deep by his terrified messmates, without even a
form of prayer over his plague-stricken remains.
Towards night, on the second day out of Barbadoes, Mr. Watts breathed
his last. By the light of the lanterns, his cold form was placed on a
plank extended over the rail. Mollie would not permit him to be buried
in his watery grave without a prayer, and Captain McClintock read one.
Many tears were shed over him, as his body slid off into the sea. Noddy
and Mollie wept bitterly, for they felt that they had lost a good
friend.
There was only one more patient on board, and he seemed to be improving;
but before the morning sun rose, red and glaring on the silent ocean,
there were three more. Captain McClintock was one of them. There was
none to take care of him but Mollie and Noddy; and both of them,
regardless of the demands of their own bodies, kept vigil by his couch.
More faithful nurses a sick man never had. They applied the remedies
which had been used before.
On the following day two more of the crew were committed to their ocean
graves, and despair reigned throughout the vessel. The captain grew
worse every hour, and poor Mollie was often compelled to leave the
bedside that he might not see her weeping over him. He soon became
delirious, and did not even know her.
"O, Noddy," exclaimed she, when she fully realized the situation of her
father, "I shall soon be alone."
"Don't give up, Mollie," replied the cabin-boy sadly.
"I have prayed till I fear my prayers are no longer heard," sobbed she.
"Yes, they are, Mollie. Don't stop praying," said Noddy, who knew that
the poor girl had derived a great deal of hope and comfort from her
prayers.
He had seen her kneel down when she was almost overcome by the horrors
which surrounded them, and rise as calm and hopeful as though she had
received a message direct from on high. Perhaps he had no real faith in
her prayers, but he saw what strength she derived from them. Certainly
they had not warded off the pestilence, which was still seeking new
victims on board. But they were the life of Mollie's struggling
existence; and it was with the utmost sincerity that he had counselled
her to continue them.
"My father will die!" groaned the poor girl. "Nothing can save him now."
"No, he won't die. He isn't very bad yet, Mollie."
"O, yes, he is. He does not speak to me; he does not know me."
"He is doing very well, Mollie. Don't give it up yet."
"I feel that he will soon leave me."
"No, he won't, Mollie. I know he will get well," said Noddy, with the
most determined emphasis.
"How do you know?"
"I feel that he will. He isn't half so bad as Mr. Watts was. Cheer up,
and he will be all right in a few days."
"But think how terrible it would be for my poor father to die, away here
in the middle of the ocean," continued Mollie, weeping most bitterly, as
she thought of the future.
"But he will not die; I am just as sure that he will get well, as I am
that I am alive now."
Noddy had no reason whatever for this strong assertion, and he made it
only to comfort his friend. It was not made in vain, for the afflicted
daughter was willing to cling to any hope, however slight, and the
confident words of the boy made an impression upon her. The morrow came,
and the captain was decidedly better; but from the forecastle came the
gloomy report that two more of the men had been struck down by the
disease.
There were but three seamen left who were able to do duty, and Mr.
Lincoln, the second mate, was nearly exhausted by watching and anxiety.
Fortunately, the weather had been fine, and the Roebuck had been under
all sail, with a fair wind. Noddy had obtained a little sleep during the
second night of the captain's illness, and he went on deck to report to
the mate for duty. He was competent to steer the vessel in a light
breeze, and he was permitted to relieve the man at the wheel.
He stood his trick of two hours, and then went below, to ascertain the
condition of the captain. As he descended the ladder, he discovered the
form of Mollie extended on one of the lockers. Her face was flushed, and
she was breathing heavily. Noddy was appalled at this sight, for he knew
too well what these indications meant.
"What is the matter, Mollie?" asked he, hardly able to speak the words
from the violence of his emotion.
"It is my turn now, Noddy," replied she, in faint tones. "Who will pray
for me?"
"I will, Mollie; but what ails you?"
"I am burning up with heat, and perishing with cold. My back feels as if
it was broken, and the pain darts up through my neck into my head. I
know very well what it means. You will take care of my poor
father--won't you, Noddy?"
"To be sure I will. You must turn in, Mollie, and let me take care of
you, too," said he, trying to be as calm as the terrible situation
required of him.
He assisted the stricken maiden to her state-room, and placed her in her
berth. Taking from the medicine chest the now familiar remedy, he gave
her the potion, and tenderly ministered to all her wants. She was very
sick, for she had struggled with the destroying malady for hours before
she yielded to its insidious advances.
"Thank you, Noddy. I feel better now, and I shall soon be happy. Go now
and see to my father; don't let him want for anything."
"I will not, Mollie; I will take first-rate care of him," answered
Noddy, as he smoothed down the clothing around her neck.
"My father is the captain of the ship, you know," added she, with a
smile. "He is a great man; bigger than any shark you ever saw."
Her mind had begun to wander already; and her patient nurse could hardly
keep down his tears, as he gazed at her flushed cheeks, and smoothed
down the curls upon her neck. She was beautiful to him--too beautiful to
die there in mid ocean, with none but rude men to shed great tears over
her silent form. How he wished that Bertha was there, to watch over that
frail little form, and ward off the grim tyrant that was struggling to
possess it! She would not fear the pangs of the pestilence; she would be
an angel in the little state-room, and bring down peace and hope, if not
life, to the lovely sufferer.
Noddy felt as he had never felt before, not even when the dread monster
of the deep had almost snapped up the slight form before him. All the
good lessons he had ever learned in his life came to him with a force
they had never possessed in the sunny hour of prosperity. He wanted to
pray. He felt the need of a strength not his own. Mollie could not pray
now. Her mind was darkened by the shadows of disease. He went out into
the cabin. It looked as cheerless, and cold, and gloomy, as the inside
of a tomb. But God was there; and though Noddy could not speak the
words of his prayer, his heart breathed a spirit which the infinite
Father could understand. He prayed, as he had promised the sick girl he
would, and the strength which prayer had given to her was given to him.
"Here is work for me," said he, as he approached the door of the
captain's state-room. "But I am able to do it. I will never give up this
work."
He did not know what he was to win by this work of love, amid trials and
tribulation. He had struggled with the disposition to despond; he had
worked like a hero to keep his spirits up; and that which he was called
upon to do with his hands was small and trivial compared with that which
was done by his mind and heart. He had conquered fear and despair.
Thus prepared to battle with the giant ills which surrounded him, he
entered Captain McClintock's room.
CHAPTER XV.
THE DEMON OF THE CUP.
"Is that you, Noddy?" asked the captain, faintly.
"Yes, sir. How do you feel, captain?"
"I think I'm a little better. I wish you would ask Mollie to come in; I
want to see her."
"Does your head ache now, sir?" asked Noddy, who did not like to tell
him that his daughter had just been taken with the fever.
"Not so bad as it did. Just speak to Mollie."
"I think you are ever so much better, sir. You will be out in a day or
two."
"Do you think so, Noddy?"
"Yes, sir; I'm certain you will," answered the boy, who knew that faith
was life in the present instance.
"I'm glad you think so. I certainly feel a great deal better," replied
the captain, as though he was already cheered by the inspiration of
hope.
"You must be careful, and keep still; and you will be all right in a
week, at the most."
"I hope so; for I couldn't help thinking, when I was taken down, what a
bitter thing it would be to poor Mollie if I should die so far from home
and friends."
"You have got over the worst of it now, captain."
"Is Mollie out in the cabin?" asked the sufferer, persistently returning
to the subject near his heart.
"No, sir; she is not, just now."
"Has she gone on deck?"
"No, sir."
"Where is she, Noddy?" demanded he, earnestly, as he attempted to raise
himself up in his cot.
"Don't stir, captain; it will make you worse, if you do."
"Tell me where Mollie is at once, or I shall jump out of my berth. Is
she--is she--"
"She is in her room, captain. Don't be worried about her," replied
Noddy, who was afraid that the truth would have a bad effect upon the
