doom to poor Somers. " I have been waiting 
for you half an hour." 
But then, perceiving a stranger with her father, she 
drew back, abashed at her own forwardness. 
" Come here, Sue," said the old man. " Come here : 
I want to see you." 
She advanced timidly from the bushes where she had 
been partially concealed from the gaze of the passers-by. 
She was certainly a very pleasant and comely-looking 
maiden ; but, if she had been the " Witch of Endor," 
she could not have been any more disagreeable to 
Somers. He was as fond of adventure as any young 
man : and if he could have forgotten that poor Owen 
Raynes, the son and the brother, was at that moment 
lying in the mud of the swamp ; his manly form no 
more to gladden the hearts of those who stood before 
him ; his voice hushed in death, no more to utter the 
Accents of affection to the devoted father and his loving 
sister, if he could have forgotten his relations with the 
dead Owen, he might even have enjoyed the exciting 
situation in which he was placed. 
Sue, with a blushing face and half -averted gaze, 
stepped out into the road, and stole a few timid glances 
at the young lieutenant. It was quite evident that she 
did not have a suspicion of the identity of the young 
soldier before her. Her father appeared to have a vein 
of romance in his character, and was disposed to torture 
her for a time with the torments of suspense, before he de- 
clared to her the astounding truth, that the young soldier 
was her well-known but hitherto unseen friend from 
Alabama, the bosom companion of her brother Owen, 
and, if every thing worked as the loving conspirators in- 
tended, the future husband of the affectionate maiden 
She did not like to ask who the stranger was ; and 
she thought it was very provoking of her father not to 
tell her, when she was so fearfully embarrassed by her 
position. She continued to blush ; and Somers felt so 
awkward, that he couldn't help joining her in this inter- 
esting display of roses on the cheeks. 
"Don't you know him, Sue?" demanded the farmer, 
when he had tantalized her as long as the circumstances 
would warranto 
" Why, of course I don't, father I " stammered the Vir 
ginia maiden 
 
" Look in liis face, and see if you can't tell," persisted 
Mr. Raynes. 
" How absurd, father ! " 
" Absurd, child? Not at all absurd! Haven't you 
his picture in the house? and, if I mistake not, you have 
looked at it as many as three times a day for the last 
year." 
" Now, father, you are too bad ! I haven't done any 
thing of the sort," protested Sue, pouting and twisting 
her shoulders as any country girl, who had not been 
trained in a satinwood seminary, would have done under 
such trying circumstances. "You don't mean to say that 
is Allan Garland ?" added she, her pretty face lighting up 
with an expression of intense satisfaction. 
"But I do, Sue," replied Mr. Raynes with emphasis. 
" Why, Allan ! I am so glad to see you ! I was 
afraid I should never see you ! " exclaimed Sue, rushing 
up to the young man, and extending both her hands, 
which he felt compelled to accept. 
He was fearful that she would kiss him ; and, though 
he would have been under obligations to submit to the 
infliction, he was not sure that the operation would not 
cause him to faint. Fortunately for him, Sue was 
reasonable in her behavior ; and he escaped cheaper than 
he expected, when he beheld the impetuous charge which 
the maiden made upon him. If he had really been Allan 
Garland, his reception would have been entirely proper, 
and highly creditable to the affectional nature of -the 
Virginia damsel. He was not the young gentleman from 
Alabama ; and he felt as though he had been flanked on 
both sides, with no chance to beat off the enemy in front, 
or to run away in the rear. He was only a short dis- 
tance from a line of rebel sentinels, and he did not 
consider it prudent to escape by taking to his legs. He 
did not wear his fighting socks at this time, and felt that 
it would be no disgrace to run away from such an enemy 
as that which confronted him. 
" I am very glad to see you, Allan," repeated Sue, as 
the wretched youm? man did not venture to use his 
tongue. 
"Thank you, thank you, Miss Raynes ! " said he at 
last, when silence seemed even more dangerous than 
speech. 
"Miss Raynes! Dear me, Allan, how very formal 
and precise you are ! You called me Sue in your 
letters." 
"Did I? Well I didn't know it," replied Somers 
with a stroke of candor not to be expected under the 
circumstances. 
" Certainly you did. I don't think you ever mentioned 
such a person as Miss Raynes." 
" I am confident I didn't," added he with another 
touch of candor. " But I will always call you Sue here- 
after, when I have occasion to speak to you." 
 
" Thank you, .Allan ! You begin to sound a little lika 
yourself." 
Somers was very glad to hear it, but wished he had 
been five miles off, even if it had been in the very jaws 
of the Fourth Alabama. 
"You don't look a bit like your photograph," coii- 
ti uued Sue, gazing with admiration at the face of the 
young man ; for which those who ever saw Lieutenant 
Somers will cheerfully pardon her. 
"Do you think so?" 
" I'm sure you don't." 
" That's very strange : everybody, who has seen my 
photograph, says it looks exactly like me." 
"I don't think so." 
" I gave one to a young lady of my acquaintance, who 
said it was perfect. 
" Indeed ! Who was she? " 
" She is a young lady whom I have met only two or 
three times." 
" What is her name ? " 
" Lilian Ashford." ~ ; 
" What a pretty name ! " said Sue, endeavoring to be 
magnanimous : though it was evident that she was 
troubled by the honest avowal of the young soldier. 
"Where does she live?" 
" She is at the North now," answered Somers, who 
could not bear to tell a lie when there was no need of 
such a sacrifice. 
 
He was becoming very uneasy under this rigid cate- 
chising, and hoped she would not ask any more questions 
about Lilian Ashford. He had mentioned her name with 
the hope that it might produce a coldness on her part 
which would afford him some advantage. She did not, 
however, seem to be annihilated by the prospect of 'a 
rival, and was proceeding to interrogate him still further 
in regard to the lady, with whom he was apparently inti- 
mate enough to present her his photograph ; when Mr, 
Raynes reminded her that they were standing in the road, 
and had better go into the house. 
" Now, Mr. Raynes, as I have seen Sue, and Sue has 
seen me, I think I had better hasten to my regiment," 
suggested Somers. 
" Not yet, Allan," replied the old man. 
" Do you wish to run away, and leave me so soon, you 
monster?" added Sue. "I tell you, sir, I shall not let 
you go yet." 
" But, Sue ! you forget that I have just returned from 
the Yankees. I was furnished with a pass, to enable me 
to find my regiment." 
" You shall find it in good time." 
" Come to the house, Allan : we will not detain you 
long," added Mr. Raynes. 
" You must and shall come ! " protested Sue, taking 
him by the arm, and absolutely compelling him to go, or 
be guilty of the most unpardonable rudeness to the fair 
Virginia damsel. 
" I should be very glad to go with you, Sue, if my 
duty did not call me elsewhere. I am to be sent off on 
very important service." 
" Again ? so soon ? " 
" This very day. T may never see you again." 
" And you would coolly run away and leave me with" 
out even going into the house ! ' 
" But my duty, Sue ! " 
" You will be in time for your duty." 
" I may be arrested as a deserter." 
" Nonsense ! You have a pass in your pocket.''
"In spite of the pass, if your father had not happened 
to see me, I should have been arrested, and might have 
spent a day or two in the guard-house before the case 
could have been explained." 
" No more argument, Allan," said the persevering 
girl. " Here is the house : you shall go in and look at 
mother, if you don't stop but a minute. Besides, I want 
to see your photograph while you are present ; for I am 
sure you don't look any more like the picture than the 
picture does like you." 
"Probably not," replied Somers, as the resolute maiden 
dragged him into the house ; where, without stopping to 
