
Mrs. Guy received the money with a quiet air, and 
placed it in her pocket. 

Three days afterwards, a woman who kept a small 
dry goods store to which Mrs. Guy was in the habit of 
sending or going for tape, needles, trimmings and the 
like, called on Mr. Guy at the store, and presented a 
due bill, signed by his wife, for twenty-seven dollars 
and a few odd cents. On the same day, the baker 
dropped in with another due bill, calling for sixteen 
dollars. Guy paid them both, without a sign of feel 
ing, just as if disbursements in this way were a part of 
his system. Already there had been sufficient of mor 
tifying exposure in the face of his clerks, and he was 
not inclined to lift the veil again. But, to have due 
bills to the amount of over forty dollars presented within 
three days after giving his wife fifty dollars, struck him 
as a calamity. This was indeed, he felt, like pouring 
water on the sand. 

" If I were a millionaire, I could not stand this ! " 
he said, in his thought. " The woman is losing her 
senses." 

In the evening, Guy endeavored to approach his wife 
with remonstrance on the money question, but she 



 

pushed him aside with a cold dignity that chafed him 
into passion. 

" Madam ! " he exclaimed, " I will not have my 
goods wasted my hard accumulations scattered to the 
wind ! " 

Lydia made no response ; not even so much as lift 
ing her eyes from the book she was reading. 

" Where are the fifty dollars I placed in your hands, 
day hefore yesterday ? " 

No answer no sign. 

Lydia ! " 

Mrs. Guy looked up. 

" Did you hear my question ? " 

She bowed, indifferently. 

" Then why don't you speak ? " 

" You have got to learn another way with me, 
Adam." Lydia's strangely altered eyes dwelt on her 
husband's face with so fixed a stare, that he felt the low 
shudder which had once before crept along his nerves. 

"I shall, in all probability, take another way," he 
answered, a threat half revealing itself in his tones. 
" As just said, I will not have my hard accumulations 
scattered to the wind. Justice to myself and children 
demand restriction. It seems that you are bent on car 
rying things with a high hand. Nearly a hundred dol 
lars spent in three days, and not a word of explanation. 
No wonder even your children say, that you waste and 
scatter faster than ten men can earn." 

Mrs. Guy started as if stung by a serpent, a sudden 
paleness overspreading her face. 

" My children, Adam ? " she said, huskily, and in a 
voice painful with surprise. 



 

" Yes, your children," returned her husband, with 
an air of cruel triumph. 

"Who said it? What child? When?" There 
was a trembling earnestness about Mrs. Guy, now. 

" I heard it with my own ears ; that is sufficient. 
And when things come to the pass that a woman's 
children remark upon her wasteful use of money, it is 
about time for the husband to interfere and save him 
self from ruin as I shall do." 

This was too hard a blow for Mrs. Guy. She arose, 
without answering, and left the room. In a few min 
utes she returned, and handing her husband a small 
pocket-book, said, in a mild, yet firm voice 

" You will find twenty dollars in that pocket-book, 
Adam, the remainder of what you gave me day before 
yesterday. The due bills were in settlement of stand 
ing accounts. In the future, you must do all the buy 
ing. I shall waste no more of your hard accumulations. 
What you bring into the house, I will dispense ; but 
not a dollar shall again pass through my fingers. There 
is such a thing as going too far ; and you have stepped 
over the line." 

" Don't play the fool, Lydia," said Guy, impatiently, 
tossing back the pocket-book, which fell upon the floor. 
" I've had enough of your silly airs. You're trifling 
with the wrong man." 

" There's no trifling, Adam, as you will find." Ly 
dia was calm, but resolute of manner. " When my 
children are brought up as false witnesses against me, 
it is time that I withdraw from a position that has never 
been satisfactorily administered and I do now with 
draw." 



 

And leaving her husband, Mrs. Guy went to her 
own room. She had been there only a little while, 
when her cook tapped at the door. 

" There's no coffee in the house, ma'am," said cook, 
on being admitted ; " nor any eggs, nor lard ; and I 
don't think we've sugar enough for breakfast. Shall I 
run round to the store ? " 

" No, Margaret. See Mr. Guy, and tell him what 
is wanted. He will attend to these matters hereafter. 

The cook stood in unconcealed \vonder, gazing at 
Mrs. Guy. 

" Did you understand me, Margaret ?," 

" Yes, ma'am. I'm to go to Mr. Guy." 

" That is what I said. If anything is wanted in the 
house, go to him." 

The cook lingered for a little while, and then went 
slowly down stairs. After conning over the matter for 
some time, and wondering what it could mean, she ven 
tured into the presence of Mr. Guy, who sat in the 
dining-room, pondering in moody perplexity over this 
new aspect of affairs. The inflexible persistence of 
character, united with something in her looks and man 
ner that made him feel uncomfortable, which Mrs. Guy 
had shown of late, admonished him that trouble was at 
hand. Margaret entered, and stood before the master 
of the house. 

" Mrs. Guy is up stairs," said he, gruffly. 

" It's you that I want to see, sir," Margaret spoke 
in doubt and hesitation. 

" Well, say on." 

" There's no coffee, nor eggs, nor lard, sir, in the 
house and the sugar's out." 



 

Guy swept around in his chair he had merely 
looked at Margaret over his shoulder and confronted 
her with a look of half angry surprise. 

" Mrs. Guy bid me tell you, sir !" stammered the cook. 

" Mrs Guy." 
