the herbage on the table-land of Armenia would be in full 
luxuriance ; and not that only. Dififerent kinds of food, you 
know, the different inhabitants of the ark would want. It 
must have been good to Noah and those that were with him, 
to remove the covering, and look abroad, and let in the sweet 
face of the blue sky ; and one would say, it must have been 
hard to wait any longer; only faith does not say that any- 
thing is hard. But when the order came, to go forth — what 
a coming into the world that must have been ! The green 
rich meadows, the flowers, the hills, the sunshine — how sweet 
they must have been ! but then, the world was empty ! 
Everybody was dead ; the very birds and beasts and insects 
were gone from the fields and woods ; a strange, still, green 
world I I do not wonder that the first thing Noah did was 
to build an altar."  
"To give thanks, uncle Sam ?" 
"Ay, Tiny, and to pray. To pray that God would never 
send a flood again." 
"Well, if he prayed that, he got his prayer," said Prisdlla. 
"I guess he got whatever he prayed for," said my uncle. 
"He was one of the men whose prayers the Lord hears. 
Once, long after, when the Lord was declaring that He would 
punish the nation of the Jews for their wickedness and would 
not be persuaded against it. He said, 'Though Noah, Daniel, 
and Job were in it, they should deliver but their own aoula 
 
by their righteousness.' So I suppose by that, if God would 
regard anybody, He would regard those three men. 'Noah 
found grace in the eyes of the Lord.' Ah, but that is a sweet 
record to be made of any man ! " 
"Was it because he was so patient, uncle Sam?" 
" See, Tiny. In the first place, he was a just man ; perfect, 
the Bible calls him. That is, his heart was whole towards 
God ; it was not divided ; whatever he saw to be duty, that 
Noah did. ' According to all that God commanded him, so 
did he;' with a sweet unquestioning obedience. And his 
faith in God was strong enough to make him go against the 
jeers and the unbelief of the whole world and stand alone, a 
preacher of righteousness, for the hundred and twenty years 
the ark was a-preparing. God loves the people that trust 
Him so." 
" But people cannot trust Him so now," said Priscilla. 
" Can't they ? " said my uncle. 
"I mean, — they cannot show their faith so now, unde 
Sara." 
"Are you sure of that? Turn to the Second Epistle 
of Peter, Prissy, and read the fifth verse of the third 
chapter." 
Priscilla turned to the place and read, while the boys 
peeped over her shoulder. 
"'By the word of God the heavens were of old, and the 
earth standing out of the water and in the water ; whereby 
the world that then was, being overflowed with water, 
perished : but the heavens and the earth which are now, 
by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire 
against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly 
men.'" 
" Do you believe that ?" said my uncle. 
"Yes, sir," and "yes, sir," they all said as his eye went 
from one to the other. 
"You think you do," said he ; "but if you did, you would 
flee into the ark. Your belief is not worth much." 
" The ark ? " said Eliphalet. 
 
"Who is our ark now, Tinyl An ark of gopher- wood 
wonld not save us in the day of that fire." 
"But Jesus ?"— I said softly. 
"  He is able to save them to the uttermost that come unto 
God by him.'  The name of the Lord is a strong tower ; the 
righteous runneth into it and is safe.' ' There is no condemnation" — my uncle went on. 
" But, sir," said Eliphalet, "it is not such a proof of faith 
for people now to trust in the Saviour, as it was for Noah to 
build the ark" 
" To obey the Saviour is a great proof of faith, Liph, now 
as then j and makes a person just as unlike the rest of the 
world. Only now he is not alone in his faith ; that makes a 
difference ; and we have the advantage of much greater light 
than Noah had. But to this day, if a man will be for God 
only, as Noah was, he will have the world against him. And 
as I said, your faith is not worth much. You see it is not 
enough to make you go into the ark." 
" But, sir, the flood was very near ; that made it different." 
" So may the day of Christ's coming be very near." 
" But I thought it was a great way off" 
" Of that day and that hour knoweth no man.' It may 
come to-morrow. And if those I love were all ready for it 
I wish it would ! " 
" But, uncle Sam," I ventured, " won't it be a dreadful 
day?" 
" When Jesus comes ? Not to those that love His appearing, Tiny. That will not be the day that the world will be 
burned up — there will be a long space between ; but whether 
Christ comes to the world, or death takes us to Him, in 
either case our part and lot in the transactions of that last 
great day will be equally fixed and settled beforehand." 
 , " Uncle Sam," said Eliphalet, " how do you suppose all 
the animals were got into the ark ? " 
" How do you suppose they were got into the garden of 
Eden?" 
" O sir," said Liph—" if you mean a miracle" 
 
''I do not mean anything," said my nnde. "If you can 
make anything but a miracle out of it, you are welcome." 
" Uncle Sam," said I, " how high is Mount Ararat ? " 
" How shall I tell yon, Tiny  I told yon, you would 
not be able to imagine it. The glory of it is, that it sprmgs 
right up from the plain, almost alone, instead of being surrounded with other high grounds which would half conceal 
it. Right up from the plain, more than fourteen thousand 
feet ; a beautiful great cone, with its head in eternal snow, 
and a crown of glittering ice on its brow, that shines in the 
blue heaven in the sunlight like a crown of glory. I have 
seen it from different quarters, near and far off; always the 
same regular white cone, in solitary height and majesty, with 
its glittering ice diadeuL I do think it is the most beautiful 
mountain in the world." 
" Is it a volcano, sir ? " 
" The whole land of Armenia is volcanic ; that is, it was 
thrown up at some time by volcanic action ; and Ararat 
seems to have been once a volcano itself ; for below the 
region of snows on its head, there is a barren terrible tract 
covered with great masses of lava and cinders and porphjrry. 
However, within the memory of man there has never been 
an eruption there, nor tradition of such a thing. I suppose, 
if the mountain was ever at work, it has not been since 
Noah's time. It is thought that a great cleft on the north 
side may be the token of a former crater. A village used to 
stand there a few years ago, until a terrible earthquake shook 
down such masses of rock and rubbish from the upper part 
of the mountain, that the village was buried. The principal 
shock happened in the day time, so that but some fifty lives 
were lost. But there were clouds of smoke and a strong 
smell of sulphur about, after the earthquake, which spoke 
for the old character of the mountain." 
" It is time to go into the house, children," said my grand- 
mother. 
"One minute, ma'am," said Priscilla, "Uncle Sam, do 
you know what gopher-toood is ? " 
"It is cypress- wood my dear, I believe the same wood 
 
which the ancient Phoenicians used for their ship-building. 
It is both light and durable, and grows in those regions of 
Asia." 
"How beautiful this talk about Noah and Ararat has 
been !" I said, as uncle Sam put me down from his knee. He 
stooped down and kissed me. 
" But remember the other Day, Tiny, and the Ark. ' A 
prudent man foreseeth the evil and hideth himself.' '' 
Sept. 9.— SHEM, HAM, AND JAPHETH, 
Ajteb a morning of business we had oar dinner out in the 
woods again ; uncle Sam this time taking with him one or 
two books, which as the boys said looked like work. To-day 
we changed our place, and went a little farther, to the top 
of a spreading rock which gave us a most beautiful view 
through one of the forest glades, with a blue mountain 
rising up far in the distance. The rock was warm with the 
uninterrupted rays of the sun ; and the moss gray and crisp 
as if it had been dried. We found a shelter  some 
scrubby pines which had foliage enough to serve ilB for a 
canopy ; and though uncle Sam declared that the xock was 
hard, I think he liked it as well as we did. Grandtiiamma 
had a carpet of shawls to sit upon and the trunk Cff a pine- 
tree to lean against ; and I cannot tell how beautiful the 
lights were across the grassy glade below and upoa ttue faint 
blue mountain far away. 
" How far is it, uncle Sam ? " the boys asked. 
" That mountain ? " said my uncle. " It must be at least 
seventy miles away. So events look to us throught  distance of ages. We get the outline — we get a notion cC their 
greatness — but the features of the case, the lights and 
colours, are all faded away in the undistinguishable vast of 
the space between."  
" Does the Flood look so to us, uncle Sam ?"
" Ay, Tiny ! We read it like a story that has grown cold 
with telling. We hardly see any of its features. Imagine 
that this was the time of the Flood; and that we were 
gathered on this high place as the nearest point of safety ; 
and that over that lower ground, and between us and yonder 
blue mountain, all over, there was a heaving tide of water; 
coming in from we could not tell where, and growing, growing, higher and higher, creeping up the sides of our rock, 
and np the stems of the forest trees. Suppose we had been 
here two days already, with scarce any food; and while 
watching for our lives to see whether the water would goin 
