reason."
"A reason!" said Joy, blankly.
"There's got to be something done, for all I see. God doesn't make
people live on and on and die, for nothing. One can't be a little girl
all one's life, climbing trees and making snowballs," said Gypsy, half
dreamily, half impatiently, jumping up and walking on.
So they wandered away and away, deeper into the heart of the forest,
through moss and tufted grasses, and tangles of mountain flowers,
chatting as girls will, in their silly, merry way, with now and then a
flash of graver thought like this of Gypsy's.
"You're sure you know the way back," said Joy, presently.
"Oh, yes; I've been over it forty times. We've turned about a good many
times, but I don't think we've gone very far from the top of the
mountain."
So, deeper, and further, and on, where the breath of the pines was
sweet; where hidden blossoms were folding their cups for the night, and
the shadows in the thickets were growing gray.
"Gypsy!" said Joy, suddenly, "we're certainly going down hill!"
"So we are," said Gypsy, thoughtfully; "it's getting dark, too. They'll
be ready to start for home. I guess we'll go back now."
They turned then, and began rapidly to retrace their steps, over
brambles and stones and fallen trees; through thickets, and up
projecting rocks—very rapidly.
"It is growing dark," said Gypsy, half under her breath; "why didn't we
find it out before?"
"Gypsy," said Joy, after a silence, "do you remember that knot of white
birches? I don't."
Gypsy stopped and looked around.
"N-no, I don't know as I do. But I dare say we saw them and forgot.
Let's walk a little faster."
They walked a little faster. They walked quite as fast as they could go.
"See that great pile of rock," said Joy, presently, her voice trembling
a little; "I know we didn't come by that before. It looks as if there
were a precipice off there."
Gypsy made no answer. She was looking keenly around, her eyes falling on
every rock, stump, tree, and flower, in search of the tiny, trodden path
by which they had left the summit of the mountain. But there was no
path. Only the bramble, and the grass, and the tangled thickets.
It was now very dark.
"I guess this is the way," spoke up Gypsy, cheerfully—"here. Take hold
of my hand, Joy, and we'll run. I think I know where the path is. We had
turned off from it a little bit."
Joy took her hand, and they ran on together. It grew darker, and grew
darker. They could scarcely see the sky now, and the brambles grew high
and thick and strange.
Suddenly Gypsy stopped, knee-deep in a jungle of blackberry bushes.
"Joy, I'm—afraid I don't—know the—way."
CHAPTER X
WE ARE LOST
The two girls, still clasping hands, looked into each other's eyes.
Gypsy was very pale.
"Then we are lost!"
"Yes."
Joy broke into a sort of sobbing cry. Gypsy squeezed her hand very
tightly, with quivering lips.
"It's all my fault. I thought I knew. Oh, Joy, I'm so sorry!"
She expected Joy to burst forth in a torrent of reproaches; once it
would have been so; but for some reason, Joy did not say an angry word.
She only sobbed away quietly, clutching at Gypsy's hand as if she were
very much frightened. She was frightened thoroughly. The scene was
enough to terrify a far less timid child than Joy.
It was now quite dark. Over in the west a faint, ghostly gleam of light
still lingered, seen dimly through the trees; but it only made the utter
blackness of the great forest-shadows more horrible. The huge trunks of
the pines and maples towered up, up—they could scarcely see how far,
grim, and gloomy and silent; here and there a dead branch thrust itself
out against the sky, in that hideous likeness to a fleshless hand which
night and darkness always lend to them. Even Gypsy, though she had been
in the woods many times at night before, shuddered as she stood looking
up. A queer thought came to her, of an old fable she had sometime read
in Tom's mythology; a fable of some huge Titans, angry and fierce, who
tried to climb into heaven; there was just that look about the trees. It
was very still. The birds were in their nests, their singing done. From
far away in some distant swamp came the monotonous, mournful chant of
the frogs—a dreary sound enough, heard in a safe and warm and lighted
home; unspeakably ugly if one is lost in a desolate forest.
Now and then a startled squirrel dropped from bough to bough; or there
was the stealthy, sickening rustle of an unseen snake among the fallen
leaves. From somewhere, too, where precipices that they could not find
dashed downwards into damp gullies, cold, clinging mists were rising.
"To stay here all night!" sobbed Joy, "Oh Gypsy, Gypsy!"
Gypsy was a brave, sensible girl, and after that first moment of horror
when she stood looking up at the trees, her courage and her wits came
back to her.
"I don't believe we shall have to stay here all night," speaking in a
decided, womanly way, a little of the way her mother had in a
difficulty.
"They are all over the mountain hunting for us now. They'll find us
before long, I know. Besides, if they didn't, we could sit down in a dry
place somewhere, and wait till morning; there wouldn't anything hurt us.
Oh, you brought your waterproof—good! Put it on and button it up
tight."
Joy had the cloak folded over her arm. She did passively as Gypsy told
her. When it was all buttoned, she suddenly remembered that Gypsy wore
only her thin, nankeen sack, and she offered to share it with her.
"No," said Gypsy, "I don't want it. Wrap it around your throat as warm
as you can. I got you into this scrape, and now I'm going to take care
of you. Now let's halloa."
And halloa they did, to the best of their ability; Joy in her feeble,
frightened way, Gypsy in loud shouts, and strong, like a boy's. But
there was no answer. They called again and again; they stopped after
each cry, with breath held in, and head bent to listen. Nothing was to
be heard but the frogs and the squirrels and the gliding snakes.
Joy broke out into fresh sobs.
"Well, it's no use to stand here any longer," said Gypsy; "let's run
on."
"Run where? You don't know which way. What shall we do, what shall we
do?"
"We'll go this way—we haven't tried it at all. I shouldn't wonder a
bit if the path were right over there where it looks so black. Besides,
we shall hear them calling for us."
Ah, if there had been anybody to tell them! In precisely the other
direction, the picnic party, roused and frightened, were searching every
thicket, and shouting their names at every ravine. Each step the girls
took now sent them so much further away from help.
While they were running on, still hand in hand, Joy heard the most
remarkable sound. It was a laugh from Gypsy—actually a soft, merry
laugh, breaking out like music on the night air, in the dreary place.
"Why, Gypsy Breynton! What can you find to laugh at, I should like to
know?" said Joy, provoked enough to stop crying at very short notice.
"Oh, dear, I really can't help it," apologized Gypsy, choking down the
offending mirth; "but I was thinking—I couldn't help it, Joy, now,
possibly—how mad Francis Rowe will be to think he's got to stop and
help hunt us up!"
"I wonder what that black thing is ahead of us," said Joy, presently.
They were still running on together, but their hands were not joined
just at that moment. Joy was a little in advance.
"I'm sure I don't know," said Gypsy, eyeing it intently. The words were
scarcely off from her lips before she cried out with a loud cry, and
sprang forward, clutching at Joy's dress.
She was too late.
Joy tripped over a mass of briars, fell, rolled heavily—not over upon
the ground, but off. Off into horrible, utter darkness. Down, with
outstretched hands and one long shriek.
Gypsy stood as if someone had charmed her into a marble statue, her
hands thrown above her head, her eyes peering into the blank darkness
below.
She stood so for one instant only; then she did what only wild,
impulsive Gypsy would have done. She went directly down after Joy,
clinging with her hands and feet to the side of the cliff; slipping,
rolling, getting to her feet again, tearing her clothes, her hands, her
arms—down like a ball, bounding, bouncing, blinded, bewildered.
If it had been four hundred feet, there is no doubt she would have gone
just the same. It proved to be only ten, and she landed somewhere on a
patch of soft grass, except for her scratches and a bruise or two, quite
unhurt.
Something lay here beside her, flat upon the ground. It was Joy. She lay
perfectly still.
A horrible fear came over Gypsy. She crept up on her hands and knees,
trying to see her lace through the dark, and just then Joy moaned
faintly. Gypsy's heart gave a great thump. In that moment, in the moment
of that horrible fear and that great relief, Gypsy knew for the first
time that she loved Joy, and how much.
"It's my ankle," moaned Joy; "it must be broken—I know it's broken."
It was not broken, but very badly sprained.
"Can you stand on it?" asked Gypsy, her face almost as pale as Joy's.
Joy tried to get to her feet, but fell heavily, with a cry of pain.
Gypsy looked around her with dismay. Above, the ten feet of rock shot
steeply; across the gully towered a high, dark wall; at each end,
shelving stones were piled upon each other. They had fallen into a sort
of unroofed cave,—a hollow, shut in completely and impassably.
Impassably to Joy; there could be no doubt about that. To leave her
there alone was out of the question. There was but one thing to be done;
there was no alternative.
"We must stay here all night," said Gypsy, slowly. She had scarcely
finished her sentence when she sprang up, her lips parted and white.
"Joy, see, see! what is that?"
"What? Where?" asked Joy between her sobs.
"There! isn't that smoke?"
A distinct, crackling sound answered her, as of something fiercely
licking up the dead leaves and twigs,—a fearful sound to hear in a
great forest. At the same instant a white cloud of smoke puffed down
almost into their faces. Before they had time to stir or cry out, a
great jet of yellow flame shot up on the edge of the cliff, glared far
into the shadow of the forest, lighted up the ravine with an awful
brightness.
The mountain was on fire.
Gypsy sat for the instant without speaking or moving. She seemed to
herself to have no words to say, no power of motion. She knew far better
than Joy what those five words meant. A dim remembrance came to
