compliment to her. All the young tars were immediately ordered into the
rigging by Captain Gordon, and "three times three" were most lustily
given. The American flag at her peak was lowered three times, in reply
to the salute of the stranger. As the Academy Ship stood off on her
course, the two children of Captain Greely were seen, on the poop-deck
of the other vessel, waving their handkerchiefs; and they continued to
do so as long as they could be seen.
The departure of the guests had a saddening effect upon the crew of the
Young America, as they missed the children and the ladies very much;
for, during their presence on board, the ship had assumed quite a
domestic aspect, and all the idlers on deck found pleasing companions in
the little boy and girl.
The limits of this volume do not permit a full detail of the entire
voyage across the ocean. Enough has been given to show the discipline of
the ship, and the daily life of the boys on board of her. For the next
ten days the weather was generally favorable, and she laid her course
all the time. Some days she made two hundred miles, and others less than
one hundred.
On the sixteenth day from her departure, she was in latitude 51°, 4',
28" N.; longitude 31°, 10', 2" W.; course, E. by N. In going from Cape
Race, the southern point of Newfoundland, to Cape Clear, the southern
point of Ireland, the Young America did not lay a straight course, as it
would appear when drawn on a map or chart. La Rochelle, on the western
coast of France, and Cape Race are nearly on the same parallel of
latitude, and the former is exactly east of the latter. But the parallel
on which both points lie would not be the shortest line between them. A
great circle, extending entirely around the earth in the broadest part,
going through both, would not coincide with the parallel, but would run
to the north of it a considerable distance at a point half way between
the two places, the separation diminishing each way till the great
circle crosses the parallel at Cape Race and La Rochelle. The shortest
course between the two points, therefore, would be the arc of the great
circle lying between them. A skilful navigator would find and follow
this track. This is called great circle sailing.
The Young America followed a great circle from Cape Race to Cape Clear.
Off the former point, her course was two points north of east; off the
latter, it was half a point south of east. On her twentieth day out she
sailed due east.
After the excitement of the wreck and the departure of the passengers,
Shuffles and his confederates resumed their operations in the Chain
League, assisted somewhat by a case of discipline which occurred at this
time. When the ship was sixteen days out the Chain consisted of
thirty-one links, in the cabalistic language of the conspirators, and
Shuffles was in favor of striking the blow.
CHAPTER XVII.
PEAS AND BEANS.
The business of the Chain had been managed with extreme caution by the
conspirators, and more than one third of the crew had been initiated
without the knowledge of the principal and professors, or of the
officers and seamen who were not members. Pelham and Shuffles ordered
the affairs of the League, and no "link" was allowed to approach an
outsider for the purpose of inducing him to join without the consent of
one of these worthies.
As the scheme progressed, various modifications had been made in the
plan to adapt it to circumstances, the principal of which was the choice
of two "shackles," who should be deemed the officers of the League until
a regular election had taken place. By this invention, Shuffles and
Pelham had been enabled to compromise their differences, for they
assumed the newly-created offices, and labored as equals in the bad
cause. Each endeavored to make as many new "links" as possible, for
already the conspirators consisted of two factions, one of which favored
the election of Shuffles, and the other that of Pelham, to the
captaincy. Each, in a measure, controlled his own recruits, and was
reasonably sure of their votes when the election should be ordered.
These young gentlemen were not only plotting to take the ship, but to
"take in" each other. While both worked for the League as a whole, each
worked for himself as an individual. Shuffles was much more thorough
than his rival in the making of his converts. He told them the whole
story, and taught them to look full in the face the extreme peril of the
undertaking. He did not conceal anything from them. On the other hand,
Pelham merely represented the project as a means of redressing the
grievances of the officers and crew; of having their money restored to
them, and abolishing certain portions of the regulations which pressed
hard upon those who were disposed to be unruly.
Though the number of "links" in the "Chain" has been mentioned, it was
not known to either of the rivals. Each knew his own peculiar followers,
but he did not know how many the other could muster. Though there were
signs and passwords by which the members could know each other, there
were no means by which any one could precisely sum up the whole number
of "links." Shuffles could count thirteen including his rival, while
Pelham could number nineteen without his coequal in authority. The
former believed the list to consist of about twenty four, while the
latter estimated it above thirty. With them it was a struggle for an
office, as well as to redress their fancied wrongs, and they mutually
deceived each other in order to obtain the advantage.
"How many do you suppose we can muster now?" asked Shuffles, on the
evening of the eighteenth day out, as they met in the waist, when both
were off duty.
"About twenty," replied Pelham.
"There are more than that."
"Perhaps there are."
"But it is time to stretch the Chain," added Shuffles, in a whisper.
"Not yet."
"If we are ever going to do anything, we must begin soon. We have so
many members now that the danger of exposure increases every day."
"We can't do anything here. Besides, I am not in favor of having the
time or the manner of accomplishing the work talked about among the
members. I believe in one-man power in an affair of this sort. There
should be one head, who should plan and command; all the rest should
obey. If every step in the thing must be discussed and agreed upon, we
shall never do anything. One fellow will want it done in one way, and
another in some other way."
"I think you are more than half right," replied Shuffles, who was
confident that he should be the person chosen to arrange the plans and
issue the commands.
"I know I am wholly right," added Pelham, who was equally confident that
he should enjoy the undivided sway of the League. "If you are chosen
captain I will cheerfully obey your orders. I go a step farther: whoever
is elected captain should appoint his own officers."
"I will agree to that also," replied the complaisant Shuffles.
"Very well, then; the understanding is, that when one of us is elected
captain, he shall appoint his own officers, and do all the planning and
all the commanding," answered Pelham.
"Exactly so; we are now in about longitude thirty-one, and Cork Harbor
is in longitude eight, according to Bowditch, for I was looking the
matter up in the steerage to-day. We have to make about twenty-three
degrees more. A degree of longitude, in latitude fifty-one, is
thirty-seven and three quarters miles, which would make it eight hundred
and sixty-eight miles more to run in order to reach Queenstown. You see
I am posted," said Shuffles.
"I see you are. By the way, had you noticed that Queenstown is not in
the Navigator, or on the older maps?" added Pelham.
"Yes; the place was called the Cove of Cork until 1849, when, in honor
of her majesty's visit to the town, the name was changed to Queenstown."
"All right," said Pelham.
It need not be supposed that the distance to Queenstown and the change
in the name of that place had anything to do with the League. The fact
was, that Mr. Fluxion had passed near the conspirators, and had paused a
moment in the waist to glance up at the fore-top-gallant sail, which was
not in good trim; and the conversation had been changed to suit the
occasion. In talking of the affairs of the "Chain," it was required that
one of the party should look forward, and the other aft, if there were
two of them; and that the third, if there were three, should stand back
to the nearest rail. It was further required that the conversation
should not take place in a situation where it would be possible for any
one to overhear them. The lee side of the waist,--the midshipman of the
watch always being on the weather side,--the top-gallant forecastle, and
the tops were the favorite resorts of the conspirators. If any one
approached, the parties in conversation were instantly to change the
topic, as Shuffles had done.
"I think it is about time for the election to take place," continued
Shuffles, when Mr. Fluxion had gone aft.
"Whenever you are ready, I am," replied Pelham.
"I am ready now."
"So am I."
"Very well; it shall come off to-morrow, say."
"To-morrow it is, then."
"But how shall it be conducted?" asked Shuffles.
"That will not be an easy matter. I think, however we can hit upon some
plan for having it fairly done."
"Of course the matter lies between you and me," added Shuffles.
"To be sure."
"I suppose both of us are ready to abide the issue, whatever it may be,"
said Shuffles, who was not a little fearful that his powerful rival
would refuse to acknowledge him when he was chosen, as he confidently
expected to be.
"I pledge you my word and honor, that I will obey you in all things if
you are fairly elected captain," replied Pelham, who was equally sure of
being chosen himself.
"Fairly? Who is to decide whether it is fairly done or not?" demanded
Shuffles, unwilling to leave a loop-hole through which his companion
could crawl out of the bargain.
"When we have agreed upon the means of electing the captain, the choice
shall be final."
"Good! You and I shall have no difficulty!" exclaimed Shuffles, rather
astonished to find his rival so easily managed, as he regarded it.
"We will make it a little more binding, if you choose," suggested
Pelham, who, the reader has already been assured by the figures given,
was completely outwitting the author and inventor of the Chain League.
"With all my heart!"
"We will toggle each other on this special question if you like."
"The stronger we make the bond the better," said Shuffles. "Repeat after
me."
"Not here, Shuffles. There is a steamer on our weather bow. Let's go up
into the mizzentop, and have a look at her with a night glass."
Mr. Haven, the first lieutenant, who was in charge of the deck,
permitted them to go aloft with the glass, for the officers were
empowered to grant small favors. On reaching the top, they glanced at
the steamer, and then resumed the conversation which had been suspended
on deck, it being too dark for the officers below to see what they were
