walked abruptly into the house, a little 
disappointed, but too proud to ask for anything that 
he did not choose to give her. 
That night she went to singing-school with 
Sarah Rowe. Tom did not go ; he said he was 
going to be busy ; at which Gypsy wondered a 
little, but said nothing. 
“ Francis wouldn’t come to-night, either,” said 
Sarah, as they went in together. “ He ’s gone 
to a billiard-match over at East Yorkbury, I 
believe, or something of the sort. At least I 
heard him talking to Bob Guest about it, only 
he said I mustn’t tell.” 
Gypsy stopped short, her face flushing. 
“ What time — do you know what time he was 
going?” 
“ I don’t remember exactly, — half-past seven, 
I think. Anyway, I know he expected to be 
home before it was very late. I suppose he 
thought father would have something to say 
about it. That East Yorkbury tavern is a horrid 
place. I should be ashamed to be seen there if 
I were Francis. But what’s the matter? Where 
on earth are you going? ” 
“ Home.” 
“ Home? ” 
“ I don’t believe I care to stay to the meeting,” 
said Gypsy, hurriedly; “it’s twenty-five miniates 
after seven now, and how few have come. I 
don’t believe it’s going to be much of a meet- 
ing. Besides, I ’ve just thought of something I 
want to do.” 
“ But there ’s the solo in ‘ Star of the Evening
— what shall we do without you ? Oh, 
there ’s George Castles up in the corner, look- 
ing at you like everything. I know he means 
to come home with you.” 
But Sarah suddenly discovered that she was 
talking to the empty entry. Gypsy had slipped 
out and down the steps. 
She started homewards on a rapid walk, 
which soon broke into a run. The moon was 
full, and the snow-covered hills and fields, bright 
in the light, looked like a picture cut in pearl. 
At any other time the beauty and the hush 
would have carried Gypsy away into a world 
of deli ghtful young dreams. To-night she had 
something else to think about. The girls and 
boys on their way to singing-school stopped 
and wondered as she ran past them, calling 
after her ; she scarcely allowed herself time to 
answer, but flew on, flushed and panting, till 
she had left them out of sight, and was at last 
alone upon the moonlit road. 
Not quite alone, though. The sound of 
sleigh-bells broke suddenly on the air, and a 
dark bay horse and slight cutter turned a near 
corner, and swept up to her, and shot past her, 
and left her standing like a statue. 
Two men were in the sleigh, and the light as 
they passed struck their faces sharply. They 
were Francis Rowe and Tom. 
Gypsy stood a moment looking after them, 
shocked and puzzled and helpless ; then a quick 
thought flashed brightly over her face ; she 
started with a bound, and sprang away towards 
home. 
She was very near it, — nearer than she had 
thought ; it took her but a moment to reach the 
end of the garden, to climb the fence, to wade 
through the snow that lay deeply on the
flower-beds, and so come out into the back yard. The 
house was still and dark. Her father and 
mother were both out to tea, and Winnie was 
in bed. Patty’s light glimmered from the 
kitchen where she nodded half asleep over her 
sewing. 
Gypsy went directly to the barn, unlocked 
the stable door, and peered into the dark stall 
where old Billy was sedately dreaming over last 
summer’s clover-tops. She untied his halter, 
pulled him out with a jerk, and saddled and 
bridled him briskly. She had done it many 
times before, when Tom and her father were 
both away, but it was always opposed to Billy’s 
theories of the eternal fitness of things, and to 
be called away from one’s dreams and one’s 
clover at such an unearthly hour, by a girl was 
certainly adding insult to injury. His justifiable 
displeasure thereat he signified — as I have no 
doubt I should have done if I had been in his 
place — by backing into the stall, tossing his 
head just one inch beyond her reach, sidling 
away when she was ready to mount, biting her 
fingers, and nipping her arms, and treading on 
her dress, and otherwise playing the agreeable, 
till her patience and temper were nearly ex- 
hausted. Finally, by dint of threats, persua- 
sion, and diplomacy, she succeeded, to his 
intense mortification and disgust, in mounting, 
and whipped him out into the cold night air. 
There were two roads to East Yorkbury, a 
long one, and a short one which had been cut 
across for farmers through the fields. Tom 
and Francis would take the long one, for there 
was no sleighing upon the other. There was a 
chance, just a chance, that a swift rider through 
the fields might intercept them. But the snow 
lay deep and drifted and roughly broken ; and 
Billy was neither so young nor so free as he 
might have been. However, Gypsy was not 
a girl to give up very easily to obstacles. She 
could but try at least; trying would do no harm. 
So she whipped and coaxed Billy into a 
canter, and swept away through the moonlight, 
over the lonely road. It was very lonely. 
There was not a sound to be heard but the 
heavy plunges of the horse through the drifted 
snow, and the sighing of the wind through the 
trees. Her own shadow took strange shapes as 
it leaped along beside her on the moonlit bank 
and wall. The fields and woods stretched out 
each side of her in fantastic patches of light and 
shade, solitary and still. Gypsy was not afraid, 
she was too much troubled about Tom to be 
afraid ; but she had a bleak, cold, deserted 
feeling which made that singular ride one long 
to be remembered. She was haunted by vague, 
half-formed fears for Tom, too; by new and 
horrible mistrust of him ; by a dread that she 
should be too late. But if she were not too 
late, what then? She hardly knew what then. 
She had formed no plans as to what she should 
do or say. She had come because she could 
not help it ; she was going on because she 
could not help it. Tom might not listen to 
her ; he might be very angry ; it might do 
more harm than good that she had come. But 
here she was, and she trusted to her own 
instinct to guide her. Gypsy’s instincts were, 
however, sad blunders sometimes. Whether 
this one was a blunder or something else, the 
event only would prove. 
The event came very near not proving at all. 
She had ridden through the last patch of pine 
woods, and come out into a broad stretch of 
light, level ground, from which the main road 
was faintly visible, winding away to East York- 
bury tavern. Billy, thoroughly exhausted, was 
panting painfully, head hanging, and ears 
lopped down ; his heavy plunges had changed 
into a feeble trot; the trot was settling 
gradually to a walk, and when Billy made up his 
mind to walk, that was the end of him. When 
hark! — yes, the sound of sleigh-bells, and the 
voices of unseen drivers upon the winding road. 
Gypsy uttered a little cry, and threw her 
arms about the horse’s neck, as if he had been 
human. 
“ Oh, Billy, please! Can’t you go a little 
faster? I don’t want Tom to go.” And Billy 
pleased. Whether he understood what Tom 
had to do with it I cannot state ; but at the 
word he jerked his drooping head with a snort, 
and broke away like a wild thing under the 
touch of Gypsy’s whip. 
The cutter with its fleet bay was just slewing 
past the cart-road, when an apparition of a girl 
on a white horse galloped up, and Francis reined 
in with a shout. 
She made a picture ; her net had come off, 
and her hair was blown back from her face in 
the strong wind ; her cheeks were scarlet, her 
lips a little pale, and her eyes on fire. For an 
instant she sat perfectly still upon the horse, 
and Tom stared. 
“Tom,” she said then, softly. 
“Gypsy Breynton — you!'" Tom finished by 
a word which I will not repeat; there was 
nothing wrong about it, but it was not as elegant 
