the admiral. He did not feel any better entitled to tread the same deck
with the glorious old hero, as a master, than he did as an ordinary
seaman.
Somers returned to active duty as soon as he had reported to the first
lieutenant of the Chatauqua, and he had the deck in the first dog watch
on the day of his arrival. During the afternoon watch he had had plenty
of time to report the incidents of his cruise in the Ben Nevis. Mr.
Hackleford had immediately communicated to the captain the facts
concerning Pillgrim's letter, and the recreant lieutenant's papers had
been carefully overhauled in search of anything which would shed a ray
of light upon the statements of the strange letter.
The only document which looked at all hopeful was a note written in
cipher, to which there was no key among the papers. If the communication
had been in Chinese or Chaldaic, there might have been a chance of
unravelling it; as it was, the note was written in arbitrary characters,
which were as cabalistic and unintelligible as the Egyptian
hieroglyphics. Somers was annoyed and discomfited, for he had
confidently reckoned upon finding some letter which contained a hint to
guide him. There was nothing but this note in cipher.
To add to his chagrin, Mr. Hackleford was utterly sceptical in regard to
Pillgrim's letter--did not believe the first word of it--called it
"gas," and declared that it would be stupid and childish to pay the
least attention to the document. Captain Cascabel fully concurred with
him in this opinion, and both of them laughed at Somers for bestowing a
second thought upon it.
"Nonsense! Mr. Somers!" exclaimed the first lieutenant. "There isn't a
single scintillation of truth in the story. If there were even a
glimmering of reality in the thing, I would look into it."
"But Mr. Pillgrim told me some truth in regard to the Ben Nevis," argued
Somers.
"That is the best reason in the world for believing he has not done so
in this instance," said Mr. Hackleford.
"I suppose I must give up the idea, then."
"You must, indeed. If you don't, I am afraid your reputation for common
sense and good judgment will suffer."
"Will you allow me to take this letter in cipher, and keep it till
to-morrow?" asked Somers.
"Certainly."
Somers took the letter, and put it into his pocket until he had an
opportunity to study its mystic characters. He was mortified by the
rebuff he had received, but his faith, though somewhat shaken, was not
destroyed. He was officer of the deck from four till six. Just before he
was relieved, he ordered the side to be manned to receive the captain,
who was just returning from a visit to the flag-ship.
As he touched his cap to Captain Cascabel, he noticed a smile on his
commander's face, which seemed to relate to him, and he blushed beneath
the pleasant, but expressive glance bestowed upon him.
"Mr. Somers," said the captain.
The officer of the deck stepped forward, and saluted the commander
again.
"You are invited to dine with Admiral Farragut to-morrow afternoon."
"I, sir!" exclaimed Somers, completely overwhelmed by this remarkable
declaration.
"Rear Admiral Farragut presents his compliments to Mr. Somers, and would
be happy to see him at dinner to-morrow, on board the Hartford."
The captain passed on to the companion-way, leading to his cabin,
leaving Somers as bewildered as though he had been invited to dine with
Queen Victoria, Louis Napoleon, and the Emperor of Russia; indeed, he
regarded it as a much greater honor to dine with "Brave Old Salt," than
to put his feet under the mahogany of the mightiest crowned head of the
world. It was evident that somebody had been talking to the admiral
about him; the captain and the first lieutenant of the Chatauqua
certainly felt kindly enough towards him to do so.
To dine with Admiral Farragut! That was glory enough for a lifetime; or
at least to be deemed worthy of such a distinction. Our friend Somers
was no snob; he "looked up" to great people, especially to those who
were really great. He pretended to no familiarity with his superiors,
though some of the officers were dying with envy at the notice taken of
him by the captain and first lieutenant of the ship. He did not assume
to be familiar with men who had won a deathless fame in defending their
country's cause. Perhaps there was not an officer in the fleet who would
so highly appreciate such a compliment as that of which he was now the
happy recipient.
When he was relieved from the deck, and went down into the ward-room,
the news had gone before him, and the "idlers" there congratulated him
upon his rising fame. But Somers broke away from them as soon as he
could decently do so, and shut himself up in his state-room. He was
actually dizzy at the idea of sitting down at the table with "Brave Old
Salt" in the cabin of the Hartford; and though he took the cabalistic
note of Mr. Pillgrim from his pocket, at least half an hour was wasted
before he could apply his mind undividedly to the difficult problem
before him. Finally, the hope of making a grand revelation to the
admiral on the morrow fired his zeal to such a pitch that the work
looked like play to him.
Somers opened the mysterious document and spread it out on the desk, at
which he seated himself. It looked dark and hopeless, with its dots and
dashes, its horizontals and perpendiculars, its curves and crosses. We
present the note in full, that our readers may be able to appreciate the
difficulty of the task he had undertaken.
If Somers had been a student of the occult sciences, he might have been
more hopeful. An hour's hard study brought a gleam of light. He thought
the note must be signed by Langdon. There were seven letters in the
signature. This was his first ray of hope. He then placed all the
letters of the alphabet in a column, and against each made the character
that represented it in the cipher. Six letters were thus interpreted.
The next step was to place each of the letters thus discovered over its
sign in the note. The second and third words of the epistle then stood,
the eights being for undiscovered letters, as follows: 88nxlo8ond.
"Ben Lomond!" exclaimed Somers, as he gave a smart rap on the desk to
indicate his joy at the discovery.
Three more letters were gained, and the oblique cross was only a mark to
divide the words. The three letters before Ben Lomond must be, t h e.
The solution began to be easy, though it required a long time to reach
it. At midnight, when he was called to take the mid watch, he had it
written out as follows:--
    Washington, Twentieth of June.
The Ben Lomond is at Mobile, fitting out. Mallory gives you the
command. The forts will be attacked by the first of August. You must get
her out before that time.
    LANGDON.
CHAPTER XIX.
THE BOAT EXPEDITION.
At general quarters, on the following day, Somers looked somewhat
care-worn. It was midnight when he had worked out the solution of the
cipher, and at this hour he had been called to take the mid watch. But
there was no happier or more exultant man in the fleet. His conquest
over the cabalistic letter had confirmed his theory. The Ben Lomond was
not a myth, and she was at Mobile. Pillgrim had expressed a desire to
see Somers again, and there was a fair prospect that he might yet be
able to do so.
The important event of this day was the dinner with "Brave Old Salt."
But the letter and the dinner seemed to be inseparably connected. Somers
had given the translation to the first lieutenant, who, to the chagrin
and mortification of the persevering student, did not appear to attach
much importance to the letter.
"If the Tallapoosa, or Ben Lomond, is in the bay, we shall soon have
her," said Mr. Hackleford, "for we are going to make the attack on the
forts within a few days."
"The attack may fail, and thus afford an opportunity for the cruiser to
come out," suggested Somers.
"Fail?"
The third lieutenant of the Chatauqua stood abashed before the look of
his superior. He did not believe that any attack made by Admiral
Farragut could fail, but it was possible for the Confederate steamer to
run the blockade, as hundreds had done before her, especially as she
could steam sixteen knots.
"I don't think the attack will fail, sir; but even a victory might
afford the Ben Lomond a chance to run out."
"I don't think there is much chance; but Captain Cascabel has your
solution of the letter under consideration. Perhaps the admiral may have
something to say about it."
Somers was not satisfied with the reception given to his revelation. He
had already formed a plan for ascertaining where the Ben Lomond was, but
the cool manner in which his communication was received prevented him
from even mentioning it.
In the afternoon, the captain's gig came up to the accommodation ladder,
and the commander, attended by Somers, seated himself in the
stern-sheets. Captain Cascabel was received with due honors on the
quarter deck of the Hartford, where the gallant admiral was walking at
the time.
When his superior had been welcomed with dignified cordiality, Captain
Cascabel introduced Somers. The admiral bowed, smiled pleasantly, and
did not look patronizingly upon the young officer, as he might have been
pardoned for doing. As he stood there on the quarter deck of the
flag-ship, he was full of genuine dignity and true manliness--a noble
representative of the American naval commander. He was of medium
stature, well formed, and of elegant proportions. He seemed to be made
of nerves and muscles, and when he moved there was an elastic spring to
his frame, which impressed the observer with the idea of energy and
vigor. He did not appear to stand on the deck, but to be poised
independently in the air, resting on the planks beneath him more because
it was the fashion to do so, than because he had any need of such
support.
Somers removed his cap, made his best bow, and blushed like a summer
rose. He was deeply impressed by the glance of the admiral, and the
atmosphere around him seemed to be full of the man at whom he gazed in
reverent admiration.
"Mr. Somers, I am happy to see you," said the admiral, in a tone so
gentle and affable that it seemed to remove the "curse" of greatness far
from him. "I have heard of you before, and I doubt not we shall be able
to make you very useful to your country."
"Thank you, sir," replied Somers, not daring to say any more, and with
the feeling of his childhood, that "boys ought to be seen, not heard."
The admiral, with this judicious commendation, turned to Captain
Cascabel, and opened conversation with him, evidently determined not to
spoil the young man by taking too much notice of him. Somers was soon at
home with the officers of the Hartford, and behaved himself with
becoming modesty and discretion. He dined with the admiral, several
other officers of distinction being present. The conversation at the
table, singularly enough, it may appear to our readers, did not relate
