
" Not if you'll let me have that seat I mentioned away 
back at the beginning of our conversation ; " and with an 
easy grace he threw himself on the grass, leaning his shoul- 
der against the old elm tree. 

A call from the youthful sailor attracted Richard a mo- 
ment. . Returning, he seated himself by his friend, and drew 
Tessy down on his knee. 

" I'm afraid I'm in some one's place," said Mr. Gregory, 
picking up a book. " Here's Kane's Expedition, miles and 
miles away from the Polar Sea. Who is so frosty-minded 
this weather ? " 

" I was reading it," rejoined Lily. " It is a good cool 
book for a hot day." 

" Then I suppose at midwinter you regale yourself with 
Central Africa, the Tropics, or Mount Vesuvius." 

They all laughed. 

" I can hardly realize it, Richard," his friend began, in a 
Softened tone. " After rambling from land to land, it is de- 
lightful to sit down in the shade of the tree where one talked 
life over with his first friend. I never had any home in those 
days, or in any days, save when I came here;" and he sighed 
a little. 

Archie advanced on the scene of action, or rather repose, 
dressed in a pretty sailor's suit of blue and white, fashioned 
by Mabel's dainty fingers, and underwent the honors of an 
introduction with commendable self-possession. 



 

"How well I remember my first vacation here!." Mr. 
Gregory said, with animation. " Richard used to take me 
out on the river, and taught me to row and manage a sail, 
though I was much older than this young man. I considered 
them marvellous exploits." 

" Where has your memory gone ? " laughed Richard. 
" You were fifteen, I think, and Archie is past twelve." 

" I have the remembrance of being an awkward, over- 
grown boy, frightened half to death by the appearance of 
two little girls in white dresses. I had an idea this was a 
sort of Aladdin's palace, and would vanish if I spoke a loud 
word." 

" And how mother petted you into courage," Richard 
added. 

" Yes, and the happy summers, until six years ago, the 
last dear time I made one of your number. And do you rec- 
ollect, Mabel, Miss Bertrand, I mean, how I took you 
out sailing one evening, and staid so long that everybody 
thought we were wrecked ? " 

Mabel knew what the sudden pause and the " everybody" 
meant the picture of her father, standing on the lowest 
step, and gazing up the river ; the fervent ejaculation and 
fond kiss. That name was a sweet note in their home mu- 
sic ; so she filled up the pause with tenderness, saying, 

" And how glad papa was to find us safe ! " 

He knew by the tone that he would be allowed his old 
place in the household, and to share their sorrowful memories, 
as he had in past days partaken of their joys. His voice 
was low with emotion, as he answered, 

" He was so good and kind. Not only then, but all times." 

" Yes," Richard rejoined. " Each day we learn what we 
lost with him." 

" You hardly let us miss him," Lily said, in a soft whisper, 
as her fingers crept through Richard's hair. 

It seemed so natural then to go over those sad days with 
one who had loved their cherished dead ! As Mabel listened 





to the sympathy that partook of divine trust., as well as 
earthly affection, her heart warmed strangely towards Philip 
Gregory. 

Afterwards, when she and the children had gone to the 
house, the friends took up the years that had fallen between 
since they last saw each other's faces. At school and col- 
lege they had been chosen friends ; but Philip's long absence 
in Europe, attending an invalid and querulous grandfather, 
had broken in upon their intimacy. Letters had missed, 
rendering correspondence uncertain ; and though Philip had 
mentioned his return a year previous, this was their first 
meeting. Richard related the circumstances of his father's 
death in simple, earnest language, that showed his deep 
feeling. 

" This was why you gave up the journey to Europe ? " 
Philip's eyes asked another question, for his friend had once 
announced his intended marriage, with all a lover's ardor. 

" Yes." And Richard briefly went over the episode of 
the past summer. He felt the fond clasp of the hand, more 
truly comforting than words could haye been just then. 

" And now your story ? " he said, when he had finished. 

The childhood that had been happy to Richard was spent 
by his friend in a lonely house, with a morose, unsocial 
old man. The first visit to Dr. Bertrand's opened Philip's 
heart to a new and wonderful world. Not only friendship, 
but religion, had come to him like a revelation. In this 
house he had learned to know God : under this very tree he 
had chosen to enter his Master's vineyard as a worker. 
When his grandfather heard of this resolve, his anger was 
fierce and deep. The boy should not throw himself away. 
He would have no canting parson among his descendants. 
Immediately after Philip had graduated, he declared his in- 
tention of taking him to Europe. In this extremity the 
young . man applied to Dr. Bertrand for advice. It was 
simple and straightforward. His grandfather had reared and 
educated him ; he was the only near relative the poor old 



 

man had. To leave him now would be ingratitude. His 
duty was in " that state of life to which it pleased God to 
call him." So Philip Gregory took up his cross ; left behind 
him dear friends and sweet hopes ; bore patiently with 
fretful complainings, real and imaginary illnesses ; looking 
steadily forward to the answer of a good conscience as his 
reward, until God should set him free, and open the way for 
a higher service. 

Philip recounted his wanderings in lands rendered sacred 
by song and story. He made no hardship of those exiled 
years. 

" But I thought you were to inherit his fortune ? " Richard 
said, with a little astonishment. 

A warm color suffused Philip's face, as he answered, in a 
low tone, " I could not submit to the conditions." 

" What were they ? " The tone was not curious, but 
pleasantly authoritative. 

" We never agreed on religious subjects, you know. It 
was the one bitter point between us ; and at last he said, if 
I was resolved to become a clergyman after his death, I 
should never have one penny of his to waste on such nar- 
row, bigoted notions. One day he angrily made a will, dis- 
inheriting me ; and then held it before me, promising to 
destroy it if I would give up my folly. Many a time after- 
wards he placed the temptation before me. Don't think me 
miserably weak, Richard, if I confess there were moments 
when I almost yielded. I used to fancy how much good I 
could do with such a fortune ; but the denunciation rang in 
my ears, ' Woe is me if I preach not the gospel.' I could 
not sell my birthright for a mess of pottage, even if I was 
fainting on the highway. After a while the subject dropped. 
Sometimes he would threaten to send me away, but in his 
weak state he was too much at the mercy of servants. Yet 
the last days were very pleasant. He always regarded me 
with a sort of tyrannical idolatry, much as he had treated my 
poor mother. During the winter at Florence he behaved 


