“Yes, it was only natural. But what did your father and mother say to
the letter I wrote them?”
“The letter you wrote them!”
“The letter in which I wrote that Ida’s mother had been so pleased with
the appearance and manners of her child, that she could not resolve to
part with her, and had determined to keep her for the present.”
“You don’t mean to say,” said Jack, “that any such letter as that has
been written?”
“What, has it not been received?” inquired Peg, in the greatest apparent
astonishment.
“Nothing like it,” answered Jack. “When was it written?”
“The second day after Ida’s arrival,” replied Peg, unhesitatingly.
“If that is the case,” returned Jack, not knowing what to think, “it
must have miscarried.”
“That is a pity. How anxious you all must have felt!” remarked Peg,
sympathizingly.
“It seemed as if half the family were gone. But how long does Ida’s
mother mean to keep her?”
“A month or six weeks,” was the reply.
“But,” said Jack, his suspicions returning, “I have been told that Ida
has twice called at a baker’s shop in this city, and, when asked what
her name was, answered Ida Hardwick.’ You don’t mean to say that you
pretend to be her mother?”
“Yes, I do,” returned Peg, calmly.
“It’s a lie,” said Jack, vehemently. “She isn’t your daughter.”
“Young man,” said Peg, with wonderful self-command, “you are exciting
yourself to no purpose. You asked me if I pretended to be her mother.
I do pretend; but I admit, frankly, that it is all pretence.”
“I don’t understand what you mean,” said Jack, mystified.
“Then I will take the trouble to explain it to you. As I informed your
father and mother, when in New York, there are circumstances which stand
in the way of Ida’s real mother recognizing her as her own child. Still,
as she desires her company, in order to avert all suspicion, and prevent
embarrassing questions being asked, while she remains in Philadelphia
she is to pass as my daughter.”
This explanation was tolerably plausible, and Jack was unable to
gainsay it, though it was disagreeable to him to think of even a nominal
connection between Ida and the woman before him.
“Can I see Ida?” asked Jack, at length.
To his great joy, Peg replied, “I don’t think there can be any
objection. I am going to the house now. Will you come now, or appoint
some other time?”
“I will go now by all means,” said Jack, eagerly. “Nothing should stand
in the way of seeing Ida.”
A grim smile passed over the nurse’s face.
“Follow me, then,” she said. “I have no doubt Ida will be delighted to
see you.”
“Dear Ida!” said Jack. “Is she well, Mrs. Hardwick?”
“Perfectly well,” answered Peg. “She has never been in better health
than since she has been in Philadelphia.”
“I suppose,” said Jack, with a pang, “that she is so taken up with her
new friends that she has nearly forgotten her old friends in New York.”
“If she did,” said Peg, sustaining her part with admirable
self-possession, “she would not deserve to have friends at all. She is
quite happy here, but she will be very glad to return to New York to
those who have been so kind to her.”
“Really,” thought Jack; “I don’t know what to make of this Mrs.
Hardwick. She talks fair enough, if her looks are against her. Perhaps I
have misjudged her, after all.”
CHAPTER XIX. CAUGHT IN A TRAP.
JACK and his guide paused in front of a three-story brick building of
respectable appearance.
“Does Ida’s mother live here?” interrogated Jack.
“Yes,” said Peg, coolly. “Follow me up the steps.”
The woman led the way, and Jack followed.
The former rang the bell. An untidy servant girl made her appearance.
“We will go up-stairs, Bridget,” said Peg.
Without betraying any astonishment, the servant conducted them to an
upper room, and opened the door.
“If you will go in and take a seat,” said Peg, “I will send Ida to you
immediately.”
She closed the door after him, and very softly slipped the bolt which
had been placed on the outside. She then hastened downstairs, and
finding the proprietor of the house, who was a little old man with a
shrewd, twinkling eye, and a long aquiline nose, she said to this man,
who was a leading spirit among the coiners into whose employ she and her
husband had entered, “I want you to keep this lad in confinement, until
I give you notice that it will be safe to let him go.”
“What has he done?” asked the old man.
“He is acquainted with a secret dangerous to both of us,” answered Peg,
with intentional prevarication; for she knew that, if it were supposed
that she only had an interest in Jack’s detention, they would not take
the trouble to keep him.
“Ha!” exclaimed the old man; “is that so? Then, I warrant me, he can’t
get out unless he has sharp claws.”
“Fairly trapped, my young bird,” thought Peg, as she hastened away; “I
rather think that will put a stop to your troublesome interference for
the present. You haven’t lived quite long enough to be a match for old
Peg. You’ll find that out by and by. Ha, ha! won’t your worthy uncle,
the baker, be puzzled to know why you don’t come home to-night?”
Meanwhile Jack, wholly unsuspicious that any trick had been played upon
him, seated himself in a rocking-chair, waiting impatiently for the
coming of Ida, whom he was resolved to carry back with him to New York
if his persuasions could effect it.
Impelled by a natural curiosity he examined, attentively, the room in
which he was seated. It was furnished moderately well; that is, as well
as the sitting-room of a family in moderate circumstances. The floor
was covered with a plain carpet. There was a sofa, a mirror, and several
chairs covered with hair-cloth were standing stiffly at the windows.
There were one or two engravings, of no great artistic excellence,
hanging against the walls. On the centre-table were two or three books.
Such was the room into which Jack had been introduced.
Jack waited patiently for twenty minutes. Then he began to grow
impatient.
“Perhaps Ida is out,” thought our hero; “but, if she is, Mrs. Hardwick
ought to come and let me know.”
Another fifteen minutes passed, and still Ida came not.
“This is rather singular,” thought Jack. “She can’t have told Ida that
I am here, or I am sure she would rush up at once to see her brother
Jack.”
At length, tired of waiting, and under the impression that he had been
forgotten, Jack walked to the door, and placing his hand upon the latch,
attempted to open it.
There was a greater resistance than he had anticipated.
Supposing that it must stick, he used increased exertion, but the door
perversely refused to open.
“Good heavens!” thought Jack, the real state of the case flashing upon
him, “is it possible that I am locked in?”
To determine this he employed all his strength, but the door still
resisted. He could no longer doubt.
He rushed to the windows. There were two in number, and looked out upon
a court in the rear of the house. No part of the street was visible from
them; therefore there was no hope of drawing the attention of passers-by
to his situation.
Confounded by this discovery, Jack sank into his chair in no very
enviable state of mind.
“Well,” thought he, “this is a pretty situation for me to be in! I
wonder what father would say if he knew that I was locked up like a
prisoner. And then to think I let that treacherous woman, Mrs. Hardwick,
lead me so quietly into a snare. Aunt Rachel was about right when she
said I wasn’t fit to come alone. I hope she’ll never find out this
adventure of mine; I never should hear the last of it.”
Jack’s mortification was extreme. His self-love was severely wounded by
the thought that a woman had got the better of him, and he resolved,
if he ever got out, that he would make Mrs. Hardwick suffer, he didn’t
quite know how, for the manner in which she had treated him.
Time passed. Every hour seemed to poor Jack to contain at least double
the number of minutes which are usually reckoned to that division of
time. Moreover, not having eaten for several hours, he was getting
hungry.
A horrible suspicion flashed across his mind. “The wretches can’t
mean to starve me, can they?” he asked himself, while, despite his
constitutional courage, he could not help shuddering at the idea.
He was unexpectedly answered by the sliding of a little door in the
wall, and the appearance of the old man whose interview with Peg has
been referred to.
“Are you getting hungry, my dear sir?” he inquired, with a disagreeable
smile upon his features.
“Why am I confined here?” demanded Jack, in a tone of irritation.
“Why are you confined?” repeated his interlocutor. “Really, one would
think you did not find your quarters comfortable.”
“I am so far from finding them comfortable that I insist upon leaving
them immediately,” returned Jack.
“Then all you have got to do is to walk through that door.
“It is locked; I can’t open it.”
“Can’t open it!” repeated the old man, with another disagreeable leer;
“perhaps, then, it will be well for you to wait till you are strong
enough.”
Irritated by this reply, Jack threw himself spitefully against the door,
but to no purpose.
The old man laughed in a cracked, wheezing way.
“Good fellow!” said he, encouragingly, “try it again! Won’t you try it
again? Better luck next time.”
Jack throw himself sullenly into a chair.
“Where is the woman that brought me here?” he asked.
“Peg? Oh, she couldn’t stay. She had important business to transact, my
young friend, and so she has gone; but don’t feel anxious. She commended
you to our particular attention, and you will be just as well treated as
if she were here.”
This assurance was not very well calculated to comfort Jack.
“How long are you going to keep me cooped up here?” he asked,
desperately, wishing to learn the worst at once.
“Really, my young friend, I couldn’t say. We are very hospitable, very.
We always like to have our friends with us as long as possible.”
Jack groaned internally at the prospect before him.
“One question more,” he said, “will you tell me if my sister Ida is in
this house?”
“Your sister Ida!” repeated the old man, surprised in his turn.
“Yes,” said Jack; believing, his astonishment feigned. “You needn’t
pretend that you don’t know anything about her. I know that she is in
