" A tenant of mine ! " exclaimed the miser. 
" It is even so. She occupies a second-story room in 
the tenement-house in Street." 
 
 
'' And I have met her face to face ? " 
'' I dare say you have. Your tenants are pretty sure 
to have that pleasure once a month. But doesn't it 
seem strange that Eleanor Gray, the beautiful daughter 
of your Havana employer, should after these twenty years 
turn up in Boston the tenant of her father's book-keeper ? " 
'' Ha ! ha ! " chuckled the miser, hoarsel}", " she isn't so 
much better off than if she had married old Peter." 
"As to being better off," said Randall, "I presume 
she is better off, though she can't call a hundred dollars 
her own, than if she were installed mistress of your establishment. Faugh ! Poorly as she is obliged to live, 
it is luxury, compared with your establishment.'' 
He glanced about him. with a look of disgust. 
'' If you don't like it," said Peter, querulously, " there 
is no use of your staying. It is past my bedtime." 
" I shall leave you in a few minutes, Peter, but I want 
to give you something to think of first. Don't you see 
that your property is in danger of slipping from your 
hands?" 
" My property in danger ! " exclaimed Peter, wildly ; 
" what do you mean ; where is the danger? " Then, his 
voice sinking to its usual whine, — " not that I have any 
of any consequence, I am poor — very poor." 
" Only from what I see I could easily believe it, but I 
happen to know better." 
"Indeed, lam " 
" No more twaddle about poverty," said Randall, decidedly, " it won't go down. I am not so easily deceived as you may imagine. I know perfectly well that 
you are worth at the very least, thirty thousand dollars." 
"Thirty thousand dollars ! " exclaimed the miser, raising both hands in astonishment. 
" Yes, Peter, and I don't know but I may say forty 
thousand. Why, it can't be otherwise, with your habits. 
Twenty years ago you made off with twenty thousand, 
which has been accumulating ever since. Your personal 
expenses haven't made very large inroads upon your income, judging from your scarecrow appearance. So 
much the worse for you. You might have got some good 
from it. Now it must go to others." 
" To others !" exclaimed Peter, turning pale. 
" Certainly. You don't think the law gives you what- 
ever you've a mind to steal, do you ? Of course there is 
no doubt that to your tenants, Eleanor and Charlie Cod- 
man, belongs this property which you wrongfully hold." 
" They sha'n't have it. They never shall have it," said 
Peter Manson, hastily. 
" Well, perhaps the law may have something Jto say 
about that." 
"My gold I" groaned the miser. "If I lose that I 
lose everything. It will be my death. Good Mr. Randall, have pity upon me. I am sure you won't say any- 
thing that " 
" Will bring you to state's prison," said Randall,coolly. 
" They — Eleanor and her son — need never know it." 
"Unless I tell them." 
" But you won't." 
" That depends upon circumstances. How much will 
you give me to keep the thing secret? '' 
" What will I givQ you ? " 
"Precisel3  That is what I have been so long in 
coming at. You see, Peter, that the secret is worth 
 
 
something. Either I reveal it to the parties interested, 
in which case I wouldn't give that," snapping his finger, 
" for your chance of retaining the property, or I keep 
silence if you make it worth my while!'' 
i " Pity me," said the miser, abjectly, sinking on his 
knees before Randall ; '' pity me, and spare my gold." . 
" Pity you ! " said Randall, contemptuously. " Why 
. didn't you pity your employer? You must make up your 
mind to pay me my price." 
" I am very poor," whined Peter, in his customary 
phrase, " and I can't pay much. ' 
" O yes, Peter," said the other, sarcastically, " I am 
well aware that you are poor, — wretchedly poor, — and 
I won't be too hard upon you." 
'' Thank you — thank you," said Peter, catching at this 
promise ; " I will give you something — a little " 
" How much? " asked Randall, with some curiosity. 
" Ten dollars ! " said the miser, with the air of a man ' 
who named a large sum. 
"Ten dollars!" returned Randall, with a laugh of 
derision. " Ten dollars to secure the peaceable posses- 
sion of thirty thousand ! Old man, you must be mad, or 
you must think that I am." 
" I — I did not mean to offend," said the old man, 
humbly. "K I double the sum will it satisfy you? I — I 
will try to raise it, though it will be hard — very hard." 
" This is mere trifling, Peter Manson," said his visitor, 
decidedly. "Twenty dollars! Why I wouldn't have 
come across the street to get it. No, j ou will have to 
elevate your ideas considerably." 
" How much do you demand ? " said the miser, groaning internally, and fixing his eyes anxiously upon Randall. 
 
 
" You must not make a fusg when I name the amount." 
" Name it," said Peter, in a choking voice. 
" One thousand dollars will purchase my silence, and 
not a dollar less." 
Peter sprang from his seat in consternation. 
, "One thousand dollars! Surely you are not in 
earnest." 
"But I am, though. This is not a subject -I care to 
jest upon." 
" One thousand dollars ! It will take all I have, and 
leave me a beggar." 
" If it should, Peter," said his visitor, composedly, 
" I will procure you admission to the poor-house, where, 
if I am not much mistaken, you will be better off than 
in this tumble-down old shanty." 
" Has the man no mercy?" groaned Peter, wringing 
his hands. 
 " None at all." 
" Then," exclaimed the miser, in a sudden fit of desperation, " I won't pay you a cent — not a single cent." 
" That is your final determination, is it?" 
" Ye —  yes," muttered Peter, but less firmly. 
" Very well. I will tell you the result. I shall at 
once go to Eleanor, and inform her of the good fortune 
which awaits her. No fear but sh will pay me a thou- 
sand dollars for the intelligence." 
" She has no money." 
" I will furnish her with money for the lawyers — she 
can repay me out of your hoards." 
Peter groaned. 
" Ay, groan away, Peter. You'll have c|iuse enough 
to groan, by and by. There is one thing you don't seem 
 
to consider, that the law will do something more than 
take away your property. I will come to see you in 
jail." 
He rose to leave the room, but Peter called him back 
hastily. " We may come to terms yet," he said. 
" Then you accede to my terms."" 
" I will give you five hundred." 
" Good-night, Peter. I wish you happy dreams." 
" St-stay ! " exclaimed Peter, terrified. " I will give 
eight hundred." 
" I am in something of a hurry," said Randall. " I 
believe I will call on Eleanor. I don't think we can 
make any arrangement." 
'' Hold ! perhaps I will do as you say." 
" Ah ! now you are beginning to be reasonable," said 
Randall, resuming his seat. 
"What security can you give me for your silence?" 
" I'll tell you what I'll do, Peter. You remember I 
told you Eleanor had a son, a boy of fourteen." 
"Yes." 
" His mother is quite devoted to him. Indeed, he 
contributes to her support by selling papers, and by va- 
rious little jobs. Now, as long 'as Eleanor lives here 
you are in danger.'' 
" Yes." 
" And if a blow is levelled at her it must be through 
her boy." 
" I see." 
'' Then I'll tell you of a scheme I have arranged. You 
must first know that I am mate of a vessel now in port, 
which is bound for San Francisco. We are to sail in a 
few days." 
 
"Well?" 
" We happen to be in want of a boy to fill up our reg- 
ular number. Suppose I kidnap Eleanor's boy. Don't 
you see, that as he is her chief support, she will soon be 
in difficulties ? and this, with her uncertainty about her 
boy's fate, may rid you of your greatest peril, and the 
only one of the two who could identify you." 
" Excellent, excellent 1 " chuckled Peter, rubbing his 
hands ; " she shall yet be sorry that she rejected old 
Peter." 
"Ami to understand that you accede to my proposal, then?" 
Not without many groans Peter agreed to deliver the 
sum mentioned between them, on condition that the boy 
was secured. 
It was striking ten when Randall lefb the house. His 
face beamed with exultation. 
" I have done a good night's work," he said. " By 
working on the fears of the old curmudgeon I have made 
