Dolly composed herself with a bewildered 
look, and brought Mrs. McMunn to the door. 
" Good-afternoon," said the Principal, in sur 
prise ; " I am Mrs. McMunn. What can you 
want of me this bitter day ? " 
" It 's bery cold out here," said the negro, 
shivering. " If ye 'll let me jes step inside de 
door, pears like I ken tell ye easier." 
Mrs. McMunn allowed her to step in upon 
the hall mat, and stood regarding her compas 
sionately. 
" Now what is it you want a supper?" 
" No, missus." 
" Clothes?" 
"No, missus." 
" What, then, money? " 
" I wants," said the negro, with solemnity, 
" I wants de pattern of your waterfall, ef ye 
please, missus." 
A suppressed titter ran along the banistei in 
the upper hall. 
" Young ladies ! " said the Principal, with 
crimson face, " I am surprised at your levity. 
I should not have supposed that you would rid 
icule a poor lunatic negro like this. My poor 
woman, I think you had better go, unless you 
will take some supper." 
" I hearn a heap bout dat ar waterfall ob 
yourns," said the negro, regretfully ; folks 
say it 's so peart an graceful like. I have heaps 
of trubble wid my waterfall, and I " 
But Mrs. McMunn had gently shut the door 
upon her. 
The girls, watching at the garret window, 
saw her taking her way up the street, through 
the drifts. 
" How she does flounder about ! She has 
on rubber boots, you know. Looks as if she 
were having a good time, doesn't she? What 
is she going to do next, I wonder? " 
What she did was to call at several houses 
on the Main street where she was acquainted, 
asking either for mistress or maid, as the fancy 
suited her, begging for supper, coppers, Gari 
baldi patterns, gold bracelets, Bibles, cayenne pep 
per, anything that occurred to her at the moment. 
" Poor crazy thing ! " said everybody, which 
was precisely what she meant that everybody 
should say. 
Now, there lived in Snapberry a Mr. Short, a 
tobacco-grower, and an agent of the Colonisa 
tion Society; in whose service he lectured 
through his nose, whenever he could find an 
audience; and by his self-denying labour and 
missionary spirit, earned, it was said, exactly 
his own salary. To the house of Mr. Shorf 
the negro went with mischief in her eyes. She 
asked for supper, and a shelter from the storm. 
She had heard of his interest in the coloured 
race, and felt sure that he would help her. 
" I help those that help themselves," replied 
Mr. Short, who had been called away from a 
cigar, and felt cross. " It 's poor benevolence 
to help wandering beggars, black or white. If 
you had appreciated your privileges and gone 
to Liberia, where you belong, in that last colony 
we sent out free of expense, to roam in their 
ancestral forests, you wouldn't be here begging 
to-day, I suppose, would you? " 
She meekly replied that she supposed not. 
" Well, then, don't come to me," said Mr. 
Short, shutting the door. " I 've done my duty 
by you. If you won't go to a happier clime 
and roam in your ancestral forests, you must 
take the consequences." 
A little distance beyond the amiable Mr. 
Short 's something quite unexpected happened. 
Deacon Popkins, the Overseer of the Poor, 
was out toiling through the drifts with horse and 
sleigh to the Office ; and Deacon Popkins, peer 
ing from under his fur cap, saw the wretched 
figure of the negro blown about by the wind. 
" Hallo ! " shouted he, reining up. 
"Hud 'd ye, massa?" said the figure, hurry 
ing on. 
" Here, stop there ! Whar ye goin this sort 
of night, that style ? I 'm Town Overseer, and 
you jes tell me your business if you please." 
"I I don know," said Gypsy, unwilling to 
manufacture a story even in her disguise. "I 
thank ye kindly, sir, but I 'm done used to 
taking care of myself." 
" Worse for you if you are, then," said Dea 
con Popkins, climbing briskly from his sleigh. 
"I 'm Town Overseer, I say, and it 's my busi 
ness to pick up vagrants, and see em safe in the 
Poor-us ; and as for findin you froze in a drift 
somewhars to-morrow morning, it would be on- 
convenient to all parties ; so, if you please, mum, 
you may jes step in, an we 'll go long now." 
Here was a charming little combination ol 
circumstances, verily ! Gypsy began to have 
a suspicion that her fun was turning into most 
uncomfortable earnest, and, moreover, that she 
had been doing a very imprudent thing. Not 
seeing exactly how to help herself, and hoping 
that a chance for escaping without detection 
would occur, she climbed into the sleigh reluc 
tantly, and Deacon Popkins carried her straight 
to the Poor-house. 
Once fairly in the dreary entry, consigned 
for the night as a " nigger vagrant," to the care 
of a vinegar-faced matron, with Deacon Pop- 
kins rapidly taking his departure, Gypsy felt, 
that her hour had come. 
"Deacon Popkins?" she said faintly. He 
did not hear ; he was already in the sleigh. 
" Deacon Popkins ! " 
"Well, what 's the matter now?" said the 
Deacon, standing impatiently with the reins in 
his hand. 
" I 'm not a negro, and I think I 'll go 
home now." 
The deacon laughed loudly. 
" Poor crazy critter, you ! Not a nigger ! 
Ha, ha, ha ! " and he was driving off. Gypsy 
broke away from the detaining hands of the 
sour matron, flew down the steps, and out into 
the snow after him. 
" Deacon Popkins, I really can't stay in a 
Poor-house all night, and I 'm not any more of 
a negro now than you are." 
" Waal, mum, if you ain't a nigger, you re 
the blackest white gal ever I see; that 's all 
lang, Billy!" 
" Shake hands and see ! " cried Gypsy in 
despair, not knowing whether to laugh or cry. 
She held out her corked hand all wet with 
snow, and the deacon drew off his mitten and 
shook it violently. It would have been difficult, 
after this proceeding, to say which hand was 
the blacker. 
"I vum ! " said the deacon, slowly. 
" Told you so ! " cried Gypsy, determined to 
make sure of the matter. " See here ! " Up 
there, a handful of snow upon her forehead, 
over her cheeks, across her chin, down her 
neck. The effect was absolutely indescribable. 
" There, now ! I 'm nothing but Gypsy 
Breynton blacked up. Don't you see?" 
She turned her face, all streaks of white, and 
rivers of black, full upon him, and the Town 
Overseer sat back in his sleigh and laughed till 
-the matron thought that he had a stroke of 
apoplexy, and came running out with a pitcher 
of half-frozen water, which she poured all over 
him. 
Gypsy found her way back to the Crescent 
safely, and Dolly let her in at the back door 
just as the tea-bell rang. 
But the next day the whole town had the 
story, and in due time it came to Mrs. Mc- 
Munn. 
She could not keep sober long enough to 
give Gypsy the scolding that she richly de 
served, but Miss Ayre kindly made up the 
deficiency. 
ANE BRUCE is developing." 
Mary Blunt said this, standing with 
her poplin skirt half folded over 
her arm. 
" Developing? " 
" Yes, all round. (I think she mended this 
trimming for me really very well, didn't she?) 
She always was one of your goodish kind, and 
helped you shell popped-corn, and was sorry 
when you were sick, and wouldn't tickle you at 
devotions, and all that ; but don't you see how 
she 's spruced up and bloomed out lately? 
She rushes round and laughs, and gets ac 
