lingering survey of the place, and then cautiously 
threaded his way out. The shadows grew weird and 
spectral. He stepped lightly, and drew strange, half- 
repressed breaths. Then he stumbled over the root of 
a tree, and kicked something that was not a stone. 
He passed it first, returned, groped about until he 
found it. A memorandum and note book with dark 
leather covers. On the first page was written in a stiff, 
but legible hand, " Thomas Vennard, Tregony, 18 ." 
He struck his forehead in a wild, startled way. lie 
looked through the dim branches with staring eyeballs, 
transfixed by a horrible thought that seemed to cleave 
through his brain. Did the lifeless body of Thomas 
 
Yennard, the man he had so lately envied, lie over 
yonder in the river? The cold sweat started at every 
pore. His limbs trembled violently. His teeth chat- 
tered. A faint, sickening sensation stole over him. 
He here with the murdered man's property in his 
hands ! Some awful fascination compelled him to 
clutch it tightly, when he would have thrown it from 
him. Then he staggered on, reeling like a drunken 
man. 
A step startled him. Coming in this direction, too. 
By the straggling sunlight, whose last beams gave an 
orange-red glow, he recognized the figure, the sham- 
bling gait. O Heaven I was his father's very life put 
into his hands ! 
THEN Archy Dane met his son, his thin, gray 
 face grew deathly white. His knees smote 
together, his hands fell limp and helpless by his side, 
and his lips twitched nervously. 
" Stephen ! " he exclaimed, in a faint, sickly voice, 
more of terror than surprise. His lank jaws fell as if 
stricken with palsy. 
"Were you looking for me, father?" 
It was a strange question, as Stephen himself knew, 
after he had put it, but it had come first into his mind. 
" No I " The voice was broken with aguish 
trembling. 
"It's growing dark in the woods." 
" Yes." No movement followed this. Only the two 
men breathing hoarse and fearfully. 
" Joe will have supper ready by the time we reach 
home." 
" Go on, boy," he said roughly, albeit in a tremulous 
tone. 
 
Stephen Dane was shocked with the crime that had 
been so foully committed there by the river's edge. 
This man's hands were red with blood, his soul black 
with a stain, only God could wipe off. His own father I 
Had he been sent to save him ? 
Perhaps because his own heart had been so bitter 
a while ago, he experienced a deep pity for this poor old 
man. Yet his lips must be sealed now and forever. 
"Well," he returned, "don't wait out late." 
Presently he looked back, and saw the bent figure 
groping around in the falling darkness. Then he only 
heard a faint rustle, and could see nothing. But he 
knew two bony hands were hunting over the moss 
and dead leaves, for something he carried in his 
pocket. 
He skulked along a back lane nearer the river. 
How lonely it was in this amethyst glow ! How the 
long hills drooped with purple shadows, their outlines 
lost in soft indistinctness. Gray half lights upon the 
bolder rocks, faint touches of red along the shore, 
where filmy threads of vapor began to curl. The 
hollow blue of the upper sky seemed a haven in which 
these fleets of gold might come to anchor in an un- 
troubled sea of rest. Where was there any rest for 
him? 
The bright reflection had entirely disappeared behind 
the hills when Stephen reached home. Supper had 
been waiting upon the table a long time. The johnny- 
cake stood back from the fire, its crisp, golden tint 
degenerated into brown. Joe was cross with the 
delay. 
"You've got to goin' off to the tavern again," she 
flung out angrily. "It's enough to try the patience 
of a saint. Supper 's been waitin' this hour." 
"No, I haven't been to the tavern." 
The hollow voice startled her. She looked intently 
at Stephen. He felt that his face was fearfully 
haggard. 
" What's the matter ? And where's father ? " 
" How should I know ? We won't wait for him." 
" The johnny-cake was so nice ! It's a'most baked 
to death now ; " and Joe's voice was rather conciliatory. 
"No matter." 
' " One of those meetin's again, Stephen ? " 
No " absently. 
" They're goin' to cut the timber off the P'int, and 
build a new mill." 
" They ? Who ? " Stephen started as if struck by an 
unseen hand. 
" Company, I b'lieve. Jake Fawcett's wife told me. 
They want Mr. Vennard to go look at it first. Cu'ris 
that nothin' can't be done a'thout he has a finger in 
the pie." 
Stephen was too much excited to notice Joe's elisions. 
He choked down a mouthful of the johnny-cake. For 
all taste it had to him, it might as well have been 
 
compounded of chaff. This errand was what had called 
Mr. Vennard to that fatal spot. But his father 
How solve the mystery? 
"You're stupid to-night, Stephen," Joe said, angrily. 
" One might as well talk to a stick." 
" Am I ? " His voice had a dreary patience in it, as 
if he had begun to wait for something that would never 
come. He sipped his tea with long breaths between. 
When Joe was not looking he flung portions of his 
supper to the wistful-eyed dog. Presently he rose. 
" I do wish father 'd come. Goin' out again ? " 
"No." 
Then Joe, having failed in all her efforts at conversa- 
tion, lapsed into sullen silence. Stephen seated himself 
on the window-ledge, and looked down the lane. 
Nothing came of his watching. Gray night closed 
them in. One by one the stars were set in pale, 
penetrable wreaths of fleecy clouds. The surge of the 
river floated upon the night air, bringing wafts of dewy 
fragrance. Joe went out to gossip with a neighbor. 
In that strange, still night, Stephen's thoughts whirled 
in wildest chaos. It was his misery that nothing could 
be done. No plans laid. No precautions taken. Some 
times he resolved to go away without any explanation, 
but he shivered at the suspicion it might arouse. Had 
any one heard the words that had passed between him 
and Mr. Vennard? There was a long afternoon 
to account for. And here in his pocket was the 
memorandum-book. What must he do with that ? If 
found in this house, father or son must answer for the 
deed. 
He lighted a candle, and went up to his room, fas- 
tening the door behind him. Then he drew forth the 
book and opened it. Full of daily jottings in pencil, 
one or two receipts, a plan for boiler and steam-chest, 
and some bank bills, laid out straight, with a crisp, 
fresh look, although not new. Six fifties and ten 
twenties five hundred dollars ! 
This was what had tempted his old father. This 
was what he had gone back to search for. A few 
hours agone Stephen had been wishing for just this. 
It would give him the means to perfect his engine, start 
him on the road to fortune. Ah, if it were only his, 
with no stain of blood upon it !
He put the money back, and shut the book. What 
should he do with it? hold it there in the flame until 
it was all consumed? Or, better still, take it down 
stairs and lay it upon the coals ? Destroy this sure and 
fatal evidence. 
But the money ? 
He had not robbed; he had not but a shiver 
choked off the words. Still, why should the money be 
wasted ? More than this had Thomas Vennard wrung 
out of his workmen. Mrs. Vennard and the child 
would have an' abundance. Little sunny-haired Hope ! 
Yes, it would do so much for him ; give him the 
 
knowledge for which he was madly thirsting ; save them 
all, perhaps ; take them out of this homblc, grovelling 
life. It had come to him by one of those blind chances 
of fate. Was it best to destroy it ? 
He stood there a long while, with a devil at his el- 
bow. To send it back in any manner would be certain 
detection. Was he not answerable for his father's life? 
No, it could not be returned. 
His tall figure swayed to and fro in the intense ex- 
citement ; his knees smote weakly together ; his fingers 
trembled and clutched at each other, as if for support. 
His eyes stared wildly about, and he stood there mo- 
ment after moment, scarcely breathing. 
Joe's step sounded on the threshold. He darted 
one quick glance around. There was a chink in the 
chimney, by the rafter. He thrust it in, muttering, 
" For to-night only." 
He opened the door, and went stumbling down stairs, 
