he dropped the chalk.
"You refuse to perform the examples--do you?" demanded Vallington,
sternly.
"Yes, I do."
"Then you may take the consequences. Either you shall be expelled from
the Institute, or at least fifty of us will petition our parents to
take us from this school. We have done with you."
Bill Poodles smiled, and was pleased to get off so easily; but I
noticed that Dick Pearl turned pale, and looked very much troubled. He
was a relative of Mr. Parasyte, and it was generally understood that
he was a free scholar, his parents being too poor to pay his board and
tuition. While he expected to be ducked in the lake, or subjected to
some personal indignity, after the manner in which boys usually treat
such cases, his courage was good. Now, it appeared that the boys
simply intended to have Poodles expelled, or to ask their parents and
guardians to remove them; and as most of the students were from
fourteen to eighteen years of age, they would probably have influence
enough to effect their design.
"Pearl," said the judge, while the other culprit was apparently still
attempting to figure out the result of the trial.
"I'm here," replied Pearl.
"We are entirely satisfied that Poodles had some assistance in
performing his examples. It is believed that you gave him that
assistance. If you did, own up."
"Who says I helped Poodles?"
"I say so, for one," added the judge, sharply.
"Can you prove it?"
"I will answer that question after you have confessed or refused to
confess. You shall have fair play, as well as Poodles. If you wish to
put yourself right on the record, you can do so; if not, you shall
leave, or we will."
Pearl looked troubled. He was under very great obligations to Mr.
Parasyte. If he denied that he had helped Poodles, and it was then
proved against him, the boys would insist that he should be expelled.
If he stood out, he must either be expelled or the Institute be broken
up. He did not appear willing to take such a responsibility.
"You can do as you please, Pearl; but tell the truth, if you say
anything," continued Vallington.
"I did help Poodles," said he, looking down at the floor.
"How much did you help him?"
"I lent him my examination paper, and he copied all the solutions upon
his own."
"And after that you were willing to declare that you had not assisted
any one?" demanded the judge, with a look of supreme contempt on his
fine features.
"I had not helped any one when I signed my paper."
"Humph!" exclaimed Vallington, with a withering sneer. "That is the
meanest kind of a lie."
"I didn't mean to assist him; he teased me till I couldn't help
myself," pleaded Pearl.
A further examination showed that Poodles had browbeaten and
threatened him; and we were disposed to palliate Pearl's offence, in
consideration of his poverty and his dependent position, after he had
confessed his error.
"Are you willing to make this acknowledgment to Mr. Parasyte?" asked
the judge, in a tone of compassion.
"I don't want to; but I will. I suppose he will send me home then,"
replied the culprit.
"We will do what we can for you," added the judge.
Pearl had been a pretty good fellow among the boys, was generally
popular, and all were sorry for him. But his confession in a manner
absolved him, and the students heartily declared that they would stand
by him.
"Our business is finished," said Vallington, "unless Poodles has
something more to say."
Poodles had listened with consternation to the confession of Pearl,
and he now appeared to be dissatisfied with himself rather than with
the court.
"I didn't think Dick Pearl would let on in that way," said he, casting
a reproachful glance at his fellow-culprit.
"He has told the truth. If he had not confessed, we could have proved
that he helped you," added Vallington. "I have seen the six papers
that were all right myself. Pearl performed the third example in a
very peculiar and roundabout way; and Poodles had it in the same way,
while the other did it by the most direct method."
"I suppose it's of no use to stand out now," said Poodles, timidly.
"Will you confess now?"
"I will, if it will do any good."
"If you will tell the truth to Mr. Parasyte, that is all we want. The
fellows haven't anything against you. Will you do so?"
"I will if you say I shall not be expelled," whined Poodles.
"I can only say that we will not ask for your expulsion. I suppose
there is no danger of Mr. Parasyte expelling you," added the judge,
with a dry humor, appreciated by all the students.
"Mr. Parasyte!" exclaimed one of the sentinels at the door.
There was an attempt on the part of the principal to pull the door
open, but it was well secured upon the inside.
"Let him in," said the judge.
The door opened, and Mr. Parasyte entered the school-room.
CHAPTER VIII.
IN WHICH ERNEST VANQUISHES THE SCHOOLMASTER.
Mr. Parasyte had evidently obtained some information in regard to the
great rebellion before he entered the school-room; for though he
looked extremely troubled, he did not seem to be so much astonished as
might have been expected. He was admitted by order of the judge, and
took off his hat as he walked up the aisle to the platform, wiping
away the perspiration which gathered on his heated brow under the
severe mental struggles his position induced.
"What does all this mean?" he demanded, with a sternness which we
could not help seeing was assumed.
The boys were all orderly and quiet; the school room was as still as
during the regular sessions of the Institute. The sentinels, with
their bats and clubs, stood immovable at their stations, and the
scene produced its full impression upon the mind of the principal. As
he did not seem to be prepared to receive an answer to his question,
none was given; and Mr. Parasyte glanced uneasily around the room,
apparently seeking to obtain a better understanding of the scene.
"What does all this mean?" demanded he, a second time.
"It means, sir," replied Henry Vallington, "that the boys are
dissatisfied, and intend to have things set right."
"Is this a proper way to express their dissatisfaction--to take
advantage of my absence to get up a riotous assembly?"
"We have been perfectly orderly, sir," added the judge, in respectful
tones.
"How came you here, Thornton?" continued the principal, as his gaze
rested on me.
"We brought him here, sir," promptly interposed Vallington, anxious to
relieve me of any responsibility for my escape from my prison-chamber.
"Vallington, I confess my astonishment at seeing you engaged in an
affair of this kind," said Mr. Parasyte, reproachfully; and he fixed
his gaze upon the judge, and again wiped the perspiration from his
forehead. "I have always regarded you as an orderly and well-behaved
boy."
"I do not expect to forfeit my reputation as such by what I have done.
Mr. Parasyte, the boys are dissatisfied. We are not little children.
We have all reached the years of discretion, and we know the
difference between right and wrong, between justice and injustice."
"Do you intend to read me a lecture?" demanded the principal, angrily.
"No, sir; I had no such intention--only to state the facts."
"But you are arraigning me, the principal of the Parkville Liberal
Institute," added Mr. Parasyte, measuring the judge from head to foot.
"You may call it what you please, sir."
"May I ask what you purpose to do?" continued the principal, in a
sneering tone, not unmingled with timidity.
"Poodles," said the judge, turning to the lank toady, "stand up."
He obeyed; and being now with the majority of the boys, I think he was
mean enough to enjoy the discomfiture of Mr. Parasyte, for there can
be no real respect or true sympathy in the relation of one flunky with
another.
"Are you ready to tell the whole truth?" demanded Vallington.
"I am," replied Poodles.
"Perhaps you will be willing to inform Mr. Parasyte, in the beginning,
whether you do so of your own free will and accord, or not."
"I do so of my own free will and accord."
"Did you perform the examples on the examination paper without any
assistance?"
"I did not."
"How many did you do yourself?"
"None of them."
"Who struck the first blow in the affray on the pier with Thornton?"
"I did," answered Poodles, with a silly leer. "Thornton told the facts
just exactly as they were."
"You may sit down."
Mr. Parasyte wiped his brow again.
"Pearl," continued Vallington.
This culprit, unlike his companion in guilt, looked sheepish and
crestfallen, as he slowly rose from his seat. He was not so base and
low-minded as Poodles, and he felt a genuine shame for the mean
conduct of which he had been guilty.
"Have you anything to say, Pearl?" asked the judge.
"I lent my paper to Poodles, who copied the solutions from it,"
replied Pearl, with his glance fixed upon the floor.
"That's all; you may sit down."
Pearl seated himself; and if a pin had fallen to the floor then, it
might have been heard in the anxious silence that followed. Mr.
Parasyte's chest heaved with emotion. He wanted to storm, and scold,
and threaten, but seemed to be afraid to do so.
"I have nothing more to say at present, Mr. Parasyte. In the name and
in behalf of the students, I have brought the facts to your notice,"
said Vallington, breaking the impressive stillness, as the principal
did not seem disposed to do so.
"After the riotous proceedings of this afternoon, I might have
expected this; but I did not," the principal began. "You appear to
have intimidated Poodles to such an extent that he has entirely
modified and reversed the statements he made this afternoon. He is a
weak-minded boy, and it was not difficult to do so."
This remark roused the ire of Poodles, and it required a sharp
reprimand from the judge to repress his impertinence.
"Pearl is a poor boy, upon whose fears you seem to have successfully
wrought. A confession from either of them, under the circumstances, is
