There was a brown gamekeeper for nearly every 
head of game, wearing a pheasant's wing in his hat 
and carrying a short, heavy sword ; and our driver 
told us, with an awful solemnity in his bated breath, 
that no one might kill this game but the king, under 
penalty of the galleys. 
VI. 
WE went one evening to the opera at San Carlo. 
It is one of the three theatres San Carlo of Na- 
ples, La Scala of Milan, and Fenice of Venice 
on which the Italians pride themselves ; and it is 
certainly very large and imposing. The interior has 
a bel colpo d'occhio, which is what many Italians 
chiefly value in morals, manners, and architecture ; 
but after this comes great shabbiness of detail. The 
boxes, even of the first order, are paved with brick 
tiles, and the red velvet border of the box which the 
people see from the pit is not supported in style by 
the seats within, which are merely covered with red 
oil-cloth. The opera we saw was also second-rate, 
and was to the splendor of the scenic arrangements 
what the oil-cloth was to the velvet. The house was 
full of people, but the dress of the audience was not 
so fine as we had expected in Naples. The evening 
dress is not de rigueur at Italian theatres, and people 
seemed to have come to San Carlo in any pleasant 
carelessness of costume. 
VII. 
THE Italians are simple and natural folks, pleased 
through all their show of conventionality with little 
things, and as easy and unconscious as children in 
their ways. There happened to be a new caffe* 
opened in Naples while we were there, and we had 
 
the pleasure of seeing all ranks of people affected by 
its magnificence. Artless throngs blocked the side- 
walk day and night before its windows, gazing upon 
its mirrors, fountains, and frescos, and regarding the 
persons over their coffee within as beings lifted by 
sudden magic out of the common orbit of life and set 
dazzling in a higher sphere. All the waiters were 
uniformed and brass-buttoned to blinding effect, and 
the head waiter was a majestic creature in a long 
blue coat reaching to his feet, and armed with a 
mighty silver-headed staff. This gorgeous apparition 
did nothing but walk up and down, and occasionally 
advance toward the door, as if to disperse the crowds. 
At such times, however, before executing his pur- 
pose, he would glance round on the splendors they 
were admiring, and, as if smitten with a sense of the 
enormous cruelty he had meditated in thinking to 
deprive them of the sight, would falter and turn 
away, leaving his intent unfulfilled. 
VIII. 
A DAY IN POMPEII. 
ON the second morning after our arrival in Na- 
ples, we took the seven o'clock train, which leaves 
the Nineteenth Century for the first cycle of the 
Christian Era, and, skirting the waters of the Nea- 
politan bay almost the whole length of our journey, 
reached the railway station of Pompeii in an hour. 
As we rode along by that bluest sea, we saw the 
fishing-boats go out, and the foamy waves (which it 
would be an insolent violence to call breakers) come 
in ; we saw the mountains slope their tawny and 
golden manes caressingly downward to the waters, 
where the islands were dozing yet ; and landward, 
on the left, we saw Vesuvius, with his brown mantle 
of ashes drawn close about his throat, reclining on 
the plain, and smoking a bland and thoughtful morn- 
ing pipe, of which the silver fumes curled lightly, 
lightly upward in the sunrise. 
We dismounted at the station, walked a few rods 
eastward through a little cotton-field, and found 
ourselves at the door of Hotel Diomed, where we 
took breakfast for a number of sesterces which I am 
sure it would have made an ancient Pompeian stir 
 
in Ins urn to think of paying. But in Italy one 
learns the chief Italian virtue, patience, and we paid 
our account with the utmost good nature. There 
was compensation in store for us, and the guide 
whom we found at the gate leading up the little hill 
to Pompeii inclined the disturbed balance in favor of 
our happiness. He was a Roman, spoke Italian that 
Beatrice might have addressed to Dante, and was 
numbered Twenty-six. I suppose it is known that 
the present Italian Government forbids people to be 
pillaged in any way on its premises, and that the 
property of the State is no longer the traffic of cus- 
todians and their pitiless race. At Pompeii each 
person pays two francs for admission, and is rigorously 
forbidden by recurrent sign-boards to offer money to 
the guides. Ventisei (as we shall call him) himself 
pointed out one of these notices in English, and did 
his duty faithfully without asking or receiving fees in 
money. He was a soldier, like all the other guides, 
and was a most intelligent, obliging fellow, with a 
self-respect and dignity worthy of one of our own 
volunteer soldiers. 
Ventisei took us up the winding slope, and led us 
out of this living world through the Sea-gate of 
Pompeii back into the dead past the past which, 
with all its sensuous beauty and grace, and all its 
intellectual power, I am not sorry to have dead, and, 
for the most part, buried. Our feet had hardly 
trodden the lava flagging of the narrow streets when 
we came in sight of the laborers who were exhuming 
the inanimate city. They were few in number, not 
 
perhaps a score, and they worked .tediously, with 
baskets to carry away the earth from the excavation, 
boys and girls carrying the baskets, and several ath- 
letic old women plying picks, while an overseer sat 
in a chair near by, and smoked, and directed their 
exertions. 
They dig down about eight or ten feet, uncovering 
the walls and pillars of the houses, and the mason, 
who is at hand, places little iron rivets in the stucco 
to prevent its fall where it is weak, while an artist 
attends to wash and clean the frescos as fast as they 
are exposed. The soil through which the excavation 
first passes is not of great depth ; the ashes which 
fell damp with scalding rain, in the second eruption, 
are perhaps five feet thick; the rest is of that porous 
stone which descended in small fragments during the 
first eruption. A depth of at least two feet in this 
stone is always left untouched by the laborers till the 
day when the chief superintendent of the work comes 
out from Naples to see the last layers removed ; and 
it is then that the beautiful mosaic pavements of the 
houses are uncovered, and the interesting and valu- 
able objects are nearly always found. 
The wonder was, seeing how slowly the work pro- 
ceeded, not that two thirds of Pompeii were yet 
buried, but that one third had been exhumed. We 
left these hopeless toilers, and went down-town into 
the Forum, stepping aside on the way to look into 
one of the Pompeian Courts of Common Pleas. 
 
II. 
Now Pompeii is, in truth, so fall of marvel and 
surprise, that it would be unreasonable to express 
disappointment with Pompeii in fiction. And yet I
cannot help it. An exuberant carelessness of phrase 
in most writers and talkers who describe it had led 
me to expect much more than it was possible to find 
there. In my Pompeii I confess that the houses had 
no roofs in fact, the rafters which sustained the 
tiles being burnt, how could the roofs help falling in ? 
But otherwise my Pompeii was a very complete 
affair : the walls all rose to their full height ; door- 
ways and arches were perfect ; the columns were all 
unbroken and upright ; putting roofs on my Pompeii, 
you might have lived in it very comfortably. The 
real Pompeii is different. It is seldom that any wall 
is unbroken ; most columns are fragmentary ; and 
though the ground-plans are always distinct, very few 
rooms in the city are perfect in form, and the whole 
is much more ruinous than I thought. 
But this ruin once granted, and the idle disappoint- 
ment at its greatness overcome, there is endless ma- 
terial for study, instruction, and delight. It is the 
revelation of another life, and the utterance of the 
past is here more perfect than anywhere else in the 
world. Indeed, I think that the true friend of Pom- 
peii should make it a matter of conscience, on enter- 
ing the enchanted city, to cast out of his knowledge 
all the rubbish that has fallen into it from novels and 
 
travels, and to keep merely the facts of the town's 
luxurious life and agonizing death, with such inci- 
dents of the eruption as he can remember from the 
description of Pliny. These are the spells to which 
the sorcery yields, and with these in your thought 
you can rehabilitate the city until Ventisei seems to 
be a valet de place of the fiirst century, and your- 
selves a set of blond barbarians to whom he is show- 
ing off the splendors of one of the most brilliant 
towns of the empire of Titus. Those sad furrows 
