money up. 'Tain't no use to try to git red on me, for I'm go'n' to make
a will, and leave what little I've got to your aunt," said Mr.
Fairfield.
"Uncle Nathan, do you really think I want your money?" asked Levi,
beginning to be indignant at the foul suspicious of the old man.
"That's what you want to kill me for," whined the miser.
"I don't want to kill you, or hurt you."
"I'm go'n' to make a will; so 'tain't no use to try to git red of me
any more."
Levi pitied the sufferer, as much for his moral as his mental
obtuseness, and fearful that his indignation might get the better of
his pity, he left the room. His uncle threatened him with all the
terrors of the courts and the prisons as he withdrew. In the kitchen he
found Dock Vincent, who had come to make his promised afternoon visit.
Levi left immediately, and called at the house of the carpenter. Mat
Mogmore, after some haggling, consented to become one of the crew of
the yacht. He was a young man of eighteen, who had made two or three
fishing voyages, and was a smart, active fellow. He had been rather
intimate with Dock since the return of the latter; and this was all
Levi had against him. Before night, the young captain of The Starry
Flag had engaged three other hands. The crew were to go on board the
next morning, when Levi intended to start on a trial trip, for the
purpose of training his men, and becoming more familiar himself with
the working of the yacht.
Dock Vincent entered the chamber of Mr. Fairfield. He found the old man
agitated, and almost crying with anger and vexation.
"So Levi's been to see you," said the visitor, seating himself at the
bedside.
"Yes, he has! Sunthin must be done, Cap'n Vincent," replied the old
man, trying to rise on the bed, but sinking back with a groan.
"Don't try to git up; keep still, Squire Fairfield, and don't hurt
yourself," interposed Dock.
"I can't stand this no longer!" howled the miserable man, the tears
starting in his eyes. "Sunthin must be done."
"What shall it be, squire?" asked the comforter, coolly.
"I can't stand it no longer, and I won't, nuther," repeated the
sufferer. "Somebody's got my money, and I must git it back, or it'll
kill me. That boy must be took up, and sarched till the money's found.
I know he's got it. Nobody else couldn't have took it. He must have
kerried it off in that little saw-mill. That's what he come arter the
saw-mill for--to kerry off the money in."
"Do you want to have Levi arrested?" asked Dock, musing.
"Yes; he must be took up. As soon as he sees I'm in airnest, he'll git
scared, and give up the money."
"Musn't be too hasty, squire. If you be, it'll damage you."
"No 'twon't; nothin' can damage me now. I'll resk it. Git a constable;
but don't git Gayles."
Dock counselled moderation, and thought it would be better to wait till
they had more proof, before taking any decisive steps. He finally
quieted the old man by promising to "hunt up the evidence," and have
Levi arrested as soon as there was any proof to work with.
CHAPTER VIII.
CONSTABLE COOKE.
Levi went on his experimental trip in The Starry Flag the next day. The
wind was very fresh, and he had an excellent opportunity to test the
weatherly qualities of the yacht, and she proved to be all he had
anticipated or desired. She would sail almost into the wind's eye, and
went through a chop sea as steadily as a judge through a trial. Captain
Fairfield, as all hands on board called him, was proud and happy in his
new situation. He was in his element; and it was not likely that the
possession of any sum of money could long keep him from the position he
was born to fill--the command of a vessel.
The yacht was fitted up below with special reference to the wants of
her owner's family and friends. Her trunk extended nearly the whole
length of her, affording a high and spacious cabin for a vessel of her
size. On each side of the companion-way, leading down from the cockpit,
or standing-room, was a small state-room, one of which was appropriated
to the use of the captain. It contained a single berth, a writing-desk,
a plentiful supply of lockers, drawers, shelves, and brackets for
clothing, charts, and nautical instruments. Levi had installed himself
in this little apartment, and felt like a lord, as he sat in its
cushioned arm-chair at the desk, glancing at his tasty and convenient
surroundings.
This state-room, and its fellow on the opposite side of the ladder,
opened into the main cabin, which contained four berths, with curtains
extending out in front, so as to form an enclosure for each occupant,
securing entire privacy. Opening from the forward part of the cabin
were two large and airy rooms, each having two berths, for the
accommodation of Mr. Watson's family. They contained every convenience
belonging to a first-class hotel, with a curious economy of space,
which would have excited the admiration of those who have a taste for
overcoming impossibilities.
Between these state-rooms was a narrow passageway leading to the
forecastle, which occupied about half the length of the vessel, and
contained the pantry, ice-house, cook-room, store-room, and six berths
in the forward part for the hands.
The cook and steward were colored men. The former had served for years
in a packet ship, and the latter was a steamboat waiter, who never
failed to put on a white jacket at meal times. The four hands who had
been employed on the Cape were young men, the oldest not over twenty,
all of whom had made several fishing voyages, and were hardy, active,
and accomplished seamen for a small craft.
On her trial trip Levi took the yacht as far as Boone Island, on the
coast of Maine. He dined in state, all alone in the cabin,--he had no
passengers on this cruise,--and Augustus, the cabin steward, wore his
white jacket, and stood behind his chair. In fact, Levi was Captain
Fairfield on this occasion; and he wore his dignity with becoming
modesty and grace.
In the evening, after his return, he made a full and enthusiastic
report to Mr. Watson and the ladies of the good behavior of the yacht,
and declared that he was ready at once to go round the world in her.
"We don't care about going round the world in her, Levi," laughed Mr.
Watson; "but on Monday morning we will start for Mount Desert, if you
are ready at that time."
"I am ready now, sir."
"I cannot leave before Monday. If we enjoy this trip, we will spend the
whole of the month of August on board of The Starry Flag. I should like
to go as far as the Bermudas, if you think it is safe to take so long a
voyage in her."
"Safe!" exclaimed Levi. "You can cross the Atlantic in her as safely as
in a steamship. For my part, I should feel safer in her than in any
steamer that ever went to sea. She would shake you up more, perhaps,
but she will take you through all right if she is well handled."
"No doubt of it. I told the builder to have her as strong as wood and
iron could make her. My directions were, first, strength, second,
comfort, and third, speed."
"I think he has got the speed in first, for we logged twelve knots
to-day, with the wind free in a chopping sea. But she can't be excelled
for comfort and safety. I know by the feeling of her in a sea just how
she would behave in a gale."
"Have you seen Mr. Gayles since your return, Levi?" asked Mr. Watson,
suddenly changing the subject, and wearing a look of anxiety.
"No, sir; he was not at home when I went to supper," replied Levi,
satisfied something unpleasant had occurred; and he had not much
difficulty in surmising its nature.
"Have you heard anything about a search-warrant?"
"Not a word, sir; but I almost expected something of the kind. My uncle
charged me with taking the money he lost; but I did not even know that
he had any money in his house," answered Levi, grieved and mortified at
the necessity of again defending himself from such an assault.
"Mr. Gayles told me that your room at his house, and indeed all his
premises, had been searched by Constable Cooke, in your absence,
to-day, for the missing gold."
"Of course they did not find anything," replied Levi, blushing.
"No, they did not; but perhaps they would if your affairs had been
managed by a less discreet person than Mr. Gayles. It seems that Dock
Vincent went to the house, with the constable, about dinner time. Your
uncle appears to have employed Vincent to look up the money for him.
Mr. Gayles was willing to admit the officer, but he positively refused
to allow Vincent to enter his house. Levi, that villain is the worst
enemy a man ever had. You must beware of him; have nothing to do with
him, and nothing to say to him."
"I do not, any more than I can help."
"The story now is, that you took your uncle's money, and set a trap to
kill or severely injure him at the cut, because you are his legal
heir."
"How absurd!" interposed Bessie, indignantly, as she rose from her
chair, and seated herself by the side of Levi on the sofa, her mild
eyes beaming with unwonted fire.
"Very absurd, my dear; but there are people who are foolish enough to
believe such absurd stories even of their own minister. Of course,
Levi, there is no real danger, but you may be seriously annoyed."
Levi was smart. He had done great deeds. He was known to be worth
thirty-five or forty thousand dollars, in the hands of his guardian;
and his intimate relations with the family of Mr. Watson rendered it
exceedingly probable that he would eventually roll in wealth, to be
counted by hundreds of thousands. Most of the people were generous
enough to congratulate the young man, in their hearts, on his brilliant
prospects, especially as he did not put on any airs, or cut any of his
old friends.
But there were weak and evil-minded men and women who envied his good
fortune, and were ready to seize upon any rumor which tended to bring
discredit upon him. Among these was Constable Cooke, whom Dock Vincent
had employed to search for Mr. Fairfield's money. He could not help
thinking that, if he had been intrusted with the warrant for the arrest
of Levi, on the charge, three years before, of purloining Ruel
Belcher's money, instead of Mr. Gayles, he would have done precisely as
that worthy man had, and in the end would have been appointed the young
man's guardian, making a few hundred dollars every year in commissions
on the care of the property. He could not exactly forgive Mr. Gayles
for being so fortunate; nor was he so exclusive as to confine his
dislike to the guardian, but extended it to the ward.
Constable Cooke, therefore, was a fit person to do the dirty work of
Nathan Fairfield and his coadjutor. He adopted the miser's theory in
full, that Levi had set the house on fire with the candle, in order to
cover up the loss of the money, which he had conveyed from the house in
the little saw-mill. Since the arrival of the yacht, it had even been
conjectured that she was the property of Levi, who had paid for her
with the ill-gotten gold. This theory, explained and bolstered up with
specious argument and sophistical evidence by the constable, rather
