"Certainly," was the reply. "We provide nothing ourselves, as the
prisoners only stay with us a few hours."
"I'll be right back," said Fosdick.
Not far from the station-house, Fosdick found a baker's shop, where he
bought some bread and cakes, with which he started to return. As he was
nearing the station-house, he caught sight of Micky Maguire hovering
about the door. Micky smiled significantly as he saw Fosdick and his
burden.
"Where are you carryin' that?" he asked.
"Why do you ask?" said Fosdick, who could not feel very friendly to the
author of Dick's misfortune.
"Never mind why," said Micky. "I know well enough. It's for your friend
Dick. How does he like his new lodgins'?"
"How do you like them? You've been there often enough."
"Don't be impudent, or I'll lam' ye," said Micky, scowling.
As Fosdick was considerably smaller than himself, Micky might have
ventured upon an assault, but deemed it imprudent in the immediate
vicinity of the station-house.
"Give my compliments to Dick," he said. "I hope he'll sleep well."
To this Fosdick returned no answer, but, entering the building,
descended to Dick's temporary quarters. He passed the bread and cake
through the grating, and Dick, cheered by the hope of an acquittal on
the morrow, and a speedy recovery of his freedom, partook with a good
appetite.
"Can't you give me a mouthful, boss?" muttered the negro woman before
mentioned, as she caught sight of Fosdick's load.
He passed a cake through the grating, which she seized eagerly, and
devoured with appetite.
"I think I must be going," said Mr. Murdock, consulting his watch, "or
my wife and children won't know what has become of me."
"Good-night, Mr. Murdock," said Dick. "Thank you for your kindness."
"Good-night, Richard. Keep up your courage."
"I'll try to."
Fosdick stopped longer. At last he went away, and our hero, left to
himself, lay down upon his pallet and tried to get to sleep.
CHAPTER XVI.
ROSWELL CRAWFORD RETIRES FROM BUSINESS.
"Can you send this home for me?" asked a lady in Hall & Turner's store
about three o'clock in the afternoon of the day on which Dick, as we
have related, was arrested.
"Certainly, madam. Where shall it be sent?" asked the clerk.
"No. 47 West Fortieth Street," was the reply.
"Very well, it shall be sent up immediately. Here, Roswell."
Roswell Crawford came forward not very willingly. He had no great liking
for the task which he saw would be required of him. Fortieth Street was
at least a mile and a half distant, and he had already just returned
from a walk in a different direction. Besides, the bundle was a large
one, containing three dress patterns. He did not think it very suitable
for a gentleman's son to be seen carrying such a large bundle through
the streets.
"Why don't you send Edward?" he said, complainingly. "He doesn't do half
as much as I."
"I shall send whom I please," said the clerk, sharply. "You wouldn't do
anything if you could help it."
"I won't carry bundles much longer," said Roswell. "You put all the
heaviest bundles off upon me."
Roswell's back being turned, he did not observe Mr. Turner, who had come
up as he was speaking.
"What are you complaining about?" asked that gentleman.
Roswell turned, and colored a little when he saw his employer.
"What is the matter?" repeated Mr. Turner.
"Mr. Evans always gives me the largest bundles to carry," said Roswell.
"He is always complaining of having to carry bundles," said the clerk.
"He says it isn't suitable work for a gentleman's son."
"I have noticed it," said Mr. Turner. "On the whole, I think, Mr.
Crawford," he said, with mock deference, "I think you have mistaken your
vocation in entering a dry-goods store. I advise you to seek some more
gentlemanly employment. At the end of the week, you are at liberty to
leave my employment for one better suited to you."
"I'm ready to go now," said Roswell, sulkily.
"Very well; if you desire it, I will not insist upon your remaining. If
you will come up to the desk, you shall receive what is due you."
It was somewhat humiliating to Roswell to feel that his services were so
readily dispensed with. Still he had never liked the place, and heartily
disliked carrying bundles. By going at once, he would get rid of the
large bundle to be carried to West Fortieth Street. Congratulating
himself, therefore, on the whole, on escaping from what he regarded as a
degrading servitude, he walked up to the desk in a dignified manner, and
received the wages due him.
"I hope you will find some more congenial employment," said Mr. Turner,
who paid him the amount of his wages.
"I have no doubt I shall," said Roswell, loftily. "My father was a
gentleman, and our family has considerable influence."
"Well, I wish you success. Good-by."
"Good-by," said Roswell, and walked out of the shop with head erect.
He did not quite like going home at once, as explanation would be rather
awkward under the circumstances. He accordingly crossed over to Fifth
Avenue, considering that the most suitable promenade for a gentleman's
son. He could not help regarding with some envy the happy possessors of
the elegant buildings which he passed. Why had partial Fate denied him
that fortune which would have enabled him to live in this favored
locality?
"Plenty of snobs have got money," he thought. "How much better I could
use it than they! I wish I were rich! You wouldn't catch me slaving my
life out in a dry-goods store, or any other."
This was undoubtedly true. Work of any kind had no charms for Roswell.
To walk up the avenue swinging a dandy cane, dressed in the height of
the fashion, or, what was better yet, sitting back luxuriously in an
elegant carriage drawn by a dashing span; such was what he regarded
himself most fit for. But, unfortunately, he was not very likely to
realize his wishes. The desire to enjoy wealth doesn't bring it, and the
tastes of a gentleman are not a very good stock to begin life with. So
Roswell sauntered along in rather a discontented frame of mind until he
reached Madison Park, where he sat down on a bench, and listlessly
watched some boys who were playing there.
"Hallo, Roswell!" said one of his acquaintances, coming up by chance.
"How do you happen to be here?"
"Why shouldn't I be here?"
"I thought you were in a store somewhere on Sixth Avenue."
"Well, I was, but I have left it."
"When did you leave it?"
"To-day."
"Got sacked, hey?"
"Sacked," in the New York vernacular, means discharged from a place. The
idea of having it supposed that he had been "sacked" was not pleasing to
Roswell's pride. He accordingly answered, "I never was 'sacked' in my
life. Besides, it's a low word, and I never use it."
"Well, you know what I mean. Did they turn you off?"
"No, they didn't. They would have been glad to have me stay."
"Why didn't you then?"
"I didn't like the business."
"Dry goods,--wasn't it?"
"Yes, a retail dry-goods store. If I ever go into that line again, it'll
be in a wholesale store. There's a chance there for a man to rise."
"You don't call yourself a man yet,--do you?"
"I call myself a gentleman," said Roswell, shortly.
"What are you going to do now?"
"I'm in no hurry about a new place. I shall look round a little."
"Well, success to you. I must be getting back to the shop."
"What are you doing?"
"I'm learning a trade."
"Oh!" said Roswell, turning up his nose slightly, which was quite easy
for him to do, as nature had given that organ an upward turn. He thought
all trades low, and resolved hereafter to hold as little communication
as possible with the boy who had so far demeaned himself as to be
learning one. That was worse than being in a dry-goods store, and
carrying around bundles.
Towards six o'clock Roswell rose from his seat, and sauntered towards
Clinton Place, which was nearly a mile distant. He entered the house a
little before dinner.
"Are you not earlier than usual, Roswell?" asked his mother.
"I've left the store," he said, abruptly.
"Left the store!" echoed his mother, in some dismay. "Why?"
"Because they don't know how to treat me. It's no fit place for a
gentleman's son."
"I am sorry, Roswell," said Mrs. Crawford, who, like her son, was "poor
and proud," and found the four dollars he earned weekly of advantage.
"I'm afraid you have been foolish."
"Listen, mother, and I'll tell you all about it," he said.
Roswell gave his explanation, which, it need hardly be said, was very
favorable to himself, and Mrs. Crawford was finally brought to believe
that Hall & Turner were low people, with whom it was not suitable for
one of her son's gentlemanly tastes to be placed. His vindication was
scarcely over, when the bell rang, and his Cousin Gilbert was admitted.
Mr. Gilbert entered briskly, and with a smiling face. He felt unusually
complaisant, having succeeded in his designs against our hero.
"Well, James," said Mrs. Crawford, "you look in better spirits than I
feel."
"What's happened amiss?"
"Roswell has given up his place."
"Been discharged, you mean."
"No," said Roswell, "I left the place of my own accord."
"What for?"
"I don't like the firm, nor the business. I wish I were in Mr.
Rockwell's."
"Well," said Gilbert, "perhaps I can get you in there."
"Has the boot-black left?"
"He's found another place," said Gilbert, smiling at what he regarded as
a good joke.
"You don't mean to say he has left a place where he was earning ten
dollars a week?" said Mrs. Crawford, in surprise. "Where is this new
place that you speak of?"
"In the station-house."
"Is he in the station-house?" asked Roswell, eagerly.
"That is what I hear."
"What's he been doing?"
"Charged with picking a pocket."
"Well, I do hope Mr. Rockwell will now see his folly in engaging a boy
from the streets," said Mrs. Crawford, charitably concluding that there
was no doubt of our hero's guilt.
