to the principal ports of Europe, as the representative of the naval
power of the United States. The civilities and attentions conferred
upon himself and his officers, were not solely that formal politeness
which one nation observes to another, but were in large measure the
more enthusiastic acknowledgment which men pay to lofty personal
qualities.
Admiral Farragut is a man of remarkably pure and vigorous health, and
though no longer young, is more elastic, vigorous and enduring than
most young men. His health and strength are the just recompense for
a cleanly and temperate life. He seems to have that sort of innate
or constitutional abhorrence for every unclean thing, which has
characterized some great reformers. There is a pleasant story of a
rebuke once administered by him in a most neat and decorous, but very
effective manner, to a tobacco-smoking bishop, which conveys a good
lesson. At dinner with Farragut, and after the meal was over, the
Bishop, about to select a cigar, offered the bunch to the sailor. "Have
a cigar, Admiral?" said he. "No, Bishop," said the Admiral, with a
quizzical glance, "I don't smoke--I swear a little, sometimes."
We regret that the limits of our sketches do not allow us to do justice
to those wonderful, inspiring, romantic scenes by which our navy
gained possession of New Orleans and Mobile. But if one wants to read
them in poetry, terse and vivid, with all the fire of poetry and all
the explicitness of prose, we beg them to read the "River Fight," and
"Bay Fight," of Henry Brownell, who was in both scenes as a volunteer
officer. There he will find Homeric military ardor baptized by
Christian sentiment.
    Full red the furnace fires must glow,
      That melts the ore of mortal kind;
    The mills of God are grinding slow,
      But ah, how close they grind!
    To-day the Dahlgren and the drum
      Are dread Apostles of his name,
    His kingdom here can only come
      In chrism of blood and flame.
CHAPTER IX.
JOHN ALBION ANDREW.
  Governor Andrew's Death Caused by the War--The Governors Dr.
    Beecher Prayed for--Governor Andrew a Christian Governor--
    Gov. Andrew's Birth--He goes to Boston to Study Law--Not
    Averse to Unfashionable and Unpopular Causes--His Cheerfulness
    and Social Accomplishments--His Sunday School Work--Lives
    Plainly--His Clear Foresight of the War--Sends a Thousand Men
    to Washington in One Day--Story of the Blue Overcoats--The
    Telegram for the Bodies of the Dead of Baltimore--Gov. Andrew's
    Tender Care for the Poor--The British Minister and the Colored
    Women--The Governor's Kindness to the Soldier's Wife--His
    Biblical Proclamations--The Thanksgiving Proclamation of 1861--
    The Proclamation of 1862--His Interest in the Schools for the
    Richmond Poor--Cotton Mather's Eulogy on Governor Winthrop--
    Gov. Andrew's Farewell Address to the Massachusetts Legislature--
    State Gratitude to Governor Andrew's Family.
Among the many heroic men who have sacrificed their lives in the great
battle of liberty in our country, there is no one who deserves a more
honored memory than John A. Andrew, Governor of Massachusetts.
We speak of him as dying in battle, for it is our conviction that
Governor Andrew was as really a victim of the war as if, like Lincoln,
he had been shot down by a bullet. His death was caused by an over tax
of the brain in the critical and incessant labors of the five years'
war. He had been previously warned by a physician that any such strain
would expose him to such a result, so that in meeting the duties and
exigencies of his office at the time he did, he just as certainly knew
that he was exposing himself to sudden death as the man who goes into
battle. He did not fail till the battle was over and the victory won,
then with a smile of peace on his lips, he went to rest by the side of
Lincoln.
It was a customary form in the prayers of the Rev. Dr. Beecher, to
offer the petition that God would make our "Governors as at the first,
and our counsellors as at the beginning." These words, spoken with a
yearning memory of the old days of the pilgrim fathers, when religion
was the law of the land, and the laws and ordinances of Christ were
the standard of the government, found certainly a fulfillment in the
exaltation of John A. Andrew to be the Governor of Massachusetts.
It has been said of Lincoln by a French statesman that he presents to
the world a new type of pure, Christian statesmanship. In the same
manner it may be said of John A. Andrew, that he presents a type of a
consistently Christian State Governor.
The noble men of America who have just consummated in the 37th and 38th
Congresses the sublimest national and moral reform the world ever saw,
are the spiritual children of the pilgrim fathers. So are Garrison,
Phillips, John Brown, and other external helpers in bringing on the
great day of moral victory. They were men either tracing their descent
in lineal blood to Puritan parentage, or like Garrison, spiritually
born of the eternal influences which they left in the air of the
society they moulded.
These sons of the Puritans do not, it is true, in all points hold the
technical creed of their ancestors, any more than the Puritans held
the creed of the generation just before them. Progress was the root
idea with the Puritans, and as they stood far in advance in matters
of opinion, so their sons in many respects stand at a different line
from them; in this, quite as much as in anything else, proving their
sonship. The parting charge of the old pastor Robinson to the little
band of pilgrims was of necessity a seed of changes of opinion as time
should develop fit causes of change.
"If God reveal anything unto you by any other instrument of his,
be ready to receive it as ever you were to receive any truth by my
ministry; for I am verily persuaded and confident that the Lord hath
much truth yet to break forth from his holy word. For my part, I cannot
sufficiently bewail the condition of the reformed churches who are come
to a period in their religion, and will go at present no further than
the instruments of their first reformation. The Lutherans cannot be
drawn to go beyond what Luther said; and whatsoever part of his will
our good God has imparted unto Calvin they will rather die than embrace
it. And the Calvinists you see stick fast where they were left by that
great man of God, who yet saw not all things."
But that part of the Puritan idea which consisted in unhesitating
loyalty to Jesus Christ as master in practical affairs, and an
unflinching determination to apply his principles and precepts to the
conduct of society, and to form and reform all things in the state by
them, was that incorruptible seed which has descended from generation
to generation in Massachusetts, and shown itself in the course of
those noble men who have brought on and carried through the late great
revolution. This recent conflict has been in fact a great revival of
religion, by which the precepts of the Sermon on the Mount have been
established in political forms.
John Albion Andrew was born in the little town of Windham, Cumberland
county, Maine. It was like the most of the nests where New England
greatness is hatched--a little, cold, poor, barren mountain town, where
the winter rages for six months of the year. We hear of him in these
days as a sunny-faced, curly-headed boy, full of fun and frolic and
kind-heartedness, and we can venture to say how he pattered barefooted
after the cows in the dim grey of summer mornings, how he was forward
to put on the tea-kettle for mother, and always inexhaustible in
obligingness, how in winter he drew the girls to school on his sled,
and was doughty and valiant in defending snow forts, and how his arm
and prowess were always for the weak against the strong and for the
right against the wrong. All these inherent probabilities might be
wrought into myths and narratives, which would truly represent the boy
who was father to the man, John A. Andrew.
He graduated from Bowdoin College in the class of 1837, and came to
Boston to study law in the office of Henry H. Fuller, whence in 1840,
he was admitted to the bar.
During the earlier portions of his educational career, both in
college and at the bar, he had no very brilliant successes. He had
little ambition to dazzle or shine, or seek for immediate effect;
he was indifferent to academic honors, his heart and mind being set
upon higher things. He read and studied broadly and carefully, in
reference to his whole manhood rather than to the exigencies of a
passing occasion. Besides his legal studies, he was a widely read
belles-lettres student, and his memory was most retentive of all sorts
of literature, grave and gay, tragic and comic. He was one that took
the journey of life in a leisurely way, stopping to admire prospects
and to gather the flowers as he went on.
From the very earliest of his associations in Boston, he allied himself
not only with popular and acceptable forms of philanthropy, but also
with those which were under the ban of polite society. One who knew
him well says: "Few men were connected with so many unpopular and
unfashionable causes. Indeed, it was only sufficient to know that an
alliance with any cause was considered to involve some loss of social
caste, or business patronage, to be pretty sure that John A. Andrew was
allied with it."
His cheerful, jovial spirit, and the joyousness with which he
accepted the reproach of a cause, took from it the air of martyrdom.
His exquisite flow of natural humor oiled and lubricated the play
of his moral faculties, so that a gay laugh instead of an indignant
denunciation would be the weapon with which he would meet injurious
language or treatment heaped on him for conscience sake. Like Lincoln,
he had the happy faculty of being able to laugh where crying did no
good, and the laughter of some good men, we doubt not, is just as
sacred in heavenly eyes as the tears of others. They who tried to put
men under society's ban for their conscientious opinions, got loss on
their own side in excluding Andrew, since no man had in a higher degree
all the arts and faculties of agreeableness in society. No man had a
wider or more varied flow of conversation. No man could tell a better
story or sing a gayer song. No man was more gifted with that electrical
power of animal cheerfulness, which excites others to gayety and mirth.
In the intervals of the gravest cases, when pressed down, overwhelmed,
and almost bewildered, he would still find spare hours when at the
bedside of some desponding invalid, or in the cheerless chamber of old
age, he would make all ring again with a flow of mimicry and wit and
fun, as jolly as a bob-o-link on a clover head.
Some of the most affecting testimonials to his worth come from these
obscure and secluded sources. One aged friend of seventy or more, tells
how daily, amid all the cares of the state house and the war, he found
some interval to come in and shed a light and cheerfulness in her
shaded chamber.
His pastor speaks of him as performing the duties of a Sunday school
superintendent during the labors of his arduous station. He was a lover
of children and young people, and love made labor light. While he did
not hesitate, when necessary, to carry forward the great public cause
on the Sabbath day, yet his heart and inclinations ever inclined him
