Certainly not. The banker had not opened the safe till after his return
from the barber's shop, where he had reproved his clerk, and Fitz did
not go near the safe during the sharp interview in the office.
"Burnet," said the banker, going to the open window.
This time the elderly man, to whom Leo Maggimore had applied, presented
himself.
"Have you seen the key of my safe?" demanded Mr. Checkynshaw.
"No, sir."
"Where is it, then?"
"I do not know, sir," replied Burnet, whose communications were always
"yea, yea; nay, nay."
"I have discharged Fitz."
Burnet bowed.
"He was saucy."
Burnet bowed again.
"I kicked him out for his impudence."
Burnet bowed a third time.
"My key is gone."
Burnet waited.
"But the safe is locked."
Burnet glanced at the safe.
"Who has been in my office?"
"A boy, sir."
"Who?"
"I don't know, sir; he asked for you. I sent him to your office."
"That was the barber's boy."
Burnet bowed: he never wasted words; never left his desk to see a row
or a military company, and would not have done so if an earthquake had
torn up the pavement of State Street, so long as the banking-house of
Checkynshaw, Hart, & Co. was undisturbed.
"Who else?" asked the banker.
"A man, sir."
"Who?"
"I don't know; he entered by your private door; the boy and the man
went out together."
"Send for the safe people."
Burnet bowed, and retired. In half an hour two men from the safe
manufactory appeared. They opened the iron door, and the banker turned
pale when he found that his valuable papers had been abstracted. The
three hundred and fifty dollars which "Mr. Hart" had taken was of no
consequence, compared with the documents that were missing; for they
were his private papers, on which other eyes than his own must not
look.
The safe men fitted a new key, altering the wards of the lock, so that
the old one would not open the door. What remained of the papers were
secured; but those that were gone were of more importance than those
that were left. Mr. Checkynshaw groaned in spirit. The threats of Mr.
Fitzherbert Wittleworth seemed to have some weight now, and that young
gentleman suddenly became of more consequence than he had ever been
before. Fitz could not have stolen these papers himself, but he might
have been a party to the act.
"Burnet!" called the banker.
The old clerk came again. Nothing ever excited or disturbed him, and
that was what made him so reliable as a financial clerk and cashier. He
never made any mistakes, never overpaid any one, and his cash always
"balanced."
"What shall I do? My private papers have been stolen!" said the banker,
nervously. "Who was the man that came out of the office?"
"I don't know, sir."
"What was he like?" demanded Mr. Checkynshaw, impatiently.
"Well-dressed, rowdyish, foppish."
"And the boy?"
"Fourteen or fifteen--looked well."
"Send for André Maggimore, the barber."
Burnet bowed and retired. Charles was sent to the saloon of Cutts &
Stropmore; but it was four o'clock, and André had gone to dress the
hair of Elinora Checkynshaw. The banker was annoyed, vexed, angry. He
wanted to see the boy who had left the office with the man
"well-dressed, rowdyish, foppish." He did not know where Leo lived, and
the barber had no business to be where he could not put his hand on him
when wanted. Impatiently he drew on his overcoat, rushed out of the
office, and rushed into the shop of Cutts & Stropmore. Mr. Cutts did
not know where André lived, and Mr. Stropmore did not know. André was
always at the shop when he was wanted there, and they had no occasion
to know where he lived. Probably they had known; if they had, they had
forgotten. It was somewhere in High Street, or in some street or court
that led out of High Street, or somewhere near High Street; at any
rate, High Street was in the direction.
There was nothing in this very definite information that afforded Mr.
Checkynshaw a grain of comfort. He was excited; but, without telling
the barbers what the matter was, he rushed up State Street, up Court
Street, up Pemberton Square, to his residence. He wanted a carriage;
but of course there was no carriage within hailing distance, just
because he happened to want one. He reached his home out of breath; but
then his key to the night-latch would not fit, just because he was
excited and in a hurry.
He rang the bell furiously. Lawrence, the man servant, was eating his
dinner, and he stopped to finish his pudding. The banker rang again;
but Lawrence, concluding the person at the door was a pedler, with
needles or a new invention to sell, finished the pudding--pedlers ring
with so much more unction than other people. The banker rang again.
Fortunately for the banker, more fortunately for himself, Lawrence had
completely disposed of the pudding, and went to the door.
"What are you about, you blockhead? Why don't you open the door when I
ring?" stormed the banker.
"I think the bell must be out of order, sir," pleaded Lawrence, who had
heard it every time it rang.
"Go and get a carriage, quick! If you are gone five minutes I'll
discharge you!" added the great man, fiercely, as he rushed into the
parlor.
"You are late to dinner," said Mrs. Checkynshaw.
"Don't talk to me about dinner! Where is Elinora?"
"Why, what is the matter?" asked the lady, not a little alarmed by the
violent manner of the husband.
"Matter enough! Where is Elinora? Answer me, and don't be all day about
it!"
"In her dressing-room. André, the hair-dresser, is with her."
Mr. Checkynshaw rushed up stairs, and rushed into the apartment where
André was curling the hair of a pale, but rather pretty young lady of
twelve. His abrupt appearance and his violent movements startled the
nervous miss, so that, in turning her head suddenly, she brought one of
her ears into contact with the hot curling-tongs with which the barber
was operating upon her flowing locks.
"O, dear! Mercy! You have killed me, André!" screamed Elinora, as her
father bolted into the room.
"I beg your pardon, Miss Checkynshaw," pleaded André.
"You have burned me to death! How you frightened me, pa!" gasped the
young lady.
"Mind what you are about, André!" exclaimed the banker, sternly, as he
examined the ear, which was not badly damaged.
"The young lady moved her head suddenly. It was really not my fault,
sir," added André.
"Yes, it was your fault, André," replied Elinora, petulantly. "You mean
to burn me to death."
"I assure you, mademoiselle--"
"Where do you live, André?" demanded the banker, interrupting him.
"Phillimore Court, No. 3," replied the barber.
"I want you to go there with me at once," bustled the banker. "Is your
boy--What's his name?"
"Leo, sir."
"Leo. Is he at home?"
"I think he is. Do you wish to see him, sir?"
"I do. Come with me, and be quick!"
"Leo would not be able to serve you, sir; he cannot leave his school."
"I want to see him; my safe has been robbed, and your boy was with the
man who did it."
"Leo!" gasped the barber, dropping his hot iron upon the floor, and
starting back, as though a bolt of lightning had blasted him.
"Yes; but come along! I tell you I'm in a hurry!" snapped Mr.
Checkynshaw.
"He can't go now, pa," interposed the daughter. "He must finish
dressing my hair."
"He shall return in a short time, Elinora," replied the banker.
"He shall not go!" added she, decidedly, and with an emphasis worthy of
an only daughter.
"Leo!" murmured the poor barber, apparently crushed by the terrible
charge against the boy.
"No. 3 Phillimore Court, you say," continued the banker, as he moved
towards the door, yielding to the whim of the spoiled child.
The barber did not answer. His eyes rolled up in his head; he staggered
and fell upon the floor. Elinora shrieked in terror, and was hurried
from the room by her father.
CHAPTER V.
LEO MAGGIMORE.
Andre Maggimore had an apoplectic fit. Perhaps the immense dinner he
had eaten in the shop had some connection with his malady; but the
shock he received when the banker told him that Leo was implicated in
the robbery of the safe was the immediate exciting cause. André was a
great eater, and took but little exercise in the open air, and was
probably predisposed to the disease. The dark shadow of trouble which
the banker's words foreboded disturbed the circulation, and hastened
what might otherwise have been longer retarded.
Doubtless Mr. Checkynshaw thought it was very inconsiderate in André
Maggimore to have an attack of apoplexy in his house, in the presence
of his nervous daughter, and especially when he was in such a hurry to
ascertain what had become of his valuable private papers. If the banker
was excited before, he was desperate now. He rang the bells furiously,
and used some strong expressions because the servants did not appear as
soon as they were summoned.
Lawrence had gone for the carriage, and one of the female servants was
sent for the doctor. Mr. Checkynshaw handed his daughter over to her
mother, who also thought it was very stupid for the barber to have a
fit before such a nervous miss as Elinora. The banker returned to the
room in which André lay. He turned him over, and wished he was anywhere
but in his house, which was no place for a sick barber. But the doctor
immediately came to his relief. He examined the patient; André might
live, and might die--a valuable opinion; but the wisest man could have
said no more.
Mr. Checkynshaw could not afford to be bothered by the affair any
longer. He had pressing business on his hands. He directed the doctor
