and have a charming life myself, why go on waiting for 
impossible events? 
" It takes you a long while to think of the day," he said, 
playfully. 
" There is no need of haste," I returned, almost coldly. 
"But listen, love. It was May when we were first en- 
gaged, now it is September. Surely you do not need to 
test my affection after this probation ! I do not see any 
necessity for delay." 
"We will not attempt too much in one day," I said, 
with a poor effort at gayety. " I must have a talk with 
Mrs. Lawrence." 
" And she is my strongest ally. I shrewdly suspect she 
converted St. John to our mode of thinking." 
We rambled through the walks, he so engrossed with 
his own feelings that he never sought to fathom mine. I 
o o 
could illy have borne the scrutiny; and yet, so unreason- 
able are we, the very leniency annoyed me. 
" I cannot spare you a moment," he said, as I made a 
motion to go indoors. " If you knew how much I longed 
for you, you would make the delay brief as possible. Be 
merciful ! " 
My heart smote me for my waywardness .and want of 
faith. I made a new resolve that I would give him the 
love I owed, the duty our promise demanded. 
"So it is all settled," Mrs. Lawrence exclaimed, as I 
entered her room. "My dear, I congratulate you. Such 
a brilliant marriage, too ! I expended my utmost elo- 
quence upon Stuart last night, and convinced him that he 
was seriously interfering with your happiness ; and this 
morning I was delighted to find him in a more amiable 
 
frame of mind. Why he should ever have acted so fool- 
ishly I cannot divine." 
Was there ,'iny cause underlying his solicitude for me? 
" Aylmer is wild with delight. I don't believe I could 
have found a happier destiny for you. And it will make 
no rupture in our friendship. I have really grown attached 
to you, and feel perfectly satisfied with your prospects." 
When the bell rang for lunch, I found Aylmer waiting 
in the hall. His manner had acquired something quite 
new, a certain air of possession that gave him the posi- 
tion he had lacked before as a lover. I was not sure but 
the majority would consider him more attractive than Mr. 
St. John in all his gloomy dignity. 
I felt a little awkward and confused, but Mrs, Lawrence's 
fine tact covered this admirably. Aylmer showed no dis- 
position to triumph, and in my heart I thanked him for the 
generosity. 
Mr. St. John took no notice of me until evening, then 
he did dci^n to congratulate me in a formal manner, and 
assure me of his interest in my welfare. I could see that 
it was a mere matter of duty. 
The next day we fell into some dispute, trifling enough 
at first, but he .soon exasperated me by his cool, satirical 
sentences. Pie talked at me rather than to me some- 
thing of high aims forsaken, noble purposes perverted, the 
great trust of life betrayed. He made such bitter, sweep- 
ing assertions, he was so manifestly unjust, that I abso- 
lutely shrunk from the hard, narrow soul, whose glamour 
had once so nearly conquered mine. Where had I found 
anything lovable in him? What tenderness or generosity 
could a woman expect who ventured to disagree with him 
in never so slight a particular? Aylmer was right no 
cne could be happy with such a tyrant. 
I believe I should have been well satisfied but for the 
 
talk of marriage. Ayliner's plan caught Mrs. Lawrence's 
attention at once that immediately after our wedding we 
were to go to Washington. The winter promised to be 
unusually gay. In that case Mrs. Lawrence would spend 
a mouth or two there also. 
"A most auspicious debut," Mrs. Lawrence declared. 
" The fates seem to place everything desirable in your 
way. Next summer you can go abroad and win tri- 
umphs." 
As if I was to consider only the attention I excited ! 
Did this homage ever satisfy a woman's heart? 
" I believe you like cross, sullen, and uncomfortable peo- 
ple," Aylmer said one day, " or you would be glad to many 
and go away, just to escape the glowering looks of St. 
John. He cannot endure the sight of happiness." 
Did ever a woman like taunts better than love? 
Every day the net seemed drawing more closely around 
me. What was I waiting for hope of escape? 
Now and then I examined my heart. I did desire to 
love Aylmer Channing, and I felt comparatively satisfied. 
Why should a stray glance of Mr. St. John's have power 
to disturb me ? 
"Stuart," Aylmer said, at length, "I want you to assure 
Miss Adriance that you feel perfectly satisfied to yield 
your claim as her guardian in my behalf. She cannot re- 
solve to decide upon the exact period when I may take her 
into my keeping." 
" You are mistaken when you suppose that anything I 
could say would influence Miss Adriance," Mr. St. John 
replied, with a little hauteur. 
" You will say it, at least ? " 
* Ayliner's voice was boyishly pleading, and his lustrous 
eyes glanced up with infinite entreaty. 
" Miss Adriance knows that if I had not been entirely 
 
convinced of the fact that her happiness depended upon 
tlii.s marriage, I should not liave consented." 
" There, you hear, Sydnie ! When everything and every- 
body conspire to make you happy, why will you resist ? " 
and he turned in triumph. 
" You are all in such urgent haste ; " and I tried to 
laugh. 
" I've settled upon Christmas, Stuart." 
" I don't sec what objection Miss Adriance can make to 
the time, if she means to marry at all." 
Mr. St John's face was calm as he spoke, but his eyes 
shrouded in impenetrable reticence. Yet something warned 
me that I was at the very verge of a volcano. 
" Have it as you like," I said, carelessly. 
" O, thank you a thousand times ! Lsabelle, I have won ! " 
and Aylmer's voice trembled with the deep excitement of 
satisfaction. 
I took half a dozen steps towards him, and laid my hand 
in his, saying, in a tone of emotion, 
"God willing, I consent to become your wife that day." 
Awful words, that bound me irrevocably ! I fancied 
that I had made the last struggle then, and was at peace. 
Aylmer snatched my hand and pressed it to his lips rap- 
turously. But another revelation greeted my astonished 
vision : St. John's hands met in a passionate, nervous clasp, 
and his intense eyes settled upon Aylmer as if he could 
have hurled him to the uttermost part of the earth, so 
fierce and terrible that I stood positively magnetized, my 
very breath chilled. And then glance encountered glance. 
Was it love, or hate, or disdain, or revenge, that we read 
in each other's eyes? 
"Heaven help us both," I felt tempted to cry. 
lie walked carelessly out of the room. 
 
CHAPTER XIV. 
" What mirncle 
Can work me into hope ? Heaven here is bankrupt 
The wondering gods blush at their want of power,' 
And, quite abashed, confess they cannot help me." 
NAT LEE. 
"Mr dear Sydnie, you have come to your senses at 
last," Mrs. Lawrence commenced, with a smile. " I am 
thoroughly glad. But there are only three months in 
which to prepare; so we must be expeditious." 
" Three months ! Why, one could be married a hundred 
times in that period." 
"I suppose so, if the ceremony were all. The engage- 
ment had better be announced immediately." 
"Announced ! " I exclaimed, aghast. 
"A very short lime, I assure you. You will be busy 
shopping and having sewing done, and go very little into 
society." 
" I don't expect to begin wedding dresses until Decem- 
ber at least," I said, positively ; "and I do hate to be gos- 
siped about. Three weeks will be the utmost limit of my 
endurance." 
" What are you thinking of?" And her soft eyes opened 
in unbounded astonishment. 
"Thinking that no announcement or wedding dresses 
will be made lor the next two months. Aylmer goes 
home to-morrow, and we shall return to our usual life." 
"This is most unreasonable." 
" Most reasonable, it appears to me. Twenty things may 
 
occur death, disagreement, changes. I don't want to 
hear one word of the matter outside of Laurelwood. I 
mean to take all the comfort and pleasure that belong to 
Miss Adriance proper; and the first of December I promise 
to deliver myself into your hands, and become the most 
pliable young woman you ever saw." 
" What a singular girl ! " 
"Yes, I am singular. It is the last gasp of expiring 
liberty." 
"One would think you did not wish to be married." 
" I believe I don't : but it's a woman's destiny ; and what 
matters a few years, sooner or later?" 
" You do love Aylmer?" 
