The dike which surrounds Amsterdam has been planted with trees, and
converted into boulevards. There were formerly twenty-six bastions upon
it, constituting the fortifications of the city; but, being no longer
useful for defence, windmills have been erected upon them, to grind the
grain for the city. The four streets bordering the principal canals are
hardly to be surpassed in Europe. The buildings, which are mostly of
brick, are unique, with fantastic gables and projecting eaves. Many of
the streets are lined with trees on the banks of the canals. On the
whole, the students were more interested in Amsterdam than in any other
city they had visited, partly, perhaps, on account of its oddity. As
long as there was light to see, they continued their rambles, and then
retired early, in order to be prepared for a fresh start the next day.
At five o'clock in the morning the party took a steamer for Zaandam, or
Sardam. Leaving the shore, they had a fine view of the city. The harbor
is enclosed by two rows of piles, with occasional openings to admit the
passage of vessels, which are closed at night with booms armed with iron
spikes. In various parts of the Ij were seen little pavilions, built
upon piers, which are the summer houses of wealthy citizens, who own
pleasure-boats, and repair in them to these cosy little temples, to
drink wine and coffee and smoke their pipes.
At Sardam the curious students visited the cottage of Peter the Great,
in which he lived while he worked as a shipwright. The shanty is of
rough plank, and cants over on one side; but it was surrounded by
another building by the Queen of Holland, to protect it from further
decay. It contains but two rooms, one above the other, the former
reached only by a ladder. Alexander of Russia placed over the
chimney-piece a marble slab bearing the inscription, "Nothing is too
small for a great man." The walls of both rooms are covered with the
autographs of visitors, including that of the Emperor of Russia.
From this point the tourists were conveyed by the steamer to Waterland,
from which they were to proceed by trekschuit to Broek. This peculiar
craft is a kind of drag-boat, much used for passengers and light freight
on the canals of Holland. It is a long, narrow barge, nearly the whole
of which is taken up by a low cabin. Above it is the hurricane deck,
provided with a railing and benches to sit upon. At each end is a flight
of stairs, by which the main deck is reached and the cabins entered. The
ruim, or forward cabin, occupying the greater part of the space, is
appropriated to the common people, while the roef, or after-cabin, is
for the better class; but as genteel people seldom patronize the
trekschuit, this apartment is very small. It was drawn by horses,
attached to a long rope made fast to the pole or mast, near the bow.
Like everything Dutch, the boat was fitted up very neatly, and the
students were much interested in exploring it.
"Here we are, all on the raging canal!" said Terrill to his captain, as
the team started. "If it comes on to blow, we can take a reef in the
forward horse."
"Or in the het jagertje," laughed Paul, who had been talking with Mr.
Fluxion.
"We'll take a reef in that now. Don't your teeth ache, captain?"
"No; that's the boy that rides one of the horses."
The canal was filled with boats loaded with market produce, drawn by men
and women harnessed like mules to the tow-ropes. Woman's rights seemed
to be particularly recognized in this part of Holland, for females are
harnessed to the boats like horses, enjoying the same rights as the
"lords of creation." The houses on the way were mostly cottages, whose
steep roofs were often twice the height of the walls. The stork, which
the people cherish with a kind of superstitious reverence, was
occasionally seen, but not so frequently as in the vicinity of The
Hague, where he has a nest on the roof in a large proportion of the
houses.
The boys were much interested in the navigation of the trekschuit.
Meeting another boat, the steersman shouted "Huy!" indicating that the
other craft was to go to the right. When the tow-boy of the approaching
boat reached a certain point, he stopped his team, and the trekschuit
horses passed over it, as the rope slacked. He halted again to loose the
rope for the barge to pass over. Neither boat was stopped by the
operation. At the many bridges the rope was cast off, and made fast
again, without any delay.
An hour and a half brought them to Broek, the paradise of Dutch
neatness. It is a village of eight hundred people, most of whom have
"made their pile" and retired from business. Neatness is carried to
lunacy here, for no one is permitted to enter a house without taking off
his shoes. The narrow lanes and passages which serve as avenues are
paved with brick, or with tiles of different colors, arranged in
fantastic figures, and some are covered with sand and sea-shells, made
up into patterns. Strangers are warned not to ride through the place;
they must walk, leading the horse. The houses are mostly of wood,
gaudily painted; the roofs are covered with glazed tile of various hues.
The cow-stables of the dairy farms are better than the houses of most of
the poorer classes of Europe, having tiled floors, with everything
"polished off" and sandpapered as nicely as though they were intended
for drawing-rooms. Over each stall is a hook, by which the cow's tail is
fastened up, so as to keep her neat and clean.
The students continued on their way from Breck to Alkmar,--which
sustained a siege, and successfully resisted the Spaniards,--and thence
to The Helder, a town of twelve thousand inhabitants, opposite the
Texel. The great ship canal to Amsterdam commences at this point, which
is the only place on the coast of Holland where the deep water extends
up to the shore, the tide rushing through from the Zuyder Zee keeping
the passage open. The party had an opportunity to examine the mighty
sluices and gates, and to observe the stupendous dikes, before described
by Mr. Mapps. They visited the fortress erected by Napoleon with the
intention of making The Helder the Gibraltar of the North.
On Thursday morning the tourists took the steamer, through the Great
Canal, to Amsterdam. Being obliged to wait an hour for the train to
Utrecht, Paul visited one of the "diamond mills" of the city with Mr.
Fluxion. About five hundred men were employed in the establishment, and,
as the business is exclusively in the hands of the Jews, the mills are
closed on Saturday, and work on Sunday. The art of cutting and polishing
diamonds was for a long period exclusively in the hands of the Jews of
Antwerp and Amsterdam. There are quite a number of these manufactories
in the city at the present time. The machinery is operated by steam,
turning wheels for polishing the precious stones, and propelling the
wire saws for cutting them.
Diamond dust is the only substance with which an impression can be
produced upon the hard stones, and they are polished by metal plates
covered with this dust, and revolving with inconceivable rapidity. The
saw is a very fine wire, to which the dust is affixed. This process
appears to be the origin of the adage "diamond cut diamond." Before the
fifteenth century, diamonds were worn in their natural state, and the
art of cutting and polishing them was discovered by a native of Bruges.
The journey of the students was continued by railway to Utrecht.
Approaching this city, the country assumed a different aspect,
presenting occasional undulations, while in the town itself there is
quite a slope down to the River Rhine, on which it is located. The
treaty of Utrecht, which settled the peace of Europe after the war of
the Spanish succession, was signed at the house of the British minister;
but it has since been pulled down. The principal object of interest in
the city is the tower of the Cathedral of St. Martin, which is three
hundred and twenty-one feet high, and commands a view of nearly the
whole of Holland and a portion of Belgium. The sexton has his residence
more than a hundred and fifty feet above terra firma, where his family
are domiciled, and where his children were born. Doubtless they will be
regarded as persons of high birth.
At five o'clock in the afternoon, the weary travellers reached the
vessels of the squadron. Holland "was done," and the excitement was
ended. Many of them were tired out and cross, and it was a relief to
know that the squadron would go to sea the next morning. During the
rapid run through Holland, Wilton and Perth had found abundant
opportunities to discuss their mischievous scheme of running away with
the Josephine. They had so contrived it that eight of the Knights of the
Golden Fleece had occupied a compartment by themselves in the railway
carriages. As the squadron would arrive at Havre on Friday or Saturday,
no time was to be lost in arranging the details of the precious scheme,
which had been fully explained and assented to by the confederates.
The first point to be gained was to "cut up," so that the whole
twenty-six Knights should be condemned to imprisonment on board the
ship, while the rest of the students, with the instructors, went to
Paris. Mr. Hamblin was still the centre of all their hopes in this
direction; for hazing him would enable them to kill two birds with one
stone. It was a great satisfaction to annoy him, independently of the
result to be gained. Wilton proposed to "keelhaul" him. This was a
barbarous punishment, formerly in use in the English and Dutch navies,
and consisted in dragging the culprit under the keel of the vessel by
ropes attached to the opposite yard-arms. Perth declared that this was
utterly impracticable, and a third suggested that it was only necessary
to "talk" the matter in order to bring down the punishment upon their
anxious heads. Monroe, who always adopted moderate counsels, thought it
would be just as well to frighten the old gentleman out of his wits.
Indeed, all, except Wilton, protested against inflicting any serious
injury upon him. A ducking, or something of that kind, would do him no
harm; but they did not wish to hurt, only to annoy, him.
After supper the students felt a little brighter. Mr. Hamblin was pacing
the deck, as he always did towards evening, and Perth drummed together
his forces to play the first act in the drama. The names of the
twenty-six Knights had been written down on a sheet of paper, and a
dozen of them took position in the waist, with their backs to the
professor. Scarcely had the actors taken their places before the
Josephine's gig came alongside with Captain Kendall, who visited the
ship to receive his instructions from the principal for the next day.
Paul stepped upon deck; but, perceiving that Mr. Lowington was engaged
in an earnest conversation with Dr. Winstock, he did not interrupt him,
but paused in the waist. Of course the conspirators suspended
operations, and Paul spent the time he was waiting in conversation with
them about the wonders of Holland. As he stood there, Mr. Hamblin cast
frequent glances at him, and brooded heavily over the indignities which
had been heaped upon his learned head by the young commander, as he
believed. Probably the current of his thoughts would have assumed a
different direction if he had been aware that the principal and the
surgeon were discussing the best means of "letting him down easily."
Mr. Lowington at last discovered that Paul was waiting for him, and the
difficult subject was deferred. The captain of the Josephine went below
with the principal, and the conspirators began to discuss in a very
unguarded manner the process of keelhauling the obnoxious professor. As
the learned gentleman passed the group, he could not help hearing his
name mentioned. The boys soon became very earnest in their manner. They
had seated themselves under the lee of the hatch, and did not appear to
notice the fact that Mr. Hamblin was passing on the other side of it at
intervals.
"We'll keelhaul him," said Wilson; and the savant distinctly heard the
