Mamma, do let us go to Preston!"
I spoke very earnestly, and I believe with tears. Mamma looked
at me.
"Why, do you care for him?" she asked.
"Very much!" I said weeping.
"I did not know you had any affection for anything South,
except the coloured people."
"Mamma, let us go to Preston. He must want us so much!"
"I cannot go to Washington, Daisy."
"Can you spare me, mamma? I will go."
"Do you love Preston Gary?" said mamma, sitting up-right to
look at me.
"Mamma, I always loved him. You know I did."
"Why did you not say so before?"
"I did say so, mamma, whenever I was asked. Will you let me
go? O mamma, let me go!"
"What could you do, child? he is in the hospital."
"Mamma, he may want so many things; I know he must want some
things."
"It is vain talking. You cannot go alone, Daisy."
"No, ma'am; but if I could get a good safe friend to go with
me?"
"I do not know such a person in this place."
"I do, mamma, - just the person."
"Not a fit person for you to travel with."
"Yes, mamma, just the one; safe and wise to take care of me.
And if I were once there, Dr. Sandford would do anything for
me."
Mamma pondered my words, but would not yield to them. I wept
half the evening, I think, with a strange strain on my heart
that said I must go to Preston. Childish memories came thick
about me, and later memories; and I could not bear the idea of
his dying, perhaps, alone in a hospital, without one near to
say a word of truth or help him in any wish or want that went
beyond the wants of the body. Would even those be met? My
nerves were unstrung.
"Do stop your tears, Daisy!" mamma said at length. "I can't
bear them. I never saw you do so before."
"Mamma, I must go to Preston."
"If you could go there properly, child, and had any one to
take care of you; as it is, it is impossible."
I half thought it was; I could not bend mamma. But while we
sat there under the light of the lamp, and I was trying to do
some work, which was every now and then wetted by a drop that
would fall, a servant brought in a note to me. It was from
Mrs. Sandford, in New York, on her way to Washington to look
after a friend of her own; and asking if in any matter she
could be of service to me or to mamma. I had got my
opportunity now, and I managed to get mamma's consent. I
answered Mrs. Sandford's note; packed up my things; and by the
early train next morning started with her for Washington.
Mrs. Sandford was very kind, very glad to have me with her,
very full of questions, of sympathy, of condolence, and of
care; I remember all that, and how I took it at the time,
feeling that Daisy and Daisy's life had changed since last I
was under that same gentle and feeble guidance. And I remember
what an undertone of music ran through my heart in the thought
that I might perhaps hear of, or see, Mr. Thorold. Our journey
was prosperous; and the next person we saw after arriving at
our rooms was Dr. Sandford. He shook hands with his sister;
and then, his eye lightened and his countenance altered as he
turned to the other figure in the room and saw who it was.
"Daisy!" he exclaimed, warmly grasping my hand, - "Miss
Randolph! where is Mrs. Randolph, and what brings you here?"
"Why, the train, to be sure, Grant," answered his sister-in-
law. "What a man you are - for business! Do let Daisy rest and
breathe and have something to eat, before she is obliged to
give an account of herself. See, we are tired to death."
Perhaps she was, but I was not. However, the doctor and I both
yielded. Mrs. Sandford and I withdrew to change our dresses,
and then we had supper; but after supper, when she was again
out of the room, Dr. Sandford turned to me and took my hand.
"I must go presently," he said. "Now, Miss Randolph, what is
it?"
I sat down and he sat down beside me, still holding my hand,
on a sofa in the room.
"Dr. Sandford, my cousin Gary is a prisoner and in the
hospital. You wrote to mamma."
"Yes. I thought his mother might like to know."
"She is ill herself, in Georgia, and cannot come to
Washington. Dr. Sandford, I want to go in and take care of
him."
"You!" said the doctor. But whatever he thought, his
countenance was impenetrable.
"You can manage that for me."
"Can I?" said he. "But, Daisy, you do not come under the
regulations."
"That is no matter, Dr. Sandford."
"How is it no matter?"
"Because, I know you can do what you like. You always could
manage things for me."
He smiled a little, but went on in an unchanged tone.
"You are too young; and - excuse me - you have another
disqualification."
"I will do just as you tell me," I said.
"If I let you in."
"You will let me in."
"I do not see that I ought. I think I ought not."
"But you will, Dr. Sandford. My cousin was very dear to me
when I was a child at Melbourne - I love him yet very much -
no one would take so good care of him as I would; and it would
be a comfort to me for ever. Do let me go in! I have come for
that."
"You might get sick yourself," he said. "You do not know what
you would be obliged to hear and see. You do not know, Daisy."
"I am not a child now," - I replied.
There was more in my answer than mere words; there was more, I
know, in my feeling; and the doctor took the force of it. He
looked very sober, though, upon my plan, which it was evident
he did not like.
"Does Mrs. Randolph give her consent to this proceeding?" he
asked.
"She knows I came that I might look after Preston. I did not
tell her my plan any further."
"She would not like it."
"Mamma and I do not see things with the - same eyes, some
things, Dr. Sandford. I think I ought to do it."
"I think she is right," he said. "You are not fit for it. You
have no idea what you would be obliged to encounter."
"Try me," I said.
"I believe you are fit for anything," he broke out in answer
to this last appeal; "and I owned myself conquered by you,
Daisy, long ago. I find I have not recovered my independence.
Well - you will go in. But you cannot be dressed - so."
"No, I will change my dress. I will do it immediately."
"No, not to-night!" exclaimed the doctor. "Not to-night. It is
bad enough to-morrow; but I shall not take you in to-night.
Rest, and sleep and be refreshed; I need not say, be strong;
for that you are always. No, I will not take you with me to-
night. You must wait."
And I could do no more with him for the time. I improved the
interval, however. I sent out and got some yards of check to
make aprons; and at my aprons I sat sewing all the evening, to
Mrs. Sandford's disgust.
"My dear child, what do you want of those things?" she said,
looking at them and me with an inexpressible disdain of the
check.
"I think they will be useful, ma'am."
"But you are not going into the hospital?"
"Yes; to-morrow morning."
"As a visitor. But not to stay."
"I am going to stay if I am wanted," I said, displaying the
dimensions of my apron for my own satisfaction.
"My dear, if you stay, you will be obliged to see all manner
of horrible things."
"They must be worse to bear than to see, Mrs. Sandford."
"But you cannot endure to see them, Daisy; you never can.
Grant will never allow it."
I sewed in silence, thinking that Dr. Sandford would conform
his will to mine in the matter.
"I will never forgive him if he does!" said the lady. But that
also I thought would have to be borne. My heart was firm for
whatever lay before me. In the hospital, by Preston's side, I
was sure my work lay; and to be there, I must have a place at
other bedsides as well as his. In the morning Mrs. Sandford
renewed her objections and remonstrances as soon as she saw
her brother-in-law; and to do him justice, he looked as ill
pleased as she did.
"Daisy wants to go into the hospital as a regular nurse," she
said.
"It is a weakness of large-hearted women now-a-days."
"Large-hearted! Grant, you are not going to permit such a
thing?"
"I am no better than other men," said the doctor; "and have no
more defences."
"But it is Daisy that wants the defences," Mrs. Sandford
cried; "it is she that is running into danger."
"She shall want no defences while she is in my hospital."
"It is very well to say; but if you let her in there, you
cannot help it. She must be in danger, of all sorts of harm."
"If you will prevent it, Mrs. Sandford, you will lay me under
obligations," said the doctor, sitting down and looking up at
his sister-in-law somewhat comically. "I am helpless, for I
have passed my word. Daisy has the command."
"But just look at the figure she is, in that dress! Fancy it!
That is Miss Randolph."
The doctor glanced up and down, over my dress, and his eye
turned to Mrs. Sandford with provoking unconcern.
"But you will not let her stay there, Grant?"
The doctor looked up at me now, and I saw an answer ready on
