"Who is that, Daisy?"
He asked short and coolly, like one who had a right to know;
and then I remembered he had the right. I gave him Miss
Cardigan's name and number.
"Who is she? and who lives with her?"
"Nobody lives with her; she has only her servants."
"What do you know about her then, besides what she has told
you? Excuse me, and please have the grace to satisfy me."
"I know I must," I said half laughing.
"Must?"
"You know I must too, Dr. Sandford."
"I don't know it indeed," said he. "I know I must ask; but I
do not know what power can force you to answer."
"Isn't it my duty, Dr. Sandford?"
"Nobody but Daisy Randolph would have asked that question," he
said. "Well, if duty is on my side, I know I am powerful. But,
Daisy, you always used to answer me, in times when there was
no duty in the case."
"I remember," I said, smiling to think of it; "but I was a
child then, Dr. Sandford."
"Oh!  Well, apropos of duty, you may go on about Miss
Cardigan."
"I do not know a great deal to tell. Only that she is very
good, very kind to me and everybody; very rich, I believe; and
very wise, I think. I know nothing more  except the way her
money was made."
"How was it ?"
"I have heard that her mother was a market-woman," I said very
unwillingly; for I knew the conclusions that would be drawn.
"Is it likely," Dr. Sandford said slowly, "that the daughter
of a market-woman should be a good friend in every respect for
the daughter of Mrs. Randolph?"
"It may not be likely," I answered with equal slowness;  "but
it is true."
"Can you prove your position, Daisy?"
"What is your objection to her, Dr. Sandford?"
"Simply what you have told me. The different classes of
society are better apart."
I was silent. If Miss Cardigan was not of my class, I knew I
wanted to be of hers. There were certain words running in my
head about "a royal priesthood, a peculiar people," and
certain other words too  which I thought it was no use to
tell Dr. Sandford.
"She has no family, you say, nor friends who live with her, or
whom you meet at her house?"
"None at all. I think she is quite alone."
There was silence again. That is, between the doctor and me.
Mrs. Sandford and her officers kept up a great run of talk
hard by.
"Now, Daisy," said the doctor, "you have studied the matter,
and I do not doubt have formed a philosophy of your own by
this time. Pray make me the wiser."
"I have no philosophy of my own, Dr. Sandford."
"Your own thus far, that nobody shares it with you."
"Is that your notion of me," I said, laughing.
"A very good notion. Nothing is worse than commonplace people.
Indulge me, Daisy."
So I thought I had better.
"Dr. Sandford,  if you will indulge me. What is your notion
of dignity ?"
He passed his hand over his hair, with a comical face. It was
a very fine face, as I knew long ago; even a noble face. A
steady, clear blue eye like his, gives one a sure impression
of power in the character, and of sweetness too. I was glad he
had asked me the question, but I waited for him to answer mine
first.
"My notion of dignity!" he exclaimed. "I don't believe I have
any, Daisy."
"No, but we are talking seriously."
"Very. We always are, when you are one of the talkers."
"Then please explain your notion of dignity."
"I know it when I see it," said the doctor; "but faith! I
don't know what makes it."
"Yes, but you think some people, or some classes, are set up
above others."
"So do you."
"What do you think makes the highest class, then?"
"You are going too deep, or too high, which is the same thing.
All I mean is, that certain feet which fate has planted on
lofty levels, ought not to come down from them."
"But it is good to know where we stand."
"Very," said Dr. Sandford, laughing. That is, in his way of
laughing. It was never loud.
"I will tell you where I want to stand," I went on. "It is the
highest level of all. The Lord Jesus said, 'Whosoever shall do
the will of My Father which is in heaven, the same is MY
BROTHER, and MY SISTER, and MOTHER.' I want to be one of
those."
"But, Daisy," said Dr. Sandford, "the society of the world is
not arranged on that principle."
I knew it very well. I said nothing.
"And you cannot, just yet, go out of the world."
It was no use to tell Dr. Sandford what I thought. I was
silent still.
"Daisy," said he, "you are worse than you used to be." And I
heard a little concern in his words, only half hid by the
tone.
"You do not suppose that such words as those you quoted just
now, were meant to be a practical guide in the daily affairs
of life? Do you ?"
"How can I help it, Dr. Sandford?" I answered. "I would like
to have my friends among those whom the King will call His
sisters and brothers."
"And what do you think of correct grammar, and clean hands?"
he asked.
"Clean hands!" I echoed.
"You like them," he said smiling. "The people you mean often
go without them  if report says true."
"Not the people I mean," I said.
"And education, Daisy; and refined manners; and cultivated
tastes; what will you do without all these? In the society you
speak of they are seldom found."
"You do not know the society I speak of, Dr. Sandford; and
Miss Cardigan has all these, more or less; besides something a
great deal better."
Dr. Sandford rose up suddenly and introduced me to a Captain
Southgate who came up; and the conversation ran upon West
Point things and nothings after that. I was going back over my
memory, to find in how far religion had been associated with
some other valued things in the instances of my experience,
and I heard little of what was said. Mr. Dinwiddie had been a
gentleman, as much as any one I ever knew; he was the first.
My old Juanita had the manners of a princess, and the tact of
a fine lady. Miss Cardigan was a capital compound of sense,
goodness, business energies, and gentle wisdom. The others, 
well, yes, they were of the despised orders of the world. My
friend Darry, at the stables of Magnolia,  my friend Maria,
in the kitchen of the great house,  the other sable and sober
faces that came around theirs in memory's grouping,  they
were not educated nor polished nor elegant. Yet well I knew,
that having owned Christ before me, He would own them before
the angels of heaven; and what would they be in that day! I
was satisfied to be numbered with them.
I slept, as Dr. Sandford had prophesied I would, that night. I
awoke to a vision of beauty.
My remembrance of those days that followed is like a summer
morning, with a diamond hanging to every blade of grass.
I awoke suddenly, that first day, and rushed to the window.
The light had broken, the sun was up; the crown of the morning
was upon the heads of the hills; here and there a light wreath
of mist lay along their sides, floating slowly off, or softly
dispersing; the river lay in quiet beauty waiting for the
gilding that should come upon it. I listened  the brisk notes
of a drum and fife came to my ear, playing one after another
joyous and dancing melody. I thought that never was a place so
utterly delightsome as this place. With all speed I dressed
myself, noiselessly, so as not to waken Mrs. Sandford; and
then I resolved I would go out and see if I could not find a
place where I could be by myself; for in the house there was
no chance of it. I took Mr. Dinwiddie's Bible and stole down
stairs. From the piazza where we had sat last night, a flight
of steps led down. I followed it, and found another flight,
and still another. The last landed me in a gravelled path; one
track went down the steep face of the bank, on the brow of
which the hotel stood; another track crossed that and wound
away to my right, with a gentle downward slope. I went this
way. The air was delicious; the woods were musical with birds
the morning light filled my pathway and, glancing from trees
or rocks ahead of me, lured me on with a promise of glory. I
seemed to gather the promise as I went, and still I was drawn
further and further. Glimpses of the river began to show
through the trees; for all this bank side was thickly wooded.
I left walking and took to running. At last I came out upon
another gravelled walk, low down on the hillside, lying
parallel with the river and open to it. Nothing lay between
but some masses of granite rock, grey and lichened, and a soft
fringe of green underbrush and small wood in the intervals.
Moreover, I presently found a comfortable seat on a huge grey
stone, where the view was uninterrupted, by any wood growth;
and if I thought before that this was fairyland, I now almost
thought myself a fairy. The broad river was at my feet; the
morning light was on all the shores, sparkled from the granite
rocks below me and flashed from the polished leaves, and
glittered on the water; filling all the blue above with
radiance; touching here and there a little downy cloud;
entering in and lying on my heart. I shall never forget it.
The taste of the air was as one tastes life and strength and
vigour. It all rolled in on me a great burden of joy.
It was not the worst time or place in the world to read the
Bible. But how all the voices of nature seemed to flow in and
