"How will the Protectress do?" inquired Shuffles.
"Rather formidable and commonplace," replied Haven. "Make it the Grand
Protectress, and I am with you."
"I like Protectress," added Paul Kendall.
"So do I," said half a dozen others.
"Grand Protectress is better," persisted Haven, who could not help
making a burlesque of the affair.
"Grand Protectress!" shouted a dozen others, who believed in
high-sounding titles.
"Put it to vote," suggested Shuffles.
"Ay, ay! put it to vote."
"Those in favor of Grand Protectress say, ay," continued Haven.
"Ay!" responded a large number.
"Opposed."
"No."
"The ayes have it. Grand Protectress it is."
"I move you that Commodore Kendall and Captain Shuffles be a committee
to wait upon Miss Arbuckle, and inform her that she has been
unanimously chosen Grand Protectress of the Order of the Faithful.
Those in favor say, ay; those opposed, no. It is a vote."
The committee went to the quarter-deck, where Grace and her mother were
conversing with Mr. Lowington. Paul, who was by seniority the
spokesman, touched his cap, and looked as dignified as though he had
been the minister plenipotentiary of one of the great powers.
"Miss Arbuckle, I have the honor--and I should do injustice to my own
feelings if I did not add, the pleasure--to inform you, that you have
been unanimously chosen Grand Protectress of the Order of the
Faithful."
"The what?" asked Grace.
The principal, usually very solemn and dignified, laughed heartily.
"Grand Protectress," replied Paul, gravely. "The order has been duly
established; and, as you have initiated all the members, it is
eminently proper that you should preside over its destinies."
"Please to assure the members of the order, that I accept the high
position, and that I am very grateful to them for the honor they have
done me," answered Grace, when she could restrain her laughter so as to
speak.
"I am happy to be the bearer of such a pleasant message," said Paul, as
he bowed and retired.
"Grand Protectress!" laughed Grace, repeating in measured tones her
magnificent title.
Paul reported the acceptance of the Grand Protectress; and the society
was further organized by the choice of a secretary, whose only duty was
to keep a record of the names of the members.
"Now, we want a motto," said Gordon; "something that will express, in
few words, the objects of the society."
"I don't happen to know what the objects of the society are," replied
Haven; "but I suggest, 'Honi soit qui mal y pense.'"
"The Queen of England has a mortgage on that motto," said Paul.
"Semper paratus will be better."
"What does it mean?" asked a student.
"Some praties," replied a wag.
"Let us have a motto in plain English, and one that has not been used
by all the engine companies in the United States," added Haven.
"Semper paratus is good, I think," persisted Paul. "Always ready to
answer the boatswain's call, and always ready to do our duty."
"But it is worn out," protested Haven. "I move you we invite the Grand
Protectress to give us a motto."
The motion was carried, and the same committee appointed to make the
request. Paul led the way to Grace again, who was still highly amused
at the grand honor which had been conferred upon her.
"The Order of the Faithful instructs me humbly to petition the Grand
Protectress for a motto suitable to the needs, and expressive of the
objects, of the association," said Paul.
"O, dear me!" exclaimed Grace. "If you ask such things as that of me, I
shall not wish to be Grand Protectress. I think, as your great
philosopher said, it will be paying too dear for the whistle. Must it
be in English, French, Latin, or German?"
"That must be left to the discretion of your Grand Protectresship,"
answered Paul, gravely.
"Please to help me, father," said she, appealing to Mr. Arbuckle.
"Whatever the Grand Protectress vouchsafes to give us shall be
cherished by the order," added Paul.
Mr. Arbuckle wrote a sentence on a slip of paper, and handed it to
Grace.
"Ah, here is your motto!" exclaimed she, laughing heartily.
"Please to repeat it," said Captain Shuffles.
"Vous ne pouvez pas faire un sifflet de la queue d'un cochon," added
Grace, reading from the paper, which she handed to Paul, choking with
mirth.
"Thanks, most excellent Grand Protectress," replied the commodore, who
found it very difficult to maintain his gravity.
"It is a literal translation of the English proverb, and perhaps the
idea is not expressed in similar phrase in French," said Mr. Arbuckle;
"but I think it will answer very well for a motto."
Paul smoothed down his face as well as he could, and conveyed the motto
to the assembled order in the waist.
"I have the honor to inform you that the Grand Protectress has provided
a motto," said he.
"What is it?" demanded a dozen.
"It is in French."
"The motto!" called the impatient Faithfuls.
"Vous ne pouvez pas faire un sifflet de la queue d'un cochon."
Only two or three laughed, for only a few were as good French scholars
as Paul and Shuffles.
"What's the English of it?" asked several at the same time.
"You must excuse me, for I do not think it is quite proper to translate
the motto," replied Paul.
Those who understood it enjoyed the joke too much to afford the others
any light on the subject. Haven was delighted with the motto, and moved
that it be accepted. As it had been furnished by the Grand Protectress,
it was unanimously adopted. The weak scholars were very curious to know
the meaning of the mystic words. Most of them could make out a part of
the sentence, but not enough to translate it. The business of the
meeting was completed, and the members separated, all of them feeling
that the mutiny of the Young America was more like a merrymaking than
anything else. To be decorated with the white ribbon of the order by a
beautiful young lady was a privilege which they appreciated, and all of
them were thankful that they had not been led astray by the evil
counsels which had prevailed in the steerage.
"If you do not like the motto, I can give you another now," said Grace,
when Paul joined the little party on the quarter-deck.
"The one you gave was unanimously adopted by the order," replied Paul.
"Was it, really?" asked Grace, laughing more heartily than before.
"Certainly it was."
"Did they understand its meaning?"
"Some of them did."
"If you like this one better, it is at your service: 'High aims produce
noble deeds.'"
"While I hope we all believe in the English one, I think the members of
the order prefer the French one."
"If they are suited, I am," replied Grace, cheerfully.
The ship was still going along under easy sail, though the weather
promised to be unfavorable before morning. At eight o'clock, the
starboard watch, with the first and third lieutenants in charge, took
the deck, and the port watch went below. They were to be ready for duty
at twelve. Everything on deck was as pleasant as a merry-making. None
of the passengers were seasick.
Everything was not so lovely in the steerage, and it is necessary to go
back a few hours in order to ascertain what passed among the mutineers.
CHAPTER VI.
IN THE STEERAGE.
After the students finished their supper, those who had decided to
rebel against the authorities of the ship retired to the mess-rooms,
agreeably to the instructions of the leaders. There were forty-four of
them, including the eighteen runaways who still remained in the ship as
seamen, and who were the real mischief-makers, forming a class by
themselves, hardening their hearts in sheer ugliness against the
discipline of the ship. In their exploit with the Josephine, they had
"bucked" against authority, and had suffered the consequences, which
unfortunately had not produced a favorable impression upon them. They
were disposed to do the same thing again.
The rest of the mutineers belonged to a different class. They were
generally well-disposed boys, fond of fun and excitement, not exactly
the "lambs" of the flock, but certainly not the black sheep. If some of
them had assisted in creating the confusion during the drill, they had
not done so with any malicious purpose, as the runaways had, but from a
thoughtless love of sport and excitement. They would never have thought
of such an expedient as rebellion if they had not been cunningly worked
upon by the real mischief-makers. They were not strong-minded young
men, who dare to do right under all circumstances. With good impulses
in the main, their principle was not hardened into that solid element
which constitutes a reliable conscience. They were easily led away, and
believing they had a real grievance, they resorted to doubtful means
for its redress.
Of this class Raymond had been the leading spirit. He would have
resented the appellation of mutineer as an insult. All he expected and
desired to obtain was an explanation; and he was confident that when
two thirds of the crew mildly, and even respectfully, declined to do
duty, the principal, either in person or by deputy, would come below to
ascertain the nature of the difficulty. He had cautioned his party to
be perfectly respectful to the officers, and especially to the
principal and professors. If it was to be a mutiny in any sense of the
word, it was to be a very gentlemanly one. Having reduced the intended
rebellion to this mild form, he had no fear that the rough hand of
Peaks would be laid upon them, or that the party would be driven by
force from the mess-rooms.
"How do you suppose it will come out?" asked Hyde, one of Raymond's
messmates, in a low tone, as a group of the rebels gathered in their
room.
"It will come out all right," replied the leader of the mild mutineers,
confidently.
"I'm not so sure of that," added Hyde, shaking his head. "Mr. Lowington
is a great stickler for discipline; and he is not exactly the man to
come below, and coax us to attend to our duty."
"I don't expect he will coax us to do it. But there are so many of us
in the scrape that he can hardly do anything else."
"How many do you suppose there are?" inquired Hyde.
"I can't tell exactly, but I am satisfied that more than two thirds of
the whole crew will stand out."
