grandson, and had not the least idea that he was already found."
"How did you discover this at last?"
"By his recognition of his mother's photograph. It was lucky you
thought of leaving it with me."
"Is his name John?"
"He says his name is Mark, but for his last name he had adopted a
different one, or I should have made the discovery sooner."
"How did he make a living before you found him? Poor boy!" said Mr.
Bates, sighing, "I fear he must have suffered many privations."
"He was selling matches for some time,--what we call a match boy. He
had suffered hardships, but I leave him to tell you his story himself."
"How does he feel about meeting me?" asked Mr. Bates.
"You are a stranger to him, and he naturally feels a little timid, but
he will soon be reassured when he gets acquainted with you."
Mark had already arrived. As they entered the room, Mr. Bates said with
emotion, "Is that he?"
"Yes, sir."
"Come here, Mark," he said, in a tone which took away Mark's
apprehension. "Do you know who I am?"
"Are you my grandfather?"
"Yes, I have come to take care of you, and to see that you suffer no
more from poverty."
Mr. Bates stooped down and pressed a kiss upon the boy's forehead.
"I can see Irene's look in his eyes," he said. "It is all the proof I
need that he is my grandchild."
It was arranged that in three days, for he had some business to
transact, he should go back to Milwaukie carrying Mark with him. He
went round to Mr. Baker's store the next morning with his grandson and
explained to him why he should be obliged to withdraw him from his
employ.
"I am sorry to lose him," said Mr. Baker. "He is quick and attentive to
his duties, and has given me excellent satisfaction; but I am glad of
his good fortune."
"It gives me pleasure to hear so good an account of him," said Mr.
Bates. "Though he will be under no necessity of taking another
situation, but will for several years devote himself to study, the
same good qualities for which you give him credit will insure his
satisfactory progress in school."
CHAPTER XXVI.
CONCLUSION.
It was not long before Mark felt quite at home with his grandfather. He
no longer felt afraid of him, but began to look forward with pleasant
anticipations to his journey West, and the life that was to open before
him in Milwaukie. It was a relief to think that he would not now be
obliged to take care of himself, but would have some one both able and
willing to supply his wants, and provide him with a comfortable home.
He felt glad again that he was going to school. He remembered how
anxious his poor mother had been that he should receive a good
education, and now his grandfather had promised to send him to the best
school in Milwaukie.
The next morning after their meeting, Mr. Bates took Mark to a large
clothing establishment, and had him fitted out with new clothes in the
most liberal manner. He even bought him a silver watch, of which Mark
felt very proud.
"Now, Mark," said his grandfather, "if there is any one that was kind
to you when you were a poor match boy, I should like to do something to
show my gratitude for their kindness. Can you think of any one?"
"Yes," said Mark; "there's Ben Gibson."
"And who is Ben Gibson?"
"He blacks boots down on Nassau Street. When I ran away from Mother
Watson, who treated me so badly, he stood by me, and prevented her from
getting hold of me again."
"Is there any one besides?"
"Yes," said Mark, after a pause; "there is Mrs. Flanagan. She lives in
the same tenement-house where I used to. When I was almost starved she
used to give me something to eat, though she was poor herself."
"I think we will call and see her first," said Mr. Bates. "I am going
to let you give her a hundred dollars."
"She will be delighted," said Mark, his eyes sparkling with joy. "It
will seem a fortune to her. Let us go at once."
"Very well," said his grandfather. "Afterwards we will try to find your
friend Ben."
I forgot to mention that Mr. Bates was stopping at the Fifth Avenue
Hotel.
They took the University Place cars, which landed them at the junction
of Barclay Street and Broadway. From thence it was but a short distance
to Vandewater Street, where Mark lived when first introduced to the
reader.
They climbed the broken staircase, and paused in front of Mrs.
Flanagan's door.
Mark knocked.
Mrs. Flanagan opened the door, and stared with some surprise at her
visitors.
"Don't you know me, Mrs. Flanagan?" asked Mark.
"Why, surely it isn't Mark, the little match boy?" said Mrs. Flanagan,
amazed.
"Yes, it is. So you didn't know me?"
"And it's rale delighted I am to see you lookin' so fine. And who is
this gentleman?"
"It is my grandfather, Mrs. Flanagan. I'm going out West to live with
him."
Mrs. Flanagan dropped a courtesy to Mr. Bates, who said, "My good
woman, Mark tells me that you were kind to him when he stood in need of
kindness."
"And did he say that?" said Mrs. Flanagan, her face beaming with
pleasure. "Shure it was little I did for him, bein' poor myself; but
that little he was heartily welcome to, and I'm delighted to think he's
turned out so lucky. The ould woman trated him very bad. I used to feel
as if I'd like to break her ould bones for her."
"Mark and I both want to thank you for your kindness to him, and he has
a small gift to give you."
"Here it is," said Mark, drawing from his pocket a neat pocket-book,
containing a roll of bills. "You'll find a hundred dollars inside, Mrs.
Flanagan," he said. "I hope they will help you."
"A hundred dollars!" ejaculated Mrs. Flanagan, hardly believing her
ears. "Does this good gentleman give me a hundred dollars!"
"No it is Mark's gift to you," said Mr. Bates.
"It's rich I am with so much money," said the good woman. "May the
saints bless you both! Now I can buy some clothes for the childer, and
have plenty left beside. This is a happy day entirely. But won't you
step in, and rest yourselves a bit? It's a poor room, but--"
"Thank you, Mrs. Flanagan," said Mr. Bates, "but we are in haste this
morning. Whenever Mark comes to New York he shall come and see you."
They went downstairs, leaving Mrs. Flanagan so excited with her good
fortune, that she left her work, and made a series of calls upon her
neighbors, in which she detailed Mark's good fortune and her own.
"Now we'll go and find your friend, Ben Gibson," said Mr. Bates.
"I think we'll find him on Nassau Street," said Mark.
He was right.
In walking down Nassau Street on the east side, Mr. Bates was accosted
by Ben himself.
"Shine yer boots?"
"How are you, Ben?" said Mark.
Ben stared in surprise till he recognized his old companion.
"Blest if it aint Mark," he said. "How you're gettin on!"
"Ben, this is my grandfather," said Mark.
"Well, you're a lucky chap," said Ben, enviously. "I wish I could find
a rich grandfather. I don't believe I ever had a grandfather."
"How are you getting on, my lad?" inquired Mr. Bates.
"Middlin'," said Ben. "I haven't laid by a fortun' yet."
"No, I suppose not. How do you like blacking boots?"
"Well, there's other things I might like better," said Ben,--"such as
bein' a rich merchant; but that takes rather more capital than blackin'
boots."
"I see you are an original," said Mr. Bates, smiling.
"Am I?" said Ben. "Well, I'm glad of it, though I didn't know it
before. I hope it aint anything very bad."
"Mark says you treated him kindly when he lived about the street."
"It wasn't much," said Ben.
"I want to do something for you. What shall I do?"
"Well," said Ben, "I should like a new brush. This is most worn out."
"How would you like to go to Milwaukie with Mark, if I will get you a
place there?"
"Do you mean it?" said Ben, incredulously.
"Certainly."
"I haven't any money to pay for goin' out there."
"I will take care of that," said Mr. Bates.
"Then I'll go," said Ben, "and I'm much obliged to you. Mark, you're a
brick, and so's your grandfather. I never expected to have such good
luck."
"Then you must begin to make arrangements at once. Mark, here is some
money. You may go with Ben, see that he takes a good bath, and then buy
him some clothes. I am obliged to leave you to do it, as I must attend
to some business in Wall Street. I shall expect to see you both at the
Fifth Avenue Hotel at two o'clock."
At two o'clock, Mr. Bates found the two boys awaiting him. There was a
great change in Ben's appearance. He had faithfully submitted to the
bath, and bloomed out in a tasteful suit of clothes, selected by Mark.
Mark had taken him besides to a barber's and had his long hair cut. So
he now made quite a presentable appearance, though he felt very awkward
in his new clothes.
"It don't seem natural to be clean," he confessed to Mark.
"You'll get used to it after a while," said Mark, laughing.
"Maybe I will; but I miss my old clothes. They seemed more comfortable."
The next day they were to start. Ben remained at the hotel with his
friend Mark, feeling, it must be confessed, a curious sensation at his
unusual position.
They went to make a farewell call on Richard Hunter.
"Mr. Hunter," said Mr. Bates, "money will not pay you for the service
you have done me, but I shall be glad if you will accept this cheque."
Richard saw that it was a cheque for a thousand dollars.
"Thank you for your liberality, Mr. Bates" he said; "but I do not
deserve it."
"Let me be the judge of that."
"I will accept it on one condition."
"Name it, Mr. Hunter."
"That you will allow me to give it to the Newsboys' Lodge, where I once
found shelter, and where so many poor boys are now provided for."
"I will give an equal sum to that institution," said Mr. Bates, "and
I thank you for reminding me of it. As for this money, oblige me by
