at the academy, and two years afterwards Greek, and in these he had
advanced so far that in a year he would be qualified to enter college.
There were six boys in the preparatory class to which he belonged,
among them being Sam Selwyn, his intimate friend, who has already been
introduced to the reader. From the first John had stood at the head
of the class, both in Latin and Greek, Sam ranking second. Although
they were rivals in scholarship, there had never been the shadow of
a difference between them arising from this cause. Both were of a
generous nature, and were strongly attached to each other, and it had
long been understood between them that when admitted to college they
would room together.
John had often talked with his father about going to college, and
Squire Oakley had strong hopes of John's maintaining a high position
in his college class, and doing him credit at the institution where he
had himself graduated. This made it all the more remarkable that John's
interests had been so entirely neglected in the disposition of his
property made by his will.
As John was on his way to school, on the morning succeeding Ben's fall
from the horse, he was overtaken by Sam Selwyn.
"How's your amiable brother this morning, John?" asked Sam.
"Meaning Ben?"
"Of course. I hope his health hasn't suffered seriously from his
unexpected bath. Poor fellow! he had a pretty good fright."
"Yes, I don't think he'll trouble Prince very soon again."
"I shan't soon forget how frightened he looked with both arms around
the horse's neck. I should have felt like laughing, only I was afraid
he might come to harm. Now you'll have Prince to yourself."
"I don't know about that, Sam. I rather think, from something Mrs.
Oakley said, that she means to sell Prince."
"Sell your horse!" exclaimed Sam, indignantly.
"She says it isn't mine. She's given it to Ben. As Ben don't dare to
use it, I am afraid Prince will have to go," said John, sadly.
"I wouldn't stand it!" exclaimed Sam, in excitement. "It's an
imposition."
"But what can I do?"
"The horse is yours."
"Not legally, I am afraid. I can't prove it, and Mrs. Oakley says it
was only mine to use."
"Whether you can prove it or not, the horse is yours, and I say it will
be an outrageous thing if it is sold. At any rate you ought to demand
the money that is received for it."
"I'll tell you what I have made up my mind to do. Mrs. Oakley may say
that the horse is expensive to keep, but as Ben received a watch and
chain at the same time I got the horse, it is only fair that I should
have a watch in place of it, if it is sold."
"Of course, that is only reasonable."
"Not that a watch would pay me for the loss of Prince. I'd rather have
him than three watches; but it doesn't cost anything to keep a watch."
"That's true; but I hope you'll be able to keep the horse."
"So do I," said John; but he had very little expectation of it.
"Well, there's hope ahead, old fellow," said Sam, cheerfully. "Next
year we'll enter college, and then you'll be out of the way of Master
Ben and your kind stepmother, for forty weeks in the year, at any rate."
"I hope so," said John, slowly.
"You hope so?" repeated Sam. "You don't expect Mrs. Oakley will
remove to Cambridge, so that you may still be favored with her charming
company?"
"I don't feel sure of going to Cambridge myself," said John, soberly.
"You don't mean to say you're afraid you won't pass the examination? If
you don't, there'll be precious little chance for the rest of us."
"That isn't what I mean," said John. "I think I should pass the
examination. At any rate I am not afraid of it."
"What are you afraid of then?" asked Sam, in surprise.
"I am afraid Mrs. Oakley won't let me go."
"But your father always meant you to go. She knows that."
"Yes, she knows it, for father used often to refer to the time when I
would be in college, in her presence. But I am afraid that won't make
much difference with her."
"Has she said anything about it?"
"No, not yet; but it will cost considerable to keep me at Cambridge."
"Well, your father left a good deal of property."
"Yes; but it was left to Mrs. Oakley."
"There's enough to pay your expenses at college, and maintain Mrs.
Oakley and Ben handsomely."
"I know that, but I am sorry to say that Mrs. Oakley and Ben both
dislike me, and it will be reason enough with them to keep me at home
because they know I am anxious to go."
"It's a burning shame," said Sam, indignantly, "that such a woman as
that should have the control over you. As for Ben Brayton, I always did
despise him. He's a mean fellow, and a coward to boot."
"I don't like Ben much," said John.
"And he returns the compliment."
"Yes, he has taken a dislike to me, I don't know why, for I have always
treated him well, though I couldn't like him."
"I say, John," said Sam, "if you don't go to college, it'll knock all
my plans into a cocked hat. You were to room with me, you know."
"Yes, Sam, I have been looking forward to that a long time."
"What a jolly time we should have! I shan't have half so much pleasure
in going to college if you don't go with me. You're such a good
scholar, too, it would be a great pity. But perhaps it may not be so
bad as you think. Mrs. Oakley may be only too glad to get rid of you."
By this time they had reached the door of the academy. The bell
sounded, summoning the pupils to their morning exercises, and John and
Sam had other things to think of, for a while at least.
At the close of the afternoon John returned home. He went into the
house to carry his Virgil and Greek Reader, being accustomed to prepare
a part of his lessons out of school. On going out into the yard, he saw
Ben lounging lazily against a fence, whittling.
"Are you going out to ride, John?" he asked, in an unusually friendly
tone.
"I think I will ride a little way," said John.
"I got enough of it yesterday," said Ben.
"You were unlucky. If you had not struck Prince it would have been all
right."
"I don't care about trying it again. I hope you'll have a pleasant
ride."
"Thank you," said John, unsuspiciously.
He went out to the barn, and opened the door that led to the stables.
He made his way at once to Prince's stall, and looked in.
It was empty!
Surprised, but not yet suspecting what had really happened, he called
out to Mike, whom he saw outside:--
"Where's Prince, Mike?"
"Shure, sir, didn't you know he was sold?"
"Sold? When?"
"This morning, Master John."
"Who bought him?"
"Mr. Barnes, the man that keeps the livery stable. He was here this
morning. He and the mistress came in, and they soon struck a bargain."
John's heart swelled with anger and sorrow, but he asked, calmly:--
"Do you know what price Mr. Barnes gave for Prince?"
"Yes, Master John; I heard him say that he would give one hundred and
ninety dollars. The mistress wanted two hundred; but she finally let
him have Prince at that, and a good bargain it is to him too."
John left the stable outwardly calm, but much disturbed in mind.
"Mrs. Oakley might at least have let me know what she meant to do," he
said, bitterly. "My poor father's gift too."
Ben waited for John's return with malicious interest. He wanted to
witness and enjoy his disappointment.
"I thought you were going to ride?" he said, with a smile of mockery.
"Can you tell me where your mother is?" asked John, coldly.
"She's in the house, I suppose. Do you want to see her?"
"Yes."
John entered the house without taking any further notice of Ben. He
found his stepmother in the sitting-room. She looked up, as he entered,
with a glance of satisfaction, for she saw that she had made him
unhappy.
"Mike tells me you have sold Prince, Mrs. Oakley," he commenced.
"Yes. What of it?"
"As he was my horse, I think you might have let me know what you
intended to do."
"Prince was not your horse," she said, sharply.
"He was my poor father's gift to me."
"Nonsense! He merely let you call him yours. The horse was mine."
"He was as much mine as Ben's watch is his. Are you going to sell Ben's
watch?"
"No, I am not. If that is all you have to say, you may leave the room."
"It is not. I will not object to your selling the horse, because it
would cost something to keep him; but it is only fair that the money
for which he was sold should be given to me, or enough to buy a watch
and chain like Ben's."
"You are very modest in your expectations, young man," sneered Mrs.
Oakley.
"I'm only asking what is just."
"You seem to forget whom you are speaking to. If you think you can
bully me, you will find yourself entirely mistaken."
"I am not in the habit of bullying anybody. I only want my rights,"
said John.
"Then you'll have to want. You may as well understand, first as last,
John Oakley,"--and his stepmother raised her voice angrily,--"that I am
mistress in this house, and owner of this property. You are entirely
dependent upon me for the bread you eat and the clothes you wear, and
it will be prudent for you to treat me respectfully, if you want any
favors. Do you understand that?"
"I understand what you say, Mrs. Oakley," said John, indignantly. "You
seem to have forgotten that every cent of this property belonged to my
father, and would now be mine, if my father had not married you. You
had better remember that, when you talk about my being dependent upon
you, and favor Ben at my expense."
Mrs. Oakley turned white with rage.
"What do you mean by your impertinence, you young rascal?" she
shrieked, rising to her feet, and glaring at John.
"I mean this," he exclaimed, thoroughly provoked, "that I don't believe
my father ever intended to leave you all his property. I believe there
is another will somewhere, and I mean to find it."
"Leave the room!" exclaimed Mrs. Oakley, in a voice almost inarticulate
with rage. "You'll repent those words, John Oakley. You're in my power,
and I'll make you feel it."
John left the room, his anger hot within him. When he reflected coolly
upon what had passed, he did repent having spoken about the will. It
