
“ How long she stays ! ” he exclaimed, impatiently. 

“ I think you beep her pretty busy, Rob,” said 
Aunt Ruth. “ I don’t believe she has been quiet 
more than fifteen minutes at one time to-day.” 

“ Why, I haven’t asked her to do more than two or 
three things for me, and I ’m sure I’d a great deal 
rather be well and help myself,” replied Rob, in an 
injured tone. 

It would only fret him to argue the point, so Aunt 
Ruth kept the peace. 

Mrs. Alston returned in a little shiver. She had 
not expected to be detained so long, and had thrown 
nothing around her shoulders. Her face looked quite 
cold and blue. 

“ I couldn’t find it anywhere, Rob,” she said, going 
to the fire to warm her hands. 

“ Did you look in my little box ? ” 


 


" Yes, and in the closet. It isn’t in the room." 

“ But, mother, I am quite sure. Jamie brought it 
home. He put a blue paper cover on it, you know ” 

“ I believe I remember the circumstance, but you 
must have lent it again." 

" No, mother, I ’m sure I have n’t." 

“ I do not think it is in the house." 

“ But it must be,” said Rob, growing flushed and 
positive. “ It was my Christmas gift ! Oh dear ! if 
it ’s lost, — and so many splendid pictures in it 
too ! I never saw a Robinson Crusoe I liked half 
as well.” 

“ Maybe it will come to light some time. It can- 
not be lost unless you have mislaid it.” 

“ But I ’m sure I took care of it the last time I 
had it.” 

Katliie entered just then, bright and rosy. “ O, 
Rob, actually sitting up ! ” she exclaimed, gayly. 
“ Dear Rob ! Do you feel a good deal better ? 
But Oh, how white you look ! ” 

“ Oh, Rob ’s out of bed ! ” put in Freddy, loudly. 
“ Rob, are you all well ? Can’t you go out to play 
to-morrow ? ” 

“O Freddy, your voice goes through my head like 


 


ft trumpet. Mother, can’t you put me back to bed 
again ? I ’m getting tired.” 

Mother had just sat down and taken up her 
needle. She rose and obeyed her son’s request. 

“ The bed feels so good,” he exclaimed. “ Freddy, 
do keep still ! ” 

“ Get yourself good and warm, and you may go 
out to play a little while,” his mother said, gently. 

“ Oh Kathie,” began Fob again, “ haven’t you lent 
my Eobinson Crusoe to somebody ? Mother can’t 
find it anywhere. I wouldn’t have it lost for any- 
thing.” 

“ No, Eob, I haven’t had it. Let me see, — Janne 
Hall brought it home ? ” 

“ Yes, I ’m sure. It ’s gone, and some one has 
taken it away. It ’s real mean ! ” and poor Eob was 
getting excited. 

Kathie thought a moment or two. “ O Eob, I 
believe I know. The day you were taken sick you 
had it at school, drawing a picture out of it.” 

Eob looked perfectly amazed. It came over him 
like a flash. He hadn’t quite finished the man 
Friday, so he put the book in the corner of his desk 
He could see it all like a picture, 


 


“ Don’t you remember ? ” and Kathie glanced at 
him. Something in her bright eyes said “ Giants ” ; 
and Rob was filled with confusion. 

“ Yes,’ he rejoined, faintly, and then he lay very still. 

“ Kathie,” her mother said, “ I wish you ’d sew a 
little. I ’m quite behindhand.” 

A tear dropped from Rob’s eyes to the pillow. 
How much trouble and interruption he had caused 
his mother ! That about the book was altogether his 
own fault. How could he have been so careless as 
to forget ! He had worried himself too, for his head 
was beginning to ache, and little pains kept crawling 
down his back. And he couldn’t help thinking 
that he ought to fight giants as well as Kathie. 

“ I must try to remember,” he said to himself. 
There was quite a wet spot on the pillow ; and 
presently he turned his face over to the wall, and, 
being completely tired out, fell asleep. 

He little guessed how much pains they all took 
to keep quiet. Freddy didn’t think it much fun 
to play alone, and soon came in, and Aunt Ruth read 
him a story to keep him still. Kathie sewed indus- 
triously until twilight, and then went out to do a few 
errands. Fred desired to go, of course. At first 


 


Kathie wanted to object ; but then she thought it 
wouldn’t be much worse for her to be bothered with 
him than Aunt Kuth and mamma. 

But he proved a great plague, all because she was 
in a hurry, it seemed. He would stop and slide ; 
then he fell down, and she had to halt and pick 
him up and comfort him. 

“ Oh, I ’ve hurt my hand ! ” he cried. “ Look at it, 
Kathie ; isn’t it bleeding ? ” 

“ It ’s so dark I can’t see. No, I guess not. Put 
on your mitten again.” 

“ It hurts so, it hurts so ! Oh dear ! ” 

“ If you hadn’t run back to slide, you see, it would 
n’t have happened ; and sister ’s in a hurry too. 
Where ’s your mitten ? ” 

“ I laid it down there when I hurt my hand. O 
dear ! I wish I hadn’t come. Kathie, what made 
you bring me ? ” 

“ I ’m sure I didn’t want to, for you ’re a great 
bother. Let ’s go back and find the mitten, if we 
can, — your nice new ones that Aunt Butli just knit ! 
and she would be very sorry if you lost one.” 

“ I ’ll sit here and cry while you go, Kathie. I ’m 
so cold, I ’m ’most frozen.” 



Kathie was out of patience, and wanted to give 
him a good shaking and a good scolding ; but she 
thought of the giant just in time. She felt around 
the spot where Freddy had fallen, and soon found 
the lost article. 

