"I don't know about that. S'posin' I was to do as you say, the first
thing you'd do after you got out would be to set the copps on me."
"No, I wouldn't. I'd go to prison first myself."
This proposition had some effect upon Martin. He realized that he was in
danger, and felt that he had been very poorly paid for his risk and
trouble. He was inclined to believe Rufus would keep his word, but he
knew also that matters had gone too far. Smith, he was sure, would not
consent to any such arrangement, and without him he could do nothing.
Besides, it was a satisfaction to him to feel that he had Rufus in his
power, and he had no desire to lose that advantage by setting him free.
Tyrant and bully as he was by nature, he meant to gratify his malice at
our hero's expense.
"I couldn't do it, Rufus," he said. "There's another man in it, and he's
got the box."
Rufus looked sharply at Martin to ascertain if he was speaking the
truth. He decided that it was as his step-father stated, and, if this
was the case, he would have more than one enemy to deal with.
"Does the other man live here?" he asked.
"Maybe he does, and maybe he doesn't."
"Who is he?"
"Maybe it's the Emperor of Chiny, and maybe it isn't. What would you
give to know?"
"Not much," said Rufus, assuming an indifferent tone. "You're the man
that took the box,--that's enough for me."
"He put me up to it," said Martin, unguardedly.
"I thought Martin wasn't smart enough to plan the robbery himself," said
Rufus to himself. He resolved to appear indifferent to this information,
in the hope of learning more.
"You can settle that among yourselves," he said, quietly. "If you
consented to do it, you're as much to blame as he."
At this moment Smith, influenced by curiosity, opened the door and
entered.
"This is my undootiful son, Mr. Smith," said Martin.
"So his name's Smith," thought Rufus. "I wonder whether it's his real
name, or a false one."
"I'm glad to see you, young man," said Smith. "So you've called to see
your father?"
"He isn't my father."
"You see how undootiful he is," said Martin. "He won't own me."
"We'll teach him to be more dutiful before we get through with him,"
said Smith.
"Mr. Smith," said Rufus, "I'm not here of my own accord. I dare say you
know that. But as long as I am here, I'd like to ask you if you know
anything about a tin box that was taken from me the other day by Mr.
Martin."
"By your father?"
"By Mr. Martin," said Rufus, determined not to admit the relationship.
"What should I know about it?"
"Mr. Martin tells me that, though he took it, somebody else set him to
do it. I thought you might be the one."
"Did you say that?" demanded Smith, looking angrily at Martin.
"I was only foolin'," returned Martin, who began to think he had made a
blunder.
"It's my belief that you're a fool," retorted Smith. "You'd better be
careful what you tell your son. Young man," turning to Rufus, "as to the
tin box you speak of, I can tell you nothing. Your father says that he
has recovered some property which you stole from him a while since, and
I suppose that may be the tin box you refer to."
"That isn't true. It belonged to Mr. Turner, my employer, or rather to a
customer of his."
"That's nothing to me. Mr. Martin boards with me, and as long as he pays
for his board I don't want to pry into his affairs. If he has taken a
tin box from you, I presume he had a better right to it than you had.
Are you going to bring your son down to dinner, Mr. Martin?"
"I guess he'd better eat his victuals up here," said Martin.
"Just as you say. I can send Humpy with them. We shall have dinner in
about an hour."
"All right; I'll go down now if my dootiful son can spare me."
As Rufus did not urge him to stay, Martin left the room with Smith,
taking care to lock the door after him.
"What's the boy's name?" asked Smith, abruptly.
"Rufus."
"He's smart. I can tell that by his looks."
"Ye-es, he's smart enough," said Martin, hesitatingly; "but he's as
obstinate as a pig."
"Likes to have his own way, eh?"
"That's what he does."
"He'd make a good boy for our business," said Smith, musingly.
Martin shook his head.
"It wouldn't do," he said.
"Why not?"
"He wants to be honest," said Martin, contemptuously. "We couldn't trust
him."
"Then there's only one thing to do."
"What's that?"
"We must keep him close. We mustn't on any account allow him to escape."
"I'll look after that," said Martin, nodding. "I've had hard work enough
to get hold of him. He won't get away in a hurry."
"If he does, you'll be arrested."
"And you too," suggested Martin.
"Why should I?"
"Didn't you put me up to taking the box, and haven't you taken half what
was in it?"
"Look here," said Smith, menacingly, "you'd better stop that. You've
already told the boy more than you ought. If you are taken through your
own carelessness, mind what you are about, and don't split on me. If
you do, it'll be the worse day's work you ever did. Imprisonment isn't
the worse thing that can happen to a man."
Martin understood what his confederate meant, and the intended effect
was produced. He began to think that Smith was a desperate man, and
capable of murdering him, or instigating his murder, in case of
treachery. This made him feel rather uneasy, in spite of his capture of
Rufus.
Meanwhile, our hero, left to himself, began to examine the apartment in
which he was confined. The door had been locked by Martin, as we have
already said. This was the only mode of exit from the apartment, except
what was afforded by two windows. Rufus walked to them, and looked out.
The room was in the back part of the house, and these windows looked out
into a back yard. He could see the rear portions of the houses on a
parallel street, and speculated as to the chances of escape this way. As
the room was only on the second floor, the distance to the ground was
not great. He could easily swing off the window-sill without injury.
Though he knew it would not be well to attempt escape now when Martin
and Smith were doubtless on the lookout, he thought he would open the
window softly and take a survey. He tried one window, but could not
raise it. He tried the other, with like want of success. He thought at
first that the difficulty lay in their sticking, but, on closer
examination, he ascertained that both were firmly fastened by nails,
which accounted for their being immovable.
CHAPTER XX.
HUMPY.
"I might break the window," thought Rufus; but it occurred to him at
once that the noise would probably be heard. Besides, if there was any
one in the room below, he would very likely be seen descending from the
window. If this plan were adopted at all, he must wait till evening.
Meanwhile some other way of escape might suggest itself.
The room was of moderate size,--about fifteen feet square. A cheap
carpet covered the floor. A pine bedstead occupied one corner. There
were three or four chairs, a bureau, and a bedstead.
Rufus sat down, and turned the matter over in his mind. He couldn't make
up his mind what Martin's business was, but decided that it was
something unlawful, and that he was either employed by Smith, or
connected in some way with him. It seemed to him probable that his
step-father, in waylaying him and stealing the tin box, had acted under
the direction of Smith, and that probably the box was at that very
moment in the possession of the superior villain.
"If I could only find the box and escape with it," thought Rufus, "that
would set me right with Mr. Turner."
But there seemed little chance of that. It did not seem very probable
even that he could escape from the room in which he was confined, much
less carry out the plan he had in view.
While he was thinking over his situation, the key turned in the lock,
and the door was opened. Rufus looked up, expecting to see Martin; but
instead of his step-father there entered the boy already referred to as
Humpy.
Humpy carried in his hand a plate of meat and vegetables.
"Here's your dinner," he said, laying the plate down, while he locked
the door behind him.
"Look here, Johnny," said Rufus, "you served me a mean trick."
Humpy chuckled.
"You came in just as innocent," he said. "It was jolly."
"Maybe it is, but I don't see it. You told me a lie."
"Didn't you find the man you was after?" said Humpy.
"You told me he was sick."
"So he is. He's in delicate health, and couldn't go to business to-day."
"What is his business?" asked Rufus, a little too eagerly.
Humpy put his thumbs to his nose, and twirled his fingers with a grin of
intelligence.
"Don't you wish you knew?" he said tantalizingly.
"Do you know anything about the tin box?" asked Rufus, seeing that his
former question was not likely to be answered.
"Maybe I do."
"It's in this house."
"Oh, is it? Well, if you know that, there's no use of my telling you."
"I can't make much of him," thought Rufus. "He's a young imp, and it
isn't easy to get round him."
He looked at Humpy meditatively, and it occurred to him whether it would
not be well to spring upon him, snatch the key, release himself from the
room, and dash downstairs. So far as the boy was concerned, this plan
was practicable. Rufus was much his superior in strength, and could
master him without difficulty. But, doubtless, Martin and Smith were
below. They would hear the noise of the struggle, and would cut off his
flight. Evidently that plan would not work. Another suggested itself to
him.
"Johnny," said he, "don't you want to make some money?"
Here he attacked the boy on his weak side. Humpy was fond of money. He
had already scraped together about twenty dollars from the meagre pay he
received, and had it carefully secreted.
"Of course I do," he answered. "How'm I to do it?"
"I'll tell you. That tin box contained property of value. It doesn't
