so called probably in honour of some former 
tree of that family; for not a shoot of one was 
known in the street now. On and on she 
went, till her church was passed ; and then 
turned down the little lane which led to the 
parsonage. The snow all gone, it was look- 
ing pretty here. On one side the old church, 
the new lecture room on the other, and between them the avenue of elms, arching their 
branches over the way and making a vista, at 
the end of which was the brown door of the 
parsonage. Always that was a pleasant view 
to Matilda, for she associated the brown door 
with a great many things ; however, this day 
she did not seek the old knocker which hung 
temptingly overhead, but sheered off and went 
round to the back of the house ; and there entered at once, and without knocking, upon 
Miss Redwood's premises. They were in 
order ; nobody ever saw the parsonage kitchen 
otherwise ; and Miss Redwood was sitting in 
front of the stove, knitting. 
" Well, if there ain't Tilly Englefield!" was 
her salutation. 
" May I come in, Miss Redwood ? if you 
are not busy." 
" Suppos'n I was busy; I guess you wouldn't 
do me no harm, child. Corne right in and 
sit down, and tell me how's all goin' on 
at your house. How's your mother, fust 
thing?" 
" Aunt Candy says she's not any better." 
" What does your mother say herself? " 
" I have not seen her to-day. Aunt Candy 
says she is nervous ; and she wants me not to 
go into her room." 
" Who wants you not to go in ? Not your 
mother ? " 
" No ; aunt Candy." 
" I thought so. Well ; how do you get 
along without your sisters, eh? Have you 
got a girl, or are you goin' to do without ? " 
" We are going to do without." 
 
" I don't see how you kin, with your mother 
sick and wantin' somebody to tend her." 
" Maria and I do what's to be done. Mamma 
doesn't want us to get a girl." 
" Maria and you ! " said Miss Redwood 
straightening up. " I want to know! You 
and Maria. Why I didn't reckon Maria was 
a hand at them kind o' things. What can 
she do, eh ? I want to know ! Things is 
curious in this world." 
" Maria can do a good deal," said Matilda. 
" And you can too, can't ye ? " said Miss 
Redwood with a benevolent smile at her little 
visiter, which meant all love and no criticism. 
" I wish I knew how to do more," said Matilda. " I could, if I knew how. That's what 
I came to ask you, Miss Redwood ; won't you 
tell me ? " 
" Tell you anything on arth," said the 
housekeeper. " What do you want to know 
child?" 
" I don't know," said Matilda, knitting her 
brow. " I want to know how to manage." 
 
Miss Redwood's lips twitched and her knit- 
ting needles flew. 
" So there ain't no one but you to manage ?" 
she said at length. 
" Aunt Candy tells what is to be for break- 
fast and dinner. But I want to know how to 
do things. "What can one do with cold beef- 
steak, Miss Redwood ? " 
" 'Tain't good for much," said the house- 
keeper. " Have you got some on hand ? " 
No. We had, though." 
" And what did you do with it ? " 
" Maria and I put it in the oven to warm ; 
and it spoiled the dish and the meat was all 
dried up ; and then I thought I would come 
and ask you. And we tried to fry some 
potatoes this morning, and we didn't know 
how, I think. They were not good." 
" And so your breakfast all fell through, 
and there was a muss, I expect ? " 
" No ; we had eggs ; nobody knew anything 
about the beefsteak and the dish. But I want 
to know how to do." 
 
What ailed your potatoes ? " 
" They were too hard and too brown." 
" I shouldn't wonder ! I declare, I 'most 
think I've got into the middle of a fairy story 
somewhere. Did you ever hear about CinVella, Tilly, and her little glass slipper ? " 
" O yes." 
" Some people's chariots and horses will 
find themselves turned into pun'kins some 
day ; that is what 7 believe." 
" But about the potatoes ? " said Matilda, 
who could not catch th^ connection of this 
rpeech. 
Well; she let 'em b<- hi too long. That 
was the trouble. If you want to have things 
right, you must take 'em out vhen 'they are 
done, honey." 
" But how can we tell when thev are done ? " 
" Why, you know by just lookin at 'em. 
There ain't no great trouble about it ; anyhow there ain't about potatoes. You just 
put some fat in a pan, and chop up your 
potatoes, and when the fat is hot clap 'en? in, 
and let 'em frizzle round a spell ; and then 
when they're done you take 'em up. Did you 
sprinkle salt in ? " 
No." 
" You must mind and sprinkle salt in, while 
they're in the pan ; without that they'll taste 
kind o' flat." 
" Aunt Erminia don't like them chopped 
up. She wants them cut in thin slices and 
browned on both sides." 
" Laws a massy ! why don't she do 'em so, 
then ? what hinders her ? " said the house- 
keeper looking at Matilda. " I thought she 
was one o' them kind o' folks as don't know 
nothing handy. Why don't she do her own 
potatoes, and as brown as she likes, Tilly ? " 
" Mamma wants us to take care of things, 
Miss Redwood." 
" Won't let your aunt learn you, nother ? " 
said Miss Redwood, sticking one end of her 
knitting needle behind her ear and slowly 
scratching with it, while she looked at Matilda. 
" Aunt Candy does not like to do anything 
 
in the kitchen ; and I would rather you would 
teach me, Miss Redwood if you would." 
" And can you learn Maria ? " 
" O yes. 
" Well, come along ; what do you want to 
know next ? " 
" I wish you'd teach me some time how to 
make gingerbread. And pies." 
The housekeeper glanced at the clock, and 
then bade Matilda take oft' her things. 
" Now ? " said Matilda hesitating. 
" You can't do nothing any time but now," 
said Miss Redwood, as she put away her 
work in its basket. "You can think of doing 
it ; but if you ever come to doing it, you will 
find it is now." 
" But is it convenient ? " 
" La, child, I don't know what people mean 
by convenient. You look at it one way, and 
there is nothing convenient ; and you look at 
it another way, and there is nothing but what 
is. Hang your things over that chair ; and 
I'll put an apron on you." 
" But which way does it look this after 
noon, Miss Redwood ? " 
The housekeeper laughed, and kissed Tilly 
whom she was arraying in a great check 
apron, big enough to cover her. 
" It is just how you choose to take it," she 
said. " I declare I'm sorry for the folks as is 
tied to convenience ; they don't get the right 
good of their life. Why honey, what isn't 
my convenience is somebody else's convenience, maybe. I want it to be sunshine very 
often, so as I kin dry my clothes ; when the 
farmers want it to be rain to make their corn 
and cabbages grow. It is sure to be conven 
ient for somebody." 
" But I want it to be convenient for you. 
this afternoon," said Matilda wistfully. 
" Well, 'tis," said the housekeeper. " There 
. wash your hands in that bowl, dear; and 
here's a clean towel for you. A body as 
wants to have things convenient, had better
not be a minister's housekeeper. No, the 
place is nice enough," she went on, as she 
 
