gaunt man, clad in threadbare garments, which hung loosely upon the
shrunken breast and arms, black hair and beard, mottled with white,
ragged, and unshorn, and dank from exposure to the snow and sleet; a
chalky-white face, with closed and sunken eyes, sharpened nose, and
prominent cheek-bones--this was what they beheld as the candle flamed
up steadily in the comparatively still air of the ceiled apartment. The
miserable coat was buttoned up to his chin, and the shreds of a coarse
woollen comforter, torn from his throat at his capture, still hung about
his shoulders. His clothes were sodden with wet, as Harrison had said,
and the solitary pretence at rendering him comfortable for the night,
had been the act of a negro, who contemptuously flung an old blanket
across his nether limbs before leaving him to his lethargic slumbers.
He had not moved since they tossed him, like a worthless sack, upon
this sorry resting-place, but lay an unsightly huddle of arms, legs, and
head, such as was never achieved, much less continued, by any one save a
drunken man or a corpse. Mabel ended the awed silence.
“This is torpor--not sleep, nor yet death,” she said, without recoiling
from the pitiful wreck.
Indeed, as she spoke, she bent to feel his pulse; held the emaciated
wrist in her warm fingers until she could determine whether the feeble
stroke were a reality, or a trick of the imagination.
“Dr. Ritchie should see him immediately. He is in the smoking-room. If
you call him out, it will excite less remark than if I were to do it.
Don’t let Winston guess why you want him,” were her directions to her
aunt, uttered quickly, but distinctly.
“You will not stay here! At least, go into the hall! What will the
doctor think?”
“I shall remain where I am. The poor creature is too far gone to presume
upon my condescension,” with a faint sarcastic emphasis.
At Mrs. Sutton’s return with the physician, she perceived that her niece
had not awaited her coming in sentimental idleness. A thick woollen
coverlet was wrapped about the prostrate figure, and Mabel, upon her
knees on the dusty hearth, was applying the candle to a heap of waste
paper and bits of board she had ferreted out in closets and cuddy-holes.
It caught and blazed up hurriedly in season to facilitate the doctor’s
examination of the patient, thrown so oddly upon his care. Mrs. Sutton
had not neglected, in her haste, to procure a warm shawl from her room,
and she folded it about the girl’s shoulders, whispering an entreaty
that she would go to bed, and leave the man to her management and Dr.
Ritchie.
Mabel waved her off impatiently.
“Presently! when I hear how he is!” moving toward the comfortless couch.
The physician looked around at the rustle of her dress, his pleasant
face perturbed, and perhaps remorseful.
“This is a bad business! I wish I had examined him when he was brought
in. There would have been more hope of doing something for him then.
But, to tell the truth, I was one of the five or six prudent fellows who
stayed upon the piazza, and witnessed the capture from a distance. I had
no idea of the man’s real situation. Mrs. Sutton! can I have brandy, hot
water, and mustard at once! Miss Mabel! may I trouble you to call your
brother? He ought to be advised of this unforeseen turn of affairs.”
His emissaries were prompt. In less than ten minutes, all the appliances
the household could furnish for the restoration of the failing life were
at his command. An immense fire roared in the long-disused chimney; warm
blankets, bottles of hot water and mustard-poultices were prepared by
a corps of officious servants; the master of the mansion, with three
or four friends at his heels, and a half-smoked cigar in his hand, had
looked in for a moment, to hope that Dr. Ritchie would not hesitate to
order whatever was needed, and to predict a favorable result as the meed
of his skill.
Half an hour after her brother’s visit, Mabel tapped at the door to
inquire how the patient was, and whether she could be of use in any way.
She still wore her evening dress, and the fire of excitement had not
gone out in her eyes and complexion.
“Don’t sit up longer,” said the doctor, with the authority of an old
friend. “It will not benefit your protege for you to have a headache,
pale cheeks, and heavy eyes to-morrow, while it will render others,
whose claims upon you are stronger, very miserable.”
She thanked him laconically for his thoughtfulness, and bade him
“good-night,” without a responsive gleam of playfulness. Her heart was
weighed down with sick horror. The almost certainty of which he spoke
with professional coolness, was to her, who had never within her
recollection stood beside a death-bed, a thing too frightful to be
anticipated without dread, however its terrors might be alleviated by
affection and wealth. As the finale of their Christmas frolic--perhaps
the consequence of wilful neglect in those who should have known
better than to abandon the wanderer to the ravages of hunger, cold, and
intoxication--the idea was ghastly beyond description.
She was about to diverge from the main hall on the second floor into the
lateral passage leading to Mrs. Sutton’s room in the wing, when her name
was called in a gentle, guarded key by her sister-in-law.
CHAPTER IX. -- HE DEPARTETH IN DARKNESS.
“COME in! I want to talk to you!” said Mrs. Aylett, beckoning Mabel into
her chamber, from the door of which she had hailed her. “Sit down, my
poor girl! You are white as a sheet with fatigue. I cannot see why you
should have been suffered to know anything about this very disagreeable
occurrence. And Emmeline has been telling me that Mrs. Sutton actually
let you go up into that Arctic room.”
“It was my choice. Aunt Rachel went along to carry the light and to
keep me company. She would have dissuaded me from the enterprise if she
could,” responded Mabel, sinking into the low, cushioned chair before
the fire, which the mistress of the luxurious apartment had just wheeled
forward for her, and confessing to herself, for the first time, that she
was chilly and very tired.
“But where were the servants, my dear? Surely you are not required, in
your brother’s house, to perform such menial services as taking food and
medicine to a sick vagrant.”
“Winston had forbidden them to go near the room. I wish I had gone up
earlier. I might have been the means of saving a life which, however
worthless it may seem to us, must be of value to some one.”
“Is he so far gone?”
The inquiry was hoarsely whispered, and the speaker leaned back in her
fauteuil, a spark of fierce eagerness in her dilated eyes, Mabel, in
her own anxiety, did not consider overstrained solicitude in behalf of
a disreputable stranger. She had more sympathy with it than with the
relapse into apparent nonchalance that succeeded her repetition of the
doctor’s report.
“He does not think the unfortunate wretch will revive, even temporarily,
then?” commented the lady, conventionally compassionate, playing with
her ringed fingers, turning her diamond solitaire in various directions
to catch the firelight. “How unlucky he should have strayed upon our
grounds! Was he on his way to the village?”
“Who can say? Not he, assuredly. He has not spoken a coherent word. Dr.
Ritchie thinks he will never be conscious again.”
“I am afraid the event will mar our holiday gayeties to some extent,
stranger though he is!” deplored the hostess. “Some people are
superstitious about such things. His must have been the spectral visage
I saw at the window. I was sure it was that of a white man although
Winston tried, to persuade me to the contrary.”
“It is dreadful!” ejaculated Mabel energetically. “He, poor homeless
wayfarer, perishing with cold and want in the very light of our
summer-like rooms; getting his only glimpse of the fires that would have
brought back vitality to his freezing body through closed windows! Then
to be hunted down by dogs, and locked up by more unfeeling men, as if
he were a ravenous beast, instead of a suffering fellow-mortal! I
shall always feel as if I were, in some measure, chargeable with his
death--should he die. Heaven forgive us our selfish thoughtlessness, our
criminal disregard of our brother’s life!”
“I understood you to say there was no hope!” interrupted Mrs. Aylett.
“So Dr. Ritchie declares. But I cannot bear to believe it!”
She pressed her fingers upon her eyeballs as if she would exclude some
horrid vision.
“My dear sister! your nerves have been cruelly tried. To-morrow, you
will see this matter--and everything else--through a different medium.
As for the object of your amiable pity, he is, without doubt, some low,
dissipated creature, of whom the world will be well rid.”
“I am not certain of that. There are traces of something like refinement
and gentle breeding about him in all his squalor and unconsciousness.
I noticed his hands particularly. They are slender and long, and his
features in youth and health must have been handsome. Dr. Ritchie
thought the same. Who can tell that his wife is not mourning his
absence to-night, as the fondest woman under this roof would regret
her husband’s disappearance? And she may never learn when and how he
died--never visit his grave!”
“I have lived in this wicked world longer than you have, my sweet Mabel;
so you must not quarrel with me if these fancy pictures do not move me
as they do your guileless heart,” said Mrs. Aylett, the sinister shadow
of a mocking smile playing about her mouth. “Nor must you be offended
with me for suggesting as a pendant to your crayon sketch of widowhood
and desolation the probability that the decease of a drunken thief or
beggar cannot be a serious bereavement, even to his nearest of kin.
Women who are beaten and trampled under foot by those who should be
their comfort and protection are generally relieved when they take to
vagrancy as a profession. It may be that this man’s wife, if she were
cognizant of his condition, would not lift a finger, or take a step to
prolong his life for one hour. Such things have been.”
“More shame to human nature that they have!” was the impetuous
rejoinder. “In every true woman’s heart there must be tender memories of
buried loves, let their death have been natural or violent.”
“So says your gentler nature. There are women--and I believe they are in
the majority in this crooked lower sphere--in whose hearts the monument
to departed affection--when love is indeed no more--is a hatred that
can never die. But we have wandered an immense distance from the unlucky
chicken-thief or burglar overhead. Dr. Ritchie’s sudden and ostentatious
attack of philanthropy will hardly beguile him into watching over his
charge--a guardian angel in dress-coat and white silk neck-tie--until
morning?”
“Mammy is to relieve him so soon as he is convinced that human skill can
do nothing for his relief,” said Mabel very gravely.
Her sister-in-law’s high spirits and jocular tone jarred upon her
most disagreeably, but she tried to bear in mind in what dissimilar
circumstances they had passed the last hour. If Clara appeared
unfeeling, and her remarks were distinguished by less taste than was
customary in one so thoroughly bred, it was because the exhilaration
of the evening was yet upon her, and she had not seen the death’s-head
prone upon the pillows in the cheerless attic. Thoughts of poverty and
dying beds were unseemly in this apartment when the very warmth and
fragrance of the air told of fostering and sheltering love. The heavy
curtains did not sway in the blast that hurled its whole fury against
the windows; the furniture was handsome, and in perfect harmony with the
