for love and kindness while Hugh and I were alive; but there's no love
quite like a parent's. How Hugh will rejoice! He never could give him up
altogether."
"Mr. Conover has a letter to read," said grandmother.
Little did General Mackenzie imagine that his words would bring so great
a joy. They all listened breathlessly, and then wanted it read over
again to lengthen out the good news. And when at dusk Uncle Robert
declared they must go, they all begged for Kathie to stay and drink tea,
and would take no refusal.
"But I must return," said Uncle Robert, "or the table will be kept for
us both."
Mrs. Morrison made some biscuits, and brought out her china, as well as
a damask table-cloth. Hugh, coming in, wondered at the feast; but
Ethel's first word told him all. She, poor child, was brimful of joy. It
did one good to look at the roses on her cheeks, and hear the little
laughs that came for joy, and yet were so near to tears.
When Kathie reached home she was absolutely tired with all the
excitement, and mamma said there must be no lessons that night; so they
took the lounge in the shaded half-light of the library, and Kathie laid
her head in Uncle Robert's lap, for it almost ached. And there they had
a tender talk.
"But we shall never forget it," she said. "It seems as if it would help
me to remember all the pains and sorrows and burdens that we can try to
bear for one another."
"It is what God means us to learn and to do. 'For no man liveth unto
himself, and no man dieth unto himself.'"
"And we are all so oddly linked in with one another,--such a little
thing brought the Morrisons here, and then my meeting General Mackenzie
gave him an interest. The news would have come in a day or two, I
suppose; but, Uncle Robert, it seemed so good, since he risked his life
in your place, that we should be the first to take the joyful tidings to
them. I haven't anything in the world to ask."
"Yes, my darling, I am so glad that General Mackenzie did find him; and
more than glad that our brave soldiers can return to their own pleasant
firesides."
"Neither of our soldiers was very grand in the world's estimation,
that is, as to position, but they have both suffered a good deal for the
cause. It is so sweet to think that, though the world knows nothing
about it, God remembers."
"And that no act of self-denial or heroism goes without its reward
there. It is hard sometimes to see it passed so unnoticed in this world,
but I suppose that is where patience needs to have her perfect work."
Kathie wrote a little note to Rob the next morning, beside getting her
lessons; and before the day ended they had a letter from Mr. Morrison
himself, announcing that he was to be sent home on a furlough.
"I shall have a dangerous rival," exclaimed Mr. Meredith, in his teasing
tone, "and when General Mackenzie comes I expect to be quite
overshadowed. No stars nor bars nor shoulder-straps,--nothing but a poor
unknown private! What good could he do?"
"He followed his captain and did his duty."
"Good!" exclaimed Charlie, who was standing beside his brother-in-law.
"You will never find Kathie being caught by the glitter and show."
The old smile twinkled in Mr. Meredith's eyes.
"Well, I will promise not to be very jealous. Only you know you sent
me off to war, so you ought to allow me some special indulgence."
"I!" exclaimed Kathie, coloring violently.
"Yes, you cannot disown me; I am one of your soldiers. Dear little
Kathie, I hope always to be true to my colors."
The last was uttered in a low tone, but it brought a more vivid flush
than the preceding sentence. Though now her eyes were downcast, yet in
her heart of hearts she understood.
"It seems as if Rob ought to come home in the general returning. How
glad I shall be to see the dear old fellow!"
Was Rob fighting the good fight?
CHAPTER XIV.
PUT TO THE TEST.
THE days were so long and pleasant now that Uncle Robert thought they
would not start for Middleville until after dinner, especially as there
would be a bright moon in the evening. Kathie had written a little note
to Sarah, and now the two started in high satisfaction. For since the
good news about Mr. Morrison Kathie seemed full of happiness and
content.
The place looked less dreary than in winter, though the houses appeared
rather more shabby by contrast. One or two were being painted, which
would shame the rest sadly. But the hillsides were taking on an emerald
tint, and groups of cows were wandering about as if patiently waiting
for the grass to grow into nibbling length.
Sarah was standing by the gate, watching for them. A very decided change
had come over her. She was taller and looked less stout, her
complexion was not so rough and red, her dress, a striped green and
white gingham, fitted nicely, and was finished at the throat by a linen
collar. She had eschewed waterfalls and rolls, though she laughingly
admitted to Kathie afterwards that it was because she couldn't get her
hair up to look like anything. But the great thick coil was really
beautiful, and the green ribbon very becoming.
She had changed somewhat in manners as well, being less boisterous and
effusive. Indeed, Kathie thought her very lady-like as she ushered them
into the house.
"Is your brother anywhere about?" asked Uncle Robert. "If so, I will go
and find him while you girls have a talk."
"He is up in the lot. Steve will show you, or, better yet, call him."
Then she led Kathie into the parlor. There were green paper shades at
the windows, which softened the light in the room, and Kathie's first
glance took in a world of improvements.
Sarah colored with a little conscious pride as she led her to a
veritable modern sofa, instead of the old stiff one, worn at the edges.
"Take off your hat and sack," she said, with a touch of bashfulness.
Kathie complied.
"I am so glad to see you. I have such a host of things to tell you."
"And you have been out gathering violets. How pretty and spring-like
they are!"
"Yes, Jim helped me. We thought you would like them so much. And I have
been trying to--to get fixed up a little. It cannot be anything like
your house, but somehow I want it as nice as I can make it. Jim is so
good too, and Cousin Nelly; and I am so happy sometimes that I really
wonder if I be I, like the old woman."
"I am very glad"; and Kathie gave the hand a squeeze in her own tender
little fashion.
"I want to tell you all before any one comes in. Isn't it delightful to
have this sofa? I made father half a dozen shirts all by myself, and he
was so pleased,--you can hardly think! He gave me twelve dollars to
spend just as I pleased; but I told mother I would rather let it go
towards a new sofa than to buy the finest dress. Nelly said it would be
so much more comfortable than that hard, shabby thing, that looked as
if it might have come out of Noah's Ark. So mother gave me fifteen,--she
has all the money for the milk and butter and eggs,--and when father
heard of it he added three more. I was afraid he would think I wanted to
be too fine, but he only laughed a little. Mother and Nelly went to the
city and bought it. I was so glad that I could have cried for joy, and I
know father is very proud of it, though he does not say it in so many
words."
"It is a very nice one, and furnishes the room quite prettily, beside
the comfort of it."
"Jim made me this table, and Cousin Nelly and I covered it with paper
and then varnished it over, and we have a pretty chintz one up stairs.
Nelly and I have a room together now. I can keep everything so much more
tidy than when the children pulled all the rubbish about. And look at my
two new pictures!"
They were large colored engravings,--one, "The Wood-Gatherers," and the
other the interior of a German peasant's cottage, where the mother was
putting a babe to sleep in its odd wicker cradle.
"Jim bought them at a newspaper-stand one day, and only paid twelve
cents apiece for them. He's powerful--no, I mean very fond of them. I am
trying to leave off all those old-fashioned words and expressions. Then
he made the frames, and Nelly and I covered them with pine-cones."
They certainly were very creditable.
"But how industrious you must be!" exclaimed Kathie. "You still go to
school?"
"Yes. I wouldn't give that up for half the world. You see Cousin Nelly
helps mother a good deal, and she helps me too. I have been telling her
ever so much about you, how good and lovely you were. But O, wasn't I a
clown and an ignoramus when you first saw me! I don't wonder that girl
laughed, though it was hateful in her; but I shall never, never forget
how kind you were. O Miss Kathie, it seems to me if the real nice people
in the world would only help the others a bit, we should get along so
much faster. I feel as if I'd had it in me all the time,--a great hungry
longing for something,--and I find now that it is beauty and order and
knowledge."
Sarah's face was in a glow, and her steady, ardent eyes held in them a
soft and tender light. It seemed to Kathie that she was really pretty,
or something more than that,--electrified with soul beauty.
"Father pretends that he is afraid I shall get too proud and not be good
for anything, though he was ever so much pleased when he saw the parlor
in such nice order. And he thought the shirts a wonder. I shall not be
sixteen until November, and there are girls older than I who could not
do it. In vacation I am going to make Jim a whole new set of nice ones
with linen bosoms."
It seemed to Kathie that there was very little danger of Sarah's being
spoiled by acquiring knowledge.
"You deserve the utmost credit," she returned, in her simple manner,
that had in it no shade of patronage or condescension.
"I ought to do something for the pains and trouble you have taken."
"It is a pleasure too."
"Miss Kathie, you are so different from some rich people. I wonder what
makes it?"
A soft color stole up into her face. She would fain have kept silence,
but she saw that Sarah was waiting for an answer. "I think it is because
mamma and Uncle Robert believe that wealth was not given for purely
personal or selfish purposes. It is God's treasure, and we are to put it
out at usury, like the parable of the talents, and the usury means
making other people happy if we can."
"Then I suppose I ought to try and make some one happy?"
"Do you not?" asked Kathie, simply.
"Yes, I do occasionally when it is quite a trouble. The children beg me
to read to them,--they are so fond of stories; and now father always
wants me to read our paper to him. It comes on Saturday and he is always
so tired that night. Still, that isn't--" and Sarah paused as if she
despaired of rendering her meaning clear to her young listener.
"I think Uncle Robert would say that is it surely. Once in a while we
can do larger things; but isn't it the little deeds that require the
