subjects, and he dearly loves to hear himself talk--he is sincerely
interested in a good number of moral reforms, so long as they cost him
nothing; and when a man is working his good faculties, he is generally
delighted with himself, and it is the most natural thing in the world,
to think that there is more of him than there is. I am often put in mind
of that enthusiastic young ruler that came to the Saviour, who had kept
all the commandments, and seemed determined to be on the high road to
saintship. The Saviour just touched him on this financial question, and
he wilted in a minute. I consider that to be still the test question,
and there are a good many young rulers like him, who don't keep all
the commandments."
"Your way of talking," said I, "seems to do away with all moral
indignation."
He smiled, and then looked sadly into the fire--"God help us all," he
said. "We are all struggling in the water together and pulling one
another under--our best virtues are such a miserable muddle--and
then--there's the beam in our own eye."
There was a depth of pathos in his dark eyes as he spoke, and suddenly a
smile flashed over his features, and looking around, he said--
  "So, what do you think of that, my cat,
  And what do you think of that, my dog."
CHAPTER XV.
I MEET A VISION.
"I say, Hal, do you want to get acquainted with any of the P. G.'s here
in New York? If you do, I can put you on the track."
"P. G.'s?" said I, innocently.
"Yes; you know that's what Plato calls pretty girls. I don't believe you
remember your Greek. I'm going out this evening where there's a lot of
'em--splendid house on Fifth avenue--lots of tin--girls gracious. Don't
know which of 'em I shall take yet. Don't you want to go with me and
see?"
Jim stood at the looking-glass brushing his hair and arranging his
necktie.
"Jim Fellows, you are a coxcomb," said I.
"I don't know why I shouldn't be," said he. "The girls fairly throw
themselves at one's head. They are up to all that sort of thing.
Besides, I'm on the lookout for my fortune, and it all comes in the way
of business. Come, now, don't sit there writing all the evening. Come
out, and let me show you New York by gaslight."
"No," said I; "I've got to finish up this article for the Milky Way.
The fact is, a fellow must be industrious to make anything, and my time
for seeing girls isn't come yet. I must have something to support a wife
on before I look round in that direction."
"The idea, Harry, of a good-looking fellow like you, not making the most
of his advantages! Why, there are nice girls in this city that could
help you up faster than all the writing you can do these ten years. And
you sitting, moiling and toiling, when you ought to be making some
lovely woman happy!"
"I shall never marry for money, Jim, you may depend upon that."
"Bah, bah, black sheep," said Jim. "Who is talking about marrying for
money? A fine girl is none the worse for fifty thousand dollars, and I
can give you a list of twenty that you can go round among until you fall
in love, and not come amiss anywhere, if it's falling in love that you
want to do."
"Oh, come, Jim," said I, "do finish your toilet and be off with yourself
if you are going. I don't blame a woman who marries for money, since
the whole world has always agreed to shut her out of any other way of
gaining an independence. But for a man, with every other avenue open to
him, to mouse about for a rich wife, I think is too dastardly for
anything."
"That would make a fine point for a paragraph," said Jim, turning round
to me, with perfect good humor. "So I advise you to save it for the
moral part of the paper. You see, if you waste too much of that sort of
thing on me, your mill may run low. It's a deuced hard thing to keep the
moral agoing the whole year, you'll find."
"Well," said I, "I am going to try to make a home for a wife, by good,
thorough work, done just as work ought to be done; and I have no time to
waste on society in the meanwhile."
"And when you are ready for her," said Jim, "I suppose you expect to
receive her per 'Divine Providence' Express, ticketed and labeled, and
expenses paid. Or, may be she'll be brought to you some time by genii,
as the Princess of China was brought to the Prince of Tartary, when he
was asleep. I used to read about that in the Arabian tales."
I give this little passage of my conversation with Jim, because it is a
pretty good illustration of the axiom, that "It is not in man that
walketh to direct his steps." When we have announced any settled purpose
or sublime intention, in regard to our future course of life, it seems
to be the delight of fortune to throw us directly into circumstances in
which we shall be tempted to do what we have just declared we never will
do, and the fortunes of our lives turn upon the most inconsiderable
hinges.
Mine turned upon an umbrella.
The next morning I had business in the very lowermost part of the city,
and started off without my umbrella; but being weather-wise, and
discerning the face of the sky, I went back to my room and took it. It
was one of those little pet objects of vertu, to which a bachelor
sometimes treats himself in lieu of domestic luxuries. It had a
finely-carved handle, which I bought in Dieppe, and which caused it to
be peculiar among all the umbrellas in New York.
It was one of those uncertain, capricious days that mark the coming in
of April, when Nature, like a nervous beauty, doesn't seem to know her
own mind, and laughs one moment and cries the next with a perplexing
uncertainty.
The first part of the morning the amiable and smiling predominated, and
I began to regret that I had encumbered myself with the troublesome
precaution of an umbrella while tramping around down town. In this mood
of mind I sat at Fulton Ferry waiting the starting of the Bleecker
street car, when suddenly the scene was enlivened to my view by the
entrance of a young lady, who happened to seat herself exactly opposite
to me.
Now, as a writer, an observer of life and manners, I had often made
quiet studies of the fair flowers of modern New York society as I rode
up and down in the cars. In no other country in the world, perhaps, has
a man the opportunity of being vis-à-vis with the best and most
cultured class of young women in the public conveyances. In England,
this class are veiled and secluded from gaze by all the ordinances and
arrangements of society. They go out only in their own carriage; they
travel in reserved compartments of the railway carriages; they pass from
these to reserved apartments in the hotels, where they are served apart
in family privacy as much as in their own dwellings. So that the
stranger traveling in the country, unless he have introductions to the
personal hospitality of these circles, has almost no way of forming any
opinion even as to the external appearance of its younger women. In
France, a still stricter régime watches over the young, unmarried
girl, who is kept in the shade of an almost conventual seclusion till
marriage opens the doors of her prison. The young American girl,
however, of the better and of the best classes, is to be met and
observed everywhere. She moves through life with the assured step of a
princess, too certain of her position and familiar with her power even
to dream of a fear. She looks on her surroundings from above with the
eye of a mistress, and expects, of course, to see all things give way
before her, as in our republican society they generally do.
During the few months I had spent in New York I had diligently kept out
of society. The permitted silent acquaintance with my fair countrywomen
which I gained while riding up and down the street conveyances, became,
therefore, a favorite and harmless source of amusement. Not an item in
the study escaped me, not a feather in that rustling and wonderful
plumage of fashion that bore them up, was unnoted. I mused on styles,
and characteristics, and silently wove in my own mind histories to
correspond with the various physiognomies I studied. Let not the reader
imagine me staring point blank, with my mouth open, at all I met. The
art of noting without appealing to note, of seeing without seeming to
see, was one that I cultivated with assiduity.
Therefore, without any impertinent scrutiny, satisfied myself of the
fact that a feminine presence of an unusual kind and quality was
opposite to me. It was, at first glance, one of the New York princesses
of the blood, accustomed to treading on clouds and breathing incense.
There was a quiet savoir faire and self-possession as she sat down on
her seat, as if it were a throne; and there was a species of repressed
vitality and decision in all her little involuntary movements that
interested me as live things always do interest, in proportion to their
quantum of life. We all are familiar with the fact that there are some
people, who, let them sit still as they may, and conduct themselves
never so quietly, nevertheless impress their personality on those around
them, and make their presence felt. An attraction of this sort drew my
eyes toward my neighbor. She was a young lady of medium height, slender
and elastic figure, features less regularly beautiful than piquant and
expressive. I remarked a pair of fine dark eyes the more from the
contrast with a golden crêpe of hair. The combination of dark eyes and
lashes with fair hair, always produces effect of a striking character.
She was attired as became a Fifth Avenue princess, who has the world of
fashion at her feet,--yet, to my thinking, as one who had chosen and
adapted her material with an eye of taste. A delicate cashmere was
folded carelessly round her shoulders, and her little hands were gloved
with a careful nicety of fit; and dangling from one finger was a toy
purse of gold and pearl, in which she began searching for the change to
pay her fare. I saw, too, as she investigated, an expression of
perplexity, slightly tinged with the ludicrous, upon her face. I
perceived at a glance the matter. She was surveying a ten-dollar note
with a glance of amused vexation, and vainly turning over her little
purse for the smaller change or tickets available in the situation. I
leaned forward and offered, as gentlemen generally do, to take her fare
and pass it forward. With a smile of apology she handed me the bill, and
showed the little empty purse. "Allow me to arrange it," I said. She
smiled and blushed. I passed up the ticket necessary for the occasion,
returned her bill, bowed, and immediately looked another way with
sedulous care.
It requires an extra amount of discretion and delicacy to make it
tolerable to a true lady to become in the smallest degree indebted to a
gentleman who is a stranger. I was aware that my fair vis-à-vis was
inwardly disturbed at having inadvertently been obliged to accept from
me even so small an obligation as a fare ticket; but as matters were,
there was no help for it. On the whole, though I was sorry for her, I
could not but regard the incident as a species of good luck for myself.
We rode along--perhaps each of us conscious at times of being
attentively considered by the other, until the cars turned up Park Row
before the Astor House; she signalled the conductor to stop, and got
out. Here it was that the beneficent intentions of the fates, in causing
me to bring my umbrella, were made manifest.
[Illustration: THE UMBRELLA.
