
Kathie laughed. 

" I suppose I shall see everything that can be seen 
in that brief while " ; but she couldn't help thinking 
that the dearest sight of all would be Aunt Euth. 

It required some courage to keep strictly to the 
lessons after that. Bruce wrote her a letter in which 
he said he did not envy any one in the world, but he 
thought he would just as lief be Kathie Alston for 
ten or twelve days, beginning at Christmas, as a 
great overgrown boy at a military academy. 



 

He had accepted and liked his new mother very 
cordially. Of his own he had a very slight remem- 
brance, and to boys without homes or mothers a 
gentle, considerate love like this is very tender and 
sweet. 

" It is too bad that he cannot go as well," Kathie 
said to Uncle Robert. " I have so many nice times 
that I do begin to feel conscience smitten when I 
think of all who are crowded out." 

So, at last, Kathie's small trunk was packed and 
directed, and Uncle Eobert took her down to the 
city. As she had to start early, he decided that it 
would be better for them to stay at the hotel, for 
convenience in the morning. So they hunted up Mr. 
Winterdyne, and found him a very pleasant, agreeable 
gentleman, past forty. He had seen General Mac- 
kenzie and his wife only the week before, and had 
heard all about this little niece, and would be very 
glad to take charge of her during the rather tiresome 
journey. 

She was up betimes, as fresh and sweet as a 
rose. The morning was cold and gray, so her happy 
face was like a gleam of sunshine. Uncle Robert 
said good-by at the gateway, and Mr. Winterdyne 



 

drew her arm through his, quite as if she had been a 
young lady. He seated her carefully near the win- 
dow, hung up his satchel and umbrella, chatting 
pleasantly so that she might not feel strange. And 
then they steamed slowly out of the depot and were 
on their way. 

" We shall have a storm before noon, I think," 
Mr. Winterdyne said, presently. " It threatens 



snow.' : 



" Do you suppose it will delay us ? " Kathie asked, 
that she had started she could think only of the 
journey's end. 

" no, I guess not. The weather may moderate, 
and in that case it is more likely to be rain, as we go 
farther south." 

He talked to Kathie quite a while, naming the 
towns they passed and giving bits of their history. 
Then two gentlemen came through the car and en- 
gaged him in a business conversation. 

" Your daughter, Winterdyne ? " asked one of them. 

" No. General Mackenzie's niece. I am taking 
her to Washington. Miss Alston." 

Kathie gave a timid little bow to the pleasant eyes 
that smiled upon her. 



 

" Have you ever been in Washington before ? " he 
asked. 

Kathie answered in the negative. 

" Quite commonplace again, eh, Winterdyne ? The 
camps and barracks arid armies have vanished. We 
can hardly believe now that we have lived through 
such a terrible struggle. But many a brave fellow 
never came back again. Eomances and tragedies 
were common in those days." 

" Yes." 

" Did you ever know Ned Meredith ? " 

" I think not." 

Kathie started in quick surprise at the name. 

" The poor fellow had a hard time of it, was 
wounded and barely lived. A right pretty girl came 
on and married him, and I guess that pulled him 
through as much as anything. I took dinner witli 
them a few days ago, and they are as happy as bees 
in clover. There were some brave little women as 
well. So you have a taste for romances ? " and he 
smiled over at Kathie again. 

" It was all reality to me, to us," she said. " My 
uncle was there at the time, and Mrs. Meredith is a 
very dear friend." 



 

" Oh ! " and he studied her again. " I think I re- 
member you by a picture. Isn't it Kathie Alston ? 
and was not your uncle a Mr. Conover? Why, I 
feel quite well acquainted. 

Kathie listened to the story of the marriage again, 
and some incidents of coolness and bravery on Mr. 
Meredith's part that somehow touched her heart and 
made her feel prouder than ever of him. 

At Trenton the new friends shook hands and 
parted. 

" It is beginning to snow," said Mr. Winterdyne. 
" Are you comfortable ? would you like to look over 
any of these books ? " 

Presently they reached Philadelphia, and Kathie 
was very much interested in the strange sights. Mr. 
Winterdyne took her out on the platform a few mo- 
ments, for a little rest and a breath of fresh air, he 
said. Then they whirled on and on again, but the 
snow seemed to gain and the wind blew it in eddy- 
ing gusts. It spoiled the prospect, as they could see 
nothing beyond dim outlines. 

Kathie read a little, for she did not wish to annov 

her kind escort by claiming too much of his attention. 
The motion of the cars and the silence made her quite 
drowsy, and she could not help nodding. 



 

It was rather late when they reached their desti- 
nation, owing to the unavoidable delay of the storm. 
Kathie felt somewhat frightened amid the din and 
hurry and strange faces that stared at her at every 
turn. Mr. Winterdyne pushed his way through the 
crowd, anxiously looking for his friend. 

" Ah, here you are ! ' exclaimed a familiar voice. 

" My dear Kathie ! " 

The clasp and the smile were so fervent that they 
at once restored her spirits, for she was beginning to 
feel homesick. General Mackenzie drew her close 
with sheltering tenderness. 

