had to keep out of his way, or I believe he would have killed me,
though I was a passenger, and paid my fare."
At three o'clock in the afternoon, the little steamer ran alongside
the ship, and the party went on board, though the principal and all
the officers and crew were on shore.
CHAPTER XX.
STOCKHOLM AND ITS SURROUNDINGS.
After the professor's lecture on board of the ship, the students were
piped to dinner. According to his usual custom, Paul Kendall, with his
lady, took rooms at the hotel, and in this instance his example was
followed by Shuffles. Dr. Winstock and Captain Lincoln had already
accepted an invitation from Paul to spend the afternoon with him in a
ride through the city; and as soon as the boats landed at the quay,
they hastened to keep the appointment, while the students scattered
all over the city to take a general view.
"Well, Paul, how do you find the hotel?" asked the doctor, when the
party were seated in the carriage.
"Very good; it is one of the best hotels I have seen in Europe."
"It has an excellent location, but I think there was no such hotel
when I was here before, and I staid at the Hötel Kung Carl."
"This is a bath-house," said the commissionnaire, as the carriage
turned the corner at the hotel, and he pointed to a large, square
building, with a court-yard in the middle.
"That looks well for the cleanliness of the people, if they support
such fine establishments as that."
"Three classes of baths, sir," added Möller, the guide. "In the first
class you have a dressing-room, and an attendant to scrub you, and
showers, douches, and everything of the sort. This is Drottninggatan,
the principal street of the city," added the man, as the carriage
turned into another street.
"In other words, Queen Street," explained the surgeon.
"It is rather a narrow street for the principal one," said Paul.
"All the streets of Stockholm are narrow, or nearly all; and very few
of them have sidewalks."
"This street looks very much like the streets at home. The shops are
about the same thing. There's a woman in a queer dress," added Captain
Lincoln.
"That's a Dalecarlian woman. They used to row the boats about the
waters of the city, coming down from Dalecarlia to spend the summer
here; but the little steamers have taken the business all away from
them. They hired a boat for the season, and paid the owner one half of
the fares."
"Their costume is rather picturesque," added Paul.
"But that woman is far from handsome," laughed Mrs. Kendall.
"None of them are pretty," replied the doctor.
The dress was a rather short petticoat, with a fanciful bodice, in
which red predominated. Quite a number of them were seen by the party
during their stay in Stockholm, but all of them had coarse features
and clumsy forms.
The carriage returned to the centre of the city by another street,
passing through Carl XIII. Torg, or square, where stands the statue of
that king.
"There is the Café Blanche, where they have music every afternoon in
summer, with beer, coffee, and other refreshments. The Swedes are very
fond of these gardens," said Möller. "Here is the Hotel Rydberg. This
is Gustaf Adolf Torget, and that is his statue."
Crossing the bridge to the little island in the stream, the carriage
stopped, to enable the party to look down into the garden, which is
called Strömparterren, where a band plays, and refreshments are
dispensed in the warm evenings of summer. Passing the immense
palace, the tourists drove along the Skeppsbron, or quay, which is the
principal landing-place of the steamers. Crossing another bridge over
the south stream, or outlet of Lake Mäler, they entered the southern
suburb of the city, called Södermalm. Ascending to the highest point
of land, the party were conducted to the roof of a house, where a
magnificent view of the city and its surroundings was obtained.
"We will sit down here and rest a while," said the doctor, suiting the
action to the words. "This promontory, or some other one near it, was
formerly called Agne's Rock, and there is a story connected with it.
Agne was the king of Sweden about 220 B.C. In a war with the Finns, he
killed their king, and captured his daughter Skiolfa. The princess,
according to the custom of those days, became the wife, but
practically the slave, of her captor. She was brought to Sweden, where
Agne and his retainers got beastly drunk on the occasion of
celebrating the memorial rites of her father. Skiolfa, with the
assistance of her Finnish companions, passed a rope through the
massive gold chain on the neck of the king, and hung him to a tree,
beneath which their tent was pitched. Having avenged the death of her
father, the princess and her friends embarked in their boats, and
escaped to Finland."
"They finished him, then," laughed Captain Lincoln. "But what sort of
boats had they?"
"I don't know," replied Dr. Winstock.
"Could they cross the Baltic in boats?"
"Yes. When you go to Finland you will find that the course will be
through islands nearly all the way. There is no difficulty in crossing
in an open boat."
"What is the population of Stockholm?" asked Paul.
"One hundred and thirty-five thousand," replied Möller. "It was
founded by King Birger in 1250."
"There is a monitor," said Paul, pointing to the waters near
Castelholmen, not far from the anchorage of the squadron.
"We have four in the Swedish navy, and Russia has plenty of them.
Ericsson, who invented them, was a Swede, you know."
After the tourists had surveyed the panorama to their satisfaction,
they descended, and entering the carriage, drove over to the
Riddarholm, where the guide pointed out the church, the statue of
Gustavus Vasa, the house of the Nobles, and other objects of interest.
Returning to the quay, they stopped to look at the little steamers
which were whisking about in every direction.
"That is the National Museum," said Möller, pointing to a large and
elegant building across the stream.
"I should like to sail in one of those little boats," said Mrs.
Kendall.
"We can go over and back in ten minutes, if you like," added the
guide.
"Let us go."
The party alighted from the carriage, and entered the little boat.
"How much did you pay, Paul?" asked Grace.
"The fare is no larger than the boat. It is three öre each person."
"How much is that?"
"Let me see; eight tenths of a cent, or less than a halfpenny,
English."
The excursionists returned without landing.
"I should like to go again," said Grace. "It is delightful sailing in
such dear little steamers."
"If you please, we will ride over to the Djurgarden, and return by the
steamer, which will land us at the Strömparterre," said the guide.
This proposition was accepted, and by a circuitous route they reached
the place indicated, which, in English, is the Deer Garden. It is on
an island, separated from the main land by a channel. The southern
portion of it is a thickly-populated village, but the principal part
of the island is laid out as a park, of which the people of Stockholm
are justly proud. It was originally a sterile tract of land: the first
improvements converted it into a deer park for the royal use; but
Gustaf III. and Charles (XIV.) John, as Bernadotte was styled,
turned it into a public park. It is laid out in walks and avenues
beautifully shaded with oaks and other trees. The land is undulating,
and parts of it command splendid views of the islands and watercourses
in the vicinity. On the outskirts is an asylum for the blind and for
deaf mutes. Rosendahl, a country house, built by Charles John in 1830,
and often occupied by him, is quite near the park.
The party drove through the principal avenues of the garden, and
stopped at the bust of Bellman, the great poet of Sweden, whose
birthday is annually celebrated here with music and festivities.
Around the park are various tea-gardens, cafés, and other places of
amusement, including a theatre, circus, and opera-house for summer
use. There is an Alhambra, with a restaurant; a Tivoli, with a
concert-room; a Novilla, with a winter garden, and a concert hall for
summer. The tourists stopped at Hasselbacken, which is celebrated for
its good dinners at moderate prices. The visitors seated themselves in
a broad veranda, overlooking a garden filled with little tables, in
the centre of which was a kiosk for the music. The viands, especially
the salmon, were very nice, and the coffee, as usual, was excellent.
After dinner a short walk brought the party to the landing-place of
the little steamers, where, paying eight öre, or about two cents,
each, they embarked. The boat flew along at great speed for such a
small craft, whisked under the Skeppsholm bridge, and in a few moments
landed the tourists at the circular stone quay, which surrounds the
Strömparterre. Paul and his lady walked to the hotel, and the doctor
and the captain went to the Skeppsbron, where a boat soon conveyed
them to the ship.
Sanford and Stockwell had been on board several hours, and had had
time to make up their minds in regard to their future course. They had
considered the advice of the boatswain, and finally concluded to adopt
it. Clyde Blacklock was as tame as a parlor poodle. His experience in
running away, especially after his three days on board of the Rensdyr,
was far from satisfactory.
"I suppose I must go into that cage again," said he, when he went on
board.
"That depends on yourself," replied Peaks. "If you say that you don't
intend to run away again, we shall not put you in the brig."
"I think I won't," added Clyde.
"You think?"
"Well, I know I won't. I will try to do the best I can."
"That's all we ask," said Peaks. "You can say all this to the
principal."
Mr. Lowington returned earlier than most of the ship's company, and
Peaks reported to him immediately. The coxswain and his associate were
called up first.
"We have come on board, sir," said Sanford, touching his cap.
"I see you have. You have been gone a long time, and I have been told
that you had some difficulty in finding the ship," added the
principal.
"We have concluded to tell the whole truth, sir," said Sanford,
hanging his head.
"I am very glad to hear that."
"We didn't wish to find the ship."
"Can you explain the accident by which the second cutter was stove at
Christiansand?"
