dam, which floods a whole region. There was not a family who had not
some trouble with the inundation, even where, like Rose and Letitia
Ferguson, they swept it out merrily, and thought no more of it.
“It was all very pretty and pleasant, and I’m glad it went off so
well,” said Rose Ferguson the next day; “but I have not the smallest
desire to repeat any thing of the kind. We who live in the country, and
have such a world of beautiful things around us every day, and so many
charming engagements in riding, walking, and rambling, and so much to
do, cannot afford to go into this sort of thing: we really have not
time for it.”
“That pretty creature,” said Mrs. Ferguson, speaking of Lillie, “is
really a charming object. I hope she will settle down now to domestic
life. She will soon find better things to care for, I trust: a baby
would be her best teacher. I am sure I hope she will have one.”
“A baby is mamma’s infallible recipe for strengthening the character,”
said Rose, laughing.
“Well, as the saying is, they bring love with them,” said Mrs.
Ferguson; “and love always brings wisdom.”
CHAPTER XVII.
AFTER THE BATTLE.
“WELL, Grace, the Follingsbees are gone at last, I am thankful to say,”
said John, as he stretched himself out on the sofa in Grace’s parlor
with a sigh of relief. “If ever I am caught in such a scrape again, I
shall know it.”
“Yes, it is all well over,” said Grace.
“Over! I wish you would look at the bills. Why, Gracie! I had not the
least idea, when I gave Lillie leave to get what she chose, what it
would come to, with those people at her elbow, to put things into her
head. I could not interfere, you know, after the thing was started;
and I thought I would not spoil Lillie’s pleasure, especially as I had
to stand firm in not allowing wine. It was well I did; for if wine had
been given, and taken with the reckless freedom that all the rest was,
it might have ended in a general riot.”
“As some of the great fashionable parties do, where young women get
merry with champagne, and young men get drunk,” said Grace.
“Well,” said John, “I don’t exactly like the whole turn of the way
things have been going at our house lately. I don’t like the influence
of it on others. It is not in the line of the life I want to lead, and
that we have all been trying to lead.”
“Well,” said Gracie, “things will be settled now quietly, I hope.”
“I say,” said John, “could not we start our little reading sociables,
that were so pleasant last year? You know we want to keep some little
pleasant thing going, and draw Lillie in with us. When a girl has been
used to lively society, she can’t come down to mere nothing; and I
am afraid she will be wanting to rush off to New York, and visit the
Follingsbees.”
“Well,” said Grace, “Letitia and Rose were speaking the other day of
that, and wanting to begin. You know we were to read Froude together,
as soon as the evenings got a little longer.”
“Oh, yes! that will be capital,” said John.
“Do you think Lillie will be interested in Froude?” asked Grace.
“I really can’t say,” said John, with some doubting of heart; “perhaps
it would be well to begin with something a little lighter, at first.”
“Any thing you please, John. What shall it be?”
“But I don’t want to hold you all back on my account,” said John.
“Well, then again, John, there’s our old study-club. The Fergusons
and Mr. Mathews were talking it over the other night, and wondering
when you would be ready to join us. We were going to take up Lecky’s
‘History of Morals,’ and have our sessions Tuesday evenings,—one
Tuesday at their house, and the other at mine, you know.”
“I should enjoy that, of all things,” said John; “but I know it is of
no use to ask Lillie: it would only be the most dreadful bore to her.”
“And you couldn’t come without her, of course,” said Grace.
“Of course not; that would be too cruel, to leave the poor little thing
at home alone.”
“Lillie strikes me as being naturally clever,” said Grace; “if she only
would bring her mind to enter into your tastes a little, I’m sure you
would find her capable.”
“But, Gracie, you’ve no conception how very different her sphere of
thought is, how entirely out of the line of our ways of thinking. I’ll
tell you,” said John, “don’t wait for me. You have your Tuesdays, and
go on with your Lecky; and I will keep a copy at home, and read up
with you. And I will bring Lillie in the evening, after the reading is
over; and we will have a little music and lively talk, and a dance or
charade, you know: then perhaps her mind will wake up by degrees.”
    SCENE.—After tea in the Seymour parlor. John at a table, reading.
                 Lillie in a corner, embroidering.
Lillie. “Look here, John, I want to ask you something.”
John,—putting down his book, and crossing to her, “Well, dear?”
Lillie. “There, would you make a green leaf there, or a brown one?”
John,—endeavoring to look wise, “Well, a brown one.”
Lillie. “That’s just like you, John; now, don’t you see that a brown
one would just spoil the effect?”
“Oh! would it?” said John, innocently. “Well, what did you ask me for?”
“Why, you tiresome creature! I wanted you to say something. What are
you sitting moping over a book for? You don’t entertain me a bit.”
“Dear Lillie, I have been talking about every thing I could think of,”
said John, apologetically.
“Well, I want you to keep on talking, and put up that great heavy book.
What is it, any way?”
“Lecky’s ‘History of Morals,’” said John.
“How dreadful! do you really mean to read it?”
“Certainly; we are all reading it.”
“Who all?”
“Why, Gracie, and Letitia and Rose Ferguson.”
“Rose Ferguson? I don’t believe it. Why, Rose isn’t twenty yet! She
cannot care about such stuff.”
“She does care, and enjoys it too,” said John, eagerly.
“It is a pity, then, you didn’t get her for a wife instead of me,” said
Lillie, in a tone of pique.
Now, this sort of thing does well enough occasionally, said by a
pretty woman, perfectly sure of her ground, in the early days of the
honey-moon; but for steady domestic diet is not to be recommended.
Husbands get tired of swearing allegiance over and over; and John
returned to his book quietly, without reply. He did not like the
suggestion; and he thought that it was in very poor taste. Lillie
embroidered in silence a few minutes, and then threw down her work
pettishly.
“How close this room is!”
John read on.
“John, do open the door!”
John rose, opened the door, and returned to his book.
“Now, there’s that draft from the hall-window. John, you’ll have to
shut the door.”
John shut it, and read on.
“Oh, dear me!” said Lillie, throwing herself down with a portentous
yawn. “I do think this is dreadful!”
“What is dreadful?” said John, looking up.
“It is dreadful to be buried alive here in this gloomy town of
Springdale, where there is nothing to see, and nowhere to go, and
nothing going on.”
“We have always flattered ourselves that Springdale was a most
attractive place,” said John. “I don’t know of any place where there
are more beautiful walks and rambles.”
“But I detest walking in the country. What is there to see? And you
get your shoes muddy, and burrs on your clothes, and don’t meet a
creature! I got so tired the other day when Grace and Rose Ferguson
would drag me off to what they call ‘the glen.’ They kept oh-ing and
ah-ing and exclaiming to each other about some stupid thing every
step of the way,—old pokey nutgalls, bare twigs of trees, and red and
yellow leaves, and ferns! I do wish you could have seen the armful
of trash that those two girls carried into their respective houses.
I would not have such stuff in mine for any thing. I am tired of all
this talk about Nature. I am free to confess that I don’t like Nature,
and do like art; and I wish we only lived in New York, where there is
something to amuse one.”
“Well, Lillie dear, I am sorry; but we don’t live in New York, and are
not likely to,” said John.
“Why can’t we? Mrs. Follingsbee said that a man in your profession,
and with your talents, could command a fortune in New York.”
“If it would give me the mines of Golconda, I would not go there,” said
John.
“How stupid of you! You know you would, though.”
“No, Lillie; I would not leave Springdale for any money.”
“That is because you think of nobody but yourself,” said Lillie. “Men
are always selfish.”
“On the contrary, it is because I have so many here depending on me, of
whom I am bound to think more than myself,” said John.
“That dreadful mission-work of yours, I suppose,” said Lillie; “that
always stands in the way of having a good time.”
“Lillie,” said John, shutting his book, and looking at her, “what is
your ideal of a good time?”
“Why, having something amusing going on all the time,—something bright
and lively, to keep one in good spirits,” said Lillie.
“I thought that you would have enough of that with your party and all,”
said John.
“Well, now it’s all over, and duller than ever,” said Lillie. “I think
a little spirit of gayety makes it seem duller by contrast.”
“Yet, Lillie,” said John, “you see there are women, who live right here
in Springdale, who are all the time busy, interested, and happy, with
only such sources of enjoyment as are to be found here. Their time does
not hang heavy on their hands; in fact, it is too short for all they
wish to do.”
“They are different from me,” said Lillie.
“Then, since you must live here,” said John, “could you not learn to be
like them? Could you not acquire some of these tastes that make simple
country life agreeable?”
“No, I can’t; I never could,” said Lillie, pettishly.
“Then,” said John, “I don’t see that anybody can help your being
unhappy.” And, opening his book, he sat down, and began to read.
Lillie pouted awhile, and then drew from under the sofa-pillow a copy
of “Indiana;” and, establishing her feet on the fender, she began to
read.
Lillie had acquired at school the doubtful talent of reading French
with facility, and was soon deep in the fascinating pages, whose theme
is the usual one of French novels,—a young wife, tired of domestic
monotony, with an unappreciative husband, solacing herself with the
devotion of a lover. Lillie felt a sort of pique with her husband. He
was evidently unappreciative: he was thinking of all sorts of things
more than of her, and growing stupid, as husbands in French romances
