X. HOMEWARD AND HOME.
The travellers all met at breakfast and duly discussed the adventures of
the night; and for the rest, the forenoon passed rapidly and slowly with
Basil and Isabel, as regret to leave Quebec, or the natural impatience
of travellers to be off, overcame them. Isabel spent part of it in
shopping, for she had found some small sums of money and certain odd
corners in her trunks still unappropriated, and the handsome stores on
the Rue Fabrique were very tempting. She said she would just go in and
look; and the wise reader imagines the result. As she knelt over her
boxes, trying so to distribute her purchases as to make them look as if
they were old,--old things of hers, which she had brought all the way
round from Boston with her,--a fleeting touch of conscience stayed her
hand.
“Basil,” she said, “perhaps we’d better declare some of these things.
What’s the duty on those?” she asked, pointing to certain articles.
“I don’t know. About a hundred per cent. ad valorem.”
“C’est a dire--?”
“As much as they cost.”
“O then, dearest,” responded Isabel indignantly, “it can’t be wrong to
smuggle! I won’t declare a thread!”
“That’s very well for you, whom they won’t ask. But what if they ask me
whether there’s anything to declare?”
Isabel looked at her husband and hesitated. Then she replied in terms
that I am proud to record in honor of American womanhood: “You mustn’t
fib about--it, Basil” (heroically); “I couldn’t respect you if you did,”
 (tenderly); “but” (with decision) “you must slip out of it some way!”
The ladies of the Ellison party, to whom she put the case in the parlor,
agreed with her perfectly. They also had done a little shopping in
Quebec, and they meant to do more at Montreal before they returned to
the States. Mrs. Ellison was disposed to look upon Isabel’s compunctions
as a kind of treason to the sex, to be forgiven only because so quickly
repented.
The Ellisons were going up the Saguenay before coming on to Boston, and
urged our friends hard to go with them. “No, that must be for another
time,” said Isabel. “Mr. March has to be home by a certain day; and we
shall just get back in season.” Then she made them promise to spend
a day with her in Boston, and the Colonel coming to say that he had a
carriage at the door for their excursion to Lorette, the two parties
bade good-by with affection and many explicit hopes of meeting soon
again.
“What do you think of them, dearest?” demanded Isabel, as she sallied
out with Basil for a final look at Quebec.
“The young lady is the nicest; and the other is well enough, too. She is
a good deal like you, but with the sense of humor left out. You’ve only
enough to save you.”
“Well, her husband is jolly enough for both of them. He’s funnier
than you, Basil, and he hasn’t any of your little languid airs and
affectations. I don’t know but I’m a bit disappointed in my choice,
darling; but I dare say I shall work out of it. In fact, I don’t know
but the Colonel is a little too jolly. This drolling everything is
rather fatiguing.” And having begun, they did not stop till they
had taken their friends to pieces. Dismayed, then, they hastily
reconstructed them, and said that they were among the pleasantest people
they ever knew, and they were really very sorry to part with them, and
they should do everything to make them have a good time in Boston.
They were sauntering towards Durham Terrace where they leaned long upon
the iron parapet and blest themselves with the beauty of the prospect. A
tender haze hung upon the landscape and subdued it till the scene was
as a dream before them. As in a dream the river lay, and dream-like the
shipping moved or rested on its deep, broad bosom. Far off stretched
the happy fields with their dim white villages; farther still the mellow
heights melted into the low hovering heaven. The tinned roofs of the
Lower Town twinkled in the morning sun; around them on every hand, on
that Monday forenoon when the States were stirring from ocean to ocean
in feverish industry, drowsed the gray city within her walls; from the
flag-staff of the citadel hung the red banner of Saint George in sleep.
Their hearts were strangely and deeply moved. It seemed to them that
they looked upon the last stronghold of the Past, and that afar off
to the southward they could hear the marching hosts of the invading
Present; and as no young and loving soul can relinquish old things
without a pang, they sighed a long mute farewell to Quebec.
Next summer they would come again, yes; but, ah me’ every one knows what
next summer is!
Part of the burlesque troupe rode down in the omnibus to the Grand Trunk
Ferry with them, and were good-natured to the last, having shaken hands
all round with the waiters, chambermaids, and porters of the hotel. The
young fellow with the bad amiable face came in a calash, and refused to
overpay the driver with a gay decision that made him Basil’s envy till
he saw his tribulation in getting the troupe’s luggage checked. There
were forty pieces, and it always remained a mystery, considering the
small amount of clothing necessary to those people on the stage, what
could have filled their trunks. The young man and the two English
blondes of American birth found places in the same car with our
tourists, and enlivened the journey with their frolics. When the young
man pretended to fall asleep, they wrapped his golden curly head in
a shawl, and vexed him with many thumps and thrusts, till he bought a
brief truce with a handful of almonds; and the ladies having no other
way to eat them, one of them saucily snatched off her shoe, and cracked
them hammerwise with the heel. It was all so pleasant that it ought to
have been all right; and in their merry world of outlawry perhaps things
are not so bad as we like to think them.
The country into which the train plunges as soon as Quebec is out of
sight is very stupidly savage, and our friends had little else to do
but to watch the gambols of the players, till they came to the river St.
Francis, whose wandering loveliness the road follows through an infinite
series of soft and beautiful landscapes, and finds everywhere glassing
in its smooth current the elms and willows of its gentle shores. At
one place, where its calm broke into foamy rapids, there was a huge saw
mill, covering the stream with logs and refuse, and the banks with whole
cities of lumber; which also they accepted as no mean elements of the
picturesque. They clung the most tenderly to traces of the peasant
life they were leaving. When some French boys came aboard with wild
raspberries to sell in little birch-bark canoes, they thrilled with
pleasure, and bought them, but sighed then, and said, “What thing
characteristic of the local life will they sell us in Maine when we
get there? A section of pie poetically wrapt in a broad leaf of the
squash-vine, or pop-corn in its native tissue-paper, and advertising the
new Dollar Store in Portland?” They saw the quaintness vanish from the
farm-houses; first the dormer-windows, then the curve of the steep
roof, then the steep roof itself. By and by they came to a store with a
Grecian portico and four square pine pillars. They shuddered and looked
no more.
The guiltily dreaded examination of baggage at Island Pond took place
at nine o’clock, without costing them a cent of duty or a pang
of conscience. At that charming station the trunks are piled
higgledy-piggledy into a room beside the track, where a few inspectors
with stifling lamps of smoky kerosene await the passengers. There are no
porters to arrange the baggage, and each lady and gentleman digs out his
box, and opens it before the lordly inspector, who stirs up its contents
with an unpleasant hand and passes it. He makes you feel that you are
once more in the land of official insolence, and that, whatever you
are collectively, you are nothing personally. Isabel, who had sent her
husband upon this business with quaking meekness of heart, experienced
the bold indignation of virtue at his account of the way people were
made their own baggage-smashers, and would not be amused when he painted
the vile terrors of each husband as he tremblingly unlocked his wife’s
store of contraband.
The morning light showed them the broad elmy meadows of western-looking
Maine; and the Grand Trunk brought them, of course, an hour behind time
into Portland. All breakfastless they hurried aboard the Boston train
on the Eastern Road, and all along that line (which is built to show
how uninteresting the earth can be when she is ‘ennuyee’ of both sea
and land), Basil’s life became a struggle to construct a meal from
the fragmentary opportunities of twenty different stations where they
stopped five minutes for refreshments. At one place he achieved two cups
of shameless chickory, at another three sardines, at a third a dessert
of elderly bananas.
     “Home again, home again, from a foreign shore!”
they softly sang as the successive courses of this feast were disposed
of.
The drouth and heat, which they had briefly escaped during their sojourn
in Canada, brooded sovereign upon the tiresome landscape. The red
granite rocks were as if red-hot; the banks of the deep cuts were like
ash heaps; over the fields danced the sultry atmosphere; they fancied
that they almost heard the grasshoppers sing above the rattle of the
train. When they reached Boston at last, they were dustier than most of
us would like to be a hundred years hence. The whole city was equally
dusty; and they found the trees in the square before their own door gray
with dust. The bit of Virginia-creeper planted under the window hung
shriveled upon its trellis.
But Isabel’s aunt met them with a refreshing shower of tears and kisses
in the hall, throwing a solid arm about each of them. “O you dears!”
 the good soul cried, “you don’t know how anxious I’ve been about you;
so many accidents happening all the time. I’ve never read the ‘Evening
Transcript’ till the next morning, for fear I should find your names
among the killed and wounded.”
“O aunty, you’re too good, always!” whimpered Isabel; and neither of the
women took note of Basil, who said, “Yes, it’s probably the only thing
that preserved our lives.”
The little tinge of discontent, which had colored their sentiment of
return faded now in the kindly light of home. Their holiday was over, to
be sure, but their bliss had but began; they had entered upon that long
life of holidays which is happy marriage. By the time dinner was ended
they were both enthusiastic at having got back, and taking their aunt
between them walked up and down the parlor with their arms round her
massive waist, and talked out the gladness of their souls.
Then Basil said he really must run down to the office that afternoon,
and he issued all aglow upon the street. He was so full of having been
long away and of having just returned, that he unconsciously tried to
impart his mood to Boston, and the dusty composure of the street and
houses, as he strode along, bewildered him. He longed for some familiar
face to welcome him, and in the horse-car into which he stepped he was
charmed to see an acquaintance. This was a man for whom ordinarily he
cared nothing, and whom he would perhaps rather have gone out upon the
platform to avoid than have spoken to; but now he plunged at him with
effusion, and wrung his hand, smiling from ear to ear.
The other remained coldly unaffected, after a first start of surprise
at his cordiality, and then reviled the dust and heat. “But I’m going to
take a little run down to Newport, to-morrow, for a week,” he said. “By
the way, you look as if you needed a little change. Aren’t you going
