and curiously enough she followed it by saying, 
" I cannot help that ! " 
" No," said the girl, after a moment's thought. 
" N-no ; but I hate to be pitied by carriage- 
folks. I won't be pitied by carriage-folks ! " 
" Sit down on the steps," said Miss Kelso, " and 
let me look at you. I do not often see people 
just like you. What is your name.'" 
" What 's yours .? " 
"I am called Miss Kelso." 
" And I am called Sip Garth." 
That ragged bitterness was in the girl's voice 
again, much refined, but distinct. Miss Kelso, to 
whom it seemed quite natural that the small 
minority of the world should feel at liberty to 
use, at first sight, the Christian name of the large 
remainder, took little or no notice of it. 
But what could bring her out in such a 
storm, asked Miss Kelso of Sip Garth. 
"The Blue Plum brings out better than me. 
Who cares for a little sleet.' See how wet I 
am ! I don't care." She wrung out her thin 
and dripping shawl, as she spoke, between her 
bare, wet hands. 
"The Blue Plum.?" Miss Kelso hesitated, 
taking the thing daintily upon her lips. What 
did she, or should she, know of the Blue Plum.
" But the theatre is no place for you, my poor 
girl." She felt sure of as much as that. She 
had dimly understood as much from her father 
and the newspapers. No theatre patronized by 
the lower classes could be a place for a poor 
girl. 
" It 's no place for you," she said again. "You 
had so much better go home." 
Sip Garth laughed. She swung herself upon 
the highest step of Miss Kelso's carriage, and 
laughed almost in Miss Kelso's fine, shocked 
face. 
" How do you know whether I had so much 
better go home .' Wait till you 've been working 
on your feet all day, and wait till you live where 
I live, before you know whether I had so much 
better go home ! Besides " — she broke off with 
a quick change of tone and countenance — "I 
don't go for the Plum. The Plum doesn't make 
much odds to me. I go to see how much better 
I could do it." 
" Could you ? " 
" Couldn't I!" 
"I don't quite understand." 
" I don't suppose you do. Give me the music, 
give me the lights, and the people, and the 
poetry, and I'd do it. I 'd make 'em laugh, 
wouldn't I ? I 'd make 'em cry, you may make 
up your mind on that. That 's what I go to the 
Plum for. I do it over. That 's what you think 
of in the mills, don't you see .-' That 's so much 
better than going home, — to do it over." 
"You seem," said Miss Kelso, with some 
perplexed weariness in her expression, — perhaps 
she had carried her whim quite far enough, — 
"you seem to be a very singular girl." 
Evidently Miss Kelso's coachman, whose hat- 
brim appeared and peered uneasily over the box 
at disgusted intervals, thought so too. Evidently 
the passers, such of them as had preserved their 
eyesight from the ravages of the sleet, thought 
so too. Evidently it was quite time for the girl 
in plaid to go. 
" I wonder what you seem like," said Sip 
Garth, thoughtfully. She leaned, as she spoke, 
into the sweet dimness of the carriage, and 
gravely studied the sweet dimness of the young 
lady's face. Having done this, she nodded to 
herself once or twice with a shrewd smile, but 
said nothing. Her wet shawl now almost brushed 
Miss Kelso's dress ; the girl was not filthy, but 
the cleanliest poverty in a Boston tenement- 
house fails to acquire the perfumes of Arabia, 
and Perley sickened and shrank. Yet it struck 
her as odd, for the moment, if you will believe it, 
that she should have santalina in her carriage 
cushions ; not as ill-judged, not as undesirable, 
not as in any way the concern of girls from 
tenement-houses, not at all as something which she 
would not do again to-morrow, but only as odd. 
She had thought no more than this, when the 
disgusted coachman, with an air of infinite
personal relief, officially announced Mr. Hayle, and 
Fly came laughing sweetly back. It was quite 
time for Sip to go. 
In the confusion she dripped away among the 
water-spouts like one of them, before Miss Kelso 
could speak to her again. 
The street came into the frame that was left in 
a sharp picture. The sidewalk was once more 
very wet ; in spots the struggling snow drifted, 
grayish white, and went out into black mud 
under sudden feet ; the eaves and awnings 
dripped steadily, and there was a little puddle 
on the carriage steps. 
Miss Kelso had a young, fresh imagination, 
a little highly colored, perhaps, by opera music, 
and it made these things a vivid background 
for the girl in plaid, into which and out of which 
she stepped with a fanciful significance. 
With the exception of her servants, her 
seamstresses, and the very little members of a very 
little Sabbath-school class, which demanded of her 
very little thought and excited in her very little 
interest. Miss Kelso had never in her life before 
— I think I speak without exaggeration — had 
never in her life before exchanged a dozen words 
with an example of what Maverick Hayle was 
pleased to term the ttoWoo, thereby evincing 
at once his keen appreciation of the finer 
distinctions both of life and letters, as well as the 
fact, that, though a successful manufacturer, he 
had received a collegiate education and had not 
yet forgotten it. And, indeed, as he was 
accustomed to observe, " Nothing gives a man such a 
prestige in society." 
The girl in plaid then, to repeat, was a novelty 
to Perley Kelso. She fell back into her cushions 
again to think about her. 
" Poor Perley ! I hope she found herself amused
while we were gone," sympathized Fly, fluttering 
in with her new fan. Perley thanked her, and 
had found herself amused, much amused. 
Yet, in truth, she had found herself saddened, 
singularly saddened. She could scarcely have 
understood why. Nothing more definite than an 
uncomfortable consciousness that all the world 
had not an abundance of sachet and an appreciation 
of Brignoli struck her distinctly. But how 
it rained on that girl looking in at her from the 
carriage steps ! It must rain on many girls 
while she sat in her sweet, warm, sheltered darkness.
It must be a disagreeable thing, this being 
out in the rain. She did not fancy the thud of 
drops on her carriage-roof as much as usual ; the 
wind waiting at corners to crouch and spring 
on people ceased to amuse her ; it looked cruel 
and cold. She shivered and looked so chilly 
that Maverick folded her ermines like a wonderful 
warm snow-cloud tenderly about her, and 
drowned the storm from her hearing with his 
tender, lazy voice. 
In the decorous rustle of the crowd winding 
down through the corridors, like a glittering 
snake, after Giovanni that night, Fly started 
with a little faint scream, and touched Parley 
on the arm. 
" My dear Parley ! — Mr. Hayle, there is a girl 
annoying Perley." 
At Perley's elbow, trying quietly but persistently 
to attract her attention, Perley was startled 
and not well pleased to see the girl in plaid. In 
the heat and light and scent and soft babble of 
the place, she cut a, jagged outline. The crowd 
broke in beautiful billows about her and away 
from her. It seemed not unlike a radiant sea 
out of which she had risen, black and warning as 
a hidden reef. She might have been thought to be 
not so much a foreign horror as a sunken danger 
in the shining place. She seemed, indeed, rather 
to have bounded native from its glitter, than to 
have forced herself upon it. Her eyes were very 
large and bright, and she drew Perley's beautiful, 
disturbed face down to her own with one bare 
hand. 
" Look here, young lady, I want to speak to 
you. I want to know why you tell me the Plum 
is no place for me ? What kind of a place is 
this for you .' — now say, what kind of a place .? 
Vou don't know ; but I do. I followed you here 
to see. I tell you it 's the plating over that 's 
the difference ; the plating over. At the Plum 
we say what we mean ; and we mean bad enough, 
