“If he wants me to, I will,” said Tom, decidedly.
Arab as she was, she had been impressed by the kindness of Captain
Barnes, and felt that she should like to please him. Still, there was a
fascination in the wild independence of her street life which was likely
for some time to interfere with her enjoyment of the usages of a more
civilized state. There was little prospect of her taming down into an
average girl all at once. The change must come slowly.
“My brother will be very much pleased if he finds that you have improved
when he returns from his voyage.”
“When is he goin’ to sea?”
“In two or three days.”
“I asked him to take me with him,” said Tom; “but he wouldn’t.”
“You would only be in the way on a ship, Jenny.”
“No, I shouldn’t. I could be a cabin-boy.”
“But you are not a boy.”
“I could climb the masts as well as a boy. If there was only a pole
here, I’d show you.”
“What a child you are!”
“Did you ever read about the female pirate captain?” asked Tom.
“No.”
“Jim Morgan told me all about it. He’d read it in some book. It was a
bully story.”
“Such stories are not fit to read.”
“I’d like to be a pirate captain,” said Tom, thoughtfully.
“You mustn’t talk so, Jenny,” said Mrs. Merton, shocked.
“But I would, though, and carry two pistols and a dagger in my belt, and
then if anybody sassed me I’d give ’em all they wanted.”
“My brother wouldn’t like to hear you talk so, Jenny. I’m sure I don’t
know what has got into you to say such dreadful things.”
“Then I won’t,” said Tom. “I wonder what granny would say if she saw me
in these fixin’s. She wouldn’t know me.”
“When my brother comes, you shall go down and open the door for him, and
see if he knows you.”
“That will be bully.”
“Now I must be thinking what I can find for you to do. You will be
willing to help me?”
“Yes,” said Tom, promptly.
“Do you know how to make beds?”
“I can learn,” said Tom.
“Didn’t your grandmother ever teach you?” asked Mrs. Merton, who, though
for a long time a resident of New York, had a very imperfect knowledge
of how the poorest classes lived.
“Granny never made her bed,” said Tom. “She just gave it a shake, and
tumbled into it.”
“Bless me, how shiftless she must be!” ejaculated Mrs. Merton, in
surprise.
“Oh, granny don’t mind!” said Tom, carelessly.
“Did you ever sweep?”
“Lots of times. That’s the way I got money to carry to granny.”
“Were you paid for sweeping, then?” asked Mrs. Merton.
“Yes, people that came along would give me money. If they wouldn’t I’d
muddy their boots.”
“What do you mean, child? Where did you sweep?”
“Corner of Broadway and Chambers’ Streets.”
“Oh, you swept the crossing, then.”
“In course I did. If you’ll give me a broom, I’ll go out and sweep front
of your house; but I guess there aint so many people come along here as
in Broadway.”
“I don’t want you to do that,” said Mrs. Merton, hastily. “I want you to
sweep the rooms in the house. Sarah, the chambermaid, will show you how,
and also teach you to make beds.”
“All right,” said Tom. “Bring her on, and I’ll help her.”
“We will defer that till to-morrow. Now you may come down to the kitchen
with me, and I’ll see if I can find anything for you to do there.”
Tom felt ready for any enterprise, and started to follow Mrs. Merton
downstairs, but rather startled the good lady by making a rapid descent
astride the banisters.
“Don’t you do that again, Jenny,” she said reprovingly.
“Why not?” asked Tom. “It’s jolly fun.”
                               CHAPTER XI
                       THE MISTAKES OF A MORNING.
On the way to the kitchen they met Sarah, the chambermaid, going
upstairs to make the beds.
“Sarah,” said Mrs. Merton, “here is a little girl who is going to stay
with me, and help about the house. You may take her upstairs, and show
her how to help you make the beds.”
If Tom had been in her street costume, Sarah would have preferred to
dispense with her assistance, but she looked quite civilized and
respectable now, and she accepted the offer. Tom accompanied her
upstairs to the second floor. The first chamber was that of Mr.
Craven,—a gentleman in business down town. It was of course vacant,
therefore.
Tom looked about her curiously.
“Now,” said Sarah, “do you know anything about making beds?”
“No,” said Tom.
“Then stand on one side, and I will tell you what to do.”
Tom followed directions pretty well, but, as the task was about
finished, an impish freak seized her, and she caught the pillow and
threw it at Sarah’s head, disarranging that young lady’s hair, and
knocking out a comb.
“What’s that for?” demanded Sarah, angrily.
Tom sat down and laughed boisterously.
“It’s bully fun!” she said. “Throw it at me.”
“I’ll give you a shaking, you young imp,” said Sarah. “You’ve broke my
comb.”
She picked up the comb, and dashed round the bed after Tom, who, seeing
no other way for escape, sprang upon the bed, where she remained
standing.
“Come down from there,” demanded Sarah.
“Let me alone, then!”
“I’ll tell the missis, just as sure as you live!”
“What’ll she do? Will she lick me?”
“You’ll see.”
This would not have checked Tom, but it occurred to her, all at once,
that her freak would be reported to the captain, and might displease
him.
“I’ll stop,” said she. “I was only in fun.”
By this time, Sarah had ascertained that the comb was not broken, after
all, and this made her more inclined to overlook Tom’s offence.
“Now behave decent!” she said.
She gave Tom further directions about the proper way of doing
chamber-work, which Tom followed quite closely, being resolved
apparently to turn over a new leaf. But her reformation was not
thorough. She caught sight of Mr. Craven’s shaving materials, which he
had carelessly left on the bureau, and before Sarah anticipated her
intention, she had seized the brush and spread the lather over her
cheeks.
“What are you doing, you little torment?” asked Sarah.
“I’m goin’ to shave,” said Tom. “It must feel funny.”
“Put that razor down!” said Sarah, approaching.
Tom brandished the razor playfully, in a manner that considerably
startled the chamber-maid, who stopped short in alarm:—
“I’ll go and tell the missis how you cut up,” said she, going to the
door.
This was unnecessary, however, for at this moment Mrs. Merton, desirous
of learning how Tom was getting along, opened the door. She started back
in dismay at the spectacle which greeted her view, and, in a tone
unusually decided for so mild a woman, said, “Jenny, put down that razor
instantly, and wipe the soap from your cheeks. Not so,” she added
hastily, seeing that Tom was about to wipe it off upon her skirt. “Here,
take the towel. Now, what do you mean by such conduct?”
“Wouldn’t he like it?” asked Tom, somewhat abashed.
“Do you mean my brother?”
“Yes, the sailor man.”
“No, he would be very angry.”
“Then I won’t do so again;” and Tom seemed quite decided in her
repentance.
“What possessed you to touch those things, Jenny?”
“That isn’t all she did, mum,” said Sarah. “She threw the pillow at me,
and almost druv the comb into my head. She’s the craziest creetur’ I
ever sot eyes on.”
“Did you do that?” asked Mrs. Merton.
“Yes,” said Tom. “I told her she might pitch it at me. It’s bully fun.”
“I can’t allow such goings-on,” said Mrs. Merton. “If you do so again, I
must send you back to your grandmother.”
“You don’t know where she lives,” said Tom.
“At any rate I won’t keep you here.”
Tom thought of the three square meals which she would receive daily, and
decided to remain. She continued quiet, therefore, and really helped
Sarah in the remaining rooms. When this task was completed she went
downstairs. At this moment a ring was heard at the door-bell. Thinking
that it might be the captain, Tom answered the summons herself. She
opened the door suddenly, but found herself mistaken.
A young gentleman was the visitor.
“Can I see Mrs. Merton?” he inquired.
“Yes,” said Tom; “come in.”
He stepped into the hall.
“Come right along. I’ll show you where she is.”
She knew that the landlady was in the kitchen, and supposed that this
was the proper place to lead the visitor.
The latter followed Tom as far as the head of the stairs, and then
paused.
“Where are you leading me?” he asked.
“She’s down in the kitchen. Come right along.”
“No, I will stay here. You may tell her there is a gentleman wishes to
see her.”
Tom went down, and found the landlady.
“There’s a feller upstairs wants to see you,” she said. “He wouldn’t
come down here. I asked him.”
“Good gracious! You didn’t invite him down into the kitchen?”
“Why not?” said Tom.
“You should have carried him into the parlor.”
“All right!” said Tom. “I’ll know better next time.”
Mrs. Merton smoothed her hair, and went upstairs to greet her visitor,
who proved to be an applicant for board.
Only fifteen minutes later Tom had a chance to improve on her first
mistake. Again the door-bell rang, and again Tom opened the door. A
wrinkled old woman, with a large basket, stood before her.
“I’m a poor widder,” she whined, “with four childer that have nothing to
ate. Can’t you give me a few pennies, and may the blessings of Heaven
