feigned to conceal. 
Some things she could not do so perfectly as cook- 
ing, because of her failing eyesight; and we per- 
suaded her that spectacles would both become and 
befriend a lady of her years, and so bought her a 
pair of steel-bowed glasses. She wore them in some 
great emergencies at first, but had clearly no pride 
in them. Before long she laid them aside altogether, 
and they had passed from our thoughts, when one 
day we heard her mellow note of laughter and her 
daughter's harsher cackle outside our door, and, 
opening it, beheld Mrs. Johnson in gold-bowed spec- 
tacles of massive frame. We then learned that their 
purchase was in fulfillment of a vow made long ago, 
in the life-time of Mr. Johnson, that, if ever she wore 
glasses, they should be gold-bowed ; and I hope the 
manes of the dead were half as happy in these votive 
spectacles as the simple soul that offered them. 
She and her late partner were the parents- of 
eleven children, some of whom were dead, and 
some of whom were wanderers in unknown parts. 
During his life-time she had kept a little shop in her 
native town ; and it was only within a few years that 
she had gone into service. She cherished a natural 
haughtiness of spirit, and resented control, although 
disposed to do all she could of her own motion. 
Being told to say when she wanted an afternoon, 
she explained that when she wanted an afternoon 
she always took it without asking, but always planned 
so as not to discommode the ladies with whom she 
lived. These, she said, had numbered twenty-seven 
within three years, which made us doubt the success 
of her system in all cases, though she merely held 
out the fact as an assurance of her faith in the fu- 
ture, and a proof of the ease with which places were 
to be found. She contended, moreover, that a lady 
who had for thirty years had a house of her own, 
was in nowise bound to ask permission to receive 
visits from friends where she might be living, but 
that they ought freely to come and go like other 
guests. In this spirit she once invited her son-in- 
law, Professor Jones of Providence, to dine with 
her ; and her defied mistress, on entering the dining- 
room, found the Professor at pudding and tea there, 
— an impressively respectable figure in black clothes, 
vrith a black face rendered yet more effective by a 
pair of green goggles. It appeared that this dark 
professor was a light of phrenology in Rhode Island, 
and that he was believed to have uncommon virtue 
in his science by reason of being blind as well as 
black. 
I am loath to confess that Mrs. Johnson had not a 
flattering opinion of the Caucasian race in all re- 
spects. In fact, she had very good philosophical and 
Scriptural reasons for looking upon us as an upstart 
people of new blood, who had come into their white- 
ness by no creditable or pleasant process. The late 
Mr. Johnson, who had died in the West Indies, 
whither he voyaged for his health in quality of cook 
upon a Down-East schooner, was a man of letters, 
and had written a book to show the superiority of 
the black over the white branches of the human 
family. In this he held that, as all islands have been 
at their discovery found peopled by blacks, we must 
needs believe that humanity was first created of that 
color. Mrs. Johnson could not show us her hus- 
band's work (a sole copy in the library of an Eng- 
lish gentleman at Port au Prince is not to be bought 
for money), but she often developed its arguments 
to the lady of the house ; and one day, with a great 
show of reluctance, and many protests that no per- 
sonal shght was meant, let fall the fact that Mr. 
Johnson believed the white race descended from 
Gehazi the leper, upon whom the leprosy of Naaman 
fell when the latter returned by Divine favor to his 
original blackness. "And he went out from his 
presence a leper as white as snow," said Mrs. John- 
son, quoting irrefutable Scripture. " Leprosy, lep- 
rosy," she added thoughtfully, — " nothing but lep- 
rosy bleached you out." 
It seems to me much in her praise that she did not 
exult in our taint and degradation, as some white 
philosophers used to do in the opposite idea that a 
part of the human family were cursed to lasting 
blackness and slavery in Ham and his children, but 
even told us of a remarkable approach to whiteness 
in many of her own offspring. In a kindred spirit 
of charity, no doubt, she reftised ever to attend 
church with people of her elder and wholesomer 
blood. When she went to church, she said, she 
always went to a white church, though while with 
us I am bound to say she never went to any. She 
professed to read her Bible in her bedroom on Sun- 
days ; but we suspected, from certain sounds and 
odors which used to steal out of this sanctuary, that 
her piety more commonly found expression in dozing 
and smoking. 
I would not make a wanton jest here of Mrs. 
Johnson's anxiety to claim honor for the African 
color, while denying this color in many of her own 
family. It afforded a glimpse of the pain which all 
her people must endure, however proudly they hide 
it or light-heartedly forget it, from the despite and 
contumely to which they are guiltlessly bom : and 
when I thought how irreparable was this disgrace 
and calamity of a black skin, and how irreparable it 
must be for ages yet, in this world where every other 
shame and all manner of wilftd guilt and wickedness 
may hope for covert and pardon, I had little heart 
to laugh. Indeed, it was so pathetic to hear this 
poor old soul talk of her dead and lost ones, and try, 
in spite of all Mr. Johnson's theories and her own 
arrogant generalizations, to establish their whiteness, 
that we must have been very cruel and silly people 
to turn her sacred fables even into matter of ques- 
tion. I have no doubt that her Antoinette Anastasia 
and her Thomas Jefferson Wilberforce — it is impos- 
sible to give a full idea of the splendor and scope of 
the baptismal names in Mrs. Johnson's family — have 
as light skins and as golden hair in heaven as her 
reverend maternal fancy painted for them in our 
world. There, certainly, they would not be subject to 
tanning, which had ruined the delicate complexion, 
and had knotted into black woolly tangles the once 
wavy blonde locks of our little maid-servant Naomi ; 
and I would fain believe that Toussaint Washington 
Johnson, who ran away to sea so many years ago, 
has found some fortunate zone where his hair and 
skin keep the same sunny and rosy tints they wore 
to his mother's eyes in infancy. But I have no 
means of knowing this, or of telling whether he was 
the prodigy of intellect that he was declared to be. 
Naomi could no more be taken in proof of the one 
assertion than of the other. When she came to us, 
it was agreed that she should go to school ; but she 
overruled her mother in this as in everything else, 
and never went. Except Sunday-school lessons, she 
had no other instruction than that her mistress gave 
her in the evenings, when a heavy day's play and 
the natural influences of the hour conspired with 
original causes to render her powerless before words 
of one syllable. 
The first week of her service she was obedient 
and faithful to her duties ; but, relaxing in the at- 
mosphere of a house which seems to demoralize all 
menials, she shortly fell into disorderly ways of lying 
in wait for callers out of doors, and, when people 
rang, of running up the front steps, and letting them 
in from the outside. As the season expanded, and 
the fine weather became confirmed, she modified 
even this form of service, and spent her time in the 
fields, appearing at the house only when nature 
importunately craved molasses. She had a parrot- 
like quickness, so far as music was concerned, and 
learned from the Roman statuary to make the groves 
and half-finished houses resound, 
" Camicia rossa, 
Ove t' aecondi ? 
T' a'ppella Italia, — 
Tu non respondi ! " 
She taught the Garibaldi song, moreover, to all 
the neighboring children, so that I sometimes won- 
dered if our street were not about to march upon 
Rome in a body. 
In her untamable disobedience, Naomi alone be- 
trayed her sylvan blood, for she was in all other 
respects negro and not Indian. But it was of 
her aboriginal ancestry that Mrs. Johnson chiefly 
boasted, — when not engaged in argument to main- 
tain the superiority of the African race. She loved 
to descant upon it as the cause and explanation of 
her own arrogant habit of feeling ; and she seemed 
mdeed to have inherited something of the Indian's 
hauteur along with the Ethiop's supple cunning and 
abundant amiability. She gave many instances in 
which her pride had met and overcome the insolence 
of employers, and the kindly old creature was by no 
means singular in her pride of being reputed proud. 
She could never have been a woman of strong 
logical faculties, but she had in some things a very 
