one of its best recommendations. We value little that which costs us no trouble to maintain. 
If we had to keep the sun kindled up and going 
by private corporate action, or act of Congress, 
and to be taxed for the support of customs officers of solar heat, we should prize it more than 
we do. Not that I should like to look upon the 
sun as a job, and have the proper regulation of 
its temperature get into politics, where we al 
ready have so much combustible stuff; but we 
take it quite too much as a matter of course, 
and, having it free, do not reckon it among the 
reasons for gratitude. Many people shut it out 
of their houses as if it were an enemy, watch 
its descent upon the carpet as if it were only a 
thief of color, and plant trees to shut it away 
from the mouldering house. All the animals 
know better than this, as well as the more simple races of men ; the old women of the southern Italian coasts sit all day in the sun and ply 
the distaff, as grateful as the sociable hens on 
the south side of a New England barn ; the slow 
tortoise likes to take the sun upon his slop 
ing back, soaking in color that shall make him 
immortal when the imperishable part of him is 
cut up into shell ornaments. The capacity of 
a cat to absorb sunshine is only equalled by that 
of an Arab or an Ethiopian. They are not 
afraid of injuring their complexions. White 
must be the color of civilization ; it has so 
many natural disadvantages. But this is politics. I was about to say that, however it may 
be with sunshine, one is always grateful for his 
wood fire, because he does not maintain it without 
some cost. 
Yet I cannot but confess to a difference be 
tween sunlight and the light of a wood fire. 
The sunshine is entirely untamed. Where it 
rages most freely it tends to evoke the brilliancy 
rather than the harmonious satisfactions of nature. The monstrous growths and the flaming 
colors of the tropics contrast with our more subdued loveliness of foliage and bloom. The birds 
of the middle region dazzle with their contrasts 
of plumage, and their voices are for screaming 
rather than singing. I presume the new experiments in sound would project a macaw's voice in 
very tangled and inharmonious lines of light. I 
suspect that the fiercest sunlight puts people, as 
well as animals and vegetables, on extremes in 
all ways. A wood fire on the hearth is a kindler 
of the domestic virtues. It brings in cheerfulness, and a family centre, and, besides, it is 
artistic. I should like to know if an artist 
could ever represent on canvas a happy family 
gathered round a hole in the floor called a register. Given a fireplace, and a tolerable artist 
could almost create a pleasant family round it. 
But what could he conjure out of a register ? 
If there was any virtue among our ancestors, 
and they labored under a great many disad 
vantages, and had few of the aids which we 
have to excellence of life, I am convinced 
they drew it mostly from the fireside. If it was 
difficult to read the eleven commandments by 
the light of a pine-knot, it was not difficult to 
get the sweet spirit of them from the counte 
nance of the serene mother knitting in the chimney-corner. 
III. 
WHEN the fire is made, you want to sit in 
front of it and grow genial in its effulgence. I 
have never been upon a throne, except in 
moments of a traveller's curiosity, about as long 
as a South American dictator remains on one, 
but I have no idea that it compares, for pleas 
antness, with a seat before a wood fire. A whole 
leisure day before you, a good novel in hand, 
and the backlog only just beginning to kindle, 
with uncounted hours of comfort in it, has life 
anything more delicious ? For " novel " you can 
substitute " Calvin's Institutes," if you wish to 
be virtuous as well as happy. Even Calvin 
would melt before a wood fire. A great snow 
storm, visible on three sides of your wide-windowed room, loading the evergreens, blown in 
fine powder from the great chestnut-tops, piled 
up in ever-accumulating masses, covering the 
paths, the shrubbery, the hedges, drifting and 
clinging in fantastic deposits, deepening your 
sense of security, and taking away the sin of 
idleness by making it a necessity, this is an excellent background to your day by the fire. 
To deliberately sit down in the morning to 
read a novel, to enjoy yourself, is this not, in 
New England (I am told they don't read much 
in other parts of the country), the sin of sins ? 
Have you any right to read, especially novels, 
until you have exhausted the best part of the 
day in some employment that is called practi 
cal ? Have you any right to enjoy yourself at 
all until the fag end of the day, when you are 
tired and incapable of enjoying yourself? I am 
aware that this is the practice, if not the theory, 
of our society, to postpone the delights of 
socir intercourse until after dark, and rather 
late at night, when body and mind are both 
weary with the exertions of business, and when 
we can give to what is the most delightful and 
profitable thing in life, social and intellectual 
society, only the weariness of dull brains and 
over-tired muscles. No wonder we take our 
amusements sadly, and that so many people 
find dinners heavy and parties stupid. Our 
economy leaves no place for amusements ; we 
merely add them to the burden of a life already 
full. The world is still a little off the track 
as to what is really useful. 
I confess that the morning is a very good time 
to read a novel, or anything else which is good, 
and requires a fresh mind ; and I take it that 
nothing is worth reading that does not require 
an alert mind. I suppose it is necessary that 
business should be transacted ; though the 
amount of business that does not contribute to 
anybody's comfort or improvement suggests the 
query whether it is not overdone. I know that 
unremitting attention to business is the price 
of success, but I don't know what success is. 
There is a man, whom we all know, who built 
a house that cost a quarter of a million of dollars, and furnished it for another like sum, who 
does not know anything more about architec 
ture, or painting, or books, or history, than he 
cares for the rights of those who have not so 
much money as he has. I heard him once, in 
a foreign gallery, say to his wife, as they stood 
in front of a famous picture by Rubens : " That 
is the Rape of the Sardines ! " What a cheerful 
world it would be if everybody was as successful 
as that man ! While I am reading my book by 
the fire, and taking an active part in important transactions that may be a good deal better 
than real, let me be thankful that a great many 
men are profitably employed in offices and bureaus and country stores in keeping up the gossip 
and endless exchange of opinions among man 
kind, so much of which is made to appear to the 
women at home as "business." I find that there 
is a sort of busy idleness among men in this 
world that is not held in disrepute. When the 
time comes that I have to prove my right to 
vote, with women, I trust that it will be remembered in my favor that I made this admission. 
If it is true, as a witty conservative once said to 
me, that we never shall have peace in this coun 
try until we elect a colored woman president, I 
desire to be rectus in curia early. 
IV. 
THE fireplace, as we said, is a window through 
which we look out upon other scenes. We like 
to read of the small, bare room, with cobwebbed 
ceiling and narrow window, in which the poor 
child of genius sits with his magical pen, the 
master of a realm of beauty and enchantment. I 
think the open fire does not kindle the im 
agination so much as it awakens the memory ; 
one sees the past in its crumbling embers and 
ashy grayness, rather than the future. People 
become reminiscent and even sentimental in 
front of it. They used to become something 
else in those good old days when it was thought 
best to heat the poker red hot before plunging it 
into the mugs of flip. This heating of the poker 
has been disapproved of late years, but I do not 
know on what grounds ; if one is to drink bitters 
and gins and the like, such as I understand as 
good people as clergymen and women take in 
private, and by advice, I do not know why one 
should not make them palatable and heat them 
with his own poker. Cold whiskey out of a 
bottle, taken as a prescription six times a day 
on the sly, isn't my idea of virtue any more than 
the social ancestral glass, sizzling wickedly with 
the hot iron. Names are so confusing in this 
world ; but things are apt to remain pretty much 
the same, whatever we call them. 
Perhaps as you look into the fireplace it widens 
and grows deep and cavernous. The back and 
the jambs are built up of great stones, not always 
smoothly laid, with jutting ledges upon which 
ashes are apt to lie. The hearthstone is an 
enormous block of trap rock, with a surface not 
perfectly even, but a capital place to crack butter 
nuts on. Over the fire swings an iron crane, 
with a row of pot-hooks of all lengths hanging 
from it. It swings out when the housewife wants 
