the hills, and clouds snatched away from our sight the 
snow peaks at the end of the valley ; and at length the 
rain fell on those who had just arrived and on the un- 
just. We took refuge from the hardest of it in a lonely 
chalet high up on the hillside, where a roughly-dressed, 
frowzy Swiss, who spoke bad German, and said he was 
a schoolmaster, gave us a bench in the shed of his school- 
room. He had only two pupils in attendance, and I did 
not get a very favorable impression of this high school. 
Its master quite overcame us with thanks when we gave 
him a few centimes on leaving. It still rained, and we 
arrived in St. Nicolaus quite damp. 
There is a decent road from St. Nicolaus to Zermatt, 
over which go wagons without springs. The scenery is 
constantly grander as we ascend. The day is not 
wholly clear ; but high on our right are the vast snow- 
fields of the Weishorn, and out of the very clouds near 
it seems to pour the Bies Glacier, In front are the 
splendid Briethorn, with its white, round summit ; the . 
black Riffelhorn ; the sharp peak of the little Matter- 
horn ; and at last the giant Matterhorn itself rising before 
us, the most finished and impressive single mountain in 
Switzerland. Not so high as Mont Blanc by a thousand 
feet, it appears immense in its isolated position and its 
slender aspiration. It is a huge pillar of rock, with 
sharply-cut edges, rising to a defined point, dusted with 
snow, so that the rock is only here and there revealed. 
To ascend it, seems as impossible as to go up the Column 
of Luxor; and one can believe that the gentlemen who 
first attempted it in 1864, and lost their lives, did fall 
four thousand feet before their bodies rested on the 
glacier below. 
We did not stay at Zermatt, but pushed on for the 
hotel on the top of the Rifielberg, — a very stiff and tire- 
some climb of about three hours, an unending pull up a 
stony footpath. Within an hour of the top, and when 
the white hotel is in sight above the zigzag on the 
breast of the precipice, we reach a green and wide-spread 
 
Alp, where hundreds of cows are feeding, watched by- 
two forlorn women, — the " milkmaids all forlorn " of 
poetry. At the rude chalets we stop, and get draughts 
of rich, sweet cream. As we wind up the slope, the 
tinkling of multitudinous bells from the herd comes to 
us, which is also in the domain of poetry. All the way 
up, we have found wild-flowers in the greatest profusion ; 
and the higher we ascend, the more exquisite is their 
color and the more perfect their form. There are pan- 
sies ; gentians of a deeper blue than flower ever was 
before ; forget-me-nots, a pink variety among them ; vio- 
lets, the Alpine rose and the Alpine violet ; delicate pink 
flowers of moss ; harebells ; and quantities for which we 
know no names, more exquisite in shape and color than 
the choicest products of the greenhouse. Large slopes 
are covered with them, — a brilliant show to the eye, and 
most pleasantly beguiling the way of its tediousness. 
As high as I ascended, I still found some of these delicate 
flowers, the pink moss growing in profusion amongst the 
rocks of the Gorner-Grat, and close to the snow-drifts. 
The inn on the Eiffelberg is nearly eight thousand 
feet high, — almost two thousand feet above the hut on 
Mount Washington ; yet it is not so cold and desolate as 
the latter. Grass grows and flowers bloom on its smooth 
upland, and behind it and in front of it are the snow- 
peaks. That evening we essayed the Gorner-Grat, a 
rocky ledge nearly ten thousand feet above the level of 
the sea ; but after a climb of an hour and a half, and a 
good view of Monte Rosa and the glaciers and peaks of 
that range, we were prevented from reaching the sum- 
mit, and driven back by a sharp storm of hail and rain. 
Tlie next morning I started for the Gorner-Grat again, 
at four o'clock. The Matterhorn lifted its huge bulk 
sharply against the sky, except where fleecy clouds 
lightly draped it and fantastically blew about it. As I 
ascended, and turned to look at it, its beautifully-cut 
peak had caught the first ray of the sun, and burned 
with a rosy glow. Some great clouds drifted high in 
the air : the summits of the Breithorn, the Lyscamm, 
and their companions, lay cold and white ; but the snow 
down their sides had a tinge of pink. When I stood 
upon the summit of the Gorner-Grat, the two prominent 
silver peaks of Monte Rosa were just touched with the 
sun, and its great snow-fields were visible to the glacier 
at its base. The Gorner-Grat is a rounded ridge of 
rock, entirely encircled by glaciers and snow-peaks. 
The panorama from it is unexcelled in Switzerland. 
Returning down the rocky steep, I descried, solitary 
in that great waste of rock and snow, the form of a lady 
whom I supposed I had left sleeping at the inn, over- 
come with the fatigue of yesterday's tramp. Lured on 
by the apparently short distance to the back-bone of the 
ridge, she had climbed the rocks a mile or more above 
the hotel, and come to meet me. She also had seen the 
great peaks lift themselves out of the gray dawn, and 
Monte Rosa catch the first rays. We stood a while 
together to see how jocund day ran hither and thither 
along the mountain-tops, until the light was all abroad, 
and then silently turned downward, as one goes from a 
mount of devotion. 
THE BATHS OF LEUK. 
IN order to make the pass of the Gemmi, it is necessary 
to go through the Baths of Leuk. The ascent from 
the Rhone bridge at Susten is full of interest, affording 
fine views of the valley, which is better to look at than 
to travel through, and bringing you almost immediately 
to the old town of Leuk, a queer, old, towered place, 
perched on a precipice, with the oddest inn, and a notice 
posted up to the effect, that any one who drives through 
its steep streets faster than a walk will be fined five 
francs. I paid nothing extra for a fast walk. The road, 
which is one of the best in the country, is a wonderful 
piece of engineering, spanning streams, cut in rock, 
rounding precipices, following the wild valley of the 
Dala by many a winding and zigzag. 
The Baths of Leuk, or Loeche-les-Bains, or Leuker- 
bad, is a little village at the very head of the valley, 
over four thousand feet above the sea, and overhung by 
the perpendicular walls of the Gemmi which rise on all 
sides, except the south, on an average of two thousand 
feet above it. There is a nest of brown houses, clus- 
tered together like bee-hives, into which the few inhabit- 
ants creep to hibernate in the long winters, and several 
shops, grand hotels, and bathing-houses open for the 
season. Innumerable springs issue out of this green, 
sloping meadow among the mountains, some of them 
icy cold, but over twenty of them hot, and seasoned 
with a great many disagreeable sulphates, carbonates, 
and oxides, and varying in temperature from ninety-five 
 
to one hundred and twenty-three degrees Fahrenheit. 
Italians, French, and Swiss resort here in great numbers 
to take the baths, which are supposed to be very effica- 
cious for rheumatism and cutaneous affections. Doubt- 
less many of them do up their bathing for the year while 
here ; and they may need no more after scalding and 
soaking in this water for a couple of months. 
Before we reached the hotel, we turned aside into one 
of the ba,th-houses. We stood inhaling a sickly steam 
in a large, close hall, which was wholly occupied by a 
huge vat, across which low partitions, with bridges, ran, 
dividing it into four compartments. When we entered, 
we were assailed with yells, in many languages, and 
howls in the common tongue, as if all the fiends of the 
pit had broken loose. We took off our hats in obedience 
to the demand ; but the clamor did not wholly subside, 
and was mingled with singing and horrible laughter. 
Floating about in each vat, we at first saw twenty or 
thirty human heads. The women could be distinguished 
from the men by the manner of dressing the hair. Each 
wore a loose woollen gown. Each had a little table 
floating before him or her, which he or she pushed about 
at pleasure. One wore a hideous mask ; another kept 
diving in the opaque pool and coming up to blow, like 
the hippopotamus in the Zoological Gardens ; some were 
taking a lunch from their tables, others playing chess ; 
some sitting on the benches round the edges, with only 
heads out of water, as doleful as owls, while others 
roamed about, engaged in the game of spattering with 
their comrades, and sang and shouted at the top of their 
voices. The people in this bath were said to be second 
class ; but they looked as well and behaved better than 
those of the first class, whom we saw in the establish- 
ment at our hotel afterward. 
It may be a valuable scientific fact, that the water in 
these vats, in which people of all sexes, all diseases, and 
all nations spend so many hours of the twenty-four, is 
changed once a day. The temperature at which the 
batli is given is ninety-eight. The water is let in at 
night, and allowed to cool. At five in the morning, the 
bathers enter it, and remain until ten o'clock, — five hours, 
having breakfast served to them on the floating tables, 
" as they sail, as they sail." They then have a respite 
till two, and go in till five. Eight hours in hot water ! 
Nothing can be more disgusting than the sight of these 
baths. Gustave Dore must have learned here how to 
make those ghostly pictures of the lost floating about in 
the Stygian pools, in his illustrations of the Inferno ; 
and the rocks and cavernous precipice's may have enabled 
him to complete the picture. On what, principle cm?es 
are eifected in these filthy vats, I could not learn. I 
