
it isn 't in the play. Look here, Hiram" addressing 
me " you 've got to suppress that woman. She 
mustn t be coming on the stage every night after 
this fashion, or else you must put her in the bill. 
Then we 'll know what 's coming, and get our nerves 
ready." 

A laugh greeted this sally, but it wasn 't very 
hearty. 

" I 'll tell you what I think about it," said another. 

" Well, what 's your guess ?" inquired Jacobs. 

" She 's after some fellow." 

"No doubt, and that fine fellow 's her husband," 
was replied. 

" Don 't believe it. Didn 't you notice one hand in 
her pocket ?" 

" No, no," went round the room. 

" Well, I did noticed it both times." 

"And what does it signify if she had?" 

"It 's my guess that there was a pistol in her 
pocket" 

" By George ! I believe you 've hit the nail on the 
head !" exclaimed two or three in a breath. " I 've 
seen women looking round after their husbands," 
added one of them, " but never a critter of her kind. 
She 's one on em as knows how that a man isn 't 
going to be reformed by such doings. There 's 
a gay deceiver running round who 'd better say his 
prayers in double quick when she gets her eyes on 
him." 

" All afloat, gentlemen all afloat," sang out Ja- 



 

cobs, in a high key. " I know what she 's after ; it 's 
just come to me. She 's going to shoot a saloon 
keeper. So look out, Masters Lloyd and Jones." 

This was greeted with a laugh from the company, 
and an oath from Lloyd. 

" Oh, you needn 't swear about it," retorted the old 
pressman; "it can t help the matter any. But it 's 
plain to see that she 's got wound up for a strike, and 
it 's my guess, if she finds somebody she knows here, 
there 'll be a dead rum-seller to put under ground. 
She 'll be a dead shot. Them kind always are. So 
take my advice, Tom Lloyd, and make your will." 

Lloyd became very angry at this, and swore 
fiercely at the old pressman. 

" If you can t keep a civil tongue in your head, 
you 'd better stay away," he added, cooling down a 
little. " I won t put up with these insults in my 
own house." 

"Insults!" retorted Jacobs; "I 'd like to know 
where the insult lies ? What did I say to insult you, 
ha, old chap ? Insult ! Bah ! you re growing mighty 
thin-skinned. But getting mad won t save you when 
she comes round, if somebody happens to be here. 
So, as I just said, get your will ready." 

" Women grow very desperate sometimes, and do 
desperate things," remarked a person who had been 
silent until now. He spoke quietly, but soberly. 
" They are made up of passions and impulses are 
soft as summer breezes when all goes pleasantly 
with them, but fierce and reckless as the wildest 



 

storm if crossed and thwarted. It 's a dangerous ex 
periment to drive a woman to the wall, to rob her of 
what is dearest in life, to rouse in her the sleeping 
lion." 

The man spoke in a deep, musical voice, and in a 
style of language not often heard in our saloon. He 
was a stranger among us, and had rather a seedy 
look. Every one turned to him. He went on : 

" Home is a woman 's world, and its inmates her 
most precious things. Her life is bound up in her 
husband and children. If a maiden, and she have a 
lover, it is bound up in him. Touch any of these, 
and you touch her life. Hurt them, and you hurt 
her. Some women are weak, and some saintly, and 
some are strong-willed and desperate ; when annoyed 
and threatened, a tiger. The weak fall, the saintly 
find strength in religion, but the strong-willed get a 
new vitality when the evil days come. You saw one 
of these latter just now. One that she loves is, I 
take it, drifting away from her on the river of ine 
briation, else why seek him here ? If she lose him, 
she loses all she has in life. It is a fearful thing for 
her. She will save him if she can, and if any one 
stand in her way, he must go down. 

" I don 't  think," he continued, his tone softening, 
but every word coming clear and emphatic, "that 
you gentlemen" and he looked at Lloyd and myself 
" count the cost of your work really comprehend 
what flows from it ; if you did, you would be little 
better than devils incarnate." 



 

The hot blood rushed to Tom Lloyd 's face, and I 
felt like throwing a tumbler. But there was a fas 
cination about the speaker 's voice and manner that 
completely won our company, and I saw with angry 
annoyance that his hard thrust at us was enjoyed. 

" But I know," he went on, " that you have shut 
your eyes to all this. It is none of your business, 
you say. Men will drink, and you only give them 
what they want. I'm sorry sorry for you, sorry for 
myself and sorry for every man here who feels as I 
do the almost irrepressible cravings of an appetite 
grown too strong for him. And if there be any 
among you not over on the wrong side, be warned 
in time. Let this thing alone. Keep away from 
places where drink is sold." 

"Bravo!" cried old Jacobs; "them 's my senti 
ments. Pve been preaching em here from the be 
ginning. I 've told the boys over and over again 
that it wasn 't the thing to be coming here night after 
night. Just look at me, I 've said, and take warn 
ing. But it doesn 't seem to be of any use. They 
come and come, and drink and tipple, and will all go 
to the devil, I'm afraid, in spite of everything I can 
say." 

All this, Lloyd and I were compelled to hear and 
yet keep silence, for the general feeling was for the 
time against us. 

" It is a bad business, take it as you will," said the 
stranger, in a depressed voice ; and rising, he com 
menced buttoning his coat. He moved toward the 


 

door, but hesitated after a few steps, and then came 
round to the bar and called for a glass of brandy. 

" I preach and practice both, you see," was his 
remark as he poured out the brandy. " You mustn t 
be offended. I have to talk sometimes, but I guess 
all I say will not do you much hurt not half so 
much," he added as he set down his glass, his voice 
changing and his eyes flashing a little, " as you will 
do yourselves in this wretched business. Curses, 
like chickens, always come home to roost. Keep 
that in mind, gentlemen. Good-night;" and he went 
away. 


