he was just born for it. He would dig out after me an' Jim 
when we went over the hills prospect'n', and he would trot along 
behind us for as much as five mile, 
if we went so fur. An' he had the 
best judgment about mining- 
ground — why you never see anything like it. When we went to 
work, he'd scatter a glance around, 
'n' if he didn't think much of the 
indications, he would give a look 
as much as to say, ' Well, I'll have 
to get you to excuse me 'n' with- 
out another word he'd hyste his nose into the air 'n' shove for 
home. But if the ground suited him, he would lay low 'n' 
keep dark till the first pan was washed, 'n' then he would sidle 
up 'n' take a look, an' if there was about six or seven grains of 
gold he was satisfied — he didn't want no better prospect 'n' 
that — 'n' then -he would lay down on our coats and snore like 
a steamboat till we'd struck the pocket, an' then get up 'n 
superintend. He was nearly lightnin' on superintending. 
" Well, bye an' bye, up comes this yer quartz excitement. 
Every body was into it — every body was pick'n' 'n' blast'n' 
instead of shovelin' dirt on the hill side — every body wasput'n 
down a shaft instead of scrapin' the surface. Noth'n' would 
do Jim, but we must tackle the ledges, too, 'n' so we did. We 
commenced put'n' down a shaft, 'n' Tom Quartz he begin ta 
wonder what in the Dickens it was all about. lie hadn't ever 
seen any mining like that before, 'n' he was all upset, as you 
may say — he couldn't come to a right understanding of it no 
way — it was too many for him. He was down on it, too, you 
bet you — lie was down on it powerful — 'n' always appeared to 
consider it the cussedest foolishness out. But that cat, you 
know, was always agin new fanglcd arrangements — somehow 
he never could abide 'em. You know how it is with old habits. 
But by an' by Tom Quartz begin to git sort of reconciled a 
little, though he never could altogether understand that eternal 
sinkin' of a shaft an' never pannin' out any thing. At last he 
got to comin' down in the shaft, hisself, to try to cipher it out. 
An' when he'd git the blues, 'n' feel kind o' scruffy, 'n' aggra- 
vated 'n' disgusted — knowin' as he did, that the bills was run- 
nin' up all the time an' we warn't makin' a cent — he would 
curl up on a gunny sack in the corner an' go to sleep. Well 
one day when the shaft was down about eight foot, the rock 
got so hard that we had to put in a blast — the first blast'n'' 
we'd ever done since Tom Quartz was born. An' then we lit 
the fuse 'n' dumb out 'n' got off" 'bout fifty yards — 'n' forgot 
'n' left Tom Quartz sound asleep on the gunny sack. In 'bout 
a minute we seen a puff of smoke bust up out of the hole, 'n*" 
then everything let go with an awful crash, 'n' about four 
million ton of rocks 'n' dirt 'n' 
smoke 'n' splinters shot up 'bout a mile an' a half into the 
air, an' by George, right in the dead centre of it was old Tom 
Quartz a goin' end over end, an' a snortin' an' a sneez'n', an' 
a clawin' an' a reachin' for things like all possessed. But it 
warn't no use, you know, it warn't no use. An' that was the 
last we see of Mm for about two minutes 'n' a half, an' then aD 
of a sudden it begin to rain rocks and rubbage, an' directly he 
<;orae down ker-whop about ten foot off f'ni where we stood 
IVell, I reckon he was p'raps the orneriest lookin' beast you 
ever see. One ear was sot back on his neck, 'n' his tail was 
stove up, 'n' his eye-winkers was swinged off", 'n' he was all 
blacked up with powder an' 
smoke, an' all sloppy with mud 
'n' slush fm one end to the 
other. Well sir, it warn't no 
use to try to apologize — we 
couldn't say a word. He took 
a port of a disgusted look at hisself, 'n' then he looked at us — 
an' it was just exactly the same as if he had said — ' Gents, 
may be you think it's smart to take advantage of a cat that 
"'ain't had no experience of quartz minin', but I think different ' 
— an' then he turned on his heel 'n' marched oil' home without 
ever saying another word. 
" That was jest his style. An' may be you won't believe 
it, but after that you never see a cat so prejudiced agin quartz 
mining as what he was. An' by an' bye when he did get to 
oin' down in the shaft agin, you'd 'a been astonished at his 
.sagacity. The minute we'd tetch off a blast 'n' the fuse'd begin 
to sizzle, he'd gi'e a look as much as to say : ' "Well, I'll have 
to git you to excuse tne an' it was surpris'n' the way he'd shin 
out of that hole 'n' go f'r a tree. Sagacity ? It ain't no name 
for it. 'Twas inspiration !" 
I said, " Well, Mr. Baker, his prejudice against quartz-min- 
ing was remarkable, considering how he came by it. Couldn't 
jou ever cure him of it?" 
" Cure him ! No ! When Tom Quartz was sot once, he was 
always sot — and you might a blowed him up as much as three 
million times 'n' you'd never a broken hiin of his cussed prej- 
udice agin quartz mining." 
The affection and the pride that lit up Baker's face when he 
delivered this tribute to the firmness of his humble friend of 
other days, will always be a vivid memory with me. 
At the end of two months we had never " struck " a pocket. 
"We had panned up and down the hillsides till thej looked 
plowed like a tield ; we could have put in a crop of grain, then, 
but there would have been no way to get it to market. We 
got many good " prospects," but when the gold gave out in 
the pan and we dug down, hoping and longing, we found only 
emptiness — the pocket that should have been there was as bar- 
ren as our own. — At last we shouldered our pans and shovels 
and struck out over tht hills to try new localities. "We pros- 
pected around Angel's Camp, in Calaveras county, during three 
weeks, but had no success. Then we wandered on foot amoncr 
the mountains, sleeping under the trees at night, for the weather 
was mild, but still we remained as centless as the last rose of 
summer. That is a poor joke, but it is in pathetic harmony 
with the circumstances, since we were so poor ourselves. In 
accordance with the custom of the country, our door had always 
stood open and oi'r board welcome to tramping miners — they 
drifted along nearly every day, dumped their paust shovels 
by the threshold and took " pot luck " with us — and now on 
our own tramp we never found cold hospitality. 
Our wanderings were wide and in many directions ; and now 
I could give the reader a vivid description of the Big Trees 
and the marvels of the Yo Semite — but what has this reader 
done to me that I should persecute him ? I will deliver him 
into the hands of less conscientious tourists and take his bless- 
ing. Let me be charitable, though I fail in all virtues else. 
Some of the plirases in the above are mining technicahties, purely, and may be 
a little obscure to the general reader. In ' placer diggings " the gold is scattered 
all through the surface dirt; in ''pocket" diggings it is concentrated in one little 
spot ; in " quartz " the gold is in a solid, continuous vein of rock, enclosed between 
distinct walls of some other kind of stone — and this is the most laborious and 
expensive of all the different kinds of mining. " Prospecting " is hunting for a 
' placer; 'indications are signs of its presence;  panning out" refers to the 
washing process by which the grains of gold are separated from the dirt ; a 'pros- 
pect" is what one finds in the first panful of dirt — and its value determines whether 
it is a good or a bad prospect, and whether it is worth while to tarry there or seek 
further. 
CHAPTER LXII. 
AFTER a three months' absence, I found myself in San 
Francisco again, without a cent. When my credit was 
about exhausted, (for I had become too mean and lazy, now, to 
work on a morning paper, and there were no vacancies on the 
evening journals,) I was created San Francisco correspond- 
ent of the Enterprise and at the end of five months I was out 
of debt, but my interest in my work was gone ; for my corres- 
pondence being a daily one, without rest or respite, I got 
unspeakably tired of it. I wanted another change. The vag- 
abond instinct Mas strong npon me. Fortune favored and I 
got a new berth and a delightful one. It was to go down to 
the Sandwich Islands and write some letters for the Sacramento 
Union, an excellent journal and liberal with employes. 
"We sailed in the propeller Ajax, in the middle of winter. 
The almanac called it winter, distinctly enough, but the weather 
was a compromise between spring and summer. Six days out 
of port, it became summer altogether. We had some thirty 
passengers ; among them a cheerful soul by the name of Wil- 
liams, and three sea-worn old whaleship captains going down 
to join their vessels. These latter plaj'ed euchre in the smok- 
ing room day and night, drank astonishing quantities of raw 
whisky without being in the least affected by it, and were the 
happiest people I think I ever saw. And then there was" the 
old Admiral — " a retired whaleman. He was a roaring, ter- 
riiic combination of wind and lightning and thunder, and earn- 
est, whole-soided profanity. But nevertheless he was tender-hearted 
as a girl. He was a raving, deafening, devastating 
typhoon, laying waste the cowering seas but with an unvexed 
refuge in the centre where all comers were safe and at rest. 
Nobody could know the " Admiral " without liking him ; and 
in a sudden and dire emergency I think no friend of his would 
know which to choose — to be Cbirsed by him or 
prayed for by a less efficient person. 
His title of "Admiral " was more 
strictly "official" 
than any ever worn 
by a naval officer 
before or since, perhaps — for it was the 
voluntary offering of a whole nation, 
and came direct 
from the people 
themselves without any intermedi- 
ate red tape — the 
people of the Sandwich Islands. It 
was a title that the ukee captains. 
came to him freighted with affection, and honor, and apprecia- 
tion of his unpretending merit. And in testimony of the gen- 
uineness of the title it was publicly ordained that an exclusive 
flag should be devised for him and used solely to welome his 
coming and wave him God-speed in his going. From that 
time forth, whenever his ship was signaled in the offing, or he 
