now."
"Can't go and see it?"
"Yes, there is no difficulty about that. I will go with you to-morrow,
if you like."
"And how much is the rent, Mr. Wharncliffe?"
"One dollar a week. The woman was willing to let the room to Mrs.
Staples, because I was making the bargain and understood to be security
for her; only so."
"Then we will go to-morrow, sir, shall we, and see the room and see
what it wants? and perhaps you will shew me that place where you said I
could get furniture cheap?"
This was agreed upon. To Matilda's very great surprise, David, when he
heard her news, said he would go too. She half expected he would get
over the notion by the time he got home from school on Monday; but no;
he said he wanted a walk and he would see the place with her.
The place was humble enough. A poor little house, that looked as if its
more aspiring neighbours would certainly swallow it up and deny its
right to be at all; so low and decrepit it was, among better built if
not handsome edifices. Street and surroundings were dingy and mean;
however, when they went in they found a decent little room under the
sloping roof and with a bit of blue sky visible from its dormer window.
It was empty and bare.
"Thin, we always has rispictable lodgers," said the good woman, who had
taken her arms out of a tub of soapsuds to accompany the party
upstairs; "and the room is a very dacent apartment entirely; and warrm
it is, and quite. An' we had a company o' childhren in one o' the
houses adjinin', that bothered the life out o' me wid their hollerin'
as soon as ever we histed the winders in the summer time; but the
father he died, and the mother, she was a poor kind of a body that
couldn't seem to get along any way at all at all; and I believe she
thried, an she didn't succade, the poor craythur! An' she just faded
away, like, and whin she couldn't stan' no longer, she was tuk away to
the 'ospital; and the chillen was put in the poor-us, or I don't just
know what it is they calls the place; and it was weary for them, but it
was a good day for meself at the same time. An' the place is iligant
and quite now, sir. An' whin will the lady move in, that you're
wantin' the room for?"
"As soon as it can be ready for her, Mrs. Leary."
"Thin it's ready! What would it be wantin'?"
"We shall need to move in some furniture, I suppose, and a little coal.
Where will that go?"
"Coal, is it? Sure there's the cellar. An' an iligant cellar it is, and
dhry, and places enough for to put her coal in. It'll hould all she'll
want, Til engage."
"It holds yours too, I suppose?"
"Why wouldn't it? But we'll never interfare for that; small wisdom!"
Mr. Wharncliffe chose to go down and see the cellar. David and Matilda
spent the time in consultation. Mr. Wharncliffe came back alone.
"Well," he said, "how do you like it?"
"Very much; but Mr. Wharncliffe, it is not very clean."
"Sarah will soon change that."
"Sarah? Won't her mother help?"
"Mrs. Staples is unable for hard work. She has had illness which has
disabled her; and I fancy the damp cellar she has been living in has
made matters worse. But Sarah likes to be as clean as she can."
"Well, she can now," said Matilda gleefully. "Mr. Wharncliffe, don't
you think they want a little bit of a carpet?"
Mr. Wharncliffe shook his head. "They are not accustomed to it; they do
not need it, Matilda. You will have enough to do with your money."
"At any rate, they must have a bureau, mustn't they?"
"There is a wall cupboard," said Mr. Wharncliffe. "That will be wanted,
I suppose, for crockery and stores. What would a bureau be useful for?"
"Clothes."
"They have not a drawer full, between them."
"But they will have? They must, Mr. Wharncliffe. I am going to get
them some, mayn't I?"
Mr. Wharncliffe looked round the little room, and smiled as he looked
at Matilda again. "There is a great deal to do with your money, I told
you," he said. "Let us reckon up the indispensable things first." He
took out his note book.
"Coals are one thing," said Matilda. "They must have some coals to
begin with."
"Coals"--repeated Mr. Wharncliffe, noting it down.
"Have they a stove that will do?"
"I am afraid not. I will try and find a second-hand one."
"A table, and two or three chairs."
Those went down in the list.
"And, O, Mr. Wharncliffe, a tea-kettle! And something to cook meat in,
and boil potatoes."
"What do you know about cooking meat and boiling potatoes?" Mr.
Wharncliffe asked, looking amused. "Those things will perhaps come with
the stove; and at any rate do not cost much."
"And then, some decent plates and cups and saucers, and common knives,
you know, and a few such things."
"They have some things which they use now. You must not try to do too
much. Remember, there are other people who want bread."
"Well--not those things then, if you think not," said Matilda. "But a
bedstead, and a comfortable bed, Mr. Wharncliffe; that they must
have."
"How about the two boys?"
"They must have another."
"Blankets and sheets and pillows?"
"Yes, sir; and pillow cases. I can make those. Do they cost a great
deal?"
"I think not--if you will let me buy them."
"O thank you, sir! I have got money enough, I guess."
"Mrs. Staples will make them. But, my dear, coals, and a stove, and
table and chairs and bedstead and bedding, will make a hole in your
little stock. Let us see. I will undertake the stove and the coals, and
get your beds for you. Chairs and table and bedding, I leave to you."
"Then put down some cups and plates, please, sir; or I will make the
list when I go home."
"We can manage it, I think," said David. "You know, I am bound to come
in for my share. Where can we get this second-hand furniture?"
Mr. Wharncliffe led the way to the place. What a disagreeable place,
Matilda thought. Dirty, dusty, confused, dilapidated, worn; at least
such was the look of a majority of the articles gathered there.
However, therein lay their advantage; and presently in the eagerness of
hunting out the things that she wanted, Matilda half lost sight of the
uncomfortable character of her surroundings. A table, strong yet,
though its paint was all gone, and chairs of similar qualifications,
were soon secured. A bedstead too, which was quite respectable; and Mr.
Wharncliffe explained that some bed-tickings could be filled with
straw, for beds and pillows. A little chest of drawers with some
difficulty was found, to be had for a few shillings; and a stove. Now
this last gave Matilda unlimited satisfaction; for it was a tidy little
stove, had two or three cooking utensils belonging to it, and an oven
which the shopman assured them would bake "first-rate." In that stove
and hardware Matilda's fancy seemed to see whole loads of comfort for
Sarah and her mother. A happy child was she when they left the shop.
"I believe that is all we can do this afternoon, Tilly," said her
friend.
"Yes, sir. I think we have done a great deal. I thank you, sir."
He smiled and turned off to go his way alone; while David, who had been
much struck with the sweet gracefulness of Matilda's manner, walked
beside her; thinking, perhaps, that Mrs. Laval's adopted child was a
different person from what he had fancied.
"What shall I do, now, Matilda?" he asked presently.
"I don't know. O David, I am very much obliged to you for coming with
me."
"That won't help your poor people though," said he smiling. "What more
do you want to do, or to get, for them?"
"Something to make a decent dress or two," Matilda said confidentially;
"but I can do that myself. I don't know, David! things puzzle me. Mr.
Wharncliffe says I must not try to do too much, because there are other
poor people that suffer, and want the money."
"There are so many, that all your money is but a very little drop on a
great desert, Matilda."
"But that one drop will make one spot of the desert better, David."
"Yes."
"Just a little--twenty or thirty dollars--will do a great deal for
these poor people. And then, if Sarah learns to work on a machine, you
know, and she and her mother get better pay and better work, they will
be able to take care of themselves for ever after."
"That's good sense," said David. "But just think of all that row of
tenement houses."
"David," said Matilda solemnly, "don't you think it is wrong?"
"What?"
"That people should be so poor, and live in such places?"
"I suppose it is people's own fault, a good deal."
"But no, very often it isn't. Now Mrs. Staples used to be a great deal
better oil; but her husband died, and she got sick, and so she came
down to this."
"But where is the wrong, then?" said David.
"Why, just think how much money there is, and what it might do if
people tried. Suppose everybody did all he could, David? Suppose
every one did all he could?"
"As you are doing. But then where should we stop?"
"I wouldn't stop, till everybody that wasn't wicked was comfortable."
"No, no. I mean, where would you stop in your own giving or spending?"
"I don't know," said Matilda, looking down on the ground and thinking
very hard as she walked. "I'll tell you, David. I think the money ought
to go to whoever wants it most!"
"Who is to settle that?" said David laughing.
They had got into deep waters of Christian ethics; and it was no wonder
if even the theory of navigation was difficult. It served them for
matter of busy discussion till they arrived at home. Norton and Judy
were just consulting over some greenhouse plants in the hall. It gave
Matilda no pang. She passed them, with her own little heart so full of
pleasure that seemed far richer and sweeter, that she thought there was
no comparison.
The pleasure lasted; for in a day or two there came a great package for
Matilda which turned out to be the sheeting and muslin Mr. Wharncliffe
had promised to get for her. Matilda had to explain what all this
coarse stuff meant, coming to Mrs. Lloyd's elegant mansion; and Mrs.
Laval then, amused enough, let her maid cut out the sheets and
pillowcases which Matilda desired to make; and for days thereafter
Matilda's room looked like a workshop. She was delightfully busy. Her
lessons took a good deal of time and were eagerly attended to; and
then, at any hour of the day when she was free, Matilda might have been
