whispered Graham to Sibyl, by whose side he 
was crouching. 
" Does it ? " she replied coldly ; " I was not 
aware you were so timid." 
Then came the rain, falling in sheets, the 
drenching torrent of a summer thunder-shower. 
In spite of the foliage, the wet began to penetrate 
the wigwam ; Sibyl, who sat on the outside of 
the huddled circle, felt the drops on her shoulder 
through her light dress. 
" Take this coat, Miss Warrington," said Mr. 
Leslie, stooping down and parting the branches. 
" Oh no ! " replied Sibyl ; you need it more 
than I do." 
But the coat was thrown around her, and Mr. 
Leslie was gone before she could remonstrate. 
 
At last, after half an hour, the fury of the 
storm was over, but the rain still fell steadily. 
"I am afraid it will not clear immediately," 
said Mr. Leslie, coming to the wigwam entrance ; 
u I have been down to the lake, and the sky 
looks as though we should have a wet night.' ' 
"How dark it is ! " said Aunt Faith ; " What 
time is it ? " 
" Half-past seven," said Mr. Leslie, looking at 
his watch. 
" Oh, how shall we ever get home ? " sighed 
Edith Chase. 
" We had better start immediately, I think," 
said Mr. Gay ; " it will be very unpleasant to ride 
in the darkness as well as in the rain." 
" And the horses ! " said Lida Powers ; " I hope 
they will be quiet. That black was inclined to 
dance a little when we came out." 
" Now, Ladies ! " said Mr. Leslie, coming 
towards the wigwam again, " I have been up on 
the plateau ; the horses are ready, and the sooner 
we start the better, as more black clouds are 
 
gathering in the west. Mrs. Sheldon, let me 
help you up the bank." 
" Oh, Mr. Leslie, how wet you are ! " ex- 
claimed Aunt Faith, as she emerged from the 
wigwam. " Where is your coat ? " 
" Miss Warrington has it," he replied ; " I 
made her take it." 
" Here it is, Mr. Leslie," said Sibyl, stepping 
from under cover. 
" Keep it, Sibyl," said the clergyman in a low 
tone. " It gives me pleasure to see you protected." 
" It is still raining steadily, I perceive," said 
Graham Marr, peeping out from the sheltering 
branches; "don't you think we had better 
remain here awhile longer, ladies ? " 
" The rain won't wash us away, Graham," 
said his cousin Rose. 
" It washes out dyes, however, and shows us 
all in our true colors," whispered Bessie to Lida 
Powers. " Look at Graham ! He looks like a 
faded ray ! " 
" He always was a fair-weather piece of 
 
goods," answered Lida ; high color, you know, 
don't stand soaking.'' 
Reaching the wagon, the company climbed 
inside, the cushions had been kept dry, but the 
floor was wet, and the rain still fell with the 
persistence that betokens what farmers call a 
" steady soaker." Edith Chase sat with Aunt 
Faith at the rear end of the wagon, but Bessie 
in Edith's old place, felt her spirits rising with 
every plunge of the restless leaders. 
u Do you think you can manage them, Hugh?" 
she whispered, just before they started. 
"I hope so," he replied confidently. But the 
blacks had had their nerves tried by the flies, 
the thunder, and the lightning ; besides, they 
had never been driven four-in-hand before, and 
they had their doubts as to what the bays were 
doing behind them. For the first mile or two 
they kept the road, and then they whirled sud- 
denly round to the left, and stood still. 
" Oh ! " cried Edith Chase, " we shall all be 
killed!" 
 
However, after some persuasion, the blacks 
started on again as suddenly as they had stopped, 
for wonderful are the ways of balky horses. 
But the increasing darkness brought new terror ; 
black clouds settled down over the earth and the 
narrow, winding road grew invisible before them. 
After several more miles a flash of lightning: and 
a peal of thunder startled the party, the leaders 
veered round again, jumping violently, and 
carrying the wagon perilously near the gully. 
William Mount and Walter Hart sprang to the 
horses' heads, while the ladies screamed in con- 
cert. Aunt Faith was an arrant coward where 
riding was concerned. " I would rather get out 
and walk all the way home than sit in this wagon 
a moment longer," she said, earnestly. 
" Take me with you, aunt," said Gem, who 
was crying aloud. 
" I will go, too," said Edith Chase, climbing 
down with alacrity ; " it cannot be very far, 
now." 
" We are still four miles from Westerton," 
 
said Hugh. " There is no clanger, Aunt Faith ; 
do get in again. The horses are only a little 
balky ; they will be quiet soon." 
" Do you call that quiet?" said Rose Saxon, 
as a flash of lightning revealed the plunging 
leaders with William Mount and Walter Hart 
at their heads. 
" By all means, -let us walk," said Graham 
Man, getting out quickly. 
" Of course if the ladies insist upon walking, 
it is oar duty to accompany them," said Gideon 
Fish, following his example. 
" Mrs. Sheldon," said Mr. Gay, " if you will 
walk, pray take my arm." 
" Miss Darrell, I shall be happy to help you 
down,'' said Gideon Fish. 
" Thank you, but I shall stay where I am; I 
am not at all afraid," replied Bessie. 
After a few moments, the horses started again ; 
and the walking party plodded along behind; 
Hugh drove very slowly so as to keep near them, 
and, in the darkness, Bessie climbed up on the 
 
driver's seat beside him. " Bravo, little woman ! 
I knew you would not be afraid," said Hugh. 
" Afraid, Hugh ! With you ! " exclaimed 
Bessie. 
At the other end of the wagon sat Sibyl and 
Mr. Leslie, who also preferred the wagon .to the 
road. The rain still fell, and the wind had grown 
cold, but although Sibyl still wore the coat, her 
companion did not seem to notice his uncovered 
shoulders. Tbey talked earnestly together in 
low tones all the way, and when at last the 
lights of Westerton appeared in the darkness 
ahead, and the pedestrians, emboldened by these 
signs of civilization, took their seats in the 
wagon again, Sibyl's face was so bright that 
Aunt Faith noticed it. " You do not look at all 
cold, my dear," she said, as the light from the 
first street lamps fell across the wagon, " and 
yet the air is very chilly." 
" I fear I shall have an attack of dumb-ague,' 
laid Graham Marr, shivering. 
Edith Chase sat on the edge of the seat, ready 
 
to spring, watching the leaders with intent gaze ; 
as they approached the old stone house she 
heaved a deep sigh of relief. " I am so glad it 
is over," she said, audibly. 
" I hope you will all come in and have a cup 
of hot coffee after the exposure," said Aunt 
Faith, as, one by one, the tired guests climbed 
down from the circus-wagon. 
" We are all so wet, I think we had better go 
directly home," said Lida Powers. 
" Thank you, Mrs. Sheldon," said Edith Chase, 
" but we really must go directly home ; come, 
Annie." 
"Excuse me, Mrs. Sheldon," said Mr. Gay, 
'* but my seventy years require hot flannels. 
Good-night." 
Mr. Leslie had accompanied Sibyl up the long 
walk to the piazza in order to take back his 
coat when she was under shelter. All the other 
guests made their excuses at the gate, all but 
Gideon Fish, and when Bessie saw him lingering, 
she pretended to be very obtuse. u Well, as 
 
you won't any of you come in, I will say « good- 
night ' to all of you," she said, closing the gate 
