away from him.
It was some moments before either of them spoke again. Then Freeling
said,
“I was awake all night, thinking over this matter, and it looks uglier
the more I think of it. It isn’t likely that enough evidence could be
found to convict either of us, but to be tried on such an accusation
would be horrible.”
“Horrible! horrible!” ejaculated Mrs. Dinneford. “What is to be done?”
 She gave signs of weakness and terror. Freeling observed her closely,
then felt his way onward.
“We are in great peril,” he said. “There is no knowing what turn affairs
will take. I only wish I were a thousand miles from here. It would be
safer for us both.” Then, after a pause, he added, “If I were foot-free,
I would be off to-morrow.”
He watched Mrs. Dinneford closely, and saw a change creep over her face.
“If I were to disappear suddenly,” he resumed, “suspicion, if it took
a definite shape, would fall on me. You would not be thought of in the
matter.”
He paused again, observing his companion keenly but stealthily. He was
not able to look her fully in the face.
“Speak out plainly,” said Mrs. Dinneford, with visible impatience.
“Plainly, then, madam,” returned Freeling, changing his whole bearing
toward her, and speaking as one who felt that he was master of the
situation, “it has come to this: I shall have to break up and leave
the city, or there will be a new trial in which you and I will be the
accused. Now, self-preservation is the first law of nature. I don’t mean
to go to the State’s prison if I can help it. What I am now debating
are the chances in my favor if Granger gets a pardon, and then makes
an effort to drive us to the wall, which he most surely will. I have
settled it so far--”
Mrs. Dinneford leaned toward him with an anxious expression on her
countenance, waiting for the next sentence. But Freeling did not go on.
“How have you settled it?” she demanded, trembling as she spoke with the
excitement of suspense.
“That I am not going to the wall if I can help it.”
“How will you help it?”
“I have an accomplice;” and this time he was able to look at Mrs.
Dinneford with such a fixed and threatening gaze that her eyes fell.
“You have?” she questioned, in a husky voice.
“Yes.”
“Who?”
“Mrs. Helen Dinneford. And do you think for a moment that to save myself
I would hesitate to sacrifice her?”
The lady’s face grew white. She tried to speak, but could not.
“I am talking plainly, as you desired, madam,” continued Freeling.
“You led me into this thing. It was no scheme of mine; and if more evil
consequences are to come, I shall do my best to save my own head. Let
the hurt go to where it rightfully belongs.”
“What do you mean?” Mrs. Dinneford tried to rally herself.
“Just this,” was answered: “if I am dragged into court, I mean to go
in as a witness, and not as a criminal. At the first movement toward an
indictment, I shall see the district attorney, whom I know very well,
and give him such information in the case as will lead to fixing the
crime on you alone, while I will come in as the principal witness. This
will make your conviction certain.”
“Devil!” exclaimed Mrs. Dinneford, her white face convulsed and her eyes
starting from their sockets with rage and fear. “Devil!” she repeated,
not able to control her passion.
“Then you know me,” was answered, with cool self-possession, “and what
you have to expect.”
Neither spoke for a considerable time. Up to this period they had been
alone in the parlor. Guests of the house now came in and took seats
near them. They arose and walked the floor for a little while, still in
silence, then passed into an adjoining parlor that happened to be empty,
and resumed the conference.
“This is a last resort,” remarked Freeling, softening his voice as they
sat down--“a card that I do not wish to play, and shall not if I can
help it. But it is best that you should know that it is in my hand. If
there is any better way of escape, I shall take it.”
“You spoke of going away,” said Mrs. Dinneford.
“Yes. But that involves a great deal.”
“What?”
“The breaking up of my business, and loss of money and opportunities
that I can hardly hope ever to regain.”
“Why loss of money?”
“I shall have to wind up hurriedly, and it will be impossible to collect
more than a small part of my outstanding claims. I shall have to go
away under a cloud, and it will not be prudent to return. Most of these
claims will therefore become losses. The amount of capital I shall be
able to take will not be sufficient to do more than provide for a small
beginning in some distant place and under an assumed name. On the other
hand, if I remain and fight the thing through, as I have no doubt I can,
I shall keep my business and my place in society here--hurt, it may be,
in my good name, but still with the main chance all right. But it will
be hard for you. If I pass the ordeal safely, you will not. And the
question to consider is whether you can make it to my interest to go
away, to drop out of sight, injured in fortune and good name, while you
go unscathed. You now have it all in a nutshell. I will not press you to
a decision to-day. Your mind is too much disturbed. To-morrow, at noon,
I would like to see you again.”
Freeling made a motion to rise, but Mrs. Dinneford did not stir.
“Perhaps,” he said, “you decide at once to let things take their course.
Understand me, I am ready for either alternative. The election is with
yourself.”
Mrs. Dinneford was too much stunned by all this to be able to come to
any conclusion. She seemed in the maze of a terrible dream, full of
appalling reality. To wait for twenty-four hours in this state of
uncertainty was more than her thoughts could endure. And yet she must
have time to think, and to get command of her mental resources.
“Will you be disengaged at five o’clock?” she asked.
“Yes.”
“I will be here at five.”
“Very well.”
Mrs. Dinneford arose with a weary air.
“I shall want to hear from you very explicitly,” she said. “If your
demand is anywhere in the range of reason and possibility, I may
meet it. If outside of that range, I shall of course reject it. It is
possible that you may not hold all the winning cards--in fact, I know
that you do not.”
“I will be here at five,” said Freeling.
“Very well. I shall be on time.”
And they turned from each other, passing from the parlor by separate
doors.
CHAPTER XII.
ONE morning, about two weeks later, Mr. Freeling did not make his
appearance at his place of business as usual. At ten o’clock a clerk
went to the hotel where he boarded to learn the cause of his absence. He
had not been there since the night before. His trunks and clothing were
all in their places, and nothing in the room indicated anything more
than an ordinary absence.
Twelve o’clock, and still Mr. Freeling had not come to the store. Two
or three notes were to be paid that day, and the managing-clerk began
to feel uneasy. The bank and check books were in a private drawer in the
fireproof of which Mr. Freeling had the key. So there was no means of
ascertaining the balances in bank.
At one o’clock it was thought best to break open the private drawer and
see how matters stood. Freeling kept three bank-accounts, and it was
found that on the day before he had so nearly checked out all the
balances that the aggregate on deposit was not over twenty dollars. In
looking back over these bank-accounts, it was seen that within a week he
had made deposits of over fifty thousand dollars, and that most of
the checks drawn against these deposits were in sums of five thousand
dollars each.
At three o’clock he was still absent. His notes went to protest, and on
the next day his city creditors took possession of his effects. One fact
soon became apparent--he had been paying the rogue’s game on a pretty
liberal scale, having borrowed on his checks, from business friends
and brokers, not less than sixty or seventy thousand dollars. It was
estimated, on a thorough examination of his business, that he had
gone off with at least a hundred thousand dollars. To this amount Mrs.
Dinneford had contributed from her private fortune the sum of twenty
thousand dollars. Not until she had furnished him with that large amount
would he consent to leave the city. He magnified her danger, and so
overcame her with terrors that she yielded to his exorbitant demand.
On the day a public newspaper announcement of Freeling’s rascality was
made, Mrs. Dinneford went to bed sick of a nervous fever, and was for a
short period out of her mind.
Neither Mr. Dinneford nor Edith had failed to notice a change in Mrs.
Dinneford. She was not able to hide her troubled feelings. Edith was
watching her far more closely than she imagined; and now that she was
temporarily out of her mind, she did not let a word or look escape
her. The first aspect of her temporary aberration was that of fear and
deprecation. She was pursued by some one who filled her with terror,
and she would lift her hands to keep him off, or hide her head in abject
alarm. Then she would beg him to keep away. Once she said,
“It’s no use; I can’t do anything more. You’re a vampire!”
“Who is a vampire?” asked Edith, hoping that her mother would repeat
some name.
But the question seemed to put her on her guard. The expression of fear
went out of her face, and she looked at her daughter curiously.
Edith did not repeat the question. In a little while the mother’s
wandering thoughts began to find words again, and she went on talking
in broken sentences out of which little could be gleaned. At length she
said, turning to Edith and speaking with the directness of one in her
right mind,
“I told you her name was Gray, didn’t I? Gray, not Bray.”
It was only by a quick and strong effort that Edith could steady her
voice as she replied:
“Yes; you said it was Gray.”
“Gray, not Bray. You thought it was Bray.”
“But it’s Gray,” said Edith, falling in with her mother’s humor. Then
she added, still trying to keep her voice even,
“She was my nurse when baby was born.”
“Yes; she was the nurse, but she didn’t--”
Checking herself, Mrs. Dinneford rose on one arm and looked at Edith in
a frightened way, then said, hurriedly,
“Oh, it’s dead, it’s dead! You know that; and the woman’s dead, too.”
Edith sat motionless and silent as a statue, waiting for what more might
come. But her mother shut her lips tightly, and turned her head away.
A long time elapsed before she was able to read in her mother’s confused
