wish he had a home, one like this, if it were shared by a
congenial companion, a woman who was more nearly his equal, mentally
and morally, than the one he has chosen. He would be much happier
than he can hope to be in the splendid pile he calls by that name."
"He seems perfectly satisfied with wife and house," returned Jessie,
dryly. "And the marriage was certainly one of preference on Miss
Sanford's part. Not that I admire or like her, and I know her better
than you do. But I am persuaded that we waste our pity when we
expend it on either of them."
They chatted, then, of various matters in the familiar style in
which their conversations were generally carried on, until the day
closing in about them, the fire spread a mellow radiance over the
area immediately around it; the white bed and the noble head laid
high on the pillows; upon Jessie's earnest face and crown of raven
hair. It was the hour and the scene for the confidential talk of
husband and wife; the outpouring of true soul to true; the only
unrestrained heart-communion this side the Land where subterfuge and
disguise are unknown; speech as far more excellent and satisfying
than the language of unwedded lovers as the perfume from the
unfolded lily surpasses that which steals from the bud.
Between these two, love was neither named nor hinted at. The wife's
hands lay crossed upon her knees, and the husband did not offer to
hold or touch them, or stroke the beautiful hair with which the
betrothed had toyed unrebuked. It was an anomalous intimacy, the
restraints and courtesies of which would have been laughed at as
affectations, if the story of them were not totally discredited by
the world outside "the great white veil" that shut them into their
home,--theirs in name and in fact.
Jessie got up, at length, stepping over the carpet without rustle or
jar, "the poetry of motion," thought the looker-on, and laid more
coals upon the fiery mass in the grate. Many-colored flames shot up
through and darted, like living serpents, along the pile; the low
crackling and hissing of the igniting lumps awoke a cricket in the
chimney-corner. Jessie, kneeling on the rug, glanced over her
shoulder, on hearing the cheery chirp, and smiled at Roy.
"You don't treat the crickets on your hearth as Gruffand Tackleton
boasted that he did--'crunch 'em, sir!' I like to hear the little
busybodies--don't you?"
Without rising, when she had seemed to hearken for a while, she
began to sing. Roy had not heard a note from her, even in church,
since their marriage, and he held his breath, lay motionless, lest
she should awaken from her reverie. It was an old ballad she was
crooning--half Scotch, and with a thought of pathos in the melody,
although the words were not plaintive.
    "Tis rare to see the morning bleeze,
    Like a bonfire, frae the sea;
    'Tis fair to see the burnie kiss
    The lip o' the flowery lea.
    And fine it is on green hillside
    Where hums the bonnie bee,
    But rarer, fairer, finer far,
    Is the Ingleside to me."
A light roseate film hid her from Roy's eyes. The Ingleside, where
she now knelt! his and hers! did she really love it so well as not
to pine for the haunts of her girlhood? And what had pressed that
cry from her that was still echoing through his heart-chambers? the
appeal that would have meant in a loving wife uncontrollable
yearning for the sympathy of him who best knew her needs and her
sorrows?
"O, Roy!" she had said, hands outstretched as if to fasten upon his
for support in the deep waters. It imported more--a million times
more, that childlike wail--to him than all she had afterward
expressed of gratitude and esteem. In that hour, consecrate forever
by what his musings brought forth, he resolved to woo and win a
second time the only woman he had ever loved; who he had believed
was lost to him for all time, chained as she was to his side, forced
into a relation she abhorred by vows her dying father and
he--impatient, ruthless lover!--had put into her mouth. He would be
very wary, very patient, but love like his must conquer in the end.
Doubts might oppose him in the broad light of day and common-sense,
but he would not be turned aside. He did not underrate the
difficulties that lay in the way of this novel wooing. Jessie was no
longer the fresh-hearted, impetuous girl who had laid her hand
confidingly in his (his palm thrilled now in the recollection!) as
he sat by her in the oriel-window, the shadows of the tossing
jessamine-bells--"joy-bells," he called them--cast upon her white
dress and the carpet by the April sunshine; the dewiness and scents
of the Spring morning in the air; the "light that was never on land
and sea" glorifying the eyes uplifted to his.
Faulty, but frank, with a mind stored with crude riches, a heart
whose capacity for love and Love's sacrifices even he had divined
rather than discovered--she had been easily won, though not lightly
sought. Now, the luxuriant womanliness, the growth of which he
marked from day to day in her physique, had not kept pace with the
chastened development of her inner nature. If he had said in that
early stage of "Love's Young Dream"--"She is like no other girl I
ever met!" she was now a veritable unique--a gem a monarch might be
proud to set in his diadem.
For all that, he would win her! Should she arise from her lowly
place by the ingle, and without a word of explanation or excuse for
what was past, again give him her hand, saying merely, "I love you!"
he would let all that had been enigmatical in their intercourse go
from his remembrance at once and entirely; would trust her with his
honor and affections, above all and through all that might stagger
his faith in another. Was his a pitiful, cringing spirit? Was it a
high or a mean type of human love that made him, possessing his
tried soul in more abundant patience, say in the prospect of the
tedious and cautious, it might be the arduous, approach to the goal
of his desires, that must be his, if he would make success a
certainty;--
"And they seemed unto him but a few days for the love he had to
her!"
CHAPTER XXIII.
Mrs. Orrin Wyllys had "run in very sociably" to chat for an hour
with her dear cousin, Mrs. Fordham.
"Orrin brought me to the door," she said, divesting herself of her
fur cloak, and untying the coquettish hood that half covered her
head. "I knew Mr. Fordham would be at the meeting in the Town Hall.
Orrin promised to meet him there. He can't bear for me to be alone,
so he offered to leave me to a comfortable dish of gossip with you
while he attended to the interests of the 'dear people.' Of course,
it is very gratifying to have one's husband so popular, but I often
tell Orrin that I don't see one-tenth nor one-hundredth part as much
of him as I ought to. I don't believe there is another man in the
United States who is so run after. Not that this surprises me,"
tittering and trying to blush. "I, of all people alive, ought to
have most charity with such devotion. It is a consolation to be
assured that he regrets these numerous draughts upon his time as
much as I do, and I am not disposed to be jealous. I do think mutual
confidence is just the sweetest thing in the world. Between married
lovers, I mean. What are you so busy about?"
Jessie's work-basket was heaped with calico and flannel.
"Making clothes for some poor children," she answered. "If you will
excuse me, I will go on with my work, as the garments are sadly
needed."
"Certainly! I shall be more at my ease if you do not seem to mind my
being here. You are the most industrious woman I know. It positively
fatigues one to watch you. I suppose, though, there is everything in
being trained to such habits from childhood. Now, I haven't a thing
to do from morning to night, which is lucky, for I have always been
so carefully waited upon from my cradle up to the present hour,
when my darling husband will hardly let me put my foot to the ground
without his assistance. You can't imagine how aux petits soins he
is in the retirement of our sweet, sweet home! True, the house is
large, preposterously large--as I told my dear, indulgent father
when he bought it. And as Orrin is fond of style, and I have always
been used to it, we keep up a ridiculous establishment when one
considers the size of the family. Now, I dare say, you keep but two
or three women-servants, and maybe no man at all, as you have no
carriage of your own?"
"Phoebe is our only servant," said Jessie, unperturbed at having
to state the mortifying fact with which Mrs. Wyllys was already
acquainted.
"Is it possible!" looking curiously about her through her gold
eye-glass. "Yet everything about your little place is as neat as a
pin. What a valuable creature she must be! I declare I must tell
Orrin that! 'Five servants to wait upon two people, my love!' I said
to him this very evening. 'It is frightful extravagance!' But he
insists that I shall be relieved from all drudgery, knowing how
delicately I have been reared. If I were fond of work, I should be
puzzled how to employ myself at the hours when there are no
visitors. When I am ennuyée in Orrin's absence, I have only to run
across the street to my uncle's, Judge Provost's, to find plenty of
society. What a houseful of children they have! I told Orrin
yesterday, that it was lucky he never fancied Jeannie Provost (who,
to whisper a secret, was just perfectly crazy after him!) My uncle
has a large fortune, but it will be cut up by the rule of long
division at his death. How fast you sew! Your protégées are some of
your Dundee parishioners, I suppose?" condescendingly to the woman
of low estate.
"No. The few poor there are so well cared for by their neighbors as
not to require my help. This is work allotted me by the Managers of
the Hamilton Charitable Society. There is much suffering here this
winter."
"Ah!" indifferently. "Orrin doesn't approve of my attending these
Women's Societies. He says it would unsex me--that he so admires my
thorough womanliness! And, after all, when people can give money to
the collectors and visitors and agents, and all that kind of
nuisance, there is no use in doing anything else. The demands upon
us in the name of charity, are just perfectly awful! I said to
Orrin--dear, generous soul! this very morning--'My sweet love, you
must positively bear in mind that we are not quite made of
money!'"
A photograph upon a handsome easel attracted her attention, and the
eye-glass was on duty.
"Is that a fancy picture, or a portrait?"
"It is a likeness of my sister."
"Indeed! Is she single or married? What is her name?"
"Her name is Eunice Kirke."
"Ah! a spinster! She is a very nice-looking person! As you were
