it, unless there is an urgent necessity for her to enter the 
world's arena." 
"O, mamma! I do not believe there is any danger of 
my becoming a noisy reformer, though I do not think I 
have Jessie's or Nelly's special gift for the small, sweet 
graces of the fireside. But they may come by cultivation. 
You know how I once rebelled against teaching school ; 
but I find now that, in return, it taught me some of my 
grandest lessons. I seem to understand Greta the better 
for having studied other children, and my impulses are not 
so impatient. And I begin to see what the apostle meant 
when he said, 'Tribulation worketh patience, and patience 
experience, and experience hope.' " 
" And I pray the last may bear fruit abundantly with 
you, my dear child," the mother said, kissing the sweet 
young face. 
It was a happy summer. Without demanding anything 
the Ashburtons had been reinstated in their old position. 
Their refinement and culture had in it the ring of true 
gold, and Riverside soon found them one of its chief at- 
tractions. 
Miss Hetty's new house progressed rapidly. Madge and 
Jessie had planned the interior. On the ground floor there 
were three rooms, and above, the same number, with the 
addition of a bath-room. Plain, neat, and convenient, 
quite distinct from the other part, if one chose to shut it 
off. Already Miss Hetty had three inmates, and had found 
it necessary to call in the services of a good strong 
woman. Mrs. Brown had changed her opinion somewhat, 
aided considerably by Mr. Maurice. 
"And I do believe now that she would be willing to 
have me go," said poor Jenny, tremulously. " O, if I only 
could ! " 
"The poor child!" ejaculated Miss Hetty. "She eha), 
come and have a little rest and peace. If you could onlj? 
manage it, Miss Jessie!" 
Jessie did " manage " it very nicely. Mrs. Brown con- 
sidered it a great favor to accede, and confessed that she 
never had any wonderful opinion of such places, as the heads 
of them usually wanted a great deal of glorifying, and she 
nor hers ever had come to charity yet. 
"But if you chose, you might do many things for 
Jenny, there, sending her clothes and food." 
" No, indeed. If she goes, I shall wash my hands of 
the matter," was the tart reply. " If Miss Hetty wants her 
so much, let her take care of her, then." 
So Jenny Yates was removed to pure air, quiet, and 
Cleanliness. For nearly five years she had been disabled, 
first with inflammatory rheumatism, and then partial 
paralysis. Now she was quite helpless, sometimes not 
even having the use of her hands. 
" That crowds me pretty well," said Miss Hetty, " but 
we shall soon be in the new part. But I am glad to take 
her in, for she seems to me like one of the Saviour's ' little 
ones.' And now, my dear, I have something else to tell 
you, which is very odd. Read this letter." 
It was an early summer evening, and they were sitting 
on the wide porch at Home Nook. Miss Hetty drew the 
epistle from her capacious pocket, in which she managed 
to stow away a little of everything, and handed it to 
Jessie. 
The writing was in a delicate, lady-like hand, and the 
 
person told her story very simply ; a widow, past forty, 
with no children or near relatives, and but a era all incom?, 
an incurable invalid. "I listened oue day to a description 
of yourself and the work you were proposing to do," she 
wrote, "and the idea has haunted my mind until it has 
given me courage to speak. I am not a proper subject for 
a hospital, because there is no remedy for my lingering 
diseases nothing but waiting God's time patiently. But 
my income is not large enough to board and keep a nurse, 
and I have often thought that if I could find some home 
for helpless invalids, where T could have care in common 
with others, I might be able to ofier partial remuneration. 
If such an arrangement could be made that, by paying five 
dollars a week, I could secure a quiet home and a little 
religious society, I should be most grateful. In the summer, 
I am able to walk out short distances but in the winter I am 
confined to my room, much of the time to my bed. Think 
over my case, and if it is possible to ofier me any refuge, 
may G-od kindly dispose your heart towards such a work 
of charity." 
" She is a lady, evidently," said Jessie, " and a patient 
Christian woman. But where could she have heard ? " - 
" You know I meant to take in only poor people," was 
Miss Hetty's rather hesitating rejoinder. "A kind of Old 
Ladies' Home, but for the sick as well." 
" Will you allow me to express an opinion ? " asked Mr. 
Graham, with a smile. 
" O, certainly." 
"Mr. Maurice, Mr. Wyverne, and I have been discuss* 
rag your project with the judgment and wider experience 
of men. At present, it is your charity, supported by your 
money ; but we think you are laying the foundation of a 
work too noble to be allowed to perish with your life ; yet: 
in order to outlast you, it must have a permanent organiza- 
tion, and some source of income. I will tell you now that 
Jessie and I mean to endow one room that is, set aside, 
say three hundred dollars, to be paid every year for the 
care of this particular inmate. In the course of time, you 
may have similar donations. And if this person under 
consideration is every way worthy, it certainly would be a 
charity to receive her. Few private families are so situated 
that they could take proper care of an invalid for that 
compensation, while in a place like this it would probably 
pay all the cost. A few such inmates would help in the 
expenses, and in no wise detract from the benevolence of 
your idea." 
Miss Hetty rubbed her eyes in a sort of dazed way, as 
if she had but half understood. 
" My heart went out to the poor thing at once," she ex- 
claimed, " when I read that line where she said she heard 
that I had lost my only relative, an invalid sister." 
" If you like, Jessie and I might visit her." 
" O, that would be so kind ! You see, after all, I have 
not much head for business, except the plainest of figures. 
My house will cost five thousand, and the fitting up perhaps 
a thousand more. After that, I shall have the income of 
about twelve thousand dollars ; so I shall have to manage 
economically. And you are so good to think of " 
" We want an interest in it, you see," with a grave smile. 
" But I believe, when you have your plans all made, that 
some organization will be necessary." 
" You will make me out too grand, I am afraid. After 
all, it is just a home for a few poor, sick people who are 
queer, and a trouble to every one else." 
"A hiding-place in the storm," said Mrs. Ashburton, 
softly. " Dear Miss Hetty, your noble work will shame us 
all." 
" I am sure I could never have put my ideas ,in such 
good order but for you here at Home Nook. It seems to 
me, after all, that the fortune did come just in the right 
time. Poor cousin Bright ! Maybe he knows now how 
good an investment he made for us ; " and Miss Hetty gave 
a sigh to his memory. 
 
Jessie and Mr. Graham went to call upon the new appli- 
cant, Mrs. Farrand, and were much pleased with her. They 
detailed at length the plan of the Home, and that it would 
be most simple in its operations. 
"Everything I hear impresses me more favorably with 
it," she answered. " Let me try it for six months, at least. 
A woman with so large a heart as your Miss Bright could 
not fail to be kind to those under her care ; and that ia 
what we invalids need most of all. A friend of Mr. 
Maurice was explaining the plan to me, and already I 
have taken a great fancy to your clergyman." 
So they promised to let her know the decision by the time 
the building was completed. 
Miss Hetty received several donations towards the fur- 
nishing. Madge had gone into the project with her whole 
soul, and they found Miss Wyverne invaluable. By the 
middle of August it was ready to be put in order, and a 
number of ladies volunteered to assist. 
There were five chambers on the second floor, counting 
the two in the old part. Jenny Yates and Granny Bristow 
shared the room where Madge had once dreamed her 
happy dream and slept in all the unconsciousness of girlish 
love and trust. She never went there without thinking oi 
it, and the fervent gratitude of both women seemed to 
hallow the brief bloom. So she begged that they should 
not be removed. 
Then there was another poor, palsied thing, deserted by 
friends and left to the mercy of strangers. Ah ! how little 
is human love of the immortal, save in favorable circum- 
stances ! Does that, too, bear the bane of the first <??n ? 
Besides these three, a younger woman, in consumption, 
and strong-armed Catharine Day, who could be gertle and 
tender in spite of the gaunt figure and hard-featured face. 
Miss Hetty could hardly have found a better assistant than 
this one who had come of her own accord, and who had 
been a playmate in younger days. 
 
Mrs. Farrand was summoned presently. The second 
floor was devoted to the inmates, for Miss Hetty still clung 
to the room she and Rachel had shared so long. 
They found Jessie's description of Mrs. Farrand not 
overdrawn. A gentle, yet high-minded Christian woman, 
bearing her trials with patience, and grateful as only an 
