make way for her to pass with a jest and blush and flutter; to sit down
at table with her three times a day,--was a potent witchery. There was a
rapture in her shawl flung over the back of a chair; her gloves, lying
light as fallen leaves on the table, and keeping the shape of her hands,
were full of winning character; and all the more unaccountably they
touched his heart because they had a certain careless, sweet shabbiness
about the finger-tips.

He found himself hanging upon her desultory talk with Fanny about the
set of things and the agreement of colors. There was always more or less
of this talk going on, whatever the main topic was, for continual
question arose in the minds of one or other lady concerning those
adaptations of Mrs. Ellison's finery to the exigencies of Kitty's daily
life. They pleased their innocent hearts with the secrecy of the affair,
which, in the concealments it required, the sudden difficulties it
presented, and the guiltless equivocations it inspired, had the
excitement of intrigue. Nothing could have been more to the mind of Mrs.
Ellison than to deck Kitty for this perpetual masquerade; and, since the
things were very pretty, and Kitty was a girl in every motion of her
being, I do not see how anything could have delighted her more than to
wear them. Their talk effervesced with the delicious consciousness that
he could not dream of what was going on, and babbled over with
mysterious jests and laughter, which sometimes he feared to be at his
expense, and so joined in, and made them laugh the more at his
misconception. He went and came among them at will; he had but to tap at
Mrs. Ellison's door, and some voice of unaffected cordiality welcomed
him in; he had but to ask, and Kitty was frankly ready for any of those
strolls about Quebec in which most of their waking hours were dreamed
away.

The gray Lady of the North cast her spell about them,--the freshness of
her mornings, the still heat of her middays, the slant, pensive radiance
of her afternoons, and the pale splendor of her auroral nights. Never
was city so faithfully explored; never did city so abound in objects of
interest; for Kitty's love of the place was boundless, and his love for
her was inevitable friendship with this adoptive patriotism.

"I didn't suppose you Western people cared for these things," he once
said; "I thought your minds were set on things new and square."

"But how could you think so?" replied Kitty, tolerantly. "It's because
we have so many new and square things that we like the old crooked ones.
I do believe I should enjoy Europe even better than you. There's a
forsaken farm-house near Eriecreek, dropping to pieces amongst its
wild-grown sweetbriers and quince-bushes, that I used to think a wonder
of antiquity because it was built in 1815. Can't you imagine how I must
feel in a city like this, that was founded nearly three centuries ago,
and has suffered so many sieges and captures, and looks like pictures of
those beautiful old towns I can never see?"

"O, perhaps you will see them some day!" he said, touched by her fervor.

"I don't ask it at present: Quebec's enough. I'm in love with the place.
I wish I never had to leave it. There isn't a crook, or a turn, or a
tin-roof, or a dormer-window, or a gray stone in it that isn't
precious."

Mr. Arbuton laughed. "Well, you shall be sovereign lady of Quebec for
me. Shall we have the English garrison turned out?"

"No; not unless you can bring back Montcalm's men to take their places."

This might be as they sauntered out of one of the city gates, and
strayed through the Lower Town till they should chance upon some poor,
bare-interiored church, with a few humble worshippers adoring their
Saint, with his lamps alight before his picture; or as they passed some
high convent-wall, and caught the strange, metallic clang of the nuns'
voices singing their hymns within. Sometimes they whiled away the hours
on the Esplanade, breathing its pensive sentiment of neglect and
incipient decay, and pacing up and down over the turf athwart the slim
shadows of the poplars; or, with comfortable indifference to the local
observances, sat in talk on the carriage of one of the burly,
uncared-for guns, while the spider wove his web across the mortar's
mouth, and the grass nodded above the tumbled pyramids of shot, and the
children raced up and down, and the nursery-maids were wooed of the
dapper sergeants, and the red-coated sentry loitered lazily to and fro
before his box. On the days of the music, they listened to the band in
the Governor's Garden, and watched the fine world of the old capital in
flirtation with the blond-whiskered officers; and on pleasant nights
they mingled with the citizen throng that filled the Durham Terrace,
while the river shaped itself in the lights of its shipping, and the
Lower Town, with its lamps, lay, like a nether firmament, two hundred
feet below them, and Point Levis glittered and sparkled on the thither
shore, and in the northern sky the aurora throbbed in swift pulsations
of violet and crimson. They liked to climb the Break-Neck Steps at
Prescott Gate, dropping from the Upper to the Lower Town, which reminded
Mr. Arbuton of Naples and Trieste, and took Kitty with the unassociated
picturesqueness of their odd shops and taverns, and their lofty windows
green with house-plants. They would stop and look up at the geraniums
and fuchsias, and fall a thinking of far different things, and the
friendly, unbusy people would come to their doors and look up with them.
They recognized the handsome, blond young man, and the pretty, gray-eyed
girl; for people in Quebec have time to note strangers who linger there,
and Kitty and Mr. Arbuton had come to be well-known figures, different
from the fleeting tourists on their rounds; and, indeed, as sojourners
they themselves perceived their poetic distinction from mere birds of
passage.

Indoors they resorted much to the little entry-window looking out on the
Ursulines' Garden. Two chairs stood confronted there, and it was hard
for either of the young people to pass them without sinking a moment
into one of them, and this appeared always to charm another presence
into the opposite chair. There they often lingered in the soft
forenoons, talking in desultory phrase of things far and near, or
watching, in long silences, the nuns pacing up and down in the garden
below, and waiting for the pensive, slender nun, and the stout, jolly
nun whom Kitty had adopted, and whom she had gayly interpreted to him as
an allegory of Life in their quaint inseparableness; and they played
that the influence of one or other nun was in the ascendant, according
as their own talk was gay or sad. In their relation, people are not so
different from children; they like the same thing over and over again;
they like it the better the less it is in itself.

At times Kitty would come with a book in her hand (one finger shut in to
keep the place),--some latest novel, or a pirated edition of Longfellow,
recreantly purchased at a Quebec bookstore; and then Mr. Arbuton must
ask to see it; and he read romance or poetry to her by the hour. He
showed to as much advantage as most men do in the serious follies of
wooing; and an influence which he could not defy, or would not, shaped
him to all the sweet, absurd demands of the affair. From time to time,
recollecting himself, and trying to look consequences in the face, he
gently turned the talk upon Eriecreek, and endeavored to possess himself
of some intelligible image of the place, and of Kitty's home and
friends. Even then, the present was so fair and full of content, that
his thoughts, when they reverted to the future, no longer met the
obstacles that had made him recoil from it before. Whatever her past had
been, he could find some way to weaken the ties that bound her to it; a
year or two of Europe would leave no trace of Eriecreek; without effort
of his, her life would adapt itself to his own, and cease to be a part
of the lives of those people there; again and again his amiable
imaginations--they were scarcely intents--accomplished themselves in
many a swift, fugitive revery, while the days went by, and the shadow of
the ivy in the window at which they sat fell, in moonlight and sunlight,
upon Kitty's cheeks, and the fuchsia kissed her hair with its purple and
crimson blossom.




X.

MR. ARBUTON SPEAKS.


Mrs. Ellison was almost well; she had already been shopping twice in the
Rue Fabrique, and her recovery was now chiefly retarded by the
dress-maker's delays in making up a silk too precious to be risked in
the piece with the customs officers, at the frontier. Moreover, although
the colonel was beginning to chafe, she was not loath to linger yet a
few days for the sake of an affair to which her suffering had been a
willing sacrifice. In return for her indefatigable self-devotion, Kitty
had lately done very little. She ungratefully shrunk more and more from
those confidences to which her cousin's speeches covertly invited; she
openly resisted open attempts upon her knowledge of facts. If she was
not prepared to confess everything to Fanny, it was perhaps because it
was all so very little, or because a young girl has not, or ought not to
have, a mind in certain matters, or else knows it not, till it is asked
her by the one first authorized to learn it. The dream in which she
lived was flattering and fair; and it wholly contented her imagination
while it lulled her consciousness. It moved from phase to phase without
the harshness of reality, and was apparently allied neither to the
future nor to the past. She herself seemed to have no more fixity or
responsibility in it than the heroine of a romance.

As their last week in Quebec drew to its close, only two or three things
remained for them to do, as tourists; and chief among the few unvisited
shrines of sentiment was the site of the old Jesuit mission at Sillery.

"It won't do not to see that, Kitty," said Mrs. Ellison, who, as usual,
had arranged the details of the excursion, and now announced them. "It's
one of the principal things here, and your Uncle Jack would never be
satisfied if you missed it. In fact, it's a shame to have left it so
long. I can't go with you, for I'm saving up my strength for our picnic
at Château-Bigot to-morrow; and I want you, Kitty, to see that the
colonel sees everything. I've had trouble enough, goodness knows,
getting the facts together for him." This was as Kitty and Mr. Arbuton
sat waiting in Mrs. Ellison's parlor for the delinquent colonel, who had
just stepped round to the Hôtel St. Louis and was to be back presently.
But the moment of his return passed; a quarter-hour of grace; a
half-hour of grim magnanimity,--and still no colonel. Mrs. Ellison began
