“button-holed” Congressmen in the interest of the Columbus River scheme;
meantime Senator Dilworthy labored hard in the same interest--and in
others of equal national importance. Harry wrote frequently to Sellers,
and always encouragingly; and from these letters it was easy to see that
Harry was a pet with all Washington, and was likely to carry the thing
through; that the assistance rendered him by “old Dilworthy” was pretty
fair--pretty fair; “and every little helps, you know,” said Harry.

Washington wrote Sellers officially, now and then. In one of his letters
it appeared that whereas no member of the House committee favored the
scheme at first, there was now needed but one more vote to compass a
majority report. Closing sentence:

“Providence seems to further our efforts.” (Signed,) “ABNER DILWORTHY,
U. S. S.,

per WASHINGTON HAWKINS, P. S.”

At the end of a week, Washington was able to send the happy news,
officially, as usual,--that the needed vote had been added and the bill
favorably reported from the Committee. Other letters recorded its perils
in Committee of the whole, and by and by its victory, by just the skin
of its teeth, on third reading and final passage. Then came letters
telling of Mr. Dilworthy’s struggles with a stubborn majority in his own
Committee in the Senate; of how these gentlemen succumbed, one by one,
till a majority was secured.

Then there was a hiatus. Washington watched every move on the board,
and he was in a good position to do this, for he was clerk of this
committee, and also one other. He received no salary as private
secretary, but these two clerkships, procured by his benefactor, paid
him an aggregate of twelve dollars a day, without counting the twenty
percent extra compensation which would of course be voted to him on the
last night of the session.

He saw the bill go into Committee of the whole and struggle for its life
again, and finally worry through. In the fullness of time he noted its
second reading, and by and by the day arrived when the grand ordeal
came, and it was put upon its final passage. Washington listened with
bated breath to the “Aye!” “No!” “No!” “Aye!” of the voters, for a few
dread minutes, and then could bear the suspense no longer. He ran down
from the gallery and hurried home to wait.

At the end of two or three hours the Senator arrived in the bosom of
his family, and dinner was waiting. Washington sprang forward, with the
eager question on his lips, and the Senator said:

“We may rejoice freely, now, my son--Providence has crowned our efforts
with success.”

CHAPTER XXV.

Washington sent grand good news to Col. Sellers that night. To Louise he
wrote:

“It is beautiful to hear him talk when his heart is full of thankfulness
for some manifestation of the Divine favor. You shall know him, some day
my Louise, and knowing him you will honor him, as I do.”

Harry wrote:

“I pulled it through, Colonel, but it was a tough job, there is no
question about that. There was not a friend to the measure in the House
committee when I began, and not a friend in the Senate committee except
old Dil himself, but they were all fixed for a majority report when I
hauled off my forces. Everybody here says you can’t get a thing like
this through Congress without buying committees for straight-out cash on
delivery, but I think I’ve taught them a thing or two--if I could only
make them believe it. When I tell the old residenters that this thing
went through without buying a vote or making a promise, they say,
‘That’s rather too thin.’ And when I say thin or not thin it’s a fact,
anyway, they say, ‘Come, now, but do you really believe that?’ and when
I say I don’t believe anything about it, I know it, they smile and
say, ‘Well, you are pretty innocent, or pretty blind, one or the
other--there’s no getting around that.’ Why they really do believe that
votes have been bought--they do indeed. But let them keep on thinking
so. I have found out that if a man knows how to talk to women, and has
a little gift in the way of argument with men, he can afford to play for
an appropriation against a money bag and give the money bag odds in
the game. We’ve raked in $200,000 of Uncle Sam’s money, say what they
will--and there is more where this came from, when we want it, and I
rather fancy I am the person that can go in and occupy it, too, if I do
say it myself, that shouldn’t, perhaps. I’ll be with you within a week.
Scare up all the men you can, and put them to work at once. When I get
there I propose to make things hum.”

The great news lifted Sellers into the clouds. He went to work on the
instant. He flew hither and thither making contracts, engaging men, and
steeping his soul in the ecstasies of business. He was the happiest man
in Missouri. And Louise was the happiest woman; for presently came a
letter from Washington which said:

“Rejoice with me, for the long agony is over! We have waited patiently
and faithfully, all these years, and now at last the reward is at hand.
A man is to pay our family $40,000 for the Tennessee Land! It is but a
little sum compared to what we could get by waiting, but I do so long
to see the day when I can call you my own, that I have said to myself,
better take this and enjoy life in a humble way than wear out our best
days in this miserable separation. Besides, I can put this money into
operations here that will increase it a hundred fold, yes, a thousand
fold, in a few months. The air is full of such chances, and I know our
family would consent in a moment that I should put in their shares with
mine. Without a doubt we shall be worth half a million dollars in a year
from this time--I put it at the very lowest figure, because it is
always best to be on the safe side--half a million at the very lowest
calculation, and then your father will give his consent and we can marry
at last. Oh, that will be a glorious day. Tell our friends the good
news--I want all to share it.”

And she did tell her father and mother, but they said, let it be
kept still for the present. The careful father also told her to write
Washington and warn him not to speculate with the money, but to wait a
little and advise with one or two wise old heads. She did this. And she
managed to keep the good news to herself, though it would seem that the
most careless observer might have seen by her springing step and her
radiant countenance that some fine piece of good fortune had descended
upon her.

Harry joined the Colonel at Stone’s Landing, and that dead place sprang
into sudden life. A swarm of men were hard at work, and the dull air
was filled with the cheery music of labor. Harry had been constituted
engineer-in-general, and he threw the full strength of his powers into
his work. He moved among his hirelings like a king. Authority seemed to
invest him with a new splendor. Col. Sellers, as general superintendent
of a great public enterprise, was all that a mere human being could
be--and more. These two grandees went at their imposing “improvement”
 with the air of men who had been charged with the work of altering the
foundations of the globe.

They turned their first attention to straightening the river just above
the Landing, where it made a deep bend, and where the maps and plans
showed that the process of straightening would not only shorten distance
but increase the “fall.” They started a cut-off canal across the
peninsula formed by the bend, and such another tearing up of the earth
and slopping around in the mud as followed the order to the men, had
never been seen in that region before. There was such a panic among
the turtles that at the end of six hours there was not one to be found
within three miles of Stone’s Landing. They took the young and the aged,
the decrepit and the sick upon their backs and left for tide-water
in disorderly procession, the tadpoles following and the bull-frogs
bringing up the rear.

Saturday night came, but the men were obliged to wait, because the
appropriation had not come. Harry said he had written to hurry up the
money and it would be along presently. So the work continued, on Monday.
Stone’s Landing was making quite a stir in the vicinity, by this time.
Sellers threw a lot or two on the market, “as a feeler,” and they sold
well. He re-clothed his family, laid in a good stock of provisions, and
still had money left. He started a bank account, in a small way--and
mentioned the deposit casually to friends; and to strangers, too; to
everybody, in fact; but not as a new thing--on the contrary, as a matter
of life-long standing. He could not keep from buying trifles every day
that were not wholly necessary, it was such a gaudy thing to get out his
bank-book and draw a check, instead of using his old customary formula,
“Charge it!” Harry sold a lot or two, also--and had a dinner party or
two at Hawkeye and a general good time with the money. Both men held on
pretty strenuously for the coming big prices, however.

At the end of a month things were looking bad. Harry had besieged the
New York headquarters of the Columbus River Slack-water Navigation
Company with demands, then commands, and finally appeals, but to no
purpose; the appropriation did not come; the letters were not even
answered. The workmen were clamorous, now. The Colonel and Harry retired
to consult.

“What’s to be done?” said the Colonel.

“Hang’d if I know.”

“Company say anything?”

“Not a word.”

“You telegraphed yesterday?”

“Yes, and the day before, too.”

“No answer?”

“None-confound them!”
