extremely that Mr. F---- had gone off and left the pantry locked up, so
that she could not get us any supper; we being faint and almost famished
with our day's sail. The sight of a white baby dressed in delicate white
robes, with lace and embroidery, also appeared greatly to excite her;
and she stalked round and round with a curious simmer of giggle,
appearing and disappearing at uncertain intervals, like a black sprite,
during the mortal hour and a half that it cost our friends to land the
goods from the vessel.
After a while, some supper was got for us in a wide, desolate apartment,
fitted up with a small cooking-stove in the corner.
Never shall we forget the experience of endeavoring to improvise a
corn-cake the next morning for breakfast.
We went into the room, and found the table standing just as we had left
it the night before,--not a dish washed, not a thing done in the way of
clearing. On inquiry for Minnah, she was gone out to milking. It
appeared that there were sixteen cows to be milked before her return. A
little colored girl stood ready to wait on us with ample good nature.
"Lizzie," said we, "have you corn-meal?"
"Oh, yes'm!" and she brought it just as the corn had been ground, with
the bran unsifted.
"A sieve, Lizzie."
It was brought.
"A clean pan, Lizzie. Quick!"
"All right," said Lizzie: "let me get a pail of water." The water was to
be drawn from a deep well in the yard. That done, Lizzie took a pan,
went out the door, produced a small bit of rag, and rinsed the pan,
dashing the contents upon the sand.
"Lizzie, haven't you any dish-cloth?"
"No'm."
"No towels?"
"No'm."
"Do you always wash dishes this way?"
"Yes'm."
"Well, then, wash this spoon and these two bake-pans."
Lizzie, good-natured and zealous as the day is long, bent over her pail,
and slopped and scrubbed with her bit of rag.
"Now for a pan of sour milk," said we.
It was brought, with saleratus and other condiments; and the cake was
made.
But, on examination, the flues of the little cooking-stove were so
choked with the resinous soot of the "light-wood" which had been used in
it, that it would scarcely draw at all; and the baking did not progress
as in our nice Stuart stove in our Northern home. Still the whole
experience was so weirdly original, that, considering this was only a
picnic excursion, we rather enjoyed it.
When we came to unpack china and crockery and carpets, bureau and
bedsteads and dressing-glass, Minnah's excitement knew no bounds.
Evidently she considered these articles (cast-off remnants of our
Northern home) as the height of splendor.
When our upper chamber was matted, and furnished with white curtains and
shades, and bed, chairs, and dressing-glass, Minnah came in to look;
and her delight was boundless.
"Dear me! O Lord, O Lord!" she exclaimed, turning round and round. "Dese
yer Northern ladies--they hes every thing, and they does every thing!"
More especially was she taken with the pictures we hung on the walls.
Before one of these (Raphael's Madonna of the Veil) Minnah knelt down in
a kind of ecstatic trance, and thus delivered herself:--
"O good Lord! if there ain't de Good Man when he was a baby! How
harmless he lies there! so innocent! And here we be, we wicked sinners,
turning our backs on him, and going to the Old Boy. O Lord, O Lord! we
ought to be better than we be: we sartin ought."
This invocation came forth with streaming tears in the most natural way
in the world; and Minnah seemed, for the time being, perfectly subdued.
It is only one of many instances we have seen of the overpowering
influence of works of art on the impressible nervous system of the
negro.
But it is one thing to have an amusing and picturesque specimen of a
human being, as Minnah certainly was, and another to make one useful in
the traces of domestic life.
As the first white ladies upon the ground, Mrs. F---- and myself had the
task of organizing this barbaric household, and of bringing it into the
forms of civilized life. We commenced with the washing.
Before the time of our coming, it had been customary for the gentlemen
to give their washing into the hands of Minnah or Judy, to be done at
such times and in such form and manner as best suited them.
The manner which did suit them best was to put all the articles to
soak indefinitely, in soapsuds, till such time as to them seemed good.
On being pressed for some particular article, and roundly scolded by any
of the proprietors, they would get up a shirt, a pair of drawers, a
collar or two, with abundant promises for the rest when they had time.
The helpless male individuals of the establishments had no refuge from
the feminine ruses and expedients, and the fifty incontrovertible
reasons which were always on hand to prove to them that things could be
done no other way than just as they were done; and, in fact, found it
easier to get their washing back again by blandishments than by
bullying.
We ladies announced a regular washing-day, and endeavored to explain it
to our kitchen cabinet; our staff consisting of Minnah and Judy,
detailed for house-service.
Judy was a fat, lazy, crafty, roly-poly negress, the Florida wife of the
foreman Mose, and devoted to his will and pleasure in hopes to supplant
the "Virginny" and "Carliny" wives. Judy said yes to every thing we
proposed; but Minnah was "kinky" and argumentative: but finally, when we
represented to her that the proposed arrangement was customary in good
Northern society, she gave her assent.
We first proceeded to make a barrel of soda washing-soap in a great iron
sugar-kettle, which stood out under the fig-trees, and which had
formerly been used for evaporating sugar.
Minnah took the greatest interest in the operation, and, when the soap
was finished, took the boiling liquid in pailfuls, setting them on the
top of her head, and marching off to the barrel in the house with them,
without ever lifting a finger.
We screamed after her in horror,--
"Minnah, Minnah! If that should fall, it would kill you!"
A laugh of barbaric exultation was the only response, as she actually
persisted in carrying pailful after pailful of scalding soap on her head
till all was disposed of.
The next day the washing was all brought out under the trees and sorted,
Mrs. F---- and myself presiding; and soon Minnah and Judy were briskly
engaged at their respective tubs. For half an hour, "all went merry as a
marriage-bell." Judy was about half through her first tubful, when Mose
came back from his morning turn in the fields, and summoned her to come
home and get his breakfast. With Judy's very leisurely and promiscuous
habits of doing business, this took her away for half the forenoon.
Meanwhile, Minnah murmured excessively at being left alone, and more
especially at the continuous nature of the task.
Such a heap of clothes to be washed all in one day! It was a mountain
of labor in Minnah's imagination; and it took all our eloquence and our
constant presence to keep her in good humor. We kept at Minnah as the
only means of keeping her at her work.
But, after all, it was no bad picnic to spend a day in the open air in
the golden spring-time of Florida. The birds were singing from every
covert; the air was perfectly intoxicating in its dreamy softness; and
so we spread a camp for the baby, who was surrounded by a retinue of
little giggling, adoring negroes, and gave ourselves up to the amusement
of the scene. Our encampment was under the broad leaves of a group of
fig-trees; and we hung our clothes to dry on the sharp thorns of a
gigantic clump of Yucca gloriosa, which made an admirable clothes-frame.
By night, with chuckling admiration, Minnah surveyed a great basketful
of clean clothes,--all done in one day.
The next day came the lesson on ironing; and the only means of securing
Minnah and Judy to constant work at the ironing-table was the exercise
of our own individual powers of entertainment and conversation. We had
our own table, and ironed with them; and all went well till Judy
remembered she had preparations for Mose's dinner, and deserted. Minnah
kept up some time longer; till finally, when we went in the next room on
an errand, she improved the opportunity to desert. On returning, we saw
Minnah's place vacant, a half-finished shirt lying drying on the table.
Searching and calling, we at last discovered her far in the distance,
smoking her pipe, and lolling tranquilly over the fence of a small
enclosure where were sixteen calves shut up together, so that maternal
longings might bring the cow mothers home to them at night.
"Why, Minnah, what are you doing?" we said as we came up breathless.
"Laws, missis, I wanted to feed my calves. I jest happened to think
on't." And forthwith she turned, started to the barn, and came back with
a perfect hay-mow on her head. Then, crossing the fence into the
enclosure, she proceeded to make division of the same among the calves,
who tumultuously surrounded her. She patted one, and cuffed another, and
labored in a most maternal style to make them share their commons
equally; laughing in full content of heart, and appearing to have
forgotten her ironing-table and all about it.
It was in vain to talk. "She was tired ironing. Did anybody ever hear of
doing up all one's things in a day? Besides, she wanted to see her
calves: she felt just like it." And Minnah planted her elbows on the
fence, and gazed and smoked and laughed, and talked baby-talk to her
calves, till we were quite provoked; yet we could not help laughing. In
fact, long before that day was done, we were out of breath, used up and
exhausted with the strain of getting the work out of Minnah. It was the
more tantalizing, as she could do with a fair amount of skill any
thing she pleased, and could easily have done the whole in a day had she
chosen.
It is true, she was droll enough, in a literary and artistic view, to
make one's fortune in a magazine or story; but, when one had a house to
manage, a practical humorist is less in point than in some other places.
The fact was, Minnah, like all other women bred to the fields,
abominated housework like a man. She could do here and there, and by
fits and starts and snatches; but to go on in any thing like a regular
domestic routine was simply disgusting in her eyes. So, after a short
period of struggle, it was agreed that Minnah was to go back to
field-work, where she was one of the most valuable hands; and a trained
house-servant was hired from Jacksonville.
Minnah returned to the field with enthusiasm. We heard her swinging her
long arms, and shouting to her gang, "Come on, den, boys and gals! I'm
for the fields! I was born, I was raised, I was fairly begot, in de
fields; and I don't want none o' your housework."
In time we obtained a cook from Jacksonville, trained, accomplished,
neat, who made beautiful bread, biscuit, and rolls, and was a comfort to
our souls.
But this phoenix was soon called for by the wants of the time, and was
worth more than we could give, and went from us to enjoy forty dollars
