boots. But it's all changed now; plenty staterooms 
above, no harvesters below — there’s a patent self- 
binder now, and they don’t have harvesters any more; 
they’ve gone where the woodbine twineth — and they 
didn’t go by steamboat, either; went by the train.” 
Up in this region we met massed acres of lumber 
rafts coming down — but not floating leisurely along, 
in the old-fashioned way, manned with joyous and 
reckless crews of fiddling, song-singing, whisky-drink- 
ing, breakdown-dancing rapscallions; no, the whole 
thing was shoved swiftly along by a powerful stern- 
wheeler, modern fashion; and the small crews were 
quiet, orderly men, of a sedate business aspect, with not 
a suggestion of romance about them anywhere. 
Along here, somewhere, on a black night, we ran 
some exceedingly narrow and intricate island-chutes by 
aid of the electric light. Behind was solid blackness — 
a crackless bank of it; ahead, a narrow elbow of water, 
curving between dense walls of foliage that almost 
touched our bows on both sides ; and here every indi- 
vidual leaf, and every individual ripple stood out in its 
natural color, and flooded with a glare as of noonday 
intensified. The effect was strange and fine, and very 
striking. 
We passed Prairie du Chien, another of Father 
Marquette’s camping-places; and after some hours of 
progress through varied and beautiful scenery, reached 
La Crosse. Here is a town of twelve or thirteen thousand 
population, with electric-lighted streets, and 
blocks of buildings which are stately enough, and also 
architecturally fine enough to command respect in any 
city. It is a choice town, and we made satisfactory 
use of the hour allowed us, in roaming it over, though 
the weather was rainier than necessary. 
CHAPTER LIX. 
LEGENDS AND SCENERY 
W E added several passengers to our list at La 
Crosse; among others an old gentleman who 
had come to this Northwestern region with the early 
settlers, and was familiar with every part of it. Par- 
donably proud of it, too. He said : 
“ You’ll find scenery between here and St. Paul that 
can give the Hudson points. You’ll have the Queen’s 
Bluff — seven hundred feet high, and just as imposing 
a spectacle as you can find anywheres ; and Trempe- 
leau Island, which isn’t like any other island in 
America, I believe, for it is a gigantic mountain, with 
precipitous sides, and is full of Indian traditions, and 
used to be full of rattlesnakes ; if you catch the sun 
just right there, you will have a picture that will stay 
with you. And above Winona you’ll have lovely 
prairies; and then come the Thousand Islands, too 
beautiful for anything. Green? Why, you never saw 
foliage so green, nor packed so thick; it’s like a 
thousand plush cushions afloat on a looking-glass — 
when the water’s still; and then the monstrous bluffs 
on both sides of the river — ragged, rugged, dark- 
complected — just the frame that’s wanted ; you always 
want a strong frame, you know, to throw up the nice 
points of a delicate picture and make them stand out.” 
The old gentleman also told us a touching Indian 
legend or two — but not very powerful ones. 
After this excursion into history, he came back to 
the scenery, and described it, detail by detail, from 
the Thousand Islands to St. Paul; naming its names 
with such facility, tripping along his theme with such 
nimble and confident ease, slamming in a three-ton 
word, here and there, with such a complacent air 
of ’tisn’t-anythingj-I-can-do-it-any-time-I-want-to, and 
letting off fine surprises of lurid eloquence at such 
judicious intervals, that I presently began to sus- 
pect — 
But no matter what I began to suspect. Hear him : 
“Ten miles above Winona we come to Fountain 
City, nestling sweetly at the feet of cliffs that lift their 
awful fronts, Jove-like, toward the blue depths of 
heaven, bathing them in virgin atmospheres that have 
known no other contact save that of angels' wings. 
“And next we glide through silver waters, amid 
lovely and stupendous aspects of nature that attune 
our hearts to adoring admiration, about twelve miles, 
and strike Mount Vernon, six hundred feet high, with 
romantic ruins of a once first-class hotel perched far 
among the cloud shadows that mottle its dizzy heights 
— sole remnant of once-flourishing Mount Vernon, 
town of early days, now desolate and utterly deserted. 
“And so we move on. Past Chimney Rock we 
fly — noble shaft of six hundred feet; then just before 
landing at Minnieska our attention is attracted by a 
most* striking promontory rising over five hundred 
feet — the ideal mountain pyramid. Its conic shape, 
thickly-wooded surface girding its sides, and its apex 
like that of a cone, cause the spectator to wonder at 
nature’s workings. From its dizzy heights superb 
views of the forests, streams, bluffs, hills, and dales, 
below and beyond for miles, are brought within its 
focus. What grander river scenery can be conceived, 
as we gaze upon this enchanting landscape, from the 
uppermost point of these bluffs upon the valleys 
below? The primeval wildness and awful loneliness 
of these sublime creations of nature and nature's God, 
excite feelings of unbounded admiration, and the 
recollection of which can never be effaced from the memory, 
as we view them in any direction. 
“ Next we have the Lion's Head and the Lioness's 
Head, carved by nature's hand, to adorn and dominate 
the beauteous stream : and then anon the river widens, 
and a most charming and magnificent view of the valley 
before us suddenly bursts upon our vision; rugged 
hills, clad with verdant forests from summit to base, 
level prairie lands, holding in their lap the beautiful 
Wabasha, City of the Healing Waters, puissant foe of 
Bright's disease, and that grandest conception of 
nature's works, incomparable Lake Pepin — these con- 
stitute a picture whereon the tourist's eye may gaze 
uncounted hours, with rapture unappeased and unap- 
peasable. 
“And so we glide along: in due time encountering 
those majestic domes, the mighty Sugar Loaf, and the 
sublime Maiden's Rock — which latter, romantic super- 
stition has invested with a voice ; and ofttimes as the 
birch canoe glides near, at twilight, the dusky paddler 
fancies he hears the soft sweet music of the long- 
departed Winona, darling of Indian song and story. 
“Then Frontenac looms upon our vision, delightful 
resort of jaded summer tourists ; then progressive Red 
Wing; and Diamond Bluff, impressive and preponder- 
ous in its lone sublimity; then Prescott and the St. 
Croix ; and anon we see bursting upon us the domes 
and steeples of St. Paul, giant young chief of the 
North, marching with seven-league stride in the van of 
progress, banner-bearer of the highest and newest 
civilization, carving his beneficent way with the toma- 
hawk of commercial enterprise, sounding the war- 
whoop of Christian culture, tearing off the reeking 
scalp of sloth and superstition to plant there the 
steam-plow and the school-house — ever in his front 
stretch arid lawlessness, ignorance, crime, despair: 
ever in his wake bloom the jail, the gallows, and the 
pulpit; and ever ” 
“ Have you ever traveled with a panorama ?” 
“ I have formerly served in that capacity * 
My suspicion was confirmed. 
“ Do you still travel with it?” 
" No, she is laid up till the fall season opens. J am 
helping now to work up the materials for a Tourist's 
Guide which the St. Louis and St. Paul Packet Com- 
pany are going to issue this summer for the benefit of 
travelers who go by that line.” 
“When you were talking of Maiden’s Rock, you 
spoke of the long-departed Winona, darling of Indian 
song and story. Is she the maiden of the rock? — 
and are the two connected by legend?” 
“Yes, and a very tragic and painful one. Perhaps 
the most celebrated, as well as the most pathetic, of 
all the legends of the Mississippi.” 
We asked him to tell it. He dropped out of his 
conversational vein and back into his lecture gait with- 
out an effort, and rolled on as follows : 
“ A little distance above Lake City is a famous point 
known as Maiden's Rock, which is not only a pic- 
turesque spot, but is full of romantic interest from the 
event which gave it its name. Not many years ago 
this locality was a favorite resort for the Sioux Indians 
on account of the fine fishing and hunting to be had 
there, and large numbers of them were always to be 
found in this locality. Among the families which used 
to resort here was one belonging to the tribe of 
Wabasha. We-no-na (first-born) was the name of a 
maiden who had plighted her troth to a lover belonging 
to the same band. But her stern parents had promised 
her hand to another, a famous warrior, and insisted on 
her wedding him. The day was fixed by her parents, 
to her great grief. She appeared to accede to the 
proposal and accompanied them to the rock, for the 
purpose of gathering flowers for the feast. On reach- 
ing the rock, We-no-na ran to its summit, and, stand- 
ing on its edge, upbraided her parents who were 
below, for their cruelty, and then, singing a death- 
dirge, threw herself from the precipice and dashed 
