was dead ? Or was he going to say, " I have 
heard that you love me, but I don 't bslieve it : is it 
true ? " 
He pushed on to Providence, stifling these antic 
misgivings as he might, and without allowing him 
self time to falter from his intent, he set out to find 
Mrs. Vervain's house. He knew the street and the 
number, for she had often given him the address in 
her invitations against the time when he should re 
turn to America. As he drew near the house a 
tender trepidation filled him and silenced all other 
senses in him ; his heart beat thickly ; the universe 
included only the fact that he was to look upon the 
face he loved, and this fact had neither past nor 
future. 
But a terrible foreboding as of death seized him 
when he stood before the house, and glanced up at 
its close-shuttered front, and round upon the dusty 
grass-plots and neglected flower-beds of the door- 
yard. With a cold hand he rang and rang again, 
and no answer came. At last a man lounged up to 
the fence from the next house-door. " Guess you 
won 't make anybody hear," he said, casually. 
" Does n t Mrs. Vervain live in this house ? " 
asked Ferris, finding a husky voice in his throat 
that sounded to him like some other's voice lost 
there. 
" She used to, but she isn 't  at home. Family's 
in Europe." 
 
They had not corne back yet. 
" Thanks," said Ferris mechanically, and he went 
away. He laughed to himself at this keen irony of 
fortune ; he was prepared for the confirmation of his 
doubts ; he was ready for relief from them, Heaven 
knew ; but this blank that the turn of the wheel 
had brought, this Nothing ! 
The Vervains were as lost to him as if Europe 
were in another planet. How should he find them 
there ? Besides, he was poor ; he had no money to 
get back with, if he had wanted to return. 
He took the first train to New York, and hunted 
up a young fellow -of his acquaintance, who in the 
days of peace had been one of the governor's aides. 
He was still holding this place, and was an ardent 
recruiter. He hailed with rapture the expression of 
Ferris's wish to go into the war. " Look here ! " 
he said after a moment's thought, " didn 't you 
have some rank as a consul ? " 
" Yes," replied Ferris with a dreary smile, " I 
have been equivalent to a commander in the navy 
and a colonel in the army I don 't mean both, but 
either." 
" Good ! " cried his friend. " We must strike 
high. The colonelcies are rather inaccessible, just 
at present, and so are the lieutenant- colonelcies ; 
but a majorship, now " . . . . 
" Oh no ; don 't ! " pleaded Ferris. u Make me 
a corporal or a cook. I shall not be so mischiev 
ous to our own side, then, and when the other fel 
lows shoot me. T shall not be so much of a loss." 
 
" Oh, they won 't shoot you," expostulated his 
friend, high-heartedly. He got Ferris a commission 
as second lieutenant, and lent him money to buy a 
uniform. 
Ferris's regiment was sent to a part of the south 
west, where he saw a good deal of fighting and 
fever and ague. At the end of two years, spent al 
ternately in the field and the hospital, he was riding 
out near the camp one morning in unusual spirits, 
when two men in butternut fired at him : one had 
the mortification to miss him; the bullet of the 
other struck him in the arm. There was talk of 
amputation at first, but the case was finally man 
aged without, In Ferris's state of health it was 
O 
quite the same an end of his soldiering. 
He came North sick and maimed and poor. He 
smiled now to think of confronting Florida in any 
imperative or challenging spirit ; but the current of 
his hopeless melancholy turned more and more 
towards her. He had once, at a desperate venture, 
written to her at Providence, but he had got no an 
swer. He asked of a Providence man among the 
artists in New York, if he knew the Vervains ; the 
Providence man said that he did know them a little 
when he was much younger ; they had been abroad 
a great deal ; he believed in a dim way that they 
were still in Europe. The young one, he added, 
used to have a temper of her own. 
" Indeed ! " said Ferris stiffly. 
 
. The one fast friend whom he found in New York 
was the governor's dashing aide. The enthusiasm 
of this recruiter of regiments had not ceased with 
Ferris's departure for the front ; the number of dis 
abled officers forbade him to lionize any one of 
them, but he befriended Ferris ; he made a feint of 
discovering the open secret of his poverty, and 
asked how he could help him. 
" I don 't know," said Ferris, " it looks like a 
hopeless case, to me." 
" Oh no it is n t," retorted his friend, as cheer 
fully and confidently as he had promised him that 
he should not be shot. " didn 't you bring back 
any pictures from Venice with you ? " 
"I brought back a lot of sketches and studies. 
I'm sorry to say that I loafed a good deal there ; 
I used to feel that I had eternity before me ; and I 
was a theorist and a purist and an idiot generally. 
There are none of them fit to be seen." 
" Never mind ; let's look at them." 
They hunted out Ferris's property from a catch- 
all closet in the studio of a sculptor with whom he 
had left them, and who expressed a polite pleasure 
in handing them over to Ferris rather than to his 
heirs and assigns. 
" Well, I'm not sure that I share your satisfac 
tion, old fellow," said the painter ruefully; but he 
unpacked the sketches. 
Their inspection certainly revealed a dishearten 
ing condition of half-work. " And I can 't do any- 
A FOREGONE CONCLUSION. 
thing to help the matter for the present," groaned 
Ferris, stopping midway in the business, and mak 
ing as if to shut the case again. 
"Hold on," said his friend. "What's this? 
Why, this isn 't  so bad." It was the study of Don 
Ippolito as a Venetian priest, which Ferris beheld 
with a stupid amaze, remembering that he had 
meant to destroy it, and wondering how it had got 
where it was, but not really caring much. " It's 
worse than you can imagine," said he, still looking 
at it with this apathy. 
" No matter ; I want you to sell it to me. 
Come ! " 
" I can 't ! " replied Ferris piteously. " It would 
be flat burglary." 
" Then put it into the exhibition." 
The sculptor, who had gone back to scraping the 
chin of the famous public man on whose bust he 
was at work, stabbed him to the heart with his 
modeling-tool, and turned to Ferris and his friend. 
He slanted his broad red beard for a sidelong look 
at the picture, and said : " I know what you mean, 
Ferris. It's hard, and it's feeble in some ways ; 
and it looks a little too much like experimenting. 
But it isn 't  so infernally bad." 
" don 't be fulsome," responded Ferris, jadedly. 
He was thinking in a thoroughly vanquished mood 
what a tragico-comic end of the whole business it 
was that poor Don Ippolito should come to his 
rescue in this fashion, and as it were offer to succor 
A FOREGONE CONCLUSION. 
him in his extremity. He perceived the shamefu.- 
ness of suffering such help ; it would be much better 
to starve ; but he felt cowed, and he had not cour 
age to take arms against this sarcastic destiny, 
which had pursued him with a mocking smile from 
one lower level to another. He rubbed his fore 
head and brooded upon the picture. At least it 
would be some comfort to be rid of it ; and Don 
Ippolito was dead ; and to whom could it mean 
more than the face of it ? 
His friend had his way about framing it, and it 
was got into the exhibition. The hanging-com 
mittee offered it the hospitalities of an obscure cor 
ner ; but it was there, and it stood its chance. No 
body seemed to know that it was there, however, 
unless confronted with it by Ferris's friend, and 
then no one seemed to care for it, much less want 
to buy it. Ferris saw so many much worse pic 
tures sold all around it, that he began gloomily to 
respect it. At first it had shocked him to see it on 
the Academy's wall ; but it soon came to have no 
other relation to him than that of creatureship, like 
a poem in which a poet celebrates his love or la 
ments his dead, and sells for a price. His pride as 
well as his poverty was set on having the picture 
