is pre-eminent, in spite of a neglect of sanitary regulations which
would not be endured one day in the villages of the North.
Passing through the old gateway, we came out upon the Shell Road, the
grand boulevard of the future, as yet but a few yards in length.
“They make about ten feet a year,” said John; “and when they are at
work, all I can say unto you is, ‘Beware!’ You suppose it is a load of
empty shells they are throwing down; but no. Have they time, forsooth,
to take out the oysters, these hard-pressed workmen of St. Augustine? By
no means; and so down they go, oysters and all, and the road makes known
its extension on the evening breezes.”
The soft moonlight lay on the green waste beyond the gates, lighting up
the North River and its silver sand-hills. The old fort loomed up dark
and frowning, but the moonlight shone through its ruined turrets, and
only the birds of the night kept watch on its desolate battlements. The
city lay behind us. It had never dared to stretch much beyond the old
gates, and the few people who did live outside were spoken of as very
far off--a sort of Bedouins of the desert encamping temporarily on the
green. As we went on the moonlight lighted up the white head-stones of a
little cemetery on the left side of the road.
“This is one of the disappointing cemeteries that was ‘nothing to speak
of,’ I suppose,” said Sara.
“It is the Protestant cemetery,” replied John, “remarkable only for its
ugliness and the number of inscriptions telling the same sad story of
strangers in a strange land--persons brought here in quest of health
from all parts of the country, only to die far away from home.”
“Where is the old Huguenot burying-ground?” asked Aunt Di.
“The Huguenots, poor fellows, never had a burying-ground, nor so much
even as a burying, as far as I can learn,” said Sara.
“But there is one somewhere,” pursued Aunt Di. “I have heard it
described as a spot of much interest.”
“That has been a standing item for years in all the Florida
guide-books,” said John, “systematically repeated in the latest
editions. They will give up a good deal, but that cherished Huguenot
cemetery they must and will retain. The Huguenots, poor fellows, as Miss
St. John says, never had a cemetery here, and it is only within
comparatively modern times that there has been any Protestant cemetery
whatever. Formerly the bodies of all persons not Romanists were sent
across to the island for sepulture.”
The Shell Road having come to an end, we walked on in the moonlight, now
on little grass patches, now in the deep sand, passing a ruined stone
wall, all that was left of a pleasant home, destroyed, like many other
outlying residences, during the war. The myrtle thickets along the
road-side were covered with the clambering curling sprays of the yellow
jasmine, the lovely wild flower that brings the spring to Florida. We
stopped to gather the wreaths of golden blossoms, and decked ourselves
with them, Southern fashion. Every one wears the jasmine. When it first
appears every one says, “Have you seen it? It has come!” And out they go
to gather it, and bring it home in triumph.
Passing through the odd little wicket, which, with the old-fashioned
turnstile, is used in Florida instead of a latched gate, we found
ourselves in a green lane bordered at the far end with cedars. Here,
down on the North River, was the Rose Garden, now standing with its
silent house fast asleep in the moonlight.
“I do not see Iris,” said Aunt Diana, anxiously.
“There is somebody over on the other side of the hedge,” said Sara.
We looked, and beheld two figures bending down and apparently scratching
in the earth with sticks.
“What in the world are they doing?” said Aunt Diana. “They can not be
sowing seed in the middle of the night, can they?”
“They look like two ghouls,” said Sara, “and one of them has--yes, I am
sure one of them has a bone.”
“It is Miss Sharp and the Professor,” said John.
It was. We streamed over in a body and confronted them. “So
interesting!” began Miss Sharp, in explanatory haste. “At various times
the fragments of no less than eight skeletons have been discovered here,
it seems, and we have been so fortunate as to secure a relic, a valuable
Huguenot relic;” and with pride she displayed her bone.
“Of course,” said Sara, “a massacre! What did I tell you, Martha, about
their arising from the past and glaring at me?”
“Miss Sharp,” began Aunt Diana, grimly, “where is Iris?”
“Oh, she is right here, the dear child. Iris! Iris!”
But no Iris appeared.
“I assure you she has not left my side until--until now,” said the
negligent shepherdess, peering about the shadowy garden. “Iris! Iris!”
“And pray, Miss Sharp, how long may be your ‘now?’” demanded Aunt Diana,
with cutting emphasis.
This feminine colloquy had taken place at one side. The Professor dug on
meanwhile with eager enthusiasm, only stopping to hand John another
relic which he had just unearthed.
“Thank you,” said John, gravely; “but I could not think of depriving
you.”
“Oh, I only meant you to hold it a while for me,” replied the Professor.
On the front steps leading to the piazza of the sleeping house we found
the two delinquents. They rose as we came solemnly up the path.
“Why, Aunt Di, is that you? Who would have thought of your coming out
here at this time of night?” began Iris, in her most innocent voice. The
Captain stood twirling his blonde mustache with the air of a
disinterested outsider.
“Don’t make a fuss, Aunt Di,” I whispered, warningly, under my breath.
“It can’t be helped now. Take it easy; it’s the only way.”
Poor Aunt Di--take it easy! She gave a sort of gulp, and then came up
equal to the occasion. “You may well be surprised, my dear,” she said,
in a brisk tone, “but I have long wished to see the Rose Garden, and by
moonlight the effect, of course, is much finer; quite--quite sylph-like,
I should say,” she continued, looking around at the shadowy bushes. “We
were out for a little stroll, Niece Martha, Miss St. John, and myself,
and meeting Mr. Hoffman, he mentioned that you were out here, and so we
thought we would stroll out and join you. Charming night, Captain?”
The Captain thought it was; and all the dangerous places having been
thus nicely coated over, we started homeward. The roses grew in ranks
between two high hedges, and blossomed all the year round. They were all
asleep now on their stems, the full-bosomed, creamy beauties, the
delicate white sylphs, and the gorgeous crimson sirens; but John woke up
a superb souvenir-de-Malmaison, and fastened it in Iris’s dark hair: her
hat, as usual, hung on her arm. Aunt Diana felt herself a little
comforted; evidently the undoubted Knickerbocker antecedents were not
frightened off by this midnight escapade, and Iris certainly looked
enchantingly lovely in the moonlight, with her white dress and the rose
in her hair. If Mokes were only here, and reconciled too. Happy thought!
why should Mokes know? Aunt Diana was a skillful general: Mokes never
knew.
“How large and still the house looks!” I said, as we turned toward the
wicket; “who lives there?”
“Only the Rose Gardener,” answered John; “an old bachelor who loves his
flowers and hates womankind. He lives all alone in his great airy house,
cooks his solitary meals, tends his roses, and no doubt enjoys himself
extremely.”
“Oh yes, extremely,” said Sara, in a sarcastic tone.
“You speak whereof you do know, I suppose, Miss St. John!”
“Precisely; I have tried the life, Mr. Hoffman.”
The Professor joined us at the gate, radiant and communicative. “All
this soil, you will observe, is mingled with oyster shells to the depth
of several feet,” he began. “This was done by the Spaniards for the
purpose of enriching the ground. Ah! Miss Iris, I did not at first
perceive you in the shadow. You have a rose, I see. Although--ahem--not
given to the quotation of poetry, nevertheless there is one verse which,
with your permission, I will now repeat as applicable to the present
occasion:
    “‘Fair Phillis walks the dewy green;
        A happy rose lies in her hair;
      But, ah! the roses in her cheeks
              Are yet more fair!’”
“Pray, Miss Sharp, can you not dispense with that horrible bone?” said
Aunt Diana, in an under-tone. “Really, it makes me quite nervous to see
it dangling.”
“Oh, certainly,” replied the governess, affably, dropping the relic into
her pocket. “I myself, however, am never nervous where science is
concerned.”
“Over there on the left,” began the Professor again, “is the site of a
little mission church built as long ago as 1592 on the banks of a
tide-water creek. A young Indian chieftain, a convert, conceiving
himself aggrieved by the rules of the new religion, incited his
followers to attack the missionary. They rushed in upon him, and
informed him of his fate. He reasoned with them, but in vain; and at
last, as a final request, he obtained permission to celebrate mass
before he died. The Indians sat down on the floor of the little chapel,
the father put on his robes and began. No doubt he hoped to soften their
hearts by the holy service, but in vain; the last word spoken, they fell
upon him and--”
“Massacred him,” concluded Sara. “You need not go on, Sir. I know all
about it. I was there.”
“You were there, Miss St. John!”
“Certainly,” replied Sara, calmly. “I am now convinced that in some
anterior state of existence I have assisted, as the French say, at all
the Florida massacres. Indian, Spanish, or Huguenot, it makes no
difference to me. I was there!”
“I trust our young friend is not tinged with Swedenborgianism,” said the
Professor aside to John Hoffman. “The errors of those doctrines have
been fully exposed. I trust she is orthodox.”
“Really, I do not know what she is,” replied John.
“Oh yes, you do,” said Sara, overhearing. “She is heterodox, you know;
decidedly heterodox.”
In the mean while Aunt Diana kept firmly by the side of the Captain. It
is safe to say that the young man was never before called upon to answer
so many questions in a given space of time. The entire history of the
late war, the organization of the army, the military condition of
Europe, and, indeed, of the whole world, were only a portion of the
subjects with which Aunt Di tackled him on the way home. Iris stood it a
while, and then, with the happy facility of youth, she slipped aside,
and joined John Hoffman. Iris was a charming little creature, but, so
far, for “staying” qualities she was not remarkable.
A second time we passed the cemetery. “I have not as yet investigated
the subject,” said the Professor, “but I suppose this to be the Huguenot
burying-ground.”
“Oh yes,” exclaimed Miss Sharp; “mentioned in my guide-book as a spot of
much interest. How thrilling to think that those early Huguenots, those
historical victims of Menendez, lie here--here in this quiet spot, so
near, you know, and yet--and yet so far!” she concluded, vaguely
conscious that she had heard that before somewhere, although she could
not place it. She had forgotten that eye which, mixed in some poetic way
