sible Fan; "and our pattern being small, the 
puffs and ruffhngs have to be dispensed with. 
So we are saved the trouble of deciding between 
biassed tucking up and down the gores, and of 
fluted bobbinet insertion box-plaited beyond the 
equator, that drove the man crazy when he tried 
to carry his wife's message to the dress maker." 
"I should think it would." And this time 
Miss Churchill laughed heartily. "How fortunate 
you are to be able to do your own ! though I 
think every woman ought to have some knowl- 
edge of it." 
"Every woman ought to know enough of 
something to support herself by it, if the neces- 
sity comes." 
"Yes. And do you know, now that there is so 
much talk of independence, I am afraid many of 
our girls are making a sad mistake ? They are 
all trying to rush into the very front ranks, 
whether they are geniuses or not ; and some of 
them will be crowded out. There will be no 
nice home girls left. But perhaps these young 
ladies have a vocation ? and she glanced up 
with a charmino-, lady-like hesitation. 
" Rose will be a home girl, Miss Churchill. 
The credit of our family will be saved. But I 
can't decide whether I have a great deal of 
genius, and could do anything, or whether my 
rancre is so limited that the ri^'ht tiling would 
be difficult to find. I could not write a book, 
or lecture, or edit a newspaper. I might paint 
a second-rate picture, or, possibly, teach school ; 
but I should not like the last." 
"Fanny!' said mamma in mild reproof. 
"I know what she would be excellently fitted 
for," replied Miss Churchill, quickly. "And 
that emboldens me to offer my plea, or, rather, 
my sister's. But how thoughtless T am ! Mrs. 
Endicott, I did not hear of your added burden 
and anxiety until a few days ago. T am sin- 
cerely sorry that you should liavc had so much 
trouble outside of your own family, as the' seri- 
ous illness of this young Duncan." 
" Yes, it has been rather unfortunate ; but we 
 
are through the worst, I hope. Mr. Endicott is 
guardian for these boys." 
"He is extremely kind and conscientious, I am 
sure. But I can hardly understand how you 
manage, with all the rest of your work. There 
comes Kenton and the carriage, and I feel as if 
I had not made half a call." 
"I am sure you need not hurry," exclaimed 
mamma, who had warmed wonderfully towards 
our visitor. "And you had something to ask 
for your sister." 
" O, I am positively ashamed to. I ought to 
help instead of hindering." 
"Ask it, nevertheless," said mamma. 
"I told Lucy that I was going to call here ; 
and, as I said, she was feeling quite dispirited 
and lonesome. ' Give them all my kindest 
regards,' she said, 'and ask Mrs. Endicott if she 
cannot spare one of the girls to spend the day 
with me. I'd like to have the one who talks a 
good deal.' Is it a compliment to you, Miss 
Fanny?" 
Fan blushed scarlet. 
"I was thinking, a few moments ago, that 
you, with your bright spirits, would be inval- 
uable to invalids. But I suppose you can hardly 
spare her out of your sick room." And she 
glanced at mamma. 
" O, Miss Churchill, you rate me too highly," 
returned Fanny. "Rose is a charming and sen- 
sible nurse. I never try nursing." 
"Mrs. "Whitcomb has been staying with us, 
and our sick room has had to be kept very 
quiet," said mamma. "Fanny would do better 
where society is needed." 
" And that is just Lucy's case. Now, Miss 
Fanny, if your mamma can spare you, I will 
sew on your dress, or do anything to help make 
up the time. 
"If it would really be any pleasure, I can 
readily consent to her going," mamma responded. 
" It would, indeed. I do not think I realized 
how busy you all must be, or I should not have 
had the courage to prefer my request. And I 
hope you will not consider that I have taken a 
liberty in briDginsf a few articles for your 
patient." 
With that she rose, and went down the path 
to her brother, who handed a snowy basket out 
to her. 
" I ventured to put in a few fine summer 
pears besides : those are for the children. And 
now, Mrs. Endicott, what day will your daughter 
be most at liberty? Are you quite sure that 
I am not asking too much ? ' 
"We shall be very glad to grant what you 
desire," was the sweet reply. " Our days are 
pretty much alike." 
"Would to-morrow be too soon? And bring 
your dress, for I can sew beautifully on a ma- 
chine, and I fancy I have some skill in that 
art. I have had such a pleasant call that I hate 
to go. Miss Rose, come over any time ; we 
ahall be glad to see you. My kindest regards 
io Mr. Endicott. Is there anything that I can 
do for you?' 
"Not just now. Thank you most kindly." 
And mamma walked with her to the gate. 
"Don't .they look lovely together!' exclaimed 
fan. "Manuna is as muck of a lady as Miss 
Churchill." 
CHAPTER VII. 
'MAMMA, wonders will never cease! 
exclaimed Fan. "To think that I 
I should be singled out for such fa- 
vors ! Why, Kate Fairlie would die of envy 
this blessed moment, if she knew it ! 
"And how charming Miss Churchill was ! ' I 
said. 
"She is a very lovely woman, and she was 
unusually cordial to-day." 
"Do you suppose it was that she wanted a 
favor ? ' asked Fanny, slowly. 
"No my dear. I think she told the simple 
truth. They were lonesome at home, and tho 
unsocial element at the Maynards' jarred upon 
her. Our homelikcncss, if I may use the word, 
just fitted in with her longing. It always 
appeared to me such an unwise fashion of the 
members of a family meeting only at meals. I 
am not willing to be shut out of your lives, my 
girls." 
"And you shall not be, mamma mia. We will 
share our sorrows, and joys, and new dresses. 
I'll talk of sublime resignation to poverty, and 
then make visits in aristocratic circles." 
"And in the meanwhile we might try on this 
garment. But, my clear, do not let your spirits 
run away with you. Flippancy is not brightness.' 
"How we all sat and sewed ! " exclaimed Fan. 
" It did not seem the least bit awkward. At 
all events, I cut and Rose crocheted. All that 
trimming is ready. Oh, Rose, it is mean for 
me to take all the good things of life." 
I thought my head would go off in that rap- 
turous hug. And I was glad that I was not a 
bit jealous. 
Mamma gave a pinch here, and a pull there, 
and, behold Fan's dress fitted after the simil- 
itude of a glove. 
"It is just lovely!" was Fan's ecstatic com- 
ment. " Kate Fairlie and Sue Barstow will die 
of envy when they see it. Now I shall have 
just time enough to run up the seams. Of 
course, mamma, you wouldn't think of taking 
it?' and Fan gave an inquiring glance. 
" No, indeed, though it was kind in Miss 
Churchill to say it, since your time was more 
precious than hers." 
We began to pick up the pieces and restore 
order. Just then papa came in, and baby Edith 
woke and cried. Fan rushed at papa and kissed 
him rapturously, telling over the whole story in 
an instant. She had such a remarkable way of 
going to the point of anything without loss of 
time. 
"Really!' he exclaimed; "I am glad she 
asked you. You can do a little work for the 
good cause to-morrow, Fanny." 
" O, papa, it is to be a whole long holiday ! ' 
"You lazy little girl! " 
"Papa, if you do not treat me real hand- 
somely, I will go over to the strong-minded ' sis- 
teren,' and write a book, or lecture, or some- 
thing." 
