not steal the robe, as he assured me, but it was found in his house, and
the judge gave him four months in jail, making a year in all,--a month
of which was still to serve. But he was not at all anxious for the end
of his term; for his wife was outside.
Jock, for he was familiarly so called, asked me where I was from. As I
had not found it very profitable to hail from the United States, and had
found, in fact, that the name United States did not convey any definite
impression to the average Cape Breton mind, I ventured upon the bold
assertion, for which I hope Bostonians will forgive me, that I was from
Boston. For Boston is known in the eastern Provinces.
“Are you?” cried the man, delighted. “I’ve lived in Boston, myself.
There’s just been an awful fire near there.”
“Indeed!” I said; “I heard nothing of it.’ And I was startled with the
possibility that Boston had burned up again while we were crawling along
through Nova Scotia.
“Yes, here it is, in the last paper.” The man bustled away and found his
late paper, and thrust it through the grating, with the inquiry, “Can
you read?”
Though the question was unexpected, and I had never thought before
whether I could read or not, I confessed that I could probably make
out the meaning, and took the newspaper. The report of the fire “near
Boston” turned out to be the old news of the conflagration in Portland,
Oregon!
Disposed to devote a portion of this Sunday to the reformation of this
lively criminal, I continued the conversation with him. It seemed that
he had been in jail before, and was not unaccustomed to the life. He was
not often lonesome; he had his workbench and newspapers, and it was a
quiet place; on the whole, he enjoyed it, and should rather regret it
when his time was up, a month from then.
Had he any family?
“Oh, yes. When the census was round, I contributed more to it than
anybody in town. Got a wife and eleven children.”
“Well, don’t you think it would pay best to be honest, and live with
your family, out of jail? You surely never had anything but trouble from
dishonesty.”
“That’s about so, boss. I mean to go on the square after this. But, you
see,” and here he began to speak confidentially, “things are fixed about
so in this world, and a man’s got to live his life. I tell you how
it was. It all came about from a woman. I was a carpenter, had a good
trade, and went down to St. Peter’s to work. There I got acquainted with
a Frenchwoman,--you know what Frenchwomen are,--and I had to marry her.
The fact is, she was rather low family; not so very low, you know, but
not so good as mine. Well, I wanted to go to Boston to work at my trade,
but she wouldn’t go; and I went, but she would n’t come to me, so in two
or three years I came back. A man can’t help himself, you know, when he
gets in with a woman, especially a Frenchwoman. Things did n’t go very
well, and never have. I can’t make much out of it, but I reckon a man ‘s
got to live his life. Ain’t that about so?”
“Perhaps so. But you’d better try to mend matters when you get out.
Won’t it seem rather good to get out and see your wife and family
again?”
“I don’t know. I have peace here.”
The question of his liberty seemed rather to depress this cheerful and
vivacious philosopher, and I wondered what the woman could be from whose
companionship the man chose to be protected by jail-bolts. I asked the
landlord about her, and his reply was descriptive and sufficient. He
only said,
“She’s a yelper.”
Besides the church and the jail there are no public institutions in
Baddeck to see on Sunday, or on any other day; but it has very good
schools, and the examination-papers of Maud and her elder sister would
do credit to Boston scholars even. You would not say that the place
was stuffed with books, or overrun by lecturers, but it is an orderly,
Sabbath-keeping, fairly intelligent town. Book-agents visit it with
other commercial travelers, but the flood of knowledge, which is said
to be the beginning of sorrow, is hardly turned in that direction yet.
I heard of a feeble lecture-course in Halifax, supplied by local
celebrities, some of them from St. John; but so far as I can see, this
is a virgin field for the platform philosophers under whose instructions
we have become the well-informed people we are.
The peaceful jail and the somewhat tiresome church exhaust one’s
opportunities for doing good in Baddeck on Sunday. There seemed to be no
idlers about, to reprove; the occasional lounger on the skeleton wharves
was in his Sunday clothes, and therefore within the statute. No one,
probably, would have thought of rowing out beyond the island to fish for
cod,--although, as that fish is ready to bite, and his associations
are more or less sacred, there might be excuses for angling for him
on Sunday, when it would be wicked to throw a line for another sort of
fish. My earliest recollections are of the codfish on the meeting-house
spires in New England,--his sacred tail pointing the way the wind went.
I did not know then why this emblem should be placed upon a house of
worship, any more than I knew why codfish-balls appeared always upon the
Sunday breakfast-table. But these associations invested this plebeian
fish with something of a religious character, which he has never quite
lost, in my mind.
Having attributed the quiet of Baddeck on Sunday to religion, we did not
know to what to lay the quiet on Monday. But its peacefulness continued.
I have no doubt that the farmers began to farm, and the traders to
trade, and the sailors to sail; but the tourist felt that he had come
into a place of rest. The promise of the red sky the evening before was
fulfilled in another royal day. There was an inspiration in the air that
one looks for rather in the mountains than on the sea-coast; it seemed
like some new and gentle compound of sea-air and land-air, which was the
perfection of breathing material. In this atmosphere, which seemed to
flow over all these Atlantic isles at this season, one endures a great
deal of exertion with little fatigue; or he is content to sit still, and
has no feeling of sluggishness. Mere living is a kind of happiness, and
the easy-going traveler is satisfied with little to do and less to see,
Let the reader not understand that we are recommending him to go to
Baddeck. Far from it. The reader was never yet advised to go to any
place, which he did not growl about if he took the advice and went
there. If he discovers it himself, the case is different. We know too
well what would happen. A shoal of travelers would pour down upon Cape
Breton, taking with them their dyspepsia, their liver-complaints, their
“lights” derangements, their discontent, their guns and fishing-tackle,
their big trunks, their desire for rapid travel, their enthusiasm about
the Gaelic language, their love for nature; and they would very likely
declare that there was nothing in it. And the traveler would probably be
right, so far as he is concerned. There are few whom it would pay to go
a thousand miles for the sake of sitting on the dock at Baddeck when
the sun goes down, and watching the purple lights on the islands and
the distant hills, the red flush in the horizon and on the lake, and the
creeping on of gray twilight. You can see all that as well elsewhere?
I am not so sure. There is a harmony of beauty about the Bras d’Or
at Baddeck which is lacking in many scenes of more pretension. No. We
advise no person to go to Cape Breton. But if any one does go, he need
not lack occupation. If he is there late in the fall or early in the
winter, he may hunt, with good luck, if he is able to hit anything with
a rifle, the moose and the caribou on that long wilderness peninsula
between Baddeck and Aspy Bay, where the old cable landed. He may also
have his fill of salmon fishing in June and July, especially on the
Matjorie River. As late as August, at the time, of our visit, a hundred
people were camped in tents on the Marjorie, wiling the salmon with
the delusive fly, and leading him to death with a hook in his nose. The
speckled trout lives in all the streams, and can be caught whenever he
will bite. The day we went for him appeared to be an off-day, a sort of
holiday with him.
There is one place, however, which the traveler must not fail to visit.
That is St. Ann’s Bay. He will go light of baggage, for he must hire
a farmer to carry him from the Bras d’Or to the branch of St. Ann’s
harbor, and a part of his journey will be in a row-boat. There is no
ride on the continent, of the kind, so full of picturesque beauty and
constant surprises as this around the indentations of St. Ann’s harbor.
From the high promontory where rests the fishing village of St. Ann, the
traveler will cross to English Town. High bluffs, bold shores, exquisite
sea-views, mountainous ranges, delicious air, the society of a member of
the Dominion Parliament, these are some of the things to be enjoyed at
this place. In point of grandeur and beauty it surpasses Mt. Desert, and
is really the most attractive place on the whole line of the Atlantic
Cable. If the traveler has any sentiment in him, he will visit here, not
without emotion, the grave of the Nova Scotia Giant, who recently laid
his huge frame along this, his native shore. A man of gigantic height
and awful breadth of shoulders, with a hand as big as a shovel, there
was nothing mean or little in his soul. While the visitor is gazing at
his vast shoes, which now can be used only as sledges, he will be
told that the Giant was greatly respected by his neighbors as a man of
ability and simple integrity. He was not spoiled by his metropolitan
successes, bringing home from his foreign triumphs the same quiet and
friendly demeanor he took away; he is almost the only example of a
successful public man, who did not feel bigger than he was. He performed
his duty in life without ostentation, and returned to the home he loved
unspoiled by the flattery of constant public curiosity. He knew, having
tried both, how much better it is to be good than to be great. I should
like to have known him. I should like to know how the world looked to
him from his altitude. I should like to know how much food it took at
one time to make an impression on him; I should like to know what effect
an idea of ordinary size had in his capacious head. I should like to
feel that thrill of physical delight he must have experienced in merely
closing his hand over something. It is a pity that he could not have
been educated all through, beginning at a high school, and ending in a
university. There was a field for the multifarious new education! If we
could have annexed him with his island, I should like to have seen him
in the Senate of the United States. He would have made foreign nations
respect that body, and fear his lightest remark like a declaration of
war. And he would have been at home in that body of great men. Alas!
he has passed away, leaving little influence except a good example of
growth, and a grave which is a new promontory on that ragged coast swept
by the winds of the untamed Atlantic.
I could describe the Bay of St. Ann more minutely and graphically, if it
were desirable to do so; but I trust that enough has been said to make
the traveler wish to go there. I more unreservedly urge him to go there,
because we did not go, and we should feel no responsibility for his
liking or disliking. He will go upon the recommendation of two gentlemen
of taste and travel whom we met at Baddeck, residents of Maine and
familiar with most of the odd and striking combinations of land and
water in coast scenery. When a Maine man admits that there is any place
finer than Mt. Desert, it is worth making a note of.
On Monday we went a-fishing. Davie hitched to a rattling wagon something
that he called a horse, a small, rough animal with a great deal of “go”
 in him, if he could be coaxed to show it. For the first half-hour
