Moses arrived, satisfied that the unfortunate deacon would be compelled
to accept his hard conditions.
"I shall not want the money, Squire Moses," said Deacon Bowman.
"Not want it!" exclaimed the old skinflint, taken all aback by this
announcement.
Squire Moses was very anxious to re-invest the sum he had received for
the mortgage of Joel's place, and he was greatly disappointed to lose so
good a speculation as that he had proposed to the deacon.
"I shall not want it; in fact I have been able to make a better
arrangement," replied Deacon Bowman.
"Where did you get the money?" demanded the squire.
"Your grandson, here, loaned it to me on his mother's account."
If Squire Moses was disappointed before, he was mad now. He looked
daggers at Stumpy, who was not afraid of him, now that the debt was
paid.
"Of course you told him about your son," sneered the money-lender.
"I did not," replied the deacon sadly.
"People will be likely to know all about it now."
"They will be likely to know at the same time that somebody required me
to mortgage my place for seven hundred dollars, in order to obtain six
hundred," added the deacon, sharply.
Squire Moses was startled, for he valued his reputation more than his
character as known to God and himself.
"Perhaps neither of us had better say anything," said he, biting his
lip, and leaving the shop.
"We will keep still till Squire Moses lets on," said Stumpy; and
everybody except the usurer was pleased.
Stumpy went home, and told his mother what he had done in her name, with
which she was entirely satisfied. In due time the release and the
mortgage were recorded; Mrs. Wormbury was re-appointed administratrix
and guardian of her children, and all other necessary legal steps were
taken to prevent any future difficulty, if Squire Moses was disposed to
question the widow's proceedings.
The first of July came. The New York party were still at the Sea Cliff
House, though nearly every day they made an excursion in the Orion. They
were still enjoying themselves to the utmost, and the hotel grew in
favor with them the longer they stayed. Mr. Bennington had quietly paid
every bill presented to him, without informing any one that he was "in
funds." Squire Moses had not been near him; in fact, the old man had
been to Bangor to look out for a piece of property on which he held a
mortgage, and about which there was "a hitch." In his absence, the
landlord's creditors, seeing that he was doing a good business, did not
disturb him. Even Jones kept away till the first day of the month; but
when he presented himself, his note was promptly paid.
While he was still in the office of the hotel, Squire Moses, who had
just returned from Bangor, entered, with his mortgage note in his hand.
He was very cross and very ugly, for he was in peril of losing the whole
or part of the money he had loaned on the Bangor property. As he had
stirred up all the landlord's creditors, he was confident that Mr.
Bennington would not be able to pay him.
"I want the interest money to-day," said he, sharply as he stepped up to
the counter, behind which the landlord stood.
"Can't you wait till next week? When these New York folks leave, I shall
have more money than I have now," replied Mr. Bennington, who, knowing
just what his hard creditor wanted, was disposed to thorn him a little.
"I must have the money to-day," added Squire Moses more mildly, for he
began to feel that the business was in just the condition he wished it
to be.
"It has been a pretty tight time with me for money," pleaded Mr.
Bennington.
"It has with everybody; but if you can't pay me my interest money, say
so."
"But suppose I can't pay it; you won't be hard with me--will you?"
"I expect folks to do just what they agree to do. I don't want any long
stories about it," added Squire Moses, who was secretly happy.
"Waiting till next week won't make any difference with you."
"I think I know my own business best. I understand you to say you can't
pay. Here is Jones, and in his presence, as a witness, I demand the
money."
"Just so," replied the landlord; "but if--"
"No buts about it, Mr. Bennington. I don't want to talk all day about
nothing. You can't pay; that's enough;" and the squire moved towards the
door, followed by Jones, who desired to pay his note.
"Squire Wormbury," called the landlord, "one word."
The usurer walked back to the counter, determined, however, not to
prolong the argument. Mr. Bennington took a well-filled pocket-book
from the iron safe, from which he counted out the amount due the squire.
"I thought you said you couldn't pay it," growled Squire Moses, whose
heart sank within him when he saw the bottom drop out of the nice little
plan--a very stupid one, by the way--which he had arranged with Ethan.
"I didn't say so. I only asked if you would wait till next week,"
laughed the landlord.
"Fooling with me--were you?" snapped the squire.
"I understood a while ago that the Sea Cliff House was to have a new
landlord about the first of July, and I wanted to see how you felt about
it to-day."
"Who said so?"
"Well, you and Ethan talked it over together. You were to take
possession, if I didn't pay the interest, turn me out and put your son
Ethan in."
"Who said I did?"
"No matter about that. You and he had the talk in the parlor of your
house; and I can prove it, if necessary."
But the landlord did not wish to do so, for it would expose Stumpy, who
had given the information to Leopold.
"I don't calculate to have anything which the law don't give me,"
growled Squire Moses, as he picked up his money, and indorsed the
payment on the back of the note.
"The law don't give you the Sea Cliff House, and it never will," added
Mr. Bennington, as the money-lender turned to leave.
"Hold on, Squire Moses," interposed Jones; "I want to take up that note
of mine."
"You needn't pay it yet," replied the usurer, who had over a thousand
dollars on hand now, which he had been unable thus far to invest, for he
did not believe in the government and the war, and refused to buy bonds.
"I want to pay it now. I won't owe you anything after what I have heard
to-day. I'm afraid I shall lose my place," answered Jones.
The debtor and creditor left together. Jones paid his note. People began
to believe that it was not prudent to borrow money of Squire Moses, for
he was "tricky" as well as hard.
In the course of that day Mr. Bennington paid every dollar of his
indebtedness in Rockhaven. Those who had refused him credit were profuse
in their apologies, and some of them confessed that they were "put up to
it" by Squire Moses.
The next day the Orion departed, with all her party, for New York.
Mr. Hamilton paid the bill, which amounted to over seven hundred
dollars, without a question, and promised to come again the next season.
Leopold assisted the party in going on board of the yacht, and shook
hands at parting with Rosabel. He watched the vessel, with the beautiful
girl waving her handkerchief to him, till she was out of sight. He was
sorry to have her go, for it was a pleasure for him to look at her. He
had sailed her to High Rock the day before, and she had said a great
many pleasant things to him. It was a quiet time at the Sea Cliff House
after the departure of the New York guests, but Leopold missed Rosabel
more than all others, and even then began to look forward to her
return.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE COMING WAVE.
By the middle of July the Sea Cliff House was full. The report of the
New Yorkers among their friends that this hotel was the best on the
coast, induced a great many families and others to seek accommodations
at the house. By the first of August Mr. Bennington was obliged to
"colonize" his guests in the neighboring houses. The season was a
decidedly successful one to him, and his profits more than realized his
anticipations. In the fall he paid off the mortgage on his furniture,
and the note he owed to the widow Wormbury, and still had a large
balance in the bank. The Island House had hardly any business, for
people preferred to go to the Sea Cliff, even if they had to take rooms
outside of the hotel. Ethan did not make any money that season.
Leopold had all he could do in the boat, and made a small fortune for
himself by taking out parties. He raised his price to six dollars a day,
so that he could pay Stumpy two dollars a day for his services. The
affairs of Mrs. Wormbury were therefore in excellent condition.
After the season was finished, a man came over from Rockland and took
rooms at the Sea Cliff House. He inquired if there was such a person in
the place as Joel Wormbury. The guest was very much surprised to learn
that he was dead, and in the course of the day went to see his family.
He had come to offer Joel a situation on a plantation in Cuba, where he
had first met and known the deceased. The visitor was an engineer, by
the name of Walker, and had instructed Joel in his business, so that he
was able to run an engine on a plantation. Joel had told him his story.
He had been picked up by a passenger steamer, and carried to Liverpool.
There, after he had been drinking, he was induced to ship as a seaman in
a bark bound to Havana, where he first met Walker. He ran away from the
vessel, and went with his new friend to the plantation where the latter
was employed.
Joel was a mechanic, and understood an engine very well. Instructed in
the details of the business by Walker, he obtained a situation at very
good wages. He had written to his wife, but for some reason unknown his
letters failed to reach their destination. After working two years on
the plantation, he determined to go home, and ascertain what had become
of his family. Walker had gone with him to Havana, where Joel changed
his money into American gold, and embarked in the Waldo. That was the
last his friend had heard of him. Walker had come home on a visit to his
relatives in the interior of the state, and wished Joel to return with
him.
The mystery was solved; and the visitor declared that his friend had not
drank a drop of liquor during the two years he was in Cuba.
It was a great satisfaction to Mrs. Wormbury and her children to hear
this good report of the deceased husband and father; and Walker left,
sincerely grieved at the death of his friend, whom he highly esteemed.
In the winter Leopold went to the "academy," and studied hard to improve
his mind and increase his knowledge. He applied himself diligently to
German, under the instruction of Herr Schlager, so that he could talk in
that language with Rosabel when she came the next season, for it must be
confessed that he thought a great deal of her.
The spring came, bringing nearer to Leopold the coming of Rosabel. In
June a letter from the honorable Mr. Hamilton arrived, announcing the
intended visit of the family to the Sea Cliff House, and fixing the time
at about the first of July. He engaged his own rooms, and three others
