cover; pour in the batter and boil steadily for an hour and a half.
Eat hot with sweet sauce.
HASTY PUDDING. +
1 heaping cup of Indian meal.
½ cup flour.
1 quart boiling water.
1 pint milk.
1 table-spoonful butter.
1 teaspoonful salt.
Wet up meal and flour with the milk and stir into the boiling water.
Boil hard half an hour, stirring almost constantly from the bottom.
Put in salt and butter, and simmer ten minutes longer. Turn into a
deep, uncovered dish, and eat with sugar and cream, or sugar and butter
with nutmeg.
Our children like it.
RICE-FLOUR HASTY PUDDING. +
1 quart new milk.
3 table-spoonfuls rice-flour.
1 table-spoonful butter.
1 teaspoonful salt.
Scald the milk and stir into it the rice flour, wet up with cold milk.
Boil steadily, stirring all the while, for half an hour. Add salt and
butter; let the pudding stand in hot water three minutes after you have
ceased to stir, and turn out into deep, open dish.
Eat with cream and sugar.
N. B. Always boil hasty puddings and custards in a farina-kettle, or
a pail set within a pot of hot water. It is the only safe method.
FARINA PUDDING. +
Make according to last receipt, but boil three-quarters of an hour,
and, ten minutes before taking it up, stir into it two eggs beaten
light and thinned with three table-spoonfuls of milk. Cook slowly, and
stir all the time, after these go in. To a quart of milk, use at least
four table-spoonfuls of farina.
A good dessert for children—and not to be despised by their elders.
SUSIE’S BREAD PUDDING. +
1 quart of milk.
4 eggs—the whites of 3 more for méringue.
2 cups very fine, dry bread-crumbs.
1 table-spoonful melted butter.
1 teacupful sugar.
Juice and half the grated peel of 1 lemon.
Beat eggs, sugar and butter together. Soak the crumbs in the milk
and mix all well, beating very hard and rapidly. Season, and bake in
greased baking-dish. When almost done, cover with a méringue made of
the whites of three eggs and a little powdered sugar.
Eat cold. It is very nice.
FRUIT BREAD PUDDING. (Very Fine.) +
1 quart of milk.
1 cup of sugar.
3 large cups very fine bread-crumbs.
½ cup suet—powdered.
½ pound raisins seeded and cut in two.
1 table-spoonful finely shred citron.
½ pound sultana raisins, washed well and dried.
1 teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
2 teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, stirred into the dry crumbs.
A little salt, nutmeg and cinnamon.
3 eggs beaten light.
Soak the bread-crumbs in the milk; next, beat in the whipped eggs
and sugar; the suet and spice. Whip the batter very light before the
fruit—strictly dredged with flour and well mixed—goes in. Put the soda
in last. Beat three minutes steadily, before putting it into buttered
mould. Boil two hours. Keep the water boiling hard all the time. Eat
with brandy-sauce.
BREAD AND RAISIN PUDDING.
1 quart milk.
Enough slices of baker’s bread—stale—to fill your dish.
Butter to spread the bread.
4 eggs.
½ cup of sugar.
¾ pound of raisins, seeded and each cut into three pieces.
Butter the bread, each slice of which should be an inch thick, and
entirely free from crust. Make a raw custard of eggs, sugar and
milk. Butter a pudding-dish and put a layer of sliced bread at the
bottom, fitted closely together and cut to fit the dish. Pour a little
custard upon this, strew the cut raisins evenly over it; and lay in
more buttered bread. Proceed in this order until the dish is full.
The uppermost layer should be bread well buttered and soaked in the
custard. Cover the dish closely, set in a baking pan nearly full of hot
water, and bake an hour. When done, uncover, and brown lightly.
Or,
You can spread with a méringue, just before taking from the oven.
Eat hot, with sauce.
CHERRY BREAD PUDDING.
Is very good made as above, substituting nice dried cherries—without
stones—for the raisins.
Both of these are more palatable than one would imagine from reading
the receipts; are far more easily made, less expensive, and more
digestible than the pie, “without which father wouldn’t think he could
live.”
WILLIE’S FAVORITE. (Very good.)
1 loaf stale baker’s bread. French bread, if you can get it. It must
be white and light.
½ cup suet, powdered.
¼ pound citron, chopped very fine.
½ pound sweet almonds blanched and shaved thin.
5 large pippins, pared, cored and chopped.
1 cup cream and same of milk.
A little salt, stirred into the cream.
1 cup of powdered sugar.
Cut the bread into slices an inch thick, and pare off the crust. Cover
the bottom of a buttered mould (with plain sides) with these, trimming
them to fit the mould and to lie closely together. Soak this layer
with cream; spread with the suet, and this with the fruit chopped fine
and mixed together. Sprinkle this well with sugar, and strew almond
shavings over it. Fit on another stratum of bread; soaking this with
milk; then suet, fruit, sugar, almonds, and another layer of bread
wet with cream. The topmost layer must be bread, and very wet. Boil
two hours. Dip the mould in cold water, and turn out carefully upon a
dish. Sift powdered sugar over it.
Eat hot with sweet sauce.
STEAMED BREAD PUDDING. +
1 pint milk.
2 cups fine bread-crumbs.
½ pound suet powdered.
½ pound sultana raisins, picked, washed and dried.
3 eggs.
1 dessert-spoonful corn-starch.
1 tablespoonful sugar.
A little salt.
½ pound macaroons or ratifias.
Make a custard of milk, eggs and sugar; heat almost to a boil and
stir in the corn-starch wet with milk. Cook one minute; take from the
fire and pour, a little at a time, over the bread-crumbs; beating
into a rather thick batter. Butter a mould thickly; line it with the
macaroons, and put, spoonful by spoonful, a layer of batter in the
bottom. Cover this with suet, then raisins; sprinkle with sugar—put in
more batter, and so on until the mould is nearly full. Fit on the top;
put into the steamer over a pot of boiling water and steam, with the
water at a hard boil, at least two hours. Dip the mould into cold water
to make the pudding leave the sides; let it stand a moment, and turn
out, with care, upon a hot dish.
Eat hot with wine sauce.
CUSTARD BREAD PUDDING. (Boiled.) +
2 cupfuls fine bread-crumbs—stale and dry.
1 quart of milk.
6 eggs—whites and yolks beaten separately.
1 table-spoonful rice flour.
1 teaspoonful salt, and ½ teaspoonful soda.
Flavor to taste.
Soak the bread-crumbs in the milk; put into a farina-kettle and heat
almost to a boil. Stir in the rice-flour wet with cold milk; cook one
minute; turn into a basin and beat hard several minutes. When almost
cold, add the yolks of the eggs, the soda (dissolved in hot water) and
the flavoring; finally, the whipped whites, mixing them in swiftly and
thoroughly. Boil in a greased mould an hour and a half. Turn out, and
eat hot with sweet sauce.
MACARONI AND ALMOND PUDDING.
½ pound best Italian macaroni, broken into inch lengths.
3 pints milk.
2 table-spoonfuls butter.
1 cup white sugar.
5 eggs.
½ pound sweet almonds, blanched and chopped.
Rose-water and bitter almond flavoring.
A little salt and nutmeg.
Simmer the macaroni half an hour in a pint of the milk.
Stir in the butter and salt. Cover the saucepan, and take from the
fire, letting it stand covered while you make a custard of the rest
of the milk, the eggs and sugar. Chop the almonds, adding rose-water
to keep them from oiling. When the macaroni is nearly cold, put into
the custard; stir up well, but break it as little as possible; put in
nutmeg, bitter-almond extract; lastly the almonds.
Bake in the dish in which it is to be served.
PLAIN MACARONI PUDDING. +
¼ pound macaroni, broken into pieces an inch long.
1 pint water.
1 table-spoonful butter.
1 large cup of milk.
2 table-spoonfuls powdered sugar.
Grated peel of half a lemon.
A little cinnamon and salt.
Boil the macaroni slowly in the water, in one vessel set within another
of hot water, until it is tender and has soaked up the water. Add the
butter and salt. Let it stand covered five minutes without removing it
from the range; put in the rest of the ingredients. Stir frequently,
taking care not to break the macaroni, and simmer, covered ten minutes
longer before turning it out into a deep dish.
Eat hot with butter and sugar, or sugar and cream.
ESSEX PUDDING.
