Plumette; there are also Idyls of the modern city of New York. At
certain periods in the progress of the poem, one such chance glimpse,
or moment of meeting, at a street corner or on a door-step, is the
event of the day.
St. John was sure of Angie at her class on Sunday mornings, and
at service afterwards. He was sure of her on Thursday evenings, at
Eva's reception; and then, besides, somehow, when she was around
looking up her class on Saturday afternoons, it was so natural that
he should catch a glimpse of her now and then, coming out of that
house, or going into that door; and then, in the short days of
winter, the darkness often falls so rapidly that it often struck him
as absolutely necessary that he should see her safely home: and, in
all these moments of association, he felt a pleasure so strange and
new and divine that it seemed to him as if his whole life until he
knew her had been flowerless and joyless. He pitied himself, when he
thought that he had never known his mother and had never had a sister.
That must be why he had known so little of what it was so lovely and
beautiful to know.
Love, to an idealist, comes not first from earth, but heaven. It comes
as an exaltation of all the higher and nobler faculties, and is its
own justification in the fuller nobleness, the translucent purity,
the larger generosity, and warmer piety, it brings. The trees do not
examine themselves in spring-time, when every bud is thrilling with a
new sense of life--they live.
Never had St. John's life-work looked to him so attractive, so
possible, so full of impulse; and he worshiped the star that had risen
on his darkness, without as yet a thought of the future. As yet, he
thought of her only as a vision, an inspiration, an image of almost
childlike innocence and purity, which he represented to himself under
all the poetic forms of saintly legend.
She was the St. Agnes, the child Christian, the sacred lamb of
Christ's fold. She was the holy Dorothea, who wore in her bosom the
roses of heaven, and had fruits and flowers of Paradise to give to
mortals; and when he left her, after ever so brief an interview, he
fancied that one leaf from the tree of life had fluttered to his
bosom. He illuminated the text, "Blessed are the pure in heart," in
white lilies, and hung it over his prie dieu in memorial of her, and
sometimes caught himself singing:
    "I can but know thee as my star,
    My angel and my dream."
As yet, the thought had not yet arisen in him of appropriating his
angel guide. It was enough to love her with the reverential, adoring
love he gave to all that was holiest and purest within him, to
enshrine her as his ideal of womanhood.
He undervalued himself in relation to her. He seemed to himself coarse
and clumsy, in the light of her intuitions, as he knew himself utterly
unskilled and untrained in the conventional modes and usages of the
society in which he had begun to meet her, and where he saw her moving
with such deft ability, and touching every spring with such easy skill.
Still he felt a craving to be something to her. Why might she not be a
sister to him, to him who had never known a sister? It was a happy
thought, one that struck him as perfectly new and original, though it
was--had he only known it--a well-worn, mossy old mile-stone that had
been passed by generations on the pleasant journey to Eden. He had
not, however, had the least intention of saying a word of this kind
to Angie when he came to the chapel that morning. But he had been
piqued by her quiet, resolute little way of dissent from the flood of
admiration which his illumination had excited. He had been a little
dissatisfied with the persistent adulation of his flock, and, like
Zeuxis, felt a disposition to go after the blush of the maiden who
fled. It was not the first time that Angie had held her own opinion
against him, and turned away with that air of quiet resolution which
showed that she had a reserved force in herself that he longed to
fathom. Then, in the little passage that followed, came one of those
sudden overflows that Longfellow tells of:
     "There are moments in life when the heart is so full of
     emotion That if by chance it be shaken, or into its depths
     like a pebble Drops some careless word, it overflows, and
     its secret, Spilt on the ground like water, can never be
     gathered together."
St. John's secret looked out of his eager eyes; and, in fact, he was
asking for Angie's whole heart, while his words said only, "love me as
a brother." A man, unfortunately, cannot look into his own eyes, and
does not always know what they say. But a woman may look into them;
and Angie, though little in person and childlike in figure, had in
her the concentrated, condensed essence of womanhood--all its rapid
foresight; its keen flashes of intuition; its ready self-command, and
something of that maternal care-taking instinct with which Eve is ever
on the alert to prevent a blunder or mistake on the part of the less
perceiving Adam.
She felt the tones of his voice. She knew that he was saying more than
he was himself aware of, and that there were prying eyes about: and
she knew, too, with a flash of presentiment, what would be the world's
judgment of so innocent a brotherly and sisterly alliance as had been
proposed and sealed by the sacrifice of her glove.
She laughed a little to herself, fancying her brother Tom's wanting
her glove, or addressing her in the reverential manner and with the
beseeching tones that she had just heard. Certainly she would be a
sister to him, she thought, and, the next time she met him at Eva's
alone, she would use her liberty to reprove him for his imprudence in
speaking to her in that way when so many were looking on. The little
empress knew her ground; and that it was hers now to dictate and his
to obey.
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
"WE MUST BE CAUTIOUS."
Eva was at the chapel that morning and overheard, of the conversation
between Miss Gusher and Miss Vapors, just enough to pique her
curiosity and rouse her alarm. Of all things, she dreaded any such
report getting into the whirlwind of gossip that always eddies round a
church door where there is an interesting, unmarried rector, and she
resolved to caution Angie on the very first opportunity; and so, when
her share of wreaths and crosses was finished, and the afternoon sun
began to come level through the stained windows, she crossed over to
Angie's side, to take her home with her to dinner.
"I've something to tell you," she said, "and you must come home and
stay with me to-night." And so Angie came.
"Do you know," said Eva, as soon as the sisters found themselves alone
in her chamber, where they were laying off their things and preparing
for dinner, "do you know that Miss Gusher?"
"I--no, very slightly," said Angie, shaking out her shawl to fold it.
"She's a very cultivated woman, I believe."
"Well, I heard her saying some disagreeable things about you and Mr.
St. John this morning," said Eva.
The blood flushed in Angie's cheek, and she turned quickly to the
glass and began arranging her hair.
"What did she say?" she inquired.
"Something about the Van Arsdel girls always getting up flirtations."
"Nonsense! how hateful! I'm sure it's no fault of mine that Mr. St.
John came and spoke to me."
"Then he did come?"
"Oh, yes; I was perfectly astonished. I was sitting all alone in that
dark corner where the great hemlock tree was, and the first I knew
he was there. You see, I criticised his illuminated card--that one
in the strange, queer letters--I said I couldn't understand it; but
Miss Gusher, Miss Vapors, and all the girls were oh-ing and ah-ing
about it, and I felt quite snubbed and put down. I supposed it must
be my stupidity, and so I just went off to my tree and sat down to
work quietly in the dark corner, and left Miss Gusher expatiating on
mottoes and illuminations. I knew she was very accomplished and clever
and all that, and that I didn't know anything about such things."
"Well, then," said Eva, "he followed you?"
"Yes, he came suddenly in from the vestry behind the tree, and I
thought, or hoped, he stood so that nobody noticed us, and he insisted
on my telling him why I didn't like his illumination. I said I did
like it, that I thought it was beautifully done, but that I did not
think it would be of any use to those poor children and folks to have
inscriptions that they didn't understand; and he said I was quite
right, and that he should alter it and put it in plain English; and
then he said, what a help it was to have a woman's judgment on things,
what a misfortune it was that he had never had a sister or any friend
of that kind, and then he asked me to be a sister to him, and tell him
frankly always just what I thought of him, and I said I would. And
then"--
"What then?"
"Oh, Eva, I can't tell you; but he spoke so earnestly and quick, and
asked me if I couldn't love him just a little; he asked me to call him
Arthur, and then, if you believe me, he would have me give him my
glove, and so I let him take it, because I was afraid some of those
girls would see us talking together. I felt almost frightened that he
should speak so, and I wanted him to go away."
"Well, Angie dear, what do you think of all this?"
"I know he cares for me very much," said Angie, quickly, "more than he
says."
"And you, Angie?"
"I think he's good and noble and true, and I love him."
"As a sister, of course," said Eva, laughing.
"Never mind how--I love him," said Angie; "and I shall use my sisterly
privilege to caution him to be very distant and dignified to me in
future, when those prying eyes are around."
"Well now, darling," said Eva, with all the conscious dignity of early
matronage, "we shall have to manage this matter very prudently--for
those girls have had their suspicions aroused, and you know how such
things will fly through the air. The fact is, there is nothing so
perplexing as just this state of things; when you know as well as you
know anything that a man is in love with you, and yet you are not
engaged to him. I know all about the trouble of that, I'm sure; and it
seems to me, what with Mamma, Aunt Maria, and all the rest of them, it
was a perfect marvel how Harry and I ever came together. Now, there's
that Miss Gusher, she'll be on the watch all the time, like a cat at a
mouse-hole; and she's going to be there when we get the Christmas-tree
ready and tie on the things, and you must manage to keep as far off
from him as possible. I shall be there, and I shall have my eyes in my
head, I promise you. We must try to lull their suspicions to sleep."
"Dear me," said Angie, "how disagreeable!"
"I'm sorry for you, darling, but I've kept it off as long as I could;
I've seen for a long time how things are going."
"You have? Oh, Eva!"
"Yes; and I have had all I could do to keep Jim Fellows from talking,
and teasing you, as he has been perfectly longing to do for a month
past."
