" Very likely ; good by." 
The door closed, and then, but not till then, the 
melancholy dog joined us and stalked behind until we 
 
had crossed the meadow and reached the gate. We 
passed out and turned up the hill; but looking back 
we saw the outline of the woman's head at the upper 
window, and the dog's head at the bars, both watch- 
ing us out of sight. 
In the evening there came a cold wind down from 
the north, and the parlor, with its primitive ventilators, 
square openings in the side of the house, grew chilly. 
So a great fire of soft coal was built in the broad 
Franklin stove, and before its blaze we made good 
cheer, nor needed the one candle which flickered on 
the table behind us. Cider fresh from the mill, carded 
gingerbread, and new cheese crowned the scene, and 
during the evening came a band of singers, the young 
people of the Community, and sang for us the song 
of the Lorelei, accompanied by home-made violins 
and flageolets. At length we were left alone, the 
candle had burned out, the house door was barred, 
and the peaceful Community was asleep ; still we 
two sat together with our feet upon the hearth, look- 
ing down into the glowing coals. 
"Ich weisz nicht was soil es bedeuten 
Dasz ich so traurig bin," 
I said, repeating the opening lines of the Lorelei; 
"I feel absolutely blue to-night." 
"The memory of the sulphur- woman," suggested 
Ermine. 
 
" Sulphur- woman ! What a name ! " 
"Entirely appropriate, in my opinion." 
" Poor thing ! How she longed with a great long- 
ing for the finery of her youth in Sandy." 
"I suppose from those barbarous pictures that she 
was originally in the flesh," mused Ermine ; " at 
present she is but a bony outline." 
" Such as she is, however, she has had her romance," 
I answered. " She is quite sure that there was one 
to love her ; then let come what may, she has had 
her day." 
" Misquoting Tennyson on such a subject ! " said 
Ermine, with disdain. 
" A man 's a man for all that and a woman 's a 
woman too," I retorted. "You are blind, cousin, 
blinded with pride. That woman has had her trage- 
dy, as real and bitter as any that can come to us." 
" What have you to say for the poor man, then ? " 
exclaimed Ermine, rousing to the contest. "If there 
is a tragedy at the sulphur-house, it belongs to the 
sulphur-man, not to the sulphur-woman." 
"He is not a sulphur-man, he is a coal-man; keep 
to your bearings, Ermine." 
"I tell you," pursued my cousin, earnestly, "that 
I pitied that unknown man with inward tears all 
the while I sat by that trap-door. Depend upon it, 
he had his dream, his ideal; and this country girl 
with her great eyes and wealth of hair represented 
 
the beautiful to his hungry soul. He gave his whole 
life and hope into her hands, and woke to find his 
goddess a common wooden image." 
" Waste sympathy upon a coal-miner ! " I said, imi- 
tating my cousin's former tone. 
" If any one is blind, it is you," she answered, 
with gleaming eyes. " That man's whole history stood 
revealed in the selfish complainings of that creature. 
He had been in the Community from boyhood, there- 
fore of course he had no chance to learn life, to see 
its art-treasures. He has been shipwrecked, poor soul, 
hopelessly shipwrecked." 
"She too, Ermine." 
"She!" 
"Yes. If he loved pictures, she loved her chany 
and her feather-beds, not to speak of the big looking- 
glass. No doubt she had other lovers, and might 
have lived in a red brick farmhouse with ten un- 
opened front windows and a blistered front door. 
The wives of men of genius are always to be pitied ; 
they do not soar into the crowd of feminine admirers 
who circle round the husband, and they are therefore 
called 'grubs/ 'worms of the earth,' 'drudges,' and 
other sweet titles." 
" Nonsense," said Ermine, tumbling the arched coals 
into chaos with the poker ; " it 's after midnight, let 
us go up stairs." I knew very well that my beau- 
tiful cousin enjoyed the society of several poets, 
 
painters, musicians, and others of that ilk, without 
concerning herself about their stay-at-home wives. 
The next day the winds were out in battle array, 
howling over the Strasburg hills, raging up and down 
the river, and whirling the colored leaves wildly 
along the lovely road to the One-Leg Creek. Evidently 
there could be no rambling in the painted woods 
that day, so we went over to old Fritz's shop, played 
on his home-made piano, inspected the woolly horse 
who turned his crank patiently in an underground 
den, and set in motion all the curious little images 
which the carpenter's deft fingers had wrought. 
Fritz belonged to the Community, and knew nothing 
of the outside world; he had a taste for mechanism, 
which showed itself in many labor-saving devices, 
and with it all he was the roundest, kindest little 
man, with bright eyes like a canary-bird. 
" Do you know Solomon the coal-miner ? " asked 
Ermine, in her correct, well-learned German. 
" Sol Bangs ? Yes, I know him," replied Fritz, in 
his "Wiirtemberg dialect. 
" What kind of a man is he ? " 
" Good for nothing," replied Fritz, placidly. 
"Why?" 
" Wrong here " ; tapping his forehead. 
" Do you know his wife ? " I asked. 
"Yes." 
" What kind of a woman is she ? " 
 
" Too much tongue. Women must not talk much." 
"Old Fritz touched us both there," I said, as we 
ran back laughing to the hotel through the blustering 
wind. " In his opinion, I suppose, we have the pop- 
ular verdict of the township upon our two prottgfa, 
the sulphur-woman and her husband." 
The next day opened calm, hazy, and warm, the 
perfection of Indian summer ; the breezy hill was out- 
lined in purple, and the trees glowed in rich colors. 
In the afternoon we started for the sulphur-spring 
without shawls or wraps, for the heat was almost 
oppressive; we loitered on the way through the still 
woods, gathering the tinted leaves, and wondering why 
no poet has yet arisen to celebrate in fit words the 
glories of the American autumn. At last we reached 
the turn whence the lonely house came into view, and 
at the bars we saw the dog awaiting us. 
" Evidently the sulphur-woman does not like that 
melancholy animal," I said, as we applied our united 
strength to the gate. 
"Did you ever know a woman of limited mind 
who liked a large dog ? " replied Ermine. " Occasion- 
ally such a woman will fancy a small cur; but to 
appreciate a large, noble dog requires a large, noble 
mind." 
" Nonsense with your dogs and minds," I said, 
laughing. "Wonderful! There is a curtain." 
It was true. The paper had been removed from 
 
one of the windows, and in its place hung some 
white drapery, probably part of a sheet rigged as a 
curtain. 
Before we reached the piazza the door opened, and 
our hostess appeared. "Glad to see yer, ladies," she 
said. " "Walk right in this way to the keeping-room." 
The dog went away to his block-house, and we 
followed the woman into a room on the right of the 
hall; there were three rooms, beside the attic above. 
An Old- World German stove of brick-work occupied 
a large portion of the space, and over it hung a few 
tins, and a clock whose pendulum swung outside; a 
table, a settle, and some stools completed the furni- 
ture ; but on the plastered walls were two rude 
brackets, one holding a cup and saucer of figured 
china, and the other surmounted by a large bunch 
of autumn leaves, so beautiful in themselves and so 
exquisitely arranged that we crossed the room to 
admire them. 
"Sol fixed 'em, he did," said the sulphur- woman ; 
"he seen me setting things to rights, and he would 
do it. I told him they was trash, but he made me 
promise to leave 'em alone in case you should call 
again." 
" Madam Bangs, they would adorn a palace," said 
Ermine, severely. 
"The cup is pretty too," I observed, seeing the 
woman's eyes turn that way. 
 
"It 's the last of my chany," she answered, with 
pathos in her voice, " the very last piece." 
As we took our places on the settle we noticed 
