"Twelve."
"Rather young. Still you are large of your age."
"I am pretty strong," said Sam, anxious to succeed in his
application.
"There isn't any work to be done that requires strength," said the
black-whiskered man. "How is your education?"
"Pretty good," said Sam, with hesitation.
"Do you live in the city?"
"Yes, sir."
"With your parents?"
"No, sir. They are dead."
"That is an objection. Perhaps, however, you live with an aunt or
uncle. That will answer as well."
"Yes," said Sam, determined to obviate this objection. "I live with my
uncle."
"Where does he live?"
"In New York," answered Sam.
"Don't you understand me? I mean to ask the street and number."
Sam was posed. He could not at the moment think of the name of any
street except Broadway. But it would not do to hesitate. So he said
promptly, "He lives at No. 656 Broadway."
"What is his business?" inquired the black-whiskered man.
"He keeps a store," answered Sam, feeling that he was getting deeper
and deeper into the mire.
"What sort of a store?"
"A grocery store."
"What, at 656 Broadway?" demanded the other, in surprise. "I didn't
know there was a grocery store in that neighborhood."
"Oh, murder!" thought Sam. "I'm found out."
He made no answer, because he could not think of any.
"Why don't your father give you a place in his own store?" asked the
real-estate agent, with some suspicion in his tone.
"He's got all the help he wants," said Sam, quickly.
Here another boy entered the office, a boy neatly dressed, and
intelligent in appearance.
"Sit down a moment," said the agent to Sam, "while I speak with this
other lad."
Sam took a seat, and listened to the conversation with the other boy.
The conclusion of the matter was, that the other boy was engaged and
Sam was obliged to go out to offer his services in some other
quarter.
"What a lot of lies I had to tell!" he reflected. "What's the use of
their asking so many questions? I don't see. I'll have to try
somewhere else."
As Sam was sauntering along he was accosted by a tall man, evidently
from the country.
"Boy, can you direct me to the 'Tribune' office?"
"Yes, sir," said Sam, "but it's some ways from here. It'll be worth
ten cents to lead you there."
The gentleman hesitated.
"Well," he said after a pause, "I'll give it to you."
"Will you give it to me now?" asked Sam.
"I will pay you when you have done your work."
"The reason I asked was, because I showed a man the other day, and
then he wouldn't pay me."
"That was mean," said the stranger. "I hope you don't think I would
serve you so."
"Oh, no, sir. You're a gentleman," said Sam. "You wouldn't cheat a
poor boy that hasn't had any breakfast this mornin'."
"Dear me! you don't say so?" ejaculated the compassionate stranger,
shocked at Sam's fiction. "Here, take this twenty-five cents. Do you
often have to go without your breakfast?"
"Often, sir," said Sam, unblushingly. "It's hard times for poor boys
like me."
"There's another quarter," said the stranger, his compassion still
more deeply moved.
Sam did feel some compunction now, for he was about to make a very
poor return for the kindness of his new acquaintance. The fact was, he
had not the slightest idea where the "Tribune" office was, and he had
therefore undertaken what he was unable to perform. But he had gone
too far to recede. Besides, he did not feel prepared to give up the
money which he had obtained through false pretences. So counterfeiting
a confidence which he did not feel he led the way up Centre street,
saying, "This way, sir. I'll lead you right to the office."
"I never was at the office," said the stranger, "though I've been a
subscriber to the weekly 'Tribune' for ten years."
"That's a good while," said Sam.
"It is indeed, my boy. I live in Illinois, more than a thousand miles
from this city. Indeed, I have never been in New York before."
"Haven't you?"
"No; now you, I suppose, my young friend, know your way all about the
city."
"Of course I do," said Sam, in an off-hand manner.
"If I had more time, I would get you to guide me round the city," said
the stranger.
"Wouldn't I lead you a wild-goose chase, old gentleman?" thought Sam.
"You'd be pretty well taken in, I guess."
"I am obliged to go away to-night," continued the old gentleman, "but
I thought I would renew my subscription to the 'Tribune' before I
went."
"All right, sir; it's a nice paper," said Sam, who had never read a
line in the "Tribune."
"So I think. Are we almost at the office?"
"Almost," said Sam. "If you don't mind waiting I'll run over and speak
to my cousin a minute."
There was a boot-black on the opposite side of the street. It struck
Sam, who did not like to deceive so generous a patron, that he could
obtain the information he needed of this boy.
"Can you tell me where the 'Tribune' office is?" he asked hurriedly.
The boot-black had no more scruples about lying than Sam, and
answered, glibly, pointing to the Tombs prison, a little farther on,
"Do you see that big stone buildin'?"
"Yes," said Sam.
"That's it."
"Thank you," said Sam, feeling relieved, and never doubting the
correctness of this statement.
He returned to the stranger, and said, cheerfully, "We're almost
there."
"Is that boy your cousin?" asked his acquaintance.
"Yes," said Sam.
"He blacks boots for a living."
"Yes, sir."
"Does he do well at it?"
"Pretty well."
"Did you ever black boots?"
"No, sir," answered Sam, telling the truth by way of variety.
"That's the Tribune office," said Sam, a moment later, pointing to the
gloomy-looking prison.
"Is it?" echoed the stranger, in surprise. "Really, it's a very
massive structure."
"Yes," said Sam, mistaking the word employed, "it's very massy."
"It doesn't look much like a newspaper office."
For the first time Sam began to suspect that he had been deceived, and
he naturally felt in a hurry to get away.
"You go right in," he said, confidently, "and they'll attend to you
inside. Now I'll go and get some breakfast."
"To be sure. You must be hungry."
The stranger walked up the massive steps, and Sam hurried away.
"I wonder what place that is, anyhow," he said to himself. "Now I've
got money enough for dinner."
For a country boy Sam was getting along fast.
CHAPTER XVI.
SAM MEETS BROWN AND IS UNHAPPY,
Never doubting Sam's assurance, the stranger entered the gloomy
building, the lower part of which is divided into court-rooms. Out of
one of these a man came, to whom he addressed this question: "Where is
the counting-room?"
"The counting-room!" repeated the man, staring. "There isn't any here,
that I know of."
"I want to subscribe for the weekly edition," explained the man from
Illinois.
"It strikes me you're a weakly edition of a man yourself," thought the
other. "He must be a lunatic," was the next thought. "I may as well
humor him."
"Go in at that door," he said.
The stranger entered as directed, and at once recognized it as a
court-room.
"It is very singular that there should be a courtroom in the 'Tribune'
office," he thought. He took a seat, and whispered to a man at his
side: "Can you tell me where the 'Tribune' office is?"
"Printing-house Square," was the whispered reply.
"Where's that?"
"Not much over a quarter of a mile from here."
"The boy deceived me," thought the stranger indignantly, "and I gave
him fifty cents for doing it. He must be a young rascal."
"What building is this?" he asked, still in a whisper.
"The Tombs."
"What, the prison!"
"Yes; didn't you know it?" asked the informant, in surprise.
"I am a stranger in the city," said the Illinois man apologetically.
"Did you want to go to the 'Tribune' office?"
"Yes; I wished to subscribe for the paper."
"I am going that way. I will show you if you desire it."
"Thank you. I shall consider it a favor."
So the two retraced their steps, and this time our Illinois friend
found the office of which he was in quest. He came near finding Sam
also, for as he stood in front of French's Hotel, he saw his recent
acquaintance approaching, and quickly dodged inside the hotel till he
had passed. A boot-black to whom he had been speaking followed him in
surprise.
"I say, what's up, Johnny?" he asked. "Yer didn't see a copp, did
yer?"
"No, it's that man that just went by."
"Who's he?"
"He's the man I ran away from," said Sam, not caring to tell the
truth.
"What would he do if he should catch you?" asked the boot-black, with
curiosity.
"Lick me," said Sam, laconically.
"Then you did right. Is he going to stay here long?"
