'Well?'
'Is that displeasure?' he said.
'When have I shortened the distance?' But the words were
defiant with pain, not anger. And Rollo on his part remained
perfectly still and perfectly silent, not even seeming to know
how the old horse was going to please himself.
Nothing could have been more still, outwardly, than the white-
robed figure in the corner,--and nothing need be more inwardly
tumultuous.
'If it was an open wagon,' she thought to herself, 'I should
jump out--over the back or somewhere!' O this having men talk
to one! And what was he talking about? and what had she done?--
she who had done nothing! Except--'dance better than ever
anybody danced before!' 'For the distance they kept'--and when
did not her hands keep their distance from every one! How many
times that very evening had she been voted 'cruel,' for
refusing some favour which other girls granted freely? Mr.
Rollo, too!--who had praised her 'womanliness'--But with that
the womanish element prevailed, and there came a quiver of
lip, and for an instant her hands were folded across her eyes.
Then down again, to hold each other in order.
And yet her hand had been on twenty shoulders that evening,
and twenty arms had encircled her!
There was an interval of some length.
'Miss Hazel,' said Rollo at length, and his voice was clear
and manly, 'have I offended you?'
'No,'--under her breath. 'I--suppose not.'
'Do you want me to give, if I can, some justification of
myself?'
'There is none. Except that you did not mean to say what you
said.'
'I meant no justification of my words,' said he, gently but
steadily. 'If you want that, it is, that they were spoken to
save you from harm.'
'Ah!' she said with a half cry,--then checked herself. 'What
else does Mr. Rollo wish to justify?'
'Only my right to speak them;--if you did, as you might,--
question it.' He paused a little, and went on. 'I can give you
only half of my plea, but half will do. It is, that your
father and mother dearly loved mine.'
It was all Hazel could do to bear her mother's name just then.
Her hands took a sudden grip of each other, but no answer
came. Not for some time: then words low and softly spoken--
'I think I asked for no plea, Mr. Rollo.'
'Then if you are content with it,' said he, in a lighter tone,
'give me your hand once more, only for a moment this time.'
She hesitated--then held it out. He bent down and gave it a
swift, earnest kiss; after which he turned his attention to
his driving duties, for some time neglected, till Mr.
Falkirk's cottage was gained. As he took Wych Hazel out of the
carriage, he said,
'It's so late, if you don't forbid me, I am going up to my old
friend, Mrs. Bywank, to ask her to give me lodging to-night.'
Hazel bowed her head in token that he might do as he pleased,
giving no other reply. But it is safe to say that, by this
time, ideas and thoughts and feelings and pain, and--'other
things,' as she would have phrased it, were so inextricably
mixed up in the girl's head, that she hardly knew which was
which and which was not. She walked steadily in,--then gave
about two springs to her brown corner room, and locked the
door.
CHAPTER XXVII.
THE GERMAN AT OAK HILL.
Mr. Falkirk was not disturbed that night with being told
anything. But when the sun had risen fair and clear over the
green world of Chickaree, and Gotham moved silently about the
breakfast-table, Mr. Falkirk might notice from his sofa that
but one cup and saucer stood on the tray, and but one plate
near to bear it company. If Mr. Falkirk's nerves were not in
order, they might have been tried; for Gotham certainly seemed
to have borrowed the cat's shoes for the occasion.
'Why don't you set the table as usual?' came pretty
peremptorily from the sofa.
'Miss 'Azel 'ave sent word she was h'asleep, sir,' said
Gotham, with extra dignity.
'Then why don't you wait till she is awake, slowhead? as
usual. It is not eight o'clock yet.'
'H'also that she 'as no h'intentions of h'ever waking h'up,
sir.'
So Mr. Falkirk took his breakfast with a dissatisfied mind.
For it is safe to say, he was so accustomed by this time to
his gay little ward's company and ministrations, that coffee
was not coffee without her. Gotham did his duty in a more than
usually taciturn fashion, and Mr. Falkirk's breakfast was at
an end before the factotum unburdened his mind.
'Beg pardon, sir,' he said, drawing himself up behind his
master; 'but 'ow are your h'orders concerning Miss 'Azel to be
h'understood, sir?'
'Orders?' said Mr. Falkirk.
'You distinctly said and h'indicated, sir, that I was to drive
Mis 'Azel to and from, sir,--if my mind serves me,' said
Gotham.
'And if my mind serves me, you have driven her forty times.'
'Quite correct, sir,--and more,' said Gotham. 'The point h'is,
Mr. Falkirk, what's to be done when young gents come taking
the h'orders h'out of my very 'ands, sir?'
'Knock 'em down.'
'The first natural h'impulse, sir. But put a case that they're
in the knockin' down style too?--then I'm left in the road, and
Miss 'Azel without a protector.'
'Who's been knocking you down now, Gotham?'
'No one, sir;--I 'ope I know my business better,' said Gotham.
'I speak of the h'inevitable. And Mr. Rollo would drive Miss
'Azel 'ome last night, and she gave me no better h'assistance
than one of her laughs, sir.' Clearly it rang in his ears yet.
'You had better not meddle with what don't belong to you, my
friend. If Miss Hazel had desired your assistance, it would
have been time enough to give it to her.'
'Very good, sir,--h'all settled, sir,'--and Gotham carried off
the tray with a face of mixed perplexity and wisdom that was
funny to see. But the sunshine crept on through the little
study, and it was well-nigh time to set the table again,
before the door opened softly and Wych hazel came in: two
exquisite roses in her cheeks, in her hand--by way of excuse--a
basket of wonderful hot-house grapes. How glad she had been to
take them from Dingee at the door.
'Well, my dear!' said Mr. Falkirk, with an accent of
unmistakeable pleasure, and something behind it, 'you have
slept long to-day. Were you home so late?'
'I suppose it was late, sir. I lost no time, and so took no
note. How do you do to-day, Mr. Falkirk?'
'Able to move, I think. I shall get about in a day or two
more.'
'Here are some grapes, sir, to hasten the cure.' She put the
basket in his hand, and passed on to a low seat at the head of
the sofa. Mr. Falkirk looked at them, and his tone changed to
the accustomed growl.
'Where are these from?'
'Major Seaton, I believe, is responsible,' said the girl
carelessly.
'How many several people are after you at this present, Miss
Hazel?'
'Difficult to say, sir, without more extensive inquiries than
I have made. Your words do not put an attractive face upon the
matter.'
'Is there any such thing in the lot?' asked Mr. Falkirk,
discontentedly.
'As an attractive face? O yes, sir, several. Quite a number, I
should say,' replied Miss Hazel, with a critical air.
'And all of them at Moscheloo?'
'All what, sir? Your English is hardly so pointed as usual--if
you will excuse me for saying it.'
'You were speaking of attractive faces, my dear. I should say
that your syntax wanted attention.'
'I did not know but you referred to "the lot," ' said Wych
Hazel. 'There was the usual mingling, I think, of attractive
and unattractive.'
Mr. Falkirk was silent till dinner was served, and then
attended to that.
'Mr. Falkirk,' Hazel began suddenly, when Gotham had retired,
'I believe you could move now. Come!--go with me to Oak Hill
to-night,--will you, sir?'
'Oak Hill,' said her guardian. 'Mrs. Seaton's. What is to be
done there?'
'A promenade concert--nominally.'
'That sounds something to me like a dancing dinner. What does
it mean, my dear?'
'Just what I said, in the first place, sir. If Kitty Fisher
and the Powders are there, it may turn into something else.'
'And what does a promenade concert turn into, when it is
enchanted?' said Mr. Falkirk.
'A succession of dances--it might.'
'Well, my dear--what should I do in a succession of dances?'
She laughed,--just a little. Laughs were not ready to-night.
'Sit still, sir, and watch me.'
'It strikes me I do enough of that as it is, without going to
Oak Hill. Do you want more than you will have to watch you?'
The word jarred. She was silent a minute. Then earnestly--
'I wish you would, Mr. Falkirk.'
A new expression on Mr. Falkirk's face shewed that a new idea
had occurred to him.
'What does this mean?' he asked gently, bending on his ward
one of his keen looks from under the thick eyebrows.
She answered without looking at him,
'It means what is says, sir.'
'What is the matter, my dear?' came more sympathizingly than
Mr. Falkirk's wont. It was even a little low and tender.
'Why, Mr. Falkirk--it is such an unreasonable request, that you
should be so keen after reasons?'
'I do not know that it is unreasonable, but you know that it
