of her. It took everyone by surprise, for two years of foreign training
added to several at home had worked wonders, and the beautiful voice
that used to warble cheerily over pots and kettles now rang out
melodiously or melted to a mellow music that woke a sympathetic thrill
in those who listened. Rose glowed with pride as she accompanied her
friend, for Phebe was in her own world now a lovely world where no
depressing memory of poorhouse or kitchen, ignorance or loneliness, came
to trouble her, a happy world where she could be herself and rule others
by the magic of her sweet gift.
Yes, Phebe was herself now, and showed it in the change that came over
her at the first note of music. No longer shy and silent, no longer the
image of a handsome girl but a blooming woman, alive and full of the
eloquence her art gave her, as she laid her hands softly together,
fixed her eye on the light, and just poured out her song as simply and
joyfully as the lark does soaring toward the sun.
“My faith, Alec that’s the sort of voice that wins a man’s heart out
of his breast!” exclaimed Uncle Mac, wiping his eyes after one of the
plaintive ballads that never grow old.
“So it would!” answered Dr. Alec delightedly.
“So it has,” added Archie to himself; and he was right, for just at that
moment he fell in love with Phebe. He actually did, and could fix the
time almost to a second, for at a quarter past nine, he merely thought
her a very charming young person; at twenty minutes past, he considered
her the loveliest woman he ever beheld; at five and twenty minutes past,
she was an angel singing his soul away; and at half after nine he was
a lost man, floating over a delicious sea to that temporary heaven on
earth where lovers usually land after the first rapturous plunge.
If anyone had mentioned this astonishing fact, nobody would have
believed it; nevertheless, it was quite true, and sober, businesslike
Archie suddenly discovered a fund of romance at the bottom of his
hitherto well-conducted heart that amazed him. He was not quite clear
what had happened to him at first, and sat about in a dazed sort of way,
seeing, hearing, knowing nothing but Phebe, while the unconscious idol
found something wanting in the cordial praise so modestly received
because Mr. Archie never said a word.
This was one of the remarkable things which occurred that evening.
Another was that Mac paid Rose a compliment, which was such an
unprecedented fact, it produced a great sensation, though only one
person heard it.
Everybody had gone but Mac and his father, who was busy with the doctor.
Aunt Plenty was counting the teaspoons in the dining room, and Phebe was
helping her as of old. Mac and Rose were alone he apparently in a brown
study, leaning his elbows on the chimneypiece, and she lying back in a
low chair looking thoughtfully at the fire. She was tired, and the quiet
was grateful to her, so she kept silence and Mac respectfully held his
tongue. Presently, however, she became conscious that he was looking at
her as intently as eyes and glasses could do it, and without stirring
from her comfortable attitude, she said, smiling up at him, “He looks as
wise as an owl I wonder what he’s thinking about?”
“You, Cousin.”
“Something good, I hope?”
“I was thinking Leigh Hunt was about right when he said, ‘A girl is the
sweetest thing God ever made.’”
“Why, Mac!” and Rose sat bolt upright with an astonished face this was
such an entirely unexpected sort of remark for the philosopher to make.
Evidently interested in the new discovery, Mac placidly continued, “Do
you know, it seems as if I never really saw a girl before, or had
any idea what agreeable creatures they could be. I fancy you are a
remarkably good specimen, Rose.”
“No, indeed! I’m only hearty and happy, and being safe at home again
may make me look better than usual perhaps, but I’m no beauty except to
Uncle.”
“‘Hearty and happy’ that must be it,” echoed Mac, soberly investigating
the problem. “Most girls are sickly or silly, I think I have observed,
and that is probably why I am so struck with you.”
“Of all the queer boys you are the queerest! Do you really mean that
you don’t like or notice girls?” asked Rose, much amused at this new
peculiarity of her studious cousin.
“Well, no, I am only conscious of two sorts noisy and quiet ones. I
prefer the latter, but, as a general thing, I don’t notice any of them
much more than I do flies, unless they bother me, then I’d like to flap
them away, but as that won’t do, I hide.”
Rose leaned back and laughed until her eyes were full. It was so comical
to hear Mac sink his voice to a confidential whisper at the last
words and see him smile with sinful satisfaction at the memory of the
tormentors he had eluded.
“You needn’t laugh it’s a fact, I assure you. Charlie likes the
creatures, and they spoil him. Steve follows suit, of course. Archie is
a respectful slave when he can’t help himself. As for me, I don’t
often give them a chance, and when I get caught I talk science and dead
languages till they run for their lives. Now and then I find a sensible
one, and then we get on excellently.”
“A sad prospect for Phebe and me,” sighed Rose, trying to keep sober.
“Phebe is evidently a quiet one. I know she is sensible, or you wouldn’t
care for her. I can see that she is pleasant to look at, so I fancy
I shall like her. As for you, I helped bring you up, therefore I am a
little anxious to see how you turn out. I was afraid your foreign polish
might spoil you, but I think it has not. In fact, I find you quite
satisfactory so far, if you don’t mind my saying it. I don’t quite know
what the charm is, though. Must be the power of inward graces, since you
insist that you have no outer ones.”
Mac was peering at her with a shrewd smile on his lips, but such a
kindly look behind the glasses that she found both words and glance very
pleasant and answered merrily, “I am glad you approve of me, and much
obliged for your care of my early youth. I hope to be a credit to you
and depend on your keeping me straight, for I’m afraid I shall be spoilt
among you all.”
“I’ll keep my eye on you upon one condition,” replied the youthful
mentor.
“Name it.”
“If you are going to have a lot of lovers around, I wash my hands of
you. If not, I’m your man.”
“You must be sheep dog and help keep them away, for I don’t want any yet
awhile and, between ourselves, I don’t believe I shall have any if it is
known that I am strong-minded. That fact will scare most men away like a
yellow flag,” said Rose, for, thanks to Dr. Alec’s guardianship, she had
wasted neither heart nor time in the foolish flirtations so many girls
fritter away their youth upon.
“Hum! I rather doubt that,” muttered Mac as he surveyed the damsel
before him.
She certainly did not look unpleasantly strong-minded, and she was
beautiful in spite of her modest denials. Beautiful with the truest sort
of beauty, for nobility of character lent its subtle charm to the bloom
of youth, the freshness of health, the innocence of a nature whose sweet
maidenliness Mac felt but could not describe. Gentle yet full of spirit,
and all aglow with the earnestness that suggests lovely possibilities
and makes one hope that such human flowers may have heaven’s purest air
and warmest sunshine to blossom in.
“Wait and see,” answered Rose; then, as her uncle’s voice was heard in
the hall, she held out her hand, adding pleasantly, “The old times are
to begin again, so come soon and tell me all your doings and help me
with mine just as you used to do.”
“You really mean it?” And Mac looked much pleased.
“I really do. You are so little altered, except to grow big, that I
don’t feel at all strange with you and want to begin where we left off.”
“That will be capital. Good night, Cousin,” and to her great amazement,
he gave her a hearty kiss.
“Oh, but that is not the old way at all!” cried Rose, stepping back
in merry confusion while the audacious youth assumed an air of mild
surprise as he innocently asked: “Didn’t we always say good night in
that way? I had an impression that we did and were to begin just as we
left off.”
“Of course not. No power on earth would have bribed you to do it, as you
know well enough. I don’t mind the first night, but we are too old for
that sort of thing now.”
“I’ll remember. It was the force of habit, I suppose, for I’m sure
I must have done it in former times, it seemed so natural. Coming,
Father!” and Mac retired, evidently convinced he was right.
“Dear old thing! He is as much a boy as ever, and that is such a
comfort, for some of the others have grown up very fast,” said Rose to
herself, recalling Charlie’s sentimental airs and Archie’s beatified
expression while Phebe sang.
Chapter 2 OLD FRIENDS WITH NEW FACES
“It is so good to be home again! I wonder how we ever made up our minds
to go away!” exclaimed Rose as she went roaming about the old house next
morning, full of the satisfaction one feels at revisiting familiar nooks
and corners and finding them unchanged.
“That we might have the pleasure of coming back again,” answered Phebe,
walking down the hall beside her little mistress, as happy as she.
“Everything seems just as we left it, even to the rose leaves we used to
tuck in here,” continued the younger girl, peeping into one of the tall
India jars that stood about the hall.
“Don’t you remember how Jamie and Pokey used to play Forty Thieves with
them, and how you tried to get into that blue one and got stuck, and the
other boys found us before I could pull you out?” asked Phebe, laughing.
“Yes, indeed, and speaking of angels, one is apt to hear the rustling
of their wings,” added Rose, as a shrill whistle came up the avenue
accompanied by the clatter of hoofs.
“It is the circus!” cried Phebe gaily as they both recalled the red cart
and the charge of the clan.
There was only one boy now, alas, but he made noise enough for half a
dozen, and before Rose could run to the door, Jamie came bouncing in
with a “shining morning face,” a bat over his shoulder, a red and white
jockey cap on his head, one pocket bulging with a big ball, the other
overflowing with cookies, and his mouth full of the apple he was just
finishing off in hot haste.
“Morning! I just looked in to make sure you’d really come and see that
you were all right,” he observed, saluting with bat and doffing the gay
cap with one effective twitch.
“Good morning, dear. Yes, we really are here, and getting to rights as
fast as possible. But it seems to me you are rather gorgeous, Jamie.
What do you belong to a fire company or a jockey club?” asked Rose,
turning up the once chubby face, which now was getting brown and square
about the chin.
“No, ma’am! Why, don’t you know? I’m captain of the Base Ball Star
Club. Look at that, will you?” And, as if the fact were one of national
importance, Jamie flung open his jacket to display upon his proudly
swelling chest an heart-shaped red flannel shield decorated with a white
cotton star the size of a tea plate.
“Superb! I’ve been away so long I forgot there was such a game. And you
