freely.”
“It will be a sure thing this time, for I saw the blaze
rising when I came up the ladder,” added Bill.
“And I saw it myself also.”
“But it ought to be a little hot by this time,” replied
Bill, who began to have a suspicion that every thing was
not working according to the programme.
“You know best how you fixed things down below.
The fire may have burned the straw all up without lighting
the ceiling of the vessel.”
At least ten minutes had elapsed since the match
had been applied to the combustibles, and it was certainly
time that the fire should begin to appear in the
steerage. But there was no fire, and not even the
smell of fire, to be perceived. The conspirators were
astonished at the non–appearance of the blaze; and
after waiting ten minutes more they were satisfied that
the fire was not making any progress.
“It is a failure again,” said Bark Lingall. “There
will be no conflagration to–day.”
“Yes, there will, if I have to set it a dozen times,”
replied Bill Stout, setting his teeth firmly together. “I
don’t understand it. I certainly saw the blaze before I
left the hold; and I couldn’t have done the job any
better if I had tried for a week.”
“You did it all right, without a doubt; but a fire will
not always burn after you touch it off,” answered Bark,
willing to console his companion in his failure.
“I will go down again, and see what the matter is, at
any rate. If I can’t get up a blaze in the hold, I will
see what I can do in one of the mess–rooms,” added
Bill stoutly.
“How can you get into one of the mess–rooms?”
asked Bark. “You forget that we are locked into the
brig.”
“No, I don’t forget it; but you seem to forget that
we can go down into the hold, and go up by the forward
scuttle into the steerage.”
“You are right, Bill. I did not think of that,” said
Bark. “And you can also go aft, and up by the after
scuttle into the cabin. I remember now that there are
three ways to get into the hold.”
“I haven’t forgot it for a moment,” added Bill, with
something like triumph in his tones. “I am going
down once more to see why the blaze didn’t do as it
was expected to do.”
“Not yet, Bill. Wait till Salter has been into the
steerage again.”
“It isn’t twenty minutes since he was here; and he
will not come again for half an hour at least.”
Bill Stout felt that he had done enough, and had
proved that he knew enough, to entitle him to have his
own way. Raising the scuttle, he descended into the
hold. He did not dare to remain long, lest the chief
steward should come into the steerage, and discover
that he was not in the brig. But he remained long
enough to ascertain the reason why the fire did not
burn; and, filled with amazement, he returned to communicate
the discovery he had made to his fellow–conspirator.
When he had closed the trap, and turned
around to confront Bark, his face was the very picture
of astonishment and dismay.
“Well, what’s the matter, Bill?” asked Bark, who
could not help seeing the strange expression on the
countenance of his shipmate.
“Matter enough! I should say that the Evil One was
fighting against us, Bark,” replied his companion.
“I should say that the Evil One is fighting on the
other side, if on either,” added Bark. “But what have
you found?”
“The fire is out, and the straw and other stuff feels
just as though a bucket of water had been thrown
upon it. At any rate, it is wet,” answered Bill.
“Nonsense! no water could have been thrown upon
it.”
“How does it happen to be wet, then?”
“The hold of a vessel is apt to be a damp place.”
“Damp! I tell you it was wet!” protested Bill; and
the mysterious circumstance seemed to awe and alarm
him.
“Certainly no water could have been thrown upon
the fire,” persisted Bark.
“How happens it to be wet, then? That’s what I
want to know.”
“Do you think any water was thrown on the straw?”
“I don’t see how it could have been; but I know it
was wet,” replied Bill.
“Very likely the dry stuff burned off, and the wet
straw would not take fire,” suggested Bark, who was
good for accounting for strange things.
“That may be; I did not think of that,” mused Bill.
“But there is a pile of old dunnage on the starboard
side, and some more straw and old boxes and things
there; and I will try it on once more. I have got
started, and I’m going to do the job if I hang for it.”
“Wait till Salter has been in again before you go
below,” said Bark.
Bill was content to wait. To his desire for freedom,
was added the feeling of revenge for being committed
to the brig when all hands were about to make a
voyage in the Prince. He was determined to destroy
the Tritonia,—more determined than when he first attempted
the crime. In a short time the chief steward
made another visit to the steerage, and again returned
to the cabin.
“Now is my time,” said Bill, when he was satisfied
that Salter had reached the cabin.
“Be careful this time,” added Bark, as he raised the
scuttle.
“I shall be careful, but I shall make a sure thing of
it,” replied Bill, stepping upon the narrow ladder, and
descending.
Bill Stout was absent full five minutes this time; and,
when he returned to the brig, he had not lighted the
train that was to complete the destruction of the Tritonia.
“I had no paper, and I could not make a blaze,”
said he. “Have you a newspaper about you, Bill?”
“No, I have not: I do not carry papers around with
me.”
“What shall I do? I can’t light the rubbish without
something that is entirely dry.”
“Here,” answered Bark, picking up one of the neglected
text–books on the floor. “You can get as much
paper as you want out of this book.”
“But that won’t do,” replied Bill. “I thought you
were a very prudent fellow.”
“So I am.”
“If I should miss fire again, and this book or any
part of it should be found in the pile, it would blow the
whole thing upon us.”
“Tear out a lot of the leaves; and they will be sure
to be burnt, if you light them with the match.”
As no other paper could be obtained, Bill consented
to tear out some of the leaves of the book, and use
them for his incendiary purpose. Bark declared that
what was left of it would soon be in ashes, and there
was nothing to fear as to its being a telltale against
them. Once more Bill descended into the hold; and,
as he had made every thing ready during his last visit,
he was absent only long enough to light the paper, and
thrust it into the pile of combustibles he had gathered.
He had placed several small sticks of pine, which had
been split to kindle the fire in the galley, on the heap
of rubbish, in order to give more body to the fire when
it was lighted. He paused an instant to see the flame
rise from the pile, and then fled up the ladder.
“Hurry up!” whispered Bark at the scuttle. “I
hear Salter moving about in the cabin.”
But the trap–door was returned to its place before
the chief steward appeared; and he only looked into
the steerage.
“The job is done this time, you may bet your life!”
exclaimed Bill, as he seated himself on his stool, and
tried to look calm and self–possessed.
“I saw the blaze,” added Bark. “Let’s look down,
and see if it is going good.”
“No, no!” protested Bill earnestly. “We don’t
want to run a risk for nothing.”
Both of the young villains waited with throbbing
hearts for the bursting out of the flames, which they
thought would run up the ceiling of the vessel, and
communicate the fire to the berths on the starboard
side of the steerage. Five minutes—ten minutes—a
quarter of an hour, they waited for the catastrophe;
but no smoke, no flame, appeared. Bill Stout could not
understand it again. Another quarter of an hour they
waited, but less confidently than before.
“No fire yet, Bill,” said Bark, with a smile.
“I don’t know what it means,” replied the puzzled
incendiary. “You saw the fire, and so did I; and I
can’t see why the blaze don’t come up through the
deck.”
“It is very odd, Bill; and I can’t see through it any
better than you can,” added Bark. “It don’t look as
though we were to have a burn to–day.”
“We are bound to have it!” insisted Bill Stout. “I
shall try next time in one of the mess–rooms.”
“With all the pains and precautions to prevent fire
on board, it seems that the jolly craft won’t burn. No
fellow has been allowed to have a match, or even to
