'Give me a few minutes'
And presently, when no one was looking, the little lady flitted 
away out of the room.
It is fair to say that the gentleman so far lost his presence of mind 
for some minutes thereafter, as to be justly chargeable with what is 
called absence. He scarcely answered the observations addressed 
to him, and made several on his own account without very well 
knowing what he was talking about. And so, for a little, if Time 
"gallopped" up stairs, he went rather slowly, with one or two at 
least, in the drawing-room. Dr. Arthur presently drew off from the 
views and took position again by the mantel-piece,probably to 
hear the Christmas wind, which was very musical just then. And 
probably the doctor's thoughts too wandered off; for after a while 
he took a pair of white gloves from his pocket and began 
abstractedly to fit them on.
'Arthur!' said Mrs. Coles severely, whose eyes were never known 
to be off duty,'what can you be about?'
'That's the way some people do,' said Rollo after a quick glance; 
'they are never ready for an occasion till the occasion is half over.'
'But what is the "occasion"?' said Mrs. Coles.
'Christmas day at Chickareedinnerand, Arthur seems to think, 
ceremony.'
'Look at Arthur, Prim,' said her sister.
'It is a leisure moment,' said Dr. Arthur fastening a button,'and I 
so seldom have leisure in which to try on new gloves. One of the 
minor comforts of life, is having your gloves fit.' And Dr. Arthur 
glanced at Dane from under his brows, and went back to his other 
glove and the Christmas wind again.
'I declare,' said Prudentia, 'I think you are very unceremonious!'
'Extremes meet,here as often elsewhere,' replied Dane.
'But what have you been getting new white gloves for, Arthur?' 
asked his younger sister.
'They look better than old ones, Prim,when they fit.'
'Has Molly Seaton sent you cards for her wedding?'
'I dare say.What about it?'
'She hasn't,nor anybody else,' said Rollo.
'Useless things'said Dr. Arthur. 'I am glad they have not come.'
Another time Dane might have discussed the subject; but not to-
night. He was silent. And as people catch the hidden influences 
abroad in the air, the others grew silent too, not knowing why, 
thinking it was the wind which drew their attention. Dr. Arthur, 
leaning against the mantelpiece with his eyes on the floor, in an 
attitude of keen listening, had plainly forgotten his gloves; and the 
fire snapped softly, and the red coals fell, and still nobody spoke. 
Until, when some little time had passed by, there came a sound of 
steps in the hall,steps slow and rather heavy; and the door 
opened softly, and a vision came in. Not hers the steps they had 
heard; so noiselessly she came in, so vision-like she looked, so 
lovely, so girlish in her loveliness, that a caught breath, a half 
exclamation, greeted her on all hands. The glittering dress was all 
changed. Not for the white clouds in which her mother might have 
arrayed her, nor for anything that should make her conspicuous, or 
could be so. More for seclusion than for show, Wych Hazel had 
chosen her bridal dress. Dark,so dark that the depths of folds 
might have been black, and only the light-touched edges threw off 
a sea-green reflet; with no ornaments but the châtelaine at her side, 
with no adornment but her own silky hair in its own wayward 
arrangement. To all this there was just one addition. Hazel had 
taken the lace veil,exquisite in pattern, cobweb-like in texture,
and laid it across her head like a Spanish mantilla, from whence it 
came down about her on all sides to the floor, leaving only the face 
and the front of the dress clear. One little ungloved hand held the 
lace lightly together; for gloves that there was nobody to take off, 
Hazel could not put on.
Mrs. Bywank and Reo followed close behind her, behind them old 
Gyda. But there is something in a crisis which stills some natures; 
and while the faces of the faithful old retainers, weatherbeaten 
with life's alternating wind and sun, worked and stirred with 
emotion, the girl herself was quiet and composed, with almost the 
grave childish calm of her own little picture. Her step was a little 
quick, but even the colour did not stir, until when after the first 
three steps into the room there came a minute's hesitation, as if she 
did not quite know where to go, now she was there. If any others 
of the household followedas probably they didthose who 
looked saw only the three; and perhaps the glitter of Gyda's 
embroidery just behind.
Just while Wych Hazel made those three steps into the room, there 
was a pause upon all that saw her. A half smothered 'My dear!'
came from Mrs. Coles' astonished lips, and was arrested mid way. 
For so many seconds Dane did not move, losing everything else in 
the direct vision; but then he was at Wych Hazel's side 
immediately and gave her his arm. A great light had come up into 
his face, all the light of a smile, but he was not smiling. He led 
Wych Hazel forward till they stood at the edge of the semicircle 
which had spread out right and left of the table, everybody having 
risen to his feet.
'You see what we want of you, Dr. Maryland,' he said. 'Will you 
do us the greatest favour you ever can do us?'
'My dear boy!Dane!' exclaimed the old doctor in 
bewilderment,'is it possible? Is this little lady ready on such 
short notice?'
'She is ready,'replied Dane, with a hidden ring of strength and 
tenderness in his voice that only one person could fairly 
comprehend. And Dr. Maryland seeing them stand still waiting 
before him was fain to believe his eyes and began to bestir himself 
to make his preparations. Not many were needed.
'There is a Bible on that table yonder, Arthur,' said Rollo, standing 
like a rock. Mrs. Coles by this time found breath.
'But Dane!My dear Miss Kennedy!you don't surely mean to 
do without having a wedding?'
'Hush, Prue!' said her sister.
'But I never heard of such a thing in my life!'
Nobody heeded her.
Dr. Maryland was ready, and Dane leading Wych Hazel to a place 
in front of him, dropped her arm and stood beside her. It was time, 
for a crisis will not bear tampering with; and the girl had grown 
visibly paler under pressure of Mrs. Coles, and hands were 
trembling a little, and lips almost. Then she drew herself up with 
her old quick gesture, and sealed all that, and hid it away. And it 
was but a few minutes. There was no want of sympathy in Dr. 
Maryland's sweet, grave ministration; a little accent of gladness 
was here and there perceptible, and his prayers were exceedingly 
earnest and loving. The words of address he directed to the two 
young people were searching and stirring words, such as Dr. 
Maryland could well speak; but it was all swiftly over, though his 
utterances were the reverse of swift. On the contrary, they were 
tender and deliberate. But even so, it was quickly over, and Hazel 
was receiving the congratulations of her little knot of friends.
Now character came out. The old Doctor's touch of her brow was 
hearty enough but a little formal. Prim's kiss was trembling. 
Prudentia's was the impact of wooden lips, moveless and hard; one 
would have said, sinister, if an expressionless thing could be said 
to have expression. All the notes of the scale were between her 
husband's kiss and that, Dr. Arthur almost making up for the rest 
with his glad, brotherly greeting for Hazel and a brother's wring of 
the hand for Dane. But from them all, Wych Hazel turned and 
threw her arms round Mrs. Bywank. Restraining herself then with 
a great effort, she raised her head and took Reo's hand in both of 
hers; but not a word passed on either side. And Gyda, who had 
meekly waited her turn, drew near and lifted one of Wych Hazel's 
hands to her old lips. She too said nothing audibly, and made way 
for others of the household who were bashfully coming in.
'Now will you tell me, Dane,' began Mrs. Coles, when the pause at 
her end of the room had lasted, as she thought long enough, 'why 
you and Miss Kennedy have done things in this unheard-of sort of 
style?'
Perhaps Dane thought it was not a proper question, for he folded 
his arms and did not answer. Perhaps he did not hear her; for, 
though with no outward token of it, he was somewhat anxiously 
watching Wych Hazel.
'What made you do things in this way, to disappoint all the world?' 
The lady's face wore a smile which was meant to be gracious, 
however the words sounded not so.
'Prue,' said Prim, 'people have a right to be married in their own 
way.'
'But my dear!Don't you think you owe something to society, 
Dane? In your position?'
'I never understood my obligations to society,' said Dane 
carelessly.
'But do you think it is fair, to disappoint all the world?'
'Always fair to disappoint improper curiosity.'
'Well, but why is that improper curiosity?'
'Curiosity about other people's business,' said Dane good-
humouredly.
'And do you call that improper?'
'I suppose not,when custom has made it seem to be your own 
business.'
'That's it; custom has made it not only seem but be so. And I think 
it is perfectly natural and reasonable and proper. When does a lady 
show to more advantage than on her wedding-day? And why 
should not the world have the benefit of it?'
'I do not know why not,' said Dane smiling,'if it suits the parties 
concerned.'
'Why didn't it suit you, you jealous Musulman?'
'When a lady has never been seen to advantage,' remarked Dr. 
Arthur,'that may alter the case. Her Grace is hardly one of 
those.'
Not one word had come from Hazel's lips, that anybody heard, 
since those few which nobody was likely to forget. Indeed she had 
kept herself rather off from the group, among her own dependants, 
one and all of whom had by degrees filled up the background. And 
it was no trifle to give even a touch of the hand to all those eager 
retainers; the touch and the look, which was all she ventured. Now 
the room was clearing again; and whether Hazel had heard all the 
talk or no, her cheeks gave swift token that Dr. Arthur's last 
sentence had reached her ears. "Her Grace"she could not throw 
off the title any more.
But whatever the rights of the public may be in the matter of 
seeing, the right of discussing, with the parties at hand, Hazel 
plainly thought needed a check. So the next thing that attracted
