among the officers, and then Mr. B went into 

hiding behind a smoke-stack where he could ob- 
serve results. Presently the captain stepped out on 
the hurricane dock ; next the chief mate appeared ; 
then a clerk. Every moment or two a straggler 
was added to my audience ; and before I got to the 
head of the island I had fifteen or twenty people 
assembled down there under my nose. I began to 
wonder what the trouble was. As I started across 
the captain glanced aloft at me and said, with a 
sham uneasiness in his voice, — 

"Where is Mr. B V* 

" Gone below, sir." 

But that did the business for me. My imagina- 
tion began to construct dangers out of nothing, and 
they multiplied faster than I could keep the run of 
them. All at once I imagined I saw shoal water 
ahead! The wave of coward agony that surged 
through me then came near dislocating every 




joint in me. All my confidence in that crossing 
vanished. I seized the bell-rope ; dropped it, 
ashamed ; seized it again ; dropped it once more ; 
clutched it tremblingly once again, and pulled it so 
feebly that I could hardly hear the stroke myself. 
Captain and mate sang out instantly, and both to- 
gether, — 

" Starboard lead there ! and quick about it ! '' 

This was another shock. I began to climb the 
wheel like a squirrel ; but I would hardly get the 
boat started to port before I would see new dangers 
on that side, and away I would spin to the other ; 
only to find perils accumulating to starboard, and 
be crazy to get to port again. Then came the 
leadsman's sepulchral cry : — 

" D-ee-p four ! " 

Deep four in a bottomless crossing ! The terror 
of it took my breath away. 

" M-a-r-k three ! M-a-r k three ! Quarter less 
three ! Half twain ! " 

This was frightful ! I seized the bell-ropes and 
stopped the engines. 

" Quarter twain ! Quarter twain ! Mark twain !" 

I was helpless. I did not know what in the 
world to do. I was quaking from head to foot, and 
I could have hung my hat on my eyes, they stuck 
out so far. 

" Quarter less twain ! Nine and a half ! " 

We were drawing nine! My hands were in a 
nerveless flutter. I could not ring a bell intelligible
with them. I flew to the speak into- tube and 
shouted to the engineer, — 

" Oh, Ben, if you love me, hack her ! Quick 
Ben ! Oh, back the immortal soul out of her ! " 

I heard the door close gently. I looked around 

and the'e stood Mr. B , smiling a bland, sweet 

smile. ThcE the audience on the hurricane deck 
sent uj- Si out of humiliating laughter. I saw it 
all, now, and I felt meaner than the meanest man 
in human history. I laid in the lead, set the boat 
in her marks, came ahead on the engines, and said, — 

" It was a fine trick to play on an orphan u'osn't 
it ? I suppose I 'll never hear the last of how I was 
ass enough to heave the lead at the head of G6." 

" Well, no, you won't, maybe. In fact I hope you 
won't ; for I want you to learn something by that 
experience. Didn't you Icriow there was no bot- 
tom in that crossing ? " 

" Yes, sir, I did." 

" Ver well, then. You shouldn't have allowed 
me or anybody else to shake your confidence in 
that knowledge. Try to remember that. And 
another thing : when you get into a dangerous 
place, don't turn coward. That isn't going to help 
matters any." 

It was a good enough lesson, but pretty hardly 
learned. Yet about the hardest part of it was that 
for months I so often had to hear a phrase which 
I had conceived a particular distaste for. It was, 
" Oh, Ben, if you love me, back her ! " 



CHAPTER VI. 



OFFICIAL RANK AND DIGNITY OF A PILOT. THE 
RISE AND DECADENCE OF THE PILOTS' ASSOCL 
ATION. 

In my preceding articles I have trie&, by going 
into the minutiae of the science of piloting, to carry 
the reader step by step to a comprehension of what 
the science consists of; and at the same time I 
have tried to show him that it is a very curious 
and wonderful science, too, and very worthy of his 
attention. If I have seemed to love my subject, it 
is no surprising thing, for I loved the profession 
far better than any I have followed since, and I 
took a measureless pride in it. The reason is 
plain : a pilot in those days, was the only un- 
fettered and entirely independent huiuan being 
that lived in the earth. Kings are but the ham- 
pered servants of parliament and people ; parlia 
ments sit in chains forged by their constituency ; 
the editor of a newspaper cannot be independent, 
but must work with one hand tied behind him by 
party and patrons, and be content to utter only 
half or two-thirdn of his mind ; no clergyman is a 
free man and may speak the whole truth, regard- 
less of his parish's opinions ; writers of all kinds 
are manacled servants of the public. We write 
frankly and fearlessly, but then we *' modify " 
before we print. In truth, ever man and woman 
and child has a master, and worries and frets in 
servitude ; but in the day I write of, the Missis- 
sippi pilot had 7ione. The captain could stand 
upon the hurricane deck, in the pomp of a very 
brief authority, and give him five or six orders, 
while the vessel backed into the stream, and then 
that skipper's reign was over. The moment that 
the boat was under way in the river, she was under 
the sole and unquestioned control of the pilot. He 
could do with her exactly as he pleased, run her 
when and whither he chose, and tie her up to the 
bank whenever his judgment said that that course 
was best. His movements were entirely free ; he 
consulted no one, he received commands from 
nobody, he promptly resented even the merest 
suggestions. Indeed, the law of the United States 
forbade him to listen to commands or suggestions, 
rightly considering that the pilot necessarily knew 
better how to handle the boat than anybody oould 
tell him. So here was the novelty of a king with- 
out a keeper, an absolute monarch who was 
absolute in sober truth and not by a fiction of 
words. I have seen a boy of eighteen taking a 
great steamer serenely i'to what seemed almost 
certain destruction, and the agod captain standing 
mutely by, filled with apprehension but powerless 
to interfere. His interference, in that particular 
instance, might have been an excellent thing, but 
to permit it would have been to establish a most 
pernicious precedent. It will easily be guessed, 
considering the pilot's boundless authority, that 
he was a great personage in the old steamboating 
days. He was treated with marked courtesy by 
the captain and with marked deference by all the 
officers and servants ; and this deferential spirit 
was quickly communicated to the passengers, too. 
I think pilots were about the only people I ever 
knew who failed to show, in some degree, em- 
barrassment in the presence of traveling foreign 
