angelic baby, who had lived out his folded, rose-leaf life, 
and left behind a rare fragrance that would never die 
quite out of their hearts. 
But the little mother looked so piteous with her great 
asking, sorrowing eyes, and her empty arms, that seemed 
 
to go out into void space caressingly, as if she hoped to 
find him again ; her absent, listening expression, as if she 
was waiting for him to speak from somewhere. There 
was a black ribbon around the neck of her white dress, 
and another in her leghorn hat. Step&en did not like her 
to wear mourning : so she put off all but these small signs. 
An odd, unworldly life they had led in that homely 
rectory during the past two months. Business had taken 
Stephen away now and then. Louis had thrown him 
self heart and soul into the work, with the enthusiasm 
of a poetic nature which the lad had always possessed ; 
though, in earlier years, it had only cropped out in irrita 
tions that rasped him to the core, heart-burnings, anger, 
and jealousy. But he had found his place and his work. 
An idealist he would always be, clothing, or longing to 
clothe, every thing with his exquisite perception of beauty 
and fitness, to find the hidden types and meanings, to go 
up on glorified mounts, to see behind the .cloud and pillar 
of fire, the kind of man of whom, in olden times, 
devotees were made, who saw Christ as if in a vision. 
A sense of spiritual exaltation shone in every feature. 
lie was delicate looking, though not unhealthy, and 
with a glow of mystic worship in his eyes, a reverence 
in every movement, a sweetness and persuasiveness that 
was almost womanlj', yet not weak. His sermons indi 
cated much thought, refinement, and culture ; yet they 
had the pith of the old teaching, and never lost sight of 
the great truth in all the flow of poetic imagery. 
Remembering the wayward boy, Mr. Endicott gave 
thanks anew ; first-fruits of which he would never need 
to be ashamed, surely. 
" Between Stephen and Louis, Rose seems a very 
child," said Nelly to the doctor as they were walking 
home from church in the silvery glow of the September 
evening, with the air full of delicious, ripening odors. 
u Why, it seems to me as if Fan and I were ages older ; 
or is it because we are so much taller ? Poor girl ! she 
is the only one that has had a lasting sorrow thus far." 
"I wish she had not taken it to Louis ;" and there 
was a kind of dissatisfaction in her husband's tone. 
" "Why-, it is perfectly natural. He is a clergyman, and 
they always were unusual friends. He thinks she saved 
him once ; and she did. Barton, I won't have you even 
fancj'ing ' ' 
She stopped because she hardly knew what he did 
fane}*, and there was a jealous warmth in her tone. The 
one who thought any harm of Rose must answer to her 
quick and sharp. 
"My darling, I am not imagining anything in the 
absolute ^nse of wrong. Stephen stands and looks at 
her in great awe, and then steps aside ; and she turns to 
his brother, because he is, as jou say, a clergyman. 
But no person or thing has any right to come between 
husband and wife no sympathy, any more than love." 
" I will not have you judging her hardly," and Nelly's 
voice trembled. 
"She is lovely and sweet; and she is an Endicott: 
can I say any thing greater?" with an abrupt but 
tender pressure. " But I have had a wider experience 
than any of you ; and marriage seems to me a kind of 
promised land. It is promised, and you set out for it ; 
but with some there is forty years in the wilderness,- and 
they only behold it afar off, never quite entering in. A 
day or a month doesn't comprise it all ; a kiss and a 
little caressing is not all the manna : it is the giving and 
receiving on both sides ; and what is given has no right 
to be handed over to another ; neither has one any right 
to withhold. It is the empty place out of which the 
little child has gone ; and some day she will come to see 
that only a husband's love can fill it. Yet it is so natural 
for a woman to crave the finest there is in sympathy." 
"But Louis is so good; and if you could know all 
 
there was between them in the past. I think two 
brothers never loved one another as those two Duncans 
do now." 
Dr. Kinnard Was silent for a few moments, and then 
changed the talk to some other subject. It was a subtle 
under-current that he saw with the practised eye of a 
thoughtful physician. Might it not right itself, especially 
if another child should come to draw them together? 
For happiness is not a settled and unchanging truth. 
What satisfied yesterday may be as but crumbs to 
morrow. 
The addition of the Mallorys to the household attracted 
and diverted attention. Mrs. Mallory was as charmingly 
at home as if she had been coming back to some earlier 
haunt. She possessed the fine grace of thorough breed 
ing, that would never lead any one to wonder if things 
were good enough. You forgot what you proffered ; or, 
rather, she so 'glorified it to you, that straightway it be 
came of the best. She flitted in and out ; she was ex 
quisitely motherly to these young men, who paid her the 
purest respect. Even now, had she so willed, she could 
have drawn an enchanted circle around her equal to that 
of some of the famous old Frenchwomen. 
Bessie was in a glow and radiance. The blood rippled 
vividly through her fair skin ; tremulous lights and shad 
ows fluttered in her eyes ; and her voice had a musical 
fulness, as if it came from an overflowing soul. She was 
oddly shy, now, having lost her friend, and hardly daring 
to accept his attentions in the new light of a lover. But 
with his mother there was no timidity. 
She was j'oung, and they would not hurry matters. 
" You see," explained Mrs. Mallory, " I am a believ 
er in pleasant courtships. It is a season in our young 
lives that nothing ever blights. It has no cares like 
marriage, and, in its happy ignorance, sees nothing save 
endless islands of delight all along the sunshiny shore. 
 
It is a great thing to believe in the perfection of bliss 
even for a year or two ; " and her rippling laugh seemed 
to frame in her sentences. 
" And now, ' gude wife,' we must go home," declared 
Dr. Kinnard. " I feel as if I had been on a fresh 
honeymoon, and may do something ridiculous presently, 
since love-making is all the rage." 
" It has been a wedding-journey," returned Nelly 
with tender gravity. " I seem to be having delightful 
holidays here and there, and only a little of the sober 
work." 
"Ah, you think so!" And he remembered jvhat 
would have been a grievous burthen to some women. 
CHAPTER XIX. 
" Blind and hardened they 
Who hope for peace amid the storms of care ; 
Who covet power they know not how to use, 
And sigh for pleasures they refuse tO'give." 
PKOMETHEUS 
THE Kinnards were at home again, though it was 
some time before they dropped into their olden groove ; 
there was so much to see and hear, so many old friends 
dropping in to welcome them back ! 
The church had gone on beautifully. It was to be 
built of gray stone, and they had been very fortunate in 
securing some that had been cut under another contract ; 
so that the walls, they hoped, would all be up before cold 
weather. It was to be Gothic, with a clerestory and a 
tower, a ver} r decided ornament to the town. 
Then Miss Grove and Maud returned home, both im 
mensely consequential. Nelly had witnessed nothing 
like it the whole summer. 
"Dr. Kinnard," Miss Grove said the next morning, 
at the breakfast- table, " I desire to see you privately at 
your earliest convenience." 
" Very well, come in the office presently," was the 
undaunted answer. 
Maud looked consciously elated. " What a haughty, 
disagreeable girl!" thought Nelly. "Will airy one 
blame me for it, I wonder ? ' ' 
The conference was quite lengtlry. Maud meanwhile 
was entertaining her stepmother with a description of 
 
Saratoga, quite as if she had taken pity on her benighted 
seclusion. 
" Come, Maud," exclaimed her aunt, sweeping through 
the hall. 
The doctor beckoned to his wife, who went in, when 
he closed the door carefully. 
"Wonders will never cease," he began, then gave a 
hearty laugh, thrusting both hands into his pockets. 
" Then it is nothing bad? " And Nelly looked amused. 
"Some one has been found brave enough to bell the 
cat : that was our old idea, was it not ? ' ' and his eyes 
twinkled mirthfull}*. 
"What do you mean?" was her surprised question, 
for she could not believe the thought that flashed into her 
mind. 
" That the whole world has gone marriage mad. 
Auut Adelaide has succumbed to the destiny of women- 
kind." 
Nelly's face was one ripple of astonishment. 
" She would never have entertained such an idea, but 
for my misbehavior. She would have been content to 
