
' " You were bought with a price." ' 

' Of course, God has a right to dispose of us,' Diana 
assented in an 'of course ' way. 

' Dots he ? ' said the minister. Then seeing her puzzled 
expression, he went on ' He cannot dispose of you as he 
wishes, without your consent.'

Diana stopped short, midway in the meadow. ' I do 
not in the least understand, Mr. Masters,' she said. ' How 
does He wish to dispose of me ? ' 

' When you are his own, he will let you know,' said the 
minister, beginning to stroll onward again ; and no more 
words passed till they were nearing the house, when he 
said suddenly, ' Whom do you think you belong to now?' 

Diana's thought made an instant leap at the words, 
a leap over hundreds of miles of intervening space, and 
alighted beside a fine officer-like figure in a dark blue military coat with straps on the shoulders. That was where 
she " belonged," she thought ; and a soft rose colour mantled on her cheek and deepened, half with happiness, halt 
with pride. The question that had provoked it was forgotten ; and the neighbourhood of the house was now too 
near to allow of the inquiry being pressed or repeated. 
The minister indeed was aware that for some time he 
and his companion-had been facing a battery ; but Diana 
was in happy unconsciousness ; it was the thought of 
nothing present or near which made her eyes droop and 
her cheeks take on such a bloom of loveliness. 

Among the eyes that beheld, Mrs. Starling's had not 
been the least keen, though she watched without seeming 
to watch. She saw how the minister and her daughter 
came slowly over the meadow, engaged with each other's 
conversation, while Miss Masters tripped on before them. 



She noticed the pause in their walk, Diana's slow, thoughtful step ; and then as they came near, her flush and her 
downcast eye. 

' The minister's talk 's very interestin',' whispered Mrs. 
Carpenter in her ear. 

'Not to me,' said Mrs. Starling, wilfully misunderstanding. ' Some folks thinks so, I know. I can't somehow 
never get along with him.' 

' And Diana sha'n't,' was her inward resolve ; ' but she 
can't be thinkin' of the other feller.' 

As if to try the question, at the moment, Mrs. Reverdy 
appeared at the top of the steps, just as the minister and 
Diana got to the foot of them. She was in high glee, for 
her party was going off nicely, and the tables were just 
preparing for supper. 

' We want nothing now but Evan,' she said with her 
unfailing laugh. ' Miss Starling, don't you think he might 
have come for this afternoon, just to see so many friends ? ' 

Diana never knew where she got the .coolness to answer, 
' How long a journey is it, Mrs. Reverdy ? ' 

' O I don't know ! How far is it, Mr. Masters ? a 
thousand miles? or two thousand? I declare I have no 
idea. But love laughs at distances, they say.' 

' Is Cupid a contractor on this road ? ' inquired the 
minister gravely. 

' A contractor ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Reverdy laughing, 
' Oh, dear, what a funny idea ! I never thought of putting 
it so. But I didn't know but Miss Starling could tell us.' 

' Do you know anything about it, Miss Diana ? ' asked 
the minister. 

' About what ? ' 

'Why Lieutenant Knowlton is not here this afternoon ? ' 




Diana knew that several pair? of eyes were upon her. 
It was a dangerous minute. But she had failed to discern 
in Mrs. Reverdy or in Gertrude any symptom of more than 
curiosity ; and curiosity she felt she could meet and baffle. 
It was impertinent, and it was unkind. So, though her mind 
was at a point which made it close steering, she managed 
to sheer off from embarrassment and look amused. She 
laughed in the eyes that were watching her, and answered 
carelessly enough to Mr. Masters' question ; that she 
' dared say Mr. Knowlton would have come if he could.' 
Mrs. Starling put up her work with a sigh of relief ; and 
the rest of the persons concerned felt free to dismiss 
the subject from their minds and pay attention to the 
supper. 

It was a great success, Mrs. Reverdy's sewing party. 
The excellent entertainment provided was heartily enjoyed, 
all the more for the little stimulus of curiosity which hung 
about every article and each detail of the tea-table. Old 
Mr. Bowcloin delighted himself in hospitable attentions to 
his old neighbours, and was full of genial and gratified 
talk with them. The stiffness of the afternoon departed 
before the tea and coffee ; and when at last the assembly 
broke up and a little file of country wagons drove away, 
one after another, from the door, it was with highly gratified loads of people. 

Diana may be quoted as a single exception. In the 
tremor of her spirits which followed the bit of social navigation noticed above, she had hardly known how anything 
tasted at the supper ; and the talk she had heard without 
hearing. There was nothing but relief in getting away. 

The drive home was as silent between her and her 
mother as the drive out had been. Mrs. Starling was full 
of her own cogitations. Diana's thoughts were not like 




that, hard twisted and hard knotted lines of argument, 
growing harder and more twisted towards their end ; but 
wide flowing and soft changing visions, flowing sweet and 
free as the clouds borne on the air currents of heaven ; 
catching such colours, and drifting as insensibly from one 
form into another. The evening kept up the dreamy character of the afternoon, the haze growing duskier as the light 
waned ; till the tender gleam of a full moon began to supply here and there the glory of the lost sunlight. It was 
a colder gleam, though ; and so far, more practical than 
that flush of living promise which a little while ago had 
filled the sky and the world. Diana's thoughts centred on 
Evan's letter. Where was it ? When should she get it ? 
Josiah, she knew, had been to the post-office that morning, and brought home nothing ! She wished she could go 
to the post office herself ; she sometimes had done so ; but 
she would not like to take Evan's letter either, from the 
knowing hands of the postmaster. She might not be able 
to command her looks perfectly. 

' They don't know how to make soda biscuit, down yonder,' Mrs. Starling broke out abruptly, just as their drive 
was near ended. 

' Don't they ? ' said Diana absently. 

' All yellow ! ' said Mrs. Starling disdainfully. ' Nobody would ever know there was any saleratus in my biscuit or in yours either.' 

' Except from the lightness, mother.' 

'The lightness wouldn't tell what made 'em light,' said 
Mrs. Starling logically. ' They had saleratus in their pickles 
too.' 

' How could you tell ? ' 

' Tell ? As if I couldn't tell ! Tell by the colour.' 

' Ours are green too.' 




' Not green like that. I would despise to make my 
pickles green that way. I'd as soon paint 'em.' 

' It was very handsome, mother, the supper altogether.' 

' Hm ! It was a little too handsome,' said Mrs. Starling, ' and that was what they liked about it. I'd like to 
know what is the use o' having great clumsy forks of make- 
believe silver ' 

' O they were real, mother.' 

' Well, the more fools if they were. I'd like to know 
what is the use of having great clumsy forks of silver, real 
or make-believe, when you can have nice, sharp, handy 
steel ones, and for half or a quarter the price ? ' 

Diana liked the silver forks and was silent. 

