are always swept and garnished, sunbeams can 
only reveal order and beauty. 
And so, if miserable for the day, after such a 
visitation, good must follow with those who 
aspire after good with those who, once made 
conscious of disease, turn to the great Physician. 
We may not be able to think well of him who dis 
covered to us how weak, vain, selfish or mean- 
spirited we were, because he only sought to 
wound and humiliate. Nay, we will hold our 
selves guarded at the next interview, lest he reveal to us other spider-filled corners, and humble 
us in his presence again. 
Salutary as the influence of these disturbers of 
our peace may be, through the revelations they 
give us of ourselves, they only help us to disco 
ver evil, which they scent as the crow scents car- 
rion. They are not physicians ; have no oint 
ment for the sores they uncover; no balm for the 
wounds made in sharp thrusts into our tender 
sides. They hurt us, and then go on their way 
rejoicing that they left us in pain. With us, if 
we are indeed of those who are striving to ascend 
to the higher regions of spiritual life, where the 
sky is clear, and the air serene, they leave, in 
their departure, the difficult but essential duty of 
forgiveness. Let us see to it that our hurt in the 
contact is less than was intended ; nay, that good 
come, where evil was designed. 
Of that other class to which we have referred, 
the individuals come to us as angels come, search 
ing for good. They are those who say to evil, be 
far from me. In their company the bad in us 
hides itself still farther away, or skulks to the 
dim exteriors of our conscious life, shorn for the 
time of strength. All that is generous and no 
ble ; all that is self-denying ; all that gives us 
sympathy with our fellow-man; all that invests 
goodness with beauty, is made alive and active in 
 
our souls. They come to us in light they come 
to us in love making truth clearer, and affection 
warmer. The peace that dwells with them, per 
vading their atmosphere like the odorous sphere 
surrounding a flower, and penetrating to our life, 
is no slumbrous calm. The sun is shining; the air 
is clear and vital ; good seeds in the ground have 
sprung up in thrifty stalks, and the harvest nods 
hopefully in the swelling grain. And we feel, 
while with them, our own earth drinking the sun, 
and thank God for the signs of fruitfulness in our 
souls. All is not a barren waste, as we some 
times feared. They have made us more in love 
with goodness ; strengthened our better purposes ; 
taught us lessons of forgiveness, and shown us how 
to walk with him, who, when upon earth, went 
about doing good. Blessings on all such! Theii 
lives are in heaven. In the Golden Age, angels 
walked with men ; not in natural bodies, but in 
bodies of spiritual substance, made visible to the 
spiritual eyes of celestial men, living in primal 
innocence. Sin closed the inner senses, and 
though 
" Myriads of spiritual beings walk the earth unseen, 
Whether we sleep or wake," 
our darkened vision perceives them not. And 
yet, in God 's inercy, angels still walk and talk 
with us, leading our thoughts upward, and these 
are they of whom we have just spoken. Their 
lives are in heaven ; but they dwell in natural bo 
dies, and talk with us face to face. Blessings on 
them, we repeat. 
Our changes of state are all dependent on 
things within us. Disturbing influences may 
come from without ; but, if there is nothing to 
disturb, the pressure is vain. The wind that 
lashes the sea into fury, sweeps scarcely heeded 
over the level earth. What a lesson in this ! 
what a revelation ! Every touch from the out 
side meets some response within, or dies unheeded. 
If to an evil allurement an evil desire starts up, 
what will you say? That the allurement created 
 
the desire? Not so. The magnet revealed the 
iron. The evil was there. And so of any and 
all responses made by the soul. Thus, our 
changes of state are our instructors. They show 
us the quality of our lives ; admonish us of hid 
den diseases ; and encourage us by revelations of 
progress in the right way, or triumphs in the 
good fight. 
III. 
THE SWEET FOUNTAIN. 
cup is too bitter," said the lady "Too, 
too bitter ! I cannot drink of it." And a 
shudder ran through her frame. Her face was 
wan and troubled ; her eyes red from a night of 
weeping. 
" But at last, it shall be sweet to the taste." 
"You mock me!" the lady exclaimed, with a 
sudden throb of almost indignant rejection in her 
voice. 
" Not so, my dear Mrs. Lea," was calmly, al 
most tenderly answered. " We are in God 's 
hand, and all his ways are in mercy. If he per 
mit sorrow or trouble, misfortune or bereavement, 
to darken our homes, it is that he may open the 
way for brighter sunbeams to enter. In the bittcrest cup 
placed to our lips, will be found sweet 
ness at last." 
"There can be no sweetness in my cup. I 
shall find the draft grow bitterer and bitterer 
even to the dregs." 
"And yet I say, dear friend! it was dipped 
from a sweet fountain." 
The face of the lady who thus answered was 
serene; and yet, no one could look into it without 
seeing the old marks of pain, of care, of endu 
rance and long suffering. The lines were not 
now sharply cut; but rounded and softened by the 
verdure which heavenly sunshine and refreshing 
dew had wakened into life. 
" It was dipped from a sweet fountain," she repeated, " and the water is sweet." 
" Sweet ! Why will you mock me ?" And 
Mrs. Lea, with a half offended air, shut her eyes, 
and leaned back among the cushions amid which 
she languidly reposed. Her face was very, very 
sad. 
" The bitterness lies in your taste. But, when 
 
that is refined and made perceptive in a higher 
degree, then will this cup of offence, as it now 
seems, be found to contain heavenly nectar. I 
amnot speaking with a vague idealism no, 
no but from life-experience. What we have 
lived we comprehend. Time was, when the cup 
God placed to my lips was as gall and worm 
wood. Often and often since, have I drank from 
the same cup, and found it honey to my taste. 
Have you been very happy in the time past, my 
friend?" 
Mrs. Lea did not answer this abruptly-put 
question, and a period of silence followed. As 
her friend looked into her troubled countenance 
the eyes were still shut she saw thought begin 
ning to obliterate many of the lines that expressed 
only rebellion and suffering. 
" In the time past," she resumed, " the abun 
dance of this world has been gathered to your 
door. You have enjoyed wealth and position. 
But, has your soul, in dwelling with these, found 
unalloyed pleasure ? Did they bring satisfactions, 
 
delights, tranquilities ? Was there no reaching 
of the soul beyond ? No yearnings for a higher 
life ? Have you not grown weary, and restless, 
often, under a sense of inadequacy in all around 
you to minister to crying wants ? Like a caged 
bird, have you not fluttered as in a prison, pant 
ing for a wider range and purer atmosphere? 
Yes, my friend ; it has been even so. You need 
not answer. We have stood, in past years, very 
near together, and I have seen it all. You have 
not been happy !" 
"My own fault," answered Mrs. Lea, with 
slight impatience of manner. " I had everything 
to make me happy. Now, I lose everything on 
which my soul can rest." 
" So far from that," said the friend, " you will 
lose nothing on which true happiness is based. 
* Riches and honors have no power, in themselves, 
to give blessing. That is a state of the soul, and 
comes from right activities. The will acts in 
useful ends, and gives delight according to its 
quality of love to God and man, without reference 
 
to external conditions. So the way to happiness 
is set before the humblest and the poorest, even 
as it is set before the rich and great. If the rich 
will not, in their riches, find the way that leads 
to true enjoyment, and it is possible to lead them 
