that I am descended from them." 
" You, Ditto ! " exclaimed Maggie in the utmost 
astonishment. 
" Why yes, certainly. Don't you know so much 
history as that? Don't you remember that the 
Saxons went over and conquered England, and 
England was peopled by them, and ruled by them, 
until the Norman invasion?" 
"Oh!" said Maggie with a long-drawn note 
of surprise and intelligence. "But I didn't know 
those Saxons were like these." 
 
"No, nor did I. It interests me very much. 
Shall I go on with Pastor Harms? 
" ' The older I grew, the more eager I was to 
learn about Germany, and especially about my 
dear Luneburg country, with its most beautiful 
heaths, moors, and woodlands. I can not express 
the joy I took in the great fights and battles 
which the German Prince Herman fought with 
the mighty Romans. Herman was prince of the 
Cheruski; so the dwellers between the Elbe and 
the Weser at that time were called. In his time 
the never-satisfied Romans were bent upon subjugating all Germany, and sent their most powerful 
armies into the country, clad in iron mail, armed 
with helmets, bucklers, lances, and swords, and led 
by their bravest generals. But Herman, with his 
almost naked Germans, fell upon them, fighting 
whole days at a stretch, and beat them out of the 
land. See now, thought I to myself, there were 
Luneburg people along with him, for they live between the Elbe and the Weser. Or when others 
of our forefathers, who were in general called Saxons, boldly sailed over the sea in their ships, and 
chased the proud Romans, together with the Picts 
and Scots, out of England, and took the beauti 
ful land in possession and ruled it ; then I was 
glad again and thought with secret delight 
"our Luneburg people were there too, for those 
ships sailed from the mouths of the Elbe and the 
Weser." 
"  But what adoration moved my heart, when I 
 
read that these very Saxons, who conquered England, there came to the knowledge of Christianity 
and received it into their hearts; and now from 
England, from the converted Saxons, came numbers of Gospel messengers back to the German 
country, to turn it also to the Lord Jesus. Among 
them was Winfried, the strong in faith, who baptized more than 300,000 Germans, and was called 
the apostle of Germany ; there were the two brothers Ewald, who both heroically died a martyr's 
death, being sacrificed by our forefathers to their 
idols. After them others carried on the work, especially Willehad and Liudgar, and the good em 
peror Charles the Great helped them, until at 
last all Germany was Christianized, and became 
through the Gospel what it is now. And I have 
often thought, how stupid are the unbelievers who 
follow the new fashion of despising Christianity. 
We have to thank Christianity for every thing we 
are or have. Science, art, agriculture, handicrafts, 
cities, villages, houses, all have come to us in the 
first place through Christianity; for before that, 
as I said, our forefathers ran about naked in the 
woods like wild beasts, and fed on roots and acorns; 
and I used to think the best thing would be, to 
drive the iniidels and the scornful contemners of 
Christianity into the woods and forests, draw a 
hedge about them, and let them eat acorns and 
roots in the woods till they come to their senses. 
In young people's heads a great many queer fancies spring up, which yet are not entirely unworthy of regard; and I still believe that would 
be the best medicine for infidels.'" 
"But Meredith," said Flora, "the Greeks and 
Romans had cities and villages, and sciences too, 
and arts, without Christianity." 
" Quite true, but the Saxons didn't." 
" Perhaps they would." 
"Perhaps they wouldn't. The Greeks and Eo 
mans were wonderful people, and so were the an 
cient Egyptians; but though they had arts, and 
built cities, they had very little science. And science and Christianity have changed the face of the 
Christian world. Well, let us have Pastor Harms. 
" ' But I must go back to my story. Whenever 
I happened upon an old library, I searched it 
through to see if I could find something about 
Germany, and especially about Luneburg. And I 
do not regret the quantities of dust I have swallowed in my way; although I did often lament 
aloud to see so many fine old manuscripts almost 
eaten up with dust and mice, about which nobody 
had troubled himself for who knows how many 
years ? But also I found many a one that repaid 
the trouble of the search. From the sound MSS. I 
made extracts diligently. But I had a good many 
vexations, too. For example, I have come to cities 
and villages, in which last there were baronial 
manors. There I sought to come at the books 
and MSS. of the olden time. And would one believe it? Old collections of books had been sold 
entire, by the hamperful, to trades-people for wrapping their cheese in. I was baffled. So much the 
more precious became my extracts. From them I 
will tell you something now, which I found about 
my beloved Hermannsburg. 
"'I may say in the first place to our dear country people, that the whole of northern Germany in 
early times was called the country of the Saxons. 
How wide that was, may best be seen by the language. So far as low German is spoken, so far 
extends the land of the Saxons; for low German 
is their proper mother-tongue. So I am never 
ashamed of the low German in our country; it is 
the true mother-tongue of our land and people; 
my heart always swells when I hear low German 
spoken. This entire Saxon nation was divided into 
three tribes. One tribe, which dwelt for the most 
part towards the west, that is, in the Osnabruck 
region and further west as far as the Rhine, was 
called the Westphalians. The second tribe, which 
dwelt mostly at the east, as far as the Elbe and 
further, was called the Eastphalians. Between the 
two lived the third tribe, called the Enger or the 
Angles; for Enger and Angle are all one. We 
here in Luneburg belong to the Eastphalians. The 
name is said to have come from the bright or pale 
yellow hair of our forefathers. For clear yellow or 
pale yellow was called "fal." Our ancestors wore 
this bright yellow hair long and hanging down, 
something like a lion's mane; what so many young 
people nowadays would esteem a splendid adornment. These forefathers of ours in the time of 
 
Charlemagne were yet mere heathen and held to 
their heathen idol worship with extraordinary tenacity and devotion. They were further a wild, 
bold, stiff-necked people, with an unbending spirit, 
holding fast to everything old, and with that, loving freedom above all else. They had no rulers, 
properly speaking; each house-father was a despotic 
prince in his own house, and lived alone upon his 
territory, just that he might be free and rule his 
realm independently. Their common name, Saxon, 
came from a peculiar weapon, the sachs; a stone 
war-mallet or battle-axe, which was made fast to a 
longer or shorter wooden handle. In the strong 
hands of the Saxons this was a fearful weapon, 
with which they rushed fearlessly upon the foe, 
hastening to come to a hand-to-hand fight; for they 
liked to be at close quarters with their enemies. 
' ' Wild and terrible as their other customs were, 
was also their idol worship. Their principal deity 
was called Woden, in whose honour men were 
slaughtered upon great blocks of stone; their 
throats being cut with stone knives. Not far off, 
some two or three hours from Hermannsburg, are 
still what are called the seven stone-houses; in 
other words blocks of granite set up in a square, 
upon which a great granite block lies like a cover. 
The men to be sacrificed were slain upon these 
blocks of granite. Quite near our village too, there 
stood formerly some such sacrificial altars. How 
fearful and bloody these sacrifices were, appears 
from what an old writer relates; that it was the 
custom of the Saxons, when they returned home 
from their warlike expeditions, to sacrifice to their 
idols every tenth man among the captives; the 
rest they shared among themselves for slaves. And 
upon special occasions, for instance, if they had suffered severe losses in the war, the whole of the cap 
tives would be consecrated to Woden and sacrificed.' That's the Woden we call one day of the 
week after." 
" We ? One day of the week ! " exclaimed Maggie; while Flora looked up and said, "0 yes! 
Wednesday." 
" Wednesday ? " repeated Maggie. 
" Woden's-day," said Meredith. 
"Is it Woden's-day! Wednesday? But how come 
we to call it so, Ditto ? " 
" Because our fathers did." 
"But that is very strange. I don't think we 
ought to call it Woden's-day." 
"The Germans do not call it so, who live at this 
time round those old stone altars; they say Mittwoche," or Mid-week. But the English Saxons 
seem to have kept up the title. 
" Are those stone altars standing now, Ditto ? " 
" Some of them, Pastor Harms says ; and what is 
very odd, it seems they call them stone houses; 
and don't you recollect Jacob called his stone that 
he set up at Bethel, ' God's house ? ' ' 
" Well, Ditto, go on please," said Maggie. 
"You don't care for archaeology. Well 'The 
German emperor Charlemagne, who reigned from 
 
768 to 814, was a good Christian. He governed 
the kingdom of the Franks; and that means the 
