
 

not making it. It does honor to your good heart. 
Well, don't be vexed, old fellow. And in trying to 
improve me on this little point a weak point, 
I'll allow, with me do me the justice to re- 
member that I didn't flaunt my misanthropy, as 
you call it, in your face ; I didn't force my confi- 
dence upon you." 

Cummings, with compunction : " I didn't mean 
to hurt your feelings, Bartlett." 

Bartlett : " Well, you haven't. It 's all right." 

Cummings, with anxious concern : " I wish I 
could think so." 

Bartlett, dryly : " You have my leave my re- 
quest, in fact." He takes a turn about the room, 
thrusting his fingers through the hair on his fore- 
head, and letting it fall in a heavy tangle, and then 
pulling at either side of his parted beard. In 
facing away from one of the sofas at the end of 
the room, he looks back over his shoulder at it, 
falters, wheels about, and picks up from it a lady's 
shawl and hat. " Hallo ! " He lets the shawl fall 
again into picturesque folds on the sofa. " This is 
the spoil of no local beauty, Cummings. Look 






 

here ; I don't understand this. There has been 
an arrival." 

Gumming *s, joining his friend in contemplation of 
the hat and shawl : " Yes ; it 's an arrival beyond 
all question. Those are a lady's things. I should 
think that was a Paris hat." They remain look- 
ing at the things some moments in silence. 

Bartlett : " How should a Paris hat get here ? 
I know the landlord wasn't expecting it. But it 
can't be going to stay ; it 's here through some 
caprice. It may be a transient of quality, but it 's 
a transient. I suppose we shall see the young 
woman belonging to it at dinner." He sets the hat 
on his fist, and holds it at arm's length from him. 
" What a curious thing it is about clothes " 
Cummings : " Don't, Bartlett, don't ! " 
Bartlett: "Why?" 

Cummings : " I don't know. It makes me feel 
as if you were offering an indignity to the young 
lady herself." 

Bartlett : " You express my idea exactly. This 
frippery has not only the girl's personality but her 
very spirit in it. This hat looks like her; you 



 

can infer the whole woman from it, body and soul. 
It has a conscious air, and so has the shawl, as if 
they had been eavesdropping and had understood 
everything we were saying. They know all about 
my heart-break, and so will she as soon as she puts 
them on ; she will be interested in me. The hat 's 
in good taste, isn't it ? " 

CummingS) with sensitive reverence for the mil- 
linery which his friend handles so daringly : " Ex- 
quisite, it seems to me; but I don't know about 
such things." 

Bartlett : " Neither do I ; but I feel about them. 
Besides, a painter and glazier sees some things 
that are hidden from even a progressive minister. 
Let us interpret the lovely being from her hat. 
This knot of pale-blue flowers betrays her a 
blonde ; this lace, this mass of silky, fluffy, cob- 
webby what-do-you-call-it, and this delicate straw 
fabric show that she is slight; a stout woman 
would kill it, or die in the attempt. And I fancy 
here pure inspiration comes to my aid that 
she is tallish. I 'm afraid of her ! No wait ! 
The shawl has something to say." He takes it up 



 

and catches it across his arm, where he scans it 
critically. " I don't know that I understand the 
shawl, exactly. It proves her of a good height, 
a short woman wouldn't, or had better not, wear a 
shawl, but this black color : should you think it 
was mourning ? Have we a lovely young widow 
among us ? " 

Cummings : " I don't see how it could go with 
the hat, if it were." 

Bartlett : " True ; the hat is very pensive in 
tone, but it isn't mourning. This shawl 's very 
light, it 's very warm ; I construct from it a pretty 
invalid." He lets the shawl slip down his arm to 
his hand, and flings it back upon the sofa. " We 
return from the young lady's heart to her brain 
where she carries her sentiments. She has a nice 
taste in perfumes, Cummings : faintest violet ; 
that goes with the blue. Of what religion is a 
young lady who uses violet, my reverend friend ? " 

Cummings : " Bartlett, you 're outrageous. Put 
down that hat ! " 

Bartlett : " No, seriously. What is her little 
aesthetic specialty ? Does she sketch ? Does she 



 

scribble ? Tell me, thou wicked hat, does she 
flirt ? Come ; out with the vows that you have 
heard poured into the shelly ear under this knot 
of pale-blue flowers ! Where be her gibes now, 
her gambols, her flashes of merriment ? Now get 
you to my lady's chamber, and tell her, let her 
paint an inch thick, to this favor she must come ; 
make her laugh at that. Dost thou think, Horatio 
Cummings, Cleopatra looked o' this fashion ? And 
smelt so ? " he presses the knot of artificial flow- 
ers to his mustache " Pah ! " He tosses the hat 
on the sofa and walks away. 

Cummings : " Bartlett, this is atrocious. I pro- 
test " 

Bartlett : " Well, give me up, I tell you." He 
returns, and takes his friend by the shoulders, as 
before, and laughs. " I 'm not worth your refined 
pains. I might be good, at a pinch, but I never 
could be truly lady-like." 

Cummings : " You like to speak an infinite deal 
of nothing, don't you ? " 

Bartlett : " It 's the only thing that makes con- 
versation." As he releases Cummings, and turns 



 

away from him, in the doorway he confronts an 
elderly gentleman, whose white hair and white 
mustache give distinction to his handsome florid 
face. There is something military in his port, as 
he stands immovably erect upon the threshold, his 
left hand lodged in the breast of his frock-coat, arid 
his head carried with an officer-like air of com- 
mand. His visage grows momently redder and 
redder, and his blue eyes blaze upon Bartlett with 
a fascinated glare that briefly preludes the burst of 
fury with which he advances toward him. 



 

