“I hope so!” said Madame de Cintré.
Newman got up. “Well, we shall see,” he said smoothing his hat with his
coat-cuff.
“Brother,” said Madame de Cintré, “invite Mr. Newman to come again.”
The Count Valentin looked at our hero from head to foot with his
peculiar smile, in which impudence and urbanity seemed perplexingly
commingled. “Are you a brave man?” he asked, eying him askance.
“Well, I hope so,” said Newman.
“I rather suspect so. In that case, come again.”
“Ah, what an invitation!” murmured Madame de Cintré, with something
painful in her smile.
“Oh, I want Mr. Newman to come--particularly,” said the young man. “It
will give me great pleasure. I shall be desolate if I miss one of his
visits. But I maintain he must be brave. A stout heart, sir!” And he
offered Newman his hand.
“I shall not come to see you; I shall come to see Madame de Cintré,”
 said Newman.
“You will need all the more courage.”
“Ah, Valentin!” said Madame de Cintré, appealingly.
“Decidedly,” cried Madame de Bellegarde, “I am the only person here
capable of saying something polite! Come to see me; you will need no
courage,” she said.
Newman gave a laugh which was not altogether an assent, and took his
leave. Madame de Cintré did not take up her sister’s challenge to be
gracious, but she looked with a certain troubled air at the retreating
guest.
CHAPTER VII
One evening very late, about a week after his visit to Madame de
Cintré, Newman’s servant brought him a card. It was that of young M. de
Bellegarde. When, a few moments later, he went to receive his visitor,
he found him standing in the middle of his great gilded parlor and eying
it from cornice to carpet. M. de Bellegarde’s face, it seemed to
Newman, expressed a sense of lively entertainment. “What the devil is
he laughing at now?” our hero asked himself. But he put the question
without acrimony, for he felt that Madame de Cintré’s brother was a good
fellow, and he had a presentiment that on this basis of good fellowship
they were destined to understand each other. Only, if there was anything
to laugh at, he wished to have a glimpse of it too.
“To begin with,” said the young man, as he extended his hand, “have I
come too late?”
“Too late for what?” asked Newman.
“To smoke a cigar with you.”
“You would have to come early to do that,” said Newman. “I don’t smoke.”
“Ah, you are a strong man!”
“But I keep cigars,” Newman added. “Sit down.”
“Surely, I may not smoke here,” said M. de Bellegarde.
“What is the matter? Is the room too small?”
“It is too large. It is like smoking in a ball-room, or a church.”
“That is what you were laughing at just now?” Newman asked; “the size of
my room?”
“It is not size only,” replied M. de Bellegarde, “but splendor, and
harmony, and beauty of detail. It was the smile of admiration.”
Newman looked at him a moment, and then, “So it is very ugly?” he
inquired.
“Ugly, my dear sir? It is magnificent.”
“That is the same thing, I suppose,” said Newman. “Make yourself
comfortable. Your coming to see me, I take it, is an act of friendship.
You were not obliged to. Therefore, if anything around here amuses you,
it will be all in a pleasant way. Laugh as loud as you please; I like
to see my visitors cheerful. Only, I must make this request: that you
explain the joke to me as soon as you can speak. I don’t want to lose
anything, myself.”
M. de Bellegarde stared, with a look of unresentful perplexity. He laid
his hand on Newman’s sleeve and seemed on the point of saying something,
but he suddenly checked himself, leaned back in his chair, and puffed
at his cigar. At last, however, breaking silence,--“Certainly,” he said,
“my coming to see you is an act of friendship. Nevertheless I was in a
measure obliged to do so. My sister asked me to come, and a request from
my sister is, for me, a law. I was near you, and I observed lights
in what I supposed were your rooms. It was not a ceremonious hour for
making a call, but I was not sorry to do something that would show I was
not performing a mere ceremony.”
“Well, here I am as large as life,” said Newman, extending his legs.
“I don’t know what you mean,” the young man went on “by giving me
unlimited leave to laugh. Certainly I am a great laugher, and it is
better to laugh too much than too little. But it is not in order that we
may laugh together--or separately--that I have, I may say, sought your
acquaintance. To speak with almost impudent frankness, you interest me!”
 All this was uttered by M. de Bellegarde with the modulated smoothness
of the man of the world, and in spite of his excellent English, of
the Frenchman; but Newman, at the same time that he sat noting its
harmonious flow, perceived that it was not mere mechanical urbanity.
Decidedly, there was something in his visitor that he liked. M. de
Bellegarde was a foreigner to his finger-tips, and if Newman had met him
on a Western prairie he would have felt it proper to address him with a
“How-d’ye-do, Mosseer?” But there was something in his physiognomy which
seemed to cast a sort of aerial bridge over the impassable gulf produced
by difference of race. He was below the middle height, and robust and
agile in figure. Valentin de Bellegarde, Newman afterwards learned, had
a mortal dread of the robustness overtaking the agility; he was afraid
of growing stout; he was too short, as he said, to afford a belly. He
rode and fenced and practiced gymnastics with unremitting zeal, and if
you greeted him with a “How well you are looking” he started and turned
pale. In your well he read a grosser monosyllable. He had a round
head, high above the ears, a crop of hair at once dense and silky, a
broad, low forehead, a short nose, of the ironical and inquiring rather
than of the dogmatic or sensitive cast, and a moustache as delicate as
that of a page in a romance. He resembled his sister not in feature,
but in the expression of his clear, bright eye, completely void of
introspection, and in the way he smiled. The great point in his face
was that it was intensely alive--frankly, ardently, gallantly alive. The
look of it was like a bell, of which the handle might have been in the
young man’s soul: at a touch of the handle it rang with a loud, silver
sound. There was something in his quick, light brown eye which assured
you that he was not economizing his consciousness. He was not living
in a corner of it to spare the furniture of the rest. He was squarely
encamped in the centre and he was keeping open house. When he smiled, it
was like the movement of a person who in emptying a cup turns it upside
down: he gave you the last drop of his jollity. He inspired Newman with
something of the same kindness that our hero used to feel in his earlier
years for those of his companions who could perform strange and clever
tricks--make their joints crack in queer places or whistle at the back
of their mouths.
“My sister told me,” M. de Bellegarde continued, “that I ought to come
and remove the impression that I had taken such great pains to produce
upon you; the impression that I am a lunatic. Did it strike you that I
behaved very oddly the other day?”
“Rather so,” said Newman.
“So my sister tells me.” And M. de Bellegarde watched his host for a
moment through his smoke-wreaths. “If that is the case, I think we had
better let it stand. I didn’t try to make you think I was a lunatic, at
all; on the contrary, I wanted to produce a favorable impression.
But if, after all, I made a fool of myself, it was the intention of
Providence. I should injure myself by protesting too much, for I
should seem to set up a claim for wisdom which, in the sequel of our
acquaintance, I could by no means justify. Set me down as a lunatic with
intervals of sanity.”
“Oh, I guess you know what you are about,” said Newman.
“When I am sane, I am very sane; that I admit,” M. de Bellegarde
answered. “But I didn’t come here to talk about myself. I should like to
ask you a few questions. You allow me?”
“Give me a specimen,” said Newman.
“You live here all alone?”
“Absolutely. With whom should I live?”
“For the moment,” said M. de Bellegarde with a smile “I am asking
questions, not answering them. You have come to Paris for your
pleasure?”
Newman was silent a while. Then, at last, “Everyone asks me that!” he
said with his mild slowness. “It sounds so awfully foolish.”
“But at any rate you had a reason.”
“Oh, I came for my pleasure!” said Newman. “Though it is foolish, it is
true.”
“And you are enjoying it?”
Like any other good American, Newman thought it as well not to truckle
to the foreigner. “Oh, so-so,” he answered.
M. de Bellegarde puffed his cigar again in silence. “For myself,” he
said at last, “I am entirely at your service. Anything I can do for you
I shall be very happy to do. Call upon me at your convenience. Is there
anyone you desire to know--anything you wish to see? It is a pity you
should not enjoy Paris.”
“Oh, I do enjoy it!” said Newman, good-naturedly. “I’m much obliged to
you.”
“Honestly speaking,” M. de Bellegarde went on, “there is something
absurd to me in hearing myself make you these offers. They represent
a great deal of goodwill, but they represent little else. You are a
successful man and I am a failure, and it’s a turning of the tables to
talk as if I could lend you a hand.”
“In what way are you a failure?” asked Newman.
“Oh, I’m not a tragical failure!” cried the young man with a laugh.
“I have fallen from a height, and my fiasco has made no noise. You,
evidently, are a success. You have made a fortune, you have built up an
edifice, you are a financial, commercial power, you can travel about
the world until you have found a soft spot, and lie down in it with
the consciousness of having earned your rest. Is not that true? Well,
imagine the exact reverse of all that, and you have me. I have done
nothing--I can do nothing!”
“Why not?”
“It’s a long story. Some day I will tell you. Meanwhile, I’m right, eh?
You are a success? You have made a fortune? It’s none of my business,
but, in short, you are rich?”
“That’s another thing that it sounds foolish to say,” said Newman. “Hang
it, no man is rich!”
“I have heard philosophers affirm,” laughed M. de Bellegarde, “that
no man was poor; but your formula strikes me as an improvement. As a
general thing, I confess, I don’t like successful people, and I find
clever men who have made great fortunes very offensive. They tread on
my toes; they make me uncomfortable. But as soon as I saw you, I said
to myself. ‘Ah, there is a man with whom I shall get on. He has
the good-nature of success and none of the morgue; he has not our
confoundedly irritable French vanity.’ In short, I took a fancy to you.
