
“ I always wondered, Chris,” said Theo, after they had 
gone, “ what made Mr, Sargent so careful. And he liked 
you a great deal, I know. But you could tell by looking at 
his face, that he was 103ml and honorable to the last degree. 
I suppose,” with a ridiculous little sigh, “ that he wouldn’t 
have thought of marrying either of us. But he is the kind 
of man any woman might be proud to marry.” 

So my secret was safe. 

Miss Wilbur had asked Theo about the singing-lessons ; 
and she replied that she should not take any through the 
summer, it tired her so to practise in warm weather. I 
knew that poverty stood in the way also. 

Mr. Sargent returned. Theo and I met him in the 
street one evening ; and he walked a short distance with 
us, and put us in the car. She wondered why he had not 
called. 

There was a momentary detention. “ Can I come?” 
he whispered ; and I said “ Yes,” with bated breath. 

‘ ‘ Give my regards to your mother, and tell her I shat 
be up soon.” 

Was it right? Now that I had suffered the agony of 
renunciation, I did not mean to run into a new evil, or 
any needless pain. 

He kept his word. We had a crowd of gay young 
compaiiy in the parlor : so he insisted upon going into the 
dining-room, and sitting with mother. 

“ Girls,” she began the next morning, at the breakfast- 
table, “ I was quite honored last evening by Mr. Sargent’s 
confidence. He is reaily engaged, and expects to be 
married in October. His mother adores her daughter-ln- 


 


law elect, who has been living with her quite a long while. 
How nice it is for them to be such friends ! I couldn’t 
help but think of your grandmother and I.” 

“ Oh, dear ! I wish he could have married Chris,” said 
Theo, in her pretty, half-petulant way. 

After that he came several times ; but fate decreed that 
I should not see him alone, and I had no heart to interfere 
with fate. We kept our way on the different sides of the 
river. 

Then vacation commenced. Uncle Robert had taken a 
cottage for the summer, a little below West Point, on the 
Hudson. Aunt came over in person, and imdted Theo 
and myself most cordially to spend a fortnight with her. 

“ That will be all the summering we can afford, Theo,” 
I said ; “ and we must have inspirations on the subject of 
getting gowns out of nothing.” 

“ I am thankful to dear grandmother’s spirit daily for 
my watch and chain. We never should have been rich 
enough to buy one.” 

I was devoutly grateful as well. 

Papa began to improve a little. He worked on the 
farm when he felt strong enough, and quite enjoyed it. 
Twice he had driven down with a great lot of fresh vege- 
tables and fruit, and really" it was a treat. 

“ I almost wish I had a farm,” he said. 

We had some pleasures, — a few picnics and excursions, 
and a little going out for the day. But we sewed industri- 
ously. The thing I coveted most of all w as a new silk 
dress for myself and Theo ; but silks w'ere high, and I could 
not compass it : so we altered and retrimmed our black 
silks, made pretty gray travelling-dresses, and had a new 
white organdie, with most exquisite bordered flounces. 

We met uncle Robert in New York, and he escorted us. 
The cottage was very fair, roomy, but the furniture rather 
shabby : it had been of the show\y kind, and the wear and 
tear made it appear common. But the gromids were 





lovely. Here and there such groups of stately old trees, 
and a terraced lawn that overlooked the river ! The horses 
had been sent up. There were three servants, and much 
coming and going. 

Aunt Clara’s eldest daughter was grown, and had a 
lover. A rather affected piece of vanity was Miss Rose 
Dinsmore ; but she took to Theo, oddly enough ; and she 
was too obtuse to see the point of Theo’s speeches ; so she 
onty thought them funny. 

“Chris,” said Theo, the next morning after we came, 
“I have something to show you, — in a little box.” 

I looked. A ring, with a very handsome opal set round 
with small diamonds. 

‘ ‘ Theo Durant ! ’ ’ 

“ Well, don’t scold,” began Theo in a half-crying tone. 
“It is not an engagement-ring, I would not consent. But 
he made me take it.” 

“Mr. Ross?” He had called the evening before we 
left home. 

“I don’t know what to do. He loves me so much! 
He asked me again to marry him. Chris, I wish you had 
loved some one, and could tell me all about it.” 

W ould it have made any difference if I had ? After all 
our pretended wisdom, are we not the sport of circum- 
stances ? 

I could not drag my heart out for her inspection 
There was in my sad secret no knowledge for her to 
glean. 

“ How do you feel about him? ” 

“First, that it is ridiculous for any man to want to 
marry me. Why should he, when I do not particularly 
want him, and there are so many nice people in the world 
who do want to be married? Then I like him, because 
he is so much older than I, and has some little ways of 
authority that I don’t mind a bit to his face, and laugh 
at, but that a wife would have to respect. And there’s a 


 


weird and peculiar fascination that seems to get wrapped 
round me some way : I can’t quite explain it to myself. 
His very love teases me, and makes me cross ; and then 
I am sorry for being cross ; and the least little touch of 
penitence makes him love me more than ever again. I 
wish he would flirt with somebody, or stay away from me 
ever so long, that I might see what I thought of that. 
If I really wanted him back, I should fancy that I might 
come to love him in time. Oh, dear ! why are there such 
tangles in the world? Chris dear, if I was a rich woman, 
I would not marry any of them. I’d flirt a little, respect- 
ably and discreetly, not breaking any hearts ; and then 
I would retire to my old maid’s hall, just as Mr. Jarndyce 
used to his growlery.” 

I couldn’t help laughing. 

“ But about the ring? ” 

She took it out of the box, put it on her fore-flnger, 
and twirled it around. 

“He asked me to marry him. I said that I did not 
think I ever could marry a foreigner of any kind, espe- 
cially an Englishman. Then I animadverted severely on 
their course from the beginning of the war. It was abom- 
inable ! — as if he could help or hinder in any way. If I 
had been in his place, I should have jumped up, mad as a 
hornet, and said, ‘Good-evening, Miss Durant.’ But he 
didn’t. Then I said I was very sure that I did not love 
him: we never should agree; I loved to flirt, and he 
had a tendency toward jealousy. He insisted that it was 
only because he loved me so much, and did not feel sure 
