"Most certainly."
"Those good men,--I dare say they were good men,--seem to me to have
been mistaken."
"You think, for instance, they might have kept some of their New Year's
money to buy their wives new dresses?"
"Yes; or to get a good dinner, which I suppose they never had; or a
carpet, suppose, for the bit of a room they lived in."
"What do you say, Esther?"
"Oh, I think just as Flora does, Uncle Eden. I think those people were
very extravagant."
"Maggie?"
"Uncle Eden, I do not know if they were extravagant; but it seems to me
they might have kept a little for their own New Year."
"You all overlook one thing."
"What is that, sir?" several voices asked eagerly.
"Those good men were not acting so very contrary to your principle. They
were doing, every one of them, what gave him the most pleasure with his
money. That is what I understand you to advocate. The only difference
is, that they found their pleasure in one thing, and you would find
yours in another."
"But, Mr. Murray," Meredith began.
"Yes, Mr. Murray," said Flora eagerly taking the words out of her
brother's mouth, "you have really not said anything. The question comes
round,--ought we to find our pleasure in what they did, and in nothing
else?"
"That is not the right way of putting it. The Lord does not demand that,
nor desire it; but that we should seek first the kingdom of God. You
may remember too that the spirit of our life, if we are Christians, must
be the same as Christ's; for 'if any man have not the spirit of Christ,
he is none of His.' Now the motto of His life was, 'My meat is to do the
will of Him that sent me.' And that, Miss Flora, must make pleasing God
the great pleasure of a child of God."
"That is what I think," said Meredith.
"Then are we to have no pleasure?" Flora repeated. "I mean, no pleasure
of our own?"
"I have been trying to explain that. I do not know any pleasure much
sweeter than pleasing some one that we dearly love; do you?"
Flora looked very gloomy.
"Put out of your head any notion of bondage or hard lines of action. 'I
delight to do Thy will, O God!'--is the true way of stating it. And
that is the only sort of service, I think, that the Lord really is
pleased with."
"Well, does He want us to do like those people, and give literally all
we have got, for the heathen, or the poor?"
"The Bible rule is, 'Every man according as he purposeth in his heart,
so let him give.' If His heart will be satisfied with nothing less than
all, you would not forbid Him?"
Meredith's eyes sparkled, and he looked at Flora, but she would not meet
him.
"It may be and often is the case, that the Lord's best service requires
some of a man's money to be spent on things that seem personal; still,
if he loves God best, all will be really for God. Education,
accomplishments, knowledge, arts, sciences, recreation, travel,
books--provided only that in everything and everywhere the man is doing
the very best he can for the service of his Master and the stewardship
of his goods. That does not shut out but increases his delight in these
things."
"That is enough!" exclaimed Meredith. "You have answered all my
questions, sir. I see my way now."
"It will be a way apart from mamma and me, then, I suppose," said Flora,
her eyes filling and her cheeks reddening.
"No," said Mr. Murray gently, "perhaps not. Meredith, we have had a
sufficient interval of talk; suppose you read again. I am selfish in
saying so; for while my ears listen, my eyes can revel in this wealth of
colour. What will you give us next?"
"May I choose, sir? It touches what we have been talking about, another
little story. It is a story by the bedside of a sick day-labourer."
"I don't believe we shall like it, Ditto," said his sister.
"It will not hold us long. Let me try.--
"'It is a long while ago, that I was once standing by the bedside of a
sick day-labourer, who had a wife and four children. The man had been
ill for weeks, and the sickness had swallowed up all his money. Death
was near, and he was glad of it; he had only one remaining wish, that he
might receive the symbols of the body and blood of the Lord Jesus in the
Holy Communion. I administered them to him.
"'We sang with a number of friends and neighbours who were gathered
together, the song,
    "Who knows how near my end may be!"
"'He sang the words correctly along with us, for he knew the hymn by
heart. His wife and children sang too. As we stopped at the fifth verse,
I saw great tears in his eyes; but I said nothing at the time. The sick
man spoke his confession devoutly, and afterwards received the bread and
the wine which are in figure the body and blood of our Lord Jesus
Christ. His eye beamed with joy. Then after the blessing was said we
sang the most glorious verse of the same hymn,--"I have fed on Jesus'
blood," &c. The neighbours and friends went away, after they had
cordially pressed his hand and said to him, "In the Lord's presence
we'll be together again." I remained alone with the sick man and his
family. Then I asked, why he had wept when we were singing, whether
perhaps it was a trouble to him that he must go away from his wife and
children? He looked at me with open eyes, almost reproachfully, when I
said that, and answered, "Does not Jesus stay with them then? Has not
the Lord said He would be 'the father of the fatherless and a judge of
the widow'? No; they will be well looked after; I have prayed the Lord
that He would be a guardian to them. Isn't it so, mother, that thou art
not worried either, and thy heart is not anxious? Thou, too, hast faith
in Jesus!" "Surely," said the woman, "I believe in Jesus; and I am glad
thou art going to Jesus. In good time I will come after thee with the
children. Jesus will help me by His Holy Spirit to bring them up."
"Well--why did you shed tears then?" "For joy. I was thinking, if the
singing goes so lovely even down here, how beautiful it will be when the
angels sing with us. That was what made me weep, for joy, because such
blessedness is so near before me." And now he made a sign to his wife.
She understood the sign, went to the cupboard, and fetched out a little
sort of a cup dish, which was her husband's money-box. Six groschen were
in it, all that was left over of his possessions. He took them out with
trembling fingers, laid them in my hand, and said, "The heathen are to
have those, that they too may learn how to die happy." I looked at the
wife; she nodded her head pleasantly and said, "We have agreed upon
that. When all is paid that will be needed for the funeral, it will
leave just these six groschen over." "And what will you keep?" "The Lord
Jesus," said she. "And what are you going to leave to your wife and
children?" I asked the man again. "The Lord Jesus," said he; and with
that whispered me in the ear, "He is very good and very rich." So I took
the six groschen for the heathen, and put them, as a great treasure, in
the mission money-box; and it was hard for me to give them out again;
only if I had not paid them out, I should not have fulfilled the dying
man's wish. In the following night he fell asleep. We buried him as a
Christian should be buried, that is, publicly, with the ringing of the
bell, with preaching, singing and prayer; and there was no weeping done,
neither by his wife nor by his three oldest children, neither in the
church nor by the grave. But the youngest child, a boy of five years
old, who followed the bier along with the rest, wept bitterly. I asked
him afterwards, why he had wept so bitterly at his father's grave? The
child answered me, "I was so troubled because father didn't take me with
him to the Lord Jesus; I had begged him so hard to take me." "My child,"
said I, "your father could not take you along with him; only the Saviour
could do that; you ought to have asked Him." "Shall I ask Him now
then?" he questioned. "No, my child. See--when the Saviour wants you, He
will call you Himself. But if He chooses that you shall grow to be a man
first, then you must help your mother and let her live with you. Will
you?" He said, "I would like to go to Jesus; and I would like to be big
too, so that mother can live with me." "Well, then, say to the Lord
Jesus that He shall choose." "That is what I will do," said the boy; and
was quite contented and pleased.
"'The faithful Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ give us all a happy end.
Amen.'"
There was the usual pause after Meredith had done reading. Flora,
however, could not keep back long her expression of opinion.
"I protest!" she said. "Those people were utterly fanatical! Mr. Murray,
isn't it true?"
"O Uncle Eden, do you think so?" cried Maggie. "I think it is
beautiful."
"Maggie is too young to understand," remarked Esther. "Those people were
very unnatural, I think."
"How?" said Meredith.
"Yes, how?" Mr. Murray echoed. "I should like to hear the arguments on
both sides."
"A man who is dying, and has a wife and four children," said Flora
solemnly, "has no right to give his last six groschen away. I don't
know how much a groschen is, but that don't make any difference. He has
no right to to do it!"
"You emphasise, 'a man who is dying,'" said Meredith. "Would the case be
different if he were a man living and going to live?"
"Why, of course."
"How?"
"He would work then, and earn more. How stupid to ask, Meredith!"
"But an accident might happen to him; or he might fail to get work; or
he might miss his pay."
"Yes, of course. I think it would be fanatical even then. But when he
was dying, and couldn't do anything!"----
"But if in any case he must trust for a day--what does it signify? God
can send help in a day."
"I should not think He would, when people throw away wantonly what they
have got already."
"What is given to Jesus isn't thrown away," said Maggie.
"And He always pays it back with interest," said Mr. Murray. "And what
is entrusted to Him is never neglected. I think that old German peasant
was very safe in his proceeding."
"But so unnatural!" cried Esther. "Not to be sorry to leave his wife and
children!"
"I have no doubt he was very sorry to leave them. The only thing is, he
was more glad to go to Jesus."
"I cannot understand that."
"Not till you know the Lord yourself; and I do not deny that one must
know Him well, to be so eager to go to Him. One does not easily leave
the known for the unknown."
"Let me read another bit of a story, or history," said Meredith. "We
cannot come to an agreement by talking; these things must be lived
in--must they not, Mr. Murray?"
