

" I will give her a chance," said her Grace 
a trifle grimly. " I shall make her go and see 
them." 

" She won 't do it, my boy." 

" We'll see if she doesn 't," said Lord Lambeth. 

But if Percy Beaumont took a sombre view of 
the arrival of the two ladies at Jones 's Hotel, he 
was sufficiently a man of the world to offer them 
a smiling countenance. He fell into animated 
conversation conversation, at least, that was an 
imated on her side with Mrs. Westgate, while 
his companion made himself agreeable to the 
younger lady . Mrs. Westgate began confessing 
and protesting, declaring and expounding. 

"I must say London is a great deal brighter 
and prettier just now than it was when I was here 
last in the month of November. There is evidently a great deal going on, and you seem to have 
a good many flowers. I have no doubt it is very 
charming for all you people, and that you amuse 
yourselves immensely. It is very good of you to 
let Bessie and me come and sit and look at you. 
I suppose you will think I am very satirical, but 
I must confess that that 's the feeling I have in 
London." 

" I am afraid I don 't quite understand to what 
feeling you allude," said Percy Beaumont. 

" The feeling that it 's all very well for you English people. Every thing is beautifully arranged 
for you." 

" It seems to me it is very well for some Americans, sometimes," rejoined Beaumont. 

"For some of them, yes if they like to be patronized. But I must say I don 't like to be patronized. I may be very eccentric, and undisci 
plined, and outrageous, but I confess I never was 
fond of patronage. I like to associate with people on the same terms as I do in my own country ; 
that 's a peculiar taste that I have. But here people seem to expect something else Heaven knows 
what ! I am afraid you will think I am very un 
grateful, for I certainly have received a great deal 
of attention. The last time I was here, a lady 
sent me a message that I was at liberty to come 
and see her." 

" Dear me ! I hope you didn 't go," observed Percy Beaumont. 

" You are deliciously naif, I must say that for 
you !" Mrs. Westgate exclaimed. " It must be a 
great advantage to you here in London. I suppose 
that if I myself had a little more naivete, I should 
enjoy it more. I should be content to sit on a 
chair in the park, and see the people pass, and be 
told that this is the Duchess of Suffolk, and that 
is the Lord Chamberlain, and that I must be thankful for the privilege of beholding them. I dare 





say it is very wicked and critical of me to ask for 
any thing else. But I was always critical, and I 
freely confess to the sin of being fastidious. I am 
told there is some remarkably superior second-rate 
society provided here for strangers. Herd! I don 't want any superior second-rate society. I 
want the society that I have been accustomed to." 

" I hope you don 't call Lambeth and me secondrate," Beaumont interposed. 

" Oh, I am accustomed to you," said Mrs. Westgate. " Do you know that you English sometimes 
make the most wonderful speeches? The first 
time I came to London I went out to dine as I 
told you, I have received a great deal of attention. 
After dinner, in the drawing-room, I had some 
conversation with an old lady : I assure you I had. 
I forget what we talked about, but she presently 
said, in allusion to something we were discussing 
Oh, you know, the aristocracy do so-and-so ; but 
in one 's own class of life it is very different. In 
one 's own class of life ! What is a poor unpro 
tected American woman to do in a country where 
she is liable to have that sort of thing said to 
her?" 

" You seem to get hold of some very queer old 
ladies ; I compliment you on your acquaintance !" 
Percy Beaumont exclaimed. " If you are trying 
to bring me to admit that London is an odious 



place, you'll not succeed." 

" Pour vous aidres. I never satirical contrary," 
Mrs. Westgate retorted. I make use of this expression, because both interlocutors had begun to 
raise their voices. Percy Beaumont naturally did 
not like to hear his country abused, and Mrs. Westgate, no less naturally, did not like a stubborn debater. 

" Hallo !" said Lord Lambeth ; lt what are they 
up to now ?" And he came away from the window, 
where he had been standing with Bessie Alden. 

" I quite agree with a very clever country-woman 
of mine," Mrs. Westgate continued, with charming ardor, though with imperfect relevancy. She 
smiled at the two gentlemen for a moment with 
terrible brightness, as if to toss at their feet 
upon their native heath the gauntlet of defiance. 
" For me, there are only two social positions worth 
speaking of that of an American lady, and that 
of the Emperor of Russia." 

"And what do you do with the American gen 
tlemen ?" asked Lord Lambeth. 

" She leaves them in America !" said Percy 
Beaumont. 

On the departure of their visitors, Bessie Alden 
told her sister that Lord Lambeth would come the 
next day, to go with them to the Tower, and that 



he had got; kindly offered to bring bis "trap," and 
 Mrs. Vestgate listened in 
silence to lria pdmmimicafcidn, and for some time 
afterward she said nothing. But at last, " If you 
had not requested me the other day not to mention 
it," she began, " there is something I should venture to ask you." Bessie frowned a little ; her 
dark blue eyes were more dark than blue. But 
her sister went on. " As it is, I will take the risk. 
You are not in love with Lord Lambeth : I believe 
it, perfectly. Very good. But is there, by chance, 
any danger of your becoming so ? It 's a very simple question ; don 't take offense. I have a particular reason," said Mrs. Westgate, " for wanting 
to know." 

Bessie Alden for some moments said nothing ; 
she only looked displeased. " IS T o ; there is no 
danger," she answered at last, curtly. 

"Then I should like to frighten them," declared Mrs. Westgate, clasping her jewelled hands. 

" To frighten whom ?" 

"All these people; Lord Lambeth 's family 
and friends." 

" How should you frighten them ?" asked the 
young girl. 

" It wouldn 't be I it would be you. It would 
frighten them to think that you should absorb 
his lordship 's young affections." 



  

Bessie Alden, with her clear eyes still over 
shadowed by her dark brows, continued to interrogate. " Why should that frighten them ?" 

Mrs. West-gate poised her answer with a smile 
before delivering it. "Because they think you 
are not good enough. You are a charming girl, 
beautiful and amiable, intelligent and clever, and 
as bien-elevee as it is possible to be; but you are 
not a fit match for Lord Lambeth." 

Bessie Alden was decidedly disgusted. " Where 
do you get such extraordinary ideas ?" she asked. 
" You have said some such strange things lately. 
My dear Kitty, where do you collect them ?" 

Kitty was evidently enamored of her idea. 
"Yes, it would put them on pins and needles, 
and it wouldn 't hurt you. Mr. Beaumont is already most uneasy ; I could soon see that." 
