herbs, and spice, the former cut up small. Put them into the liquor
left from yesterday’s head, and when you have heated this to a boil,
add the feet with the water in which they are cooking. Boil for another
hour, still slowly. Strain the soup, cool to make the grease rise.
Skim, season, and return to the fire. When again boiling, stir in the
milk, and the meat from the feet, cut into dice. Take out a cupful of
the soup and pour, by degrees, over the beaten eggs. Return to the pot,
stir two minutes, and serve.

A very nice soup, and nutritious. If you cannot get calf’s feet, use
those of a pig instead, cooking exactly in the same way.


SALT MACKEREL, WITH CREAM SAUCE.

Soak overnight in lukewarm water, changing this in the morning for
ice-cold. Rub all the salt off, and wipe dry. Grease your gridiron with
butter, and rub the fish on both sides with the same, melted. Then
broil quickly over a clear fire, turning with a cake-turner so as not
to break it. Lay upon a hot-water dish, and cover until the sauce is
ready.

Heat a small cup of milk to scalding. Stir into it a teaspoonful of
corn-starch, wet up with a little water. When this thickens, add two
tablespoonfuls of butter, pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. Beat an
egg light, pour the sauce gradually over it, put the mixture again over
the fire, and stir one minute, not more. Pour upon the fish, and let
all stand, covered, over the hot water in the chafing-dish. Put fresh
boiling water under the dish before sending to table.


MASHED POTATOES,

Beaten light with milk and butter, and smoothed into a mound, should be
served with the fish. If you have a pretty butter-print, wet it, and
stamp the top of the mound.

Remember that everything tastes better for looking well.


LARDED SWEETBREADS, STEWED.

  3 or 4 fine sweetbreads.
  ¼ lb. fat salt pork, cut into “lardoons,” or long narrow strips.
  1 cup of gravy (saved from the roast calf’s head of yesterday).
  1 tablespoonful of tomato or other catsup.
  Juice of half a lemon.
  Season with pepper.

Parboil the sweetbreads for five minutes. The water should boil when
they are dropped in. Take out and lay at once in ice-cold water. This
makes them firm. Leave in this five minutes, wipe dry, and set aside
to get cold. Then lard with the strips of pork, passing them quite
through, so as to project on both sides. If you have no larding-needle,
use a long-bladed penknife. Put them into a saucepan; cover with
the gravy. If there is not enough, put in a few spoonfuls from the
boiling soup. The gravy should be cold, however, when poured over the
sweetbreads. Stew about twenty-five minutes after the boil begins. Take
out the sweetbreads; thicken the gravy with browned flour, add catsup,
lemon, and pepper, the lardoons having salted it sufficiently. Lay the
sweetbreads upon a hot dish, pour the gravy over them, and serve; in
carving, cut perpendicularly.


STEWED CELERY.

  2 bunches of celery, the white stalks only, scraped and cut into
          short pieces.
  2 beaten eggs.
  1 cup of milk.
  1 tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour.
  Pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg.

Stew the celery in a little salted hot water until quite tender. Drain
off the water and put in the milk, cold. So soon as it boils, stir
in the butter, rolled in flour, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. Add a few
spoonfuls of the hot milk to the beaten eggs that they may not curdle
in the saucepan; put with the celery and sauce over the fire; boil up
once, and dish.


OMELETTE SOUFFLÉ.

  8 eggs.
  5 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar.
  1 tablespoonful of butter.
  Vanilla or rose-water flavoring.

Whip the whites to a very stiff froth, thick enough to be cut with a
knife. Beat the yolks smooth and long; add to these the sugar, whip
up well, and flavor. Grease a neat pudding-dish abundantly with the
tablespoonful of butter. The last thing before you take your seat
at the table, do all this; stir whites and yolks together, and put
into a steady, not too hot, oven. If you have a teachable cook, let
her learn how to put the prepared ingredients together after dinner
has gone in. The oven-door should be opened as seldom as possible,
certainly not under fifteen minutes. By this time the omelette should
have risen high, and be of a golden brown. Partly close the oven-door,
to keep it hot, and let it be served as soon as possible in the
bake-dish.

Never attempt this or any other nerve-trying dish, for the first time,
for others than a family party. Yet it is easy enough when you have
once learned for yourself how long to cook it, and how soon it will
fall.


TEA AND TOASTED CRACKERS.

Split Boston crackers, toast, butter; put where they will keep hot, and
pass with an after-dinner cup of tea.


  First Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  Gravy and Sago Soup.
  Boiled Corned Beef.      Baked Macaroni.
  Cauliflower, with Sauce.      Mashed Turnips.
  ——
  Jelly Tartlets.
  Apples and Nuts.
  ——


GRAVY AND SAGO SOUP.

  4 lbs. coarse beef, cut into strips.
  3 lbs. of bones.
  1 slice of lean corned ham.
  4 onions.
  4 cloves.
  1 bunch of sweet herbs.
  ¼ lb. of German sago.
  Pepper and salt.
  5 quarts of water.
  2 stalks of celery, cut small.

Cut the beef into narrow strips, the onions into slices. Fry the latter
brown in dripping, strain them out, and set aside. Return the dripping
to the pan, and fry the meat until it is nicely browned, but not crisp.
Lastly, fry the bones in the same fat. They should be broken up small.
Put meat, bones, celery, spice, and onions into a pot with a quart of
cold water; cover closely, and put where it will not boil under an
hour, but will heat all the time. This is to draw out color and open
the pores (so to speak) of the meat. So soon as it boils add four
quarts more of cold water. Set where it will boil steadily, but never
fast, for five hours. Strain, and cool sufficiently to make the fat
rise. Take it off, put back over the fire, season, boil up and skim;
put in the sago, which should have been soaked two hours in a little
water, simmer fifteen minutes and serve.

Save all that is left from dinner, for Monday.


BOILED CORNED BEEF.

Wash well, and put over the fire in hot water—plenty of it—and boil
twenty minutes for each pound of meat. Turn three times while cooking.
Drain dry, and serve with drawn butter in a boat. “Draw” the butter in
liquor taken from the pot. Keep the rest of the liquor for the base of
Sunday’s soup.


MASHED TURNIPS.

Pare, quarter, and lay in cold water half an hour. Put on in boiling
water, and cook until tender. Drain, mash, and press to get out the
water, work in pepper, salt, and a generous lump of butter. Do all this
quickly not to cool the turnips, and pile smoothly in a hot, deep dish.


CAULIFLOWER, WITH SAUCE.

Pick off the leaves and cut the stem close. Do not cut the cauliflower
unless very large. Lay in cold water for thirty minutes, tie in coarse
bobbinet lace or mosquito net, and cook in boiling water, slightly
salted, until tender. Lay the cauliflower, flower upward, within a hot
dish, and pour the sauce over it.


