canon, and a creel full of trout. There was no diffi- 
culty in finding the river, or in descending the steep 
precipice to its bed : getting into a scrape is usually 
the easiest part of it. The river is strewn with bowl- 
ders, big and little, through which the amber water 
rushes with an unceasing thunderous roar, now plung- 
ing down in white falls, then swirling round in dark 
pools. The day, already past meridian, was delight' 
f ul ; at least, the blue strip of it I could see overhead. 
Better pools and rapids for trout never were, I 
thought, as I concealed myself behind a bowlder, and 
made the first cast. There is nothing like the thrill 
of expectation over the first throw in unfamiliar 
waters. Fishing is like gambling, in that failure only 
LOST IN THE WOODS , 
excites hope of a fortunate throw next time. There 
was no rise to the ''leader " on the first cast, nor on 
the twenty-first; and I cautiously worked my way 
down stream, throwing right and left. When I had 
gone half a mile, my opinion of the character of the 
pools was unchanged: never were there such places 
for trout ; but the trout were out of their places. 
Perhaps they didn't care for the fly : some trout seem 
to be so unsophisticated as to prefer the worm. I 
replaced the fly with a baited hook : the worm 
squirmed; the waters rushed and roared; a cloud 
sailed across the blue : no trout rose to the lonesome 
opportunity. There is a certain companionship in the 
presence of trout, especially when you can feel them 
flopping in your fish-basket; but it became evident 
that there were no trout in this wilderness, and a 
sense of isolation for the first time came over me. 
There was no living thing near. The river had by 
this time entered a deeper gorge ; walls of rocks rose 
perpendicularly on either side, — picturesque rocks, 
painted many colors by the oxide of iron. It was not 
possible to climb out of the gorge ; it was impossible 
to find a way by the side of the river ; and getting 
down the bed, over the falls, and through the flumes, 
was not easy, and consumed time. 
Was that thunder ? Very likely. But thunder- 
showers are always brewing in these mountain-for- 
tresses, and it did not occur to me that there was any 
thing personal in it. Very soon, however, the hole 
in the sky closed in, and the rain dashed down. It 
seemed a providential time to eat my luncheon ; and 
I took shelter under a scraggy pine that had rooted 
itself in the edge of the rocky slope. The shower 
soon passed, and I continued my journej^, creeping 
over the slippery rocks, and continuing to show my 
confidence in the unresponsive trout. The way grew 
wider and more grewsome. The thunder began again, 
rolling along over the tops of the mountains, and re- 
verberating in sharp concussions in the gorge : the 
lightning also darted down into the darkening pas- 
sage, and then the rain. Every enlightened being, 
even if he is in a fisherman's dress of shirt and pan- 
taloons, hates to get wet ; and I ignominiously crept 
under the edge of a sloping bowlder. It was all very 
well at first, until streams of water began to crawl 
along the face of the rock, and trickle down the back 
of my neck. This was refined misery, unheroic and 
humiliating, as suffering always is when unaccom- 
panied by resignation. 
A longer time than I knew was consumed in this 
and repeated efforts to wait for the slackening and 
renewing storm to pass away. In the intervals of 
calm I still fished, and even descended to what a 
sportsman considers incredible baseness ; I put a 
" sinker " on my line. It is the practice of the coun- 
try-folk, whose only object is to get fish, to use a good 
deal of bait, sink the hook to the bottom of the pools, 
and wait the slow appetite of the summer trout. I 
tried this also. I might as well have fished in a pork- 
barrel. It is true, that, in one deep, black, round 
pool, I lured a small trout from the bottom, and de- 
posited him in the creel; but it was an accident. 
Though I sat there in the awful silence (the roar of 
water only emphasized the stillness) full half an hour, 
I was not encouraged by another nibble. Hope, how- 
ever, did not die : I always expected to find the trout 
in the next flume ; and so I toiled slowly on, uncon- 
scious of the passing time. At each turn of the 
LOST IN THE WOODS 
stream I expected to see the end, and at each turn I 
saw a long, narrow stretch of rocks and foaming 
water. Climbing out of the ravine was, in most 
places, simply impossible ; and I began to look with 
interest for a slide, where bushes rooted in the scant 
earth would enable me to scale the precipice. I did 
not doubt that I was nearly through the gorge. I 
could at length see the huge form of the Giant of the 
Valley, scarred with avalanches, at the end of the 
vista ; and it seemed not far off. But it kept its dis- 
tance, as only a mountain can, while I stumbled and 
slid down the rocky way. The rain had now set in 
with persistence, and suddenly I became aware that it 
was growing dark, and I said to myself, " If you don't 
wish to spend the night in this horrible chasm, you 'd 
better escape speedily." Fortunately I reached a 
place where the face of the precipice was bush-grown, 
and with considerable labor scrambled up it. 
Having no doubt that I was within half a mile, 
perhaps within a few rods, of the house above the 
entrance of the gorge, and that, in any event, I should 
fall into the cart-path in a few minutes, I struck 
boldly into the forest, congratulating myself on 
having escaped out of the river. So sure was I of 
my whereabouts, that I did not note the bend of the 
river, nor look at my compass. The one trout in my 
basket was no burden, and I stepped lightly out. 
The forest was of hard-wood, and open, except for 
a thick undergrowth of moose-bush. It was raining, 
— in fact, it had been raining, more or less, for a 
month, — and the woods were soaked. This moose- 
bush is most annoying stuff to travel through in a 
rain ; for the broad leaves slap one in the face, and 
sop him with wet. The way grew every moment 
more dingy. The heavy clouds above the thick foliage 
brought night on prematurely. It was decidedly 
premature to a near-sighted man, whose glasses the 
rain rendered useless : such a person ought to be at 
home early. On leaving the river-bank I had borne 
to the left, so as to be sure to strike either the clear- 
ing or the road, and not wander off into the measure- 
less forest. I confidently pursued this course, and 
went gayly on by the left flank. That I did not 
come to any opening or path, only showed that I had * 
slightly mistaken the distance: I was going in the 
right direction. 
I was so certain of this, that I quickened my pace, 
and got up with alacrity every time I tumbled down 
amid the slippery leaves and catching roots, and 
hurried on. And I kept to the left. It even occurred 
to me that I was turning to the left so much, that I 
might come back to the river again. It grew more 
dusky, and rained more violently ; but there was 
nothing alarming in the situation, since I knew exactly 
where I was. It was a little mortifying that I had 
miscalculated the distance : yet, so far was I from 
feeling any uneasiness about this, that I quickened my 
pace again, and, before I knew it, was in a full run ; 
that is, as full a run as a person can indulge in in the 
dusk, with so many trees in the way* No nervousness, 
but simply a reasonable desire to get there. I desired 
to look upon myself as the person " not lost, but gone 
before." As time passed, and darkness fell, and no 
clearing or road appeared, I ran a little faster. It 
didn't seem possible that the people had moved, or 
the road been changed ; and yet I was sure of my 
direction. I went on with an energy increased by the 
ridiculousness of the situation, the danger that an 
LOST IN THE WOODS 
experienced woodsman was in of getting home late 
for supper ; the lateness of the meal being nothing to 
the gibes of the unlost. How long I kept this course, 
and how far I went on, I do not know ; but suddenly 
I stumbled against an ill-placed tree, and sat down on 
the soaked ground, a trifle out of breath. It then 
occurred to me that I had better verify my course by 
the compass. There was scarcely light enough to dis- 
tinguish the black end of the needle. To my amaze- 
ment, the compass, which was made near Greenwich, 
was wrong. Allowing for the natural variation of the 
needle, it was absurdly wrong. It made out that I 
was going south when I was going north. It inti- 
mated, that, instead of turning to the left, I had been 
making a circuit to the right. According to the com- 
pass, the Lord only knew where I was. 
The inclination of persons in the woods to travel in 
a circle is unexplained. I suppose it arises from the 
sympathy of the legs with the brain. Most people 
reason in a circle : their minds go round and round, 
always in the same track. For the last half-hour I 
had been saying over a sentence that started itself : 
" I wonder where that road is ! " I had said it over 
till it had lost all meaning. I kept going round on it ; 
and yet I could not believe that my body had been 
travelling in a circle. Not being able to recognize 
any tracks, I have no evidence that I had so travelled, 
