went his way and passed into Mr. Wentworth's 
garden. That civilizing process to which he had 
suggested that Clifford should be subjected ap- 
peared to have come on of itself. Felix was 
very sure, at least, that Mr. Wentworth had not 
adopted his ingenious device for stimulating the 
young man's aesthetic consciousness. u Doubtless 
he supposes," he said to himself, after the conver- 
sation that has been narrated, u that I desire, out 
of fraternal benevolence, to procure for Eugenia 
the amusement of a flirtation or, as he probably 
calls it, an intrigue with the too susceptible Clif- 
ford. It must be admitted and I have noticed it 
before that nothing exceeds the license occa- 
sionally taken by the imagination of very rigid 
people." Felix, on his own side, had of course 
said nothing to Clifford ; but he had observed to 
Eugenia that Mr. Wentworth was much mortified 
at his son's low tastes. " We ought to do some- 
thing to help them, after all their kindness to us," 
he had added. " Encourage Clifford to come and 
see you, and inspire him with a taste for conversa- 
tion. That will supplant the other, which only 
comes from his puerility, from his not taking his 
   
position in the world that of a rich young man 
of ancient stock seriously enough. Make him 
a little more serious. Even if he makes love to 
you it is no great matter." 
" I am to offer myself as a superior form of in- 
toxication a substitute for a brandy bottle, eh ? " 
asked the Baroness. " Truly, in this country one 
comes to strange uses." 
But she had not positively declined to under- 
take Clifford's higher education, and Felix, who 
had not thought of the matter again, being haunted 
with visions of more personal profit, now reflected 
that the work of redemption had fairly begun. 
The idea in prospect had seemed of the happiest, 
but in operation it made him a trifle uneasy. 
" What if Eugenia what if Eugenia " he asked 
himself softly ; the question dying away in his 
sense of Eugenia's undetermined capacity. But 
before Felix had time either to accept or to reject 
its admonition, even in this vague form, he saw 
Robert Acton turn out of Mr. Wentworth's in- 
closure, by a distant gate, and come toward the 
cottage in the orchard. Acton had evidently 
walked from his own house along a shady by-way 
and was intending to pay a visit to Madame Mini- 
ster. Felix watched him a moment ; then he 
turned away. Acton could be left to play the part 
of Providence and interrupt if interruption were 
needed Clifford's entanglement with Eugenia. 
 
Felix passed through the garden toward the 
house and toward a postern gate which opened 
upon a path leading across the fields, beside a little 
wood, to the lake. He stopped and looked up at 
the house ; his eyes rested more particularly upon 
a certain open window, on the shady side. Pres- 
ently Gertrude appeared there, looking out into 
the summer light. He took off his hat to her and 
bade her good-day ; he remarked that he was go- 
ing to row across the pond, and begged that she 
would do him the honor to accompany him. She 
looked at him a moment; then, without saying 
anything, she turned away. But she soon reap- 
peared below in one of those quaint and charming 
Leghorn hats, tied with white satin bows, that 
were worn at that period ; she also carried a green 
parasol. She went with him to the edge of the 
lake, where a couple of boats were always moored ; 
they got into one of them, and Felix, with gentle 
strokes, propelled it to the opposite shore. The 
day was the perfection of summer weather; the 
little lake was the color of sunshine ; the plash of 
the oars was the only sound, and they found them- 
selves listening to it. They disembarked, and, by 
a winding path, ascended the pine-crested mound 
which overlooked the water, whose white expanse 
glittered between the trees. The place was de- 
lightfully cool, and had the added charm that in 
   
the softly sounding pine boughs you seemed to 
hear the coolness as well as feel it. Felix and 
Gertrude sat down on the rust-colored carpet of 
pine-needles and talked of many things. Felix 
spoke at last, in the course of talk, of his going 
away; it was the first time he had alluded to it. 
" You are going away ? " said Gertrude, looking 
at him. 
" Some day when the leaves begin to fall. 
You know I can't stay forever." 
Gertrude transferred her eyes to the outer pros- 
pect, and then, after a pause, she said, " I shall 
never see you again." 
" Why not ? " asked Felix. " We shall proba- 
bly both survive my departure." 
But Gertrude only repeated, " I shall never see 
you again. I shall never hear of you," she went 
on. " I shall know nothing about you. I knew 
nothing about you before, and it will be the same 
again." 
" I knew nothing about you then, unfortu- 
nately," said Felix. " But now I shall write to 
you." 
" Don't write to me. I shall not answer you," 
Gertrude declared. 
"I should of course burn your letters," said 
Felix. 
Gertrude looked at him again. " Burn my let- 
ters ? You sometimes say strange things." 
 
" They are not strange in themselves," the young 
man answered. " They are only strange as said 
to you. You will come to Europe." 
" With whom shall I come ? " She asked this 
question simply ; she was very much in earnest. 
Felix was interested in her earnestness ; for some 
moments he hesitated. " You can't tell me that," 
she pursued. "You can't say that I shall go 
with my father and my sister; you don't believe 
that." 
"I shall keep your letters," said Felix, pres- 
ently, for all answer. 
" I never write. I don't know how to write." 
Gertrude, for some time, said nothing more ; and 
her companion, as he looked at her, wished it had 
not been "disloyal " to make love to the daughter 
of an old gentleman who had offered one hospital- 
ity. The afternoon waned ; the shadows stretched 
themselves ; and the light grew deeper in the 
western sky. Two persons appeared on the op- 
posite side of the lake, coming from the house and 
crossing the meadow. " It is Charlotte and Mr. 
Brand," said Gertrude. " They are coming over 
here." But Charlotte and Mr. Brand only came 
down to the edge of the water, and stood there, 
looking across ; they made no motion to enter the 
boat that Felix had left at the mooring-place. Fe- 
lix waved his hat to them ; it was too far to call. 
   
They made no visible response, and they pres- 
ently turned away and walked along the shore. 
" Mr. Brand is not demonstrative," said Felix. 
" He is never demonstrative to me. He sits silent, 
with his chin in his hand, looking at me. Some- 
times he looks away. Your father tells me he is 
so eloquent ; and I should like to hear him talk. 
He looks like such a noble young man. But with 
me he will never talk. And yet I am so fond of 
listening to brilliant imagery ! " 
" He is very eloquent," said Gertrude ; " but he 
has no brilliant imagery. I have heard him talk 
a great deal. I knew that when they saw us they 
would not come over here." 
" Ah, he is making la cour, as they say, to your 
sister ? They desire to be alone ? " 
" No," said Gertrude, gravely, " they have no 
such reason as that for being alone." 
"But why does n't he make la cour to Char- 
lotte ? " Felix inquired. u She is so pretty, so 
gentle, so good." 
Gertrude glanced at him, and then she looked 
at the distantly-seen couple they were discussing. 
Mr. Brand and Charlotte were walking side by 
side. They might have been a pair of lovers, and 
yet they might not. " They think I should not 
be here," said Gertrude. 
" With me ? J thought you did n't have those 
ideas." 
 
" You don't understand. There are a great 
many things you don't understand." 
" I understand my stupidity. But why, then, 
do not Charlotte and Mr. Brand, who, as an elder 
sister and a clergyman, are free to walk about to- 
gether, come over and make me wiser by breaking 
up the unlawful interview into which I have lured 
