must do what was expected of him. Accordingly he very soon notified the
blind man that a lady was close at hand.
"Lead me up to her, and say, Can you spare something for my poor, blind
uncle?"
Frank complied in part, but instead of "poor, blind uncle" he said
"poor, blind man." Mills scowled, as he found himself disobeyed.
"How long has he been blind?" asked the lady, sympathetically.
"For many years," whined Mills.
"Is this your boy?"
"Yes, ma'am; he is my young nephew, from the country."
"You are fortunate in having him to go about with you."
"Yes, ma'am; I don't know what I should do without him."
"Here is something for you, my good man," said the lady, and passed on.
"Thank you, ma'am. May Heaven bless you!"
"How much is it?" he asked quickly, when the lady was out of hearing.
"Two cents," answered Frank, suppressing with difficulty an inclination
to laugh.
"The mean jade! I should like to wring her neck!" muttered Mills. "I
thought it was a quarter, at least."
In the next store they did not meet a cordial reception.
"Clear out, you old humbug!" shouted the proprietor, who was in
ill-humor. "You ought to be put in the penitentiary for begging about
the streets."
"I pray to God that you may become blind yourself," said Mills,
passionately.
"Out of my store, or I'll have you arrested, both of you!" said the
angry tradesman. "Here, you boy, don't you bring that old fraud in this
store again, if you know what's best for yourself."
There was nothing to do but to comply with this peremptory order.
"He's a beast!" snarled Mills; "I'd like to put his eyes out myself."
"You haven't got a very amiable temper," thought Frank. "I wouldn't
like to be blind; but even if I were, I would try to be pleasanter."
Two young girls, passing by, noticed the blind man. They were
soft-hearted, and stopped to inquire how long he had been blind.
"Before you were born, my pretty maid," said Mills, sighing.
"I have an aunt who is blind," said one of the girls; "but she is not
poor, like you."
"I am very poor," whined Mills; "I have not money enough to pay my rent,
and I may be turned out into the street."
"How sad!" said the young girl, in a tone of deep sympathy. "I have not
much money, but I will give you all I have."
"May God bless you, and spare your eyes!" said Mills, as he closed his
hand upon the money.
"How much is it?" he asked as before, when they had passed on.
"Twenty-five cents," said Frank.
"That is better," said Mills, in a tone of satisfaction.
For some time afterwards all applications were refused; in some cases,
roughly.
"Why don't you work?" asked one man, bluntly.
"What can I do?" asked Mills.
"That's your lookout. Some blind men work. I suppose you would rather
get your living by begging."
"I would work my fingers to the bone if I could only see," whined Mills.
"So you say; but I don't believe it. At any rate, that boy of yours can
see. Why don't you set him to work?"
"He has to take care of me."
"I would work if I could get anything to do," said Frank.
As he spoke, he felt his hand pressed forcibly by his companion, who did
not relish his answer.
"I cannot spare him," he whined. "He has to do everything for me."
When they were again in the street, Mills demanded, roughly, "What did
you mean by saying that?"
"What, sir?"
"That you wanted to go to work."
"Because it is true."
"You are at work; you are working for me," said Mills.
"I would rather work in a store, or an office, or sell papers."
"That wouldn't do me any good. Don't speak in that way again."
The two were out about a couple of hours, and very tiresome Frank found
it. Then Mills indicated a desire to go home, and they went back to the
room in the old tenement-house. Mills threw himself down on the bed in
the corner, and heaved a sigh of relief.
"Now, boy, count the money we have collected," he said.
"There's ninety-three cents," Frank announced.
"If I had known it was so near a dollar we would have stayed a little
longer. Now, get me my pipe."
"Where is it, sir?"
"In the cupboard. Fill it with tobacco, and light it."
"Are you not afraid of setting the bedding on fire, sir?"
"Mind your own business. If I choose to set it on fire, I will," snarled
Mills.
"Very well, sir; I thought I'd mention it."
"You have mentioned it, and you needn't do it again."
"What a sweet temper you've got!" thought Frank.
He sat down on a broken chair, and, having nothing else to do, watched
his employer. "He looks very much as if he could see," thought Frank;
for Mills now had his eyes wide open.
"What are you staring at me for, boy?" demanded his employer, rather
unexpectedly.
"What makes you think I am staring at you, sir?" was Frank's natural
question. "I thought you couldn't see."
"No more I can, but I can tell when one is staring at me. It makes me
creep all over."
"Then I'll look somewhere else."
"Would you like to do some work, as you said?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then take twenty-five cents, and buy some evening papers and sell them;
but mind you bring the money to me."
"Yes, sir," said Frank, with alacrity.
Anything he thought would be better than sitting in that dull room with
so disagreeable a companion.
"Mind you don't run off with the money," said the blind man, sharply.
"If you do I'll have you put in the Tombs."
"I don't mean to run away with the money," retorted Frank, indignantly.
"And when you've sold the papers, come home."
"Yes, sir."
With a feeling of relief, Frank descended the stairs and directed his
steps to the Park, meaning to ask Dick Rafferty's advice about the
proper way to start in business as a newsboy.
CHAPTER V.
FRANK THROWS UP HIS SITUATION.
Frank found his friend on Park Row, and made known his errand.
"So old Mills wants you to sell papers for his benefit, does he?"
"Yes, but I'd rather do it than to stay with him."
"How much has he agreed to pay you?"
"That isn't settled yet."
"You'd better bring him to the point, or he won't pay you anything
except board and lodging, and mighty mean both of them will be."
"I won't say anything about it the first day," said Frank. "What papers
shall I buy?"
"It's rather late. You'd better try for Telegrams."
Frank did so, and succeeded in selling half a dozen, yielding a profit
of six cents. It was not a brilliant beginning, but he was late in the
field, and most had purchased their evening papers. His papers sold,
Frank went home and announced the result.
"Umph!" muttered the blind man. "Give me the money."
"Here it is, sir."
"Have you given me all?" sharply demanded Mills.
"Of course I have," said Frank, indignantly.
"Don't you be impudent, or I will give you a flogging," said the blind
man, roughly.
"I am not used to be talked to in that way," said Frank, independently.
"You've always had your own way, I suppose," snarled Mills.
"No, I haven't; but I have been treated kindly."
"You are only a boy, and I won't allow you to talk back to me. Do you
hear?"
"Yes."
"Then take care to remember."
"You've got a sweet disposition," thought Frank. "I won't stay with you
any longer than I am obliged to."
Several days passed without bringing any incidents worth recording.
Frank took a daily walk with the blind man, sometimes in the morning,
sometimes in the afternoon. These walks were very distasteful to him.
The companion of a beggar, he felt as if he himself were begging. He
liked better the time he spent in selling papers, though he reaped no
benefit himself. In fact, his wages were poor enough. Thus far his fare
had consisted of dry bread with an occasional bun. He was a healthy,
vigorous boy, and he felt the need of meat, or some other hearty food,
and ventured to intimate as much to his employer.
"So you want meat, do you?" snarled Mills.
"Yes, sir; I haven't tasted any for a week."
"Perhaps you'd like to take your meals at Delmonico's?" sneered the
blind man.
Frank was so new to the city that this well-known name did not convey
any special idea to him, and he answered "Yes."
"That's what I thought!" exclaimed Mills, angrily. "You want to eat me
out of house and home."
"No, I don't; I only want enough food to keep up my strength."
"Well, you are getting it. I give you all I can afford."
Frank was inclined to doubt this. He estimated that what he ate did not
cost his employer over six or eight cents a day, and he generally earned
for him twenty to thirty cents on the sale of papers, besides helping
him to collect about a dollar daily from those who pitied his blindness.
He mentioned his grievance to his friend, Dick Rafferty.
"I'll tell you what to do," said Dick.
"I wish you would."
"Keep some of the money you make by selling papers, and buy a square
meal at an eatin' house."
"I don't like to do that; it wouldn't be honest."
"Why wouldn't it?"
"I am carrying on the business for Mr. Mills. He supplies the capital."
"Then you'd better carry it on for yourself."
"I wish I could."
"Why don't you?"
"I haven't any money."
"Has he paid you any wages?"
"No."
"Then make him."
Frank thought this a good suggestion. He had been with Mills a week, and
it seemed fair enough that he should receive some pay besides a wretched
