
" A lady of my acquaintance," said Staniford, at 
his laziest again. 

" A lady ? " said the other, with an inflection 
that she saw hurt. " Why the marine animal, then ? 
She bowed very prettily ; she blushed prettily, too." 

" She's a very pretty girl," replied Staniford. 

" Charming ! But why blush ? " 

" I 've heard that there are ladies who blush for 
nothing." 

" Is she Italian ? " 

" Yes, — in voice." 

" Oh, an American prima donna !" Staniford did 
not answer. " Who is she ? Where is she from ? " 

" South Bradfield, Mass." Stamford's eyes twin- 
kled at her pursuit, which he did not trouble himself 
to turn aside, but baffled by mere impenetrability. 

The party at the hotel suggested that the young 
men should leave their ship and go on with them to 
Naples ; Dunham was tempted, for he could have 
reached Dresden sooner by land ; but Staniford over- 



 

ruled him, and at the end of four days they went 
back to the Aroostook. They said it was like get- 
ting home, but in fact they felt the change from the 
airy heights and breadths of the hotel to the small 
cabin and the closets in which they slept ; it was not 
so great alleviation as Captain Jenness seemed to 
think that one of them could now have Hicks's state- 
room. But Dunham took everything sweetly, as his 
habit was ; and, after all, they were meeting their 
hardships voluntarily. Some of the ladies came with 
them in the boat which rowed them to the Aroos- 
took ; the name made them laugh ; that lady who 
wished Staniford to regret her waved him her hand- 
kerchief as the boat rowed away again. She had 
with difficulty been kept from coming on board by 
the refusal of the others to come with her. She 
had contrived to associate herself with him again 
in the minds of the others, and this, perhaps, was 
all that she desired. But the sense of her frivolity 
— her not so much vacant-mindedness as vacant- 
heartedness — was like a stain, and he painted in 
Lydia's face when they first met the reproach which 
was in his own breast. 

Her greeting, however, was frank and cordial ; it 
was a real welcome. Staniford wondered if it were 
not more frank and cordial than he quite liked, and 
whether she was merely relieved by Hicks's absence, 
or had freed herself from that certain subjection in 
which she had hitherto been to himself. 

Yet it was charming to see her again as she had 



 

been in the happiest moments of the past, and to 
feel that, Hicks being out of her world, her trust of 
everybody in it was perfect once more. She treated 
that interval of coldness and diffidence as all women 
know how to treat a thing which they wish not to 
have been ; and Stamford, a man on whom no pleas- 
ing art of her sex was ever lost, admired and grate- 
fully accepted the effect of this. He fell luxuriously 
into the old habits again. They had still almost 
the time of a steamer's voyage to Europe before 
them ; it was as if they were newly setting sail from 
America. The first night after they left Messina 
Staniford found her in her place in the waist of the 
ship, and sat down beside her there, and talked ; the 
next night she did not come ; the third she came, and 
he asked her to walk with him. The elastic touch 
of her hand on his arm, the rhythmic movement of 
her steps beside him, were things that seemed always 
to have been. She told him of what she had seen 
and done in Messina. This glimpse of Italy had 
vividly animated her ; she had apparently found a 
world within herself as well as without. 

With a suddenly depressing sense of loss, Staniford 
had a prevision of splendor in her, when she should 
have wholly blossomed out in that fervid air of art 
and beauty ; he would fain have kept her still a 
wilding rosebud of the New England wayside. He 
hated the officers who should wonder at her when 
she first came into the Square of St. Mark with her 
aunt and uncle. 



 

Her talk about Messina went on ; he was thinking 
of her, and not of her talk ; but he saw that she was 
not going to refer to their encounter. " You make 
me jealous of the objects of interest in Messina," he 
said. " You seem to remember seeing everything 
but me, there." 

She stopped abruptly. " Yes," she said, after a 
deep breath, " I saw you there ; " and she did not 
offer to go on again. 

" Where were you going, that morning?" 

" Oh, to the cathedral. Captain Jenness left me 
there, and I looked all through it till he came back 
from the consulate." 

u Left you there alone ! " cried Staniford. 

" Yes ; I told him I should not feel lonely, and I 
should not stir out of it till he came back. I took 
one of those little pine chairs and sat down, when I 
got tired, and looked at the people coming to wor- 
ship, and the strangers with their guide-books." 

" Did any of them look at you ? " 

" They stared a good deal. It seems to be the 
custom in Europe ; but I told Captain Jenness I 
should probably have to go about by myself in Ven- 
ice, as my aunt's an invalid, and I had better get 
used to it." 

She paused, and seemed to be referring the point 
to Staniford. 

" Yes, — oh, yes," he said. 

" Captain Jenness said it was their way, over 
here," she resumed ; " but he guessed I had as much 
right in a church as anybody." 



 

" The captain's common sense is infallible," an- 
swered Stamford. He was ashamed to know that 
the beautiful young girl was as improperly alone in 
church as she would have been in a cafe, and he be- 
gan to hate the European world for the fact. It 
seemed better to him that the Aroostook should put 
about and sail back to Boston with her, as she was, 
— better that she should be going to her aunt in 
South Bradfield than to her aunt in Venice. " We 
shall soon be at our journey's end, now," he said, 
after a while. 

" Yes ; the captain thinks in about eight days, if 
we have good weather." 

" Shall you be sorry ? " 

" Oh, I like the sea very well." 

" But the new life you are coming to, — doesn 't 
that alarm you sometimes ? " 

" Yes, it does," she admitted, with a kind of re- 
luctance. 

"So much that you would like to turn back from 
