" Olive, I have a fancy for old-fashioned things, 
I believe." 
"You are so old-fashioned yourself. I hear 
you have taken up the trade of sick nurse at 
home." 
"No," said I; "not at all; only upon occasion." 
"When there is somebody sick, I suppose that 
means," Olive said deridingly. "There is no sense 
in it, Desire ! Of course you get popularity by it ; 
but it's absurd. People must take care of their 
own sick ; but to take care of all the world That's 
Mr. Iredell's idea ! " 
"Well, what do we live for, Olive?" 
"Live for?" she echoed. "I don't know what 
you live for. /try to get some good out of life." 
" How do you succeed ? " 
" I should succeed, if my husband would think . 
I do." 
" Or, perhaps, if you would think as he does ? " 
" Nonsense, Desire ! As I said, you may get popularity by it; I have heard your praises sung, up 
 
and down ; but it don't pay. You will find it don't 
pay. People thank you at the minute, and forget 
you afterwards." 
" If you mean that popularity don't pay, I perfectly agree with you. They have their reward, 
is a very miserable sentence." 
" What do you do it for then ? " 
" Do what ? " 
" Make yourself everybody's servant. First Mrs. 
Saddler s; and then when Mr. Binnacle broke his 
leg; and then when the Lansoms got into trouble." 
" I did not do much for the Lansoms." 
" Only were there night and day. I heard all 
about it." 
" Well, Olive, if you had seen the distress they 
were in, you would not have wondered at my try 
ing to help them." 
" What could you do ? " 
"Stand by, when everybody else fell away; and 
so encourage them to think there is one other 
Friend who never fails." 
"Job Lansom was guilty of some lascality, 
wasn't he ? " 
"Yes. Very disgraceful. At college, too. He 
is in prison for it." 
" Well, Desire, I think guilt ought to suffer." 
" Then what will become of you and me, sister ? 
if we are to have our deserts ? " 
I do not know how Olive would have answered. 
At that moment came an announcement that lunch 
was ready; and she rose up. 
 
"You seem to have had your lunch," I said, remarking the empty cup. 
" no ! That was my breakfast," she replied. 
" Your breakfast ! But when then did you take 
it?" 
"Awhile ago. I was a little late to-day. I 
usually breakfast about eleven." 
" Breakfast at eleven ! When do you get up ? " 
" 0, time enough to dress before breakfast," she 
said with a languid smile. " I believe in taking 
care of myself, Desire; something that you leave 
quite out of consideration. People grow old twice 
as fast, who do not give themselves rest enough. 
It agrees with me to sleep late." 
" Do you find yourself in better condition than 
when you used to rise at five o'clock ? " 
" Don't speak of it ! " said Olive. " It makes mo 
shudder only to think of such a thing." 
" You wrote me that you were not well." 
"I am not. That is why I am taking care." 
" What ails you ? " 
" The doctor says my lungs are out of order. I
think myself it is my heart." 
" And when does Mr. Iredell take his breakfast ? " 
"I don't know! At some dreadful early hour. 
It is against his principles, I believe, to take care 
of himself. That is one of the points we are not 
agreed upon." 
" Are there many such points ? " I asked, full of 
wondering astonishment. Olive, while these words 
were exchanged, had been standing before a cheval 
 
glass, laying a bit of lace over her smooth hair, and 
wrapping a fleecy shawl round her shoulders. She 
turned to me now, saying calmly that no two peo 
ple ever thought alike on all subjects, and leading 
the way to go down stairs. I looked at my dusty 
travelling dress, and suggested that some change 
might be desirable there. 
"0 never mind," said Olive. "I will excuse you; 
and Mr. Iredell never knows what anybody has on." 
And she swept on before me and down the stairs. 
I followed, in a maze. 
The room to which she led me now was, to 
my eyes, something delicious. Rather low, dark 
wainscoted, dark carpeted, with more of the old 
dark furniture; and pictures on the walls, the 
frames of which likewise shewed advanced age; 
for the carving of them was covered with gild 
ing quite bronzed by time. In the midst of all 
this, a table bright with glass and silver and 
damask. The contrast was very pretty; and a 
glowing fire of cannel coal harmonized the whole. 
Mr. Iredell was there before us; his eye glanced 
from me to Olive; I did not feel at all sure that 
it took no notice. All my previous observation 
of it assured me that it did. 
He made kind inquiries about my fatigue and 
want of refreshment, and took kind care about supplying the latter; kind and grave. He seemed to 
me more grave than of old ; even as he had seemed 
to me a year ago when I met him for a moment at 
the Chesterfield station. So it was not Olive that 
 
had wrought the change, if change there were. I 
could not help the feeling that there was a change. 
It appeared equally in his manner towards his wife, 
I thought. 
"Desire wants to know what time you take break 
fast, Mr. Iredell," Olive said. " She thinks I neglect 
you." 
"Or that I neglect you," said he. "Well, she is 
come now, to make up all deficiencies." 
" Do you expect me to do that ? " I asked, smiling. 
" You think it is too much to ask of anybody ? " 
said" he. " Perhaps." 
" I hope you do not mean to ask her to come 
down to breakfast at your unearthly hours," Olive 
remarked, " by way of supplying my deficiencies ? " 
" I should be very deficient myself in hospitality 
if I did not ask her. Perhaps she would not be 
willing to cut off such a large slice of her day as 
you do, and throw it behind her." 
" Do you think I could do anything better with 
it? " said Olive, laying down her knife and fork and 
looking over the table at him. He hesitated, did 
not immediately raise his eyes; then looked up, 
met hers with a very sweet smile and said, 
"Yes." 
"I cannot get you to believe what the doctor 
says," returned Olive. 
" May be true or may not be true. I believe 
honestly, Olive, there is no better way to lengthen 
one's life than by making a proper use of it." 
"What is a proper use of it ? " 
"The proper use of anything, is that use for which 
it was made, or given." 
"And you think my life was given me, for 
what?" 
"I do not think about it," said he smiling again, 
" I know." 
" What ? " Olive was a little impatient. 
" I know the command is Whatsoever ye would 
that men should do to you, do ye even so to them. " 
" Mr. Iredell," said Olive, again laying down her 
knife and fork and speaking impressively, " such a 
rule, as you would interpret it, would condemn me 
to a life of absolute and incessant drudgery ! " 
" It has not that effect upon me," said he lightly. 
" Pray how would you interpret the rule ? " 
" In reason." 
"That is ?" 
" I can't tell ! I mean, in reason. I suppose one 
nhould help other people as far as one can without 
hurting oneself. I do not think one is called upon 
to do that." 
"What is hurting yourself, Olive?" he asked 
gently but steadily. " The apostle John says we 
ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. " 
" Do you take that literally ? " 
" How else ? " 
"But that is unreasonable. If I lay down my 
life, I can do no more with it, for myself or any 
body." 
" You would not need," said Mr. Iredell. " It is 
written, lie that loseth his life for my sake shall 
 
find if And when Christ says that, it means, 
all that you and I want." 
" But," I ventured, " to come to that point, of 
