that I should be crushed, or hurt, by this arrangement of things, which I strove so to hinder. I 
will not be one of the " little faith " people. I will 
just trust the Lord my Lord. What I cannot do, 
he can ; and his ways are wonderful and past find- 
ing out. 

So she was quieted. And yet as she sat there it 
came over Dolly's mind, as things will, quite unbidden; it came over her to think how life would 
go on here, in Italy, with Christina, after she was 
gone. When the lovely Italian chapter of her own 
life was closed up and ended, when she would be 
far away out of sight of Vesuvius, in the fogs of 
London, the sun of Naples would still be shining 
on the Thayers' villa. They would go sailing on 
blue water, or floating over the gold and purple reflections which sometimes seemed to fill both water 
 



 

and air; they would see the white shafts of Psestum, 
yes, it would be soon cool enough for that; or if 
they must wait for Psestum, there were enough 
old monasteries and ruined castles and beauties of 
the like sort to keep them busy for many a day. 
Beauties which Dolly and Mr. Thayer loved. Nobody else in the house loved them. Christina had 
hardly an eye for them ; and St. Leger, if he looked, 
did not care for what he saw. Nevertheless, they 
three would go picnicing through the wonderful 
old land, where every step was on monumental 
splendour or historical ashes, and the sights would 
be before them ; whether they had eyes to see or 
no. For Dolly it was all done. She was glad she 
had had so much and enjoyed so much ; and that 
enjoyment had given memory such a treasure of 
things to keep, that were hers for all time, and 
could be looked at in memory's chambers whenever she pleased. Yet she could not see the moon- 
light on the bay of Naples this evening for the last 
time, and remember towards what she was turning 
her face, without some tears coming that nobody 
saw; tears that were salt and hot. 

The journey home was a contrast to the way by 
which they had come. It pleased Mr. Copley to go 
by sea from Naples to Marseilles, and from thence 
through France as fast as the ground could be passed 
over, till they reached Dover. And although those 
were not the days of lightning travel, yet trav- 
elling continually, the effect was of one swift 
confused rush between Naples and London. Instead of the leisurely winding course pursued to 
Dresden, and from Dresden to Venice, deviating 
at will from the shortest or the most obvious route, 
stopping at will at any point where the fancy took 
them, dawdling, speculating, enjoying, getting good 
out of every step of the way, this journey was a 
sortjof flash from the one end of it to the other, 
with nothing seen or remembered between but the 
one item of fatigue. So it came about, that when 
they found themselves in a London lodging house, 
and Mrs. Copley and Dolly sat down and looked at 
each other, they had the feeling of having left Sorrento last evening, and of being dazed with the 
sudden transition from Sorrento and sunshine to 
London and smoke. 

" Well ! " said Mr. Copley rubbing his hands, 
" here we are ! " 

" I don't feel as if I was anywhere," said his 
wife. "My head's in a whirl. Is this the way 
you like to travel, Frank?" 

"The purpose of travelling, my dear," said Mr. 
Copley, still rubbing his hands ; it must have been 
with satisfaction, for it could not have been with 
cold ; " the purpose of travel is to get over the 
ground." 

" It wasn't my purpose when I went away." 

"No but when you came back." 

" It wasn't my purpose anyway," said Mrs. Copley. " I should never stir from my place if I had 
to move the way you have kept me moving. My 
head is in a whirl." 



 

"I'll take hold and turn it round the other way." 

" I think it is quite likely you will ! I should 
like to know what you mean to do with us, now 
you have got us here." 

" Keep you here." 

" What are you going to do with yourself, Mr. 
Copley?" 

"There are always so many uses that I can make 
of myself, more than I have time for, that I cannot 
tell which I shall take hold of first." 

With which utterance he quitted the room, almost before it was fairly out of his mouth. The 
two left behind sat and looked at the room, and 
then at each other. 

" What are we going to do now, Dolly ? " Mrs. 
Copley asked, in evidently dismayed uncertainty. 

" I don't know, mother." 

" How long do you suppose your father will be 
contented to stay in this house ? " 

" I have no means of guessing, mother. I don't 
know why we are here at all." 

" We had to go somewhere, I suppose, when we 
came to London -just for the first; but I can't stay 
here, Dolly ! " 

"Of course not, mother." 

"Then where are we going to? It is all very 
well to say ' of course not ' ; but where can we go, 
Dolly?" 

" I have been thinking about it, mother dear, but 
I have not found out yet. If we knew how long 
father wanted to stay in London " 



 

" It is no use asking that. I can tell you beforehand. He don't know himself. But 'it is my belief he'll find something or other to make him want 
to stay here the rest of his life." 

"0 mother, I hope not!" 

" It is no use speaking to him about it, Dolly. 
Even if he knew, he would not own it, but that's 
my belief; and I can't bear London, Dolly. A very 
few days of this noise and darkness would just put 
me back where I was before we went away. I 
know it would." 

" This is a darker day than common ; they are 
not all so." 

" They are all like gloom itself, compared to 
where we have been. I tell you, Dolly, I cannot 
stand it. After Sorrento, I cannot bear this." 

" It's my belief, mother, you want home and Roxbury air. Why don't you represent that to father, 
forcibly ? " 

" Dolly, I never put myself in the way of your 
father's pleasure. He must take his pleasure ; and 
he likes London. How he can, I don't see ; but he 
does, and so do a great many other people ; it may 
be a want of taste in me; I dare say it is; but I 
shall not put myself in the way of his pleasure. 
I'll stand it as long as I can, and when I cannot 
stand it any longer, I'll die. It will come to an 
end some time." 

" Mother, don't talk so ! We'll coax father to finish up his business and go home to Roxbury. I 
am quite setting my heart on it. Only you have 



 

patience a little, and don't lose courage. I'll talk 
to father as soon as I get a chance." 

