oteer ; he was constantly proposing new drives, and 
he introduced our little party to treasures of romantic 
scenery. 
XIII. 
More than a fortnight had elapsed, but Gordon 
Wright had not re-appeared, and Bernard suddenly 
decided that he would leave Baden. He found Mrs. 
Vivian and her daughter, very opportunely, in the 
garden of the pleasant, homely Schloss which forms 
the residence of the Grand Dukes of Baden during 
their visits to the scene of our narrative, and which, 
perched upon the hill-side directly above the little 
town, is surrounded with charming old shrubberies 
and terraces. To this garden a portion of the public 
is admitted, and Bernard, who liked the place, had 
been there more than once. One of the terraces had 
a high parapet, against which Angela was leaning, 
looking across the valley. Mrs. Vivian was not at 
first in sight, but Bernard presently perceived her 
seated under a tree with Victor Cousin in her hand. 
As Bernard approached the young girl, Angela, who 
had not seen him, turned round. 
"Don't move," he said. "You were just in the 
position in which I painted your portrait at Siena." 
" Don't speak of that," she answered. 
"I have never understood," said Bernard, "why 
you insist upon ignoring that charming incident." 
She resumed for a moment her former position, 
and stood looking at the opposite hills. 
"That's just how you were — in profile — with 
your head a little thrown back." 
" It was an odious incident ! " Angela exclaimed, 
rapidly changing her -attitude. 
Bernard was on the point of making a rejoinder, 
but he thought of Gordon Wright and held his 
tongue. He presently told her that he intended to 
leave Baden on the morrow. 
They were walking toward her mother. She looked 
round at him quickly. 
" Where are you going ? " 
" To Paris," he said, quite at hazard ; for he had 
not in the least determined where to go. 
" To Paris — in the month of August ? " And she 
gave a little laugh. " What a hdppy inspiration ! " 
She gave a little laugh, but she said nothing more, 
and Bernard gave no further account of his plan. 
They went and sat down near Mrs. Vivian for ten 
minutes, and then they got up again and strolled to 
another part of the garden. They had it all to them- 
selves, and it was filled with things that Bernard 
liked — inequalities of level, with mossy steps con- 
necting them, rose-trees trained upon old brick walls, 
horizontal trellises arranged like Italian pergolas, and 
here and there a towering poplar, looking as if it 
had survived from some more primitive stage of cul- 
ture, with its stiff boughs motionless and its leaves 
forever trembling. They made almost the whole 
circuit of the garden, and then Angela mentioned 
very quietly that she had heard that morning from 
Mr. Wright, and that he would not return for another 
week. 
" You had better stay," she presently added, as if 
Gordon's continued absence were an added reason. 
" I don't know," said Bernard. " It is sometimes 
difficult to say what one had better do." 
I hesitate to bring against him that most inglorious 
of all charges, an accusation of sentimental fatuity, 
of the disposition to invent obstacles to enjoyment 
so that he might have the pleasure of seeing a pretty 
girl attempt to remove them. But it must be ad- 
mitted that if Bernard really thought at present that 
he had better leave Baden, the observation I have 
just quoted was not so much a sign of this conviction 
as of the hope -that his companion would proceed to 
gainsay it. The hope was not disappointed, though 
I must add that no sooner had it been gratified than 
Bernard began to feel ashamed of it. 
"This certainly is not one of those cases," said 
Angela. " The thing is surely very simple now." 
" What makes it so simple ?" 
She hesitated a moment. 
" The fact that I ask you to stay." 
" You ask me ? " he repeated, softly. 
"Ah," she exclaimed, "one doesn 't say those things 
twice!" 
She turned away, and they went hack to her 
mother, who gave Bernard a wonderful little look of 
half urgent, half remonstrant inquiry. As they left 
the garden he walked beside Mrs. Vivian, Angela 
going in front of them at a distance. The elder lady 
began immediately to talk to him of Gordon Wright. 
" He 's not coming back for another week, you 
know," she said. " I am sorry he stays away so long." 
" Ah yes," Bernard answered, " it seems very long 
indeed." 
And it had, in fact, seemed to him very long. 
" I suppose he is always likely to have business," 
said Mrs. Vivian. 
" You may be very sure it is not for his pleasure 
that he stays away." 
" I know he is faithful to old friends," said Mrs. 
Vivian. " I am sure he has not forgotten us." 
" I certainly count upon that," Bernard exclaimed 
—"remembering him as we do !" 
Mrs. Vivian glanced at him gratefully. 
" Oh yes, we remember him — we remember him 
daily, hourly. At least, I can speak for my daughter 
and myself. He has been so very kind to us." Ber- 
nard said nothing, and she went on. " And you have 
been so very kind to us, too, Mr. Longueville. I 
want so much to thank you." 
 IM 
"Oh no, don't!" said Bernard, frowning. "I 
would rather you shouldn 't." 
" Of course," Mrs. Vivian added, " I know it 's all 
on his account ; hut that makes me wish to thank 
you all the more. Let me express my gratitude, in 
advance, for the rest of the time, till he comes back. 
That's more responsibility than you bargained for," 
she said, with a little nervous laugh. 
" Yes, it 's more than I bargained for. I am think- 
ing of going away." 
Mrs. Vivian almost gave a little jump, and then 
she paused on the Baden cobble-stones, looking up at 
him. 
" If you must go, Mr. Longueville — don't sacrifice 
yourself ! " 
The exclamation fell upon Bernard's ear with a 
certain softly mocking cadence which was sufiicient, 
however, to make this organ tingle. 
" Oh, after all, you know," he said, as they walked 
on — " after all, you know, I am not like Wright — 
I have no business." 
He walked with the ladies to the door of their 
lodging. Angela kept always in front. She stood 
there, however, at the little confectioner's window 
until the others came up. She let her mother pass 
in, and then she said to Bernard, looking at him — 
" Shall I see you again ? " 
" Some time, I hope." 
" I mean — are you going away ? " 
Bernard looked for a moment at a little pink sugar 
cherub — a species of Cupid, with a gilded bow — 
which figured among the pastry-cook's enticements. 
Then he said — 
" I will come and tell you this evening." 
And in the evening he went to tell her ; she had 
mentioned during the walk in the garden of the 
Schloss that they should not go out. As he ap- 
proached Mrs. Vivian's door he saw a figure in a 
light dress standing in the little balcony. He stopped 
and looked up, and then the person in the light dress, 
leaning her hands on the railing, with her shoulders 
a little raised, bent over and looked down at him. It 
was very dark, but even through the thick dusk he 
thought he perceived the finest brilliancy of Angela 
Vivian's smile. 
" I shall not go away," he said, lifting his voice a 
little. 
She made no answer ; she only stood looking down 
at him through the warm dusk and smiling. He 
went into the house, and he remained at Baden-Baden 
till Gordon came back. 
XIV. 
Gordon asked him no questions for twenty-four 
hours after his return, then suddenly he began : 
" Well, haven 't you something to say to me ? " 
It was at the hotel, in Gordon's apartment, late in 
the afternoon. A heavy thunder-storm had broken 
over the place an hour before, and Bernard had been 
standing at one of his friend's windows, rather idly, 
with his hands in his pockets, watching the rain- 
torrents dance upon the empty pavements. At last 
the deluge abated, the clouds began to break — there 
was a promise of a fine evening. Gordon Wright, 
while the storm was at its climax, sat down to write 
letters, and wrote half a dozen. It was after he had 
sealed, directed and affixed a postage-stamp to the 
last of the series that he addressed to his companion 
the question I have just quoted. 
