dence that the French nation, so skilled in polite attitude, so 
versed in the singing of romanzas, should yet have been al 
lowed to remain so long in ignorance of the correct religious 
mean. 

The old house was managed with the nicest care. Its 
thick coquina-walls remained solid still, and the weak spots 
in the roof were mended with a thatch of palmetto and tar, 
applied monthly under the mistress's superintendence by 
Viny, who never ceased to regard the performance as a won 
der of art, accustomed as she was to the Beata fashion of 
letting roofs leak when they wanted to, the family never in 
terfering, but encamping on the far side of the flow with calm 
undisturbed. The few pieces of furniture were dusted and 
rubbed daily, and the kitchen department was under martial 
law ; the three had enough to eat indeed, an abundance 
oysters, fish, and clams, sweet potatoes from the garden, and 
various Northern vegetables forced to grow under the vigilant 
nursing they received, but hating it, and coming up as spin 
dling as they could. The one precious cow gave them milk 
and butter, the well-conducted hens gave them eggs ; flour 
and meal, coffee and tea, hauled across the barrens from the 
great river, were paid for in palmetto- work. Yes, Miss Elisa- 
betha's household, in fact, lived well, better perhaps than any 
in Beata ; but so measured were her quantities, so exact her 
reckonings, so long her look ahead, that sometimes, when she 
was away, old Viny felt a sudden wild desire to toss up frit 
ters in the middle of the afternoon, to throw away yesterday's 
tea-leaves, to hurl the soured milk into the road, or even to 
eat oranges without counting them, according to the fashions 
of the easy old days when Doro's Spanish grandmother held 



 

the reins, and everything went to ruin comfortably. Every 
morning after breakfast Miss Elisabetha went the rounds 
through the house and garden ; then English and French 
with Doro for two hours ; next a sea-bath for him, and sail 
ing or walking as he pleased, when the sun was not too hot. 
Luncheon at noon, followed by a siesta ; then came a music- 
lesson, long and charming to both ; and, after that, he had 
his choice from among her few books. Dinner at five, a stroll 
along the beach, music in the evenings at first the piano in 
the parlor, then the guitar under the arches ; last of all, the 
light supper, and good-night. Such was Doro's day. But 
Miss Elisabetha, meanwhile, had a hundred other duties which 
she never neglected, in spite of her attention to his welfare 
first the boy, then his money, for it was earned and destined 
for him. Thus the years had passed, without change, without 
event, without misfortune ; the orange-trees had not failed, 
the palmetto-work had not waned, and the little store of money 
grew apace. Doro, fully employed, indulged by Viny, amused 
with his dogs, his parrot, his mocking-birds, and young owls, 
all the variety of pets the tropical land afforded, even to young 
alligators clandestinely kept in a sunken barrel up the marsh, 
knew no ennui. But, most of all, the music filled his life, 
rounding out every empty moment, and making an undercur 
rent, as it were, to all other occupations ; so that the French 
waltzed through his brain, the English went to marches, the 
sailing made for itself gondelieds, and even his plunges in the 
Warra were like crashes of fairy octaves, with arpeggios of 
pearly notes in showers coming after. 

These were the ante-bellum days, before the war had 
opened the Southern country to winter visitors from the 
North ; invalids a few, tourists a few, came and went, but the 
great tide, which now sweeps annually down the Atlantic 
coast to Florida, was then unknown. Beata, lying by itself 
far down the peninsula, no more looked for winter visitors 
than it looked for angels ; but one day an angel arrived una 
wares, and Doro saw her. 



 

Too simple-hearted to conceal, excited, longing for sym 
pathy, he poured out his story to Miss Elisabetha, who sat 
copying from her music-book a certain ballad for the Demoi 
selle Xantez. 

"It was over on the north beach, aunt, and I heard the 
music and hastened thither. She was sitting on a tiger-skin 
thrown down on the white sand ; purple velvet flowed around 
her, and above, from embroideries like cream, rose her flower- 
face set on a throat so white, where gleamed a star of 
brilliancy ; her hair was like gold yellow gold and it hung 
in curls over her shoulders, a mass of radiance ; her eyes were 
blue as the deepest sky-color ; and oh ! so white her skin, I 
could scarcely believe her mortal. She was playing on a gui 
tar, with her little hands so white, so soft, and singing aunt, 
it was like what I have dreamed." 

The boy stopped and covered his face with his hands. 
Miss Elisabetha had paused, pen in hand. What was this 
new talk of tiger-skins and golden hair ? No one could sing 
in Beata save herself alone ; the boy was dreaming ! 

" Theodore," she said, " fancy is permitted to us under 
certain restrictions, but no well-regulated mind will make to 
itself realities of fancies. I am sorry to be obliged to say it, 
but the romances must be immediately removed from the 
shelf." 

These romances, three in number, selected and sanctioned 
by the governess of the Misses Daarg forty years before, still 
stood in Miss Elisabetha's mind as exemplars of the wildest 
flights of fancy. 

" But this is not fancy, dear aunt," said Doro eagerly, 
his brown eyes velvet with moisture, and his brown cheeks 
flushed. " I saw it all this afternoon over on the beach ; I 
could show you the very spot where the tiger-skin lay, and 
the print of her foot, which had a little shoe so odd like 
this," and rapidly he drew the outline of a walking-boot in the 
extreme of the Paris fashion. 

Miss Elisabetha put on her glasses. 



 

" Heels," she said slowly ; " I have heard of them." 

" There is nothing in all the world like her," pursued the 
excited boy, " for her hair is of pure gold, not like the people 
here ; and her eyes are so sweet, and her forehead so white ! 
I never knew such people lived why have you not told me 
all these years ? " 

" She is a blonde," replied Miss Elisabetha primly. " I, 
too, am a blonde, Theodore." 

" But not like this, aunt. My lovely lady is like a rose." 

" A subdued monotone of coloring has ever been a char 
acteristic of our family, Theodore. But I do not quite under 
stand your story. Who is this person, and was she alone on 
the beach ? " 

" There were others, but I did not notice them ; I only 
looked at her." 

" And she sang ? " 

" O aunt, so heavenly sweet so strange, so new her song, 
that I was carried away up into the blue sky as if on strong 
wings I seemed to float in melody. But I can not talk of 
it ; it takes my breath away, even in thought ! " 

Miss Elisabetha sat perplexed. 

" Was it one of our romanzas, Theodore, or a ballad ? " 
she said, running over the list in her mind. 

" It wac something I never heard before," replied Doro, 
in a low voice ; " it was not like anything else not even the 
mocking-rbird, for, though it went on and on, the same strain 
floated back into it again and again ; and the mocking-bird, 
you know, has a light and fickle soul. Aunt, I can not tell 
you what it was like, but it seemed to tell me a new story of 
a new world." 

" How many beats had it to the measure ? " asked Miss 
Elisabetha, after a pause. 

" I do not know," replied the boy dreamily. 

" You do not know ! All music is written in some set 
time, Theodore. At least, you can tell me about the words. 
Were they French ? " 




" No." 

