child did some marvellous things, which meant that they 
risked life and limb for the brief nightly entertainment of 
their audience. 
The house was full. A very fair house, too. Not alto- 
gether roughs or shop-girls, as you might suppose, but 
many well-dressed and well-looking men and women. To 
be sure, stowed away on the highest tier was a large sprink- 
ling of the rather disreputable element; but they were 
obliged to behave themselves in an orderly manner. 
They went through the farce, and were noisily applauded. 
The pretty actress sang her songs in a rather thin voice, 
but they were funny, and she was irresistible in the amus- 
ing scenes. There was a travesty of a popular opera, in 
which they were applauded and encored, and then the stage 
was cleared of trumpery. 
Signer Barretti came forward with the small queen 
Titania. Setting her age back a year was not a sin that 
would lie heavily on his conscience, or a thing that the 
audience would question. Dressed for his performance, the 
symmetry, suppleness, and fine sinewy force came out 
boldly. The hair and beard cropped closely, yet with 
nothing of the bully in his raein. Indeed, at such times as 
these, the latent refinement and enthusiasm were visible in 
his countenance. To face an audience was a species of 
inspiration to him. 
And Titania ! She was holding tightly to one finger, a 
little abashed at the great multitude, her eyes downcast, 
and almost black in their lustrousness, her long fair hair 
gathered away from her face, but left floating at the back 
like the billows in a field of ripe wheat, while her splendid 
complexion of pink and pearl needed no stage disguises. 
Shapely as a nymph, or a sculptured cupid, the scanty 
drapery displaying the lovely roundness of the dimpled 
limbs. There were mothers of little girls looking on, 
fathers, brothers, yet to them she was only a thing for 
their amusement ; not a casket wherein was shrined a 
woman's soul, a soul capable of sweetness, affection, truth, 
and purity, or a dangerous power in after years to strike 
back home, to draw into her bewildering, delusive net, 
husbands, brothers, sons ; to pay in tears and anguish the 
plaudits of to-night, and all nights to come. 
Her starry beauty enchanted. There was a breathless 
hush through the audience. She felt these merciless, 
staring eyes, and her cheeks became the color of scarlet 
poppies, her small mouth quivered, the rosy lips parting, 
and her eyes blazed in the glare of light ; nay, her very 
pulses throbbed to the rapturous, expectant welcome of 
applause. 
Dick Bridger had been too wise to try her here for the 
first time. Her debut had been a week's engagement with 
a travelling circus. And at the very first appearance she 
had been seized with the awful terror of a stage fright, and 
done such discredit to Dick's training that 
To tell the truth, he would much rather never have 
struck the child again. He had come to experience a 
strange, absorbing tenderness since the night she had de- 
fied him in the barn. He would sooner have taken every 
blow himself. 
And she knew now just what awaited a failure. Her 
brain was almost maddened with conflicting terrors, the 
fear of life and limb in those wild, dangerous exercises, and 
the other fear of cruel punishment. And joined with this 
an overwhelming love for Dick. The glance of his eye 
fascinated her as a serpent does a bird, ruled her, body and 
soul. 
The performance began. The athlete's light sinuous 
curves, that brought out the quiver of playing muscles, now 
a long, lithe band just under the skin, now a ball of hard, 
knotted cord, holding himself by the tip of a finger, by the 
strength of an ankle, by the chin, vaulting, springing from 
height to height like a monkey in its native wilds, hanging 
head downward, with his arms crossed on his magnificent 
chest, as superbly indifferent as if he were lounging on a 
sofa, while rounds of applause sounded from pit to dome. 
AridTitania! 
She was a bird, a butterfly, as her spangled garments 
caught the light, and glittered with sparkling rays. Her 
twinkling feet seemed at home anywhere, on the swaying 
rope, the slender rod, or his hand. All the while, with 
that strange, entranced light in her face of roses and lilies, 
an expression that held hey audience breathless with a 
peculiar fascination. Did they know that for her it was 
the awful mesmerism of fear ? And if they had, they would 
still have clamored for amusement. 
Last year it was Violetta; and who cared for dead 
Violetta now ? Last year a wonderful starry-eyed girl had 
trod these boards, danced, sung, and been crowned with 
roses, to-day she was thrust into a hospital, to languish and 
die alone, friendless, and be buried in a Potter's field. And 
next year, Titania, with her radiant, flower-like face and 
sunny hair might be where ? 
They did not ask. They had paid for their evening's 
entertainment. They might look at a swallow's long, 
daring curves in mid-air, at a fly when he walked the ceil- 
ing, at a spider who flings himself from branch to branch, 
or from some high house-top to the ground, the slender 
thread still in his grasp, and no emotion would be excited. 
But when human beings were unnaturally trained to imitate 
them all, if possible, the appreciative world clapped its 
hands. 
" Let them dance and spring, so that they are brilliant 
and wonderful. What matter if to-morrow they die ! " 
So cries the cruel world, knowing not that it is cruel, 
caring not, so that it may laugh and applaud. 
There was a silence presently. Signor Barretti stood, 
with one foot crossed over the other, in a handsome, indo- 
lent, audacious attitude, with a smile on his lips. Titania 
had disappeared. Then there was a stir and murmur up 
in the high gallery. Heads were turned, wonder was 
excited to its utmost. Something shone in the half dusk 
and dinginess, a small, dazzling figure. She clasped both 
small hands tightly over a ring, to which was attached a 
small, strong rope, the other end securely fastened high up 
above the stage curtain. 
The hush was breathless, intense !
Swift as a bird she came through the air, her golden hair 
floating behind her like shadowy wings, her eyes burning 
with a strange, desperate glow, the very madness of hope 
and fear, on, straight to Barretti's outstretched arms ! 
There was a perfect thunder of applause, that seemed to 
shake the very building. He did not dare turn that white, 
terror-stricken face to the audience. He felt the great 
frightened bounds of her heart, and murmured some tender, 
encouraging words in her ear. 
It seemed as if they never would be done. It was waves 
on waves of sound, lulling a little, then tramping up on the 
beach of enthusiasm again. 
" Let me stand you on the floor," he whispered, pres- 
ently. "There is nothing more for you to do to-night, 
but you must turn and bow to the audience." 
She clung to him, convulsively, for it seemed as if that 
awful sea of human heads still yawned before her, demand- 
ing some new effort. 
" Turn and bow," he exclaimed in a voice of command, 
and she obeyed, while the soft pink wavered in her cheeks, 
and her eyes shone like points of lambent flame. 
Once more the applause was tumultuous, and bowing, 
they withdrew. 
But back of the stage stood another admiring crowd. 
Nymphs and shepherdesses in water-proofs, and hoods 
drawn over their heads, their startling loveliness much 
changed and faded. 
" Oh, what an angel ! " exclaimed Mademoiselle Vivienne. 
"Do let me give her a kiss;" and she darted forward, em- 
biacing the child rapturously. "Such magnificent hair! 
la it all real ? Oh, what a perfect little beauty. Barretti, 
I shall be mad with jealousy and rage!" and she laughed 
gaily. " We carried off the flowers to-night, but to-mor- 
row night you'll be crowned, my lovely queen ; never fear." 
"Her dancing is perfection," cried another. " We must 
look to our laurels. She isn't your own child, Barretti, is 
she?" 
"Don't we look alike?" and he laughed good-naturedly. 
"Well, you do, some; and she's supple as " 
" As an eel, or Barretti. You can't make a better com- 
parison," declared Prince Azmor, who was now a rather 
effeminate, common-looking young man, in coat and trousers. 
Kate pushed forward through the crowded green-room. 
"Do let me see her, the little darling! I'm just dying to 
take her in my arms, and you wouldn't even let me kiss 
her before she went out. O my beautiful, beautiful Queen 
Titania ! You were just magnificent ! Wasn't it all splen- 
did ! and the applause, too ! " 
" But the flying leap ! Barretti, you've made a big hit." 
Barretti meanwhile had wrapped the child in a soft 
shawl, and still held her in his arms as the crowd pressed 
around with their expressions of wonder and extravagant 
praises. As soon as he could he shook off his warmest ad- 
mirers, and bidding Kate follow, left the scene of confu- 
sion, understanding well how necessary rest and quiet was 
for his lovely little queen, who was trembling and throb- 
bing in every pulse. 
The hack in waiting soon conveyed them to their lodg- 
ings, in a retired part of the city. Kate always protested 
against his choice. She would have enjoyed the stir and 
bustle of a second-rate hotel, with a chance to disport her- 
self in her finery to either envy or admiration. But the 
house was clean and quiet, the room spacious, warm, and 
fresh, with no scents of dead perfumes or smoke, or vile 
liquors. 
