man, frowning heavily. 
She was a little frightened, but she went on with 
considerable boldness. " That is the way I see it : 
a private marriage a private marriage." She re- 
peated the phrase because she liked it. 
" Do you mean that I should carry Catherine off ? 
What do they call it elope with her ?" 
" It is* not a crime when you are driven to it," 
said Mrs. Penniman. " My husband, as I have told 
you, was a distinguished clergyman one of the 
most eloquent men of his day. He once married a 
young couple that had fled from the house of the 
young lady's father; he was so interested in their 
story. He had no hesitation, and everything came 
out beautifully. The father was afterward recon- 
ciled, and thought everything of the young man. 
Mr. Penniman married them in the evening, about 
seven o'clock. The church was so dark you could 
scarcely see, and Mr. Penniman was intensely agi- 
tated he was so sympathetic. I don't believe he 
could have done it again." 
"Unfortunately, Catherine and I have not Mr. 
Penniman, to marry us," said Morris. 
" No, but you have me !" rejoined Mrs. Penniman, 
expressively. " I can't perform the ceremony, but 
I can help you ; I can watch !" 
" The woman's an idiot !" thought Morris ; but he 
was obliged to say something different. It was not, 
however, materially more civil. " Was it in order 
to tell me this that you requested I would meet you 
here ?" 
Mrs. Penniman had been conscious of a certain 
vagueness in her errand, and of not being able to 
offer him any very tangible reward for his long 
walk. " I thought perhaps you would like to see 
one who is so near to Catherine," she observed, 
with considerable majesty ; " and also," she added, 
"that you would value an opportunity of sending 
her something." 
Morris extended his empty hands with a melan- 
choly smile. " I am greatly obliged to you, but I 
have nothing to send." 
"Haven't you a word?" asked his companion, 
with her suggestive smile coming back. 
Morris frowned again. " Tell her to hold fast," 
he said, rather curtly. 
"That is a good word a noble word: it will 
make her happy for many days. She is very touch- 
ing, very brave," Mrs. Penniman went on, arranging 
her mantle and preparing to depart. While she 
was so engaged she had an inspiration ; she found 
the phrase that she could boldly offer as a vindica- 
tion of the step she had taken. " If you marry Cath- 
erine at all risks," she said, "you will give my brother 
a proof of your being what he pretends to doubt." 
" What he pretends to doubt ?" 
" Don't you know what that is ?" Mrs. Penniman 
asked, almost playfully. 
" It does not concern me to know," said Morris, 
grandly. 
" Of course it makes you angry." 
" I despise it," Morris declared. 
" Ah, you know what it is, then ?" said Mrs. Pen- 
niman, shaking her finger at him. " He pretends 
that you like you like the money." 
Morris hesitated a moment ; and then, as if he 
spoke advisedly, "I do like the money !" 
"Ah, but not but not as he means it. You 
don't like it more than Catherine ?" 
He leaned his elbows on the table and buried his 
head in his hands. "You torture me!" he mur- 
mured. And, indeed, this was almost the effect of 
the poor lady's too importunate interest in his situ- 
ation. 
But she insisted in making her point. " If you 
marry her in spite of him, he will take for granted 
that you expect nothing of him, and are prepared to 
do without it; and so he will see that you are dis- 
interested." 
Morris raised his head a little, following this argu- 
ment. " And what shall I gain by that ?" 
" Why, that he will see that he has been wrong in 
thinking that you wished to get his money." 
"And seeing that I wish he would go to the deuce 
with it, he will leave it to a hospital. Is that what 
you mean ?" asked Morris. 
" No, I don't mean that ; though that would be 
very grand," Mrs. Penniman quickly added. " I 
mean that, having done you such an injustice, he 
will think it his duty, at the end, to make some 
amends." 
Morris shook his head, though it must be confess- 
ed he was a little struck with this idea. "Do you 
think he is so sentimental ?" 
" He is not sentimental," said Mrs. Penniman ; 
" but, to be perfectly fair to him, I think he has, in 
his own narrow way, a certain sense of duty." 
There passed through Morris Townsend's mind a 
rapid wonder as to what he might, even under a re- 
mote contingency, be indebted to from the action of 
this principle in Doctor Sloper's breast, and the in- 
quiry exhausted itself in his sense of the ludicrous. 
" Your brother has no duties to me," he said pres- 
ently, " and I none to him." 
"Ah, but he has duties to Catherine." 
" Yes ; but you see, on that principle Catherine 
has duties to him as well." 
Mrs. Penniman got up with a melancholy sigh, as 
if she thought him very unimaginative. " She has 
always performed them faithfully ; and now do you 
think she has no duties to you?" Mrs. Penniman 
always, even in conversation, italicized her personal 
pronouns. 
" It would sound harsh to say so. I am so grate- 
ful for her love," Morris added. 
" I will tell her you said that. And now, remem- 
ber that if you need me I am there." And Mrs. 
Penniman, who could think of nothing more to say, 
nodded vaguely in the direction of Washington 
Square. 
Morris looked some moments at the sanded floor 
of the shop ; he seemed to be disposed to linger a 
moment. At last, looking up with a certain abrupt- 
ness, " It is your belief that if she marries me he 
will cut her off ?" he asked. 
Mrs. Penniman stared a little, and smiled. ""Why, 
I have explained to you what I think would happen 
that in the end it would be the best thing to do." 
" You mean that, whatever she does, in the long- 
run she will get the money ?" 
" It doesn't depend upon her, but upon you. 
Venture to appear as disinterested as you are," said 
Mrs. Penniman, ingeniously. Morris dropped his 
eyes on the sanded floor again, pondering this, and 
she pursued : " Mr. Penniman and I had nothing, 
and we were very happy. Catherine, moreover, 
has her mother's fortune, which, at the time my sis- 
ter-in-law married, was considered a very handsome 
one." 
" Oh, don't speak of that !" said Morris ; and in- 
deed it was quite superfluous, for he had contem- 
plated the fact in all its lights. 
"Austin married a wife with money why 
shouldn't you ?" 
" Ah ! but your brother was a doctor," Morris ob- 
jected. 
" Well, all young men can't be doctors." 
" I should think it an extremely loathsome pro- 
fession," said Morris, with an air of intellectual in- 
dependence ; then, in a moment, he went on rather 
inconsequently, " Do you suppose there is a will al- 
ready made in Catherine's favor ?" 
" I suppose so even doctors must die ; and per- 
haps a little in mine," Mrs. Penniman frankly added. 
"And you believe he would certainly change it 
as regards Catherine ?" 
" Yes ; and then change it back again." 
" Ah, but one can't depend on that," said Morris. 
" Do you want to depend on it ?" Mrs. Penniman 
asked. 
Morris blushed a little. " Well, I am certainly 
afraid of being the cause of an injury to Cathe- 
rine." 
"Ah! you must not be afraid. Be afraid of 
nothing, and everything will go well." 
And then Mrs. Penniman paid for her cup of tea, 
and Morris paid for his oyster stew, and they went 
out together into the dimly -lighted wilderness of 
the Seventh Avenue. The dusk had closed in com- 
pletely, and the street lamps were separated by wide 
intervals of a pavement in which cavities and fis- 
sures played a disproportionate part. An omnibus, 
emblazoned with strange pictures, went tumbling 
over the dislocated cobble-stones. 
" How will you go home ?" Morris asked, follow- 
ing this vehicle with an interested eye. Mrs. Pen- 
niman had taken his arm. 
She hesitated a moment. " I think this manner 
would be pleasant," she said; and she continued to 
let him feel the value of his support. 
