about it.”
“Yes. And I have the satisfaction of knowing that whatever people think
of Louise’s giddiness, I’m, a great deal more scandalous to them than
she is simply because I wish to do some good in the world, in a way that
women have n’t done it, usually.”
“Now you are morbid.”
“Oh, yes! Talk about men being obstacles! It’s other women! There isn’t
a woman in the house that would n’t sooner trust herself in the hands of
the stupidest boy that got his diploma with me than she would in mine.
Louise knows it, and she feels that she has a claim upon me in being my
patient. And I ‘ve no influence with her about her conduct because she
understands perfectly well that they all consider me much worse. She
prides herself on doing me justice. She patronizes me. She tells me that
I’m just as nice as, if I hadn’t ‘been through all that.’” Grace rose,
and a laugh, which was half a sob, broke from her.
Mrs. Breen could not feel the humor of the predicament. “She puts you in
a false position.”
“I must go and see where that poor little wretch of a child is,” said
Grace, going out of the room. She returned in an hour, and asked her
mother for the arnica. “Bella has had a bump,” she explained.
“Why, have you been all this time looking for her?
“No, I couldn’t find her, and I’ve been reading. Barlow has just brought
her in. HE could find her. She fell out of a tree, and she’s frightfully
bruised.”
She was making search on a closet shelf as she talked. When she
reappeared with the bottle in her hand, her mother asked, “Is n’t it
very hot and close?”
“Very,” said Grace.
“I should certainly think they would perish,” said Mrs. Breen, hazarding
the pronoun, with a woman’s confidence that her interlocutor would apply
it correctly.
When Grace had seen Bella properly bathed and brown-papered, and in
the way to forgetfulness of her wounds in sleep, she came down to the
piazza, and stood looking out to sea. The ladies appeared one by one
over the edge of the cliff, and came up, languidly stringing their
shawls after them, or clasping their novels to their bosoms.
“There isn’t a breath down there,” they said, one after another. The
last one added, “Barlow says it’s the hottest day he’s ever seen here.”
In a minute Barlow himself appeared at the head of the steps with the
ladies’ remaining wraps, and confirmed their report in person. “I tell
you,” he said, wiping his forehead, “it’s a ripper.”
“It must be an awful day in town,” said one of the ladies, fanning
herself with a newspaper.
“Is that to-day’s Advertiser, Mrs. Alger?” asked another.
“Oh, dear, no! yesterday’s. We sha’n’t have today’s till this afternoon.
It shows what a new arrival you are, Mrs. Scott--your asking.”
“To be sure. But it’s such a comfort being where you can see the
Advertiser the same morning. I always look at the Weather Report the
first thing. I like to know what the weather is going to be.”
“You can’t at Jocelyn’s. You can only know what it’s been.”
“Well,” Barlow interposed, jealous for Jocelyn’s, “you can most al’ays
tell by the look o’ things.”
“Yes,” said one of the ladies; “but I’d rather trust the Weather Report.
It’s wonderful how it comes true. I don’t think there ‘s anything that
you miss more in Europe than our American Weather Report.”
“I’m sure you miss the oysters,” said another.
“Yes,” the first admitted, “you do miss the oysters. It was the last of
the R months when we landed in New York; and do you know what we did the
first thing--? We drove to Fulton Market, and had one of those Fulton
Market broils! My husband said we should have had it if it had been
July. He used to dream of the American oysters when we were in Europe.
Gentlemen are so fond of them.”
Barlow, from scanning the heavens, turned round and faced the company,
which had drooped in several attitudes of exhaustion on the benching of
the piazza. “Well, I can most al’ays tell about Jocelyn’s as good as the
Weather Report. I told Mrs. Maynard here this mornin’ that the fog was
goin’ to burn off.”
“Burn off?” cried Mrs. Alger. “I should think it had!” The other ladies
laughed.
“And you’ll see,” added Barlow, “that the wind ‘ll change at noon, and
we’ll have it cooler.”
“If it’s as hot on the water as it is here,” said Mrs. Scott, “I should
think those people would get a sunstroke.”
“Well, so should I, Mrs. Scott,” cordially exclaimed a little fat
lady, as if here at last were an opinion in which all might rejoice to
sympathize.
“It’s never so hot on the water, Mrs. Merritt,” said Mrs. Alger, with
the instructiveness of an old habitude.
“Well, not at Jocelyn’s,” suggested Barlow. Mrs. Alger stopped fanning
herself with her newspaper, and looked at him. Upon her motion, the
other ladies looked at Barlow. Doubtless he felt that his social
acceptability had ceased with his immediate usefulness. But he appeared
resolved to carry it off easily. “Well,” he said, “I suppose I must go
and pick my peas.”
No one said anything to this. When the factotum had disappeared round
the corner of the house, Mrs. Alger turned her head’ aside, and glanced
downward with an air of fatigue. In this manner Barlow was dismissed
from the ladies’ minds.
“I presume,” said young Mrs. Scott, with a deferential glance at Grace,
“that the sun is good for a person with lung-difficulty.”
Grace silently refused to consider herself appealed to, and Mrs. Merritt
said, “Better than the moon, I should think.”
Some of the others tittered, but Grace looked up at Mrs. Merritt and
said, “I don’t think Mrs. Maynard’s case is so bad that she need be
afraid of either.”
“Oh, I am so glad to hear it!” replied the other. She looked round, but
was unable to form a party. By twos or threes they might have liked to
take Mrs. Maynard to pieces; but no one cares to make unkind remarks
before a whole company of people. Some of the ladies even began to say
pleasant things about Mr. Libby, as if he were Grace’s friend.
“I always like to see these fair men when they get tanned,” said Mrs.
Alger. “Their blue eyes look so very blue. And the backs of their
necks--just like my boys!”
“Do you admire such a VERY fighting-clip as Mr. Libby has on?” asked
Mrs. Scott.
“It must be nice for summer,” returned the elder lady.
“Yes, it certainly must,” admitted the younger.
“Really,” said another, “I wish I could go in the fighting-clip. One
does n’t know what to do with one’s hair at the sea-side; it’s always in
the way.”
“Your hair would be a public loss, Mrs. Frost,” said Mrs. Alger. The
others looked at her hair, as if they had seen it now for the first
time.
“Oh, I don’t think so,” said Mrs. Frost, in a sort of flattered coo.
“Oh, don’t have it cut off!” pleaded a young girl, coming up and taking
the beautiful mane, hanging loose after the bath, into her hand. Mrs.
Frost put her arm round the girl’s waist, and pulled her down against
her shoulder. Upon reflection she also kissed her.
Through a superstition, handed down from mother to daughter, that it
is uncivil and even unkind not to keep saying something, they went on
talking vapidities, where the same number of men, equally vacuous,
would have remained silent; and some of them complained that the nervous
strain of conversation took away all the good their bath had done them.
Miss Gleason, who did not bathe, was also not a talker. She kept a
bright-eyed reticence, but was apt to break out in rather enigmatical
flashes, which resolved the matter in hand into an abstraction, and left
the others with the feeling that she was a person of advanced ideas, but
that, while rejecting historical Christianity, she believed in a God of
Love. This Deity was said, upon closer analysis, to have proved to be
a God of Sentiment, and Miss Gleason was herself a hero-worshiper, or,
more strictly speaking, a heroine-worshiper. At present Dr. Breen was
her cult, and she was apt to lie in wait for her idol, to beam upon
it with her suggestive eyes, and evidently to expect it to say or do
something remarkable, but not to suffer anything like disillusion or
disappointment in any event. She would sometimes offer it suddenly a
muddled depth of sympathy in such phrases as, “Too bad!” or, “I don’t
see how you keep-up?” and darkly insinuate that she appreciated all
that Grace was doing. She seemed to rejoice in keeping herself at a
respectful distance, to which she breathlessly retired, as she did now,
after waylaying her at the top of the stairs, and confidentially darting
at her the words, “I’m so glad you don’t like scandal!”
III.
After dinner the ladies tried to get a nap, but such of them as
re-appeared on the piazza later agreed that it was perfectly useless.
They tested every corner for a breeze, but the wind had fallen dead, and
the vast sweep of sea seemed to smoulder under the sun. “This is what
Mr. Barlow calls having it cooler,” said Mrs. Alger.
“There are some clouds that look like thunderheads in the west,” said
Mrs. Frost, returning from an excursion to the part of the piazza
commanding that quarter.
“Oh, it won’t rain to-day,” Mrs. Alger decided.
“I thought there was always a breeze at Jocelyn’s,” Mrs. Scott observed,
in the critical spirit of a recent arrival.
“There always is,” the other explained, “except the first week you’re
here.”
A little breath, scarcely more than a sentiment of breeze, made itself
felt. “I do believe the wind has changed,” said Mrs. Frost. “It’s east.”
 The others owned one by one that it was so, and she enjoyed the merit
of a discoverer; but her discovery was rapidly superseded. The clouds
mounted in the west, and there came a time when the ladies disputed
whether they had heard thunder or not: a faction contended for the
bowling alley, and another faction held for a wagon passing over the
bridge just before you reached Jocelyn’s. But those who were faithful to
the theory of thunder carried the day by a sudden crash that broke over
the forest, and, dying slowly away among the low hills, left them deeply
silent.
“Some one,” said Mrs. Alger, “ought to go for those children.” On
this it appeared that there were two minds as to where the children
were,--whether on the beach or in the woods.
“Was n’t that thunder, Grace?” asked Mrs. Breen, with the accent by
which she implicated her daughter in whatever happened.
“Yes,” said Grace, from where she sat at her window, looking seaward,
and waiting tremulously for her mother’s next question.
“Where is Mrs. Maynard?”
“She is n’t back, yet.”
“Then,” said Mrs. Breen, “he really did expect rough weather.”
“He must,” returned Grace, in a guilty whisper.
“It’s a pity,” remarked her mother, “that you made them go.”
“Yes.” She rose, and, stretching herself far out of the window, searched
the inexorable expanse of sea. It had already darkened at the verge, and
