managed to evade her mother's watchful eyes. 
But it is curious indeed that Wilfred Carew, caring 
nothing for her then, should coolly discuss marrying her 
now. Is it the fortune ? There are men doubtless who 
would be strongly moved by it, but so far she is glad for 
the credit of the sex that so few have laid any such hom- 
age at her feet. 
Carew walks slowly away, and Miss Ormiston wends her 
way homeward. Circumstances must decide it all, but 
her honesty revolts at meeting Dolly in the old friendly 
manner. 
 
Ths deference one owes to the conventional positions 
and relationships of life is a great safeguard, after all. 
Dolly Allaire comes floating through the hall in diaph- 
anous drapery half an hour before dinner-time. The 
ladies are on the porch, and the clergyman of the church 
Miss Ormiston attends has been making a friendly call, 
and now stands on the lower step saying a few last words. 
Miss Ellery and he have found some congenial topics of con- 
versation, and Miss Miller listens, bright-eyed, interested. 
" Ah, Miss Allaire," says Mr. Forsyth, and he comes 
up the steps again to give her a delicate, cordial greeting. 
The curves of her pliant body are seductive, and her 
dress seems to wrap her about as a cloud. Her face is 
pale, and full of little blue sinuosities that give a trans- 
parent light one would set down as the very dawn and 
flower of innocence, heightened by the infantile distrac- 
tion of the eyes. Above them the shimmer of bronze- 
gold hair, that the soft wind moves as if it were alive, 
making glittering waves and stray ends. The mouth is 
tempting in its sweetness. Perhaps the ineffable coquetry 
in Dolly that Christmas cannot understand is that fine art 
of making every man fancy he has roused some charm 
hitherto dormant in her nature, that to him alone belongs 
the discovery. 
After he has gone, Dolly seats herself beside Miss 
Miller and drops into an easy talk. Her social gifts are 
certainly exquisite when she chooses to give them play. 
For some reason, or, more truly, whim, she is bent upon 
being fascinating. Does she read a far-reaching disappio- 
 
 
Yte Ji. this Ormiston's grave eyes? She has disarmed it 
many  time before, she conquers it now. Christmas has 
a helpess sort of feeling as if her witcheries were so in- 
tangible one could not make stand against them, any 
more than one could stop the wind by facing it. 
The dinner is very pleasant. The party of the night 
before id the great theme, and it is entertaining to com. 
pare notes. Afterwards Dolly plays, then Miss Miller ; 
and while they are interested at the piano, three gentle- 
men walk in from Cliff House, — Mr. Brundage, who has 
been sent by his wife to inquire after the ladies, Mr. 
Jeffries, and a Mr. Alden. Jeffries's nonchalant elegance 
is perfection. Christmas watches him with wide, intent 
eyes, but he addresses himself mostly to Miss EUery. 
Are they all playing a part, she wonders. 
"Come," says Mr. Brundage, with a good-natured, 
elderly air, " our stay was limited to thirty minutes. 
Mrs. Brundage carefully suggested to me that ladies who 
danced all last night would wish to retire early. But you 
all look fresh enough to dance to-night." 
" They are wonderful," declares Dolly in a bright, gen- 
erous tone. ''Now, I have been in bed all day and 
deserve no sort of credit." 
" It is early," Miss Miller begins persuasively. " We 
might have a waltz out on the porch, if Miss Ormiston 
would not think us demented. There is still a ' spirit ' in 
my feet." 
" Why, no," replies Christmas. " Can I play for you ? " 
And she goes to the piano. 
Jeffries turns to Miss Miller, and Dolly takes Mr. Alden. 
Now and then, as they float up and down in the perfumed 
half -dusk, they exchange a bit of gay badinage. How can 
they be so indifferent, with this horrible secret between 
them. Miss Ormiston wonders. Even with her experience 
she cannot understand how deception can cover itself with 
a mask so irreproachable. She has some very positive 
 
 
 
ideas of remorse and the limitations of conscience, \m\ 
evidently they do not apply here. 
"Ohl" Mr. Brundage says with his first good-night, 
" you have no doubt heard that Mr. Stannard is consid- 
ered seriously ill. This afternoon they telegraphed to New 
York for a physician." 
" Yes," returns Dolly composedly, " he could not enjoy 
being ill without his own doctor. He exhausted the medi- 
cal skill of France and Germany." 
" Is it such a very baffling case ? " 
Dolly gives a slight incredulous laugh, and again the 
parting words are uttered. Jeffries goes straight over to 
Miss Ormiston, and compels her hand by some unseen 
force. A shiver runs through it as it touches his. She 
draws a long intense breath, for it seems as if she is 
abetting the deception every moment she keeps silent. 
" Wai you come over to-morrow at four?" she almost 
supplicates. 
What has moved her so deeply? 
" I shall be at your service ; happy so to be." And he 
bows with infinite grace. 
Dolly flies back to the piano and shakes a storm of 
melody out of her finger-ends for the next five minutes, 
and len runs away with the airy grace of a ballet 
dancer. 
Christmas Ormiston's burden is heavy upon her the 
next morning. Dolly could arrange this trifle with the 
sequence of a play, but the hostess marvels how she shall 
dispose of the people to give her a clear hour this after- 
toon. It gets settled that Miss Miller and Dolly go for a 
drive and a call at Cliff House. The day is lovely with a 
half -cloudy sky and a wandering breeze full of languid, 
ripening odors. St. George does not come over. Surely 
he is not an exigent lover. 
The hours lag. Miss Ormiston talks against time, but 
no one seems to remark it. Two or three callers drop in 
 
 
to pay party respects and express their gratification anew. 
Glen Ormiston is enough to rouse envy in the most stoical 
breast. There is luncheon and a siesta with the accom- 
paniment of droning summer insects. Dolly and Miss 
Miller get started, Christmas provides Miss Ellery with 
some books and pleads a duty on hand, then, taking her 
wide-brimmed hat with its azure lining that seems to crown 
her like an untroubled sky, she walks slowly down the path. 
The great hall clock is striking four. A figure turns in 
the entrance way, and her heart throbs chokingly. Even 
now she is half a mind to show the white feather. 
Mr. Jeffries bows with grace and composure. His 
secret elation is somewhat damped by this grave face, 
but he admits frankly to himself that no one could have 
imagined the tall, thin, awkward, and blundering girl of 
years ago would develop into such a magnificent woman. 
Cards might have been played better. Jeffries is no astute, 
far-reaching schemer. He takes the good of to-day, with- 
out troubling to save or lay by for to-morrow. He had 
set himself about getting the best of the present out of 
life, and so far he had done it. He had looked into 
beliefs, practices, and results, and had resolved to do well 
unto himself, and this hour he had not found the reason- 
ing unduly narrow. For the first time something stirs 
within him that disturbs his self-complacency. 
She turns into the path to the Glen, and they talk com- 
monplaces in a rather constrained manner. Surely some 
fine adjustment has been missed. He rouses himself then, 
and with the subtle power of which he is complete master 
he does make a change, for he is confident that Dolly can- 
not have betrayed herself. They have reached a place 
where two wide-branching oaks mingle their leaves, mak- 
ing a sombre shade over a moss-grown rock. Rustic seats 
have been arranged in this tempting nook. She takes one, 
and motions him to the other. 
"When I first saw you," she begins with averted eyes, 
 
 
 
" there was something mysteriously suggestive, and I hare 
been trying to solve it. I am certain I have reached the 
truth— " How hard it is to utter it I " You are Wilfred 
Carew. This was for a while yours and your mother's 
home." 
The man's self-possession is simply magnificent. The 
long black lashes do not quiver on his cheek, there is no 
betraying flush, no mad desperation or impatience, but a 
cool, fascinating, incredulous smile. Yet he would give 
worlds to know what card among those he holds he had 
better play out. * He has never been wildly, desperately in 
love, but he feels that all the better worshipping part of 
his nature could flow tumultuously towards this woman. 
Shall he confess and try to win her? She has no lover to 
set up as a barrier against him. 
" You think so? " he says, in a weary but most melliflu- 
ous tone. 
She turns then, and his face baffles her scrutiny. For 
an instant the very ground seems slipping from under her 
feet, yet that positive inner sense deepens, crystallizes in 
her very face, and he, quick to read, to detect meanings, 
