     "The army moved towards the hamlet of Zubia, built on the skirts of
     the mountain to the left of Granada, and commanding a view of the
     Alhambra, and the most beautiful quarter of the city. As they
     approached the hamlet, the Marques of Villena, the Count Ureña, and
     Don Alonzo de Aguilar filed off with their battalions, and were
     soon seen glittering along the side of the mountain above the
     village. In the mean time the Marques of Cadiz, the Count de
     Tendilla, the Count de Cabra, and Don Alonzo Fernandez, senior of
     Alcaudrete and Montemayor, drew up their forces in battle array on
     the plain below the hamlet, presenting a living barrier of loyal
     chivalry between the sovereigns and the city.
     "Thus securely guarded, the royal party alighted, and, entering one
     of the houses of the hamlet, which had been prepared for their
     reception, enjoyed a full view of the city from its terraced roof.
     The ladies of the court gazed with delight at the red towers of the
     Alhambra, rising from amid shady groves, anticipating the time when
     the Catholic sovereigns should be enthroned within its walls, and
     its courts shine with the splendor of Spanish chivalry. 'The
     reverend prelates and holy friars, who always surrounded the queen,
     looked with serene satisfaction,' says Fray Antonio Agapida, 'at
     this modern Babylon, enjoying the triumph that awaited them, when
     those mosques and minarets should be converted into churches, and
     goodly priests and bishops should succeed to the infidel alfaquis.'
     "When the Moors beheld the Christians thus drawn forth in full
     array in the plain, they supposed it was to offer battle, and
     hesitated not to accept it. In a little while the queen beheld a
     body of Moorish cavalry pouring into the vega, the riders managing
     their fleet and fiery steeds with admirable address. They were
     richly armed, and clothed in the most brilliant colors, and the
     caparisons of their steeds flamed with gold and embroidery. This
     was the favorite squadron of Muza, composed of the flower of the
     youthful cavaliers of Granada. Others succeeded, some heavily
     armed, others à la gineta, with lance and buckler; and lastly
     came the legions of foot-soldiers, with arquebus and cross-bow, and
     spear and scimiter.
     "When the queen saw this army issuing from the city, she sent to
     the Marques of Cadiz, and forbade any attack upon the enemy, or the
     acceptance of any challenge to a skirmish; for she was loth that
     her curiosity should cost the life of a single human being.
     "The marques promised to obey, though sorely against his will; and
     it grieved the spirit of the Spanish cavaliers to be obliged to
     remain with sheathed swords while bearded by the foe. The Moors
     could not comprehend the meaning of this inaction of the
     Christians, after having apparently invited a battle. They sallied
     several times from their ranks, and approached near enough to
     discharge their arrows; but the Christians were immovable. Many of
     the Moorish horsemen galloped close to the Christian ranks,
     brandishing their lances and scimiters, and defying various
     cavaliers to single combat; but Ferdinand had rigorously prohibited
     all duels of this kind, and they dared not transgress his orders
     under his very eye.
     "Here, however, the worthy Fray Antonio Agapida, in his enthusiasm
     for the triumphs of the faith, records the following incident,
     which we fear is not sustained by any grave chronicler of the
     times, but rests merely on tradition, or the authority of certain
     poets and dramatic writers, who have perpetuated the tradition in
     their works. While this grim and reluctant tranquillity prevailed
     along the Christian line, says Agapida, there rose a mingled shout
     and sound of laughter near the gate of the city. A Moorish
     horseman, armed at all points, issued forth, followed by a rabble,
     who drew back as he approached the scene of danger. The Moor was
     more robust and brawny than was common with his countrymen. His
     visor was closed; he bore a huge buckler and a ponderous lance; his
     scimiter was of a Damascus blade, and his richly ornamented dagger
     was wrought by an artificer of Fez. He was known by his device to
     be Tarfe, the most insolent, yet valiant, of the Moslem
     warriors--the same who had hurled into the royal camp his lance,
     inscribed to the queen. As he rode slowly along in front of the
     army, his very steed, prancing with fiery eye and distended
     nostril, seemed to breathe defiance to the Christians.
     "But what were the feelings of the Spanish cavaliers when they
     beheld, tied to the tail of his steed, and dragged in the dust, the
     very inscription, 'AVE MARIA,' which Hernan Perez del Pulgar had
     affixed to the door of the mosque! A burst of horror and
     indignation broke forth from the army. Hernan was not at hand to
     maintain his previous achievement; but one of his young companions
     in arms, Garcilasso de la Vega by name, putting spurs to his horse,
     galloped to the hamlet of Zubia, threw himself on his knees before
     the king, and besought permission to accept the defiance of this
     insolent infidel, and to revenge the insult offered to our Blessed
     Lady. The request was too pious to be refused. Garcilasso remounted
     his steed, closed his helmet, graced by four sable plumes, grasped
     his buckler of Flemish workmanship, and his lance of matchless
     temper, and defied the haughty Moor in the midst of his career. A
     combat took place in view of the two armies and of the Castilian
     court. The Moor was powerful in wielding his weapons, and
     dexterous in managing his steed. He was of larger frame than
     Garcilasso, and more completely armed, and the Christians trembled
     for their champion. The shock of their encounter was dreadful;
     their lances were shivered and sent up splinters in the air.
     Garcilasso was thrown back in his saddle--his horse made a wide
     career before he could recover, gather up the reins, and return to
     the conflict. They now encountered each other with swords. The Moor
     circled round his opponent, as a hawk circles when about to make a
     swoop; his steed obeyed his rider with matchless quickness; at
     every attack of the infidel, it seemed as if the Christian knight
     must sink beneath his flashing scimiter. But if Garcilasso was
     inferior to him in power, he was superior in agility; many of his
     blows he parried; others he received upon his Flemish shield, which
     was proof against the Damascus blade. The blood streamed from
     numerous wounds received by either warrior. The Moor, seeing his
     antagonist exhausted, availed himself of his superior force, and,
     grappling, endeavored to wrest him from his saddle. They both fell
     to earth; the Moor placed his knee upon the breast of his victim,
     and, brandishing his dagger, aimed a blow at his throat. A cry of
     despair was uttered by the Christian warriors, when suddenly they
     beheld the Moor rolling lifeless in the dust. Garcilasso had
     shortened his sword, and, as his adversary raised his arm to
     strike, had pierced him to the heart. 'It was a singular and
     miraculous victory,' says Fray Antonio Agapida; 'but the Christian
     knight was armed by the sacred nature of his cause, and the Holy
     Virgin gave him strength, like another David, to slay this gigantic
     champion of the Gentiles.'
     "The laws of chivalry were observed throughout the combat--no one
     interfered on either side. Garcilasso now despoiled his adversary;
     then, rescuing the holy inscription of 'AVE MARIA' from its
     degrading situation, he elevated it on the point of his sword, and
     bore it off as a signal of triumph, amidst the rapturous shouts of
     the Christian army.
     "The sun had now reached the meridian, and the hot blood of the
     Moors was inflamed by its rays, and by the sight of the defeat of
     their champion. Muza ordered two pieces of ordnance to open a fire
     upon the Christians. A confusion was produced in one part of their
     ranks: Muza called to the chiefs of the army, 'Let us waste no more
     time in empty challenges--let us charge upon the enemy: he who
     assaults has always an advantage in the combat.' So saying, he
     rushed forward, followed by a large body of horse and foot, and
     charged so furiously upon the advance guard of the Christians, that
     he drove it in upon the battalion of the Marques of Cadiz.
     "The gallant marques now considered himself absolved from all
     further obedience to the queen's commands. He gave the signal to
     attack. 'Santiago!' was shouted along the line; and he pressed
     forward to the encounter, with his battalion of twelve hundred
     lances. The other cavaliers followed his example, and the battle
     instantly became general.
     "When the king and queen beheld the armies thus rushing to the
     combat, they threw themselves on their knees, and implored the Holy
     Virgin to protect her faithful warriors. The prince and princess,
     the ladies of the court, and the prelates and friars who were
     present, did the same; and the effect of the prayers of these
     illustrious and saintly persons was immediately apparent. The
     fierceness with which the Moors had rushed to the attack was
     suddenly cooled; they were bold and adroit for a skirmish, but
     unequal to the veteran Spaniards in the open field. A panic seized
     upon the foot-soldiers--they turned and took to flight. Muza and
     his cavaliers in vain endeavored to rally them. Some took refuge in
     the mountains; but the greater part fled to the city, in such
     confusion that they overturned and trampled upon each other. The
     Christians pursued them to the very gates. Upwards of two thousand
     were either killed, wounded, or taken prisoners; and the two pieces
     of ordnance were brought off as trophies of the victory. Not a
     Christian lance but was bathed that day in the blood of an infidel.
     "Such was the brief but bloody action which was known among the
     Christian warriors by the name of "The Queen's Skirmish;" for when
     the Marques of Cadiz waited upon her majesty to apologize for
     breaking her commands, he attributed the victory entirely to her
     presence. The queen, however, insisted that it was all owing to her
     troops being led on by so valiant a commander. Her majesty had not
     yet recovered from her agitation at beholding so terrible a scene
     of bloodshed, though certain veterans present pronounced it as gay
     and gentle a skirmish as they had ever witnessed."
The charm of "The Alhambra" is largely in the leisurely, loitering,
dreamy spirit in which the temporary American resident of the ancient
palace-fortress entered into its mouldering beauties and romantic
associations, and in the artistic skill with which he wove the
commonplace daily life of his attendants there into the more brilliant
woof of its past. The book abounds in delightful legends, and yet these
are all so touched with the author's airy humor that our credulity is
never overtaxed; we imbibe all the romantic interest of the place
without for a moment losing our hold upon reality. The enchantments of
this Moorish paradise become part of our mental possessions, without the
least shock to our common sense. After a few days of residence in the
part of the Alhambra occupied by Dame Tia Antonia and her family, of
which the handmaid Dolores was the most fascinating member, Irving
succeeded in establishing himself in a remote and vacant part of the
vast pile, in a suite of delicate and elegant chambers, with secluded
gardens and fountains, that had once been occupied by the beautiful
Elizabeth of Farnese, daughter of the Duke of Parma, and more than four
centuries ago by a Moorish beauty named Lindaraxa, who flourished in the
court of Muhamed the Left-Handed. These solitary and ruined chambers had
