convincing air of having known him all his life. The 
peer was almost surprised into obeying. He even 
made a movement as if to go, but quickly recovered 
his tranquil attitude and confessed his blunder with a 
blush. Tom Canty turned upon him and said, sharply : 
“Why dost thou hesitate? Hast not heard the 
king’s command? Go!” 
The Lord St. John made a deep obeisance — and 
it was observed that it was a significantly cautious 
and non-committal one, it not being delivered at 
either of the kings, but at the neutral ground 
about half-way between the two — and took his 
leave. 
Now began a movement of the gorgeous particles 
of that official group which was slow, scarcely 
perceptible, and yet steady and persistent — a move- 
ment such as is observed in a kaleidoscope that is 
turned slowly, whereby the components of one 
splendid cluster fall away and join themselves to 
another — a movement which, little by little, in the 
present case, dissolved the glittering crowd that 
stood about Tom Canty and clustered it together 
again in the neighborhood of the new-comer. Tom 
Canty stood almost alone. Now ensued a brief 
season of deep suspense and waiting — during which 
even the few faint-hearts still remaining near Tom 
Canty gradually scraped together courage enough to 
glide, one by one, over to the majority. So at last 
Tom Canty, in his royal robes and jewels, stood 
wholly alone and isolated from the world, a con- 
icuous figure, occupying an eloquent vacancy. 
Now the Lord St. John was seen returning. As 
he advanced up the mid-aisle the interest was so 
intense that the low murmur of conversation in the 
great assemblage died out and was succeeded by a 
profound hush, a breathless stillness, through which 
his footfalls pulsed with a dull and distant sound. 
Every eye was fastened upon him as he moved 
along. He reached the platform, paused a moment, 
then, moved toward Tom Canty with a deep 
obeisance, and said: 
“Sire, the Seal is not there!” 
A mob does not melt away from the presence of 
a plague-patient with more haste than the band of 
pallid and terrified courtiers melted away from the 
presence of the shabby little claimant of the Crown. 
In a moment he stood all alone, without friend or 
supporter, a target upon which was concentrated a 
bitter fire of scornful and angry looks. The Lord 
Protector called out fiercely: 
“Cast the beggar into the street, and scourge him 
through the town — the paltry knave is worth no 
more consideration!” 
Officers of the guard sprang forward to obey, but 
Tom Canty waved them off and said: 
“Back! Whoso touches him perils his life!” 
The Lord Protector was perplexed in the last 
degree. He said to the Lord St. John: 
“Searched you well? — but it boots not to ask 
that. It doth seem passing strange. Little things, 
trifles, slip out of one’s ken, and one does not think 
it matter for surprise; but how a so bulky thing as 
the Seal of England can vanish away and no man 
be able to get track of it again — a. massy golden 
disk—” 
Tom Canty, with beaming eyes, sprang forward 
and shouted: 
“Hold, that is enough! Was it round? — and 
thick? — and had it letters and devices graved upon 
it? — Yes? Oh, now I know what this Great Seal 
is that there’s been such worry and pother about! 
An ye had described it to me, ye could have had 
it three weeks ago. Right well I know where it 
lies; but it was not I that put it there — first.” 
“Who, then, my liege?” asked the Lord Protector. 
“He that stands there — the rightful king of Eng- 
land. And he shall tell you himself where it lies — 
then you will believe he knew it of his own knowl- 
edge. Bethink thee, my king — spur thy memory 
— it was the last, the very last thing thou didst that 
day before thou didst rush forth from the palace, 
clothed in my rags, to punish the soldier that 
insulted me.” 
A silence ensued, undisturbed by a movement or 
a whisper, and all ej-es were fixed upon the newcomer, 
who stood, with bent head and corrugated 
brow, groping in his memory among a thronging 
multitude of valueless recollections for one single 
little elusive fact, which found, would seat him upon 
athrone — unfound, would leave him as he was, for 
good and all — & pauper and an outcast. Moment 
after moment passed — the moments bmlt them- 
selves into minutes — still the boy struggled silently 
on, and gave no sign. But at last he heaved a sigh, 
shook his head slowly, and said, with a trembling 
lip and in a despondent voice : 
“I can the scene back — all of it — but the Seal 
hath no place in it.” He paused, then looked up, 
and said with gentle dignity, “My lords and gentle- 
men, if ye win rob your rightful sovereign of his 
own for lack of this evidence which he is not able 
to furnish, I may not stay ye, being powerless, 
But—” 
“b folly, O madness, my king!” cried Tom 
Canty, in a panic, “wait! — think! Do not give 
up! — the cause is not lost! Nor shall be, neither! 
List to what I say — follow every word — I am 
going to bring that morning back again, every hap 
just as it happened. We talked — told you of my 
sisters, Nan and Bet — ah, yes, you remember that; 
and about mine old grandam — and the rough games 
of the lads of Offal Court — yes, you remember 
these things also; very well, follow me still, you 
shall recall everything. You gave me food and 
drink, and did with princely courtesy send away the 
servants, so that my low breeding might not shame 
me before them — ah, yes, this also you remember.” 
As Tom checked off his details, and the other boy 
nodded his head in recognition of them, the great 
audience and the officials stared in puzzled
wonderment; the tale sounded like true history, yet how 
could this impossible conjunction between a prince 
and a beggar boy have come about? Never was a 
company of people so perplexed, so interested, and 
so stupefied, before. 
“For a jest, my prince, we did exchange garments. 
Then we stood before a mirror; and so 
alike were we that both said it seemed as if there 
had been no change made — yes, you remember 
that. Then you noticed that the soldier had htut 
my hand — look! here it is, I cannot yet even write 
with it, the fingers are so stiff. At this your 
Highness sprang up, vowing vengeance upon that soldier, 
and ran toward the door — you passed a table — 
that thing you call the Seal lay on that table — you 
snatched it up and looked eagerly about, as if for a 
place to hide it — your eye caught sight of — ” 
“There, ’tis sufficient! — and the dear God be 
thanked!” exclaimed the ragged claimant, in a 
mighty excitement, “Go, my good St. John — in 
an arm-piece of the Milanese armor that hangs on 
the wall, thou’lt find the Seal!” 
“Right, my king! right!” cried Tom Canty; “now 
the scepter of England is thine own; and it were bet- 
ter for bim that would dispute it that he had been bom 
dumb ! Go, my Lord St. John, give thy feet wings !’ ’ 
The whole assemblage was on its feet now, and 
weE-nigh out of its mind with uneasiness, apprehen- 
sion, and consuming excitement. On the floor and 
on the .platform a deafening buzz of frantic
conversation burst forth, and for some time nobody knew 
anything or heard anything or was interested in 
anything but what his neighbor was shouting into his 
ear, or he was shouting into his neighbor’s ear. 
Time — nobody knew how much of it — swept by 
unheeded and unnoted. At last a sudden hush fell 
upon the house, and in the same moment St. John 
appeared upon the platform and held the Great Seal 
aloft in his hand. Then such a shout went up! 
“Long Eve the tme king!” 
For five minutes the air quaked with shouts and 
the crash of musical instruments, and was white 
with a storm of waving handkerchiefs; and through 
it aE a ragged lad, the most conspicuous figure in 
England, stood, flushed and happy and proud, in 
the center of the spacious platform, with the great 
vassals of the kingdom kneeling around him. 
Then all rose, and Tom Canty cried out: 
“Now, O my king, take these regal garments 
back, and give poor Tom, thy servant, his shreds 
and remnants again.” 
The Lord Protector spoke up: 
“Let the small varlet be stripped and flung into 
the Tower.” 
But the new king, the true king, said: 
“I will not have it so. But for him I had not 
got my crown again — none shall lay a hand upon 
him to harm him. And as for thee, my good uncle, 
my Lord Protector, this conduct of thine is not 
grateful toward this poor lad, for I hear he hath 
