Lord Warburton was left standing with Ealph Touchett, to 
whom in a moment he said 
" You wished a while ago to see my idea of an interesting 
woman. There it is ! " 
III. 
MRS. TOUCHETT was certainly a person of many oddities, of 
which her behaviour on returning to her husband's house after 
many months was a noticeable specimen. She had her own 
way of doing all that she did, and this is the simplest descrip- 
tion of a character which, although it was by no means without 
benevolence, rarely succeeded in giving an impression of softness. 
Mrs. Touchett might do a great deal of good, but she never 
pleased. This way of her own, of which she was. so fond, was 
not intrinsically offensive it was simply very sharply distin- 
guished from the ways of others. The edges of her conduct 
were so very clear-cut that for susceptible persons it sometimes 
had a wounding effect;. This purity of outline was visible in 
her deportment during the first hours of her return from 
America, under circumstances in which it might have seemed 
that her first act would have been to exchange greetings with 
her husband and son. Mrs. Touchett, for reasons which she 
deemed excellent, always retired on such occasions into impene- 
trable seclusion, postponing the more sentimental ceremony until 
she had achieved a toilet which had the less reason to be of high 
importance as neither beauty nor vanity were concerned in it. 
She was a plain-faced old woman, without coquetry and without 
any great elegance, but with an extreme respect for her own 
motives. She was usually prepared to explain these when the 
explanation was asked as a favour ; and in such a case they 
proved totally different from those that had been attributed to 
her. She was virtually separated from her husband, but she 
appeared to perceive nothing irregular in the situation. It had 
become apparent, at an early stage of their relations, that they 
should never desire the same thing at the same moment, and this 
fact had prompted her to rescue disagreement from the vulgar 
realm of accident. She did what she could to erect it into a 
law a much more edifying aspect of it by going to live 
in Florence, where she bought a house and established herself; 
leaving her husband in England to take care of his bank. This 
arrangement greatly pleased her ; it was so extremely definite. 
It struck her husband in the same light, in a foggy square in 
London, where it was at times the most definite fact he discerned ; 
but he would have preferred that discomfort should have a 
greater vagueness. To agree to disagree had cost him an effort ; 
he was ready to agree to almost anything but that, and saw no 
reason why either assent or dissent should be so terribly consist- 
ent. Mrs. Touchett indulged in no regrets nor speculations, 
and usually came once a year to spend a month with her hus- 
band, a period during which she apparently took pains to con- 
vince him that she had adopted the right system. She was not 
fond of England, and had three or four reasons for it to which 
she currently alluded ; they bore upon minor points of British 
civilisation, but for Mrs. Touchett they amply justified non- 
residence. She detested bread-sauce, which, as she said, looked 
like a poultice and tasted like soap ; she objected to the con- 
sumption of beer by her maid-servants ; and she affirmed that 
the British laundress (Mrs. Touchett was very particular about 
the appearance of her linen) was not a mistress of her art. At 
fixed intervals she paid a visit to her own country; but this last 
one had been longer than any of its predecessors. 
She had taken up her niece there was little doubt of that. 
One wet afternoon, some four months earlier than the occurrence 
lately narrated, this young lady had been seated alone with a 
book. To say that she had a book is to say that her solitude did 
not press upon her ; for her love of knowledge had a fertilising 
quality and her imagination was strong. There was at this time, 
however, a want of lightness in her situation, which the arrival 
of an unexpected visitor did much to dispel. The visitor had 
not been announced; the girl heard her at last walking about 
the adjoining room. It was an old house at Albany a large, 
square, double house, with a notice of sale in the windows of the 
parlour. There were two entrances, one of which had long been 
out of use, but had never been removed. They were exactly 
alike large white doors, with an arched frame and wide side- 
lights, perched upon little " stoops " of red stone, which descended 
sidewise to the brick pavement of the street. The two houses 
together formed a single dwelling, the party-wall having been 
removed and the rooms placed in communication. These rooms, 
above-stairs, were extremely numerous, and were painted all over 
exactly alike, in a yellowish white which had grown sallow with 
time. On the third floor there was a sort of arched passage, 
connecting the two sides of the house, which Isabel and her 
sisters used in their childhood to call the tunnel, and which, 
though it was short and well-lighted, always seemed to the girl 
to be strange and lonely, especially on winter afternoons. She 
had been in the house, at different periods, as a child ; in those 
days her grandmother lived there. Then there had been an 
absence of ten years, followed by a return to Albany before her 
father's death. Her grandmother, old Mrs. Archer, had exer- 
cised, chiefly within the limits of the family, a large hospitality 
in the early period, and the little girls often spent weeks under 
her roof weeks of which Isabel had the happiest memory. The 
manner of life was different from that of her own home larger, 
more plentiful, more sociable; the discipline of the nursery was 
delightfully vague, and the opportunity of listening to the con- 
versation of one's elders (which with Isabel was a highly-valued 
pleasure) almost unbounded. There was a constant coming and 
going ; her grandmother's sons and daughters, and their children, 
appeared to be in the enjoyment of standing invitations to stay 
with her, so that the house offered, to a certain extent, the appear- 
ance of a bustling provincial inn, kept by a gentle old landlady 
who sighed a great deal and never presented a bill. Isabel, of 
course, knew nothing about bills ; but even as a child she thought 
her grandmother's dwelling picturesque. There was a covered 
piazza behind it, furnished with a swing, which was a source of 
tremulous interest ; and beyond this w.as a long garden, sloping 
down to the stable, and containing certain capital peach-tre'es. 
Isabel had stayed with her grandmother at various seasons ; but, 
somehow, all her visits had a flavour of peaches. On the other 
side, opposite, across the street, was an old house that was called 
the Dutch House a, peculiar structure, dating from the earliest 
colonial time, composed of bricks that had been painted yellow, 
crowned with a gable that was pointed out to strangers, defended 
by a rickety wooden paling, and standing sidewise to the street. 
It was occupied by a primary school for children of both sexes, 
kept in an amateurish manner by a demonstrative lady, of whom 
Isabel's chief recollection was that her hair was puft'ed out very 
much at the temples and that she was the widow of some one of 
consequence. The little girl had been offered the opportunity of 
laying A foundation of knowledge in this establishment ; but 
having spent a single day in it, she had expressed great disgust 
with the place, and had been allowed to stay at home, where in 
the September days, when the windows of the Dutch Housa 
were open, she used to hear the hum of childish voices repeating 
the multiplication table an incident in which the elation of 
liberty and the pain of exclusion were indistin uishably mingled. 
The foundation of her knowledge was really laid in the idleness 
of her grandmother's house, where, as most of the other inmates 
were not reading people, she had uncontrolled use of a library 
full of books with frontispieces, which she used to climb upon 
a chair to take down. When she had found one to her taste 
she was guided in the selection chiefly by the frontispiece she 
carried it into a mysterious apartment which lay beyond the 
library, and which was called, traditionally, no one knew why, 
the office. Whose office it had been, and at what period it had 
flourished, she never learned ; it was enough for her that it 
contained an echo and a pleasant musty smell, and that it was 
a chamber of disgrace for old pieces of furniture, whose infirmities 
were not always apparent (so that the disgrace seemed unmerited, 
and rendered them victims of injustice), and with which, in the 
manner of children, she had established relations almost human, 
or dramatic. There was an old haircloth sofa, in especial, to 
which she had confided a hundred childish sorrows. The place 
owed much of its mysterious melancholy to the fact that it was 
properly entered from the second door of the house, the door 
that had been condemned, and that was fastened by bolts which 
a particularly slender little girl found it impossible to slide. She 
knew that this silent, motionless portal opened into the street ; 
if the sidelights had not been filled with green paper, she might 
have looked out upon the little brown stoop and the well-worn 
brick pavement. But she had no wish to look out, for this 
would have interfered with her theory that there was a strange, 
unseen place on the other side a place which became, to the 
c'hild's imagination, according to its different moods, a region of 
delight or of terror. 
It was in the " office " still that Isabel was sitting on that 
melancholy afternoon of early spring which I have just 
mentioned. At this time she might have had the whole house 
to choose from, and the room she had selected was the most 
joyless chamber it contained. She had never opened the bolted 
door nor removed the green paper (renewed by other hands) 
from its side-lights; she had never assured herself that the 
vulgar street lay beyond it. A crude, cold rain was falling 
heavily ; the spring-time presented itself as a questionable 
improvement. Isabel, however, gave as little attention as 
possible to the incongruities of the season ; she kept her eyes 
on her book and tried to fix her mind. It had lately occurred 
to her that her mind was a good deal of a vagabond, and she 
had spent much ingenuity in training it to a military step, and 
teaching it to advance, to halt, to retreat, to perform even more 
complicated manoeuvres, at the word of command. Just now 
she had given it marching orders, and it had been trudging 
over the sandy plains of a history of German Thought. 
Suddenly she became aware of a step very different from her 
own intellectual pace ; she listened a little, and perceived that 
some one was walking about the library, which communicated 
with the office. It struck her first as the step of a person from 
whom she had reason to expect a visit ; then almo&t immediately 
announced itself as the tread of a woman and a stranger her 
possible visitor being   neither. It had an inquisitive, experi- 
