offering.'" 

"I do not see the meaning of that," said Rotha. 

"Yet it is very simple.--Head and hand and foot, the whole man and every 
part of him was cleansed by the blood of the sacrifice; and whereever the 
redeeming blood had touched, there the consecrating oil must touch also. 
Head and hand and foot, the whole man was anointed holy to the Lord." 

"Upon the blood of the trespass offering. O I see it now. And how 
beautiful that is! and plain enough." 

"Turn now to Rom. xii. 1." 

"'I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye 
present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable to the Lord.'" 

"You understand?" 

"Partly; I think, only partly." 

"The priests of old offered whole rams and bullocks upon the altar as 
tokens and emblems of the entireness with which the worshipper was given 
to God; the whole offering was consumed by fire and went up to heaven in 
smoke and fume, all except the little remainder of ashes. We are to be 
living sacrifices, as wholly given, but given in life, and with our  
whole living powers to be used and exist for God." 

"Yes," said Rotha. "I see it now." 

"Are you glad to see it?" 

"I think I am. It makes me catch my breath a little." 

"Why?" 

"It must be difficult to live so." 

"Not if we love Christ. Indeed if we love him much, it is impossible to 
live any other way." 

"I understand so far," Rotha said after a pause; "but I do not quite know 
what you are coming to." 

"I am coming to something serious; for I do not know whether in this 
matter you will like what I like." 

In Rotha's eyes there flashed an innocent unconscious response to this 
speech, saying plainly that she could like nothing else! It was so 
innocent and so unconscious, and withal so eloquent of the place he held 
with her, that Mr. Southwode could have smiled; did smile to himself; but 
he would not be diverted, nor let her, from the matter in hand; which, as 
he said, was serious. He wished to have it decided on its own merits too; 
and perceived there would be some difficulty about that. Rotha's nature 
was so passionately true to its ruling affection that, as he knew, that 
honest glance of her eyes had told but the simple truth. Mr. Southwode 
looked grave, even while he could willingly have returned an answer in 
kind to her eyes' sweet speech. But he kept his gravity and his composed 
manner, and went on with his work. 

"Read one more passage," he said. "1 Cor-vi. 20." 

"'Ye are bought with a price; therefore glorify God in your body and in 
your spirit, which are God's.' That is again just like the words in 
Leviticus," said Rotha;--"head and hand and foot redeemed, and head and 
hand and foot belonging to the Redeemer." 

"Exactly," said Mr. Southwode. "That is not difficult to recognize. The 
question is, will we stand to the bargain?" 

"Why?" 

"It costs so much, to let it stand." 

"It has not cost you much," said Rotha. "I should not say, by your 
face, it has cost you anything." 

"It has cost me all I have." 

"Well, in a way--" 

"Truly," he said, meeting her eyes. "I do not count anything I have my 
own." 

"But in practice--" 

"In practice I use it all, or I try to use it all, for my Master; in such 
way as I think he likes best, and such as will best do his work and 
honour his name." 

"And you do not find that disagreeable or hard," said Rotha. "That is 
what I said." 

"Neither disagreeable nor hard. On the contrary. I am sure there is no 
way of using oneself and one's possessions that gets so much enjoyment 
out of them. No, not the thousandth part." 

"Then what do you mean by its 'costing so much'?" 

"Read 1 Cor. x. 31." 

"'Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the 
glory of God.'" Rotha read, and this time did not look up. 

"What do you think of going by that rule?" 

"You mean, for Christ's sake," said Rotha slowly. She knew she was 
willing to go by any rule for her lover's sake. "Mr. Southwode, I do not 
think I ever studied it out." 

"Shall we study it out now?" 

"O yes, please! But you must help me." 

"Let us come to particulars. What sorts of things that are bought with 
money, for instance, do you take most pleasure in?" 

Rotha looked up, curious, questioning, wondering, pondering, very honest. 

"I do not know what most," she said. "I take so much pleasure in 
everything. Books especially. And pictures I delight in. And--do not 
laugh at me, Mr. Digby! I always did,--I take pleasure in nice, pretty, 
comfortable, becoming, dresses and clothes generally. So do you, don't 
you?" 

It went beyond Mr. Southwode's power of gravity, the quaint frankness of 
this speech; and he laughed. Rotha joined in the laugh at herself, but 
looked seriously for the answer. 

"It is a comfort to talk to you," he said. "One can get at the point. And 
here we have it, Rotha. I think your liking of all the things specified 
is thoroughly justified and perfectly right; and as you suggest, I share 
it with you. Now comes the question. The word says 'whatsoever'; 
therefore it covers books and pictures and dresses too. Take then the 
homeliest instance. Are you willing, in buying a gown or a bonnet or 
anything else, to do it always, as well as you know how, to the glory of 
God?" 

"How can it be done so?" 

"Think. If this is your rule, you will choose such a bonnet or gown as 
you can best do your work--God's work,--in. Therefore it will not be 
chosen to give the impression that you wish to excite attention or 
admiration, or that you wish to impose by your wealth, or that dress 
occupies a large place in your thoughts; it will be such as suits a 
refined taste, such as becomes you and sets off your good qualities to 
the very best advantage; and it will not cost more than is truly 
necessary for these ends, because the Lord has more important work for 
his money to do. Perhaps I rather overrate than underrate the importance 
of good dressing; it is an undoubted power; but really good dressing is 
done for Christ, as his servant and steward equips herself for his 
service; but she uses no more of the Lord's silver and gold than is 
needful, because that would be unfaithfulness in stewardship."  

"But that makes dressing a noble art!" cried Rotha. Her eyes had looked 
eagerly into the speaker's eyes, taking in his words with quick 
apprehension. 

"Carry out the principle into all other lines of action, then; and see 
what it will make the rest of life." 

"'To the glory of God.' The Bible says, eating and drinking?" 

"Yes." 

"Well how that, Mr. Southwode?" 

"And if eating and drinking, then the houses in which we assemble, and 
the tables at which we sit down." 

"Yes, but you are going a little faster than I can follow," said Rotha. 
"In the first place, it seems to me that people in general do not think 
as you do." 

"I told you so." 

"Hardly anybody." 

"Hardly anybody!" 

