that he exerted himself to get a salaried place ; she 
was sure that, if so many others who could not write 
half so well had places, he might get one if he only 
kept trying. Bartley laughed at these business-turns 
of Marcia 's as he called them ; but sometimes they 
enraged him, and he had days of sullen resentment 
when he resisted all her advances towards reconcilia 
tion. But he kept hard at work, and he always owned 
at last how disinterested her most ridiculous alarm 
had been. 
Once, when they had been talking as usual about 
that permanent place on some newspaper, she said, 
" But I should only want that to be temporary, if you 
got it. I want you should go on with the law, 
Bartley. I 've been thinking about that. I don 't 
want you should always be a journalist." 
Bartley smiled. " What could I do for a living, I 
should like to know, while I was studying law ? " 
" You could do some newspaper work, enough to 
support us, while you were studying. You said 
when we first came to Boston that you should settle 
down to the law." 
" I hadn 't got my eyes open, then. I 've got a 
good deal longer row to hoe than I supposed, before 
I can settle down to the law." 
" Father said you didn 't need to study but a little 
more." 
" Not if I were going into the practice at Equity. 
But it 's a very different thing, I can tell you, in 
Boston : I should have to go in for a course in the 
Harvard Law School, just for a little start-off." 
Marcia was silenced, but she asked, after a moment, 
" Then you 're going to give up the law, altogether ? " 
" I don 't know what I 'm going to do ; I 'm going to 
do the best I can for the present, and trust to luck. 
I don 't like special reporting, for a finality; but I 
shouldn 't like shystering, either." 
" What 's shysteriug ? " asked Marcia. 
" It 's pettifogging in the city courts. Wait till I 
can get my basis, till I have a fixed amount of 
money for a fixed amount of work, and then I 'll  talk 
to you about taking up the law again. I 'm willing 
to do it whenever it seems the right thing. I guess 
I should like it, though I don 't see why it 's any 
better than journalism, and I don 't believe it has any 
more prizes." 
" But you Ve been a long time trying to get your 
basis on a newspaper," she reasoned. " Why don 't you 
try to get it in some other way ? Why don 't you try 
to get a clerk 's place with some lawyer ? " 
 
" Well, suppose I was willing to starve along in 
that way, how should I go about to get such a place ? " 
demanded Bartley, with impatience. 
" Why don 't you go to that Mr. Halleck you vis 
ited here ? You used to tell me he was going to be 
a lawyer." 
" Well, if you remember so distinctly what I said 
about going into the law when I first came to Boston," 
said her husband angrily, " perhaps you 'll  remember 
that I said I shouldn 't go to Halleck until I didn 't 
need his help. I shall not go to him for his help." 
Marcia gave way to spiteful tears. " It seems as if 
you were ashamed to let them know that you were 
in town. Are you afraid I shall want to get ac 
quainted with them ? Do you suppose I shall want 
to go to their parties, and disgrace you ? " 
Bartley took his cigar out of his mouth, and looked 
blackly at her. " So, that 's what you Ve been think 
ing, is it ? " 
She threw herself upon his neck. " No ! no, it 
isn 't ! " she cried, hysterically. " You know that I 
never thought it till this instant ; you know I didn 't 
think it at all ; I just said it. My nerves are all 
gone ; I don 't know what I 'm saying half the time, 
and you 're as strict with me as if I were as well as 
ever ! I may as well take off my things, I 'm not 
well enough to go with you, to-day, Bartley." 
She had been dressing while they talked for an 
entertainment which Bartley was going to report for 
the Chronicle- Abstract ; and now she made a feint 
of wishing to remove her hat. He would riot let her. 
Pie said that if she did not go, he should not ; he 
reproached her with not wishing to go with him any 
more ; he coaxed her laughingly and fondly. 
" It 's only because I 'm not so strong, now," she 
said in a whisper that ended in a kiss on his cheek. 
" You must walk very slowly, and not hurry me." 
 
 
The entertainment was to be given in aid of the 
Indigent Children 's Surf-Bathing Society, and it was 
at the end of June, rather late in the season. But 
the society itself was an afterthought, not conceived 
till a great many people had left town on whose 
assistance such a charity must largely depend. 
Strenuous appeals had been made, however : it was 
represented that ten thousand poor children could be 
transported to Nantasket Beach, and there, as one of 
the ladies on the committee said, bathed, clam-baked, 
and lemonaded three times during the summer at a 
cost so small that it was a saving to spend the money. 
Class Day falling about the same time, many exiles 
at Newport and on the North Shore came up and 
down ; and the affair promised to be one of social 
distinction, if not pecuniary success. The entertain 
ment was to be varied a distinguished poet was to 
read an old poem of his, and a distinguished poetess 
was to read a new poem of hers ; some professional 
people were to follow with comic singing ; an elo 
cutionist was to give impressions of noted public 
speakers; and a number of vocal and instrumental 
amateurs were to contribute their talent. 
Bartley had instructions from Ricker to see that 
his report was very full socially. " We want some 
thing lively, and at the same time nice and tasteful, 
about the whole thing, and I guess you 're the man 
to do it. Get Mrs. Hubbard to go with you, and 
keep you from making a fool of yourself about the 
costumes." He gave Bartley two tickets. " Mighty 
hard to get, I can tell you, for love or money, 
especially love," he said ; and Bartley made much of 
this difficulty in impressing Marcia 's imagination 
with the uncommon character of the occasion. She 
had put on a new dress which she had just finished 
for herself, and which was a marvel not only of cheap 
ness, but of elegance ; she had plagiarized the idea 
 
from the costume of a lady with whom she stopped 
to look in at a milliner 's window where she formed 
the notion of her bonnet. But Marcia had imagined 
the things anew in relation to herself, and made them 
her own; when Bart-ley first saw her in them, though 
lie had witnessed their growth from the germ, he said 
that he was afraid of her, she was so splendid, and lie 
did not quite know whether he felt acquainted. 
When they were seated at the concert, and had time 
to look about them, he whispered, " Well, Marsh, I 
don 't see anything here that comes near you in style," 
and she flung a little corner of her drapery out over 
his hand so that she could squeeze it : she was quite 
happy again. 
After the concert, Bartley left her for a moment, 
and went up to a group of the committee near the 
platform, to get some points for his report. He spoke 
to one of the gentlemen, note-book and pencil in hand, 
and the gentleman referred him to one of the ladies 
of the committee, who, after a moment of hesitation, 
demanded in a rich tone of injury and surprise, "Why ! 
Isn 't this Mr. Hubbard ? " and, indignantly answer 
ing herself, " Of course it is ! " gave her hand with a 
sort of dramatic cordiality, and flooded him with 
questions: "When did you come to Boston? Are 
you at the Hallecks ? Did you come Or no, you 're 
not Harvard. You 're not living in Boston And 
what in the world are you getting items for ? Mr. 
Hubbard, Mr. Atherton." 
She introduced him in a breathless climax to the 
gentleman to whom he had first spoken, and who had 
listened to her attack on Bartley with a smile which 
he was at no trouble to hide from her. " Which 
question are you going to answer first, Mr. Hub- 
bard ? " he asked quietly, while his eyes searched 
Bartley 's for an instant with inquiry which was at 
once kind and keen. His face had the distinction 
 
which comes of being clean-shaven in our bearded 
times. 
" Oh, the last," said Bartley. " I 'm reporting the 
concert for the Chronicle-Abstract, and I want to 
interview some one in authority about it." 
" Then interview me, Mr. Hubbard," cried the 
young lady. "I 'm in authority about this affair, 
it 's my own invention, as the White Knight says, 
and then I 'll  interview you afterwards. And you Ve 
gone into journalism, like all the Harvard men ! So 
glad it 's you, for you can be a perfect godsend to the 
cause if you will. The entertainment hasn 't given 
us all the money we shall want, by any means, and 
we shall need all the help the press can give us. Ask 
