and the citizens were not a little alarmed. Hundreds of laborers were
at work on the levees, and several small crevasses had been made a few
miles above the city. We had engaged a pilot, though rather for the
information he could give us than because we needed him in the
navigation of the river.
Captain Cayo had taken leave of us, and Colonel Shepard had paid his
bill for services and expenses. I liked the pilot very well; and I was
sorry to lose him. The white man and the negroes rescued from the
floating building stayed on board as long as we remained at the wharf.
It was not easy for them to return to their homes; and they had no
money to pay for their food and shelter. We made up a liberal purse for
them, and divided it equally among them; and they went ashore very
grateful to us for what we had done. Captain Blastblow said they made
more money by coming with us than they could by staying at home.
At Colonel Shepard's request we "lashed boats" for the sociability of
the thing. We rigged a plank bridge, with a railing to it, so that the
ladies could pass from one steamer to the other without assistance,
though Owen was always ready when the young ladies wished to pass from
one to the other. After this job had been done, I went forward and
found Cornwood at the helm, where I had left the pilot. I was not
exactly pleased to see him at the wheel. After we had left the wharf,
Nick and the Floridian had been permitted to enjoy the liberty of the
deck, for I did not believe they would be likely to attempt to escape
while the country seemed to be covered with water in every direction.
"What are you doing there, Cornwood?" I asked, as I entered the
pilot-house.
"The pilot has gone below for some matches, and I offered to take the
wheel while he was absent," replied Cornwood, in the mildest of tones.
"I will thank the pilot to call a deck-hand when he wants to be
relieved," I replied.
"You think I mean mischief, I dare say," he added, with his silky
smile; "but you can see that I can do no harm if I desired to, which I
do not. Captain Blastblow is at the wheel of the other steamer."
At this moment the pilot came in, with a cigar in his mouth, and took
the wheel.
"Captain Garningham, I should like to have a little talk with you,"
said Cornwood. He led the way to a couple of chairs on the forecastle,
which had just been abandoned by the young ladies.
"Captain Garningham, I have been subjected to such an outrage as I
never before experienced in my life," said the Floridian.
"I think you cannot greatly wonder at it," I replied.
"Should you wonder at it if a party were to come on board of the
Sylvania, take you by force, strip you almost to the skin, and rob you
of your money? That is precisely my case, and you say I need not
greatly wonder at it," continued Cornwood, as mildly as he had begun.
"I think my case would be a little different from what yours was," I
replied.
"As yet I have not even been informed of the cause of such brutal
treatment. If you had stayed a few hours longer in New Orleans, and had
not treated the men you picked up on the house so liberally, I should
have sought a remedy in a writ of habeas corpus."
"I don't think you were quite ready to adopt such a course as that, for
it would have resulted in having you sent to the calaboose to wait for
a requisition from the Governor of Florida," I answered, laughing at
what I considered the absurdity of the proceeding. "The only reason we
did not hand you over to the police was that we were afraid of being
detained as witnesses."
"I understand you; and I prefer to fight this battle in some other
State than Louisiana. I shall not try to escape; and I know that Nick
Boomsby will not. If I am not always honest, I am now; and I assure you
I don't know the reason for the savage treatment I received on board of
the Islander; and I will thank you to tell me. In a word, I entreat you
to do so."
I concluded that Cornwood wanted to prepare for his defence, for I was
satisfied that he understood the charge as well as I did. But he seemed
to be so earnest over the matter that I went over the case for him.
"When you started from St. Augustine to recover the Islander, you were
satisfied that Nick Boomsby had stolen the four thousand dollars," I
proceeded.
"On the contrary I was satisfied that Buckner stole it," interposed
Cornwood.
"I am stating my belief, be it right or wrong. When I told you about
the sailing of the Islander without her owner and his family, you were
satisfied that Nick was on board of her, and that he had the money
stolen from the messenger."
"Nothing could be farther from the truth; but go on," added the
Floridian.
"You would not have gone to Key West to stop the Islander at your own
expense."
"I did go at my own expense," added Cornwood, with a smile.
"But not to stop the Islander," I added.
"I admit that I had another mission there. I had been thinking of going
to Key West on business for a week."
"When you got there you forged a letter to Captain Blastblow, to induce
him to leave before the arrival of the Sylvania," I added.
"That was a little harmless strategy to enable me to carry out the
purpose for which I went to Key West," added Cornwood, with the
smoothest of smiles.
"I never heard forgery called by that name before," I replied, with
becoming severity.
"It was not to obtain money, or any other valuable consideration from
Colonel Shepard that I wrote his name. Why, I could have made two
hundred dollars by detaining the Islander," said the Floridian, with
spirit.
"Instead of doing what he employed you to do, you sold him out, and let
his steamer go off without him. You were satisfied that Nick had the
four thousand dollars with him, and you were bound to have the half, if
not the whole of it. It looks like a plain case."
"You are taking an entirely wrong view of the matter, Captain
Garningham," protested Cornwood. "I shall be able to prove in due time
that you are utterly mistaken."
"Two thousand dollars were found on you, and the same on Nick."
"I grant that this fact has a suspicious look about it; and I can not
greatly blame you for your course, though the brutality exercised upon
me was entirely unnecessary. Now I will explain the whole matter to you
just as it was; and you will see that you were greatly mistaken."
"I am ready to hear anything you have to say," I replied.
"That four thousand dollars is a rather annoying coincidence," he
began.
"I should think it might be," I added.
"You quite mistake my meaning. I am willing to admit that I have told
professional lies in the interest of my clients. I am Buckner's
counsel, though I told you to the contrary. He admitted his guilt to
me."
"Did he, indeed? Did he tell you what he did with the package of bills
after he took it from the counter?"
"He did: he acknowledged that he was guilty, and told me how it was
done," replied Cornwood, with easy assurance, of which I had seen a
great deal on his part. "Buckner's wife was at the door of the saloon,
and he gave the package to her as he rushed out. She had it under her
shawl before Nick got half way to the door. She went home; and my
client considers it a successful affair. He offered me five hundred
dollars to get him out of the scrape, and that is the fee for which I
am working just now, in part."
"And he gave you the money, did he?" I asked, hardly able to keep from
laughing in the face of the guileless Floridian.
"Not he, for his wife started for Kentucky, or some other state, as
soon as she got the money. This is where the unlucky coincidence comes
in. My first business in Key West was to see that Nick did not return
home, as I feared you would compel him to do when you found him on
board of the Islander. My second was to pay four thousand dollars,
which I drew from the First National Bank of Florida Friday morning
before I started for Cedar Keys."
"O, I see! That was where the four thousand dollars came from," I
exclaimed.
"Precisely so. I was to pay it into the Marine Court, pending a suit in
which I was interested, against a salvage company."
"But you did not pay it in."
"How could I when it was Sunday? I intended to do so the next day. When
I found that Nick did not mean to stop in Key West, I directed Captain
Blastblow to get up his anchor and hurry to New Orleans before the
Sylvania came in. I could not get ashore myself when I had induced Nick
to continue the voyage. The four thousand dollars was a burden to me,
and I asked Nick to take part of it from me to keep till we got to our
destination. The loss of it would ruin me, and I thought it would be
safer in the care of two persons than one. That's the substance of it,
and you can see that it explains the whole affair."
"I see it does: it makes it all as clear as Mississippi mud," I
replied, laughing heartily.
"You evidently do not believe the statement I have made," said the
Floridian, looking very much wounded in his feelings.
"Whether I do or not, Cornwood, we will not quarrel about it," I added,
as good-naturedly as I could.
"I will show you some documents I have in my valise which will make it
all as clear as the pure waters of Green Cove Springs."
"I think I will not look at them at present. Has Nick learned this
story by heart?" I inquired. "He used to be a very bungling liar when
we were small boys together; and I don't know whether he has improved
any or not."
"I think it is rather cruel of you, Captain Garningham, to sport with
my feelings when I have been subjected to such inconvenience and
discomfort by you."
"I must be candid with you, Cornwood. If I take your statement for the
truth, I judge that you are liable to the state prison, or whatever you
call it in Florida, for what you have done. You know that Buckner is
guilty, but you are engaged in a conspiracy to keep the principal
witness out of court, which makes you virtually an accomplice to the
crime."
"You forget the duty I owe my client, who has entrusted his sacred
liberty in my keeping."
"Most of the lawyers I ever knew were honest men, and I don't believe
one of them would resort to such a trick to clear his client. What's
all that?" I exclaimed, as I saw a gathering on the levee of the right
bank of the river.
"A crevasse in the levee," said the pilot. "It's a bad one, too."
A steamboat was backing her wheels near the opening, evidently to
prevent being sucked into the breach by the furious current that poured
through it. Quite a number of men were assembled on the levee, but they
seemed to be incapable of doing anything to stop the flow of the water.
When we came abreast of the crevasse, we could see through it to the
