is an earthly rose--
   'Not too good
   For human nature's daily food,'
--if one could find the right sort of human nature! Just so fresh,
unconscious, and fair; with just such a dignity of purity about her. I
cannot fancy her at the opera, or dancing."
"A sort of unapproachable tea-rose?" said Mrs. Barclay, smiling at him,
though her eyes were wistful.
"No," said he, "a tea-rose is too fragile. There is nothing of that
about her, thank heaven!"
"No," said Mrs. Barclay, "there is nothing but sound healthy life about
her; mental and bodily; and I agree with you, sweet as ever a human
life can be. In the garden or at her books,--hark! that is for supper."
For here there came a slight tap on the door.
"Supper!" cried Philip.
"Yes; it is rather late, and the girls promised me a cup of coffee,
after your exertions! But I dare say everybody wants some refreshment
by this time. Come!"
There was a cheery supper table spread in the dining-room; coffee,
indeed, and Stoney Creek oysters, and excellently cooked. Only Charity
and Madge were there; Mrs. Armadale had gone to bed, and Lois was
attending upon her. Mr. DilIwyn, however, was served assiduously.
"I hope you're hungry! You've done a load of good this evening, Mr.
Dillwyn," said Charity, as she gave him his coffee.
"Thank you. I don't see the connection," said Philip, with an air as
different as possible from that he had worn in talking to Mrs. Barclay
in the next room.
"People ought to be hungry when they have done a great deal of work,"
Madge explained, as she gave him a plate of oysters.
"I do not feel that I have done any work."
"O, well! I suppose it was play to you," said Charity, "but that don't
make any difference. You've done a load of good. Why, the children will
never be able to forget it, nor the grown folks either, as far as that
goes; they'll talk of it, and of you, for two years, and more."
"I am doubtful about the real worth of fame, Miss Charity, even when it
lasts two years."
"O, but you've done so much good!" said the lady. "Everybody sees now
that the white church can hold her own. Nobody'll think of making
disagreeable comparisons, if they have fifty Christmas trees."
"Suppose I had helped the yellow church?"
Charity looked as if she did not know what he would be at. Just then in
came Lois and took her place at the table; and Mr. Dillwyn forgot all
about rival churches.
"Here's Mr. Dillwyn don't think he's done any good, Lois!" cried her
elder sister. "Do cheer him up a little. I think it's a shame to talk
so. Why, we've done all we wanted to, and more. There won't a soul go
away from our church or school after this, now they see what we can do;
and I shouldn't wonder if we got some accessions from the other
instead. And here's Mr. Dillwyn says he don't know as he's done any
good!"
Lois lifted her eyes and met his, and they both smiled.
"Miss Lois sees the matter as I do," he said. "These are capital
oysters. Where do they come from?"
"But, Philip," said Mrs. Barclay, "you have given a great deal of
pleasure. Isn't that good?"
"Depends--" said he. "Probably it will be followed by a reaction."
"And you have kept the church together," added Charity, who was zealous.
"By a rope of sand, then, Miss Charity."
"At any rate, Mr. Dillwyn, you meant to do good," Lois put in here.
"I do not know, Miss Lois. I am afraid I was thinking more of pleasure,
myself; and shall experience myself the reaction I spoke of. I think I
feel the shadow of it already, as a coming event."
"But if we aren't to have any pleasure, because afterwards we feel a
little flat,--and of course we do," said Charity; "everybody knows
that. But, for instance, if we're not to have green peas in summer,
because we can't have 'em any way but dry in winter,--things would be
very queer! Queerer than they are; and they're queer enough already."
This speech called forth some merriment.
"You think even the dry remains of pleasure are better than nothing!"
said Philip. "Perhaps you are right."
"And to have those, we must have had the green reality," said Lois
merrily.
"I wonder if there is any way of keeping pleasure green," said Dillwyn.
"Vain, vain, Mr. Dillwyn!" said Mrs. Barclay. "Tout lasse, tout casse,
tout passe! don't you know? Solomon said, I believe, that all was
vanity. And he ought to know."
"But he didn't know," said Lois quickly.
"Lois!" said Charity--"it's in the Bible."
"I know it is in the Bible that he said so," Lois rejoined merrily.
"Was he not right, then?" Mr. Dillwyn asked.
"Perhaps," Lois answered, now gravely, "if you take simply his view."
"What was his view? Won't you explain?"
"I suppose you ain't going to set up to be wiser than Solomon, at this
time of day," said Charity severely. But that stirred Lois's merriment
again.
"Explain, Miss Lois!" said Dillwyn.
"I am not Solomon, that I should preach," she said.
"You just said you knew better than he," said Charity. "How you should
know better than the Bible, I don't see. It's news."
"Why, Charity, Solomon was not a good man."
"How came he to write proverbs, then?"
"At least he was not always a good man."
"That don't hinder his knowing what was vanity, does it?"
"But, Lois!" said Mrs. Barclay.  "Go back, and tell us your secret, if
you have one. How was Solomon's view mistaken? or what is yours?"
"These things were all given for our pleasure, Mrs. Barclay."
"But they die--and they go--and they fade," said Mrs. Barclay.
"You will not understand me," said Lois; "and yet it is true. If you
are Christ's--then, 'all things are yours;... the world, or life, or
death, or things present, or things to come: all are yours.' There is
no loss, but there comes more gain."
"I wish you'd let Mr. Dillwyn have some more oysters," said Charity;
"and, Madge, do hand along Mrs. Barclay's cup. You mustn't talk, if you
can't eat at the same time. Lois ain't Solomon yet, if she does preach.
You shut up, Lois, and mind your supper. My rule is, to enjoy things as
I go along; and just now, it's oysters."
"I will say for Lois," here put in Mrs. Barclay, "that she does
exemplify her own principles. I never knew anybody with such a spring
of perpetual enjoyment."
"She ain't happier than the rest of us," said the elder sister.
"Not so happy as grandmother," added Madge. "At least, grandmother
would say so. I don't know."
CHAPTER XXXVIII.
BREAKING UP.
Mr. Dillwyn went away. Things returned to their normal condition at
Shampuashuh, saving that for a while there was a great deal of talk
about the Santa Clans doings and the principal actor in them, and no
end of speculations as to his inducements and purposes to be served in
taking so much trouble. For Shampuashuh people were shrewd, and did not
believe, any more than King Lear, that anything could come of nothing.
That he was not moved by general benevolence, poured out upon the
school of the white church, was generally agreed. "What's we to him?"
asked pertinently one of the old ladies; and vain efforts were made to
ascertain Mr. Dillwyn's denomination. "For all I kin make out, he
hain't got none," was the declaration of another matron. "I don't
b'lieve he's no better than he should be." Which was ungrateful, and
hardly justified Miss Charity's prognostications of enduring fame; by
which, of course, she meant good fame. Few had seen Mr. Dillwyn
undisguised, so that they could give a report of him; but Mrs. Marx
assured them he was "a real personable man; nice and plain, and takin'
no airs. She liked him first-rate."
"Who's he after? Not one o' your gals?"
"Mercy, no! He, indeed! He's one of the high-flyers; he won't come to
Shampuashuh to look for a wife. 'Seems to me he's made o' money; and
he's been everywhere; he's fished for crocodiles in the Nile, and eaten
his luncheon at the top of the Pyramids of Egypt, and sailed to the
North Pole to be sure of cool lemonade in summer. He won't marry in
Shampuashuh."
"What brings him here, then?"
"The spirit of restlessness, I should say. Those people that have been
everywhere, you may notice, can't stay nowhere. I always knew there was
fools in the world, but I didn't know there was so many of 'em as
there be. He ain't no fool neither, some ways; and that makes him a
bigger fool in the end; only I don't know why the fools should have all
the money."
And so, after a little, the talk about this theme died out, and things
settled down, not without some of the reaction Mr. Dillwyn had
predicted; but they settled down, and all was as before in Shampuashuh.
Mr. Dillwyn did not come again to make a visit, or Mrs. Marx's aroused
vigilance would have found some ground for suspicion. There did come
numerous presents of game and fruit from him, but they were sent to
Mrs. Barclay, and could not be objected against, although they came in
such quantities that the whole household had to combine to dispose of
them. What would Philip do next?--Mrs. Barclay queried. As he had said,
he could not go on with repeated visits to the house. Madge and Lois
would not hear of being tempted to New York, paint the picture as
bright as she would. Things were not ripe for any decided step on Mr.
Dillwyn's part, and how should they become so? Mrs. Barclay could not
see the way. She did for Philip what she could by writing to him,
whether for his good or his harm she could not decide. She feared the
latter. She told him, however, of the sweet, quiet life she was
leading; of the reading she was doing with the two girls, and the whole
family; of the progress Lois and Madge were making in singing and
drawing and in various branches of study; of the walks in the fresh
sea-breezes, and the cosy evenings with wood fires and the lamp; and
she told him how they enjoyed his game, and what a comfort the oranges
were to Mrs. Armadale.
This lasted through January, and then there came a change. Mrs.
Armadale was ill. There was no more question of visits, or of studies;
and all sorts of enjoyments and occupations gave place to the one
absorbing interest of watching and waiting upon the sick one. And then,
that ceased too. Mrs. Armadale had caught cold, she had not strength to
throw off disease; it took violent form, and in a few days ran its
course. Very suddenly the little family found itself without its head.
There was nothing to grieve for, but their own loss. The long, weary
earth-journey was done, and the traveller had taken up her abode where
there is
   "The rest begun,
   That Christ hath for his people won."
She had gone triumphantly. "Through God we shall do valiantly"--being
