They drove to poor Molly's, who proved to be 
better. Everybody was better. The doctor was 
girlishly happy. They rode past the mill-pond 
and the silent wheel, and through the well of trees, 
and up the darkening hill ; and she said she had 
but one more call to make, and then they would 
go home. There was a wood-cutter 's wife who expected 
her, if Mr. Yorke felt able to go. Mr. 
Yorke felt quite able, and they turned from the 
road into the narrow cart-path, that wound at that 
hour like a blazing green and golden serpent 
through the late light and long shadow, towards 
the forest 's heart. 
"Are you never tired of it?" asked Yorke, 
suddenly, as they entered the cart-path. 
"Of my work ? Never ! " 
" I don't mean that. It would be like tiring 
of a great opal to be fickle with usefulness like 
yours." 
" What a pretty thought ! " she interrupted, 
 
with that delicate and gradual expression of 
surprise by which a poetic image always overtook her 
practically occupied imagination. 
" I meant," explained Yorke, " don't you get 
tired of the surroundings you have chosen for it? 
Do you never feel the need of resetting it ? " 
" What could be better ? " She pointed with her 
whip down the sinuous, shaded driveway. The 
trees met above it. The horse 's feet sounded 
softly on the grass. The great shadows from the 
forest advanced. The great glory of the receding 
sun. struggled through the shield of fine leaf-out 
lines. The entrance to the road, like its termination, 
was blotted out in splendid curves and colors, 
which seemed to bar the intruders in, as if they 
had trespassed upon some sweet or awful secret of 
the woods, with which they could not be trusted, 
if set free. It was one of those scenes, it was one 
of those moments, when the power of the forest 
overshadows the soul like the power of the High 
est, and when Nature seems to approach us on her 
knees in the service of a Greater than herself, 
bearing a message too mystic for any but our un 
worldly, unspotted selves to receive. 
Yorke looked from the face of the wilderness to 
the face of the woman. 
" It is very beautiful," he said, " but it is very 
lonely." 
 
She did not answer him, but, turning a sudden 
soft grassy corner, came to a halt at her wood-cut 
ter 's and forsook him for her patient with that 
easy adaptability to which he never became accus 
tomed. She was not gone long, but it was dark 
ening rapidly in the woods when she came out, 
and she drove slowly through the looming shadow, 
over the rude road. 
" There is a short cut home through the woods," 
she said. " We will take it, unless it seems damp 
to you." 
" No, let us take it," he said absently. They 
rode through the sweet, dry dusk among the pines. 
It was too dark to see each other 's faces. The 
consciousness of her presence, their ^solitude, their 
approaching separation, arose and took hold of 
Yorke like a hand at his throat, from whose grip 
he was strangling. It was to him as if he struck 
out for his life when he said, 
" Miss Lloyd, I told you I was going home next 
week. I wish to tell you why." 
" Don't ! " she said quickly. " Don't ! " 
He thrust her words aside, as if they had been 
women, with a fierce gesture of his invalid hands. 
" It is not for you to tell me what I shall do or 
not. I am not talking about my ankle or my 
spine. This is not a case of pellets and bandages 
 
and faints and fol-de-rol. I will not have your 
precautions and advice. I will say what I have 
to say. I will take no interference. I will speak, 
and you shall hear." 
" If you speak, I must hear, but I warn you. I 
beg you not ! " 
" And why, I demand, do you beg me not ? 
What right have you ? What " 
" The right of my responsibility," she answered, 
in a tone too low to be calm, and yet too controlled 
to be agitated. 
" I relieve you of the slightest responsibility ! " 
" You cannot." 
" But I do assume that deadly burden. My 
shoulders are broad enough yet, though I am a 
poor fool of a sick man, dependent on your wis 
dom, in debt to you for his unfortunate life " 
" Oh, please, Mr. Yorke " 
" I insist. You will oblige me by explaining 
why I should not say what I like to you, as well 
as to any other woman." 
" Because you are not strong enough." 
"I am strong enough to love you, at all events." 
He drew one great breath, and looked at her 
through the dark with straining eyeballs, like a 
blind man. She gave no sign of surprise or frail 
feminine protest. Although it was so dark, he 
 
could see (her long gloves were white) the steady 
pull of her hand on the reins, at which the pony 
was twiching and shying over the uneven road. 
After a moment of oppressive silence, she said, 
with cruelly gentle sadness, 
" That is exactly what you are not strong enough 
to do." 
" Do you presume to tell a man he doesn't  
know when he loves a woman ? " cried Yorke, 
quivering, stung beyond endurance. 
" You are not in love," she said calmly, " you 
are only nervous." 
X. 
THEY had come out now upon the open road. 
Faint colors remained in the west, ashes-of-roses 
and alloyed gold. There was a young moon sink 
ing behind the forest. The untrodden street 
stretched on, dimly defined in the immature light. 
The windows of the near village glimmered rud- 
dily beyond. 
" Drive faster," said Yorke. " I must get 
home." He had the heavy, painful pant of an ex 
hausted man. She gave one glance at him, and 
one fleck of the whip to the pony, who put down 
her head, and took to her slender feet the wings 
of the wind. The night air came in warm gusts 
against their faces as they flew over the solitary 
road. She drove directly to her own side of the 
house, tied the horse, and resolutely presented her 
shoulder. 
" I have hurt you," she said gently. " You 
must let me help you this once." 
He did not repulse her ; he felt too sick. It 
seemed to make little difference what happened, 
and so he got into the house. She helped him 
 
through into the parlor, and shut the outer doors. 
Only one low lamp burned somewhere ; in the of 
fice, he thought. She groped for matches; he 
lay a nd listened to the fine rustle of her linen 
dress. As more light flashed into the room, he 
saw her standing in her white clothes. She looked 
very tall and pale? She brought him a tablespoon- 
ful of brandy, which he swallowed obediently, and 
for which he felt better. Then, without percepti 
ble hesitation, this remarkable young woman took 
out her medicine-case. 
" Are you a woman ? " he panted. 
" I am a doctor." 
" Take away your sugar-plums ! " 
She drew the rubber strap over the case. 
" As you please. Your condition calls for a 
remedy. I can't have you subject to these nerv 
ous sinking-turns." 
"I need no remedy but one. It is the only 
one, the Divine Remedy in deed and truth. You 
refuse it to me." 
" I have refused you nothing." 
"True; I have asked for nothing. But you 
would deny me, if I did." 
" Yes," she replied solemnly, " I should." 
" Sit down by me," pleaded Yorke. " I want 
to finish this." 
 
You had much better wait," she urged with 
decision, but not without tenderness, that ready, 
cruel, professional tenderness ; he would rather 
she had poisoned him. 
" I will not wait. I am stronger. See ! I am 
all right now, although, as you said, not strong 
enough to What a merciless thing that was 
to say ! " 
" I know it must have seemed so, Mr. Yorke. 
Believe, if you can, that I mean to be kind." 
