relief. "I really believe I'm getting attached to Ki Sing," he said to
himself. "He's a good fellow, if he is a Chinaman, and if ever I am
prosperous I will take him into my service and see that he is
comfortably provided for."
The poor Chinaman, though Dewey did not suspect it, was at that moment
in a very uncomfortable position indeed, and he himself was menaced by a
peril already near at hand against which his helpless condition allowed
of no defence. His lonely and monotonous life was destined to be varied
that evening in an unpleasant manner.
CHAPTER III.
TWO GENTLEMEN OF THE ROAD.
Perhaps two hours earlier two horsemen might have been seen riding
slowly over a lower slope of the mountain. The horses they bestrode were
of the Mexican breed, or, in common parlance, mustangs. They were
themselves dressed in Mexican style, and bore a strong resemblance to
bandits as we are apt to picture them.
These gentlemen were Bill Mosely and Tom Hadley, hailing originally from
Missouri, but not reflecting any particular credit on their native
State. They were in fact adventurers, having a strong objection to
honest work and a decided preference for gaining a living by unlawful
means. The very horses they bestrode were stolen, having once belonged
to Jake Bradley and Ben Stanton. The circumstances under which they were
stolen will be remembered by readers of The Young Explorer.
"Beastly place, this, Tom!" said Bill Mosely, with a strong expression
of disgust.
"I should say so," answered Hadley, who was wont by this phrase to echo
the sentiments expressed by his companion and leader.
"I wouldn't have come up here if it had proved safe to stay lower down,"
continued Bill Mosely. "That last man we relieved of his gold-dust might
prove troublesome if we should fall in with him again--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," remarked Mr. Hadley in a tone of sincere conviction.
"I should like to see him when he wakes up and finds his bag of dust
missing," said Mosely, with a laugh.
As he spoke he drew from his pocket a good-sized bag which appeared to
be nearly full of dust. "There must be several hundred dollars' worth
there," he said, complacently.
He expected to hear Hadley answer in his usual style, but was
disappointed.
"When are we going to divide?" asked Hadley, with an expression of
interest not unmingled with anxiety.
"You'd better let me carry it, Tom; it's all the same."
"I should say so. No, I would prefer to take charge of my part," said
Hadley, "or at least to carry the bag part of the time."
Bill Mosely frowned darkly, and he brought his hand near the pocket in
which he carried his pistol. "Hadley," he said, sternly, "do you doubt
my honor?"
"I should say--not," answered Tom Hadley in a dissatisfied tone,
bringing out the last word after a slight pause; "but I don't see why I
shouldn't carry the bag part of the time."
"Had you doubted my honor," continued Mosely with a grand air, "though
you are my friend, I should have been compelled to take your life. I
never take any back talk. I chaw up any one who insults me. I'm a
regular out-and-out desperado, I am, when I'm riled."
"I've heard all that before," said Tom Hadley, rather impatiently.
It was quite true, for this was the style in which Bill Mosely was
accustomed to address new acquaintances. It had not succeeded with Jake
Bradley, who had enough knowledge of human nature to detect the falsity
of Mosely's pretensions and the sham character of his valor.
"You've heard it before," said Mosely, severely, "but ain't it true?
That's what I ask you, Tom Hadley."
"I should say so," slipped out almost unconsciously from the lips of the
habitual echo.
"'Tis well," said Mosely, waving his hand. "You know it and you believe
it. I'm a bad man to insult, I am. I generally chaw up them that stand
in my way."
Tom Hadley was really a braver man than Mosely, and he answered
obstinately, "Give me half that gold-dust, or I'll take it."
Bill Mosely saw his determined face and felt that it was necessary to
back down. "I don't know why I don't shoot you," he said, trying to keep
up his air of domination.
"Because two can play at that game," said Hadley, doggedly.
He produced a pouch, and Bill Mosely, much against his will, was
compelled to divide the contents of the stolen bag, managing, however,
to retain the larger share himself.
"I don't want to quarrel with a friend," said Bill, more mildly, "but
you don't act friendly to-day."
"It's all right now," said Hadley, satisfied.
"Maybe you think I don't want to act fair," continued Mosely in an
injured tone. "Why, the very horse you are riding is a proof to the
contrary. I didn't ask for both horses, did I?"
"You couldn't ride both," answered Tom Hadley, with practical good
sense.
"I wonder where the fellows are we took them from?" said Mosely, with a
change of subject. "The man was a regular fire-eater: I wouldn't like to
meet him again."
"I should say so," chimed in Hadley, emphatically.
Bradley had paid Mosely in his own coin, and boasted of his prowess even
more extravagantly than that braggadocio, claiming to have killed from
seventy to eighty men in the course of his experience. Mosely had been
taken in by his confident tone, and knowing that he was himself a sham
desperado, though a genuine thief and highwayman, had been made to feel
uneasy while in Bradley's company.
"I wonder what became of them?" continued Mosely, thoughtfully.
As Tom Hadley's special phrase could not come in here appropriately, he
forbore to make any remark.
"He thought he would scare me by his fierce talk," said Mosely, who
would hardly have spoken so confidently had he known that Bradley was
only two miles distant from him at that identical moment. "It takes a
good deal to scare a man like me--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," returned Hadley, but it was noticeable that he spoke
rather dubiously, and not with his usual positiveness.
"I'm a hard man to handle," continued Mosely, complacently, relapsing
into the style of talk which he most enjoyed. "I'm as bad as they make
'em."
"I should say so," chimed in Tom Hadley; and there was nothing doubtful
in his tone now.
Bill Mosely looked at him as if he suspected there was something
suspicious under this speech, but Tom Hadley wore his usual look, and
his companion dismissed his momentary doubt. "You never saw me afraid of
any living man--eh, Tom?"
"I should say so," answered Hadley.
There was something equivocal in this speech, and Bill Mosely looked
vexed.
"Can't you say anything but that?" he grumbled. "It looks as if you
doubted my statement. No man doubt my word--and lives."
Tom Hadley merely shrugged his shoulders. He was not a man of brilliant
intellectual ability or of rare penetration, but there were times when
even he was led to suspect that his companion was a humbug. Yet Mosely
had greater force of character, and took uncommon pains to retain his
ascendency over his more simple-minded companion, and had in the main
been successful, though in the matter of the gold-dust he had been
obliged to score a defeat.
As Hadley did not see fit to express any doubt of this last statement,
Bill Mosely was content to let the matter drop, assuming that he had
gained a victory and recovered his ascendency over his echo.
They had met no one for some hours, and did not look for an encounter
with anything wearing the semblance of humanity, when all at once Tom
Hadley uttered an exclamation.
"What is it, Tom?" asked Mosely.
"Look there!" was the only answer, as Hadley, with outstretched finger,
pointed to a Chinaman walking slowly up the hill.
"It's a heathen Chinee!" exclaimed Mosely with animation.
"I should say so," echoed Hadley.
Mosely urged his mustang to greater speed, and soon overtook Ki Sing,
for it was Richard Dewey's attendant whom the two adventurers had fallen
in with.
CHAPTER IV.
KI SING IN THE HANDS OF THE ENEMY.
Ki Sing turned when he heard the sound of horses' feet, for in that
mountain-solitude such a sound was unusual. He was not reassured by the
appearance of the two men, whose intention seemed to be to overtake him,
and he turned aside from the path with the intention of getting out of
the way.
"Stop there, you heathen!" called Bill Mosely in his fiercest tone.
Ki Sing halted, and an expression of uneasiness came over his broad,
flat face.
"What are you doing here, you Chinese loafer?"
Ki Sing did not exactly comprehend this speech, but answered mildly,
"How do, Melican man?"
"How do?" echoed Bill Mosely, laughing rather boisterously.--"Tom, the
heathen wants to know how I do.--Well, heathen, I'm so's to be around,
and wouldn't mind chawing up a dozen Chinamen. Where do you live?"
"Up mountain," answered Ki Sing.
"Which way?"
The Chinaman pointed in the right direction.
"What do you do for a living?"
"Wait on Melican man--cookee, washee."
"So you are a servant to a white man, John?"
"Yes, John."
"Don't you call me John, you yellow mummy! I'm not one of your
countrymen, I reckon.--What do you say to that, Tom? The fellow's
gettin' familiar."
"I should say so," remarked Tom Hadley, with his usual originality.
"What's the name of the Melican man you work for?" continued Mosely,
after a slight pause.
"Dickee Dewee," answered Ki Sing, repeating the familiar name applied by
Bradley to the invalid. The name seemed still more odd as the Chinaman
pronounced it.
"Well, he's got a queer name, that's all I can say," continued Mosely.
"What's your name?"
"Ki Sing."
"Ki Sing? How's Mrs. Ki Sing?" asked Mosely, who was disposed, like the
cat, to play with his victim before turning and rending him.
"Me got no wifee," said the Chinaman, stolidly.
"Then you're in the market. Do you want to marry?"
"Me no want to mally?"
"So much the worse for the ladies. Well, as to this Dickee, as you call
him? What does he do?"
"He sick--lie down on bedee."
"He's sick, is he? What's the matter with him?"
