sixth, she was dead: those old New-Yorkers having tendencies toward
insanity, matrimony, and death which, Miss Lois averred, were known to
all the world, and indisputable. That she herself had never been in New
York in her life made no difference in her certainties: women like Miss
Lois are always sure they know all about New York.
Anne, weary and anxious, and forced to hear all these probabilities,
began at last to picture her grandaunt as a sort of human kaleidoscope,
falling into new and more fantastic combinations at a moment's notice.
They had allowed two weeks for the letter to reach the island, always
supposing that Miss Vanhorn was not on a camel, paralyzed, obstinate,
mad, married, or dead. But on the tenth day the letter came. Anne took
it with a hand that trembled. Dr. Gaston was present, and Miss Lois, but
neither of them comprehended her feelings. She felt that she was now to
be confronted by an assent which would strain her heart-strings almost
to snapping, yet be ultimately for the best, or by a refusal which would
fill her poor heart with joy, although at the same time pressing down
upon her shoulders a heavy, almost hopeless, weight of care. The two
could not enter into her feelings, because in the depths of their hearts
they both resented her willingness to leave them. They never said this
to each other, they never said it to themselves; yet they both felt it
with the unconscious selfishness of those who are growing old,
especially when their world is narrowed down to one or two loving young
hearts. They did not realize that it was as hard for her to go as it was
for them to let her go; they did not realize what a supreme effort of
courage it required to make this young girl go out alone into the wide
world, and face its vastness and its strangeness; they did not realize
how she loved them, and how every tree, every rock of the island, also,
was dear to her strongly loving, concentrated heart.
After her father's death Anne had been for a time passive, swept away by
grief as a dead leaf on the wind. But cold necessity came and stood by
her bedside silently and stonily, and looked at her until, recalling her
promise, she rose, choked back her sorrow, and returned to common life
and duty with an aching but resolute heart. In the effort she made to
speak at all it was no wonder that she spoke quietly, almost coldly;
having, after sleepless nights of sorrow, nerved herself to bear the
great change in her lot, should it come to her, could she trust herself
to say that she was sorry to go? Sorry!--when her whole heart was one
pain!
The letter was as follows:
     
"GRANDNIECE ANNE,--I did not know that you were in existence. I have
read your letter, and have now to say the following. Your mother
willfully disobeyed me, and died. I, meanwhile, an old woman, remain as
strong as ever.
"While I recognize no legal claim upon me (I having long since attended
to the future disposal of all my property according to my own wishes), I
am willing to help you to a certain extent, as I would help any
industrious young girl asking for assistance. If what you say of your
education is true, you need only what are called modern accomplishments
(of which I personally have small opinion, a grimacing in French and a
squalling in Italian being not to my taste) to make you a fairly well
qualified teacher in an average country boarding-school, which is all
you can expect. You may, therefore, come to New York at my expense, and
enter Madame Moreau's establishment, where, as I understand, the extreme
of everything called 'accomplishment' is taught, and much nonsense
learned in the latest style. You may remain one year; not longer. And I
advise you to improve the time, as nothing more will be done for you by
me. You will bring your own clothes, but I will pay for your books. I
send no money now, but will refund your travelling expenses (of which
you will keep strict account, without extras) upon your arrival in the
city, which must not be later than the last of October. Go directly to
Madame Moreau's (the address is inclosed), and remember that you are
simply Anne Douglas, and not a relative of your obedient servant,
KATHARINE VANHORN."
     
Anne, who had read the letter aloud in a low voice, now laid it down,
and looked palely at her two old friends.
"A hard letter," said the chaplain, indignantly. "My child, remain with
us. We will think of some other plan for you. Let the proud,
cold-hearted old woman go."
"I told you how it would be," said Miss Lois, a bright spot of red on
each cheek-bone. "She was cruel to your mother before you, and she will
be cruel to you. You must give it up."
"No," said Anne, slowly, raising the letter and replacing it in its
envelope; "it is a matter in which I have no choice. She gives me the
year at school, as you see, and--there are the children. I promised
father, and I must keep the promise. Do not make me falter, dear
friends, for--I must go." And unable longer to keep back the tears,
she hurriedly left the room.
Dr. Gaston, without a word, took his old felt hat and went home. Miss
Lois sat staring vaguely at the window-pane, until she became conscious
that some one was coming up the path, and that "some one" Père Michaux.
She too then went hurriedly homeward, by the back way, in order to avoid
him. The old priest, coming in, found the house deserted. Anne was on
her knees in her own room, sobbing as if her heart would break; but the
walls were thick, and he could not hear her.
Then Tita came in. "Annet is going away," she said, softly; "she is
going to school. The letter came to-day."
"So Miss Vanhorn consents, does she? Excellent! excellent!" said Père
Michaux, rubbing his hands, his eyes expressing a hearty satisfaction.
"When will you say 'Excellent! excellent!' about me?" said Tita,
jealously.
"Before long, I hope," said the priest, patting her small head.
"But are you sure, mon père?"
"Well, yes," said Père Michaux, "on the whole, I am."
He smiled, and the child smiled also; but with a deep quiet triumph
remarkable in one so young.
CHAPTER VII.
     "To all appearance it was chiefly by Accident, and the grace of
     Nature."--CARLYLE.
It was still September; for great sorrows come, graves are made and
turfed over, and yet the month is not out. Anne had written her letter
immediately, accepting her grandaunt's offer, and Père Michaux gave her
approval and praise; but the others did not, could not, and she suffered
from their silence. It made, however, no change in her purpose; she went
about her tasks steadily, toiling all day over the children's clothes,
for she had used part of the money in her hands to make them
comfortable, and part was to be given to Miss Lois. Her own garments
troubled her little; two strong, plain black gowns she considered amply
sufficient. Into the midst of all this swift sewing suddenly one day
came Rast.
"Why did I do it?" he said, in answer to everybody. "Do you suppose I
was going to let Annet go away for a whole long year without saying even
good-by? Of course not."
"It is very kind," said Anne, her tired eyes resting on his handsome
face gratefully, her sewing for the moment cast aside. Her friends had
not been overkind to her lately, and she was deeply touched by this
proof of attachment from her old playmate and companion. Rast expressed
his affection, as usual, in his own way. He did not say that he had come
back to the island because he wished to see her, but because he knew
that she wished to see him. And Anne willingly agreed. Dr. Gaston, as
guardian of this runaway collegian, gave him a long lecture on his
escapade and its consequences, his interrupted studies, a long train of
disasters to follow being pictured with stern distinctness. Rast
listened to the sermon, or rather sat through it, without impatience: he
had a fine sunny temper, and few things troubled him. He seldom gave
any attention to subtleties of meaning, or under-currents, but took the
surface impression, and answered it promptly, often putting to rout by
his directness trains of reasoning much deeper than his own. So now all
he said was, "I could not help coming, sir, because Annet is going away;
I wanted to see her." And the old man was silenced in spite of himself.
As he was there, and it could not be helped, Rast, by common consent of
the island, was allowed to spend several days unmolested among his old
haunts. Then they all began to grow restive, to ask questions, and to
speak of the different boats. For the public of small villages has
always a singular impatience as to anything like uncertainty in the date
of departure of its guests. Many a miniature community has been stirred
into heat because it could not find out the day and hour when Mrs. Blank
would terminate her visit at her friend's mansion, and with her trunk
and bag depart on her way to the railway station; and this not because
the community has any objection to Mrs. Blank, or any wish to have her
depart, but simply because if she is going, they wish to know when,
and have it settled. The few days over, Rast himself was not unwilling
to go. He had seen Anne, and Anne was pressed with work, and so
constantly threatened by grief that she had to hold it down with an iron
effort at almost every moment. If she kept her eyes free from tears and
her voice steady, she did all she could; she had no idea that Rast
expected more. Rast meanwhile had learned clearly that he was a
remarkably handsome, brilliant young fellow, and that the whole world
was before him where to choose. He was fond of Anne; the best feelings
of his nature and the associations of his whole boyhood's life were
twined round her; and yet he was conscious that he had always been very
kind to her, and this coming back to the island on purpose to see
her--that was remarkably kind. He was glad to do it, of course; but she
must appreciate it. He began now to feel that as he had seen her, and as
he could not in any case stay until she went, he might as well go. He
yielded, therefore, to the first suggestion of the higher powers,
saying, however, frankly, and with real feeling, that it was hard to bid
farewell for so long a time to his old playmate, and that he did not
know how he could endure the separation. As the last words were spoken
it was Rast who had tear-dimmed eyes; it was Rast's voice that faltered.
Anne was calm, and her calmness annoyed him. He would have liked a more
demonstrative sorrow. But as he went down the long path on his way to
the pier where the steamboat was waiting, the first whistle having
already sounded, he forgot everything save his affection for her and the
loneliness in store for him after her departure. While she was on their
island she seemed near, but New York was another world.
Down in the shadow of the great gate there was an ancient little
cherry-tree, low and gnarled, which thrust one crooked arm across the
path above the heads of the passers-by. As Rast approached he saw in the
dusky twilight a small figure perched upon this bough, and recognized
Tita.
"Is that you, child?" he said, pausing and looking up. She answered by
dropping into his arms like a kitten, and clinging to him mutely, with
her face hidden on his shoulder.
"What an affectionate little creature she is, after all!" he thought,
stroking her dark hair. Then, after saying good-by, and giving her a
kiss, he disengaged himself without much ceremony, and telling her to be
a good girl and mind Miss Lois during the winter, he hurried down to the
pier, the second whistle summoning all loiterers on board with shrill
