warden having lost the spray of sweet-pea from his button-hole, with
charming sportiveness she called him to her and replaced it with one of
her pink roses.
Meanwhile Mr. Dupont was conducting himself after his usual fantasied
fashion. He strolled about and leaned against the walls--a thing never
done in Far Edgerley, on account of the paper; he stared at the
head-dress of Mrs. General Hibbard, an impressive edifice of black lace
and bugles; he talked a little to Miss Lucy Rendlesham, to the rage of
Phipps; he turned his back on F. Kenneway; and he laughed at the
poetical quotations of Mrs. Greer. And then he made no less than six
profound bows before Miss Corinna, the dignified leader of St. John's
choir.
He bowed whenever he met her, stopping especially for the purpose,
drawing his feet together, and bending his head and body to an angle
heretofore unwitnessed in that community. Miss Corinna, in chaste black
silk, became at last, martial though she was, disconcerted by this
extreme respect. She could not return it properly, because, most
unfortunately, as she had always thought, the days of the courtesy, the
only stately salutation for a lady, were gone by. She bowed as
majestically as she could. But when it came to the seventh time, she
said to her second sister, "Really, Camilla, his attentions are becoming
too pressing. Let us retire." So they retired--to the wall. But even
here they were not secure, Dupont discovering their retreat, and coming
by expressly every now and then to bestow upon the stately maiden
another salute.
Towards the end of the evening--or rather, of the reception--he sang,
accompanying himself upon the guitar. His guitar had a long loop of red
ribbon attached to it; Miss Carroll surveyed it and its owner with
coldest eye, as, seated upon a low ottoman in the centre of the room, he
began what she had called his "little songs." His songs were, in truth,
always brief; but they were not entirely valueless, in spite of her
prejudice against them. They had a character of their own. Sometimes
they contained minor strains too old for Far Edgerley to remember, the
wild, soft, plaintive cadences of the Indian women of tribes long gone
towards the setting sun, of the first African slaves poling their
flatboats along the Southern rivers. And sometimes they were love-songs,
of a style far too modern for the little, old-fashioned town to
comprehend. Dupont's voice was a tenor, not powerful, but deliciously,
sensuously sweet. As he sat there singing, with his large, bold dark
eyes roving about the room, with his slender dark fingers touching the
strings, with his black moustache, waxed at the ends, the gleam of his
red handkerchief, and the red flower in his coat, he seemed to some of
the ladies present romantically handsome. To Sara Carroll he seemed a
living impertinence.
What right had this person of unknown antecedents, position, and
character to be posturing there before them?--to be admitted at all to
the house of her father? And then her eyes happened to fall upon her
father's wife, who, in the chair nearest the musician, was listening to
him with noticeable enjoyment. She turned and left the room.
By doing this she came directly upon Frederick Owen, who had apparently
performed the same action a little while before. They were alone in the
wide hall; every one else was in the drawing-room, gathered round the
singer.
"It--it was cooler here," Owen explained, rather awkwardly. At this
instant Dupont's voice floated out to them in one of his long, soft
notes. "It has 'a dying fall,' has it not?" said the clergyman; he was
trying to speak politely of her guest. But as his eyes met those of Miss
Carroll, he suddenly read in them a feeling of the same strength and
nature as his own, regarding that guest. This was a surprise, and a
satisfaction. It was the first corresponding dislike he had been able to
discover. For his own dislike had been so strong that he had been
searching in all directions for a corresponding one, with the hope,
perhaps, of proving to himself that his was not mere baseless prejudice.
But until this evening he had not succeeded in finding what he sought.
It was all the other way.
It should be mentioned here that Owen had not betrayed this dislike of
his. If he had done so, if his objection to the musician had been known,
or even suspected, it is probable that Dupont would hardly have attained
his present position in Far Edgerley. For after Madam Carroll's opinion,
the opinion of the rector of St. John's came next. But he had not
betrayed it. There was nothing of essential importance against Dupont.
The fact that he was precisely the kind of fellow whom Frederick Owen
particularly disliked was simply a matter between the two men
themselves, or rather, as Dupont cared nothing about it, between Owen
and his own conscience; for he could hardly go about denouncing a man
because he happened to play the guitar. But after three weeks of
enduring him--for he met him wherever he went--it was great comfort to
have caught that gleam of contempt in Miss Carroll's fair gray eyes; he
was glad that he had been at just the right spot in the hall to receive
it as she came from the drawing-room with that alluring voice floating
forth behind her.
"It is a beautiful evening," he said, dropping the subject of the
musician; "the moonlight is so bright that one can see all the
mountains. Shall we go out and look at them?"
And Miss Carroll was so displeased with the scene within that she
consented to withdraw to the scene without; and there they remained as
long as the singing lasted. They walked up and down the broad piazza; he
talked about the mountain scenery, and the waterfalls. She did not
appear to be much interested in them. Her companion, however, was not so
much chilled by this manner of hers as he had sometimes been; he had had
a glimpse behind it.
CHAPTER V.
Early in the week following the reception, Frederick Owen learned that
Dupont was about to take his departure from Far Edgerley, and with no
expectation of returning. This was good news. He was beginning to have
the feeling that the fellow would never go away, that he and his guitar
would become a permanent feature of Madam Carroll's receptions, his
lounging figure under the cream-colored umbrella a daily ornament of the
centre of Edgerley Street. Was he really, then, going? It seemed too
good to be true. But the tidings had been brought by Miss Dalley, who
was both good and true, and who was accurate as well; she had the very
hour--"On Friday, at nine."
"Hangman's day!" thought Owen, with satisfaction, doing his thinking
this time with the remnants of boyhood feelings; for though he was in
his third decade--the beginning of it--and a clergyman, the boy in him
was by no means entirely outgrown. Miss Dalley had come to return a
book, Longfellow's "Outre Mer," and to borrow anything he might have
about Ferrara.
"I was so much interested in our American poet's description of the
Italian poet's grave, on the Janiculum," she said. "It was such a
touching passage, and it contained this truly poetical sentence: 'He
sleeps midway between his cradle at Sorrento and his dungeon at
Ferrara.' I can never go in person, Mr. Owen; Fate has denied me that.
But I can think of the inscription, which Longfellow gives: 'Torquati
Tasso ossa hic jacet,' and be there in mind."
She had called it "hic jacket." "Jacent, I think," said the rector,
gently.
"Yes, certainly; that is what I meant--jacinth," said Miss Dalley,
correcting herself. "A beautiful word, is it not? And so appropriate,
too, for a poet's grave, mentioned, as it is, in Revelations!"
On Friday Dupont really did go. The rector himself saw him pass in the
high red wagon of the Washington Inn on his way down the mountain to the
lower town, the eastward-bound stage, and thence--wherever he pleased,
the gazer thought, so long as he did not return. But although the rector
gave this vagueness to the musician's destination, it was understood in
other quarters that he was going back to the West India Islands--"where
he used to live, you know."
"Upon which one did he live?" asked the junior warden. "There are about
fifty thousand of them, large and small; he can't have lived on them
all."
"For my part, I think him quite capable of it," answered Miss Honoria,
grimly.
Having seen the musician depart, Owen jumped on his horse and went off
to one of his mission stations far up among the crags of Lonely
Mountain. For, not content with a rector's usual duties, all of which he
attended to with a modern promptness unknown in the days of good old
Parson Montgomery, he had established mission stations at various points
in the mountains above Far Edgerley. Wherever there were a few
log-houses gathered together, there he held services, or started a
Sunday-school. He was by far the most energetic rector the parish of St.
John in the Wilderness had ever had; so much so, indeed, that the parish
hardly knew how to take his energy, and thought that he was perhaps
rather too much in the wilderness--more than necessity demanded or his
bishop required. Miss Honoria Ashley had even called these journeyings
of his "itinerant;" but Miss Honoria was known to disapprove, on general
principles, of everything the rector did: she had once seen him wearing
a sack-coat.
On this particular Friday he was out all day among the peaks, close up
under the sky. Coming down at sunset, and entering Edgerley Street,
with its knolls and flower-gardens and rambling old houses, his home
seemed to him a peaceful and pleasant one. And then, as he passed
Carroll Farms, he became conscious that the cause for its seeming
especially peaceful to him this evening was the absence of the intruder,
that man from another world, who was no longer there to contaminate its
sweet, old-fashioned simplicity with his dubious beauty, his dangerous
character, and his enchanting voice. For Owen believed that the
musician's character was dangerous; his face bore the marks of
dissipation, and though indolent, and often full of gay good-nature, he
had at times a reckless expression in his eyes. Nothing deterred him
from amusing himself; and probably, in the same way, nothing would deter
him from any course towards which he should happen to feel an
inclination. He was not dangerous by plan or calculation; he was
dangerous from the very lack of them. He was essentially erratic, and
followed his fancies, and no one could tell whither they would lead him.
But he might have been all this, and the clergyman would still have felt
able to guard his parish and people from any harm his presence might do
them, had it not been for the favor shown him by Madam Carroll. This had
been a blow to Owen. He said to himself that the gentle lady's love of
music had blinded her judgment, and carried her astray. It was a
satisfaction that Miss Carroll's judgment remained unblinded. But it was
greatest satisfaction of all that the man was gone; he congratulated
himself upon this anew as he rode by the gateway of the Farms.
It was well that he had this taste of comfort. It did not last long.
Less than three weeks had passed when he learned one afternoon that
Dupont had returned. And not long afterwards he was in possession of
other knowledge, which troubled him more than anything that had happened
since he came to Far Edgerley.
In the meantime his parish, unaware of its rector's opinion, had
welcomed back the summer visitor with various graceful little
attentions. The summer visitor had been seriously ill, and needed
