"When Count Alexis, my husband, was alive, we lived a great deal in
Russia. But I am an American like Mr. Barker, and I occasionally make a
trip to my native country. However, I love this place in summer, and I
always try to be here. That is my friend, Miss Skeat, who lives with
me."
Miss Skeat was stranded under a tree with a newspaper and several books.
Her polished cheekbones and knuckles glimmered yellow in the shade. By
her side was a long cane chair, in which lay a white silk wrap and a bit
of needlework, tumbled together as the Countess had left them when she
went in to receive her visitors. Miss Skeat rose as the party
approached. The Countess introduced the two men, who bowed low, and they
all sat down, Mr. Barker on the bench by the ancient virgin, and
Claudius on the grass at Margaret's feet. It was noonday, but there was
a light breeze through, the flowers and grasses. The conversation soon
fell into pairs as they sat.
"I should not have said, at first sight, that you were a very
imaginative person, Dr. Claudius," said the Countess.
"I have been dreaming for years," he answered. "I am a mathematician,
and of late I have become a philosopher in a small way, as far as that
is possible from reading the subject. There are no two branches of
learning that require more imagination than mathematics and philosophy."
"Philosophy, perhaps," she replied, "but mathematics--I thought that was
an exact science, where everything was known, and there was no room for
dreaming."
"I suppose that is the general impression. But do you think it requires
no imagination to conceive a new application of knowledge, to invent new
methods where old ones are inadequate, to lay out a route through the
unknown land beyond the regions of the known?"
"Ordinary people, like me, associate mathematics with measurement and
figures and angles."
"Yes," said Claudius, "but it is the same as though you confused
religion with its practical results. If the religion is true at all, it
would be just as true if man did not exist, and if it consequently had
no application to life."
"I understand the truth of that, though we might differ about the word.
So you have been dreaming for years--and what were your dreams like?"
The Countess looked down earnestly at Claudius, who in his turn looked
at her with a little smile. She thought he was different from other men,
and he was wondering how much of his dreams he might tell her.
"Of all sorts," he answered, still looking up into her face. "Bitter and
sweet. I have dreamed of the glory of life and of mind-power, of the
accomplishment of the greatest good to the greatest number; I have
believed the extension of science possible 'beyond the bounds of all
imaginable experience' into the realms of the occult and hidden; I have
wandered with Hermes by the banks of the Nile, with Gautama along the
mud-flats of the Ganges. I have disgusted myself with the writings of
those who would reduce all history and religion to solar myths, and I
have striven to fathom the meaning of those whose thoughts are profound
and their hearts noble, but their speech halting. I have dreamed many
things, Countess, and the worst is that I have lived to weary of my
dreams, and to say that all things are vanity--all save one," he added
with hesitation. There was a momentary pause.
"Of course," Mr. Barker was saying to Miss Skeat, with a fascinating
smile, "I have the greatest admiration for Scotch heroism. John Grahame
of Claver-house. Who can read Macaulay's account--"
"Ah," interrupted the old gentlewoman, "if you knew how I feel about
these odious calumnies!"
"I quite understand that," said Barker sympathetically. He had
discovered Miss Skeat's especial enthusiasm.
Margaret turned again to the Doctor.
"And may I ask, without indiscretion, what the one dream may be that you
have refused to relegate among the vanities?"
"Woman," answered Claudius, and was silent.
The Countess thought the Doctor spoke ironically, and she laughed aloud,
half amused and half annoyed. "I am in earnest," said Claudius,
plucking a blade of grass and twisting it round his finger.
"Truly?" asked she.
"Foi de gentilhomme!" he answered.
"But Mr. Barker told me you lived like a hermit."
"That is the reason it has been a dream," said he.
"You have not told me what the dream was like. What beautiful things
have you fancied about us?"
"I have dreamed of woman's mission, and of woman's love. I have fancied
that woman and woman's love represented the ruling spirit, as man and
man's brain represent the moving agent, in the world. I have drawn
pictures of an age in which real chivalry of word and thought and deed
might be the only law necessary to control men's actions. Not the scenic
and theatrical chivalry of the middle age, ready at any moment to break
out into epidemic crime, but a true reverence and understanding of
woman's supreme right to honour and consideration; an age wherein it
should be no longer coarsely said that love is but an episode in the
brutal life of man, while to woman it is life itself. I have dreamed
that the eternal womanhood of the universe beckoned me to follow."
The Countess could not take her eyes off Claudius. She had never met a
man like him; at least she had never met a man who plunged into this
kind of talk after half an hour's acquaintance. There was a thrill of
feeling in her smooth deep voice when she answered: "If all men thought
as you think, the world would be a very different place."
"It would be a better place in more ways than one," he replied.
"And yet you yourself call it a dream," said Margaret, musing.
"It is only you, Countess, who say that dreams are never realised."
"And do you expect to realise yours?"
"Yes--I do." He looked at her with his bold blue eyes, and she thought
they sparkled.
"Tell me," she asked, "are you going to preach a crusade for the
liberation of our sex? Do you mean to bring about the great change in
the social relations of the world? Is it you who will build up the
pedestal which we are to mount and from which we shall survey countless
ranks of adoring men?"
"Do you not see, as you look down on me from your throne, from this
chair, that I have begun already?" answered Claudius, smiling, and
making a pretence of folding his hands.
"No," said the Countess, overlooking his last speech; "if you had any
convictions about it, as you pretend to have, you would begin at once
and revolutionise the world in six months. What is the use of dreaming?
It is not dreamers who make history."
"No, it is more often women. But tell me, Countess, do you approve of my
crusade? Am I not right? Have I your sanction?"
Margaret was silent. Mr. Barker's voice was heard again, holding forth
to Miss Skeat.
"In all ages," he said, with an air of conviction, "the aristocracy of a
country have been in reality the leaders of its thought and science and
enlightenment. Perhaps the form of aristocracy most worthy of admiration
is that time-honoured institution of pre-eminent families, the Scottish
clan, the Hebrew tribe--"
Claudius overheard and opened his eyes. It seemed to him that Barker was
talking nonsense. Margaret smiled, for she knew her companion well, and
understood in a moment that the American had discovered her hobby, and
was either seeking to win her good graces, or endeavouring to amuse
himself by inducing her to air her views. But Claudius returned to the
charge.
"What is it to be, Countess?" he asked. "Am I to take up arms and sail
out and conquer the universe, and bring it bound to your feet to do you
homage; or shall I go back to my turret chamber in Heidelberg?"
"Your simile seems to me to be appropriate," said Margaret. "I am sure
your forefathers must have been Vikings."
"They were," replied Claudius, "for I am a Scandinavian. Shall I go out
and plunder the world for your benefit? Shall I make your universality,
your general expression, woman, sovereign over my general expression,
man?"
"Considering who is to be the gainer," she answered, laughing, "I cannot
well withhold my consent. When will you begin?"
"Now."
"And how?"
"How should I begin," said he, a smile on his face, and the light
dancing in his eyes, "except by making myself the first convert?"
Margaret was used enough to pretty speeches, in earnest and in jest, but
she thought she had never heard any one turn them more readily than the
yellow-bearded student.
"And Mr. Barker," she asked, "will you convert him?"
"Can you look at him at this moment, Countess, and say you really think
he needs it?"
She glanced at the pair on the bench, and laughed again, in the air,
for it was apparent that Mr. Barker had made a complete conquest of Miss
Skeat. He had led the conversation about tribes to the ancient practices
of the North American Indians, and was detailing their customs with
marvellous fluency. A scientific hearer might have detected some
startling inaccuracies, but Miss Skeat listened with rapt attention.
Who, indeed, should know more about Indians than a born American who had
travelled in the West?
The Countess turned the conversation to other subjects, and talked
intelligently about books. She evidently read a great deal, or rather
she allowed Miss Skeat to read to her, and her memory was good. Claudius
was not behind in sober criticism of current literature, though his
reading had been chiefly of a tougher kind. Time flew by quickly, and
when the two men rose to go their visit had lasted two hours.
"You will report the progress of your conquest?" said the Countess to
Claudius as she gave him her hand, which he stooped to kiss in the good
old German fashion.
"Whenever you will permit me, Countess," he said.
"I am always at home in the middle of the day. And you too, Mr. Barker,
do not wait to be asked before you come again. You are absolutely the
only civilised American I know here."
"Don't say that, Countess. There is the Duke, who came with me
yesterday."
"But he is English."
"But he is also American. He owns mines and prairies, and he emigrates
semi-annually. They all do now. You know rats leave a sinking ship, and
they are going to have a commune in England."
"Oh, Mr. Barker, how can you!" exclaimed Miss Skeat.
"But I am only joking, of course," said he, and pacified her. So they
parted.
Mr. Barker and Claudius stood on the front door-step, and the former lit
a cigar while the carriage drove up.
"Doctor," said he, "I consider you the most remarkable man of my
acquaintance."
"Why?" asked Claudius as he got into the carriage.
"Well, for several reasons. Chiefly because though you have lived in a
'three pair back' for years, and never seen so much as a woman's ear, by
your own account, you nevertheless act as if you had never been out of a
