some one very much." 
"Fortunate contessina!" laughed the baroness, 
mockingly, without turning round. 
 
" It does not concern you, signora, to know whom 
I love, nor, if you know, to speak of her. I ask you 
a simple question. If you loved a man with your 
whole soul and heart, would you allow another man 
to stand beside you and stroke your hair, and say 
it was curly?" The baroness burst out laughing. 
"Do not laugh," he continued. "Remember that I 
am in your power only so long as it pleases me to 
submit to you. Do not abuse your advantage, or I 
shall be capable of creating for myself situations 
quite as satisfactory as that of Italian master to the 
Signorina di Lira." 
" What do you mean ? " she asked, turning suddenly 
upon him. " I suppose you would tell me that you 
will make advantages for yourself which you will 
abuse, against me ? What do you mean ? " 
" I do not mean that. I mean only that I may not 
wish to give lessons to the contessina much longer." 
By this time the baroness had recovered her equa 
nimity; and as she would have been sorry to lose 
Nino, who was a source of infinite pleasure and 
amusement to her, she decided to pacify him, instead 
of teasing him any more. 
" Is is not very foolish for us to quarrel about your 
curly hair?" said she. "We have been such good 
friends, always." It might have been three weeks, 
her "always." 
"I think it is," answered Nino gravely. "But do 
not stroke my hair again, Signora Baronessa, or I 
shall be angry." 
He was quite serious, if you will believe it, though 
he was only twenty. He forthwith sat down to the 
 
piano again and sang on. The baroness sat very 
silent and scarcely looked at him ; but she held her 
hands clasped on her knee, and seemed to be think 
ing. After a time Nino stopped singing, and sat 
silent also, absently turning over the sheets of music. 
It was warm in the room, and the sounds from the 
street were muffled and far away. 
"Signer Nino," said the lady at last, in a different 
voice, "I am married." 
"Yes, signora," he replied, wondering what was 
to come next. 
"It would be very foolish of me to care for you." 
"It would also be very wicked," he said calmly; 
for he is well grounded in religion. The baroness 
stared at him in some surprise ; but seeing he was 
perfectly serious, she went on. 
" Precisely, as you say, very wicked. That being 
the case, I have decided not to care for you any more 
I mean, not to care for you at all. I have made 
up my mind to be your friend." 
"I am much obliged to your ladyship," he an 
swered, without moving a muscle. For you see, he 
did not believe her. 
" Now tell me, then, Signor Nino, are you in ear 
nest in what you are doing ? Do you really set your 
heart on doing this thing ? " 
"What?" asked Nino, annoyed at the persistence 
of the woman. 
" Why need you be afraid to understand me ? Can 
you not forgive me ? Can you not believe in me, 
that I will be your friend ? I have always dreamed 
of being the friend of a great artist. Let me be 
yours, and believe me, the thing you have in your 
heart shall be done." 
" I should like to hope so," he said. But he smiled 
incredulously. " I can only say that if you can ac 
complish what it is in my heart to do, I will go 
through fire and water at your bidding; and if you 
are not mocking me, I am very grateful for the offer. 
But if you please, signora, we will not speak any 
more of this at present. I may be a great artist, 
some day. Sometimes I feel sure that I shall. But 
now I am simply Giovanni Cardegna, teacher of lit 
erature; and the highest favour you can confer on 
me is not to deprive me of my means of support, by 
revealing to the Conte di Lira my other occupation. 
I may fail hopelessly at the outset of my artistic 
career, and in that case I shall certainly remain a 
teacher of language." 
"Very well," said the baroness, in a subdued 
voice ; for, in spite of her will and wilfulness, this 
square-faced boy of mine was more than a match for 
her. " Very well, you will believe me another day, 
and now I must ask you to go, for I am tired." 
I cannot be interrupted by your silly questions 
about the exact way in which things happened. I 
must tell this story in my own way, or not at all; 
and I am sacrificing a great deal to your taste in cutting out all the little things I really most enjoy telling. Whether you are astonished at the conduct 
of the baroness, after a three weeks acquaintance, or 
not, I care not a fig. It is just the way it happened, 
and I dare say she was really madly in love with 
Nino. If I had been Nino, I should have been in 
 
love with her. But I should like you to admire my 
boy's audacity, and to review the situation, before I
go on to speak of that important event in his life, his 
first appearance on the boards of the opera. At the 
time of his de*but he was still disguised as a teacher 
of Italian to the young contessina. She thought him 
interesting and intelligent, but that was all. Her 
thoughts were entirely, though secretly, engrossed 
by the mysterious singer, whom she had heard twice, 
but had not seen, so far as she knew. Nino, on the 
other hand, loved her to desperation, and would 
have acted like a madman had he been deprived of his 
privilege of speaking to her three times a week. He 
loved her with the same earnest determination to 
win her which he had shown for years in the study 
of his art, and with all the rest of his nature besides, 
which is saying much not to mention his soul, of 
which he thinks a great deal more than I do. 
Besides this, the baroness had apparently fallen in 
love with him, had made him her intimate, and flat 
tered him in a way to turn his head. Then she 
seemed to have thought better of her passion, and 
had promised him her friendship, a promise which 
he himself considered of no importance whatever. 
As for the old Conte di Lira, he read the German 
newspapers, and cared for none of these things. De 
Pretis took an extra pinch of his good snuff, when 
he thought that his liberal ideas might yet be realised, and a man from the people marry a great lady 
by fairly winning her. Do not, after this, complain 
that I have left you in the dark, or that you do not 
know how it happened. It is as clear as water, and 
 
it was about four months from the time Nino saw 
Hedwig in St. Peter's to the time when he first sang 
in public. 
Christmas passed by, thank Heaven, the municipality has driven away those most detestable pifferari, who played on their discordant bagpipes at 
every corner for a fortnight, and nearly drove me 
crazy, and the Befana, as we call the Epiphany in 
Rome, was gone, with its gay racket, and the night 
fair in the Piazza Navona, and the days for Nino's 
first appearance drew near. I never knew anything 
about the business arrangements for the debut, since 
De Pretis settled all that with Jacovacci, the impresario; but I know that there were many rehearsals, 
and that I was obliged to stand security to the the 
atrical tailor, together with De Pretis, in order that 
Nino might have his dress made. As for the cowl 
in the last act, De Pretis has a brother who is a 
monk, and between them they put together a very 
decent friar's costume; and Mariuccia had a good 
piece of rope, which Nino used for a girdle. 
" What does it matter ? " he said, with much good 
sense. "For if I sing well, they will not look at my 
monk's hood ; and if I sing badly, I may be dressed 
like the Holy Father, and they will hiss me just the 
same. But in the beginning I must look like a 
courtier, and be dressed like one." 
"I suppose so," said I; "but I wish you had taken 
-,o philosophy." 
 
CHAPTER VI. 
I SHALL never forget the day of Nino's first ap 
pearance. You may imagine whether we were in a 
state of excitement or not, after all those years of 
study and waiting. There was much more trouble 
and worry than if he had written a great book, and 
was just to publish it, and receive the homage of all 
the learning and talent in Europe ; which is the kind 
of de*but I had hoped he would make in life, instead 
of putting on a foolish dress, and stamping about on 
a stage, and squalling love songs to a packed house, 
making pantomime with his hands, and altogether 
behaving like an idiot, a crowd of people ready to 
hiss him at the slightest indication of weakness, or 
to carry him on their shoulders if they fancied his 
voice to their taste. 
No wonder Nino was sad and depressed all day, 
and when he tried his voice in the afternoon thought 
it was less clear than usual, and stared at himself in 
the looking-glass, wondering whether he were not 
too ugly altogether, as I always told him. To tell 
