talk of Roderick." 
"But that," said Rowland, "does not answer my 
question. Is he better ?" 
" No ! " she said, and turned away. 
He was careful not to tell her that he intended to 
leave them. 
 
XXIV. 
ONE day shortly after this as the two young men sat 
at the inn door watching the sunset, which on that even 
ing was very rich and clear, Rowland made an attempt 
to sound his companion 's present sentiment touching 
Christina Light. "I wonder where she is," he said, 
" and what sort of a life she is leading her Prince." 
Roderick at first made no response. He was watching 
a figure on the summit of some distant rocks opposite to 
them. The figure was apparently descending into the 
valley, and in relief against the crimson screen of the 
western sky it looked gigantic. "Christina Light?" 
Roderick at last repeated, as if arousing himself from a 
reverie. " Where she is ? It 's extraordinary how little 
I care!" 
" Have you completely got over it?" 
To this Roderick made no direct reply ; he sat brood 
ing a while. " She 's a humbug !" he presently exclaimed. 
"Possibly!" said Rowland. "But I have known 
worse ones." 
"She disappointed me !" Roderick continued, in the 
same tone. 
" Had she really given you up? : 
"Oh, don 't remind me !" Roderick cried. " Why the 
devil should I think of it ? It was only three months 
ago, but it seems like ten years." His friend said 
nothing more, and after a while he went on of his own 
accord. " I believed there was a future in it all ! She 
pleased me pleased me ; and when an artist such as 
I was is pleased, you know ! " And he paused again. 
"You never saw her as I did ; you never heard her in 
her great moments. But there is no use talking about 
that ! At first she wouldn 't regard me seriously ; she 
chaffed me and made light of me. But at last I forced 
 
her to admit I was a great man. Think of that, 
sir ! Christina Light called me a great man. A great 
man was what she was looking for, and we agreed to 
find our happiness for life in each other. To please me 
she promised not to marry till I should give her leave. 
I was not in a marrying way myself, but it was damna 
tion to think of another man possessing her. To spare 
my sensibilities she promised to turn off her Prince, and 
the idea of her doing so made me as happy as to see a 
perfect statue shaping itself in the block. You have 
seen how she kept her promise ! When I learned it, it 
was as if the statue had suddenly cracked and turned 
hideous. She died for me, like that !" And he snapped 
his fingers. Was it wounded vanity, disappointed 
desire, betrayed confidence ? I am sure I don 't know ; 
you will certainly have some good name for it." 
" The poor girl did the best she could," said Rowland. 
" If that was her best, so much the worse for her ! I 
have hardly thought of her these two months, but I have 
not forgiven her." 
"Well, you may believe that you are avenged. I 
can't think of her as happy. " 
" I don 't pity her !" said Roderick. Then he relapsed 
into silence, and the two sat watching the colossal figure 
as it made its way downward along the jagged silhouette 
of the rocks. "Who is this mighty man," cried 
Roderick at last, "and what is he coming down upon us 
for ? We are small people here, and we can't undertake 
to keep company with giants." 
"Wait till we meet him on our own level," said 
Rowland, "and perhaps he will not overtop us." 
" He 's like me," Roderick rejoined ; " for ten minutes 
he will have passed for a great man !" At this moment 
the figure sank beneath the horizon line, and became 
invisible in the uncertain light. Suddenly Roderick 
said, " I should like to see her once more simply to 
look at her." 
 
" I would not advise it," said Rowland. 
" It was her beauty that did it !" Roderick went on. 
" It was all her beauty ; in comparison, the rest was 
nothing. What befooled me was to think of it as my 
own property ! And I had made it mine no one else 
had studied it as I had, no one else understood it. 
What does that stick of a Casamassima know about it at 
this hour ? I should like to see it just once more ; it 's 
the only thing in the world of which I can say so. " 
"I would not advise it," Rowland repeated. 
" That 's right, my dear fellow," said Roderick; "don 't 
advise ! That 's no use now." 
The dusk meanwhile had thickened, and they had not 
perceived a figure approaching them across the open 
space in front of the house. Suddenly it stepped into 
the circle of light projected from the door and windows, 
and they beheld little Sam Singleton stopping to stare 
at them. He was the giant whom they had seen de 
scending along the rocks. When this was made apparent 
Roderick was seized with a fit of intense hilarity it was 
the first time he had laughed in three months. Singleton, 
who carried a knapsack and walking-staff, received from 
Rowland the friendliest welcome. He was in the serenest 
possible humour, and if in the way of luggage his knap 
sack contained nothing but a comb and a second shirt, 
he produced from it a dozen admirable sketches. He 
had been trudging over half Switzerland, and making 
everywhere the most vivid pictorial notes. They were 
mostly in a box at Interlaken, and in gratitude for Row 
land 's appreciation he presently telegraphed for his box, 
which, according to the excellent Swiss method, was 
punctually delivered by post. The nights were cold, 
and our friends, with three or four other chance sojourners, 
sat in-doors over a fire of great logs. Even with Roderick 
sitting moodily in the outer shadow, they made a sym 
pathetic little circle, and they turned over Singleton 's 
drawings, while he perched in the chimney-corner, 
 
blushing and explaining, with his feet on the rounds of 
the chair. He had been pedestrianising for six weeks, 
and he was glad to rest a while at Engelthal. It was 
an economic repose, however, for he sallied forth every 
morning with his sketching tools on his back, in search 
of material for new studies. Roderick 's hilarity, after 
the first evening, had subsided, and he watched the little 
painter 's serene activity with a gravity that was almost 
portentous. Singleton, who was not in the secret of his 
personal misfortunes, still treated him with timid frank 
ness as the rising star of American art. Roderick had 
said to Rowland at first that Singleton reminded him of 
some curious little insect with a remarkable mechanical 
instinct in its antenna ; but as the days went by it was 
apparent that the modest landscapist 's unflagging industry 
grew to have an oppressive meaning for him. It pointed 
a moral, and Roderick used to sit and con the moral as 
he saw it figured in Singleton 's bent back, on the hot 
hillsides, protruding from beneath his white umbrella. 
One day he wandered up a long slope and overtook him 
as he sat at work ; Singleton related the incident after 
wards to Rowland, who, after giving him in Rome a 
hint of Roderick 's aberrations, had strictly kept his own 
counsel. 
"Are you always like this ?" said Roderick, in almost 
sepulchral accents. 
" Like this ?" repeated Singleton, blinking confusedly, 
with an alarmed conscience. 
"You remind me of a watch that never runs down. 
If one listens hard one hears you always tic-tic, tic-tic. " 
"Oh, I see," said Singleton, beaming ingenuously. 
" I am very equable." 
"You are very equable, yes. And do you find it 
pleasant to be equable?" 
Singleton turned and smiled more brightly, while he 
sucked the water from his camel s-hair brush. Then, 
with a quickened sense of his indebtedness to a Providence 
 
that had endowed him with intrinsic facilities, " Oh, de 
lightful !" he exclaimed. 
Roderick stood looking at him a moment. " Dam 
nation !" he said at last, solemnly, and turned his back. 
Later in the week Rowland and Roderick took a long 
walk. They had walked before in a dozen different 
directions, but they had not yet crossed a charming little 
wooded pass which shut in their valley on one side and 
descended into the vale of Engelberg. In coming from 
Lucerne they had approached their inn by this path, and 
feeling that they knew it had hitherto neglected it in 
favour of untrodden ways. But at last the list of these 
was exhausted, and Rowland proposed the walk to 
Engelberg as a novelty. The place is half bleak and 
half pastoral ; a huge white monastery rises abruptly 
from the green floor of the valley and complicates its 
picturesqueness with an element rare in Swiss scenery. 
Hard by is a group of chalets and inns, with the usual 
appurtenances of a prosperous Swiss resort lean brown 
guides in baggy homespun, lounging under carved wooden 
galleries, stacks of alpenstocks in every doorway, sun- 
scorched Englishmen without shirt - collars. Our two 
friends sat a while at the door of an inn, discussing a 
pint of wine, and then Roderick, who was indefatigable, 
