turns out well; and then he will entertain the little miss. Violet
finishes with blushes that make her more charming every moment; and
Grandon finds a strange stirring in his soul as he watches this pretty
girl. He is glad she is his. Some time, when the cares of life press
less heavily, they two will take a holiday and learn to know each other
better than mere surface friends.

Herr Freilgrath certainly makes an unwonted interest in the great
house. He is so genial, he has that overflowing, tolerant nature
belonging to an ample frame and good digestion, he has inexhaustible
sympathy, and an unfailing love of nature. The two men settle
themselves to work in the tower room, and for hours are left
undisturbed, but the early evenings are devoted to social purposes.
Even Gertrude is compelled to join the circle, and Violet, whose tender
heart is brooding over the lost and slain love, is so glad to see her
roused a little.

Freilgrath discovers one day that Violet is a really admirable German
scholar. There are some translations to make, and she is so glad to be
of service. Cecil objects and pouts a little in her pretty child's
fashion. At this her father speaks sharply, and Violet turns, with the
same look she wore on her face the day of the accident. It is almost as
if she said, "You shall not scold her." Is he losing then the right in
his own child? And yet she looks so seductively daring that he smiles,
softens, and kisses Cecil in a passion of tenderness.

"You will spoil her," he says, in a low tone.

If they could go on this way forever! But one morning brings Marcia,
and the same evening Eugene, who is jaunty, handsome, and with a
careless fascination that seems his most liberal inheritance. It is a
very warm September evening, and Violet has put on one of her pretty
white gowns that has a train, and has a knot of purple pansies at her
throat. The elbow sleeves show her pretty dimpled arm and slender
wrist, and her hair is a little blown about as he comes up the steps
and sees her leaning on the balcony rail. What a pretty vision! Have
they guests at the house?

She knows him from his picture and comes forward. He guesses then who
it is, but certainly Laura has not done her half justice.

"Mrs. Floyd Grandon!" bowing with infinite grace.

She smiles at the odd sound of the name she so seldom hears.

"Yes."

He takes the soft, warm hand in his and is tempted to press it to his
lips, but wisely refrains.

His mother has seen this little tableau from the window and comes out.
Even now, if Violet were Eugene's wife, she could forgive her, quite
forgetting that it is not so much her fault or her election.

The delightful harmony comes to a sudden end. That very evening another
spirit reigns, a something intangible that makes Violet shrink into
silence, and Floyd uneasy. Even Gertrude is less social. Marcia has a
curious faculty of making people uncomfortable, of saying wrong things,
of being obtrusive. She quite takes possession of the professor, and he
hardly knows how to understand her small vanities and delusions, and is
glad when the dainty French clock tolls nine, as that is their hour for
working. Cecil has been remaining up, much against her grandmamma's
wishes, who would have an argument every evening on the subject if she
could. So Violet takes the child by the hand and wishes them good
night, the gentlemen go to their study, Marcia flits away, and Eugene
is left with his mother.

"Upon my word," he says, "I had no idea the St. Vincent was such good
form. Floyd has the lucky card everywhere. Is it really true the patent
is a success and that there are fortunes in it?"

"Eugene," his mother begins, severely, "it would have been much better
for you to have stayed at home instead of wasting time and money as you
have done this summer! The lucky card, as you call it, is only taking
advantage of circumstances, and if you are going to let Floyd rule
everything----"

"Well, what can I help? I had no money to bolster up affairs! Wilmarth
was awfully blue. I didn't suppose anything could be made of the
business, it was in such a muddle. And it couldn't now, mother, if
Floyd had not sunk thousands; I don't see how he expects to get it back
if we have anything."

"You threw away your chance!" She must say this, much as she loves him.

"But how could I know that she was pretty and lady-like, and would not
mortify a man with her blunders? You do not suppose Floyd is really in
love with her?"

"He had the wisdom to marry her," she responds, tartly, loath even now
to hear her praised. "It gives him as much interest in the business
as--well, more than you take."

"I should like to take his money and let him manage it all, since he
has turned into such a splendid hand."

"And what would you do?"

"Why, live on my money." And the young man laughs lightly.

His mother feels at that instant as if her whole life was wasted, her
affection despoiled. Eugene is careless, heartless, and yet she cannot
in a moment change the habit of her motherhood and unlove him. She
feels that he cares very little for their welfare, that for everything
she must depend upon her eldest son, and the dependence is bitter. It
should not be so, and yet she has been curiously jealous of Floyd since
the day Aunt Marcia took him under her wing. He has so much, the rest
will have such a trifle in comparison! Yet she feels sure it would slip
through Eugene's fingers in no time and leave him a poor man again. But
our inclination does not always follow our judgment.




CHAPTER XIII.

For two enemies the world is too small, for two friends a needle's eye
is large enough.--BULWER.


The brothers spend nearly all of the next morning in the factory. Floyd
has left his substitute with the professor, and sent Cecil to ride, so
that she shall not distract Violet's attention. He tries to explain to
Eugene all that he has done, the money he has advanced, and the future
that seems possible. "It will be a long pull," he says, "but when you
get through, the result will be a handsome business. Three years ought
to do it."

"Three years," Eugene repeats, with a sigh.

For a moment Floyd is provoked. Does Eugene never expect to put his
shoulder to the wheel, to take any real care? Must he fight the matter
through for them all? But then, there is Violet.

"I shall expect you to take some part of the business, Eugene, and keep
to it. Wilmarth is admirable in his department. He is getting out new
patterns, and now that he is really convinced of success he will no
doubt throw all his energies into it. Will you keep the books and look
after the correspondence? I have so much work of my own to do, and we
must economize all we can."

"Well," indolently, "don't expect too much of me."

"How would you like to travel, then?" asks Floyd. "Father, I find, did
a good deal himself."

"The travelling would be jolly, but I may as well be honest. I've no
knack of selling."

"Then begin at the books," returns the elder, decisively. "You ought to
be able to do a man's work somewhere."

"When I made such a blunder about the fortune, eh?" he says, with a
half-smile. "Were you really caught, Floyd?"

Floyd Grandon is sorely tempted to knock down this handsome, insolent
fellow, even if he is a brother. Oh, if he never had offered Violet to
him!

"What I wrote first," he says, "was at her father's desire. Then she
did for me a favor of such magnitude that my whole life will not be
long enough to repay, but honor led me to be fair to you, or I never
should have written a second time. Remember that she is my chosen wife,
and forget all the rest."

There is something in the tone that awes the young man, though long
afterward he recalls the fact that Floyd did not say he loved her. But
he is sobered a little and promises to make himself useful. Floyd has
no faith in him or his word. What a heavy burthen it all is!

Laura comes up again, and is all excitement. They are staying at a
hotel and Madame Lepelletier is with them, but she is going into her
house in a few days, and the Delancys hardly know whether to board or
to have a home of their own. There are her beautiful wedding gifts, and
there is the pleasure of giving dinners and teas! She discusses it with
her mother and Marcia. Eugene, whose advice is not asked, says, "Have a
house of your own by all means. Nothing is so independent as a king in
his castle."

Violet does not grow any nearer to her new relatives, excepting
