this piece of wood, I must draw a line parallel to the diagonal, far
enough inside of it to permit me to get the arc out of the piece.”
“Isn’t there any other way to do it?” asked Dory.
“There is another way, and perhaps it is a better one,” replied Mr.
Brookbine, as he drew another square on the board. “On the diagonal I
draw the two arcs” (suiting the action to the words). “With a
keyhole-saw, I follow this curved line, and cut the board in two
pieces. Perhaps this will be the better way to do it, as it will give
a little different practice.”
“That is the way I was thinking of,” added Dory.
“I am glad you thought of it. You and Thad may go to the lumber-room,
and get the board to make these brackets of. We want six pairs of
them, and we are to get out six pieces six inches square.”
The boys soon returned with a board about twenty inches long and a
little over a foot wide. It was sawed into six pieces, planed and
squared to the exact size required. While the boys were thus employed,
the carpenter made a pattern of a single bracket out of a piece of
quarter-inch board. As soon as one of the square boards was ready, he
applied the pattern to it, and marked the ogee line with a
sharp-pointed pencil.
The instructor then distributed the keyhole-saws, and explained how to
use them. The square boards were put into the vises, after they had
been marked from the pattern. The saws were narrowest near the points.
If the pupils found any difficulty in turning the saw, they were
required to take short strokes, using the tip end, until they got over
the difficulty. The narrower the saw, the more easily it could be
turned from a straight line.
“Turn the bottom piece up-side-down, and it will exactly correspond
with the upper piece, if you have sawed all the way on the line,” said
the carpenter, when some of the boys had finished the first piece.
“Mine don’t,” added Lick Milton. “I kept close to the line all the
way.”
“Another blunder of mine!” exclaimed Mr. Brookbine, “for which I
tender my apology. I told you to saw on the right of the mark. This
is always to be done when practicable; but I neglected to say that it
is not always convenient, or even possible, to do it in that way. In
this instance the line ought to have been sawed out, and then the cut
would have been precisely in the middle of the piece. Sometimes, too,
when you cannot shift the work end to end, it becomes necessary to saw
on the left of the line. In cutting the next one, saw out the line,
and see how it comes out then.”
The result verified the statement of the teacher, for the two pieces
almost coincided. The workmen were directed to apply the spokeshave to
the curves on the bracket, and they were soon ready.
“Now we will proceed to put the shelves up,” continued Mr. Brookbine.
“Not this afternoon,” interposed Captain Gildrock. “It is four o’clock
now, and we must be as punctual in closing the sessions of the school
as in beginning them. I must say, my lads, that I have been very much
pleased with your attention and general good conduct on the first day
of the Beech-Hill Industrial School.”
“For one, I should like to go on with the work until supper-time,”
said Ben Ludlow.
“So would I!” shouted about all the rest of them.
“I think not, boys,” replied the captain. “I am glad to find you so
much interested in your work, but we must not overdo it. We shall keep
to our regular hours. The rest of the day, and the morning until nine
o’clock, belongs to you; but you must not forget the lessons assigned
to you for to-morrow. You may use the boats for a couple of hours now,
if you choose. There are enough of the small craft to accommodate the
whole school.”
The boys put on their coats, and left the shop. Some of them were
curious to know what had become of Dick Short, and they walked to the
maple-tree. But Mr. Brookbine ordered them off, saying that they were
to have no communication with Dick. Tom still kept his position at the
foot of the tree.
“Mr. Brookbine,” called Dick, when he saw the instructor come out of
the shop.
“Well, my lad, what is it?” asked the carpenter. “Do you want to jump
on another board, and kill a couple more boys?”
“I haven’t killed any boys,” replied Dick.
“If you haven’t, it isn’t your fault. You went to work in the right
way to do it, or, at least, to hurt them badly. What do you want now?”
“Don’t you think I have been up this tree about long enough, Mr.
Brookbine?” continued Dick in the meekest of tones.
“I don’t know: you know better than I do. If you haven’t been up there
long enough to keep you from skylarking in school-hours, you had
better stay there a week or two longer; and Tom will see that you
don’t come down.”
“I will be as sober as a judge in school-hours after this. I didn’t
think what I was about when I jumped on that board, and I am sorry I
did it,” pleaded Dick, who was heartily disgusted with being watched
by the big dog.
“Very well: I am satisfied; but I don’t know whether Phil Gawner is,
or not,” added the instructor.
“I will beg his pardon, or let him thrash me, just as he chooses,”
suggested Dick.
The instructor called Phil as he was going down to the lake. As soon
as Phil came within hailing-distance of the tree, Dick made his
apology, which was promptly accepted; and the culprit was permitted to
descend the tree. His punishment was so odd that it puzzled him. He
had often been whipped in school for his pranks; but to be imprisoned
over two hours up in a tree, with a dog to keep guard over him, was
more than he could stand.
Most of the students were at the lake by this time. Dory had already
invited Oscar Chester to take a sail in the Goldwing, and he had
accepted. The four members of the Goldwing Club had been in the
schooner so much that they preferred to take a four-oar boat that was
moored on the lake.
In fifteen minutes the Goldwing was out on Lake Champlain. The wind
was fresh from the south-west, and the lake is not the best place in
the world for a sailboat. Puffs of wind, and even pretty smart
squalls, sometimes come from the hills that surround this beautiful
sheet of water, so that the skipper has to be on the alert.
“I should be very glad to have you steer her now, Oscar, if you wish,”
said Dory to his passenger as soon as the boat was well out in the
lake.
“Thank you, Dory,” replied Oscar. “I think we shall be the best of
friends, after all.”
“It will not be my fault if we are not,” added Dory.
Just then the Monkey, which Sim Green had brought up from Burlington
on Saturday, came out off the river in charge of Bolingbroke Millweed.
CHAPTER XXVII.
OSCAR CHESTER TAKES A LESSON IN BOATING.
“I don’t know why it is, but every fellow I ever knew took to boats,”
said Oscar Chester, who had just gone to the helm of the Goldwing.
“The fellows here are just like all the rest of them, and about every
one of them is in the boats. There come three rowboats out of the
river.”
“In Burlington all the boys were anxious to get out on the lake. I was
like all the rest of them; and, as my father was a pilot on a steamer,
I had a better chance than most of them. There is the Goldwing Club,”
added Dory, as the four-oar boat came out of the river.
“What’s the Goldwing Club?” asked Oscar.
“We used to have a flat-bottom boat in Burlington, and we formed a
club. The craft was smashed; and, after I bought the Goldwing, we used
to sail in her. We learned to row, but the club are not doing very
well with their oars,” added Dory, as one of the party “caught a crab.”
“Who is managing that sailboat, Dory?” asked Oscar, as he pointed at
the Monkey.
“Bolly Millweed; but he don’t know how to do it, and he ought not to
come out on the lake without a skipper.”
“That’s just my case, but I am very anxious to learn how to do it.”
“You will soon learn. One sails a boat as he drives a horse: it is
done more by the feeling than by the sight. All you need is practice,
for the science is very simple. But I think we had better come about,
for I am afraid some of those fellows will get into trouble. Bolly has
trimmed his sail in a very careless manner; and, if a puff of wind
should come upon him, he don’t know what to do any more than a baby.
His sheet is made fast too.”
“I don’t know any better than he does what to do.”
“Bolly has the wind on the beam, but he has his sail trimmed to go as
close to the wind as his boat will lie. Now put the helm down, if you
please, and we will come about.”
“Which way is ‘down’?” asked Oscar blankly. “Do you mean down the
lake?”
“It happens to be so in this instance, but that is not what we mean by
‘down.’ ‘Down’ is to leeward. ‘Up’ is the way from which the wind
comes, and ‘down’ the way towards which it blows.”
“Nothing was said about ‘up’ and ‘down’ on the steamer the other day.”
“In a steamer it makes no difference which way the wind blows, and the
terms don’t mean any thing in particular. But, in a sailboat, we
manage her altogether by the wind. Now put the helm down,” added Dory,
as he stood by the sheets.
Oscar did as he was directed; and, as soon as he shifted the tiller,
all the sails began to shake.
“There is some mistake about that,” said Oscar, as he began to restore
the tiller to its former position. “That knocks all the wind out of
the sails.”
“You did just right! keep the helm down!” exclaimed Dory with energy.
“She is doing just as she should.”
“But I don’t see how you are going to sail with the canvas flapping
like this,” added Oscar, as he put the helm hard down again.
“She is in stays now. Wait a moment, and you will see what she does,”
replied Dory.
At that instant the wind caught the jib, and the schooner began to
swing very rapidly. The other sails filled at the same time.
“Now right the helm and meet her,” continued Dory. “Be lively about
it. Carry the tiller over till you feel a strong resistance. Over with
it, before she falls off too far.”
Oscar obeyed, but he had been hardly prompt enough in his movements.
The sails were brought too nearly at right angles with the wind, which
caused her to careen till the new skipper’s nerves were badly shaken.
A bucket of water poured in over the wash-board.
“Down with the helm, Oscar!” said Dory sharply. “The other way!” he
added, springing to the tiller, and putting it hard down.
“You said ‘down’ was the other way,” retorted Oscar in a tone that
indicated anger on his part.
“Now we are all right,” said Dory, laughing, as the boat came up so
that the pressure was eased off the sails.
“‘Down’ can’t be both ways,” growled Oscar.
