so glad ! And yet he is bound to that thing ! Can he not 
get free, Robert? "she cried in an agony of grief and 
desire. 
" Not to marry Fay Collamore, much as we all love her. 
Think, Dora ; human laws are made for the preservation 
of society, divine laws for the preservation of the soul, and 
we have no right to help another to overstep the bounds, 
no right to lift him out of the gulf of his own folly and set 
him in a large room where he shall not suffer or miss any- 
thing." 
" Then he had no right " 
" He had no right to keep the secret, but it was a diffi- 
cult place to be in. I can imagine that if she had been 
different it would have been easier to tell. And yet I am 
glad he did not bring her home. He saw the utter incon- 
gruity, and that is something for him, for any man who 
goes beyond the pale of propriety in marriage. There is 
this to be said in his behalf, she was dangerously beautiful, 
utterly unscrupulous, older and wiser in the world's ways 
than he. Still we must not forget that he had no right to 
throw himself into temptation ; and I think he was very 
brave and discreet last summer. To have avoided Miss 
Collamore when she was brought in our midst would have 
been rude, but the many delicate little evasions he prac- 
tised made me fear there was some entanglement, though 
I did not suspect a marriage. And when he had in a 
measure shut himself out of home sympathy and love, I 
think he began to realize how sweet a thing it was. I only 
wonder that he kept it so rigidly." 
"O my poor darling! My boy, my boy! Must he 
always wring our hearts ? O Robert, what a heavy bur- 
den yours has been ! " And her tears flowed afresh. 
" There ought to be something after thirty odd years of 
selfish living," he replied in a tone of deep emotion. 
" And, Dora, I have a hope for him. His sins have not 
been those of viciousness or real weakness, but that head- 
long thoughtlessness. And, my dear, God takes so much 
from us all, even the best, that we must be patient and 
long-suffering with these our brethren." 
"Yes," she answered drearily, "we shall be patient- 
with him, how many times ? " 
"We have not reached the full measure, the gospel 
measure." And he gave a tender little smile. 
She buried her face and wept softly. It was such a bit- 
ter disappointment. The mother's pride, and love, and 
trust had been cruelly slain just when it believed all dan- 
ger past. Other mothers had sons who never brought 
them a pang, and she thought of Charlie Darrell, of Dick 
Gray son. Why had this coine upon her? 
She said this presently to her brother. 
" I wonder," he returned in a soft, vague tone, " if there 
is not sometimes a sacrifice, a sort of slain right in these 
things that brings a remission, a bearing of the cross for 
another, rather than any judgment for ourselves. The 
innocent suffers for the guilty to teach us all that no sin 
or weakness is ever quite alone in its consequences, that 
ours may react on another. And when we do learn it 
we shall have the care for others that brings us up to the 
divine love." 
" Robert," she asked, after a long while, " what about 
the child and her relations ? " with a shiver of disgust. 
" Robert will never be troubled with them, I fancy. 
After all, people of that class have a tendency to stay 
where they belong ; they do not enjoy higher . and purer 
air. We can and shall dismiss them forever. The child 
I shall care for." 
" You will not bring it here ! " she cried suddenly, in a 
tone of distress, 
" Certainty not, if it would pain you. It is very well 
cared for with a good woman who is fond of it." 
" And as long as that creature lives, Robert must pro- 
vide for her ?" 
" We could hardly turn her over to charity." 
Mrs. Alston rose with a kind of grave, injured dignity 
that showed how deep the wound had gone. 
" You must excuse me any further talk," she exclaimed 
brokenly ; " I feel half crazed with all this. If I have not 
borne it as I should, pardon me, for it is so hard, so 
hard. Good night." 
Oh, what of the boy? Would he be saved, as by fire, 
if the flames scorched even here ? 
Kathie was not long in guessing that something had 
transpired. She helped Fred get ready for a little fishing 
party, then she went up to Mrs. Alston's room to find her 
mother weeping passionately. 
tk O mamma ! Is Bruce " 
" You can think of nothing but Bruce," said the mother 
in a wounded tone, that filled Kathie with dismay. 
" O mamma ! " with a long, quivering breath. 
"My darling!" the mother's arms were about her. 
'* Kathie, my heart is nearly broken. Go to Uncle 
Kobert, he will tell you ; you must know sooner or later. 
Let me remain alone with my sorrow." 
Kathie stood quite still a moment, in utter amazement ; 
then she turned slowly. The comfort with her was that 
she obeyed without stopping to discuss reasons. 
Uncle Robert was slowly pacing the wide hall ; her awe- 
stricken face startled him. 
" Mamma said I might come to you. O Uncle Robert, 
what great sorrow is it Aunt Ruth ? " with a strong, 
apprehensive shiver. 
" It is a sorrow time may mend. Put on your hat and 
let us go out under the trees ; I can tell ypu better there." 
Many a time in after years Kathie recalled the scene 
like a picture. The soft, wandering air, the sun sailing 
through fleecy drifts that toned its blazing rays, the little 
nooks of shade made by the wide -spreading spruce and 
firs, the tasselled larch, where a tiny wren came and sang 
its song, flew away, and returned with the same dainty 
little burden that it must unfold to sun and air. It 
seemed at first quite as if it could not be their own Robert, 
but a story about some one else. But her mother's grief; 
ah, yes, that made it all real. 
Her tears dropped silently 
' ' O Uncle Robert ! " she said, with a great, pitiful sob, 
" can she never come to sense and memory again? May 
be she might have learned to love and to care. And the 
little baby, Rob's baby ? " 
He knew then it would have one friend ; but he almost 
grudged the tender tears for the other, knowing well the 
worst part, that would have shocked them with horror, and 
perhaps entirely rehabilitated Rob, had been withheld. 
"Was it right and just? For an instant he felt quite un- 
certain. 
There followed a quiet interval at Cedarwood. Kathie 
spent her time in trying to comfort her mother. She was 
glad in those days that Fay Collamore had gone to Lake 
George with Mr. and Mrs. Hunsdon. Emma was her only 
friend, and they two drew nearer in a tender spiritual 
communion. 
Once Kathie had spoken of having the baby, but her 
mother had answered with a sharp, sudden pain. Charlie 
came home full of joy and hope, but he tempered it sweetly 
to the sorrow he found. Every day or two they heard 
from Aunt Ruth. Robert had come, and they were so glad 
to have him. Bruce lived, but it was a doubtful question. 
They all hoped, they could not give him up. 
The whisper floated about that Robert Alston had made 
a secret, unfortunate marriage, and that his wife through 
an accident had lost her mind. 
Dick Grayson knew more about her, though he made no 
comment to any one save Mr. Conover. 
" They were a bad lot," he said ; u I don't see how Rob 
could have been fooled by them ; but the girl was very 
pretty. And, somehow, I 'm not sure but I would rather 
have her in an asylum, out of harm's way, than to do as 
her sister has done. But poor Rob ! We must all try to 
make it up to him." 
CHAPTER XX. 
THE very brooding over her sorrow worked a partial 
cure in Mrs. Alston's case. She saw the suffering, the 
shame, the fear, the brave resolve to eat the bitter fruit he 
had gathered, to make no outcry at the sting, since he had 
grasped -the nettles of his own will and pleasure. She 
longed for a first word from him, and yet she admired the 
strength that could wait and accept the sentence. 
Yet he was hers, and nothing could weaken that bond. 
She could recall so many little remorseful touches of the 
summer before ; once when he had stood with his arms 
clasped about her neck, and said, to some little word of 
hers, " I wish I were more worthy of your love, but the 
duty of my coming years must be to make myself so." 
And the little thoughtful courtesies that had never been 
much in his way before, how they touched her now. 
So she wrote a brief note, blotted by tears, and he an- 
swered. They knew it had come, but its contents were 
sacred to her. Then he wrote to Uncle Robert : 
" During one of the long night-watches, when the Gen- 
eral was quite used up, I told Aunt Ruth my story, all that 
we decided had better be known. Uncle Robert, I think I 
must have behaved brutally to you during that last visit ! 
I was almost crazy with loneliness and despair, and fight- 
ing for the thing I wanted. I see some of it now. Aunt 
Ruth has been so sweet, so lovely, and, though I can 't 
accept it all now as you would like me to, I have come to 
my senses a little. I can never make amends for your 
love and patience, and I have broken poor mother's heart. 
O Uncle Robert, why don't we have a little sense, a little 
sure faith in the inexorable laws of right and wrong ? We 
cannot overstep them and go scot free. Every wrong way 
