ever so many other instincts. And then, before one is quite sure that
one knows what is right,--before one's mind has time to think it over
logically,--one has done the wrong thing. At least, it seems afterwards
as if that were what happened; but I suppose it is because we are weak."
Leonora looked at Julius, who seemed deep in his thoughts. He had
exactly put her idea into words, but she could not tell whether he
believed what he said, or was merely amusing himself with his faculty
for explanation. He interested her extremely. It was just this kind of
introspection that most delighted her,--this cutting up and skinning of
conscience and soul. Nevertheless she did not think that Batiscombe was
the man to analyse his own actions. It was more likely, she thought,
that he was very clever, and could talk to please his listener. But he
interested her greatly, and she was curious to know how he had got his
knowledge of human nature.
"You must have had a wonderful life," she said, presently, saying aloud
what she was thinking, rather than hoping to draw him on to talk about
himself.
"Oh no--very commonplace, I assure you," said he, with a laugh that
sounded natural enough. "Only, you see, I have had to make capital of
what I know. But it spoils one's own enjoyment to analyse anything, and
I shall have to give it up, or resign myself to a miserable existence."
"I wonder whether you are right," said Leonora, reflectively.
"Of course I am," he answered gayly. "The man who carves the pheasant
does not enjoy it, but the man who eats it does."
"Then let us eat and drink, for to-morrow we die. Is that the end of
your experience?" asked Leonora, gloomily.
"Oh--well--if you put it so. Only if you do not eat and drink too much,
you may possibly not die until the day after to-morrow."
"Or you may spend your life in cooking the dinner, and die before it is
served?" suggested Leonora.
"Or anything--what carnal similes!" laughed Batiscombe. "But they are
very apt for any one who cares for eating. If that is really an
important enjoyment, it may as well stand as the type."
"Exactly--'if.' I am sure you do not think it is, nor that any material
satisfaction can possibly stand as a type, nor that we should enjoy
to-day without thought of to-morrow, nor a great many other things you
have said." She watched him as she spoke, and he liked to feel her eyes
on him.
"No," he answered, "you are quite right. I do not think those things at
all. But I am sure I generally do them," he added, smiling.
"But what do you think--really? Is there anything really high and noble
in the world? It all seems so little and so hollow, sometimes."
She sighed, thinking how, formerly, she had said such things
speculatively, and for the sake of raising an argument with her friends.
Batiscombe turned on the stone seat, so that he faced her.
"Of course there are high and noble things in the world," he answered.
"It is when you look into the small workings of the mind and soul, as
you have been making me do, that you lose sight of the great ones.
Material nature is most interesting under a microscope, and generally
most beautiful in great masses at a distance. But if you walk close to
the grandest cliff in nature, and flatten your face against it, and hold
your eye half an inch from the rock, the grandeur and the beauty are all
gone, and without a microscope wherewith to examine your particular
point, you will find the close inspection tiresome after a time. There
is no microscope for the soul, any more than for the heart, or the mind.
You gain nothing by looking too closely at it. It is ten to one that you
hit upon a diseased spot for your examination. It may amuse you for a
time to study other people's souls, because you can hardly get so near
to them as to lose all impression of the whole, as you can with
yourself. What does it matter what you know about your soul, so long as
you do what is right?"
"That sounds true," said Leonora, "but I suppose there is something
wrong about it."
"All good similes sound true," said Batiscombe, laughing. "That is the
reason why popular orators and preachers are so fond of them. The real
use of a simile is for an explanation; the moment you make an argument
upon it, you are revelling in words without logic, calling illustrations
facts and generally making game of your audience."
"What a discouraging person you are," said Leonora. "You make one almost
believe a thing, and then you turn round and tell one there is nothing
to believe after all."
"Not so bad as that," said Batiscombe, leaning back and clasping his
brown hands over his knee. "I have not said there was nothing to believe
in. Only take care you do not believe in anything because it bears a
tempting resemblance to something you like."
"That is ingenious, but I wish you would be positive about something. I
wish you would tell me, for instance, what you yourself believe in." Her
eyes turned towards him in the twilight. For the sun had gone down, and
the orange-trees brought the shadows early where the two were sitting.
"What I believe in?" he repeated. "I suppose that, apart from religious
matters, I believe most in sympathy and antipathy."
"That is not exactly a course of action or a rule of life," remarked
Leonora, smiling and looking away.
"No. But in nine cases out of ten they are what determine both. At all
events I believe in them. They always carry the day over logic,
philosophy, and all manner of calculation and forethought. You may
determine that it is your duty to like a person, you may induce yourself
to think that you do, and you may make every one believe you do; but if
you really do not--there is an end of it. And the reverse is just as
true."
"I should think every one knew that," said Leonora in an indifferent
way. But she was wondering why he had said it, whether he had any
suspicion of her own state of mind. "It is very safe to say you believe
in things of that sort--everybody does. You are a very indefinite
person, Mr. Batiscombe."
"What is the use of defining everything? Lots of people have been burned
alive, and have had their heads cut off for defining things they knew
nothing about. Of course they were quite sure they knew better; but
then, is it worth while to die for your personal opinion of an abstract
question?"
"It is very fine and noble, though," said Leonora.
"There is a tradition that it is fine and noble to 'die for' anything.
It sounds well. Every one admires it. But reflect that the common
murderer 'dies for' his individual views of the social state. The woman
who maintained that scissors were better than a knife for cutting an
apple suffered her husband to drown her rather than give up the point,
and as she sank her fingers still opened and closed, to imitate the
instrument she preferred. She 'died for' her opinion, just as much as
Savonarola or Giordano Bruno, whom my countrymen are so fond of raving
about."
"You know that is not what I mean," said Leonora. "I mean it is noble to
die for what is right."
"The question is, what is right? There are cases when it is eminently
heroic to sacrifice one's life."
"For instance?"
"For instance, to die for the liberty of one's own country,--for the
defence and safety of one's king, who represents the embodiment of the
social principle,--or for the honour of an innocent woman."
"But about liberty and one's king, and that sort of thing," said
Leonora, "where can you draw the line? There is no successful treason,
you know, because when it succeeds it is called by other names. There
must be a standard of absolute good--or something."
"I should think you must be a very unhappy person, Marchesa, if you are
always trying to draw a line and to define absolute good. What is the
use? Every one knows that it cannot be done."
Leonora was silent. It had interested her to hear the brilliant,
successful man, apparently so happy and contented with his lot, talk
seriously about the things she was always puzzling over. But what did it
come to? What was the use? Those were his last words.
The warm gloom of the night settled softly round them, laden with the
sweetness of the oranges and the aromatic scent of the late carnations.
Batiscombe could just see Leonora by his side, her head bent forward as
she rested her chin upon her hand. The indescribable atmosphere and
faint perfume that surrounds women of high beauty and degree intoxicated
him. She was so English in her beauty and so Russian in her delicate
exuberance of vitality; above all, she was so intensely feminine, that
Batiscombe felt his senses giving way to the magnetic influence. He
leaned forward in the dark till he was nearer to her, looking at the
faint outline of her face. Leonora sighed, and the gentle sound seemed
like the softened echo of past weeping.
"Marchesa," said Julius in a low voice, "can I really be your friend?
Will you let me help to make your life happier, if I can?"
Leonora felt the blood rise blushing to her face in the dark, and her
heart trembled in its beating. A friend! Oh, if she really could find a
strong, true friend to help her!
"How can you?" she asked faintly.
"I do not know," he answered. "Let me try. I will try very hard. I am
sure I can succeed."
She let him take her hand for one moment. It was a consent, not spoken,
but given and understood. Leonora rose to her feet, and they walked
silently toward the house.
"When may I come?" he asked, as he bade her good night. He spoke quite
naturally, as though it were already a matter of course that he should
see her every day. She hesitated a moment, standing in the doorway with
the warm light of the lamp upon her.
"Come at eleven," she said at last, and with a pleasant smile she left
him and went in.
The aspect of life seemed changed for her when he was gone. That
afternoon she had suffered intensely. Now there was a strange, calm
sense in her heart that soothed all her thoughts, and made the lonely
evening sweet and restful. She asked no questions, she made no
self-examination, she desired of herself no reasons for her conduct. It
was enough that the storm had passed and that the calm was come, she
knew not how. A man had spoken to her as no man ever spoke to her
before, and the earnestness of his words still rang in her ear. He was
loyal, strong, and true. He would be her friend,--he had asked it, she
had granted it.
She dined alone and read a little afterwards, closing her eyes now and
again to enjoy the peace that had descended upon her. For the first time
in many months she was happy, supremely, quietly happy, and she asked no
questions.
As for Batiscombe, he wandered homewards through the dark lanes, not
heeding or caring where he went. He was wholly absorbed in recalling the
events of the afternoon, revelling in the memory of Leonora's face and
looks and words. He, too, was wholly disinclined to reflect on the
possible consequences of his action; he took it as a matter of course
that he should keep his word and be indeed a friend to her; at all
events he thought neither of the future nor the past, but only ever and
ever of herself, clinging tenderly to the images he called up, and
asking nothing better than to call them up again, dreaming and waking.
