self-confidence. Now, suddenly, however, he turned 
with a flash of irritation in his eye, and demanded in a 
ringing voice, " In a word, then, you prophesy that I 
shall fail ? " 
Gloriani answered imperturbably, patting him kindly 
on the shoulder. " My dear fellow, passion burns out, 
inspiration runs to seed. Some fine day every artist finds 
himself sitting face to face with his lump of clay, with his 
empty canvas, with his sheet of blank paper, waiting in 
vain for the revelation to be made, for the Muse to 
descend. He must learn to do without the Muse ! When 
the fickle jade forgets the way to your studio, don't waste 
any time in tearing your hair and meditating on suicide. 
Come round and see me, and I will show you how to 
console yourself." 
" If I break down," said Roderick passionately, "I 
shall stay down. If the Muse deserts me, she shall at 
least have her infidelity on her conscience !" 
"You have no business," Rowland said to Gloriani, 
"to talk lightly of the Muse in this company. Mr. 
Singleton too has received pledges from her which place 
her constancy beyond suspicion." And he pointed out 
on the wall, near by, two small landscapes by the modest 
water-colourist. 
The sculptor examined them with deference, and 
Singleton himself began to laugh nervously j he was 
trembling with hope that the great Gloriani would be 
pleased. "Yes, these are fresh too," Gloriani said; 
" extraordinarily fresh ! How old are you ?" 
"Twenty-six, sir," said Singleton. 
" For twenty-six they are famously fresh. They must 
have taken you a long time ; you work slowly." 
"Yes, unfortunately I work very slowly. One of 
them took me six weeks, the other two months." 
" Upon my word ! The Muse pays you long visits." 
And Gloriani turned and looked from head to foot at so 
unlikely an object of her favours. Singleton smiled and 
 
began to wipe his forehead very hard. " Oh, you," said 
the sculptor " you ll keep it up ! " 
A week after his dinner party Rowland went into 
Roderick 's studio and found him sitting before an un 
finished piece of work, with a hanging head and a heavy 
eye. He might have fancied that the fatal hour foretold 
by Gloriani had struck. Roderick rose with a sombre 
yawn and flung down his tools. " It 's no use," he said, 
" I give it up !" 
" What is it ?" 
"I have struck a shallow! I have been sailing 
bravely, but for the last day or two my keel has been 
grinding the bottom." 
"A difficult place?" Rowland asked, with a sympa 
thetic inflection, looking vaguely at the roughly-modelled 
figure. 
" Oh, it 's not the poor old clay !" Roderick answered. 
" The difficult place is here /" And he struck a blow on 
his heart. "I don't know what 's the matter with me. 
Nothing comes ; all of a sudden I hate things. My old 
things look ugly ; everything looks stupid. " 
Rowland was perplexed. He was in the situation of 
a man who has been riding a blood-horse at a steady 
elastic gallop, and of a sudden feels him stumble and 
balk. As yet, he reflected, he had seen nothing but the 
sunshine of genius ; he had forgotten that it has its storms. 
Of course it has ! And he felt a flood of comradeship 
rise in his heart which would float them both safely 
through the worst weather. " Why, you are tired !" he 
said. "Of course you are tired. You have a right 
to be." 
" Do you think I have a right to be ?" Roderick asked, 
looking at him. 
" Unquestionably, after all you have done." 
"Well, then, right or wrong, I am tired. I certainly 
have done a fair winter 's work. I want a change." 
Rowland declared that it was certainly high time they 
 
should be leaving Rome. They would go north and 
travel. They would go to Switzerland, to Germany, 
to Holland, to England. Roderick assented, his eye 
brightened, and Rowland talked of a dozen things they 
might do. Roderick walked up and down ; he seemed 
to have something to say which he hesitated to bring out. 
He hesitated so rarely that Rowland wondered, and at 
last asked" him what was on his mind. Roderick stopped 
before him, frowning a little. 
"I have such unbounded faith in your good-will," he 
said, " that I believe nothing I can say would offend you." 
" Try it !" said Rowland. 
"Well, then, I think my journey will do me more 
good if I take it alone. I needn't say I prefer your 
society to that of any man living. For the last six 
months it has been a fund of comfort. But I have a 
perpetual feeling that you are expecting something of 
me, that you are measuring my doings by a terrifically 
high standard. You are watching me ; I don't want to 
be watched ! I want to go my own way ; to work when 
I choose, and to loaf when I choose. It is not that I 
don't know what I owe you : it is not that we are not 
friends. It is simply that I want a taste of perfect free 
dom. Therefore I say let us separate." 
Rowland shook him by the hand. "Willingly do 
as you desire ! I shall miss you, and I venture to be 
lieve you will pass some lonely hours. But I have only 
one request to make that if you get into trouble of any 
kind whatever, you will immediately let me know." 
They began their journey, however, together, crossing 
the Alps side by side, muffled in one rug, on the top of 
the St. Gothard coach. Rowland was going to England 
to pay some promised visits ; his companion had no plan 
save to ramble through Switzerland and Germany as 
fancy should guide him. He had money that would out 
last the summer ; when it was spent he would come back 
to Rome and make another statue. At a little moun- 
 
tain village by the way Roderick declared that he would 
stop ; he would scramble about a little in the high places 
and doze in the shade of the pine forests. The coach 
was changing horses ; the two young men walked along 
the village street, picking their way between dunghills, 
breathing the light cool air, and listening to the plash of 
the fountain and the tinkle of cattle bells. The coach 
overtook them, and then Rowland, as he prepared to 
mount, felt an almost overmastering reluctance. 
" Say the word," he exclaimed, " and I will stop too !" 
Roderick frowned. "Ah, you don't trust me; you 
don't think I am able to take care of myself ! That 
proves that I was right in feeling as if I were watched !" 
"Watched, my dear fellow?" said Rowland, "I 
hope you may never have anything worse to complain of 
than being watched in the spirit in which I watch you. 
But I will spare you even that. Good-bye !" Standing 
in his place as the coach rolled away, he looked back at 
his friend lingering by the roadside. A great snow 
mountain behind Roderick was beginning to turn pink 
in the sunset. The slim and straight young figure waved 
its hat with a sort of mocking solemnity. Rowland 
settled himself in his place, reflecting, after all, that this 
was a salubrious beginning of independence. Roderick 
was among forests and glaciers, leaning on the pure 
bosom of nature. And then and then was it not in 
itself a guarantee against folly to be engaged to Mary 
Garland ? 
VII. 
ROWLAND passed the summer in England, staying with 
several old friends and two or three new ones. On his 
arrival he felt it on his conscience to write to Mrs. Hud 
son and inform her that her son had relieved him of his 
tutelage. He felt that she thought of him as an incor 
ruptible Mentor, following Roderick like a shadow, and 
he wished to let her know the truth. But he made the 
truth very comfortable, and gave a detailed account of 
the young man 's brilliant beginnings. He owed it to 
himself, he said, to remind her that he had not judged 
lightly, and that Roderick 's present achievements were 
more profitable than his inglorious drudgery at Messrs. 
Striker and Spooner s. He was now taking a well-earned 
holiday and proposing to see a little of the world. He 
would work none the worse for this ; every artist needed 
to knock about and look at things for himself. They 
had parted company for a couple of months, for Roderick 
was now a great man and beyond the need of going 
about with a keeper. But they were to meet again in 
Rome in the autumn, and then he should be able to send 
her more good news. Meanwhile he was very happy in 
what Roderick had already done especially happy in 
the happiness it must have brought his mother. He 
ventured to ask to be kindly commended to Miss Garland. 
His letter was promptly answered to his surprise in 
the hand of the latter lady. The same post brought also 
an epistle from Cecilia. The document was voluminous, 
and we must content ourselves with giving an extract. 
"Your letter was filled with an echo of that brilliant 
Roman world which made me almost ill with envy. For 
a week after I got it I thought Northampton really un- 
pardonably tame. But I am drifting back again to my 
old deeps of resignation, and I rush to the window, when 
any one passes, with all my old gratitude for small favours. 
So Roderick Hudson is already a great man, and you 
turn out to be a great prophet? My compliments to 
both of you ; I never saw a trick so prettily played ! 
