family. His brothers joked about his queer ways, but in his sisters he
found firm friends and tender comforters for all his woes. So he
struggled along, working on the farm in summer and in a clock shop
during the winter, with such brief spells of schooling as he could get
between whiles, improving even these poor opportunities so well that he
was letter-writer for all the young people in the neighborhood.
Now, he was writing in his journal very slowly, but very well, shaping
his letters with unusual grace and freedom; for the wide snow-banks were
his copy-books in winter, and on their white pages he had learned to
sweep splendid capitals or link syllables handsomely together. This is
what he wrote that night, with a sparkle in the blue eyes and a firm
folding of the lips that made the boyish face resolute and manly.
     "I am set in my own mind that I get learning. I see not how, but my
     will is strong, and mother hopes for to make a scholar of me. So,
     please God, we shall do it."
Then he shut the little book and put it carefully away in the blue
chest, with pen and ink, as if they were very precious things; piously
said his prayers, and was soon asleep under the homespun coverlet,
dreaming splendid dreams, while a great bright star looked in at the low
window, as if waiting to show him the road to fortune.
And God did please to help the patient lad; only the next evening came
an opportunity he had never imagined. As he sat playing "Over the Hills
and Far Away" on the fiddle that he had himself made out of maple-wood,
with a bow strung from the tail of the old farm horse, a neighbor came
in to talk over the fall pork and cider, and tell the news.
"Ef you want ter go over the hills and far away, Eli, here's the chance.
I see a man down to Woodtick who was askin' ef I knew any likely young
chap who'd like to git 'scribers for a pious book he wants to sell. He'd
pay for the job when the names is got and the books give out. That's
ruther in your line, boy, so I calk'lated your daddy would spare you, as
you ain't much of a hand at shuckin' corn nor cartin' pummace."
"Haw! haw!" laughed the big brothers, Ambrose Vitruvius and Junius
Solomon, as neighbor Terry spoke with a sly twinkle in his eye.
But the sisters, Miranda and Pamela, smiled for joy, while the good
mother stopped her busy wheel to listen eagerly. Eli laid down his
fiddle and came to the hearth where the others sat, with such a
wide-awake expression on his usually thoughtful face that it was plain
that he liked the idea.
"I'll do it, if father'll let me," he said, looking wistfully at the
industrious man, who was shaving axe-handles for the winter
wood-chopping, after his day's work was over.
"Wal, I can spare you for a week, mebby. It's not time for the clock
shop yet, and sence you've heerd o' this, you won't do your chores
right, so you may as wal see what you can make of peddlin'."
"Thank you, sir; I'll give you all I get, to pay for my time," began
Eli, glowing with pleasure at the prospect of seeing a little of the
world; for one of his most cherished dreams was to cross the blue hills
that hemmed him in, and find what lay beyond.
"Guess I can afford to give you all you'll make this trip," answered his
father, in a tone that made the brothers laugh again.
"Boys, don't pester Eli. Every one hasn't a call to farmin', and it's
wal to foller the leadin's of Providence when they come along," said the
mother, stroking the smooth, brown head at her knee; for Eli always went
to her footstool with his sorrows and his joys.
So it was settled, and next day the boy, in his home-spun and home-made
Sunday best, set off to see his employer and secure the job. He got it,
and for three days trudged up and down the steep roads, calling at every
house with a sample of his book, the Rev. John Flavel's treatise on
"Keeping the Heart." Eli's winning face, modest manner, and earnest
voice served him well, and he got many names; for books were scarce in
those days, and a pious work was a treasure to many a good soul who
found it difficult to keep the heart strong and cheerful in troublous
times.
Then the books were to be delivered, and, anxious to save his small
earnings, Eli hired no horse to transport his load, but borrowed a
stout, green shawl from his mother, and, with his pack on his back,
marched bravely away to finish his task. His wages were spent in a new
prayer-book for his mother, smart handkerchief-pins for the faithful
sisters, and a good store of paper for himself.
This trip was so successful that he was seized with a strong desire to
try a more ambitious and extended one; for these glimpses of the world
showed him how much he had to learn, and how pleasantly he could pick up
knowledge in these flights.
"What be you a-brewdin' over now, boy? Gettin' ready for the clock shop?
It's 'most time for winter work, and Terry says you do pretty wal at
puttin' together," said the farmer, a day or two after the boy's return,
as they sat at dinner, all helping themselves from the large pewter
platter heaped with pork and vegetables.
"I was wishin' I could go South with Gad Upson. He's been twice with
clocks and notions, and wants a mate. Hoadley fits him out and pays him
a good share if he does well. Couldn't I go along? I hate that old shop,
and I know I can do something better than put together the insides of
cheap clocks."
Eli spoke eagerly, and gave his mother an imploring look which brought
her to second the motion at once, her consent having been already won.
The brothers stared as if Eli had proposed to go up in a balloon, for to
them the South seemed farther off than Africa does nowadays. The father
had evidently been secretly prepared, for he showed no surprise, and
merely paused a moment to look at his ambitious son with a glance in
which amusement and reproach were mingled.
"When a hen finds she's hatched a duck's egg, it's no use for her to
cackle; that ducklin' will take to the water in spite on her, and paddle
off, nobody knows where. Go ahead, boy, and when you get enough of
junketin' 'round the world, come home and fall to work."
"Then I may go?" cried Eli, upsetting his mug of cider in his
excitement.
His father nodded, being too busy eating cabbage with a wide-bladed
green-handled knife to speak just then. Eli, red and speechless with
delight and gratitude, could only sit and beam at his family till a sob
drew his attention to sister Pamela, whose pet he was.
"Don't, Pam, don't! I'll come back all right, and bring you news and all
the pretty things I can. I must go; I feel as if I couldn't breathe,
shut up here winters. I s'pose it's wicked, but I can't help it,"
whispered Eli, with his arm around his buxom eighteen-year old sister,
who laid her head on his shoulder and held him tight.
"Daughter, it's sinful to repine at the ways of Providence. I see a
leadin' plain in this, and ef I can be chirk when my dear boy is
goin', 'pears to me you ought to keep a taut rein on your feelin's, and
not spile his pleasure."
The good mother's eyes were full of tears as she spoke, but she caught
up the end of her short gown and wiped them quickly away to smile on
Eli, who thanked her with a loving look.
"It's so lonesome when he's not here. What will we do evenings without
the fiddle, or Eli to read a piece in some of his books while we spin?"
said poor Pam, ashamed of her grief, yet glad to hide her tears by
affecting to settle the long wooden bodkin that held up her coils of
brown hair.
"Obed Finch will be comin' along, I guess likely, and he'll read to you
out uv Eli's book about keepin' the heart, and you'll find your'n gone
'fore you know it," said Junius Solomon, in a tone that made pretty Pam
blush and run away, while the rest laughed at her confusion.
So it was settled, and when all was ready, the boy came home to show his
equipment before he started. A very modest outfit,--only two tin trunks
slung across the shoulders, filled with jewelry, combs, lace, essences,
and small wares.
"I hate to have ye go, son, but it's better than to be mopin' to hum,
gettin' desperut for books and rilin' father. We'll all be workin' for
ye, so be chipper and do wal. Keep steddy, and don't disgrace your
folks. The Lord bless ye, my dear boy, and hold ye in the holler of his
hand!"
Her own rough hand was on his head as his mother spoke, with wet eyes,
and the tall lad kissed her tenderly, whispering, with a choke in his
throat:--
"Good-by, mammy dear; I'll remember."
Then he tramped away to join his mate, turning now and then to nod and
smile and show a ruddy face full of happiness, while the family watched
him out of sight with mingled hopes and doubts and fears.
Mails were slow in those days, but at length a letter came; and here it
is,--a true copy of one written by a boy in 1820:--
                                         NORFOLK, VA., December 4th.
     "HONORED PARENTS: I write to inform you I am safe here and to work.
     Our business is profitable, and I am fast learning the Quirks and
     Turns of trade. We are going to the eastern shore of Va.,
     calculating to be gone six weeks. The inhabitants are sociable and
     hospitable, and you need not fear I shall suffer, for I find many
     almost fathers and mothers among these good folks.
     "Taking our trunks, we travel through the country, entering the
     houses of the rich and poor, offering our goods, and earning our
     wages by the sweat of our brows. How do you think we look? Like two
     Awkward, Homespun, Tugging Yankee peddlers? No, that is not the
     case. By people of breeding we are treated with politeness and
     gentility, and the low and vulgar we do not seek. For my part, I
     enjoy travelling more than I expected. Conversation with new folks,
     observing manners and customs, and seeing the world, does me great
     good.
     "I never met a real gentleman till I came here. Their hospitality
     allows me to see and copy their fine ways of acting and speaking,
     and they put the most Bashful at ease. Gad likes the maids and
     stays in the kitchen most times. I get into the libraries and read
     when we put up nights, and the ladies are most kind to me
     everywhere.
     "I'm so tall they can't believe I'm only sixteen. They aren't as
     pretty as our rosy-faced girls, but their ways are elegant, and so
     are their clothes, tell Pam.
     "When I think how kind you were to let me come, I am full of
     gratitude. I made some verses, one day, as I waited in a hovel for
     the rain to hold up.
       "To conduce to my own and parents' good,
         Was why I left my home;
       To make their cares and burdens less,
         And try to help them some.
       'Twas my own choice to earn them cash,
         And get them free from debt;
       Before that I am twenty-one
         It shall be done, I bet.
       My parents they have done for me
         What I for them can never do,
       So if I serve them all I may,
         Sure God will help me through.
       My chief delight, therefore, shall be
