resolving that he would recover from the printing press all that it had
robbed him of, he commenced to seek some undiscovered vein of literary
treasure, and in 1829 brought out “Le Dernier Chouan,” the first
romance which he considered worthy to bear his own name. Its ferocity
and passion attracted great attention, and the public became at once
favorably disposed toward him; but when, a few months later, the
“Physiologie du Mariage” appeared, its success was not only
instantaneous, but Balzac was heralded as a new Molière. He now emerged
from quasi obscurity into the white light of fame. Publishers were
submissive, praise was unstinted. He had realized the first of his
immense desires, and had it not been for his weight of debt he might
perhaps have been able to realize the other, but his time was not his
own. He labored, if possible, more incessantly than ever, conceived the
plan of the “Comédie Humaine,” and from that time up to almost the day
of his death produced a series of masterpieces which in point of
interest and erudition form the most gigantic monument in the history
of modern literature.

His work accompanied him wherever he went. He dreamed of it; he wrote
while he ate; he traveled over the better part of Europe, and wrote
while he traveled; he composed in the omnibus and in the street; and
had he had a mistress he would, in all probability, have followed the
example of Baudelaire, and composed in her arms. Thoroughly
conscientious, he invariably visited the place where the scenes of a
drama were to be located. “I am going to Alençon,” he would say; “you
know Mlle. Cormon[4] lives there;” or, “I am off for Grenoble; there is
where M. Benassis[5] lives:” for it should be remembered that not only
were Balzac’s characters as realistically vivid to him as are the
hallucinations of a neurosthene, but he invariably spoke of them as
another would of friends and acquaintances. “Let us talk of realities,”
he one day said to Jules Sandeau, who had been speaking to him of an
invalid relative, “let us talk about ‘Eugénie Grandet;’” and at another
time, when his sister asked for some information about Captain
Jordy,[6] Balzac replied very simply, “I never knew the man before he
came to Nemours, but if he interests you, I will try to learn something
of him.” It was a long time before he was able to find a suitable
husband for Mlle. Camille Grandlieu, and rejected all who were
suggested to him. “They are not in the same set,” he would say. “Chance
alone can supply her with a husband, and chance is a commodity which a
novelist should use but sparingly. Reality alone justifies the
improbable, and the probable alone is permitted to us.” But Mlle. de
Grandlieu was not destined to braid St. Catherine’s tresses, and
afterwards, to Balzac’s great delight, found a suitable husband in the
person of the young Comte de Restaud,[7] who in spite of his mother’s
derelictions[8] was otherwise a very acceptable suitor.

After the place of his novel had been visited, viewed from every
aspect, the customs noted and the localisms acquired, Balzac would
return to Paris, shut himself up in a garret,—the garret has its
poetry,—and for weeks and sometimes months at a time he would not only
disappear entirely from view, but all trace of him would be lost.

At other times, he would lodge under an assumed name, which he imparted
only to his most intimate friends. “My address,” he wrote to Madame
Carraud in 1834, “is always Madame Veuve Durand, 13, Rue des
Batailles;” and in 1837, he wrote to Dablin, “To see the Widow Durand,
a name must be given. Yours is on the list.”

“The house,” Gautier wrote,[9] “of the Widow Durand was as well guarded
as the Garden of the Hesperides. Two or three passwords were exacted,
and that they might not become vulgarized they were frequently changed.
Among others, I recall the following. On telling the janitor that the
season for prunes had arrived, the visitor was permitted to cross the
threshold; to the servant who prowled about the head of the stairway,
it was necessary to murmur ‘I bring laces from Belgium;’ and on
assuring the valet de chambre that Madame Bertrand was in excellent
health, the visitor was ushered into the great man’s presence.”

It was in the Rue des Batailles that the famous boudoir of the “Fille
aux Yeux d’Or” actually existed; and though its luxury would not appear
unusual to-day, it was, nevertheless, a source of continual wonder to
his Bohemian friends, and his own description of it is not devoid of
interest:[10]—

“One side of the boudoir formed a graceful semicircle, while in the
centre of the other, which was perfectly square, there shone a
mantel-piece of marble and gold. The door, which was concealed behind a
rich portière of tapestry, was directly in front of the window.

“In the horseshoe was a Turkish divan, fifty feet in circumference and
as high as a bed. The covering was of white cashmere tufted with bows
of black and lilac silk, which were disposed as at the angles of a
lozenge.

“The back of this immense bed rose several inches above a pile of
cushions, which added to the general effect by their coloring and
artistic arrangement.

“The boudoir was hung with a red material, over which was draped an
Indian muslin fluted like a Corinthian column by a piping alternately
hollow and round, and bordered at top and bottom by a band of lilac
embroidered with black arabesques. Beneath the muslin the red became
pink, and this delicate shading was repeated in the window curtains,
which were of Indian muslin lined with pink silk and ornamented with a
fringe of black and lilac.

“At equal distances on the wall above the divan were six sockets of
silver-gilt, each of which supported two candles, while from the centre
of the ceiling hung a highly polished lustre of the same material.

“The carpet was like a camel’s-hair shawl, and seemed a mute reminder
of the poetry of Persia. The furniture was covered with white cashmere
relieved by lilac and black. The clock and candelabras were of gold and
marble. The one table which the boudoir contained was covered with
white cashmere, while all about were jardinières of white and red
roses.”

Behind the semicircle was a secret passage, at one end of which was an
iron cot and at the other a desk; and here it was that Balzac, secure
from intrusion, worked and composed at his ease.

To return, however, to the Widow Durand. In 1838 he wrote to Madame
Hanska, the lady who subsequently became his wife:—

“The Widow Durand is dead. She was killed by the contemptible conduct
of the daily papers, who have betrayed a secret which should have been
sacred to every man of honor.”

After this misfortune Balzac installed himself openly at Les Jardies, a
country house which he had built at Ville d’Avray, and where he was, as
he expressed it, “like the lantern of Demosthenes, and not, as every
one else says, of Diogenes;” but when, a year or two later, he took up
his residence in the Rue Basse, at Passy he surrounded himself with all
his former precautions, instituted a series of countersigns which he
changed weekly, and transformed himself into “Madame Bri....”

When guarded in this way from any intrusion, Balzac would work from
twelve to twenty-one hours a day. His usual hours of sleep were from
six in the evening until midnight. Then he would bathe, don the white
robe of a Dominican friar, poise a black skull cap on his head, and,
under the influence of coffee and by the light of a dozen candles,
would work incessantly till he could work no more.

His work completed, the lion would forsake his den, and for an evening
or two he would be seen in the Loge Infernale at the opera, invariably
carrying a massive cane whose head glittered with jewels, and which
Madame de Girardin was pleased to imagine rendered him invisible at
will;[11] or he would make brief apparitions in the salons of the
literati and nobility, and then, suddenly, without a word of warning,
he would shut himself up as impenetrably as before.

His manner of writing was stamped with the same eccentricity which
characterized all his habits. When a subject which he proposed to treat
had been well considered, he would cover thirty or forty sheets with a
scaffolding of ideas and phrases, which he then sent off to the
printer, who returned them in columns wired and centred on large
placards. The work, freed in this way from any personality and its
errors at once apparent, was then strengthened and corrected. On a
second reading the forty pages grew to a hundred, two hundred on the
third, and so on, while on the proof-sheets themselves new lines would
start from the beginning, the middle, or the end of a phrase; and if
the margins were insufficient, other sheets of paper were pinned or
glued to the placards, which were again and again returned, corrected,
and reprinted, until the work was at last satisfactorily completed.

But perhaps the most graphic description of Balzac’s manner of writing
is the one contained in an article by Edouard Ourliac in the “Figaro”
for the 15th of December, 1837, of which the following is a free
translation:—

  THE MISFORTUNES AND ADVENTURES OF CÉSAR BIROTTEAU BEFORE HIS BIRTH.

Let us sing, drink, and embrace, like the chorus in an opéra bouffe;
let us waft kisses in the air and turn on our toes, as they do in the
ballet.

Let us rejoice now that we may. The “Figaro,” without appearing to have
done so, has conquered the elements, all the malefactors, and every
sublunary cataclysm.

The “Figaro” has conquered César Birotteau.

Never did the angered gods, never did Juno, Neptune, M. de Rambuteau,
or the prefect of the police, oppose against Jason, Theseus, or the
wayfarers of the capital, greater obstacles, monsters, ruins, dragons,
demolitions, than these two unhappy octavos. We have them at last, and
we know their cost.

The public will have but the trouble to read them, though that should
count as a pleasure.
