a very rare thing, and so is a truly fine carriage. 
Pitt could not take his eye from this figure. A 
few swii t strides brought him near her, and he 
followed, watching; balancing hopes and doubts. 
That was not Esther as he remembered her; but 
then years had gone by; and was not that set of 
the head on the shoulders precisely Esther's ? He 
was meditating how he could get another sight of 
her face ; when she suddenly turned and ran up a 
flight of steps and went in at a door, without ever 
giving him the chance he wanted. She had a little portfolio under her arm, like a teacher, and she 
paused to speak to the servant who opened the 
door to her; Pitt judged that it was not her own 
house. The lady was probably a teacher. Esther 
could not be a teacher. But at any rate he would 
wait and get another sight of her. If she went in, 
she would probably come out again. 
But Pitt had a tiresome waiting of an hour. He 
strolled up and down or stood still leaning against 
a railing, never losing that door out of his range 
of vision. The hour seemed three; however at the 
end of it the lady did come out again, but just 
when he was at his furthest, and she turned and 
went up the street again the way she had come, 
walking with a quick step. Pitt followed. Where 
she had turned into Broadway she turned out of 
it, and went down an unattractive side street ; passing from that into another and another, less and 
less promising with every corner she turned, till she 
 
entered the one which we know was not at all eligible where Col. Gainsborough lived. Pitt's hopes 
had been gradually falling, and now when the quarry 
disappeared from his sight in one of the little humble 
houses which filled the street, he for a moment stood 
still. Could she be living here ? He would have 
thought she had come merely to visit some poor pro 
tege, but that she had certainly seemed to take a latch 
key from her pocket and let herself in with it. Pitt 
reviewed the place, waited a few minutes, and then 
went up himself the few steps which led to that 
door, and knocked. Bell there was none. People 
who had bells to their doors did not live in that 
street. 
But as soon as the door was opened Pitt knew 
where he was; for he recognized Barker. She was 
not the one however with whom he wished first 
to exchange recognitions; so he contented himself with asking in an assured manner for Col. 
Gainsborough. 
"Yes, sir, he's in," said Barker doubtfully; as he 
stood in the doorway she could not see the visiter 
well. " Who will I say wants to see him, sir ? " 
" A gentleman on business." 
Another minute or two, and Pitt stood in the 
small room which was the colonel's particular 
room, and was face to face with his old friend. 
Esther was not there; and without looking at any 
thing Pitt felt in a moment the change that must 
have come over the fortunes of the family. The 
place was so small ! There did not seem to be room 
in it for the colonel and him. But the colonel was 
like himself. They stood and faced each other. 
" Have I changed so much, colonel? " he said at 
last. " Do you not know me ? " 
" William Dallas ? " said the colonel. " I know 
the voice ! But yes, you have changed. You have
changed, certainly. It is the difference between 
the boy and the man. What else it is, I  cannot 
see in this light, or this darkness. It grows dark 
early in this room. Sit down. So you have got 
back at last ! " 
The greeting was not very cordial, Pitt felt. 
" I have come back, for a time; but I have been 
home repeatedly before this." 
" So I supposed," said the colonel drily. " Of 
course, hearing nothing of you, I could not be sure 
how it was." 
" I have looked for you, sir, every time, and almost everywhere." 
" Looked for us ? Ha ! It is not very difficult to find anybody, when you know where to 
look." 
" Pardon me, Colonel Gainsborough, that was 
precisely not my case. I did not know where to 
look. I have been here for days now, looking, till 
I was almost in despair ; only I knew you must be 
somewhere, and I would not despair. I have 
looked for you in America and in England. I 
went down to Gainsborough Manor, to see if I 
could hear tidings of you there. Every time that 
I came home to Seaforth for a visit I took a week 
 
of my vacation and came here and hunted New 
York for you; always in vain." 
" The shortest way would have been to ask your 
father," said the colonel, still drily. 
"My father? I asked him, and he could tell me 
nothing. Why did you not leave us some clue by 
which to find you ? " 
" Clue ? " said the colonel. " What do you mean 
by clue? I have not hid myself." 
"But if your friends do not know where you 
are? " 
"Your father could have told you." 
" He did not know your address, sir. I asked 
him for it repeatedly." 
" Why did he not give it to you ? " said the 
colonel, throwing up his head like a war-horse. 
" He said you had not given it to him." 
" That is true since we came to this place. I have 
had no intercourse with Mr. Dallas for a long time; 
not since we moved into our present quarters; and 
our address here he does not know, I suppose. 
He ceased writing to me, and of course I ceased 
writing to him. From you we have never heard 
at all, since we came to New York." 
" But I wrote, sir," said Pitt in growing embarrassment and bewilderment. " I wrote repeatedly." 
" What do you suppose became of your letters?" 
" I cannot say. I wrote letter after letter, till 
getting no answer I was obliged to think it was in 
vain; and I too stopped writing." 
" Where did you direct your letters ? " 
"Not to your address here, which I did not 
know. I enclosed them to my father, supposing 
he did know it, and begged him to forward 
them." 
" I never got them," said the colonel, with that 
same dry accentuation. It implied doubt of some 
body ; and could Pitt blame him ? He kept a mortified silence for a few minutes. He felt terribly put 
in the wrong, and undeservedly ; and but he tried 
not to think. 
"I am afraid to ask, what you thought of me, 
sir?" 
" Well, I confess I thought it was not just like 
the old William Dallas that I used to know; or 
rather, not like the young William. I supposed 
you had grown old; and with age comes wisdom. 
That is the natural .course of things." 
"You did me injustice, Col. Gainsborough." 
" I .am willing to think it. But it is somewhat 
difficult." 
" Take my word at least for this. I have never 
forgotten. I have never neglected. I sought for 
you as long as possible, and in every way that was 
possible, whenever I was in this country. I left off 
writing, but it was because writing seemed useless. 
I have come now in pursuance of my old promise; 
come on the mere chance of finding you; which 
however I was determined to do." 
"Your promise ? " 
"You surely remember? The promise I made 
you, that I would come to look for you when I was 
 
free, and if I was not so happy as to find you, would 
take care of Esther." 
" Well, I am here yet," said the colonel meditatively. " I did not expect it, but here I am. You 
are quit of your promise." 
" I have not desired that, sir." 
" Well, that count is disposed of, and I am glad 
to see you." (But Pitt did not feel the truth of the 
declaration.) " Now tell me about yourself." 
In response to which followed a long account of 
Pitt's past, present, and future, so far as his worldly 
affairs and condition were concerned and so far as 
his own plans and purposes dealt with both. The 
colonel listened, growing more and more interested; 
thawed out a good deal in his manner; yet main 
tained on the whole an indifferent apartness which 
was not in accordance with the old times and the 
liking he then certainly cherished for his young 
friend. Pitt could not help the feeling that; Col. 
Gainsborough wished him away. It began to grow 
dark, and he must bring this visit to an end. 
" May I see Esther ? " he asked, after a slight 
pause in the consideration of this fact, and with a 
change of tone which a mother's ear would have 
noted, and which perhaps Col. Gainsborough's was 
jealous enough to note. The answer had to be 
waited for a second or two. 
" Not to-night," he said a little hurriedly. " Not 
to-night. You may see her to-morrow." 
Pitt could not understand his manner, and wont 
away with half a frown and half a smile upon 
his face, after saying that he would call in the 
