A time comes to every one of us when we can't help 
ourselves, and then we must get others to help us. 
If people turn to me at such a time, I feel sure that 
I was put into the world for something if nothing 
more than to give my pity, my sympathy." 
The brotherly words, so plain, so sincere, had a 
welcome in them that these poor outcasts of sorrow 
could not doubt. 
"Yes," said Lapham huskily, and his wife began 
to wipe the tears again under her veil. 
Sewell remained silent, and they waited till he 
should speak. " We can be of use to one another 
here, because we can always be wiser for some one 
else than we can for ourselves. We can see 
another's sins and errors in a more merciful light 
. and that is always a fairer light than we can 
our own ; and we can look more sanely at others' 
 
afflictions." He had addressed these words to 
Lapham ; now he turned to his wife. " If some 
one had come to you, Mrs. Lapham, in just this 
perplexity, what would you have thought ? " 
" I don't know as I understand you," faltered 
Mrs. Lapham. 
Sewell repeated his words, and added, " I mean, 
what do you think some one else ought to do in 
your place ? " 
" Was there ever any poor creatures in such a 
strait before ? " she asked, with pathetic incredulity. 
" There 's no new trouble under the sun," said 
the minister. 
" Oh, if it was any one else, I should say I 
should say Why, of course ! I should say that 
their duty was to let " She paused. 
" One suffer instead of three, if none is to blame ?" 
suggested Sewell. " That 's sense, and that 's justice. 
It 's the economy of pain which naturally suggests 
itself, and which would insist upon itself, if we were 
not all perverted by traditions which are the figment 
of the shallowest sentimentality. Tell me, Mrs. 
Lapham, didn't this come into your mind when you 
first learned how matters stood ? " 
"Why, yes, it flashed across me. But I didn't 
think it could be right." 
" And how was it with you, Mr. Lapham ? " 
" Why, 'that 's what I thought, of course. But I 
didn't see my way " 
" No," cried the minister, " we are all blinded, we. 
are all weakened by "a false ideal of self-sacrifice. It 
 
wraps us round with its meshes, and we can't fight 
our way out of it. Mrs. Lapham, what made you 
feel that it might be better for three to suffer than 
one f ' 
"Why, she did herself. I know she would die 
sooner than take him away from her." 
" I supposed so ! " cried the minister bitterly. 
" And yet she is a sensible girl, your daughter ?" 
" She has more common-sense " 
" Of course ! But in such a case we somehow 
think it must be wrong to use our common-sense. 
I don't know where this false ideal comes from, 
unless it comes from the novels that befool and 
debauch almost every intelligence in some degree. 
It certainly doesn't come from Christianity, which 
instantly repudiates it when confronted with it. 
Your daughter believes, in spite of her common- 
sense, that she ought to make herself and the man 
who loves her unhappy, in order to assure the life 
long wretchedness of her sister, whom he doesn't 
love, simply because her sister saw him and fancied 
him first ! And I 'm sorry to say that ninety-nine 
young people out of a hundred oh, nine hundred 
and ninety-nine out of a thousand ! would consider 
that noble and beautiful and heroic ; whereas you 
know at the bottom of your hearts that it would be 
foolish and cruel and revolting. You know what 
marriage is ! And what it must be without love on 
both sides." 
The minister had grown quite heated and red in 
the face. 
 SILAS LAPHAM. 
" I lose all patience !" he went on vehemently. 
" This poor child of yours has somehow been brought 
to believe that it will kill her sister if her sister does 
not have what does not belong to her, and what it 
is not in the power of all the world, or any soul in 
the world, to give her. Her sister will suffer yes, 
keenly ! in heart and in pride ; but she will not die. 
You will suffer too, in your tenderness for her ; but 
you must do your duty. You must help her to give 
up. You would be guilty if you did less. Keep 
clearly in mind that you are doing right, and the 
only possible good. And God be with you !" 
XIX. 
" HE talked sense, Persis," said Lapham gently, as 
he mounted to his wife's side in the buggy and drove 
slowly homeward through the dusk. 
"Yes, he talked sense," she admitted. But she 
added bitterly, " I guess, if he had it to do ! Oh, 
he 's right, and it 's got to be done. There ain't any 
other way for it. It 's sense ; and, yes, it 's justice." 
They walked to their door after they left the horse 
at the livery stable around the corner, where Lapham 
kept it. " I want you should send Irene up to our 
room as soon as we get in, Silas." 
"Why, ain't you going to have any supper first ?" 
faltered Lapham with his latch-key in the lock. 
"No. I can't lose a minute. If I do, I shan't do 
it at all." 
" Look here, Persis," said her husband tenderly, 
"let rtw do this thing." 
"Oh, you!" said his wife, with a woman's com 
passionate scorn for a man's helplessness in such a 
case. " Send her right up. And I shall feel 
She stopped to spare him. 
Then she opened the door, and ran up to her 
room without waiting to speak to Irene, who had 
come into the hall at the sound of her father's key 
in the door. 
" I guess your mother wants to see you upstairs," 
said Lapham, looking away. 
Her mother turned round and faced the girl's 
wondering look as Irene entered the chamber, so 
close upon her that she had not yet had time to lay 
off her bonnet ; she stood with her wraps still on 
her arm. 
" Irene ! " she said harshly, " there is something 
you have got to bear. It 's a mistake we 've all 
made. He don't care anything for you. He never 
did. He told Pen so last night. He cares for her." 
The sentences had fallen like blows. But the girl 
had taken them without flinching. She stood up 
immovable, but the delicate rose-liglit of her com 
plexion went out and left her colourless. She did 
not offer to speak. 
" Why don't you say something ? " cried her 
mother. " Do you want to kill me, Irene ? " 
" Why should I want to hurt you, mamma ? " the 
girl replied steadily, but in an alien voice. " There's 
nothing to say. I want to see Pen a minute.' 
She turned and left the room. As she mounted 
the stairs that led to her own and her sister's rooms 
on the floor above, her mother helplessly followed. 
Irene went first to her own room at the front of the 
house, and then came out leaving the door open and 
the gas flaring behind her. The mother could see 
that she had tumbled many things out of the drawers 
of her bureau upon the marble top. 
 
She passed her mother, where she stood in the 
entry. " You can come too, if you want to, 
mamma," she said. 
She opened Penelope's door without knocking, 
and went in. Penelope sat at the window, as in the 
morning. Irene did not go to her ; but she went 
and laid a gold hair-pin on her bureau, and said, 
without looking at her, " There 's a pin that I got 
to-day, because it was like his sister's. It won't be 
come a dark person so well, but you can have it." 
She stuck a scrap of paper in the side of Pene 
lope's mirror. " There 's that account of Mr. 
Stanton's ranch. You 'll want to read it, I pre 
sume." 
She laid a withered boutonnikre on the bureau 
beside the pin. " There 's his button-hole bouquet. 
He left it by his plate, and I stole it" 
She had a pine-shaving fantastically tied up with 
a knot of ribbon, in her hand. She held it a 
moment; then, looking deliberately at Penelope, 
she went up to her, and dropped it in her lap with 
out a word. She turned, and, advancing a few steps, 
tottered and seemed about to fall. 
Her mother sprang forward with an imploring 
cry, " 'Rene, 'Rene, 'Rene ! " 
Irene recovered herself before her mother could 
reach her. "Don't touch me," she said icily. 
" Mamma, I 'm going to put on my things. I want 
papa to walk with me. I 'm choking here." 
" I I can't let you go out, Irene, child," began 
