gentlemen, of course; they never worked with their hands. But the
Puritans were blacksmiths and ploughmen and wood-choppers--anything and
everything; I knew how to bring this all out--make a picture of it.
'Think what their hands must have been!' I used to say" (and here her
weak voice took on for a moment its old crispness of
enunciation)--"'what great coarse red things, with stiff, stubby
fingers, gashed by the axe, hardened by digging, roughened and cracked
by the cold. Estimable men they were, no doubt; heroic--as much as you
like. But gentlemen they were not.' I have said it hundreds of times.
For those idle, tiresome, wicked old Dueros, Margaret (the English
Thornes too, for that matter), were Garda's ancestors, and the right to
talk about them was the only thing the poor child had inherited;
naturally I made the most of it. They were the feature of this
neighborhood, of course--those Spaniards, I knew that; I had imagination
enough to appreciate it far more, I think, than the very people who were
born here. I made everything of it, this feature; I learned the history
and all the beliefs and ideas. I always hoped to get hold of some
northerners to whom I could tell it, tell it in such a way that it would
be of use to us, make a background for Garda some time. That's all
ended; I have never had the proper chance, and now of course never
shall. But at least I can tell you, Margaret, now that it is all over,
that in my heart I have always hated the whole thing--that in my heart I
have always ranked the lowest Puritan far, far above the very finest
Spaniard they could muster. They didn't work with their hands, these
knights and gentlemen; and why? Because they caught the poor Indians and
made them work for them; because they imported Human Flesh, they dealt
in negro slaves!" It was startling to see the faded blue eyes send forth
such a flash, a flash of the old abolitionist fire, which for a moment
made them young and brilliant again.
Margaret tried to soothe her. "It is nothing," said Mrs. Thorne, smiling
faintly and relapsing into quiet.
But the next day Melissa Whiting blazed forth anew. "I detest every
vestige of those old ideas of theirs; I hate the pride and shiftlessness
of all this land. I am attached to our friends here, of course; they
have always been kind to me. But--it is written! They will go down,
down, they and all who are like unto them; already they belong to the
Past. Their country here will be opened up, improved; but not by them.
It will be made modern, made rich under their very eyes; but not by
them. It will be filled with new people, new life; but they will get no
benefit from it, their faces will always be turned the other way. They
will dwindle in numbers, but they will not change; generations must
pass before the old leaven will be worn out. Could I leave Garda to
that? Could I die, knowing that she would live over there on Patricio,
on that forlorn Ruiz plantation, or down the river in that tumble-down
house of the Girons--that Manuel with his insufferable airs, or that
wooden Torres with his ridiculous pride, would be all she should ever
know of life and happiness--my beautiful, beautiful child? I could not,
Margaret; I could not." Her eyes were wet.
"But she is not to be left to them," said Margaret.
"No; you have saved me from that," responded the mother, gratefully. She
put out her hand and took Margaret's for a moment; then relinquished it.
The brief clasp would have seemed cold to their southern friends; but it
expressed all that was necessary between these two northerners.
Another day the sick woman resumed her retrospect, she spoke of her
early life. "I was a poor school-teacher, you know; I had no near
relatives, no home, I was considered to have made a wonderful match when
I married as I did. Everybody was astonished at my good luck--perfectly
astonished; they couldn't comprehend how it had happened. When they
knew, in New Bristol, that I was to marry Mr. Edgar Thorne, of Florida;
that I was to be taken down to an old Spanish plantation which had been
in his family for generations; that I was to live there in luxury, and
'a tropical climate'--they all came to see me again, to look at me; they
seemed to think that I must have changed in some way, that I couldn't be
the same Melissa Whiting who had taught their district school. At New
Bristol the snow in the winter is four feet deep. At New Bristol
everybody is busy, and everybody is poor. But I was to live among
palm-trees in a place called Gracias-รก-Dios; I was to go down by sea;
roses bloomed there at Christmas-time, and oranges were to be had for
the asking. Gracias-รก-Dios is very far from New Bristol, Margaret,"
said Melissa Whiting, pausing. "It's all the distance between a real
place and an ideal one. I know how far that is!"
She was silent for some minutes; then she went on. "My elevation--for it
seemed that at New Bristol--was like a fairy story; I presume they are
telling it still. But if I hadn't you behind me, Margaret, I would put
Garda back there in all the snow, I would put her back in my old red
school-house on the hill (only she wouldn't know how to teach, poor
child!)--I would do it in a moment, I say, if I had the power, rather
than leave her here among the 'roses,' the 'oranges,' and the 'palms.'"
(Impossible to give the accent with which she pronounced these words.)
"I don't say my husband wasn't kind to me; he was very kind; but--the
Old Madam was here! He only lived a short time; and then, more than
ever, the Old Madam was here! Well, I did the best I could--you must
give me that credit: there was Garda to think of, and I had no other
home. It's so unfortunate to be poor, Margaret--have you ever thought of
it?--unfortunate, I mean, for the disposition. So many people could be
as amiable and agreeable and yielding as any one, if they only had a
little more money--just a little more! I could have been, I know. But
how could I be yielding when I had everything on my hands? Oh! you have
no idea how I have worked! We had no income to live upon, Garda and I,
there hasn't been any for a long time; we have had the house and
furniture, the land, Pablo and Raquel,--that's all. We have lived on the
things that we had, the things that came off the place, with what Pablo
has been able to shoot, and the fish and oysters from the creeks and
lagoon. The few supplies which one is obliged to buy, such as tea and
coffee, I have got by selling our oranges; I have taken enormous pains
with the oranges on that account. The same way with Garda's shoes and
gloves; I couldn't make shoes and gloves, though I confess I did try.
Then, if any one broke a pane of glass, that took money; and there were
a few other little things. But, with these exceptions, I have tried to
do everything myself, and manage without spending. I have kept all the
furniture in repair; I have painted and varnished and cleaned with my
own hands; I learned to mend the crockery and even the tins. I have made
almost everything that Garda and I have worn, of course; I braid the
palmetto hats we both wear; I have dyed and patched and turned and
darned--oh! you haven't a conception! Some of the table-cloths are
nothing but darns. I could put in myself the new panes of glass, after
they were once bought. And, every month or two, I have had to mend the
roof, to keep it from leaking; generally I did that at sunrise, but I
have done it, too, on moonlight nights, late, when no one was likely to
come. Then, every single day, I have had to begin all over again with
Pablo and Raquel. Three times every week I have had to go out myself and
stand over Pablo to see that he did as I wished about the orange-trees.
Always the very same things; but we have been at it in this way for
years! Every day of my life I have had to go out and see with my own
eyes whether Raquel had wiped off the shelves; three hundred and
sixty-five times each year, for seventeen years, she has pretended to
forget it."
She lay silent, as if reviewing it all. "Perhaps I have been
over-thorough," she resumed. "But somehow I couldn't help it,
thoroughness has always been my mania. It has taken me to great
lengths--I see it now; it has made burdens where there needn't have been
any. Still, I couldn't have helped it, Margaret; I really don't think I
could. After sweeping, I always used to go down on my hands and knees
and dust the carpets with a cloth. And I used to pick up every seed that
Dick, my canary, had dropped. Dear little Dick, how I cried when he
died!--he was the last northern thing I had left; yet, would you believe
it? I pretended I didn't care for him, that I was tired of his singing.
I pretended I preferred the mocking-birds. Mocking-birds!" repeated
Melissa Whiting, with whispered but scathing contempt.
She came back to the subject of her thoroughness when Margaret paid her
next visit. "It has been a hard task-master; I have been thinking it
over," she said. "Still, without it, should I have got on as well even
as I have? I don't believe I should. Take the way I have made myself
over--made myself a Thorne. I couldn't have lived here at all as I was,
there was no room for Melissa Whiting. I saw that; and so, while I was
about it, I made the change complete. Oh yes, I was very complete! I
swallowed everything. I even swallowed slavery,--I, a New England
girl,--what do you say to that?--a New England girl, abolitionist to the
core! It was the most heroic thing I ever did in my life. Very likely
you don't think so, but it was. For, never for one instant were my real
feelings altered, my real beliefs changed--I couldn't have changed them
if I had tried. And I could have died for them at any moment, if I had
been called upon to do so, though I was playing such a part. But I
wasn't called upon, and so I made them stay down; I covered every inch
of myself with a southern skin. But if any one thinks that it was easy
or pleasant, let him try it--that's all!"
"When the war began," she went on, "I remember how much more clearly
reasoned out were my views of the southern side of the question than
were those of the southerners themselves about here. They were as warm
as possible in their feelings, of course, but they hadn't studied the
subject as I had, got their reasons into shape; so it ended in their
borrowing my reasons! But every night through all that time, Margaret,
on my knees I prayed for my own people, and I used to read the accounts
of the northern victories--when I could get them--with an inward shout;
never once, never once, had I a doubt of the final success."
"It's a curious story, isn't it?" Margaret said to Winthrop, when she
repeated to him some of these confidences. "She wished me to tell you,
she asked me to do so; she said she should like to have you understand
her life."
"Does she expect me to admire it?" said Winthrop, rather surprised
himself to feel how quickly the old heat could rise in his throat again
when confronted with a tale like this. For the southern women, who had
everywhere suffered so much, given so much, and lost their all, he had
nothing but the tenderest pity. But a northern woman who had joined
their cause--that seemed to him apostasy. That the apostasy had been but
pretence only made it worse.
"She expects you to remember her motive for it, after she is gone,"
Margaret answered.
"Her motive can't make me like it. Even in the midst of her mistakes,
however, she has been a wonderful little creature. But you say 'after
she is gone'--do you think her worse, then? I thought she was so much
better."
"So she is better. But she will fail again; at least that is what she
thinks herself, and I cannot help fearing she is right."
"I am very sorry to hear it." He seemed to have the idea that she would
say more; and he waited. But she did not speak.
"I suppose, then, you have had some further talk about Garda?" he said
at last, breaking the pause.
"Yes."
"You would rather not tell me?"
