So Elizabeth, alive with the instinct of haste, entered 
the demoralized vehicle. 
'You must tell me just what it is," she said, when 
they were fairly on their rattling way. ' Don't try to 
make me more comfortable by deceiving me." 
'The doctor says it's only pneumony," said Si, 
soothingly, using the whip with emphasis. ' You see, 
Philip's acted like a crazed one, lately. He got a 
master cold coughin' and barkin' round for a week, he 
was and then he took to staying out doors and hanging
round the shore till he got powerful bad. An' I guess 
he had a hard row to fetch his breath last night." 
Elizabeth's came in one quick sob ; all other sorrow 
was effaced, and nothing seemed real and vital but her 
old devotion to Philip, as it had been when there was no 
paramount affection to overshadow it. Her life re- 
bounded a year, to the absorption of old ties. 
Mrs. Nye, like most women who endure and are 
patient, was a marvel of self-possession in illness. The 
habit of silence helped her there. But the unexpected 
sight of Elizabeth broke up her calmness ; her face 
changed, convulsively. 
" How is he, mother ? ' whispered Elizabeth, when 
they could both speak. 
;< Bad, very bad. You mustn't expect any thing." 
The girl felt her heart die within her at the hopeless 
tone. Taking off her hat, she went in to see him, and 
Philip, painfully struggling for breath, was at once 
radiant. A slight quiver passed over Grandmother's 
face. Older, her countenance more deeply lined, she 
sat by the bedside, slowly waving a large palm-leaf 
fan. She gave her place to Elizabeth, and the day's 
watching went on. Philip was not quite himself. The 
suffocation of the disease so oppressed him that he 
could not waste effort in speech or looks. Once he 
whispered, painfully, ( Betty, my play is almost ready. 
Could you finish copying it ?" 
'Yes, dear," said Elizabeth, feeling her own throat 
aching with the tears that must not come. 
The story of a sickness to death is always the same 
in substance, and need never be told. Philip died 
that night in an agony of struggle. 
When it was over, and they looked into one another's 
eyes across the bed, the supreme cup of solemn grief 
seemed to have touched their lips. Elizabeth had 
suffered keenly, but how was that rage of jealous 
anger to affect her life like this sweet and solemn 
mystery ? We step out of our earthly garments in the 
presence of death, and make holy resolves to live hence- 
forth in the shadow of its wonder. 
In her first calm moment, she repented that she had 
not meant to stay with her husband and be at her best, 
 
in spite of the worst circumstances. How, she did not 
know, but great things seem easy at great moments. 
That lesson of tenderness taught always by the dead 
prompted her to telegraph Oswald at once. 
" Philip is dead. Will you come ? ' 
Perhaps he would think she had been called home 
by the event ; it might be better so. She was sorcy 
for even the just resentment of her life. 
There were neighbors in the kitchen when Philip 
died, sitting like mute statues of country life, now 
and then exchanging a subdued whisper. That was a 
custom in Stratford. . It was the custom, too, at such 
times, to throng the room of the dying, watching the 
failing breath with mournful interest. But Elizabeth 
had steadily kept them out. Nobody should enter 
that inner circle who had not the right of love. 
It was Mrs. Nye who first remembered to rise from 
the watch no longer needed. 
' Grandmother," Elizabeth said in a whisper, touch- 
ing her shoulder. :< Come." 
The old lady looked up with a face carrying dread 
to the two who had never before seen it moved, except 
by anger. 
: Thirty years ago," she said, in a moaning voice, 
" Jeremiah died, and it's all brought back again." 
Elizabeth led her away with a tenderness she did not 
resent, perhaps because she saw nothing but shadows 
from the past and heard only the echoes of their 
voices. 
Sha'n't we send for Mr. Kewe ? ' asked Mrs. Nye, 
when preparations were being made for the funeral. 
;< I think not, mother. He is very busy." 
Oswald neither came nor wrote. There was much 
" thinking strange " of it in Stratford. People augured 
ill for Elizabeth's happiness. Grandmother asked no 
questions, and Mrs. Nye was roused to interest by no 
earthly circumstance. She seemed stricken, and lean- 
ed heavily on Elizabeth, who, it mercifully happened, 
had to think constantly of others. 
CHAPTER XXVIII. 
BEFORE Victoria was half way home she began to 
JD hate Elizabeth as much as she pitied her. Do 
not mistake her motive in denying Oswald, for one 
higher than it really was. It was nothing more than 
generosity. If she could have been convinced that he 
had made an unfortunate and mistaken marriage, one 
that his wife regretted as much as he, she would 
have said, in all honor and honesty, ' Come with me 
and be true to me. You have been deluded by a show 
and a phantom. If there are reasons why the laws of 
your country will not release you nay, if you choose 
not to ask their interposition trust as I do in the leg- 
islation of our own souls. Choose, in the face of the 
world, what is higher than the world." 
You may have known at least one instance of such 
arrogance of truth, of one to whom the spirit is so im- 
measurably superior to the letter of the law that this 
last is ignored. Face to face with her embodied 
theories, Victoria stopped, aghast. When Oswald said 
" Come ! " her heart cried, " I follow." It would still 
own its allegiance, in spite of the sorely perplexed and 
tortured conscience, but in the way stood the pale, 
sweet woman" whom she must wrong. And she would 
wrong no one. Nay, to do so was to destroy the very 
right she had of obeying her heart. In the first days 
that followed, she did not consider whether Oswald 
was to be blamed or not, for deceiving her. They both 
seemed so wretchedly unfortunate, that perhaps she 
tacitly allowed him, too, to have been deceived. 
The night after she left him was first a blank staring 
of life in the face, then a haste of packing and making 
ready to be away in the morning, before he should come. 
She knew he would come, though she had forbidden 
it ; she shivered with fear at the thought of again hav- 
ing to withstand his entreaties. It was not dread of 
further suffering. Any thing would be easier to bear 
than silence and forgetfulness, but she feared herself. 
Instinctively, she knew that his voice and eyes could 
put a new construction on what she felt to be irre- 
vocable, and she shrank from the unnecessary pain of 
having to cling to her convictions against his will and 
her own heart. She saw the barrier between them, 
and to deny him when he urged her to leap that bar- 
rier with him, would demand more strength than the 
poor young creature felt herself possessed of. Sup- 
pose fair Ellen's conscience had been inconveniently 
active, would young Lochinvar's telegraphic persuasion 
have proved an unmitigated relief to her ? 
Early that morning, she went with her trunks to a 
hotel at the other end of the city, anxious to be as far 
as possible from the place where he would expect to 
find her. Then she wrote two notes, one to Mr. 
Rose, giving her present address, and, with no reason, 
charging him to keep it a secret. The shorter the word 
she had promised Oswald, the more easily could it be 
written. Pity and love begged to be heard, but she- 
thrust them back. 
" You must never come near me or write to me. 
 
cannot be changed, so do not trouble me. You must 
make her happy. It hurts me most to think how we 
have wronged her." 
Oswald, as she had expected, did not wait for 
a message, but was early at her rooms. Daylight 
had simplified matters for him. Nothing looked 
as tragic as it had, the night before. He did not 
feel himself as hopelessly at the mercy of two 
jealous women, and, as a result of having been so, he 
was aware of a touch of provocation that acted as a 
wonderful tonic. Victoria's delirium would have 
cooled, as his own had done. And his wife ? He had 
not yet reached the point of deciding upon her dis- 
posal. He was in the habit of feeling that if a rela- 
tion had ceased to be necessary to him, it had ceased 
to exist. Inconvenient encumbrances always dropped 
away of themselves, like dead leaves. He would not 
waste thought on the manner of their going. The 
morning was fine, and with the accompanying courage 
which attends an access of keener animal vigor, he felt 
himself master of the situation. He thought of Vic- 
toria and the strait she had put him in, with a half- 
resentful pride in her. Fierce, beautiful creature ! Do 
you, sir, think the worse of your horse because he cur- 
vets and shies occasionally, if you are convinced that 
his neck is thereby arched and his nostrils dilated, 
even when you know your own bones are in some slight 
danger ? When Oswald reached the door on Tremont 
