knowing that no power would induce Nehushta to 
accompany her. But one thought filled Nehushta's 
mind in her instantaneous comprehension of the 
truth ; she must find Zoroaster, and warn him of the 
danger. They would have time to fly together, yet. 
Atossa must have known how to time her flight, since 
the plot v/as hers, and she had not yet been many 
minutes upon the road. 
Through the garden she ran, and up the broad 
steps to the portico. Slaves were moving about 
under the colonnade, leisurely lighting the great 
torches that burned there all night. They had not 
heard the strange cries from the hills; or, hearing 
only a faint echo, had paid no attention to the 
sound. 
 
Nehushta paused, breathless with running. As 
she realised the quiet that reigned in the palace, 
where the slaves went about their duties as though 
nothing had occurred, or were likely to occur, it 
seemed to her as though she must have been dream- 
ing. It was impossible that if there were any real 
danger, it should not have become known at least to 
some one of the hundreds of slaves who thronged the 
outer halls and corridors. Moreover there were 
numerous scribes and officers connected with the 
government; some few nobles whom Darius had left 
behind when he went to Shushan ; there were their 
wives and families residing in various parts of the 
palace and in the buildings below it, and there was a 
strong detachment of Persian guards. If there were 
danger, some one must have known it. 
She did not know that at that moment the inhabi- 
tants of the lower palace were already alarmed, while 
some were flying, leaving everything behind, in their 
haste to reach the fortress higher up the valley. 
Everything seemed quiet where she was, and she de- 
termined to go alone in search of Zoroaster, without 
raising any alarm. Just as she entered the doorway 
of the great hall, she heard the cry again echoing 
behind her through the valley. It was as much as 
she could do to control the terror that again took 
hold of her at the dreaded sound, as she passed the 
files of bowing slaves, and went in between the two 
tall spearmen who guarded the inner entrance, and 
grounded their spears with military precision as she 
went by. 
She had one slave whom she trusted more than the 
 
rest. It was the little Syrian maid, who was half a 
Hebrew. 
" Go," she said quickly, in her own tongue. " Go 
in one direction and 1 will go in another, and search 
out Zoroaster, the high priest, and bring him to my 
chamber. I also will search, but if I find him not, I 
will wait for thee there." 
The dark girl turned and ran through the halls, 
swift as a startled fawn, to fulfil her errand, and 
Nehushta went another way upon her search. She 
was ashamed to ask for Zoroaster. The words of her 
enemy were still ringing in her ears — " alone with 
your lover ; " it might be the common talk of the 
court for all she knew. She went silently on her 
way. She knew where Zoroaster dwelt. The curtain 
of his simple chamber was thrown aside and a faint 
light burned in the room. It was empty ; a scroll 
lay open upon the floor beside a purple cushion, as 
he had left it, and his long white mantle lay tossed 
upon the couch which served him for a bed. 
She gazed lovingly for one moment into the open 
chamber, and then went on through the broad corri- 
dor, dimly lighted everywhere with small oil lamps. 
She looked into the council chamber and it was 
deserted. The long rows of double seats were empty, 
and gleamed faintly in the light. High upon the 
dais at the end, a lamp burned above the carved chair 
of ivory and gold, whereon the king sat when the 
council was assembled. There was no one there. 
Farther on, the low entrance to the treasury was 
guarded by four spearmen, whose arms clanged upon 
the floor as the queen passed. But she saw that the 
 
massive bolts and the huge square locks upon them 
were in their places. There was no one within. In 
the colomiade beyond, a few nobles stood talking 
carelessly together, waiting for their evening meal to 
be served them in a brightly illuminated hall, of 
which the doors stood wide open to admit the cool 
air of the coming night. The magnificently-arrayed 
courtiers made a low obeisance and then stood in 
astonishment as the queen went by. She held up her 
head and nodded to them, trying to look as though 
nothing disturbed her. 
On and on she went through the whole wing, till 
she came to her own apartment. Not so much as 
one white-robed priest had she seen upon all her long 
search. Zoroaster was certainly not in the portion of 
the palace through which she had come. Entering 
her own chambers, she looked round for the little 
Syrian maid, but she had not returned. 
Unable to bear the suspense any longer, she hastily 
despatched a second slave in search of the chief priest 
— a Median woman, who had been with her in 
Ecbatana. 
It seemed as though the minutes were lengthened 
to hours. Nehushta sat with her hands pressed to 
her temples, that throbbed as though the fever would 
burst her brain, and the black fan-girl plied the palm- 
leaf with all her might, thinking that her mistress 
suffered from the heat. The other women she dismissed ; and she sat waiting beneath the soft light of 
the perfumed lamp, the very figure and incarnation 
of anxiety. 
Something within her told her that she was in 
 
great and imminent danger, and the calm she had 
seen in the palace could not allay in her mind the 
terror of that unearthly cry she had heard three times 
from the hills. As she thought of it, she shuddered, 
and the icy fear seemed to run through all her limbs, 
chilling the marrow in her bones, and freezing her 
blood suddenly in its mad course. 
'' Left alone with your lover " — " it is the cry of 
your fate " — Atossa's words kept ringing in her ears 
like a knell — the knell of a shameful death ; and as 
she went over the bitter taunts of her enemy, her 
chilled pulses beat again more feverishly than before. 
She could not bear to sit still, but rose and paced the 
room in intense agitation. Would they never come 
back, those dallying slave-women ? 
The fan-girl tried to follow her mistress, and her 
small red eyes watched cautiously every one of Ne- 
hushta's movements. But the queen waved her off 
and the slave went and stood beside the chair where 
she had sat, her fan hanging idly in her hand. At 
that moment, the Median woman entered the cham- 
ber. 
"Where is he?" asked Nehushta, turning suddenly 
upon her. 
The woman made a low obeisance and answered 
in trembling tones : 
" They say that the high priest left the palace two 
hours ago, with the queen Atossa. They say " 
" Thou liest ! " cried Nehushta vehemently, and her 
face turned white, as she stamped her foot upon the 
black marble pavement. The Avoman sprang back 
with a cry of terror, and ran towards the door. She 
 
had never seen her mistress so angry. But Nehushta 
called her back. 
"Come hither — what else do they say?" she 
asked, controlling herself as best she could. 
" They say that the wild riders of the eastern desert 
are descending from the hills," answered the slave 
hurriedly and almost under her breath. " Every one 
is flying — everything is in confusion — I hear them 
even now, hurrying to and fro in the courts, the 
soldiers " 
But, even as she spoke, an echo of distant voices 
and discordant cries came through the curtains of the 
door from without, the rapid, uneven tread of people 
running hither and thither in confusion, the loud 
voices of startled men and the screams of frightened 
women — all blending together in a wild roar that 
grew every moment louder. 
Just then, the little Syrian maid came running in, 
almost tearing the curtains from their brazen rods as 
she thrust the hangings aside. She came and fell 
breathless at Nehushta's feet and clasped her knees. 
" Fly, fly, beloved mistress," she cried, " the devils 
of the mountains are upon us — they cover the hills 
— they are closing every entrance — the people in 
the lower palace are all slain " 
"Where is Zoroaster?" In the moment of su- 
preme danger, Nehushta grew calm, and her senses 
were restored to her again. 
" He is in the temple with the priests — by this 
time he is surely slain — he could know of nothing 
that is going on — fly, fly!" cried the poor Syrian 
girl in an agony of terror. 
 
