As he watched the children playing together, the artist, having no great
work in hand, made several pretty sketches of them, and then had a fine
idea of painting the garden scene where Fay first talked to Johnny.  It
pleased his fancy, and the little people sat for him nicely; so he made
a charming thing of it, putting in the cat, dog, bird, and toad as the
various characters in Shakspeare’s lovely play, while the flowers were
the elves, peeping and listening in all manner of merry, pretty ways.
He called it "Little Pyramus and Thisbe," and it so pleased a certain
rich lady that she paid a large price for it; and then, discovering that
it told a true story, she generously added enough to send Johnny and his
mother to the country, when Fay and her father were ready to go.
But it was to a lovelier land than the boy had ever read of in his fairy
books, and to a happier life than mending shoes in the dingy court.  In
the autumn they all sailed gayly away together, to live for years in
sunny Italy, where Johnny grew tall and strong, and learned to paint
with a kind master and a faithful young friend, who always rejoiced that
she found and delivered him, thanks to the wonderful hole in the wall.
[Illustration: She got too lazy to care for anything but sleeping and
eating.  PAGE 219.]
                                   X.
                            THE PIGGY GIRL.
"I won’t be washed!  I won’t be washed!" screamed little Betty, kicking
and slapping the maid who undressed her one night.
"You ’d better go and live with the pigs, dirty child," said Maria,
scrubbing away at two very grubby hands.
"I wish I could!  I love to be dirty,--I will be dirty!" roared Betty,
throwing the sponge out of the window and the soap under the table.
Maria could do nothing with her; so she bundled her into bed half wiped,
telling her to go to sleep right away.
"I won’t!  I ’ll go and live with Mrs. Gleason’s pigs, and have nothing
to do but eat and sleep, and roll in the dirt, and never, never be
washed any more," said Betty to herself.
She lay thinking about it and blinking at the moon for a while; then she
got up very softly, and crept down the back stairs, through the garden,
to the sty where two nice little pigs were fast asleep among the straw
in their small house. They only grunted when Betty crept into a corner,
laughing at the fun it would be to play piggy and live here with no
Maria to wash her and no careful mamma to keep saying,--
"Put on a clean apron, dear!"
Next morning she was waked up by hearing Mrs. Gleason pour milk into the
trough.  She lay very still till the woman was gone; then she crept out
and drank all she wanted, and took the best bits of cold potato and
bread for her breakfast, and the lazy pigs did not get up till she was
done.  While they ate and rooted in the dirt, Betty slept as long as she
liked, with no school, no errands, no patchwork to do.  She liked it,
and kept hidden till night; then she went home, and opened the little
window in the store closet, and got in and took as many good things to
eat and carry away as she liked.  She had a fine walk in her nightgown,
and saw the flowers asleep, heard the little birds chirp in the nest,
and watched the fireflies and moths at their pretty play.  No one saw
her but the cats; and they played with her, and hopped at her toes, in
the moonlight, and had great fun.
When she was tired she went to sleep with the pigs, and dozed all the
next day, only coming out to eat and drink when the milk was brought and
the cold bits; for Mrs. Gleason took good care of her pigs, and gave
them clean straw often, and kept them as nice as she could.
Betty lived in this queer way a long time, and soon looked more like a
pig than a little girl; for her nightgown got dirty, her hair was never
combed, her face was never washed, and she loved to dig in the mud till
her hands looked like paws.  She never talked, but began to grunt as the
pigs did, and burrowed into the straw to sleep, and squealed when they
crowded her, and quarrelled over the food, eating with her nose in the
trough like a real pig.  At first she used to play about at night, and
steal things to eat; and people set traps to catch the thief in their
gardens, and the cook in her own house scolded about the rats that
carried off the cake and pies out of her pantry.  But by and by she got
too lazy and fat to care for anything but sleeping and eating, and never
left the sty.  She went on her hands and knees now, and began to wonder
if a little tail would n’t grow and her nose change to a snout.
All summer she played be a pig, and thought it good fun; but when the
autumn came it was cold, and she longed for her nice warm flannel
nightgown, and got tired of cold victuals, and began to wish she had a
fire to sit by and good buckwheat cakes to eat.  She was ashamed to go
home, and wondered what she should do after this silly frolic.  She
asked the pigs how they managed in winter; but they only grunted, and
she could not remember what became of them, for the sty was always empty
in cold weather.
One dreadful night she found out.  She was smuggled down between the
great fat piggies to keep warm; but her toes were cold, and she was
trying to pull the straw over them when she heard Mr. Gleason say to his
boy,--
"We must kill those pigs to-morrow.  They are fat enough; so come and
help me sharpen the big knife."
"Oh, dear, what will become of me?" thought Betty, as she heard the
grindstone go round and round as the knife got sharper and sharper.  "I
look so like a pig they will kill me too, and make me into sausages if I
don’t run away.  I ’m tired of playing piggy, and I ’d rather be washed
a hundred times a day than be put in a pork barrel."
So she lay trembling till morning; then she ran through the garden and
found the back door open.  It was very early, and no one saw her, for
the cook was in the shed getting wood to make her fire; so Betty slipped
upstairs to the nursery and was going to whisk into bed, when she saw in
the glass an ugly black creature, all rags and dirt, with rumpled hair,
and a little round nose covered with mud.
"Can it be me?" she said.  "How horrid I am!"  And she could not spoil
her nice white bed, but hopped into the bathtub and had a good
scrubbing.  Next she got a clean nightgown, and brushed her hair, and
cut her long nails, and looked like a tidy little girl again.
Then she lay down in her cosey crib with the pink cover and the lace
curtains, and fell fast asleep, glad to have clean sheets, soft
blankets, and her own little pillow once more.
"Come, darling, wake up and see the new frock I have got for you, and
the nice ruffled apron.  It’s Thanksgiving day, and all the cousins are
coming to dinner," said her mamma, with a soft kiss on the rosy cheek.
Betty started up, screaming,--
"Don’t kill me!  Oh, please don’t!  I ’m not a truly pig, I ’m a little
girl; and if you’ll let me run home, I ’ll never fret when I ’m washed
again."
"What is the dear child afraid of?" said mamma, cuddling her close, and
laughing to see Betty stare wildly about for the fat pigs and the stuffy
sty.
She told her mother all about the queer time she had had, and was much
surprised to hear mamma say,--
"It was all a dream, dear; you have been safely asleep in your little
bed ever since you slapped poor Maria last night."
"Well, I ’m glad I dreamed it, for it has made me love to be clean.
Come, Maria, soap and scrub as much as you like, I won’t kick and scream
ever any more," cried Betty, skipping about, glad to be safe in her
pleasant home and no longer a dirty, lazy piggy girl.
                                     XI.
                            THE THREE FROGS.
Hop, Croak, and Splash were three little frogs who lived in a pleasant
river, and had merry times swimming about or hopping on the green grass.
At night they sat on the bank and sung together, very sweetly they
thought; and if boats came by they skipped into the water, heels over
head, with a great splashing and noise.
Hop was not contented with this quiet life; he wanted to see the world,
and kept asking his brother Croak to go and travel with him.
"I ’m tired of poking about in this stupid river, with no fun but
leap-frog and singing.  I want to know what is over that hill, and I ’m
going to find out.  You can stay and doze in the mud if you please.  I
’ve got more spirit than that, and I ’m off."
So away went Hop, singing gayly,--
    "A frog he would a-wooing go,
    Whether his mammy would let him or no,
    With a roly-poly, gammon and spinach,
    Heigh-ho, said Anthony Rowley."
His good little sister Splash begged him to stay, for the world was full
of danger and he was too young to go alone.  But Hop told her not to
worry.  Girls ought to keep at home, for they could n’t take care of
themselves; but fine young fellows should see something of life before
they settled down.  His friend Turtle had invited him to go; and if such
a slow chap as Creeper could start on a journey, of course the best
jumper in the river would get on all right.
While he was saying good-by, the turtle had crept up the bank and was
well on his way to the road beyond.  Hop skipped after him; and when
they had got to the hill-top they stopped to rest,--Creeper in the road
on the warm sand, and Hop among some daisies close by.
"How big the world is!" he said, staring with his great eyes; for he had
never seen houses before, and the village looked as grand to him as
London would to us.  "I like it, and I know I shall have a splendid
time.  Come on, slow coach!  I see fountains over there, and want a good
drink."
Just as he spoke a cart came by; and before poor Creeper could get out
of the way, a wheel crushed him to death.
"Mercy on us! what horrid monsters those are!" cried Hop, leaping as
fast as his legs could take him into a garden near by, where he lay
trembling and scared half out of his wits.  He thought the cart was a
creature; and every time he heard the rumble of wheels his heart beat
and he clasped his hands in fear as he sat under the burdock leaves.  At
last it seemed so quiet he ventured out, and had a lovely time in the
nasturtium-bed, catching flies and playing bo-peep with a little bird.
Then he hopped to the grass-plot, where the sprinkler was whizzing
round, and took a refreshing bath.  He was just puffing his skin out and
winking with pleasure when a fat toad, who lived under the piazza, told
him very crossly to "clear out."
"You are a very rude old person, and I shall do as I like.  This is not
your garden; so you need n’t goggle at me," answered saucy Hop, opening
his wide mouth to laugh at the toad, who was so fat he could n’t take
long leaps like the lively frog.
"Very well, dandiprat, I shall call the cat; and she will make you skip,
unless you want that fine green jacket torn off your back by her sharp
claws," said the toad, hopping slowly away to the sunny corner where a
gray cat lay dozing.
"Pooh’!  I ’m not afraid," said Hop; for he had never seen a cat, and
thought the toad made it all up.
So he took a leisurely stroll down the walk, looking about him as if he
owned the whole garden.  Presently he saw a pretty little creature
playing with leaves, and hurried on to speak to it, being eager to find
friends in this pleasant place.  You see, when the toad told the cat
