in its most absolute and unquestioned form.
This state of beatitude is yet to be acquired; meanwhile, as Schiller
says, so long as philosophy does not govern the world, hunger and love
will suffice to keep it in motion. After the four causes of
contentment, Hartmann's views on the two incentives to activity remain
to be examined.
In regard to the first, it may be said without extravagance that the
sufferings of hunger rule the greater portion of the 1300 millions of
the earth's inhabitants. Europe not long since averaged a famine every
seven years; now, the facilities of communication have replaced famine
with an increased valuation of food. Death is the rarest and the least
important evil that hunger occasions; what is most to be regarded is
the physical and intellectual impoverishment, the mortality among
children, and the particular maladies which it engenders.
According to Hartmann, the analysis of hunger shows that in satisfying
its demands the individual does not raise his sensibility above a state
of pure indifference. He may, it is true, under favorable
circumstances, cause a certain pleasure to predominate over suffering
by means of taste and digestion; but in the animal kingdom, as in
humanity, taken as a whole, the tortures caused by hunger are greatly
in excess of any pleasures that may attach to it. In fact, from
Hartmann's standpoint, the necessity of eating is in itself a
misfortune.
After all that has been said through centuries of literature on the
subject of love, it is certainly difficult to be original; but Hartmann
has at least the merit of presenting it in a more abstract light, and
from a less alluring standpoint than any other writer who has handled
the subject. For love, according to his views, is either contrary to
the laws of society, and as such environed by perils and pains, vice
and degradation, or it is perfectly legal, and, in that case, quickly
extinguished. "In the majority of cases," he says, "insurmountable
obstacles arise between the two lovers and cause a consequent and
immense despair, while in the rarer and more fortunate instances the
expected happiness turns out to be purely illusory."
It is, however, as hard to love as it is not to love; but he (Hartmann)
says, "Who once recognizes that the happiness which it offers is but a
chimera, and that its pains are greater than its pleasures, will, while
unable perhaps to escape entirely from its allurements, be none the
less able to judge it differently from the novice, and therefore
capable of diminishing some of its suffering, and some of the
disproportion between its joys and its sorrows." According to this
savage moralist, then, love is either an illusory and quickly vanishing
happiness, or an actual suffering, and resembles hunger precisely in
that it is in itself and to the individual a veritable curse.
Hartmann judges marriage with an epigram borrowed from Lessing: "There
is, at most, but one disagreeable woman in the world; it is only a pity
that every man gets her for himself." In very much the same manner are
the ties of family and friendship weighed and judged. Scattered here
and there is some reflection of Schopenhauer's wit and wisdom, but
generally the discussion is defective, and lacks the grace of style and
purity of diction which characterized the latter writer. The sentiments
of honor, public esteem, ambition, and glory depend, he says, on the
opinion of others, and are therefore merely toys of the imagination,
"for my joys and troubles exist in my mind, and not in the minds of
other people. Their opinion concerning me has merely a conventional
value, and not one which is effective for me."
But to him who journeys through the desert called life, there is still
one suave and green oasis. Hartmann is not utterly relentless, and
though perhaps on all other subjects he may seem skeptical as a
ragpicker, he has yet a word or two of cheer for art and science. These
pleasant lands, however, are only traversable by rare and privileged
natures, for if from the pleasure which attaches to music, painting,
poetry, philosophy, and science, a deduction be made of all that which
is but sham, dilettanteism, and vanity, the more considerable part of
this supreme resource will be found to have disappeared. That which
remains over is the compensation which nature preserves as recompense
to the extreme sensibility of the artist and thinker, to whom the
miseries of life are far more poignant than to other men, whose
sensibilities are duller and less impressionable. Now, if the ubiquity
of suffering is admitted, the temperament of this latter class is, in
the long run, undoubtedly preferable to the more refined organization
of the artist; for, after all, a state of comparative insensibility is
evidently not too dearly bought, when the price is merely the lack of a
delight, whose absence is not a privation, and which, to those able to
appreciate it, is as rare as it is limited in duration. Moreover, even
the real and ineffaceable pleasures which the thinker and artist enjoy
are obtainable only after much trouble and discomfort.
Genius does not fall from the skies ready-made and complete in armor
and equipment; the study which is to develop it is a task painful and
tiresome, whose pleasures are rare, and, generally speaking, but those
of anticipation and vanquished obstacles. Each art has its mechanical
side, which demands a long apprenticeship; and even then, after the
preliminary preparation, the only pleasant moments are those of
conception, which, in turn, are directly succeeded by the long hours of
technical execution.
In the case of the amateur, the pleasure of listening to good music, of
seeing a fine actor, or of looking at works of art, is undoubtedly the
one that causes the least amount of inconvenience, and yet Hartmann is
not to be blamed for noting that even this pleasure is seldom
unalloyed. In the first place, there is the bother of going to the
picture-gallery; then there is the bad air and hubbub in the theatre;
after this come the dangers of catching cold, of being run into, or
annoyed in a dozen different ways, and especially the fatigue of
watching and listening.
In the case of the artist there are the inevitable deceptions; the
struggles with envy, the indifference and disdain of the public.
Chamfort was wont to exclaim, "The public indeed! how many idiots does
it take to make a public?" The public, nevertheless, has the ability to
make itself very disagreeable, and not every one courts its smile with
success. If, in addition to all these things, the nervous organization
of the thinker, more vibrant a thousandfold than that of other men, is
taken into consideration, it will be seen that Hartmann is not wrong in
stating that the pleasures to which this class is privileged are
expiated by a greater sensibility to pain.
But while art is not without its disadvantages, Hartmann declares that
life still holds one solace that is supreme and unalloyed. "Unconscious
sleep," he says, "is relatively the happiest condition, for it is the
only one from which pain is completely banished. With dreams, however,
all the miseries of life return; and happiness, when it then appears,
does so only in the vague form of an agreeable sensation, such as that
of being freed from the body, or flying through the air. The pleasures
of art and science, the only ones which could reconcile a sensible man
to life, are intangible herein, while suffering, on the other hand,
appears in its most positive form."
Among the different factors which are generally supposed to be more or
less productive of happiness, wealth or its symbol, money, usually
represents the enchanted wand that opens the gate to every joy of life.
It is true that we have seen that all these joys were illusions, and
that their pursuit was more painful than pleasing, but Hartmann here
makes an exception in favor of the delights which art and science
procure, and also, like a true Berlinois, of those which the table
affords.
"Wealth," he says, "makes me lord and master. With it I can purchase
the pleasures of the table, and even those of love." It is unnecessary
to contend with him on this point: our tastes all differ; still there
are few, it is to be imagined, who will envy him in an affection which
is purchasable with coin of the realm. Moreover, wealth does not make
one lord and master; there is a certain charm in original and brilliant
conversation which neither Hartmann nor any one else could buy, even
though all the wealth of Ormus and the Ind stood to his credit on the
ledgers of the Landesbank. Wealth, however, he hastens to explain,
should be valued not for the commodities which it can procure, but
rather because we are enabled therewith to shield ourselves from
inconveniences which would otherwise disturb that zero of the
sensibility which the pessimist holds to be the nearest approach to
reality in happiness.
It is said that the drowning man will clutch at a straw, and it is
possible that the reader who has seen his illusions dispersed and
slaughtered one by one has perhaps deluded himself with the fancy that
hope at least might yet survive; if he has done so, he may be sure that
he has reckoned without his host. Hartmann guillotines the blue goddess
in the most off-hand manner; she is the last on the list, and he does
the job with a hand which is, so to speak, well in. Of course hope is a
great delight; who thinks of denying it? Certainly not the headsman,
who even drops a sort of half tear over her mangled wings. But if we
come to look over the warrant which has legalized the execution, the
question naturally arises who and what is hope? It is of little use to
ask the poets, for they are all astray; what they see in hope is a fair
sky girt with laurels,--in other words, the rape of happiness; but has
it not been repeated even to satiety that happiness does not exist,
that pain outbalances pleasure? What is hope, then, but an illusion?
and an illusion, too, that plays all manner of tricks with us, and
amuses itself at our expense; one, in fact, which makes use of us until
our task is accomplished, and we understand that all things are
different from that which we desired. "He, then," Hartmann says, "who
is once convinced that hope is as vain and illusory as its object will
see its influence gradually wane beneath the power of the
understanding, and the one thing to which he will then look forward
will be, not the greatest amount of happiness, but the easiest burden
of pain."
In all that has gone before, Hartmann has endeavored to show that
suffering increases with the development of the intellect, or rather,
that happiness exists only in the mineral kingdom, which represents
that zero of the senses above which man struggles in vain. It has been
seen that they whose nervous systems are most impressionable have a
larger share of suffering than their less sensitive brethren;
furthermore, experience teaches that the lower classes are more
contented than the cultivated and the rich, for while they are more
exposed to want, yet they are thicker-skinned and more obtuse. In
descending the scale of life, therefore, it is easy to show that such
weight of pain as burdens animal existence is less than that which man
supports. The horse, whose sensibility is most delicate, leads a more
painful existence than the swine, or even the fish, whose happiness at
high tide is proverbial. The life of the fish is happier than that of
the horse, the oyster is happier than the fish, the life of the plant
is happier yet, and so on down to the last degrees of organic life,
where consciousness expires and suffering ends.
The balance sheet of human pleasure and pain may therefore be summed up
somewhat as follows: in the first column stand those conditions which
correspond to a state of pure indifference, and merely represent the
