there is nothing to be seen but the front of the theatre 
and of several cafes in addition, indeed, to a statue 
of this celebrated brave, whose valor redeemed some 
of the numerous military disasters of the reign of 
Louis XV. The next morning the lower quarters of 
the town were in a pitiful state; the situation seemed 
to me odious. To express my disapproval of it, I lost 
no time in taking the train for Orange, which, with its 
other attractions, had the merit of not being seated on 
the Rhone. It was my destiny to move northward; 
but even if I had been at liberty to follow a less un 
natural course I should not then have undertaken it, 
inasmuch as the railway between Avignon and Mar 
seilles was credibly reported to be (in places) under 
water. This was the case with almost everything but 
the line itself, on the way to Orange. The day proved 
splendid, and its brilliancy only lighted up the desola 
tion. Farmhouses and cottages were up to their middle 
in the yellow liquidity; haystacks looked like dull little 
islands; windows and doors gaped open, without faces; 
and interruption and flight were represented in the 
scene. It was brought home to me that the popula 
tions rurales have many different ways of suffering, 
and my heart glowed with a grateful sense of cockney- 
ism. It was under the influence of this emotion that 
I alighted at Orange, to visit a collection of eminently 
civil monuments. 
The collection consists of but two objects, but these 
objects are so fine that I will let the word pass. One 
of them is a triumphal arch, supposedly of the period 
of Marcus Aurelius; the other is a fragment, magnifi 
cent in its ruin, of a Roman theatre. But for these 
fine Roman remains and for its name, Orange is a 
perfectly featureless little town, without the Rhone 
which, as I have mentioned, is several miles distant 
to help it to a physiognomy. It seems one of the 
oddest things that this obscure French borough 
obscure, I mean, in our modern era, for the Gallo- 
Roman Arausio must have been, judging it by its 
arches and theatre, a place of some importance 
should have given its name to the heirs apparent of 
the throne of Holland, and been borne by a king of 
England who had sovereign rights over it. During 
the Middle Ages it formed part of an independent 
principality; but in 1531 it fell, by the marriage of 
one of its princesses, who had inherited it, into the 
family of Nassau. I read in my indispensable Mur 
ray that it was made over to France by the treaty of 
Utrecht. The arch of triumph, which stands a little 
way out of the town, is rather a pretty than an im 
posing vestige of the Romans. If it had greater purity 
of style, one might say of it that it belonged to the 
same family of monuments as the Maison Carree at 
Nimes. It has three passages, the middle much 
higher than the others, and a very elevated attic. 
  
The vaults of the passages are richly sculptured, and 
the whole monument is covered with friezes and 
military trophies. This sculpture is rather mixed; 
much of it is broken and defaced, and the rest seemed 
to me ugly, though its workmanship is praised. The 
arch is at once well preserved and much injured. Its 
general mass is there, and as Roman monuments go 
it is remarkably perfect; but it has suffered, in patches, 
from the extremity of restoration. It is not, on the 
whole, of absorbing interest. It has a charm, never 
theless, which comes partly from its soft, bright yellow 
color, partly from a certain elegance of shape, of ex 
pression; and on that well-washed Sunday morning, 
with its brilliant tone, surrounded by its circle of thin 
poplars, with the green country lying beyond it and a 
low blue horizon showing through its empty portals, 
it made, very sufficiently, a picture that hangs itself 
to one of the lateral hooks of the memory. I can 
take down the modest composition, and place it before 
me as I write. I see the shallow, shining puddles in 
the hard, fair French road; the pale blue sky, diluted 
by days of rain; the disgarnished autumnal fields; the 
mild sparkle of the low horizon; the solitary figure in 
sabots, with a bundle under its arm, advancing along 
the chaussee; and in the middle I see the little ochre- 
colored monument, which, in spite of its antiquity, 
looks bright and gay, as everything must look in 
France of a fresh Sunday morning. 
It is true that this was not exactly the appearance 
of the Roman theatre, which lies on the other side of 
the town; a fact that did not prevent me from making 
my way to it in less than five minutes, through a suc 
cession of little streets concerning which I have no 
observations to record. None of the Roman remains 
in the south of France are more impressive than this 
stupendous fragment. An enormous mound rises above 
the place, which was formerly occupied I quote from 
Murray first by a citadel of the Romans, then by a 
castle of the princes of Nassau, razed by Louis XIV. 
Facing this hill a mighty wall erects itself, thirty-six 
metres high, and composed of massive blocks of dark 
brown stone, simply laid one on the other; the whole 
naked, rugged surface of which suggests a natural cliff 
(say of the Vaucluse order) rather than an effort of 
human, or even of Roman labor. It is the biggest 
thing at Orange, it is bigger than all Orange put to 
gether, and its permanent massiveness makes light 
of the shrunken city. The face it presents to the town 
the top of it garnished with two rows of brackets, 
perforated with holes to receive the staves of the vela 
rium bears the traces of more than one tier of orna 
mental arches; though how these flat arches were 
applied, or incrusted, upon the wall, I do not profess 
to explain. You pass through a diminutive postern 
which seems in proportion about as high as the en 
trance of a rabbit-hutch into the lodge of the custo 
dian, who introduces you to the interior of the theatre. 
Here the mass of the hill affronts you, which the in 
genious Romans treated simply as the material of their 
auditorium. They inserted their stone seats, in a 
  
semicircle , in the slope of the hill , and planted their 
colossal wall opposite to it. This wall, from the inside, 
is, if possible, even more imposing. It formed the 
back of the stage, the permanent scene, and its 
enormous face was coated with marble. It contains 
three doors, the middle one being the highest, and 
having above it, far aloft, a deep niche, apparently 
intended for an imperial statue. A few of the benches 
remain on the hillside, which, however, is mainly a 
confusion of fragments. There is part of a corridor 
built into the hill, high up, and on the crest are the 
remnants of the demolished castle. The whole place 
is a kind of wilderness of ruin; there are scarcely any 
details; the great feature is the overtopping wall. This 
wall being the back of the scene, the space left be 
tween it and the chord of the semicircle (of the audi 
torium) which formed the proscenium is rather less 
than one would have supposed. In other words, the 
stage was very shallow, and appears to have been ar 
ranged for a number of performers standing in a line, 
like a company of soldiers. There stands the silent 
skeleton, however, as impressive by what it leaves you 
to guess and wonder about as by what it tells you. 
It has not the sweetness, the softness of melancholy, 
of the theatre at Aries; but it is more extraordinary, 
and one can imagine only tremendous tragedies being 
enacted there, 
"Presenting Thebes or Pelops line." 
At either end of the stage, coming forward, is an 
immense wing, immense in height, I mean, as it 
reaches to the top of the scenic wall; the other dimen 
sions are not remarkable. The division to the right, 
as you face the stage, is pointed out as the green 
room; its portentous altitude and the open arches at 
the top give it the air of a well. The compartment 
on the left is exactly similar, save that it opens into 
the traces of other chambers, said to be those of a 
hippodrome adjacent to the theatre. Various fragments 
are visible which refer themselves plausibly to such an 
establishment; the greater axis of the hippodrome would 
appear to have been on a line with the triumphal 
arch. This is all I saw, and all there was to see, of 
Orange, which had a very rustic, bucolic aspect, and 
where I was not even called upon to demand break 
fast at the hotel. The entrance of this resort might 
have been that of a stable of the Roman days. 
XXXVII. 
I HAVE been trying to remember whether I fasted 
all the way to Macon, which I reached at an advanced 
hour of the evening, and think I must have done so 
except for the purchase of a box of nougat at Monte- 
limart (the place is famous for the manufacture of 
this confection, which, at the station, is hawked at the 
windows of the train) and for a bouillon, very much 
later, at Lyons. The journey beside the Rhone 
past Valence, past Tournon, past Vienne would 
  
have been charming, on that luminous Sunday, but 
for two disagreeable accidents. The express from 
Marseilles, which I took at Orange, was full to over 
flowing; and the only refuge I could find was an 
inside angle in a carriage laden with Germans, who 
had command of the windows, which they occupied 
