Lily at the point; and the returned wanderer fully understood the feud
between Paul and the magnate. His blood boiled at the insult to his
daughter, and the persecution to which his son had been subjected. He
had put his hand on the wheel to shut off the steam, when Paul asked him
where he had been for two years, and why he had not written to his
family.
The engineer did not turn the wheel, for the wanting letters were an
imputation upon him. He was not a scholar, but he had written a score of
letters and had never had a reply to one of them. Before he left,
something had been said between himself and his wife about her going to
the home of an uncle in Iowa. He had invited them to visit him and take
care of him, for he was a bachelor. He would support them, and they
could do work enough to earn their living. They had expected to hear
from him every day at the time Peter Bristol left home.
The father had no doubt they would go there, and had directed his
letters after the first one to their new home. A few days after his
departure for New York, where he hoped to find work, the letter came
from the West to Mrs. Bristol, but it brought no hope. The writer had
bought a ranch in Texas, had married, and could do nothing for the
family of his brother. This clearly explained the miscarriage of the
letters.
Peter Bristol had worked as a fireman on a railroad. When he got to New
York he found a situation as an oiler on a steamer bound to Havana. In
Cuba he soon secured a good situation to run an engine on a plantation.
He saved his money, and did his best to find what had become of his
family. At last it occurred to him to write to the postmaster of his
brother's late residence in Iowa. Nothing was known of his family, his
brother had gone to Texas, and a score of letters for his wife had gone
to the dead-letter office.
Then he had written to a friend in Westport, and learned that his
family were still at Sandy Point, and were very poor. When this last
letter came, nearly two years after he had left home, he was filled with
sorrow and anxiety. He wrote no more letters, but started for home with
all the money he had saved. About the first person he met when he landed
in New York was Wheeler, whom he had known as a pilot on Lake Champlain.
He had been sent by Major Billcord to take his steamer, just purchased,
up to the lake by the way of the Hudson and the canal. He wanted an
engineer, and, after a deal of talk, employed Peter Bristol.
Wheeler had his doubts about the competency of Bristol. The magnate
wanted a suitable engineer, and would give him good wages. He might
object to a man who had been known on the lake as nothing but a boatman.
Peter wanted the place, and had been running an engine for two years.
Wheeler agreed to do what he could for him with the magnate; but he
thought it best for him not to say who he was for the present. Time and
the tropical sun had so changed him that he was not likely to recognize
him if he was careful.
Peter Bristol had served as engineer on the way up, and Major Billcord
and Walk had joined the vessel at Whitehall in the morning. The steamer
was on trial, and the major wanted her run at her highest speed a part
of the time. The magnate had hardly looked at the engineer, he was so
interested in the machinery and the craft, and Bristol had had no
trouble in concealing his identity so far. This was the story he told
Paul, and repeated to his wife and Lily in the evening.
Paul had looked out at the door and saw that the Undine was near
Westport. She did not go to the shore, but when she came about and
headed down the lake again, Peter Bristol turned the wheel and shut off
the steam. There was a ringing of the bell, and then a call through the
tube.
"I shall run her no longer!" replied the engineer, emphatically, at the
mouthpiece.
Major Billcord came below, followed by Walk. Mr. Bristol stated his
position, and took no further pains to conceal his identity. The father
spoke to him like a man, and insisted upon being landed at Westport with
his son. The magnate was taken all aback. He could do nothing without an
engineer, and he could not punish Paul in the presence of his father.
The engineer would take the steamer up to the wharf, but in no other
direction. The magnate had to yield, and father and son, both the
Bristol and the Billcord, landed.
Lily was found, and she had a joyful meeting with her father. Bissell
was very willing to loan his four-oar boat to convey them to Beech Hill.
On the way they released Tom Topover, and, putting him into the Dragon,
towed him back to Hornet Point. The happy re-union in the transplanted
cottage need not be described.
CHAPTER XXX.
LAUNCHING THE BOAT.
The Sylph, with the gundalow, did not arrive till it was nearly dark.
The shoe was not done when the scow was ready to take it on board, and
they had to wait for the workmen to drill the holes for the bolts. The
ship's company had seen the Undine when she passed Port Henry, but no
one there knew to whom she belonged, or anything whatever in regard to
her. They saw that she was the counterpart of the Sylph, and knew that
she was one of the celebrated class to which she belonged.
Some of the students thought there might be a chance for a race between
her and the Beech Hill steamer; but Dory was sure enough that Captain
Gildrock would not permit the Sylph to race with anything that went by
steam.
The principal had returned from Burlington in the afternoon, and when he
saw the four-oar boat, with the Dragon in tow, moving up to Hornet
Point, he walked over to the cottage. He was a spectator of the
affecting interview between Mrs. Bristol and her husband, even before
the Dragon was hauled up to the shore.
Tom Topover was very much battered in the conflict with Paul. He was
sure of two very black eyes, and he could hardly walk when he was helped
out of the flatboat. The principal thought he had been punished enough
for the present; and as he seemed to be very humble, for him, he was
allowed to limp home, after a strong admonition from the captain.
The principal had been so good a friend to the family, that Mrs. Bristol
begged him to stay and hear her husband's story, and listen to the
adventures of Paul since he left in the afternoon. The moving of the
cottage had to be related by Paul. The prolonged conversation was
interrupted only by the arrival of the Sylph. After the shoe was landed
at the boat-shed, and the gundalow towed to the stone quarry, the
students learned all about the new steamer, in which they were very much
interested, though they were sorry to learn that Major Billcord was her
owner.
On Monday afternoon, the shoe was bolted to the keel of the Lily, and
the inside work, which had been left unfinished for this job, was
completed. The following Saturday was appointed for the launch of the
boat, for this day would complete the school year of the institution.
Invitations had been sent to the gentlemen who had served as examiners
the preceding year, and on Friday afternoon the Sylph, fully manned, and
dressed in gay colors, brought up Mr. Bridges, Mr. Ritchie, and Mr.
Plint. They were hospitably entertained at the mansion.
In the forenoon a sort of public exhibition took place in the great hall
of the boat-house, which delighted the spectators, and gave them a very
high idea of the progress of the students in the mechanic arts, as well
as in the book studies. After this show, the visitors went through the
shops, and inspected the Lily as she stood on the stocks. A brass band
played a portion of the time, and in the middle of the day a choice
collation was served on the green.
About all the young ladies in Genverres, and not a few from Burlington
and Westport, were present. Possibly there was some heavy flirting done,
for again the students in their uniform were lions of the first order.
But the great event of the day was to be the launch of the Lily. She
had been fully prepared in the morning for the exciting occasion, and
two jury-masts had been put up on board, and she was covered with flags
and streamers. The boat was to move from the ways at four, and an hour
before that time the students and the principal were not a little
astonished to see the two Chesterfield barges pull into the Beechwater,
and take positions near the farther side of the lake.
Captain Gildrock sent Mr. Bentnick, the principal instructor, to invite
them on shore to partake of a collation. Colonel Buckmill sat in the
stern-sheets of the Dasher, but he politely declined the invitation,
with profuse thanks. His young gentlemen desired to see the launch, but
he would not give the principal any trouble on such a busy day.
The captain was sorry for this refusal, but he seemed to insist that the
hospitality of Beech Hill should not suffer in the estimation of the
students from the other side, and he sent a boat loaded with ice-cream,
cake, and lemonade to the unwonted visitors, which were accepted with
more thanks.
At a few minutes before four, the principal and a small party, including
not more than half a dozen of the students, went on board of the Lily.
A little later, the gallant captain of the Sylph escorted Miss Lily
Bristol to the deck of the boat. Her appearance was the occasion of the
most tremendous applause on the part of the students and the crowd
assembled on shore. It was observed that the Chesterfields joined in
this demonstration, with a vigor which astonished their former foes.
Captain Gildrock gave certain orders, which were followed by the sound
of hammers as the hands knocked away the wedges. The principal raised
his hand, which was followed by one discharge of a cannon. At this
instant the hull began to move very slowly. Assisted by Captain
Dornwood, Lily Bristol ascended to the heel of the bowsprit with a
bottle in her hand.
What this bottle contained no one but the captain knew. According to
tradition and custom, it ought to be filled with wine; but the principal
was a very strong, practical temperance man. However, as the contents of
the bottle were to be dashed into the lake, it did not much matter what
they were.
The velocity of the moving hull increased as she descended the inclined
plane; and as soon as she was under full headway, Lily broke the bottle
over the bow of the schooner.
"I give to this vessel the name of Lily, and may she be prosperous on
the element to which she belongs," said she.
Then the band struck up "Hail to the Chief," and all the students and
everybody else yelled and applauded with all their might. The ladies
waved their handkerchiefs, and a salvo of artillery followed. The Lily
struck the water, and ploughed her way nearly to the other side of the
lake, where she was brought up by the lines attached to her. She rested
on the water as gracefully as a swan, and as soon as she was fairly
afloat, another series of ringing cheers saluted her.
The Sylph, under the charge of the first officer, immediately fastened
to her, and she was towed to her berth at the wharf, where she was to
remain until the next school year began, in September. But the visitors
were eager to examine her, and an arrangement was made by which all who
desired could pass on board, make the circuit of her deck and then leave
without causing an uncomfortable crowd. Through the cabin doors and the
opening for the skylight they could see something of the cabin, while
the fore-scuttle gave a partial view of the cook-room.
The young officers and crew of the Sylph told their friends they should
see her after she was rigged, her sails bent on, and the cabin and
