"It is what I always wanted."
"But you do not seem at all like the sea captains one hears about--"
"Well, perhaps not," replied the squire thoughtfully. "There are a great
many different classes of sea captains. I always had a taste for books. A
man can read a great deal on a long voyage. I have sometimes been at sea
for more than two years at a time. Besides, I had a fairly good education
and--well, I suppose it was because I was a gentleman to begin with and
was more than ten years in the Royal Navy. All that makes a great
difference. Have you ever made a long voyage, Mrs. Goddard?"
"I have crossed the channel," said she. "But I wish you would tell me
something more about your life."
"Oh no--it is very dull, all that. You always make me talk about myself,"
said the squire in a tone of protestation.
"It is very interesting."
"But--could we not vary the conversation by talking about you a little?"
suggested Mr. Juxon.
"Oh no! Please--" exclaimed Mrs. Goddard rather nervously. She grew pale
and busied herself again with the tea. "Do tell me more about your
voyages. I suppose that was the way you collected so many beautiful
things, was it not?"
"Yes, I suppose so," answered the squire, looking at her curiously. "In
fact of course it was. I was a great deal in China and South America and
India, and in all sorts of places where one picks up things."
"And in Turkey, too, where you got Stamboul?"
"Yes. He was so wet that I left him outside to day. Did not want to spoil
your carpet."
The squire had a way of turning the subject when he seemed upon the point
of talking about himself which was very annoying to Mrs. Goddard. But she
had not entirely recovered her equanimity and for the moment had lost
control of the squire. Besides she had a headache that day.
"Stamboul does not get the benefit of the contrast we were talking about
at first," she remarked, in order to say something.
"I could not possibly bring him in," returned the squire looking at her
again. "Excuse me, Mrs. Goddard--I don't mean to be inquisitive you know,
but--I always want to be of any use."
She looked at him inquiringly.
"I mean, to be frank, I am afraid that something is giving you trouble. I
have noticed it for some time. You know, if I can be of any use, if I can
help you in any way--you have only to say the word."
Again she looked at him. She did not know why it was so, but the
genuinely friendly tone in which he made the offer touched her. She was
surprised, however; she could not understand why he should think she was
in trouble, and indeed she was in no greater distress than she had
suffered during the greater part of the last three years.
"You are very kind, Mr. Juxon. But there is nothing the matter--I have a
headache."
"Oh," said the squire, "I beg your pardon." He looked away and seemed
embarrassed.
"You have done too much already," said Mrs. Goddard, fearing that she had
not sufficiently acknowledged his offer of assistance.
"I cannot do too much. That is impossible," he said in a tone of
conviction. "I have very few friends, Mrs. Goddard, and I like to think
that you are one of the best of them."
"I am sure--I don't know what to say, Mr. Juxon," she answered, somewhat
startled by the directness of his speech. "I am sure you have always been
most kind, and I hope you do not think me ungrateful."
"I? You? No--dear me, please never mention it! The fact is, Mrs.
Goddard--" he stopped and smoothed Ms hair. "What particularly
disagreeable weather," he remarked irrelevantly, looking out of the
window at the driving sleet.
Mrs. Goddard looked down and slowly stirred her tea. She was pale and her
hand trembled a little, but no one could have guessed that she was
suffering any strong emotion. Mr. Juxon looked towards the window, and
the grey light of the winter's afternoon fell coldly upon his square
sunburned face and carefully trimmed beard. He was silent for a moment,
and then, still looking away from his companion, he continued in a less
hesitating tone.
"The fact is, I have been thinking a great deal of late," he said, "and
it has struck me that your friendship has grown to be the most important
thing in my life." He paused again and turned his hat round upon his
knee. Still Mrs. Goddard said nothing, and as he did not look at her he
did not perceive that she was unnaturally agitated.
"I have told you what my life has been," he continued presently. "I have
been a sailor. I made a little money. I finally inherited my uncle's
estate here. I will tell you anything else you would like to ask--I don't
think I ever did anything to conceal. I am forty-two years old. I have
about five thousand a year and I am naturally economical. I would like to
make you a proposal--a very respectful proposal, Mrs. Goddard--"
Mrs. Goddard uttered a faint exclamation of surprise and fell back in her
chair, staring with wide eyes at the squire, her cheeks very pale and her
lips white. He was too much absorbed in what he was saying to notice the
short smothered ejaculation, and he was too much embarrassed to look at
her.
"Mrs. Goddard," he said, his voice trembling slightly, "will you marry
me?"
He was not prepared for the result of his speech. He had pondered it for
some time and had come to the conclusion that it was best to say as
little as possible and to say it plainly. It was an honourable proposal
of marriage from a man in middle life to a lady he had known and
respected for many months; there was very little romance about it; he did
not intend that there should be any. As soon as he had spoken he turned
his head and looked to her for his answer. Mrs. Goddard had clasped her
small white hands over her face and had turned her head away from him
against the cushion of the high backed chair. The squire felt very
uncomfortable in the dead silence, broken only by the sleet driving
against the window panes with a hissing, rattling sound, and by the
singing of the tea-kettle. For some seconds, which to Juxon seemed like
an eternity, Mrs. Goddard did not move. At last she suddenly dropped
her hands and looked into the squire's eyes. He was startled by the ashen
hue of her face.
"It is impossible," she said, shortly, in broken tones. But the squire
was prepared for some difficulties.
"I do not see the impossibility," he said quite calmly. "Of course,
I would not press you for an answer, my dear Mrs. Goddard. I am afraid
I have been very abrupt, but I will go away, I will leave you to
consider--"
"Oh no, no!" cried the poor lady in great distress. "It is quite
impossible--I assure you it is quite, quite impossible!"
"I don't know," said Mr. Juxon, who saw that she was deeply moved, but
was loath to abandon the field without a further struggle. "I am not a
very young man, it is true--but I am not a very old one either. You, my
dear Mrs. Goddard, have been a widow for some years--"
"I?" cried Mrs. Goddard with a wild hysterical laugh. "I! Oh God of
mercy! I wish I were." Again she buried her face in the cushion. Her
bosom heaved violently.
The squire started as though he had been struck, and the blood rushed to
his brown face so that the great veins on his temples stood out like
cords.
"Did I--did I understand you to say that--your husband is living?" he
asked in a strong, loud voice, ringing with emotion.
Mrs. Goddard moved a little and seemed to make a great effort to speak.
"Yes," she said very faintly. The squire rose to his feet and paced the
room in terrible agitation.
"But where?" he asked, stopping suddenly in his walk. "Mrs. Goddard, I
think I have a right to ask where he is--why you have never spoken of
him?"
By a supreme effort the unfortunate lady raised herself from her seat
supporting herself upon one hand, and faced the squire with wildly
staring eyes.
"You have a right to know," she said. "He is in Portland--sentenced to
twelve years hard labour for forgery."
She said it all, to the end, and then fell back into her chair. But she
did not hide her face this time. The fair pathetic features were quite
motionless and white, without any expression, and her hands lay with the
palms turned upwards on her knees.
Charles James Juxon was a man of few words, not given to using strong
language on any occasion. But he was completely overcome by the horror of
the thing. He turned icy cold as he stood still, rooted to the spot, and
he uttered aloud one strong and solemn ejaculation, more an invocation
than an oath, as though he called on heaven to witness the misery he
looked upon. He gazed at the colourless, inanimate face of the poor lady
and walked slowly to the window. There he stood for fully five minutes,
motionless, staring out at the driving sleet.
Mrs. Goddard had fainted away, but it did not occur to the squire to
attempt to recall her to her senses. It seemed merciful that she should
have lost consciousness even for a moment. Indeed she needed no help, for
in a few minutes she slowly opened her eyes and closed them, then opened
them again and saw Mr. Juxon's figure darkening the window against the
grey light.
"Mr. Juxon," she said faintly, "come here, please."
The squire started and turned. Then he came and sat down beside her. His
face was very stern and grave, and he said nothing.
"Mr. Juxon," said Mrs. Goddard, speaking in a low voice, but with far
more calm than he could have expected, "you have a right to know my
story. You have been very kind to me, you have made an honourable offer
to me, you have said you were my friend. I ought to have told you before.
If I had had any idea of what was passing in your mind, I would have told
you, cost what it might."
Mr. Juxon gravely bowed his head. She was quite right, he thought. He had
a right to know all. With all his kind-heartedness he was a stern man by
nature.
"Yes," continued Mrs. Goddard, "you have every right to know. My
husband," her voice trembled, "was the head of an important firm in
London. I was the only child of his partner. Not long after my father's
death I married Mr. Goddard. He was an extravagant man of brilliant
tastes. I had a small fortune of my own which my father had settled upon
me, independent of his share in the firm. My guardians, of whom my
husband was one, advised me to leave my father's fortune in the concern.
When I came of age, a year after my marriage, I agreed to do it. My
husband--I never knew it till long afterwards--was very rash. He
speculated on the Exchange and tampered with the deposits placed in his
hands. We lived in great luxury. I knew nothing of his affairs. Three
years ago, after we had been married nearly ten years, the firm failed.
It was a fraudulent bankruptcy. My husband fled but was captured and
brought back. It appeared that at the last moment, in the hope of
retrieving his position and saving the firm, he had forged the name of
one of his own clients for a large amount. We had a country place at
Putney which he had given to me. I sold it, with all my jewels and most
of my possessions. I would have given up everything I possessed, but I
thought of Nellie--poor little Nellie. The lawyers assured me that I
