welfare."
"Of course they are not," assented San Miniato, readily enough, and
abandoning the point which could be of no use to him. "Of course not.
But, dearest Marchesa, since you have judged for us--and there is no one
else to judge--do you not think that you might leave the rest in my
hands? The mere question to be asked, you know, in the hope of a final
answer--the mere technicality of love-making, with which you can only be
familiar from the woman's point of view, and not from the man's, as I
am. Not that I have had much experience---"
"You?" laughed the Marchesa, touching his hand with her fan. "You
without much experience! But you are historical, dearest friend! Who
does not know of your conquests?"
"I, at least, do not," answered San Miniato with well-affected modesty.
"But that is not the question. Let us get back to it. This is my plan.
The moon is full to-morrow and the weather is hot. We will all go in my
boat to Tragara and dine on the rocks. It will be beautiful. Then after
dinner we can walk about in the moonlight--slowly, not far from you, as
at the end of this terrace. And while you are looking on I, in a low
voice, will express my sincere feelings to Donna Beatrice, and ask the
most important of all questions. Does not that please you? Is it not
well combined?"
"But why must we take the trouble to go all the way to Capri? What sense
is there in that?"
"Dearest Marchesa, you do not understand! Consider the surroundings, the
moonlight, the water rippling against the rocks, the soft breeze--a
little music, too, such as a pair of mandolins and a guitar, which we
could send over--all these things are in my favour."
"Why?" asked the Marchesa, not understanding in the least how he could
attach so much value to things which seemed to her unappreciative mind
to be perfectly indifferent.
"Besides," she added, "if you want to give a party, you can illuminate
the garden of the hotel with Chinese lanterns. That would be much
prettier than to picnic on uncomfortable rocks out in the sea with
nothing but cold things to eat and only the moon for an illumination. I
am sure Beatrice would like it much better."
San Miniato laughed.
"What a prosaic person you are!" he exclaimed. "Can you not imagine that
a young girl's disposition may be softened by moonlight, mandolins and
night breezes?"
"No. I never understood that. And after all if you want moonlight you
can have it here. If it shines at Capri it will shine at Sorrento. At
least it seems to me so."
"No, dearest Marchesa," answered San Miniato triumphantly. "There you
are mistaken."
"About the moon?"
"Yes, about the moon. When it rises we do not see it here, on account of
the mountains behind us."
"But I have often seen the moon here, from this very place," objected
the Marchesa. "I am sure it is not a week ago that I saw it. You do not
mean to tell me that there are two moons, and that yours is different
from mine!"
"Very nearly. This at least I say. When the moon is full we can see it
rise from Tragara, and we can not see it from this place."
"How inexplicable nature is!" exclaimed the Marchesa fanning herself
lazily. "I will not try to understand the moon any more. It tires me. A
lemonade, San Miniato--ring for a lemonade. I am utterly exhausted."
"Shall I ask Donna Beatrice's opinion about Tragara?" inquired San
Miniato rising.
"Oh yes! Anything--only do not argue with me. I cannot bear it. I
suppose you will put me into that terrible boat and make me sit in it
for hours and hours, until all my bones are broken, and then you will
give me cold macaroni and dry bread and warm wine and water, and the
sailors will eat garlic, and it will be insufferable and you will call
it divine. And of course Beatrice will be so wretched that she will not
listen to a word you say, and will certainly refuse you without
hesitation. A lemonade, San Miniato, for the love of heaven! My throat
is parched with this talking."
When the Marchesa had got what she wanted, San Miniato sat down beside
Beatrice at the piano, in the sitting room.
"Donna Beatrice gentilissima," he began, "will you deign to tell me
whether you prefer the moon to Chinese lanterns, or Chinese lanterns to
the moon?"
"To wear?" asked the young girl with a laugh.
"If you please, of course. Anything would be becoming to you--but I mean
as a question of light. Would you prefer a dinner by moonlight on the
rocks of Tragara with a couple of mandolins in the distance, or would
you like better a party in the hotel gardens with an illumination of
paper lanterns? It is a most important question, I assure you, and must
be decided very quickly, because the moon is full to-morrow."
"What a ridiculous question!" exclaimed Beatrice, laughing again.
"Why ridiculous?"
"Because you ought to know the answer well enough. Imagine comparing the
moon with Chinese lanterns!"
"Your mother prefers the latter."
"Oh, mamma--of course! She is so practical. She would prefer carriage
lamps on the trees--gas if possible! When are we going to Tragara? Where
is it? Which boat shall we take? Oh, it is too delightful! Can we not go
to-night?"
"We can do anything which Donna Beatrice likes," answered San Miniato.
"But if you will listen to me, I will explain why to-morrow would be
better. In the first place, we have dined once this evening, so that we
could not dine again."
"We could call it supper," suggested Beatrice.
"Of course we could, if we could eat it at all. But it is also ten
o'clock, and we could not get to Tragara before one or two in the
morning. Lastly, your mother would not go."
"Will she go to-morrow?" asked Beatrice with sudden anxiety. "Have you
asked her?"
"She will go," answered San Miniato confidently. "We must make her
comfortable. That is the principal thing."
"Yes. She shall have her maid and we must take a chair for her to sit
in, and another to carry her, and two porters, and a lamp, and a table,
and a servant to wait on her. And she will want champagne, well iced,
and a carpet for her feet, and a screen to keep the wind from her, if
there is any, and several more things which I shall remember. But I know
all about it, for we once made a little excursion from Taormina and
dined out of doors, and I know exactly what she wants."
"Very well, she shall have everything," said San Miniato smiling at the
catalogue of the Marchesa's wants. "If she will only go, we will do all
we can."
"When it is time, let the two porters come in here with the chair and
take her away," answered Beatrice. "Dear mamma! She will be much too
lazy to resist. What fun it will be!"
And everything was done as Beatrice had wished. San Miniato made a list
of things absolutely indispensable to the Marchesa. The number of
articles was about two hundred and their bulk filled a boat which was
despatched early in the following afternoon to be rowed over to Tragara
and unloaded before the party arrived.
Ruggiero and his brother worked hard at the preparations, silent,
untiring and efficient as usual, but delighted in their hearts at the
prospect of something less monotonous than the daily sail or the daily
row within sight of Sorrento. To men who have knocked about the sea for
years, from Santa Cruz to Sebastopol, the daily life of a sailor on a
little pleasure boat lacks interest, and if circumstances had been,
different Ruggiero would probably have shipped before now as boatswain
on board one of the neat schooners which are yearly built at the Piano
di Sorrento, to be sold with their cargoes of salt as soon as they reach
Buenos Ayres. But Ruggiero had contracted that malady of the heart which
had taken him to the chemist's for the first time in his life, and which
materially hindered the formation of any plan by which he might be
obliged to leave his present situation. Moreover the disease showed no
signs of yielding; on the contrary, the action of the vital organ
concerned became more and more spasmodic and alarming, while its
possessor grew daily leaner and more silent.
The last package had been taken down, the last of the score of articles
which the Marchesa was sure to want with her in the sail boat before
she reached the spot where the main cargo of comforts would be waiting;
the last sandwich, the last box of sweetmeats, the iced lemonade, the
wraps and the parasols were all stowed away in their places. Then San
Miniato went to fetch the Marchesa, marshalling in his two porters with
their chair between them.
"Dearest Marchesa," said the Count, "if you will give yourself the
trouble to sit in this chair, I will promise that no further exertion
shall be required of you."
The Marchesa di Mola looked up with a glance of sleepy astonishment.
"And why in that chair, dearest friend? I am so comfortable here. And
why have you brought those two men with you?"
"Have you forgotten our dinner at Tragara?" asked San Miniato.
"Tragara!" gasped the Marchesa. "You are not going to take me to
Tragara! Good heavens! I am utterly exhausted! I shall die before we get
to the boat."
"Altro è parlar di morte--altro è morire," laughed San Miniato, quoting
the famous song. "It is one thing to talk of death, it is quite another
to die. Only this little favour Marchesa gentilissima--to seat yourself
in this chair. We will do the rest."
"Without a hat? Just as I am? Impossible! Come in an hour--then I shall
be ready. My maid, San Miniato--send for Teresina. Dio mio! I can never
go! Go without us, dearest friend--go and dine on your hideous rocks and
leave us the little comfort we need so much!"
But protestations were vain. Teresina appeared and fastened the hat of
the period upon her mistress's head. The hat of the period chanced to be
a one-sided monstrosity at that time, something between a cart wheel, an
umbrella and a flower garden, depending for its stability upon the
proper position of several solid skewers, apparently stuck through the
head of the wearer. This headpiece having been adjusted the Marchesa
asked for a cigarette, lighted it and looked about her.
"It is really too much!" she exclaimed. "Button my gloves, Teresina. I
shall not go after all, not even to please you, dearest friend. What a
place of torture this world is! How right we are to try and get a
comfortable stall in the next! Go away, San Miniato. It is quite
useless."
But San Miniato knew what he was doing. With gentle strength he made her
rise from her seat and placed her in the chair. The porters lifted their
burden, settled the straps upon their shoulders, the man in front
glanced back at the man behind, both nodded and marched away.
"This is too awful!" sighed the Marchesa, as she was carried out of the
door of the sitting room. "How can you have the heart, dearest friend!
An invalid like me! And I was supremely comfortable where I was."
But at this point Beatrice appeared and joined the procession, radiant,
fresh as a fragrant wood-flower, full of life as a young bird. Behind
