the maskers he was able to make the reflection that 
their fantastic and vivid dresses sympathised in a 
striking way with the architecture of the city, and 
 
gave him an effect of Florence which he could not 
otherwise have had. There came by and by a little 
attempt at a cm'so in Via Cerratani and Via Torna- 
buoni. There were some masks in carriages, and 
from one they actually threw plaster confetti ; half a 
dozen bare-legged boys ran before and beat one 
another with bladders. Some people, but not many, 
watched the show from the windows, and the foot- 
ways were crowded. 
Having proposed that they should see the Carni- 
val together, Colville had made himself responsible 
for it to the Bowen household. Imogene said, 
" Well is this the famous Carnival of Florence ? " 
" It certainly doesn't compare with the Carnival 
last year," said Mrs. Bowen. 
"Your reproach is just, Mrs.-Bowen," he acknow- 
ledged. " I 've managed it badly. But you know 
I 've been out of practice a great while there in Des 
Vaches." 
"Oh, poor Mr. Colville!" cried Imogene. "He 
isn't altogether to blame." 
" I don't know," said Mrs. Bowen, humouring the 
joke in her turn. " It seems to me that if he had 
consulted us a little earlier, he might have done 
better." 
He drove home with the ladies, and Mrs. Bowen 
made him stay to tea. As if she felt that he needed 
to be consoled for the failure of his Carnival, she 
was especially indulgent with him. She played to 
' him on the piano some of the songs that were in 
* fashion when they were in Florence together before. 
 
Imogene had never heard them ; she had heard her 
mother speak of them. One or two of them were 
negro songs, such as very pretty young ladies used 
to sing without harm to themselves or offence to 
others ; hut Imogene decided that they were rather 
rowdy. " Dear me, Mrs. Bowen ! Did you sing 
such songs ? You wouldn't let Effie ! " 
" No, I wouldn't let Effie. The times are changed. 
I wouldn't let Effie go to the theatre alone with a 
young gentleman." 
" The times are changed for the worse," Colville 
began. " What harm ever came to a young man 
from a young lady's going alone to the theatre with 
him ? " 
He stayed till the candles were brought in, and 
then went away only because, as he said, they had 
not asked him to stay to dinner. 
He came nearly every day, upon one pretext or 
another, and he met them oftener than that at the 
teas and on the days of other ladies in Florence ; 
for he was finding the busy idleness of the life very 
pleasant, and he went everywhere. He formed the 
habit of carrying flowers to the Palazzo Pinti, ex- 
cusing himself on the ground that they were so 
cheap and so abundant as to be impersonal. He 
brought violets to Effie and roses to Imogene;* to 
Mrs. Bowen he always brought a bunch of the huge 
purple anemones which grow so abundantly all 
winter long about Florence. " I wonder why purple 
anemones ? " he asked her one day in presenting 
them to her. 
 
" Oh, it is quite time I should be wearing purple," 
she said gently. 
"Ah, Mrs. Bowen \" he reproached her. "Why 
do I bring purple violets to Miss EflEie ? " 
" You must ask EfBe ! " said Mrs. Bowen, with a 
laugh. 
After that he stayed away forty-eight hours, and 
then appeared with a bunch of the red anemones, as 
large as tulips, which light up the meadow grass 
when it begins to stir from its torpor in the spring. 
" They grew on purpose to set me right with 
you," he said, "and I saw them when I was in 
the country." 
It was a little triumph for him, which she cele- 
brated by putting them in a vase on her table, and 
telling people who exclaimed over them that they 
were some Mr. Colville gathered in the country. 
He enjoyed his privileges at her house with the 
futureless satisfaction of a man. He liked to go 
about with the Bowens ; he was seen with the ladies 
driving and walking, in most of their promenades. 
He directed their visits to the churches and the gal- 
leries ; he was fond of strolling about with Effie's 
daintily-gloved little hand in his. He took her to 
Giocosa's and treated her to ices ; he let her choose 
from the confectioner's prettiest caprices in candy ; 
he was allowed to bring the child presents in his 
pockets. Perhaps he was not as conscientious as he 
might have been in his behaviour with the little 
girl. He did what he could to spoil her, or at least 
to relax the severity of the training she had re- 
 
ceived; he liked to see the struggle that went on 
in the mother's mind against this, and then the 
other struggle with which she overcame her opposi- 
tion to it. The worst he did was to teach EfBe 
some picturesque Western phrases, which she used 
with innocent effectiveness; she committed the 
crimes against convention which he taught her 
with all the conventional elegance of her training. 
The most that he ever gained for her were some 
concessions in going out in weather that her 
mother thought unfit, or sitting up for half-hours 
after her hed-time. He ordered hooks for her from 
Goodban's, and it was Colville now, and not the Eev. 
Mr. Morton, who read poetry aloud to the ladies on 
afternoons when Mrs. Bowen gave orders that she 
and Miss Graham should be denied to all other 
comers. 
It was an intimacy ; and society in Florence is not 
blind, and especially it is not dumb. The old lady 
who had celebrated Mrs. Bowen to him the first 
night at Palazzo Pinti led a life of active questions 
as to what was the supreme attraction to Colville 
there) and she referred her doubt to every friend 
with whom she drank tea. She philosophised the 
situation very scientifically, and if not very conclu- 
sively, how few are the absolute conclusions of 
science upon any point ! 
" He is a bachelor, and there is a natural affinity 
between bachelors and widows — much more than if 
he were a widower too. If he were a widower I 
should say it was undoubtedly mademoiselle. If he 
 
were a little bit younger, I should have no doubt it 
was madame ; but men of that age have such an am- 
bition to marry young girls ! I suppose that they 
think it proves they are not so very old, after all. 
And certainly he isn't too old to marry. If he were 
wise — which he probably isn't, if he 's like other men 
in such matters — there wouldn't be any question 
about Mrs. Bowen. Pretty creature ! And so much 
sense ! Too much for him. Ah, my dear, how we 
are wasted upon that sex ! " 
Mrs. Bowen herself treated the affair with masterly 
frankness. More than once in varying phrase, she 
said : " You are very good to give us so much of 
your time, Mr. Colville, and I won't pretend I don't 
know it. You 're helping me out with a very hazard- 
ous experiment. When I undertook to see Imogene 
through a winter in Florence, I didn't reflect what a 
very gay time girls have at home, in Western towns 
especially. But I haven't heard her breathe Buffalo 
once. And I 'm sure it 's doing her a great deal of 
good here. She 's naturally got a very good mind ; 
she 's very ambitious to be cultivated. She 's read a 
good deal, and she 's anxious to know history and 
art ; and your advice and criticism are the greatest 
possible advantage to her.'' 
"Thank you," said Colville, with a fine, remote 
dissatisfaction. " I supposed I was merely enjoying 
myself." 
He had lately begun to haunt his banker's for in- 
formation in regard to the Carnival balls, with the 
hope that something might be made out of them. 
 
But either there were to be no great CarDival balls, 
or it was a mistake to suppose that his banker ought 
to know about them. Colville went experimentally 
to one of the people's balls at a minor theatre, which 
he found advertised on the house walls. At half- 
past ten the dancing had not begun, but the masks 
were arriving ; young women in gay silks and dirty 
white gloves ; men in women's dresses, with enor- 
mous hands ; girls as pages ; clowns, pantaloons, old 
women, and the like. They were all very good- 
humoured ; the men, who far outnumbered the 
women, danced contentedly together. Colville liked 
two cavalry soldiers who waltzed with each other for 
an hour, and then went off to a battery on exhibition 
in the pit, and had as much electricity as they could 
hold. He liked also two young citizens who danced 
