time of final decision came. 
" Do you think," said the husband and father, who 
looked a whimsical tyrant at the worst, but was 
probably no easier to manage for his whimsicality, 
" that I am going to fly in the face of prosperity, and 
begin to do as other people wish because I' m pecu 
niarily able to do as I please ? " 
The little blonde rose decisively from the low 
chair where she had been sitting. "If papa has 
begun to reason about it, we may as well yield the 
point for the present, mamma. Come, Lily ! Let 
us leave him to Cousin Charles." 
" Oh, but I say ! " cried Cousin Charles, " if I' m to 
stay and fight it out with him, I've got to know 
which side I' m on." 
" You're  on the right side," said the young lady 
over her shoulder; "you always are, Cousin 
Charles." 
Cousin Charles, in the attempt to kiss his hand to 
ward his flatterer, pulled his glasses off his nose by 
their cord. "Bromfield," he said, "I don't see but 
this commits me against you." And then, the ladies 
having withdrawn, the two men put on that business 
air with which our sex tries to atone to itself for 
having unbent to the lighter minds of the other; 
heaven knows what women do when the men with 
whom they have been talking go away. 
 
" If you should happen to stay in town," con 
tinued the cousin treacherously, "I shall be very 
glad, for I don't know but I shall be here the greater 
part of the summer myself." 
" I shall stay," said the other, "but there won't be 
anything casual about it." 
" What do you hear from Tom ? " asked the 
cousin, feeling about on the mantel for a match. 
He was a full-bodied, handsome, amiable-looking old 
fellow, whose breath came in quick sighs with this 
light exertion. He had a blond complexion, and 
what was left of his hair, a sort of ethereal down on 
the top of his head, and some cherished fringes at 
the temples, was turning the yellowish grey that 
blond hair becomes. 
The other gentleman, stretched at ease in a deep 
chair, with one leg propped on a cricket, had the dis 
tinction of long forms, which the years had left in 
their youthful gracility; his snow-white moustache 
had been allowed to droop over the handsome mouth, 
whose teeth were beginning to go. " They're  on 
the other side of the clock," he said, referring to the 
matches. He added, with another glance at his 
relative, " Charles, you ought to bant. It 's begin 
ning to affect your wind." 
" Beginning f Your memory 's going, Bromfield. 
But they say there 's a new system that allows you 
to eat everything. I' m waiting for that. In the 
meantime, I've gone back to my baccy." 
"They've  cut mine off," sighed the other. 
" Doesn't it affect your heart ? " 
 
" Not a bit. But what do you do, now you can't 
smoke and your eyes have given out ? " 
" I bore myself. I had a letter from Tom yester 
day," said the sufferer, returning to the question that 
his cousin 's obesity had diverted him from. " He 's 
coming on in the summer." 
" Tom 's a lucky fellow," said the cousin. " I 
wish you had insisted on my taking some of that 
stock of his when you bought in." 
" Yes, you made a great mistake," said the other, 
with whimsical superiority. "You should have 
taken my advice. You would now be rolling in 
riches, as I am, with a much better figure for it." 
The cousin smoked a while. " Do you know, I 
think Tom 's about the best fellow I ever knew." 
" He 's a good boy," said the other, with the 
accent of a father 's pride and tenderness. 
" Going to bring his pretty chickens and their 
dam ? " asked the cousin, parting his coat-skirts to 
the genial influence of the fire. 
"No ; it 's a short visit. They're  going into the 
Virginia mountains for the summer/ A man 
servant came in and said something in a low voice. 
"Heigh? What? Why, of course! Certainly! 
By all means ! Show him in ! Come in, parson ; 
come in ! " called the host to his yet unseen visitor, 
and he held out his hand for Sewell to take when he 
appeared at the door. " Glad to see you ! I can't 
get up, a little gouty to-day, but Bellingham 's on 
foot. His difficulty is sitting down." 
Bellingham gave the minister a near-sighted man 's 
 
glare through his glasses, and then came eagerly 
forward and shook hands. " Oh, Mr. Sewell ! I 
hope you've come to put up some job on Corey. 
Don't spare him ! With Kanawha Paint Co. at the 
present figures he merits any demand that Christian 
charity can make upon him. The man 's prosperity 
is disgraceful." 
" I in glad to find you here, Mr. Bellingham," 
said Sewell, sitting down. 
" Oh, is it double-barrelled ? " pleaded Bellingham. 
" I don't know that it 's a deadly weapon of any 
kind," returned the minister. " But if one of vou 
can't help me, perhaps the other can." 
" Well, let us know what the job is," said Corey. 
"We refuse to commit ourselves beforehand." 
" I shall have to begin at the beginning," said 
Sewell warningly, " and the beginning is a long 
way off." 
"No matter," said Bellingham adventurously. 
" The further off, the better. I've been dining with 
Corey he gives you a very good dinner now, Corey 
does and I' m just in the mood for a deserving 
case." 
"The trouble with Sewell is," said Corey, " that 
he doesn't always take the trouble to have them 
deserving. I hope this is interesting, at least." 
" I suspect you'll find it more interesting than 
I shall, " said the minister, inwardly preparing 
himself for the amusement which Lemuel 's history 
always created in his hearers. It seemed to him, as 
he began, that he was always telling this story, and 
 
that his part in the affair was always becoming less 
and less respectable. No point was lost upon his 
hearers; they laughed till the ladies in the drawing- 
room above wondered what the joke could be. 
"At any rate," said Bellingham, "the fellow 
behaved magnificently at the fire. I read the 
accounts of it." 
" I think his exploits owe something to the ima 
gination of the reporters," said Sewell. " He tells a 
different story himself." 
" Oh, of course ! " said Bellingham. 
* Well ; and what else ? " asked Corey. 
" There isn't any more. Simply he 's out of work, 
and wants something to do anything to do --any 
thing that isn't menial." 
"Ah, that 's a queer start of his," said Bellingham 
thoughtfully. I don't know but I like that." 
"And do you come to such effete posterity as 
we are for help in a case like that ? " demanded 
Corey. " Why, the boy 's an Ancestor ! " 
" So he is ! Why, so he is so he is ! " said Bel 
lingham, with delight in the discovery. " Of course 
he is ! " 
" All you have to do," pursued Corey, " is to 
give him time, and he'll found a fortune and a 
family, and his children 's children will be 
cutting ours in society. Half of our great people 
have come up in that way. Look at the Blue-book, 
where our nobility is enrolled ; it 's the apotheosis 
of farm-boys, mechanics, insidemen, and I don't 
know what ! " 
 
"But in the meantime this ancestor is now so 
remote that he has nothing to do," suggested 
Sewell. " If you give him time you kill him." 
" Well, what do you want me to do ? Mrs. Corey 
is thinking of setting up a Buttons. But you say 
this boy has a soul above buttons. And besides, he J 's 
too old." 
"Yes." 
" Look here, Bromfield," said Bellingham, " why 
don't you get him to read to you ? " 
Corey glanced from his cousin to the minister, 
whose face betrayed that this was precisely what he 
had had in his own mind. 
" Is that the job ? " asked Corey. 
Sewell nodded boldly. 
" He would read through his nose, wouldn't he ? 
I couldn't stand that. I've stopped talking through 
mine, you know." 
"Why, look here, Bromfield!" said Bellingham 
for the second time. "Why don't you let me 
manage this affair for you ? I' m not of much use 
in the world, but from time to time I like to do my 
"poor best ; and this is just one of the kind of things 
I think I' m fitted for. I should like to see this 
