"Thank you." Then, after a long pause, ^^ Must you 
remain here? Milan is only such a little way." 
Mrs. Gilbert sighs. She would be glad enough to go, 
but she has spent nearly all her money, and Mr. Gilbert 
is of all men the most uncertain. She can board here a 
few weeks longer, but one journey would swallow up her 
assets, and leave her stranded on a cruel shore. 
" No, Milan is not very far. But you cannot go until 
next week, and something may happen before then." 
 
 
 
^^I hope it will be the right something," he makes 
answer. 
The singing has ceased and all is silent. Madame is 
gently berating the maids and the man ; she thinks they 
lapse into idleness as soon as her watchful eye fails to 
overlook them. A soft step passes through the corridor. 
He knows it must be Doris. If only she did not remind 
him of Olive. 
The doctor comes in the next day, rubbing his hands. 
He has found a prize for the Signer Wentworth. An 
English family are about giving up some of their servants, 
and would recommend a young man very highly as valet 
and nurse. He has been taking care of an invalid lad 
who has recently died. 
Wentworth requests that he might be sent. A fresh- 
looking young fellow of two-and- twenty, apparently well 
trained and very respectful. He would be pleased to 
travel, and would do his best to satisfy his employer. 
Wentworth engages him at once, and is glad to have the 
matter settled. 
He is not so dependent upon madame's household now ; 
but when, for some unexplained reason, Mrs. Gilbert ab- 
sented herself nearly all day, he misses her more than 
he would have believed. She was always so bright 
and chatty, she embellished the little nothings of life 
with so much grace and interest, that the day seemed 
duU. 
"You must return some of my visits," she says, 
cordially. 
"I am to be allowed to go out driving this morning," 
he announces, brightly. " Now I must improve as rap- 
idly as possible. If I do not wear myself out, I may call 
on you this evening." 
She nods acquiescently. 
Martin was a treasure. He lifted his young master 
with the utmost ease, he had a pleasant voice and a round 
 
 
 
sunny face that seemed like a breeze from a summer sky, 
invigorating. Wentworth likes the gentleness. 
As they were returning, he glanced up to a figure on the 
shady balcony. An odd consciousness sped through him 
at once, — delight at first, then a sense of obstinacy over 
which he smiled as he gave himself a kind of rough, men- 
tal shake. He had dreamed of a pictured Doris Haw- 
thorne ; she was here in the flesh, the golden hair crowning 
her like an aureole, the fair complexion, the almost infan- 
tile, unconscious grace. She leaned over a little to look 
at him, and a glad light seemed to flash into her eyes ; the 
lips wreathed themselves into a serious sweetness that 
was better than a smile. Yes, it needed only the purple- 
topped, feathery grasses, and white and gold of the daisies, 
to complete the vision he had studied with a rare inward 
sight. 
Martin arranged his master comfortably in the reclining- 
chair. 
" Look what time it is," he said. "Luncheon is at 
two. Go down and inquire if Mrs. Gilbert and her niece 
always come to table." 
Martin returned with an affirmative answer. 
Lloyd Wentworth closed his eyes. What had given him 
this idea of Olive ? How had he settled upon something 
so utterly dissimilar ? Mrs. Gilbert had never referred to 
her niece as being even pretty; did she fancy him an 
inflammable young man, who could not be civil without 
imagining himself in love ? It was right for her to be 
careful of Doris ; everybody complained of the young girls 
running wild. But a girl with that gravely sweet face 
could not be loud or assured. How slowly luncheon was 
in coming ! He sent Martin down again to beg madame 
to put him a plate beside Mrs. Gilbert, and that brought 
up madame to expostulate gently, but Wentworth carried 
his point. 
He came in late purposely, leaning on Martin's arm. 
Mrs. Gilbert's consternation was amusing, and he smiled 
at it. Doris Hawthorne raised her eyes, and for days 
afterward he declared them black, while the rarest and 
subtlest tint of color stole into her cheeks, and her lips 
gave not the smile, but the impression of pleasure. 
" Shall I scold you, or report you to the doctor?" 
inquired Mrs. Gilbert, gayly. " Two indulgences in one 
day are just one too many." 
" But I am on the high road to recovery, and have per- 
fection in the shape of service at my elbow. The role of 
an invalid may be interesting for a time ; but if you 
knew how much I enjoyed the slow drive through the 
balmy air, and how good it seems to mingle with my fel- 
low-creatures, you could not have the heart to forbid me." 
' ' I will wait until I see what effect it has upon your 
appetite." 
" Well, I am simply voracious." 
But he did not eat like a very hungry man. He was 
still alarmingly thin, and his height rendered this more 
noticeable ; but he was not so deadly pale as on the occa- 
sion when Doris had tried the charm of her voice in 
soothing the nervous restlessness. His sallies were so 
bright that she listened with interest, though her aunt's 
ample figure hid him mostly, save that he towered above 
her ; but Doris was too timid to glance up. 
After the meal, Mrs. Gilbert introduced them ; Doris 
bowed with quaint gravity, that it would have been im- 
possible to disconnect from her personality. She uttered 
a few words, and the tone made it a welcome back to life. 
He was glad now that he had lived. 
They went out on the larger vine-shaded balcony. 
There was a sudden slope below ; the balcony seemed 
hung out, as it were, on the wildest side of the place, with 
no approach save through a little salon. It was so deep 
in greenery that one would almost fancy one's self in the 
heart of a wilderness. A few birds chattered about ; all 
 
 
 
other sounds came from a distance, or at least gave you 
that impression. 
Mrs. Gilbert and the young man had all the conversa- 
tion. One or twice Doris was appealed to, and answered. 
She seemed to have no young-lady consciousness ; was 
indeed so different from the girls he had been accus- 
tomed to meet. Was it the restraint of foreign education ? 
And how had he ever dreamed or imagined her like 
Olive? 
" You are tired," said Mrs. Gilbert, presently. " You 
must go straight to your room and take a two hours' rest. 
I shall summon your man." 
There was something quite fascinating in the peremp- 
toriness that he could not gainsay. A mother might have 
done just that. 
" I do suppose I shall bore you to death, and you will 
be glad to see me off to Milan," he answered, as he 
accepted Martin's arm. 
Doris and her aunt sat in silence when he had gone. 
Mrs. Gilbert was rather annoyed. She did like better the 
chatty, piquant young girls, who have always some com- 
ment to make, who have opinions and desires. Doris was 
almost apathetic, she thought. How she could sit for 
hours and watch one bit of scenery, content herself with 
lace-making, and find enjoyment in walks with madame, 
passed her comprehension. Young Wentworth's illness 
had been quite a godsend of wild excitement, and 
what she was to do when he went away she could not 
divine. After all, had it been wise to take charge of 
Doris? But what could she have done, unless it was to 
fill the position of nursery governess? Mrs. Gilbert 
sighed. Her sympathetic good-nature had led her into 
more than one trouble, and these very events had brought 
about a disagreeable time with her husband. 
Why the fates had not made this young man marriage- 
able, when all other incidents were in the right process of 
 
 
 
development, she could not understand, unless it was a 
part of the ill luck that had more than once confronted 
her. She was a little cross to Doris, but the young girl 
took it very sweetly. '' She never will have any spirit," 
reflected her aunt. 
But when Doris accepted her aunt and the change to 
her life, the future was such an unknown quantity that 
she was still puzzling over it. Two or three brief and 
pithy sentences madame had let fall in her foreign frank- 
ness. 
" It is such a pity you have no dowry," she had said 
one day. "When you are tired of drifting about, there 
will be no convent to receive you ; you Protestants do not 
believe in them. My dear child, if a good man asks you 
in marriage, do not mind if he is a little older, or perhaps 
