eyes. 
She paid no attention to this, she went on, ' And those 
who have got no home (there are millions, you know), what 
are you going to do with them ? You must remember that 
women marry are given in marriage less and less ; that 
isn't their career, as a matter of course, any more. You 
can't tell them to go and mind their husband and children, 
when they have no husband and children to mind.' 
' Oh,' said Ransom, ' that's a detail ! And for myself, I 
confess, I have such a boundless appreciation of your sex 
in private life that I am perfectly ready to advocate a man's 
having a half a dozen wives.' 
' The civilisation of the Turks, then, strikes you as the 
highest?' 
'The Turks have a second-rate religion; they are 
fatalists, and that keeps them down. Besides, their women 
are not nearly so charming as ours or as ours would be if 
this modern pestilence were eradicated. Think what a 
confession you make when you say that women are less 
and less sought in marriage ; what a testimony that is to 
the pernicious effect on their manners, their person, their 
nature, of this fatuous agitation.' 
'That's very complimentary to me!' Verena broke in, 
lightly. 
But Ransom was carried over her interruption by the 
current of his argument. ' There are a thousand ways in 
which any woman, all women, married or single, may find 
occupation. They may find it in making society agreeable.' 
'Agreeable to men, of course.' 
'To whom else, pray? Dear Miss Tarrant, what is 
most agreeable to women is to be agreeable to men ! That 
is a truth as old as the human race, and don't let Olive 
Chancellor persuade you that she and Mrs. Farrinder have 
invented any that can take its place, or that is more pro- 
found, more durable.' 
 
Verena waived this point of the discussion; she only 
said : ' Well, I am glad to hear you are prepared to see the 
place all choked up with old maids !' 
' I don't object to the old old maids ; they were delight- 
ful ; they had always plenty to do, and didn't wander about 
the world crying out for a vocation. It is the new old 
maid that you have invented from whom I pray to be 
delivered.' He didn't say he meant Olive Chancellor, but 
Verena looked at him as if she suspected him of doing so ; 
and to put her off that scent he went on, taking up what 
she had said a moment before : ' As for its not being com- 
plimentary to you, my remark about the effect on the 
women themselves of this pernicious craze, my dear Miss 
Tarrant, you may be quite at your ease. You stand apart, 
you are unique, extraordinary; you constitute a category 
by yourself. In you the elements have been mixed in a 
manner so felicitous that I regard you as quite incorruptible. 
I don't know where you come from nor how you come to 
be what you are, but you are outside and above all vulgar- 
ising influences. Besides, you ought to know,' the young 
man proceeded, in the same cool, mild, deliberate tone, as 
if he were demonstrating a mathematical solution, ' you 
ought to know that your connection with all these rantings 
and ravings is the most unreal, accidental, illusory thing in 
the world. You think you care about them, but you don't 
at all. They were imposed upon you by circumstances, by 
unfortunate associations, and you accepted them as you 
would have accepted any other burden, on account of the 
sweetness of your nature. You always want to please 
some one, and now you go lecturing about the country, 
and trying to provoke demonstrations, in order to please 
Miss Chancellor, just as you did it before to please your 
father and mother. It isn't you, the least in the world, 
but an inflated little figure (very remarkable in its way too), 
whom you have invented and set on its feet, pulling strings, 
behind it, to make it move and speak, while you try to 
conceal and efface yourself there. Ah, Miss Tarrant, if it's 
a question of pleasing, how much you might please some 
one else by tipping your preposterous puppet over and 
standing forth in your freedom as well as in your loveliness ! ' 
 
While Basil Ransom spoke and he had not spoken 
just that way yet Verena sat there deeply attentive, with 
her eyes on the ground; but as soon as he ceased she 
sprang to her feet something made her feel that their 
association had already lasted quite too long. She turned 
away from him as if she wished to leave him, and indeed 
were about to attempt to do so. She didn't desire to look 
at him now, or even to have much more conversation with 
him. 'Something,' I say, made her feel so, but it was 
partly his curious manner so serene and explicit, as if he 
knew the whole thing to an absolute certainty which 
partly scared her and partly made her feel angry. She 
began to move along the path to one of the gates, as if it 
were settled that they should immediately leave the place. 
He laid it all out so clearly; if he had had a revelation he 
couldn't speak otherwise. That description of herself as 
something different from what she was trying to be, the 
charge of want of reality, made her heart beat with pain ; 
she was sure, at any rate, it was her real self that was there 
with him now, where she oughtn't to be. In a moment he 
was at her side again, going with her ; and as they walked 
it came over her that some of the things he had said to her 
were far beyond what Olive could have imagined as the 
very worst possible. What would be her state now, poor 
forsaken friend, if some of them had been borne to her in 
the voices of the air? Verena had been affected by her 
companion's speech (his manner had changed so ; it seemed 
to express something quite different), in a way that pushed 
her to throw up the discussion and determine that as soon 
as they should get out of the park she would go off by 
herself; but she still had her wits about her sufficiently to 
think it important she should give no sign of discomposure, 
of confessing that she was driven from the field. She 
appeared to herself to notice and reply to his extraordinary 
observations enough, without taking them up too much, 
when she said, tossing the words over her shoulder at 
Ransom, while she moved quickly : ' I presume, from what 
you say, that you don't think I have much ability.' 
He hesitated before answering, while his long legs easily 
kept pace with her rapid step her charming, touching, 
hurrying step, which expressed all the trepidation she was 
anxious to conceal. ' Immense ability, but not in the line 
in which you most try to have it. In a very different line, 
Miss Tarrant ! Ability is no word for it ; it's genius !' 
She felt his eyes on her face ever so close and fixed 
there after he had chosen to reply to her question that 
way. She was beginning to blush ; if he had kept them 
longer, and on the part of any one else, she would have 
called such a stare impertinent. Verena had been com- 
mended of old by Olive for her serenity ' while exposed to 
the gaze of hundreds ' ; but a change had taken place, and 
she was now unable to endure the contemplation of an 
individual. She wished to detach him, to lead him off 
again into the general ; and for this purpose, at the end of 
a moment, she made another inquiry : ' I am to under- 
stand, then, as your last word that you regard us as quite 
inferior?' 
' For public, civic uses, absolutely perfectly weak and 
second-rate. I know nothing more indicative of the 
muddled sentiment of the time than that any number of 
men should be found to pretend that they regard you in 
any other light. But privately, personally, it's another 
affair. In the realm of family life and the domestic affec- 
tions ' 
At this Verena broke in, with a nervous laugh, ' Don't 
say that ; it's only a phrase ! ' 
'Well, it's a better one than any of yours,' said Basil 
Ransom, turning with her out of one of the smaller 
gates the first they had come to. They emerged into 
the species of plaza formed by the numbered street 
which constitutes the southern extremity of the park and the 
termination of the Sixth Avenue. The glow of the splen- 
did afternoon was over everything, and the day seemed to 
Ransom still in its youth. The bowers and boskages 
stretched behind them, the artificial lakes and cockneyfied 
landscapes, making all the region bright with the sense of 
air and space, and raw natural tints, and vegetation too 
diminutive to overshadow. The chocolate-coloured houses, 
in tall, new rows, surveyed the expanse ; the street-cars 
rattled in the foreground, changing horses while the horses 
steamed, and absorbing and emitting passengers ; and the 
beer- saloons, with exposed shoulders and sides, which in 
New York do a good deal towards representing the pic- 
turesque, the 'bit' appreciated by painters, announced 
themselves in signs of large lettering to the sky. Groups 
of the unemployed, the children of disappointment from 
beyond the seas, propped themselves against the low, sunny 
wall of the park ; and on the other side the commercial 
vista of the Sixth Avenue stretched away with a remarkable 
absence of aerial perspective. 
' I must go home ; good-bye,' Verena said, abruptly, to 
her companion. 
'  Go home ? You won't come and dine, then ?' 
Verena knew people who dined at midday and others 
who dined in the evening, and others still who never dined 
at all ; but she knew no one who dined at half-past three. 
Ransom's attachment to this idea therefore struck her as 
queer and infelicitous, and she supposed it betrayed the 
habits of Mississippi. But that couldn't make it any more 
acceptable to her, in spite of his looking so disappointed 
with his dimly-glowing eyes that he was heedless for the 
moment that the main fact connected with her return to 
Tenth Street was that she wished to go alone. 
