and told her that it was as common friends of Mr. Hyacinth 
Robinson that Mr. Muniment and he had come together ; 
they were both so fond of him that this had immediately 
constituted a kind of tie. On hearing himself commemorated 
in such a brilliant way Mr. Hyacinth Robinson averted 
himself; he saw that Captain Sholto might be trusted to 
make as great an effort for Rosy's entertainment as he 
gathered that he had made for that of Millicent Henning, 
that evening at the theatre. There were not chairs enough 
to go round, and Paul fetched a three-legged stool from his 
own apartment, after which he undertook to make tea for 
the company, with the aid of a tin kettle and a spirit-lamp 
these implements having been set out, flanked by half a 
dozen cups, in honour, presumably, of the little dressmaker, 
who was to come such a distance. The little dressmaker, 
Hyacinth observed with pleasure, fell into earnest conver- 
sation with Lady Aurora, who bent over her, flushed, 
smiling, stammering, and apparently so nervous that Pinnie, 
in comparison, was majestic and serene. They communicated 
presently to Hyacinth a plan they had unanimously evolved, 
to the effect that Miss Pynsent should go home to Belgrave 
Square with her ladyship, to settle certain preliminaries in 
regard to the pink dressing-gown, toward which, if Miss 
Pynsent assented, her ladyship hoped to be able to con- 
tribute sundry morsels of stuff which had proved their 
quality in honourable service and might be dyed to the 
proper tint. Pinnie, Hyacinth could see, was in a state of 
religious exaltation ; the visit to Belgrave Square and the 
idea of co-operating in such a manner with the nobility were 
privileges she could not take solemnly enough. The latter 
luxury, indeed, she began to enjoy without delay; Lady 
Aurora suggesting that Mr. Muniment might be rather 
awkward about making tea, and that they should take the 
business off his hands. Paul gave it up to them, with a 
pretence of compassion for their conceit, remarking that at 
any rate it took two women to supplant one man; and 
Hyacinth drew him to the window, to ask where he had 
encountered Sholto and how he liked him. 
They had' met in Bloomsbury, as Hyacinth sup- 
posed, and Sholto had made up to him very much as a 
country curate might make up to an archbishop. He 
wanted to know what he thought of this and that : of the 
state of the labour market at the East End, of the terrible 
case of the old woman who had starved to death at Wai- 
ham Green, of the practicability of more systematic 
out-of-door agitation, and the prospects of their getting 
one of their own men one, of the Bloomsbury lot 
into Parliament. ' He was mighty civil,' Muniment 
 
said, ' and I don't find that he has picked my pocket. 
He looked as if he would like me to suggest that he 
should stand as one of our own men, one of the Blooms- 
bury lot. He asks too many questions, but he makes up 
for it by not paying any attention to the answers. He told 
me he would give the world to see a working-man's " inte- 
rior." I didn't know what he meant at first : he wanted a 
favourable specimen, one of the best ; he had seen one or 
two that he didn't believe to be up to the average. I 
suppose he meant Schinkel, the cabinetmaker, and he 
wanted to compare. I told him I didn't know what sort 
of a specimen my place would be, but that he was welcome 
to look round, and that it contained at any rate one or 
two original features. I expect he has found that's the 
case with Rosy and the noble lady. I wanted to show 
him off to Rosy ; he's good for that, if he isn't good for 
anything else. I told him we expected a little company 
this evening, so it might be a good time ; and he assured 
me that to mingle in such an occasion as that was the 
dream of his existence. He seemed in a rare hurry, as if 
I were going to show him a hidden treasure, and insisted 
on driving me over in a hansom. Perhaps his idea is to 
introduce the use of cabs among the working-classes ; 
certainly, I'll vote for him for Parliament, if that's his line. 
On our way over he talked to me about you ; told me you 
were an intimate friend of his.' 
'What did he say about me?' Hyacinth inquired, with 
promptness. 
' Vain little beggar ! ' 
' Did he call me that?' said Hyacinth, ingenuously. 
' He said you were simply astonishing.' 
'Simply astonishing?' Hyacinth repeated. 
' For a person of your low extraction.' 
'Well, I may be queer, but he is certainly queerer. 
Don't you think so, now you know him ? ' 
Paul Muniment looked at his young friend a moment. 
' Do you want to know what he is ? He's a tout.' 
' A tout ? What do you mean ?' 
' Well, a cat's-paw, if you like better.' 
Hyacinth stared. ' For whom, pray ? ' 
'Or a fisherman, if you like better still. I give 
you your choice of comparisons. I made them up as 
we came along in the hansom. He throws his nets 
and hauls in the little fishes the pretty little shining, 
wriggling fishes. They are all for her ; she swallows, 'em 
down.' 
' For her? Do you mean the Princess ?' 
' Who else should I mean ? Take care, my tadpole ! ' 
' Why should I take care ? The other day you told 
me not to.' 
' Yes, I remember. But now I see more.' 
' Did he speak of her ? What did he say ? ' asked Hya- 
cinth, eagerly. ' 
' I can't tell you now what he said, but I'll tell you 
what I guessed.' 
' And what's that ? ' 
They had been talking, of course, in a very low tone, 
and their voices were covered by Rosy's chatter in the 
corner, by the liberal laughter with which Captain Sholto 
accompanied it, and by the much more discreet, though 
earnest, intermingled accents of, Lady Aurora and Miss 
Pynsent. But Paul Muniment spoke more softly still 
 
Hyacinth felt a kind of suspense as he replied in a mo- 
ment, ' Why, she's a monster ! ' 
' A monster ? ' repeated our young man, from whom, 
this evening, Paul Muniment seemed destined to elicit 
ejaculations and echoes. 
Muniment glanced toward the Captain, who was appa- 
rently more and more fascinated by Rosy. ' In him I 
think there's no great harm. He's only a conscientious 
fisherman !' 
It must be admitted that Captain Sholto justified to 
a certain extent this definition by the manner in which 
he baited his hook for such little facts as might help 
him to a more intimate knowledge of his host and hostess. 
When the tea was made, Rose Muniment asked Miss 
Pynsent to be so good as to hand it about. They must 
let her poor ladyship rest a little, must they not? and 
Hyacinth could see that in her innocent but inveterate 
self-complacency she wished to reward and encourage 
the dressmaker, draw her out and present her still more, 
by offering her this graceful exercise. Sholto sprang up 
at this, and begged Pinnie to let him relieve her, taking 
a cup from her hand ; and poor Pinnie, who perceived 
in a moment that he was some kind of masquerading 
gentleman, who was bewildered by the strange mixture of 
elements that surrounded her and unused to being treated 
like a duchess (for the Captain's manner was a triumph 
of respectful gallantry), collapsed, on the instant, into a 
chair, appealing to Lady Aurora with a frightened smile 
and conscious that, deeply versed as she might be in the 
theory of decorum, she had no precedent that could meet 
such an occasion. ' Now, how many families would there 
be in such a house as this, and what should you say about 
the sanitary arrangements? Would there be others on 
this floor what is it, the third, the fourth ? beside your- 
selves, you know, and should you call it a fair specimen of 
a tenement of its class?' It was with such inquiries as 
this that Captain Sholto beguiled their tea-drinking, while 
Hyacinth made the reflection that, though he evidently 
meant them very well, they were characterised by a want 
of fine tact, by too patronising a curiosity. The Captain 
requested information as to the position in life, the avoca- 
tions and habits, of the other lodgers, the rent they paid, 
their relations with each other, both in and out of the 
family. ' Now, would there be a good deal of close packing, 
do you suppose, and any perceptible want of a sobriety ? ' 
Paul Muniment, who had swallowed his cup of tea at 
a single gulp there was no offer of a second gazed out 
of the window into the dark, which had now come on, 
with his hands in his pockets, whistling, impolitely, no 
doubt, but with brilliant animation. He had the manner 
of having made over their visitor altogether to Rosy and of 
thinking that whatever he said or did it was all so much 
grist to her indefatigable little mill. Lady Aurora looked 
distressed and embarrassed, and it is a proof of the degree 
to which our little hero had the instincts of a man of the 
world that he guessed exactly how vulgar she thought this 
new acquaintance. She was doubtless rather vexed, also 
Hyacinth had learned this evening that Lady Aurora 
could be vexed at the alacrity of Rosy's responses ; the 
little person in the bed gave the Captain every satisfaction, 
considered his questions as a proper tribute to humble re- 
spectability, and supplied him, as regards the population 
 
of Audley Court, with statistics and anecdotes which she 
had picked up by mysterious processes of her own. At last 
Lady Aurora, upon whom Paul Muniment had not been at 
pains to bestow much conversation, took leave of her, and 
signified to Hyacinth that for the rest of the evening she 
