With one slow finger-tip Teen wiped away the tears 
that fell for her mother. A ring on her finger glistened 
in the light as she did this. She saw the sparkle, tore 
off the ring and dashed it away ; it fell into the mud, 
and was trodden out of sight instantly. Jack sprang 
gallantly to pick it up. 
" Don't you touch it ! " cried the girl. She put her 
bared hand back upon his arm. The ring had left a little 
mark upon her finger ; she glanced at this, and looked 
up into Jack's handsome face ; he looked very kind. 
" Jack, clear," said Teen softly, " I ain't fit to marry 
ye." 
" You 're fitter 'n I be," answered Jack manfully. 
Teen sighed ; she did not speak at once ; other tears 
came now, but these were tears for herself and for Jack. 
Jack felt this, after his fashion ; they gave him singular 
confusion of mind. 
" I wouldn't cry about it, Teen. You needn't have 
me if you don't want to." 
" But I do want to, Jack." 
" Honest ? " 
" Honest it is, Jack." 
" Will ye make a good wife, Teen ? " asked Jack, after 
some unprecedented thought. 
" I 'll try, Jack." 
" You 'll never go back on me, nohow ? " 
" I ain't that sort ! " cried the girl, drawing herself up 
a little. A new dignity sat upon her with a certain grace 
which was beautiful to see. 
" Will you swear it, Teen ? " 
" If you 'd rather, Jack." 
" What 'll you swear by, now ? " asked Jack. " You 
must swear by all you hold holy." 
" What do I hold holy ? " mused Teen. 
"Will you swear," continued Jack seriously, "will you 
swear to me by the Rock of Ages ? " 
" What 's that ? " asked the girl. 
" It 's a hymn-tune. I want you to swear me by the 
Rock of Ages that you 'll be that you say you will, to 
me. Will you do it, Teen ? " 
" Oh yes," said Teen, " I 'll do it. Where shall we 
come across one ? " 
" I guess I can find it," Jack replied. " I can find 
'most anything I set out to." 
So they started out at random, in their reckless 
fashion, in the great city, to find the Rock of Ages for 
the asking. 
Jack led his companion hither and yon, peering into 
churches and vestries and missions, and wherever he 
saw signs of sacred things. Singing they heard abun- 
dantly in the gay town ; songs merry, mad, and sad ; 
but not the song for a girl to swear by, that she would 
be true wife to a man who trusted her. 
Wandering thus, on the strange errand whose pathos 
was so far above their own dream or knowledge, they 
chanced at last upon the place and the little group of 
people known in that part of Boston as Mother Mary's 
meeting. 
The girl said she had been there once, but that Mother 
Mary was too good for her ; she was one of the real 
kind. Everybody knew Mother Mary and her husband ; 
he was a parson. They were poor folks themselves, 
Teen said, and understood poor folks, and did for 
them all the year round, not clearing out, like rich ones, 
when it came hot weather, but stood by 'em, Teen said. 
They kept the little room open, and if you wanted a 
prayer you went in and got it, just as you 'd call for a 
drink or a supper ; it was always on hand for you, and 
a kind word sure to come with it, and you always knew 
where to go for 'em ; and Mother Mary treated you like 
folks. She liked her, Teen said. If she 'd been a different 
girl, she 'd have gone there of a cold night all 
winter. But Teen said she felt ashamed. 
" I guess she 'll have what I 'm after," said Jack. " She 
sounds like she would. Let 's go in and see." 
So they went into the quiet place among the praying 
people, and stood staring, for they felt embarrassed. 
Mother Mary looked very white and peaceful ; she was 
a tall, fair woman ; she wore a black dress with white 
about the bosom ; it was a plain, old dress, much mended. 
Mother Mary did not look rich, as Teen had said. 
The room was filled with poor creatures gathered about 
her like her children, while she talked with them and 
taught them as she could. She crossed the room im- 
mediately to where the young man stood, with the girl 
beside him. 
"We've come," said Jack, "to find the Rock of 
Ages." He drew Teen's hand through his arm, and 
held it for a moment ; then, moved by some fine instinct 
mysterious to himself, he lifted and laid it in Mother 
Mary's own. 
"Explain it to her, ma'am," he said ; "'tell her, won't 
you ? I 'm going to marry her, if she 'll have me. I 
want her to swear by somethin' holy she 'll be a true 
wife to me. She hadn't anything particularly holy herself,
and the holiest thing I know of is the Rock of 
Ages. I 've heard my mother sing it. She 's dead. 
We 've been huntin' Boston over to-night after the Rock 
of Ages." 
"I'll be an honest wife to you." 
Mother Mary was used to the pathos of her sober 
work, but the tears sprang now to her large and gentle 
eyes. She did not speak to Jack, — could not possibly, 
just then ; but, delaying only for the moment till she 
could command herself, she flung her rich, maternal 
voice out upon the words of the. old hymn. Her husband 
joined her, and all the people present swelled the 
chorus. 
" Rock of Ages, cleft for me ! 
Let me hide myself in thee ; 
Be of sin the double cure, 
Cleanse me from its guilt and power." 
They sang it all through, — the three verses that every- 
body knows, — and Jack and Teen stood listening. 
Jack tried to sing himself ; but Teen hid her face, and 
cried upon his arm. 
" Thou must save," sang the praying people ; "Thou 
must save, and thou alone ! " 
The strain died solemnly ; the room was quiet ; the 
minister yonder began to pray, and all the people bowed 
their heads. But Mother Mary stood quite still, with the 
girl's hand trembling in her own. 
" Swear it, Teen ! " Jack bent clown his curly head 
and whispered ; he would not shame his promised wife 
before these people. " Swear by that, you 'll be true 
wife to me ! " 
"I swear it, Jack," sobbed Teen. "If that's the 
Rock of Ages, I swear by it, though I was to die for it, 
I'll be an honest wife to you." 
" Come back when you 've got your license," said 
Mother Mary, smiling through her tears, " and my hus- 
band will marry you if you want him to." 
" We 'll come to-morrow," Jack answered gravely. 
" Jack," said Teen in her pretty way, — for she had a 
very pretty way, — "if I'man honest wife to you, will 
you be kind to me ? " She did not ask him to swear 
it by the Rock of Ages. She took his word for it, poor 
thins: ! Women do. 
III. 
Mother Mary's husband married them next day at 
the Mission meeting ; and Mother Mary sat down at the 
melodeon in the corner of the pleasant place, and played 
and sang Toplady's great hymn for them, as Jack had 
asked her. It was his wedding march. He was very 
sober and gentle, — almost like a better man. Teen 
thought him the handsomest man she had ever seen. 
" Oh, I say, Teen," he nodded to her, as they walked 
away, " one thing I forgot to tell you, — I'm reformed." 
" Are you, Jack ? " 
" If I ever drink a drop again, so help me " — But 
he stopped. 
" So help you, Rock of Ages ? " asked the new-made 
wife. But Jack winced ; he was honest enough to hesitate 
at this. 
" I don't know 's I 'd darst — that" he added ruefully. 
" But I 'm reformed. I have lost all hanker for liquor. 
I shall never drink again. You 'll see, Teen." 
Teen did see, as was to be expected. She saw a 
great deal, poor thing ! Jack did not drink — for a long 
time; it was nearly five months, for they kept close 
count. He took her to Fairharbor, and rented the old 
half of the crumbling cottage where his mother used to 
sit and watch for him on long, late evenings. The 
young wife did the watching now. They planted some 
cinnamon rose-bushes 
by the doorsteps of — the cottage, and fos- 
tered them affectionately. Jack was as 
happy and sober as possible, to begin 
with. He picked the cinnamon roses and 
brought them in for 
his wife to wear. He was proud to have a 
home of his own ; he had not expected to ; 
in fact, he had never had one since that 
night when his mother 
said they were to give her love to him, if he came home 
while she was asleep. He had beaten about so, sleeping 
for the most part in his berth, and sailing again directly ; 
he had never had any place, he said, to hang his winter 
clothes in ; closets and bureaus seemed treasure-houses 
to him, and the kitchen fire a luxury greater than a less 
