dreadful fear that death would rob them of the little creature who
grew so precious when the thought of losing her made their hearts
stand still. How could they live without the sound of that sweet
voice chirping about the house, the busy feet tripping up and down,
the willing hands trying to help, the sunny face smiling at every
one, and going away into corners to hide the tears that sometimes
came to dim its brightness? What would comfort the absent mother for
such a loss as this, and how could they answer to the father for the
carelessness that risked the child’s life for a girl’s errand? No
one dared to think, and all prayed heartily for Rosy’s life, as they
watched and waited by the little bed where she lay so patiently,
till the fever grew high and she began to babble about many things.
Her childish trials were all told, her longings for Mamma, whose
place no one could fill, her quaint little criticisms upon those
about her, and her plans for making peace. These innocent
revelations caused many tears, and wrought some changes in those who
heard; for Miss Penny quite forgot her infirmities to live in the
sick-room as the most experienced nurse and tenderest watcher. Miss
Henny cooked her daintiest gruel, brewed her coolest drinks, and
lost many pounds in weight by her indefatigable trotting up and down
to minister to the invalid’s least caprice. Cicely was kept away for
fear of infection, but HER penance was to wander about the great
house, more silent than ever now, to answer the inquiries and listen
to the sad forebodings of the neighbors, who came to offer help and
sympathy; for all loved little Button-Rose, and grieved to think of
any blight falling on the pretty blossom. To wile away the long
hours, Cicely fell to dusting the empty rooms, setting closets and
drawers to rights, and keeping all fresh and clean, to the great
relief of the old cousins, who felt that everything would go to
destruction in their absence. She read and sewed now, having no
heart for jaunting about; and as she made the long neglected white
pinafores, for Rosy, she thought much of the little girl who might
never live to wear them.
Meantime the fever took its course, and came at last to the fateful
day when a few hours would settle the question of life or death. The
hot flush died out of the cheeks that had lost their soft roundness
now, the lips were parched, the half-shut eyes looked like sick
violets, and all the pretty curls were tangled on the pillow. Rosy
no longer sung to Bella, talked of “three dear little girls” and Mr.
Thomas, tigers and bangles, Cis and necklaces, hens and gates. She
ceased to call for Mamma, asked no more why her “missionary man”
 never came, and took no notice of the anxious old faces bending over
her. She lay in a stupor, and the doctor held the little wasted
hand, and tried to see the face of his watch with dim eyes as he
counted the faint pulse, whispering solemnly,--
“We can only hope and wait now. Sleep alone can save her.”
As the sisters sat, one on either side the narrow bed that day, and
Cicely walked restlessly up and down the long hall below, where both
doors stood open to let in the cool evening air, as the sun went
down, a quick but quiet step came up the steps, and Mr. Dover walked
in without ringing. He had been away, and coming home an hour ago,
heard the sad news. Losing not a moment, he hurried to ask about his
little Button, and his face showed how great his love and fear were,
as he said in a broken whisper,--
“Will she live? My mother never told me how serious it was, or I
should have returned at once.”
“We hope so, sir, but--” And there Cicely’s voice failed, as she hid
her face and sobbed.
“My dear girl, don’t give way. Keep up your heart, hope, pray, will
that the darling SHALL live, and that may do some good. We can’t let
her go! we won’t let her go! Let me see her; I know much of fevers
far worse than this, and might be able to suggest something,” begged
Mr. Dover, throwing down his hat, and waving an immense fan with
such an air of resolution and cheery good-will that tired Cis felt
comforted at once, and led the way upstairs entirely forgetting the
great feud, as he did.
At the threshold of the door he paused, till the girl had whispered
his name. Miss Penny, always a gentlewoman, rose at once and went
to meet him, but Miss Henny did not even seem to see him, for just
then, as if dimly feeling that her friend was near, Rosy stirred,
and gave a long sigh.
Silently the three stood and looked at the beloved little creature
lying there in the mysterious shadow of death, and they so helpless
to keep her if the hour for departure had come.
“God help us!” sighed pious Miss Penny, folding her old hands, as if
they did that often now.
“Drifting away, I fear;” and Miss Henny’s plump face looked almost
beautiful, with the tears on it, as she leaned nearer to listen to
the faint breath at the child’s lips.
“No; we will keep her, please the Lord! If we can make her sleep
quietly for the next few hours she is safe. Let me try. Fan slowly
with this, Miss Henrietta, and you, dear lady, pray that the
precious little life may be given us.”
As he spoke, Mr. Dover gave the great fan to Miss Henny, took the
small cold hands in his, and sitting on the bedside held them close
in his large warm ones, as if trying to pour life and strength into
the frail body, as his eyes, fixed on the half-opened ones, seemed
to call back the innocent soul hovering on the threshold of its
prison, like the butterfly poised upon the chrysalis before it soars
away.
Miss Penny knelt down near by, and laying her white head on the
other pillow, again besought God to spare this treasure to the
father and mother over the sea. How long they remained so none of
them ever knew, silent and motionless but for the slow waving of the
noiseless fan, which went to and fro like the wing of a great white
bird, as if Miss Henny’s stout arm could never tire. Miss Penny was
so still she seemed to be asleep. Mr. Dover never stirred, but grew
paler as the minutes passed; and Cicely, creeping now and then to
look in and steal away, saw strange power in the black eyes that
seemed to hold the fluttering spirit of the little child by the love
and longing that made them both tender and commanding.
A level ray of sunlight stole through the curtain at last and turned
the tangles of bright hair to pure gold. Miss Henny rose to shut it
out, and as if her movement broke the spell, Rosy took a long full
breath, turned on the pillow, and putting one hand under her cheek,
seemed to fall asleep as naturally as she used to do when well. Miss
Penny looked up, touched the child’s forehead, and whispered, with a
look of gratitude as bright as if the sunshine had touched her
also,--
“It is moist! this is real sleep! Oh, my baby! oh, my baby!” And the
old head went down again with a stifled sob, for her experienced eye
told her that the danger was passing by and Rosy would live.
“The prayers of the righteous avail much,” murmured Mr. Dover,
turning to the other lady, who stood beside her sister looking down
at the little figure now lying so restfully between them.
“How can we thank you?” she whispered, offering her hand, with the
smile which had once made her pretty, and still touched the old face
with something better than beauty.
Mr. Dover took the hand and answered, with an eloquent look at the
child,--
“Let not the sun go down upon our wrath. Forgive me and be friends
again, for her sake.”
“I will!” And the plump hands gave the thin ones a hearty shake as
the great feud ended forever over the bed of the little peacemaker
whose childish play had turned to happy earnest.
MOUNTAIN-LAUREL AND MAIDEN-HAIR
“Here’s your breakfast, miss. I hope it’s right. Your mother showed
me how to fix it, and said I’d find a cup up here.”
“Take that blue one. I have not much appetite, and can’t eat if
things are not nice and pretty. I like the flowers. I’ve been
longing for some ever since I saw them last night.”
The first speaker was a red-haired, freckle-faced girl, in a brown
calico dress and white apron, with a tray in her hands and an air of
timid hospitality in her manner; the second a pale, pretty creature,
in a white wrapper and blue net, sitting in a large chair, looking
about her with the languid interest of an invalid in a new place.
Her eyes brightened as they fell upon a glass of rosy laurel and
delicate maidenhair fern that stood among the toast and eggs,
strawberries and cream, on the tray.
“Our laurel is jest in blow, and I’m real glad you come in time to
see it. I’ll bring you a lot, as soon’s ever I get time to go for
it.”
As she spoke, the plain girl replaced the ugly crockery cup and
saucer with the pretty china ones pointed out to her, arranged the
dishes, and waited to see if anything else was needed.
“What is your name, please?” asked the pretty girl, refreshing
herself with a draught of new milk.
“Rebecca. Mother thought I’d better wait on you; the little girls
are so noisy and apt to forget. Wouldn’t you like a piller to your
back? you look so kind of feeble seems as if you wanted to be
propped up a mite.”
There was so much compassion and good-will in the face and voice,
that Emily accepted the offer, and let Rebecca arrange a cushion
behind her; then, while the one ate daintily, and the other stirred
about an inner room, the talk went on,--for two girls are seldom
long silent when together.
“I think the air is going to suit me, for I slept all night and
never woke till Mamma had been up ever so long and got things all
nicely settled,” said Emily, graciously, when the fresh strawberries
had been enjoyed, and the bread and butter began to vanish.
“I’m real glad you like it; most folks do, if they don’t mind it
being plain and quiet up here. It’s gayer down at the hotel, but the
air ain’t half so good, and delicate folks generally like our old
place best,” answered Becky, as she tossed over a mattress and shook
out the sheet with a brisk, capable air pleasant to see.
“I wanted to go to the hotel, but the doctor said it would be too
noisy for me, so Mamma was glad to find rooms here. I didn’t think a
farm-house COULD be so pleasant. That view is perfectly splendid!”
 and Emily sat up to gaze delightedly out of the window, below which
spread the wide intervale, through which the river ran with
hay-fields on either side, while along the green slopes of the hills
lay farm-houses with garden plots, and big barns waiting for the
harvest; and beyond, the rocky, wooded pastures dotted with cattle
and musical with cow-bells, brooks, and birds.
A balmy wind kissed a little color into the pale cheeks, the
listless eyes brightened as they looked, and the fretful lines
vanished from lips that smiled involuntarily at the sweet welcome
Nature gave the city child come to rest and play and grow gay and
rosy in her green lap.
Becky watched her with interest, and was glad to see how soon the
