and Philadelphia. What do you think? It’s easier striking them from
here.”
“I don’t know but you’re right,” said his father easily.
They had come out of the dining-room, and Dan stopped to get some
cigarettes in the office. He looked mechanically at the theatre bills
over the cigar case. “I see Irving’s at the ‘Boston.’”
“Oh, you don’t say!” said his father. “Let’s go and see him.”
“If you wish it, sir,” said Dan, with pensive acquiescence. All the
Maverings were fond of the theatre, and made any mood the occasion or
the pretext of going to the play. If they were sad, they went; if they
were gay, they went. As long as Dan’s mother could get out-of-doors she
used to have herself carried to a box in the theatre whenever she was in
town; now that she no longer left her room, she had a dominant passion
for hearing about actors and acting; it was almost a work of piety in
her husband and children to see them and report to her.
His father left him the next afternoon, and Dan, who had spent the
day with him looking into business for the first time, with a running
accompaniment of Alice in all the details, remained to uninterrupted
misery. He spent the evening in his room, too wretched even for the
theatre. It is true that he tried to find Boardman, but Boardman was
again off on some newspaper duty; and after trying at several houses
in the hope, which he knew was vain, of finding any one in town yet, he
shut himself up with his thoughts. They did not differ from the thoughts
of the night before, and the night before that, but they were calmer,
and they portended more distinctly a life of self-abnegation and
solitude from that time forth. He tested his feelings, and found that
it was not hurt vanity that he was suffering from: it was really wounded
affection. He did not resent Alice’s cruelty; he wished that she might
be happy; he could endure to see her happy.
He wrote a letter to the married one of the two ladies he had spent the
day with in Portland, and thanked them for making pass pleasantly a day
which he would not otherwise have known how to get through. He let a
soft, mysterious melancholy pervade his letter; he hinted darkly at
trouble and sorrow of which he could not definitely speak. He had the
good sense to tear his letter up when he had finished it, and to send
a short, sprightly note instead, saying that if Mrs. Frobisher and her
sister came to Boston at the end of the month, as they had spoken of
doing, they must be sure to let him know. Upon the impulse given him by
this letter he went more cheerfully to bed, and fell instantly asleep.
During the next three weeks he bent himself faithfully to the schemes
of work his father had outlined for him. He visited New York and
Philadelphia, and looked into the business and the processes there;
and he returned to Ponkwasset Falls to report and compare his facts
intelligently with those which he now examined in his father’s
manufactory for the first time. He began to understand how his father,
who was a man of intellectual and artistic interests, should be fond of
the work.
He spent a good deal of time with his mother, and read to her, and got
upon better terms with her than they usually were. They were very much
alike, and she objected to him that he was too light and frivolous. He
sat with his sisters, and took an interest in their pursuits. He drove
them about with his father’s sorrels, and resumed something of the old
relations with them which the selfish years of his college life had
broken off. As yet he could not speak of Campobello or of what had
happened there; and his mother and sisters, whatever they thought, made
no more allusion to it than his father had done.
They mercifully took it for granted that matters must have gone wrong
there, or else he would speak about them, for there had been some gay
banter among them concerning the objects of his expedition before he
left home. They had heard of the heroine of his Class Day, and they had
their doubts of her, such as girls have of their brothers’ heroines.
They were not inconsolably sorry to have her prove unkind; and their
mother found in the probable event another proof of their father’s total
want of discernment where women were concerned, for the elder Mavering
had come home from Class Day about as much smitten with this mysterious
Miss Pasmer as Dan was. She talked it over indignantly with her
daughters; they were glad of Dan’s escape, but they were incensed with
the girl who could let him escape, and they inculpated her in a high
degree of heartless flirtation. They knew how sweet Dan was, and they
believed him most sincere and good. He had been brilliantly popular in
college, and he was as bright as he could be. What was it she chose not
to like in him? They vexed themselves with asking how or in what way she
thought herself better. They would not have had her love Dan, but they
were hot against her for not loving him.
They did not question him, but they tried in every way to find out how
much he was hurt, and they watched him in every word and look for signs
of change to better or worse, with a growing belief that he was not very
much hurt.
It could not be said that in three weeks he forgot Alice, or had begun
to forget her; but he had begun to reconcile himself to his fate, as
people do in their bereavements by death. His consciousness habituated
itself to the facts as something irretrievable. He no longer framed
in his mind situations in which the past was restored. He knew that he
should never love again, but he had moments, and more and more of them,
in which he experienced that life had objects besides love. There were
times when he tingled with all the anguish of the first moment of
his rejection, when he stopped in whatever he was doing, or stood
stock-still, as a man does when arrested by a physical pang, breathless,
waiting. There were other times when he went about steeped in gloom so
black that all the world darkened with it, and some mornings when he
woke he wished that the night had lasted for ever, and felt as if the
daylight had uncovered his misery and his shame to every one. He never
knew when he should have these moods, and he thought he should have them
as long as he lived. He thought this would be something rather fine. He
had still other moods, in which he saw an old man with a grey moustache,
like Colonel Newcome, meeting a beautiful white-haired lady; the man had
never married, and he had not seen this lady for fifty years. He bent
over, and kissed her hand.
“You idiot!” said Mavering to himself. Throughout he kept a good
appetite. In fact, after that first morning in Portland, he had been
hungry three times a day with perfect regularity. He lost the idea
of being sick; he had not even a furred tongue. He fell asleep pretty
early, and he slept through the night without a break. He had to laugh
a great deal with his mother and sisters, since he could not very well
mope without expecting them to ask why, and he did not wish to say
why. But there were some laughs which he really enjoyed with the Yankee
foreman of the works, who was a droll, after a common American pattern,
and said things that were killingly funny, especially about women, of
whom his opinions were sarcastic.
Dan Mavering suffered, but not solidly. His suffering was short, and
crossed with many gleams of respite and even joy. His disappointment
made him really unhappy, but not wholly so; it was a genuine sorrow,
but a sorrow to which he began to resign himself even in the monotony
of Ponkwasset Falls, and which admitted the thought of Mrs. Frobisher’s
sister by the time business called him to Boston.
XXIV.
Before the end of the first week after Dan came back to town, that which
was likely to happen whenever chance brought him and Alice together had
taken place.
It was one of the soft days that fall in late October, when the
impending winter seems stayed, and the warm breath of the land draws
seaward and over a thousand miles of Indian summer. The bloom came and
went in quick pulses over the girl’s temples as she sat with her head
thrown back in the corner of the car, and from moment to moment she
stirred slightly as if some stress of rapture made it hard for her
to get her breath; a little gleam of light fell from under her fallen
eyelids into the eyes of the young man beside her, who leaned forward
slightly and slanted his face upward to meet her glances. They said some
words, now and then, indistinguishable to the others; in speaking they
smiled slightly. Sometimes her hand wavered across her lap; in both
their faces there was something beyond happiness--a transport, a
passion, the brief splendour of a supreme moment.
They left the car at the Arlington Street corner of the Public Garden,
and followed the winding paths diagonally to the further corner on
Charles Street.
“How stupid we were to get into that ridiculous horse-car!” she said.
“What in the world possessed us to do it?”
“I can’t imagine,” he answered. “What a waste of time it was! If we had
walked, we might have been twice as long coming. And now you’re going to
send me off so soon!”
“I don’t send you,” she murmured.
“But you want me to go.”
“Oh no! But you’d better.”
“I can’t do anything against your wish.”
“I wish it--for your own good.”
“Ah, do let me go home with you, Alice?”
“Don’t ask it, or I must say yes.”
“Part of the way, then?”
“No; not a step! You must take the first car for Cambridge. What time is
it now?”
“You can see by the clock on the Providence Depot.”
“But I wish you to go by your watch, now. Look!”
“Alice!” he cried, in pure rapture.
“Look!”
“It’s a quarter of one.”
“And we’ve been three hours together already! Now you must simply fly.
If you came home with me I should be sure to let you come in, and if I
don’t see mamma alone first, I shall die. Can’t you understand?”
“No; but I can do the next best thing: I can misunderstand. You want to
be rid of me.”
“Shall you be rid of me when we’ve parted?” she asked, with an inner
thrill of earnestness in her gay tone.
“Alice!”
“You know I didn’t mean it, Dan.”
“Say it again.”
“What?”
“Dan.”
“Dan, love! Dan, dearest!”
“Will that car of yours never come? I’ve promised myself not to leave
you till it does, and if I stay here any longer I shall go wild. I can’t
believe it’s happened. Say it again!”
“Say what?”
“That--”
“That I love you? That we’re engaged?”
“I don’t believe it. I can’t.” She looked impatiently up the street.
“Oh, there comes your car! Run! Stop it!”
“I don’t run to stop cars.” He made a sign, which the conductor obeyed,
and the car halted at the further crossing.
She seemed to have forgotten it, and made no movement to dismiss him.
“Oh, doesn’t it seem too good to be standing here talking in this way,
