"Call what?"
"I thought--you see I was half, perhaps wholly asleep, but I thought I
heard her voice. I was mistaken, was I not?"
"Yes, you must have been."
The negro had brought down the luggage, and stood waiting at the gate.
"You will tell her--Mrs. Raritan--I love her with all my heart and
soul."
The lady's lips quivered. "She knows it, and so do I."
"You will ask her to write."
"Yes, I will do so."
Tristrem took her hand in his. "Tell her from me," he began, but words
failed him, it was his face that completed the message. In a moment more
he was in the coach on his way to the station.
There was a brisk drive along the sea, a curve was rounded, and the
station stood in sight. And just as the turn was made Tristrem caught
the shriek of a whistle.
"There she goes," the negro exclaimed, "you ought to have been spryer."
"Has the train gone?" Tristrem asked.
"Can't you see her? I knew you'd be late." The man was insolent in his
familiarity, but Tristrem did not seem to notice it.
"I would have given much not to be," he said.
At this the negro became a trifle less uncivil. "Would you ree-ly like
to catch that train?" he asked.
"I would indeed."
"Is it worth twenty-five dollars to you?"
Tristrem nodded.
"Well, boss, I tell you. That train stops at Peacedale, and at Wakefield
she shunts off till the mail passes. Like as not the express is late. If
I get you to Kingston before the Newport passes, will you give me
twenty-five?"
"If I make the connection I will give you fifty."
"That's talking. You'll get there, boss. Just lay back and count your
thumbs."
The negro snapped his whip, and soon Tristrem was jolted over one of the
worst and fairest roads of New England, through a country for which
nature has done her best, and where only the legislator is vile. One
hamlet after another was passed, and still the coach rolled on.
"We'll get there," the negro repeated from time to time, and to
encourage his fare he lashed the horses to their utmost speed. Peacedale
was in the distance; Wakefield was passed, and in a cloud of dust they
tore through Kingston and reached the station just as the express
steamed up.
"I told you I'd do it," the negro exclaimed, exultingly. "I'll get
checks for your trunks."
A minute or two more, and the checks were obtained; the negro was
counting a roll of bills, and in a drawing-room car Tristrem was being
whirled to New York.
For several hours he sat looking out at the retreating uplands,
villages, and valleys. But after a while he remembered the scantiness of
his breakfast, and, summoning the porter, he obtained from him some food
and drink. By this time the train had reached New Haven, and there
Tristrem alighted to smoke a cigarette. He was, however, unable to
finish it before the whistle warned him that he should be aboard again.
The porter, who had been gratified by a tip, then told him that there
was a smoking compartment in the car beyond the one in which he had sat,
and, as the train moved on, Tristrem went forward in the direction
indicated.
The compartment was small, with seats for two on one side, and for
three, or for four at most, on the other. As Tristrem entered it he saw
that the larger sofa was occupied by one man, who lay out on it, full
length, his face turned to the partition. Tristrem took a seat opposite
him, and lit a fresh cigarette. As he smoked he looked at the reclining
form of his vis-à-vis. About the man's neck a silk handkerchief had
been rolled, but one end had come undone and hung loosely on the
cushion, and as Tristrem looked he noticed that on the neck was a wound,
unhealed and fresh, a line of excoriation, that neither steel nor shot
could have caused, but which might have come from a scratch. But, after
all, what business was it of his? And he turned his attention again to
the retreating uplands and to the villages that starred the route.
When the cigarette was done, he stood up to leave the compartment. But
however quietly he had moved, he seemed to arouse his neighbor, who
turned heavily, as though to change his position. As he did so, Tristrem
saw that it was Royal Weldon, and that on his face was a bruise. He
would have spoken, for Weldon was looking at him, but he recalled the
wanton lie of the week before, and as he hesitated whether to speak or
pass on, Weldon half rose. "Damn you," he said, "you are everywhere."
Then he lay down, turning his face again to the wall, and Tristrem,
without a word, went to the other car and found his former seat.
Two hours later he reached his home. He let himself in with a latch-key,
and rang the bell. But when Harris appeared he knew at once, by the
expression which the butler assumed, that he had come too late.
"When did it happen?" he asked.
"It was last evening, sir; he came in from his drive and inquired for
you, sir. I said that you had gone out of town, and showed him the
address you left. When I went to hannounce dinner, sir, he was sitting
in his arm-chair with his hat on. I thought he was asleep. I sent for
Dr. McMasters, sir, but it was no use. Dr. McMasters said it was the
'art, sir."
"You have notified my grandfather, have you not?"
"Yes, sir, I did, sir; Mr. Van Norden came in this morning, and left
word as how he would like to see you when you got back, sir."
"Very good. Call Davis, and get my things from the cabman."
"Yes, sir; thank you, sir. I beg pardon, sir," he added, "would you wish
some dinner? There's a nice fillet and a savory."
IX.
The morning after the funeral Tristrem received a letter from Mrs.
Raritan, and a little later a small package by express. The letter was
not long, and its transcription is unnecessary. It was to the effect
that on maturer consideration Viola had decided that the engagement into
which she had entered was untenable. To this decision Mrs. Raritan felt
herself reluctantly obliged to concur. It was not that Mr. Varick was
one whom she would be unwilling to welcome as her daughter's husband. On
the contrary, he was in many respects precisely what she most desired.
But Viola was young; she felt that she had a vocation to which marriage
would be an obstacle, and in the circumstances Viola was the better
judge. In any event, Mr. Varick was requested to consider the decision
as irrevocable. Then followed a few words of sympathy and a line of
condolence expressive of Mrs. Raritan's regret that the breaking of the
engagement should occur at a time when Tristrem was in grievous
affliction.
In the package were the jewels.
Tristrem read the letter as though he were reading some accusation of
felony levelled at him in the public press. If it had been a meteor
which had fallen at his feet he could not have wondered more. Indeed, it
was surprise that he felt. It was not anger or indignation; they were
after-comers. For the moment he was merely bewildered. It seemed to him
incredible that such a thing could be. He read the letter again, and
even examined the post-mark. At first he was for starting at once for
Narragansett. If he could but see Viola! The excuse about a vocation was
nonsense. Had he not told her that if she insisted on going on the
stage, he would sit in the stalls and applaud. No, it was not that; it
was because--After all, it was his own fault; if he had been unable to
make himself beloved, why should the engagement continue? But had an
opportunity been given him? He had not had speech with her since that
evening when she had drawn his face to hers. No, it could not be that.
He bowed his head, and then Anger came and sat at his side. What had he
done to Destiny that he should be to it the play-thing that he was? But
she; she was more voracious even than Fate. No, it was damnable. Why
should she take his heart and torment it? Why, having given love, should
she take it away? He was contented enough until he saw her. Why had she
come to him as the one woman in the world, luring him on; yes, for she
had lured him on? Why had she made him love her as he could never love
again, and just when she placed her hand in his,--a mist, a phantom, a
reproach? Why had she done so? Why was the engagement untenable?
Untenable, indeed, why was it untenable? Why--why--why? And in the
increasing exasperation of the moment, Tristrem did a thing that, with
him, was unusual. He rang the bell, and bade the servant bring him
drink.
It was on the afternoon of that day that he learned the tenor of his
father's will. It affected him as a chill affects a man smitten with
fever. He accepted it as a matter of course. It was not even the last
drop; the cup was full as it stood. What was it to him that he had
missed being one of the richest men in New York in comparison to the
knowledge that even had he the mines of Ormuz and of Ind, the revenue
would be as useless to him as the hands of the dead? Was she to be
bought? Had she not taken herself away before the contents of the will
were reported? He might be able to call the world his own, and it would
avail him nothing.
The will left him strangely insensible, though, after all, one may
wonder whether winter is severer than autumn to a flower once dead.
But if the will affected Tristrem but little, it stirred Dirck Van
Norden to paroxysms of wrath. "He ought to have his ghost kicked," he
said, in confidential allusion to Erastus Varick. "It's a thing that
cries out to heaven. And don't you tell me, sir, that nothing can be
done."
The lawyer with whom he happened to be in consultation said there were
many things that could be done. Indeed, he was reassuringly fecund in
resources. In the first place, the will was holographic. That, of
course, mattered nothing; it only pointed a moral. Laymen should not
draw up their own wills. For that matter, even professionals should be
as wary of so doing as physicians are of doctoring themselves. And the
lawyer instanced legal luminaries, judges whose obiter dicta and
opinions in banco were cited and received with the greatest respect,
and yet through whose wills, drawn up, mark you, by their own skilled
hands, coaches and tandems had been driven full speed. In regard to the
will of the deceased there was this to be said, it would not hold water.
Chapter 360, Laws of 1860, declares that no person having a husband,
wife, child, or parent, shall by his or her last will and testament,
devise or bequeath to any benevolent, charitable, scientific, literary,
religious, or missionary society, association, or corporation, in trust
or otherwise, more than one-half part of his or her estate.
"But he devised the whole."
"Yes, so he did; but in devising it he overlooked that very wise law. My
opinion in the matter is this. When, may I ask, was your grandson born?"
"He was born on the 10th of June, 1859."
"Exactly. The late Mr. Varick determined, on the birth of your grandson,
that the property should go over. His reasons for so determining are
immaterial. Rufus K. Taintor, the ablest man, sir, that ever sat on the
bench or addressed it, drew up the will at that time in accordance with
instructions received. Some years later, Taintor died of apoplexy, and
