there." 
A person with a delicate ear might have 
suspected Mr. Dosson of saying " setting ; " but he 
would pronounce the same word in a different 
manner at different times. 
" Well, in Paris you can see everything," said 
the young man. " I'm quite enthusiastic about 
Paris." 
"Haven 't you been here before?" Miss Delia 
asked. 
" Oh, yes, but it s ever fresh. And how is Miss 
Francie ? " 
"She s all right. She has gone up stairs to 
get something; we are going out again." 
" It s very attractive for the young," said Mr. 
Dosson to the visitor. 
" Well, then, I'm one of the young. Do you 
mind if I go with you ? " Mr. Flack continued, 
to the girl. 
"It 'll seem like old times, on the deck," she 
replied. " We're going to the Bon Marche." 
" Why don 't you go to the Louvre ? It s much 
better." 
" We have just come from there : we have had 
quite a morning." 
" Well, it s a good place," the visitor continued. 
" It s good for some things but it doesn 't come 
up to my idea for others." 
" Oh, they've  seen everything," said Mr. Dosson. 
Then he added, " I guess I 'll go and call Francie." 
" Well, tell her to hurry," Miss Delia returned, 
swinging a glove in each hand. 
"She knows my pace," Mr. Flack remarked. 
" I should think she would, the way you raced ! " 
the girl ejaculated, with memories of the Umbria. 
"I hope you don 't expect to rush round Paris 
that way." 
" I always rush. I live in a rush. That s the 
way to get through." 
" Well, I am through, I guess," said Mr. Dosson, 
philosophically. 
" Well, I ain 't ! " his daughter declared, with 
decision. 
"Well, you must come round often," the old 
gentleman continued, as a leave-taking. 
"Oh, I 'll come round! I 'll have to rush, but 
I 'll do it." 
" I 'll send down Francie." And Francie s father 
crept away. 
" And please to give her some more money ! " 
her sister called after him. 
" Does she keep the money ? " George Flack 
inquired. 
"Keep it?" Mr. Dosson stopped as he pushed 
aside the portiere. " Oh, you innocent young 
man ! " 
" I guess it s the first time you were ever called 
innocent," Delia remarked, left alone with the 
visitor. 
" Well, I was before I came to Paris." 
" Well, I can 't see that it has hurt us. We are 
not extravagant." 
" Wouldn 't you have a right to be ? " 
" I don 't think any one has a right to be." 
The young man, who had seated himself, looked 
at her a moment. " That s the way you used to 
talk." 
"Well, I haven 't changed." 
" And Miss Francie has she ? " 
" Well, you 'll see," said Delia Dosson, beginning 
to draw on her gloves. 
Her companion watched her, leaning forward 
with his elbows on the arms of his chair and his 
hands interlocked. At last he said, interrogatively : 
" Bon Marche ? " 
" No, I got them in a little place I know." 
" Well, they're Paris, anyway." 
"Of course they're Paris. But you can get 
gloves anywhere." 
"You must show me the little place, anyhow," 
Mr. Flack continued, sociably. And he observed 
further, with the same friendliness " The old 
gentleman seems all there." 
" Oh, he s the dearest of the dear." 
"He s a real gentleman of the old stamp," 
said George Flack. 
"Well, what should you think our father 
would be?" 
"I should think he would be delighted!" 
"Well, he is, when we carry out our plans." 
" And what are they your plans ? " asked the 
young man. 
"Oh, I never tell them." 
"How then does he know whether you carry 
them out ? " 
" Well, I guess he'd know it if we didn t," said 
the girl. 
" I remember how secretive you were last year. 
You kept everything to yourself." 
" Well, I know what I want," the young lady 
pursued. 
He watched her button one of her gloves, 
deftly, with a hairpin which she disengaged from 
some mysterious function under her bonnet. There 
was a moment s silence and then they looked up 
at each other. " I have an idea you don 't want 
me," said George Flack. 
" Oh, yes, I do as a friend." 
" Of all the mean ways of trying to get rid of 
a man, that s the meanest ! " he exclaimed. 
" Where s the meanness, when I suppose you 
  
are not so peculiar as to wish to be anything 
more ! " 
"More to your sister, do you mean or to 
yourself?" 
" My sister is myself I haven 't got any other," 
said Delia Dosson. 
" Any other sister ? " 
Don 't be idiotic. Are you still in the same 
business ? " the girl went on. 
"Well, I forget which one I was in." 
" Why, something to do with that newspaper 
don 't you remember?" 
" Yes, but it isn 't that paper any more it s a 
different one." 
" Do you go round for news in the same way ? " 
" Well, I try to get the people what they want. 
It s hard work said the young man. 
" Well, I suppose if you didn 't some one else 
would. They will have it, won 't they ? " 
"Yes, they will have it." But the wants 
of the people did not appear at the present 
moment to interest Mr. Flack as much as his 
own. He looked at his watch and remarked 
that the old gentleman didn 't seem to have much 
authority. 
" Much authority ? " the girl repeated. 
" With Miss Francie. She is taking her time, 
or rather, I mean, she is taking mine." 
"Well, if you expect to do anything with her 
you must give her plenty of that." 
 
" All right : I 'll give her all I have." And Miss 
Dosson s interlocutor leaned back in his chair 
with folded arms, as if to let his companion 
know that she would have to count with his 
patience. But she sat there in her expressionless 
placidity, giving no sign of alarm or defeat. He 
was the first indeed to show a symptom of rest 
lessness : at the end of a few moments he asked 
the young lady if she didn 't suppose her father 
had told her sister who it was. 
" Do you think that s all that s required ? " 
Miss Dosson demanded. But she added, more 
graciously "Probably that s the reason. She s 
so shy." 
"Oh, yes she used to look it." 
" No, that s her peculiarity, that she never looks 
it, and yet she is intensely so." 
" Well, you make it up for her then, Miss Delia," 
the young man ventured to declare. 
" No, for her, I'm not shy not in the 
least." 
"If it wasn 't for you I think I could do some 
thing," the young man went on. 
" Well, you've  got to kill me first ! " 
" I 'll come down on you, somehow, in the 
Reverberator," said George Flack. 
" Oh, that s not -what the people want." 
"No, unfortunately they don 't care anything 
about my affairs." 
" Well, we do : we are kinder, Francie and I," 
said the girl. " But we desire to keep them quite 
distinct from ours." 
" Oh, yours yours : if I could only discover what 
they are ! " the young journalist exclaimed. And 
during the rest of the time that they sat there 
, waiting he tried to find out. If an auditor had 
happened to be present for the quarter of an hour 
