she with horror in her wide-open, glassy eyes, he 
with the arms which had held her lying limply on 
the blood-stained floor beside him ? He seemed 
to see them both as he hovered above. It was 
death? Well, what matter? She had gone out 
with him; and in some cloud-walled castle, 
murmurous with harmonies of quiring spheres, and 
gleaming with their radiance, they would dwell 
together. Human vengeance could not reach 
them there, and for love there is no death. The 
soul cannot die, and love, its chiefest offspring, 
shares its immortality. It persists throughout 
the ages, like the waves of music that never 
cease. He would take her hand and lead her 
upward — Where was she ? Surely she must be 
by his side. But he could see no one, feel no 
presence. God ! had he lost her? Had she 
been borne upward and away, while he had 
lingered, fascinated with the empty clay that a 
moment since had been throbbing with life and 
keenest happiness? But he would find her — 
even did he go to the confines of Eternity. But 
where was he ? He could see the lifeless shells 
no longer. He was roaming — on — on — in a vast, 
grey, pathless land, without light, without sound, 
unpeopled, forsaken. These were the plains of 
Eternity! — the measureless, boundless, sun- 
forgotten region, whose monarch was Death, and 
whose avenging angel — Silence ! An eternal 
twilight more desolate than the blackness of 
night, a twilight as of myriads of ghostly 
lanterns shedding their colorless rays upon an awful, 
echoless solitude. He would never find her here. 
The dead of ages were about him — the troubled 
spirits who had approached the pale, stern gates 
of the Hereafter with rapture, and found within 
their portals not rest, but a ceaseless, weary, 
purposeless wandering; the world-tired souls of 
aged men pursuing their never-ending quest in 
meek, faltering wonder, and longing for the goal 
which surely they must reach at last; the white, 
unquestioning souls of children floating like 
heavenly strains of unheard music in the void 
immensity; but one and all invisible' 
imponderable. They were there, the monarchs of 
buried centuries and the thousands who had 
knelt at their thrones; the high and the low, the 
outcast and the shrived, but each as alone as if 
the solitary inhabitant of all Space. And he, who 
would have fled from his fellow-men on earth, 
must long in vain for the sound of human voice or 
the rapture of human touch. He must go on — on 
— in these colorless, shadowless, haunted plains, 
until the last trumpet-blast should awaken the 
echoes of the Universe and summon him to 
confront his Maker and be judged. Oh ! if but once 
more he could see the earth he had scorned ! 
Was it spinning on its way still, that dark, tiny 
ball ? How long since he had given that last 
 
glance of farewell ? It must be years and years 
and years, as reckoned by the time of men, for in 
Eternity there is no time. And Sioned — where 
was she ? Desolate and abandoned, shrieked at 
by sudden winds, flying terrified and helpless 
over level, horizonless plains only to fling herself 
upon the grey waves of Death's noiseless ocean ? 
Oh, if he could but find her and make her forget! 
Together, what would matter death and silence 
and everlasting unrest ? All would be forgot, 
all but the exquisite pain of the regret for the 
years he had wasted on earth, and for the 
solitary heritage he had left the world. Those 
children of his brain ! They were with him still. 
Would that he had left them below to sing his 
name down through the ages ! They were a 
torment to him here, in their futility and inaction. 
They could not sing to these shapeless ghosts 
about him; their voices would be unheeded 
music; nor would any strain sweep downward to 
that world whose tears he might have drawn, 
whose mirth provoked, whose passions played 
upon at his will. The one grand thing he had 
done must alone speak for him. There was in 
it neither pathos nor mirth; it had sprung to the 
cloud-capped point of human genius, and its
sublimity would prove its barrier to the world's 
approval. But it would give him fame when — 
God ! what was that thought ? The manuscript 
of that poem had lain in the room where he had 
met his death. Had the hand that had slain him 
executed a more terrible vengeance still ? Oh, 
it could not be ! No man would be so base. 
And yet, what mercy had he the right to expect ? 
And the nature of the man — cold — relentless — 
To consign the man who had wronged him to 
eternal oblivion — would he not feel as he watched 
the ashes in the brazier, that such vengeance 
was sweeter than even the power to kill ? And 
he was impotent ! He was a waif tossed about 
in the chaos of eternity, with no power to smite 
the man whose crime had — perhaps — been greater 
than the thrusting of two lives from existence a 
few years before their time. He was as pow- 
erless as the invisible beggar who floated at his 
side. And that man was on earth yet, perchance, 
coldly indifferent in his proud position, inwardly 
gloating at the fullness of his revenge. . . . 
Years, years, years! They slipped from his 
consciousness like water from the smooth 
surface of a rock. And yet each had pressed more 
heavily and stung more sharply than the last. 
Oh, if he could but know that his poem had been 
given to the world — that it had not been blotted 
from existence! This was what was meant by 
Hell. No torture that man had ever pictured 
could approach the torments of such regret, such 
uncertainty, such pitiable impotence. Truly, if 
his sin had been great, his punishment was 
greater. 
 
But why was he going downward ? What
invisible hand was this which was resistlessly 
guiding him through the portals of the shadow land, 
past the great sun and worlds of other men, and 
down through this quivering ether ? What ? 
He was to be Jaorn again ? A bit of clay needed 
an atom of animate force to quicken it into life, 
and he must go again ? And it was to the planet 
Earth he was going ? Ah ! his poem ! his 
poem ! He could write it again, and of what 
matter the wasted generations ? And Sioned — 
they would meet again. Sooner or later, she too 
must return, and on Earth they would find what 
had been denied them above. What was that ? 
His past must become a blank ? His soul must 
be shorn of its growth ? He must go back to 
unremembering, unforseeing infancy, and grow 
through long, slow years to manhood again ? Still, 
his genius and his intelligence in their elements 
would be the same, and with development would 
come at last the fruition of all his fondest hopes. 
And Sioned ? He would know her when they met. 
Their souls must be the same as when the great 
ocean of Force had tossed them up; and evolu- 
tion could work no essential change. Ah ! they 
had entered the blue atmosphere. And, yes — 
there lay the earth below them. How he 
remembered its green plains and white cities and blue 
waters! And that great island — yes, it was 
familiar enough. It was the land which had 
 
given him birth, and which should have knelt at 
his feet and granted him a resting-place amidst 
its illustrious dead. And this old castle they 
were descending upon ? He did not remember 
it. Well, he was to be of the chosen of 
earth again. He would have a proud name to 
offer her, and this time it should be an unsullied 
one. This time the world should ring with his 
genius, not with his follies. This time — Oh, 
what was this ? Stop ! Stop ! No; he could 
not part with it. The grand, trained intellect of 
which he had been so proud — the perfected 
genius which had been his glory — they should 
not strip them from him — they were part of 
himself; they were his very essence; he would not 
give them up ! Oh, God ! this horrible 
shrinking ! This was Hell; this was not re-birth. 
Physical torture ? The words were meaningless 
beside this warping, this tearing apart of spirit 
and mind — those precious children of his brain 
— limb from limb. Their shrieks for help ! — their 
cries of anguish and horror ! their clutches ! 
their last spasmodic — despairing — weakening 
embrace ! He would hold them ! His clasp 
would defy all the powers of Earth and Air ! 
No, they should not go — they should not. Oh ! 
this cursed hand, with its nerves of steel. It 
would conquer yet, conquer and compress him 
