been some sharp fighting at the Porta San Paolo, at the other 
extremity of Rome, and the men were weary. But rest was 
not to be expected that night, and the tired soldiers were led 
back to do sentry duty in the neighbourhood of their quarters. 
The officer halted the little body in the broad space beyond. 
' Monsieur Gouache,' said the lieutenant, ' you will take 
a corporal's guard and maintain order in the neighbourhood 
of the barracks if there is anything left of them,' he added 
with a mournful laugh. 
Gouache stepped forward and half a dozen men formed 
themselves behind him. The officer was a good friend 
of his. 
' I suppose you have not dined any more than I, Monsieui 
Gouache ? ' 
' Not I, mon lieutenant. It is no matter.' 
' Pick up something to eat if you can, at such an hour. 
I will see that you are relieved before morning. Shoulder 
arms ! March ! ' 
So Anastase Gouache trudged away down the Borgo 
Nuovo with his men at his heels. Among the number there 
was the son of a French duke, an English gentleman whose 
forefathers had marched with the Conqueror as their 
descendant now marched behind the Parisian artist, a young 
Swiss doctor of law, a couple of red-headed Irish peasants, and 
two or three others. When they reached the scene of the 
late catastrophe the place was deserted. The men who had 
been set to work at clearing away the rubbish had soon 
found what a hopeless task they had undertaken ; and 
the news having soon spread that only the regimental 
musicians were in the barracks at the time, and that these 
few had been in all probability in the lower story of the 
building, where the band -room was situated, all attempts 
at finding the bodies were abandoned until the next 
day. 
Gouache and many others had escaped death almost 
miraculously, for five minutes had not elapsed after they had 
started at the double-quick for the Porta San Paolo, when 
the building was blown up. The news had of course been 
brought to them while they were repulsing the attack upon the 
gate, but it was not until many hours afterwards that a small 
detachment could safely be spared to return to their 
devastated quarters. Gouache himself had been just in 
time to join his comrades, and with them had seen most of 
the fighting. He now placed his men at proper distances 
along the street, and found leisure to reflect upon what had 
occurred. He was hungry and thirsty, and grimy with 
gunpowder, but there was evidently no prospect of getting 
any refreshment. The night, too, was growing cold, and he 
found it necessary to walk briskly about to keep himself 
warm. At first he tramped backwards and forwards, some 
fifty paces each way, but growing weary of the monotonous 
exercise, he began to scramble about among the heaps of 
ruins. His quick imagination called up the scene as it must 
have looked at the moment of the explosion, and then 
reverted with a sharp pang to the thought of his poor 
comrades-in-arms who lay crushed to death many feet below 
the stones on which he trod 
Suddenly, as he leaned against a huge block, absorbed in 
his thoughts, the low wailing of a woman's voice reached his 
ears. The sound proceeded apparently from no great 
distance, but the tone was very soft and low. Gradually, as 
he listened, he thought he distinguished words, but such 
words as he had not expected to hear, though they expressed 
his own feeling well enough. 
' Requiem eternam dona eis ! ' 
It was quite distinct, and the accents sounded strangely 
familiar. He held his breath and strained every faculty 
to catch the sounds. 
' Requiem sempiternam sempiternam sempiternam I ' 
The despairing tones trembled at the third repetition, and 
then the voice broke into passionate sobbing. 
Anastase did not wait for more. At first he had half 
believed that what he heard was due to his imagination, 
but the sudden weeping left no doubt that it was real. 
Cautiously he made his way amongst the ruins, until ne 
stopped short in amazement not unmingled with horror. 
In an angle where a part of the walk was still standing, 
a woman was on her knees, her hands stretched wildly out 
before her, her darkly-clad figure faintly revealed by the 
beams of the waning moon. The covering had fallen back 
from her head upon her shoulders, and the struggling rays 
fell upon her beautiful features, marking their angelic out 
line with delicate light. Still Anastase remained motionless, 
scarcely believing his eyes, and yet knowing that lovely face 
too well not to believe. It was Donna Faustina Montevarchi 
who knelt there at midnight, alone, repeating the solemn 
words from the mass for the dead j it was for him that she 
wept, and he knew it. 
Standing there upon the common grave of his comrades, 
a wild joy filled the young man's heart, a joy such as must 
be felt to be known, for it passes the power of earthly words 
to tell it. In that dim and ghastly place the sun seemed 
suddenly to shine as at noonday in a fair country ; the 
crumbling masonry and blocks of broken stone grew more 
lovely than the loveliest flowers, and from the dark figure 
of that lonely heart-broken woman the man who loved her 
saw a radiance proceeding which overflowed and made bright 
at once his eyes and his heart. In the intensity of his 
emotion, the hand which lay upon the fallen stone con 
tracted suddenly and broke off a fragment of the loosened 
mortar. 
At the slight noise, Faustina turned her head. Her eyea 
were wide and wild, and as she started to her feet she uttered 
a short, sharp cry, and staggered backward against the wall. 
In a moment Anastase was at her side, supporting her and 
looking into her face. 
' Faustina ! ' 
During a few seconds she gazed horrorstruck and silent 
upon him, stiffening herself and holding her face away from 
his. It was as though his crhost had risen out of the earth 
and embraced her. Then the wild look shivered like a 
mask and vanished, her features softened and the colour 
rose to her cheeks for an instant. Very slowly she drew 
him towards her, her eyes fixed on his ; their lips met in 
a long, sweet kiss then her strength forsook her and she 
swooned away in his arms. 
Gouache supported her tenderly until she sat leaning 
against the wall, and then knelt down by her side. He did 
not know what to do, and had he known, it would have 
availed him little. His instinct told him that she would 
presently recover consciousness and his emotions had so 
wholly overcome him that he could only look at her lovely 
face as her head rested upon his arm. But while he waited 
a great fear began to steal into his heart. He asked him 
self how Faustina had come to such a place, and how her 
coming was to be accounted for. It was long past midnight, 
now, and he guessed what trouble and anxiety there would 
be in her father's house until she was found. He repre 
sented to himself in quick succession the scenes which would 
follow his appearance at the Palazzo Montevarchi with the 
youngest daughter of the family in his arms or in a cab, 
and he confessed to himself that never lover had been in 
such straits. 
Faustina opened her eyes and sighed, nestled her head 
softly on his breast, sighing again, in the happy conscious 
ness that he was safe, and then at last she sat up and looked 
him in the face. 
' I was so sure you were killed,' said she, in her soft 
voice. 
' My darling ! ' he exclaimed, pressing her to his side. 
' Are you not glad to be alive ? ' she asked. ' For my 
sake, at least ! You do not know what I have suffered.' 
Again he held her close to him, in silence, forgetting all 
the unheard-of difficulties of his situation in the happiness 
of holding her in his arms. His silence, indeed, was more 
eloquent than any words could have been. 
' My beloved ! ' he said at last, ' how could you run 
such risks for me ? Do you think I am worthy of so much 
love ' And yet, if loving you can make me worthy of you, 
I am the most deserving man that ever lived and I live 
only for you. But for you I might as well be buried under 
our feet here with my poor comrades. But tell me, Faustina, 
were you not afraid to come ? How long have you been 
here ? It is very late it is almost morning.' 
' Is it ? What does it matter, since you are safe ? You 
ask how I came ? Did I not tell you I would follow you ? 
Why did you run on without me ? I ran here very quickly, 
and just as I saw the gates of the barracks there was a 
terrible noise and I was thrown down, I cannot tell how. 
Soon I got to my feet and crept under a doorway. I sup 
pose I must have fainted, for I thought you were killed. I 
saw a soldier before me, just when it happened, and he must 
have been struck. I took him for you. When I came 
to myself there were so many people in the street that I 
could not move from where I was. Then they went away, 
and I came here while the workmen tried to move the stones, 
and I watched them and begged them to go on, but they 
would not, and I had nothing to give them, so they went 
away too, and I knew that I should have to wait until 
to-morrow to find you for I would have waited no one 
should have dragged me away ah ! my darling my 
beloved ! What does anything matter now that you are 
safe ! ' 
For fully half an hour they sat talking in this wise, both 
knowing that the situation could not last, but neither willing 
to speak the word which must end it Gouache, indeed, 
was in a twofold difficulty. Not only was he wholly at a 
loss for a means of introducing Faustina into her father's 
house unobserved at such an hour ; he was in command of 
the men stationed in the neighbourhood, and to leave his 
