


a league of amity and good-fellowship, and we want 
to go back to the garden." 

He laughed doubtfully as if he did not quite see 
the point. Then he said, "Do you want a real 
garden, or is it some figurative " 

" German, with favors. No : what I mean is real 
solid earth, that will raise berries, chickens, and 
flowers." 

" There, Thurston ! " Pryor exclaimed triumph 
antly, "you can't do better than take the Cassel 
place. I had a letter from the owner to-day. She 
offers it for thirty-five hundred. I am almost certain 
three thousand will take it." 

" My dear fellow," I replied, annoyed at his perti 
nacity, " I am in the position of the man, who, when 
corner-lots were selling at a dollar apiece, couldn't 
buy half a one." 

" And she will take five hundred dollars down, with 
good security for the rest." 

" That pretty place on the hill ? " asked Eve. " I 
have looked at that with a longing eye, and the eye 
of faith also. It has possibilities." 

" It is a bargain. She might throw off enough to 
put the place in order." 

"We all looked at each other like guilty conspirators, 
until the silence was positively ridiculous. Then Eve 
drew a long breath, and laughed in a ringing fashion. 



 

" Little does Mrs. Cassel know of the deep plots 
against her interest," said I. 

" See here," began Pryor : " suppose she had sold 
it five years ago for three thousand, and put the 
money out at six per cent. Reckon it up at simple 
interest nine hundred dollars, where it's safe to say 
it hasn't paid her a penny. Why, it would be to her 
best interest to dispose of it as speedily as possible. 
My advice is, when a thing doesn't pay, and isn't 
likely to pay, get rid of it as soon as you can." 

" I should like to go through the house," said Eve 
quietly. 

" The first decent day we will," replied Pryor. 

He talked on about places. The last train came, 
and I began to prepare for the night. A fine sleet 
had set in ; but the young man pulled up his coat- 
collar, and lighted his lantern. 

" Pryor is the most persistent fellow I ever saw," 
I said impatiently. "Heaven help the woman he 
sets out to gain if she doesn't want him ! " 

Eve began to fold up her work. I had a misgiving 
that the serpent had entered Paradise. 

I dreamed that night of processions of chickens, 
and long rows of berry-pickers, while crates were 
piled mountain high. 

It stormed furiously again the next day, but just at 
sundown the air grew wonderfully mild. I shovelled 



 

away the snow. Mr. Bradford came up on the train, 
and stopped in the office to chat with Eve, a small 
matter that amazed me. 

We read again in the evening, then we talked farm 
and garden. 

"You have given the subject a good deal of 
thought, Eve," I said presently. 

" Yes. Now and then I have felt like proposing to 
you that we should go West, and pre-empt a tract of 
land ; but I should not like the grand and awful lone 
liness. I am social, and fond of my kind, even if they 
do flirt and tell fibs occasionally. And it puzzles 
me to know how you live the first year while your 
crops are growing, and you haven't any money. 
Now, if one can keep a situation, and be getting a 
place in order ; if one can save up a little money to 
pay on it all the time, there will come a year when 
you have your own home." 

" But we couldn't buy any thing with six hundred 
dollars. And it might not be wisdom to put our 
little money where we could not get it in case of 
sickness or trouble. And if any thing happened to 
us that we could not meet payments, away would go 
every thing under foreclosure." 

" There wouldn't even a tiny lion's whelp in the 
way miss your apprehensive eyes," said Eve laugh- 
ingty. " I have been used to seeing ventures. Oddly 



 

enough, while I was dancing and junketing around 
in New York, I was studying up some of these sub 
jects. Mrs. Stannard, Mrs. Brooke's sister, who is a 
rather imaginary invalid, I think, has three dozen 
fresh-laid eggs brought in to her every week, for 
which she pays fifty cents a dozen, from the first of 
December until the first of April. There are plenty 
of others I heard of one lady giving sixty cents for 
white Leghorn eggs. And as for flowers well, I 
never realized before how much money was spent in 
flowers." 

" But for flowers, you must have a greenhouse ; 
and no person on a small scale can compete with the 
larger gardeners, who have every appliance. And if 
your hens laid abundantly in winter, so would others, 
and down would go prices." 

" At all events, I would like to try, in a home of 
my own where I could have matters as I desired. I 
wonder these stupid Athenians do not start up and 
do something with their land." 

" There is another thing, Eve," I said gravely: "just 
as you were settled in this paradise of flowers and 
hens, there might come a tempting offer of matri 
mony. You are too young and quite too charming 
to remain a wall-flower. Even here " 

" Yes, there is Gordon Pryor devoted to your inter 
ests, I observe, and Dan Montgomery and two or 



 

three others ; but I am afraid the flowers and hens 
that you mention so disdainfully would be potent 
rivals. Indeed, you might want to marry; but it 
seems to me, that, if we both had money in one house, 
we might settle it amicably." 

" My dear Eve " 

She clasped her arms about my neck. 

" You are not going to get rid of me so easily," she 
said, with something that sounded like a sob. " And 
I am going to help you make your eight hundred 
dollars, for that will be our share at the next 
census, whether you will or not." 

There followed a week of rather cold but beautiful 
weather. Sleigh-riding was perfect, and not a day 
but some one came for Eve. Pryor was away four 
days on business, and the house had a rest. 

So it was almost the last of January before we took 
our peep at it, cast a wistful eye where we had no 
possessions. It was a bright, sunny day, though 
