why he desired the alliance. She knew of Rieseneck's disgrace, 
and she would understand that the story was an injury to Greif. 
On the other hand he, Greif's father, had never done anything to 
be ashamed of, and the lad himself was growing up to be a very 
fine fellow and would be rich Greifenstein did not state the 
amount of his fortune. He apprehended that his cousin would 
consider Greif a good match from a worldly point of view. 
Furthermore, though barely twenty, the young man was deeply 
attached to Hilda, who was just fifteen. The attachment was 
evidently likely to turn into love when both should be three or 
four years older. If Frau von Sigmundskron would consent, a 
preliminary, verbal agreement might be made, subject to the will 
of the two children when the right time should come, it being 
essentially necessary, as Greifenstein remarked in his stiffest 
manner, that two young people should love each other sincerely if 
they meant to marry. 
The baroness opened her clear blue eyes very wide, as though 
she had seen a coach and four laden with sacks of gold driving 
through the old gates of the castle. But she was far too well 
bred to burst into tears, or to exhibit any embarrassment, or even 
an improper amount of satisfaction. She replied that she was 
much obliged ; that she was poor, and that Hilda would inherit 
nothing whatsoever except Sigmundskron, a fact which her cousin 
must please to understand from the first ; that, if the absence of 
any dower were not an obstacle, it was not for her to create 
 
difficulties ; and, finally, that she believed Hilda to be quite as much 
attached to Greif, as Greif to her. Thereupon Berbel was sent to 
fetch a bottle of wine there had been half a dozen bottles in the 
cellar thirteen years ago, and this was the first that had been 
opened and Greifenstein refreshed himself therewith and departed, 
as stiffly, courteously and kindly as he had come. 
Greif had come over as often as he pleased during his vacations, 
and had written whenever he liked during his terms. Never 
having seen any one at home or abroad whom he considered 
comparable with Hilda, he had grown up to love her as naturally 
as he loved the pine-scented air of his home, the warm soft sun, 
or the still beauty of the forest. Hilda was an essential part of 
his life and being, without which he could imagine no future. 
Year by year it grew harder to say good-bye, and the happiness of 
meeting grew deeper and more real. There was a pride in the 
knowledge that she was for him only, which played upon the 
unconscious selfishness of his young nature and gave him the most 
profound and exquisite delight. At three and twenty he was old 
enough to understand the world about him, he had accomplished 
his year of obligatory service in the army, and had come into 
contact with all sorts of men, things and ideas. He was himself 
a man, and had outgrown most boyish fallacies and illusions, but 
he had not outgrown Hilda. She was there, in the heart of the 
forest, in the towers of Sigmundskron, away from the world he 
had seen, and maidenly ignorant of all it contained, waiting 
for him, the incarnation of all that was lovely, and young, and 
fair, and spotless. He pitied his fellow-students, who loved 
vulgarly whatever came into their way. He could not imagine 
what life would be without Hilda. It was a strange sort of love, 
too, for there had been no wooing ; they had grown up for each 
other as naturally as the song-bird for its mate. There had been 
no hindrances, no jealousies, no alternate hopes and fears, none of 
those vicissitudes to which love is heir. Nothing but the calamity 
of death could interfere with the fulfilment of their happiness, and 
perhaps no two beings ever loved each other from whom death 
seemed so far. 
Hilda was happy, too, in her own way, for what she knew of 
the outer world was what she saw through Greif 's eyes. To him 
the greatest of all blessings would be to come back to the forest 
and never to leave it again, and Hilda argued that the world 
could not be worth seeing, if the woods were so vastly preferable 
as he seemed to think. She felt herself to be what she was in 
his imagination, a part of the nature in which she had grown up, 
 
as much as the oldest and tallest fir tree on the hillside. People 
who spend all their lives in unfrequented regions, feel a sense of 
property in the air, the earth and the water, which city -bred 
folks cannot readily understand, They have such an intimate, 
unconscious knowledge of the seasons, the weather, the growth of 
plants and the habits of animals, that it seems to them as though 
their own hearts beat in every corner of the world around them, 
and as though all the changes they see from day to day were only 
manifestations of their own vitality. They may not see, or know 
that they see, beauties which amaze the wanderer who visits their 
wilderness, but they feel them as he never can, and feed on them 
as he cannot feed. Their senses, not dulled by daily close 
contact with thousands of indifferent, and similar objects, nor 
by the ceaseless chatter of their fellow -beings, see sights and 
hear sounds altogether beyond the perceptions of gregarious man. 
The infinite variety of nature, as compared with the pitiful 
monotony of the works of humanity, produces in their minds an 
activity of an especial kind. They do not know what mental 
weariness means, nor the desire for nervous excitement. The 
succession of morning and evening does not bore them, for it is 
a part of themselves, like hunger and the satisfaction of appetite, 
thirst and the refreshing draught from the spring. They are 
good, though their virtues be negative, and they are happy, for 
they have never heard of unhappiness. Their existence is the 
very opposite of ours, full where ours is empty, empty where ours 
is crowded to overflowing. They are never alone, for the world 
is their companion, they are never hurried, for they move with 
time itself, whereas our existence is but one long effort to outrun 
the revolution of the hours. They do not dream of fame, for they 
feel the eternity of perpetually renewed life in all that surrounds 
them ; they have never heard of competition, for their only rival 
is God Himself. 
Hilda's earliest recollections did not go back beyond the time 
when she had been brought to the Black Forest, and the singular 
simplicity of her life made the past years seem strangely short. 
Children whose first remembrances are full of new impressions, 
grow old quickly, while those to whose perceptions little is offered 
grow up more slowly, and more naturally. Other conditions being 
the same, these latter will be calmer, healthier and more reason- 
able. The best horse is not the one which is made to do the 
most work as a colt, though performing dogs must learn their 
tricks as puppies if they are to learn them at all. Much in life 
depends upon the truth of our first impressions, and as this, in 
 
its turn, depends directly upon our ability to judge what we see 
and hear, it is clear that children may be injured permanently if too 
many things be brought within the sphere of their observation 
before they have learned the uses, of hearing and sight. 
The grand solitudes of the forest, the imposing calm of nature 
when at rest, the indescribable magnificence of the winter storms, 
had furnished Hilda with her first deep impressions. That death, 
of which her mother sometimes spoke, was the disappearance of 
all that lived beneath the soft, silent snow. That mysterious 
resurrection of the dead was nature's irresistible glad leap to 
meet the sun, as the noonday shadows shortened day by day ; 
that happy life to come was the far-off summer, when the wind 
would sigh and whisper again among the branches he had so 
rudely handled in his wrath, when all the air would smell of the 
warm pines, when the mayflower would follow the hawthorn, 
and the purple gentian take the mayflower's place, when the wild 
pea-blossom would elbow the forest violet, and the clover and wild 
thyme and mint would spring up thick and crisp and sweet for 
the dainty roebuck and his doe. Hilda used to think that the 
souls of the blessed would at last take their bodies again, just as 
the wildflowers in the wood sprang up with their own shape and 
beauty, each according to the little seed that had lain dead and 
forgotten since autumn had sighed its dirge above their myriad 
tiny graves, burying the summer as sadly as men bury those they 
dearly love. 
And yet Hilda never put any of those thoughts into words, 
though in her books she loved best those words that expressed her 
half-formulated feelings. Had she been removed to the noise and 
the whirl of city life, she would very probably have known how 
to define what she had lost, she might even have made others feel 
what she herself had so keenly felt. But in the silent towers of 
her home, or amidst that noiseless, ever-growing life that belongs 
to undisturbed nature, all she could have wished to express was 
expressed for her, in a grander language than that of man. She 
had no need of spending long hours in reverie and contemplation, 
as people do who are not used to their surroundings, or who com- 
pare their present with their past. Constant occupation had 
become a part of her being, and unceasing small activity in house- 
hold matters the condition of her life. Heaven knows, there was 
enough to do between making and mending everything she wore, 
keeping in order even the small part of the gigantic building 
which she and her mother inhabited, cultivating as best she 
could the plot of ground in the castle yard which was all the land 
 
left to her, the last of her name, and, in the midst of all this 
manual labour, in maintaining that prescribed amount of appearance, from which she had never been allowed to deviate since she 
had been a little child. A spotless perfection of neatness was 
indeed the only luxury left within reach of the two ladies, and 
for that one available satisfaction there was no trouble they 
would not cheerfully undergo. But these manifold household 
labours did not vulgarise Hilda's character. If she enjoyed the 
luxury of Greifenstein during her half-yearly visits, it was not 
because she disliked or despised her own home life. She was too 
thoroughly conscious of the inevitable to groan over her lot, she 
was too strong in mind and body to desire luxurious idleness, and 
she never imagined that a woman could find occupation except in 
household duties. Her whole existence had made her so simple 
that she could never have comprehended that complicated state of 
mind which is so delightful to society. 
Something of nature's own freshness, too, had been infused into 
the young girl's veins, refreshing and renewing the life in that 
old blood of which she was the last descendant. Blue eyes are 
rarely very bright. Hilda's seemed to have a special vitality of 
their own, which gave the impression that they must shine in the 
dark as some crystals do for a few seconds when they have been 
long exposed to the sun. They were of that rare type which 
