earth is affected by changes of position " tak- 
ing twenty-one thousand years to complete." 
Sleep visits the blessed once in twenty-four 
hours, and awful periodicities control the jaws 
of earthquakes which swallow cities. An in- 
termittent fever and a variable star obey the 
same authority. Sunrise and sunset, season 
and season, life and decay, are the throbs of 
one mighty circulation poured from an unseen 
Heart. 
These things we are taught as the alphabet 
of modern philosophy. We are told that 
the law leans over, far beyond the scope of 
physics ; that the human mind, like the ulti- 
mate atom, serves the large decree ; and that 
human experience itself is a slave to the eter- 
nal rhythm. We are reminded that grief and 
joy and hope and anguish alternate as much 
as the budding and the fading of a wind- 
flower* We are asked to observe that misery 
has its paroxysms as well as neuralgia ; and 
that mourners smile because they have wept, 
and weep again, since they did smile. We are 
reminded that crime and pestilence pulsate in 
epidemics across the globe. We are called 
upon to record the throbs of the pendulum of 
history, whose swing sweeps from civilization 
to ruin, from the people to the throne, from 
tyranny to riot, from confusion to order, from 
morality to madness, from atheism to bigotry, 
from despair to faith. 
We are asked, in short, to see for ourselves, 
by a review of that close collation of facts 
which the philosophy as well as the science 
of our day delights to honor, that vibration is 
the condition of motion, and that motion is the 
condition of life. 
But we are asked to remember yet another 
thing. The figure of the cone of history is 
almost as old as historical philosophy ; but the 
youngest of our thinkers would fall back upon 
it, who told us to-day that spiral law holds 
over or holds into rhythmic law. A thing or 
a thought works to and fro, but that is not 
all ; it works spirally to and fro. For growth 
or for decline, to the base or to the apex — in 
the phrase of modern thought, to evolution or 
to dissolution — it is in the nature of motion 
to tend. Rhythm is not a simple affair. It 
is a complication. There is rhythm within 
rhythm, motion over against motion ; move- 
ment double, quadruple, complex — if we do 
not say infinite, it is because we are too finite 
to follow the coil. 
The vibration of the violin string seems a 
simple affair of molar disturbance producing 
sound-waves. Who shall say what was the 
rhythm started in the soul of the peasant who 
heard Ole Bull play in a tavern, and, amid the 
hush of his fellows — moved beyond them all 
— brought his hand down thunderously upon 
a table and cried : " This is a lie ! " 
Materialism is not the best word in the 
world to define an aspect of modern thought, 
for which, on the whole, for our purposes, 
there may be no better. It stands, at least in 
the minds of most of us, for something defi- 
nite, in the press of many indefinite views 
as to the nature or the outcome of a conflict 
which is sweeping us all along, soldier and 
civilian, whither we would, or whither we 
would not. The thing which is represented 
in a measure by this word has carried a 
high hand, and had a merry day of it. The 
age has succumbed to what it has called its 
tendency as thoroughly as a hearty boy to the 
measles. We have had it hard. It has been 
thought a feature of force of character not to 
believe too much. Dilettante doubt has made 
bric-a-brac of the gate called Beautiful that 
guarded the temple. All the iconoclasts of 
wit and wisdom have hacked at the shrine. 
To be learned, it has been understood, was 
not to be devout. In proportion to one's 
knowledge one failed to believe. It has been 
the great effort of the time to establish a 
mathematical equation between an instructed 
mind and an abandoned faith. The mere hold- 
ing of certain views has been accepted by a 
powerful class of thinkers as the tattoo-mark of 
intellectual barbarism. Did you not know that 
an immortal soul was old-fashioned? Have 
you not understood that God is out of date ? 
Then go to. Teach your Sunday-school. Join 
a female prayer - meeting. Write religious 
verses. Leave knowledge to science and truth 
to men. 
This has been the spirit of the times, and it 
must be admitted that it has been a successful 
spirit. Precious thing after precious thing 
has crumbled before it. Pearls have been 
dimmed. Hopes have been hurled from great 
heights to heavy depths. Daylight has dark- 
ened. It has gone hard with us to keep the 
faith-cells in our brains. Dear beliefs of souls 
dearer and better than our own have slipped 
out of our yearning arms as the dead slip 
into the coffin. Many an honest and ear- 
nest man in the last decade or two has ]ost 
out of his faith what he would give his life to 
regain, and call himself happy at the price. 
Silent hours wrung from busy lives will an- 
swer; secrets of reticent hearts will lift up 
mute faces to the question : Went the day sore 
with ye ? 
We have looked on while disrespect for the 
unseen, in the name of science, has torn at the 
vitals of everything which makes life worth 
living, or death a great opportunity. We 
have endured while murder in the name of 
surgery has been done upon the fair body of 
truth. We have suffered while the sweet 
reasonableness of human hope has writhed un- 
der the scalpel of its vivisectors. There has 
been no anaesthetic for that anguish. Ask. 
Any man will tell you who has known it. 
They had their day, and they used it. We 
learned that we were not men, but proto- 
plasm. We learned that we were not spirits, 
but chemical combinations. We learned that 
we had laid up treasure in the wrong places. 
We learned that the Drama of Hamlet and 
the Ode to Immortality were secretions of the 
gray matter of the brain. We learned that 
guilt was nothing but the law of heredity. 
We learned that one's prehistoric amoeba (if 
anybody) should be blamed for one's private 
vices. We learned that beyond the fugitive 
slaves which we call the joys of this life, and 
the disproportionate pains which are their 
masters, we had not an expectation. Going 
hounded down to death, and crying out for 
the emancipation of eternal happiness, we 
learned that we had not a hope to our names. 
We learned — no, no, thank God, we never 
learned to lay the beloved of our lives at the 
 
bottom of a grave and leave them there. We 
have never come without a pause to the end of 
the Apostate's Creed : — 
" I believe in the Chaotic Nebula, self-existent 
Evolver of heaven and earth . * * in the disunion 
of saints . . . the dispersion of the body, and in 
Death Everlasting. Amen." 
The modern philosophy has at one point 
prepared itself to fall a victim to its own 
logic. It has given registered bonds to the 
law of rhythm. It has omitted to remember 
that the history of all human belief is the his- 
tory of oscillation, and that it must itself take 
its turn and meet its fate, like other human 
pulsations. The creed of negation, the cultus 
of death, has risen to its crest, and toppled. 
There came to our ears a wail of despair for 
the race at which the stoutest trembled. Was 
it the roar of the ocean of all time ? Nay ; 
look abroad ; it was but the rustle of a brain- 
wave on the shore. The time is at hand. The 
moment of the ebb has come. This is the 
law. They who took away from us the only 
hopes that made existence anything else than 
a stupendous tyranny perpetrated upon a de- 
frauded race, shall see their dark work come 
surging back from the cap to the trough. This 
is the law. Long have they taught us the 
rights of such autocracy. Well have they 
worshiped the Law of Nature. In the way of 
social position, they would take nothing less 
for it than the Throne of God. By the creeds 
of their own deeds they shall be judged, or 
