Beaton, if not to excuse it. " Ah tell him he don't 
understand the rising generation. He was brought 
up in the old school, and he thinks we ""re all just 
lahke he was when he was young, with all those 
ahJcals of chivalry and family ; but mail goodness ! 
it 's money that cyoants no'adays in the Soath, just 
lahke it does everywhere else. Ah suppose, if we 
could have slavery back in the fawm mah fathaw 
thinks it could have been brought up to, when the 
commercial spirit wouldn't let it alone, it would be 
the best thing ; but we can't have it back, and Ah 
tell him we had better have the commercial spirit, as 
the next best thing." 
Miss Woodburn went on, with sufficient loyalty 
and piety, to expose the difference of her own and 
her father's ideals, but with what Beaton thought 
less reference to his own unsympathetic attention than 
to a knowledge finally of the jf'sonncl and maidriel 
of Every Oilier Week, and Mr. Fulkerson's relation to 
the enterprise. "You most excuse my asking so 
many questions, Mr. Ecaton. You know it's all 
mah doing that we awe heah in New York. Ah 
just told mah fathaw that if he was CAah goin' to do 
anything with his wrahtings, he had got to come 
No'th, and Ah made him come, i believe he 'd 
have stayed in the Soath all his lahfe. And now 
Mr. Fulkerson wants him to let his editor see some 
of his wrah tings, and Ah wanted to know something 
aboat the magazine. "We awe a great deal excited 
aboat it in this hoase, you know, Mr. Beaton," she 
concluded, with a look that now transferred the 
interest from Fulkerson to Alma. She led the way 
back to the room where they were sitting, and went 
up to triumph over Fulkerson with Beaton's decision 
about the table-cover. 
 
Alma was left with Beaton near the piano, and he 
began to talk about the Dryfooscs, as he sat down 
on the piano stool. Ho said he had been giving 
Miss Dryfoos a lesson on the banjo ; he had borrowed 
the banjo of Miss Vance. Then he struck the chord 
he had been trying to teach Christine, and played 
over the air he had sung. 
" How do you like that ? " he asked, whirling 
round. 
' It seems rather a disrespectful little tune, some- 
how," said Alma placidly. 
Beaton rested his elbow on the corner of the jiiano, 
and gazed dreamily at her. " Your perceptions are 
wonderful. It is disrespectful. I played it, up 
there, because I felt disrespectful to them." 
" Do you claim that as a merit ? " 
" No, I state it as a fact. How can you respect 
such people ?" 
"You might respect yourself, then," said the girl. 
" Or perhaps that wouldn't be so easy, either." 
" No, it wouldn't. I like to have you say these 
things to me," said Beaton impartially, 
" Well, I like to say them," Alma returned. 
"They do me good." 
" Oh, I don't know that that was my motive." 
"There is no one like you — no one," said Beaton, 
as if apostrophising her in her absence. " To come 
from that house, with its assertions of money — you 
can hear it chink ; you can smell the foul old bank- 
notes ; it stifles you — into an atmosphere like this, 
is like comin.fr into another world." 
"Thank you," said Alma. "I'm glad there isn't 
that unpleasant odour here ; but I wisli there was a 
little more of the chinking." 
" No, no ! Don't say that ? " he implored. " I 
like to think that there is one soul uncontaminatcd 
by the sense of money in this big, bnital, sordid city." 
"You mean two," said Alma, with modesty. "But 
if you stille at the Dryfooscs', why do you go there V 
" "Why do I go ] " he nuised. " Don't you believe 
in knowing all the natures, the types, you can ? 
Those girls are a strange study : the young one is a 
simple, earthly creature, as common as an oat-field ; 
and the other a sort of sylvan life : fierce, flashing, 
feline " 
Alma burst out into a laugh. " "What apt allitera- 
tion ! And do they like being studied ? I should 
think the sylvan life might — scratch." 
" No," said Beaton, with melancholy absence, " it 
only — purrs." 
The girl felt a rising indignation. ""Well, then, 
Mr. Beaton; I should hope it tconld scratch, and 
bite, too. I think you've no business to go about 
studying people, as you do. It 's abominable." 
" Go on," said the young man. "That Puritan con- 
science of yours ! It appeals to the old Covenanter 
strain in me — likeavoice of pre-cxistence. Go on " 
" Oh, if I went on I should merely say it was not 
only abominable, but contemptible." 
"You could be my guardian angel, Alma," said 
the young man, making his eyes more and more 
slumbrous and dream v. 
 
" Stuff ! I hope I have a soul above buttons ! " 
He smiled, as she rose, and followed her across the 
room. " Good night, Mr. Beaton," she said. 
Miss Woodburn and Fulkerson came in from the 
other room. " What ! You 're not going, Beaton ? " 
" Yes ; I 'm going to a reception. I stopped in on 
my way." 
" To kill time," Alma explained. 
"Well," said Fulkerson gallantly, "this is the 
last place I should like to do it. But I guess I'd 
better be going too. It has sometimes occurred to 
me that there is such a thing as staying too late. 
But with Brother Beaton, here, just starting in for 
an evening's amusement, it does seem a little early 
yet. Can't you urge me to stay, somebody ? " 
The two girls laughed, and Miss Woodburn said, 
"Mr. Beaton is such a butterfly of fashion! Ah 
wish ylh was on mah way to a pawty. Ah feel 
quahto envious." 
"But he didn't say it to viaJ:e you," Alma ex- 
plained with meek softness. 
" Well, we can't all be swells. Where is your 
party, anyway, Beaton ? " asked Fulkerson. " How 
do you manage to get your invitations to those 
things ? I suppose a fellow has to keep hinting 
round pretty lively, heigh ? " 
Beaton took these mockeries serenely, and shook 
hands with Miss Woodburn, with the effect of 
having already shaken hands with Alma. She stood 
with hers clasped behind her. 
V. 
Beaton "went away  with tlic smile on his face 
which he had kept in listening to Fulkorson, and 
carried it -with him to the reception. He believed 
that Alma "was vexed "with him for more personal 
reasons than she had implied ; it flattered him that 
she should have resented -what he told her of the 
Dryfooses. She had scolded him in their behalf 
apparently; but really because he had made her 
jealous by his interest, of whatever kind, in some 
one else. "What followed, had followed naturally. 
Unless she had been quite a simjjleton she could not 
have met his provisional love-making on any other 
terms ; and the reason "why Beaton chiefly liked 
Alma Lcighton was that slic "was not a simpleton. 
Even up in the country, "when she was overawed by 
his acquaintance, at first, she "was not very deeply 
overawed, and at times she was not overawed at all. 
At such times she astonished him by taking his most 
solemn histi ionics with fli])pant incredulity, and even 
burlesquing them. But he could see, all the same, 
that he had caught her fancy, and he admired the 
skill with which she punished his neglect whcn they 
met ill New York. lie had really come very near 
 
forgetting the Leightons ; the intangible obligations 
of mutual kindness which hold some men so fast, 
hung loosely upon him ; it would not have hurt him 
to break from them altogether ; but when he recog- 
nised them at last, he found that it strengthened 
them indefinitely to have Alma ignore them so com- 
pletely. If she had been sentimental, or softly 
reproachful, that would have been the end ; he could 
not have stood it ; he would have had to drop her. 
But when she met him on his own ground, and 
obliged him to be sentimental, the game was in her 
hands. Beaton laughed, now, when ho thought of 
that, and he said to himself that the girl had grown 
immensely since she had come to Xew York ; nothing 
seemed to have been lost upon her ; she must have 
kept her eyes uncommonly wide open. He noticed 
that especially in their talks over her work ; she liad 
profited by everything she had seen and heard ; she 
had all of Wetmore's ideas pat ; it amused Beaton 
to see how she seized every useful word that he 
dropped, too, and turned him to technical account 
whenever she could. He liked that ; she had a great 
deal of talent ; there was no question of that ; if she 
were a man there could be no question of her future. 
He began to construct a future for her ; it included 
provision for himself too ; it was a common future, 
