whole heart into this cry; then she waited, breathless.
From a distance came a sound, the sweetest which Eve Bruce had ever
heard. "Ess," said Jack's brave little voice.
She tried to row towards it. Before she could reach the spot a wind
coming from the south drove her canoe back. "Jacky, Jacky, say yes
again."
"Ess," said the voice, fainter, and farther away.
The wind was stronger now, and it began to make a noise too, as it
crossed the lake.
"Jacky, Jacky, you must answer me."
"Ess."
A crashing peal of thunder broke over their heads; when it had ceased,
she could hear the poor little lad crying. His boat must have drifted,
for his voice came from a new direction.
"I am coming directly to you, Jacky," she called, altering her course
rapidly.
The thunder began again, and filled her ears. When it ceased, all was
still.
"Jacky! Jacky!"
No answer.
And now there came another cry: "Eve, where are you? Wait for me." It
was Cicely.
"This way," called Eve.
She never dreamed that Cicely was alone; she supposed that the Irishman
had taken heart of grace and ventured back. But presently a canoe
touched hers, and there in the night she saw Cicely all alone, like a
phantom. "Baby?" demanded Cicely, holding the edge of Eve's boat.
"I heard him only a moment ago," answered Eve, as excited as herself.
"Jacky! Jacky!"
No reply.
Then Cicely's voice sounded forth clearly: "It's mamma, Jack. Speak to
mamma."
"Mam-ma!" came the answer. A distant sound, but full of joy.
Eve put her paddle in the water again. "Wait," said Cicely. And she
stepped from her canoe into Eve's, performing the difficult feat without
hesitation or tremor. The other canoe was abandoned, and Eve was off
with a strong stroke.
"Call," she said.
Cicely called, and Jack answered.
"Call again."
"His poor little throat will be so tired!" said Cicely, her own voice
trembling.
"We must," said Eve.
"Jack-y!"
"Ess."
On they went, never reaching him, though he answered four times; for, in
spite of the intensity of Eve's exertion, the sound constantly changed
its direction. Cicely called to her child, she sang to him; she even
laughed. "How slow you are!" she said to Eve. "Don't stop."
"I stopped to listen."
But presently they were both listening in vain. Jack's voice had ceased.
The wind now blew not in gusts, but steadily. Eve still rowed with all
her strength, in reality at random, though; with each new flash of
lightning she took a new direction, so that her course resembled the
spokes of a wheel.
"He has of course fallen asleep," said Cicely. "He is always so good
about going to bed."
Their canoe now rose and fell perceptibly; the tranquillity of the lake
was broken, it was no longer gray glass, nor a black floor; first there
was a swell; then little waves showed themselves; by-and-by these waves
had crests. Eve, kneeling on the bottom, exerted all her intelligence to
keep the boat in the right position.
"These canoes never tip over when left alone; it's only when people try
to guide them," said Cicely, confidently. "Now Jack's just like no one;
he's so very light, you know."
Words were becoming difficult, their canoe rose on the crest of one
wave, then plunged down into the hollow behind it; then rose on the
next. A light flared out on their left; it was low down, seeming below
their own level.
"They have kindled--a fire--on the beach," called Eve. She was obliged
to call now, though Cicely was so near.
"Yes. Porley," Cicely answered.
They were not so far out as they had thought; the light of the fire
showed that. Perhaps they had been going round in a circle.
Eve was now letting the boat drift; Jack's canoe was drifting, the same
currents and wind might take theirs in the same direction; it was not
very long since they had heard his last cry, he could not be far away.
The lightning had begun to come in great sheets of white light; these
were blinding, but if one could bear to look, they lit up the surface of
the water for an instant with extraordinary distinctness. Cicely, from
her babyhood so impressionable to lightning, let its glare sweep over
her unmoved; but her beautiful eyes were near-sighted, she could not
see far. Eve, on the contrary, had strong eyesight, and after what
seemed a long time (it was five minutes), she distinguished a dark, low
outline very near at hand; she sent the boat in that direction with all
her might.
"It's Jack!" she called to Cicely.
Cicely, holding on to the sides of the canoe, kept her head turned,
peering forward with her unseeing eyes into the alternating darkness and
dazzling glare. The flashes were so near sometimes that it seemed as if
they would sweep across them, touch them, and shrivel them up.
Now they approached the other boat; they came up to it on the crest of a
wave. Cicely took hold of its edge, and the two boats went down into the
hollow behind together.
"Sit--in the centre--as much--as you can," Eve shouted. Then, being the
taller, she rose, and in the next flash looked within. There lay Jack in
the bottom, probably unconscious, a still little figure with a white
face.
"He's there," she called, triumphantly. And then they went up on the
next wave together, and down again.
"Slip--your hand--along--to the end," Eve called.
Cicely obeyed.
The second canoe, which all her strength had scarcely been able to hold
alongside, now accompanied them more easily, towed by its stern. If it
could have followed them instead of accompanying them, that would have
been easier still; but Cicely's seat was at the bow, and Eve did not
dare to risk a change of places; with the boat in tow, she paddled
towards the shore as well as she could, guided by the fire, which was
large and bright, poor Porley, owing to whose carelessness in the second
place the accident had occurred (Eve's in the first place), expending in
the collecting of dry fuel all the energy of her repentance and her
grief. They were not very far out, but progress was difficult; Eve was
not an expert; she did not know how to allow for the opposition, the
dead weight, of the second canoe attached to the bow of her own; every
now and then, owing to her lack of skill, the wind would strike it, and
drive it from her so strongly that it seemed as if the connecting link,
Cicely's little arm, would be drawn from its socket. The red glow of the
fire looked human and home-like to these wanderers,--should they ever
reach it? The waves grew more formidable as they approached the
beach,--they were like breakers; Eve did her best, yet their progress
seemed snail-like. At length, when they were so far in that she could
distinguish the figures of Porley and the Irishman outlined against the
fire, there came a breaker which struck the second canoe full on its
side, filling it with water. Cicely gave a wild shriek of rage as it was
forced from her grasp. At the same instant the aunt, leaving the paddle
behind her, sprang into the sinking craft, and, seizing the child, went
down with him into the dark lake.
She came up again, grasping the side of the boat; with one arm she
lifted the boy, and gave him to his mother, an enormous effort, as his
little body was rigid and heavy--like death.
And then they got ashore, they hardly knew how, though it took a long
time, Eve clinging to the stern and Cicely paddling, her child at her
feet; the Irishman came to their assistance as soon as he could, the
wind drove them towards the beach; Porley helped when it came to the
landing. In reality they were blown ashore.
Jack was restored. As Eve ceased her rubbing--she had worked over him
for twenty minutes--and gave him alive and warm again to his mother's
arms, Cicely kissed her cheek. "Bend down your head, Eve; I want to tell
you that I forgive you everything. There is nothing the matter with me
now; I understand and know--all; yet I forgive you,--because you have
saved my child."
XXIX.
Priscilla Mile, close-reefed as to her skirts, and walking solidly,
reached the shipwrecked party soon after nine o'clock; as she came by
the beach, the brilliant light of Porley's fire guided her, as it had
guided Cicely and Eve out on the dark lake. Priscilla asked no
questions, her keen eyes took in immediately Eve's wet clothes and
Jack's no clothes, the child being wrapped merely in a shawl. She said
to the Irishman, who was wet also: "Patrick Carty, you go back to the
camp, you run just as fast as you can split; tell them what's happened,
and let them send for us as soon as they can. 'Taint going to rain much,
I guess."
The man hesitated.
"Well, what are you about?" asked Mrs. Mile, walking up to him
threateningly, her beetle shawl-pins shining in the fire-light.
The Irishman, who had been in a confused state ever since Cicely had
forced his canoe into the water again after he had hauled it up on the
beach, and had beaten his hands off fiercely with the oar when he had
tried to stop her progress--a little creature like that turning suddenly
so strong--answered, hurriedly, "It's goin' I am; ye can see it
yersilf!" and was off like a shot. "Wan attack from a fimmale will
do!" was his thought.
The nurse then effected a change of dress; with the aid of part of her
own clothing and part of Cicely's and Porley's, she got Eve and Jack
into dry garments of some sort, Jack being wrapped in a flannel
petticoat. The wind had grown much more violent, but the strange
atmospheric conditions had passed away; the lightning had ceased. It was
now an ordinary gale, the waves dashed over the beach, and the wind
drove by with a shriek; but it was not cold. The four women sheltered
themselves as well as they could, Cicely holding Jack closely; she would
not let any one else touch him.
A little after two o'clock the crouched group heard a sound, and Hollis
appeared in the circle of light shed by the flaring wind-swept fire. He
bore a load of provisions and garments in baskets, in a sack suspended
from his neck, in bags dangling from his arms, as well as in his hands
and pockets; he had even brought a tea-kettle; it was a wonder how he
had come so far with such a load, the wind bending him double. Priscilla
Mile made tea as methodically as though the open beach, with the roaring
water and the shrieking gale, had been a quiet room. Hollis watched them
eat with an eagerness so intense that unconsciously his face made
