the purposes of hospitality, for the quiet and rest of the mind,
there is still nothing so good as the colonial house, with the slight
modifications required by our changed conditions.
From 1820 onward the State grew by a natural increment of population,
but without much aid from native or foreign emigration. In 1860 its
population was only about 919,000 whites, with some 225,000 slaves and
over 10,000 free colored persons. It had no city of the first class, nor
any villages specially thriving. Louisville numbered only about 68,000,
Lexington less than 15,000, and Frankfort, the capital, a little over
5000. It retained the lead in hemp and a leading position in tobacco;
but it had fallen away behind its much younger rivals in manufactures
and the building of railways, and only feeble efforts had been made in
the development of its extraordinary mineral resources.
How is this arrest of development accounted for? I know that a short
way of accounting for it has been the presence of slavery. I would not
underestimate this. Free labor would not go where it had to compete with
slave labor; white labor now does not like to come into relations with
black labor; and capital also was shy of investment in a State where
both political economy and social life were disturbed by a color line.
But this does not wholly account for the position of Kentucky as to
development at the close of the war. So attractive is the State in most
respects, in climate, soil, and the possibilities of great wealth by
manufactures, that I doubt not the State would have been forced into the
line of Western progress and slavery become an unimportant factor long
ago, but for certain natural obstacles and artificial influences.
Let the reader look on the map, at the ranges of mountains running from
the north-east to the southwest—the Blue Ridge, the Alleghanies, the
Cumberland, and Pine mountains, continuous rocky ridges, with scarcely a
water gap, and only at long intervals a passable mountain gap—and notice
how these would both hinder and deflect the tide of emigration. With
such barriers the early development of Kentucky becomes ten times a
wonder. But about 1825 an event occurred that placed her at a greater
disadvantage in the competition. The Erie Canal was opened. This made
New York, and not Virginia, the great commercial highway. The railway
development followed. It was easy to build roads north of Kentucky, and
the tide of settlement followed the roads, which were mostly aided
by land grants; and in order to utilize the land grants the railways
stimulated emigration by extensive advertising. Capital and population
passed Kentucky by on the north. To the south somewhat similar
conditions prevailed. Comparatively cheap roads could be built along
the eastern slope of the Alleghanies, following the great valley from
Pennsylvania to Alabama; and these south-westwardly roads were also
aided by the General Government. The North and South Railway of Alabama,
and the Alabama and Great Southern, which cross at Birmingham, were
land-grant roads. The roads which left the Atlantic seaboard passed
naturally northward and southward of Kentucky, and left an immense area
in the centre of the Union—all of western and southwestern Virginia and
eastern Kentucky—without transportation facilities. Until 1880 here was
the largest area east of the Mississippi impenetrated by railways.
The war removed one obstacle to the free movement of men desiring work
and seeking agreeable homes, a movement marked in the great increase
of the industrial population of Louisville and the awakening to varied
industries and trade in western Kentucky. The offer of cheap land,
which would reward skilful farming In agreeable climatic conditions,
has attracted foreign settlers to the plateau south of the blue-grass
region; and scientific investigation has made the mountain district in
the south-east the object of the eager competition of both domestic
and foreign capital. Kentucky, therefore, is entering upon a new era of
development. Two phases of it, the Swiss colonies, and the opening
of the coal, iron, and timber resources, present special points of
interest.
This Incoming of the commercial spirit will change Kentucky for the
better and for the worse, will change even the tone of the blue-grass
country, and perhaps take away something of that charm about which so
much has been written. So thoroughly has this region been set forth by
the pen and the pencil and the lens that I am relieved of the necessity
of describing it. But I must confess that all I had read of it, all
the pictures I had seen, gave me an inadequate idea of its beauty and
richness. So far as I know, there is nothing like it in the world.
Comparison of it with England is often made in the use of the words
“garden” and “park.” The landscape is as unlike the finer parts of Old
England as it is unlike the most carefully tended parts of New England.
It has neither the intense green, the subdivisions in hedges, the bosky
lanes, the picturesque cottages, the niceness of minute garden-culture,
of England, nor the broken, mixed lawn gardening and neglected pastures
and highways, with the sweet wild hills, of the Berkshire region. It
is an open, elevated, rolling land, giving the traveller often the most
extended views over wheat and clover, hemp and tobacco fields, forests
and blue-grass pastures. One may drive for a hundred miles north and
south over the splendid macadam turnpikes, behind blooded roadsters,
at an easy ten-mile gait, and see always the same sight—a smiling
agricultural paradise, with scarcely a foot, in fence corners, by the
road-side, or in low grounds, of uncultivated, uncared-for land. The
open country is more pleasing than the small villages, which have not
the tidiness of the New England small villages; the houses are for the
most part plain; here and there is a negro cabin, or a cluster of them,
apt to be unsightly, but always in view somewhere is a plantation-house,
more or less pretentious, generally old-fashioned and with the colonial
charm. These are frequently off the main thoroughfare, approached by a
private road winding through oaks and ash-trees, seated on some gentle
knoll or slope, maybe with a small flower-garden, but probably with the
old sentimental blooms that smell good and have reminiscences, in the
midst of waving fields of grain, blue-grass pastures, and open forest
glades watered by a dear stream. There seems to be infinite peace in
a house so surrounded. The house may have pillars, probably a colonial
porch and door-way with earving in bass-relief, a wide hall, large
square rooms, low studded, and a general air of comfort. What is new in
it in the way of art, furniture, or bric-à-brac may not be in the best
taste, and may “swear” at the old furniture and the delightful old
portraits. For almost always will be found some portraits of the
post-Revolutionary period, having a traditional and family interest, by
Copley or Jouett, perhaps a Stuart, maybe by some artist who evidently
did not paint for fame, which carry the observer back to the colonial
society in Virginia, Philadelphia, and New York. In a country house and
in Lexington I saw portraits, life-size and miniature, of Rebecca Gratz,
whose loveliness of person and character is still a tender recollection
of persons living. She was a great beauty and toast in her day. It
was at her house in Philadelphia, a centre of wit and gayety, that
Washington Irving and Henry Brevoort and Gulian C. Verplanck often
visited. She shone not less in New York society, and was the most
intimate friend of Matilda Hoffman, who was betrothed to Irving; indeed,
it was in her arms that Matilda died, fadeless always to us as she was
to Irving, in the loveliness of her eighteenth year. The well-founded
tradition is that Irving, on his first visit to Abbotsford, told Scott
of his own loss, and made him acquainted with the beauty and grace of
Rebecca Gratz, and that Scott, wanting at the moment to vindicate a race
that was aspersed, used her as a model for Rebecca in “Ivanhoe.”
One distinction of the blue-grass region is the forests, largely of
gigantic oaks, free of all undergrowth, carpeted with the close-set,
luscious, nutritive blue-grass, which remains green all the season when
it is cropped by feeding. The blue-grass thrives elsewhere, notably in
the upper Shenandoah Valley, where somewhat similar limestone conditions
prevail; but this is its natural habitat. On all this elevated rolling
plateau the limestone is near the surface. This grass blooms towards the
middle of June in a bluish, almost a peacock blue, blossom, which gives
to the fields an exquisite hue. By the end of the month the seed ripens
into a yellowish color, and while the grass is still green and lush
underneath, the surface presents much the appearance of a high New
England pasture in August. When it is ripe, the top is cut for the seed.
The limestone and the blue-grass together determine the agricultural
pre-eminence of the region, and account for the fine breeding of the
horses, the excellence of the cattle, the stature of the men, and the
beauty of the women; but they have social and moral influence also. It
could not well be otherwise, considering the relation of the physical
condition to disposition and character. We should be surprised if a
rich agricultural region, healthful at the same time, where there is
abundance of food, and wholesome cooking is the rule, did not affect the
tone of social life. And I am almost prepared to go further, and
think that blue-grass is a specific for physical beauty and a certain
graciousness of life. I have been told that there is a natural relation
between Presbyterianism and blue-grass, and am pointed to the Shenandoah
and to Kentucky as evidence of it. Perhaps Presbyterians naturally seek
a limestone country. But the relation, if it exists, is too subtle and
the facts are too few to build a theory on. Still, I have no doubt there
is a distinct variety of woman known as the blue-grass girl. A geologist
told me that once when he was footing it over the State with a geologist
from another State, as they approached the blue-grass region from the
southward they were carefully examining the rock formation and studying
the surface indications, which are usually marked on the border line,
to determine exactly where the peculiar limestone formation began.
Indications, however, were wanting. Suddenly my geologist looked up the
road and exclaimed:
“We are in the blue-grass region now.”
“How do you know?” asked the other.
“Why, there is a blue-grass girl.”
There was no mistaking the neat dress, the style, the rounded contours,
the gracious personage. A few steps farther on the geologists found the
outcropping of the blue limestone.
Perhaps the people of this region are trying to live up to the
thorough-bred. A pedigree is a necessity. The horse is of the first
consideration, and either has or gives a sort of social distinction;
first, the running horse, the thorough-bred, and now the trotting horse,
which is beginning to have a recognizable descent, and is on the way to
be a thorough-bred. Many of the finest plantations are horse farms;
one might call them the feature of the country. Horse-raising is here
a science, and as we drive from one estate to another, and note the
careful tillage, the trim fences, the neat stables, the pretty paddocks,
and the houses of the favorites, we see how everything is intended
to contribute to the perfection in refinement of fibre, speed, and
endurance of the noble animal. Even persons who are usually indifferent
to horses cannot but admire these beautiful high-bred creatures, either
the famous ones displayed at the stables, or the colts and fillies,
which have yet their reputations to make, at play in the blue-grass
pastures; and the pleasure one experiences is a refined one in harmony
with the landscape. Usually horse-dealing carries with it a lowering of
the moral tone, which we quite understand when we say of a man that he
is “horsy.” I suppose the truth is that man has degraded the idea of the
horse by his own evil passions, using him to gamble and cheat with.
Now, the visitor will find little of these degrading associations in the
blue-grass region. It is an orthodox and a moral region. The best
