charming prospect a willing duty, and rejoiced in it 
as generously as if it had been their own. Perhaps 
it was, they decided. He said people owned more 
things in common than they were apt to think ; and 
they drew the consolations of proprietorship from the 
excellent management of Castle Garden, which they 
penetrated for a moment's glimpse of the huge 
rotunda, where the emigrants first set foot on our 
continent. It warmed their hearts, so easily moved 
to any cheap sympathy, to see the friendly care the 
nation took of these humble guests ; they found it 
even pathetic to hear the proper authority calling 
  
out the names of such as had kin or acquaintance 
waiting there to meet them. No one appeared 
troubled or anxious ; the oflicials had a conscien- 
tious civility ; the government seemed to manage 
their welcome as well as a private company or cor- 
poration could have done. In fact, it was after the 
simple strangers had left the government care that 
March feared their woes miglit begin ; and he would 
have liked the government to follow each of them 
to his home, wherevcr he meant to fix it within our 
borders. He made note of the looks of the licensed 
runners and touters waiting for the immigrants out- 
side the government premises ; he intended to work 
them up into a dramatic effect in some sketch, but 
they remained mere material in his memorandum- 
book, together with some quaint old houses on the 
Sixth wenue road, which he had noticed on the way 
down. On the way up, these were superseded in 
his regard by some hip-roof structures on the 
Ninth wenue, which he thought more Dutch- 
looking. The perspectives of the cross-streets to- 
ward the river were very lively, with their turmoil 
of trucks and cars and carts and hacks and foot- 
passengers, ending in the chimneys and masts of 
shipping, and final gleams of dancing water. At a 
very noisy corner, clangorous with some sort of iron- 
working, he made his wife enjoy with him the quiet 
sarcasm of an inn that called itself the Homelike 
Hotel, and he speculated at fantastic length on the 
gentle associations of one avIio shoidd haA'e passed 
his youth under its roof. 
III. 
First and last, the Marches did a good deal of 
travel on the Elevated roads, which, he said, gave 
you such glimpses of material aspects in the city as 
some violent invasion of others' lives might afford 
in human nature. Once, when the impulse of 
adventure was very strong in them, they went quite 
the length of the "West side lines, and saw the city 
pushing its way by irregular advances into the 
country. Some spaces, probably held by the owners 
for that rise in value which the industry of others 
providentially gives to the land of the wise and 
good, it left vacant comparatively far down the road, 
and built up others at remoter points. It was a 
world of lofty apartment-houses beyond the Park, 
springing up in isolated blocks, with stretches of 
invaded rusticity between, and here and there an 
old country-seat standing dusty in its budding vines 
with the ground before it in rocky upheaval for city 
foundations. But wherever it went or wherever it 
paused. New York gave its peculiar stamp ; and the 
adventurers were amused to find One Hundred and 
Twenty-fifth Street inchoately like Twenty-third 
Street and Fourteenth Street in its shops and 
  
shoppers. The butcliers' shops and milliners' shops 
on the avenue might as well have been at Tenth as 
at One Hundredth Street. 
The adventurers were not often so adventurous. 
They recognised that in their •willingness to let 
their fancy range for them, and to let sijeculation do 
the work of inquiry, they were no longer young. 
Their point of view was singularly unchanged, and 
their impressions of New York remained the same 
that they had been fifteen years before : huge, noisy, 
ugly, kindly, it seemed to them now as it seemed 
then. The main difference was that they saw it 
more now as a life, and then they only regarded it 
as a spectacle ; and March could not release himself 
from a sense of complicity with it, no matter what 
whimsical, or alien, or critical attitude he took. A 
sense of the striving and the suffering deeply 
possessed him ; and this grew the more intense as 
he gained some knowledge of the forces at work — 
forces of pity, of destruction, of perdition, of sal- 
A'ation. He wandered about on Sunday not only 
through the streets, but into this tabernacle and 
that, as the spirit moved him, and listened to those 
who dealt with Christianity as a system of economics 
as well as a religion. He could not get his wife to 
go with him ; she listened to his report of what he 
heard, and trembled ; it all seemed fantastic and 
menacing. She lamented the literary peace, the 
intellectual refinement of the life they had left 
Ijchind them ; and he owned it was very pretty, but 
he said it was not life — it was death-in-life. She 
  
liked to hear him talk in that strain of virtuous self- 
denunciation, but she asked him, "AYhich of your 
prophets are jou going to follow ? " and he answered, 
"All — all! And a fresh one every Sunday," And 
so they got their laugh out of it at last, but with 
some sadness at heart, and with a dim consciousness 
that they had got their laugh out of too many things 
in life. 
"What really occupied and compassed his activities, 
in spite of his strenuous reveries of work beyond it, 
was his editorship. On its social si'c it had not 
fulfilled all the expectations which Fulkerson's 
radiant sketch of its duties and relations had caused 
him to form of it. Most of the contributions came 
from a distance ; even the articles written in New 
York reached him through the post, and so far from 
having his valuable time, as they called it, consumed 
in interviews with his collaborators, he rarely saw 
any of them. The boy on the stairs, who was to 
fence him from importunate visitors, led a life of 
luxurious disoccupation, and whistled almost unin- 
terruptedly. When any one came, March found 
himself embarrassed and a little anxious. The 
visitors were usually young men, terribly respectful, 
but cherishing, as he imagined, ideals and opinions 
chasmally different from his ; and he felt in their 
presence something like an anachronism, something 
like a fraud. lie tried to freshen up his sympathies 
on them, to get at what they wei'e really thinking and 
feeling, and it was some time before he could under- 
stand that they were not really thinking and feeling 
anything of their own concerning their art, l)iit were 
necessarily, in their quality of young, inexperienced 
men, mere acceptants of older men's thoughts and 
feelings, whether they werc tremendously conserva- 
tive, as some were, or tremendously progressive, as 
others were. Certain of them called themselves 
realists, certain romanticists ; but none of them 
seemed to know what realism was, or what romanti- 
cism ; they apparently supposed the difference a 
difference of material. March had imagined himself 
taking home to lunch or dinner the aspirants for 
editorial favour whom he liked, whether he liked 
their work or not ; hut this was not an easy matter. 
Those who were at all interesting seemed to have 
engagements and preoccupations ; after two or three 
experiments with the bashfuller sort — those who 
had come up to the metropolis with manuscripts in 
their hands, in the good old literary tradition — ho 
wondered whether he was otherwise like them when 
he was young like them. He could not flatter himself 
that he was not ; and yet he had a hope that the 
world had grown worse since his time, which his 
wife encouraged. 
Mrs. March was not eager to pursue the hospitali- 
ties which she had at first imagined essential to the 
literary prosperity of Evcrij Other week ; her family 
sufficed her ; she would willingly have seen no one 
out of it but the strangers at the weekly tahle-dliote 
dinner, or the audiences at the theatres. March's 
devotion to his work made him reluctant to delegate 
it to any one ; and as the summer adA'anced, and 
 
the question of where to go grew more vexed, he 
showed a man's base willingness to shirk it for him- 
self by not going anywhere. He asked his wife why 
she did not go somewhere with the children, and he 
joined her in a search for non-malarial regions on 
the map when she consented to entertain this notion. 
But when it came to the point she would not go ; 
he offered to go with her then, and then she would 
not let him. She said she knew he would be 
anxious about his work ; he protested that he could 
take it with him to any distance within a few hours, 
but she would not be persuaded. She would rather 
he stayed ; the effect would be better with Mr. 
Fulkerson; they could make excursions, and they 
could all get off a week or two to the sea-shore near 
Boston — the only real sea-shore — in August. The 
