exactly what a man wants, as it seems to me. I' didn't know 
you could," he went on, smiling down at her. " I didn't no, 
I didn't." 
" It's Avhat I say that you've always hated me." 
" I'll make it up to you." 
She leaned on the doorway with her head against the lintel. 
' You don't even deny it." 
" Contradict you now ? I'll admit it, though it's rubbish, on 
purpose to live it down." 
" It doesn't matter," she said, slowly ; " for however much 
you might have liked me, you would never have done so half 
as much as I have cared for you." 
" Oh, I'm so poor ! " Nick murmured, cheerfully. 
She looked at him, smiling, and slowly shook her head. 
Then she declared: "You never can." 
" I like that ! Haven't I asked you to marry me ? When 
did you ever ask me? " 
" Every day of my life ! As I say, it's hard for a proud 
woman." 
"Yes, you're too proud even to answer me." 
" We must think of it, we must talk of it." 
" Think of it? I've thought of it ever so much." 
"I mean together. There are things to be said." 
"The principal thing is to give me your word." 
Mrs. Dallow looked at him in silence ; then she exclaimed : 
" I wish I didn't adore you ! " She went straight down the 
steps. 
" You don't, if you leave me now. Why do you go ? It's 
so charming here, and we are so delightfully alone." 
" Detach the boat; we'll go on the water," said Mrs. Dallow. 
Nick was at the top of the steps, looking down at her. 
"Ah. stay a little do stay!" he pleaded. 
" I'll get in myself, I'll put off," she answered. 
At this Nick came down and he bent a little to undo the 
rope. He was close to her, and as he raised his head he felt 
it caught ; she had seized it in her hands and she pressed her 
lips to the first place they encountered. The next instant she 
was in the boat. 
This time he dipped the oars very slowly indeed ; and while, 
for a period that was longer than it seemed to them, they 
floated vaguely, they mainly sat and glowed at each other, as 
if everything had been settled. There were reasons enough 
why Nick should be happy ; but it is a singular fact that the 
leading one was the sense of having escaped from a great 
mistake. The final result of his mother's appeal to him the 
day before had been the idea that he must act with unim- 
peachable honour. He was capable of taking it as an assur- 
ance that Julia had placed him under an obligation which a 
gentleman could regard only in one way. If she had under- 
stood it so, putting the vision, or at any rate the appreciation, 
of a closer tie into everything she had done for him, the case 
was conspicuously simple and his course unmistakably plain. 
That is why he had been gay when he came out of the house 
to look for her : he could be gay when his course was plain. 
He could be all the gayer, naturally, I must add, that in turn- 
ing things over, as he had done half the night, what he had 
turned up oftenest was the recognition that Julia now had a 
new personal power over him. It was not for nothing that 
she had thrown herself personally into his life. She had by 
her act made him live twice as much, and such a service, if a 
man had accepted and deeply tasted it, was certainly a thing 
to put him on his honour. Nick gladly recognized that there 
was nothing he could do in preference that would not be spoiled 
for him by any deflection from that point. His mother had 
made him uncomfortable by intimating to him that Julia was 
in love with him (he didn't like, in general, to be told such 
things) ; but the responsibility seemed easier to carry and he 
was less shy about it when once he was away from other eyes, 
with only Julia's own to express that truth and with indifferent 
nature all around. Besides, what discovery had he made this 
morning but that he also was in love? 
 You must be a very great man," she said to him, in the 
middle of the lake. " I don't know what you mean about 
my salon ; but I am ambitious." 
" We must look at life in a large, bold way," Nick replied, 
resting his oars. 
"That's what I mean. If I didn't think you could I 
wouldn't look at you." 
"I could what?" 
" Do everything you ought everything I imagine, I dream 
of. You are clever : you can never make me believe the con- 
trary, after your speech on Tuesday. Don't speak to me ! 
I've seen, I've heard and I know what's in you. I shall hold 
you to it. You are everything that you pretend not to be." 
Nick sat looking at the water while she talked. " Will it 
always be so amusing? " he asked. 
" Will what always be? " 
"Why, my career." 
" Sha'n't I make it so?" 
" It will be yours ; it won't be mine," said Nick. 
"Ah, don't say that: don't make me out that sort of 
woman ! If they should say it's me, I'd drown myself." 
" If they should say what's you? " 
" Why, your getting on. If they should say I push you, 
that I do things for you." 
" Well, won't you do them ? It's just what I count on." 
"Don't be dreadful," said Mrs. Dallow. "It would be 
loathsome if I were said to be cleverer than you. That's not 
the sort of man I want to marry." 
" Oh, I shall make you work, my dear ! " 
"Ah, that ! " exclaimed Mrs. Dallow, in a tone that might 
come back to a man in after years. 
" You will do the great thing, you will make my life delight- 
ful," Nick declared, as if he fully perceived the sweetness of it. 
" I dare say that will keep me in heart." 
" In heart ? Why shouldn't you be in heart ? " Julia's 
eyes, lingering on him, searching him, seemed to question him 
still more than her lips. 
" Oh, it will be all right ! " cried Nick. 
" You'll like success, as well as any one else. Don't tell me 
you're not so ethereal ! " 
" Yes, I shall like success." 
" So shall I ! And of course I am glad that you'll be able 
to do things," Mrs. Dallow went on. "I'm glad you'll have 
things. I'm glad I'm not poor." 
" Ah, don't speak of that," Nick murmured. " Only be 
nice to my mother : we shall make her supremely happy." 
" I'm glad I like your people," Mrs. Dallow dropped. 
" Leave them to me ! " 
" You're generous you're noble," stammered Nick. 
" Your mother must live at Broadwood ; she must have it 
for life. It's not at all bad." 
" Ah, Julia," her companion replied, " it's well I love 
you ! " 
" Why shouldn't you?" laughed Julia ; and after this there 
was nothing said between them till the boat touched the 
shore. When she had got out Mrs. Dallow remarked that it 
was time for luncheon ; but they took no action in conse- 
quence, strolling in a direction which was not that of the 
house. There was a vista that drew them on, a grassy path 
skirting the foundations of scattered beeches and leading to a 
stile from which the charmed wanderer might drop into another 
division of Mrs. Dallow's property. This lady said something 
about their going as far as the stile ; then the next instant 
she exclaimed : " How stupid of you you've forgotten Mr. 
Hoppus ! " 
" We left him in the temple of Vesta. Darling, I had other 
things to think of there." 
" I'll send for him," said Mrs. Dallow. 
" Lord, can you think of him now ? " Nick asked. 
" Of course I can more than ever." 
" Shall we go back for him? " Nick inquired, pausing. 
Mrs. Dallow made no answer ; she continued to walk, say- 
ing they would go as far as the stile. " Of course I know 
you're fearfully vague," she presently resumed. 
" I wasn't vague at all. But you were in such a hurry to 
get away." 
"It doesn't signify. I have another one at home." 
" Another summer-house? " suggested Nick. 
"A copy of Mr. Hoppus." 
" Mercy, how you go in for him ! Fancy having two ! ; ' 
" He sent me the number of the magazine ; and the other 
is the one that comes every month." 
" Every month I see," said Nick, in a manner justifying 
considerably Mrs. Dallow's charge of vagueness. They had 
reached the stile and he leaned over it, looking at a great 
mild meadow and at the browsing beasts in the distance. 
" Did you suppose they come every day? " asked Mrs. Dallow. 
" Dear no, thank God ! " They remained there a little ; he 
continued to look at the animals and before long he added : 
"Delightful English pastoral scene. Why do they say it 
won't paint ? " 
" "Who says it won't ? " 
"I don't know some of them. It will in France; but 
somehow it won't here." 
"What are you talking about?" Mrs. Dallow demanded. 
Nick appeared unable to satisfy her on this point ; at any 
rate instead of answering her directly he said : "Is Broadwood 
very charming ? " 
" Have you never been there? It shows how you've treated 
me. We used to go there in August. George had ideas about 
it," added Mrs. Dallow. She had never affected not to speak 
of her late husband, especially with Nick, whose kinsman in 
a manner he had been and who had liked him better than 
some others did. 
"George had ideas about a great many things." 
Julia Dallow appeared to be conscious that it would be 
rather odd on such an occasion to take this up. It was even 
odd in Nick to have said it. " Broadwood is just right," she 
rejoined at last. " It's neither too small nor too big, and it 
