maid.

Patty was a woman of some education, while Mistress Kent had been to
France and Holland, and could both write and speak French. Patty's
advantages had been rather limited, but she was quick and shrewd and
made the most of them, though the feeling between her and Janice Kent
rather amused Madam Wetherill. Janice was always trying to "set her down
in her proper place," but what that was exactly it would have been hard
to tell. Janice would not have had time to look after the child, and
this responsibility rather raised her. Then she had wonderful skill with
caps and gowns, and could imitate any imported garment, for even then
those who could sent abroad for garments made up in the latest style,
though it was London and not Paris style.

Primrose kept her bed in Patty's room. There were plain little gowns for
her daily wear, but white aprons instead of homespun ginghams. She came
to breakfast with Madam Wetherill when there were no guests, or only one
or two intimates. For the people of the town had much of the Southern
ways of hospitality, and when on their farms in summer often invited
their less fortunate friends. It was not always lack of money, but many
of the merchants in trade and commerce between the home ports had no
time to spend upon country places, and were not averse to having their
wives and daughters enjoy some of the more trying summer weeks in the
cooler suburban places.

So Primrose sat like a mouse unless someone spoke to her, and it was
considered not best to take too much notice of children, as it made them
forward. Then there were two hours devoted to studying, and sewing with
Patty until dinner, which was often taken upstairs in the sewing room.
Twice a week the tutor came for Latin and French, the former first; and
then Anabella came for French, and after that the little girls could
have a play or a walk, or a ride with Madam Wetherill. Then there was a
dancing lesson twice a week, on alternate days, and a young woman came
to teach the spinet, which was a rather unusual thing, as women were not
considered to know anything except housekeeping well enough to teach it.
But this was one of Madam Wetherill's whims. For the girl's family had
been unfortunate, and the elder woman saw in this scheme a way to assist
them without offering charity.

"Do you suppose the little girls I knew last winter will ever come
back?" she asked of Patty one day.

"Oh, la, no!" was the reply. "Five years of school lies before them--not
like Master Dove's school, where one goes every morning, but a great
boarding house where they are housed and fed and study, and have only
half of Saturday for a holiday. And they study from morning to night."

"It must be very hard," sighed Primrose. "And why do they learn so
much?"

"To be sure, that's the puzzle! And they say women don't need to know.
They can't be lawyers nor doctors nor ministers, nor officers in case of
war, nor hold offices."

"But they can be queens. There was Queen Elizabeth, and Queen Anne. I
read about them in a book downstairs one day. And if women can be
queens, why can't they be something else?"

Patty looked down, nonplused for a moment. "I suppose it was because the
kings died, and all the sons were dead, if they ever had any. Well--I
don't know why woman shouldn't be 'most anything; but she isn't, and
that's all about it. There's more than one man wanted to marry the
madam, but she's wise not to take a spendthrift--or one of the Friends,
who would be obstinate and set in his ways. She's good enough at
bargaining, and she has a great tobacco plantation at Annapolis, and is
as smart as any man. And she can beat half of them at piquet and ombre
and win their money, too."

"What is piquet?"

"Oh, Lord, child! I've always heard that little pitchers had big ears,
and many a rill runs to the sea. Don't you carry things, now, nor ask
questions. Little girls have no call to know such things. What were we
talking about when I made that slip? Oh, about those girls. They'll be
trained in fine manners. The English ladies go to court and see the King
and the Queen and the princesses, and have gay doings."

"Have we any court?"

"Oh, dear, no! England governs us. But there's a good deal of
talk--there, child, get some sewing--hemstitching or something--and
don't talk so much."

She was silent quite a while. Then she said gravely: "I think I liked
the other girls better than I do Anabella. Is she my real cousin? She
said so yesterday. And once, just before I came here, Andrew said I had
no cousin but him."

"That's true enough. Andrew is a real cousin, your father's brother's
son. And your mother had no brothers or sisters. But it's a fashion to
say cousin. It sounds more respectful. Mistress Morris is a great one to
scrape relationship with high-up folks."

Primrose suddenly wondered if anybody missed her at the farm. The little
chickens must have grown into quite large ones, and all the other things
she cared for so much. There was a sudden homesickness. She would like
to see them. But--yes, she would rather be here. There were so many
things to learn. She didn't see any sense in the Latin, and she was sure
it didn't make the French any easier. But the spinet----

"Patty," she ventured timidly, "do you not think I ought to go at my
notes? I didn't play them very well yesterday, and the mistress rapped
me over the knuckles."

She spread her small hand out on her knee and inspected it.

"Yes. Dear me! you'll never get that kerchief done. But, then, run
along. There's no one downstairs. They are all invited to Mistress
Pean's to take tea, and pick everybody to pieces."

"But they have no feathers," said the little girl with a quaint smile,
as she folded up her work and ran her needle through it. Then she put it
in a large silken bag that hung on a nail, and remembered with a
half-guilty conscience that there were some stockings to darn, and she
almost expected to hear Patty ask about them and call her back.

Down over the wide steps she tripped. She was half minded to take a
plunge amid the down cushions on the settle. She had sometimes turned
somersaults in the grass when no one was by, being very careful not to
let Aunt Lois surprise her. She felt like that now, but she walked along
decorously. The great company room was always a marvel to her. It held
so many wonderful things.

There was, even then, a good deal of luxury for those who had the money
to buy it. England did not care how much her colonists spent so that it
passed through her hands. She brought treasures from the far East--there
were only a very few ports allowed to the Americans.

And here were Oriental rugs on the polished floor; furniture carved and
padded in brocade, tables with massive claw feet, and others in thin
spindles that seemed hardly stout enough to hold up the top. There was a
great carved chimney-piece with some tiles let in, and some curious
iridescent bulbs not unlike the "bullseyes" over the wide hall door, but
in different phases of light they gave out varied colors. There were
queer, beautiful, and grotesque ornaments, some ugly Chinese gods that
had been brought hither by sea captains, but if to convert the new
continent, the scheme certainly would prove a failure. Primrose always
looked at them with a shudder, and instinctively thought of the Friends'
meeting with the soft gray gowns and shawls with fine fringes, or in
summer just a plain white kerchief crossed over the bosom. Then there
was a great blue-and-white Chinese pagoda, ornamented with numerous
bells, every story growing smaller. It stood on a solid clawfoot table,
and beside it, also in china, a mandarin with flowing sleeves and a long
pigtail in dark-blue.

There were curious chairs as well, and no end of square ottomans covered
with brocade or tapestry, sadly faded now and some of the edges worn.
Everywhere about were candlesticks and snuffers, for sometimes the room
was brilliantly lighted.

Adjoining this, with a wide doorway between, was a room not quite so
long, but jutting out at the side. In a sort of alcove stood the spinet.
There were also two corner buffets, as they were called. One of them had
drawers at the bottom, and the shelves above held various heirlooms, and
quaint old silver, with the punch bowl over two hundred years old,
bearing the Crown mark.

The other contained a good many books, for the descendants of the
cavaliers were not averse to something lighter than the "Book of
Martyrs." An old brown leather-covered Shakspere, and some of his
compeers, and Bacon, Lord Verulam, reposing peacefully on the shelf
underneath. Mr. Benjamin Franklin had given an impetus to knowledge and
ventured upon the writing of books himself.

Primrose wandered among them now and then, not understanding, and having
a greater fondness for the versifying part than the prose. But she did
pore over "Rasselas," and an odd collection of adventures in Eastern
lands, very like the "Arabian Nights."

But now she went straight at her spinet. She was thrilled through and
through with the sound of the notes, and often before she was aware her
little fingers would wander off in some melody, recalling how a bird
sang or how a streamlet rippled over the stones. Then she would stop in
affright and go carefully over her lesson.

Anabella really succeeded better than she did. There was no singing bird
in her brain that tempted her to stray. But sometimes the music master
was quite angry with her, and said she "might as well be a boy driving
nails or facing stone."

