round with each other like a couple of particularly awkward bears
attempting to waltz together. They were very evenly matched for a
wrestling bout, for although the German was by a couple of inches the
taller of the two, the Russian had the advantage in breadth of shoulder
and length of arm, as well as in the enormous strength of his back. The
Cossack, having assured himself that there was to be fair-play, watched
the proceedings with evident interest, while the pale-faced host shambled
round and round the room, imploring the combatants to respect the
reputation of his house and to desist, while keeping himself at a safe
distance from possible collision with the bodies of the two, as they
staggered and strained, and reeled and whirled about.
The Count at last abandoned the search of the lost pin, and having pulled
the front of his collar into a more normal position trusted to luck to
keep it there. The table at which the three had originally sat had
miraculously escaped upsetting, and on it lay the poor Gigerl, stretched
at full length on its back, calm and smiling in the midst of the noise and
confusion, like the corpse at an Irish wake after the whisky has begun to
take effect.
The Count now thought it necessary to justify the unfortunate situation in
which he found himself, in the judgment of the spectators.
"Gentlemen," he began, very earnestly and with a dignified gesture, "I
feel it necessary to explain the truth of this--" But he was interrupted
by the arrival of a policeman, who pushed his way through the crowd.
CHAPTER V.
"What is this row?" inquired the policeman in his official voice, as he
marched into the room.
The man who was wrestling with Dumnoff was a German and a soldier. At the
authoritative words he relaxed his hold and made an effort to free
himself, a movement of which the Russian instantly took advantage by
throwing his adversary heavily, upsetting another table and thereby
bringing the confusion to its crisis. How far he would have gone if he had
been left to himself is uncertain, for the sudden appearance of two more
men in green coats, helmets and gold collars so emboldened the spectators
of the fight that they advanced in a body just as Dumnoff threw himself
upon the first policeman. The Russian's red face was wet with
perspiration, his small eyes were gleaming ferociously and his thick hair
hung in tangled locks over his forehead, producing with his fair beard the
appearance of a wild animal's mane. But for the timely assistance of his
colleagues, the representatives of the law, and, most likely the majority
of the spectators would have found themselves in the street in an
exceedingly short space of time. But Dumnoff yielded to the inevitable; a
couple of well-planted blows delivered by the rescuing party on the sides
of his thick skull made him shake his head as a cat does when its nose is
sprinkled with water, and the mujik reluctantly relinquished the struggle.
At the same time the porter who had claimed the doll came forward and
touched his bare head with a military salute.
"What is your name?" asked the first policeman, anxious to get to
business.
"Jacob Goggelmann, Dienstmann number 87, formerly private in the Fourth
Artillery, lately messenger in the Thüringer Doll Manufactory."
"Very good," said the policeman, anxious to take the side of his
countryman from the first, and certainly justified in doing so by the
circumstances. "And what is your complaint?"
"That doll, there, on the table," said the porter, "was stolen from me on
New Year's eve, and now that man"--he pointed to the Count, who stood
stiffly looking on--"that man has got possession of it."
"And who stole it from you?" inquired the policeman with that acuteness in
the art of cross-examination for which the police are in all countries so
justly famous.
"Ja, Herr Wachtmeister, if I had known that--" suggested the porter.
"Of course, of course," interrupted the other. "That man stole the doll
from you, you say?"
"Somebody stole it with my basket, as I stopped to drink a measure in the
yard of the Hofbräuhaus, and I had to pay for it out of my caution money,
and I lost my place into the bargain, and there lies the accursed thing."
The policeman, apparently quite satisfied with the porter's story, turned
upon the Count with a blustering and overbearing manner.
"Now, then," he said, roughly, "give an account of yourself. Who are you
and what are you doing here? But that is a foolish question; I know
already that you are a Bohemian and a journeyman tinker."
"A Bohemian? And a journeyman tinker?" repeated the Count, almost
speechless with anger for a moment. "I am neither," he added, endeavouring
to control himself, and settling his refractory collar with one hand. "I
am a Russian gentleman."
"A gentleman--and a Russian," said the policeman, slowly, as though
putting no faith in the first statement and very little in the second. "I
think I can provide you with a lodging for the night," he added,
facetiously.
"Slip past me, jump out of the window and run!" whispered the Cossack in
the Count's ear, in Russian.
"What are you saying in your infernal language?" asked the official.
"My friend advised me to run away," said the Count, coolly sitting down,
as though he were master of the situation. "Unfortunately for me, I was
not taught to use my legs in that way when I was a boy."
"I was," said the Cossack. "Good-evening, Master Policeman." He took his
hat from the peg on the wall where it had hung undisturbed throughout the
confusion, and bowing gravely to the man in uniform made as though he
would go out of the room.
"So, so, not quite so fast, my friend," said the policeman, putting
himself in the way. "Heigh! heigh! Stop him! Don't let him go," he bawled,
a second later.
Schmidt had paused a minute, watching his opportunity, then, taking a
quick step backwards, he had vaulted through the open window with the
agility of a cat, and was flying down the empty street at the speed only
attainable by that deceptive domestic animal when pressed for time and
anxious for its own safety.
"Sobáka!" growled Domnoff, disgusted at his companion's defection.
"Either talk in a language that human beings can understand, or do not
talk at all," said one of the two men who guarded him.
Seeing that pursuit was useless, the spokesman of the police turned to the
Count, twice as blustering and terrible as before.
"This settles the question," he said. "To the police station you go, you
and your bear-man of an accomplice. Potzbombardendonnerwetter! You
Sappermentskerls! I will teach you to resist the police, to steal dolls
and to jump out of windows! Now then, right about face--march!"
The Count did not stir from his chair. Dumnoff looked at him as though to
ask instructions of a superior.
"If you can manage one of them, I can take these two," he said in Russian.
Suiting the action to the word, he suddenly bent down, slipped his arms
round the legs of the two policemen, hurled them simultaneously head over
heels and then charged the crowd, head downwards, upsetting every one who
came in his way, and bursting into the street by sheer superior weight and
impetus. An instant later, his shock head appeared at the window through
which the Cossack had escaped.
"Come along!" he shouted to the Count, in his own language. "I have locked
the street door and they cannot get out. Jump through the window."
"Go, my friend," answered the Count, calmly. "I will not run away."
"You had much better come," insisted Dumnoff, apparently indifferent to
the noise of the crowd as it tried to force open the closed door, and
shaking off two or three men who had made their way out into the street
with him. He held the key in one hand, and his assailants had small chance
of getting it away.
"You will not come?" he repeated. But the Count shook his head, within the
room.
"Then I will not run away either," said Dumnoff, the good side of his dull
nature showing itself at last. With the utmost indifference to
consequences he returned to the door, unlocked it, and strode through the
midst of the people, who made way readily enough before him, after their
late painful experience of his manner of making way for himself.
"I have changed my mind," he said, in German, quietly placing himself
between his late keepers, who were alternately rubbing themselves and
brushing the dust off each other's clothes after their tumble.
In the astonished silence which succeeded Dumnoff's return, the Count's
voice was heard again.
"I am both anxious and ready to explain everything, if you will do me the
civility to listen," he said. "The doll is the property of Herr
Fischelowitz, the well-known tobacconist--"
"We shall see presently what you have to say for yourself," interrupted
the policeman. "We have had enough of these devilish fellows. Come, put
them in handcuffs and off with them. And you three gentlemen," he added,
turning to the three porters, "will have the goodness to accompany us to
the station, in order to give your evidence."
"But my furniture and my beer saucers!" exclaimed the pallid host,
suddenly remembering his losses. "Who is to pay for them?"
The Count answered the question for him.
"You, Master Host, who know us and have had our regular custom for years,
but who have not dared to say a word in our defence throughout this
disgraceful affair, you, I say, deserve to lose all that you have lost.
Nevertheless, I can assure you that I will myself pay for what has been
broken."
The host was not much consoled by this magnanimous promise, which was
received with jeers by the crowd. There was no time, however, to discuss
the question. Dumnoff had quietly submitted his two huge fists to the
handcuffs and a second pair was produced, to fit the Count. At this
indignity he drew himself up proudly.
"Have I resisted the authority, or attempted to run away?" he inquired
with flashing eyes.
The policeman had nothing to say to this very just question.
"Then I advise you to consider what you are doing. In spite of my
appearance, which, I admit, is at present somewhat disorderly, I am a
Russian nobleman, as you will discover so soon as I am submitted to a
properly conducted examination in the presence of your officers. I have
not the least intention of running away, and if this doll was stolen, I
was not connected in any way with the theft. Since I respect the
authorities, I insist upon being respected by them, and if I am treated in
a degrading manner in spite of my protests, there are those in Munich who
will bring the case to proper notice in my own country. I am ready to
accompany you quietly wherever you choose to show me the way."
Something in his manner impressed the officials with the possible truth of
his words. They looked at each other and nodded.
"Very well," said the one who was conducting the arrest.
"Moreover," said the Count, "I crave permission to carry myself the object
of contention, until the other claimant has established his right of
possession."
So saying the Count took the broken Gigerl from the table where it lay,
and carrying it upon his hands before him, like a baby, he solemnly walked
in the direction of the door, thus heading the procession, which was
accompanied into the street by the idlers who had collected inside.
"God be thanked," said the old woman in the corner devoutly, "I have yet
my beer!"
