
After spending the day in the erection of our tent, and 
in mending our injured boat, upon which rested all our 
hope of safety, we kindled a great fire and prepared an 
excellent meal of salt meat, not suspecting that this would 
be the last of our provisions that we should enjoy. When 
we had thus refreshed ourselves, we set two of our men as 
a watch, and stretched out our weary limbs upon the soft 
sand. Night had already enveloped every thing in her 
dark mantle, the savages were at a distance, and all was 
 till except the restless waves which broke \apon the for- 



 

gaken wreck and dashed upon some rocks at no great distance firom us. Up to this moment, the exertion which 
our situation rendered necessary, had so occupied my mind 
as to banish all reflection, but now it broke like a flood 
over my soul and the necessary sleep forsook my weary 
frame. The crew relied for safety upon the miserably 
mended boat, but I doubted if we could ever escape from 
the coast through the raging breakers in such a frail skiff. 
On land, danger menaced us from the wild, greedy savages, 
who might be evfea now preparing to rob us, if not of Hfe 
yet of freedom, dragging us away to a slavery worse than 
death. I was distressed and despairing ; a thousand anx 
ieties filled my mind. I was a husband and the father of 
five little children, whom I dearly loved and whom I must 
soon leave orphans. I shuddered, but at last was able to 
say within myself, " Thy ways, great Father of the uni- 
verse, are wisdom and goodness, and who am I ? A grain 
of dust; shall I complain of thy decrees?" 

I soon found consolation in the thought that my companions, who lay around me buried in the deepest slumber, 
were still alive and with me, and I felt it my solemn duty 
to exert all my power for their preservation and safety. 
Occupied with such thoughts, the night passed slowly for 
me ; at last day dawned in the east, not upon a oheering 
prospect of rescue for us, but upon new scenes of misery. 

It was scarcely light when the old man, with his wives 
and children, and two young men whom I had not seen 
the day before, came down to us. He brandished a long 
spear above his head, as if he were about to throw it at us, 
and signified by threatening gestures that we must retreat 



 

to the wreck if we would not fall into the hands  
of his people, whom I already perceived in the distance, 
approaching us with a herd of camels. The women, at the 
same time, raised a fearful shriek, and threw sand into the 
air. When I ran towards the shore, to seize a plank lying 
there, the old man ran like a maniac to our tent, chased 
out of it, with a few pricks of his spear, the men who were 
yet sleeping there, and so terrified them, by his gestures 
and pointing to the drove of camels, that they all rushed 
towards the little boat, whilst I kept the old man at ahttle 
distance with my plank. They prepared to embark in such 
confusion and disorder that the boat filled and sank. Then 
we attempted to escape along the shore, leaving behind us 
all our provision, but the terrible spear was turned against 
us, and we were surrounded by the women, screaming and 
gesticulating like fiends. We now saw that no way of 
escape was left for us ; they were forcing us to embark that 
they might be rid of us without danger to themselves. I 
therefore shoved the long boat into the water, and insisted 
that the crew should get in at the stem one by one ; thus 
we at last succeeded in escaping to the ship, which was by 
this time half full of water. 

III. 

The natives, as soon as we were no longer in the way, 
collected around our tent, and, brandishing their weapons, 
made their camels kneel down — loaded them with our pro- 
visions and other artibles, and then bade their children 
drive them off. The malicious old man cut open our wine 
and water casks, and let the contents escape; the other 



 

articles, for which they could find no use, books, nautical 
instruments, and charts, were heaped up together and 
burned. Now that we had neither food nor water, no 
choice was left us but to put to sea in our leaky boat, to 
remain in the vessel all night and be drowned, or to die in 
the hands of these cruel savages. These, we gathered 
from their gestures, would shortly return with fire-arms; 
besides they could easily reach the wreck, for a sand bar 
extending some distance into the &ea, was even nov,- visible, 
and would be quite dry at low tide. We therefore deter- 
mined to make preparations for our departure as quickly as 
possible; we fished up some pickled beef and bottles of 
wine firom the hold at the risk of our lives. We had no 
water, and our biscuit was all ruiaed. 

We rigged the long boat as well as we could, and were 
about to set sail, when the natives, touched with pity, as 
it seemed, for our wretched condition, approached the 
shore, bowed to the ground, and beckoned to us, with every 
sign of amity, to come again to the land. As we showed 
no inclination to do so, the old man advanced alone into 
the water up to his waist, with a leather bottle of water, 
and invited us repeatedly to come and drink. As we were 
not a little thirsty, I advanced towards him by means of 
the rope which stm stretched from the wreck to the land, 
took the bottle and brought it to my companions. The 
old man then signified to me that he wished to go on board 
of the wreck, if I would stay on shore until his return. 
Convinced that it was best to maintain a friendly under- 
standing with the natives, I accepted his projosition, and 
returned to the beach again. 



 

The young men, women and children, all nearly naked, 
Bat down on the edge of the beach, and repeated the 
friendly signs, looking upwards, as if they called heavtu 
to witness that their intentions were honest. I placed my- 
self in the midst of them and they behaved in a very 
friendly manner, putting their hands into mine, trying on 
my hat, and feeling my clothes, and searching my pocksts 
most thoroughly. 

When the old man had been taken on board by my peo- 
ple, I tried to make them understand that they must keep 
him until I had been set free, hut the roaring of the waves 
prevented me from being understood, and after he had 
examined every thing carefully, from the provisions swim- 
ming about in the hold, to the money, fire-arms, nd what- 
ever else valuable was to be found, he was allowed to 
return. I now attempted to rise ; but two tf the strong- 
est of the young men who were sitting licside me, threw 
themselves upon me like lions, and held me down, while 
the women and children drew their daggers and knives, 
which they had hitherto concealed, and pointed them at 
my breast. Resistance would have availed me nothing, 
I therefore, remained perfectly quiet and determined to 
betray no fear. They now laid aside the hypocritical ex- 
pression of kindness frtjni their faces, and their former 
malignity appeared ; thoy gnashed their teeth and pricked 
my skin with the points of their knives, while the old man 
took up a sabre, seized me by my hair, and made as if he 
would cut off my head. I was satisfied that my last hour 
had come, and that my body was destined to appease the 
hunger of these monsters, whom I firmly believed to be 



 

cannibals. " Grod, thy will be done," I mentally ejacu* 
lated, and resigned myself to m}- inevitable fate. 

But all these threatening gestures were only meant to 
terrify me ; as I showed no signs of fear, the old man 
released my head from his grasp, after he had touched ray 
neck gently with his sabre. Then he made me to under- 
stand that if I valued my life I must immediately have 
all the money that we had on board brought to land. My 
people were about to come to my relief when the old man 
released me, and I shouted to them to bring all the gold 
from the vessel ; they were again prevented by the dis- 
tance and the noise of the waves, from hearing what I 
added, that they must not give it up until I was perfectly 
at liberty. In the hope of effecting my rescue, they col- 
lected all the money that they possessed, amounting to 
about a thousand piastres, and putting it into a bucket, 
slipped it along the rope to the shore. The old man emp- 
tied the bucket into his woollen apron, and commanded me 
to follow him. The two young men led me along by 
my arms, and held their long knives to my breast, while 
