enjoys it all. 
Jasper is not necessarily her attendant. Eegina has 
many attractions for the opposite sex as well, and there is a 
strand of jealousy in Jasper not quite to her fancy. Then, 
endeavor as she may, she cannot lift him out of moments 
 
of the most trying triviality. He suggests so many ardent 
possibilities that he does not in any degree fulfil. At first 
she was charmed with the delightsome companionship ; 
the subtile beauty that seemed to change with every 
emotion, the rapid, dazzling variations of temperament, 
the softness that was seductive, yet brought to quick crisp- 
ness, and flash like that of steel, the tenderness answering 
quickly to any appeal. Something through it all seems 
lacking, a quality for which she can find no name. He has 
moments of passionate strength when one is impressed 
with the idea that he can rise to heroism, there are others 
when he wearies Regiua with an unpleasant, self-willed 
childishness. Music always exalts him, and Ett such times 
he appeals to her strongly in spite of herself, as if she 
longed to fashion his mental attributes into a higher, 
truer kind of man, for she is haunted with a vague impres- 
sion that he is playing a part. If her surmise is true, he 
will play it all his life. 
When he is out with her, and having a sort of guardian- 
ship over her, he is at his best, comes nearer to the ideal 
manhood she dreams of for him. But she fears a subtle 
danger in this. He comes too near, he assumes too much. 
She has had no great experience with lovers, though admir- 
ers are plenty ; but with womanly instinct she translates 
the low, impassioned tones, the limpid, unfathomable glance 
that at once confesses, and seems to hold back hidden 
treasures, that pliant yielding of the figure as if he could 
hover forever about her, until she was encompassed beyond 
retreat with his influence. A coquette would meet him on 
his own ground, but she is too honest, her nature is too 
really fine. So she puts little distances between them : she 
goes out driving with a carriage full of friends, she accepts 
invitations for herself alone. There are people who do not 
quite approve of him, who have a vague fear that some 
unfortunate reminiscences may still come to light concern- 
ing the father. At all events, Regina makes it understood 
in a delicate way that she has no desire to reign as mistress 
at Uradley House. She annoys Jasper by the very gracious- 
ness with which she disposes of him for promenades, dances, 
and not infrequently in the party drives. The young girls 
are delighted with this generosity. 
As for the others, Cynthia is quite too largely lacking in 
sentiment to attract him. Perdita is a child, and, curious 
fact, the smallest favorite with the elder Mr. Bradley. 
She and Jasper have a good deal of merry badinage, and 
very decided disagreements, if one can tell by the resolute 
air with which they go opposite ways. They always agree 
about music, however. A few notes of the violin will draw 
her from the most desperate fit of sulkiness or obstinacy. 
Jasper had not been in the house a fortnight before he was 
giving her lessons. Mrs. Halford made a faint protest, it 
was so against her ideas of girlish delicacy to play the 
violin. 
" She will soon tire of it if no one opposes her," Regina 
declares. "She has just the vein of obstinacy to long for 
it if she is deprived of the enjoyment, and we shall seem 
like tyrants." 
Eegina's experience in the past bore this out. The 
pleasure that Perdita was refused became straightway the 
most passionately desired delight. She was largely given 
to taking up pursuits eagerly, and then tiring of them, 
giving them up in disgust if they were optional. She 
often tired of her school-girl friends, yet she was not 
really fickle, perhaps too easily attracted and too quick to 
discern unfavorable qualities. 
So she began to play. In one of his flying visits to the 
city Jasper had bought her a violin. Mrs. Halford had 
insisted upon paying for it, but Jasper had besought in 
such a fascinating fashion that both she and Regina 
yielded. 
" Why, you were so kind and friendly to us in the 
beginning!" he cries in a beguiling, frank' way that dis- 
arms firmness and objections. " Surely one little gift might 
be allowed ! " 
There are two or three weeks of horrible attempts. 
Perdita would throw it up but for the intense delight of 
 
making her own music when she gets out of sight and 
hearing, in the kindly woods. She has mastered the 
chords and improvises, follows the songs of different birds, 
catches the subtile melody of the wind as it murmurs up 
and down, drawing one kind of cade-nce from the pine, 
another from the cedar, the oak, and a symphony quite 
distinct from the tops of the tall chestnuts. How curious, 
how entrancing, it all is ! It wraps her about in a tranced 
atmosphere ; with fast-floating, fragrant clouds, it carries 
her to an enchanted realm that thrills and permeates every 
fibre of her being. Does Jasper feel this way, she wonders ? 
Then she has a secret none of the others can fathom or 
penetrate. She is nearer to him. Not Regina's beauty 
even could so infiltrate every pulse. It brings a curious 
exultation. 
These wild indulgences would be forbidden if she con- 
fessed them to Jasper. She does endeavor to her very 
utmost with her lessons, and makes tolerably fair advances. 
But when school ends she has long, delightful days, while 
all the others are employed about various matters. She 
comes to consider it her own enjoyment, not .something 
that she must contribute to household pleasures. The 
practising does make Mrs. Halford nervous, and Eegina's 
fastidious nerves protest as well. 
That Perdita should go roaming around the woods troubles 
no one. Tramps are rarely seen in this vicinity, and the 
. big hound, Jack, is her safeguard. One afternoon when she 
is in the midst of an impetuous, daring strain, at which 
the very birds pause to listen, the faithful guardian gives 
a low, threatening growl. 
"Jack," cries a voice persuasively, "Jack, good fellow !" 
She does not stop at the sound, for she is possessed by a 
marvellous melody in her brain which she cannot half 
interpret, but is flying along with the few strains her bow 
can bring into existence. He stands motionless. The 
brown eyes are fixed, translucent, gleaming with a kind of 
inspiration. Her soft hair has tumbled about her shoulders, 
and here and there catches a ripple of sunshine that pene- 
ti-ates the_ branches. Her face is all one glow of rapt 
enthusiasm. 
Then the melody sinks lower, lower, and with a despair- 
ing little wail dies out. 
"O Perdita! Perdita!" he exclaims, drawing a long 
breath. 
She drops at the trunk of the great tree, lays her violin 
down on the grass, shakes her tumbled hair defiantly, 
while her face settles into significant lines. Jack conies 
and thrusts his head in her lap, looks up at her in perplex- 
ity as if to ask what has gone wrong. 
" Scold and have done with it," Perdita begins crossly. 
" You made such a fuss the other morning, "and said I 
would never learn to play, because I put in half a dozen 
notes just as one takes sugar with medicine ! " 
Jasper laughs, an alien sound as if it had been Pan 
instead. But his face shows an interested surprise rather 
than displeasure, which Perdita is quick to detect. 
" It is my own music," she says a little sullenly. " And 
I went over the lesson until I know it ail by heart." 
"Very well. Then I shall not scold. And you dreamed 
that here under the trees. Have you dreamed out many 
things like that ? " 
" You are ridiculing me," in disdainful anger. 
He throws himself down beside her, takes her warm, 
throbbing hand that is brown as a gypsy contrasted with his. 
"Scold you," he repeats. "Perdita, my darling, I am 
marvelling at you ! Why, you have a genius, a positive 
genius, if you can play like that — with so little instruction. 
I have heard some wonderful improvising'' — then he 
pauses, with his dreamy glance on the grass at their feet, 
seeing a vision that may be made possible. The next 
moment he shrinks and shudders, glances at her in mute 
entreaty. 
" Oh, what is the matter ? " she cries in alarm. 
That recalls him to himself. He utters a thin, forced 
laugh that seems an echo of something hidden, painful, 
and gives his shoulders a shake. 
 
"T was thinking — well, it is of bo aoeount now, and it 
doesn't belong to this life. But you — have you played 
much in this fashion? — you need not be afraid. I am 
your cousin,* your friend, not your teacher, just now." 
'' I used to come up when Miss Hilliard was here — after 
school, just to comfort myself for the toil and moil and 
hateful lessons ! And I've gone on" — 
" I've wondered sometimes whither you had vanished." 
"You see, mother and Regina don't like it very well. 
Eegina is so — so — how shall I say it ? " and a perplexed 
little knot gathers in her forehead. "Just what other 
people, her kind of people, do is right, all other courses are 
more or less reprehensible. Girls are learning to play the 
violin, but no one does it as yet here in Beverly. I don't 
know but it does look a bit stagey. I've never come across 
anything I've loved until I began to play this," touching her 
violin affectionately with one small brown finger. " But 
I do mean to learn rightly." 
There is such an entreating sound in this promise. 
Perdita's anger has vanished. She never keeps it very 
