(Australian fern), the pepper, and the eucalyptus, and lined all the way
by splendid orange groves, in the midst of which are houses and grounds
with semi-tropical attractions. Nothing could be lovelier than such a
scene of fruits and flowers, with the background of purple hills and
snowy peaks. The mountain views are superb. Frost is a rare visitor. Not
in fifteen years has there been enough to affect the orange. There is
little rain after March, but there are fogs and dew-falls, and the ocean
breeze is felt daily. The grape grown for raisins is the muscat, and
this has had no "sickness." Vigilance and a quarantine have also kept
from the orange the scale which has been so annoying in some other
localities. The orange, when cared for, is a generous bearer; some trees
produce twenty boxes each, and there are areas of twenty acres in good
bearing which have brought to the owner as much as $10,000 a year.
The whole region of the Santa Ana and San Gabriel valleys, from the
desert on the east to Los Angeles, the city of gardens, is a surprise,
and year by year an increasing wonder. In production it exhausts the
catalogue of fruits and flowers; its scenery is varied by ever new
combinations of the picturesque and the luxuriant; every town boasts
some special advantage in climate, soil, water, or society; but these
differences, many of them visible to the eye, cannot appear in any
written description. The traveller may prefer the scenery of Pasadena,
or that of Pomona, or of Riverside, but the same words in regard to
color, fertility, combinations of orchards, avenues, hills, must appear
in the description of each. Ontario, Pomona, Puente, Alhambra--wherever
one goes there is the same wonder of color and production.
Pomona is a pleasant city in the midst of fine orange groves, watered
abundantly by artesian-wells and irrigating ditches from a mountain
reservoir. A specimen of the ancient adobe residence is on the Meserve
plantation, a lovely old place, with its gardens of cherries,
strawberries, olives, and oranges. From the top of San José hill we had
a view of a plain twenty-five miles by fifty in extent, dotted with
cultivation, surrounded by mountains--a wonderful prospect. Pomona, like
its sister cities in this region, has a regard for the intellectual side
of life, exhibited in good school-houses and public libraries. In the
library of Pomona is what may be regarded as the tutelary deity of the
place--the goddess Pomona, a good copy in marble of the famous statue in
the Uffizi Gallery, presented to the city by the Rev. C. F. Loop. This
enterprising citizen is making valuable experiments in olive culture,
raising a dozen varieties in order to ascertain which is best adapted to
this soil, and which will make the best return in oil and in a
marketable product of cured fruit for the table.
The growth of the olive is to be, it seems to me, one of the leading and
most permanent industries of Southern California. It will give us, what
it is nearly impossible to buy now, pure olive oil, in place of the
cotton-seed and lard mixture in general use. It is a most wholesome and
palatable article of food. Those whose chief experience of the olive is
the large, coarse, and not agreeable Spanish variety, used only as an
appetizer, know little of the value of the best varieties as food,
nutritious as meat, and always delicious. Good bread and a dish of
pickled olives make an excellent meal. The sort known as the Mission
olive, planted by the Franciscans a century ago, is generally grown now,
and the best fruit is from the older trees. The most successful attempts
in cultivating the olive and putting it on the market have been made by
Mr. F. A. Kimball, of National City, and Mr. Ellwood Cooper, of Santa
Barbara. The experiments have gone far enough to show that the industry
is very remunerative. The best olive oil I have ever tasted anywhere is
that produced from the Cooper and the Kimball orchards; but not enough
is produced to supply the local demand. Mr. Cooper has written a careful
treatise on olive culture, which will be of great service to all
growers. The art of pickling is not yet mastered, and perhaps some other
variety will be preferred to the old Mission for the table. A mature
olive grove in good bearing is a fortune. I feel sure that within
twenty-five years this will be one of the most profitable industries of
California, and that the demand for pure oil and edible fruit in the
United States will drive out the adulterated and inferior present
commercial products. But California can easily ruin its reputation by
adopting the European systems of adulteration.
We drove one day from Arcadia Station through the region occupied by
the Baldwin plantations, an area of over fifty thousand acres--a happy
illustration of what industry and capital can do in the way of variety
of productions, especially in what are called the San Anita vineyards
and orchards, extending southward from the foot-hills. About the home
place and in many sections where the irrigating streams flow one might
fancy he was in the tropics, so abundant and brilliant are the flowers
and exotic plants. There are splendid orchards of oranges, almonds,
English walnuts, lemons, peaches, apricots, figs, apples, and olives,
with grain and corn--in short, everything that grows in garden or field.
The ranch is famous for its brandies and wines as well as fruits. We
lunched at the East San Gabriel Hotel, a charming place with a peaceful
view from the wide veranda of live-oaks, orchards, vineyards, and the
noble Sierra Madre range. The Californians may be excused for using the
term paradisiacal about such scenes. Flowers, flowers everywhere, color
on color, and the song of the mocking-bird!
CHAPTER XII.
HOW THE FRUIT PERILS WERE MET.--FURTHER DETAILS OF LOCALITIES.
In the San Gabriel Valley and elsewhere I saw evidence of the perils
that attend the culture of the vine and the fruit-tree in all other
countries, and from which California in the early days thought it was
exempt. Within the past three or four years there has prevailed a
sickness of the vine, the cause of which is unknown, and for which no
remedy has been discovered. No blight was apparent, but the vine
sickened and failed. The disease was called consumption of the vine. I
saw many vineyards subject to it, and hundreds of acres of old vines had
been rooted up as useless. I was told by a fruit-buyer in Los Angeles
that he thought the raisin industry below Fresno was ended unless new
planting recovered the vines, and that the great wine fields were about
"played out." The truth I believe to be that the disease is confined to
the vineyards of Old Mission grapes. Whether these had attained the
limit of their active life, and sickened, I do not know. The trouble for
a time was alarming; but new plantings of other varieties of grapes have
been successful, the vineyards look healthful, and the growers expect no
further difficulty. The planting, which was for a time suspended, has
been more vigorously renewed.
The insect pests attacking the orange were even more serious, and in
1887-88, though little was published about it, there was something like
a panic, in the fear that the orange and lemon culture in Southern
California would be a failure. The enemies were the black, the red, and
the white scale. The latter, the icerya purchasi, or cottony cushion
scale, was especially loathsome and destructive; whole orchards were
enfeebled, and no way was discovered of staying its progress, which
threatened also the olive and every other tree, shrub, and flower.
Science was called on to discover its parasite. This was found to be the
Australian lady-bug (vedolia cardinalis), and in 1888-89 quantities of
this insect were imported and spread throughout Los Angeles County, and
sent to Santa Barbara and other afflicted districts. The effect was
magical. The vedolia attacked the cottony scale with intense vigor,
and everywhere killed it. The orchards revived as if they had been
recreated, and the danger was over. The enemies of the black and the red
scale have not yet been discovered, but they probably will be. Meantime
the growers have recovered courage, and are fertilizing and fumigating.
In Santa Ana I found that the red scale was fought successfully by
fumigating the trees. The operation is performed at night under a
movable tent, which covers the tree. The cost is about twenty cents a
tree. One lesson of all this is that trees must be fed in order to be
kept vigorous to resist such attacks, and that fruit-raising,
considering the number of enemies that all fruits have in all climates,
is not an idle occupation. The clean, handsome English walnut is about
the only tree in the State that thus far has no enemy.
One cannot take anywhere else a more exhilarating, delightful drive than
about the rolling, highly cultivated, many-villaed Pasadena, and out to
the foot-hills and the Sierra Madre Villa. He is constantly exclaiming
at the varied loveliness of the scene--oranges, palms, formal gardens,
hedges of Monterey cypress. It is very Italy-like. The Sierra Madre
furnishes abundant water for all the valley, and the swift irrigating
stream from Eaton Cañon waters the Sierra Madre Villa. Among the peaks
above it rises Mt. Wilson, a thousand feet above the plain, the site
selected for the Harvard Observatory with its 40-inch glass. The
clearness of the air at this elevation, and the absence of clouds night
and day the greater portion of the year, make this a most advantageous
position, it is said, to use the glass in dissolving nebulæ. The Sierra
Madre Villa, once the most favorite resort in this region, was closed.
In its sheltered situation, its luxuriant and half-neglected gardens,
its wide plantations and irrigating streams, it reminds one of some
secularized monastery on the promontory of Sorrento. It only needs good
management to make the hotel very attractive and especially agreeable in
the months of winter.
Pasadena, which exhibits everywhere evidences of wealth and culture, and
claims a permanent population of 12,000, has the air of a winter resort;
the great Hotel Raymond is closed in May, the boarding-houses want
occupants, the shops and livery-stables customers, and the streets lack
movement. This is easily explained. It is not because Pasadena is not an
agreeable summer residence, but because the visitors are drawn there in
the winter principally to escape the inclement climate of the North and
East, and because special efforts have been made for their entertainment
in the winter. We found the atmosphere delightful in the middle of May.
The mean summer heat is 67°, and the nights are always cool. The hills
near by may be resorted to with the certainty of finding as decided a
change as one desires in the summer season. I must repeat that the
Southern California summer is not at all understood in the East. The
statement of the general equability of the temperature the year through
must be insisted on. We lunched one day in a typical California house,
in the midst of a garden of fruits, flowers, and tropical shrubs; in a
house that might be described as half roses and half tent, for added to
the wooden structure were rooms of canvas, which are used as sleeping
apartments winter and summer.
This attractive region, so lovely in its cultivation, with so many
charming drives, offering good shooting on the plains and in the hills,
and centrally placed for excursions, is only eight miles from the busy
city of Los Angeles. An excellent point of view of the country is from
the graded hill on which stands the Raymond Hotel, a hill isolated but
easy of access, which is in itself a mountain of bloom, color, and
fragrance. From all the broad verandas and from every window the
prospect is charming, whether the eye rests upon cultivated orchards and
gardens and pretty villas, or upon the purple foot-hills and the snowy
ranges. It enjoys a daily ocean breeze, and the air is always
exhilarating. This noble hill is a study in landscape-gardening. It is a
mass of brilliant color, and the hospitality of the region generally to
foreign growths may be estimated by the trees acclimated on these
slopes. They are the pepper, eucalyptus, pine, cypress, sycamore,
red-wood, olive, date and fan palms, banana, pomegranate, guava,
