back, she swayed a little, in the attitude of one cajoling a tiger. She
was quite at home and at her ease, and yet prepared for instant flight.
Iohanan, or John—surnamed, because of practices of his, the
Baptist—beckoned her to approach. In his eyes was the innocence that oxen
have.
“My body is chained, but my soul is free!”
Mary made a pirouette, and through the terrace of the citadel the rattles
on her ankles rang.
It was appalling, this citadel; it dominated the entire land. Perched on a
peak of basalt, it overhung an abyss in which Asphalitis, the Bitter Sea,
lay, a stretch of sapphire to the sun. In the distance were the heights of
Abraham, the crests of Gilead. Before it was the infinite, behind it the
desert. At its base a hamlet crouched, and a path hewn in the rock crawled
in zigzags to its gates. Irregular walls surrounded it, in some places a
hundred cubits high, and in each of the many angles was a turret. Seen
from below it was a threat in stone, but within was a caress, one of those
rapturous palaces that only the Orientals build. It was called Machærus.
Peopled with slaves and legends, it was a haunt of ghosts and fierce
delights.
And now as Mary tripped before the prophet the walls alone repelled. The
terrace was a garden in which were lilies and sentries. For entrance there
was a portal of red porphyry, above which was a balcony hemmed by a
balustrade of yellow Numidian stone.
Against it Antipas leaned. He had been eyeing the desert in tremulous
surmise. The day before, he had caught the glitter of lances, therewith
spirals of distant smoke, and he had become fearful lest Aretas, that king
of Arabia Petræa whose daughter he had deserted, might be meditating
attack. But now there was nothing, at most a triangular mass speeding
westwards, of which only the edges moved, and which he knew to be a flight
of cranes.
He took heart again and gazed in the valley below. It was the anniversary
of his birth. To celebrate it he had invited the stewards of his lands,
the notables of Galilee, the elect of Jerusalem, the procurator of Judæa,
the emir of Tadmor, mountaineers and Pharisees, Scribes and herdsmen.
But in the valley only a few shepherds were visible. Along the ramparts
soldiers paced. At the further end of the terrace a group of domestics was
busy with hampers and luggage. The day was solemnly still, exquisitely
clear; and between two hills came a glare of gold projected from the
Temple of Jerusalem.
Through the silence rang the tinkle of the rattles that Mary wore. The
prophet was beckoning her.
“And Martha?” the tetrarch heard him ask.
The pirouette ceased awkwardly. Mary’s eyes forgot their compliments. Her
brows contracted, and, as though perplexed, she held her head a little to
one side.
“There,” he added, “there, I know you well. It was at Bethany I saw you
first. Yes, yes, I remember perfectly; you were leaving, and Martha was in
tears. Only a little since I had speech with her. She spoke of you; she
knew you were called the Magdalen. No,” he continued, for Mary had shrunk
back, “no, I will not curse. There is another by whom you will be
blessed.”
Mary laughed. “I am going to Rome. Tiberius will give me a palace. I shall
sleep on the down the Teutons bring. I shall drink pearls dissolved in
falernian. I shall sup on peacocks’ tongues.”
“No, Mary, Rome you will never see. The Eternal has you in His charge.
Your shame will be washed away.”
“Shame to you,” she interrupted. “Shame and starvation too.” She made as
though she were about to pirouette again. “Whom are you talking of?”
“One whose shoes I am unworthy to bear.”
For a moment he seemed to meditate; then, with the melancholy of one
renounceing some immense ambition, he murmured, half to himself, half to
the sky, “For him to increase I must diminish.”
“As for that, you are not much to look at now. I must go. I must braid my
hair; the emir’s eyes are eager.”
“Mary,” he hissed, and the sudden asperity of his voice coerced her as a
bit might do, “you will go to Capharnahum, you will seek him, you will say
Iohanan is descended into the tombs to announce the Son of David.”
Through the lateral entrance to the terrace a number of guests had
entered. From the balcony above, Antipas leaned and listened. Some one
touched him; it was Herodias.
“The procurator is coming,” she announced. “You should be at the gate.”
“Ah!”
He seemed indifferent. What Iohanan had said concerning the Son of David
stirred him like the point of a sword. He felt that there could be no such
person; his father had put a stop to all that. And yet, if there were!
His indifference surprised Herodias.
“What are you staring at?” she asked; and to assure herself she looked
over the balustrade. “That carrion? You should——”
Her hand drawn across her throat completed the sentence.
The tetrarch shook his head. There was no hurry. Then, too, the prophet
was useful. He reviled Jerusalem, and that flattered Galilee. But there
was another reason, which he kept to himself. Iohanan affected him as no
one had done before.
He feared him, chained though he was, and into that fear something akin to
admiration entered. In his heart he wished he had let him alone. No, there
was no hurry. As he assured her of that the prophet looked up.
“Jezebel!”
The guests approached. Their number had increased. There were Greek
merchants from Hippos and Sepphoris, Pharisees from Jericho, and Scribes
from Jerusalem. Herodias clapped her hands. A negro, naked to the waist,
appeared.
“Take him below.”
But the guests surrounded Iohanan. The Pharisees recognized him at once.
He was the terror of the hierarchs.
As he cried out at Herodias he seemed as though he would rise and wrench
his bonds and mount to where she was. His eyes had lost their pathos; they
blazed.
“Woe unto you!” he shouted, “and woe unto your barren bed! Though you hid
in the bowels of the earth, in the uttermost depths of a jungle, the
stench of your incest would betray you. Woe unto you, I say; the swine
will turn from you, the Eternal will rend you, and the heart of hell will
vomit you back!”
Herodias shook with anger. She was livid. Murmurs circulated through the
increasing throng.
The Pharisees edged nearer. On their foreheads were slips of vellum on
which passages of the Law had been inscribed. About their left arms other
slips extended spiralwise from the elbow to the end of the third finger.
They were in white; where their garments had become soiled, the spots had
been chalked.
To them the prophet showed his teeth. “And woe unto you too, race of
vipers, bladders of wind! As the fire devours the stubble, and the flame
consumes the chaff, so your root will be rottenness and your seed go up as
dust. Fear will engulf you like a torrent. The high peaks will be broken,
the mountains will sever, and night be upon all. The valleys and hills
will be strewn with your corpses, the rocks will run with your blood, the
plain will drink it, and the vultures feast on your flesh. Woe unto you
all, I say, that call good evil, and evil good!”
The invective continued. It enveloped the world. Everything was to be
destroyed. Presently it subsided; the voice of the prophet sank lower; his
eyes sought the sky, the pupils dilated; and the dream of his nation, the
triumphant future, the sanctification of the faithful, the magnificence
that was to be, poured rapturously from his lips.
“The whole land will glow with glory. The sky will be a rose in bloom. The
meadows will rejoice, and the earth will be filled with men and maidens
singing and kneeling to Thee, Immanuel, whom I await.”
The vision would have expanded, perhaps, but the chain that bound him was
loosed, sinewy arms were dragging him away. As he went, he glared up again
at Herodias. His face had lost its beatitude.
“You will be stripped of your purple, Jezebel; your diadem will be trodden
under foot. The pains of a woman in travail will be as joys unto yours.
There will be not enough stones to throw at you, and the abomination of
your lust will bellow, Accursed, even beyond the tomb.”
The anathema fainted in the distance. The Scribes consulted between their
teeth. By the Pharisees Antipas was blamed. A merchant from Hippos did not
understand, and the Law was explained. That a man should marry his
brother’s wife was a duty, only in this instance it had not occurred to
the brother to die beforehand. Then, again, by her first husband Herodias
had a child, and in that was the abomination.
The merchant did not wholly grasp the distinction, but he nodded as though
he had.
“There was a child, was there?”
A captain of the garrison answered: “A girl, Salomè.”
He said nothing further, but the merchant could see that his mouth watered
at the thought of her.
The crowd had become very dense. Suddenly a trumpet blared. At the gate
was Pontius Pilate. On his head was a high and dazzling helmet. His tunic
was short, open at the neck. His legs were bare. He was shod with shoes
that left the toes exposed. From his cuirass a gorgon’s head had, in
deference to local prejudice, been effaced; in its stead were scrolls and
thunderbolts. From the belt rows of straps, embroidered and fringed, fell
nearly to the knee. He held his head in the air. His features were
excellent, and his beard hung in rows of short overlapping curls.
Behind him was his body-guard. Before him Antipas stood, welcoming the
Roman in Greek.
In the sky now were the advancing steps of night; in crevices of the
basalt the leaves of the baaras weed had begun to flicker. It was time for
the festival to begin; and, preceding the guests, Antipas passed into a
hall beyond.
It was oblong, curved at the ends, and so vast that the roof was vague. On
the walls were slabs of different colors, marble spotted like the skin of
serpents, and onyx flecked with violet. On two sides were galleries
supported by columns of sandstone. A third gallery formed a semicircle.
Opposite, at the further end, on a dais, was the table of the tetrarch.
Antipas faced the assemblage. At his left was the procurator, at his right
the emir of Tadmor. Curtains were looped on either side. Above were
panels; they separated, and flowers fell. On a little stool next to the
couch on which the emir lay was a beautiful boy with curly hair. The couch
of the procurator was covered with a dim Babylonian shawl. That of the
tetrarch was of ivory incrusted with gold. All three were cushioned.
As the guests entered they were sprinkled with perfume. Throughout the
length of the hall other tables extended, and at these they found seats
and food: Syrian radishes, melons from the oases near the Oxus, white
olives from Bethany, honey from Capharnahum, and the little onions of
Ascalon. There were candelabra everywhere, liquids cooled with snow,
cheeses big as millstones, chunks of fat in wooden bowls, and behind the
tables, slaves with copper platters. On the platters were quarters of red
beef, breams swimming in grease, and sunbirds with their plumage on. In
the semicircular gallery musicians played, three notes, constantly
repeated.
The tetrarch’s table was spread with a cloth of byssus striped with
