and his hands trembled with fury as he held the sheet before his eyes,
satisfying himself that it was the genuine document and not a forgery
containing provisions different from those he had made in his own will.
As soon as he felt no further doubt about the matter, he gave vent to
his wrath, in a storm of curses, stamping up and down the room, and
swinging his long arms as he moved, still holding the paper in one hand.
Mamie turned pale and grasped George by the arm. He would have risen to
go into the next room, but she held him back with all her strength.
“No—stay here!” she said in a low voice. “You can do no good. He knew we
were here—something must have happened! Oh, George, what is it?”
“If you will let me go and see——”
But at that moment, it became evident to both that Tom Craik was no
longer alone. Totty had entered the drawing-room. As the servant had
said, she had been expected every moment. Her brother turned upon her
furiously, brandishing the will and cursing louder than before. In his
extreme anger he was able to lift up his head and look her in the eyes.
“You damned infernal witch!” he shouted. “You abominable woman! You
thief! You swindler! You——”
“Help! help!” screamed Totty. “He is mad—he means to kill me!”
“I am not mad, you wretch!” yelled Tom Craik, pursuing her and catching
her with one hand while he shook the will in her face with the other.
“Look at that—look at it! My will, here in your keeping, without so much
as a piece of paper or a seal to hold it—you thief! You have broken into
your husband’s office, you burglar! You have broken open my
deed-box—look at it! Do you recognise it? Stand still and answer me, or
I will hold you till the police can be got. Do you see? The last will
and testament of me Thomas Craik, and not a cent for Charlotte Trimm.
Not one cent, and not one shall you get either. He shall have it all,
George Winton Wood, shall have it all. Ah—I see the reason why you have
kept it now—If I had found it gone, you know I would have made it over
again! Cheaper, and wiser, and more like you to get him for your
daughter—of course it was, you lying, shameless beast!”
“What is the meaning of this?” George asked in ringing tones. He had
broken away from Mamie with difficulty and she had followed him into the
room, and now stood clinging to her mother. George pushed Tom Craik back
a little and placed himself between him and Totty, who was livid with
terror and seemed unable to speak a word. The sudden appearance of
George’s tall, angular figure, and the look of resolution in his dark
face brought Tom Craik to his senses.
“You want to know the meaning of it,” he said. “Quite right. You shall.
When I was dying—nearly three years ago, I made a will in your favour. I
left you everything I have in the world. Why? Because I pleased. This
woman thought she was to have my money. Oh, you might have had it, if
you had been less infernally greedy,” he cried, turning to Totty. “This
will was deposited in my deed-box at Sherry Trimm’s office. Saw it
there, on the top of the papers with my own eyes the last time I went;
and Sherry was in Europe then. So you took it, and no one else. Poor
Bond did not, though as he is dead, you will say he did. It will not
help you. So you laid your trap—oh yes! I know those tricks of yours.
You broke off George Wood’s marriage with the girl he loved, and you
laid your trap—very nicely done—very. You gave him Sherry’s wines, and
Sherry’s cigars to make him come. I know all about it. I was watching
you. And you made him come and spend the summer up the river—so nice,
and luxurious, and quiet for a poor young author. And you told nobody he
was there—not you! I can see it all now, the moonlight walks, and the
rides and the boating, and Totty indoors with a headache, or writing
letters. It was easy to get Sherry’s consent when it was all arranged,
was it not? Devilish easy. Sherry is an honest man—I know men—but he
knew on which side his daughter’s bread was buttered, for he had drawn
up the will himself. He did not mind if George Winton Wood, the poor
author, fell in love with his daughter, any more than his magnanimous
wife was disturbed by the prospect. Not a bit. The starving author was
to have millions—millions, woman! as soon as the old brother was nailed
up and trundled off to Greenwood! And he shall have them, too. It only
remains to be seen whether he will have your daughter.”
Craik paused for breath, though his invalid form was as invigorated by
his extreme anger as to make it appear that he might go on indefinitely
in the same strain. As for George he was at first too much amazed by the
story to believe his ears. He thought Craik was mad, and yet the
presence of the will which the old man repeatedly thrust before his eyes
and in which he could not help seeing his own name written in the
lawyer’s large clear hand, told him that there was a broad foundation of
truth in the tale.
“Defend yourself, Totty,” he said as quietly as he could. “Tell him that
this story is absurd. I think Mr. Craik is not well——”
“Not well, young man?” Craik asked, looking up at him with a bitter
laugh. “I am as well as you. Here is my will. There is the cabinet. And
there is Charlotte Sherrington Trimm. Send for her husband. Ask him if
it is not a good case for a jury. You may be in love with the girl, and
she may be in love with you, for all I know. But you have been made to
fall in love with each other by that scheming old woman, there. The only
way she could get the money into the family was through you. She is
lawyer enough to know that there may be a duplicate somewhere, and that
I should make one fast enough if there were not. Besides, to burn a will
means the State’s Prison, and she wants to avoid that place, if she
can.”
The possibility and the probability that the whole story might be true,
flashed suddenly upon George’s mind, and he turned very pale. The
recollection of Totty’s amazing desire to please him was still fresh in
his mind, and he remembered how very unexpected it had all seemed, the
standing invitation to the house, the extreme anxiety to draw him to the
country, the reckless way in which Totty had left him alone with her
daughter, Totty’s manner on that night when she had persuaded him to
offer himself to Mamie—the result, and the cable message she had shown
him, ready prepared, and taking for granted her husband’s consent. By
this time Totty had sunk into a chair and was sobbing helplessly,
covering her face with her hands and handkerchief. George walked up to
her, while old Tom Craik kept at his elbow, as though fearing that he
might prove too easily forgiving.
“How long have you known the contents of that will?” George asked
steadily, and still trying to speak kindly.
“Since—the end—of April,” Totty sobbed. She felt it impossible to lie,
for her brother’s eyes were fixed on her face and she was frightened.
“You did, did you? Well, well, that ought to settle it,” said Craik,
breaking into a savage laugh. “I fancy it must have been about that time
that she began to like you so much,” he added looking at George.
“About the first of May,” George answered coldly. “I remember that on
that day I met you in the street and you begged me to go and see Mamie,
who was alone.”
“I like men who remember dates,” chuckled the old man at his elbow.
“I have been very much deceived,” said George. “I believed it was for
myself. It was for money. I have nothing more to say.”
“You have not asked me whether I knew anything,” said Mamie, coming
before him. Her alabaster skin was deadly white and her grey eyes were
on fire.
“Your mother knows you too well to have told you,” George answered very
kindly. “I have promised to marry you. I do not suspect you, but I would
not break my word to you, even if I thought that you had known.”
“It is for me to break my word,” answered the young girl proudly. “No
power on earth shall make me marry you, now.”
Her lips were tightly pressed to her teeth as she spoke and she held her
head high, though her eyes rested lovingly on his face.
“Why will you not marry me, Mamie?” George asked. He knew now that he
had never loved her.
“I have had shame already,” she answered. “Shame in being thrust upon
you, shame in having thrust myself upon you—though not for your money.
You never knew. You asked me once how I knew your moods, and when you
wanted me and when you would choose to be alone. Ask her, ask my mother.
She is wiser than I. She could tell from your face, long before I could,
what you wished—and we had signals and signs and passwords, she and I,
so that she could help me with her advice, and teach me how to make
myself wanted by the man I loved. Am I not contemptible? And when I told
you that I loved you—and then made you believe that I was only acting,
because there was no response—shame? I have lived with it, fed on it,
dreamed of it, and to-day is the crown of all—my crown of shame. Marry
you? I would rather die!”
“Whatever others may have done, you have always been brave and true,
Mamie,” said George. “It may be better that we should not marry, but
there has been no shame for you in this matter.”
“I am not so sure,” said Tom Craik with a chuckle and an ugly smile.
“She is cleverer than she looks——”
George turned upon the old man with the utmost violence.
“Sir!” he cried savagely. “If you say that again I will break your
miserable old bones, if I hang for it!”
“Like that fellow,” muttered Craik with a more pleasant expression than
he had yet worn. “Like him more and more.”
“I do not want to be liked by you, and you know why,” George answered,
for he had caught the words.
“Oh, you don’t, don’t you? Well, well. Never mind.”
“No I do not. And what is more, I will tell you something, Mr. Craik.
When you were ill and I called to inquire, I came because I hoped to
learn that you were dead. That may explain what I feel for you. I have
not had a favourable opportunity of explaining the matter before, or I
would have done so.”
“Good again!” replied the old gentleman. “Like frankness in young
people. Eh, Totty? Eh, Mamie? Very frank young man, this, eh?”
“Furthermore, Mr. Craik,” continued George, not heeding him, “I will
tell you that I will not lift a finger to have your money. I do not want
it.”
“Exactly. Never enjoyed such sport in my life as trying to force money
on a poor man who won’t take it. Good that, what? Eh, Totty? Don’t you
think this is fun? Poor old Totty—all broken up! Bear these little
things better myself.”
Totty was in a fit of hysterics and neither heard nor heeded, as she lay
in the deep chair, sobbing, moaning and laughing all at once. George
eyed her contemptuously.
“Either let us go,” he said to Craik, “and, if you have exhausted your
wit, that would be the best thing; or else let Mrs. Trimm be taken away.
I shall not leave you here to torment these ladies.”
“Seat in my carriage? Come along!” answered Mr. Craik with alacrity.
George led Mamie back into the little room beyond. As they went, he
could hear the old man beginning to rail at his sister again, but he
paid no attention. He felt that he could not leave Mamie without another
word. The young girl followed him in silence. They stood together near
the window, as far out of hearing as possible. George hesitated.
“What is it, George?” asked Mamie. “Do you want to say good-bye to me?”
She spoke with evident effort.
“I want to say this, dear. If you and I can help it, not a word of what
has happened to-day must ever be known. I have been deceived, most
shamefully, but not by you. You have been honest and true from first to
