popularity, so that he opened his purse from time to time and threw
handfuls of money into the crowd, not counting the cost since he
expected to be master of all the treasure in Riad within a few days. But
the beggars were disappointed, for they had hoped that he would turn out
to be avaricious, and endeavour to elude them by walking through narrow
and lonely streets, where they might catch him. So they pressed more and
more upon him every day, trying to exhaust his patience and his charity.
In this however they failed, not understanding that the vanity of such a
man is inexhaustible and knows no price. Abdullah, too, chose rather to
be abroad during the daytime than in the evening or the early morning,
for he desired to be seen by the multitude and spoken of as he went
through the market-place. Yet on the last evening of all he fell into
the hands of the Sheikh of the beggars, and evil befell him.
The hour of prayer was passed and it was almost the time when lights are
extinguished. Then Abdullah took his sword under his aba, and also a
good knife, which he had proved in battle, and which in his hand would
pierce a coat of mail as though it were silk. Almasta, his wife, also
made a bundle of woman's clothing and carried it in her arms. For they
intended to go to a lonely place by the city wall, that Abdullah might
there put on female garments, before entering the palace. He feared,
indeed, lest if it were afterwards known by what disguise he had
accomplished his purpose, he might receive some name in derision, from
which he should never escape so long as he lived. Yet he had no choice
but to dress as a woman, since he could not otherwise by any means have
gone into the harem.
As he came out of his house, accompanied only by Almasta he was seen at
once by the two beggars who were always on the watch. And then, wishing
to warn their companions, of whom many were lying asleep upon doorsteps
in the same street and in others close by, these two made haste to get
up, pretending to be lame and making a great clatter with their staves,
as they limped after Abdullah. Then he, who loved to exercise charity in
the market-place, but not in the dark where none could applaud him, made
a pretence of not seeing the poor men, and went swiftly on with Almasta
running by his side. But as he walked fast, the two beggars although
apparently lame increased their speed with his, and their clatter also.
'Does a sound man need a horse to escape from cripples?' asked Abdullah.
And he turned quickly into a narrow lane.
'It will be wiser to scatter a few coins to them,' said Almasta. 'They
will then stop and search for them in the dark. For these men are very
importunate and will certainly hinder us.'
But Abdullah was confident in his legs as a strong man and only walked
the faster, so that Almasta could with great difficulty keep beside him.
Then they heard the beggars running after them in the dark and calling
upon them.
'O Abdullah!' they cried. 'The light of your charitable countenance goes
before us like a lantern, and illuminates the whole street! Be merciful
and give us a small coin, and Allah will reward you!'
Then Abdullah stopped in the darkest part of the narrow lane, seeing
that they had recognised him, and conceiving that it would be a reproach
for a sheikh of pure blood to run from beggars; and he feared also that
it would be remembered against him on the morrow. He therefore made a
pretence of being diverted, and laughed.
'Surely,' he said, 'the lame men of Riad could outrun in a race the
sound men of any other city. And, by Allah, I have little money with me,
for I was going to a friend's house to receive a sum due to me for
certain mares; yet I will give you what I have, and I pray you, go in
peace.'
Thereupon he sought in his wallet for something to give them, and while
he was seeking they began to praise him after their manner.
'See this Abdullah!' they said. 'He is the father of the poor and
distressed, and is ever ready to divide all he has with us. Yallah!
Bless him exceedingly! Yallah! Increase his family!'
But when Abdullah had found the money and was putting it into their
hands, he was suddenly aware that instead of two beggars there were now
ten or more, and these again multiplied in an extraordinary manner, so
that he felt himself hemmed in on every side in a close press.
'O Allah!' he exclaimed. 'Thou art witness that unless these small coins
are multiplied a hundredfold, as the basket of dates by the Prophet at
the trench before Medina, I shall have nothing to give these worthy
persons.'
By this time the blind Sheikh of the beggars was present, and he pushed
forward, pretending to rebuke his companions.
'O you greedy ones!' he cried. 'How often have I told you not to be so
importunate? Yet you crowd upon him like wasps upon a date, presuming
upon the goodness of his heart, and when there is no more room you crowd
upon each other. Forgive them, O Abdullah!' he said, addressing him
directly, 'for they have the appetites of jackals together with the
understanding of little children. They would thrust into the dish a hand
as small as a crow's foot and withdraw it looking as big as a camel's
hoof. Their manners are also----'
'My friend,' said Abdullah, 'I have given what I can. Let me therefore
pass on, for my business is of importance, yet the throng is so great
that I cannot move a step. To-morrow I will distribute much alms to you
all.'
'The radiance of your merciful countenance is enough for us,' replied
the Sheikh of the beggars, 'and even I who am blind am comforted by its
rays as by those of the sun in spring, and my hunger is appeased by the
honey of your incomparable eloquence----'
'My friend,' said Abdullah, interrupting him again, 'I pray you to let
me go forward now, for I have a very important matter in hand, though it
is with difficulty that I tear myself away from your society and I would
willingly listen much longer to the words of the wise.'
Then the blind man turned to the other beggars, and his hearing told him
that by this time there were at least threescore in the street.
'Come, my brothers!' he cried. 'Let us accompany our benefactor to the
house of his friend, and afterwards we will wait for him and see that he
reaches his own dwelling in safety. Surely it is not fitting that a
sheikh of such great consideration should go about the streets at night
without so much as an attendant carrying a lantern. Let us go with him.'
Now these last words were the signal agreed upon, and even as Abdullah
began to protest that he desired no such honourable escort as the
beggars offered him, one came from behind and suddenly drew a thick
barley-sack over his head, so that his voice was heard no more, and he
was dragged down by the throat, while the one-eyed hunchback caught him
by the legs and bound his feet and four others laid hold of his hands
and tied them firmly behind him. Nor had Almasta time to utter a single
cry before she was bound hand and foot with her head in a sack, like her
husband. Then at a signal the beggars took up the two as though they had
been bales packed ready for a camel's back, and carried them away
swiftly into the darkness, towards the eastern gate where the blind man
lived in a ruined house together with three or four of his most trusted
companions. He also sent a messenger to his relation, the Bedouin, as
had been agreed. It was already quite dark in the streets and the few
persons who met the beggars did not see what they were carrying, nor ask
questions of them, merely supposing that they had lingered long in the
public square after evening prayers and were now returning in a body to
their own quarter.
The blind man's house was built of three rooms and a wall, standing in a
square around a small court. But only one of the rooms had a roof of its
own, though there was a sort of cellar under the floor of one of the
others which served at once as a lodging for beggars in winter, as a
storehouse for food when there was any in supply and as a place of
deposit for the ancient iron chest in which the common fund of money was
kept. To this vault the Sheikh of the beggars made his companions bring
the two prisoners, and having set them on the floor, side by side, he
proceeded to hold a council, in which the captives themselves had no
part, since their heads were tied up in dusty barley-sacks and they
could not speak so as to be heard.
'O my brothers!' said the blind man. 'Allah has delivered the enemies of
the kingdom into our hand, and it is necessary to decide what we will do
with them. Let the oldest and the wisest give their opinions first, and
after them the others, even to the youngest, and last of all I will
speak, and let us see whether we can agree.'
'Let us kill the man and bury him, and then cast lots among us for the
woman,' said one.
'No,' said the next, a man who had twice made the pilgrimage, and was
much respected, 'we cannot do this, for the man is a true believer, and
evil will befall us if we shed his blood. Let us rather keep him here,
and purify his hide every day with our staves, until Khaled is in no
more danger, and then we will take him to the palace and deliver him
up.'
'It is to be feared,' said the Sheikh of the beggars, 'that the man
might chance to die of this sort of purification, though indeed it be
very wholesome for him, and I am not altogether against it.'
'Let us make him our slave,' said a third who had himself been the slave
of a poor man who had died without heirs. 'The fellow is strong. Let us
buy millstones and make him grind barley for us in this cellar. In this
way he will not eat our food for nothing.'
After this many others gave advice of the same kind. But while they were
talking there was a great clattering and noise upon the stone steps
which led down into the cellar, and a man fell over the last step and
rolled over and over into the very midst of the council, railing and
lamenting.
'It is that ass of Egypt,' said the Sheikh of the beggars. 'I know him
by the clattering of the wooden hoofs he wears on his hands, and also by
his braying. Let him also give his opinion when he is recovered from his
fall.'
'It is strange and marvellous,' said one, 'that he who has no legs
should suffer so many falls, being, by the will of Allah, always upon
the earth. For when we first saw him we found him fainting upon the
ground, having fallen from the wall of a garden, though no man could
tell how he had climbed upon it.'
'I had been transported to the top of the wall as in a dream,' replied
the cripple, 'for there were dates in that garden. But having eaten too
greedily of them I fell asleep on the top and I dreamed that my body was
torn by hyænas; and waking suddenly I fell down. For the dates were yet
green.'
'This may or may not be true,' said the blind man. 'For you are an
Egyptian. Let us, however, hear what you have to advise in the matter of
Abdullah and his wife, whom we have taken prisoners.'
'I fear that you mock me, O my lord,' answered the man. 'But if I am
mocked, I will advise that this Abdullah be also made a sport of, for us
first, and for the people of Riad afterwards.'
'Tell us how this may be done, for a good jest is better than salt for
roasting, and the sheep lie here bound before us.'
'Take this man, then,' said the cripple, 'and uncover his face, and hold
him fast. Then let one of us get the razor and shave off all his beard
and his eyebrows, and the hair of his head even to the nape of his neck.
Then if he came suddenly before her who bore him and cried, "Mother,"
she would cover her face and answer, "Begone, thou ostrich's egg!" For
