ties of blood should not prevent him from doing his whole duty as he
understood it. He was therefore prepared to muzzle the intruder, and
confine his hands behind him with a strap he had taken from his valise.
Happily Corny did nothing more than look under the berth while still
standing in the space in front of it, and in this position he could not
see the fugitive. The impostor wandered about the cabin for a time, and
then Christy heard his footsteps on the stairs as he ascended to the
deck.

He had hardly left the cabin before the steward entered the stateroom,
and reported that he had seen Ralph Pennant, and that he had told him
all he knew about the loyalty and the disloyalty of the new hands in the
crew. Ralph reported that he had "spotted" the four seamen whose names
had been given him before the Vernon reached the station.

"What does he say in regard to me?" asked Christy.

"He said he believed you were bony fido commander of the Bronx, and he
is ready to obey your orders. Mr. Flint had a talk with him while the
first lieutenant was below; he talked to Boxie, and three more of the
men, and he did it mighty sly, too, for the third lieutenant was on the
deck all the time. There's eight bells, Massa Christy, and the second
lieutenant will have the deck."

"I did not think it was so late; but that reminds me that I have eaten
nothing since my breakfast was brought to me early this morning," said
Christy.

"I hope to drink up every drop of water in the Alabama River if I
did not forget all about that! Gollywomps! Dave is getting stupid,"
exclaimed the steward, springing to his feet. "I can't bring you a
regular dinner, Massa Christy, but I will do the best I can."

"Never mind the regular dinner; but bring me something to eat, if it is
only some crackers and cheese," added Christy; and the steward hastened
to his pantry.

He soon returned with a huge slice of ham and some cold biscuits. The
hungry fugitive, who had not left his appetite at home, immediately
attacked the provision as though it had been an enemy of the Union, and
stood by it till he had devoured the whole of it; and it proved to be
just a pattern for his empty stomach, and he declined Dave's offer to
bring him another.

He had hardly finished it before Mr. Flint paid him another visit, and
reported everything ready for the recapture of the steamer.




CHAPTER XIV

THE AFFRAY ON THE QUARTER-DECK OF THE BRONX


Christy was satisfied that all was going well in regard to the capture
of the Bronx, and he went to sleep after he had disposed of his dinner,
and arranged the final details of the enterprise with the second
lieutenant. Mr. Flint was somewhat impatient to carry out his plan; but
Christy insisted that nothing should be done till the orders of the
flag-officer had been actually disobeyed. It was decided that coming
about, and heading the Bronx to the westward would constitute
disobedience.

When Christy awoke it was dark, or at least dusky, as far as he could
judge in his concealment. He heard the rattle of dishes, knives and
forks in the cabin, and he understood that the captain was taking his
dinner. A conversation was in progress, and Christy concluded from the
voices he heard that Corny had invited his first lieutenant to dine with
him.

"I think we shall be in Pensacola Bay by daylight," said Mr. Galvinne;
"and we have just the right kind of weather for our enterprise. It is
cloudy, and it looks as though we might have a fog, for they often come
up after dark when the wind is as it is now."

"What time shall you come about?" asked Corny, apparently from curiosity
rather than any especial interest in the navigation of the steamer.

"About nine o'clock; perhaps sooner. Byron will have the deck from eight
bells for the first watch; I hope and expect Flint will turn in at that
time, for he will have the mid-watch. It might be a little awkward if he
happens to be on deck when we change our course from east to west."

Christy did not believe that the second lieutenant would turn in at the
time indicated, though he might make a pretence of doing so, and shut
himself up in his stateroom. Mr. Galvinne proceeded to say that he
should have Rockton and Warton ready to make Mr. Flint a prisoner in
case he became too inquisitive. Nichols and Sayles would be available
near the quarter-deck in case any demonstration was made by any portion
of the crew.

"But there will be no trouble of any kind," added the first lieutenant.
"We are not carrying sail, and I shall quietly give the word to the
quartermaster to make the course west instead of east. Flint is the only
man on board who is at all likely to question the regularity of the
proceedings on board; and I do not see how he can do it, for he knows
nothing at all about the orders under which we are sailing. In fact,
we shall be on the other tack before the time comes to open the sealed
envelope."

"I hope it will all come out right," added Corny.

"You may depend upon it that we shall be under the guns of Fort
Barrancas, or farther up the bay, before daylight," replied the actual
commander.

"What am I to do, Mr. Galvinne?" asked Corny.

"Nothing at all; you can turn in as soon as you like and sleep through
the whole, for there will be nothing at all to disturb you. As I said,
Flint is the only person on board who is likely to make the least
trouble, and he will be asleep in his berth. If he asks hard questions
when he comes on deck at eight bells for the mid-watch, our men will
secure him. That is the whole of it. I must go on deck now, for I can
smell the fog."

"How are you going to get to the entrance of the bay in a fog?" inquired
Corny.

"If we keep her due west we shall be all right; and I know this coast as
well as I do my father's plantation," replied Mr. Galvinne; and Christy
heard him open the door.

"I think I shall go on deck and see the fun, if there is any, and turn
in if there is none," added Christy.

The dishes rattled for a moment, and then the fugitive heard the step
and the voice of Dave in the stateroom.

"I done bring you something more to eat, Massa Christy," said the
steward, who appeared to have suffered some lapse in his grammar and
pronunciation during the absence at the North of his instructor; and as
he spoke he handed in a piece of pie and a large slice of cake.

Christy was not very hungry after his late dinner, but he ate the
dainties brought to him, and found that the cook of the Bronx had lost
none of his skill. He might not have an opportunity to eat again very
soon, for he did not lose sight of the fact that failure was possible,
and he might soon be an occupant of a Confederate prison with Flint,
as he had been once before.

Dave busied himself in clearing the cabin table, and Christy impatiently
waited the time for the decided action which had been planned. About
half an hour later, when he realized from the condition of the stateroom
that it was quite dark, the sounds coming to him assured him that the
course of the Bronx had been changed as indicated by Mr. Galvinne.
No noise or confusion on deck followed it, and the naval officer's
prediction seemed to be in a fair way to be realized.

Another half hour elapsed, and except the monotonous plaint of the
screw, no sound was to be heard. A footstep came from the cabin, where
Dave was at work, or appeared to be, for he had been stationed there for
his part of the programme which was presently to be carried out.

"Steward, light the lamp in my stateroom," said Corny; and Christy was
glad to find that he intended to retire for the night, for he had no
duties to perform unless there was a disturbance on the quarter-deck.

The lamp on gimbols was lighted, and Corny took possession of the room,
and had not a suspicion that he was not its only occupant. He lay down
in his berth after he had removed his coat and shoes, and in a few
minutes Christy judged that he was asleep from the sound of his
breathing, which soon degenerated into a mild snore. Mr. Flint was to
make a beginning in the project, or, as Dave called it, "open the ball."

In less than another half hour, Christy heard a knock on the cabin door,
which was the signal from the second lieutenant that it was time to
begin operations. He crawled to the front of the space beneath the berth
at the sound, and at the same moment Dave came in at the door of the
stateroom, which had been left open.

The steward lost no time in acting his part, the first step of which was
to jam a handkerchief into the half-open mouth of Corny Passford; but he
had been counselled to use no more force than was necessary to subdue
him. Dave then turned him over on his back in spite of his aimless
struggles, for, as he was roused from his sound slumber, he was too much
bewildered to accomplish anything like an effective resistance. The
strap which Christy had provided for the purpose was used in fastening
his hands behind him, and so far as Corny was concerned, the battle was
