with a dry laugh.
"That is just the sort of remark I used to dislike you for," said Laura.
"The world is not all bad, and you know it. Yet out of ten observations
you make, nine, at least, would lead one to believe that you think it
is."
"Excepting yourself, we are all as bad as we can be. What is the use of
denying it?"
"We are not all bad, and I do not choose to be made an exception of. I
am just like other people, or I should be if I were placed as they are.
I not only am sure that you are not a bad man, but I am quite convinced
that in some ways you are a very good one."
"What an odd mistake!"
"Why do you persistently try to make yourself out worse than you are,
and to show your worst side to the world?"
"I suppose that is the side most apparent to myself," answered Ghisleri.
"I cannot help seeing it."
"Because you are not Launcelot, you take yourself for Cæsar Borgia--"
"That would be flattering myself too much. Borgia was by far the more
intelligent of the two. Say Thersites."
"I know nothing about Thersites."
"Then say Judas. There seems to be very little difference of opinion as
to that personage's moral obliquity," Ghisleri laughed.
"Very well," said Laura, gravely. "I suppose you have no doubt, then,
that Judas would have acted as you did in your affair with Don
Gianforte. He would, of course, have submitted to insult rather than
break a promise, and would have allowed--"
"Will you please stop, Lady Herbert?" Ghisleri fixed his blue eyes on
her.
"No, I will not," answered Laura, with decision. "What I like about you
is precisely what you try the most to hide, and I mean to see it and to
make you see it, if possible. You would be much happier if you could. I
suppose that if the majority of people could hear us talking now, they
would think our conversation utterly absurd. They would say that you
were posing, in order to make yourself interesting, and that I was
enough attracted by you to be deceived by the comedy. Is not that the
way the world would look at it?"
"Probably," assented Ghisleri. "Perhaps I am really posing. I do not
pretend to know."
"I am willing to believe that you are not, if you will let me, and I
would much rather. In the first place, you are, at all events, not any
worse than most men one knows. That is evident enough from your actions.
Secondly,--you see I am arguing the case like a lawyer,--if you had not
a high ideal of what you wish to be, you would not have such a poor
opinion of what you are. Is that clear?"
"If there were no right, there could not possibly be any wrong. But
black would be black, even if you could only compare it with blue,
green, and yellow, instead of with white."
"I am not talking of chromolithographs," said Laura. "What I say is
simple enough. If you did not wish to be good, and know what good means,
and if you had not a certain amount of goodness in you, you would not
think yourself so bad. And you are unhappy, as you have told me before
now, because you think all your motives are insincere, or vain, or
defective in some way. I suppose you wish to be happy, and if you do,
you must learn to find some satisfaction in having done your best. I
have said precisely what I mean, and you must not pretend to
misunderstand me."
"Think yourself good, and you will be happy," observed Ghisleri. "That
is the modern form of the proverb."
"Of course it is, and the better reason you really have for thinking
yourself good, the more real and lasting your happiness will be."
Ghisleri laughed to himself, and at himself, as he went away, for being
so much impressed as he was by what Laura said. But he could not deny
that the impression had been made and remained for some time after he
had left her. There was a healthy common-sense about her mind which was
beginning to act upon the tortuous and often morbid complications of his
own. She seemed to know the straight paths and the short cuts to simple
goodness, and never to have guessed at the labyrinthine ways by which he
seemed to himself to be always trying to escape from the bugbear sent to
pursue him by the demon of self-mistrust. He laughed at himself, for he
realised how utterly impossible it would always be for him to think as
she did, or to look upon the world as she saw it. There had been a time
when he had thought more plainly, when a woman had exerted a strong
influence over him, and when a few good things and a few bad ones had
made up the sum of his life. But she was dead, and he had changed. Worse
than that, he had fallen. As he sat in his room and glanced from time to
time at the only likeness he had of Bianca Corleone, he thought of
Beatrice's reproach to Dante in the thirty-first canto of the
"Purgatory":
   "And yet, because thou'rt shamed of me in all
    Thy sin, and that in later days to come
    Thou mayst be brave, hearing the Siren's voice
    Sow deep the seed of tears and hear me speak.
    So shalt thou know how thou should'st have been moved
    By my dead body in ways opposite.
    Nor art nor nature had the power to tempt thee
    With such delight as that fair body could
    In which I lived--which now is scattered earth--
    And if the highest joy was lost to thee
    By my young death, what mortal living thing
    Should have had strength to drag thee down with it?"
As he repeated the last words he started for they reminded him with
painful force of Gianforte Campodonico's insulting speech, and he
detested himself for even allowing the thought to cross his mind--for
allowing himself to repeat Beatrice's words up to that point. It was he
who had dragged down Maddalena dell' Armi to his level, not she who had
made him sink to hers. And yet Campodonico had said almost the same
thing as Beatrice, and certainly without knowing it. In his heart he
knew that Bianca might have reproached him so, but then, deeper still,
he knew that the reproach, from her lips, would have fallen on himself
alone, and would never have been meant for Maddalena.
Ghisleri fell to thinking over his own life and the lives of others, in
one of those black moods which sometimes seized him and in which he
believed in no one's motives, from his own upward. In the course of his
lonely and bitter meditations, he came across an idea which at first
seemed wild and improbable enough, but which, little by little, took
shape as he concentrated his attention upon it, and at last chased every
other memory away. He was not naturally an over-suspicious man, but when
his suspicions were once roused he was apt to go far in pursuit of the
truth, if the matter interested him. He rose and got a book from the
shelves which lined one side of the wall, and began to turn over the
pages rapidly, until he stopped at the place he was looking for. He read
three or four pages very carefully twice over and returned the volume to
its place. Then he sat down to think, and did not move for another
quarter of an hour. At the end of that time he called his servant, a
quiet, hard-working fellow from the Abbruzzi, who rejoiced in the name
of Bonifazio.
"Do you happen to know," he asked, "if there was much scarlet fever in
the city last winter? I have always wondered how poor Lord Herbert
caught it."
Bonifazio had known Lord Herbert for years, just as Donald had known
Ghisleri, for the two friends had often made short journeys together,
taking their servants with them. The Italian thought a long time before
he gave an answer.
"No, Signore. I do not remember hearing that there were many cases. But
then, I am not in the way of knowing. It may have been."
"You are a very discreet man, Bonifazio," said Ghisleri. "Lord Herbert
fell ill on the day after he had dined in Casa Savelli. Do you think you
could find out for me whether any one of the servants had the scarlet
fever at that time?"
"Perhaps, signore. I will try. I know Giuseppe, the butler, who is a
very good person, but who is not fond of talking. When there is such an
illness they either send the servants to the hospital, in the Roman
houses, or else they put them in an attic and try not to let any one
know. For the rest, I will do what I can. You say well, Signore, for it
is possible that the blessed soul of the Milord caught the fever at the
dinner in Casa Savelli."
"That is what I think," said Ghisleri. And he thought a good deal more
also, which he did not communicate to his man.
Bonifazio, as his master said, was discreet. He was also very patient
and very uncommunicative, as the men of the Abbruzzi often are. They
make the best servants when they can be got, for, in addition to the
good qualities most of them possess in a greater or less degree, they
are almost always physically very strong men, though rarely above middle
height, and often extremely pale. Ghisleri knew that so soon as
Bonifazio had anything to tell, he would tell it without further
question or reminder.
Several days passed, during which Ghisleri, who gained strength rapidly,
began to resume his former mode of life, went to the club, saw his
friends, and made a few visits. He went more than once to Maddalena's
house and stayed some time with her when he found her alone. Little by
little he fancied that her look was changing and growing more
indifferent. He was glad of it. He wished that he might be to her
exactly what she was to him. That, indeed, could never be, but he wished
it were possible. He knew that when she ceased to love him altogether,
she could never feel friendly devotion, gratitude, or respect for him,
and he felt all three for her in a far greater degree than she could
imagine. On the whole, during that time their relations were peaceable,
and altogether undisturbed by the frequent differences that had so often
nearly estranged them from one another in earlier days. There was, of
course, an air of constraint about their meetings, more evident in
Maddalena's manner than in Ghisleri's, and the latter hardly hoped that
this could ever quite wear off and leave at last a sincere and true
friendship behind it. That was, indeed, the best that could be hoped for
either of them, and he had no right to expect the best, nor anything
approaching to it.
One evening as he was dressing for dinner, Bonifazio gave him the news
he desired. It had not been easy to extract any communication on the
subject from old Giuseppe, the Savelli's butler, but such as he had at
last given was clear, concise, and to the point. There had been a case
of scarlet fever in the house. Donna Adele's maid had taken it, and was
just convalescent at the time when the Ardens dined with Adele and her
husband. The woman's name was Lucia, and on falling ill she had been at
once removed to a distant room in the upper part of the palace. The case
had been rather a severe one, Giuseppe believed, and it was only within
the last few weeks that Lucia seemed to have regained her strength. She
was at present at Gerano with her mistress, but had written to the wife
of the Savelli's porter saying that she had been dismissed, and was to
leave at the end of the month, and asking for assistance in finding a
new place. Ghisleri was satisfied for the present. It was quite clear
that Arden must have caught the fever that killed him so suddenly in
