


and presently he was it the gates. 
The people were enehanted ; the ave- 
nues were strewn with flowers, lined 
with musicians. There were ilhiminations, festivals, sacrifices, torrents of 
perfumes, and through it all Caracalla 
passed, a legion at his heels. To see 
him, to participate in the succession of 
prodigalities, the surrounding country 
flocked there too. In recognition of 
the courtesy with which he was received, Caracalla gave a banquet to 
the magnates and the clergy. Before 
his guests could leave him they were 
killed. Through the streets the legion 
was at work. Alexandriawas turned 
into a cemetery. I lerodian states that 
the carnage was so great that the Nile 
was red to its mouth. 

In Rome at that time was a prefect, Maerin by name, who had 
dreamed the purple would be his. He 
was a swarthy liar, and his promises 



 



were such that the pretorians were 
willing that the dream should come 
true. Emissaries were dispatched, and 
Caracalla was stabbed. In his luggage poison was found to the value of 
five million five hundred thousand 
drachmee. What fresh turpitude he 
was devising no one knew, and the 
discovery might serve as an epitaph, 
were it not that by his legions he was 
adored. No one had abandoned to 
the army such booty as he. 

Meanwhile, in a chapel at Emissa, a 
boy was dancing indolently to the kiss 
of flutes. A handful of Caracalla's 
soldiers passed that way, and thought 
him Bacchus. In his face was the en- 
igmatic beauty of gods and girls the 
charm of the dissolute and the way- 
ward heightened by the divine. On 
his head was a diadem; his frail tunic 
was of purple and gold, but the 
sleeves, after the Phccnician fashion, 







were wide, and he was shod with a 
thin white leather that reached to the 
thighs. He was fourteen, and priest 
of the Sun, The chapel was roomy 
and rich. There was no statue — a 
black phallus merely, which had fallen 
from above, and on which, if you 
looked closely, 30U could see the image 
of Elagabal, the Sun. 

The rumor of his beauty brought 
other soldiers that way, and the lad, 
feeling that Rome was there, ceased 
to dance, strolling through pauses of 
the worship, a troop of galli at his 
heels, surveying the intruders with 
querulous, feminine eyes. 

Presently a whisper filtered that the 
lad was Caracalla's son. There were 
centurions there that remembered 
Semiamire, the lad's mother, very 
well ; they had often seen her, a superb 
creature with scorching eyes, before 
whom fire had been carried as though 



 

she were empress. It was she who 
had put it beyond Caracalla's power to ' 
violate that vestal when he tried. She 
was his cousin; her life had been 
passed at court; it was Macrin who 
had exiled her. And with the whis- 
per filtered another — that she was 
rich; that she had lumps of gold, 
which she would give gladly to 
whomso aided in placing her Antonin 
on the throne. There were gossips 
who said ill-natured things of this 
lady ; who insinuated that she had had 
so many lovers that she herself could 
not tell who was the father of her 
child; but the lumps of gold had a 
language of their own. The disbanded 
army espoused the young priest's 
cause; there was a skirmish, Macrin 
was killed, and Heliogabalus was em- 
peror of Rome. 

" I would never have written the 
life of this Antonin Impurissimus," 



 







said Lampridiis, ' we' ve it not that he 
had predecessors." Even in Latin the 
task was difficult. In English it is impossible. There are subjects that per- 
mit of a hint, particularly if it be 
masked to the teeth, but there are 
others that no art can drape. "The 
inexpressible does not exist," Gautier 
remarked, when he finished a notorious romance, nor does it; but even 
his pen would have balked had he 
tried it on Heliogabalus. There is 
another difficulty. The historian 
should possess an unprejudiced indifference; unless he happens to address 
a particular school, any comment is 
an impertinence. It is not for the 
undertaker to judge the corpse; he 
may bury it, or enbalm it, if by chance 
he know how, but who has ever cared 
to learn his opinion on the merits and 
demerits of the defunct? It is for 
this reason, no doubt, that volumes 



 

which treat of the past are handsomely 
bound and never read. The commentator is not only impertinent, he 
is a bore. 

In his work on the Caesars, Suetonius drew breath but once — he called 
Nero a monster. Subsequently he 
must have regretted having done so 
not because Nero was not a monster 
but because it was sufficient to display the beast without adding a de 
scriptive placard. In that was Sueto 
nius' advantage; he could describe. 
In the present era a writer may not. 
There are details, however historical, 
into which he must decline to enter. 
Even to blase initiates of old world 
libraries he may not suggest. Heliogabalus presents that difficulty. It 
is not merely that he was depraved, 
for all of that lot were; it was that he 
made depravity a pursuit; and the 
purple favoring, carried it not only 



 



beyond the limits of the imaginable, 
but beyond the limits of the real. At 
