“I’m the best judge of that,” answered Katharine, undaunted and
unimpressed by his parental tone.
“You’re not,” answered Mr. Lauderdale. “You’ve acquired a habit of
contradicting me lately. It seems to be a part of your plan for being as
utterly undutiful and disobedient as you can. I warn you that I won’t
submit to it any longer.”
“It’s of no use to threaten me, papa,” answered Katharine, controlling
herself as well as she could. “And it doesn’t do any good to call me
undutiful and disobedient so often. It doesn’t make it true.”
“Katharine!” cried her mother, in a tone of distress which was not
artificial.
“I know what I’m saying, mother--”
“Then you should be sincerely ashamed of yourself, Katharine,” said
Alexander Junior. “As sincerely as I’m ashamed that a daughter of mine
should use such language.”
Katharine rose slowly from her chair and stood up before him, while her
mother remained seated.
“Neither of you have any right to say that you’re ashamed of anything
I’ve done,” she said. “As for my language, it’s mild enough--for what
you’ve done. I’ve been ashamed of you both to-day--here, in this room,
half an hour ago. You’ve told an honest man who’s foolishly in love with
me that I cared for him, and would have him if he would ask me, when you
know that I will never marry any one but Jack Ralston. It seems to me
that I’ve had good reason to be ashamed of you. It was hard to look him
in the face, and tell him that my father and mother had misled and
deceived him--to make him own that he had it all from you, and that I’d
not given him the shadow of a reason for thinking that I cared for
him--that he had it all from you. Oh, it was so plain! Not that you can
deny it--and you tell me that you’re ashamed of me! If I didn’t love
Jack, do you know what I’d have done? I’d have married Archie Wingfield
to save you your respect for yourself, and a little of his for you!”
“I refuse to listen any longer to such insane nonsense,” said Alexander
Junior, whose slow wrath was rising by degrees.
“You shall listen to me,” answered Katharine. “I’m fighting with you for
my life and happiness, and you’ve got to face me like an honest
man--though you are my father!”
CHAPTER VIII.
“Katharine! This is too much!” cried Alexander Junior, his anger rising
in his eyes.
The man’s heavy hand fell emphatically upon the mantelpiece, making the
old-fashioned gilt clock and the Chinese vases tremble and rattle. Mrs.
Lauderdale was not a nervous woman, but she rose from her seat and stood
beside her husband, not exactly as though she meant to take his side,
and yet not exactly as a peace-maker. She felt herself accused as much
as he did by the pale, strong girl who stood before them, one hand
hanging by her side, the other pulling nervously at the little silver
pin at her collar as though she felt that it was choking her. Of the
three, at that moment, Mrs. Lauderdale was by far the most
self-possessed.
“It’s true,” answered Katharine. “Every word of it’s true!”
As she spoke she caught her breath, and was obliged to stop, white with
anger.
“Katharine--my child! Don’t!” cried Mrs. Lauderdale, fearing she was
going to faint.
“I think you’d better go, my dear,” said Alexander to his wife. “She’s
beside herself. I’ll bring her to her senses.”
The passionate blood rose in the girl’s face and the words came again.
“No, mother--stay here!” she said. “You have no right to go away. Yes--I
say that for months you’ve been doing your best, both of you, to destroy
my happiness--and you’ll destroy my life with it, if I stay with you
longer. You’ve tried to separate me from the man I love, and you’ve been
trying every day and every hour to make me marry another man--pushing
him on, encouraging him, telling him that I would accept him--for all I
know, telling him that I loved him. I’ve not forgotten the things you’ve
done--I’ve not forgotten the day when you, mother, you who had stood by
us so long, suddenly turned without reason and told Jack to go away.
Here, in this very room, last winter--and you, papa--I’ve only to make
you remember how you took that letter when it was brought, and kept it
all day, and repeated all the lies that people told about Jack--and
mother read me the things in the papers--and you made me believe that he
had written to me when he was drunk. It was all a lie, a miserable,
infamous lie! And you liked it, and repeated it, and turned it over and
embroidered it and beautified it--to make it hurt me more. It did hurt
me--it almost killed me--but for Jack’s sake, I wish to God it had!”
“Katharine, this is blasphemy!” exclaimed her father, his cold eyes
glittering with rage--but he was not fluent, he could find no words to
dam the stream of hers.
“Blasphemy!” she cried, indignantly. “Is it blasphemy to pray--unless
your God is my Devil?”
Beside himself with passion, her father made a step forward, and with a
quick movement covered her mouth with one hand and grasped her arm with
the other. But he miscalculated her quickness as against his strength.
With a turn of the hand and wrist she was free and sprang backwards a
step.
“It’s like you to lay your hands on a woman, after trying to sell her!”
she cried, her lips turning a dull grey, her eyes colder and brighter
than his own.
Being roused, they were terribly well matched. Mrs. Lauderdale threw
herself between them. To do her justice, she faced her husband, with one
hand stretched out to warn him back.
“No, no, mother! don’t come between us. I’m not afraid--I only got my
mouth free to tell him that he’s a coward to lay his hands on me. But
that was his only answer, because the things I say are true--every one
of them, and more, too. That’s your one idea--both of you--to marry me
off and get me out of the house, because you can’t look me in the face
after the things you’ve done--after coming between me and Jack, as
you’ve tried to do, and would have done, if we’d loved each other
less--after trying to force me upon the first man who took a fancy to my
face--after tormenting me to betray uncle Robert’s confidence--and it’s
all been for money, and for nothing else. Money, money, money!”
“My child, you’re mad!” cried Mrs. Lauderdale. “What has money to do
with it? What are you talking about? Do you know that you’re making the
most insane accusations?”
“Let her talk,” said Alexander, in a low, sullen voice. “She doesn’t
know what she’s saying.”
Ashamed of his outbreak, perhaps, or in sheer helplessness against
Katharine’s desperate speech, he had fallen back again and stood leaning
against the mantelpiece, his arms folded over his broad chest, his hands
twitching at his sleeve, his pale mouth set like a steel trap, a dull,
dangerous light in his eyes.
“You’re mistaken,” continued Katharine. “It’s all for money. Money’s at
the root of every action of your life. You didn’t want me to marry Jack
because he’s poor, and because uncle Robert might not leave him
anything. Money! You thought at first you could make me take Hamilton
Bright, because he’s cared for me so long--and because he’s beginning to
be rich and is a partner in Bemans’--money, again! Archie
Wingfield--how many millions will he have? Money--of course. Uncle
Robert’s will--what shall you get by it? Money--and you’d tear the
figures out of my head with red hot pincers if you could--just to know
how much you’ll have when the poor man’s dead. Ever since we were
children, Charlotte and I, you’ve preached economy and saving and
poverty--you’ve let my mother--your wife--and you’re the nephew of the
great Robert Lauderdale--you’ve let her work her hands and her eyes till
they ached to make a little money herself--not for herself only, but for
us. No--don’t smile contemptuously like that. She’s done it all my life,
and she’s doing it still. Your children could scarcely have been
decently dressed, if she hadn’t earned a few hundred dollars for them.
There’s hardly a thing I have on that she’s not paid for out of her
earnings. We couldn’t have gone to our first ball, Charlotte or I, but
for her. And still, day after day, you say you’re poor. Do you think I
don’t see all the little meannesses? Do you think I can’t smell the vile
cigars you make grandpapa smoke, to save those few cents? Is there a
house among all our friends, poor as some of them are, where there isn’t
a fire in the library, at least in the evening, even when there’s nobody
asked to dinner? Economy, saving, meanness of all sorts--even the poor
housemaid who broke her arm on the kitchen stairs! You sent to the
hospital the day before she was to leave, half-cured and helpless, and
made her sign the declaration that she made no further claim upon you.
She came here when you were down town. Mother gave her five dollars--out
of her earnings--but I heard her story. Oh, they’re endless, your ways
of saving that filthy, miserable money of yours!”
“Are you really mad, Katharine?” asked her father, in a dull, monotonous
voice.
“Child! You know we’re comparatively poor,” said Mrs. Lauderdale.
“Come--dear child--”
She laid her hand on the girl’s arm as though she would lead her away
and end the violent scene, but Katharine stood firm.
“Poor!” she cried, indignantly. “Comparatively poor! Yes--compared with
uncle Robert or Mr. Beman, perhaps. But papa is not poor, though he has
told you so for years, though he lets you work for money--you! Though he
borrows five dollars of you--I’ve seen it again and again--and never
returns it--borrows the poor little sums you earn by hard work! Oh, it’s
not to be believed! Borrows without ever meaning to give it back--like
an honest man--oh, he wouldn’t dare to do that with his dearest friend.
But you! You can’t help yourself--”
“My dear, he keeps an account--”
“I know, I know! He pretends that he keeps the money for you and allows
you interest! I’ve heard him say so. Interest on five dollars. And have
you ever had it? Sordid--mean--there’s no word! And he keeps telling you
that he’s poor, and that we must pinch and scrape or we shall go beyond
our income--when he has over a million of dollars put away--”
“Be silent!” cried Alexander Junior, with sudden vehemence, his cheeks
as grey as ashes.
“I won’t be silent! I’ll say every word I have to say. Look me in the
face. Deny, if you dare, before God, that what I say is true--that you
have that money put away somewhere. Is it true, or not, as you hope to
be saved?”
Mrs. Lauderdale came between them again, laying her hands on Katharine’s
arm and trying to make her leave the room.
“Take care, take care!” she cried, anxiously, and hardly knowing what
she said. “Alexander--Katharine! Don’t--oh, please don’t quarrel like
this--my child, my child! You’re beside yourself!”
“I’m not--it’s true as life and death!” answered the girl, resisting the
pressure. “Ask him if it’s not! Make him swear that it’s not true--make
him say, before heaven, that he has less than a million, while he’s
selling his daughters and forcing his wife to work. Wait--don’t
speak--listen to what he says! If he can’t say it, his whole life has
been a lie, and he knows it--wait--hush!”
Katharine held her mother fast by the hands, and seemed to hold her own
breath, her angry eyes fixed on her father’s face. Mrs. Lauderdale
