lovely. Rhea bent over and kissed it. 
"I am very glad," Sabrina said. "Oh, you 
must not shut us out of a share in the future. 
Let us all help " — 
Yet never had she felt more helpless. She was 
glad to see the carriage- turning into the drive, 
glad to go down and meet Pearl, who was hold- 
ing something in her hand and smiling. 
" A letter from Aunt Jane," she cried. " She 
and Stacy are going to take us in on their way. 
Aunt Jane isn't at all sure but we are actually suf- 
fering for some of the comforts of life," and Pearl 
laughed softly as she tossed it to her friend. Then 
she was startled a little at Sabrina's grave face. 
She caught sight of the three under the trees. 
"Nothing has happened" — 
Miss Eastwood smiled. " Nothing to be 
troubled about. A romance instead — the out- 
come of your kindly endeavors. Pearl, we shall 
soon have no one left on whom to expend our 
sympathies. One thing grows out of another, 
one soul takes in another, and you will have to 
go out in the highways and the hedges." 
" You ambiguous girl ! " 
"I shall just rouse your curiosity, not satisfy it. 
Some one has a better right, to tell you the story 
than I. Where have you left Miss Searle ? " 
" Mr. Olmstead had something for her to do, 
and will bring her out this afternoon." 
" Go down under the pines and see Mrs. Duane. 
I will sit here and read the letter." 
It was such a kindly epistle. Mrs. Herrick was 
filled with compunction lest she had unwittingly 
aided in placing a burden on her young friends, 
who ought, after all, to be out in the gay world, 
enjoying the summer. A dozen little motherly 
surmises had occurred to her, and now she was 
coming to see for herself. She shouldn't feel 
easy in her mind to go off jaunting unless she 
really knew all about them. And she wanted to 
see Chester House, as well as Pearl's old ladies. 
The girls had mostly gone away, and Stacy 
seemed rather dull and drooping^ and a little 
change would do her good. 
Did everybody have some one to think of but 
just Sabrina Eastwood ? She was almost on the 
verge of quarrelling with herself. How did peo- 
ple get into the very heart of things ? 
Desire White's dinner-bell was ringing. She 
always gave them ten minutes' grace. Not that 
there was any elaborate dressing for dinner. 
Sabrina had slipped into such ways of simplicity 
that sometimes she wondered how she would 
endure fashionable life again. She went slowly 
up-stairs — she would wait until the little group 
came in and settled themselves, and not face the 
sight of their exquisite joy. A book lay on the 
corner of the table with the familiar look of fre- 
quent using. She took it up, and it seemed to 
open of its own accord. There lay Parke Olm- 
stead's card. And just above it the two lines she 
had halted at so long ago : — 
" I have lived, I shall say, so much since then, 
Given up myself so many times." 
Would there ever come a time in which she 
would give up herself ? 
CHAPTER XI 
THE LAW OF LOVE 
Mrs. Herrick and Stacy wrought a curious 
change in the atmosphere of Chester House. 
There was about Mrs. Herrick the large, vital 
motherliness that one occasionally finds in wo- 
men who have no children of their own ; and 
one longs to place broods under their sheltering 
wings. She was everywhere; still she never im- 
pressed you as being officious. Desire smiled 
cheerfully when she came into the kitchen ; 
Miss Barclay seemed revivified with the out-giv- 
ing strength, and even Miss Eastwood experi- 
enced the sort of rest and relief that had come 
to her in childhood. Her mother's influence had 
always been of the tense kind. She could relax 
under Mrs. Herrick's comforting smiles. 
Rhea was perhaps the real heroine of the house- 
hold. She just seemed to blossom, or perhaps it 
was more like the fern frond that had been in the 
brown, chilly earth, feeling within its tiny closed- 
up ball the longing for something it had never 
 
seen or known, but when touched by the soft 
warmth of summer, arises and puts on its ten- 
der greenery, and reaches out for the bits and 
flecks of sunshine stealing through the trees. 
There was something touching in her love for 
Mrs. Duane. It made no demands, but was hap- 
piest in giving of its small but exhaustless store ; 
as if she really could anticipate the wants of both 
women, and minister to the needs of one while 
she saved steps for the other. 
"She is such a curious study,"said Sabrina one 
morning. " I wonder if there are many like her 
down in those wretched depths ? If so, it must be 
terrible for them to live on, pining for things they 
cannot even shape into real purposes, and, if they 
could, are unattainable." 
" There is a dull sort of content with most of 
them. They would not take the trouble to pass 
the barrier. They like their own kind, their own 
enjoyments. To them a touch of physical comfort 
is all that is needed. Yet they could enjoy better 
homes, and in another generation ambition would 
be roused. But these other souls, who come gasp- 
ing up to the surface, who beg you with pitiful 
eyes and wordless lips to save them from some- 
thing they do not know themselves, a terror really 
worse than death, physical suffering, or lingering 
illness, are the ones greatly to be pitied."
" You saw this in her eyes, and you brought her 
out into a large place. How can you understand 
it, Pearl ? And now, what is to be done with her ? 
Mrs. Duane's little portion cannot provide an edu- 
cation for her. She has real gifts. She has an 
artist's soul. I am not sure that she could distin- 
guish herself in the higher walks, perhaps, but she 
learns easily to see the grouping and effect. She 
ought to go to some good school before the cun- 
ning of her hand is betrayed into meretricious 
work. I had quite resolved to educate her my- 
self. I was a little afraid that perhaps we had 
not really discovered a true genius, and that T 
might fill her head with false ambitions." 
" She is learning her best lessons now in affec- 
tion. There will be time for the other things. 
Let her be helpful and thoughtful to these two 
who have taken her so generously into their 
hearts. It is pretty to see her waiting upon 
them, reading to them, and listening to the ex- 
periences of half a century ago, with the won- 
dering interest that is absolutely fascinating. 
The love and nearness will help Mrs. Duane to 
bear her sorrow the better when it comes." 
Sabrina shuddered. Death seemed terrible to 
her. 
"You think"— then she paused in great awe. 
"The doctor feels quite assured now that Miss 
Barclay will live till the early autumn. She is 
happy and comfortable here. O Sabrina, you 
ought never to think you are doing nothing ! 
See what you have made possible ! " 
" And then this poor little woman with her few 
thousands does not hesitate to reach out to others, 
while I stand considering. It shames me. I can- 
not even take up the beginnings of things as 
Rhea does." 
" But your beginnings will be different." Pearl 
smiled. ''The work will come for you to do, never 
fear; willing hearts always find it. And Rhea 
may need you presently — as much as I. We are 
not all called to the same task. There were apos- 
tles to the Jews as well as to the Gentiles." 
"The unbelieving Jews. I couldn't do anything 
with them. Pearl." 
" Yet some of them listened, you remember." 
Sabrina Eastwood let her eyes wander far over 
the meadow, on the other side of the road. There 
was a tiny gray house that had once been white, a 
dingy barn that had shone in glowing red years 
before ; then a little rise of ground, a long, level 
stretch, and after that a small fishing hamlet and 
the Sound. They had driven over several times. 
A faint unfolding of mystery seemed as far away 
as that, and as sure. Was there any possibility 
about herself she had overlooked ? An apostle to 
the Jews ! 
It came back to her in the afternoon. Stacy 
and Pearl sat in the hammock, idly swinging to 
and fro. Miss Searle was up-stairs, writing to her 
friend Marcia Golding. Mrs. Herrick had taken 
the others out driving. Sabrina was in-doors on 
the old brass-studded sofa, making a pretence at 
