Adrian. Forgive me, lady, if I cause thee fear; I would have thee know
me as a friend, one who will watch above thee, and seek to spare thee
every sorrow. Dear lady, think me not too bold, for I have known thee
long and have a right to all thy confidence. Thy husband was my nearest
friend; and, when he left thee friendless and alone, I vowed to guard
and save thee in all peril. Wilt thou trust me? See, I bear his
ring,--thou knowest it?
Nina. 'Tis indeed his ring. Whence came it? Ah, hast thou seen him? Tell
me, and I will give thee all my confidence and thanks [takes the ring
and gazes beseechingly upon Adrian, who turns aside].
Adrian. He is well, lady, and happy as one can be who bears a cold,
proud heart within his breast. He has cast away an angel who could have
cheered and blessed his life, and sought to find in gold the happiness
thy love alone could bring. He has suffered, as he well deserves to do.
Spend not thy pity upon him.
Nina [proudly]. And who art thou to speak thus of him? Thou canst not
judge till thou also hast been tried and like him deceived. He sought
for wealth to bring him fame and honor; and when he found it not, what
wonder that he cast aside the love that could not bring him happiness.
Thou art no true friend to speak thus of one so worthy to be loved. And
think not I reproach him for my lonely lot. Ah, no, I still love on; and
if he wins the wealth he covets I can give my heart's best blessing, and
so pass away that he shall never know whose hand hath crushed the flower
that would have clung about his life and shed its perfume there [turns
away weeping].
Adrian [aside]. She loves me still. I'll try her further [aloud].
Lady, idle tongues have whispered that when thy lord deserted thee thou
didst find a solace for thy grief in a new lover's smiles. Perchance yon
picture may be some gay lord who hath cheered thy solitude and won thy
heart. I fain would ask thee.
Nina. Sir stranger, little dost thou know a woman's heart. I have found
a comfort for my lonely hours in weeping o'er the face whose smiles
could brighten life for me, or dim it by disdain and coldness. The face
is there; my first, last, only love is given to him who thinks it
worthless and hath cast it by.
Adrian [taking the picture]. 'Tis the Count, thy husband. Lady, he is
unworthy such true love; leave him to his fate, and let not thy life be
darkened by his cruelty and hate.
Nina. Thou canst not tempt me to forget. No other love can win me from
the only one who hath a place within my heart. Let me cherish all the
memories of him, and till life shall cease be true unto my husband. Now
leave me, unknown friend; I trust thee for his sake, and will accept thy
friendship and protection. I offer thee my gratitude and thanks for thy
kind service, and will gladly seek how best I may repay it.
Adrian. Thanks, lady. Thou shalt find me true and faithful, and my best
reward will be the joy I labor to restore to thee [kneels and kisses
her hand].
Nina. Farewell, again I thank thee.
                                                           [Exit Nina.
Adrian. So young, so lovely, so forsaken, who would not pity and
protect. I will guard her well, and ere long claim the treasure I so
madly cast away ere I had learned its priceless value. Nina, thou shalt
yet be happy on the bosom of thy erring and repentant husband.
                                                         [Exit Adrian.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE FIFTH.
                     [Hall in the palace of Nina.
                     Enter Nina and Don Felix.]
Nina. I tell thee, my lord, I will not listen, naught thou canst say
will change my firm resolve. I cannot wed thee.
Don Felix. Nay, then listen. Thy cruel husband left thee and for one
long year thou hast sorrowed in thy lonely home, and would not be
comforted. He hath returned.
Nina. Ah--[Rushes forward.]
Don Felix. Thou may'st well start, but think not he will come to thee,
chains hold him fast and--mark ye--'twas I who bound those chains.
Nina. Do I dream, my husband here and in captivity; nay, I believe thee
not. 'Tis a false tale to anger me. I heed thee not [turns away
haughtily].
Don Felix. Thou wilt heed me ere I am done. What thinkest thou of this
thy husband's dagger? See, here his name. 'Twas taken from his hands ere
the cold chains bound them. Ah, thou dost believe me now!
Nina. Oh, tell on. I will listen now. Why hast thou done this cruel
deed? Why make this his welcome home? Thou hast fettered and imprisoned
him and now art here to tell me of it? Ah, dost thou hate him? Then give
all thy hate to me; but oh, I pray thee, comfort him.
Don Felix. When thou didst reject my suit, I told thee I would be
revenged; I said a day would come when thou, so cold and haughty then,
would kneel to me imploring mercy and I would deny thee. That time hath
come, and I am deaf to all thy prayers.
Nina. For his sake will I kneel to thee beseeching liberty for him. I
had no love to give thee. Ah, pardon if I spake with scorn, and pity me.
What can I do to win thee back to mercy? Ah, listen and be generous.
Don Felix. 'Tis now too late. He is in my power; and a dagger can soon
rid thee of a cruel husband, me of a hated rival.
Nina. God have pity on me now. Don Felix, let me plead once more. Set
Adrian free, and I will take his place in yon dark cell and welcome
there the dagger that shall set me free.
Don Felix. And wilt thou wear the chains? Wilt enter that lone cell
and perish there? Canst thou do this?
Nina. Ay, gladly will I suffer pain, captivity, and death, for thee,
Adrian, for thee.
Don Felix. Then woman's love is stronger than man's hate, and I envy him
you would die for, Nina.
Nina. Ah, love alone can make home blest, and here it dwells not. I can
free him from his fetters and his hated wife. Tell him I loved him to
the last, and blessed him ere I died. Lead on, my lord, I am ready.
Don Felix [aside]. I thought I had steeled my heart with hatred and
revenge; but oh, they pass away before such holy love as this. Would I
could win her to myself, for she would lead me on to virtue and to
happiness. Yet one more trial and she may be mine at last.
                                                            [Tableaux.
                                CURTAIN.
                              SCENE SIXTH.
                   [Street near Adrian's palace.
                            Enter Adrian.]
Adrian. 'Tis all discovered, my mysterious captivity and my release. Don
Felix, whom I trusted, wove the dark plot and sought by false words to
win Nina from me. He has dared to love her; and he shall dearly pay for
his presumption. He knows not that I watched above her in disguise; and
now while I was in captivity he hath taken her from her home. Let him
beware. If aught of harm hath come to her, woe betide him who hath
caused one tear to fall, or one sad fear to trouble her. I must seek and
save her. No peril will be too great to win her back to this heart that
longs so fondly for her now.
                                                        [Exit Adrian.
                                CURTAIN.
                             SCENE SEVENTH.
                 [A cell in the palace of Don Felix.
                            Nina chained.]
Nina. 'T is strange; here in this dark cell, tho' fettered and alone, I
feel a deeper joy than when a proud and envied bride I dwelt in my
deserted home. For here his foot hath trod; these walls have echoed to
the voice I love; these chains so cold and heavy I more gladly wear than
e'en the costly gems once clasped upon these arms, for they were his.
Here his sad tears fell perchance for his captivity; but I can smile and
bless the hour when I could win thy freedom, Adrian, with my poor
liberty. Hark--they come. Is it to claim the vow I made to yield my
bosom to the dagger meant for his? I am ready. [Enter Don Felix.]
Alone, my lord; methought it were too sad a task for thee to take my
life. Well, be it so; you claim my vow. I can die still blessing thee,
my Adrian [kneels before Don Felix].
Don Felix. Rise, Nina; ah, kneel not to me, nor think this hand could
take the life it prizes more than happiness or honor. I came not here to
harm thee; Heaven forbid! I came once more to offer thee my heart, my
home, and all the boundless love you have so scorned. Thy husband hath
deserted thee; no ties too fast to sever bind thee to him. Thou art
alone, a captive, and I alone can free thee. Think of the love I bear
thee, Nina, and be mine [takes her hand].
Nina. Where is thy boasted honor now? Where the solemn vow thou didst
make me that my lonely cell should be as sacred to thee as my palace
halls? Where is thy pity for the helpless wife of him whom thou didst
call thy friend? I never loved thee, now I scorn thee. A true and pure
affection never binds such chains as these, nor causes bitter tears like
mine to flow. Rather suffer death than cherish in my heart one tender
thought of thee. Thou hast my answer, now leave me.
Don Felix. Not yet, proud captive. I have sought to win thee gently; but
now, beware. Think not to escape me, thou shalt feel how deep a
vengeance I can bring on thee and him thou lovest. Thou shalt suffer all
the sorrow I can inflict,--shalt know thy proud lord forsaken and in
danger when a word from me can save, and that word I will not speak.
All the grief and pain and hatred that my jealous heart can give will I
heap upon his head, and thus through him I will revenge myself on thee.
Nina. Thou canst not harm him, he is safe and free. Do thy worst, I care
not what fate thou hast for me, a fearless hand soon finds a way to free
a soul from sorrow and captivity. This heart thou canst not reach. It
fears thee not.
Don Felix. Can I not make thee tremble, haughty woman? I love thee
still, and I will win thee. I go to work thee sorrow; and when next we
meet I will bring thee token of thy husband's death or, what may touch
thee nearer, his hate of thee.
                                                      [Exit Don Felix.
Nina. 'Tis a dark and fearful dream,--Adrian in danger, and I cannot
save him. Oh, that I were free again, naught should stay me; and I would
win him back by the power of woman's love and faith. Lord Felix will
return, he hath vowed revenge; where then can I look for a true heart to
comfort and protect me [sinks down in despair].
                                   [Enter Adrian, still in disguise.]
Adrian. Here is a friend to aid thee.
Nina [starting up]. Who--who art thou?
Adrian. Thy guardian. Lady, thou hast said thou wouldst trust me, and I
am here to save.
Nina. Forgive me that I doubt thee; yet I do fear to trust, for I am
well-nigh crazed with sorrow. Art thou my husband's friend?
Adrian. I am true as Heaven to thee, poor lady. I have watched above
thee and can save. Here, here is the ring thou knowest; ah, do not doubt
me.
Nina. I know thee now and put all my faith in thee. Take me hence. Ah,
save me! Lead me to my home, and the thanks of a broken heart are thine.
Lead on, kind friend, I will follow thee.
