position, and looking at a piece of Persian embroidery on the opposite
wall.
“Your expression had changed when I spoke,” he said. “But it’s not at
all necessary to sit absolutely motionless as though you were being
photographed. It’s better to talk. The expression is like--” He stopped.
“Like what?” she asked, curious to hear a definition of what is said too
often to be undefinable.
“Well--I don’t know. Language isn’t my strong point, if I have any
strong point at all.”
“That’s an affectation, at all events!” laughed Katharine, becoming
herself again when not obliged to look at him fixedly.
“Is it? Well--affectation is a good word. Expression is not expression
when it’s an affected expression. It’s the tone of voice of the picture.
That sounds wild, but it means something. A speech in print hasn’t the
expression it has when it’s well spoken. A photograph is a speech in
print. It’s the truth done by machinery. It’s often striking at first
sight, but you get tired of it, because what’s there is all there--and
what is not there isn’t even suggested, though you know it exists.”
“Yes, I see,” said Katharine, who was interested in what he said, and
had momentarily forgotten his personality.
“That shows how awfully clever you are,” he answered with a silvery
little laugh. “I know it’s far from clear. There’s a passage somewhere
in one of Tolstoi’s novels--‘Peace and War,’ I think it is--about the
impossibility of expressing all one thinks. It ought to follow that the
more means of expression a man has, the nearer he should get to
expressing everything in him. But it doesn’t. There’s a fallacy
somewhere in the idea. Most things--ideas, anything you choose to call
them--are naturally expressible in a certain material--paint, wood,
fiddle-strings, bronze and all that. Come and look at yourself now. You
see I’ve restrained my mania for oils a few minutes. I’m trying to be
conscientious.”
“I wish you would go on talking about expression,” said Katharine,
rising and coming up to the easel. “It seems very much improved,” she
added as she saw the drawing. “How fast you work!”
“There’s no such thing as time when things go right,” replied Crowdie.
“Excuse me a moment. I’ll get something to paint with.”
He disappeared behind the curtain in the corner, to the out-built closet
in which he kept his colours and brushes, and Katharine was left alone.
She stood still for a few moments contemplating the growing likeness of
herself. There was as yet hardly any colour in the sketch, no more, in
fact, than he had rubbed on while she had watched him do it, when she
had rested the first time. It was not easy to see what he had done
since, and yet the whole effect was vastly improved. As she looked, the
work itself, the fine pencil-line, the smudges of brown and the
suggestions of colouring seemed all so slight as to be almost
nothing--and yet she felt that her expression was there. She thought of
her mother’s laborious and minutely accurate drawing, which never
reached any such effect as this, and she realized the almost impossible
gulf which lies between the artist and the amateur who has tried too
late to become one--in whom the evidence of talent is made
unrecognizable by an excess of conscientious but wholly misapplied
labour. The amateur who has never studied at all may sometimes dash off
a head with a few lines, which would be taken for the careless scrawling
of a clever professional. But the amateur who, too late, attempts to
perfect himself by sheer study and industry is almost certainly lost as
an artist--a fact which is commonly interpreted to mean that art itself
comes by inspiration, and that so-called genius needs no school; whereas
it only means that if we go to school at all we must go at the scholar’s
age and get the tools of expression, and learn to handle them, before we
have anything especial to express.
“Still looking at it?” asked Crowdie, coming out of his sanctum with a
large palette in his left hand, and a couple of brushes in his right.
“Now I’m going to begin by spoiling it all.”
There were four or five big, butter-like squeezings of different colours
on the smooth surface of the board. Crowdie stuck one of his brushes
through the thumb-hole of the palette, and with the other mixed what he
wanted, dabbing it into the paints and then daubing them all together.
Katharine sat down once more.
“I thought painters always used palette-knives,” she said, watching him.
“Oh--anything answers the purpose. I sometimes paint with my
fingers--but it’s awfully messy.”
“I should think so,” she laughed, taking her position again as he looked
at her.
“Yes--thank you,” he said. “If you won’t mind looking at me for a minute
or two, just at first. I want your eyes, please. After that you can look
anywhere you like.”
“Do you always paint the eyes first?” asked Katharine, idly, for the
sake of not relapsing into silence.
“Generally--especially if they’re looking straight out of the picture.
Then they’re the principal thing, you know. They are like little
holes--if you look steadily at them you can see the real person inside.
That’s the reason why a portrait that looks at you, if it’s like at all,
is so much more like than one that looks away.”
“How naturally you explain things!” exclaimed the young girl, becoming
interested at once.
“Things are so natural,” answered the painter. “Everything is natural.
That’s one of my brother-in-law’s maxims.”
“It sounds like a truism.”
“Everything that is true sounds like a truism--and is one. We know
everything that’s true, and it all sounds old because we do know it
all.”
“What an extraordinary way of putting it--to say that we know
everything! But we don’t, you know!”
“Oh, yes, we do--as far as we ever can know at all. I don’t mean little
peddling properties of petroleum and tricks with telephones--what they
call science, you know. I mean about big things that don’t
change--ideas.”
“Oh--about ideas. You mean right and wrong, and the future life and the
soul, I suppose.”
“Yes. That’s exactly what I mean. In a hundred thousand ages we shall
never get one inch further than we are now. A little bit more to the
right, please--but go on looking at me a moment longer, if you’re not
tired.”
“I’ve only just sat down again. But what you were saying--you meant to
add that we know nothing, and that it’s all a perfectly boundless
uncertainty.”
“Not at all. I think we know some things and shan’t lose them, and we
don’t know some others and never shall.”
“What kind of things, for instance?” asked Katharine. “In the first
place, there is a soul, and it is immortal.”
“Lucretius says that there is a soul, but that it isn’t immortal.
There’s something, anyhow--something I can’t paint. People who deny the
existence of the soul never tried to paint portraits, I believe.”
“You certainly have most original ideas.”
“Have I? But isn’t that true? I know it is. There’s something in every
face that I can’t paint--that the greatest painter that ever lived can’t
paint. And it’s not on account of the material, either. One can get just
as near to it in black and white as in colours,--just near enough to
suggest it,--and yet one can see it. I call it the ghost. I don’t know
whether there are ghosts or not, but people say they’ve seen them. They
are generally colourless, apparently, and don’t stay long. But did you
ever notice, in all those stories, that people always recognize the
ghost instantly if it’s that of a person they’ve known?”
“Yes. Now I think of it, that’s true,” said Katharine.
“Well, that’s why I call the recognizable something about the living
person his ghost. It’s what we can’t get. Now, another thing. If one is
told that the best portrait of some one whom one knows is a portrait of
some one else instead, one isn’t much surprised. No, really--I’ve tried
it, just to test the likeness. Most people say they are surprised, but
they’re not. They fall into the trap in a moment, and tell you that they
see that they were mistaken, but that it’s a strong resemblance. That
couldn’t happen with a real person. It happens easily with a
photograph--much more easily than with a picture. But with a real person
it’s quite different, even though he may have changed immensely since
you saw him--far beyond the difference between a good portrait and the
sitter, so far as details are concerned. But the person--you recognize
him at once. By what? By that something which we can’t catch in a
picture. I call it the ghost--it’s a mere fancy, because people used to
believe that a ghost was a visible soul.”
“How interesting!” exclaimed Katharine. “And it sounds true.”
“A thing must sound true to be interesting,” said Crowdie. “Excuse me a
moment. I want another colour.”
He dived into the curtained recess, and Katharine watched the
disagreeable undulation of his movements as he walked. She wondered why
she was interested as soon as he talked, and repelled as soon as he was
silent. Much of what he said was more or less paradoxical, she thought,
and not altogether unlike the stuff talked by cynical young men who pick
up startling phrases out of books, and change the subject when they are
asked to explain what they mean. But there was something more in what he
said, and there was the way of saying it, and there was the weight a
man’s sayings carry when he is a real master of one thing, no matter how
remote from the subject of which he is speaking. Crowdie came back
almost immediately with his paint.
“Your eyes are the colour of blue fox,” he remarked, dabbing on the
palette with his brush.
“Are they? They’re a grey of some sort, I believe. But you were talking
about the soul.”
“Yes, I know I was; but I’m glad I’ve done with it. I told you that
language wasn’t my strong point.”
“Yes--but you may be able to say lots of interesting things, besides
painting well.”
“Not compared with people who are good at talking. I’ve often been
struck by that.”
He stopped speaking, and made one or two very careful strokes,
concentrating his whole attention for the moment.
“Struck by what?” asked Katharine.
“By the enormous amount some men know as compared with what they can do.
I believe that’s what I meant to say. It wasn’t particularly worth
saying, after all. There--that’s better! Just one moment more, please.
I know I’m tiring you to death, but I’m so interested--”
Again he executed a very fine detail.
“There!” he exclaimed. “Now we can talk. Don’t you want to move about a
little? I don’t ask you to look at the thing--it’s a mere beginning of a
sketch--it isn’t the picture, of course.”
“But I want to see it,” said Katharine.
“Oh, of course. But you won’t like it so much now as you did at first.”
Katharine saw at once that he was right, and that the painting was not
in a stage to bear examination, but she looked at it, nevertheless, with
a vague idea of learning something about the art by observing its
processes. Crowdie stood at a little distance behind her, his palette
