cabin, stood a young man with red hair, holding a small bouquet in his
hand. His face was freckled, his eyes small, and he looked capable of
meanness.
Of course appearances are often deceptive, but not unfrequently a man's
character can be read upon his face.
"That's the fellow that cheated poor Fanny, I'll bet a hat," Dan decided
within himself. "He looks like it."
He immediately crossed to the other side of the deck.
The red-headed young man was talking to another young man of about the
same age.
"Where did you get that bouquet, Sanderson?" asked the latter.
"Bought it of a little girl in front of the Astor House," answered
Sanderson.
"That settles it," thought Dan.
He waited to hear what would come next.
"I suppose it is meant for some young lady," suggested the other.
"Maybe it is," answered Sanderson, with a grin.
Dan thought it was about time to come to business.
He touched the red-haired young man on the arm.
Sanderson looked round.
"Well, boy, what is it?" he asked.
"You bought that bouquet of a girl near the Astor House," said Dan.
"What if I did?" asked Sanderson, uneasily, for he had a suspicion of
what was coming.
"You gave her a bogus half-dollar in payment," continued Dan.
"Do you mean to insult me?" blustered Sanderson. "Be off with you."
"I am sorry I cannot accommodate you," said Dan, "but I want you to give
me a good piece for this first."
"I never saw that half-dollar before," said Sanderson. "I gave her good
money."
"Perhaps you can prove that before the court," said Dan.
"What do you mean?" demanded Sanderson, uneasily.
"I mean that you have passed counterfeit money, and unless you give me a
good piece for it I will give you in charge as soon as we reach the
pier," said Dan, firmly.
Sanderson looked about him, and saw that the boy's charge was believed.
Soon his friend looked disgusted. Dan followed up his attack.
"Fanny is a poor girl," he said. "I found her crying over her loss, for
it was more than all the money she had taken to-day."
"Are you her friend?" asked Sanderson, sneering.
"Yes, I am," said Dan, stoutly.
"This is a put-up job between you two," said Sanderson.
"Gentlemen," said Dan, turning and appealing to the passengers near him,
"this young man has passed a bad fifty-cent piece on a poor flower-girl.
Shall he make it good?"
"Yes, yes!" exclaimed half a dozen, and several cried "shame!" with
looks of scorn and disgust directed toward the young man with red hair.
"I don't believe a word of it," he ejaculated, in a rage. "I gave the
girl a quarter."
"Too thin!" said several.
"But I'll give you the money to get rid of you," and he threw a
half-dollar at Dan with a look very far from amiable.
"Thank you, sir; here's your money," said Dan.
Though Sanderson had disclaimed all knowledge of the bogus half-dollar,
he took it and put it carefully in his pocket.
"Keep it to pay your washerwoman with," said a jeering voice.
It was a young fellow in the garb of a workman who spoke.
The boat touched the pier, and Sanderson was only too glad to hurry away
from the unfriendly crowd.
"You're a smart boy!" cried a keen-looking businessman, addressing Dan.
"How did you discover that this fellow was the one that passed the
coin."
"Fanny described him to me."
"Then you hadn't seen him before?"
"No, sir."
"What are you doing for a living?"
"Selling papers, sir."
"You are fit for something better. Come and see me to-morrow."
He placed in Dan's hands a card bearing the firm's name
     BARTON & ROGERS,
     Commission Merchants,
               No. -- Pearl street.
"My name is Rogers," he continued. "Inquire for me."
"Thank you, sir."
Dan was so pleased at having recovered Fanny's money that he gave
little thought to this last incident, though it was destined to exert an
important influence on his fortunes. He took the same boat back to New
York, and hurried to the Astor House.
Little Fanny, the flower-girl, with a sad look upon her face, was still
standing in her wonted place.
"I've got your money back, Fanny," said Dan.
"Oh, have you?" exclaimed Fanny, joyfully.
"Yes; I made the fellow give it up."
"Oh, how kind you are, Dan!"
There was a listener to what passed between the two children. A tall
lady, standing at the corner of the street, regarded them attentively.
She was evidently revolving some plan in her head. As Dan was about
turning away, she placed her hand on his arm.
"Young man," she said, "I want to speak to you."
"All right, ma'am," said Dan, surprised.
CHAPTER XII.
A MYSTERIOUS LADY.
Dan thought it probable that the lady who accosted him might wish to
send him on an errand, and his surprise vanished. She was tall, slender,
and grave in appearance. She was probably not over thirty-five. Her
first words renewed Dan's surprise.
"Have you a mother living?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"A father?"
"No, ma'am."
"Are you an only child, or have you brothers and sisters?"
"There is only one of me," answered Dan, humorously.
"I suppose you are poor?"
"If I were not, I would not sell papers for a living."
"Probably you live in a poor place?"
"Yes," answered Dan, beginning to be tired of satisfying what might be
only curiosity on the part of the lady. She noticed at once the change
in his manner.
"I am not making these inquiries out of curiosity," she said, quickly.
"I have an object in what I ask."
This naturally surprised Dan the more.
"All right, ma'am," he said; "I am ready to answer."
"Are you at leisure for an hour or two?" asked the lady.
Dan hesitated.
"I suppose mother will be worried if I don't come home to supper," he
said, hesitating.
"Can't you send her a message not to expect you? Does this little girl
know where you live?"
"Yes," answered Fanny, readily.
To her the lady turned.
"Little girl," she said, "go at once and tell this boy's mother that he
will not be home till nine o'clock. Say he is called away by business."
"Yes, ma'am."
"This will pay you for your trouble."
The little girl's eyes sparkled with joy as the lady placed fifty cents
in her hand.
"Thank you. How glad mother will be!" she said.
As for Dan, he was puzzled to conjecture what the lady could want of
him. What would justify such a handsome compensation to Fanny merely to
explain his absence to his mother?
"Now," said the lady, "if you will hail the next stage we will go up
town."
They had not long to wait. Soon they were rattling over the pavements
through thronged Broadway. It was two years since Dan had been in a
Broadway stage. He could not afford to pay ten cents for a ride, but
when it was absolutely necessary rode in a horse-car for half price.
Dan looked about him to see if he knew any one in the stage. Nearly
opposite sat his former schoolmate, Tom Carver, with a young lady at his
side. Their glances met, and Dan saw Tom's lip curl with scorn. Of
course he did not betray any mark of recognition.
"I like riding in a Broadway stage," he heard the young lady say. "There
is more to see as you go along. Besides, the company is more select."
"Not always," said Tom, with a significant glance at Dan.
Dan felt indignant, but was too proud to show it.
"The price excludes the lower classes from using the stage," said the
young lady.
"It ought to, but I have seen a newsboy in a stage."
"How can they afford to pay ten cents for riding?"
"I give it up," said Tom, shrugging his shoulders.
The lady who was with Dan noticed the direction of Tom Carver's look.
"Do you know that boy?" she asked.
"Yes," answered Dan, "I used to know him."
"Why don't you know him now?"
"Because my father lost his property."
"I see," said the lady. "It is the way of the world. Don't mind it."
"I don't," said Dan, promptly, returning Tom Carver's stare.
Tom could not help hearing this conversation, and learned for the first
time that Dan and the handsomely dressed lady beside him were in
company.
"What can they have to do with each other?" he asked himself, curiously.
"She can't be a relation--she is too handsomely dressed."
At this moment the young lady beside him dropped her handkerchief.
Before Tom could stoop to pick it up Dan had handed it to her with a
polite bow.
"Thank you," said the young lady, with a pleasant smile.
"You needn't have troubled yourself," said Tom Carver, irritated. "This
young lady is under my charge."
"It is no trouble, I assure you," answered Dan.
"He is very polite," said the young lady, in a low voice, "and very
good-looking, too," she added, with a second look at Dan.
"He is only a common newsboy," said Tom, not relishing Julia Grey's
tribute to a boy he disliked.
"I can't help what he is," said the young lady, independently; "he looks
like a gentleman."
Dan could not help catching the drift of their conversation, and his
face flushed with pleasure, for Julia was a very pretty girl, but not
being addressed to him, he could not take notice of it otherwise.
"He lives at the Five Points somewhere," muttered Tom.
The young lady seemed rather amused at Tom's discomposure, and only
smiled in reply.
