explained as the reaction from violent emotions, which had left her
nerves weary and deadened. And speaking not merely of the material side,
it is true that the life of love has moments of suspended animation,
during which it is hard to believe that love was ever alive at
all--times when love has a past and a future, but no present.
If she had met John at that moment, on the stairs, she would very
probably have put out her hand quite naturally, and would have greeted
him with a smile, before the reality of all that had happened could come
back to her. Many of us have dreamed that those dearest to us have done
us some cruel and bitter wrong, struck us, insulted us, trampled on our
life-long devotion to them; and in the morning, awaking, we have met
them, and smiled, and loved them just the same. For it was only a dream.
And there are those who have known the reality; who, after much time,
have very suddenly found out that they have been betrayed and wickedly
deceived, and used ill, by their most dear--and who, in the first
moment, have met them, and smiled, and loved them just the same. For it
was only a dream, they thought indeed. And then comes the waking, which
is as though one fell asleep upon his beloved’s bosom and awoke among
thorns, and having a crown of thorns about his brows--very hard to bear
without crying aloud.
Katharine pressed the polished banister of the staircase with her hand,
and with the other she found the point of the little gold pin she wore
at her throat and made it prick her a little. It was a foolish idea and
a childish thought. She knew that she was not really dreaming, and yet,
as though she might have been, she wanted a physical sensation to assure
her that she was awake. Griggs was close behind her. Crowdie had stopped
a moment to pull the cord of a curtain which covered the skylight of the
staircase.
“I wonder where real things end, and dreams begin!” said Katharine, half
turning her head, and then immediately looking before her again.
“At every minute of every hour,” answered Griggs, as quickly as though
the thought had been in his own mind.
From higher up came Crowdie’s golden voice, singing very softly to
himself. He had heard the question and the answer.
“‘La vie est un songe,’” he sang, and then, breaking off suddenly,
laughed a little and began to descend.
At the first note, Katharine stood still and turned her face upwards.
Griggs stopped, too, and looked down at her. Even after Crowdie had
laughed Katharine did not move.
“I wish you’d go on, Mr. Crowdie!” she cried, speaking so that he could
hear her.
“Griggs is anxious for the Blue Points,” he answered, coming down.
“Besides, he hates music, and makes no secret of the fact.”
“Is it true? Do you really hate music?” asked Katharine, turning and
beginning to descend again.
“Quite true,” answered Griggs, quietly. “I detest it. Crowdie’s a
nuisance with his perpetual yapping.”
Crowdie laughed good naturedly, and Katharine said nothing. As they
reached the lower landing she turned and paused an instant, so that
Griggs came beside her.
“Did you always hate music?” she asked, looking up into his
weather-beaten face with some curiosity.
“Hm!” Griggs uttered a doubtful sound. “It’s a long time since I heard
any that pleased me, at all events.”
“There are certain subjects, Miss Lauderdale, upon which Griggs is
unapproachable, because he won’t say anything. And there are others upon
which it is dangerous to approach him, because he is likely to say too
much. Hester! Where are you?”
He disappeared into the little room at the front of the house in search
of his wife, and Katharine stood alone with Griggs in the entry. Again
she looked at him with curiosity.
“You’re a very good-humoured person, Mr. Griggs,” she said, with a
smile.
“You mean about Crowdie? Oh, I can stand a lot of his chaff--and he has
to stand mine, too.”
“That was a very interesting answer you gave to my question about
dreams,” said Katharine, leaning against the pillar of the banister.
“Was it? Let me see--what did I say?” He seemed to be absent-minded
again.
“Come to luncheon!” cried Crowdie, reappearing with Hester at that
moment. “You can talk metaphysics over the oysters.”
“Metaphysics!” exclaimed Griggs, with a smile.
“Oh, I know,” answered Crowdie. “I can’t tell the difference between
metaphysics and psychics, and geography and Totem. It is all precisely
the same to me--and it is to Griggs, if he’d only acknowledge it. Come
along, Miss Lauderdale--to oysters and culture!”
Hester laughed at Crowdie’s good spirits, and Griggs smiled. He had
large, sharp teeth, and Katharine thought of the wolf and the rabbit
again. It was strange that they should be on such good terms.
They sat down to luncheon. The dining-room, like every other part of
the small house, had been beautified as much as its position and
dimensions would allow. It had originally been small, but an extension
of glass had been built out into the yard, which Hester had turned into
a fernery. There were a great number of plants of many varieties, some
of which had been obtained with great difficulty from immense distances.
Hester had been told that it would be impossible to make them grow in an
inhabited room, but she had succeeded, and the result was something
altogether out of the common.
She admitted that, besides the attention she bestowed upon the plants
herself, they occupied the whole time of a specially trained gardener.
They were her only hobby, and where they were concerned, time and money
had no value for her. The dining-room itself was simple, but exquisite
in its way. There were a few pieces of wonderfully chiselled silver on
the sideboard, and the glasses on the table were Venetian and Bohemian,
and very old. The linen was as fine as fine writing paper, the porcelain
was plain white Sèvres. There was nothing superfluous, but there were
all the little, unobtrusive, almost priceless details which are the
highest expression “of intimate luxury--in which the eye alone receives
rest, while the other senses are flattered to the utmost. Colour and the
precious metals are terribly cheap things nowadays compared with what
appeals to touch and taste. There are times when certain dainties, like
terrapin, for instance, are certainly worth much more than their weight
in silver, if not quite their weight in gold. But as for that, to say
that a man is worth his weight in gold has ceased to mean very much.
Some ingenious persons have lately calculated that the average man’s
weight in gold would be worth about forty thousand dollars, and that a
few minutes’ worth of the income of some men living would pay for a
life-sized golden calf. The further development of luxury will be an
interesting thing to watch during the next century. A poor woman in New
York recently returned a roast turkey to a charitable lady who had sent
it to her, with the remark that she was accustomed to eat roast beef at
Christmas, though she ‘did not mind turkey on Thanksgiving Day.’
Katharine wondered how far such a man as Griggs, who said that he hated
music, could appreciate the excessive refinement of a luxury which could
be felt rather than seen. It was all familiar to Katharine, and there
were little things at the Crowdies which she longed to have at home.
Griggs ate his oysters in silence. Fletcher came to his elbow with a
decanter.
“Vin de Grave, sir?” enquired the old butler in a low voice.
“No wine, thank you,” said Griggs.
“There’s Sauterne, isn’t there, Walter?” asked Hester. “Perhaps Mr.
Griggs--”
“Griggs is a cold water man, like me,” answered Crowdie. “His secret
vice is to drink a bucket of it, when nobody is looking.”
Fletcher looked disappointed, and replaced the decanter on the
sideboard.
“It’s uncommon to see two men who drink nothing,” observed Hester. “But
I remember that Mr. Griggs never did.”
“Never--since you knew me, Mrs. Crowdie. I did when I was younger.”
“Did you? What made you give it up?”
Katharine felt a strange pain in her heart, as they began to talk of the
subject. The reality was suddenly coming back out of dreamland.
“I lost my taste for it,” answered Griggs, indifferently.
“About the same time as when you began to hate music, wasn’t it?” asked
Crowdie, gravely.
“Yes, I daresay.”
The elder man spoke quietly enough, and there was not a shade of
interest in his voice as he answered the question. But Katharine, who
was watching him unconsciously, saw a momentary change pass over his
face. He glanced at Crowdie with an expression that was almost savage.
The dark, weary eyes gleamed fiercely for an instant, the great veins
swelled at the lean temples, the lips parted and just showed the big,
sharp teeth. Then it was all over again and the kindly look came back.
Crowdie was not smiling, and the tone in which he had asked the question
showed plainly enough that it was not meant as a jest. Indeed, the
painter himself seemed unusually serious. But he had not been looking at
Griggs, nor had Hester seen the sudden flash of what was very like
half-suppressed anger. Katharine wondered more and more, and the little
incident diverted her thoughts again from the suggestion which had given
her pain.
“Lots of men drink water altogether, nowadays,” observed Crowdie. “It’s
a mistake, of course, but it’s much more agreeable.”
“A mistake!” exclaimed Katharine, very much astonished.
“Oh, yes--it’s an awful mistake,” echoed Griggs, in the most natural way
possible.
“I’m not so sure,” said Hester Crowdie, in a tone of voice which showed
plainly that the idea was not new to her.
“I don’t understand,” said Katharine, unable to recover from her
surprise. “I always thought that--” she checked herself and looked
across at the ferns, for her heart was hurting her again.
She suddenly realized, also, that considering what had happened on the
previous night, it was very tactless of Crowdie not to change the
subject. But he seemed not at all inclined to drop it yet.
“Yes,” he said. “In the first place, total abstinence shortens life.
Statistics show that moderate consumers of alcoholic drinks live
considerably longer than drunkards and total abstainers.”
“Of course,” assented Griggs. “A certain amount of wine makes a man lazy
for a time, and that rests his nerves. We who drink water accomplish
more in a given time, but we don’t live so long. We wear ourselves out.
If we were not the strongest generation there has been for centuries, we
should all be in our graves by this time.”
“Do you think we are a very strong generation?” asked Crowdie, who
looked as weak as a girl.
“Yes, I do,” answered Griggs. “Look at yourself and at me. You’re not an
athlete, and an average street boy of fifteen or sixteen might kill you
in a fight. That has nothing to do with it. The amount of actual hard
work, in your profession, which you’ve done--ever since you were a mere
lad--is amazing, and you’re none the worse for it, either. You go on,
just as though you had begun yesterday. Heaving weights and rowing races
is no test of what a man’s strength will bear in everyday life. You
