trace of the trap-door. He looked at the hills 
surrounding the Mission. They were many, 
and beyond there were others. He mounted 
his horse and rode around the buildings, listen- 
ing carefully for hollow reverberation. The 
tunnel was too far below ; he heard nothing. 
He was defeated. For the first time in his 
life he was without resource, overwhelmed by 
a force stronger than his own will ; and his 
spirit was savage within him. He had no 
authority to dig the floors of the Mission, for 
the Mission and several acres about it were the 
property of the Churchc The priest never would 
take him on that underground journey again, 
for he had learned the weak spot in his armor, 
nor had he fear of death. Unless accident 
favored him, or some one more fortunate, the 
golden heart of the San Rafael hill would pulse 
unrifled forever. 
XXX. 
He turned his back upon the Mission and 
tode toward his home, sixty miles in a howling 
November wind. At Bodega Bay he learned 
that Governor Rotscheff had passed there two 
days before witji a party of guests that he had 
gone down to Sausalito to meet. Chonita 
awaited him in the North. A softer mood 
pressed through the somberness of his spirit, 
and the candle of hope burned again. Gold 
must exist elsewhere in California, and he swore 
anew that it should yield itself to him. The 
last miles of his ride lay along the cliffs. Some- 
times the steep hills covered with redwoods 
rose so abruptly from the trail that the under- 
growth brushed him as he passed ; on the other 
side but a few inches stood between himself 
and death amidst the surf pounding on the rocks 
a thousand feet below. The sea-gulls screamed 
about his head, the sea-lions barked with the 
hollow note of consumptives on the outlying 
rocks. On the horizon was a bank of fog, out- 
lined with the crests and slopes and gulches of 
the mountain beside him. It sent an advance 
wrack scudding gracefully across the ocean to 
puff among the redwoods, capriciously
clinging to some, ignoring others. Then came the 
vast white mountain rushing over the roaring 
ocean, up the cliffs and into the gloomy forests, 
blotting the lonely horseman from sight. 
 He arrived at his house — a big structure of 
logs — late in the night. His servants came out 
to meet him, and in a moment a fire leaped in 
the great fireplace in his library. He lived 
alone ; his parents and brothers were dead, and 
his sisters married ; but the fire made the low 
long room, covered with bear-skins and lined 
with books, as cheerful as a bachelor could ex- 
pect. He found a note from the Princess 
H61ene Rotscheff, the famous wife of the 
governor, asking him to spend the following 
week at Fort Ross ; but he was so tired that 
even the image of Chonita was dim ; the note 
barely caused a throb of anticipation. After 
supper he flung himself on a couch before the 
fire and slept until morning, then went to bed 
and slept until afternoon. By that time he was 
himself again. He sent a vaquero ahead with 
his evening clothes, and an hour or two later 
started for Fort Ross, spurring his horse with 
a lighter heart over the cliffs. His ranchos ad- 
joined the Russian settlement; the journey 
from his house to the military enclosure was 
not a long one. He soon rounded the point of 
a sloping hill and entered the spreading cove 
formed by the mountains receding in a semi- 
circle above the cliffs, and la whose shelter L.y 
Fort Ross. The fort was surrounded by a 
stockade of redwood beams, bastions in the 
shape of hexagonal towers at diagonal corners. 
Cannon, mounted on carriages, were at each of 
the four entrances, in the middle of the enclos- 
ure, and in the bastions. Sentries paced the 
ramparts with unremitting vigilance. 
Within were the long low buildings occupied 
by the governor and officers, the barracks, and 
the Russian church, with its belfry and cupola. 
Beyond was the "town,"a collection of huts 
accommodating about eight hundred Indians 
and Siberian convicts, the workingmen of the 
company. All the buildings were of redwood 
logs or planed boards, and made a very different 
picture from the white towns of the South. 
The curving mountains were sombrous with 
redwoods, the ocean growled unceasingly. 
Estenega threw his bridle to a soldier and 
went directly to the house. A servant met him 
on the veranda and conducted him to his room ; 
it was late, and every one else was dressing 
for dinner. He chang;ed his riding-clothes for 
the evening dress of modern civilization, and 
went at once to the drawing-room. Here all 
was luxury, nothing to suggest the privations 
of a new country. A thick red carpet covered 
the floor, red arras the walls ; the music of 
Mozart and Beethoven was on the grand piano. 
The furniture was rich and comfortable, the 
large carved table was covered with French 
novels and European periodicals. 
The candles had not been brought in, but 
logs blazed in the open fireplace. As Estenega 
crossed the room, a woman, dressed in black, 
rose from a deep chair, and he recognized 
Chonita. He sprang forward impetuously and 
held out his arms, but she waved him back. 
"No, no," she said, hurriedly. "I want to 
explain why I am here. I came for two rea- 
sons. First, I could refuse the Princess Helene 
no longer ; she goes so soon. And then — I 
wanted to see you once more before I leave 
the world." 
" Before you do what ? " 
" I am not going into a convent; I cannot 
leave my father. I am going to retire to the 
most secluded of our ranchos, to see no more 
of the world or its people. I shall take my 
father with me. Reinaldo and Prudencia will 
remain at Casa Grande." 
 
''Nonsense!" he exclaimed, impatiently. 
" Do you suppose I shall let you do anything 
of the sort ? How little you know me, my love ! 
But we will discuss that question later. We 
shall be alone only a few moments now. Tell 
me of yourself. How are you ? " 
"I will tell you that, also, at another time." 
And at the moment a door opened, and the 
governor and his wife entered and greeted 
Estenega with cordial hospitality. The gover- 
nor was a fine-looking Russian, with a spontane- 
ous warmth of manner; the princess a woman 
who possessed both elegance and vivacity, 
both coquetry and dignity ; she could sparkle 
and chill, allure and suppress in the same 
moment. Even here, rough and wild as her 
surroundings were, she gave much thought to 
her dress ; to-night her blonde harmonious 
loveliness was properly framed in a toilette of 
mignonette greens, fresh from Paris. A moment 
later Reinaldo and Prudencia appeared, the 
former as splendid a caballero as ever, al- 
though wearing the chastened air of matri- 
mony, the latter pre-maternally consequential. 
Then came the officers and their wives, all 
brilliant in evening dress ; and a moment later 
dinner was announced. 
Estenega sat at the right of his hostess, and
that trained daughter of the salon kept the table 
in a light ripple of conversation, sparkling her- 
self, without striking terror to the hearts of her 
guests. She and Estenega were old friends, and 
usually indulged in lively sallies, ending some 
times in a sharp war of words, for she was a very 
clever woman ; but to-night he gave her absent 
attention : he watched Chonita furtively, and 
thought of little else. 
Her eyes had darker shadows beneath them 
than those cast by her lashes ; her face was 
pale and slightly hollowed. She had suffered, 
and not for her mother. " She shall suffer no 
more, "he thought. 
" We hunt bear to-night," he heard the gov- 
ernor say at length. 
"I should like to go," said Chonita, quickly. 
"I should like to go out to-night." 
Immediately there was a chorus from all the 
other women, excepting the Princess H^l^ne 
and Prudencia ; they wanted to go too. Rots- 
cheff, who would much rather have left them 
at home, consented with good grace, and 
Estenega's spirits rose at once. He would 
