becomingly* beneath her embroidered sack ; 
the eider-down robes, silk-covered, used as 
freely as less wealthy people use blankets ; 
the inlaid invalid 's tray and table ; the silver
and Sevres upon it ; the high-waged 
figure of Maria in the doorway; the new 
maid in the other room, dusting a statuette 
by a fashionable sculptor, with a brush of 
peacock 's feathers. At these things Donald 
looked with a sick sinking at the heart. 
What did it all mean ? How bad was it ? 
And what worse was to come ? 
He waited restlessly for his uncle, who 
came after dinner, and, locking the library 
door, and lighting a cigar, began at once, 
with the manner of a man who has a hard 
job on hand, and means to get it over with. 
Mr. Francis Marcy was a gentlemanly 
man ; polished, cold, calm, hard of face, and 
unmoved in manner. 
" Well, Donald, I have purposely put off 
this interview till the funeral was over. 
It was more decent, for one thing. Then I 
didn't care to worry you, until it became 
necessary. It has now become so. You ob 
serve that there has been no will read. It 
is customary not to read the will till after 
the services." 
" I didn't know that, sir. I didn't know 
much about such things. I never no 
body ever died that I cared about, before." 
His voice faltered. His uncle bowed 
slightly, as if he should say : " Very proper. 
An appropriate filial sentiment." But all 
that he really did say was this : 
" Your father left no will. He had no 
thing to will. He has left no property." 
Donald started, with a low, horrified cry. 
" Oh, is it so bad as that ? Poor mother ! " 
" It is worse than that, sir ! Your father 
speculated. He scattered it to the four 
winds. He has been deep in for two years. 
This panic simply ruined him. He died of 
the shock, and he died a beggar, and 
he knew it. Poor Thomas," added Mr. 
Francis Marcy, bringing his short, sharp 
sentence round to a decorous sigh, " was 
always a schemer and a dreamer. He dared 
too much. It was his way. He lacked bal 
last in business matters. But de mortuis 
poor Thomas has gone. You and your 
mother are left. You have not got at this 
moment, sir, three hundred dollars to your 
name." 
" But, my mother ? " gasped Don. " The 
house ? The the maid ? The doctor ? 
Where can my mother live ? " 
 
" The house is mortgaged over its eaves," 
replied Uncle Francis. " The Newport es 
tate may be deeded to her, but I doubt it. 
I haven't found any such papers yet. Your 
father left certain papers to my charge. I 
should have been administrator, if there had 
been anything to administrate upon. There 
isn't." 
" I must leave college, Uncle Francis," 
faltered Donald. "I must leave college," 
he repeated decisively. "I must go right 
to work. I must support my mother and 
myself." 
" I don't see any other way," returned 
Mr. Francis Marcy. " I'm sorry, Donald," 
he added politely. 
" What in the world can I do ? " gasped 
Donald. " I never earned any money in 
my life. I thought when I had graduated 
I should enter the bar. I meant to be a 
distinguished lawyer, Uncle Francis." 
" Well," said his uncle slowly, knocking 
the ashes from his half-burnt cigar lightly 
into an antique Egyptian cup that served 
for an ash-receiver, upon the carved oak 
mantel ; " there are different views about 
that. I 'll tell you what mine are, if you 
care to hear them." 
CHAPTER XXII. 
"I WILL WAIT." 
IT was a July day in Vermont. The sun 
had been far too hot for comfort all the 
morning, and until well past noon ; and 
when the long shadows from Mount Tipton 
stole, with purple feet, across the valley, the 
village drew breath, and began to put on 
its afternoon dress, and was glad of it. The 
farmhouses prisons when winter-bound 
were palaces of life in the heart of sum 
mer. To them was given such pomp of the 
shadow-chased hills, and such glory of the 
clover-crimsoned fields, and such splendor 
of the throbbing skies, as the stifling towns 
panted for, and paid the best of prices to 
procure. Each of these desolate homes was 
now a thriving house of entertainment, where 
the daughters of the house stood no more 
breathing the frost off the windows to see a 
stranger pass, but blossomed in the crispest 
of colored cotton-satine gowns, with fresh 
crimps, and white aprons, to wait on the 
 
supper-table of a busy, chattering, laughing 
house. The most popular boarding-house 
in town was Mrs. Joe Jouncey 's of toboggan 
memory, and Lamentations took the lady 
boarders out every day up and down the fern- 
clad banks of the mountain-trout brooks, at 
fifty cents an hour. 
Mr. Jasper, the proprietor of The Hack, 
was much exercised in his mind that after 
noon. The minister had a guest that morning, 
arrived by the night express, who had 
declined to patronize The Hack. 
" He said he couldn't afford it," com 
plained Mr. Jasper to the postmistress. " A 
likely story ! Him not affordin anything. 
He walked all the way up, on his two legs ; 
just as if he'd grow'd here." 
" In this blazing sun ! " reproved the 
postmistress. " That boy, who never had a 
stroke of hardship in his life ! And poplar 
as he was in Tipton ! I sh'd like to know 
why you let him, Jarsper, / should ! " 
" Why, I never thought on't ! " gasped 
the proprietor of The Hack. " It never 
came into my head to offer him The Hack. 
I don't believe he'd have put foot in Her, 
more n if I'd horsewhipped him. He had 
that look. I wouldn't ha darst." 
It was now well on in the afternoon, and 
Donald and Fay were, for the first time, 
alone together. They had chatted with the 
family, of surface things, all day. Don had 
not said much about his circumstances or 
his plans. Nobody had felt like asking for 
what he did not offer. He had petted the 
cannibal cat ; and shaken hands with the 
little maid, and inquired after her elbows ; and 
had gone out to feed Old William ; and he 
had wandered about, and thought how de 
lightful the parsonage was without wood- 
boxes ; and he had gone upstairs to his old 
room, and gloried at the absence of the air 
tight stove, and felt dazed at the 
transformation from the frozen water-pitcher to the 
English violets on the toilet - table ; from 
the frosted to the open window, from all the 
austerities and sterilities of the Vermont 
winter, to the tenderness and the warm, 
rich, abundant life of the mountain 
midsummer. 
Then he had come down and looked at 
the new books in Dr. Fleet 's study a little 
while, and sat by Mrs. Fleet 's sewing-chair, 
at her feet, like a son, while she mended a 
rip in a glove he felt he could not afford to 
throw away ; and everybody had been tender 
as " own folks " to him ; but no one had 
intruded on his sorrows or his anxieties, and 
they had talked a good deal about Jamie, 
and wished that he were there, and Don had 
said that J. 's letters had been the greatest 
comfort of his life, since since But 
there he had broken off, and asked Fay 
abruptly, if she felt like walking down into 
the orchard with him. And here, at last, 
they were. 
Fay was charming that day, she was 
simply charming. There is, perhaps, no 
better or more womanly word to tell the kind 
of sweetness, of delightfulness, that belongs 
