' Wandering,' he says, kind of troubled — ' wan- 
dering, without any doubt. She's in a wind, now, 
that's blowing her south of east. We don't know 
how long that's been going on, either.' 
So then he p'inted her east, and said he would 
hold her there, whilst we rousted out the breakfast. 
The professor had laid in everything a body could 
want : he couldn't 'a' been better fixed. There 
wasn't no milk for the coffee, but there was water 
and everything else you could want, and a charcoal 
stove and the fixings for it, and pipes and cigars 
and matches; and wine and liquor, which warn't in 
our line ; and books and maps and charts, and an 
accordion ; and furs and blankets, and no end of 
rubbish, like glass beads and brass jewellery, which 
Tom said was a sure sign that he had an idea of 
visiting around amongst savages. There was 
money, too. Yes, the professor was well enough 
fixed. 
After breakfast Tom learned me and Jim how to 
steer, and divided all of us up into four-hour 
watches, turn and turn about ; and when his 
watch was out I took his place, and he got out the 
professor's papers and pens, and wrote a letter 
home to his aunt Polly telling her everything that 
had happened to us, and dated it 'In the Welkin, 
approaching England,' and folded it together and 
stuck it fast with a red wafer, and directed it, and 
wrote above the direction in big writing, ' From 
Tom Satcyer the Erronort,' and said it would sweat 
old Nat Parsons the postmaster when it come along 
in the mail. I says : 
' Tom Sawyer, this ain't no welkin : it's a 
balloon.' 
' Well, now, who said it was a welkin, smarty ? ' 
' You've wrote it on the letter, anyway.' 
' What of it ? That don't mean that the bal- 
loon's the welkin.' 
' Oh, I thought it did. Well, then, what is a 
welkin ? ' 
I see in a minute he was stuck. He raked and 
scraped around in his mind, but he couldn't find 
nothing, so he had to say : 
' I don't know, and nobody don't know. It's 
just a word. And it's a mighty good word too. 
There ain't many that lays over it. I don't believe 
there's any that does.' 
 Shucks,' I says ; ' but what does it mean ? — 
that's the p'int.' 
' I don't know what it means, I tell you. It's a 
word that people uses for — for — well, it's ornamen- 
tal. They don't put ruffles on a shirt to help keep 
a person warm, do they ? ' 
' Course they don't.' 
' But they put them on, don't they ? ' 
' Yes.' 
' All right, then ; that letter I wrote is a shirt, 
and the welkin's the ruffle on it.' 
I judged that that would gravel Jim, and it 
did. He says : 
' Now, Mars Tom, it ain't no use to talk like 
dat, en moreover it's sinful. You know's a letter 
ain't no shirt, en dey ain't no ruffles on it nuther. 
Dey ain't no place to put 'em on, you can't put 'em 
on, en dey wouldn't stay on ef you did.' 
' Oh, do shut up, and wait till something's 
started that you know something about.' 
' Why, Mars Tom, sholy you don't mean to say 
I don't know about shirts, when goodness knows 
I's toted home de washin' ever sence ' 
' I tell you this hasn't got anything to do with 
shirts. I only ' 
' Why, Mars Tom ! You said yo' own self dat 
a letter ' 
' Do you want to drive me crazy ? Keep still ! 
 only used it as a metaphor.' 
That word kind of bricked us up for a minute. 
Then Jim says, ruther timid, because he see Tom 
was getting pretty tetchy : 
' Mars Tom, what is a metaphor ? ' 
'A metaphor's a— well, it's a— a metaphor's 
an illustration.' He see that that didn't git home ; so 
he tried again. ' When I say birds of a feather flocks 
together, it's a metaphorical way of saying ' 
 But dey don't, Mars Tom. No, sir ; 'deed dey 
don't. Dey ain't no feathers dat's more alike den 
a bluebird's en a jaybird's, but ef you waits till you 
catches dem birds a flockin' together, you'll — ' 
' Oh, give us a rest. You can't get the simplest 
little thing through your thick skull. Now, don't 
bother me any more.' 
Jim was satisfied to stop. He was dreadful 
pleased with himself for catching Tom out. The 
minute Tom begun to talk about birds I judged 
he was a goner, because Jim knowed more about 
birds than both of us put together. You see, he 
had killed hundreds and hundreds of them, and 
that's the way to find out about birds. That's the 
way the people does that writes books about birds, 
and loves them so that they'll go hungry and tired 
and take any amount of trouble to find a new bird 
and kill it. Their name is ornithologers, and I 
could 'a' been an ornithologer myself, because I 
always loved birds and creatures ; and I started 
out to learn how to be one, and I see a bird setting 
on a dead limb of a high tree, singing, with his 
head tilted back and his mouth open, and before I 
thought I fired, and his song stopped and he fell 
straight down from the limb, all limp like a rag, 
and I run and picked him up, and he was dead, and 
his body was warm in my hand, and his head rolled 
about, this way and that, like his neck was broke, 
and there was a white skin over his eyes, and one 
little drop of blood on the side of his head, and 
laws ! I couldn't see nothing more for the tears ; and 
I hain't ever murdered no creature since that 
warn't doing me no harm, and I ain't going to. 
But I was aggravated about that welkin. I 
wanted to know. I got the subject up again, and 
then Tom explained the best he could. He said 
when a person made a big speech the newspapers 
said the shouts of the people made the welkin ring. 
He said they always said that, but none of them 
ever told what it was, so he allowed it just meant 
outdoors and up high. Well, that seemed sensible 
enough, so I was satisfied, and said so. That 
pleased Tom and put Lira in a good humour again, 
and he says : 
' Well, it's all right, then, and we'll let bygones 
be bygones. I don't know for certain what a welkin 
is, but when we land in London we'll make it ring } 
anyway, and don't you forget it.' 
He said an erronort was a person who sailed 
around in balloons ; and said it was a mighty sight 
finer to be Tom Sawyer the Erronort than to be Tom 
Sawyer the Traveller, and would be heard of all around 
the world, if we pulled through all right, and so be 
wouldn't give shucks to be a traveller now. 
Towards the middle of the afternoon we got 
everything ready to land, and we felt pretty good, 
too, and proud ; and we kept watching with the 
glasses, like C'lumbus discovering America. But 
we couldn't see nothing but ocean. The afternoon 
wasted out and the sun shut down, and still there 
warn't no land anywheres. We wondered what was 
the matter, but reckoned it would come out all right, 
so we went on steering east, but went up on a higher 
level so we wouldn't hit any steeples or mountains 
in the dark. 
It was my watch till midnight, and then it was 
Jim's ; but Tom stayed up, because he said ship 
captains done that when they was making the land, 
and didn't stand no regular watch. 
Well, when daylight come, Jim give a shetit; 
and we jumped up and looked over, and there was the 
land, sure enough ; land all around, as far as you 
could see, and perfectly level and yaller. We didn't 
know how long we had been over it. There warn't 
no trees, nor hills, nor rocks, nor towns, and Tom 
and Jim had took it for the sea. They took it for 
the sea in a dead cam ; but we was so high up, any- 
way, that if it had been the sea and rough, it would 
a' looked smooth, all the same, in the night that 
way. 
We was all in a powerful excitement, now, and 
grabbed the glasses and hunted everywheres for 
London, but couldn't find hide nor hair of it, nor 
any other settlement. Nor any sign of a lake or a 
river either. Tom was clean beat. He said it 
warn't his notion of England — he thought England 
looked like America, and always had that idea. So 
he said we better have breakfast, and then drop 
down and inquire the quickest way to London. We 
cut the breakfast pretty short, we was so impatient. 
As we slanted along down, the weather begun to 
moderate, and pretty soon we shed our furs. But 
it kept on moderating, and in a precious little while 
it was 'most too moderate. Why, the sweat begun 
to fairly bile out of us. We was close down, now, 
and just blistering ! 
