they will both sing the same tune at the same time, 
for in my opinion a duet that is made up of two 
different tunes is a mistake; especially when the 
tunes ain't any kin to one another, that way." 
"But, ma, I think it must be a foreign custom; 
and it must be right too; and the best way, because 
 
they have had every opportunity to know what is 
right, and it don't stand to reason that with their 
education they would do anything but what the 
highest musical authorities have sanctioned. You 
can't help but admit that, ma." 
The argument was formidably strong; the old 
lady could not find any way around it; so, after 
thinking it over awhile she gave in with a sigh of 
discontent, and admitted that the daughter's posi- 
tion was probably correct. Being vanquished, she 
had no mind to continue the topic at that disad- 
vantage, and was about to seek a change when a 
change came of itself. A footstep was heard on the 
stairs, and she said: 
"There — he's coming!" 
"They, ma — you ought to say they — it's nearer 
right." 
The new lodger, rather shoutingly dressed but 
looking superbly handsome, stepped with courtly 
carriage into the trim little breakfast-room and put 
out all his cordial arms at once, like one of those 
pocket-knives with a multiplicity of blades, and 
shook hands with the whole family simultaneously. 
He was so easy and pleasant and hearty that all 
embarrassment presently thawed away and disap- 
peared, and a cheery feeling of friendliness and 
comradeship took its place. He — or preferably 
they — were asked to occupy the seat of honor at 
the foot of the table. They consented with thanks, 
and carved the beefsteak with one set of their hands 
while they distributed it at the same time with the 
other set. 
 
'Will you have coffee, gentlemen, or tea?" 
'Coffee for Luigi, if you please, madam, tea for 
me. 
"Cream and sugar?" 
"For me, yes, madam; Luigi takes his coffee 
black. Our natures differ a good deal from each 
other, and our tastes also." 
The first time the negro girl Nancy appeared in 
the door and saw the two heads turned in opposite 
directions and both talking at once, then saw the 
commingling arms feed potatoes into one mouth 
and coffee into the other at the same time, she had 
to pause and pull herself out of a faintness that 
came over her; but after that she held her grip and 
was able to wait on the table with fair courage. 
Conversation fell naturally into the customary 
grooves. It was a little jerky, at first, because 
none of the family could get smoothly through a 
sentence without a wabble in it here and a break 
there, caused by some new surprise in the way of 
attitude or gesture on the part of the twins. The 
weather suffered the most. The weather was all 
finished up and disposed of, as a subject, before the 
simple Missourians had gotten sufficiently wonted 
to the spectacle of one body feeding two heads to 
feel composed and reconciled in the presence of so 
bizarre a miracle. And even after everybody's 
mind became tranquilized there was still one slight 
distraction left: the hand that picked up a biscuit 
carried it to the wrong head, as often as any other 
way, and the wrong mouth devoured it. This was a 
puzzling thing, and marred the talk a little. It 
 
bothered the widow to such a degree that she 
presently dropped out of the conversation without 
knowing it, and fell to watching and guessing and 
talking to herself: 
"Now that hand is going to take that coffee to 
— no, it's gone to the other mouth; I can't under- 
stand it ; and now, here is the dark-complected hand 
with a potato on its fork, I'll see what goes with it 
— there, the light-complected head's got it, as sure 
as I live!" Finally Rowena said: 
"Ma, what is the matter with you? Are you 
dreaming about something?" 
The old lady came to herself and blushed; then 
she explained with the first random thing that came 
into her mind: "I saw Mr. Angelo take up Mr. 
Luigi's coffee, and I thought maybe he — sha'n't I 
give you a cup, Mr. Angelo?" 
"Oh no, madam, I am very much obliged, but I 
never drink coffee, much as I would like to. You 
did see me take up Luigi's cup, it is true, but if you 
noticed, I didn't carry it to my mouth, but to his." 
"Y-es, I thought you did. Did you mean to?" 
"How?" 
The widow was a little embarrassed again. She 
said: 
"I don't know but what I'm foolish, and you 
mustn't mind; but you see, he got the coffee I was 
expecting to see you drink, and you got a potato 
that I thought he was going to get. So I thought it 
might be a mistake all around, and everybody get- 
ting what wasn't intended for him." 
Both twins laughed and Luigi said: 
"Dear madam, there wasn't any mistake. We 
are always helping each other that way. It is a 
great economy for us both; it saves time and labor. 
We have a system of signs which nobody can notice 
or understand but ourselves. If I am using both 
my hands and want some coffee, I make the sign and 
Angelo furnishes it to me; and you saw that when 
he needed a potato I delivered it." 
"How convenient!" 
"Yes, and often of the extremest value. Take 
the Mississippi boats, for instance. They are always 
overcrowded. There is table-room for only half of 
the passengers, therefore they have to set a second 
table for the second half. The stewards rush both 
parties, they give them no time to eat a satisfying 
meal, both divisions leave the table hungry. It isn't 
so with us. Angelo books himself for the one table, 
I book myself for the other. Neither of us eats any- 
thing at the other's table, but just simply works — 
works. Thus, you see there are four hands to feed 
Angelo, and the same four to feed me. Each of us 
eats two meals." 
The old lady was dazed with admiration, and kept 
saying, "It is perfectly wonderful, perfectly wonder- 
ful!" and the boy Joe licked his chops enviously, 
but said nothing — at least aloud. 
"Yes," continued Luigi, "our construction may 
have its disadvantages — in fact, has — but it also 
has its compensations of one sort and another. 
Take travel, for instance. Travel is enormously ex- 
pensive, in all countries; we have been obliged to 
do a vast deal of it — come, Angelo, don't put any 
 
more sugar in your tea, I'm just over one indiges- 
tion and don't want another right away — been 
obliged to do a deal of it, as I was saying. Well, 
we always travel as one person, since we occupy but 
one seat; so we save half the fare." 
"How romantic!" interjected Rowena, with effu- 
sion. 
"Yes, my dear young lady, and how practical 
too, and economical. In Europe, beds in the hotels 
are not charged with the board, but separately — 
another saving, for we stood to our rights and 
paid for the one bed only. The landlords often 
insisted that as both of us occupied the bed we 
ought—" 
"No, they didn't," said Angelo. "They did it 
only twice, and in both cases it was a double bed — 
a rare thing in Europe — and the double bed gave 
thern some excuse. Be fair to the landlords; twice 
doesn't constitute 'often.'" 
"Well, that depends — that depends. I knew a 
man who fell down a well twice. He said he didn't 
mind the first time, but he thought the second time 
was once too often. Have I misused that word, 
Mrs. Cooper?" 
"To tell the truth, I was afraid you had, but it 
seems to look, now, like you hadn't." She stopped, 
and was evidently struggling with the difficult prob- 
lem a moment, then she added in the tone of one 
who is convinced without being converted, ' ' It seems 
so, but I can't somehow tell why." 
Rowena thought Luigi's retort was wonderfully 
quick and bright, and she remarked to herself with 
satisfaction that there wasn't any young native of 
Dawson's Landing that could have risen to the 
occasion like that. Luigi detected the applause in 
her face, and expressed his pleasure and his thanks 
with his eyes; and so eloquently withal, that the 
girl was proud and pleased, and hung out the deli- 
cate sign of it on her cheeks. 
Luigi went on, with animation: 
"Both of us get a bath for one ticket, theater 
seat for one ticket, pew-rent is on the same basis, 
