and seized it with one hand.
"Fire at him!" yelled Captain Titus furiously, to two of the ruffians
with muskets in their hands.
One of them raised his weapon to aim at Deck, who instantly fired at
him. He dropped his gun upon the ground, and grasped his right arm with
the left hand. The other man then raised his musket; but both of the
other horsemen fired at him at the same instant, and he dropped heavily
on the sod.
The three cavalrymen reloaded their weapons, and were immediately ready
for the next move. The three men at the rope seemed to be appalled at
the fate of their associates, and released their hold upon it. A moment
later they began to skulk off in the direction of the grove.
"Don't let them escape, Owens!" said Deck, to the one nearest to him.
Both of them darted off at a gallop, and headed them off, driving them
back to the tree from which the rope was hanging. Again Deck seized the
line, and urged his horse up to the place where the planter was
standing. Reaching down from his seat in the saddle, he cut the cords
that bound the prisoner, and then directed him to remove the rope from
his neck.
"I owe my life to you, young man," said Mr. Barkland, panting with
emotion and excitement.
"I suppose you are a Union man, sir?" added Deck.
"I am; and that is the reason why I am subjected to this outrage,"
replied the intended victim.
"What brought you here, Deck Lyon? Who sent you here to interfere with
my business?" demanded Captain Titus, confronting his nephew with a
savage frown.
"We shall not allow any such business as this," answered Deck, who was
not at all inclined to parley with the captain of the late Home Guards,
now in the service of the Confederacy. "You and those with you will
consider yourselves as prisoners of war."
"Prisoners of war!" exclaimed Captain Titus. "I reckon we ain't nothin'
of the sort. Do you mean to take six on us with only three?"
"We shall not take the trouble to count your numbers. Mr. Barkland, you
can return to your house, for your wife and daughter are very anxious
about you. I hope you have not been injured, sir."
"Only in my nerves," replied the planter, as he started for his mansion.
At this moment Knox and his three men dashed upon the scene, to the
great astonishment of Captain Titus.
"Well, Deck, is the business finished?" asked the sergeant, as he reined
up his steed. "We had to go about two miles to get here, and that is
what made it so late."
Deck reported what had happened so far. The man who had dropped so
heavily on the ground was not killed; but he was bleeding from a wound
in the side of the head, and the ball had only stunned him. The other
man, with a bullet through his arm, was worse off.
"This man who is in command of the company is my uncle, Captain Titus,"
said Deck in a low voice to the sergeant.
"What! Major Lyon's brother?" exclaimed Life. "I have heard all about
him, and he is a pesky troublesome fellow."
"I don't want anything more to do with him, Life, and I wish you would
dispose of him," added Deck.
"Do you want me to kill him? I can't do that; for"--
"Nothing of the sort!" interposed the nephew warmly. "Of course I don't
want you to do anything of the sort."
"We have six prisoners of war, and we will march them down to the main
body," added Knox.
The sergeant proceeded to form his prisoners in a single rank; but
Captain Titus appeared to have brought all his obstinacy and
unreasonableness with him, and he refused to take the place assigned to
him.
"Where are you going?" demanded the prisoner, as though he still ruled
the roost, as he had doubtless done in his company.
"None of your business where we are going," replied the sergeant. "If
you don't take your place I shall put you into it."
"This thing won't last long, for my company will take a hand in the
business in the morning, and a battalion of Texan cavalry will make it
warm for you."
"We are not talking about your company or any Texan cavalry. Will you
take your place in the line? That's the only question you have got to
settle," returned Knox.
"I won't take any place!" replied the captain with a volley of oaths.
"Swear not at all, my man," continued Life, as he seized the rebellious
prisoner by the back of his coat collar, lifted him clear of the ground,
and then brought him down in the place assigned to him. "Stay there!"
"I won't stay there!" growled he, as he attempted to leave the spot.
But Knox seized hold of him again, lifted him up, and slapped him down
across the pommel of his saddle, face down.
"Any way you like, my man; but you are going with this crowd. Forward,
my men!" and he placed himself at the head of the squad, and started in
the direction of the road, in spite of the struggles of the prisoner.
But they had not reached the road where they had first seen Cato, when
the head of a column appeared in the act of turning into the field,
doubtless guided by Hart, the messenger who had been sent to report to
the major in command.
Knox halted his little force, and threw his prisoner on the ground
without any ceremony, ordering Owens to take charge of him. The column
consisted of only the first company, the other having been sent to take
another position. Captain Truman had been ordered to hold himself in
readiness to cut off the retreat to the westward of the force which Lane
had reported upon.
"What have you here?" asked Major Lyon, as he saw the six prisoners in
front of Knox's scouts.
"Prisoners, Major; and I am sorry to say that your brother is one of
them," replied the sergeant. "They were about to hang the planter, Mr.
Barkland, who lives in the mansion yonder; but we saved him, and sent
him home."
"My brother a prisoner!" exclaimed the major very sadly.
He gave the order to march, and the first company proceeded towards the
planter's mansion.
CHAPTER VII
PREPARING FOR ACTIVE OPERATIONS
The discipline which Knox had administered to Captain Titus had taken
some of the obstinacy out of him, and he was willing to march with the
other prisoners. All of them had been engaged in the "Battle of
Riverlawn," as it was called, when the mob had been driven away from the
plantation. They were placed between a couple of ranks of troopers, and
no further attention was given to them till the company halted, a short
distance from the mansion.
It was the camp for the night; and the horses were picketed, the tents
pitched, and a cordon of sentinels stationed around the whole. The
prisoners were provided for as comfortably as the soldiers, and the
major had an opportunity to inquire into the situation. He had reached
the point to which he had been ordered. The region in the vicinity of
the railroad bridge had been examined by a large body of scouts, and
nothing like an enemy had been discovered. A trio of negroes had been
seen, and they were always ready to tell all they knew to persons
wearing the national uniform.
There was no military force near the bridge. After Knox had sent back a
messenger with the information obtained from Cato, that "a whole
regiment" was encamped at the right of the road, Major Lyon had sent a
couple of trusty men to examine the locality. These soldiers had crept
cautiously into the woods, and found the force indicated; but it
consisted of only a single company, as they could see by the light of
the camp-fires. They had no tents, and most of the men were lying about
on the ground.
It was now evident that this was Captain Titus's company. They were
encamped near the railroad; but there were no bridges of any consequence
near them, and they had doubtless postponed the work of the expedition
till the next morning. Though the major had never even heard the name of
Mr. Barkland, the planter, his brother must have had some information in
regard to him, or he would hardly have visited his mansion and
attempted to extort money from him.
Major Lyon did not care to meet his brother, for his conduct had been
explained to him, and he was in a bad frame of mind even for him; but he
ordered Knox to bring another of the party engaged in the outrage to his
tent. He had selected one who appeared to be a reasonable man, and his
manner was quite different from that of the captain. The major had seen
him before, but he knew nothing about him.
"Do you belong to the company encamped in the woods farther down the
road?" asked the major.
"How do you know there is any company there?" demanded the fellow, who
seemed to be somewhat surprised at the question.
"I ask questions, but I don't answer them," replied Major Lyon with a
smile.
"That's jest my case," replied the Home Guardsman with a capacious grin.
"I don't tell all I know every day 'n the week."
"You don't know so much that you couldn't tell it as often as that,"
added Captain Gordon, who was present at the interview, and thought the
major was more pleasant than the occasion required.
"But I know sunthin' you want to know," chuckled the man.
"Not at all; I know all about your company," said the major.
"Then what did you ask me if I belonged to it for?"
"Knox, this man thinks he knows too much, and you may take him away,"
called the major to the sergeant, who stood at the door of the tent.
"Oh, I'm willin' t' answer you," grinned the fellow. "I belong to that
company."
"What were you doing up here, then?"
"Cap'n Titus thought the man that lives on this plantation had more
money 'n he could manage, and he was willin' to help him take care
on't."
"In other words, you intended to rob him."
"I didn't intend nothin' o' the sort. I obey the orders of the cap'n. If
you want to know anything more about it, you'll have to ask him."
"Is your company the only body of troops about here?" asked the major,
to whom Knox had reported what Captain Titus said about "Texan cavalry."
"You'll have to ask the cap'n about that; for he didn't tell me all he
know'd."
It was evident that the man knew nothing of any importance, and the
sergeant was directed to send him back to his quarters. At the entrance
to the tent a visitor was waiting, who proved to be Mr. Barkland, and he
was promptly admitted. He expressed his obligations for the important
service rendered to him, and commended the energy of the young man who
had been foremost in saving him from the fatal rope.
"These ruffians must have known that you had your money concealed in the
house," suggested the major.
"I haven't any great amount in the house," replied Mr. Barkland. "I have
a bank account in Louisville, and I had some money in the bank at
Munfordville; but there are so many marauding parties about in this
section of the State, that I took out the little I had in the latter,
