home." 
"I I know it, Rex, but don't let us think of 
it. Rex," she said, some moments after, "are 
you like all students?" 
"How do you mean?" 
"Have you ever loved, before, a girl, here 
in Paris, like me?" 
"There are none, like you." 
"Answer me, Rex." 
"No, I never have," he said, truthfully. 
Presently he added, "And you, Yvonne?" 
She put her warm little hand across his mouth. 
"Don't ask," she murmured. 
"But I do!" he cried, struggling to see her 
eyes, "won't you tell me?" 
She hid her face tight against his breast. 
"You know I have; that is why I am alone 
here, in Paris," 
"You loved him?" 
"Yes, not as I love you." 
Presently she raised her eyes to his. 
"Shall I tell you all? I am like so many so 
many others. When you know their story, you 
know mine." 
He leaned down and kissed her. 
"Don't tell me," he said. 
But she went on. 
"I was only seventeen I am nineteen now. 
He was an officer at at Chartres, where we 
lived. He took me to Paris." 
"And left you." 
"He died of the fever in Tonquin." 
"When?" 
"Three weeks ago." 
"And you heard?" 
"To-night." 
"Then he did leave you." 
"Don t, Rex, he never loved me, and I I 
never really loved him. I found that out." 
"When did you find it out?" 
"One day, you know when, in a  cab." 
"Dear Yvonne," he whispered, "can't you go 
back to to your family?" 
 
"No, Rex." 
"Never?" 
"I don't wish, to now. No, don't ask me 
why! I can't tell you. I am like all the rest 
all the rest. The Paris fever is only cured 
by death. Don't ask me, Rex; I am content 
indeed I am." 
Suddenly a heavy rapping at the door caused 
Gethryn to spring hurriedly to his feet. 
"Rex!" 
It was Braith's voice. 
"What!" cried Gethryn, hoarsely. 
There was a pause. 
"Aren't you going to let me in?" 
"I can t, old man; I I'm not just up for company to-night," stammered Gethryn. 
"Company be damned, are you ill?" 
"No." 
There was a silence. 
"I'm sorry," began Gethryn, but was cut short 
by a gruff, 
"All right; good-night!" and Braith went 
away. 
Yvonne looked inquiringly at him. 
"It was nothing," he murmured, very pale, 
and then threw himself at her feet, crying, "Oh, 
Yvonne Yvonne !" 
Outside the storm raged furiously. 
Presently she whispered, "Rex, shall I light 
the candle? It is midnight." 
&lt;Yes," he said. 
She slipped away, and after searching for 
some time, cried, "The matches are all gone, 
but here is a piece of paper, a letter; do you 
want it? I can light it over the lamp." 
She held up an envelope to him. 
"I can light it over the lamp," she repeated. 
"What is the address" 
"It is very long, I can't read it all, only Flor 
ence, Italy. ' 
"Burn it, "he said, in a voice so low she could 
scarcely hear him. 
Presently she came over and knelt down by 
his side. Neither spoke or moved. 
"The candle is lighted," she whispered, at 
last. 
"And the lamp?" 
"Is out." 
CHAPTER IX. 
Cholmondeley Rowden had invited a select 
circle of friends to join him in a "petit diner a 
la stag," as he expressed it. 
Eight months of Paris and the cold, cold 
world had worked a wonderful change in Mr. 
Rowden. For one thing, he had shaved his whiskers and now wore only a mustache. For 
another, he had learned to like and respect a 
fair portion of the French students, and in con 
sequence was respected and liked in return. 
He had had two fights, in both of which he 
had contributed to the glory of the British Empire, and prize ring. 
He was a better sparrer than Clifford, and 
was his equal in the use of the foils. Like Clifford, 
he was a capital banjoist, but he insisted that 
cricket was far superior to base-ball, and this 
was the only bone of contention that ever fell 
between the two. 
Clifford played his shameless jokes as usual, 
accompanied by the enthusiastic applause of 
Rowden. Clifford also played "The Widow 
Nolan's Goat" upon his banjo, accompanied by 
the intricate pizzicatos of Rowden. 
Clifford drank numerous bottles of double X 
with Rowden, and Rowden consumed uncounted 
egg- flips with Clifford. They were inseparable; 
in fact, the triumvirate, Clifford, Elliott and 
Rowden, even went so far as to dress alike, and 
mean-natured people hinted that they had but 
one common style in painting. But they did 
not make the remark to any of the triumvirate. 
They were very fond of each other, these pre 
cious triumvirs, but they did not address each 
other by nicknames, and perhaps it was because 
they respected each other enough to refrain 
from familiarities that this alliance lasted as long 
as they lived. 
It was a beautiful sight, that of the three 
youths, when they sallied forth in company, 
hatted, clothed, and gloved alike, and each followed by a murderous-looking bull-dog. The 
animals were of the brindled variety, and each 
was garnished with a steel spiked collar. Timid 
people often crossed to the other side of the 
street on meeting this procession. 
 
Braith laughed at the whole performance, 
but secretly thought that a little of their spare 
energy and imagination might have been spent 
to advantage upon their artistic productions. 
Braith was doing splendidly. His last year's 
picture had been hung on the line and, in spite 
of his number three, he had received a third 
class medal, and had been praised, even generously, by artists and critics, including Albert 
Wolff. He was hard at work on a large canvas for 
the coming International Exhibition at Paris; 
he had sold a number of smaller studies, and 
besides had pictures well hung in Munich, and 
in more than one gallery at home. 
At last, after ten years of hard work, struggles, 
and disappointments, he began to enjoy a meas 
ure of success. He and Gethryn saw little of 
each other this winter, excepting at Julien s. 
That last visit to the Rue Monsieur le Prince 
was never mentioned between them. They were 
as cordial when they met as ever, but Braith 
did not visit his young friend any more, and 
Gethryn never spoke to him of Yvonne. 
"Good-bye, old chap!" Braith would say, 
when they parted, gripping Rex's hand and 
smiling at him. But Rex did not see Braith's 
face as he walked away. 
Braith felt helpless. The thing he most 
dreaded for Rex had happened; he believed he 
could see the end of it all, and yet he could 
prevent nothing. If he should tell Rex that 
he was being ruined, Rex would not listen, and 
who was he that he should preach to another 
man for the same fault by which he had wasted 
his own life? No, Rex would never listen to 
him, and he dreaded a rupture of their friend 
ship. 
Gethryn had made his debut in the Salon 
with a certain amount of eclat. True, he had 
been disappointed in his expectations of a med 
al, but a first mention had soothed him a little, 
and, what was more important, it proved to be 
the needed sop to his discontented aunt. But 
somehow or other his new picture did not pro 
gress rapidly, or in a thoroughly satisfactory 
