group of listening women. The wonderful rapture in Bess’s face was
distinct. It was the sweet old hymn that she was listening to, the voice
that stilled her longing soul, that filled her with content unutterable.

There was a round of applause that brought her back to the present life.
They were rather noisy here. She liked the dreamland best.

“That takes the cake jist!” declared Patsey, looking down in the
bewildered face. “What’s the matter? Youse look nawful pale!”

“My head aches,” she said. “It’s so warm here. And it’s all very nice,
but will it be over soon, Patsey?”

The boy was disappointed; but the next morning Dil evinced such a
cordial interest in all the points that had amused them, that Patsey
decided that it must have been the headache, and not lack of
appreciation.

But he hung around after the others were gone, with a curious sense of
responsibility.

“Youse don’t git reel well any more, Dil,” he said, his voice full of
solicitude. “Kin I do anythin’—”

“O Patsey!” The quick tears came to her eyes. “Why, I am well, an’
everything’s so nice now, an’ Mrs. Brian jes’ lovely. Mebbe I ain’t
quite so strong sence I was sick. An’ sometimes I get lonesome with you
away all day.”

“I wish youse knowed some gals—”

“Patsey,” a soft, tender light came to her brown eyes, “I think I miss
the babies. They’re so cunnin’ an’ sweet, an’ put their arms round your
neck an’ say such pritty little words. An’ if I could have some babies I
wouldn’t wash any more. That puts me out o’ breath like, an’ hurts my
side. ’Twas that tired me for last night.”

“Youse jist sha’n’t wash no more, then. But babies is such a bother!”

“I love thim so. An’ only two, maybe. Curis there ain’t a baby in this
house, nor in the front, neither. Babies would seem like old times, when
I had Bess.”

There was such a wistful look in her pale, tender face. Patsey thought
she had grown a great deal prettier, but he wished she had red cheeks.
And he was moved to go out at once and hunt up the babies.

Other girls might have made friends in the neighborhood; but Dil had
never acquired friendly arts, and now she shrank from companionship. But
she liked Mrs. Brian; and that very afternoon as they sat together Dil
ventured to state her desires.

“You don’t look fit to bother with ’em. You ought to be out pleasurin’ a
bit.”

“But I’m strong, though; an’ I used to be such a fat little chunk! I was
stunted like; but I think I look better not to be so fat,” she said with
quaint self-appreciation.

“There’s one baby I could get for you easy. The mother’s a nice body—you
see, the man went off. She’s waitress in a restaurant, an’ her little
girl’s pretty as a pink, with a head full of yellow curls, an’ big blue
eyes. She pays a dollar for her keep, ’ceptin’ nights an’ Sundays. An’
you’d be so good, which the woman ain’t. You couldn’t hurt a fly if you
tried.”

“Oh, if I could have her!” cried Dil eagerly. A little girl with golden
hair, curly hair. And a dollar would pay for the washing and ironing.
The boys had been so good about fixing up things and buying her clothes
that she had felt she must do all she could in return.

“I’ll see about it this very evenin’, dear.”

“Oh, thank you! thank you!”

The mother, a slim young thing, came to visit Dil on Sunday, with
pretty, chubby, two-year-old Nelly, who was not shy at all, and came and
hugged Dil at once. Her prettiness was not of the spirituelle order,
as Bess’s would have been under any circumstances. The eyes were merry
and wondering, the voice a gay little ripple, and comforted Dil
curiously.

And through the course of the week several “incidental” ones came. It
was like old times.

“Seems to me it’s nawful tough to be nussin’ kids,” said Patsey; “but,
Dil, you’ve chirked up an’ grown reel jolly. You’re hankerin’ arter
Bess, an’ can’t forgit. An’ ef the babies make ye chipper, let ’em come.
I only hope they won’t take any fat offen yer bones, fer youse most a
skiliton now. But sounds good to hear youse laugh agen.”

“I’d like just a little fat in my cheeks,” she made answer.

Patsey brought her home a white dress one day, and said they would all
go down to Coney Island some Sunday.

“I wouldn’t dast to,” she said. “I’d be that afeared o’ meetin’ mother.
She used to go las’ summer. An’ if she should find me—”

“Yer cudden’t find anybody, les’ yer looked sharp. An’ youse er that
changed an’ sollumn lookin’ an’ big-eyed, no one’d know yer.”

“But you knew me,” with a grateful little smile.

Patsey grinned and rolled his eyes.

“I was a-layin’ fer ye.”

“You can take me up to Cent’l Park, Patsey. I’d like to go so much.”

“That’s the talk, now! So I will. We’ll all go. We’ll have a reg’lar
persesh, a stunner, an’ take our lunch, like the ’ristocrockery!”

Dil did brighten up a good deal. Baby kisses helped. She was starving
for love, such as boys did not know how to give. She used to take Nelly
out walking, and imagine her her very own. The mother instinct was
strong in Dil.

Having the washing done did ease up the work; though one would have
considered it no sinecure to feed five hungry boys. Now and then her
head would ache, and occasionally something inside of her would flutter
up in her throat, as it had when Bess died, and she would stretch out
her hands to clasp some warm human support, her whole body in a shiver
of vague terror.

If John Travis would only come. She could not disbelieve in him. Last
autumn in the moment of desperate despair he had come, bringing such a
waft of joy and satisfaction. There were so many things she wanted to
ask him. She began to hope, in a vague way, that the Lord had come for
Bess, for she wanted her in that beautiful heaven. But the mystery was
too great for her untrained mind. And there intruded upon her thought,
the horror of that moment when she knew Bess was dead.

The hot weather was very trying. Hemmed in on all sides by tall
buildings, her own room so small, with a window on a narrow space hardly
six inches from the brick wall of the next house, there was little
chance for air. The boys seemed to sleep through anything.

So the weeks passed on with various small delights and events. The boys
would go off and spend their money when they needed clothes, and then
would follow heroic efforts at economizing. Dil had such shrewd good
sense, and they did listen to her gentle advice. They were a gay,
rollicking lot, but their very spirits seemed to be of a world she had
passed by. It was as if she was on the way to some unknown land, not
quite a stranger, but a sojourner.

Owen was a really tolerable boy, and bade fair to keep out of the reform
school. They all mended of their swearing; they were ready to wait on
her at a word.

The white frock was a beauty. Shorty brought her some pink ribbons that
made her look less pale, and she had a wreath of wild roses on her hat
that Mrs. Brian gave her.

They made ready for their excursion one beautiful Sunday morning in
July. There had been a tremendous shower the night before, and all
nature was fresh and glowing. The very sky was full of suggestions in
its clear, soft blue, with here and there a white drift.

Oh, how lovely the park looked! Dil had to pause in a strange awe, as if
she was hardly prepared to enter. It was like the hymn that was always
floating intangibly through her mind—the fields and rivers of delight,
the fragrant air, the waving trees and beds of flowers, the beautiful
nooks, the bridges, the winding paths that seemed leading into delicious
mysteries.

The boys were wild over the animals. They were irrepressible, and soon
tired out poor Dil. She had to sit down and press her hand on her heart.
There was a strange sinking, as if she was floating off, like the fleecy
white drifts above her.

“Youse air nawful white!” cried Patsey in alarm. “An’ ther’s sich a
queer blue streak acrost yer lip. Air ye sick?”

She drew a long breath, and the world seemed to settle again, as she
raised her soft eyes with a smile all about them.

“No, Patsey—I’m only a bit tired. Let me sit an’ get rested.”

She took the sunbrowned hand in hers with a mute little caress that
