time with all these wild theories and crudities on 
the statute-book. And then educated people say 
that politics is so corrupt and absurd that they can- 
not have anything to do with it." 
" And how far do you think we could get, my 
dear, in the crusade you propose ?" 
"I don't know that you would get anywhere. 
Yet I should think the young men of New York 
could organize its intelligence and do something. 
But you think I'm nothing but a woman." And 
Edith sank back, as if abandoning the field. 
" I had thought that ; but it is hard to tell, these 
days. Never mind, when we go back to town I'll 
stir round ; you'll see." 
This was an unusual sort of talk. Jack had never 
heard Edith break out in this direction before, and 
he wondered if many women were beginning to 
think of men in this way, as cowardly about their 
public duties. Not many in his set, he was sure. 
If Edith had urged him to go into Neighborhood 
Guild work, he could have understood that. Women 
and ethical cranks were interested in that. And 
women were getting queerer every day, beginning, 
as Mavick said, to take notice. However, it was 
odd, when you thought over it, that the city should 
be ruled by the slums. 
It was easy to talk about these things ; in fact, 
Jack talked a great deal about them in the clubs, 
and occasionally with a knot of men after dinner 
in a knowing, pessimistic sort of way. Sometimes 
the discussions were very animated and even noisy 
between these young citizens. It seemed, some- 
times, about midnight, that something might be 
done ; but the resolution vanished next morning 
when another day, to be lived through, confronted 
them. They illustrated the great philosophic ob- 
servation that it is practically impossible for an idle 
man who has nothing to do to begin anything to- 
day. 
To do Jack justice, this enforced detention in the 
country he did not find dull exactly. To be sure it 
was vacation-time, and his whole life was a vaca- 
tion, and summer was rather more difficult to dis- 
pose of than winter, for one had to make more of 
an effort to amuse himself. But Edith was never 
more charming than in this new dependence, and 
all his love and loyalty were evoked in caring for 
her. This was occupation enough, even if he had 
been the busiest man in the world to watch over 
her, to read to her, to anticipate her fancies, to live 
with her in that dream of the future which made 
life seem almost ideal. There came a time when he 
looked back upon this month at the Golden House 
as the happiest in his life. 
The talk about an occupation was not again re- 
ferred to. Edith seemed entirely happy to have 
Jack with her, more entirely her own than he had 
ever been, and to have him just as he was. And yet 
he knew, by a sure instinct, that she saw him as 
she thought he would be, with some aim and pur- 
pose in life. And he made many good resolutions. 
That which was nearest him attracted him most, 
and very feeble now were the allurements of the 
life and the company he had just left. Not that 
he would break with it exactly ; it was not neces- 
sary to do that ; but he would find something to 
do, something worth a man's doing, or, at any rate, 
some occupation that should tax his time and his 
energies. That, he knew, would make Edith hap- 
py, and to make her happy seemed now very much 
like a worthy object in life. She was so magnani- 
mous, so unsuspicious, so full of all nobility. He 
knew she would stand by him whatever happened. 
Down here her attitude to life was no longer a 
rebuke to him nor a restraint upon him. Every- 
thing seemed natural and wholesome. Perhaps his 
vanity was touched, for there must be something in 
him if such a woman could love him. And prob- 
ably there was, though he himself had never yet 
had a chance to find it out. Brought up in the ex- 
pectation of a fortune, bred to idleness as others 
are to industry, his highest ambition having been 
to amuse himself creditably and to take life easily, 
what was to hinder his being one of the multitude 
of "good-for-nothings" in our modern life? If 
there had been war, he had spirit enough to carry 
him into it, and it would have surprised no one to 
hear that Jack had joined an exploring expedition 
to the North Pole or the highlands of Central Asia. 
Something uncommon he might do if opportunity 
offered. 
About his operations with Henderson he had 
never told Edith, and he did not tell her now. 
Perhaps she divined it, and he rather wondered 
that she had never asked him about his increased 
expenditures, his yacht, and all that. He used to 
look at her steadily at times, as if he were trying 
to read the secrets of her heart. 
" "What are you looking at, Jack ?" 
"To see if I can find out how much you know, 
you look so wise." 
" Do I ? I was just thinking about you. I sup- 
pose that made me look so." 
" No ; about life and the world generally." 
" Mighty little, Jack, except well, I study you." 
" Do you ? Then you'll presently lose your 
mind." 
Jack and most men have little idea that they are 
windows through which their wives see the world ; 
and how much more of the world they know in 
that way than men usually suspect or wives ever 
teU! 
He did not tell her about Henderson, but he al- 
most resolved that when his present venture was 
over he would let stocks alone as speculations, and 
go into something that he could talk about to his 
wife as he talked about stocks to Carmen. 
From the stranded mariners at Bar Harbor Cap- 
tain Jack had many and facetious letters. They 
wanted to know if his idea was that they should 
stick by the yacht until he got leisure to resume 
the voyage, or if he expected them to walk home. 
He had already given orders to the skipper to 
patch it up and bring it to New York if possible, 
and he advised his correspondents to stay by the 
yacht as long as there was anything in the larder, 
but if they were impatient, he offered them trans- 
portation on any vessel that would take able- 
bodied seamen. He must be excused from com- 
manding, because he had been assigned to shore 
duty. Carmen and Miss Tavish wrote that it was 
unfair to leave them to sustain all the popularity 
and notoriety of the shipwreck, and that he owed 
it to the public to publish a statement, in reply to 
the insinuations of the newspapers, in regard to the 
sea-worthiness of the yacht and the object of this 
voyage. Jack replied that the only object of the 
voyage was to relieve the tedium of Bar Harbor, 
and, having accomplished this, he would present the 
vessel to Miss Tavish if she would navigate it back 
to the city. 
The golden autumn days by the sea were little 
disturbed by these echoes of another life, which 
seemed at the moment to be a very shallow one. 
Yet the time was not without its undertone of anxie- 
ties, of grave perils that seemed to sanctify it and 
heighten its pleasures of hope. Jack saw and com- 
prehended for the first time in his life the real 
nature of a pure woman, the depths of tenderness 
and self-abnegation, the heroism and calm trust 
and the nobility of an unworldly life. No wonder 
that he stood a little in awe of it, and days when 
he wandered down on the beach, with only the 
waves for company, or sat smoking in the arbor, 
with an unread book in his hand, his own career 
seemed petty and empty. Such moods, however, 
are not uncommon in any life, and are not of 
necessity fruitful. It need not be supposed that 
Jack took it too seriously, on the one hand, or, on 
the other, that a vision of such a woman's soul is 
ever without influence. 
By the end of October they returned to town, 
Jack, and Edith with a new and delicate attractive- 
ness, and young Fletcher Delancy the most won- 
derful and important personage probably who came 
to town that season. It seemed to Edith that his 
advent would be universally remarked, and Jack 
felt relieved when the boy was safely housed out 
of the public gaze. Yes, to Edith's inexpressible 
joy it was a boy, and while Jack gallantly said 
that a girl would have suited him just as well, he 
was conscious of an increased pride when he an- 
nounced the sex to his friends. This undervalua- 
tion of women at the start is one of the mysteries 
of life. And until women themselves change their 
point of view, it is to be feared that legislation will 
not accomplish all that many of them wish. 
" So it is a boy. I congratulate you," was the 
exclamation of Major Fairfax the first time Jack 
went down to the Union. 
