it is seven ? Do you know the Wentworths 
are coming ? Do you know why, what is 
the matter with her ? " 

On the chair, her head on her shoulder, 
Myrrha seemed to have sunk in a heap. 

Quain sprang at her. " She's fainted," 
he almost yelped. 

" Be still, you great booby. Ring the 
bell, can't you ? Call Antoinette." 

Already Mrs. Smithwick had raised the 
girl and was beating her hands with hers, 
but instantly almost she opened her eyes. 

" There, it's over now." 

She straightened herself, and for a 
moment sat, Quain and Mrs. Smithwick 
on either side, unconscious of them, unconscious perhaps of herself, in that attitude 
which Diirer gave to Melancholy. 

Mrs. Smithwick, however, had no intention 
of experiencing any such emotion without 
enjoying the due reward. 

" It is your stays, Myrrha," she began 





sewerely. " Don't tell me it isn't. It's 
always the same thing. I don't know what 
gets into girls." And looking over at 
Quain she added in a shrill aside, " The 
devil, I think." 

Myrrha nodded, but to which solution was 
by no means clear. Then with that motion 
a swan has, she turned to Quain : 
" Come to-morrow, won't you ? " 
Yes, indeed he would. And when he 
found himself in the street he repeated that 
promise aloud. He was vexed, nervous too, 
distraught by the episodes of the afternoon, 
which had left him little wiser than before. 
Her attitude, too, filled him with surmises. 
He asked himself a dozen questions in as 
many seconds, and let them pass unanswered. 
There was but one that he detained of 
what was she afraid ? Was it his face ? 
Surely that were enough to frighten a 
braver and stronger one yet than she. But 
had she not insisted, angrily almost, that it 
was not that? And yet, admitting that in 
her heart of hearts she really loved, was it 





not less himself for whom she cared than 
for some illusion of her fancy ? 

It is the corollary of love to doubt, to 
doubt always, to doubt in certainty, in conviction ; and though such shrewd people as 
you and I could have told at a glance that 
the girl was not illusionized in the least, yet 
Quain was in the toils. Love may frighten, 
but it blinds as well. 

He had reached a club where, latterly, he 
had dined, and entered querying still. In 
the main room Stitt was seated, his back to 
the door. About him were a group of men 
in evening dress. Quain's entrance was 
unnoticed. He picked up the Post and 
glanced at a leader. But the sound of his 
own name caused him, as involuntarily it 
will cause the best of us, to listen. It was 
Stitt that was speaking. 

"You are wrong, dear boy. Men such as 
he have opportunities the rest of us never 
enjoy. Women must be loved, yes, though 
it be by monsters, perhaps particularly by 
monsters " 





The paper Quain held fell from him. It 
was as though a veil had been rent. Light 
poured in upon him. He turned to go, but 
another phrase from the novelist, the answer 
to some objection, no doubt, followed after 
and caught him on the way. 

" Psychology ! But what is psychology 
but common sense with the gas turned on ? " 

"And what is a paradox? " he asked him- 
self as he reached the street. " What is it 
but the commonplace in fancy dress ? For 
once, and by accident, that idiot is right. If 
Myrrha loves me it is because I differ from 
all other men, because I am a monster, 
because outside of Patagonia and Sing Sing 
I am the ugliest being on earth. Because I 
am unique. But what is it that she fears ? 
Is my nature as hideous as my face ? " 

The man who has followed the old world 
recommendation, the man who has taken 
cognizance of himself, is rare. Quain was 
no exception. The philosophy of the Athenians had disorganized him admirably ; it 
had divested him of the incessant preoccupation of what Stitt might have termed the 
cant-dira-t-on. The opinion of the third 
person had lost its value. But what philos- 
ophy had not taught him, and that for the 
reason that only life can, was that in the 
depths of every man, however intellectual, 
however refined, are the same possibilities 
for evil that bandits share. Only with the 
former the dregs do not get to the surface. 

Yet now, as he asked himself that simple 
little question, he stared at the abysses 
which he discowered. The man who divests 
himself of prejudices divests himself of prin- 
ciples as well. And as Quain looked the 
closer, there was not one that he could call 
his own, nothing at all, in fact, save the flicker and flame of a passion, the lawlessness of 
one desire, a determination fixed and resolute to possess that girl. 

" She is right to be afraid," he muttered. 

It had begun to snow; the cool flakes were 
grateful, exhilarating too, and as he strode 
on up the avenue again there came to him a 
sense of larger life, the freedom that eagles 





know; his lungs expanded with fresh odors ; 
beyond was a new horizon, brutally beauti- 
ful, wholly solid, dreamless and real, and in 
it, fairer than the desire of a fallen god, was 
Myrrha aglow with gold. 

At once he understood himself. Other 
men had infirmities, he was sound no gastritis called good taste, none of that obesity 
of the mind which is known as decorum, no 
rheumatism of the nerves, none of the anchylosis of rectitude. He was an ambition 
animated, one with which nothing should 
interfere. No, nothing ; and as he repeated 
those two words, unconsciously yet surely 
the old world recommendation, Tv&Qi <ys- 
avrov had been put in practice. He knew 
and was confident of himself. Myrrha 
indeed was adorable, another Psyche. Yet 
had she been sister to the Harpies it would 
have mattered now not in the least. Beauty, 
genius, virtue, or the lack of them, anything 
and everything he was aware could be 
talked away, yet never wealth. It was that 
she represented,, and it was that he proposed 





to get. At the moment, had some newer 
Diogenes flashed a lantern, it would have 
