sitting at the base of the last of the great pillars of the nave, where
she could see the north transept with the star-lights of the chapel at
the end, the old pulpit of colored marbles with its fretted top and
angel, and the deep, gold-lined dimness of the choir-dome, into which
the first horizontal ray of sunset light was now stealing--a light which
would soon turn into miraculous splendor its whole expanse.
"It always seems to me like a cave set with gold and gems," said Blake,
taking a seat beside her. "And, in reality, that is what it is, you
know--a wonderful robbers' cavern. As somebody has said, it is the
church of pirates--of the greatest sea-robbers the world has ever known;
and they have adorned it with the magnificent mass of treasure they
stole from the whole Eastern hemisphere."
"I wish they had stolen a little for me--one of those Oriental chains,
for instance. But what pleases me best here is the light. It isn't the
bright, vast clearness of St. Peter's that makes one's small sins of no
sort of consequence; it isn't the sombreness of the Duomo at Florence,
where one soon feels such a dreadful repentance that the new virtue
becomes acute depression. It is a darkness, I admit, but of such a warm,
rich hue that one feels sumptuous just by sitting in it. I do believe
that if some of our thin, anxious-faced American women could only be
induced to come and sit here quietly several hours a day they would soon
grow serene and physically opulent, like--"
"Like yourself?"
"Like the women of Veronese. (Of course I shall have to admit that I do
not need this process. Unfortunately, I love it.) But those Veronese
pictures, Mr. Blake--after all, what do they tell us? Blue sky and
balconies, feasts and brocades, pages and dogs, colors and splendor, and
those great fair women, with no expression in their faces--what does it
all mean?"
"Simply beauty."
"Beauty without mind, then."
"A picture does not need mind. But, to be worth anything, beauty it must
have."
"I don't know; a picture is a sort of companion. One of those pictures
would not be that; you might as well have a beautiful idiot."
"Ah, but a picture is silent," replied Blake.
Claudia laughed. "You are incorrigible." Then, going back to her first
subject, "I wish Mrs. Lenox would come here more," she said.
"You think she needs this enriching process you have suggested?"
"In one way--yes. All this beauty here in Venice is so much to her
husband; while she--is forever with that child!"
"But she does not keep him from the beauty."
"No; but she might make it so much more to him if she would."
"Why don't you suggest it to her?"
"There is no use. She does not understand me, I think. We speak a
different language."
"That may be. But I fancy she understands you."
"Perhaps she does," answered Claudia, with the untroubled frankness
which was one of her noticeable traits. She spoke as though she thought,
indeed, that Claudia Marcy's nature was a thing which Mrs. Lenox, or any
one, might observe. Claudia rather admired her nature. It was not
perfect, of course, but at least it was large in its boundaries, and
above the usual feminine pettinesses; she felt a calm pride in that. She
was silent for a while. The first sunset ray had now been joined by
others, and together they had lighted up one-half of the choir-dome; its
gold was all awake and glistening superbly, and the great mosaic figure
enthroned there began to glow with a solemn, mysterious life.
"Men should not marry until they are at least thirty, I think," resumed
Claudia; "and especially those of the imaginative or artistic
temperament. Three-quarters of the incongruous marriages one sees were
made when the husband was very young. It is not the wife's fault; at the
time of the marriage she is generally the superior, the generous one;
the benefit is conferred by her. But--she does not advance, and he
does."
"What would you propose in the way of--of an amelioration?" asked her
listener.
"There can, of course, be no amelioration in actual cases. But there
might be a prevention. I think that a law could be passed--such as now
exists, for instance, against the marriage of minors. If a man could not
marry until he was thirty or older, he would at that time naturally
select a wife who was ten years or so his junior rather than one of his
own age."
"And the women of thirty?"
"They would be already married to the men of fifty, you know."
Here a figure emerging from the heavy red-brown shadows of the north
aisle, and seeming to bring some of them with it, as it advanced,
crossed the billowy pavement, and stopped before them. It was Mr. Lenox.
He took a seat on the other side of Blake, and they talked for a while
of the way the chocolate-hued walls met the gold of the domes solidly,
without shading, and of the total absence of white--two of the marked
features of the rich interior of the old pirate cathedral. At length
Blake rose, giving up his place beside Miss Marcy to the younger man. "I
think we have still a half-hour before that jailer of a janitor jangles
his keys," she said.
"Yes; but for the men of fifty it is time to be going," answered Blake.
"They take cold rather easily, you know, those poor fellows of fifty."
He went away. Claudia and Lenox remained until the keys jangled.
Every day the weather and the water-city grew more divinely fair. June
began. And now even Mrs. Marcy saw no objection to their utilizing the
moonlight, and no longer spoke of "wraps." The evenings were haunted by
music; everybody seemed to be floating about singing or touching
guitars. The effect of the mingled light and shadows across the fronts
of the palaces was enchanting; they could not say enough in its praise.
"Still, do you know sometimes I would give it all for the fresh odor of
the fields at home, in the country, and the old scent of lilacs," said
Mrs. Lenox.
"Do you care for lilacs?" said Claudia. "If you had said roses--"
"No, I mean lilacs--the simple country lilacs. And I want to see some
currant bushes, too; yes, and even an old wooden garden fence," replied
Mrs. Lenox, laughing, but nevertheless as if she meant what she said.
She went with them only that once in the evening, for when she reached
home she found that the little boy had been wakeful, and that he had
refused to go to sleep again because she was not there. After this the
others went without her in a gondola holding four. At last, although the
moonlight lingers longer in Venice than anywhere else, there was, for
that month at least, no more. Yet still the evening air was delicious,
and the music did not cease; the effect of the shadows was even more
marvellous than the mingled light and shade had been. They continued to
go out and float about for an hour or two in the warm, peopled
darkness. They went also, but by daylight, to Torcello, and this time
Theocritus was of the party. During half of the day he was more despotic
than he had ever been, but later he seemed very tired; he slept in his
aunt's arms all the way home. Once she made an effort to transfer him to
her husband, as the weight of his little muffled figure lay heavily on
her slender arm; but Theocritus was awake immediately, and began to beat
off his uncle's hands with all his might.
"Do let me take him, Elizabeth; he will soon fall asleep again," said
Lenox. He looked annoyed. "You are overtaxing your strength; I can see
that you are tired out."
"It will not harm me; I know when I am really too tired," answered his
wife. She gave him a little trusting smile as she spoke, and his frown
passed off.
They were all together in one of the large gondolas; Blake noted this
little side-scene.
That night Theocritus had a slight attack of fever. Mrs. Lenox said that
it came from over-fatigue, and that he must not go on any of the longer
expeditions. When they went to Murano, therefore, and down to Chioggia,
she did not accompany them, but remained at home with her charge.
Mrs. Marcy was enjoying this last month in Venice greatly. "Naturally,
it is much pleasanter when one has some one to attend to one, and one
too who knows one's tastes and looks after one's little comforts," she
remarked to her niece, with some intricacy of impersonal pronouns. The
lily did not observe that the attentions she found so agreeable were
being offered to her niece also by another impersonal pronoun. As she
would herself have said, "naturally," when they went here and there
together, the two elders often sat down to rest awhile when Claudia and
Lenox did not feel the need of it.
"Of course, with her beauty, her attractive qualities, and her fortune,
Miss Marcy has had many suitors," said Blake to the aunt during one of
these rests.
"Several," answered that lady, moderately. "But Claudia is not at all
susceptible. Neither is she so--so generally attractive as you might
suppose. She has too little thought for the opinions of others. She
says, for instance, just what she thinks, and that, you know, is seldom
agreeable."
"True; we much prefer that people should say what they don't. I have
myself noticed some plainly evident faults in her: a most impolitic
honesty; and, when stirred, an impulsiveness which is sure to be
unremunerative in the long-run. I should say, too, that she had an
empyrean sort of pride."
"Yes," replied the lily, not knowing what he meant, but concluding on
the whole that he spoke in reprobation. "As I said before, she has not
quite enough of that true feminine softness one likes so much to
see--I mean, of course, in a woman."
"Her pride will be her bane yet. It will make her blind to the most
obvious pitfall. However, I'll back her courage against it when once she
sees where she has dropped."
"What?" said the lily.
"She will in time learn from you; she could not follow a more lovely
example," said Blake, coming back from his reflections.
Towards the last of June a long expedition was planned, an expedition
into "Titian's country," which was to last three days. This little
pilgrimage had been talked about for a long time, Mrs. Lenox being as
much interested in it as the others. Whether she would have had the
courage to take Theocritus, even in his best estate, is a question; but
after the time was finally set and all the arrangements made, his worst
asserted itself, and so markedly that it was plain to all that she could
not go. Something was said about postponement, but it was equally plain
that if they were to go at all they should go at once, as the weather
was rapidly approaching a too great heat. Claudia wished particularly to
take this little journey; she had set her heart upon seeing the Titians
and reputed Titians said to be still left in that unvisited
neighborhood. Blake asserted that she even expected to discover one. It
was next proposed (although rather faintly) that Mr. Lenox should be
excused from the pilgrimage. But it could not be denied that the little
boy had been quite as ill (and irritable) several times before in
Venice, and that he had always recovered in a day or two. Not that Mrs.
Lenox denied it; on the contrary, she was the one to mention it. She
urged her husband's going; it was the excursion of all others to please
him the most. It ended in his consenting; it seemed, indeed, too much to
