heard about the angels, and the sign. She was 
glad when the shepherds were gone oxit of the stable. 
She looked at the baby mutely. Her heart; was like 
a white flower, closing over a drop of dew. She 
kept these things, and pondered them. 
Joseph, too, was quiet. Ho was one of the plain 
men who make no fuss about duty ; but ho had been 
in a hard position. He thoxight about the shepherds, 
the angels, their startling mcsHa0, and the dream 
of his in Nazareth. It waw impossible to think how 
it would have been, if ho had not trusted it, and 
her. The eyes of the girl wife ([ueHtiouod her IHIH- 
band gently. The mysterious child wlepfc bcBute 
them. The hand of Joseph silently clasped that of 
Mary. 
vin 
Kepler, the astronomer, in the year 1004 htul a 
pupil superior to the common run of Htmlouttt, a 
thoughtful man, with his oyow open, and not afraid 
to say what ho saw with thorn- Iu Dooemlwr of 
the preceding year, ii conjunction of two of the 
superior planets (Saturn and Jupiter) had inter- 
ested all scholars of the Bl<y. Iu a fow numtliK, Marn 
had marched into the soeioty of thoao coloatial com- 
PRESAGE 27 
rades, making one of the important stellar events 
of the time. Following this conjunction, in the 
autumn of 1604, there flashed into the sky a new 
and short-lived star. This the pupil of Kepler 
pointed out to his muster, and this the master stud- 
ied. It was a very brilliant star, more like a dia- 
mond than a comet, and sparkling with changing 
colors. 
This star burned for a year, waned and wasted 
out of sight. But its life was long enough, for the 
groat astronomer to conceive a great idea. 
Kepler was familiar with astrology, as all masters 
of an accurate science ought to be with its kindred 
imaginative) studies ; and he knew quite well how 
the dreamers <> the Kast in the times of which we 
arc thinking wore governed by the speculations of 
that art. Kepler, from the astronomer's point of 
view, foil to studying certain events which are inter- 
wound with the opening flconow in the history of 
CliriHtianity. The result was one of the dramatic 
thcorion of Hcience, liable to be held only by men of 
imagination. 
According to the calculations of the great astron- 
omer, in the Roman year 747, or at a time closely 
preceding the birth of the strange child in the Beth- 
lehem ntablo, a similar conjunction o Saturn and 
Jupiter had appeared in the Oriental heavens, and 
MavB had joined the two in the spring of 748, mak- 
ing a brilliant exhibition. Koplor boldly hazarded 
the belief that the course of this conjunction was 
followed* like that of 1004, by a temporary star. 
Ilifl position has not boon altogether approved by 
28 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
modern astronomers, but it is far too interesting to 
omit from any record of a curious historical fact on 
which astronomy has a peculiar judicial claim. 
Persia at that time, as more or less at all times, 
was a camp of dreamers and astrologers. Tho study 
of the skies was a passionate ^pastime. The sagcst 
of men gave their lives to it. All men wore inter- 
ested in it. Accurate knowledge of the skies thoy 
had not, but its place was filled by what they 
thought they knew, or wished to believe. They woro 
constantly on the watch by night. 
The Eastern sages knew little enough about as- 
tronomy as Kepler knew it ; but they saw the grout 
conjunction, and it produced a strong effect upon 
them. They took note that the conjunction oc- 
curred in the Constellation of HMOS, which was up- 
posed by Chaldean astrologers to be immoduitoly 
connected with the future of Juclea. TlutM the 
thoughts of the sages were naturally turned in that 
direction. Whether they had boou nttulyintf the 
subject for a year, or IHOVO or Iess 1 IH not Important, 
and cannot be averred. VTho point of iutorait in* 
that a few of the star-gaxors of the East woro HO 
profoundly impressed by thifc planetary movement 
that they left their homos and occupation**, and 
foi*med a little traveling, company to umwtignto itn 
meaning. But this extraordinary journey w&# not 
entirely a scientific expedition. It had a political 
or historical character, MyHtteal or devout motiv<w 
influenced these men. A rather remarkable reason 
for this existed. 
PBESAGE 29 
IX 
Astrologers from the earliest times had always 
associated heavenly disturbances with the birth of 
great men. The expectation of the advent of an 
extraordinary being among the Jewish people was 
not, at that time, entirely confined to the Jews. 
Home, Persia, the far East, the civilized world to a 
certain extent shared it. Perhaps the Hebrew cap- 
tives, scattered past collection among alien peoples, 
had tried to console themselves by whispering the 
proudest hope of their proud nation in their captors' 
cars. Perhaps the social conditions of the times 
too miserable for the heart to dwell on, and too cor- 
rupt for the modern pen to describe had given 
foreo to the rumor. Decent men who thought, and 
studied, and aspired had reached the stage of despe- 
ration winch precedes despair. They were ready 
for any social or political experiment; they were 
attentive to any sign of the times. 
Each man took out his private fears or hopes for 
the csomlitiou of his ago, in his own way. The sen- 
sualist sank, the tyrant tortured, the slave despaired, 
the politician schemed, the rebel fought, the captive 
uonspmxl, the dreamer slept, the devout prayed, the 
my H tit* mused. 
Tho students of the sky followed the march of the 
stars. 
Tho Kastoru travelers, coming by an unknown 
route, reached Jerusalem* Here, these idealists 
asked strange questions, and they received signifi- 
cant replies Arrived at the capital of the Jewish 
30 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
nation, and at the very altar of the Jewish faith, 
they found themselves still perplexed. These " pe- 
culiar people," these educated slaves, did, indeed, 
confidently expect to be freed by a heaven-born de- 
liverer, to be ruled by a divinely appointed King. 
But nothing had been seen or heard of him. The 
Magi, with the persistence of men wlio have sacri- 
ficed too much for an idea to abandon it easily, 
betook themselves to the palace. Here they had 
an interview with one of the most abhorrent and 
abhorred of monarchs. 
Eome, like the rest of the world, was acquainted 
with the rumors about the yet unidentified Jewish 
King. The haughty Koniau eagle hung upon the 
Jewish Temple, but the powerful Messianic expecta- 
tion had reached the Roman intellect. I lenxl wan a 
coward as well as a tyrant, and ho feared nothing 
more than the ^nationalization of the ennlaved 
people. 
He appealed to the priests and teaehern of hit* 
remarkable and dreaded captives. Their governing 
body, the Sanhedrin, was called together. Tho 
question was officially put to them: Where WUH tin* 
King of theirs to be expected, or to be nought? 
With ecclesiastical precision the anxious monarch 
was referred to the record** ov Seripturert of the Jew- 
ish people, which indicated Bethlehem an the birth- 
place of their national hero. 
The capital wan now on lire witli the mutter. The 1 ! 
visit of the Eastern straugora had become the event 
of the day. With a stroke of imperial and diaboli- 
cal diplomacy, Herod feigned a warm xnturoHt in tlie 
PRESAGE 31 
errand of his guests, and suavely directed them to 
Bethlehem ; the condition of the royal politeness 
being that they should report the result of their in- 
vestigations to himself. 
The group of mystics, a little awed by the splen- 
dor and affability of the palace and the monarch, 
but less than commoner men, started at once for 
Bethlehem. 
Men who have cast down all the affairs of life to 
travel for seven months, or a year, or more, over 
deserts and mountains, and through fords and forests, 
and in peril of boasts and of robbers, in pursuance 
of: an idea, are not the men to be too much impressed 
with political, power or splendor ; still, they accepted 
Herod at his word, being foreigners and not fully 
awaro how little that was worth. A brilliant ap- 
poaranoo hi the skies, evidently temporary, and which 
had for Homo timo ptmlod thorn, now seemed to them 
to point towards Bethlehem ; to confirm their own 
astrological beliefs and the Jewish traditions and 
diiwtionH, 
Woro the hardships of that long itinerary draw- 
ing to an end ? DOOH the star know and love the 
Btudont of the sky, that it will not mislead hirn? 
The Magi trod the streets of Bethlehem with ar- 
