
"Before I answer your question, my dear Louis, I must protest against being
any longer addressed as captain, for I am not now entitled to that
honorable appellation," replied the young man addressed by the owner.

"Once a captain always a captain," replied Louis. "One who has been
a member of Congress is still an 'Honorable,' though his term of
office expired twenty or forty years ago. The worthy commander of the
Guardian-Mother was always called Captain Ringgold in Von Blonk Park and
New York, though he had not been in command of a ship for ten years,"
argued Louis.

"That's right; but the circumstances are a little different in my case. In
the first place, I am only eighteen years old, and my brief command was a
very small one, as the world goes. It hardly entitles me to be called
captain after I have ceased to be in command. In charge of the little Maud
I was the happiest young fellow on the Eastern Continent; but I am just as
happy now, for this morning I was formally appointed third officer of the
Guardian-Mother, at the wages paid to Captain Sharp when he had the same
position."

"I congratulate you, Mr. Scott," said Louis, grasping the hand of the new
officer, though he had been duly consulted in regard to the appointment the
day before.

"Permit me to congratulate you also, Mr. Scott," added Miss Blanche, as she
extended to him her delicate little hand.

"Thank you, Miss Woolridge," replied the new third officer, raising the
uniform cap he had already donned, and bowing as gracefully as a
dancing-master. "Thank you with all my heart, Louis. I won't deny that I
was considerably broken up when the Maud was sold; but now I am glad of it,
for it has given me a position that I like better."

"Now, Mr. Scott, what is the run for to-day?" asked Louis, renewing his
first question.

"I don't know," replied the third officer with a mischievous smile.

"You don't know!" exclaimed Louis.

"I do not, Louis."

"I thought all the officers, including the commander, took the observation,
and worked up the reckoning for the longitude. We got eight bells nearly an
hour ago, and the bulletin must have been posted by this time."

"It was posted some time ago. All the officers work up the reckoning; and I
did so with the others. The commander and I agreed to a second."

"What do you mean by saying you do not know the run?" demanded Louis.

"I do know the run; but that was not what you asked me," answered Scott
with the same mischievous smile.

"What did I ask you?"

"The first time you asked me all right, and I should have answered you if I
had not felt obliged to switch off and inform you and Miss Woolridge of my
new appointment. The second time you put it you changed the question."

"I changed it?" queried Louis.

"You remember that when Mrs. Blossom asked Flix where under the sun he had
been, he replied that he had not been anywhere, as it happened to be in the
evening, when the sun was not overhead."

"A quibble!" exclaimed Louis, laughing.

"Granted; but one which was intended to test your information in regard to
a nautical problem. You asked me the second time for the run of to-day for
the last twenty-four hours."

"And that was what I asked you the first time," answered Louis.

"I beg your pardon, but you asked me simply for the run to-day."

"Isn't that the same thing?"

"Will you please to tell me how many hours there are in a sea-day?" asked
Scott, becoming more serious.

"That depends," answered Louis, laughing. "You have me on the run."

"You will find that the bulletin signed by the first officer gives the run
as 330 miles; but the answer to your second question is 337 miles, about,"
added the third officer. "Just here the day is only twenty-three hours and
forty minutes long as we are running; and the faster we go the shorter the
day," continued the speaker, who was ciphering all the time on a card.

"I don't see how that can be," interposed Miss Blanche, with one of her
prettiest smiles.

"There is the lunch-bell; but I shall be very happy to explain the matter
more fully later in the day, Miss Woolridge, unless you prefer that Louis
should do it," suggested Scott.

"I doubt if I could do it, and I should be glad to listen to the
explanation," replied Louis, as they descended to the main cabin; for the
new third officer was permitted to retain his place at the table as well as
his state-room.

The commander had suggested that there was likely to be some change of
cabin arrangements; for it was not in accordance with his ideas of right
that the third officer should be admitted to the table, while the first and
second were excluded; and Louis was very desirous that his friend Scott
should remain in the cabin. The repasts on board the steamer were social
occasions, and the party often sat quite an hour at the table, as at the
present luncheon. But as soon as the company left their places, Louis and
Miss Blanche followed the third officer to the promenade deck, to hear the
desired explanation of sea-time.

"Of course you know how the longitude of the ship is obtained, Miss
Woolridge?" the young officer began.

"Papa explained it to me once, but I could not understand it," replied the
fair maiden.

"Then we will explain that first. One of the great circles extending
through the poles is called the prime meridian; and any one may be
selected, though that of Greenwich has been almost universally adopted.
This place is near London. From this prime meridian longitude is
calculated, which means that any given locality is so many degrees east
or west of it. Sandy Hook is in longitude 74°, or it is that number of
degrees west of Greenwich. Aden is in 45° east longitude."

"Then you find how many miles it is by multiplying the number of degrees
by 69," suggested Miss Blanche.

"You have forgotten about knots, or sea-miles," said Louis.

"So I have! I should have said multiply by 60," added the young lady.

"That would not do it any better," replied Scott.

"Degrees of latitude are always the same for all practical purposes; but
degrees of longitude are as--

    'Variable as the shade
  By the light quivering aspen made,'"

continued the third officer, who was about to say "as a woman's mind;"
but he concluded that it was not quite respectful to the lovely being
before him.

"What a poetical sea-monster you are, Mr. Scott!" exclaimed Miss Blanche
with a silvery laugh.

"I won't do so any more," Scott protested, and then continued his
explanation. "Degrees of longitude vary from nothing at the poles, up to
69.07 statute, or 60 geographical or sea-miles, at the equator. We are
now in about 15° north latitude; and a degree of longitude is 66.65
statute miles, or 57.9855 sea-miles, near enough to call it 58. By the
way, Louis, multiply the number of statute miles by .87, and it gives
you the sea-miles. Divide the knots by the same decimal, and it gives
the statute miles."

"I will try to remember that decimal as you have done," replied Louis.
"Now, Mr. Scott, don't open Bowditch's Navigator to us, or talk about
projection,' 'logarithms,' 'Gunter,' and 'inspection;' for I am not capable
of understanding them, for my trigonometry has gone to the weeping
willows."

"Talk to us in English, Mr. Scott," laughed Miss Blanche.

"Let us go up to Conference Hall, where there is a table," said the third
officer, as he produced a book he had brought up from his state-room. He
led the way to the promenade, where he spread out a chart in the "Orient
Guide," which had twenty-six diagrams of a clock, one at the foot of every
fifteen degrees of longitude. At this point the commander came upon the
promenade.

"Formerly the figures on a timepiece in Italy, and perhaps elsewhere, went
up to twenty-four, instead of repeating the numbers up to twelve; and these
diagrams are constructed on that plan," continued Scott.

"An attempt has been made to re-establish this method in our own country. I
learned once from a folder that a certain steamer would leave Detroit at
half-past twenty-two; meaning half-past ten. But the plan was soon
abandoned," interposed the captain.
