first thing they did before the trial at Poitiers. They did 
it again now. An ecclesiastic was sent to Domremy. 
There and all about the neighbourhood he made an 
exhaustive search into Joan's history and character, and 
came back with his verdict. It was very clear. The 
searcher reported that he found Joan's character to be in 
every way what he  would like his own sister's character 
to be.' Just about the same report that was brought back 
to Poitiers, you see. Joan's was a character which could 
endure the minutest examination. 
This verdict was a strong point for Joan, you will say. 
Yes, it would have been if it could have seen the light; but 
Cauchon was awake, and it disappeared from the proces 
verbal before the trial. People were prudent enough not 
to inquire what became of it. 
One would imagine that Cauchon was ready to begin 
the trial by this time. But no, he devised one more scheme 
for poor Joan's destruction, and it promised to be a deadly 
o.ne. 
One of the great personages picked out and sent down 
by the University of Paris was an ecclesiastic named 
Nicolas Loyseleur. He was tall, handsome, grave, of 
smooth soft speech and courteous and winning manners. 
There was no seeming of treachery or hypocrisy about 
him, yet he was full of both. He was admitted to Joan's 
prison by night, disguised as a cobbler ; he pretended to 
be from her own country ; he professed to be secretly a 
patriot ; he revealed the fact that he was a priest. She 
was filled with gladness to see one from the hills and 
plains that were so dear to her ; happier still to look upon 
a priest and disburden her heart in confession, for the 
offices of the Church were the bread of life, the breath of 
her nostrils to her, and she had been long forced to pine 
for them in vain. She opened her whole innocent heart to 
this creature, and in return he gave her advice concerning 
her trial which could have destroyed her if her deep native 
wisdom had not protected her against following it. 
You will ask, what value could this scheme have, since 
the secrets of the confessional are sacred and cannot be 
revealed ? True — but suppose another person should over- 
hear them ? That person is not bound to keep the secret. 
Well, that is what happened. Cauchon had previously 
caused a hole to be bored through the wall ; and he stood 
with his ear to that hole and heard all. It is pitiful to 
think of these things. One wonders how they could treat 
that poor child so. She had not done them any harm. 
CHAPTER IV 
On Tuesday, the 20th of February, whilst I sat at my mas- 
ter's work in the evening, he came in, looking sad, and 
said it had been decided to begin the trial at eight o'clock 
the next morning, and I must get ready to assist him. 
Of course I had been expecting such news every day 
for many days ; but no matter, the shock of it almost took 
my breath away and set me trembling like a leaf. I sup- 
pose that without knowing it I had been half imagining 
that at the last moment something would happen, some- 
thing that would stop this fatal trial : maybe that La Hire 
would burst in at the gates with his hellions at his back ; 
maybe that God would have pity and stretch forth His 
mighty hand. But now — now there was no hope. 
The trial was to begin in the chapel of the fortress and 
would be public. So I went sorrowing away and told 
Noel, so that he might be there early and secure a place. 
It would give him a chance to look again upon the face 
which we so revered and which was so precious to us. 
All the way, both going and coming, I ploughed through 
chattering and rejoicing multitudes of English soldiery 
and English-hearted French citizens. There was no talk 
but of the coming event. Many times I heard the remark, 
accompanied by a pitiless laugh — 
'The fat Bishop has got things as he wants them at last, 
and says he will lead the vile witch a merry dance and a 
short one.' 
But here and there I glimpsed compassion and distress 
in a face, and it was not always a French one. English 
soldiers feared Joan, but they admired her for her great 
deeds and her unconquerable spirit. 
In the morning Manchon and I went early, yet as we 
approached the vast fortress we found crowds of men 
already there and still others gathering. The chapel was 
already full and the way barred against further admissions 
of unofficial persons. We took our appointed places. 
Throned on high sat the president, Cauchon, Bishop of 
Beauvais, in his grand robes, and before him in rows sat 
his robed court — fifty distinguished ecclesiastics, men of 
high degree in the church, of clear-cut intellectual faces, 
men of deep learning, veteran adepts in strategy and 
casuistry, practised setters of traps for ignorant minds 
and unwary feet. When I looked around upon this army 
of masters of legal fence, gathered here to find just one 
verdict and no other, and remembered that Joan must fight 
for her good name and her life single-handed against them, 
I asked myself what chance an ignorant poor country girl 
of nineteen could have in such an unequal conflict ; and 
my heart sank down low, very low. When I looked 
again at that obese president, puffing and wheezing there, 
his great belly distending and receding with each breath, 
and noted his three chins, fold above fold, and his knobby 
and knotty face, and his purple and splotchy complexion, 
and his repulsive cauliflower nose, and his cold and malig- 
nant eyes — a brute, every detail of him— my heart sank 
lower still. And when I noted that all were afraid of this 
man, and shrank and fidgeted in their seats when his eye 
smote theirs, my last poor ray of hope dissolved away and 
wholly disappeared. 
There was one unoccupied seat in this place, and only 
one. It was over against the wall, in view of every one. 
It was a little wooden bench without a back, and it stood 
apart and solitary on a sort of dais. Tall men-at-arms 
in morion, breast-plate, and steel gauntlets stood as stiff 
as their own halberds on each side of this dais, but no 
other creature was near by it. A pathetic little bench to 
me it was, for I knew whom it was for ; and the sight of 
it carried my mind back to the great court at Poitiers, 
where Joan sat upon one like it and calmly fought her 
cunning fight with the astonished doctors of the Church 
and Parliament, and rose from it victorious and applauded 
by all, and went forth to fill the world with the glory of 
her name. 
What a dainty little figure she was, and how gentle 
and innocent, how winning and beautiful in the fresh 
bloom of her seventeen years ! Those were grand days. 
And so recent — for she was but just nineteen now — and 
how much she had seen since, and what wonders she 
had accomplished ! 
But now — oh, all was changed now. She had been 
languishing in dungeons, away from light and air and the 
cheer of friendly faces, for nearly three-quarters of a year 
— she, born child of the sun, natural comrade of the birds 
and of all happy free creatures. She would be weary now, 
and worn with this long captivity, her forces impaired ; 
despondent, perhaps, as knowing there was no hope. 
Yes, all was changed. 
All this time there had been a muffled hum of conversa- 
tion, and rustling of robes and scraping of feet on the 
floor, a combination of dull noises which filled all the 
place. Suddenly — 
' Produce the accused ! ' 
It made me catch my breath. My heart began to 
thump like a hammer. But there was silence now — silence 
absolute. All those noises ceased, and it was as if they 
had never been. Not a sound ; the stillness grew oppres- 
sive ; it was like a weight upon one. All faces were 
turned towards the door ; and one could properly expect 
that, for most of the people there suddenly realised, no 
doubt, that they were about to see, in actual flesh and 
blood, what had been to them before only an embodied 
prodigy, a word, a phrase, a world-girdling Name. 
The stillness continued. Then, far down the stone- 
paved corridors, one heard a vague slow sound approach- 
ing : clank clink . . clank — Joan of Arc, 
Deliverer of France, in chains ! 
My head swam ; all things whirled and spun about me. 
Ah, was realising, too. 
CHAPTER V 
I GIVE you my honour, now, that I am not going to distort 
or discolour the facts of this miserable trial. No, I will 
give them to you honestly, detail by detail, just as Manchon 
and I set them down daily in the official record of the court, 
and just as one may read them in the printed histories. 
There will be only this diff'erence : that in talking familiarly 
with you I shall use my right to comment upon the proceedings 
and explain them as I go along, so that you can 
understand them better ; also I shall throw in trifles which 
came under our eyes and have a certain interest for you 
and me, but were not important enough to go into the 
official record.'
To take up my story, now, where I left off. We heard 
the clanking of Joan's chains down the corridors ; she was 
approaching. 
Presently she appeared ; a thrill swept the house, and 
one heard deep breaths drawn. Two guardsmen followed 
her at a short distance to the rear. Her head was bowed 
a little, and she moved slowly, she being weak and her 
irons heavy. She had on men's attire — all black ; a soft 
woollen stuff, intensely black, funereally black, not a speck 
of relieving colour in it from her throat to the floor. A 
wide collar of this same black stuff lay in radiating folds 
upon her shoulders and breast ; the sleeves of her doublet 
were full, down to the elbows, and tight thence to her 
