Square Garden on the twentieth of next month, I have decided to tell,
as simply as I am able, exactly what occurred.

I first wrote out the story on April 1, 1896. The North American
Review, the Popular Science Monthly, the Scientific American, Nature,
Forest and Stream, and the Fossiliferous Magazine in turn rejected it;
some curtly informing me that fiction had no place in their columns.
When I attempted to explain that it was not fiction, the editors of
these periodicals either maintained a contemptuous silence, or bluntly
notified me that my literary services and opinions were not desired.
But finally, when several publishers offered to take the story as
fiction, I cut short all negotiations and decided to publish it myself.
Where I am known at all, it is my misfortune to be known as a writer
of fiction. This makes it impossible for me to receive a hearing from a
scientific audience. I regret it bitterly, because now, when it is too
late, I am prepared to prove certain scientific matters of interest,
and to produce the proofs. In this case, however, I am fortunate, for
nobody can dispute the existence of a thing when the bodily proof is
exhibited as evidence.

This is the story; and if I write it as I write fiction, it is because
I do not know how to write it otherwise.

I was walking along the beach below Pine Inlet, on the south shore
of Long Island. The railroad and telegraph station is at West Oyster
Bay. Everybody who has travelled on the Long Island Railroad knows the
station, but few, perhaps, know Pine Inlet. Duck shooters, of course,
are familiar with it; but as there are no hotels there, and nothing
to see except salt meadow, salt creek, and a strip of dune and sand,
the summer-squatting public may probably be unaware of its existence.
The local name for the place is Pine Inlet; the maps give its name as
Sand Point, I believe, but anybody at West Oyster Bay can direct you
to it. Captain McPeek, who keeps the West Oyster Bay House, drives duck
shooters there in winter. It lies five miles southeast from West Oyster
Bay.

I had walked over that afternoon from Captain McPeek's. There was a
reason for my going to Pine Inlet--it embarrasses me to explain it,
but the truth is I meditated writing an ode to the ocean. It was out
of the question to write it in West Oyster Bay, with the whistle of
locomotives in my ears. I knew that Pine Inlet was one of the loneliest
places on the Atlantic coast; it is out of sight of everything except
leagues of gray ocean. Rarely one might make out fishing smacks
drifting across the horizon. Summer squatters never visited it;
sportsmen shunned it, except in winter. Therefore, as I was about to do
a bit of poetry, I thought that Pine Inlet was the spot for the deed.
So I went there.

As I was strolling along the beach, biting my pencil reflectively,
tremendously impressed by the solitude and the solemn thunder of
the surf, a thought occurred to me: how unpleasant it would be if I
suddenly stumbled on a summer boarder. As this joyless impossibility
flitted across my mind, I rounded a bleak sand dune.

A summer girl stood directly in my path.

If I jumped, I think the young lady has pardoned me by this time. She
ought to, because she also started, and said something in a very faint
voice. What she said was "Oh!"

She stared at me as though I had just crawled up out of the sea to bite
her. I don't know what my own expression resembled, but I have been
given to understand it was idiotic.

Now I perceived, after a few moments, that the young lady was
frightened, and I knew I ought to say something civil. So I said, "Are
there any mosquitoes here?"

"No," she replied, with a slight quiver in her voice; "I have only seen
one, and it was biting somebody else."

I looked foolish; the conversation seemed so futile, and the young
lady appeared to be more nervous than before. I had an impulse to say,
"Do not run; I have breakfasted," for she seemed to be meditating a
plunge into the breakers. What I did say was: "I did not know anybody
was here. I do not intend to intrude. I come from Captain McPeek's,
and I am writing an ode to the ocean." After I had said this it seemed
to ring in my ears like, "I come from Table Mountain, and my name is
Truthful James."

I glanced timidly at her.

"She's thinking of the same thing," said I to myself. "What an ass I
must appear!"

However, the young lady seemed to be a trifle reassured. I noticed she
drew a sigh of relief and looked at my shoes. She looked so long that
it made me suspicious, and I also examined my shoes. They seemed to be
fairly respectable.

"I--I am sorry," she said, "but would you mind not walking on the
beach?"

This was sudden. I had intended to retire and leave the beach to her,
but I did not fancy being driven away so abruptly.

"I was about to withdraw, madam," said I, bowing stiffly; "I beg you
will pardon any inconvenience----"

"Dear me!" she cried, "you don't understand. I do not--I would
not think for a moment of asking you to leave Pine Inlet. I merely
ventured to request you to walk on the dunes. I am so afraid that your
footprints may obliterate the impressions that my father is studying."

"Oh!" said I, looking about me as though I had been caught in the
middle of a flower-bed; "really I did not notice any impressions.
Impressions of what--if I may be permitted?"

"I don't know," she said, smiling a little at my awkward pose. "If you
step this way in a straight line you can do no damage."

I did as she bade me. I suppose my movements resembled the gait of
a wet peacock. Possibly they recalled the delicate manœuvres of the
kangaroo. Anyway, she laughed.

This seriously annoyed me. I had been at a disadvantage; I walk well
enough when let alone.

"You can scarcely expect," said I, "that a man absorbed in his own
ideas could notice impressions on the sand. I trust I have obliterated
nothing."

As I said this I looked back at the long line of footprints stretching
away in prospective across the sand. They were my own. How large they
looked! Was that what she was laughing at?

"I wish to explain," she said gravely, looking at the point of her
parasol. "I am very sorry to be obliged to warn you--to ask you to
forego the pleasure of strolling on a beach that does not belong to me.
Perhaps," she continued, in sudden alarm, "perhaps this beach belongs
to you?"

"The beach? Oh, no," I said.

"But--but you were going to write poems about it?"

"Only one--and that does not necessitate owning the beach. I have
observed," said I frankly, "that the people who own nothing write many
poems about it."

She looked at me seriously.

"I write many poems," I added.

She laughed doubtfully.

"Would you rather I went away?" I asked politely.

"I? Why, no--I mean that you may do as you please--except please do not
walk on the beach."

"Then I do not alarm you by my presence?" I inquired. My clothes
were a bit ancient. I wore them shooting, sometimes. "My family is
respectable," I added; and I told her my name.

"Oh! Then you wrote 'Culled Cowslips' and 'Faded Fig-Leaves,' and
you imitate Maeterlinck, and you---- Oh, I know lots of people that
you know;" she cried with every symptom of relief; "and you know my
brother."

"I am the author," said I coldly, "of 'Culled Cowslips,' but 'Faded
Fig-Leaves' was an earlier work, which I no longer recognise, and I
should be grateful to you if you would be kind enough to deny that I
ever imitated Maeterlinck. Possibly," I added, "he imitates me."

"Now, do you know," she said, "I was afraid of you at first? Papa is
digging in the salt meadows nearly a mile away."

It was hard to bear.

"Can you not see," said I, "that I am wearing a shooting coat?"

"I do see--now; but it is so--so old," she pleaded.

"It is a shooting coat all the same," I said bitterly.

She was very quiet, and I saw she was sorry.

"Never mind," I said magnanimously, "you probably are not familiar with
sporting goods. If I knew your name I should ask permission to present
