After that he was a sort of hero to the boys, and Upton did not bully as
much. But some of the boys delighted to "pick" at Benny Frank, who would
have made a good Quaker. Jim sometimes felt quite "mad" with him.
Lily did not seem to get along very rapidly with her intimacy. Hanny was
too young, and now that she had the Deans on one side and little Nora
Whitney on the other, was quite out of Lily's reach. And she did enjoy
Delia immensely, though she was past thirteen and such a tall girl. So
Lily tried all her arts on Jim, and succeeded very well, it must be
confessed.
It was Saturday, and the world had not come to an end yet. Benny had
gone down-town with Steve in the morning, but he would not have both
boys together, for Jim was so full of "capers." So he had done errands
for his mother, blackened the boots and shoes--the bootblack brigade had
not then come in fashion, and you hardly ever saw an Italian boy. He had
cleared up the yard and earned his five cents. He was wondering a
little what he would do all the afternoon.
Dele came flying in, eager and impetuous.
"Oh, Mrs. Underhill!" she cried, "can't Hanny go to the Museum this
afternoon? The"--it seemed so odd, Hanny thought, to call grave-looking
Mr. Whitney that, but she said Steve to her big brother. "The brought
home four tickets. My cousin, Walter Hay, is here, and he will go with
us and then go down home. And Nora does so want Hanny to go. Oh, won't
you please let her? I'll take the best of care of her. I've taken Nora
and my little Cousin Julia ever so many times. Oh, Jim, what a pity! If
I had one more ticket!"
"Sho!" and Jim straightened himself up. "I have twenty-eight cents, and
I wouldn't want to go sponging on a girl anyhow! Oh, mother, do let us
go? Hanny, come quick! Oh, do you want to go to the Museum?"
"To the Museum?" Hanny drew a breath of remembered delight and thrilling
anticipation.
Dele and Jim talked together. They were so earnest, so full of entreaty.
Jim might have gone in welcome, but Hanny----
"Why, we shall just take the stage and ride to the door, and we'll be so
careful getting out. They drive clear up to the sidewalk, you know.
Walter is fourteen and he takes his little sisters out, and knows how
to care for girls. And there's such a pretty play; just the thing for
children, The. said."
"Oh, mother, please do," and the little girl's voice was so persuasive,
so pleading.
"Oh, please, mother! I'll see that nothing happens to Hanny."
"Oh, Mrs. Underhill, Nora would be so disappointed. And we all want
Hanny."
Mrs. Underhill had told her husband if he would come up about three she
would take the drive to Harlem with him. Of course she meant to take the
little girl. Which would Hanny rather do?
The fascinations of the Museum outweighed the drive. Margaret was up to
the Beekmans' spending the day, their last week on the farm. Of course
Jim could go--and when she looked at all the eager faces she gave in,
and Hanny danced with delight.
It was almost three before they could get off, and the play began at
that hour. However they caught a stage out on the Bowery and were soon
whirled down to the corner of Broadway and Ann Street.
People were crowding in, it was such a beautiful day, and this was
considered the place preeminently for children. People who would have
been horrified at the thought of a theatre did not have a scruple about
the lecture-room.
"We better not stop to look at things," advised Delia. "We can do that
afterward. Let's go in and get our seats."
They had to go way up front, but they didn't mind that so long as they
were all together. They studied the wonderful Venetian scene on the
drop-curtain, and the young lad in a supposedly green satin costume,
with a long white feather in his hat, who was just stepping into a
gondola where a very lovely lady was playing on a guitar. Then the
orchestra gave a clash of drums, cymbals, French horns, and a big bass
viol, and up went the curtain.
A musical family came out and sang. Then there were some acrobatic
performances. After that the pantomime.
Grandpapa Jerome, in a very foreign costume and a bald head which he
tried to keep covered with a black velvet cap, had two extremely tricksy
sprites for grandchildren. They were very pretty, the girl with long,
light curls, the boy with dark ones. But of all mischief, of all
tormenting deeds and antics with which they nearly set grandpapa crazy
and threw the audience into convulsions! They took the nice fat boiled
ham off the table and greased the doorstep so thoroughly you would have
thought every bone in the old man's body would have been broken by the
repeated falls. They cut the seat out of the chair, and when he went to
sit down he doubled up equal to any modern folding-bed, and he kicked
and turned summersaults until the maid came out and rescued him. Then he
spied the author of the mischief asleep on a grassy bank, and he found a
big strap and went creeping up cautiously, when--whack! and the little
boy flew all to pieces, and the old man was so amazed at his cruelty
that he sat down and began to weep and bewail when the little lad peeped
from behind a tree and, seeing poor grandfather's grief, ran out, hugged
him and kissed him and wiped his eyes, and you could see he was
promising never to do anything naughty again. But that didn't hinder him
from cutting out the bottom of the basket into which the old man was
cutting some very splendid grapes. There were not more than half a dozen
bunches, and the children ran away with them. The old man descended so
carefully, put his hand in the basket, his whole arm, and not a grape.
There was none on the ground. Where had they gone! Oh, there was the
cat. But pussy was much spryer than the old man, and the audience knew
she had not touched a grape.
After that some Indians came on the scene of action, fierce red men of
the forest, and their language was decidedly Jabberwocky. The little
girl was quite frightened at the fierce brandishing of tomahawks. Then
they had a war dance. And oh, then came the marvel of all! Four
beautiful Shetland ponies with the daintiest carriage and six lads in
livery. There sat General Tom Thumb, the curiosity of the time, the
smallest dwarf known. He was not much bigger than a year-old baby, but
he dismounted from his carriage, gave orders to his servants; a
bright-eyed little fellow with rosy cheeks, graceful and with a variety
of pretty tricks. He sang a song or two, then sprang into his carriage
and the ponies trotted off the stage. The curtain came down.
The children were breathless at first. The crowd was surging out and the
place nearly empty before they found their tongues. And then there was
so much else to see. The various stuffed animals, the giraffe with his
three-story neck, the mermaid, the wax figures, the birds and beasts and
serpents, and a model of Paris, of London, and of Jerusalem. The place
looked quite gorgeous all lighted up.
The people were beginning to thin out. They had not seen half, Jim
thought.
"Oh, we haven't been up-stairs!" exclaimed Walter. "There's a great
roof-garden. And you can see all the city."
They trudged up-stairs. Dele kept tight hold of the little girl's hand.
It was quite light up here. What a great space it was! One large flag
was flying, and around the edge of the roof numberless smaller ones.
Some evergreen shrubs in boxes stood around, and there were wooden
arm-chairs, beside some settees. It was rather chilly, though the day
had been very pleasant. And oh, how splendid the lights of Broadway
looked to them, two long rows stretching up and up until lost in
indistinctness. The stores were all open and lighted as brilliantly as
one could with gas. No one thought of Saturday half-holidays then. It
was very grand. But what would they have said to the Columbian nights
and electric lights?
"I don't feel as if I had seen it half," said Jim. He was not grudging
his quarter. "If we had come about one o'clock."
"We'll have to piece it on this end," and Walter laughed. "We must get
our money's worth."
"We might stay over," suggested Dele mirthfully.
"Just the thing," returned Jim, "and all for the same money."
The children glanced at each other in sudden surprise. The glory of a
grand conspiracy shone in their eyes.
"Well, that's too good!" declared Walter. "Won't I just brag of that at
school on Monday. Oh, yes, let's stay."
"We had better go down, for it is getting cool up here. If we only had
something to eat. Hanny, are you hungry? I don't believe Nora ever
knows whether she has eaten or not. Mother says she's just the worst. I
don't mind a bit, but you all----"
"I wouldn't give a copper for supper. It's ever so much more fun
staying," rejoined Walter.
"I'm always hungry as a bear, but I'd a hundred times rather stay," Jim
replied. "Hanny, will you mind?"
"I'm not a bit hungry," answered Hanny. "It's all so beautiful. Oh, do
let's stay!"
"That settles it. Dele, you are a trump."
They picked their way carefully down-stairs. The room was not very
brilliantly lighted, but they found many curiosities that had escaped
their attention before. They espied the diorama and it interested them
very much. Half a dozen people straggled in. The janitor turned on more
light, and began to arrange a platform in a recess.
How any one would feel at home Jim never thought. The rest were in the
habit of doing quite as they liked, and Delia often stayed at her aunt's
until nine o'clock.
At seven the main hall was quite full. The people were crowding up
around the platform. The children went too. The curtain was swung aside
and out stepped Tom Thumb, to be received with cheers. He sang a song
and went through with some military evolutions. There was a railing
around and no one could crowd upon him, but a number spoke to him and
shook hands.
"My little girl," said a tall gentleman who had watched Hanny's
ineffectual efforts to make herself taller, "will you let me hold you
up? Wouldn't you like to shake hands? You're not much bigger yourself."
"Oh, please do," entreated Dele in her eager young voice. "She is so
small."
Hanny was a little startled, but the man held her in his arms and she
smiled hesitatingly. As she met the kindly eyes she said, "Oh, thank
you. It's so nice."
The general came down that end.
"Here is a little lady wants to shake hands with you," the gentleman
said, who was quite a friend of Tom Thumb's.
The small hand was proffered. Hanny was almost afraid, but she put hers
in it and the gallant little general hoped she was well. Then he made a
bow and retired behind the curtain, and it was announced that he would
appear again after the lecture-room performance.
They went in and took their seats. Nora was tired, and leaning her head
on Dele's shoulder went sound asleep. Hanny was getting tired; perhaps,
too, she missed her supper.
It wasn't quite so much fun, for the play was just the same. The
audience enjoyed it greatly. The Indians were more obstreperous, and
sang a hideous song. The vocalists sang many popular songs of the day,
