lead of events, and peremptorily ordered Francesco to go home with their
mother and sister in the carriage.
When the Corleone party left the palace, therefore, Francesco got into
the carriage, but Tebaldo said that he preferred to walk, and went out
alone from under the great gate. He was not yet very familiar with the
streets of Rome, but he believed that he knew the exact situation of the
palace, and could easily find his way from it to the Argentina theatre,
which was not very far distant.
The old part of the city puzzled him, however. He found himself
threading unfamiliar ways, dark lanes, and winding streets which emerged
suddenly upon small squares from which three or four other streets led
in different directions. Instinctively he looked behind him from time to
time, and felt in his pocket for the pistol which, like a true
provincial, he thought it as necessary to carry in Rome as in his
Sicilian home. Presently he looked at his watch, saw that it was eleven
o'clock, and made up his mind to find a cab if he could. But that was
not an easy matter either, in that part of the city, and it was twenty
minutes past eleven when he at last drew up to the stage entrance at the
back of the Argentina. A weary, gray, unshaven, and very dirty old man
admitted him, looked at his face, took the flimsy currency note which
Tebaldo held out, and let him pass without a word. The young man knew
his way much better within the building than out in the streets. In a
few moments he stopped before a dingy little door, the last on the left
in a narrow corridor dimly lit by a single flame of gas, which was
turned low for economy's sake. He knocked sharply and opened the door
without waiting for an answer.
There were three persons in the small, low dressing-room, and all three
faced Tebaldo rather anxiously. Aliandra Basili, the young Sicilian
prima donna who had lately made her appearance in Rome, was seated
before a dim mirror which stood on a low table covered with appliances
for theatrical dressing. Her maid was arranging a white veil on her
head, and beside her, very near to her, and drawing back from her as
Tebaldo entered sat Francesco.
Tebaldo's lips moved uneasily, as he stood still for a moment, gazing at
the little group, his hand on the door. Then he closed it quickly behind
him, and came forward with a smile.
'Good evening,' he said. 'I lost my way in the streets and am a little
late. I thought the curtain would be up for the last act.'
'They have called me once,' answered Aliandra. 'I said that I was not
ready, for I knew you would come.'
She was really very handsome and very young, but the mask of paint and
powder changed her face and expression almost beyond recognition. Even
her bright, gold-brown eyes were made to look black and exaggerated by
the deep shadows painted with antimony below them, and on the lids. The
young hand she held out to Tebaldo was whitened with a chalky mixture
to the tips of the fingers. She was dressed in the flowing white robe
which Lucia wears in the mad scene, and the flaring gaslights on each
side of the mirror made her face and wig look terribly artificial.
Tebaldo thought so as he looked at her, and remembered the calm
simplicity of Corona Saracinesca's mature beauty. But he had known
Aliandra long, and his imagination saw her own face through her paint.
'It was good of you to wait for me,' he said. 'I daresay my brother
helped the time to pass pleasantly.'
'I have only just come,' said Francesco, quickly. 'I took our mother
home--it is far.'
'I did not know that you were coming at all,' replied Tebaldo, coldly.
'How is it going?' he asked, sitting down by Aliandra. 'Another
ovation?'
'No. They are waiting for the mad scene, of course--and my voice is as
heavy as lead to-night. I shall not please anyone--and it is the first
time I have sung Lucia in Rome. My nerves are in a state--'
'You are not frightened? You--of all people?'
'I am half dead with fright. I am white under my rouge. I can feel it.'
'Poor child!' exclaimed Francesco, softly, and his eyes lightened as he
watched her.
'Bah!' Tebaldo shrugged his shoulders and smiled. 'She always says
that!'
'And sometimes it is true,' answered Aliandra, with a sharp sigh.
A double rap at the door interrupted the conversation.
'Signorina Basili! Are you ready?' asked a gruff voice outside.
'Yes!' replied the young girl, rising with an effort.
Francesco seized her left hand and kissed it. Tebaldo said nothing, but
folded his arms and stood aside. He saw on his brother's dark moustache
a few grains of the chalky dust which whitened Aliandra's fingers.
'Do not wait for me when it is over,' she said. 'My aunt is in the
house, and will take me home. Good night.'
'Goodbye,' said Tebaldo, looking intently into her face as he opened the
door.
She started in surprise, and perhaps her face would have betrayed her
pain, but the terribly artificial rouge and powder hid the change.
'Come and see me to-morrow,' she said to Tebaldo, in a low voice, when
she was already in the doorway.
He did not answer, but kept his eyes steadily on her face.
'Signorina Basili! You will miss your cue!' cried the gruff voice in the
corridor.
Aliandra hesitated an instant, glancing out and then looking again at
Tebaldo.
'To-morrow,' she said suddenly, stepping out into the passage.
'To-morrow,' she repeated, as she went swiftly towards the stage.
She looked back just before she disappeared, but there was little light,
and Tebaldo could no longer see her eyes.
He stood still by the door. Then his brother passed him.
'I am going to hear this act,' said Francesco, quietly, as though
unaware that anything unusual had happened.
Before he was out of the door, he felt Tebaldo's hand on his shoulder,
gripping him hard and shaking him a little. He turned his head, and his
face was suddenly pale. Tebaldo kept his hand on his brother's shoulder
and pushed him back against the wall of the passage, under the solitary
gaslight.
'What do you mean by coming here?' he asked. 'How do you dare?'
Francesco was badly frightened, for he knew Tebaldo's ungovernable
temper.
'Why not?' he tried to ask. 'I have often been here--'
'Because I warned you not to come again. Because I am in earnest.
Because I will do you some harm, if you thrust yourself into my way with
her.'
'I shall call for help now, unless you let me go,' answered Francesco,
with white lips. Tebaldo laughed savagely.
'What a coward you are!' he cried, giving his brother a final shake and
then letting him go. 'And what a fool I am to care?' he added, laughing
again.
'Brute!' exclaimed Francesco, adjusting his collar and smoothing his
coat.
'I warned you,' retorted Tebaldo, watching him. 'And now I have warned
you again,' he added. 'This is the second time. Are there no women in
the world besides Aliandra Basili?'
'I knew her first,' objected the younger man, beginning to recover some
courage.
'You knew her first? When she was a mere child in Randazzo,--when we
went to her father about a lease, we both heard her singing,--but what
has that to do with it? That was six years ago, and you have hardly seen
her since.'
'How do you know?' asked Francesco, scornfully.
He had gradually edged past Tebaldo towards the open end of the passage.
'How do you know that I did not often see her alone before she went to
Messina, and since then, too?' He smiled as he renewed the question.
'I do not know,' said Tebaldo, calmly. 'You are a coward. You are also a
most accomplished liar. It is impossible to believe a word you say, good
or bad. I should not believe you if you were dying, and if you swore
upon the holy sacraments that you were telling me the truth.'
'Thank you,' answered Francesco, apparently unmoved by the insult. 'But
you would probably believe Aliandra, would you not?'
'Why should I? She is only a woman.'
Tebaldo turned angrily as he spoke, and his eyelids drooped at the
corners, like a vulture's.
'You two are not made to be believed,' he said, growing more cold, 'I
sometimes forget, but you soon remind me of the fact again. You said
distinctly this evening that you would go home with our mother--'
'So I did,' interrupted Francesco. 'I did not promise to stay there--'
'I will not argue with you--'
'No. It would be useless, as you are in the wrong. I am going to hear
the act. Good night.'
Francesco walked quickly down the passage. He did not turn to look
behind him, but it was not until he was at the back of the stage,
groping his way amidst lumber and dust towards the other side, that he
felt safe from any further violence.
Tebaldo had no intention of following. He stood quite still under the
gaslight for a few seconds, and then opened the door of the
dressing-room again. He knew that the maid was there alone.
'How long was my brother here before I came?' he asked sharply.
The woman was setting things in order, packing the tinsel-trimmed gown
which the singer had worn in the previous scene. She looked up
nervously, for she was afraid of Tebaldo.
'A moment, only a moment,' she answered, not pausing in her work, and
speaking in a scared tone.
Tebaldo looked at her and saw that she was frightened. He was not in the
humour to believe anyone just then, and after a moment's silence, he
turned on his heel and went out.
CHAPTER VI
'What strange people there are in the world,' said Corona Saracinesca to
her husband, on the morning after the dinner at which the Corleone
family had been present.
Giovanni was reading a newspaper, leaning back in his own especial chair
in his wife's morning room. It was raining, and she was looking out of
the window. There are not many half-unconscious actions which betray so
much of the general character and momentary temper, as an idle pause
before closed window panes, and a careless glance down into the street
or up at the sky. The fact has not been noticed, but deserves to be.
Many a man or woman, at an anxious crisis, turns to the window, with the
sensation of being alone for a moment, away from the complications
created by the other person or persons in the room, free, for an
instant, to let the features relax, the eye darken, or the lips smile,
as the case may be--off the stage, indeed, as a comedian in the side
scenes. Or again, when there is no anxiety, one goes from one's work, to
take a look at the outside world, not caring to see it, but glad to be
away from the task and to give the mind a breathing space. And then,
also, the expression of the features changes, and if one stops to think
of it, one is aware that the face is momentarily rested. Another, who
has forgotten trouble and pain for a while, in conversation or in
pleasant reading, goes to the window. And the grief, or the pain, or the
