vincible Armada undertook the demoli- 
tion of Protestant Christendom, is well 
rounded, in his portraiture of the men 
who were gathered in the town to await 
the arch enemy, by the picture of " a 
short, sturdy, plainly dressed man, who 
stands with legs a little apart, and hands 
behind his back, looking up with keen 
gray eyes into the face of each speaker. 
His cap is in his hands, so that you can 
see the bullet head of crisp, brown hair 
and the wrinkled forehead, as well as the 
high cheek bones, the short square face, 
the broad temples, the thick lips, which 
are yet firm as granite. A coarse, ple- 
beian stamp of man, yet the whole figure 
and attitude are that of boundless de- 
termination, self-possession, energy ; and 
when at last he speaks a few blunt words, 
all eyes are turned respectfully upon 
him, for his name is Francis Drake." 
And there on Plymouth Hoe was he 
playing at bowls when a sailor hurriedly 
put in shore, to say that the enemy had 
been sighted. The English, from lord 
high admiral to common sailor, were 
tired of waiting. They had grown un- 
easy over conflicting rumors and Eliza- 
beth's weathercock advance and with- 
drawal, and even the leaders sorely 
needed the solace of that match on the 
green. Yet when the great word broke 
upon the ear of Drake, what did he re- 
ply ? That he would play out his game, 
since there would afterwards be time 
enough and to spare for beating the 
Spaniard. But who would attempt re- 
peating the after-story which many have 
told so well ? Suffice it for us to recall 
the folk-version of the first scene in 
the grand drama, wherein the winds of 
heaven and the heroism of earth played 
 
antiphonal parts. When the Spanish 
fleet appeared, say Plymouth dames, Sir 
Francis quietly, called for a billet of 
wood and an axe. The stick he pro- 
ceeded to chop into small pieces, which, 
as he threw them into the water, speedily 
became men-of-war; and these Devo- 
nian dragon's teeth (fraternal and benefi- 
cent, unlike the crop of old !) fell upon 
the enemy of Gloriana the Great, and 
straightway destroyed him. 
At the right of the Hoe, a wilderness 
of greenery overlooking the sea, lies 
Mount Edgcumbe, wisely selected by 
the leader of the Armada for his own 
share of the spoils. He had an eye for 
beauty, this Medina Sidonia ; and even 
at this late day, with all our sympathies 
enlisted on the winning side, we can but 
feel "the pity of it '' that even so insolent 
an invader should thus have "loved a 
dream," though we smile, perforce, over 
old Fuller's ironical remark that "the 
bear was not yet killed, and Medina 
Sidonia might have catched a great cold, 
had he no other clothes to wear than, the 
skin thereof." It is easy to picture the 
delight with which the sea-wearied eyes 
of the Spanish mariners must have rested 
 
on this royal spot. Sheer above the 
dimpling water rise mountainous cliffs, 
crowned by a noble growth of trees, 
and carpeted with sweet under-verdure. 
Mount Edgcumbe Park, where the public 
is permitted to wander on specified days, 
is a miracle of beauty. Tracts of wood- 
land alternate with garden beds rich in 
color. Laurel and holly reflect the day 
in their shining leaves, and a wondrous 
giant hypericum stars the ground with 
bloom. The great estate is traversed by 
broad walks and winding paths, appar- 
ently due not to design, but to the errant 
will of some wanderer; and now and 
again, in skirting the cliff, you may look 
down into the summer sea, over the 
greenly wooded Drake's Island in the 
harbor. At happy intervals are lodge 
and cottage, where you may order delec- 
table tea and plum-cake for sixpence, or 
ham and eggs (the bulwark of England's 
greatness) for another silver trifle. And 
if the sky, such of it as you can see 
through the treetops, smile upon you, 
and the typical sight-seer be not omni- 
present, you will take the little boat 
again for Plymouth quay, after a dreamy 
half -day in the park, more alive than ever 
 
to England's beauty and Medina Sidonia's 
taste in real estate. 
Were one to attempt a summary of 
Plymouth's notable days and names, he 
would find an American tourist's stay 
within its gates all too short for dwelling 
fitly upon associations of such magnitude. 
From that port set sail, in its golden 
days, an " infinite swarm of expeditions." 
Drake put forth from its harbor to 
circumnavigate the globe. Sir John 
Hawkins made it the initial point of his 
dark but masterful career. Sir Walter 
Raleigh's fleet set sail thence for the 
settlement of Virginia, and hither he 
returned, broken-hearted, from his last 
fatal expedition in quest of the golden 
city of Manoa. Sir Humphrey Gilbert 
went thence to Newfoundland, a voyage 
destined to stretch on into that other, 
infinite journey, illumined by the burning 
words, " We are as near heaven by sea 
as by land." From Plymouth, also, em- 
barked, in 1620, those pilgrims who had 
left Holland for a bleaker but more de- 
sired haven. Quaint and dry are the 
early chronicles of the town, denoting a 
race of tough fibre, fit associates for the 
mariners whose names do so bum and 
 
flash upon the page. These were men 
who stood no more upon ceremony than 
old " Frankie Drake," and who could give 
and take such missiles of dry humor as 
might well be considered both danger- 
ous and deadly in their effect on friendly 
intercourse. Some of the stories con- 
nected with the early mayors recall the 
candor once prevailing in the pit of the 
English theatres. Shipley, being meek 
by nature and deportment, was popularly 
called " Sheepley," and evidently took no 
offense thereat. Farcy, who would have 
the world know that he was " gentleman 
bom," struck the town clerk for not call- 
ing him ''your Worship," and so was 
dubbed thereafter " Worshipful Farcy " 
by all the Plymouth gamins^ perhaps 
even with the concurrence of their tough- 
hided fathers. Yogge, who was blamed 
for belittling his office by bearing his 
meat home from market, returned with 
sturdy good wit, " It's a poor horse that 
won't carry its own provender ! " But 
of all the legends connected with these 
robust city fathers, none better shows us 
the stuff of which they were made than 
a true tale of Mayor Dirnford, who, in 
1455, in church "on his opening day," 
 
had a fit of apoplexy. No such slight in- 
cident, however, could really disturb his 
Worship. He came out of it with dignity, 
as from a recognized part of the services, 
and at dinner ate Michaelmas goose, say- 
ing grimly that the fit had given him an 
appetite. 
Of the beauty and strength of Ply- 
mouth at the present day, it would be 
difficult to say too much. It includes 
within its jurisdiction the sister towns 
of Stonehouse and Devonport, all three 
bearing the patent marks of military de- 
sign and occupation. Look into the Cat- 
water and Hamoaze, estuaries of the Plym 
and Tamar, twin rivers of Plymouth, and 
you shall find men-of-war and humble 
