enforce the fire-laws, and the very aisles were 
jammed. Who carried the story? How do such 
wraiths of rumors fly ? 
Every member of that church not absent from 
town or known to be ill in his bed sought his pew 
that afternoon. Many indeed left their sick-rooms 
to be present at that long-remembered service. But 
no man or woman of these came alone. Each 
brought a chosen companion ; many, two or three ; 
some came accompanied by half a dozen worshipers : 
and upon these invited guests Saint Agatha's looked 
with an astonishment that seemed to be half shame ; 
for up those velvet aisles there moved an array of 
human faces at which the very angels and virtues 
in the painted windows seemed to turn their heads 
and stare. 
Such wretchedness, such pallor, hunger, cold, 
envy, sickness, sin, and shame were as unknown to 
those dedicated and decorated walls as the inmates 
of hell. Rags and disease, uncleanliness and woe 
and want, trod the house of God as if they had the 
right there. Every pew in the church was thrown 
open. Tattered blanket shawls jostled velvet cloaks, 
and worn little tan-colored reefers, half concealing 
the shivering cotton blouses of last summer, rubbed 
against sealskin furs that swept from throat to foot. 
Wretched men, called in by the throb of repentance 
that follows a debauch, lifted their haggard eyes to 
the chancel from the pews of the wardens, and 
women of the town sat gently beside the " first 
ladies " of the parish and of the city. There were 
a few ragged children in the audience, wan and 
shrewd, sitting drearily beside mothers to whom 
they did not cling. The pew of our friend, the 
vestryman, was filled to overflowing. The wife 
with the under lip sat beside him, and did not
protest. She had herself gone with him to the hospital 
to select their guests. For their pew was filled with 
the crippled and other sick who could neither walk 
nor afford to ride, and whom their own carriage had 
brought to Saint Agatha s. One of these, a woman, 
came on crutches, and the lady helped her, not 
knowing in the least how to do it ; and a man who 
had not used his feet for six years was lifted in by 
the pew-owner and his coachman and butler, and 
carried the length of the broad aisle. 
The church, as we say, was packed long before 
the preacher appeared. He came punctually to his 
appointment, like any ordinary man. It was mid- 
afternoon, and the sun was declining when he 
glided across the chancel. Already shadows were 
lying heavily in the corners of the church and under 
the galleries on the darker side. A few lights were 
glimmering about the chancel, but these served only 
to illuminate the stranger's form and face ; they did 
not lighten the mass of hushed and appealing hu 
manity before him. 
The choir, with bowed heads, just above the 
breath, began to chant : 
Who shall lay anything to the charge 
Of God's Elect ? 
It is God that justifieth, 
It is Christ that died. 
While they sang the preacher stood quite still and 
looked at the people, that strange and motley mass, 
the rich and the poor, the sick and the well, the 
disgraced and the reputable, the pampered and the 
starving, the shameful and the clean of life, the 
happy and the wretched together. When the sing, 
ing ceased, he spoke as if he talked right on ; he 
read no prayers ; he turned to no ritual ; he did not 
even use the great Bible of Saint Agatha's but 
only spoke in a quiet way, like a man who continues 
a thought begun : 
" For the Lord," he said, " is the maker of you 
all." 
There was no sermon in Saint Agatha's that after 
noon. Ecclesiastically speaking, there was no 
service. But the preacher spoke to the people; and 
their hearts hung upon his words. But what those 
words were no man may tell us at this day. 
It has been whispered, indeed, that what he said 
took different meanings to the members of that 
strange audience. Each heart received its own 
message. Wide as the earth were the gulfs between 
those hearers. But the preacher's message bridged 
them all. From his quivering lip and melting voice 
each soul drank the water of life. Afterwards each 
 
kept its own secret, and told not of that thirst, or 
of its assuaging. 
"He speaks to me/ sighed the patrician, with 
bowed head. "How happens this, for I thought 
no man did know that inner history ? I have never 
told" 
" To me ! To me ! " sohbed the pauper and the 
castaway " the preacher speaks to me. My misery, 
my shame the whole world knows, but no man 
ever understood before." 
The afternoon waned. The shadows deepened 
under the galleries. The great house clung like 
one child to the voice of the preacher. It was as 
still as the courts of Heaven when a soul is 
pardoned. The stranger spoke in a low but penetrat 
ing voice. Not a word was lost by the remotest. 
He spoke of the love of God the Father, and of the 
life of Christ the Son. He spoke of sin and of for 
giveness, of sorrow, of shame, and of peace. He 
spoke of sacrifice, of patience, of purity, and of 
hope, and of the eternal life. 
Not once did he allude to the petty differences 
among the people who sat bowed and breathless 
before him. Such paltry things as riches or 
poverty, or position, or obscurity, he did not recognize. 
 
He spoke to men and women, the children of God. 
He spoke to sinners and to sufferers, and to patient 
saints ; he said nothing about " classes ; " he talked 
of human beings ; he rebuked them for their sins ; 
he comforted them for their miseries ; he smote their 
hearts ; he shook their souls ; he passed over then- 
lives as conflagration passes, burning to ashes, 
purifying to new growth. 
As he spoke, the manner of his countenance 
changed before them, like that of any great and holy 
man who is charged with the burden of souls, and 
who persuadeth them. A fine, inner light glowed 
through his features, as a sacred lamp glows through 
alabaster or some exquisite shell. His plaintive lip 
trembled. His deep eyes burned and retreated, as 
if they veiled themselves. An expression dazzling 
to behold settled upon his face. His white garment 
gathered light, and shone. Suddenly pausing, he 
stretched forth his hands. What delicate arrange 
ment of the chancel lamps illuminated them ? It was 
noticed by many, and spoken of afterwards below 
the breath. For, as he raised them in benediction 
upon the people, there scintillated from the palms a 
light. Some said that it was reflected from the 
radiance of the man's face. Some said that it had 
The face of the stranger swam before her " 
another cause. Only this is sure : when he did uplift 
his hands to bless them, all the people fell upon their 
knees before him. 
It was now almost dark in the church, and no 
man could see his neighbor's face. The choir, on 
their knees, began to sing, "Holy, holy, holy" 
When their voices fell, the preacher's rose : 
" And now may the grace of God the Father, and 
the love of Jesus Christ his Son, your Lord, and the 
peace of the Holy Spirit, be upon you ; for there is 
Life Eternal ; and God is the Light thereof ; whose 
children ye are forever. Amen, and Amen." 
His voice ceased. The hush that followed it was 
broken only by sobs. 
The electric lights sprang out all over the church. 
In the sudden brilliance the kneeling people lifted 
their wet faces to the stranger's, thinking to catch 
a last sight of him for life-long treasure. 
But the chancel was empty. As silently, as 
strangely, as he had come, the preacher had gone. 
It was the fashion of the man. Such was his will. 
He was never seen at Saint Agatha's again ; nor, 
though his name and fame were widely sought, were 
they ever learned by any. 
The great, strange crowd of worshipers melted 
 
mutely away. No man spoke to his neighbor ; each 
was busy with the secret of his own soul. The sick 
returned to their sufferings ; the bereaved to their 
loneliness ; the poor to their struggles ; the rich to 
their pleasures ; the erring to their temptations ; and 
God went with them. 
Down the avenue, in the room of the life-long 
invalid, the receiver fell from a woman's shaking 
hand. All these all they, the saddest, the sorest, 
of them all had been preferred before her. 
" Oh, to have seen his face ! " she cried. She 
held her thin hands before her eyes. Then, flashing 
by that inner light which burns in the brain of the 
