handsomer and reached considerably higher, while 
she wore once more the air of looking at his mis 
take through the enlarging blur of tears. " As I 
believe you did, in honour, what you could for Mr. 
Beever, I trust you perfectly still." 
 
Tony smiled as if he apologised, but as if also he 
couldn't but wonder. " Then it's only fair to say 
tome ?" 
" That I don't trust Miss Martle." 
" Oh, my dear woman ! " Tony precipitately 
laughed. 
But Rose went on with all deliberation and dis 
tinctness. " That's what has made the difference 
that's what has brought me, as you say, round 
to a sense of my possible use, or rather of my clear 
obligation. Half an hour ago I knew how much 
you love her. Now I know how much she loves 
you." 
Tony's laugh suddenly dropped ; he showed the 
face of a man for whom a joke has sharply turned 
grave. " And what is it that, in possession of this 
admirable knowledge, you see ?" 
Rose faltered ; but she had not come so far sim 
ply to make a botch of it. "Why, that it's the 
obvious interest of the person we speak of not to 
have too stupid a patience with any obstacle to her 
marrying you." 
This speech had a quiet lucidity of which the 
odd action was, for an instant, to make him lose 
breath so violently that, in his quick gasp, he felt 
sick. In the indignity of the sensation he struck 
out. " Pray, why is it the person's obvious inter 
est any more than it's yours ? " 
" Seeing that I love you quite as much as she 
does? Because you don't love me quite as much 
as you love her. That's exactly ' why,' dear Tony 
Bream ! " said Rose Armiger. 
She turned away from him sadly and nobly, as 
if she had done with him and with the subject, 
and he stood where she had left him, gazing at the 
foolish greenness at his feet and slowly passing his 
hand over his head. In a few seconds, however, 
he heard her utter a strange, short cry, and, look 
ing round, saw her face to face across the inter 
val of sloping lawn with a gentleman whom he 
had been sufficiently prepared to recognise on the 
spot as Dennis Vidal. 
XXIII 
HE had, in this preparation, the full advantage 
of Rose, who, quite thrown for the moment off her 
balance, was vividly unable to give any account of 
the apparition which should be profitable to her 
self. The violence of her surprise made her catch 
the back of the nearest chair, on which she covertly 
rested, directing at her old suitor from this posi 
tion the widest eyes the master of Bounds had 
ever seen her unwittingly open. To perceive this, 
however, was to be almost simultaneously struck, 
and even to be not a little charmed, with the 
clever quickness of her recovery that of a per 
son constitutionally averse to making unmeasured 
displays. Rose was capable of astonishment, as 
she was capable of other kinds of emotion; but 
she was as little capable of giving way to it as she 
was of giving way to other kinds ; so that both of 
her companions immediately saw her moved by 
the sense that a perturbing incident could at the 
worst do her no such evil turn as she might suffer 
by taking it in the wrong way. Tony became 
aware, in addition, that the fact communicated to 
him by Mrs. Beever gave him an advantage even 
over the poor fellow whose face, as he stood there, 
showed the traces of an insufficient forecast of two 
things : one of them the influence on all his pulses 
of the sight again, after such an interval, and in 
the high insolence of life and strength, of the 
woman he had lost and still loved ; the other the 
instant effect on his imagination of his finding her 
intimately engaged with the man who had been, 
however without fault, the occasion of her perver 
sity. Vidal's marked alertness had momentarily 
failed him ; he paused in his advance long enough 
to give Tony, after noting and regretting his agi 
tation, time to feel that Rose was already as 
colourlessly bland as a sensitive woman could 
wish to be. 
All this made the silence, however brief and 
it was much briefer than my account of it vi 
brate to such a tune as to prompt Tony to speak 
as soon as possible in the interest of harmony. 
What directly concerned him was that he had last 
seen Vidal as his own duly appreciative guest, and 
he offered him a hand freely charged with re- 
 
minders of that quality. He was refreshed and 
even a little surprised to observe that the young 
man took it, after all, without stiffness ; but the 
strangest thing in the world was that as he cor 
dially brought him up the bank he had a mystic 
glimpse of the fact that Rose Armiger, with her 
heart in her throat, was waiting for some sign as 
to whether she might, for the benefit of her inter 
course with himself, safely take the ground of 
having expected what had happened having 
perhaps even brought it about. She naturally 
took counsel of her fears, and Tony, suddenly 
more elated than he could have given a reason for 
being, was ready to concur in any attempt she 
might make to save her appearance of knowing no 
reproach. Yet, foreseeing the awkwardness that 
might arise from her committing herself too 
rashly, he made haste to say to Vidal that he 
would have been startled if he had not been fore 
warned: Mrs. Beever had mentioned to him the 
visit she had just received. 
" Ah, she told you ? " Dennis asked. 
"Me only as a great sign of confidence," Tony 
laughed. 
Rose, at this, could be amazed with superiority. 
" What ? you've already been here ? " 
"An hour ago," said Dennis. "I asked Mrs. 
Beever not to tell you." 
That was a chance for positive criticism. " She 
obeyed your request to the letter. But why in 
the world such portentous secrecy ? " Rose spoke 
as if there was no shade of a reason for his feel 
ing shy, and now gave him an excellent exam 
ple of the right tone. She had emulated Tony's 
own gesture of welcome, and he said to himself 
that no young woman could have stretched a 
more elastic arm across a desert of four cold 
years. 
"I can explain to you better," Dennis replied, 
" why I emerged than why I vanished." 
" You emerged, I suppose, because you wanted 
to see me." Rose spoke to one of her admirers, 
but she looked, she even laughed, at the other, 
showing him by this time an aspect completely 
and inscrutably renewed. "You knew I was 
here?" 
" At Wilverley ? " Dennis hesitated. " I took it 
for granted." 
" I'm afraid it was really for Miss Armiger you 
came," Tony remarked in the spirit of pleasantry. 
It seemed to him that the spirit of pleasantry 
would help them on. 
 
It had its result it proved contagious. "I 
would still say so before her even if it 
weren't ! " Dennis returned. 
Rose took up the joke. " Fortunately it's true 
so it saves you a fib." 
" It saves me a fib ! " Dennis said. 
In this way the trick was successfully played 
they found their feet; with the added amuse 
ment, for Tony, of hearing the necessary falsehood 
uttered neither by himself nor by Rose, but by a 
man whose veracity, from the first, on that earlier 
day, of looking at him, he had felt to be almost 
incompatible with the flow of conversation. It 
was more and more distinct while the minutes 
elapsed that the secondary effect of her old 
friend's reappearance was to make Rose shine 
with a more convenient light; and she met her 
embarrassment, every way, with so happy an art 
that Tony was moved to deplore afresh the com 
plication that estranged him from a woman of 
such gifts. It made up indeed a little for this 
that he was also never so possessed of his own 
as when there was something to carry off or to 
put, as the phrase was, through. His light hand, 
his slightly florid facility were the things that in 
managing, in presiding, had rendered him so 
widely popular ; and wasn't he, precisely, a little 
presiding, wasn't he a good deal managing, just 
now? Vidal would be a blessed diversion espe 
cially if he should be pressed into the service as 
one : Tony was content for the moment to see this 
with eagerness rather than to see it whole. His 
