" I thought you'd come to it," he sneered. 
" Did you ? " asked the painter, with a smile for the 
unsatisfied grudge in the boy's tone. " Why didn't 
you tell me sooner ? " 
The boy looked down, and apparently made up his 
mind to wait until something sufiiciently severe should 
come to him for a retort. " Want I should help you 
get your things?" he asked, presently. 
" Why, yes," said the painter, with a glance of sur- 
 
prise. " I shall be much obliged for a lift." He 
started towards the porch where his burden lay, and 
the boy ran before him. They jointly separated the 
knapsack from the things tied to it, and the painter 
let the boy carry the easel and camp-stool which de- 
veloped themselves from their folds and hinges, and 
brought the colors and canvas himself to the spot he 
had chosen. The boy looked at the tag on the easel 
after it was placed, and read the name on it — Jere 
Westover. " That's a funny name." 
" I'm glad it amuses you," said the owner of it. 
Again the boy cast down his eyes discomfited, and 
seemed again resolving silently to bide his time and 
watch for another chance. 
Westover forgot him in the fidget he fell into, try- 
ing this and that effect, with his head slanted one way, 
and then slanted the other, his hand held up to shut 
out the mountain below the granite mass of Lion's 
Head, and then changed to cut ofi the sky above ; and 
then both hands lifted in parallel to confine the pict- 
ure. He made some tentative scrawls on his canvas 
in charcoal, and he wasted so much time that the light 
on the mountain-side began to take the rich tone of 
the afternoon deepening to evening. A soft flush stole 
into it ; the sun dipped behind the top south of the 
mountain, and Lion's Head stood out against the in- 
tense clearness of the west, which began to be flushed 
with exquisite suggestions of violet and crimson. 
" Good Lord ! " said Westover ; and he flew at his 
colors and began to paint. He had got his canvas 
into such a state that he alone could have found it 
 
 
much more intelligible than his palette, when he heard 
the boy saying, over his shoulder, " I don't think that 
looks very much like it." He had last been aware of 
the boy sitting at the grassy edge of the lane, tossing 
small bits of earth and pebble across to his dog, which 
sat at the other edge, and snapped at them. Then he 
lost consciousness of him. He answered, dreamily, 
while he found a tint he was trying for with his brush, 
" Perhaps you don't know." He was so sure of his 
effect that the popular censp.re speaking in the boy's 
opinion only made him happier in it. 
" I know what I see," said the boy. 
" I doubt it," said Westover, and then he lost con- 
sciousness of him again. He was rapt deep and far 
into the joy of his work, and had no thought but for 
that, and for the dim question whether it would be 
such another day to-morrow, with that light again on 
Lion's Head, when he was at last sensible of a noise 
that he felt he must have been hearing some time 
without noting it. It was a lamentable sound of 
screaming, as of some one in mortal terror, mixed 
with wild entreaties. " Oh, don't, Jeff ! Oh, don't, 
don't, don't ! Oh, please ! Oh, do let us be ! Oh, 
Jeff, don't ! " 
Westover looked round bewildered, and not able, 
amid the clamor of the echoes, to make out where the 
cries came from. Then, down at the point where the 
lane joined the road to the southward, and the road 
lost itself in the shadow of a woodland, he saw the 
boy leaping back and forth across the track, with his 
dog beside him ; he was shouting and his dog barking 
 
furiously; those screams and entreaties came from 
within the shadow. Westover phmged down the lane 
headlong, with a speed that gathered at each bound, 
and that almost flung him on his face when he reached 
the level where the boy and the dog were dancing 
back and forth across the road. Then he saw, crouch- 
ing in the edge of the wood, a little girl, who was 
uttering the appeals he had heard, and clinging to 
her, with a face of frantic terror, a child of five or six 
years ; his cries had grown hoarse, and had a hard, 
mechanical action as they followed one another. They 
were really in no danger, for the boy held his dog 
tight by his collar, and was merely delighting himself 
with their terror. The painter hurled himself upon 
him, and with a quick grip upon his collar, gave him 
half a dozen flat-handed blows wherever he could plant 
them, and then flung him reeling away. 
" You infernal little ruffian ! " he roared at him ; and 
the sound of his voice was enough for the dog; he 
began to scale the hill-side towards the house without 
a moment's stay. 
The children still crouched together, and Westover 
could hardly make them understand that they were in 
his keeping when he bent over them, and bade them 
not be frightened. The little girl set about wiping 
the child's eyes on her apron in a motherly fashion ; 
her own were dry enough, and Westover fancied there 
was more of fury than of fright in her face. She 
seemed lost to any sense of his presence, and kept on 
talking fiercely to herself, while she put the little boy 
in order, like an indignant woman. "Great, mean, 
 
Ugly thing! I'll tell the teacher on him, that's what 
I will, as soon as ever school begins. I'll see if he 
can come round with that dog of his scaring folks ! 
I wouldn't 'a' been a bit afraid if it hadn't 'a' been for 
Franky. Don't cry any more, Franky ! Don't you 
sec they're gone ? I presume he thinks it smart to 
scare a little boy and a girl. If I was a boy, once, I'd 
sliow him." 
She made no sign of gratitude to Westover : as far 
as any recognition from her was concerned, his inter- 
vention was something as impersonal as if it had been 
a thunder-bolt falling upon her enemies from the sky. 
" Where do you live ? " he asked. " I'll go home 
with you, if you'll tell me where you live." 
She looked up at him in a daze, and Westover heard 
the Durgin boy saying, " She lives right there in that 
little wood-colored house at the other end of the lane. 
There ain't no eall to go home with her." 
Westover turned, and saw the boy kneeling at the 
edge of a clump of bushes, where he must have struck ; 
he was rubbing with a tuft of grass at the dirt ground 
into the knees of his trousers. 
The little girl turned hawkishly upon him. " Not 
for anything you can do, Jeff Durgin ! " 
The boy did not answer. 
" There ! " she said, giving a final pull and twitch 
to the dress of her brother, and taking him by the 
hand tenderly. " Now, come right along, Franky." 
" Let me have your other hand," said Westover, and 
with the little boy between them they set o£E towards 
the point where the lane Joined the road on the north- 
ward. They had to pass the bushes where JefE Dur- 
gin was crouching, and the little girl turned and made 
a face at him. " Oh, oh ! I don't think I should have 
done that ! " said Westover. 
" I don't care ! " said the little girl. But she said, 
in explanation and partial excuse : "He tries to scare 
all the girls. I'll let him know' t he can't scare Twe." 
Westover looked up towards the Durgin house with 
a return of interest in the canvas he had left in the 
lane on the easel. Nothing had happened to it. At 
the door of the barn he saw the farmer and his eldest 
son, slanting forward and staring down the hill at the 
point he had come from. Mrs. Durgin was looting 
out from the shelter of the porch, and she turned and 
went in with Jeff's dog at her skirts when Westover 
came in sight with the children. 
V. 
Westover bad his tea with the family, but nothing 
was said or done to show that any of them resented 
or even knew of what had happened to the boy from 
him. JefE himself seemed to have no grudge. He 
went out with Westover, when the meal was ended, 
and sat on the steps of the porch with him, watching 
the painter watch the light darken on the lonely 
heights and in the lonely depths around. Westover 
smoked a pipe, and the fire gleamed and smouldered 
in it regularly with his breathing ; the boy, on a lower 
step, pulled at the long ears of his dog, and gazed up 
at bim. 
They were both silent till the painter asked, " What 
do you do here, when you're not trying to scare little 
children to death ? " 
The boy hung bis head, and said, with the effect of 
excusing a long arrears of uselessness, " I'm goin' to 
school as soon as it commences." 
" There's one branch of your education that I should 
like to undertake, if I ever saw you at a thing like 
that again. Don't you feel ashamed of yourself ? " 
 
The boy pulled so hard at the dog's ear that the 
dog gave a faint yelp of protest. 
" They might 'a' seen that I had him by the collar. 
