up in a cue behind.

The village did not consist of a great number of small buildings, but
from the landing-place could be seen the end of an immense structure
with a forest of palms behind it. The rear of it was not perpendicular,
but slanted outward, like many of the walls of corn-houses in New
England, doubtless to keep the rain from the roof from penetrating. All
the party, including the sailors, landed; for Mr. Eng declared that the
Dyaks were honest, and even in Sarawak were never known to steal
anything, though the Malays and Chinamen were given to pilfering.

The crowd of men, women, and children gathered on the shore had looked
the Blanchita over with the closest attention while the Americans were
looking them over. The party landed under the escort of the agent, and
took up the line of march for the big house. The entire crowd of Dyaks
followed them, though they did not intrude upon them; on the contrary,
they treated all of the visitors with a respect and deference bordering
on homage.

"That 'long-house,' as we call it here, is nearly two hundred feet in
length," said Mr. Eng. "It is thirty feet wide. Now you can see more of
it; and you notice that it is set upon a multitude of posts, like all
Malay and Dyak houses. These posts are firmly set in the ground; and
being about six inches in diameter, you can readily see that the house
rests on a solid foundation. It is not likely to be blown down in any
ordinary gale, though a hurricane might sweep it away. Not a nail, not a
wooden pin or peg, is used in the construction of such buildings."

"Then, I should think any ordinary gale would level them to the ground,"
suggested Louis.

"But the Dyaks have a substitute for nails or pins," replied the guide.
"All the poles and sticks and boards are tightly bound together with
rattans; and I believe they hold together better than if they were
nailed."

"I observed in England and France that the stagings used in the erection
of buildings were made partly of round poles, tied together with ropes.
I talked with a man who told me they were stronger than if put together
with nails," said Morris.

"I think he was right. I can't tell you how the Malays and Dyaks manage
the rattan to render it so flexible, but it seems to me they make better
work than ropes. On the back of this house, there is not a single window
or other opening," continued Mr. Eng, as the party stood at the end of
the structure, near the rear corner. "The disagreeable feature of the
building, or rather of the habits of the occupants, is that the space
under it, ten feet between the ground and the floor, is a catch-all for
all refuse matter, and you notice that an unpleasant odor comes from
it."

"Is this the only entrance to it?" asked Scott, pointing to a door,
which was reached by a log notched like a flight of stairs.

"There is a door at the other end also; and there may be ways of
mounting the platform, or veranda, which forms the front of the
building, as climbing a post, or dropping from a tree. Some of the
posts, of which you see a multitude under the house, are cut off at the
first floor, while many of them reach up to the roof, and support it. We
will go in now, if you like; and, being sailors, I suppose you can climb
the log."

"No doubt of that," replied Scott, who was the first to ascend. "Are all
that crowd coming up?"

"Certainly; they are the occupants of the long-house, and they must be
at home in order to do the honors of the occasion," laughed the guide.

The villagers followed the party, and immediately manifested their
politeness in various ways. The prettiest girl in the crowd spoke to
Louis; though he did not understand a word she said, but replied to her
in English, when she was as much at sea as he had been.

"What does she say, Achang?" he asked of the Bornean.

"Tabet, tuan," replied the native.

"I heard her say that; but what does it mean?"

"It means, 'Good-day, sir,'" answered the Bornean; and he proceeded to
tell her that Louis was the "head man," very rich, and owned a big
ship.

She made a very graceful obeisance to him, and then rushed away through
a door on the side of the grand hall, as it may well be called. But she
returned immediately, bringing a very elaborately worked mat, which she
spread on the floor at the feet of the "head man." Then she spread out
her hands, and bowed low, saying something which was Greek to him.

"She invites you to take a seat on the mat," Achang explained.

As a matter of politeness Louis seated himself, and looked at the maiden
who treated him with so much consideration. By this time the other women
were bringing mats for the rest of the party, making no distinction
between the seamen and the cabin party. The latter followed the example
of the young millionaire, and seated themselves. The foremast hands
declined the proffered courtesy; and Achang explained to the ladies that
only the four young men who were seated were the magnates of the
company, while the others were inferior personages, for the Bornean was
not strictly democratic in his ideas.

"We will look at the house now, if you please," said Mr. Eng, after the
"Big Four" had been seated a few minutes; and all of them rose to their
feet, bowing low to the young ladies who had treated them with so much
distinction.

About forty or fifty of the posts extended from the ground, for the
visitors had not time to count them; and most of them had suspended upon
them various trophies of the hunt, including the antlers of deer,
crocodiles' heads, weapons, paddles, and spears. In the middle of the
long hall a fire was burning on a foundation of soil, enclosed by a
border of wood. In the roof was a sort of scuttle, which was fastened
open to admit the air, and to allow some of the smoke to escape, though
there was plenty of it remaining in the apartment.

"What is that overhead, Mr. Eng?" asked Louis, pointing to a black mass
suspended near the fire, though he had a suspicion of its nature.

"That is a collection of human skulls, relics of the days of
head-hunting; for they are generally kept in a building erected for the
purpose, though appropriated at the present time partly to other uses.
There are about twenty of them, which is not a large number for a
village like this. Not one of them is less than twenty years old; for
Rajah Brooke put an end to head-hunting long ago, though some of it has
been done in spite of his edicts. A lady beckons to you, Mr. Belgrave."

The pretty girl--by comparison--stood by his side, pointing to one of
the numerous doors at the closed side of the house. Louis followed her,
and she conducted him into a room. A portion of the floor was covered
with mats on which the occupants sleep, with an earth section for a
fire. There was no furniture of any kind. The roof of the building was
covered with square pieces of palm like those used on the sampans, and
these could be raised in each room when necessary for air.

"This apartment is occupied by one family, or by a married couple, and
unmarried men and boys sleep in the attic overhead," said Mr. Eng. "It
has but one door, the one opening into the main hall. This is a house of
sixteen doors; and by this enumeration the size of the village is
stated, and this number gauges the taxes to be paid."

"Citizens cannot dodge their taxes here, then, as some of them do in the
United States," said Scott.

The party walked the entire length of the hall, and then passed out upon
the platform, which was not covered, and was used for various purposes,
such as drying rice or other articles. The floors were composed of
strips of palm, not more than an inch and a half wide, and placed an
inch apart. They were lashed to the floor joists, or poles, with rattan.

"Those doors, which indicate the taxable rate of the village, look as
though they were cut out of single planks," said Scott.

"And so they are," replied the agent.

"I have seen no saw-mills here, and I suppose they bring the lumber from
England or India."

"Not at all, though some may be obtained in that manner. They are made
from the buttress of the tapang-tree, which you must have seen."

"I have not noticed any such thing, though perhaps none of us could
identify it," replied the captain.

"It is found growing out in triangular form from just above the roots of
the tree. In a large one it is twelve or fifteen feet long. It makes a
natural plank two inches thick, which may be trimmed into any shape with
the biliong."

The party were ready to depart; and they made all sorts of courteous
gestures to their hosts, especially the ladies. The women asked them for
tobacco, as Achang interpreted the requests. They had none, but some of
the seamen supplied them with all they had about them.




CHAPTER X.

THE MANNERS AND CUSTOMS OF THE DYAKS.

