something  that would meet it at the same 
high point. But this effort flurried her and 
all she could produce was : " At first, you 
know, I thought you were Lord Eric." 
The Captain looked vague. " Lord Eric? " 
"And then Sir Claude thought you were 
the Baron." 
At this he resounded. " Why, the Baron's 
four foot high and as red as a lobster." 
Maisie laughed in return the young lady 
at the ball certainly would and was on the 
point, as conscientiously, of pursuing the sub- 
ject with an agreeable question. But before 
she could speak her companion asked her 
one. " Who in the world 's Lord Eric?" 
" Don't you know him? " she judged her 
young lady would say that with light surprise. 
" Do you mean a fat man with his mouth 
always open ? " She had to confess that their 
acquaintance was so limited that she could 
only describe the bearer of the name as a 
friend of mamma's ; but a light suddenly 
came to the Captain, who quickly asserted 
that he knew her man. " What-do-you-call- 
him's brother the fellow that owned ' Bobo- 
link ' ? " Then, with all his niceness, he con- 
tradicted her flat. " Oh, dear no your 
mother never knew him" 
" But Mrs. Wix said so," the child risked. 
"Mrs. Wix?" 
" My old governess." 
This again seemed amusing to the Captain. 
"She mixed him up, your old governess. 
He's an awful beast. Your mother never 
looked at such a hog." 
He was as positive as he was friendly, but 
he dropped for a minute after this into a 
silence that gave Maisie, confused but in- 
genious, a chance to redeem the mistake of 
pretending to know too much by the humility 
of inviting further correction. " And does n't 
she know the Baron?" 
" Oh, I dare say. But he 's another ass." 
After which, abruptly, with a different look, 
he put down again on the back of her 
own the hand he had momentarily removed. 
Maisie even thought he colored a little. " I 
want tremendously to speak to you. You 
must never believe any harm of your mother." 
"Oh, I assure you I dorit!" she cried, 
blushing, herself, up to her eyes in a sudden 
surge of deprecation of such a thought. 
The Captain, bending his head, raised her 
hand to his lips with a benevolence that made 
her wish her glove had been nicer. " Of 
course you don't when you know how fond 
she is viyou" 
" She 's fond of me?" Maisie panted. 
" Tremendously. But she thinks you don't 
like her. You must like her. She has had 
too much to bear." 
" Oh, yes I know ! " She rejoiced that 
she had never denied it. 
" Of course I've no right to speak of her 
except as a particular friend," the Captain 
went on. " But she 's a splendid woman. 
She has never had any sort of justice." 
"Hasn't she?" the child, to hear the 
words, felt a thrill altogether new. 
" Perhaps I ought n't to say it to you 
but she has had everything to suffer." 
" Oh, yes you can say it to me ! " Maisie 
hastened to profess. 
The Captain weighed this. "Well, you 
needn't tell. It's all for you see?" 
Serious and smiling, she only wanted to take 
it from him. "It's between you and me? 
Oh, there are lots of things I've never told." 
" Well, keep this with the rest. I assure you 
she has had the most infernal time, no matter 
what any one says to the contrary. She 's the 
cleverest woman I ever saw in all my life. 
She 's too charming." She had been touched 
already by his tone, and now she leaned back 
in her chair and felt something tremble within 
her. " She 's tremendous fun she can do 
all sorts of things better than I 've ever seen 
anyone. She has the pluck of fifty and 
I know : I assure you I do. She has the nerve 
for a tiger-shoot by Jove, I 'd take her ! 
And she 's awfully open and generous, don't 
you know? there are women that are such 
horrid sneaks. She 'd go through anything 
for any one she likes." He appeared to watch 
for a moment the effect on his companion of 
this emphasis ; then he gave a small sigh that 
mourned the limits of the speakable. But it 
was almost with the note of a challenge that 
he wound up : " Look here she 's true ! " 
Maisie had so little desire to assert the con- 
trary that she found herself, in the intensity of 
her response, throbbing with a joy still less 
utterable than the essence of the Captain's 
appreciation. She was fairly hushed with the 
sense that he spoke of her mother as she had 
never heard any one speak. It came over her 
as she sat silent that, after all, this admiration 
and this respect were quite new words, which 
took a distinction from the fact that nothing in 
the least resembling them in quality had on 
any occasion dropped from the lips of her 
father, of Mrs. Beale, of Sir Claude or even 
of Mrs. Wix. What it appeared to her to 
come to was that, on the subject of her lady- 
ship, it was the first real kindness she had 
heard, so that at the touch of it something 
strange and deep and pitying surged up within 
her a revelation that, practically and so far 
as she knew, her mother, apart from this, had 
only been disliked. Mrs. Wix's original 
account of Sir Claude's affection seemed as 
empty now as the chorus in a children's game, 
and the husband and wife, but a little way off 
at that moment, were face to face in hatred and 
with the dreadful name he had called her still 
in the air. What was it the Captain on the 
other hand had called her? Maisie wanted 
to hear that again. The tears filled her eyes 
and rolled down her cheeks, which burned 
under them with the rush of a consciousness 
that for her too, five minutes before, the vivid, 
towering beauty whose onset she awaited had 
been for the moment an object of pure dread. 
She became indifferent on the spot to her 
usual fear of showing what in children was 
notoriously most offensive she presented to 
her companion, soundlessly but hideously, her 
wet, distorted face. She cried, with a pang, 
straight at him, cried as she felt that she had 
never cried at any one in all her life. " Oh, 
do you love her? " she brought out with a gulp 
that was the effect of her trying not to make 
a noise. 
It was doubtless another consequence of the 
thick mist through which she saw him that, in 
reply to her question, the Captain gave her 
such a queer blurred look. He hesitated ; yet 
in his voice there was also the ring of a great 
awkward insistence. " Of course I 'm tre- 
mendously fond of her I like her better than 
any woman I ever saw. I don't mind in the 
least telling you that," he went on ; " and I 
should think myself a great beast if I did." 
Then, to show that his position was superla- 
tively clear, he made her, with a kindness that 
even Sir Claude had never surpassed, tremble 
again as she had trembled at his first outbreak. 
He called her by her name, and her name 
drove it home. " My dear Maisie, your 
mother 's an angel ! " 
It was an almost incredible balm it 
soothed so her impression of danger and 
pain. She sank back in her chair; she 
covered her face with her hands. " Oh, 
mother, mother, mother ! " she sobbed. She 
had a vague sense that the Captain, beside 
her, though more and more friendly, was by 
no means unembarrassed ; in a minute, how- 
ever, when her eyes were clearer, he was erect 
in front of her, very red and nervously looking 
about him and whacking his leg with his stick. 
" Say you love her, Mr. Captain say it, say 
it ! " she implored. 
Mr. Captain's blue eyes fixed themselves 
very hard. " Of course I love her, damn it, 
you know." 
At this she also jumped up ; she had fished 
out somehow her pocket-handkerchief. " So 
do , then I do, I do, I do ! " she passion- 
ately cried. 
