had been friends for years. And then when both 
were dead I went on he wanted a housekeeper. 
Some day he'll have a wife," in a dry sort of tone, 
" but I am not so old but that I can get something 
else." 
Bessie took a survey of her. To seventeen she 
seemed an old woman, but at fifty-seven she was 
still brisk and strong. Her hair was white and 
quite abundant, but brushed plainly above her 
ears. She wore a dark gingham dress and a 
white apron, and there was a bit of white ruffle 
about her neck. She was not attractive to Bessie, 
nor in the least sympathetic. 
Tim ate his supper and wished them " good 
night" with a touch of his hand to his forelock, 
which he had learned as a boy at school and it 
answered for the more cordial nod. He always 
went home to sleep. 
Aunt Hannah settled herself and brought out 
some knitting white cotton shells for a counter 
pane. She abhorred idleness, and the half loung 
ing figure in the old rocking chair rasped her. 
 
" What have you learned to do ? " she asked 
presently. 
" Do ? " repeated Bessie, "I went to school until 
Christmas. Then there was so much trouble with 
the failure, and one servant was sent away. Why, 
I did a little of everything. Papa I call him 
papa," and she sighed, "thought I might do for 
a teacher. It was my second year in the high 
school. But I always told him I should just hate 
teaching." 
" I suppose you've learned to sew ? " 
" Oh, I've done Kensington work and different 
embroideries," with a rather lofty air. 
" But your clothes and mending ? " 
" Oh, we always had a dressmaker, and bought 
muslin things ready made. Kitty always darned 
stockings until she went away. It was awfully 
hard to do without her. There were seven children 
in all three of my own mamma's and four of Mrs. 
Deane's. And I didn't really belong to anybody." 
" Mr. Deane was quite well-to-do ? " ventured 
Aunt Hannah. " At least until the failure ? " 
" I suppose so ! We had what we wanted and two 
servants, and a laundress coming in on Monday." 
" Well, there'll be nothing like it here," said 
Aunt Hannah, grimly; "you'll have to begin to 
earn your own living." 
" I shouldn't know how," rather flippantly. 
 
" Then you must learn. You must do your own 
sewing and darn your stockings." 
" I hate darned stockings ! They are all in 
bunches," Bessie declared, with emphasis. 
" I'll show you how to darn so they won't be in 
bunches. You can't begin too soon. I work for 
my living. And in about a week or so there are 
some boarders coming." 
" Oh," retorted Bessie, with a touch of insolence, 
" does Mr. Palmer keep boarders ? " 
" I shall keep them," was the quietly firm reply. 
" And if you decide through the summer that you 
don't like housework, there are other things. I 
really shall not need your help when the boarders 
go away. A girl who has nothing must learn to 
take care of herself." 
Bessie sat confounded. Her life plan was to 
get married as soon as a decent opportunity of 
fered. What was Westhorpe like ? Were there 
many young men in the place ? A relative of Mr. 
Palmer's housekeeper of that strong, common 
place woman ! 
Bessie was inclined to burst into a passion of 
tears. But with some inward intuition she knew it 
would not touch Miss Gage. She wanted whatever 
she did to affect some one. The other person's 
emotion entertained her quite as much as her own. 
She gave a great yawn instead. 
 
"I should like to go to bed," she exclaimed. "I 
am awfully tired." 
" I expect you are." Aunt Hannah lighted a 
candle for her. " Be careful to hold it straight," 
she counselled; "spermaceti is the worst thing 
in the world to get on your clothes or the carpet. 
Can you find your way up ? We rise early, but 
you won't be in the traces yet to-morrow morn- 
ing." 
" I'm a dreadfully late sleeper," was the re 
joinder. " Good night," as she was on the stair. 
" Good night," said Aunt Hannah. 
But the woman set her lips firmly together 
afterward. "She'll marry the first man that asks 
her," Aunt Hannah said. " Heaven forbid that 
she should wreck any good man's life." And 
there was one young man dearer to her than this 
girl, even if she was her half-sister, her own 
father's child. 
Bessie did cry a little when she had shut her 
door. Everything was so common, so hard. She 
could have gone to Canada. Mrs. Deane had 
proposed that she become a sort of governess and 
seamstress. They could not afford to keep her in 
idleness. Mrs. Deane had been carelessly good- 
natured in prosperity, though she did not see that 
this girl had any real claim upon her husband, 
now that she was grown. 
l 
Adversity did not sweeten her at all. No 
wonder, poor woman, with all her cares. Bessie 
thought her grown quite captious and fretful and 
stingy. She preferred the unknown future, and 
somehow she pictured Miss Hannah Gage as a 
queer old woman with a good deal of money that 
would be hers presently. 
CHAPTER II 
A POSSIBLE ATTRACTION 
WHEN Bessie awoke the next morning the sun 
had been up a k>ng while. Her fatigue and the 
quiet with no children astir in the early morning, 
conduced to slumber. She hurried on her clothes, 
for she felt really startled. 
And when she opened the kitchen door the 
clock on the mantel pointed to nearly half past 
eight. Everything was in immaculate order. 
Aunt Hannah sat by the open window working 
some lovely golden butter that diffused a fra 
grance about the room. 
" Oh ! " she cried in dismay. 
Aunt Hannah half smiled. She had a more 
cheerful look in this light print dress than in her 
dark afternoon gingham. 
" I had no idea it was so late " 
" Well, you were tired. And it didn't make any 
difference. Mr. Palmer had to go down to Knowl- 
ton on some business, and we had an early break 
fast. Generally it is at seven, but his train went 
at that time." 
Aunt Hannah rose, -patting the butter in a golden 
ball, and leaning the bowl against her side, with 
her arm over it. It was a good firm arm, with the 
sleeve rolled above the elbow. 
" I wonder what you would like for breakfast ? 
There's cold chicken. We had biscuits, but they 
are cold. I could put them in the oven a minute. 
And I'll make a cup of fresh coffee." 
" Don't trouble about anything, please. When 
we came down to breakfast at home we took what 
there was. And you might give it to me out here." 
She had followed Aunt Hannah to the shed 
kitchen. 
"Well, there is a clean cloth in that drawer, and 
the big closet there no, that's a pantry that's 
the dish closet. Get any plate and cup, then come 
down cellar with me." 
The cellar was cool and clean as the world after 
yesterday's rain. Aunt Hannah laid her butter in 
a stone jar, found the plate of chicken, some pota 
toes, and some stewed fruit. Bessie helped carry 
them up. The potatoes were fried in a trice. The 
biscuit were heated. It was a breakfast fit for a 
king b'etter than that at the Deanes'. 
" You are very good not to scold," said Bessie, 
rather conscience smitten. 
" I am not much of a scold, as any one can tell 
you. But there isn't much to scold about here. 
And now if you're done, take the chicken down 
stairs, and the butter." 
Bessie obeyed cheerfully. Really, Aunt Hannah 
wasn't so bad ! Perhaps there was a right side to 
her. 
Then they went up-stairs. Over the parlor part 
were two large rooms, with spacious closets. On 
the other side three not as large. Roy had moved 
over, and the two rooms were to be put in order for 
the newcomers. There was a small-figured ingrain 
carpet on the floor. 
" There is to be a new set of furniture for this 
