was to come to the capital with her father, and that she was quite
certain to meet him there before very long.  She was unconscious of
looking round at her things just then and wishing that they were already
packed for the homeward journey.
She wrote to him before she went to bed.  It was a duty of civility to
answer him, though she felt herself under no obligation to reply to his
numerous questions.  On the contrary, she said nothing at all about
them, but she gave him her impressions of Lucerne and told him that Aunt
Rachel had taken cold, but was now quite well, a piece of information
which, though satisfactory in its way, was not calculated to affect her
correspondent’s happiness in any marked degree.  ’It would be nice to
see each other again,’ she said at the end, with which mild sentiment
she signed herself ’sincerely’ his.
The only odd thing about it all was that when the letter was finished
she had not the slightest idea where to send it, a fact which had not
crossed her mind when she had unscrewed her travelling inkstand, but
which sufficiently proved that she had acted under an impulse of some
sort.  She said to herself that it did not matter, but she was
disappointed, and the smile faded from her face for a little while.
When she was asleep it came back in the dark and lingered on her lips
all night, waning and waxing with her maiden dreams.
Her eighteenth birthday had been a good day in her life, after all.
There are few indeed who fall asleep happily when the first illusion has
gone down into darkness with the evening sun.
                               CHAPTER XI
Helen Harmon went out alone to mail her letter.  She would not have done
such a thing in any great city of Europe, but there is a sense of safety
in the dull, impersonal atmosphere of Lucerne, and it was a relief to
her to be out in the open air alone; it would be a still greater relief
to have dropped the letter into the mysterious slit which is the first
stage on the road to everywhere.
No one ever thinks of the straight little cut, with its metal cover, as
being at all tragical. And yet it is as tragic as the jaws of death, in
its way.  Many a man and woman has stood before it with a letter and
hesitated; and every one has, at some time or other, felt the sharp
twist at the heart, which is the wrench of the irrevocable, when the
envelope has just slipped away into darkness.  The words cannot be
unwritten any more, after that, nor burned, nor taken back.  A telegram
may contradict them, or explain them, or ask pardon for them, but the
message will inevitably be read, and do its work of peace or war, of
challenge or forgiveness, of cruelty, or kindness, or indifference.
Helen did not mean to hesitate, for she hastened towards the moment of
looking back upon a deed now hard to do.  It was not far to the post
office, either, and the thing could soon be done.  Yet in her brain
there was a surging of uncertainties and a whirling of purposes, in the
midst of which she clung hard to her determination, though it should
cost ever so dear to carry it out.  She had not half thought of all the
consequences yet, nor of all it must mean to her to be separated from
her son.  The results of her action sprang up now, like sudden dangers,
and tried to frighten her from her purpose, tried to gain time against
her to show themselves, tried to terrify her back to inaction and doubt.
Something asked her roughly whence she had got the conviction that she
was doing right at all.  Another something, more subtle, whispered that
she was sacrificing Archie for the sake of her own morbid conscience,
and making herself a martyr’s crown, not of her own sufferings only, but
of her son’s loss in losing her.  It told her that the letter she held
in her hand was a mistake, but not irrevocable until it should have
slipped into the dark entrance of the road to everywhere.
She had still a dozen steps to make before reaching the big white
building that stands across the corner of the street, and she was
hurrying on, lest she should not reach the door in time.  Then she
almost ran against Colonel Wimpole, walking slowly along the pavement
where there was a half shadow.  Both stopped short, and looked at each
other in surprise.  He saw the letter in her hand, and guessed that she
had written to her husband.
"I was only going to the post office," she said, half apologetically,
for she thought that he must wonder why she had come out alone at such
an hour.
"Will you let me walk with you?" he asked.
"Yes."
He made a step forwards, as though expecting her to turn back from her
errand and go with him.
"Not that way," she said.  "I must go to the post office first."
"No.  Please don’t."  He placed himself in her way.
"I must."
She spoke emphatically and stood still, facing him, while their eyes met
again, and neither spoke again for a few seconds.
"You are ruining your life," he said, after the pause.  "When that
letter is gone, you will never be able to get it back."
"I know.  I shall not wish to."
"You will."  His lips set themselves rather firmly as he opposed her,
but her face darkened.
"Is this a trial of strength between us?" she asked.
"Yes.  I mean to keep you from going back to Henry Harmon."
"I have made up my mind," Helen answered.
"So have I," said Wimpole.
"How can you hinder me?  You cannot prevent me from sending this letter,
nor from going to him if I choose.  And I have chosen to go. That ends
it."
"You are mistaken.  You are reckoning without me, and I will make it
impossible."
"You?  How?  Even if I send this letter?"
"Yes.  Come and walk a little, and we can talk.  If you insist upon it,
drop your letter into the box.  But it will only complicate matters, for
you shall not go back to Harmon."
Again she looked at him.  He had never spoken in this way, during all
the years of their acknowledged friendship and unspoken love.  She felt
that she resented his words and manner, but at the same time that she
loved him better and admired him more.  He was stronger and more
dominant than she had guessed.
"You have no right to say such things to me," she answered.  "But I will
walk with you for a few minutes.  Of course you can hinder me from
sending my letter now.  I can take it to the post office by and by."
"You cannot suppose that I mean to prevent you by force," said Wimpole,
and he stood aside to let her pass if she would.
"You said that it was a trial of strength," she answered.
She hesitated one moment, and then turned and began to walk with him.
They crossed the street to the side by which the river runs, away from
the hotels and the houses.  It was darker there and more quiet, and they
felt more alone. It would seem easier, too, to talk in the open air,
with the sound of the rushing water in their ears.  He was the first to
speak then.
"I want to explain," he said quietly.
"Yes."  She waited for him to go on.
"I suppose that there are times in life when it is better to throw over
one’s own scruples, if one has any," he began.  "I have never done
anything to be very proud of, perhaps, but I never did anything to be
ashamed of either. Perhaps I shall be ashamed of what I am going to say
now.  I don’t care.  I would rather commit a crime than let you wreck
your whole existence, but I hope you will not make me do that."
They had stopped in their walk, and were leaning against the railing
that runs along the bank.
"You are talking rather desperately," said Helen, in a low voice.
"It is rather a desperate case," Wimpole answered.  "I talk as well as I
can, and there are things which I must tell you, whatever you think of
me; things I never meant to say, but which have made up most of my life.
I never meant to tell you."
"What?"
"That I love you.  That is the chief thing."
The words did not sound at all like a lover’s speech, as he spoke them.
He had drawn himself up and stood quite straight, holding the rail with
his hands.  He spoke coolly, with a sort of military precision, as
though he were facing an enemy’s fire.  There was not exactly an effort
in his voice, but the tone showed that he was doing a hard thing at that
moment.  Then he was silent, and Helen said nothing for a long time.
She was leaning over the rail, trying to see the running water in the
dark.
"Thank you," she said at last, very simply, and there was another pause.
"I did not expect you to say that," he answered presently.
"Why not?  We are not children, you and I. Besides--I knew it."
"Not from me!"  Wimpole turned almost sharply upon her.
"No.  Not from you.  You wrote Henry a letter, many years ago.  Do you
remember?  I had to read everything when he went to the asylum, so I
read that, too.  He had kept it all those years."
"I am sorry.  I never meant you to know. But it does not matter now,
since I have told you myself."
He spoke coldly again, almost indifferently, looking straight before him
into the night.
"It matters a great deal," said Helen, almost to herself, and he did not
hear her.
She kept her head bent down, though he could not have seen her face
clearly if she had looked up at him.  Her letter burned her, and she
hated herself, and loved him.  She despised herself, because in the
midst of the greatest sacrifice of her life, she had felt the breath of
far delight in words that cost him so much.  Yet she would have suffered
much, even in her good pride, rather than have had them unspoken, for
she had unknowingly waited for them half a lifetime.  Being a good
woman, she was too much a woman to speak one word in return, beyond the
simple thanks that sounded so strangely to him, for women exaggerate
both good and evil as no man can.
"I know, I know!" he said, suddenly continuing.  "You are married, and I
should not speak.  I believe in those things as much as you do, though I
am a man, and most men would laugh at me for being so scrupulous. You
ought never to have known, and I meant that you never should.  But then,
you are married to Harmon still, because you choose to be, and because
you will not be free.  Does not that make a difference?"
"No, not that.  That makes no difference."  She raised her head a
little.
"But it does now," answered Wimpole.  "It is because I do love you, just
as I do, with all my heart, that I mean to keep you from him, whether it
is right or wrong.  Don’t you see that right and wrong only matter to
one’s own miserable self?  I shall not care what becomes of my soul if I
can keep you from all that unhappiness--from that real danger.  It does
not matter what becomes of me afterwards--even if I were to go straight
to New York and kill Harmon and be hanged for the murder, it would not
matter, so long as you were free and safe."
The man had fought in honourable battles, and had killed, and knew what
it meant.
"Is that what you intend to do?" asked Helen, and her voice shook.
"It would mean a great deal, if I had to do it," he answered quietly
