company with Berengaria, and treated with Oriental suavity and honour,
and loved by Melek Adel, indeed, almost married to him, though history
considers it only as one of the many feints of Eastern diplomacy, roused
all Hanny's youthful ardour. And Saladin's young nephew, taking
knighthood at Richard's hands on Easter morning, was so striking a
picture that the child could not understand why Turks and Christians
should be bitter enemies, when friendships like this could be cemented,
and apparently appreciated by men of such qualities.
She lost interest in the "Grumbler," and I am afraid her mind wandered
as she read aloud. She was really glad that for several days there were
no children to play with. She sat out of doors, and was pretty sure that
would answer Doctor Joe's requirements; and the Major took her out
driving, but she smuggled in her book. She was not quite so pale, though
that might have been due to sun-burn.
She had just finished her enchanting story one morning, and was glancing
idly down the hill, watching the toilers who bent over as if they were
carrying heavy loads, or drawing something behind them. Physical culture
had not yet been applied to the fine art of walking.
A barouche, drawn by two nodding horses, came slowly along. There were
four ladies in it; but one especially attracted the child. She wore a
gown of softest cerulean blue, a bonnet of blue crape with delicate pink
roses, and a large bow of airy tulle tied under her chin. Her long
ringlets, the fashion of the day, drooped about her lovely face, that
smiled and dimpled as she talked. Her hands were daintily gloved, and
one held her parasol up high so she could glance about. Hanny was quite
sure she espied her, for her companion leaned out and looked also.
She left the child in a daze as she went by. Hanny had a secret,
exultant consciousness that she had seen her ideal poet; then she smiled
and wondered if she could write poems. Dolly was quite as pretty, but
she couldn't; and Margaret was handsomer. She could not quite associate
the sad, abstracted man up the road with "Annabel Lee." What a puzzle it
all was!
She went downstairs presently, and was sitting on the area steps
watching Cousin Jennie iron, when the tall figure in her shabby black
hat and veil, which she invariably wore, came up the outer steps. Hanny
ran to open the gate.
Mrs. Clemm was always quietly dignified. It was the intangible good
breeding that distinguished her from the ordinary country-folk. She had
a small tin kettle in her hand, and her manner was apologetic.
"They had some unexpected visitors from the city, dear friends of
Eddie's" (she oftener called him that than any other name, and she often
said "My poor dear Eddie!"). "Could they spare her some milk, and a few
eggs? They had no milk at the store."
"With pleasure," said Jennie, who went to the milk-room, and cast a
glance around to see if there was not something else that would help out
the feast.
The little girl wanted to ask some questions, but she hesitated from
diffidence.
She wondered afterward how the quiet, almost listless woman could
concoct dainty feasts for these illustrious people out of her poverty;
for they were illustrious in their day. Were the wit and poesy and
knowledge the successive desserts, and bright gossip the sparkle of the
Barmecide wine? She thought of the little cottage, when she read of
Madame Scarron among the French wits.
She described them to Cousin Jennie when the tall black figure was going
slowly up the road.
"Yes, they have a good many visitors," said Jennie. "They did last
summer, when poor Mrs. Poe was alive."
"Was she very beautiful?"
"Oh, child, beauty isn't everything!" and Jennie smiled. "Yes; it was
said she was. But she was so thin and pale. She used to sit out there on
the porch, wrapped in a white shawl, with his arm about her, or her head
resting on his shoulder. You see no one knew much about them then, and
they kept so to themselves. Then there is his unfortunate habit, that
you cannot help feeling ought not to belong to a person of his
intelligence. It is a great pity."
Hanny sighed. She was to know a great deal more about the world later
on, and the appreciation that was spread as a garment about the poet
when his life's fitful fever ended.
There was an influx of quite elderly people one afternoon; and Hanny,
gathering up some books, stole up to the little cottage, quite assured
no one would need her, or even miss her.
The corner of books had been "cleared up." In the wide fireplace, there
was a jar of feathery asparagus, and on the table a vase of flowers.
There were a number of pictures, Hanny noticed. She had hardly glanced
about the room before,--the plain, low-ceiled room to which people were
to make pilgrimages as time went on.
The poet sat by the table in a dreamy, indolent mood.
"Did you find what you wanted the other day?" he asked gently.
"Oh, yes! And I have read 'The Saracen.' It interested me so, I couldn't
leave it a moment. I didn't want to like Saladin so much; but I had to.
But I shall never give up Richard."
He smiled a little at that, kindly, cordially, and her heart warmed to
him. The pervasive eyes were so deep and beautiful! In spite of the
pallor and attenuation, the face had a rare charm.
"So Richard is your hero? Well, you will doubtless change your heroes a
good many times before you get through with life. I think I had a boy's
fancy for Saladin once. Yet heroes come to be quite common-place people
after all. I wonder if I have any more that you would like?"
Hanny said they had several books yet, and she was going down to West
Farms in a few days. She wanted to finish "The White Rose of England."
"History in romance,--I dare say that suits young people best."
She stood in a sort of vague uncertainty.
"Well?" in a voice of suggestive inquiry, as if she might ask him
anything.
"Oh!" she cried, summoning all her courage, and flushing as she did so,
"will you please tell me who the pretty lady in blue was, who came up
the other day in the carriage? She looked like a poet!"
He did laugh then, softly, as if laughing was a little strange.
"Is that your idea of a poet? Well, she is one,--an airy, light-winged
poet with dainty conceits, and a charming woman, too. I must tell her
she captured you at sight. That is Frances Sargent Osgood. And beside
her sat Mrs. Gove Nichols, one of the new lights. Stay, I think I can
find a poem or two of Fanny Osgood's for you."
He hunted up two or three magazines. Hanny sat down on the door-sill; it
was so softly, so enchantingly bright out-of-doors, and the room a
little gloomy. She wanted to have a glimpse of sunshine, for Mrs. Osgood
looked as if she belonged to the brighter world.
They were dainty and bright. One was set to music afterward; and the
little girl learned to sing it very prettily:--
    "I've something sweet to tell you,
      And the secret you must keep,
    For remember, if it isn't night,
      I'm talking in my sleep."
Then they talked about poetry. I dare say he was amused at a little girl
whose ideal poem was "Genevieve," by Coleridge, and who knew
"Christobel," "The Ancient Mariner," and "The Lady of the Lake" half by
heart. When, in her young womanhood, she read some of his sharp,
scathing criticisms, she wondered at his sweetness that afternoon. With
a little more courage, she would have asked him what was really meant by
"the high-born kinsman;" but she did not know as it was quite proper to
talk to him about his own verses.
The wood-robins were singing in the tall trees, and the sun made dancing
shadows on the stoop that was always clean as a floor. Mrs. Clemm
brought her splint rocker out, and begged her to try it, and asked after
the cousins, sending thanks for the cake that she had found in her
basket, and the pot-cheese that had proved such a treat to her visitors.
She thanked Mrs. Clemm prettily for the chair, but said she must go
home. The poet nodded. He had taken up his pen then, and she wondered
what the spell was like that inspired a poem.
The next forenoon, they saw Mr. Poe going down to the station. Cousin
Jennie shook her head; and the stout old Major said, "It was a pity Mrs.
Clemm couldn't keep him at home steadily."
She was never to see him again; but when she heard of his tragic death,
her heart ached for the poor desolate mother.
CHAPTER XI
THE KING OF TERRORS
They all admitted that Hanny had improved a good deal. She seemed to
have grown every way. Her mother was sure she must let her skirts down;
and her last winter's frocks were too tight about the shoulders, and too
short in the sleeves. She had absolutely gained five pounds, and her
little face had rounded out. But still she was smaller than most girls
of her age.
She had so much to talk about that her mother said she was a regular
little gossip. Her father liked to hear about grandmother and the
kindly, large-hearted Major. She had found out that when grandmother was
a young girl her name was Hannah Underhill, now it was Horton. So many
elderly people had been visiting at Fordham, and her father knew most of
them. But Ben and Doctor Joe were interested in the poet Poe; Joe knew
more about him than he confessed to his little sister.
Oh, how glad she was to get back to school! There were so many things to
learn. But Dolly had to have her one Saturday; and Mrs. French came over
and took her to the house Beautiful. Ben was quite in love with Mrs.
French. And now they were filling up the conservatory for winter
blooming; and Hanny wished they could have some house-flowers. Her
mother had hydrangeas and an oleander; but they were put in the end of
the stable for winter.
Now and then she went up to Margaret's to stay all night. Daisy was
growing to be almost as lovely as Stevie had been; and though she did
not suggest Daisy Jasper, the name always recalled her dear friend. And
Stevie was quite a big boy. He was getting some rough ways, too, and
wanted to drive Hanny about for a horse, just as he did papa.
Great-grandmother Van Kortland had knit him some beautiful horse-lines.
And Annie was such a sweet little thing! Stevie wished she was a little
brother, "'tause dirls ain't no dood," he said. "You'm dot to be so
tareful." He talked quite crooked, and could not pronounce "g" at all.
He said "umbebella" and "peaapoket" and "tea-tettletel." Philadelphia
always floored him. But then he had been Hanny's first love, and she
could never forget the Christmas morning when he came.
There had been another exciting matter as well, and this was a
presidential election. Zachary Taylor, Old Rough and Ready, as he was
called, had become a great hero to her. She found that he had served
gallantly in the War of 1812, fought against the mighty Tecumseh, and
been in the Black Hawk War, beside all the late Mexican engagements,
where he had so distinguished himself. At the nomination, she had been a
little sorry to have her old favourite Harry Clay superseded, and
General Scott was a war-veteran as well. Then there had been famous
Daniel Webster, whose speeches were the favourite of school-boys, though
they had not banished Patrick Henry. But the real race was between Cass,
Van Buren, Charles Francis Adams and himself; and Old Rough and Ready
