Another Uhlan, standing erect before him, had been speaking for a
second or two before he even heard him.
"Prisoner, do you understand German?" repeated the Uhlan,
harshly.
"Yes," muttered Jack. He began to shiver, perhaps from the chill
of the wet earth.
"Stand up!"
Jack stumbled to his numbed feet. A drop of blood rolled into his
eye and he mechanically wiped it away. He tried to look at the
man before him; he could not, for his fascinated eyes returned to
that thing that hung on a rope from the great sprawling
oak-branch at the edge of the grove.
Like a vague voice in a dream he heard his own name pronounced;
he heard a sonorous formula repeated in a heavy, dispassionate
voice--"accused of having resisted a picquet of his Prussian
Majesty's 11th Regiment of Uhlan cavalry, of having wilfully,
maliciously, and with murderous design fired upon and wounded
trooper Kohlmann of said picquet while in pursuit of his duty."
Again he heard the same voice: "The law of non-combatants
operating in such cases leaves no doubt as to the just penalty
due."
Jack straightened up and looked the officer in the eyes. Ah! now
he knew him--the map-maker of the carrefour, the sneak-thief who
had scaled the park wall with the box--that was the face he had
struck with his clenched fist, the same pink, high-boned face,
with the little, pale, pig-like eyes. In the same second the
man's name came back to him as he had deciphered it written in
pencil on the maps--Siurd von Steyr!
Von Steyr's eyes grew smaller and paler, and an ugly flush mounted
to his scarred cheek-bone. But his voice was dispassionate and
harsh as ever when he said: "The prisoner Marche is at liberty to
confront witnesses. Trooper Kohlmann!"
There he stood, the same blond, bony Uhlan whom Jack had tumbled
into the dust, the same colourless giant whom he had dragged with
trailing spurs across the road to the tree.
From his pouch the soldier produced Jack's silver flask, with his
name engraved on the bottom, his pipe, still half full of
tobacco, just as he had dropped it when the field-glasses told
him that Uhlans, not French lancers, were coming down the
hill-side.
One by one three other Uhlans advanced from the motionless ranks,
saluted, briefly identified the prisoner, and stepped back again.
"Have you any statement to make?" demanded Von Steyr.
Jack's teeth were clenched, his throat contracted, he was
choking. Everything around him swam in darkness--a darkness lit
by little flames; his veins seemed bursting. He was in their
midst now, shouldered and shoved across the grass; their hot
breath fell on his face, their hands crushed his arms, bent back
his elbows, pushed him forward, faster, faster, towards the tree
where that thing hung, turning slowly as a squid spins on a
swivel.
It was the grating of the rope on his throat that crushed the
first cry out of him: "Von Steyr, shoot me! For the love of God!
Not--not this--"
He was struggling now--he set his teeth and struck furiously. The
crowd seemed to increase about him; now there was a mounted man
in their midst--more mounted men, shouting.
The rope suddenly tightened; the blood pounded in his cheeks, in
his temples; his tongue seemed to split open. Then he got his
fingers between the noose and his neck; now the thing loosened
and he pitched forward, but kept his feet.
"Gott verdammt!" roared a voice above him; "Von Steyr!--here! get
back there!--get back!"
"Rickerl!" gasped Jack--"tell--tell them--they must shoot--not
hang--"
He stood glaring at the soldiers before him, face bloody and
distorted, the rope trailing from one clenched hand. Breathless,
haggard, he planted his heels in the turf, and, dropping the
noose, set one foot on it. All around him horsemen crowded up,
lances slung from their elbows, helmets nodding as the restive
horses wheeled.
And now for the first time he saw the Marquis de Nesville, face
like a death-mask, one hand on the edge of the wicker balloon-car,
which stood in the midst of a circle of cavalry.
"This is not the place nor is this the time to judge your
prisoners," said Rickerl, pushing his horse up to Von Steyr and
scowling down into his face. "Who called this drum-head court? Is
that your province? Oh, in my absence? Well, then, I am here! Do
you see me?"
The insult fell like the sting of a lash across Von Steyr's face.
He saluted, and, looking straight into Rickerl's eyes, said, "Zum
Befehl, Herr Hauptmann! I am at your convenience also."
"When you please!" shouted Rickerl, crimson with fury. "Retire!"
Scarcely were the words out of his mouth, scarcely had he backed
his startled horse, when there came a sound of a crushing blow, a
groan, and a soldier staggered back from the balloon-car, his
hands to his head, where the shattered helmet hung by one torn
gilt cord. In the same instant the marquis, dishevelled, white as
a corpse, rose from the wicker car, shaking his steel box above
his head. Then, through the ring of nervous, quivering horses the
globe of the balloon appeared as by magic--an enormous, looming,
yellow sphere, tense, glistening, gigantic.
The horses reared, snorting with fright, the Uhlans clung to
their saddles, shouting and cursing, and the huge balloon,
swaying from its single rope, pounded and bounced from side to
side, knocking beast and man into a chaotic mass of frantic
horses and panic-stricken riders.
With a report like a pistol the rope parted, the great globe
bounded and shot up into the air; a tumult of harsh shouts arose;
the crazed horses backed, plunged, and scattered, some falling,
some bolting into the undergrowth, some rearing and swaying in an
ecstasy of terror.
The troopers, helpless, gnashing their teeth, shook their long
lances towards the sky, where the moon was breaking from the
banked clouds, and the looming balloon hung black above the
forest, drifting slowly westward.
And now Von Steyr had a weapon in his hands--not a carbine, but a
long chassepot-rifle, a relic of the despoiled franc-tireur,
dangling from the oak-tree.
Some one shouted, "It's loaded with explosive bullets!"
"Then drop it!" roared Rickerl. "For shame!"
The crash of the rifle drowned his voice.
The balloon's shadowy bulk above the forest was belted by a blue
line of light; the globe contracted, a yellow glare broke out in
the sky. Then far away a light report startled the sudden
stillness; a dark spot, suspended in mid-air, began to fall,
swiftly, more swiftly, dropping through the night between sky and
earth.
"You damned coward!" stammered Rickerl, pointing a shaking hand
at Von Steyr.
"God keep you when our sabres meet!" said Von Steyr, between his
teeth.
Rickerl burst into an angry laugh.
"Where is your prisoner?" he cried.
Von Steyr stared around him, right and left--Jack was gone.
"Let others prefer charges," said Rickerl, contemptuously--"if
you escape my sabre in the morning."
"Let them," said Von Steyr, quietly, but his face worked
convulsively.
"Second platoon dismount to search for escaped prisoner!" he
cried. "Open order! Forward!"
XIX
RICKERL'S SABRE
Jack, lying full length in the depths of the forest, listened
fearfully for the sounds of the human pack on his heels. The
blackness was stupefying; the thud of his own heart seemed to
fill the shrouded forest like the roll of a muffled drum.
Presently he crept on again, noiselessly, painfully, closing his
eyes when the invisible twigs brushed his face.
He did not know where he was going, he only thought of getting
away, anywhere--away from that hangman's rope.
Again he rested, suffocated by the tumult in his breast, burning
with thirst. For a long while he lay listening; there was not a
sound in the night. Little by little his coolness returned; he
thought of Lorraine and his promise, and he knew that now he
could not keep it. He thought, too, of the marquis, never
doubting the terrible fate of the half-crazed man. He had seen
him stun the soldier with a blow of the steel box, he had seen
the balloon shoot up into the midnight sky, he had heard the shot
and caught a glimpse of the glare of the burning balloon.
Somewhere in the forest the battered body of the marquis lay in
the wreck of the shattered car. The steel box, too, lay
there--the box that was so precious to the Germans.
He rose to his knees, felt around among the underbrush, bent his
head and crept on, parting leaves and branches with one hand,
holding the other over his eyes. The thought that he might be
moving in a circle filled him with fear. But that was exactly
what he was doing, for now he found himself close to the park
wall; and, listening, he heard the river murmuring among the
alders. He halted, utterly at a loss. If he were caught again
could Rickerl save him? What could a captain of Uhlans do? True,
he had interfered with Von Steyr's hangman's work, but that was
nothing but a reprieve at best.
The murmur of the river filled his ears; his hot throat was
cracking. Drink he must, at any rate, and he started on in the
darkness, moving stealthily over the moss. The water was closer
than he had imagined; he bent above it, first touching it with
groping hands, then noiselessly bathed his feverish face in the
dark stream, drinking his fill.
He longed to follow the shallow stream, wading to Morteyn, but he
dared not risk it; so he went along the bank as far as he could,
trying to keep within sound of the waters, until again he found
himself close to the park wall. The stream had vanished again.
Dawn began to gray the forest; little by little the nearest trees
grew from the darkness, and bushes took vague shapes in the
gloom. He strained his eyes, peering at every object near him,
striving to recognize stones, saplings, but he could not. Even
when dawn at last came up out of the east, and the thickets grew
distinct, he did not know where he was. A line of vapour through
the trees marked the course of the little river. Which way was
