copies of The Missionary Herald and of Father Damon's 
Seaman's Friend. A melodeon; a music stand, with Willie, 
We have Missed You, Star of the Evening, KoU on Silver 
Moon, Are We Most There, I Would not Live Alway, and 
other songs of love and sentiment, together with an assort- 
ment of hymns. A what-not with semi-globular glass paper- 
weights, enclosing miniature pictures of ships, New England 
rural snowstorms, and the like ; sea-shells with Bible texts 
carved on them in cameo style ; native curios ; whale's tooth 
with full-rigged ship carved on it. There was nothing remin- 
iscent of foreign parts, for nobody had been abroad. Trips 
were made to San Francisco, but that could not be called going 
abroad. Comprehensively speaking, nobody traveled. 
But Honolulu has grown wealthy since then, and of course 
wealth has introduced changes; some of the old simplicities 
have disappeared. Here is a modern house, as pictured by 
Mrs. Krout : 
" Almost every house is surFounded by extensive lawns and gardens en- 
closed by walls of volcanic stone or by thick hedges of the brilliant hibiscus. 
" The houses are most tastefully and comfortably furnished ; the floors 
are either of hard wood covered with rugs or with fine Indian matting, while 
there is a preference, as in most warm countries, for rattan or bamboo furni- 
ture ; there are the usual accessories of bric-a-brac, pictures, books, and 
curios from all parts of the world, for these island dwellers are indefatigable 
travelers. 
" Nearly every house has what )g, called a lanai. It is a large apartment, 
roofed, floored, open on three sides, with a door or a draped archway opening 
into the drawing-room. Frequently the roof is formed by the thick inter- 
lacing boughs of the 7iou tree, impervious to the sun and even to the rain, ex- 
cept in violent storms. Vines are trained about the sides — the stephanotis or 
some one of the countless fragrant and blossoming trailers which abound in 
the islands. There are also curtains of matting that may be drawn to ex- 
clude the sun or rain. The floor is bare for coolness, or partially covered 
with rugs, and the lanai is prettily furnished with comfortable chairs, sofas, 
and tables loaded with flowers, or wonderful ferns in pots. 
" The lanai is the favorite reception room, and here at any social function 
the musical program is given and cakes and ices are served ; here morning 
callers are received, or gay riding parlies, the ladies in pretty divided skirts, 
worn for convenience in riding astride, — the universal mode adopted by 
Europeans and Americans, as well as by the natives. 
"The comfort and luxury of such an apartment, especially at a seashore 
villa, can hardly be imagined. The soft breezes sweep across it, heavy with 
the fragrance of jasmine and gardenia, and through the swaying boughs of 
palm and mimosa there are glimpses of rugged mountains, their summits 
veiled in clouds, of purple sea with the white surf beating eternally against 
the reefs,— whiter still in the yellow sunlight or the magical moonlight of 
the tropics." 
There: rugs, ices, pictures, lanais, worldly books, sinful 
bric-a-brac fetched from everywhere. And the ladies riding 
astride. These are changes, indeed. In my time the native 
women rode astride, but the white ones lacked the courage to 
adopt their wise custom. In my time ice was seldom seen in 
Honolulu. It sometimes came in sailing vessels from New 
England as ballast ; and then, if there happened to be a man- 
of-war in port and balls and suppers raging by consequence, 
the ballast was worth six hundred dollars a ton, as is evidenced 
by reputable tradition. But the ice-machine has traveled all 
over the world, now, and brought ice within everybody's 
reach. In Lapland and Spitzbergen no one uses native ice in 
our day, except the bears and the walruses. 
The bicycle is not mentioned. It was not necessary. We 
know that it is there, without inquiring. It is everywhere. 
But for it, people could never have had summer homes on the 
summit of Mont Blanc ; before its day, property up there had 
but a nominal value. The laddies of the Hawaiian capital 
learned too late the right way to occupy a horse — too late to 
get much benefit from it. The riding-horse is retiring from 
business everywhere in the world. In Honolulu a few years 
from now he will be only a tradition. 
We all know about Father Damien, the French priest 
who voluntarily forsook the world and went to the leper 
island of Molokai to labor among its population of sorrowful 
exiles who wait there, in slow -consuming misery, for death 
to come and release them from their troubles ; and we know 
that the thing which he knew beforehand would happen, did 
happen : that he became a leper himself, and died of that 
horrible disease. There was still another case of self-sacrifice, 
it appears. I asked after " Billy " Ragsdale, interpreter to the - 
Parliament in my time — a half- white. He was a brilliant 
young fellow, and very popular. As an interpreter he would 
have been hard to match anywhere. He used to stand up in 
the Parliament and turn the English speeches into Hawaiian 
and the Hawaiian speeches into English with a readiness 
and a volubility that were astonishing. I asked after him, 
and was told that his prosperous career was cut short in a 
sudden and unexpected way, just as he was about to marry 
a beautiful half-caste girl. He discovered, by some nearly 
invisible sign about his skin, that the poison of leprosy was in 
him. The secret was his own, and might be kept concealed 
for years ; but he would not be treacherous to the girl that 
loved him ; he would not marry her to a doom like his. And 
so he put his affairs in order, and went around to all his friends 
and bade them good-bye, and sailed in the leper ship to 
Molokai. There he died the loathsome and lingering death 
that all lepers die. 
In this place let me insert a paragraph or two from " The 
Paradise of the Pacific " (Rev. H. H. Gowen) : 
"Poor lepers ! It is easy for those who have no relatives or friends 
among them to enforce the decree of segregation to the letter, but who can 
write of the terrible, the heart-breaking scenes which that enforcement has 
brought about ? 
" A man upon Hawaii was suddenly taken away after a summary arrest, 
leaving behind him a helpless wife about to give birth to a babe. The 
devoted wife with great pain and risk came the whole journey to Honolulu, 
and pleaded until the authorities were unable to resist her entreaty that she 
might go and live like a leper with her leper husband. 
"A woman in the prime of life and activity is condemned as an incipient 
leper, suddenly removed from her home, and her husband returns to find his 
two helpless babes moaning for their lost mother. 
" Imagine it ! The case of the babies is hard, but its bitterness is a trifle 
— less than a trifle — less than nothing — compared to what the mother must 
suffer ; and suffer minute by minute, hour by hour, day by day, month by 
month, year by year, without respite, relief, or any abatement of her pain till 
she dies. 
" One woman, Luka Kaaukau, has been living with her leper husband in 
the settlement for twelve years. The man has scarcely a joint left, his limbs 
are only distorted ulcerated stumps, for four years his wife has put every 
particle of food into his mouth. He wanted his wife to abandon his wretched 
carcass long ago, as she herself was sound and well, but Luka said that she 
was content to remain and wait on the man she loved till the spirit should be 
freed from its burden. 
" I myself have known hard cases enough : — of a girl, apparently in full 
health, decorating the church with me at Easter, who before Christmas is 
taken away as a confirmed leper ; of a mother hiding her child in the 
mountains for years so that not even her dearest friends knew that she had a 
child alive, that he might not be taken away ; of a respectable white man 
taken away from his wife and family, and compelled to become a dweller in 
the Leper Settlement, where he is counted dead, even by the insurance 
companies." 
And one great pity of it all is, that these poor sufferers 
are innocent. The leprosy does not come of sins which they 
committed, but of sins committed by their ancestors, who 
esGwped the curse of leprosy ! 
Mr. Gowan has made record of a certain very striking 
circumstance. Would you expect to find in that awful Leper 
Settlement a custom worthy to be transplanted to your own 
country ? They have one such, and it is inexpressibly touching 
and beautiful. When death sets open the prison-door of life 
there, the band salutes the freed soul with a burst of glad 
music ! 
CHAPTER IV. 
A dozen direct censures are easier to bear than one morganatic compliment. 
SAILED from Honolulu. From diary: 
Sept. 2. Flocks of flying fish — slim, shapely, grace- 
ful, and intensely white. With the sun on them they 
look like a flight of silver fruit-knives. They are able to fly a 
hundred yards. 
Sej)t. 3. In 9° 50' north latitude, at breakfast. Approach- 
ing the equator on a long slant. Those of us who have never 
seen the equator are a good deal excited. I think I would 
rather see it than any other thing in the world. We entered 
the "doldrums" last night — variable winds, bursts of rain, 
intervals of calm, with chopping seas and a wobbly and 
drunken motion to the ship — a condition of things findable 
in other regions sometimes, but present in the doldrums 
always. The globe-girdling belt called the doldrums is 20 de- 
grees wide, and the thread called the equator lies along the 
middle of it. 
Sept. Jj.. Total eclipse of the moon last night. At'Y.30 it 
began to go off. At total — or about that — it was like a rich 
rosy cloud with a tumbled surface framed in the circle and 
projecting from it — a bulge of strawberry-ice, so to speak. At 
half-eclipse the moon was like a gilded acorn in its cup. 
Sept. 5. Closing in on the equator this noon. A sailor ex- 
plained to a young girl that the ship's speed is poor because we 
af e climbing up the bulge toward the center of the globe ; but 
that when we should once get over, at the equator, and start 
down-hill, we should fly. When she asked him the other day 
what the fore-yard was, he said it was the front yard, the open 
area in the front end of the ship. That man has a good deal of 
learning stored up, and the girl is likely to get it all. 
Afternoon. Crossed the equator. In the distance it looked 
like a blue ribbon stretched across the ocean. Several passengers 
kodak'd it. We had no fool cer- 
emonies, no fantastics, no horse- 
play. All that sort of thing 
has gone out. In old times a 
sailor, dressed as Neptune, used 
to come in over the bows, with 
his suite, and lather up and 
