he is inexhaustible. The more we study 
him, the more are we astonished at his 
multiform genius. In our complex civilization, there is no development of passion, or character, or trait of human nat- 
ure, no social evolution, that does not 
find expression somewhere in those marvellous plays ; and yet it is impossible 
for us to enter into a full, sympathetic 
enjoyment of those plays unless we can 
 
in some measure recreate for ourselves 
the atmosphere in which they were writ- 
ten. To superficial observation great 
geniuses come into the world at rare 
intervals in history, in a manner inde- 
pendent of what we call the progress of 
the race. It may be so ; but the form 
the genius shall take is always deter- 
mined by the age in which it appears, 
and its expression is shaped by the en- 
vironments. Acquaintance with the 
Bedouin desert life of to-day, which 
has changed little for three thousand 
years, illumines the book of Job like an 
electric light. Modern research into 
Hellenic and Asiatic life has given a 
new meaning to the Iliad and the Odys- 
sey, and greatly enhanced our enjoy- 
ment of them. A fair comprehension of 
the Divina Commedia is impossible with- 
out some knowledge of the factions that 
rent Florence ; of the wars of Guelf and 
 
Ghibelline; of the spirit that banished 
Dante, and gave him an humble tomb 
in Ravenna instead of a sepulchre in the 
pantheon of Santa Croce. Shakespeare 
was a child of his age ; it had long been 
preparing for him ; its expression culmi- 
nated in him. It was essentially a dra- 
matic age. He used the accumulated 
materials of centuries. He was play- 
wright as well as poet. His variety and 
multiform genius cannot otherwise be 
accounted for. He called in the coin- 
age of many generations, and reissued it 
purified and unalloyed, stamped in his 
own mint. There was a Hamlet prob- 
ably, there were certainly Romeos and 
Juliets, on the stage before Shakespeare. 
In him were received the imaginations, 
the inventions, the aspirations, the su- 
perstitions, the humors, the supernat- 
ural intimations ; in him met the con- 
verging rays of the genius of his age, as 
 
in a lens, to be sent onward thenceforth 
in an ever-broadening stream of light. 
It was his fortune to live not only in 
a dramatic age, but in a transition age, 
when feudalism was passing away, but 
while its shows and splendors could still 
be seriously comprehended. The dignity 
that doth hedge a king was so far abat- 
ed that royalty could be put upon the 
stage as a player's spectacle ; but the 
reality of kings and queens and court 
pageantry was not so far past that it 
did not appeal powerfully to the imag- 
inations of the frequenters of the Globe, 
the Rose, and the Fortune. They had 
no such feeling as we have in regard to 
the pasteboard kings and queens who 
strut their brief hour before us in ana- 
chronic absurdity. 
But, besides that he wrote in the 
spirit of his age, Shakespeare wrote in 
the language and the literary methods  
 
of his time. This is not more evident 
in the contemporary poets than in the 
chroniclers of that day. They all delighted in ingenuities of phrase, in neat 
turns and conceits; it was a compliment 
then to be called a " conceited" writer. 
Of all the guides to Shakespeare's 
time, there is none more profitable or 
entertaining than William Harrison, 
who wrote for Holinshed's chronicle 
" The Description of England," as it 
fell under his eyes from 1577 to 1587. 
Harrison's England is an unfailing mine 
of information for all the historians of 
the sixteenth century ; and in the edition published by the New Shakespeare 
Society, and edited, with a wealth of 
notes and contemporary references, by 
Mr. Frederick J. Furnivall, it is a new 
revelation of Shakespeare's England to 
the general reader. 
Harrison himself is an interesting 
character, and trustworthy above the 
general race' of chroniclers. He was 
born in 1534, or, to use his exactness 
of statement, "upon the 18th of April, 
hora 11, minut 4, Secunde 56, at Lon- 
don, in Cordwainer streete, otherwise 
called bowe-lane." This year was also 
remarkable as that in which " King 
Henry 8 polleth his head ; after whom 
his household and nobility, with the rest 
of his subjects do the like." It was the 
year before Anne Boleyn, haled away 
to the Tower, accused, condemned, and 
executed in the space of fourteen days, 
" with sigheingteares" said to the rough 
Duke of Norfolk, " Hither I came once 
my lord, to fetch a crown imperial; but 
now to receive, I hope, a crown immortal." In 1544, the boy was at St. 
Paul's school ; the litany in the English 
tongue, by the king's command, was 
that year sung openly in St. Paul's, and 
we have a glimpse of Harrison with the 
other children, enforced to buy those 
books, walking in general procession, as 
was appointed, before the king went to 
Boulogne. Harrison was a student at 
both Oxford and Cambridge, taking the 
degree of bachelor of divinity at the 
latter in 1569, when he had been an 
Oxford M.A. of seven years' standing. 
Before this he was household chaplain 
to Sir William Brooke, Lord Cobham, 
who gave him, in 1588-89, the rectory 
of Radwinter, in Essex, which he held 
till his death, in 1593. In 1586 he was 
installed canon of Windsor. Between 
1559 and 1 571 he married Marion Isebrande, of whom he said in his will, 
referring to the sometime supposed unlawfulness of priests' marriages, " by the 
laws of God I take and repute in all 
respects for my true and lawful wife." 
At Radwinter, the old parson, working 
in his garden, collected Roman coins, 
wrote his chronicles, and expressed his 
mind about the rascally lawyers of Es- 
sex, to whom flowed all the wealth of 
the land. The lawyers in those days ; 
stirred up contentions, and then reaped 
the profits. " Of all that ever I knew 
in Essex," says Harrison, " Denis and 
Mainford excelled, till John of Ludlow, 
alias Mason, came in place, unto whom 
in comparison these two were but children." This last did so harry a client 
for four years that the latter, still called 
upon for new fees, " went to bed, and 
within four days made an end of his 
woeful life, even with care and pensiveness." And after his death the lawyer 
so handled his son " that there was 
never sheep shorn in May, so near 
clipped of his fleece present, as he was 
of many to come." The Welsh were 
the most litigious people. A Welsh- 
man would walk up to London bare- 
legged, carrying his hose on his neck, 
to save wear and because he had no 
change, importune his countrymen till 
he got half a dozen writs, with which he 
would return to molest his neighbors, 
though no one of his quarrels was worth 
the money he paid for a single writ. 
The humblest mechanic of England 
to-day has comforts and conveniences 
which the richest nobles lacked in Har- 
rison's day, but it was nevertheless an 
age of great luxury and extravagance ; 
of brave apparel, costly and showy be- 
yond that of any Continental people, 
though wanting in refined taste ; and of 
mighty banquets, with service of massive plate, troops of attendants, and a 
surfeit of rich food and strong drink. 
In this luxury the clergy of Harrison's 
rank did not share. Harrison was poor 
on forty pounds a year. He complains 
that the clergy were taxed more than 
