this moment you are as sane as I am."
"You admit that?" said Ben, in surprise.
"Certainly, for it is true. Your insanity is fitful--paroxysmal.
Half an hour hence you may stand in need of a strait-jacket. If you
were always as clear in mind as at present there would be no need of
detaining you. I would open my door and say, 'Go, my young friend.
You do not need my care.' Unfortunately, we do not know how long
this mood may last."
The doctor spoke smoothly and plausibly, and it was hard for Ben to
tell whether he was really in earnest or not. He regarded M. Bourdon
intently, and thought he detected a slight mocking smile, which
excited his doubt and distrust anew. To appeal to such a man seemed
well-nigh hopeless, but there was nothing else to do.
"Are you the doctor?" he asked.
"Yes; I am Dr. Bourdon," was the reply.
"And you are at the head of this establishment?" continued Ben.
"I have that honor, my young friend," answered Bourdon.
"Then I wish to tell you that Major Grafton has deceived you. He
has an object to serve in having me locked up here."
"Doubtless," answered the doctor, with an amused smile, taking a
pinch of snuff.
"He is afraid I would reveal a secret which would strip him of his
income," continued Ben.
"And that secret is----?" said the doctor, not without curiosity.
Ben answered this question as briefly and clearly as he could.
The doctor listened with real interest, and it might have been
satisfactory to Ben had he known that his story was believed. M.
Bourdon was a shrewd man of the world, and it struck him that this
knowledge might enable him to demand more extortionate terms of
Major Grafton.
"Don't you believe me?" asked Ben, watching the face of his listener.
"I hear a great many strange stories," said the doctor. "I have to
be cautious about what I believe."
"But surely you will believe me, knowing that I am perfectly sane?"
"That is the question to be determined," said M. Bourdon, smiling.
"Won't you investigate it?" pleaded Ben. "It is a crime to keep me
here, when I am of sound mind."
"Whenever I am convinced of that I will let you go. Meanwhile you
must be quiet, and submit to the rules of my establishment."
"How long do you expect to keep me here?" asked Ben.
"As long as you require it and your board is paid."
Ben looked despondent, for this assurance held out very little hope
of release. Still he was young, and youth is generally hopeful.
Something might turn up. Ben was determined that something should
turn up. He was not going to remain shut up in a mad-house any
longer than he could help. He remained silent, and M. Bourdon
touched a little bell upon a small table beside the door.
The summons was answered by a stout man with rough, black locks, who
looked like a hotel porter.
"Francois," said the doctor, in the French language, "conduct this
young man to No. 19."
"At once, Monsieur le Docteur," answered the attendant. "Come with
me, young man."
He signed to Ben to follow him, and our hero, realizing the utter
futility of resistance, did so.
"Go ahead, monsieur," said Francois, when they came to a staircase.
Ben understood him very well, though he spoke in French, thanks to
his assiduous study of the last four weeks.
They walked along a narrow corridor, and Francois, taking from his
pocket a bunch of keys, carefully selected one and opened the door.
"Entrez monsieur."
Ben found himself in an apartment about the size of a hall bedroom,
with one window, and a narrow bedstead, covered with an exceedingly
thin mattress. There was no carpet on the floor, and the furniture
was very scanty. It consisted of but one chair, a cheap bureau, and
a washstand. And this was to be Ben's home--for how long?
"I must get acquainted with this man," thought Ben. "I must try to
win his goodwill, and perhaps he may be able to help me to escape."
"Is your name Francois?" he asked, as the man lingered at the door.
"Oui, monsieur."
"And how long have you been here--in this asylum?"
"How long, monsieur? Five years, nearly."
"There is some mistake about my being here, Francois. I don't look
crazy, do I?"
"No, monsieur; but----"
"But what?"
"That proves nothing."
"There is a plot against me, and I am put here by an enemy. I want
you to be my friend. Here, take this."
Ben produced from his pocket a silver franc piece and offered it
to Francois, who took it eagerly, for the man's besetting sin was
avarice.
"Thanks, monsieur--much thanks!" he said, his stolid face lighting
up. "I will be a friend."
"Francois!"
At the call from below Francois hastily thrust the coin into his
pocket, nodded significantly to Ben, and, retiring, locked the door
behind him.
                           CHAPTER XXVI.
                    INTRODUCES TWO CELEBRITIES.
What a change a short half-hour may make in the position and
feelings of any person! Little did Ben imagine, when he set out on a
drive in the morning with Major Grafton, that he was on his way to
one of the most hopeless of prisons.
It was hard even now for him to realize his position. He looked
from the window, and with a glance of envy saw in a field, not far
away, some Swiss peasants at work. They were humble people, living
a quiet, uneventful, laborious life; yet Ben felt that they were
infinitely better off than he, provided he were doomed to pass the
remainder of his life in this refuge. But of this he would not
entertain the idea. He was young, not yet seventeen, and life was
full of pleasant possibilities.
"I am a Yankee," he thought, "and I don't believe they will succeed
in keeping me here long. I will keep a bright lookout for a chance
to escape."
Half an hour later Ben heard the key grate in the lock, and, fixing
his eyes on the entrance, he saw Francois enter.
"Monsieur, dinner is ready," he said.
Ben, notwithstanding his disagreeable situation, felt that he, too,
was ready for the dinner. He was glad to find that it was not to be
served to him in his own room. He would have a chance of seeing the
other inmates of the house.
"Where is it?" he asked.
"Follow me," answered Francois, of course in French.
He led the way, and Ben followed him into a lower room, long
and narrow, which was used as the dining-room. There were no
side-windows, and it would have been quite dark but for a narrow
strip of window near the ceiling.
Around a plain table sat a curious collection of persons. It was
easy to see that something was the matter with them, for I do
not wish to have it understood that all the inmates of the house
were, like our hero, perfectly sane. M. Bourdon was not wholly a
quack, but he was fond of money, and, looking through the eyes of
self-interest, he was willing to consider Ben insane, although he
knew very well that he was as rational as himself.
"Sit here, monsieur," said Francois.
Ben took the seat indicated, and naturally turned to survey his
immediate neighbors.
The one on the right-hand was a tall, venerable-looking man, with
white hair and a flowing beard, whose manner showed the most perfect
decorum. The other was a thin, dark-complexioned man, of bilious
aspect, and shifty, evasive eyes. Neither noticed Ben at first, as
the dinner appeared to engross their first attention. This consisted
of a thin broth and a section of a loaf of coarse bread as the first
course. Ben had been accustomed to more luxurious fare, and he was
rather surprised to see with what enjoyment his neighbors partook
of it. Next came a plate of meat, and this was followed by a small
portion of grapes. There was nothing more. It was clear that M.
Bourdon did not consider rich fare good for his patients.
"I think I would rather dine at the hotel," thought Ben; but the
diet was not by any means the worst thing of which he complained.
"If I were free I would not mind how poor and plain my fare was," he
thought.
His companions finished dinner before him, and had leisure to bestow
some attention upon him.
"My little gentleman, do you come from Rome?" asked the venerable
old gentleman on his right.
"No, sir," answered Ben.
"I am sorry. I wished to ask you a question."
"Indeed, sir. Perhaps I might answer it even now. I have been in
Florence."
"No; that will not do; and yet, perhaps you may have met persons
coming from Rome?"
"I did, monsieur."
"Then perhaps they told you how things were going on."
"Very well, I believe, monsieur."
"No, that could not be," said the old gentleman, shaking his head.
"I am sure nothing would go well without me."
"Do you, then, live in Rome?" asked Ben, curiously.
"Surely!" exclaimed the old man. "Did you not know that the Pope
lived in Rome?"
"But what has that to do with you, sir?"
"A great deal. Know, my little gentleman, that I--to whom you are
speaking--am the Pope."
This was said with an air of importance.
"There's no doubt about his being insane," thought Ben.
"How, then, do you happen to be here?" asked our hero, interested to
see what his companion would say.
"I was abducted," said the old gentleman, lowering his voice, "by an
emissary of the King of America. M. Bourdon is a cousin of the king,
and he is in the plot. But they won't keep me here long."
"I hope not," said Ben, politely.
"The King of Spain has promised to send an army to deliver me. I
only received his letter last week. You will not tell M. Bourdon,
will you?"
"Certainly not," answered Ben.
"It is well; I thought I could rely upon your honor."
"My friend," said another voice, that of his left-hand neighbor,
"you are losing your time in talking with that old fool. The fact
is, he isn't right here," and he touched his head.
