man, and I don't put in the adjectives I 
applied to them in the process outer 
respect to your youth. But they'd make 
a man swear if he'd spent his life psalm 
singin before." 

" We know," said Roldan, grimly. 
" We've been in them. What did you 
eat? And did you get lost?" 

"I ate red ants mor n once, and I usually 
was lost. When I arrived at that Mission 
down yonder the amount of flesh I had 
between my bones and my skin wouldn't 
have filled a thimble. But that priest 
he's a great man if ever there was one 
soon fixed me up. I lived like a prince for 
a month, and I could be there yet if I liked, 
but I'd kinder got used to livin alone and 
I liked it, so I come here. Besides, I found 
so much prayin and bell ringin wearin on 
the nerves, to say nothin of too many 



 

Indians. I ain't got no earthly use for 
Indians. Why priests or anybody else 
run after Indians beats me. Where I was 
brought up t was the other way. They're 
after us with a scalpin knife, and if we 
reafter them at all it's with all the lead we 
kin git. If the murderin dirty beasts is 
willin to stay where they belong, well, I 
for one believe in lettin em." 

"Do you ah like the priest, Don 
Jim?" 

" What ? Well, that's better than Don 
Himy, as they call me down there. You 
bet I like the priest. He's a gentleman, 
and as square as they make em, that is, 
with a poor devil like me ; I guess he's 
one too much for your dons when he feels 
that way. But he's a man every inch of 
him, afraid of nothin under God's heaven, 
and as kind and generous as a as some 
women. What he rots in this God-forsaken 
place for I can't make out." 

" What did you come to California for ? " 

" Well, that ain't bad. I come here, my 
son, because I was lookin for a cold climate. My own was warm, accordin to 



 

my taste, and somehow Californy seemed 
as if it ought to be fur enough away to be 
cool and nice." 

" It's very hot in the valleys." 

" So it is. So it is. But as you see, I 
prefer the mountains." 

" Do you often go to the Mission ? " 

" Every month or so I go down and 
have a chin with Padre Osuna. It keeps 
my Spanish in, and I shouldn't like to 
lose sight of him. I got word from him 
the other day that he wanted to see me 
mighty particular, and I'm wonderin 
what's in the wind. Maybe you heard 
him say." 

" No," said Roldan ; but he guessed. 

" Now," said Hill, " spin your yarn. 
I'm just pinin to hear those adventures." 

Roldan appreciated the sarcasm, but 
was too secure in the wealth of the past 
month to resent it. He began at the 
beginning and told the story with his 
curious combination of reserve and dramatic fire. As he had already told it 
several times it ran glibly off his tongue 
and had several inevitable embellishments. 



 

The man, whose cold blue eyes had wandered at first, finally fixed themselves on 
Roldan ; and his whole face gradually 
softened. When Roldan finished with his 
and Adan's rescue by Don Tiburcio's 
vaquero, he held out his hand and said 
solemnly, 

" Shake." 

Roldan allowed his hand to be gripped 
by that hairy paw ; he was too elated to 
resent it as a familiarity. 

"You've got pluck," continued Hill, 
" and I respect pluck mor'n anything 
else on earth. You're a man and a gentleman, and Californy'll be proud of you 
yet. Got any more ? " 

Roldan related the tale of Rafael's 
prowess with the bull, his own encounter 
with the bear, and Adan's timely interference. Hill then shook the hands of 
the two other boys, and told them that as 
long as he had a roof above his head they 
could share it, and that he'd do anything 
to help them but steal horses, so help him 
Bob. Roldan then told the tale of the 
earthquake and stampede. 



 

" Ugh ! " exclaimed Hill, with a shudder. 
That's one thing I can't abide your 
earthquakes. I tell you it's enough to 
take the grit outen a grizzley to hear the 
land sliden on the mountain and the big 
redwoods that has. got their roots about 
the bed-rock come roarin down. When 
an earthquake comes I go and stand in the 
middle of the creek so as I can see what's 
comin all round. Once I was on the side 
of the mountain when one of those shakes 
come and I slid down twenty feet before I 
could stop myself. It's just the one thing 
that has happenned to me. that I can't 
help thinkin about. Well, what kin I do 
for you ? You're welcome to stay here, 
but this hut ain't no great shakes for such 
as you. Be you goin home, now that the 
conscription's over ? " 

"No!" said Roldan, emphatically, " we 
are not. There are other reasons why we 
must go to Los Angeles as quickly as 
we can. Could you get us three horses?" 

" I could get them from the priest " 

"No! no!" 

" Why, what's the row with the priest ? 



 

Got in his black books ? I shouldn't like 
to do that myself." 

" You said just now that you would do 
anything for us. Would you even hide 
us from the priest if he came here ? " 

" I would. And I ain't the one to ask 
questions. If you don't want to see the 
priest, it's not Jim Hill that will assist 
him to find you. Been there myself." 

" Couldn't you get us three horses from 
my father's corral the Rancho Encar- 
nacion ? " asked Rafael. 
