grasped the notion, I saw that she had a pleasure in the visible fact,
and that was much better.  Besides, she listened very respectfully, and
with no signs of being bored.

In the wait between the two parts of the concert I invited her to walk
around the court with me, and under the approving eye of Mrs. March we
made this expedition.  It seemed to me that I could not do a wiser thing,
both for the satisfaction of my own curiosity and for the gratification
of the autobiographical passion we all feel, than to lead her on to speak
of herself.  But she had little or nothing to say of herself, and what
she said of other things was marked by a straightforward good sense, if
not a wide intelligence.  I think we make a mistake when we suppose that
a beautiful woman must always be vain or conscious.

I fancy that a beauty is quite as often a solid and sensible person, with
no inordinate wish to be worshipped, and this young lady struck me as
wholly unspoiled by flattery.  I decided that she was not the type that
would take the fancy of De Witt Point, and that she had grown up without
local attention for that reason, or possibly because a certain coldness
in her overawed the free spirit of rustic love-making.  No doubt she knew
that she was beautiful, and I began to think that it was not so much
disappointment at finding Saratoga as indifferent as De Witt Point which
gave her the effect of disgust I had first noted in her the night before.
That might rather have come from the sense of feeling herself a helpless
burden on her friends, and from that young longing for companionship
which is as far as may be from the desire of conquest, of triumph.
Finding her now so gratefully content with the poor efforts to amuse her
which an old fellow like me could make, I perceived that the society of
other girls would suffice to make Saratoga quite another thing for her,
and I cast about in my mind to contrive this somehow.

I confess that I liked her better and better, and before the evening was
out I had quite transferred my compassion from the Deerings to her.  It
was forlorn and dreary for her to be attached to this good couple,
whose interests were primarily in each other, and who had not the first
of those arts which could provide her with other company.  She willingly
told about their journey to Saratoga, and her story did not differ
materially from the account Deering had already given me; but even the
outward form of adventure had fallen from their experience since they had
come to Saratoga.  They had formed the habit of Congress Park by
accident; but they had not been to the lake, or the races, or the House
of Pansa, or Mount M’Gregor, or Hilton Park, or even the outlying
springs.  It was the first time they had been inside of the Grand Union.
“Then you have never seen the parlour?” I asked; and after the concert I
boldly led the way into the parlour, and lavished its magnificence upon
them as if I had been the host, or one of the hotel guests at the very
least.  I enjoyed the breathlessness of the Deerings so much, as we
walked up and down the vast drawing-rooms accompanied by our images in
the mirrors, that I insisted upon sitting down with them all upon some of
the richest pieces of furniture; and I was so flown with my success as
cicerone that I made them come with me to the United States.  I showed
them through the parlours there, and then led them through to the inner
verandah, which commanded another wooded court like that of the Grand
Union.  I tried to make them feel the statelier sentiment of the older
hotel, and to stir their imaginations with a picture of the old times,
when the Southern planters used to throng the place, and all that was gay
and brilliant in fashionable society was to be seen there some time
during the summer.  I think that I failed in this, but apparently I
succeeded in giving them an evening of dazzling splendour.

“Well, sir, this has been a great treat,” said Mr. Deering, when he bade
us goodbye as well as good-night; he was going early in the morning.

The ladies murmured their gratitude, Mrs. Deering with an emotion that
suited her thanks, and Miss Gage with a touch of something daughterly
toward me that I thought pretty.




VI


“WELL, what did you make of her, my dear?” Mrs. March demanded the
instant she was beyond their hearing.  “I must say, you didn’t spare
yourself in the cause; you did bravely.  What is she like?”

“Really, I don’t know,” I answered, after a moment’s reflection.  “I
should say she was almost purely potential.  She’s not so much this or
that kind of girl; she’s merely a radiant image of girlhood.”

“Now, your chicquing it, you’re faking it,” said Mrs. March, borrowing
the verbs severally from the art editor and the publisher of Every Other
Week.  “You have got to tell me just how much and how little there
really is of her before I go any further with them.  Is she stupid?”

“No—no; I shouldn’t say stupid exactly.  She is—what shall I
say?—extremely plain-minded.  I suppose the goddesses were plain-minded.
I’m a little puzzled by her attitude toward her own beauty.  She doesn’t
live her beauty any more than a poet lives his poetry or a painter his
painting; though I’ve no doubt she knows her gift is hers just as they
do.”

“I think I understand.  You mean she isn’t conscious.”

“No.  Conscious isn’t quite the word,” I said fastidiously.  “Isn’t there
some word that says less, or more, in the same direction?”

“No, there isn’t; and I shall think you don’t mean anything at all if you
keep on.  Now, tell me how she really impressed you.  Does she know
anything?  Has she read anything?  Has she any ideas?”

“Really, I can’t say whether they were ideas or not.  She knew what
Every Other Week was; she had read the stories in it; but I’m not sure
she valued it at its true worth.  She is very plain-minded.”

“Don’t keep repeating that!  What do you mean by plain-minded?”

“Well, honest, single, common-sense, coherent, arithmetical.”

“Horrors!  Do you mean that she is mannish?”

“No, not mannish.  And yet she gave me the notion that, when it came to
companionship, she would be just as well satisfied with a lot of girls as
young men.”

Mrs. March pulled her hand out of my arm, and stopped short under one of
those tall Saratoga shade-trees to dramatise her inference.  “Then she is
the slyest of all possible pusses!  Did she give you the notion that she
would be just as well satisfied with you as with a young man!”

“She couldn’t deceive me so far as that, my dear.”

“Very well; I shall take her in hand myself to-morrow, and find out what
she really is.”

Mrs. March went shopping the next forenoon with what was left of the
Deering party; Deering had taken the early train north, and she seemed to
have found the ladies livelier without him.  She formed the impression
from their more joyous behaviour that he kept his wife from spending as
much money as she would naturally have done, and that, while he was not
perhaps exactly selfish, he was forgetful of her youth, of the difference
in years between them, and of her capacity for pleasures which he could
not care for.  She said that Mrs. Deering and Miss Gage now acted like
two girls together, and, if anything, Miss Gage seemed the elder of the
two.

“And what did you decide about her?” I inquired.

“Well, I helped her buy a hat and a jacket at one of those nice shops
just below the hotel where they’re stopping, and we’ve started an evening
dress for her.  She can’t wear that white duck morning, noon, and night.”

“But her character—her nature?”

“Oh!  Well, she is rather plain-minded, as you call it.  I think she
shows out her real feelings too much for a woman.”

“Why do you prefer dissimulation in your sex, my dear?”

“I don’t call it dissimulation.  But of course a girl ought to hide her
feelings.  Don’t you think it would have been better for her not to have
looked so obviously out of humour when you first saw her the other
night?”

“She wouldn’t have interested me so much, then, and she probably wouldn’t
have had your acquaintance now.”

“Oh, I don’t mean to say that even that kind of girl won’t get on, if she
gives her mind to it; but I think I should prefer a little less
plain-mindedness, as you call it, if I were a man.”

I did not know exactly what to say to this, and I let Mrs. March go on.

“It’s so in the smallest thing.  If you’re choosing a thing for her, and
she likes another, she lets you feel it at once.  I don’t mean that she’s
rude about it, but she seems to set herself so square across the way, and
you come up with a kind of bump against her.  I don’t think that’s very
feminine.  That’s what I mean by mannish.  You always know where to find
her.”

I don’t know why this criticism should have amused me so much, but I
began to laugh quite uncontrollably, and I laughed on and on.  Mrs. March
kept her temper with me admirably.  When I was quiet again, she said—

“Mrs. Deering is a person that wins your heart at once; she has that
appealing quality.  You can see that she’s cowed by her husband, though
he means to be kind to her; and yet you may be sure she gets round him,
and has her own way all the time.  I know it was her idea to have him go
home and leave them here, and of course she made him think it was his.
