" Men of Stoke," he said, " here lies the body of 
Sir Raymond Warde, your liege lord, my father. 
He fell in the fight before Faringdon Castle, and 
this is the third day since he was slain ; for the way 
was long, and we were not suffered to pass unmo- 
lested. The castle was but half built, and we were 
encamped about it with the Earl of Gloucester, when 
the king came suddenly from Oxford with a great 
host; and they fell upon us unawares at early morn- 
ing, when we had but just heard the mass and most 
of us were but half armed, or not at all. So we 
fought as we could, and many fell, and not a few 
we killed with our hands. And I, with a helmet on 
my head and a gambison but half buckled upon my 
body, and my hands bare, was fighting with a full- 
armed Frenchman and was hard pressed. But I 
smote him in the neck, so that he fell upon one knee 
and reeled. And even in that moment I saw this 
sight. A score of paces from me, my father and 
Sir Arnold de Curboil met face to face, suddenly and 
without warning, their swords lifted in the act to 
strike ; but when my father saw his friend before 
him, he dropped his sword-arm and smiled, and 
would have turned away to fight another ; but Sir 
Arnold smiled also, and lowered not his hand, but 
smote my father by the point, unguarded, and thrust 
his sword through head and hood of mail at one 
stroke, treacherously. And so my father, your liege 
lord, fell dead unshriven, by his friend's hand ; and 
 
may the curse of man and the damnation of 
Almighty God be upon his murderer's head, now 
and after I shall have killed him. For, as I would 
have sprung forward, the Frenchman, who was but 
stunned, sprang to his feet and grappled with me ; 
and by the time he had no breath left, and the light 
broke in his eyes. Sir Arnold was gone, and our 
fight was lost. So we made a truce to bury our 
dead, and brought them away, each his own." 
When he had spoken there was silence for many 
moments, broken only by the Lady Goda's unceasing 
sobs. In the court within, and on the bridge with- 
out, the air grew purple, and dark, and misty ; for 
the sun had long gone down, and the light from the 
wax torches, leaping, flaming and flickering in the 
evening breeze, grew stronger and yellower under 
the gateway than the twilight without. The dark- 
robed monks looked gravely on, waiting till they 
should be told to pass into the chapel — men of all 
ages and looks, red and pale, thin and stout, dark and 
fair, but all having that something in their faces that 
marks the churchman from century to century. Be- 
tween them and the dead knight, Gilbert stood still 
with bent head and downcast eyes, with pale face 
and set lips, looking at his mother's bright hair, and 
at her clutching hands, and listening to the painfully 
drawn breath, broken continually by her agonized 
weeping. Suddenly the bloodhounds' bay broke out 
again, fierce and deep; and on the instant a high young 
voice rang from the court through the deep arch. 
" Burn the murderer ! To Stortf ord, and burn 
him out I " 
Gilbert looked up quickly, peering into the gloom 
whence the voice had spoken. He did not see how, 
at the words, his mother started back from the corpse, 
steadied herself with one hand, and fixed her eyes 
in the same direction ; but before he could answer, 
the cry was taken up by a hundred throats. 
" Burn the traitor ! burn the murderer ! To Stort- 
ford ! Fagots ! Fagots and pitch ! " 
High, low, hoarse, clear, the words followed one 
another in savage yells ; and here and there among 
the rough men there were eyes that gleamed in the 
dark like a dog's. 
Then through the din came a rattling of bolts and 
a creaking of hinges, as the groom store open the 
stable doors to bring out the horses and saddle them 
for the raid ; and one called for a light and another 
warned men from his horse's heels. The Lady Goda 
was on her feet, her hands stretched out imploringly 
to her son, turning to him instinctively and for the 
first time, as to the head of the house. She spoke to 
him, too ; but he neither heard nor saw, for in his 
own heart a new horror had possession, beside which 
what had gone before was as nothing. He thought 
of Beatrix. 
" Hold ! " he cried. " Let no man stir, for no 
man shall pass out who would burn Stortford. Sir 
Arnold de Gurboil is the king's man, and the king 
has the power in England ; so that if we should burn 
down Stortford Castle to-night, he would burn Stoke 
Manor to-morrow over my mother's head. Between 
Arnold de Gurboil and me there is death. To-mor- 
row I shall ride out to find him, and kill him in fair 
 
fight. But let there be no raiding, no harrying, and 
no burning, as if we were Stephen's French robbers, 
or King David's red-haired Scots. Take up the bier; 
and you," he said, turning to the monks and song- 
men, " take up your chant, that we may lay him in 
the chapel and say prayers for his unshriven soul." 
The Lady Goda's left hand had been pressed to 
her heart as though she were in fear and pain; but as 
her son spoke, it fell by her side, and her face grew 
calm before she remembered that it should grow sad. 
Until to-day her son had been in her eyes but a 
child, subject to his father, subject to herself, subject 
to the old manor-priest who had taught him the 
little he knew. Now, on a sudden, he was full- 
grown and strong ; more than that, he was master 
in his father's place, and at a word from him, men- 
at-arms and bondsmen would have gone forth on 
the instant to slay the man she loved, and to burn 
and to harry all that was his. She was grateful to 
him for not having spoken that word ; and since 
Gilbert meant to meet Curboil in a single combat, 
she felt no fear for her lover, the most skilled 
man at fence in all Essex and Hertfordshire, and 
she felt sure, likewise, that for his reputation as a 
knight he would not kill a youth but half his age. 
While she was thinking of these things, the 
monks had begun to chant again ; the confusion was 
ended in the courtyard ; the squires took up the bier, 
and the procession moved slowly across the broad 
paved space to the chapel opposite the main gate. 
An hour later Sir Raymond's dead body lay before 
the altar, whereon burned many waxen tapers. Alone, 
upon the lowest step, Gilbert was kneeling, with 
joined hands and uplifted eyes, motionless as a 
statue. He had taken the long aword from the dead 
man's breast, and had set it up against the altar, 
straight and bare. It was hacked at the edges, 
and there were dark stains upon it from its master's 
last day's work. In the simple faith of a bloody 
age, Gilbert Warde was vowing, by all that he and 
his held sacred, before God's altar, upon God's 
Sacred Body, upon his father's unburied corpse, that 
before the blade should be polished again, it should 
be black with the blood of his father's murderer. 
And as he knelt there, his lady mother, now clad 
all in black, entered the chapel and moved slowly 
towards the altar-steps. She meant to kneel beside 
her son; but when she was yet three paces from 
him, a great terror at her own falseness descended 
into her heart, and she sank upon her knees in the 
aisle. 
CHAPTER in 
Very early in the morning, Gilbert Warde was 
riding along tlxe straight road between Sheering 
Abbey and Stortford Castle. He rode in his tunic 
and hose and russet boots, with his father's sword 
by his side; for he meant not to do murder, but to 
fight his enemy to death, in all the honour of even 
chance. He judged that Sir Arnold must have 
returned from Faringdon ; and if Gilbert met him 
now, riding over his own lands in the May morning, 
he would be unmailed and unsuspecting of attack. 
And should they not meet, Gilbert meant to ride up 
to the castle gate, and ask for the baron, and courte- 
ously propose to him that they should ride together 
into the wood. And, indeed, Gilbert hoped that it 
might turn out so ; for, once under the gateway, he 
might hope to see Beatrix "for a moment ; and two 
weeks had passed, and terrible things had happened, 
since he had last set eyes upon her face. 
He met no one in the road ; but in the meadow 
before the castle half a dozen Saxon grooms, in 
loose hose and short homespun tunics, were exer- 
cising some of Curboil's great Normandy horses. 
The baron himself was not in sight, and the grooms 
told Gilbert that he was within. The drawbridge 
was down, and Gilbert halted just before entering 
the gate, calling loudly for the porter. But instead 
of the latter, Sir Arnold himself appeared at that 
moment within the courtyard, feeding a brace of 
huge mastiffs with gobbets of red raw meat from a 
wooden bowl, carried by a bare-legged stable-boy 
with a shock of almost colourless flaxen hair, and a 
round, red face, pierced by two little round blue eyes. 
Gilbert called again, and the knight instantly turned 
