Oh, his lordship takes the greatest 
interest in Mr. Drake 's future. He ll do 
anything for him ; he has, in fact, just done 
a great deal. There must, you know, be 
changes ! 
No one knows it better than I, the girl 
said. She wished to draw her interlocutress 
out. There will be changes enough for 
me. 
You're leaving Cocker's? 
The ornament of that establishment 
waited a moment to answer, and then it 
was indirect. Tell me what you're doing. 
Well, what will you think of it? 
Why, that you've found the opening you 
were always so sure of. 
Mrs. Jordan, on this, appeared to muse 
with embarrassed intensity. I was always 
sure, yes and yet I often wasn' t! 
Well, I hope you're sure now. Sure, I 
mean, of Mr. Drake. 
Yes, my dear, I think I may say I am. 
I kept him going till I was. 
Then he 's yours? 
My very own. 
How nice ! And awfully rich ! our young 
woman went on. 
Mrs. Jordan showed promptly enough 
that she loved for higher things. Awfully 
handsome six foot two. And he has put by. 
Quite like Mr. Mudge, then! that gentle 
man 's friend rather desperately exclaimed. 
Oh, not quite! Mr. Drake 's was ambigu 
ous about it, but the name of Mr. Mudge had 
evidently given her some sort of stimulus. 
He ll have more opportunity now, at any 
rate. He 's going to Lady Bradeen. 
To Lady Bradeen? This was bewilder 
ment. "Going ?" 
The girl had seen, from the way Mrs. 
Jordan looked at her, that the effect of the 
name had been to make her let something 
out. Do you know her? 
She hesitated; then she found her feet. 
Well, you ll remember I've often told 
you that if you had grand clients, I have 
them too. 
Yes, said Mrs. Jordan; but the great 
difference is that you hate yours, whereas I 
really love mine. Do you know Lady 
Bradeen? she pursued. 
Down to the ground! She 's always in 
and out. 
Mrs. Jordan 's foolish eyes confessed, in 
fixing themselves on this sketch, to a degree 
of wonder and even of envy. But she bore 
up and, with a certain gaiety, Do you hate 
her? she demanded. 
Her visitor 's reply was prompt. Dear 
no not nearly so much as some of them. 
She 's too outrageously beautiful. 
Mrs. Jordan continued to gaze. Out 
rageously? 
Well, yes; deliciously. What was really 
delicious was Mrs. Jordan 's vagueness. 
You don't know her you've not seen her? 
her guest lightly continued. 
No, but I've heard a great deal about 
her. 
So have I ! our young lady exclaimed. 
Mrs. Jordan looked an instant as if she 
suspected her good faith, or at least her 
seriousness. You know some friend ? 
Of Lady Bradeen's? Oh, yes, I know one. 
Only one? 
The girl laughed out. Only one but 
he 's so intimate. 
Mrs. Jordan just hesitated. He 's a gentleman?
Yes, he 's not a lady. 
Her interlocutress appeared to muse. 
She 's immensely surrounded. 
She will be with Mr. Drake! 
Mrs. Jordan 's gaze became strangely fixed. 
Is she very good-looking? 
The handsomest person I know. 
Mrs. Jordan continued to contemplate. 
Well,  I know some beauties. Then, with 
her odd jerkiness, Do you think she looks 
good? she inquired. 
Because that 's not always the case with 
the good-looking? the other took it up. 
No, indeed, it isn' t: that 's one thing Cock 
er 's has taught me. Still, there are some 
people who have everything. Lady Bra- 
deen, at any rate, has enough: eyes and a 
nose and a mouth, a complexion, a figure 
A figure? Mrs. Jordan almost broke in. 
A figure, a head of hair! The girl made 
a little conscious motion that seemed to let 
the hair all down, and her companion 
watched the wonderful show. But Mr. 
Drake is another ? 
Another? Mrs. Jordan 's thoughts had 
to come back from a distance. 
Of her ladyship 's admirers. He 's "go 
ing," you say, to her? 
At this Mrs. Jordan really faltered. She 
has engaged him. 
Engaged him? our young woman was 
quite at sea. 
In the same capacity as Lord Rye. 
And was Lord Rye engaged? 
XXVI 
Mrs. Jordan looked away from her now 
looked, she thought, rather injured and, as 
if trifled with, even a little angry. The 
mention of Lady Bradeen had frustrated 
for a while the convergence of our heroine 's 
thoughts; but with this impression of her 
old friend 's combined impatience and diffi 
dence they began again to whirl round her, 
and continued it till one of them appeared 
to dart at her, out of the dance, as if with 
a sharp peck. It came to her with a lively 
shock, with a positive sting, that Mr. Drake 
was could it be possible? With the idea 
she found herself afresh on the edge of 
laughter, of a sudden and strange perversity 
of mirth. Mr. Drake loomed, in a swift 
image, before her ; such a figure as she had 
seen in open doorways of houses in Cock 
er 's quarter majestic, middle-aged, erect, 
flanked on either side by a footman and 
taking the name of a visitor. Mr. Drake 
then verily was a person who opened the 
door! Before she had time, however, to 
recover from the effect of her evocation, 
she was offered a vision which quite en 
gulfed it. It was communicated to her 
somehow that the face with which she had 
seen it rise prompted Mrs. Jordan to dash, at 
a venture, at something that might attenu 
ate criticism. Lady Bradeen is rearranging 
she 's going to be married. 
Married? The girl echoed it ever so 
soltly, but there it was at last. Didn't you 
know it? 
She summoned all her sturdiness. No, 
she hasn' t told me. 
And her friends haven't they? 
I haven't seen any of them lately. I'm 
not so fortunate as you. 
Mrs. Jordan gathered herself. Then you 
haven't even heard of Lord Bradeen 's 
death? 
Her comrade, unable for a moment to 
speak, gave a slow headshake. You know 
it from Mr. Drake? It was better surely 
not to learn things at all than to learn them 
by the butler. She tells him everything. 
And he tells yon I see. Our young lady 
got up ; recovering her muff and her gloves, 
she smiled. Well, I haven t, unfortunately, 
any Mr. Drake. I congratulate you with all 
my heart. Even without your sort of assist 
ance, however, there 's a trifle here and there 
that I do pick up. I gather that if she 's to 
marry any one, it must quite necessarily be 
my friend. 
Mrs. Jordan was now also on her feet. 
Is Captain Everard your friend? 
The girl considered, drawing on a glove. 
I saw at one time an immense deal of him. 
Mrs. Jordan looked hard at the glove, but 
she had not, after all, waited for that to be 
sorry it was not cleaner. What time was 
that? 
It must have been the time you were 
seeing so much of Mr. Drake. She had 
now fairly taken it in: the distinguished 
