"But how could they live there?"
"I don't know, but papa told me there were some."
Ernest understood why the boy had been told this. It was to prevent
his going too far. But it made Ernest all the more eager to continue
his explorations.
"Even if there were any wild animals I would protect you, Frank. I
would not let them hurt you."
"But we may not find our way back. It is so dark," said the child with
a shudder.
"I won't go farther. But, see, it seems to be lighter."
It was at a point fifty feet farther on.
Through a rift in the roof a gleam of light entered the cavern.
Ernest was anxious to trace this, for, as he judged, it came from some
outlet, through which he might possibly obtain deliverance.
"Stay where you are," he said. "I will just go forward, and see what I
can."
"Don't stay long," entreated Frank, nervously.
"No, I won't."
Ernest was just as well pleased to go forward alone, for if there was
really, as he supposed, an outlet, it was as well that Frank should
not have his attention drawn to it lest he should speak of it to his
father, and so reveal the fact of their explorations. This might
excite the suspicion of James Fox and put a stop to their further
walks.
Continuing on alone, Ernest then saw, perhaps fifteen feet above him,
an opening some three feet in diameter, through which he could obtain
a glimpse of the clear sky far above.
It made his heart beat with exultation and longing. There was freedom,
if he could only manage somehow to lift himself up to the outlet and
make his way through it.
"What is it, Ernest?" asked Frank. "Come back. I am afraid."
"Oh, it is nothing," answered Ernest, with studied indifference. "It
isn't anything you would care to see."
The little boy accepted this assurance, for he did not feel the
interest that excited Ernest.
"Let us go back," he said, as he resumed his clasp of Ernest's hand.
"Yes, we will go back. Have you ever been as far as this before?"
"No."
"Then we had better not say anything about it. Your papa might not
like it."
"All right, Ernest. Will you read to me when you go back?"
"Yes, Frank."
Ernest was glad to comply with the little boy's request, as he thought
he might in this way put the thoughts of their exploration out of his
mind.
They were fortunate enough to get back without exciting the attention
of Juba, who was busy in the kitchen.
Her work, however, was soon over, and she brought her sewing into the
room where the two boys were seated. The garment on which she was
engaged seemed to be a dress of rough cloth.
"Well, Massa Frank, what am you doing?"
"Ernest is reading to me. Why don't you ever read to me, Juba?"
"O lor', chile, you know I can't read."
"But why can't you read? You're old enough."
"Yes, honey, I'm old enough, but I never had no chance to learn."
"Why didn't you?" persisted Frank. "Didn't you go to school when you
was little?"
"No, chile, never went to school. They didn't have no schools where I
was raised."
"Where was that?"
"In ole Virginny."
"Were you a slave, Juba?" asked Ernest, getting interested.
"Yes, massa, I was a slave."
"And how did you get here?"
"It was all along of the war. Ole massa, he went to the war and got
killed. Then young massa went, and he got killed, too. Then one day
there came an officer--one of Abe Linkum's officers--and he told us we
were free and might go where we pleased. That was a drefful time."
"Why was it dreadful? Weren't you glad to be free?" asked Ernest.
"No, honey, we didn't know where to go, nor what to do. We'd allus had
some one to look after us and take care of us, but now there wasn't
anybody."
"Were you married, Juba?"
"Yes, but I don't know whether my ole man is livin' or not. He was
sold down in Georgie, to a cousin of ole massa."
"Then he may be living yet?"
"Yes, honey."
"How old are you, Juba?" asked Frank.
"I don't know, chile. I's powerful old. Specs I's a hundred."
Ernest smiled.
"No, Juba," he said, "you are not nearly a hundred. You may be sixty."
"All right, massa, you know best."
"Juba, did you ever hear about Uncle Tom?"
"Yes, chile, I knew Uncle Tom," was the unexpected reply. "He was
raised on Mr. Jackson's place, next to ours."
Ernest asked some questions about this Uncle Tom, but learned, as he
expected, that it was quite a different person from the negro
immortalized by Mrs. Stowe.
In looking over Frank's books Ernest found an old copy of "Uncle Tom's
Cabin," and taking it down, he read some portions, particularly those
relating to Topsy.
Both Frank and Juba were very much entertained.
"Did you know Topsy, Juba?" asked Frank.
"No, chile, never knowed Topsy. She must have been a no account young
nigga. If she'd lived on our plantation she'd have got flogged for her
impudence."
"How did you come here, Juba?" asked Frank.
"One of them officers took me to Chicago. I lived out with a lady, but
when she died, after a good many years, I went to a 'telligence
office, and there I met your papa. He brought me out here. I didn't at
first like livin' down under the ground, but I don't mind it now.
Massa Fox treats me well, and I ain't no wish to change."
This was the substance of what Juba had to communicate. The rest of
the day passed quietly. At nightfall James Fox came home looking very
sober. But he came alone. His brother was not with him.
CHAPTER XX.
ERNEST EXPLORES THE CAVE.
James Fox had very little to say during the evening. He was evidently
preoccupied and anxious. He paid scant attention to the boys, but left
them to their own devices.
Frank knew so little of his father's business, or occupation, that he
could conceive of no cause for worriment. When his advances met with
little response he asked, "Have you got a headache, papa?"
"No--yes, child. My head troubles me some. Be as quiet as you can."
"Will it disturb you if I play checkers with Ernest, papa?"
"No, I should like to have you amuse your self," answered the outlaw.
He directed the boys to go to bed early. As before, they slept
together, and he threw him self on the lounge without taking off his
clothes.
Ernest slept well. When he woke up at eight o'clock he saw that Frank
was still sleeping, but his host was already up.
Juba came into the room.
"Get up, children," she said. "Breakfast is ready."
"Where is papa?" asked Frank.
"He took breakfast an hour ago, honey."
"What made him get up so early?"
"'Portant business called him away, he said."
"Where's Uncle John?"
"He hasn't been home."
"Has he got 'portant business, too?"
"'Specs he has, honey."
"It doesn't seem nice to take breakfast without papa," said the
little boy.
"You may consider me your papa, Frank," observed Ernest.
"But you're not big enough to be a papa."
"At any rate, I am not old enough."
When breakfast was over there was the long day before them to be
filled up in some way.
"Don't you ever wish to go out of the cave, Frank?" asked Ernest.
"Where?" asked the little boy.
"Into the bright sunshine, out on the green grass, and under the
trees."
"Yes; I think I should like it," answered Frank, thoughtfully. "But
papa does not want me to go. I don't know why. Do many little boys
live in caves like me?"
"No; I don't think so."
"Can they walk about in the sunshine, and play?"
"I always did."
"Do you like it better than living here?"
"Yes."
"Then what made you come here?"
This was an embarrassing question, and Ernest felt that he must be
careful in answering.  "Your papa wanted me to make you a visit," he
replied after a pause.
"And I am glad you came. It isn't so lonely for me. Before, I had only
Juba."
"Wouldn't she play with you?" asked Ernest with a smile.
Frank laughed merrily.
"Juba is too old to play. I hope you will stay with me a good while."
Ernest could not echo this wish, so he answered evasively,
"I can't tell yet how long I shall stay. But the time will come when
you will leave the cave and live like other little boys in a house."
"Did papa tell you that?"
"He told me that he should send you to school before long."
"What is a school like?" asked the little boy anxiously.
Few boys of ten would have been obliged to put this question, but
Frank had been secluded from the world ever since he was a baby.
"There will be a good many boys, some older, some younger, than
yourself. You will study lessons together, and play together."
"I think that will be nice."
"Yes; I am sure you will enjoy it."
"Did you ever go to school?"
"Oh, yes; I went to school for some years. I wish I could go again."
"Perhaps you will go to school with me."
"I can't tell," answered Ernest, vaguely. "Perhaps Juba will go to
school with you."
Frank laughed.
"She would look funny going to school," he said.
"What's dat you sayin' 'bout Juba, Massa Ernest?" asked the old woman,
entering the room.
