the railing of the doomed ship, and Clif would never have forgiven
himself if he had left them there. Their faces would have haunted him.
And he drew his sword and set swiftly to work.
He cut the captain loose and put a knife into his hand.
"Get to work!" he cried. "Get to work!"
Clif took the risk of trusting the man, and went on, leaving him with
the weapon. The cadet believed that he would be grateful for his
release.
And besides they were fellow sufferers then, threatened with the same
peril.
And Clif was not mistaken. The man set hastily to work releasing his
comrades, and in less time than it takes to tell it the terrified men
were huddled together on the deck.
The cadet wasted no more time upon them.
"There are three boats left for you," he cried. "Save yourselves."
And with that he turned and made his way down to where his own men were
struggling with one of the small boats.
There was one other thing which in the wild confusion of that moment
Clif managed to remember needed to be attended to. There was Ignacio!
The treacherous Spaniard had nearly been swept off, and he was half
drowned by the floods of water that poured over the deck. But his hatred
of the Americans was too great for him to shout to them for aid.
What to do with that murderous villain was a problem that worried Clif.
Undoubtedly the wisest thing would be to kill him, then and there; death
was the fate he certainly deserved.
And Clif half drew his sword; but it was no use. He could not bring
himself to do such an act. And he flung the weapon back into the
scabbard.
To attempt to carry him away was equally useless; the Americans did not
expect to reach the shore themselves.
"I'll leave him to his fate," Clif muttered. "The Spaniards may help him
if they choose."
And with that he turned toward the sailors again; the men had by that
time nearly succeeded in getting the boat away. They were working like
Trojans.
Every wave that struck the ship helped to fill the boat, even before it
touched the water; the spray poured down over the slanting deck upon it
and the sailors had to empty it several times.
While they were wrestling thus the wind and water and rocks had been
getting in their work upon the doomed vessel. Lower and lower she sank,
harder and harder she pounded.
And then suddenly a great billow heaved itself with a thud against the
bow and fairly hammered it around. One of the sailors gave a yell.
"She's split!"
And sure enough, a great seam had opened amidships and the water surged
in with a roar.
The vessel seemed fairly falling to pieces.
And such being the case the sailors had no time to delay. The frail boat
was lowered into the seething waters; the men tumbled in and seized the
oars. Clif made a wild leap and caught the stern just as one mighty wave
raced by and whirled the boat away from the vessel.
And in one instant it was lost to sight and sound. What was done by the
Spaniards no one could see a thing. The Americans were fighting for
their own lives.
There was but one thing for them to do----
"Pull for the shore, sailors, pull for the shore."
And the great sweeping breakers to aid them. In fact they were flung in
so fast that they could hardly row.
It was a thrilling struggle, that race with the giant waves. The sailors
struggled with all their might, keeping the frail craft straight. And
Clif, with a bucket he had thought to bring, was bailing frantically,
and shouting to encourage the men.
In, in they swept, nearer, with the speed of a whirlwind, toward the
shore.
"If it's rocks, Heaven help us!" Clif gasped.
It seemed an age to him, that brief struggle. Breathless and eager, he
watched the great white caps breaking, smiting against the stern,
struggling to turn that boat but a few inches so that they might catch
it on the side and fling it over.
And meanwhile the wind and waves and oars all helping, on swept the
boat--bounding over the foamy crests, sinking into the great hollows,
leaping and straining, but still shooting on in the darkness.
And every second was precious, for the shore was not far away; the roar
of the surf grew louder--louder almost upon them.
And then suddenly one great seething billow came rushing up behind. Clif
saw it, and shouted to the men. In a second more its white crest towered
over them.
It was just on the point of breaking in a giant cataract of foam; it
would have buried the little boat and its occupants beneath tons of
foaming water.
But it was just a second too late. The little boat's stern shot up; for
a moment it was almost on end, and then it rose to the top of the wave
and a moment later as the crash came and the sweep in toward shore began
the frail craft was flung forward as if from a catapult.
And in it shot with speed that simply dazed the Americans; but it was
toward shore--toward shore!
They had passed the breakers!
And Clif gave a gasp of delight as he felt the wild leap forward. It
seemed but a second more before the rush ended.
The bow of the rowboat struck and the frail object was whirled round and
flung over, its occupants being fairly hurled into the air.
When they struck the water it was to find themselves within a few feet
of dry land. They staggered to a standing position to find that they
were in water only up to their waists. And the great wave was tugging
them out to sea again.
They struggled forward wildly, clutching at each other. A minute later,
breathless, exhausted and half drowned, but wild with joy, they
staggered out upon a sandy beach and sank down to gasp for breath.
"We're safe!" panted Clif. "Safe!"
Safe! And on the island of Cuba, the stronghold of their deadly enemies!
CHAPTER IX.
THE ENEMY'S COUNTRY.
It must have been at least five minutes before those exhausted men moved
again; when at last they managed to rise to their feet it was to find
themselves in the midst of absolute darkness, with the wild sea on one
side of them and on the other no one knew what.
The faint point of light which they had seen had now disappeared: but
they took it to mean that there were Spaniards in the neighborhood.
And they did not fail to recognize the peril in which they were. The
firing had probably been heard and the wreck of the merchantman seen. If
so, the Americans could not be in a much worse place.
"We may be right in front of a battery," whispered Clif.
The first thing the sailors did was to see to their revolvers and
cutlasses. And after that they started silently down the shore.
"We won't try to go far," Clif said, "but we must find a hiding-place."
But in that darkness the hiding-places were themselves hidden; the best
the Americans could do was to stumble down the shore for a hundred yards
or so, being careful to walk where the waves would wash out their
footprints.
Then they were a short distance from the wreck and felt a trifle safer.
"We may as well strike back in the country now," said the leader, "at
least until we can find some bushes or something to conceal us."
That was a rather more ticklish task, and the men crouched and stole
along in silence. They had no idea what they might meet.
It was fortunate for them that they were quiet. Otherwise they would
have gotten into very serious trouble indeed.
They stole up the sandy beach a short ways, feeling their way along and
getting further and further away from the sea. They were struggling
through soft dry sand.
And suddenly Clif, who was in front, saw something loom up before him, a
dark line. And he put out his hand to touch it.
He found that the sand rose gradually into a sort of drift or bank. It
was high, and seemed to reach for some distance.
The sailors stopped abruptly, and Clif crept softly forward, feeling
along with his hands; suddenly the men heard him mutter a startled
exclamation under his breath.
"Men," he whispered, "we're in a terrible fix; I ran into a gun!"
"A gun!"
"Yes--a big one. We've struck a Spanish battery, and we must be near
some town!"
The sailors stared at him aghast; and then suddenly came a startling
interruption--one that fairly made their blood grow chill.
"Who goes there?"
It was a loud, stern hail in Spanish, and it seemed to come from almost
beside them!
Quick as a flash the Americans dropped, crouching close together in the
darkness. They could hear the beating of each others' hearts.
There were several moments of agonizing suspense; the Spaniard who had
shouted out was evidently awaiting a reply. And then suddenly he
repeated his challenge.
"Who goes there?"
And a moment later came a sound of hurrying footsteps.
"What's the matter?" Clif heard a voice demand.
He was the only one in the party who understood Spanish, and knew what
was said. But it was plain to the rest that it was a conversation
between a sentry and an officer.
"I heard a footstep, senor capitan!" cried the man. "Quidada! Take care!
It's very near."
There was a moment's pause.
"You must be mistaken," said the officer.
"I am not mistaken," repeated the man firmly. "Santa Maria, my ears do
not deceive me. You said to be watchful, for you have heard firing."
To that the Americans had listened in trembling silence; but the next
made them jump. "I will light this lantern," said the officer.
And the instant they heard it Clif rose silently to his feet; the men
did likewise, and began to creep softly off to one side.
But careful as they were they could not help the grinding sound of their
footsteps in the sand, and it caught the quick ear of the Spaniard.
"Hear it!" he cried. "Por dios, again! Somebody is stealing upon us!"
And an instant later the air was rent by a sharp crack of a rifle--the
sentry had fired!
There was wild confusion at once, and the unfortunate castaways were
aghast. For an instant Clif thought of charging the battery--with four
men. But he realized the folly of that.
"Quick!" he cried, "let us hide. Forward!"
Lights were flashing and men shouting and running about behind the sand
wall just in front of them, but the sailors were still unseen. They
broke into a run and fairly flew down the shore.
They fancied the whole Spanish company was at their heels; but after
they had run for some distance they found that they had not been
