You may imagine the general complexion, from that moment, of my
nights. I repeatedly sat up till I didn’t know when; I selected
moments when my room-mate unmistakeably slept, and, stealing out,
took noiseless turns in the passage and even pushed as far as to
where I had last met Quint. But I never met him there again; and I
may as well say at once that I on no other occasion saw him in the
house. I just missed, on the staircase, on the other hand, a different
adventure. Looking down it from the top I once recognised the presence
of a woman seated on one of the lower steps with her back presented to
me, her body half bowed and her head, in an attitude of woe, in her
hands. I had been there but an instant, however, when she vanished
without looking round at me. I knew, none the less, exactly what
dreadful face she had to show; and I wondered whether, if instead
of being above I had been below, I should have had, for going up,
the same nerve I had lately shown Quint. Well, there continued to
be plenty of chance for nerve. On the eleventh night after my latest
encounter with that gentleman--they were all numbered now--I had an
alarm that perilously skirted it and that indeed, from the particular
quality of its unexpectedness, proved quite my sharpest shock. It
was precisely the first night during this series that, weary with
watching, I had felt that I might again without laxity lay myself
down at my old hour. I slept immediately and, as I afterwards knew,
till about one o’clock; but when I woke it was to sit straight up,
as completely roused as if a hand had shook me. I had left a light
burning, but it was now out, and I felt an instant certainty that
Flora had extinguished it. This brought me to my feet and straight, in
the darkness, to her bed, which I found she had left. A glance at the
window enlightened me further, and the striking of a match completed
the picture.

The child had again got up--this time blowing out the taper, and had
again, for some purpose of observation or response, squeezed in behind
the blind and was peering out into the night. That she now saw--as
she had not, I had satisfied myself, the previous time--was proved to
me by the fact that she was disturbed neither by my re-illumination
nor by the haste I made to get into slippers and into a wrap. Hidden,
protected, absorbed, she evidently rested on the sill--the casement
opened forward--and gave herself up. There was a great still moon to
help her, and this fact had counted in my quick decision. She was
face to face with the apparition we had met at the lake, and could
now communicate with it as she had not then been able to do. What I,
on my side, had to care for was, without disturbing her, to reach, from
the corridor, some other window in the same quarter. I got to the door
without her hearing me; I got out of it, closed it and listened, from
the other side, for some sound from her. While I stood in the passage
I had my eyes on her brother’s door, which was but ten steps off and
which, indescribably, produced in me a renewal of the strange impulse
that I lately spoke of as my temptation. What if I should go straight
in and march to his window?--what if, by risking to his boyish
bewilderment a revelation of my motive, I should throw across the rest
of the mystery the long halter of my boldness?

This thought held me sufficiently to make me cross to his threshold
and pause again. I preternaturally listened; I figured to myself what
might portentously be; I wondered if his bed were also empty and he
too were secretly at watch. It was a deep, soundless minute, at the
end of which my impulse failed. He was quiet; he might be innocent; the
risk was hideous; I turned away. There was a figure in the grounds--a
figure prowling for a sight, the visitor with whom Flora was engaged;
but it was not the visitor most concerned with my boy. I hesitated
afresh, but on other grounds and only a few seconds; then I had made
my choice. There were empty rooms at Bly, and it was only a question
of choosing the right one. The right one suddenly presented itself
to me as the lower one--though high above the gardens--in the solid
corner of the house that I have spoken of as the old tower. This was
a large, square chamber, arranged with some state as a bedroom, the
extravagant size of which made it so inconvenient that it had not for
years, though kept by Mrs. Grose in exemplary order, been occupied. I
had often admired it and I knew my way about in it; I had only, after
just faltering at the first chill gloom of its disuse, to pass across
it and unbolt as quietly as I could one of the shutters. Achieving
this transit, I uncovered the glass without a sound and, applying
my face to the pane, was able, the darkness without being much less
than within, to see that I commanded the right direction. Then I saw
something more. The moon made the night extraordinarily penetrable
and showed me on the lawn a person, diminished by distance, who stood
there motionless and as if fascinated, looking up to where I had
appeared--looking, that is, not so much straight at me as at something
that was apparently above me. There was clearly another person above
me--there was a person on the tower; but the presence on the lawn was
not in the least what I had conceived and had confidently hurried to
meet. The presence on the lawn--I felt sick as I made it out--was poor
little Miles himself.


XI

It was not till late next day that I spoke to Mrs. Grose; the rigour
with which I kept my pupils in sight making it often difficult to
meet her privately, and the more as we each felt the importance of
not provoking--on the part of the servants quite as much as on that
of the children--any suspicion of a secret flurry or of a discussion
of mysteries. I drew a great security in this particular from her mere
smooth aspect. There was nothing in her fresh face to pass on to others
my horrible confidences. She believed me, I was sure, absolutely:
if she hadn’t I don’t know what would have become of me, for I
couldn’t have borne the business alone. But she was a magnificent
monument to the blessing of a want of imagination, and if she could
see in our little charges nothing but their beauty and amiability,
their happiness and cleverness, she had no direct communication with
the sources of my trouble. If they had been at all visibly blighted or
battered, she would doubtless have grown, on tracing it back, haggard
enough to match them; as matters stood, however, I could feel her,
when she surveyed them, with her large white arms folded and the
habit of serenity in all her look, thank the Lord’s mercy that if
they were ruined the pieces would still serve. Flights of fancy gave
place, in her mind, to a steady fireside glow, and I had already begun
to perceive how, with the development of the conviction that--as time
went on without a public accident--our young things could, after all,
look out for themselves, she addressed her greatest solicitude to the
sad case presented by their instructress. That, for myself, was a sound
simplification: I could engage that, to the world, my face should tell
no tales, but it would have been, in the conditions, an immense added
strain to find myself anxious about hers.

At the hour I now speak of she had joined me, under pressure, on the
terrace, where, with the lapse of the season, the afternoon sun was now
agreeable; and we sat there together while, before us, at a distance,
but within call if we wished, the children strolled to and fro in
one of their most manageable moods. They moved slowly, in unison,
below us, over the lawn, the boy, as they went, reading aloud from a
storybook and passing his arm round his sister to keep her quite in
touch. Mrs. Grose watched them with positive placidity; then I caught
the suppressed intellectual creak with which she conscientiously turned
to take from me a view of the back of the tapestry. I had made her
a receptacle of lurid things, but there was an odd recognition of my
superiority--my accomplishments and my function--in her patience under
my pain. She offered her mind to my disclosures as, had I wished to mix
a witch’s broth and proposed it with assurance, she would have held
out a large clean saucepan. This had become thoroughly her attitude by
the time that, in my recital of the events of the night, I reached the
point of what Miles had said to me when, after seeing him, at such a
monstrous hour, almost on the very spot where he happened now to be,
I had gone down to bring him in; choosing then, at the window, with a
concentrated need of not alarming the house, rather that method than a
signal more resonant. I had left her meanwhile in little doubt of my
small hope of representing with success even to her actual sympathy
my sense of the real splendour of the little inspiration with which,
after I had got him into the house, the boy met my final articulate
challenge. As soon as I appeared in the moonlight on the terrace, he
had come to me as straight as possible; on which I had taken his hand
without a word and led him, through the dark spaces, up the staircase
where Quint had so hungrily hovered for him, along the lobby where I
had listened and trembled, and so to his forsaken room.

Not a sound, on the way, had passed between us, and I had wondered--oh,
how I had wondered!--if he were groping about in his little mind for
something plausible and not too grotesque. It would tax his invention,
certainly, and I felt, this time, over his real embarrassment, a
curious thrill of triumph. It was a sharp trap for the inscrutable! He
couldn’t play any longer at innocence; so how the deuce would he get
out of it? There beat in me indeed, with the passionate throb of this
question, an equal dumb appeal as to how the deuce I should. I was
confronted at last, as never yet, with all the risk attached even now
to sounding my own horrid note. I remember in fact that as we pushed
into his little chamber, where the bed had not been slept in at all
and the window, uncovered to the moonlight, made the place so clear
that there was no need of striking a match--I remember how I suddenly
dropped, sank upon the edge of the bed from the force of the idea that
he must know how he really, as they say, “had” me. He could do what
he liked, with all his cleverness to help him, so long as I should
continue to defer to the old tradition of the criminality of those
caretakers of the young who minister to superstitions and fears. He
“had” me indeed, and in a cleft stick; for who would ever absolve
me, who would consent that I should go unhung, if, by the faintest
tremor of an overture, I were the first to introduce into our perfect
intercourse an element so dire? No, no: it was useless to attempt to
convey to Mrs. Grose, just as it is scarcely less so to attempt to
suggest here, how, in our short, stiff brush in the dark, he fairly
shook me with admiration. I was of course thoroughly kind and merciful;
never, never yet had I placed on his little shoulders hands of such
tenderness as those with which, while I rested against the bed, I held
him there well under fire. I had no alternative but, in form at least,
to put it to him.

“You must tell me now--and all the truth. What did you go out
for? What were you doing there?”

I can still see his wonderful smile, the whites of his beautiful eyes,
and the uncovering of his little teeth shine to me in the dusk. “If
