"Don't ye set foot on my land!" he repeated. "Ye ain't wuth it. Do you
know what this land is? It belonged to a man that settled in a place
that knows enough to celebrate its foundin', but don't know enough to
prize what's fell to it. Do you know what I was doin' of, when I tolled
that bell? I'll tell ye. I tolled a hunderd an' ten strokes. That's the
age of the bell you're goin' to throw aside to flatter up a man that
made money out o' the war. A hunderd an' twelve years ago that bell was
cast in England; a hunderd an' ten years ago 't was sent over here."
"Now, how's father know that?" whispered Hattie disparagingly.
"I've cast my vote. Them hunderd an' ten strokes is all the voice I'll
have in the matter, or any matter, so long as I live in this
God-forsaken town. I'd ruther die than talk over a thing like that in
open meetin'. It's an insult to them that went before ye, an' fit hunger
and cold an' Injuns. I've got only one thing more to say," he continued,
and some fancied there came a little break in his voice. "When ye take
the old bell down, send her out to sea, an' sink her; or bury her deep
enough in the woods, so 't nobody'll git at her till the Judgment Day."
With one descending step, he seemed to melt away into the darkness; and
though every one stood quite still, expectant, there was no sound, save
that of the crickets and the night. He had gone, and left them
trembling. Well as they knew him, he had all the effect of some strange
herald, freighted with wisdom from another sphere.
"Well, I swear!" said Brad Freeman, at length, and as if a word could
shiver the spell, men and woman turned silently about and went down the
hill. When they reached a lower plane, they stopped to talk a little,
and once indoors, discussion had its way. Young Nick and Hattie had
walked side by side, feeling that the eyes of the town were on them,
reading their emblazoned names. But Mary marched behind them, solemnly
and alone. She held her head very high, knowing what her kinsfolk
thought: that gran'ther had disgraced them. A passionate protest rose
within her.
That night, everybody watched the old house in the shade of the poplars,
to see if Nicholas had "lighted up." But the windows lay dark, and
little Mary, slipping over across the orchard, when her mother thought
her safe in bed, tried the door in vain. She pushed at it wildly, and
then ran round to the front, charging against the sentinel hollyhocks,
and letting the knocker fall with a desperate and repeated clang. The
noise she had herself evoked frightened her more than the stillness, and
she fled home again, crying softly, and pursued by all the unresponsive
presences of night.
For weeks Tiverton lay in a state of hushed expectancy; one miracle
seemed to promise another. But Nicholas Oldfield's house was really
closed; the windows shone blankly at men and women who passed,
interrogating it. Young Nick and his Hattie had nothing to say, after
Hattie's one unguarded admission that she didn't know what possessed
father. The village felt that it had been arraigned before some high
tribunal, only to be found lacking. It had an irritated conviction that,
meaning no harm, it should not have been dealt with so harshly; and was
even moved to declare that, if Nicholas Oldfield knew so much about what
was past and gone, he needn't have waited till the trump o' doom to say
so. But, somehow, the affair of clock and bell could not be at once
revived, and a vague letter was dispatched to the prospective donor
stating that, in regard to his generous offer, no decision could at the
moment be reached; the town was too busy in preparing for its
celebration, which would take place in something over two weeks; after
that the question would be considered. The truth was that, at the bottom
of each heart, still lurked the natural cupidity of the loyal citizen
who will not see his town denied; but side by side with that desire for
the march of progress, walked the spectre of Nicholas Oldfield's wrath.
The trembling consciousness prevailed that he might at any moment
descend again, wrapped in that inexplicable atmosphere of loftier
meanings.
Still, Tiverton was glad to put the question by, for she had enough to
do. The celebration knocked at the door, and no one was ready. Only Brad
Freeman, always behindhand, save at some momentary exigency of rod or
gun, was fulfilling the prophecy that the last shall be first. For he
had, out of the spontaneity of genius, elected to do one deed for that
great day, and his work was all but accomplished. In public conclave
assembled to discuss the parade, he had offered to make an elephant, to
lead the van. Tiverton roared, and then, finding him gravely silent,
remained, with gaping mouth, to hear his story. It seemed, then, that
Brad had always cherished one dear ambition. He would fain fashion an
elephant; and having never heard of Frankenstein, he lacked anticipation
of the dramatic finale likely to attend a meddling with the creative
powers. He did not confess, save once to his own wife, how many nights
he had lain awake, in their little dark bedroom, planning the anatomy of
the eastern lord; he simply said that he "wanted to make the critter,"
and he thought he could do it. Immediately the town gave him to
understand that he had full power to draw upon the public treasury, to
the extent of one elephant; and the youth, who always flocked adoringly
about him, intimated that they were with him, heart and soul. Thereupon,
in Eli Pike's barn, selected as of goodly size, creation reveled, the
while a couple of men, chosen for their true eye and practiced hand,
went into the woods, and chopped down two beautiful slender trees for
tusks. For many a day now, the atmosphere of sacred art had hung about
that barn. Brad was a maker, and everybody felt it. Fired by no
tradition of the horse that went to the undoing of Troy, and with no
plan before him, he set his framework together, nailing with unerring
hand. Did he need a design, he who had brooded over his bliss these many
months when Tiverton thought he was "jest lazin' round?" Nay, it was to
be "all wrought out of the carver's brain," and the brain was ready.
Often have I wished some worthy chronicler had been at hand when
Tiverton sat by at the making of the elephant; and then again I have
realized that, though the atmosphere was highly charged, it may have
been void of homely talk. For this was a serious moment, and even when
Brad gave sandpaper and glass into the hands of Lothrop Wilson, the
cooper, bidding him smooth and polish the tusks, there was no jealousy:
only a solemn sense that Mr. Wilson had been greatly favored. Brad's
wife sewed together a dark slate-colored cambric, for the elephant's
hide, and wet and wrinkled it, as her husband bade her, for the
shambling shoulders and flanks. It was she who made the ears, from a
pattern cunningly conceived; and she stuffed the legs with fine shavings
brought from the planing-mill at Sudleigh. Then there came an
intoxicating day when the trunk took shape, the glass-bottle eyes were
inserted, and Brad sprung upon a breathless world his one surprise.
Between the creature's fore-legs, he disclosed an opening, saying
meantime to the smallest Crane boy,--
"You crawl up there!"
The Crane boy was not valiant, but he reasoned that it was better to
seek an unguessed fate within the elephant than to refuse immortal
glory. Trembling, he crept into the hole, and was eclipsed.
"Now put your hand up an' grip that rope that's hangin' there,"
commanded Brad. Perhaps he, too, trembled a little. The heart beats fast
when we approach a great fruition.
"Pull it! Easy, now! easy!"
The boy pulled, and the elephant moved his trunk. He stretched it out,
he drew it in. Never was such a miracle before. And Tiverton, drunk with
glory, clapped and shouted until the women-folk clutched their
sunbonnets and ran to see. No situation since the war had ever excited
such ferment. Brad was the hero of his town. But now arose a natural
rivalry, the reaction from great, impersonal joy in noble work. What
lad, on that final day, should ride within the elephant, and move his
trunk? The Crane boy contended passionately that he held the right of
possession. Had he not been selected first? Others wept at home and
argued the case abroad, until it became a common thing to see two young
scions of Tiverton grappling in dusty roadways, or stoning each other
from afar. The public accommodated itself to such spectacles, and
grown-up relatives, when they came upon little sons rolling over and
over, or sitting triumphantly, the one upon another's chest, would only
remark, as they gripped two shirt collars, and dragged the combatants
apart:--
"Now, what do you want to act so for? Brad'll pick out the one he thinks
best. He's got the say."
In vain did mothers argue, at twilight time, when the little dusty legs
in overalls were still, and stubbed toes did their last wriggling for
the day, that the boy who moved the trunk could not possibly see the
rest of the procession. The candidates, to a boy, rejected that specious
plea.
"What do I want to see anything for, if I can jest set inside that
elephant?" sobbed the Crane boy angrily. And under every roof the wail
was repeated in many keys.
Meantime, the log cabin had been going steadily up, and a week before
the great day, it was completed. This was a typical scene-setting,--the
cabin of a first settler,--and through one wild leap of fancy it became
suddenly and dramatically dignified.
"For the land's sake!" said aunt Lucindy, when she went by and saw it
standing, in modest worth, "ain't they goin' to do anythin' with it?
Jest let it set there? Why under the sun don't they have a party of
Injuns tackle it?"
The woman who heard repeated the remark as a sample of aunt Lucindy's
desire to have everything "all of a whew;" but when it came to the ears
of a certain young man who had sat brooding, in silent emulation, over
the birth of the elephant, he rose, with fire in his eye, and went to
seek his mates. Indians there should be, and he, by right of first
desire, should become their leader. Thereupon, turkey feathers came into
great demand, and wattled fowl, once glorious, went drooping dejectedly
about, while maidens sat in doorways sewing wampum and leggings for
their favored swains. The first rehearsal of this aboriginal drama was
not an entire success, because the leader, being unimaginative though
faithful, decreed that faces should be blackened with burnt cork; and
the result was a tribe of the African race, greatly astonished at their
own appearance in the family mirror. Then the doctor suggested walnut
juice, and all went conformably again. But each man wanted to be an
Indian, and no one professed himself willing to suffer the attack.
"I'll stay in the cabin, if I can shoot, an' drop a redskin every time,"
said Dana Marden stubbornly; but no redskin would consent to be dropped,
and naturally no settler could yield. It would ill befit that glorious
day to see the log cabin taken; but, on the other hand, what loyal
citizen could allow himself to be defeated, even as a skulking redman,
at the very hour of Tiverton's triumph? For a time a peaceful solution
was promised by the doctor, who proposed that a party of settlers on
horseback should come to the rescue, just when a settler's wife, within
the cabin, was in danger of immolation. That seemed logical and right,
and for days thereafter young men on astonished farm horses went
sweeping down Tiverton Street, alternately pursuing and pursued, while
Isabel North, as Priscilla, the Puritan maiden, trembled realistically
at the cabin door. Just why she was to be Priscilla, a daughter of
Massachusetts, Isabel never knew; the name had struck the popular fancy,
and she made her costume accordingly. But one day, when young Tiverton
was galloping about the town, to the sound of ecstatic yells, a farmer
