The girl shrank back. " Oh, no m," she said, with 
an effect of seeming to know that her refusal would 
hurt, and with the wish to soften it. " I couldn 't ; 
indeed I couldn t." 

" Why couldn 't you ? Now you must ! If I can 't 
let you have the wo k the way you want, I don 't think 
it 's fair, and you ought to have the money for it just 
the same." 

Clementina shook her head smiling. " I don 't be 
lieve motha would like to have me take it." 

" Oh, now, pshaw ! " said Mrs. Lander, inadequately. 
" I want you should take this for youaself ; and if you 



 

don 't want to buy anything to wear you can get 
something to fix your room up with. Don 't you be 
afraid of robbin us. Land ! We got moa money ! 
Now you take this." 

Mrs. Lander reached the money as far toward Clem 
entina as she could and shook it in the vehemence of 
her desire. 

"Thank you, I couldn 't take it," Clementina per 
sisted. u I 'm afraid I must be going ; I guess I must 
bid you good-mo ning." 

" Why, I believe the child 's sca ed of me ! But you 
needn 't be. Don 't you suppose I know how you feel ? 
You set down in that chai a there, and I 'll tell you 
how you feel. I guess we 've  been pooa, too I don 't 
mean anything that ain 't exactly right and I guess 
I 've  had the same feelin s. You think it 's demeanin 
to you to take it. A n 't that it ? " Clementina sank 
provisionally upon the edge of the chair. " Well, it 
did use to be so consid ed. But it 's all changed, now 
adays. We travel pretty nea the whole while, Mr. 
Lander and me, and we see folks everywhere, and it 
ain 't the custom to refuse any moa. Now, ain 't there 
any little thing for your own room, there in your nice 
new house ? Or something your motha 's got her 
hea t set on ? Or one of your brothas ? My, if you 
don 't have it, some one else will ! Do take it ! " 

The girl kept slipping toward the door. " I 
shouldn 't know what to tell them, when I got home. 
They would think I must be out of my senses." 

" I guess you mean they'd think I was. Now, 
listen to me a minute ! " Mrs. Lander persisted. 



 

" You just take this money, and when you get home, 
you tell your mother every word about it, and if she 
says to, you bring it right straight back to me. Now, 
can 't you do that ? " 

" I don 't know but I can," Clementina faltered. 

" Well, then take it ! " 

Mrs. Lander put the bills into her hand but she 
did not release her at once. She pulled Clementina 
down and herself up till she could lay her other arm 
on her neck. " I want you should let me kiss you. 
Will you ? " 

" Why, certainly," said Clementina, and she kissed 
the old woman. 

" You tell your mother I 'm comin to see her before 
I go ; and I guess," said Mrs. Lander in instant ex 
pression of the idea that came into her mind, " we 
shall be goin pretty soon, now." 

" Yes m," said Clementina. 

She went out, and shortly after Lander came in 
with a sort of hopeful apathy in his face. 

Mrs. Lander turned her head on her pillow, and so 
confronted him. " Albe t, what made you want me 
to see that child ? " 

Lander must have perceived that his wife meant 
business, and he came to it at once. " I thought you 
might take a fancy to her, and get her to come and 
live with us." 

"Yes?" 

" We 're both of us gettin pretty well ow, and you'd 
ought to have somebody to look after you if I 'm not 
around. You want somebody that can do for you ; 



 

and keep you company, and read to you, and talk to 
you well, moa like a daugLta than a suvvant some 
body that you'd get attached to, maybe " 

" And don 't you see," Mrs. Lander broke out se 
verely upon him, " what a ca e that would be ? Why, 
it 's got so already that I can 't help thinkin about her 
the whole while, and if I got attached to her I'd have 
her on my mind day and night, and the moa she done 
for me the more I should be tewin around to do for 
her. I shouldn 't have any peace of my life any moa. 
Can 't you see that ? " 

" I guess if you see it, I don 't need to," said Lan 
der. 

" Well, then, I want you shouldn 't eva mention her 
to me again. I 've  had the greatest escape ! But I 've  
got her off home, and I 've  give her money enough 
I had a time with her about it so that they won 't 
feel as if we'd made cm trouble for nothing, and now 
I neva want to hear of her again. I don 't want we 
should stay here a great while longer ; I shall be fret- 
tin if I 'm in reach of her, and I shan 't get any good 
of the ai a. Will you promise ? " 

"Yes." 

" Well, then ! " Mrs. Lander turned her face upon 
the pillow again in the dramatization of her exhaust 
ion ; but she was not so far gone that she was insen 
sible to the possible interest that a light rap at the 
door suggested. She once more twisted her head in 
that direction and called, " Come in ! " 

The door opened and Clementina came in. She 
advanced to the bedside smiling joyously, and put 



 

the money Mrs. Lander had given her down upon the 
counterpane. 

" Why, you haven 't been home, child ? " 
" No m," said Clementina, breathlessly. " But I 
couldn 't take it. I knew they wouldn 't want me to, 
and I thought you'd like it better if I just brought it 
back myself. Good-mo ning." She slipped out of 
the door. Mrs. Lander swept the bank-notes from the 
coverlet and pulled it over her head, and sent from 
beneath it a stifled wail. " Now we got to go ! And 
it 's all youa fault, Albe t." 

Lander took the money from the floor, and smooth 
ed each bill out, and then laid them in a neat pile on 
the corner of the bureau. He sighed profoundly but 
left the room without an effort to justify himself. 



V. 

THE Landers had been gone a week before Clem 
entina 's mother decided that she could spare her to 
Mrs. Atwell for a while. It was established that she 
was not to serve either in the dining-room or the carv 
ing room ; she was not to wash dishes or to do any 
part of the chamber work, but to carry messages and 
orders for the landlady, and to save her steps, when 
she wished to see the head- waiter, or the head-cook ; 
