said about marriage ; amusing of course, but if true, 
quite heartless. 
She had made the merest little call upon Mrs. Kenneth 
and promised to go to luncheon. She would take this 
opportunity lest Gertrude might call for her. She would 
not even risk Aunt Millicent's delightful informal morn- 
ing reception that she had counted on, and where people 
came to talk of the day's events. 
Mrs. Kenneth was gratified with her coming. 
" I began to think that we would all drop out of your 
mind," she said, "there were so many new people and 
events crowding in. What an entertaining winter you 
have had ! Bertram read your letters to us and it was 
almost like being in the midst of things one's self. And 
brother enjoyed his little bit of you all with such fervor. 
I'm beginning to believe largely in environment," and a 
sweet smile illuminated the face. "I will own now that 
I was a little disappointed in Eric when we first renewed 
our relationship. As he had never been crossed in love 
there was no need of making a middle-aged wisacre out 
of himself. If some woman hadn't taken him in hand 
he would have been forty by this time, and in another 
ten years sixty. The last thing my sweet Margaret said 
to me was, ' Dear mamma, don't grow only one year 
older by the time I come back.' And with all of us, we 
have turned Eric's dial back to the true figure. Still, if 
he had not been with me I should have removed my 
easy-chairs and traps to Washington and had a glimpse 
of you all. Ruth would have enjoyed it." 
Ruth had gone to Mrs. Drayton's. She liked the 
talks and she had felt certain of seeing Princess. 
" O, that would have been delightful. I had not 
meant to stay when I went up. I made so many useful 
resolves in the autumn after I gave up going to college," 
and Princess flushed daintily. "I did offer to teach the 
children, but mamma would not hear to that. Then I 
began to learn a little about housekeeping, and it ended 
by all this gayety. I was going back home when Uncle 
Con carried me off," and she gave a bright little laugh. 
Then they discussed the marriage. 
"I didn't suppose Mr. Murray would marry. He is 
the sort of man who can make a splendid bachelor to the 
end of his days. But when all you young people married 
and had homes of your own, he would have found it 
rather lonely. He has made an excellent choice. I like 
Gertrude very much." 
"O, I am glad you do!" exclaimed Princess, with 
unaffected sweetness. 
" One couldn't spend a year or two with Mrs. Town- 
send without being well trained for such a position. Then 
Gertrude has too much pungency to be weakly senti- 
mental, and Mr. Murray would tease the life out of a 
romantic girl. Not but what I do believe in romance 
for some people. I don't want it to die out of the world." 
Princess drew a sort of relieved breath. If she could 
have faith in Gertrude once more ! Mrs. Kenneth had 
opportunities of judging her quite correctly, she thought. 
They talked of Margaret's home-coming in the autumn. 
"She has made all her plans," said the satisfied 
mother. " Of course she is all I have, and though I had 
a little misgiving at first about saddling an invalid on her 
when I had money enough for a separate home, she and 
Mr. Phillips vetoed the plan at once. I did think I could 
get along with Ruth, who is almost like a daughter and 
needs some warm human interest. Her poor, old 
grandmother will never be any pleasure or duty, even. 
She wants "Ruth's salary to be added to the general fund 
of savings, and this is the more peculiar when Ruth will 
have it all in the end. But she doesn't seem to consider 
the end may come to her. What a terrible thing a 
miserly old age is ! " 
Princess gave a little shiver. 
" And the plan is a nice, roomy house. Mr. Drayton 
is to find that for me in the course of the summer, and I 
am to purchase it. We are to have three rooms of our 
very own, and conveniences for meals if we choose to 
take them alone, as we often shall. Margaret is to keep 
the house, and be the mistress. I can never be sufficiently 
thankful for Ruth, although there will come a time when 
as an heiress she will have no need of me." 
"That is a lovely plan," returned Princess. She won- 
dered a little what the professor would do, and almost 
resented his being counted out. 
"Bertram has enjoyed being here so much," she con- 
tinued, with a heightened color. 
" Yes, Eric is very fond of him. He is such a splen- 
did student and will capture a prize next year without 
doubt." 
" O how delighted papa will be," and her eyes light- 
ened with joy. 
" We do enjoy him as well. And Sherburne, though 
he has quite deserted us of late, I was a little afraid he 
was rather epris with Gertrude, and really relieved when 
the marriage was announced. But young fellows are apt 
to have two or three such turns before they settle upon a 
steady fancy." 
A vivid color flushed Princess' face. It was a consola- 
tion to know that other people thought it unwise. 
"Now you must tell me about the girls. Is Violet 
really doing anything with her genius ? And I suppose 
Pearl is as beautiful as ever? " 
Princess related some of the most enjoyable events, and 
the fascinating glimpses of public life they had seen 
through her father's influence. 
' ' Do you know that I think Sherburne should be in 
that kind of life rather than studying medicine. Eric 
really considers him intended for an orator. What do 
you suppose gave him the fancy ? ' ' 
"He became a good deal interested during the last 
part of his German student life. And then he had always 
been quite in love with Uncle Carew, and Uncle Under- 
wood, who appears to think some one should be trained 
to carry on his work. It seems to me we run to physi- 
cians;" and Princess gave a soft little laugh. "You 
can't think what a tremendous enthusiast Uncle Under- 
wood is ! Papa declares he is quite enough to infect 
anyone." 
Ruth came in presently, her face in a glow. 
" O Princess," she exclaimed, after the first greeting, 
"you should have been at Mrs. Drayton's. There was 
a musical morning with a lovely young Russian woman, 
who sang exquisitely and made a little address. The 
talks were so delightful, not over any one's head. And 
just at the last, Mrs. Murray came in. I think she was 
disappointed at not finding you there." 
Princess' heart gave a sudden, violent beat. 
Then they had a cozy luncheon and talked over the 
plans again. 
"You see we are leaving Eric quite out," said Mrs. 
Kenneth. "I am sorry to do it, but he does want a 
place to himself, and I can't saddle Margaret with every- 
body. But he has grown much more socially inclined. 
He and Bertram might set up bachelor lodgings." 
"And you would have to come and keep house for 
them, Princess," said Ruth, with curious inadvertence, 
which she did not remark herself. " Your uncle has 
found a housekeeper." 
She was busy just then dishing some pudding and 
frosting it over with whipped cream. Princess' face had 
been drenched in scarlet, and Mrs. Kenneth pretended to 
hunt for her handkerchief, to give her time to recover 
herself. 
"Yes, I have lost my position," Princess subjoined, 
with all the merriment she could put into her voice, 
though her hostess detected the tremble. " Mrs. Kenneth, 
do you think I have grounds for a breach of promise ? I 
can substantiate my claim in black and white." 
"It depends upon whether you want to be held to 
your bargain. If the damage involved was consider- 
able, he might keep you to your part of the agreement." 
" And I guess I don't quite want to be kept." 
While Mrs. Kenneth took her rest afterward, Ruth 
and Princess had a girl's talk. There were so many 
subjects that had come up in letters. Ruth was very 
happy about the new plans, and reaching out into the 
future without any thought of what had troubled Prin- 
cess. She referred to the professor quite often, too, re- 
echoing Mrs. Kenneth's pride in him. It was just as 
one might talk about a brother. 
Princess was strangely confused, and some inexplicable 
power seemed to keep her pulses athrob with the trouble- 
some rush of color flying from cheek to brow since she 
could not help seeing distinctly before her his look at 
the night of the lecture. She could plead ignorance no 
longer ; she was aware of its significance, and she was 
frightened at standing on the threshold of a great mys- 
tery. 
They would fain have kept her to dinner, but she would 
not stay. Mrs. Kenneth's manner was so tenderly caress- 
ing that even this gave her a vague, delicious uneasiness. 
Mr. Murray had been out of the city on business most 
of the day. He had taken Gertrude to his bachelor 
rooms until the house could be made ready. He was 
late, and dinner was announced at once as he declared 
himself famished. Then he laid down some slips of 
paper and took out a blue pencil, which indicated press- 
ing business. 
" Did you look at carpets to-day? " 
" Yes," Gertrude replied, briefly. She knew the ques- 
tion was asked more from politeness than interest, and 
