"Philip Lillis!" he called.
For reasons which we understand, though Oscar didn't, there was no
response.
Oscar became angry, and began to pound vigorously at the door.
"There, if he doesn't hear that he must be deaf!" he said to himself.
"I say, do you want to be let out?"
No answer.
"He hears me, and won't answer out of pure spite," reflected Oscar
indignantly.
He continued to pound.
"Look here, you young beggar," he cried, "if you don't answer me I'll
get pa to bring up the horsewhip and flog you within an inch of your
life. There won't be any bar-room loafers to save you this time."
Even this threat seemed to produce no effect, and Oscar, quite out of
temper, descended the stairs.
"Well," said Mr. Sprague, "what does he say?"
"What does he say? He won't say anything."
"Perhaps he didn't hear you," suggested Mr. Sprague.
"If he didn't he must be as deaf as a post."
"Slickening, is he?"
"That's about the size of it."
"Well, we can cure him of that."
"I'll tell you what to do, pa. I'll get the horsewhip and you can give
him a good thrashing. I told him you would. There won't be any one to
interfere up there."
"That's true. Go and get the whip, Oscar."
No employment was more congenial. Oscar went down-stairs with alacrity
and soon reappeared with the whip. By this time his father was dressed
and ready for action.
"Here's the whip, pa. May I go up with you?"
"Yes; come up."
Father and son ascended the stairs and stood before Philip's door.
"Speak to him first, pa, and see if he will answer you."
Nahum Sprague in a stern and authoritative tone called "Philip."
No answer.
"Didn't I tell you, pa."
"Philip Lillis!"
Again no reply.
"I didn't think the boy would be so owdacious. I'll soon learn him!"
Mr. Sprague turned the key and opened the door, entering the room with
upraised whip. He gave a gasp of surprise.
"Why, he isn't here!" he ejaculated.
"Isn't here?" shouted Oscar in amazement.
"No; and the winder is open," exclaimed Mr. Sprague.
"He wouldn't dare to jump out, would he?"
Nahum Sprague advanced to the window and put his head out, expecting to
see Philip on the ground beneath, perhaps with a broken limb. But no
Philip was visible!
CHAPTER XXXIII.
A CHANGE FOR PHILIP.
MR. SPRAGUE and Oscar looked at each other in complete stupefaction.
"What does it mean? Where can the boy have gone?" ejaculated Nahum.
"I'll be blest if I know," returned Oscar.
"The door was locked. He must have gone through the window. There wasn't
any rope in the room, was there?"
"No."
"And if he jumped out he would certainly have broken his neck, or his
limbs."
"He wouldn't have dared to jump. He's no braver than a mouse."
"It's the most mysterious thing I ever heard of," said Mr. Sprague,
wrinkling his brows.
"What are you going to do about it, dad?"
"I don't know. I'm flabbergasted."
"I'll tell you what to do when you get him back," suggested Oscar. "Give
him a sound thrashing. It will do him good."
"You can depend upon that. I think it may be well after breakfast for
you to go round and inquire if he has been seen in the village."
"What shall I say about his running away?"
"Say he's a little touched in the upper story."
"I guess he'd better be touched somewhere else," said Oscar with a loud
laugh at his own wit.
Considerably to his disgust Oscar was set to work doing some of Philip's
chores directly after breakfast, and it was nine o'clock before he got
ready to start in quest of Philip. Even then he did not start, for an
open buggy stopped at the gate, driven by a man from the village, and
containing as passenger, a boy of sixteen. This boy was Mark Mason, as
the reader will easily conjecture.
"Who's that, Oscar! Is it one of your friends?" asked Nahum Sprague.
"No; never saw him before in my life."
Mark advanced directly to Mr. Sprague.
"Is this Mr. Nahum Sprague?" he asked.
"Yes; that's my name."
"Does a boy named Philip Lillis live with you?"
"And what if there does?" inquired Mr. Sprague cautiously.
"I am sent from New York to take charge of him."
"You! A boy like you?" exclaimed Nahum in surprise. "Why, you ain't over
sixteen."
"You've guessed my age exactly," said Mark with a smile.
"Who sends you?"
"Mr. David Gilbert."
"Is he--rich?" asked Nahum curiously.
"Well, he's pretty well off."
"And he is willing to take care of the boy?"
"Yes. Can I see Philip?"
"Well," answered Nahum Sprague in an embarrassed tone, "you can pretty
soon."
"And why not now?"
"The fact is, rather a cur'us thing happened last night. The boy
disappeared."
"Is that true?" asked Mark with some suspicion.
"Yes. Fact is, the boy ain't quite right in his head."
"I am sorry for that," said Mark gravely. "How long has he been affected
that way?"
"Only lately, I don't think it will last."
"Please tell me the circumstances."
"Why, we locked him in the attic for fear he might get out and come to
some harm when he was light-headed, and this morning we couldn't find
him."
"Please show me the room."
Though a boy, Mark spoke with unconscious authority, and Mr. Sprague
immediately complied with his request.
He led the way up into the attic, and Mark looked into the room. He was
struck at once with its bare, unfurnished aspect.
"Did the boy spend the night here?" he asked abruptly.
"Yes."
"Where did he sleep?"
Mr. Sprague saw his mistake too late.
"Why--the fact is," he said hesitating, "the boy acted badly, and I
confined him here as a punishment."
"Expecting him to sleep on the floor?"
"Well, yes--as a punishment."
"How old is the boy?"
"Ten years old."
"Then all I can say is, that you treated him very cruelly."
"That ain't the way to talk to me," blustered Sprague. "I guess I know
the way to treat boys. You're only a boy yourself."
"That is true, but what has that got to do with it?"
"You should be more respectful to your elders."
"Suppose we get back to business, Mr. Sprague. Has Philip ever run away
before?"
"No, and it's very ungrateful for him to do it now. Why, I have
supported him ever since his father's death, and I paid the expenses of
his father's funeral."
"I shall probably repay you for that--when you find, and deliver to me
the boy."
This was welcome intelligence to Mr. Sprague, who straightway became
very polite to Mark.
"Thank you, my dear young friend. I wouldn't accept it if I was not a
poor man. I am very much attached to the boy, and I wouldn't let him go
if I could afford to keep him. Oscar, go to the village at once and see
if you can see anything of Philip."
"I will go with him, Mr. Sprague."
"Very well; but be sure to come back before you take him away."
"I certainly shall. It would not be fair to you to do otherwise. You may
get ready the items of expense while I am gone."
"Thank you, I will."
"How provoking that Philip should go away just at this time!" thought
Nahum. "It seems so mysterious, too. I do hope nothing has happened to
the boy, or this fellow, who seems very sharp, may not be willing to pay
me my bill."
Meanwhile Oscar and Mark went to the village.
"Do you live in New York?" asked Oscar.
"Yes."
"Are you Mr. Gilbert's son?"
"No; I am only his messenger."
"And you actually came all the way from New York alone?"
"Yes."
"Did he give you plenty of money for traveling?"
"Well, a pretty good sum," answered Mark, smiling. "What do you think
has become of Philip?"
"Blest if I know. I don't see how he could get out of the window."
"I hope he hasn't come to any harm."
"Oh, I guess not," said Oscar indifferently.
"Do you like the boy?" asked Mark keenly.
"Well, I don't care much about kids," answered Oscar.
"Have you any idea where Philip would be likely to go? Has he ever left
home before?"
"No; and he wouldn't now if he wasn't crazy."
At this moment they met Albert Frost.
"Do you know that boy?" asked Mark. "Perhaps he has seen Philip."
"I say, Albert," said Oscar, "have you seen anything of Philip Lillis?"
"Why do you ask? Don't he live at your house?"
"Yes, but he's taken French leave."
Something in Albert's face led Mark to suspect that he knew more of
Philip than he cared to tell, also that he was a friend of the young
boy.
"I have come from New York to take Philip with me," he said
significantly. "A friend of his father is going to adopt him."
"Is this sure?" asked Albert.
"Yes; I am very anxious to find the boy."
