him into popular notice, which would mean an 
advance of position and pay. 
Philip was impressed with the ready talent, 
the adaptable talent, and the facility of this ac- 
complished journalist, and as their acquaintance 
improved he was let into many of the secrets of 
success in the profession. 
" It isn't an easy thing," said Mr. Brad, " to 
cater to a public that gets tired of anything in 
about three days. But it is just as well satisfied 
with a contradiction as with the original state- 
ment. It calls both news. You have to watch 
out and see what the people want, and give it 
 
to 'em. It is something like the purveying of 
the manufacturers and the dry-goods jobber for 
the changing trade in fashions ; only the news- 
paper has the advantage that it can turn a somer- 
sault every day and not have any useless stock 
left on hand. The public hasn't any memory, 
or, if it has, this whirligig process destroys it. 
What it will not submit to is the lack of a daily 
surprise. Keep that in your mind and you can 
make a popular newspaper. Only," continued 
Mr. Erad, reflectively, "you've got to hit a lot 
of different tastes. 
"You'd laugh," this artist in emotions went 
on, after a little pause, " at some of my assign- 
ments. There was a run awhile ago on elope- 
ments, and my assignment was to have one every 
Monday morning. The girl must always be lovely 
and refined and moving in the best society ; elope- 
ment with the coachman preferred, varied with 
a teacher in a Sunday-school. Invented? Not 
always. It was surprising how many you could 
find ready made, if you were on the watch. I got 
into the habit of locating them in. the interior of 
Pennsylvania as the safest place, though Jersey 
seemed equally probable to the public. Did I 
never get caught? That made it all the more 
lively and interesting. Denials, affidavits, elab- 
orate explanations, two sides to any question ; if 
it was too hot, I could change the name and 
 
shift the scene to a still more obscure town. Or 
it could be laid to the zeal of a local reporter, 
who could give the most ingenious reasons for 
his story. Once I worked one of those imaginary- 
reporters up into such prominence for his clever 
astuteness that my boss was taken in, and asked 
me to send for him and give him a show on the 
paper. 
" Oh yes, we have to keep up the domestic 
side. A paper will not go unless the women like 
it. One of the assignments I liked was ' Sayings 
of Our Little Ones.' This was for every Tuesday 
morning. Not more than half a column. These 
always got copied by the country press solid. It 
is really surprising how many bright things you 
can make children of five and six years say, if 
you give your mind to it. The boss said that I 
overdid it sometimes and made them too bright 
instead of 'just cunning.' 
'"Psychological Study of Children' had a 
great run. This is the age of science. Same with 
animals, astronomy — anything. If the public 
wants science, the papers will give it science. 
"After all, the best hold for a lasting sensation 
is an attack upon some charity or public institu- 
tion ; show up the abuses, and get all the senti- 
mentalists on your side. The paper gets sym- 
pathy for its fearlessness in serving tlje public 
interests. It is always easy to find plenty of 
 
testimony from ill-used convicts and grumbling 
pensioners." 
Undoubtedly Olin Brad was a clever fellow, 
uncommonly well read in the surface literatures 
of foreign origin, and had a keen interest in what 
he called the metaphysics of his own time. He 
had many good qualities. Among them friend- 
liness towards men and women struggling like 
himself to get up the ladder, and he laid aside 
all jealousy when he advised Philip to try his 
hand at some practical work on the Spectrum. 
What puzzled Philip was that this fabricator of 
"stories" for the newspaper should call him- 
self a " realist." The " story," it need hardly be 
explained, is newspaper slang for any incident, 
true or invented, that is worked up for dramatic 
effect. To state the plain facts as thej'^ occurred, 
or might have occurred, and as they could act- 
ually be seen by a competent observer, would not 
make a story. The writer must put in color, and 
idealize the scene and the people engaged in it, 
he must invent dramatic circumstances and posi- 
tions and language, so as to produce a " picture." 
And this picture, embroidered on a commonplace 
incident, has got the name of " news." The 
thread of fact in this glittering web the reader 
must pick out by his own wits, assisted by his 
memory of what things usually are. And the 
public likes these stories much better than the 
 
unadorned report of facts. It is accustomed to 
this view of life, so much so that it fancies it 
never knew what war was, or what a battle was, 
until the novelists began to report them. 
Mr. Brad was in the story stage of his evolu- 
tion as a writer. His light facility in it had its 
attraction for Philip, but down deep in his nat- 
ure he felt — and the impression was deepened 
by watching the career of several bright young 
men and women on the press — that indulgence in 
it would result in such intellectual dishonesty as 
to destroy the power of producing fiction that 
should be true to life. He was so impressed by 
the ability and manifold accomplishments of Mr. 
Brad that he thought it a pity for him to travel 
that road, and one day he asked him why he did 
not go in for literature. 
" Literature !" exclaimed Mr. Brad, with some 
irritation ; " I starved on literature for a year. 
"Who does live on it, till he gets beyond the 
necessity of depending on it ? There is a lot of 
humbug talked about it. You can't do anything 
till you get your name up. Some day I will 
make a hit, and everybody will ask, " Who is 
this daring, clever Olin Brad V Then I can get 
readers for anything I choose to write. Look at 
Champ Lawson. He can't write correct English, 
he never will, he uses picturesque words in a con- 
nection that makes you doubt if he knows what 
 
they mean. But he did a dare-devil thing pict- 
uresquely, and now the publishers are at his 
feet. When I met him the other day he affected 
to be bored with so much attention, and wished 
he had stuck to the livery-stable. He began at 
seventeen by reporting a runaway from the point 
of view of the hostler." 
" Well," said Philip, " isn't it quite in the line 
of the new movement that we should have an 
introspective hostler, who perhaps obeys Sir Phillip Sidney's advice, ' Look into your heart and 
write ' ? I chanced the other night in a company 
of the unconventional and illuminated, the ' post- 
er' set in literature and art, wild -eyed and 
ansemic young women and intensely languid, nil 
admirari young men, the most advanced prod- 
ucts of the studios and of journalism. It was a 
very interesting conclave. Its declared motto 
was, ' We don't read, we write.' And the mem- 
bers were on a constant strain to say something 
brilliant, epigrammatic, original. The person 
who produced the most outre sentiment was 
called ' strong.' The women especially liked no 
writing that was not 'strong.' The strongest 
man in the company, and adored by the women, 
was the poet-artist Courci Cleves, who always 
seems to have walked straight out of a fashion- 
plate, much deferred to in this set, which affects 
to defer to nothing, and a thing of beauty in the 
 
theatre lobbies. Mr. Cleves gained much ap- 
plause for his well-considered wish that all that 
has been written in the world, all books and 
libraries, could be destroyed, so as to give a 
chance to the new men and the fresh ideas of 
the new era." 
" My dear sir," said Brad, who did not like 
this caricature of his friends, " you don't make 
any allowance for the eccentricities of genius." 
" You would hit it nearer if you said I didn't 
make allowance for the eccentricities without 
genius," retorted Philip. 
"Well," replied Mr. Brad, taking his leave, 
" you don't understand your world. You go 
your own way and see where you will come 
out." 
And when Philip reflected on it, he wondered 
