I leave you to Mr. Gilman. May you be happy, my children!"
As Celesta Raffles looked to be thirty-five, and Jed was but sixteen, he
was a good deal amused, but Miss Raffles was disposed to take the matter
in earnest.
"Don't let him prejudice you against me, Mr. Gilman!" she murmured. "We
shall soon be better acquainted, I am sure. Do you know, I am to be your
mother in the play? It is a little absurd, as I am only twenty-three,
but we have to do strange things on the stage."
"She's thirty-six if she's a day," whispered Osprey, "but if you want to
keep in her good graces you must believe her own reports of her age."
"Time to dress, Jed!" said Harry Bertram. "It will take you longer than
usual, as it is the first time. Your nerve won't fail you, will it?"
Jed shook his head.
"I feel as cool as ever I did," he answered.
Fortunately the telegraph boy's uniform fitted him exactly. He hardly
knew himself as he looked at his reflection in the little mirror in his
dressing-room.
"I wonder if Mr. and Mrs. Fogson would recognize me if they should see
me on the stage?" thought Jed.
Then it occurred to him that Percy Dixon and his mother would be
present. He smiled to himself as he thought of Percy's bewilderment when
he saw him under such a strange change of circumstances.
It is not necessary to give the plot of the Gold King. It is sufficient
to say that Jed, the telegraph boy, had been stolen from his parents in
early life, the Gold King being his father. He is obliged to earn his
own living as a boy, but in the last act he is restored to his friends
and his old station in life.
In the first act Jed appeared in his predecessor's uniform. In the last
he wore his own suit, this being quite as well adapted to the character
as Ralph Clinton's street costume.
Mrs. Dixon and Percy occupied seats in the third row from the front.
They always paid the highest prices, and secured the most eligible
seats.
At the end of ten minutes Jed's cue was called and he appeared on the
stage. Percy, who was watching the play with the greatest attention,
started in amazement when he saw the boy actor.
"Mother," he whispered, "that boy is the perfect image of Jed, the
poorhouse boy."
"Is he, indeed? Very singular, on my word!"
"And he has the same voice," continued Percy, still more excited.
"But I suppose it can't be he," said Mrs. Dixon inquiringly.
"No, I think not," answered Percy. "Jed doesn't know anything about
acting, and this boy is perfectly at home on the stage."
This was indeed true. Jed was quite self-possessed. Moreover, he never
hesitated for a word or stumbled, but was letter-perfect. His scene was
with George Osprey, as member of a fashionable club, who had inquired
into his history. "Yes," said Jed, repeating his part, "yes, Mr.
Glendower, I am a poor boy, but those who look down upon me will one day
find their mistake--they may find that the poor telegraph boy whom they
once despised is able to look down upon them."
As he uttered these words, Jed, perhaps intentionally, let his glance
rest on Percy Dixon, while the latter gazed at him open-mouthed.
"I believe it is Jed, after all, mother!" he ejaculated.
CHAPTER XII.
PERCY DIXON IS BEWILDERED.
At the end of the first act Jed and George Osprey were called before the
curtain. Jed had been instructed to bow his thanks, and did so. Percy
watched his face eagerly, for this brought Jed within a few feet of him.
"Mother," he said, "if that boy isn't Jed, it is his twin brother."
"But, Percy," said his mother, who was a practical woman, "I never heard
that the boy had a twin brother."
"Oh, pshaw! I meant that he is exactly like him."
"But this boy is Ralph Clinton. The bill says so."
"I know it," said Percy, with a puzzled expression. "I don't understand
it at all."
"The boy you mean is probably in bed at the Scranton poorhouse."
"Perhaps he is. I don't see, for my part, how he could be here, or know
how to act."
The play proceeded. It was in five acts, and Jed was not called upon to
appear again till the last one. He proved himself up to the requirements
of the part, and evidently produced a favorable impression on the
audience.
"Mother," said Percy, "I would like to wait at the stage door till the
actors come out."
"But, Percy, it is already late. We ought to be starting for home."
"But, mother, you know father is Overseer of the Poor, and if this boy
is Jed, he has run away from the Scranton poorhouse, and father will be
held responsible."
"Why should he?"
"Because the paupers are under his charge. If one of them runs away he
will be blamed."
"Well, if you think we ought to stop," said the lady undecidedly. "But I
don't see what you expect to accomplish."
"I want to see that boy face to face. I want to speak to him, and find
out for certain who he is."
"Well, don't be any longer than you can help."
"I won't."
Meanwhile Jed and Harry Bertram were conversing in the greenroom.
"You did yourself proud, my boy," said Bertram. "You acted as well as
Clinton, and in some respects better."
"I am glad to hear you say so, Mr. Bertram," said Jed, gratified.
"I could hardly believe that this was your first appearance on the
stage. Weren't you frightened at all?"
"Not a bit. I enjoyed it."
"Did you see any of your Scranton friends in the audience?"
"I saw none of my Scranton friends," answered Jed, "but I saw two
Scranton acquaintances."
"Who were they?"
"Percy Dixon, son of the Overseer of the Poor, and his mother."
"Where were they sitting?"
"In the third row from the stage."
"Do you think they recognized you?"
"I saw Percy watching me very closely I am sure he noticed my
resemblance to his old acquaintance Jed, but he couldn't understand how
it was possible for me to be the same boy."
"Then you baffled him?"
"I don't know. I shouldn't wonder if he would be waiting outside to get
a view of me."
"And if he does?"
"He will do all he can to get me back to the poorhouse."
"Then I'll tell you what to do. Go out of the stage door arm in arm with
me, and I will address you as Ralph. If he speaks, appear not to know
him."
"That will be a capital joke," said Jed taking in the humor of the
situation.
"Between us, I think we can bluff him off."
Jed had appeared in the last act in his street costume, and had no
preparations to make, but Bertram had to exchange his stage for his
ordinary dress. When they were ready they emerged from the stage door
arm in arm. A glance showed Jed that Percy was waiting to intercept
him. He did not appear to notice Percy, but passed on.
Percy hastened forward, and touched him on the arm.
"Look here, I want to speak to you," he said.
"Speak on, my boy," said Jed, assuming the style of his new profession.
"How did you come here?" demanded Percy bluntly.
"What do you mean?"
"I mean that you are Jed Gilman."
"My dear Ralph, what does this person mean?" said Bertram.
"He evidently mistakes me for some one he knows," said Jed coolly. "May
I ask your name, young man?"
"You know me well enough," said Percy angrily, for Jed had not tried to
change his voice. "I am Percy Dixon."
"Percy Dixon?" repeated Jed. "Where have I met you?"
"Where have you met me?" retorted Percy. "At the Scranton poorhouse."
"Do you reside there?" asked Jed with admirable composure.
"Do I live at the poorhouse?" repeated Percy, exasperated. "Of course I
don't."
Mrs. Dixon had heard this colloquy, as she was sitting in the carriage
only six feet away.
"Percy," she said, "I told you you had made a mistake."
"I don't believe I have," said Percy in a sulky tone.
"For whom do you take me, Mr. Dixon?" asked Jed.
"For Jed Gilman, a poorhouse boy."
"I feel very much complimented," said Jed smoothly. "I hope Jed is a
nice boy."
"No, he isn't. He is an impudent young rascal."
"Then how dare you compare my friend Ralph to a boy like that?" demanded
Bertram savagely. "You must be crazy, or do you mean to deliberately
insult him?"
Poor Percy was overwhelmed. He wasn't half so certain now that he was
right. True, there was a wonderful resemblance between the young actor
and Jed, but then it seemed impossible that Jed should have left the
poorhouse suddenly (and Percy remembered seeing him that very afternoon
at his own home) and developed into a member of a dramatic company.
"I may have made a mistake," he said doubtfully.
"I am glad you realize this possibility," said Bertram. "Did you witness
the play this evening?"
"Yes, sir."
"Do you think your friend Jed----"
"He is not my friend."
"Well, do you think that Jed, whatever he is, could act like my friend
Ralph?"
"No, I don't think he could," Percy admitted.
"Probably this Jed is a very ordinary boy?"
"I should say so. Ordinary is no name for it. He is stupid."
"Then you will see for yourself that it is not very likely that he
should become an accomplished actor all at once. If it were you it might
be different. You are evidently a young man of social position, while
this Jed is a poor boy, and I presume without education."
"Yes, he is very ignorant," answered Percy, falling into the trap. "Is
it--hard to learn to act?" he added.
"Not if you have talent and education. Do you think of trying the
stage?"
"I might some time," said Percy, flattered by the question.
"If you do, I hope you will succeed. Now, Mr. Dixon, I must bid you good
night, as my friend Ralph and myself are fatigued with our acting and
must get to bed."
"Good evening!" said Jed, raising his hat gravely.
"Good evening!" returned Percy, more puzzled than ever.
He jumped into the carriage and started to drive home.
