"I think it is extravagant to pay a dollar and a quarter a day for
board. Who is that man with you?"

On hearing this, Giles Packard came forward.

"You ought to know me, Eben," he said.

Eben Jackson took stock of the cattleman's shabby clothes, and answered,
coldly, "You have the advantage of me, sir."

"Then you don't remember your cousin, Giles Packard?"

"Are you Giles Packard? I didn't know but you were dead."

"No, thank you, not just yet."

"Where have you been living?"

"In Colorado."

"Have you met with any success? What business have you followed?"

"I have been in the cattle business."

"Oh, a cowboy?" sneered Eben.

"If you choose to call me so."

"Why didn't you stay in Colorado? Why have you come East?"

"I thought I should enjoy a vacation."

"But traveling costs money."

"So it does. Uncle John tells me you have three thousand dollars of
his."

Eben Jackson frowned.

"Yes," he said, "I am taking care of his money for him."

"As he can't find employment, he will need to have it returned."

"That can't be done. He has my note for it."

"Yes. I have seen the note. I observe that it is made out 'On demand.'"

"Well?"

"That means that he can call for it at any time."

"I shall pay it when I get ready," said Eben, haughtily.

"It may be wise for you to get ready very soon."

"Oh, you threaten, do you? That is all the good it will do you."

To Eben Jackson's surprise Giles Packard took the matter very coolly. He
even smiled.

"I suspect you will change your mind," he said.

"I understand your drift. You want to get hold of Uncle John's money
yourself."

"Perhaps so. Uncle John, are you willing that I should take charge of
your money?"

"Yes, Giles."

"Ah, a very nice conspiracy. Uncle John, you are a fool."

"Why?" asked the old man, mildly.

"This man has made a failure of his life, and is as poor as poverty,
judging from his appearance. He has got up a nice scheme for depriving
you of your money. If he got hold of it you would never see a cent of
it. He is evidently an adventurer."

"Then you won't give me my money?"

"No. I shall keep it in your own interest. Why, if you gave it to him
you would be a pauper in less than a year."

Giles Packard did not seem in the least irritated by his cousin's
uncomplimentary remarks.

Turning to John Plympton, he said: "I think we may as well go, Uncle
John."

"I am glad you realize that," observed Jackson. "Before you go, let me
say that your scheme has utterly failed."

"My scheme of getting you to return Uncle John his money?"

"Your plan of getting his money into your own possession."

"Call it as you like. You will hear from us very soon."

"Is that meant as a threat?"

"Well, perhaps so."

"Go ahead. Take what measures you choose. It is immaterial to me."

"What did I tell you, Giles?" said John Plympton, as they left the
store.

"Eben Jackson is meaner than I supposed. We will give him a little
surprise."

"Before night Eben Jackson received the following letter from the
leading lawyer in Rochester:


     "SIR--

     "My client, Mr. Giles Packard, has placed in my hands for
     collection a demand note for three thousand dollars, signed by
     yourself, transferred to him by John Plympton. Will you arrange to
     pay it? If not, I am instructed by my client to sue.

     "Yours respectfully,
     "EDWARD NETTLETON, Att'y."


This was like a bomb in the camp of the enemy. Mr. Nettleton was a sharp
and successful lawyer, and to be feared. He was steep in his charges,
and Eben felt that his cousin was a fool to employ so high-priced an
attorney.

He lost no time in seeking the humble hotel where his uncle and cousin
were domiciled.

"What does all this mean?" he demanded, angrily.

"What do you refer to?"

"To Mr. Nettleton's letter."

"It means that I am going to have my uncle's money," said Giles, firmly.

"Your lawyer will charge you an immense fee. Better let the matter
drop."

"Eben Jackson, I'll make you pay that money if it costs me five thousand
dollars for expenses."

"Ridiculous! Why, you are almost a pauper."

"I hope not. When I left Colorado I was worth nearly a hundred thousand
dollars. I don't think I have lost any money since."

"Is this true?" gasped Jackson.

"It is. You thought me poor, because I was poorly dressed. You were
mistaken. I am what is called a rich man. I am unmarried, but after the
way you have treated me, you can judge what chances you have of being
remembered in my will."

"It is all a mistake, Cousin Giles," said Eben, in a conciliatory tone.
"I'll pay the money, and I hope you and Uncle John will do me the favor
of staying at my house while you are in Rochester."

Giles Packard smiled grimly.

"We shall start for New York to-morrow," he said, "and it won't be
advisable for us to leave the hotel. I shall leave the note in Mr.
Nettleton's hands, and I will give you a month in which to pay it."

"Thank you. Won't you call at the house? Mary will be glad to see you,
and I want to show you the children."

"Yes, we will call."

Giles Packard smiled when his cousin left the hotel.

"Eben seems to have changed," he said. "I think we shan't have any more
trouble with him."

