DR. THORNE. What’s that? Do speak so I can hear you.--If you’re going to
speak at all.

MRS. THORNE. I said it seems to be more than one woman can do to rest
you.

DR. THORNE (carelessly). Do ring for a decent cup of coffee. I can’t
drink this.

MRS. THORNE. Esmerald--

DR. THORNE (crossly). Oh, what? I can’t stop to talk. There! I’ve
burned my tongue now. If there’s anything I can’t stand, it’s going to a
consultation with a burned tongue.

MRS. THORNE (tenderly). How tired you are, Esmerald! It even gets into
your poor foot.--You limp more to-night. I was only going to say that I
am sorry. I can’t let you go without saying that.

DR. THORNE (rising, and walking irritably through the rooms). I can’t
see that that helps it any. I am so tired I don’t want to be touched.
(Mrs. Thorne brings his overcoat. He repulses her.) Never mind my
coat. I’ll put it on myself. Tell Joe--No. I left the horse standing; I
don’t want Joe. I suppose Donna is uneasy by this time. She won’t stand
at night--She’s got to. I’ll get that whim out of her.--Now don’t look
that way! The horse is safe enough.

MRS. THORNE. I haven’t bothered you about the horse, have I? But I don’t
feel--quite--easy. She is such a nervous creature, and so--

DR. THORNE (imperiously). Don’t you suppose I know how to drive?
You’re always having opinions of your own against mine. There! I must be
off.--Where’s the boy, Helen? Where’s Laddie?

MRS. THORNE (gently). Laddie isn’t just right, somehow, Esmerald. I
hated to bother you, for you never think it’s anything. Molly is with
him. I’ve been a little troubled about him. He has cried all the
afternoon.

DR. THORNE. He cries because you coddle him! It is all nonsense, Helen.
Nothing ails the child. I won’t encourage this sort of thing. I’ll see
him when I come home. I can’t possibly wait--I am driven to death--for
every little whim. (Rushes towards the door, but pauses, irresolute.)
I suppose I shall have to go up--if you’ve got this fixed idea in your
head. I’ll take a look at him on the way out.

MRS. THORNE (more gently; without reproach, but regarding him
steadily). Good-by, Esmerald.

DR. THORNE. Oh, bother!--I can’t stop for fooling, now.

MRS. THORNE (with sudden change of manner, breaks down, and hides her
face in her arms. She weeps quietly). He has always kissed me
good-by--before--ever since we have been married. He never, never missed
before!

Re-enter DR. THORNE. (He holds the
child in his arms, and strides in impetuously,
still limping; lays LADDIE,
wrapped in a silk robe, upon the sofa.
Tries to make the child sit up; but
the little fellow languidly falls back
upon the pillows.)

(MRS. THORNE moves quickly over, and supports the child.)

DR. THORNE. Helen, I must have an end to this nonsense! Nothing ails
Laddie. He is only a trifle feverish, with a little toothache--possibly
there’s a slight cold. The child should be out of the nursery. He will
sleep better for the change. Let him stay awhile--and don’t make a fool
of yourself over him. It really is very unpleasant to me that you make
such a fuss every time he is ailing. If you had married a green grocer,
it might have been pardonable. Pray remember that you have married a
physician who understands his business, and do leave me to manage it....
There! (Consults his watch.) I’m eight minutes behindhand already, all
for this senseless anxiety of yours. It’s a pity you can’t trust me,
like other men’s wives. I wish I had married a woman with a little
wifely spirit ... or else not married at all.

[Exit DR. THORNE. (He does not bid
his wife good-by. At the threshold of
the door he seems to hesitate, makes
as if he would turn back, but goes out.)

MRS. THORNE. Oh-h-h me! (Utters one long, low cry; she does not speak
any words. She releases her hold of LADDIE, who drops back sleepily
upon the sofa pillow. She seems to forget the child. She stands still,
in the middle of the library, with her face towards the window; her
hands are crossed before her, and clenched tightly together. A solemn
expression grows upon her face. Her tears dry upon her cheeks. Her eyes
widen and darken. Her mouth quivers pitifully. Still she does not speak.
She moves slowly to the window, and draws the curtains back. She stands
there looking out; she shades her eyes with her hand. The hand
trembles.)

THE CHILD (cries). Mamma! Mamma!

MRS. THORNE (does not respond to the child. She moans).
Esmerald!--Es--mer--ald!



END OF SCENE I.


SCENE II.

A dwelling street in the city, seen in an almost deserted
condition. The time is early evening. The wreck
of a buggy lies crushed against a curbstone; the traces
are broken, the horse having released herself and disappeared.
The wreck lies in shadow, and the prostrate
form of a man is but dimly discerned. After a
few moments of suspense and silence, slowly crawling
to his feet,

Arises DR. THORNE. (He is dressed
for driving, as when he left home; his overcoat
disarranged, muddy, and torn; his hat
gone; his face has a singular pallor, and
his whole appearance is agitated. As he
rises, he throws a carriage robe back over
the spot where he had been lying. He
speaks.)

DR. THORNE. That dastardly brute has
done it, now! I’ll sell Donna for this.--It
will play the mischief with that old
injury. I shall exchange an interesting
limp for crutches, now.--Hil-loa! (Walks
to and fro with perfect ease.) The shock
has acted like a battery on the nerve centres.
Instead of a broken neck I have a cured leg.
I’m a lucky fellow--as usual. (Laughs
lightly; turns to examine the condition of
the ruined buggy; suddenly looks confused,
and puts his hand to his head.) Curious
cerebral symptoms I have! Queer, there isn’t
a crowd round. They must have missed the
trail when Donna bolted. She’ll be at the
stable by this time.--She won’t go home.
Helen won’t know.... I shouldn’t like to
be the man that had to tell Helen!... I
must get to her--I must get home as soon
as I’ve been to the Hospital. I’m afraid I
was a little short with Helen. I wish-- (Presses
both hands to his temples as if to
command himself; looks more and more
bewildered.) I must have been pretty well
stunned--seems to me there was a collision.
I ran down somebody. It was a landau--we
crashed--I saw it overturn--there
were people in it I knew--patients....
Who?... Who? (Stamps the pavement
peremptorily, and impatiently strikes his
own head.) Who was it?--Horrible! The
brain cells do not obey me--me! (Walks
about frenziedly.) ... Ach--ch! It is
worse to remember than to forget. I have
it now--the sweetest woman of them all--Helen’s
friend--the gentlest, the most obedient,
most trustful, the bravest patient I ever
had--Mrs. Fayth. I saw her face as the carriage
went over.... She stretched out her
hands, and said: “Doctor!” It was Mary
Fayth. (His face falls into his hands.
For a moment he sinks down on the wreck of
the buggy; but springs up.) Now that accounts
for it.--The crowd are all there. The
accident was so bad nobody has thought of
me. She is the victim. I have escaped.
Dead or alive, she is done for. She never
could recover from a shock like that. I
must go and find her. I must find Mrs.
Fayth. (Starts and hurriedly walks down
the street, peering everywhere.)

       [Exit DR. THORNE.

(In his absence no person passes the street.)
