her hat and pulled down her hair, rubbing her fingers 
against her burning head. Senator North took possession of her mind at once. The Senate was no 
longer a unit to her excited imagination ; it seemed 
to dissolve away and leave one figure standing there 
beaten and alone. 

She forgot the passionate efforts of other Senators in 
behalf of peace ; to her the fine conservative strength 
of the Senate was personified in one man. And if 
there were others as pure and unselfish in their ideals, 
his at least was the master intellect. 

She wondered if he remembered in this hour of 



 

bitter defeat that she had promised to come to this 
room and give him what she could of herself. That 
was weeks and weeks ago, and she had not repeated 
her intention, as she should have done. But he loved 
her, and was not likely to forget anything she said to 
him. Or would he care if he did remember ? Must 
not personal matters seem of small account to-night? 
Or was he too weary to care for anything but sleep ? 
Perhaps he had flung himself down on a sofa in the 
cloak-room, or in his Committee Room, and forgotten 
the national disaster while she watched. 

She had been walking rapidly up and down the 
room. Her thoughts were not yet coherent, and instinct prompted her to get the blood out of her head 
if she could. A vague sense of danger possessed her, 
but she was not capable of defining it. Suddenly she 
stopped and held her breath. She had become aware 
of a recurring footstep on the sidewalk. Her window 
abutted some thirty feet away. She craned her head 
forward, listening so intently that the blood pounded in 
her ears. She expected to hear the gate open, the 
footsteps to grow softer on the path. But they continued to pace the stone flags of the sidewalk. 

She opened her door, ran down the hall and into 
the parlor. Without an instant's hesitation she flung 
open a window and leaned out. The light from the 
street lamp fell full upon her. He could not fail to 
see her were he there. But he was not. The man 
pacing up and down before the house was the night 
watchman. 

Betty closed the window hurriedly and stumbled 
back into the dark room. The disappointment and 
reaction were intolerable. She felt the same blind rage 


 

with Circumstance which had attacked her the night 
he had kissed and left her. In such crises conventions are non-existent ; she might have been primeval 
woman for all she recalled in that hour of the teachings of the centuries. Had he been there, she would 
have called him in. He was hers, whatever stood 
between them, and she alone had the right to console 
him. 

Her mind turned suddenly to his house. He was 
there, of course ; it was absurd to imagine that his cool 
deliberation would ever forsake him. The moment 
the Senate adjourned he would have put on his hat, 
walked down to the East door, called a cab and gone 
home. And he was in his library. Why she felt so 
positive that he was there and not in bed she could 
not have told, but she saw the light in the long wing. 
She put her hands to her face suddenly, and moved to 
the door. She stumbled over a chair, and then noticed 
the intense darkness of the room. But beyond she 
saw distinctly the big red brick house of Senator North, 
with the light burning in the wing. Was she going 
to him ? She wondered vaguely, for her will seemed to 
be at the bottom of a pile of struggling thoughts and to 
have nothing to say in the matter. Surely she must. 
He was a man who stood alone and scorned sympathy 
or help, but he would be glad of hers because it was 
hers ; there was no possible doubt of that. And in 
spite of his record he must for the hour feel a bitter 
and absolute failure. 

A pebble would bring him to the window. He would 
come out, and come back here with her. She opened 
her arms suddenly. The room was so dark she almost 
could fancy him beside her. Would that he were ! 



 

She had no adequate conception of a morrow. The 
future was drab and formless. His trouble drew her 
like a magnet. She trembled at the mere thought of 
being able to make him forget. 

And he? If he came out and saw her standing 
there, he would be more than a man if he resisted the 
impulse to return with her here and take her in his 
arms. And he too must be in a state of mind in which 
to-day dwarfed and blotted out to-morrow. 

For the moment she stood motionless, almost breathless, realizing so vividly the procession of bitter and 
apprehensive thoughts in the mind which for so long 
had possessed and controlled hers that she forgot 
her intention, even her desire to go to him. It was 
this moment of insight and abstraction from self 
that saved her. Her own mind seemed to awake 
suddenly. 

It was as if her thinking faculty had descended to 
her heart during the last hours and been made dizzy 
and dull by the wild hot whirl of emotions there. It 
climbed suddenly to where it belonged, and set the 
rested machinery of her brain to work. 

Doubtless his impulse had been to come to her, to 
the room where he knew she was alone and would 
receive him if he demanded admittance. He had put 
the temptation aside, as he had put aside many others ; 
and it had been in her mind, was in her mind still, to 
make the temptation irresistible. And if he felt a 
failure to-night, she had it in her power to wreck his 
life utterly. 

It was more than possible that in the remaining years 
of his vigor dwelt his tardy opportunities for historical 
fame. The great Republic had sailed out of her 



 



summer sea into foreign waters, stormy, unfriendly, 
bristling with unimaginable dangers. Once more she 
would need great statesmen, not merely able legislators, 
and there could be no doubt in the mind of any 
student of the Senate that she would discover them 
swiftly. North was the greatest of these; and the 
record of his future, brilliant, glorious perhaps, seemed 
to unroll itself suddenly in the dark room. 

Betty drew a long hard breath. Her cheeks were 
cool at last, and she wondered if her heart were dead, 
it felt so cold. What mad impulse nearly had driven 
her to him to-night, independently of her will ; which 
had slept, worn out, like other faculties, by a day of 
hunger, excitement, fatigue, and physical pain? The 
impulse had risen unhindered and uncriticised from 
her heart, and if it had risen once it could rise again. 
The days to come would be full of excitement. She 
fancied that she already heard the roar of cannon, the 
beating of drums, the sobs of women. And below the 
racket and its sad accompaniment was always the low 
indignant mutter of a triumphant people at those who 
had dared to set themselves above the popular clamor 
and ask for sanity. The intolerable longing that had 
become her constant companion would be fed by every 
device of unpropitious Circumstance. Again and again 
she would experience this impulse to go to him, and 
some night the blood would not recede from her brain 
in time. 

She groped her way out of the dark parlor and 
down the hall, grateful for an excuse to walk slowly. 
Her boudoir was brilliant, and the struggle of the 
last few moments seemed the more terrible and significant by contrast with the dainty luxurious room. 



 



She wondered if she ever should dare to enter the parlor 
