turned away and soon forgot her when the bald waiter returned with an
omelet, bread and butter, radishes and a flask of white wine.
Such an omelet! such wine! such butter! and the breeze from the west
blowing sweet as perfume from a nectarine, and the green trees waving
and whispering, and the blessed yellow sunshine over all----
"Pardon, monsieur."
I turned. It was my pretty little Parisienne of the steamboat, seated at
the next small table, demurely chipping an egg.
"I beg your pardon," said I, hastily, for the leg of my chair was
pinning her gown to the ground.
"It is nothing," she said brightly, with a mischievous glance under her
eyes.
"My child," said I, "it was very stupid of me, and I am certainly old
enough to know better."
"Doubtless, monsieur; and yet you do not appear to be very, very old."
"I am very aged," said I--"almost forty-five." And I smiled a
retrospective smile, watching the bubbles breaking in my wine-glass.
Memory began to work, deftly, among the debris of past years. I saw
myself a student of eighteen, gayly promenading Paris with my tutor,
living a monotonous colourless life in a city of which I knew nothing
and saw nothing save through the windows of my English pension or in the
featureless streets of the American quarter, under escort of my tutor
and my asthmatic aunt, Miss Janet Van Twiller.
That year spent in Paris, to "acquire the language" in a house where
nothing but English was spoken, had still a vague, tender charm for me,
because in that year I was young. I grew older when I shook the tutor,
side-stepped my aunt, and moved across the river.
Once, only once, had the placid serenity of that year been broken. It
was one day--a day like this in spring--when, for some reason, even now
utterly unknown to me, I deliberately walked out of the house alone in
defiance of my tutor and my aunt, and wandered all day long through
unknown squares and parks and streets intoxicated with my own freedom.
And I remember, that day--which was the twin of this--sitting on the
terrace of a tiny café in the Latin Quarter, I drifted into idle
conversation with a demure little maid who was sipping a red syrup out
of a tall thin glass.
Twenty-seven years ago! And here I was again, in the scented spring
sunshine, with the same west wind whispering of youth and freedom, and
my heart not a day older.
"My child," said I to the little maid, "twenty-seven years ago you drank
pink strawberry syrup in a tall iced glass."
"I do not understand you, monsieur," she faltered.
"You cannot, mademoiselle. I am drinking to the memory of my dead
youth."
And I touched my lips to the glass.
"I wonder," she said, under her breath, "what I am to do with the rest
of the day?"
"I could have told you," said I--"twenty-seven years ago."
"Perhaps you could tell me better now?" she said, innocently.
I looked out into the east where the gold dome of the Tomb rose
glimmering through a pale-blue haze. "Under that dome lies an Emperor in
his crypt of porphyry," said I. "Deeper than his dust, bedded in its
stiff shroud of gold, lies my dead youth, sleeping forever in the heart
of this fair young world of spring."
I touched my glass idly, then lifted it.
"Yet," said I, "the pale sunshine of winter lies not unkindly on snow
and ice, sometimes. I drink to your youth and beauty, my child."
"Is that all?" she asked, wonder-eyed.
I thought a moment: "No, not all. Williams isn't the only autocratic
interpreter of Fate, Chance, and Destiny."
"Williams!" she repeated, perplexed.
"You don't know him. He writes stories for a living. But he'll never
write the story I might very easily tell you in the sunshine here."
After a pause she said: "Are you going to?"
"I think I will," I said. And my eyes fixed smiling upon the sunny
horizon, I began:
       
Now, part of this story is to be vague as a mirrored face at dusk; and
part is to be as precise as the reflection of green trees in the glass
of the stream; and all is to be as capricious as the flight of that
wonderful butterfly of the South which is called Ajax by the reverent,
and The White Devil by the profane. Incidentally, it is the story of
Jones and the Dryad.
The profession of Jones was derided by the world at large. He collected
butterflies; and it may be imagined what the American public thought of
him when they did not think he was demented. But a large,
over-nourished and blasé millionaire, wearied of collecting pigeon-blood
rubies, first editions and Rembrandts, through sheer ennui one day
commissioned Jones to gather for him the most magnificent and complete
collection of American butterflies that could possibly be secured--not
only single perfect specimens of the two sexes in each species, but
series on series of every kind, showing local varieties, seasonal
variations in size and colour, strange examples of albinism and
polymorphic phenomena--in fact, this large, benevolent and intellectual
capitalist wanted something which nobody else had, so he selected Jones
and damned the expense. Nobody else had Jones: that pleased him; Jones
was to secure specimens that nobody else had: and that would be doubly
gratifying. Therefore he provided Jones with a five-year contract, an
agreeable salary, turned him loose on a suspicious nation, and went back
to hunt up safe investments for an income the size of which had begun to
annoy him.
       
"This part of the story is clear enough, is it not, my child?"
"Are you Jones?"
"Don't ask questions," I said, seriously.
"The few delirious capers cut by Jones subsequent to the signing of the
contract consisted of a debauch at the Astor Library, a mad evening
with seven aged gentlemen at the Entomological Society, and the purchase
of a ticket to Florida. This last spasm was his undoing; he went for
butterflies, and the first thing he did was to trip over the maliciously
extended foot of Fate and fall plump into the open arms of Destiny. And
in a week he was playing golf. This part is sufficiently vague, I hope.
Is it?"
She said it was; so I continued:
       
The Dryad, with her sleeves rolled up above her pretty elbows, was
preparing to assault a golf ball; Jones regarded the proceedings with
that inscrutable expression which, no doubt, is bestowed upon certain
creatures as a weapon for self-protection.
"Don't talk to me while I'm driving," said the Dryad.
"No," said Jones.
"Don't even say 'no'!" insisted the Dryad.
A sharp thwack shattered the silence; the golf ball sailed away toward
the fifth green, landing in a gully. "Oh, bother!" exclaimed the Dryad,
petulantly, as the small black caddie pattered forward, irons rattling
in his quiver. "Now, Mr. Jones, it is up to you"--doubtless a
classically mythological form of admonition common to Dryads but now
obsolete.
The Dryad, receiving no reply, looked around and beheld Jones, net
poised, advancing on tiptoe across the green.
"What is it--a snake?" inquired the Dryad in an unsteady voice.
"It is The White Devil!" whispered Jones.
The Dryad's skirts were short enough as it was, but she hastily picked
them up. She had a right to. "Does it bite?" she whispered, looking
carefully around in the grass. But all she could see was a strangely
beautiful butterfly settled on a blue wild blossom which swayed gently
in the wind on the edge of the jungle. So she dropped her skirts. She
had a right to.
Now, within a few moments of the hour when Jones had first laid eyes on
her, and she on Jones, he had confided to her his family history, his
ambitions, his ethical convictions, and his theories concerning the four
known forms of the exquisite Ajax butterfly of Florida. She had been
young enough to listen without yawning--which places her age somewhere
close to eighteen. Besides, she had remembered almost everything that
Jones had said, which confirms a diagnosis of her disease. There could
be no doubt about it; the Dryad was afflicted with extreme Youth, for
she now recognized the butterfly from the eulogy of Jones, and her
innocent heart began a steady tattoo upon her ribs as Jones, on tiptoe,
crept nearer and nearer, net outstretched.
The moment was solemn; breathless, hatless, bare-armed, the Dryad
advanced, skirts spread as though to shoo chickens.
"Don't," whispered Jones.
But the damage had been accomplished; Ajax jerked his pearl and ashen
banded wings, shot with the fiery crimson bar, flashed into the air, and
was gone like the last glimmer of a fading sun-spot.
"Oh, dear! Oh, dear!" cried the Dryad, clasping her highly ornamental
hands; "what on earth will you think of my stupidity?"
"Nothing," said Jones, resolutely, swallowing hard and gazing at the
tangled jungle.
"It was too stupid," insisted the Dryad; and, as the silence of Jones
assented, she added, "but it is not very nice of you to say so."
"Why, I didn't," cried Jones.
"You did," said the Dryad, tears of vexation in her blue eyes. "And to
pay for your discourtesy you shall make me a silk net and I shall give
up golf and spend my entire time in hunting for White Devils, to make
amends."
The suggested penance appeared to attract Jones.
"Give up golf--which I am perfectly mad about," repeated the Dryad,
"just because you were horrid when I tried to help you."
"That will be delightful," said Jones, naïvely. "We will hunt Ajax
together--all day, every day----"
"Oh, I shall catch--something--the first time I try," observed the
Dryad, airily. She teed up a practice ball, hit it a vicious whack,
followed its flight with narrowing blue eyes, and, turning placidly upon
Jones, smiled a dangerous smile.
"If I don't catch an Ajax before you do I'll forfeit anything you
please," she said.
"I'll take it," said Jones.
"But," cried the Dryad, "what do you offer against it?"
"Whatever I ask from you," he said, deliberately.
"You are somewhat vague, Mr. Jones."
"I won't be when I win."
"Tell me what you want--if you win!"
"What? With this caddie hanging around and listening?" The Dryad,
wide-eyed and flushed, regarded him in amazement.
Jones picked up a pinch of wet sand from the box, moulded it with great
care into a tiny truncated cone, set it on the tee, set his ball on top
of it, whipped the air persuasively with his driver once or twice, and,
settling himself into the attitude popularly attributed to the Colossus
of Rhodes, hit the ball for the longest, cleanest drive he had ever
