the stables and see Dixon for a moment," and he turned away. But Louis
caught his arm and kept step with him.
"Well, what is it?" he asked rather impatiently. "Money again? You
young people think the well is exhaustless."
"No, it isn't money." His tone was a little husky. "Jerry is lame. I
rode him rather hard one day----"
The squire smothered an oath. He had promised his young wife he would
not swear at everything. It was a bad habit, a bad example to his
boys.
"How did that come about? I told you Jerry was not to be taken on
tramps. You young fellows have no sense."
"I was over to Kenyon's one day. They bet her against Kenyon's mare. I
tried to get out of it----"
"And you were beaten! Served you right! My poor Jerry!" with a touch of
desperate anger in the tone.
"No, I won!" There was a ring of elation in the young voice. "He came
in five seconds ahead. There was a great time, you may be sure, and
Kenyon was for trying it again. He thinks nothing can beat the mare. I
think Jerry trod on something. His foot and leg have been swollen. Cato
has him almost well, though."
"I meant to keep shady and enter him next year. I do believe if you
hadn't beat I should just take it out of your hide," and the squire
laughed. "Now it will go abroad that I have a crack horse. Well--and
what did Cato say?"
"He was lame the next morning, but Cato thought it wouldn't be much,
and when he grew worse Cato worked over him faithfully. He is sure he
will be all right."
"You are beginning early, young man. Next time you let my especial
horse alone. Well, I'm glad it's no worse. But I won't have you turning
out a horse jockey."
They had reached the stables, where two or three old men and half a
dozen negro boys were making a pretense of being busy, but they rushed
to welcome the squire. Cato and Jerry were both interviewed, and when
the master emerged with a pleasant face and scattered a handful of
coppers for the small fry to chase about, Louis felt quite relieved,
for, truth to tell, he had had several rather wretched days about his
father's favorite.
The squire ordered up the carriage, and Julius came down with missy's
commands.
Annis had followed her mother up the broad staircase to the large,
light room where a slim young colored girl was putting away various
articles in drawers and closets. The small wardrobe had been increased
during the brief time spent in Baltimore, but was not very extensive
yet.
When Randolph Mason had gone to Baltimore to settle the estate of
one of his wife's cousins, as he had been named executor, he found
Patricia Bouvier mentioned among the heirs. He recalled the pretty,
attractive girl his wife had taken such an interest in, who had married
an enthusiastic young French Huguenot, and some time after joined a
colony of emigrants to the "New Countries," as the Middle West was then
called.
"She was left a widow some years ago," said one of the relatives. "She
did write about coming back, but it is a long journey for a woman and
a little child. Latterly we have not heard. I dare say she is married
again."
There was a company going out to settle some boundary question and make
surveys, and on the spur of the moment the squire's adventurous blood
was roused and he joined them. They had magnificent summer weather,
and his enjoyment was intense. He found the little settlement and Mrs.
Bouvier, who had known varying fortunes since her husband's death. She
had been kindly cared for, and more than one man would gladly have
married her, but her heart yearned for her own people. To take the
journey alone seemed too venturesome, and she well knew the perils
of frontier travel. So she had waited with a longing soul for some
deliverance. She would go back gladly.
There was no difficulty in disposing of her claim in the settlement.
She bade good-by to the grave it had been a sad, sweet pleasure to
tend, and with her little girl and her delightful guide and convoy set
out on the journey.
Before they reached Baltimore a new tie had sprung up between them.
True, Squire Mason had thought occasionally during the last year
of marrying again. His sister Catharine had said to him before her
departure:
"The best thing you can do, Randolph, is to marry soon. The girls will
need someone to supervise them and see that they make proper marriages.
Mrs. Keen would be admirable, as she has no children. And there are the
Stormont girls; any of them would be suitable, since even Anne is not
young. I wish I had taken this in hand before."
"I wish you were not going away, Catharine. My girls ought to be nearer
to you than Mr. Conway's," he said ruefully.
"I will still do what I can for them. There is excellent society at
Williamsburg, and I can give them pleasant visits. But I never saw a
man more in need of a wife than Mr. Conway. It's a good thing clergymen
wear a surplice, for I am sure he never could tell whether he was
decent or not. Surely it is a plain duty."
"And you leave me in the lurch?"
"But, you see, a clergyman needs a person well fitted for the position,
which, I must say, every woman is not," with an air of complacency.
"And you think anyone will do for me!"
"How foolish you are, brother! I think no such thing. You certainly
have sense enough to make a wise choice."
But he had not chosen, and now he thought he should like this sweet,
sorrowful, tender Patricia. How bright he could make her life!
He was so strong, so sincere and cheerful. He made friends with
shy Annis, who sat on his knee and was intensely interested in his
girls--he always called them little. And before they reached Baltimore
he had asked Patricia to marry him, and Annis had consented to be
his little girl. Mrs. Bouvier's small patrimony was to be settled
on the child. But, then, she could not have imagined Mr. Mason being
mercenary.
Word had been sent to the household of the marriage. They had not
thought of objecting. In the great drawing room there was a portrait of
their mother in a white satin gown, with pearls about her neck. It had
been painted during a visit to London. They all went and looked at it,
and wondered if the cousin Patricia would be anything like that!
"I don't believe she is as beautiful," declared Jaqueline.
There had been several delays on the latter part of the journey, and
it was evening when the travelers reached home. The welcome had been
a hearty one, and when supper was over Annis was nodding. It was past
Varina's bedtime. Charles had already stolen off.
"Take the children to bed, Phillis," said the master. "They're to be
sisters, so they may as well begin by sharing the same room. You won't
feel lonesome, little Annis?"
"I'll go with her," said the mother in her soft voice.
"Nay." Randolph Mason put his hand on his wife's arm and kept her a
prisoner. "Phillie is the best of mammies. And you belong in part to
me. You have had a hard time, and now there is someone to wait upon you
and ease you up. Good-night, little ones."
He kissed both children. Annis wanted to cling to her mother, for even
through these three days of her married life her mother had heard her
little prayer and put her to bed, so she had not felt really separated.
But when Philly took her hand it came with a sudden wrench. She dared
not cry out in the face of them all. But, oh, was her own dear mother
not hers any more? Did she truly belong to father Mason? And all these
large children? Had she given herself away when father Mason had put a
ring on her finger and called her his wife?
She was out in the hall--being led upstairs, and Phillis' hand was as
soft as a crumpled rose leaf. Her voice was soft and sweet too. There
were two small white-covered beds, and when they were undressed and
within them Phillis crooned a low melody, and the little girl, being
very tired and sleepy, forgot her sorrows.
Then in the morning Phillis came and dressed them both and curled
Annis' soft, light hair. Jaqueline seized on her the moment she entered
the breakfast room.
"I hardly had a look at you last night," she began. "I do hope you
won't feel strange and that you will like us all. And there are ever so
many other relations. Did you never have any brothers or sisters?"
"No," answered Annis, with a kind of wistful regret, raising her eyes
shyly.
"We have another lot out at the Pineries. It's queer, but we don't call
them uncles and aunts, except Aunt Jane, because she is married and the
oldest. And we always dispute--it's very funny and queer. Grandfather
is a Federal--well, a sort of Tory, too--and father's a Republican.
People who live in a republic ought to be Republicans. That's what we
fought for."
Annis stared. "Out home--there," indicating the West with her head,
"they fought the Indians."
"Well--it is all about the same thing, only there are not many Indians
around here. And we don't fight each other."
"I don't know about that!" and the young man who was toying with the
ears of an English hound laughed.
Then had come the puzzling question, and Annis Bouvier wondered what
side she must take and was sadly mystified.
CHAPTER II.
THE PINERIES.
Annis ran and threw her arms around her mother's neck and kissed her
fervently.
"Are you glad to come here and do you like them all?" she asked when
she found her breath. "And it is so queer, with all the black people
and the great house and--and everything!"
"It is a little strange. You will like it better by and by," glancing
tenderly down in her child's eyes.
"And you--must you be mother to all the children? Am I never to have
you any more?"
"You have me now. Yes, you will always have me. Don't you remember you
used to wish for a sister like Sallie Reed? Her mother loved all the
children."
"But she had them when they were cunning little babies," was the
decisive reply.
"Dear,"--her mother knelt down and put her arms around the child,--"it
is this way. We have come to this lovely home which is to be ours, and
all the pleasant things a good friend can give--a kindly, generous
friend. I used to feel anxious and worried about your future. There
was no good school. The life was very narrow. And if I had been taken
away----"
"But they never would let the Indians take you. Oh, mother dear!" with
a fervent embrace. She had not meant that, but she would not give the
other explanation.
"And all these children are going to share their father's love with
you. He will give you this beautiful home, clothe you, educate you, and
