that I owe it to his memory to collect it to the uttermost farthing.”
Bradley Wentworth shrugged his shoulders.
“You are about the most foolish boy I ever met,” he said. “You are
almost a pauper, yet you refuse a thousand dollars.”
“I shall never be a pauper while I have my health and strength, Mr.
Wentworth.”
“You must think me a fool to surrender so large a sum as twenty
thousand dollars on the demand of a half-grown boy like yourself!”
“No, Mr. Wentworth. I was only trying to find out whether you were a
man of integrity!”
“Do you dare to impugn my integrity?” demanded the manufacturer angrily.
“A man of integrity keeps his engagements,” said Gerald briefly.
Bradley Wentworth regarded Gerald with a fixed and thoughtful glance.
He had expected to twine the boy round his finger, but found that he
was more resolute than he expected. He exhibited a force of character
which his father had never possessed.
Wentworth was not a patient man, and the boy’s perverseness, as
he called it, provoked him, and brought out his sterner and more
disagreeable qualities.
“Boy,” he said harshly, “I have a piece of advice to give you.”
“What is it, sir?”
“Don’t make me your enemy! I came here intending to be your friend, and
you decline my advances.”
“No, sir,” answered Gerald firmly. “I don’t consider that you act a
friendly part when you decline to carry out a solemn compact made with
my father.”
“It is a delusion of his and yours,” returned Wentworth, “I can only
look upon your attitude as that of a blackmailer.”
“No one has more contempt for a blackmailer than I,” said Gerald. “I
am old enough to understand the meaning of the term. If a man owed you
money, and you presented your claim, would you consider it blackmail?”
“Certainly not.”
“Then I need not defend myself from your charge.”
“You and I take different views on this question, but it is of some
importance to you not to offend me.”
“Why?” asked Gerald, looking straight into the eyes of his companion.
“Because I am rich and powerful.”
“And I am weak and poor?”
“Precisely.”
“What use do you propose to make of your power, Mr. Wentworth?”
“To crush you!” hissed the manufacturer.
“Listen, boy, I am capable of being a good friend——”
“As you were to my father,” suggested Gerald significantly.
“As I was to your father, only he did not appreciate it.”
“I don’t care to have such a friend.”
“But I have something to add. I can be a bitter enemy when I am badly
treated.”
“I suppose that is meant as a threat, Mr. Wentworth,” said Gerald
calmly.
“You can take it so.”
“Then I have my answer ready. I care neither for your friendship nor
your enmity. I shall do what I consider right, and if my own conscience
approves I shall seek no other approval.”
“You are very independent for a young boy, especially one in your
circumstances,” sneered Wentworth.
“You may be right. I am independent, and I intend to remain so.”
“Wait till you get older, and have been buffeted by the world. You will
understand then that you have made a serious mistake in repelling my
offer of help.”
“Have you anything more to say to me, Mr. Wentworth?”
“No, unless to add that I generally get even with those who oppose me.
Indeed, I have a great mind to chastise you here and now.”
Gerald rose from his seat and confronted the angry man, but without
betraying any trace of excitement or fear.
“You are probably more than a match for me physically, Mr. Wentworth,”
he said, “but if you undertake anything of that kind you will meet with
a determined resistance.”
And as Wentworth looked into the boy’s resolute face he quite
understood that he spoke only the truth.
“No,” he said, after a brief pause, “I will bide my time. You may
repent of your folly and decide to come to terms with me. If you
don’t——”
He did not finish the sentence, for a man on horseback came galloping
up to the cabin. He checked his horse, and said inquiringly, “Is this
Mr. Bradley Wentworth?”
“I am he,” answered Wentworth, rising.
“Then here is a telegram for you. It came to Denver, and I have ridden
seventy miles to bring it to you.”
Wentworth tore open the message. It contained these words:
“Come home at once. The men are on strike. I can do nothing without
your authority.
  “MORGAN.”
“This is from my foreman. I am summoned home,” said Wentworth, looking
up. “How soon can I leave here?”
“At once. I engaged a wagon that will be here in fifteen minutes.”
In fifteen minutes Bradley Wentworth set out on his return. His mind
was so much occupied with the serious news from home that he left
without a word to Gerald, who stood watching the conveyance till it
disappeared behind a bend in the cliff.
“Now I am indeed alone!” he reflected, as his eyes rested sadly on the
poor cabin which he and his father had occupied for three years. “I am
alone in the world, with no friend, but with one powerful enemy.”
CHAPTER X.
AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR.
GERALD had often thought vaguely of the time when he would be left
alone. Between him and his father there had been an intimacy and mutual
dependence greater than usually exists between father and son. Now that
his father had passed away, a sudden feeling of desolation chilled the
boy’s spirits, and he asked himself what life had in store for him of
hope and happiness. But youth is buoyant, and Gerald was but sixteen.
He felt that he had something to live for. He would redeem his father’s
reputation, and instead of giving way to his feelings would fight
manfully the great battle of life.
But how? To what should he turn? He began to consider his resources.
First and most available was money. He emptied his pockets, and took
account of his worldly wealth. It amounted to one dollar and sixty-five
cents, all told.
“That isn’t much,” thought Gerald. “I shall have to go to work without
delay.”
He prepared supper as usual, but had small heart to sit down to it
alone. Little as he liked Bradley Wentworth he would have been glad to
have his company till he could endure the thought of solitude. But he
was not destined to eat by himself. Going to the door of the cabin just
as his simple preparations were made, he caught sight of an approaching
figure. It was that of a stranger, a strong, robust man of little more
than thirty, with a florid face and dressed like an English tourist.
“Hallo, there!” called out the stranger, as he caught sight of Gerald.
“Hallo!” responded Gerald.
“Is there any hotel round here?”
“Not that I know of, sir.”
“As I feared. I’ve been wandering round this confounded country till
I’ve got lost. It’s a beastly wilderness, that’s what it is.”
Gerald smiled. His experience of men was limited, and he had never met
a British tourist before.
“May I sit down awhile?” went on the newcomer.
There was a long seat built against the cabin, with the wall of the
latter for a back.
“Certainly, sir. I shall be glad of company.”
“Do you live here?”
“Yes, sir. I have lived here for three years.”
“I should think you’d commit suicide, I should, upon my word. Does no
one live with you?”
“Not now,” answered Gerald gravely. “My father died two days since.”
“Oh, I beg your pardon, I do indeed,” said the Englishman in a tone of
sympathy. “It wasn’t an accident, was it?”
“No, he had long been sick of consumption. I was feeling very lonely,
for he was only buried to-day.”
“I hope I don’t intrude. I wouldn’t do that on any account.”
“No; on the contrary I am glad to have company. I was about to sit down
to supper. If agreeable I shall be pleased to have you join me.”
“Supper!” repeated the tourist with sudden animation. “It is the one
thing I have been longing for. I haven’t eaten a particle of food since
morning, and didn’t know where to find any, though my pocket is full of
money.”
“I can’t offer you anything very inviting,” said Gerald, as he led the
way into the cabin. “I have some fish and potatoes, bread and coffee,
but I have neither milk nor butter.”
“Don’t apologize, my young friend,” interposed the Englishman. “It is
a feast fit for the gods. I have an appetite that will make anything
palatable. But where do you get your bread? There can’t be any bakers’
shops in this wilderness.”
“There are not. I make my own bread.”
“You don’t say so! And upon my word it is delicious.”
“It is fortunate that you are hungry,” said Gerald with a smile.
“No, ’pon honor, it isn’t that. It is really better than I often eat at
hotels. You really have talent as a cook.”
“I don’t think so. I don’t care for cooking, but have taken it up from
necessity.”
The tourist hadn’t exaggerated his appetite. He ate so heartily that
when the meal was concluded there wasn’t a crumb left. All the dishes
were empty.
“I ought to apologize for my appetite,” he said, “but I have been
rambling about ever since breakfast, and I find the air here very
stimulating.”
“Don’t think of apologizing!” returned Gerald. “I am glad you relished
my simple supper.”
“Now, if I were only sure of a bed, I should feel quite easy in mind.”
“I will gladly offer you a bed. This is the first night that I should
have been alone, and the solitude depressed me.”
“I will accept your kind offer thankfully. But you ought to know whom
you are obliging.”
The stranger drew from his pocket a card on which Gerald read the name:
  THE HON. NOEL BROOKE.
“I should be glad to give you my card, Mr. Brooke,” said Gerald, “but
here in this wilderness cards are not customary. My name is Gerald
Lane.”
“I am delighted to know you, Mr. Lane,” said the tourist offering his
hand cordially.
It seemed odd to Gerald to be called “Mr. Lane.”
“If you don’t mind, Mr. Brooke,” he said, “please call me Gerald. I
