It occurred to Avery that it would be impossible to eat.  He sat with
his eyes fixed on the housetops of the West End.  In the early air and
color this decorous section had a misty and gracious effect, half
mysterious, wholly uncharacteristic of that architectural commonplace.
There was the tower of the Church of the Happy Saints.  And three
blocks beyond--Molly would be just about bringing up the tray, and
setting it on the invalid table beside the blue lounge.
"Somebody 's driving up back of the club," observed Tom Romer.  "It's a
buggy--looks a little like Thorne's, does n't it?  Has those top wings.
It's stopped at the river-wall."  He handed the marine glass to his
guest.
"All those doctors' buggies are alike," replied Avery.  "I can't see
very well," he added.  In fact, the glass shook in his hand.
The yacht slipped through the draw comfortably, and headed to the
harbor.  The club, the river-wall, the buggy, vanished from the glass.
The two gentlemen went below to breakfast.  When they came on deck
again, the Dream was easily clearing the harbor and making out to sea.
The wind was fair, and the yacht fled under full canvas.
"She walks right along!" cried Romer.  He was exhilarated by the speed
of his boat, which was, in fact, a racer, and built in all her lines to
get over a triangular course in the least possible time.  He talked
about her safe points to the landsman (who responded with the
satisfaction of ignorance), but the final end of the Dream's being was
speed, unqualified by inferior considerations.  To this American idol,
boats, like men, are sacrificed as matters of course.  One scarcely
makes conversation on so obvious a topic.
To tell the truth, Avery was not especially fond of yachting, and the
careening of the Dream under the pleasant westerly did not arouse in
him that enthusiasm which, somehow, he had expected to experience on
this trip.  When the water ran over the rail, he changed his seat to
windward.  When it rushed over, he held on to something.  Tom Romer
chaffed him amiably.
"Why, this is only a fair sailing day!" he cried.  "Wait till it
breezes up."
"Oh, I shall enjoy it if it comes," replied the lawyer.  In fact, he
was enjoying nothing.  His thoughts surged like the water through which
the yacht was driving.  Their depth was enveloped and disguised in
foam.  When Romer said proudly, "She's making twelve knots!" his guest
reflected, "I 'm so much farther away from her."
The same personal pronoun answered for the sportsman and the husband.
Before the Dream was off Plymouth, the little cruise had assumed the
proportions of an Atlantic voyage to the landsman's imagination.
By noon he remembered that in his hurry to get off he had made no
definite provision with Jean about telegrams from, but only for
messages to her.  All that was arranged in the note, but he had torn up
the note.  With that leisurely appreciation of unpleasant facts which
is so natural to the sanguine, and so incomprehensible by the anxious
temperament, it occurred to him in the course of the afternoon that his
wife had seemed much less well than usual when he bade her good-by; in
fact, that he had never seen her look precisely as she did that
morning.  He began to acknowledge distinctly to himself that he wished
he knew how she was.
He grew definitely uneasy as the early autumn twilight dulled the color
of the water and the horizon of the distant shore.  They were well on
the Shoals now, for the breeze was stiff, and the yacht ran at a
spanking pace.  The wind was not going down with the sun, but rose
strongly.  The landsman began to be a little seasick, which somehow
added to his moral discomfort.
"How can I get a telegram off?" he asked abruptly, much in the tone in
which he would have called for a district messenger in the court-house.
"Oh, I might tap a cable for you, I suppose," returned his host, with
twitching mustache.  "Look here," added Romer.  "What is it--mal de
mer? or nostalgia?  Do you want to be put ashore?"
"Not at all," replied Avery, with the pugnacity which men are
accustomed to mistake for high ethical obligations to their own sex.
"I only want to get a message to my wife.  You see, I promised her."
"We 'll run into Wood's Hole in the morning, by all means," said Romer
cordially.  "It's a great place for ducks, anyhow, off there."
"Oh--ducks?" repeated Avery stupidly.  He had forgotten that they came
to kill ducks.
"We 're goin' to have a breeze o' wind," observed one of the crew, who
was lowering the jib-topsail.
"I'd like to take the dispatch myself, when we get there, if I may,"
the seasick lawyer hazarded, somewhat timidly.  But next morning, when
the Dream dropped anchor off Wood's Hole, and the tender was lowered,
he was flat in his berth.  He could not take the dispatch, and a detail
of two from the crew bounced off with it, pounding over the choppy sea.
The frail and fashionable tender looked like one of the little Florida
shells that are sold by the quart; there was now a considerable sea;
the yacht herself was pretty wet.  Romer was in excellent spirits.
"We might get a duck or two before breakfast, if it isn't too rough,"
he suggested.  "Sorry you 're laid up."
"Oh--ducks?" repeated Avery again.  He wished he could have a chance
to forget that he had left his wife too ill to lift her head, and had
come wallowing out here to kill ducks.
"I can't remember that a duck ever did me any harm," he said savagely,
aloud.
He heard the occasional report of guns over his head with a sense of
personal injury.  Nobody hit any ducks, and he was glad of it.  The
Dream cruised about, he did not know where.  He had ceased to feel any
interest in her movements.  He did not even ask where they had anchored
for the night.  The wind rose steadily throughout the day.  As the
force of the blow increased, his physical miseries ascended and his
moral consciousness declined.  His anxiety for his wife blurred away in
a befuddled sense of his own condition.
"I don't believe she's any worse off than I am," he thought.  This
reflection gave him some comfort.  He slept again that night the
shattered sleep of the seasick and unhappy, and woke with a cry.
A port-hole of gray dawn darkened by green waters was in the stateroom,
which seemed to be standing on its experienced and seaworthy head.  The
yacht was keeling and pitching weakly.  Tom Romer stood beside the
berth, looking at his guest; he did not smile.  It was an uncommon
thing to see Tom Romer without a smile.  The yachtsman wore oilskins
and a sou'wester, and dripped with salt water like a Grand Banker.
"God!  Romer, what's the matter?"  Avery got to his feet at once.  He
forgot that he was seasick.  His bodily distresses fled before the
swift, strong lash of fright.
"The fact is," replied Romer slowly, "we 've struck a confounded
gale--a November gale," he added.  "It's turned easterly.  She 's
been dragging her anchor since two.  Now"--
"Now what?" demanded Avery sharply.  He staggered into his clothes
without waiting for an answer.
"Well--we 've snapped our road."
"Road?"  The landsman struggled to recall his limited stock of nautical
phrases.  "That's the rope you tie your anchor to?  Oh!  What are you
going to do?" he asked, with unnatural humility.  The fatal
helplessness of ignorance overwhelmed him.  If he ever lived to get
back, he would turn the tables, and conduct Romer through a complicated
lawsuit.
"Run into the Sound if I can," returned Romer.  "It won't do to get
caught on some of these shoals round here."
"Of course not," replied Avery, who did not know a shoal from a siren.
"Say, Romer, what's the amount of danger?  Out with it!"
"Oh, she's good for it," said the yachtsman lightly.  Then his voice
and manner changed.  His insouciant black eyes peered suddenly at his
guest as if from a small, keen, marine lens.
"Say,  old fellow," he said slowly, "I hope there was n't any sort of a
quarrel,--you know,--any domestic unpleasantness, before you came on
this trip?  I wish to blank I 'd left you ashore."
"Quarrel?  A demon could n't quarrel with my wife!" exploded Avery.
"That was my impression," returned his host.  "Beg pardon, Avery.  You
see--to be honest, I can't say exactly how we 're coming out of this.
There are several things which might happen.  I thought"--the sportsman
stammered, and stopped.
"If you should pull through and I should n't," said Avery, lifting a
gray face,--"I 'm not a swimmer, and you are,--tell her I 'd give my
immortal soul if I had n't left her.  Tell her--I--God!  Romer, she was
very sick!  She did n't want me to go."
"I 've always thought," said the bachelor, "that if I had a wife--a
woman like that"--  His face hardened perceptibly, dripping under his
sou'wester.  "You fellows don't know what you 've got," he added
abruptly.  He scrambled up the companionway without looking back.
Avery followed him abjectly.
At this moment the yacht groaned, grated, and keeled suddenly.  Water
poured over the rail.  The deck rang with cries.  Avery got up, and
held on to something.  It proved to be the main-sheet.  It ran through
his fingers like a saw, and escaped.  Confusedly he heard the mate
crying:--
"We 've struck, sir!  She 's stove in!"
"Well," replied the owner coolly, "get the boats over, then."
He did not look at his guest.  Avery looked at the water.  It seemed to
leap up after him, hike a beast amused with a ghastly play.  Oddly, he
recalled at that moment coming in one day--it was after she knew what
ailed her--and finding Jean with a book face down on her lap.  He
picked it up and read, "The vision of sudden death."  He had laughed
at her, and scolded her for filling her mind with such things.
"You don't quite understand, dear," she had answered.
"Come," said Romer, whose remarkable self-possession somehow increased
rather than diminished Avery's alarm, "we have n't as much time to
spare as I would like.  Hold hard there while Mr. Avery gets aboard!"
The tender was prancing like a mustang on a prairie, for there was
really a swamping sea.  The landsman was clumsy and nervous, missed his
footing, and fell.
As he went under he cried, in a piercing voice, "Tell my wife"--
When the water drove into his throat and lungs, he thought how he had
seen her fight for her breath, patiently, hours at a time.  She had
told him once that it was like drowning.
It was two days after this that a man who attracted some attention
among the passengers got off the Shore train at the old station in the
city.
Marshall Avery seemed to himself to see this man as if he saw another
person, and felt a curious interest in his appearance and movements.
The man was dressed in borrowed clothes that did not fit; his face was
haggard and heavily lined; he had no baggage, and showed some
excitement of manner, calling several hackmen at once, and berating the
one he selected for being too slow.  A kind of maniacal hurry possessed
him.
"Drive for your life!" he said.  He did not lean back in the carriage,
but sat up straight, as if he could not spare time to be comfortable.
When the hack door slammed Avery saw the man no more, but seemed to
