that there would be almost nothing I mightn't with safety mention to my
present subject of practice as an acknowledgment that I was meddlesome.
I could put no clue in her hand that her notorious acuteness would make
of the smallest use to her. The most she could do would be to make it of
use to myself, and the clue it seemed best to select was therefore a
complete confession of guilt.
"You've a lucidity of your own in which I'm forced to recognise that the
highest purity of motive looks shrivelled and black. You bring out
accordingly what has made me thus beat about the bush. Have you really
such a fund of indulgence for Gilbert Long as we most of us, I
gather--though perhaps in our blindness--seem to see it stick out again
that he supposes? May he fondly feel that he can continue to count on
it? Or, if you object to my question in that form, is it not, frankly,
to making his attitude--after all so thoroughly public--more convenient
to each of you that (without perhaps quite measuring what you're about,)
you've gone on sacrificing poor Briss? I call it sacrificing, you see,
in spite of there having been as yet no such great harm done. And if you
ask me again what business of mine such inquiries may represent, why,
the best thing will doubtless be to say to you that, with a smaller dose
of irrepressible irony in my composition than you have in yours, I can't
make so light as you of my tendency to worry on behalf of those I care
for. Let me finally hasten to add that I'm not now including in that
category either of the two gentlemen I've named."
I freely concede, as I continue my record, that to follow me at all, at
this point, gave proof on Lady John's part of a faculty that should have
prevented my thinking of her as inordinately backward. "Then who in the
world are these objects of your solicitude?"
I showed, over and above my hesitation, my regret for the need of it.
"I'm afraid I can't tell you."
At this, not unnaturally, she fairly scoffed. "Asking me everything and
telling me nothing, you nevertheless look to me to satisfy you? Do you
mean," she pursued, "that you speak for persons whose interest is more
legitimately founded than the interest you so flatteringly attribute to
myself?"
"Well, yes--let them be so described! Can't you guess," I further
risked, "who constitutes at least one of my preoccupations?"
The condescension of her consent to think marked itself handsomely
enough. "Is it your idea to pretend to me that I'm keeping Grace
Brissenden awake?" There was consistency enough in her wonder. "She has
not been anything but nice to me; she's not a person whose path one
crosses without finding it out; and I can't imagine what has got into
her if any such grievance as that is what she has been pouring out to
you in your apparently so deep confabulations."
This toss of the ball was one that, I saw quickly enough, even a taste
for sport wouldn't justify my answering, and my logical interest lay
moreover elsewhere. "Dear no! Mrs. Brissenden certainly feels her
strength, and I should never presume to take under my charge any
personal situation of hers. I had in my mind a very different identity."
Lady John, as if to be patient with me, looked about at our companions
for a hint of it, wondering which of the ladies I might have been
supposed to "care for" so much as to tolerate in her a preference for a
rival; but the effect of this survey was, I the next instant observed, a
drop of her attention from what I had been saying. Her eye had been
caught by the sight of Gilbert Long within range of us, and then had
been just visibly held by the fact that the person seated with him on
one of the small sofas that almost of necessity made conversation
intimate was the person whose name, just uttered between us, was, in
default of the name she was in search of, still in the air. Gilbert Long
and Mrs. Briss were in familiar colloquy--though I was aware, at the
first flush, of nothing in this that should have made my interlocutress
stare. That is I was aware of nothing but that I had simultaneously
myself been moved to some increase of sharpness. What could I have
known that should have caused me to wonder at the momentary existence of
this particular conjunction of minds unless it were simply the fact that
I hadn't seen it occur amid the many conjunctions I had already
noticed--plus the fact that I had a few minutes before, in the
interest of the full roundness of my theory, actually been missing it?
These two persons had met in my presence at Paddington and had travelled
together under my eyes; I had talked of Mrs. Briss with Long and of Long
with Mrs. Briss; but the vivid picture that their social union forthwith
presented stirred within me, though so strangely late in the day, it
might have seemed, for such an emotion, more than enough freshness of
impression. Yet--now that I did have it there--why should it be vivid,
why stirring, why a picture at all? Was any temporary collocation, in
a house so encouraging to sociability, out of the range of nature?
Intensely prompt, I need scarcely say, were both my freshness and my
perceived objections to it. The happiest objection, could I have taken
time to phrase it, would doubtless have been that the particular effect
of this juxtaposition--to my eyes at least--was a thing not to have been
foreseen. The parties to it looked, certainly, as I felt that I hadn't
prefigured them; though even this, for my reason, was not a description
of their aspect. Much less was it a description for the intelligence of
Lady John--to whom, however, after all, some formulation of what she
dimly saw would not be so indispensable.
We briefly watched, at any rate, together, and as our eyes met again we
moreover confessed that we had watched. And we could ostensibly have
offered each other no explanation of that impulse save that we had been
talking of those concerned as separate and that it was in consequence a
little odd to find ourselves suddenly seeing them as one. For that was
it--they were as one; as one, at all events, for my large reading.
My large reading had meanwhile, for the convenience of the rest of my
little talk with Lady John, to make itself as small as possible. I had
an odd sense, till we fell apart again, as of keeping my finger rather
stiffly fixed on a passage in a favourite author on which I had not
previously lighted. I held the book out of sight and behind me; I spoke
of things that were not at all in it--or not at all on that particular
page; but my volume, none the less, was only waiting. What might be
written there hummed already in my ears as a result of my mere glimpse.
Had they also wonderfully begun to know? Had she, most wonderfully,
and had they, in that case, prodigiously come together on it? This was a
possibility into which my imagination could dip even deeper than into
the depths over which it had conceived the other pair as hovering. These
opposed couples balanced like bronze groups at the two ends of a
chimney-piece, and the most I could say to myself in lucid deprecation
of my thought was that I mustn't take them equally for granted merely
because they balanced. Things in the real had a way of not balancing;
it was all an affair, this fine symmetry, of artificial proportion. Yet
even while I kept my eyes away from Mrs. Briss and Long it was vivid to
me that, "composing" there beautifully, they could scarce help playing a
part in my exhibition. The mind of man, furthermore--and my
generalisation pressed hard, with a quick twist, on the supersubtlety as
to which I had just been privately complacent--the mind of man doubtless
didn't know from one minute to the other, under the appeal of
phantasmagoric life, what it would profitably be at. It had struck me a
few seconds before as vulgarly gross in Lady John that she was curious,
or conscious, of so small a part; in spite of which I was already
secretly wincing at the hint that these others had begun to find
themselves less in the dark and perhaps even directly to exchange their
glimmerings.
My personal privilege, on the basis of the full consciousness, had
become, on the spot, in the turn of an eye, more than questionable, and
I was really quite scared at the chance of having to face--of having to
see them face--another recognition. What did this alarm imply but the
complete reversal of my estimate of the value of perception? Mrs.
Brissenden and Long had been hitherto magnificently without it, and I
was responsible perhaps for having, in a mood practically much stupider
than the stupidest of theirs, put them gratuitously and helplessly on
it. To be without it was the most consistent, the most successful,
because the most amiable, form of selfishness; and why should people
admirably equipped for remaining so, people bright and insolent in their
prior state, people in whom this state was to have been respected as a
surface without a scratch is respected, be made to begin to vibrate, to
crack and split, from within? Wasn't it enough for me to pay,
vicariously, the tax on being absurd? Were we all to be landed, without
an issue or a remedy, in a condition on which that tax would be
generally levied? It was as if, abruptly, with a new emotion, I had
wished to unthink every thought with which I had been occupied for
twenty-four hours. Let me add, however, that even had this process been
manageable I was aware of not proposing to begin it till I should have
done with Lady John.
The time she took to meet my last remark is naturally not represented by
this prolonged glance of mine at the amount of suggestion that just then
happened to reach me from the other quarter. It at all events duly came
out between us that Mrs. Server was the person I did have on my mind;
and I remember that it had seemed to me at the end of a minute to matter
comparatively little by which of us, after all, she was first
designated. There is perhaps an oddity--which I must set down to my
emotion of the moment--in my not now being able to say. I should have
been hugely startled if the sight of Gilbert Long had appeared to make
my companion suddenly think of her; and reminiscence of that shock is
not one of those I have found myself storing up. What does abide with me
is the memory of how, after a little, my apprehensions, of various
kinds, dropped--most of all under the deepening conviction that Lady
John was not a whit less agreeably superficial than I could even at the
worst have desired. The point established for me was that, whereas she
passed with herself and so many others as taking in everything, she had
taken in nothing whatever that it was to my purpose she should not take.
Vast, truly, was the world of observation, that we could both glean in
it so actively without crossing each other's steps. There we stood close
together, yet--save for the accident of a final dash, as I shall
note--were at opposite ends of the field.
It's a matter as to which the truth sounds priggish, but I can't help it
if--yes, positively--it affected me as hopelessly vulgar to have made
any induction at all about our companions but those I have recorded,
in such detail, on behalf of my own energy. It was better verily not to
have touched them--which was the case of everyone else--than to have
taken them up, with knowing gestures, only to do so little with them.
That I felt the interest of May Server, that May Server felt the
interest of poor Briss, and that my feeling incongruously presented
itself as putting up, philosophically, with the inconvenience of the
lady's--these were, in fine, circumstances to which she clearly attached
ideas too commonplace for me to judge it useful to gather them in. She
read all things, Lady John, heaven knows, in the light of the universal
possibility of a "relation"; but most of the relations that she had up
her sleeve could thrust themselves into my theory only to find
themselves, the next minute, eliminated. They were of alien
substance--insoluble in the whole. Gilbert Long had for her no
connection, in my deeper sense, with Mrs. Server, nor Mrs. Server with
Gilbert Long, nor the husband with the wife, nor the wife with the
husband, nor I with either member of either pair, nor anyone with
