
"Through that thick night which darkens the history of our
subjugation, through all the degradation and reproach which has been
heaped upon us, there runs one thread of light revealing our former
greatness, pleading the causes of our decay, illuminating the pit of
our downfall, promising that our dead shall live again! Not in the
endless darkness whither priests and men consign us is that thread of
light to be lost; but from the shadowy past it shall break out in
brilliancy, redeeming a people's downfall, and wringing from you, our
subjugators, the greeting--Brothers!

"Fathers: For Logan, that light comes too late. Death darkens my
lodge; my door is closed to sun and moon and stars. Death darkens my
lodge. All within lie dead. Logan is alone. He, too, is blind and
sightless; like the quiet dead his ears are stopped, he hears not; nor
can he see darkness or light.

"For Logan, light or darkness comes too late."

The old man paused; the silence was dreadful.

Suddenly he turned and looked straight at Dunmore.

"I appeal to any white man if he ever entered Logan's lodge hungry and
he gave him not meat; if he ever came cold and naked and he clothed
him not!"

The visage of the Earl of Dunmore seemed to be growing smaller and
more corpse-like. Not a feature on his ghastly mask moved, yet the
face was dwindling.

Logan's voice grew gentler.

"Such was my love," he said, slowly. "Such was my great love for the
white men! My brothers pointed at me as they passed, and said, 'He is
the friend of white men.' And I had even thought to live with you, but
for the injuries of my brothers, the white men.

"Unprovoked, in cold blood, they have slain my kin--all!--all!--not
sparing woman or child. There runs not a drop of my blood in the veins
of any living creature!

"Hearken, Brothers! I have withstood the storms of many winters.
Leaves and branches have been stripped from me. My eyes are dim, my
limbs totter, I must soon fall. I, who could make the dry leaf turn
green again; I, who could take the rattlesnake in my palm; I, who had
communion with the dead, dreaming and waking; I am powerless. The wind
blows hard! The old tree trembles! Its branches are gone! Its sap is
frozen! It bends! It falls! Peace! Peace!

"Who is there to mourn for Logan? Not one!"

The old man bent his withered head and covered his face with his
blanket. Through the frightful stillness the painful breathing of the
people swept like a smothered cry; women in the balcony were sobbing;
somewhere a child wept uncomforted.

Patrick Henry leaned across to me; his eyes were dim, his voice choked
in his throat.

"The great orator!" he whispered. "Oh, the great man!--greatest of
all! The last word has been said for Logan! I shall not speak, Mr.
Cardigan--it were sacrilege--now."

He rose and laid one arm about the motionless chief, then very gently
he drew him out into the aisle. There was not a sound in the hall as
they passed slowly out together, those great men who had both struck
to the hilt for the honour of their kindred and of their native land.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now, when at last he had disappeared, a living spectre of reproach,
which the guilt of men had raised to confound the lords of the New
World, those gathered there to listen breathed again, and hastened to
forget that glimpse which they had caught of the raw heart of all
tragedy--man's inhumanity to man.

Dunmore came slowly from his trance, mechanically preening his silken
plumage and ruffling like a meagre bird; Connolly rose from his seat
and shook himself, and, finding nothing better to do, went about the
platform, snuffing the candles, a duty pertaining to servants, but
which he was doubtless thankful to perform as it brought his back to
the spectators and gave his heavy, burning face a respite from the
pillory of eyes. Gibson leaned heavily on his writing-table, wan,
loose-jawed, and vacant-eyed. As for Captain Murdy, he sat serenely in
his chair, shapely legs crossed, examining the lid of his snuff-box
with ever-freshening interest.

Above us in the galleries some people had risen and were about to
leave. The rustle of silks and satins seemed to break the heavy quiet;
people breathed deeply, shifted in their seats, and turned around.
Some stood up to go; chairs and benches grated on the stones; shoes
shuffled and tapped sharply.

I had already determined to defer my interview with Lord Dunmore,
because, after the great chief's speech, my poor words must fall stale
on ears attuned to the majestic music of a mighty soul. So, in the
stir and noise around us, I rose and touched Jack Mount, motioning him
to follow. But before he could find his feet and summon his wits to
set them in motion, and ere I myself had edged half-way to the aisle,
I heard Doctor Connolly speaking in that loud, hectoring tone, and I
caught the name of Sir William Johnson shouted from the platform.

"If the messenger from Johnstown be present," continued Doctor
Connolly, "let him be assured of a warm welcome from his Lordship, the
Earl of Dunmore, Governor of Virginia."

So the infatuated Dunmore, grasping at a straw to dam the current of
public sentiment, thought to fill empty minds with the news of his
betrothal, trusting that as all the world loves a lover, this same
planet might find an opportunity to take him to its sentimental bosom.

His purpose was plain to me and perfectly loathsome; and as I stood
there, watching him, I could see the rouge crack when he simpered. But
I would not speak now.

Presently, looking around, I found that all those who had risen had
again seated themselves, and that I, fascinated by the repulsive
visage of Dunmore, stood there all alone.

My first impulse was to sit down hastily; my next to keep my feet, for
it was too late to seek cover now, and Connolly was smiling at me, and
Gibson nodded like a dazed mandarin. Dunmore, too, was peering at me
and tapping his snuff-box complacently, and the sight of him brought
the blood to my head and opened my mouth. But no sound issued. A woman
in the gallery laughed outright.

"Are you not a messenger from Sir William Johnson?" prompted Connolly,
with his domineering smile of patronage.

"Yes, Doctor Connolly," I replied, slowly. As I spoke, fright
vanished.

There was a pause. Dunmore tapped on his box and moistened his slitted
mouth with a tongue which looked perfectly blue to me, and he fell
a-smirking and bridling, with sly, rheumy glances at the gallery.

"Lord Dunmore," I said, steadily, "ere I inform you why I am here, you
shall know me better than you think you do.

"I am not here to tell you of that chain which links the Governor of
Virginia with the corpse of Logan's youngest child!--nor to count the
links of that chain backward, from Greathouse to Murdy, to Gibson, to
Connolly, to--"

"Stop!" burst out Connolly, springing to his feet. "Who are you? What
are you? How dare you address such language to the Earl of Dunmore?"

Astonished, furious, eyes injected with blood, he stood shaking his
mottled red fists at me; Dunmore sat in a heap, horrified, with the
simper on his face stamped into a grin of terror. The interruption
stirred up my blood to the boiling; I clutched the back of the bench
in front of me, and fixed my eyes on Connolly.

"I do not reply to servants," I said; "my business here is not with
Lord Dunmore's lackeys. If the Earl of Dunmore knows not my name and
title, he shall know it now! I am Michael Cardigan, cornet in the
Border Horse, and deputy of Sir William Johnson, Baronet, his
Majesty's Superintendent of Indian Affairs for North America!

"Who dares deny me right of speech?"

Dunmore lay in his chair, a shrunken mess of lace and ribbon; Connolly
appeared paralyzed; Gibson stared at me over his table.

"I am not here," I said, coolly, "to ask your Lordship why this war,
falsely called Cresap's war, should be known to honest men as
'Dunmore's war.' Nor do I come to ask you why England should seek the
savage allies of the Six Nations, which this war, so cunningly
devised, has given her--"

"Treason! Treason!" bawled a voice behind me. It was Wraxall; I
recognized his whine.

"But," I resumed, pointing my finger straight at the staring Governor,
"I am here to demand an account of your stewardship! Where are those
Cayugas whom you have sworn to protect from the greed of white men?
Where are they? Answer, sir! Where are Sir William Johnson's wards of
the Long House? Where are the Shawanese, the Wyandottes, the Lenape,
the Senecas, who keep the western portals of the Long House? Answer,
