exercise, bowing with the utmost gravity. 
“Oh, you are a darling!” She ran and hugged him. 
“Now, what will you have? Here is a pomegranate, 
but I have no knife.” 
“I will cut it for you.” 
How beautiful it was, with its indescribable color. 
Norton studied it a moment. 
“He likes the seeds. Here, Telano, you have been a 
very good gentleman. I am obliged to you.” 
Telano uttered two or three guttural sounds. 
“He says you are welcome to his poor performance, 
Monsieur.” 
“Why, I thought it excellent.” 
“Hear that, Telano ! Monsieur thinks you are 
splendid. And Monsieur has seen many things.” 
She gave him a sudden, rapturous hug. As soon as 
Telano was free, he broke into a long gabble, looking 
directly at his mistress ; then he made a funny spread of 
his drooping tail feathers, and flapped his wings. 
“How could you train him so well ?” 
“Oh, I don’t know. And he listens, sometimes when 
I read French verses. I think he likes poetry.” 
“Are you fond of it?” 
“Oh, those delightful little things that have pretty, 
jingling words at the end. I sometimes make it, myself, 
to the trees and the birds.” 
“Then you must be a poet. And what other pets have 
you ?” 
“There are some beautiful ducks ; but they are such 
greedy things. They eat and eat, and never once say 
‘thank you.’ ” 
“That is ingratitude. And what else — a beautiful 
dog?” 
“I don’t like dogs. I believe I am afraid of them. 
M’sieu Jaques has one that watches the house, and is 
kept on a chain. But he has such fierce eyes. And then, 
there are squirrels, and the cockatoo, who is beautiful but 
cross, and wants to snap your fingers. He has wicked 
eyes. Marti brought him here, and he lives in a cage. 
And the pretty love-birds and the mocking-birds ; but I 
like them best out of doors. There they can talk to each 
other. I shouldn’t like a bird in a cage. I should always 
feel sorry for him,” and she sighed. 
Gervaise came out to join them. “Well, did the crane 
perform satisfactorily,” he asked, with a laugh. 
“Please call him Telano,” she said, with dignity. 
“You do not talk English?” 
“I am learning a little. It is rather awkward, but I 
can begin to understand quite well. There are so many 
languages, down on the levee, that one is struck almost 
dumb.” 
“And one thinks it a pity they should have begun the 
Tower of Babel.” 
“What was it for?” asked Sylvie. 
“Why, once, a long while ago — thousands of years — 
some people thought they would build a tower to reach 
up to heaven, so they could go there whenever they liked. 
Suddenly, a queer thing happened. They all began to 
talk different languages. So no one could understand 
what the other one wanted, and they quarrelled ; one 
went one way and one went the other, in small companies 
that understood each other, and they settled all round the 
world.” 
“And the world is very large?” Sylvie said, with a soft 
sigh. “Have you been to New Amsterdam?” 
“New York? The English took it from the Dutch, 
and then we took it from the English.” 
“Will any one take it from you ?” 
“I think not,” and he gave a mellow laugh. 
“If you could go by land, I should like to go,” she 
remarked, seriously. 
“Ah, but you can. It is a sail up the Mississippi, and 
then the Ohio ” 
“That is not going by land," she interrupted. 
“Oh, no. Pardon me. There are many ways of going 
by land, but they are troublesome and tedious, and often 
dangerous. We have not conquered all the Indians yet. 
And a good deal of the journey would have to be made 
on horseback. I should advise you to go up the Mis- 
sissippi. That is not like the ocean, and there are no 
pirates.” 
“I am to go up to Michigan before long,” Gervaise 
announced. 
“If we could agree upon time, I should like to have 
you for a companion part of the way. Indeed, I have 
some copper lands that I ought to inquire into. Why, 
we might take it together.” 
“That would be most delightful for me.” Gervaise’s 
young eyes kindled with sudden joy and relief. I have 
been dreading to go alone.” 
“Monsieur Norton,” said a soft voice, “Captain Strong 
is sorry to disturb you, but he wishes to go, as business 
presses. I hope you have been entertained?” 
“I found Mam’selle Sylvie charming, and the crane, 
remarkable. I hope she will allow me to visit him again,” 
bowing to the child. 
“And, Angel, M’sieu Norton may go to Michigan,” 
cried Gervaise. “Isn’t that a stroke of good fortune for 
me?” and his voice was overfreighted with satisfaction. 
Angel! Did they call her that? How beautiful it 
sounded I Could there be a more appropriate name ? 
“Why that would be most friendly,” she replied. 
Captain Strong had enjoyed his visit with Madame 
Barbe very much, and was pleased to find they had been 
no greater sufferers by their misfortunes. 
“It is not that we are at all rich,” explained Barbe, 
“but everybody is so kind and gracious. And the gar- 
dens are so full, the fruit is so delicious. It is like living 
in the garden of Paradise.” 
‘'And you have to look out for the serpents,” he re- 
turned, a little grimly. “But nature is bountiful here.” 
“And God made the people kindly. Even now I 
understand how much worse the pirates might have 
been.” 
“Indeed that is so. And I think they grow more 
daring. There are too many fingers at the pie, pulling 
out plums; so, no one really guards the poor pie, when 
they should all join. Still, I have met with no mis- 
adventure.” 
Laure had a gift of a new frock which she displayed 
with great elation. Then she said : 
“Of course the necklace is very pretty, but it is just 
for ornament, you know. It will be a long while before 
it is proper for you to wear it. And children’s festas 
are very simple things. Now I can wear my frock on 
every occasion. A necklace like that would do me no 
good whatever.” 
“But I do wear the necklace,” said Sylvie, with great 
dignity. “I wore it to tea at Longpre’s, and Hortense 
thought it lovely.” 
“Mam’selle Hortense had for her lesson the seven 
deadly sins. She is very fond of the world — very vain,” 
remarked Laure, with severity. 
“But she will not be a nun.” 
“One can never tell. A most beautiful young lady has 
entered the novitiate. She was going to be married, and 
her lover was killed in one of the skirmishes near Mobile. 
So she gave all her beautiful things to the altar of St. 
Mary. A great many sad misfortunes happen to people 
of the world. The convent is the only safe place.” 
“But I don’t believe Hortense will ever enter a convent. 
And we are to go over to the Marigny House, to see the 
Princes. They know about Brienne, and my cousin 
Hugh.” 
That was an unassailable rampart. From that superior 
height Sylvie could look down on those below her. Laure 
could have gnashed her teeth, but she put on an air of 
indifference. 
“They have been to the convent, and come to church. 
They are good Catholics.” 
Sylvie felt a little bowled over at that. 
But she and Hortense had most enjoyable times to- 
gether. Aunt Melanie had paid her visit. Gervaise had 
been taken down to the great shipping house by Henri, 
and proffered employment when he returned, for it would 
be hardly safe to go back to France. The Republic was a 
great thing; but no one quite knew what this invincible 
Bonaparte was aiming at. 
The pretty old house, with its walled-in garden, stood 
for many a year a landmark. Throngs of people came 
to pay their respects to the affable young men. And the 
Count of Beaujolais was particularly charming to the 
young people, and, really, very much smitten by Claire. 
But these newer French people pleased him very much; 
Gervaise was so eager and enthusiastic, Angelique so 
well-bred, and the little girl charming in her frankness. 
And then came Christmas Eve, which was a great fes- 
tival. There had been no winter at all as yet. Trees 
and flowers were in bloom, and the air was bland and 
fragrant. 
After the service in the church, the streets and the Plaza 
were thronged. The shops were gay with colored lights ; 
there were booths where everything to eat, and not a few 
things to wear, were being sold. Pictures of the Virgin 
and the infant Saviour met one everywhere, and were 
offered to nearly every passer-by. Stout negresses with 
gay turbans were concocting savory messes on charcoal 
fires; squawks were thrusting at one bunches of sweet 
herbs, calamus buds, belts, moccasins, and curious em- 
broidery on birch bark, or beautifully tanned skin; and 
