fastened so that the cows could not get in, and feed the chickens
regularly, and put the cat out every night, and not let the dog sleep
under his bed; and they were so busy talking and feeling sorry that they
got to the hotel before they knew it.
There, whom should they see but one of the Boy's Town merchants, who was
in the city on business, and who seemed as glad to meet them as if they
were his own relations. They were glad, too, for it made them feel as if
they had got back to the Boy's Town when he came up and spoke to Mrs.
Baker. They had started from home after a very early breakfast, and she
said it seemed as if they had been gone a year already. The merchant told
her that he had been looking everywhere for somebody he knew who was going
to the Boy's Town; and then he told Mrs. Baker that he had two thousand
dollars which he wanted to send home to his partner, and he asked her if
she could take it for him when she went back.
"Well, indeed, indeed, I'm thankful I'm not going, Mr. Bushell!" Mrs.
Baker said. "And I wouldn't have supposed I could be, I'm so homesick. I'm
going up the river on a visit to mother; but if I was going straight back,
I wouldn't take your two thousand dollars for the half of it. I would be
afraid of losing it, or getting robbed and murdered. I don't know what
wouldn't happen. I would be happy to oblige you, but indeed, indeed I
couldn't!"
The merchant said he was sorry, but if she was not going home he supposed
he would have to find some one who was. It was before the days of sending
money by express, or telegraphing it, and the merchant told her he was
afraid to trust the money in the mail. He asked her who was going to take
her carriage home, and she told him the name of the driver from the livery
stable in the Boy's Town, who had come to the city with them.
Mr. Bushell seemed dreadfully disappointed, but when she went on to say
how anxious she was that the driver should get Frank and his brother home
before dark, he brightened up all of a sudden, and he asked, "Is Frank
going back?" and he looked down into Frank's face and smiled, as most
people did when they looked into Frank's face, and he asked, "What's the
reason Frank couldn't take it?"
Mrs. Baker put her arm across Frank's breast and pulled him away, and
said, "Indeed, indeed, the child just sha'n't, and that's all about it!"
But Mr. Bushell took the boy by the arm and laughed. "Let's feel how deep
your pants' pocket is," he said; and he put his hand into the pocket of
Frank's nankeen trousers and felt; and then, before Mrs. Baker could stop
him, he drew a roll of bank-notes out of his own pocket and pushed it into
Frank's. "There, it's just a fit! Do you think you'd lose it?"
"No, he wouldn't lose it," said his mother, "and that's just it! He'd
worry about it every minute, and I would worry about him!"
She tried to make the merchant take the money back, but he kept joking;
and then he turned serious, and told her that the money had to be put in
the bank to pay a note, and he did not know any way to get it to his
partner if she would not let Frank take it; that he was at his wits' end.
He said he would as lief trust it with Frank as with any man he knew; that
nobody would think the boy had any money with him; and he fairly begged
her to let Frank take it for him.
He talked to her so much that she began to give way a little. She felt
proud of his being willing to trust Frank, and at last she consented. Mr.
Bushell explained that he wished his partner to have the money that
evening, and she had to agree to let Frank carry it to him as soon as he
got home.
The Boy's Town was built on two sides of a river. Mr. Bushell's store was
across the river from where the Bakers lived, and she said she did not
want the child to have to go through the bridge after dark. Perhaps it was
her anxiety about this that began the whole trouble; for when the driver
came with the carriage, she could not help asking him if he was sure to
get home before sundown. That made him drive faster than he might have
done, perhaps; at any rate, he set off at a quick trot after Mr. Bushell
had helped put the two boys in. Mrs. Baker gathered her little girls
together and went back to the boat with her heart in her mouth, as she
afterwards said.
The driver got out of the city without trouble, but when he came to the
smooth turnpike road, it seemed to Frank that the horses kept going faster
and faster, till they were fairly flying over the ground. The driver
pulled and pulled at the reins, and people began to hollo, "Look out where
you're going!" when they met them or passed them, and all at once Frank
began to think the horses were running away. He had not much chance to
think about it, though, he was so busy keeping his little brother from
bouncing off the seat and out of the carriage, and in feeling if Mr.
Bushell's money was safe; and he was not certain that they were running
away till he saw people stopping and staring, and then starting after the
carriage.
The horses tore along for two or three miles; they thundered through the
covered bridge on Mill's Creek, and passed the Four-Mile House. By the
time they reached the little village beyond it they had the turnpike to
themselves; every team coming and going drove into the gutter.
At the village a large, fat butcher, who was sitting tilted back in a
chair at the door of his shop, saw the carriage coming in a whirlwind of
dust, and he knew what the matter was. There was a horse standing at the
hitching rail, and the butcher just had time to untie him and jump into
the saddle when the runaways flew by. He took after them as fast as his
horse could go, and overhauled them at the end of the next bridge and
brought them to a stand.
It had really been nothing but a race against time. No one was hurt; the
horses were pretty badly blown, that was all; but the carriage was so much
shaken up that it had to be left at a wagon-shop, where it could not be
mended till morning. The two boys were taken back to Four-Mile House,
where they would have to pass the night.
Frank worried about his father, who would be expecting them home that
evening; but he was glad his mother did not know what had happened. He was
thankful enough when he felt his brother all over and found him safe and
sound, and then put his hand on his pocket and found that Mr. Bushell's
money was still there. He did not eat very much supper, and he went to bed
early, after he had put his brother in bed and seen him fall asleep almost
before he got through his prayers.
Frank was very tired, and pretty sore from the jouncing in the carriage;
but he was too worried to be sleepy. He began to think, What if some one
should get Mr. Bushell's money away from him in the night, while he was
asleep? And then he was glad that he did not feel like sleeping. He got up
and put on his clothes and sat down by the window, listening to his
brother's breathing and looking out into the dark at the heat-lightning
in the west. The day had been very hot and the night was close, without a
breath of wind. By-and-by all the noises about the house died away, and he
knew everybody had gone to bed. The lantern under the tavern porch threw a
dim light out into the road; some dogs barked away off. There was no other
sound, and the stillness was awful. He kept his hand on the pocket that
had the money in it.
After a while Frank began to feel very drowsy, and he thought he would lie
down again, but he promised himself he would not sleep, and he did not
undress; for if he took his pantaloons off, he did not know how he could
make sure every minute that the money was safe, unless he put it under his
pillow. He was afraid if he did that he might forget it in the morning,
and leave it when he got up.
He stretched himself on the bed beside his brother, and it seemed to him
that it was hardly a second before he heard a loud crash that shook the
whole house; and the room looked full of fire. Another crash came, and
then another, with a loud, stony kind of rolling noise that seemed to go
round the world. Then he knew that he had been asleep, and that this
dreadful noise was the swift coming of a thunder-storm.
It was the worst storm that was ever known in Mill Creek Valley, so the
people said afterwards, but as yet it was only beginning. The thunder was
deafening, and it never stopped a moment. The lightning hardly stopped,
either; it filled the room with a quivering blaze; at times, when it died
down, the night turned black as ink, and then a flash came that lit up the
fields outside, and showed every stick and stone as bright as the
brightest day.
Frank was dazed at first by the glare and the noise; then he jumped out of
bed, and tried for two things: whether the money was still safe in his
pocket, and whether his brother was alive. He never could tell which he
found out first; as soon as he knew, he felt a little bit better, but
still his cheerfulness was not anything to brag of.
If his brother was alive, it seemed to be more than any one else in the
house was besides himself. He could not hear a soul stirring, although in
that uproar there might have been a full-dress parade of the Butler Guards
in the tavern, firing off their guns, and he could not have heard them. He
looked out in the entry, but it was all dark there except when he let the
flashes of his room into it. He thought he would light his candle, for
company, and so that the lightning would not be so awfully bright. He
found his candlestick easily enough--he could have found a pin in that
glare--but there were no matches.
So he decided to get along without the candle. Every now and then he put
his hand in his pocket, or on the bulge outside, to make sure of the
money; and whenever a very bright flash came, he would listen for his
brother's breathing, to tell whether he had been struck by lightning or
not. But it kept thundering so that sometimes he could not hear. Then
Frank would shake him till the boy gave a sort of snort, and that proved
that he was still alive; or he would put his ear to his brother's breast,
and listen whether his heart was beating.
It always was, and by-and-by the rain began to fall. It fell in perfect
sheets, and the noise it made could be heard through the thunder. But
Frank had always heard that after it began to rain, a thunder-storm was
not so dangerous, and the air got fresher. Still, it blazed and bellowed
away, he could never tell how long, and it seemed to him that he must have
felt a thousand times for Mr. Bushell's money, and tried a thousand times
to find whether his brother had been struck by lightning or not. Once or
twice he thought he would call for help; but he did not think he could
make anybody hear, and he was too much ashamed to do it, anyway.
Between the times of feeling for the money and seeing whether his brother
was alive, he thought about his mother: how frightened she would be if she
knew what had happened to him and his brother, after they left her. And he
thought of his father: how troubled he must be at their not getting home.
It seemed to him that he must be to blame, somehow, but he could not
understand how, exactly; and he could not think of any way to help it.
He wondered if the storm was as bad on the river and in the Boy's Town,
and whether the lightning would strike the boat or the house; the house
had a lightning-rod, but the boat could not have one, of course. He felt
pretty safe about his father and the older-younger brother who had been
left at home with him; but he was not sure about his mother and sisters,
and he tried to imagine what people did on a steamboat in a thunder-storm.
After a long time had passed, and he thought it must be getting near
morning, he lay down again beside his brother, and fell into such a heavy
sleep that he did not wake till it was broad day, and the sun was making
as much blaze in the curtainless tavern-room as the lightning had made.
The storm was over, and everything was as peaceful as if there had never
been any such thing as a storm in the world. The first thing he did was to
make a grab for his pocket. The money was still there, and his brother
sleeping as soundly as ever.
