should we?"
"That you haven't, I understand; but that she hasn't," Susie opined,
"may mean something."
"May mean what?"
"Well," Mrs. Stringham presently brought out, "I tell you all when I
tell you that Maud asks me to suggest to you that it may perhaps be
better for the present not to speak of him: not to speak of him to her
niece, that is, unless she herself speaks to you first. But Maud thinks
she won't."
Milly was ready to engage for anything; but in respect to the facts--as
they so far possessed them--it all sounded a little complicated. "Is it
because there's anything between them?"
"No--I gather not; but Maud's state of mind is precautionary. She's
afraid of something. Or perhaps it would be more correct to say she's
afraid of everything."
"She's afraid, you mean," Milly asked, "of their--a--liking each other?"
Susie had an intense thought and then an effusion. "My dear child, we
move in a labyrinth."
"Of course we do. That's just the fun of it!" said Milly with a strange
gaiety. Then she added: "Don't tell me that--in this for
instance--there are not abysses. I want abysses."
Her friend looked at her--it was not unfrequently the case--a little
harder than the surface of the occasion seemed to require; and another
person present at such times might have wondered to what inner thought
of her own the good lady was trying to fit the speech. It was too much
her disposition, no doubt, to treat her young companion's words as
symptoms of an imputed malady. It was none the less, however, her
highest law to be light when the girl was light. She knew how to be
quaint with the new quaintness--the great Boston gift; it had been,
happily, her note in the magazines; and Maud Lowder, to whom it was new
indeed and who had never heard anything remotely like it, quite
cherished her, as a social resource, for it. It should not therefore
fail her now; with it in fact one might face most things. "Ah, then let
us hope we shall sound the depths--I'm prepared for the worst--of
sorrow and sin! But she would like her niece--we're not ignorant of
that, are we?--to marry Lord Mark. Hasn't she told you so?"
"Hasn't Mrs. Lowder told me?"
"No; hasn't Kate? It isn't, you know, that she doesn't know it."
Milly had, under her comrade's eyes, a minute of mute detachment. She
had lived with Kate Croy for several days in a state of intimacy as
deep as it had been sudden, and they had clearly, in talk, in many
directions, proceeded to various extremities. Yet it now came over her
as in a clear cold way that there was a possible account of their
relations in which the quantity her new friend had told her might have
figured as small, as smallest, beside the quantity she hadn't. She
couldn't say, at any rate, whether or no she had made the point that
her aunt designed her for Lord Mark: it had only sufficiently come
out--which had been, moreover, eminently guessable--that she was
involved in her aunt's designs. Somehow, for Milly, brush it over
nervously as she might and with whatever simplifying hand, this abrupt
extrusion of Mr. Densher altered all proportions, had an effect on all
values. It was fantastic of her to let it make a difference that she
couldn't in the least have defined--and she was at least, even during
these instants, rather proud of being able to hide, on the spot, the
difference it did make. Yet, all the same, the effect for her was,
almost violently, of Mr. Densher's having been there--having been where
she had stood till now in her simplicity--before her. It would have
taken but another free moment to make her see abysses--since abysses
were what she wanted--in the mere circumstance of his own silence, in
New York, about his English friends. There had really been in New York
little time for anything; but, had she liked, Milly could have made it
out for herself that he had avoided the subject of Miss Croy, and that
Miss Croy was yet a subject it could never be natural to avoid. It was
to be added at the same time that even if his silence had been
labyrinthe--which was absurd in view of all the other things too he
couldn't possibly have spoken of--this was exactly what must suit her,
since it fell under the head of the plea she had just uttered to Susie.
These things, however, came and went, and it set itself up between the
companions, for the occasion, in the oddest way, both that their
happening all to know Mr. Densher--except indeed that Susie didn't, but
probably would,--was a fact belonging, in a world of rushing about, to
one of the common orders of chance; and yet further that it was
amusing--oh, awfully amusing!--to be able fondly to hope that there was
"something in" its having been left to crop up with such suddenness.
There seemed somehow a possibility that the ground or, as it were, the
air might, in a manner, have undergone some pleasing preparation;
though the question of this possibility would probably, after all, have
taken some threshing out. The truth, moreover--and there they were,
already, our pair, talking about it, the "truth!"--had not in fact
quite cropped out. This, obviously, in view of Mrs. Lowder's request to
her old friend.
It was accordingly on Mrs. Lowder's recommendation that nothing should
be said to Kate--it was on this rich attitude of Aunt Maud's that the
idea of an interesting complication might best hope to perch; and when,
in fact, after the colloquy we have reported Milly saw Kate again
without mentioning any name, her silence succeeded in passing muster
with her as the beginning of a new sort of fun. The sort was all the
newer by reason of its containing a small element of anxiety: when she
had gone in for fun before it had been with her hands a little more
free. Yet it was, none the less, rather exciting to be conscious of a
still sharper reason for interest in the handsome girl, as Kate
continued, even now, pre-eminently to remain for her; and a
reason--this was the great point--of which the young woman herself
could have no suspicion. Twice over, thus, for two or three hours
together, Milly found herself seeing Kate, quite fixing her in the
light of the knowledge that it was a face on which Mr. Densher's eyes
had more or less familiarly rested and which, by the same token, had
looked, rather more beautifully than less, into his own. She pulled
herself up indeed with the thought that it had inevitably looked, as
beautifully as one would, into thousands of faces in which one might
one's self never trace it; but just the odd result of the thought was
to intensify for the girl that side of her friend which she had
doubtless already been more prepared than she quite knew to think of as
the "other," the not wholly calculable. It was fantastic, and Milly was
aware of this; but the other side was what had, of a sudden, been
turned straight towards her by the show of Mr. Densher's propinquity.
She hadn't the excuse of knowing it for Kate's own, since nothing
whatever as yet proved it particularly to be such. Never mind; it was
with this other side now fully presented that Kate came and went,
kissed her for greeting and for parting, talked, as usual, of
everything but--as it had so abruptly become for Milly--the thing.
Our young woman, it is true, would doubtless not have tasted so sharply
a difference in this pair of occasions had she not been tasting so
peculiarly her own possible betrayals. What happened was that
afterwards, on separation, she wondered if the matter had not mainly
been that she herself was so "other," so taken up with the unspoken;
the strangest thing of all being, still subsequently, that when she
asked herself how Kate could have failed to feel it she became
conscious of being here on the edge of a great darkness. She should
never know how Kate truly felt about anything such a one as Milly
Theale should give her to feel. Kate would never--and not from
ill-will, nor from duplicity, but from a sort of failure of common
terms--reduce it to such a one's comprehension or put it within her
convenience.
It was as such a one, therefore, that, for three or four days more,
Milly watched Kate as just such another; and it was presently as such a
one that she threw herself into their promised visit, at last achieved,
to Chelsea, the quarter of the famous Carlyle, the field of exercise of
his ghost, his votaries, and the residence of "poor Marian," so often
referred to and actually a somewhat incongruous spirit there. With our
young woman's first view of poor Marian everything gave way but the
sense of how, in England, apparently, the social situation of sisters
could be opposed, how common ground, for a place in the world, could
quite fail them: a state of things sagely perceived to be involved in
an hierarchical, an aristocratic order. Just whereabouts in the order
Mrs. Lowder had established her niece was a question not wholly void,
as yet, no doubt, of ambiguity--though Milly was withal sure Lord Mark
could exactly have fixed the point if he would, fixing it at the same
time for Aunt Maud herself; but it was clear that Mrs. Condrip was, as
might have been said, in quite another geography. She would not, in
short, have been to be found on the same social map, and it was as if
her visitors had turned over page after page together before the final
relief of their benevolent "Here!" The interval was bridged, of course,
but the bridge, verily, was needed, and the impression left Milly to
wonder whether, in the general connection, it were of bridges or of
intervals that the spirit not locally disciplined would find itself
most conscious. It was as if at home, by contrast, there were
neither--neither the difference itself, from position to position, nor,
on either side, and particularly on one, the awfully good manner, the
conscious sinking of a consciousness, that made up for it. The
conscious sinking, at all events, and the awfully good manner, the
difference, the bridge, the interval, the skipped leaves of the social
atlas--these, it was to be confessed, had a little, for our young lady,
in default of stouter stuff, to work themselves into the light literary
legend--a mixed, wandering echo of Trollope, of Thackeray, perhaps
mostly of Dickens--under favour of which her pilgrimage had so much
appealed. She could relate to Susie later on, late the same evening,
that the legend, before she had done with it, had run clear, that the
adored author of The Newcomes, in fine, had been on the whole the
note: the picture lacking thus more than she had hoped, or rather
perhaps showing less than she had feared, a certain possibility of
Pickwickian outline. She explained how she meant by this that Mrs.
Condrip had not altogether proved another Mrs. Nickleby, nor even--for
she might have proved almost anything, from the way poor worried Kate
had spoken--a widowed and aggravated Mrs. Micawber.
Mrs. Stringham, in the midnight conference, intimated rather yearningly
that, however the event might have turned, the side of English life
such experiences opened to Milly were just those she herself seemed
"booked"--as they were all, roundabout her now, always saying--to miss:
she had begun to have a little, for her fellow-observer, these moments
of fanciful reaction--reaction in which she was once more all Susan
Shepherd--against the high sphere of colder conventions into which her
overwhelming connection with Maud Manningham had rapt her. Milly never
lost sight, for long, of the Susan Shepherd side of her, and was always
there to meet it when it came up and vaguely, tenderly, impatiently to
pat it, abounding in the assurance that they would still provide for
it. They had, however, to-night, another matter in hand; which proved
to be presently, on the girl's part, in respect to her hour of Chelsea,
the revelation that Mrs. Condrip, taking a few minutes when Kate was
away with one of the children, in bed upstairs for some small
