that this made to Boyne 's further shame. 
There was no carriage at the station which would 
hold the party of five, and they had to take two 
vehicles. Trannel said it was lucky they wanted 
just two, since there were no more, and he put him- 
 
self in authority to assort the party. The judge, he 
decided, must go with Ellen and Breckon, and he 
hoped Boyne would let him go in his carriage, if 
he would sit on the box with the driver. The judge 
afterwards owned that he had weakly indulged his 
dislike of the fellow, in letting him take Boyne, and 
not insisting on going himself with Trannel, but 
this was when it was long too late. Ellen had her 
misgivings, but, except for that gibe about the 
decorations, Trannel had been behaving so well 
that she hoped she might trust Boyne with him. 
She made a kind of appeal for her brother, bidding 
him and Trannel take good care of each other, and 
Trannel promised so earnestly to look after Boyne 
that she ought to have been alarmed for him. He 
took the lead, rising at times to wave a reassuring 
hand to her over the back of his carriage, and, in 
fact, nothing evil could very well happen from 
him, with the others following so close upon him. 
They met from time to time in the churches they 
visited, and when they lost sight of one another, 
through a difference of opinion in the drivers as 
to the best route, they came together at the place 
Trannel had appointed for their next reunion. 
He showed himself a guide so admirably qualified 
that he found a way for them to objects of interest 
that had at first denied themselves in anticipation 
of the visit from the queens; when they all sat 
down at lunch in the restaurant which he found 
for them, he could justifiably boast that he would 
get them into the Town Hall, which they had been 
 
told was barred for the day against anything but 
sovereign curiosity. He was now on the best terms 
with Boyne, who seemed to have lost all diffidence 
of him, and treated him with an easy familiarity 
that showed itself in his slapping him on the shoul 
der and making dints in his hat. Trannel seemed 
to enjoy these caresses, and, when they parted again 
for the afternoon 's sight-seeing, Ellen had no longer 
a qualm in letting Boyne drive off with him. 
He had, in fact, known how to make himself very 
acceptable to Boyne. He knew all the originals of 
his heroical romances, and was able to give the 
real names and the geographical position of those 
princesses who had been in love with American ad 
venturers. Under promise of secrecy he disclosed 
the real names of the adventurers themselves, now 
obscured in the titles given them to render them 
worthy their union with sovereigns. He resumed 
his fascinating confidences when they drove off after 
luncheon, and he resumed them after each separa 
tion from the rest of the party. Boyne listened with 
a flushed face and starting eyes, and when at last 
Trannel offered, upon a pledge of the most sacred 
nature from him never to reveal a word of what 
he said, he began to relate an adventure of which 
he was himself the hero. It was a bold travesty 
of one of the latest romances that Boyne had 
read, Involving the experience of an American very 
little older than Boyne himself, to whom a wilful 
young crown-princess, in a little state which Tran 
nel would not name even to Boyne, had made 
advances such as he could not refuse to meet 
without cruelty. He was himself deeply in love 
with her, but he felt bound in honor not to en 
courage her infatuation as long as he could help, 
for he had been received by her whole family with 
such kindness and confidence that he had to consider 
them. 
" Oh, pshaw !" Boyne broke in upon him, doubting, 
and yet wishing not to doubt, " that 's the same as 
the story of Hector Folleyne." 
" Yes," said Trannel, quietly. " I thought you 
would recognize it." 
" Well, but," Boyne went on, " Hector married 
the princess." 
" In the liook, yes. The fellow I gave the story 
to said it would never do not to have him marry 
her, and it would help to disguise the fact. That 's 
what he said, after he had given the whole thing 
away."
"And do you mean to say it was you? Oh, 
you can 't stuff me! How did you get out of 
marrying her, I should like to know, when the 
chancellor came to you and said that the whole 
family wanted you to, for fear it would kill her 
if" 
" Well, there was a scene, I can 't deny that. We 
had a regular family conclave father, mother, 
Aunt Hitty, and all the folks and we kept it up 
pretty much all night. The princess wasn 't there, 
of course, and I could convince them that I was 
right. If she had been, I don 't believe I could have 
held out. But they had to listen to reason, and I got 
away between two days." 
" But why didn 't you marry her ?" 
" Well, for one thing, as I told you, I thought 
I ought to consider her family. Then there was a 
good fellow, the crown-prince of Saxe-Wolfenhiit- 
ten, who was dead in love with her, and was en 
gaged to her before I turned up. I had been at 
school with him, and I felt awfully sorry for him; 
and I thought I ought to sacrifice myself a little 
to him. But I suppose the thing that influenced 
me most was finding out that if I married the 
princess I should have to give up my American 
citizenship and become her subject." 
"Well?" Boyne panted. 
"Well, would you have done it?" 
" Couldn 't you have got along without doing 
that?" 
" That was the only thing I couldn 't get around, 
somehow. So I left." 
"And the princess, did she die?" 
"It takes a good deal more than that to kill a 
fifteen-year-old princess," said Trannel, and he gave 
a harsh laugh. ** She married Saxe-Wolfenhiit- 
ten." Boyne was silent. " Now, I don 't want 
you to speak of this till after I leave Scheveningen 
especially to Miss Lottie. You know how girls 
are, and J think Miss Lottie is waiting to get a 
bind on me, anyway. If she heard how I was cut 
out of my chance with that princess she d never let 
me believe I gave her up of my own free will!" 
 
"No, no; I won 't tell her." 
Boyne remained in a silent rapture, and he did 
not notice they were no longer following the rest 
of their party in the other carriage. This had 
turned down a corner, at which Mr. Breckon, sitting 
on the front seat, had risen and beckoned their 
driver to follow, but their driver, who appeared after 
wards to have had too much a head of his own, 
or no head at all, had continued straight on, in the 
rear of a tram-car, which was slowly finding its way 
through the momently thickening crowd. Boyne 
was first aware that it was a humorous crowd when, 
at a turn of the street, their equipage was greeted 
with ironical cheers by a group of gay young Dutch 
men on the sidewalk. Then he saw that the side 
walks were packed with people, who spread into the 
street almost to the tram, and that the house fronts 
were dotted with smiling Dutch faces, the faces of 
pretty Dutch girls, who seemed to share the amuse 
ment of the young fellows below. 
Trannel lay back in the carriage. " This is some 
thing like," he said. "Boyne, they 're on to the 
distinguished young Ohioan the only Ohioan out 
of office in Europe." 
" Yes," said Boyne, trying to enjoy it. " I wonder 
what they are holloing at." 
Trannel laughed. "They 're holloing at your 
Baedeker, my dear boy. They never saw one be 
fore," and Boyne was aware that he was holding 
his red-backed guide conspicuously in view on his 
lap. " They know you 're a foreigner by it." 
 
"Don 't you think we ought to turn down some 
where? I don 't see poppa anywhere." He rose and 
looked anxiously back over the top of their carriage. 
The crowd, closing in behind it, hailed his troubled 
face with cries that were taken up by the throng on 
the sidewalks. Boyne turned about to find that the 
tram-car which they had been following had disap 
peared round a corner, but their driver was still keep 
ing on. At a wilder burst of applause Trannel took 
off his hat and bowed to the crowd, right and left. 
" Bow, bow !" he said to Boyne. " They 'll be call 
ing for a speech the next thing. Bow, I tell you !" 
" Tell him to turn round !" cried the boy. 
" I can 't speak Dutch," said Trannel, and Boyne 
leaned forward and poked the driver in the back. 
" Go back !" he commanded. 
