read books and hear music, to eat wholesome 
food — and, above all, to escape from hot asphalt 
streets, cable-car gongs, and flaring advertise- 
ments of soaps and cigars. 
October 12th. 
I had an adventure to-day. I woke up with a 
headache, dull, sick, discouraged. I cared no 
more about anything. I got out The Captive 
and made ready to take it to the publishers. 
And then I thought I would read a little of it. 
I sat down in the corner — I forgot the pub- 
lishers — I sat reading — reading — and my heart 
beat fast, and my hands shook, and all my soul 
rose in one hymn of joy! 
Oh world, do your worst, I do not care! You 
may turn me off — but the gates of heaven are 
open! I will go on — I will bear anything — bear 
all things! I will wait and live and learn mean- 
while, knowing with all my soul what this book is 
and what it must bring. So long as I can read it, 
I can wake my soul again. 
It is at the publishers'. I will read books 
meantime and be happy. 
I saw a manuscript clerk this time. She was 
very airy. I fear I am a sad-looking poet — my 
buttonholes are beginning to wear out. " We 
never read manuscripts out of turn," she said. 
" It will take them three or four weeks." 
— Yes, good poet, that is my answer to you. 
I can not take your advice — I will cling to my 
book — I will pin all my hopes to it! I will toil 
and strive for it, I will haunt men with it, I will 
shout it from the housetops. No other book — 
no future book — this book! It is a great book — 
a great book — it is — it is! 
I am not ignorant of the price it costs to do 
that; it is my fate that I have to pay it. I can 
see, for instance, how Wordsworth paid it — 
Wordsworth, our greatest, our noblest poet since 
Milton. He had his sacred inspiration, and the 
world laughed at it; and so, grimly, systematic- 
ally, he set to work to teach them — to say to all 
men — to say to himself — to say day and night — 
" It is poetry! It is great poetry! It is — if is! " 
And of course at last he made them believe 
him; and when they believed him, he — Words- 
worth — was a matter-of-fact, self-centered, dull 
and poor old man. 
— It all rests with you, good world! How 
long must I stand here and knock at the door? 
October 18th. 
I am reading, reading — and trying to forget 
meanwhile! When I get through my long list of 
histories I shall go back to my Greek dramatists 
again. My Greek is getting better now — I ex- 
pect to have a happy time with Aristophanes. — 
He is the funniest man that ever lived, Aris- 
tophanes. 
Then I am coming back to read the French 
novelists. There are many of them I do not 
know. (I do not expect to like them — I do not 
like Frenchmen.) 
October 22A. 
I was glancing to-day over a volume of Shel- 
ley's, and the memory of old glories thrilled in 
me. Ah, let me not forget what Shelley was to 
me in my young struggling days! Let me not 
forget while I am wrestling with a dull world — 
let me not forget what a poet is to young men 
hungering for beauty! Let me not forget! 
Yes, it is to such that my appeal is, it is by 
such that I will be judged! It is for such that I 
toil! For hearts upon whom the cold world has 
not laid its hand! For the poets and the seekers 
of all ages! Oh come to me, poets and seekers of 
all ages — dwell in my memory and strengthen 
my soul! That I go not down altogether — 
that I be not overcome by the dull things 
about me! 
These thoughts are not becoming to a reader 
of history. But I am not a good reader of his- 
tory — the old beasts are still growling within me. 
Something starts a longing in me — I cry out that 
I am getting dull, that I am going down, that I 
am putting ofif — I, who never put ofif before! 
And so the old storms rise and the great waves 
come rolling again! 
October 25th. 
I read that over just now. Yes, it is this that 
I dread. I dread the habit of not striving! When 
that becomes my habit it is my death! And here 
I sit, day by day — doing just the thing I dread! 
" Let me go now! " something shouts in me. 
"Now — or I shall never go at all! " 
Oh, if I could find some word to tell men the 
terror of that thought! 
— It is my life — that is what it is! To obey 
this thing within me, to save this thing within 
me, to find this thing within me — that is my life ! 
It is a demon thing — it is a thing that has 
lifted me up by the hair of my head and shaken 
me — that has glared at me with the wild eyes of 
a beast — that has beaten me like a storm of wind 
and struck me down upon the ground! It shakes 
me now — it shakes me all the time — it makes me 
scream with pain — incoherently, frantically. 
" Oh save me! — Spare me! — Let me go! " 
I rave, you say — yes, I know. That is because 
I can not say what I feel. But what matters it? 
Sometimes I say to myself, " I put all that in 
The Captive, and men have not heard it! And 
now, what can I do that they will hear — shall I 
have to go out in the streets and scream? Or 
what other desperate thing is there? " 
— Mark this, oh you world that I can not 
make hear me! Some desperate thing I shall do 
— I will not sit here and be respectable always! 
— I wonder what locusts taste like, and just 
where one could find wild honey. 
October 29th. 
I sang a song to-day — a mad, mad song! I 
wish I could bring it back. It came to me un- 
expectedly, while I was kneeling by the bed, 
thinking. 
I have forgotten it all now — one always for- 
gets his best songs. I have not a line of this one, 
except the chorus: 
For I am lord of a thousand dollars ! 
So it is that my best songs go. I can count 
them on my fingers. But I have not yet learned 
how precious they are — that is why I lose them. 
— Do you remember that time on the great 
clififs by the ocean? There was nothing left but 
the ending again — 
Oh bear me away in thy bosom. 
Thou wind of the mountain high ! 
November 2d. 
I am not always as I write here — I am not 
always angry. I have my tender moments, when 
I see my woe as the world's woe — above all the 
poverty. Oh let me always have a tender heart 
for the poor! 
November 6th. 
I have a distant relative in this city, an old 
gentleman who belongs to clubs and is what is 
known as a " man of the world." He has quite 
a sense of humor — is famous for good stories. 
He told me that he was interested in me — that he 
would be glad to find a place for me in life, if I 
would only get over my youthful follies. It has 
been years since I saw him, but I can still hear 
him. 
The last words he ever said to me were these 
— said with his quiet, amused smile: " Never 
mind, my boy, leave it to time. You needn't 
argue with me — just leave it to time, and it'll 
come out all right." 
Never have I sunk into a fit of despair that 
I have not thought of that; and the quiet smile 
has become the sneer of an imp. It has become 
all the world watching me, and knowing full well 
the issue; wise world! 
That memory has never yet lost its power to 
make me grip my hands suddenly. " So! And 
my life has no other purpose, then, than to point 
a moral for a rich clubman! " 
Leave it to time! Leave it to time! O God, 
what a sentence that is — so savage — and so true! 
Leave it to the long weary days that come one 
after another — that never tire — that never are 
beaten — that never are less — never faster — never 
slower — that wear you out as water wears a 
stone! Leave it to time! Say nothing, fear 
nothing; leave it to time! Leave it to the hours 
of dulness, the hours of sickness, the hours of de- 
spair! Leave it to failure piled upon failure, 
to insult piled upon insult, to rebuff upon rebuff, 
to sneer upon sneer! Leave it to the endless, 
never-ceasing sight of ugliness; the endless, 
never-ceasing sight of selfishness; of pettiness, 
