to contradict him. Malipieri was in no danger of 
being overheard. 
" If it happens," he said, " that I wish to communi- 
cate with you on a matter of importance, how can I 
reach you best ? " 
He asked the question quite naturally, as if he had 
known Sabina all his life. At first she was so much 
surprised that she could hardly speak. 
"I — I do not know," she stammered. 
She had never received letters from any one but her 
own family or her school friends, and a very faint 
colour rose in her pale cheek. Malipieri looked more 
bored and weary than ever. 
" It may be absolutely necessary for me to write to 
you before long," he said. " Shall I write by post? " 
Sabina hesitated. 
" Is there no one in all Rome whom you can trust 
to bring a note and give it to you when you are 
alone?" 
"There is Signor Sassi," Sabina answered almost 
instinctively. " But really, why should you — " 
" How can I find Sassi? " asked Malipieri, interrupt- 
ing the question. " Who is he ? " 
"He was our agent. Is he gone? The old porter 
will know where to find him. I think he lived near 
the palace. But perhaps the porter has been sent 
away too." 
"He is still there. Have you been made to sign 
any papers since you have been here ? " 
"No." 
" Will you promise me something ? " 
Sabina could not understand how it was that a man 
who had been a stranger two hours earlier was speaking to her almost as if he were an intimate friend, stillless why she no longer felt that she ought to check 
him and assert her dignity. 
"If it is right, I will promise it," she answered 
quietly, and looking down. 
" It is right," he said. " If the Senator, or any one 
else asks you to sign a paper, will you promise to con- 
sult me before doing so?" 
" But I hardly know you ! " she laughed, a little 
shyly. 
" It is of no use to waste time and trouble on social 
conventions," said Malipieri. "If you do not trust 
me, can you trust this Sassi?" 
" Oh yes ! " 
"Then consult him. I will make him consult me, 
and it will be the same — and ten times more conven- 
tional and proper." 
He smiled. 
" Will you promise that? " he asked. 
" Yes. I promise. But I wish you would tell me 
more." 
" I wish I could. But I hardly know you ! " He 
smiled again, as he repeated her own words. 
" Never mind that ! Tell me ! " 
 
" No. I cannot. If there is trouble I will tell you 
everything — through Sassi, of course." 
Sabina laughed, and all at once she felt as if she had 
known him for years. 
.At that moment the deputy finished his speech, and 
all who had anything to say in answer said it at once, 
in order to lose no time, while the speaker relighted 
his villainous black cigar, puffing tremendously. 
The Baroness suddenly remembered Sabina and 
Malipieri in the corner, and after screaming out several 
incoherent phrases, which might have been taken for 
applause or dissent and were almost lost in the general 
din, she moved across the room. 
" It is atrocious ! " she cried, as she reached Sabina. 
" I hope you have not heard a word he said ! " 
" When a man has such a voice as that, it is impos- 
sible not to hear him," said Malipieri, rising and 
answering before Sabina had time to speak. 
Sabina rose, too, rather reluctantly. 
" And of course you agreed with everything 
he said," the Baroness replied. " All anarchists 
do!" 
"I beg your pardon. I do not agree with him at 
all, and I am really not an anarchist." 
He smiled politely, and Sabina noticed with an un- 
accountable little thrill of satisfaction that the smile 
was quite different from the one she had seen in his 
face more than once while they had been talking to- 
gether. As for the deputy's discourse, she had not 
heard a word of it. ' 
The Baroness sat down on the sofa, and Sabina 
slipped away. She was not supposed to be in society 
yet, as she was not quite eighteen, and there was cer- 
tainly no reason why she should stay in the drawing- 
room that evening, while there were many reasons why 
she should go away. The Baroness breathed an audible 
sigh of relief when she was gone, for it was never pos- 
sible to predict what some excited politician might say 
before her in the heat of argument. 
In the silence of her own room she sat down to 
think over the unexpected events of the evening. 
Very young girls love to look forward to the mo- 
ment when they shall be able to " think " of what 
has happened, after they have met men they are in- 
clined to like, and who interest them. But when 
the time really comes they hardly ever think at all. 
They see pictures, they hear voices, they feel again 
what they have felt, they laugh, they shed tears all 
alone, and they believe they are thinking, or even 
reasoning. Their little joys come back to them, the 
little triumphs of their vanity, and also all the little 
hurts their sensitiveness has suffered, and which men 
do not often guess and still more rarely under- 
stand. 
There must be some original reason why all boys 
call girls silly, and all girls think boys stupid. It 
must be part of the first manifestation of that enor- 
mous difference which exists between the point of 
view of men and women in after life. 
Women are, in a sense, the embodiment of practice. 
 
while men are the representatives of theory. In 
practice, in a race for life, the runner who jumps 
everything in his way is always right, unless he 
breaks his neck. In theory, he is as likely to break 
his neck at the first jump as at the second, and the 
chances of his coming to grief increase quickly, 
always in theory, as he grows tired. So theory says 
that it is safer never to jump at all, but to go round 
through the gates, or wade ignominiously through 
the water. Women jump ; men go round. The dif- 
ference is everything. Women believe in what often 
succeeds in practice, and they take all risks and 
sometimes come down with a crash. Men theorize 
about danger, make elaborate calculations to avoid it 
and occasionally stick in the mud. When women 
fall at a stone wall they scream, when men are stuck 
in a bog they swear. The difference is fundamental. 
In nine cases out of ten it is the woman who enjoys 
the ecstatic delight of saying "I told you so," and 
there are plenty of women who would ask no greater 
joy in paradise than to say so to their husbands for 
ever and ever. Indeed, eternal reward and punish- 
ment could thus be at once combined and distributed 
in a simple manner. 
Sabina took her first fence that evening, for when 
she put out her candle she was sure that Malipieri 
was already her friend, and that she could trust him 
in any emergency. Moreover, though she would not 
have acknowledged it, she inwardly hoped that some 
emergency might not be far in the future. 
But Malipieri walked all the way from the Via 
Ludovisi to the Palazzo Conti, which is more than a 
mile, without noticing that he had forgotten to light 
the cigar he had taken out on leaving Volterra's 
house. 
CHAPTER VI 
Malzpieki had the Palazzo Conti to himself. The 
main entrance was always shut now, and only a small 
postern, cut in one side, of the great door, was left 
ajar. The porter loafed about in the great court 
with his broom and his pipe; in the morning his 
wife went upstairs and opened a few windows, merely 
as a formality, and late in the afternoon she shut 
them again. Malipieri's man generally went out 
twice every day, carrying a military dinner-pail, 
made in three sections, which he brought back half 
an hour later. Malipieri sometimes was not seen for 
several days, but frequently he went out in the 
morning and did not come back till dark. Now and 
then, things were delivered for him at the door, — a 
tin of oil for his lamps, a large box of candles, pack- 
ages of odd shapes, sometimes very heavy, and which 
the porter was told to handle with care. 
The old man tried to make acquaintance Tvith 
Malipieri's man, but foun'd it less easy than he had 
expected. In the first place, Masin came from some 
outlandish part of Italy where an abominable dialect 
was spoken, and though he could speak school Italian 
when he pleased, he chose to talk to the porter in 
his native jargon, when he talked at all. He might 
just as well have spoken Greek. Secondly, he re- 
fused the porter's repeated offers of a litre at the 
wine shop, always saying something which sounded 
