enough to begin at the beans. If I kept 
house I should not work every moment 
of the time, I know. When I am mar- 
ried— ” 
Bessie fell into a brown study there, 
and out of the chaos of thought came 
a bright idea. There was a book 
up in Dick’s room that she wanted to 
 
read; she had stolen a few pages of it 
already. She did not even pause to 
brush up the kitchen, but ran upstairs. 
The room was in perfect order. On 
his table lay a Bible, a Familiar Science, 
and a Tourist 's Guide. Dick had a mean 
way of hiding his nice story books, and 
mamma approved of it. When she was a 
young lady she would read everything 
that she wanted to. Patchwork and 
crocheting were foolish things and a 
great waste of time nowadays— Mrs. 
Alwin said so the other day. And mend- 
ing and all that, Bessie had a little twinge 
of conscience there. Her stocking darn- 
ing for the week was not done, because 
she went out to tea yesterday. "But, 
then, there is plenty of time," she said 
to herself. 
So Bessie began to hunt around ; three 
 
bureau drawers were searched with no 
result, hut the fourth was locked. She 
found her mother’s hunch of keys, hut 
none of them would fit. Her own little 
trunk key— but no. There was some- 
thing in the drawer, of course— the book 
she wanted and maybe others. Then a 
bright thought came into her mind. 
Take out the drawer above it, to be sure ! 
It was quite heavy and her arms were 
not very strong, so it came down with a 
crash, tumbling out the clothes, and a 
bottle of something that, fortunately, did 
not break. Yes, there was the very book. 
She seized it eagerly, found her place, 
sat down by the window, and forgot all 
else. 
‘When you are older and have more 
judgment you may read some of these 
works,” her mother had said, ‘'but at 
 
present excessive reading is a bad habit, 
and I do not want your mind taken away 
from your studies. There are other 
reasons, too, that you will understand 
as you grow older. 
I T was vacation now, so her mother 's 
restrictions could not hold good. 
She read on and on until Freddy 
came trudging upstairs crying— 
‘‘Bessie, Bessie, I’m so hungry, I want 
a biscuit. Oh, you’ve broken Dick’s 
bureau ! ’ ’ 
Bessie started in guilty affright and let 
her book fall. 
“Go right downstairs, Fred, right 
away!” stamping her foot. 
‘ ‘ But you ’ve broken the bureau ! ’ ’ 
“No, I haven’t!” Then, recovering 
from her fright, she said with a laugh, 
“I was only fixing Dick’s clothes. Come 
 
down with sister and she will give you 
a nice piece of cake/’ 
Bessie knew by experience that to beg 
Freddy not to tell was the surest way to 
make him. And though she did not feel 
in a very pleasant humor, she wanted to 
lead him to forget the incident, or if he 
did mention it to have him do so in no 
suspicious manner. 
‘AVill you have a piece of this nice 
gingerbread, or a biscuit? Oh, Freddy, 
what have you been doing? Making a 
fire there on the floor? You had, wicked 
boy ! Why, you might have set the house 
on fire ! I have a good mind not to give 
you anything.” 
‘Mt was only a little bonfire,” whim- 
pered Freddy. '‘It fell oft of the stove 
hearth and burned, and I couldn’t pick 
it up.” 
 
There was a scorched spot on the floor 
that mother 's sharp eyes would be sure 
to detect. Oh, dear! 
She scolded Freddy soundly. He 
cried, and she gave him a piece of cake 
to pacify him, swept up the fragments, 
and lifted the stove lid. The fire was 
out. Just then the clock struck eleven. 
First of all, she must go upstairs and 
put Dick’s bureau in order. If she only 
dared take the book out. Would he look 
at dinner-time! 
She stood and considered, read another 
page, and then hurriedly thrust the book 
back into its place, took up the drawer 
and began to push it in, but alas, it 
seemed a world too big. If one corner 
went in the other wouldn’t. If the bot- 
tom went in the top caught. She pinched 
her fingers, scraped her knuckles, cried a 
 
little, and at last, by accident, bit the 
fortunate medium. The clothes were 
tumbled in. Which corner held the 
bottle? For the life of her she could 
not tell ; so she put it in at a venture and 
ran downstairs. Half-past eleven, and 
no fire, no beans shelled, no potatoes 
ready! She let down the coal and put 
in some dry wood, set the tea-kettle over, 
washed her potatoes, burned two fingers 
in her haste, then went at arranging the 
table. 
don’t believe father knew about 
the beans,” putting them out of sight. 
‘‘There is cold meat and pie, and it will 
do well enough. Oh, dear, my poor 
fingers ! ’ ’ 
Father and Jamie came in at a quarter 
past twelve; Dick, who was in a store, 
five minutes later. She had managed to 
 
wash Freddy, and he had begged her not 
to tell abont the fire, because he meant 
to be so very good all day long. But 
she was flurried, and her hand pained, 
and altogether she felt like crying. 
‘‘Well, little housekeeper,'’ exclaimed 
Dick, cheerily, “your table looks as nice 
as a new pin. There is one white mark 
for you. I am to keep account, you 
know. ’ ’ 
Bessie flushed uneasily. She wasn’t 
bad or deceitful by nature, or rather, I 
should say, not persistently, and now her 
conscience smote her, because she knew 
she did not deserve a white mark. 
“I want to stay home this afternoon,” 
declared Jamie; “I am going to make 
my pigeon coop.” 
“You had better come with me, and 
I’ll do it this evening. You might bring 
 
a basket and gather some nice wild 
grapes, said his father. 
Can’t I go, too?” asked Freddy. 
''I’m tired of being all alone.” 
‘'No, yon stay with sister this after- 
noon. To-morrow I will take you and 
Jamie riding as far as the stone bridge 
if you are good boj's. ’ ’ 
That settled the matter happily. 
‘'Oh, Bessie,” her father said, pres- 
ently, ‘ ' I picked some limas this morning 
for dinner. I suppose your mother for- 
got to speak of it. You might cook them 
for tea. They are coming on so fast. ’ ’ 
'‘Well, I will hunt them up,” she said, 
with a little flush. 
She was very glad to get them all out 
of the way. Freddy lay on the lounge 
with his picture-book in his hand, and 
she knew he would soon drop asleep. 
She ran upstairs to take another glance 
at Dick’s drawer. It did look tumbled, 
so she straightened out the articles, 
placed them in little piles, and left it 
