Nat Barclay turned to Bernard.
“Shall we let him hurt little Frank?” he asked.
“Not much.”
As Bernard spoke he strode towards Septimus, who thus far had not
observed him.
“Stop that, you young brute!” he said in an imperious tone. “Do you hear
me?”
Septimus turned quickly, and his scowl became deeper when he saw who had
spoken to him; for if there was any boy he hated it was Bernard, who had
interfered with him more than once.
“Yes,” he said. “I hear and I won’t do it.”
“You won’t, eh?”
“No, I won’t, and you’d better be careful what you say or do, or I’ll
tell pa, and then----”
“And then what?”
“You’ll get a flogging.”
“That doesn’t frighten me much. Are you going to stop?”
“No, I’m not.” and Septimus gave an extra twist that made Frank cry out.
Bernard concluded that the time for remonstrance was past. He sprang
forward, and seizing Septimus in his powerful grasp, tore him from his
young victim.
“I’ll pay you up for this!” shrieked Septimus, as he flung himself upon
Bernard.
Bernard laid him on his back in less than a minute.
“Do you want any more?” he asked, rather contemptuously.
Just at this moment the kitten saw a favorable opportunity to escape,
and ran down the trunk of the tree. As she was running away Septimus
caught sight of her, and his cruel instincts were aroused. He seized a
rock and flung it at her. Had it struck the kitten she would have been
seriously hurt.
Bernard was fond of pets, and his soul revolted at cruelty in any form.
“I see you can’t be trusted, Septimus,” he said composedly. “Nat, come
here and help secure him.”
“What shall I do?” asked Nat.
“Hold his hands.”
Nat Barclay complied with his request, and Bernard taking the cord which
Septimus had used on Frank, quickly and securely tied the hands of the
young tyrant.
Septimus struggled and threatened, but without effect. In less than a
minute he was securely bound.
“There,” said Bernard, “you are safe for a short time.”
“Untie my hands, or I’ll get my father to flog you!” screamed Septimus.
“Perhaps you’d better,” said Nat Barclay in a low voice. He was afraid
his friend would get into trouble.
“No, I won’t. Septimus needs the lesson. You needn’t worry about me. Now
we’ll go to the post-office.”
The two boys kept on their way, and Septimus, his hands tied, with wrath
in his heart, started for home.
Mr. Snowdon was just coming out of the front door, when to his
astonished gaze was revealed his son and heir walking towards the house,
with his hands close together, like a prisoner in handcuffs.
“What does all this mean?” he asked in surprise. “What have you been
tying your hands for?”
“I didn’t tie my hands,” said Septimus sullenly. “Do you think I am a
fool?”
“Septimus, you should not speak to your father like this. If you did not
tie your hands, who did?”
“Who did? That young loafer Bernard Brooks. I want you to flog him
within an inch of his life.”
“Bernard Brooks tied your hands?”
“Didn’t I say so?”
“But why did you let him do it?”
“How could I help it, when he had Nat Barclay with him?”
“So Nat Barclay was with him?”
“Yes, he was.”
“I forbade him to associate with that Barclay.”
“Much he cares for your orders. When I told him you would flog him, he
laughed!”
“Oh, he laughed, did he?” said Mr. Snowdon, much incensed.
“Yes, he doesn’t care for you,” said Septimus, craftily fanning his
father’s wrath.
“I’ll learn him,” said Mr. Snowdon, shaking his head vigorously. “He’ll
see that I am not to be trifled with. But what did he tie your hands
for?”
“Just cut the cord and I’ll tell you. It hurts like all possessed.”
Mr. Snowdon drew a jack knife from his pocket and severed the cord.
Septimus breathed a sigh of relief.
“See how very red my wrists are?” he said. “Pa, do me a favor.”
“Well, what is it?”
“Keep this cord, and let me tie Bernard’s hands with it.”
“A good idea, Septimus. Now tell me what he tied your hands for \”
“For just nothing at all.”
“There must have been something.”
“Well, you see Frank Fisk’s kitten was up in a tree, and I was shying
stones at it. Frank made such a fuss that I took out a cord and thought
I would tie his hands just to give him a lesson. Just then those two
loafers came along, and had the impudence to tell me to stop, just as if
they had any authority over me. Of course I told them it was none of
their business, and defied them.”
“Very proper, Septimus. You are only responsible for your conduct to
me.”
“Then Bernard Brooks made a savage attack upon me, and getting Nat
Barclay to hold my hands, he tied them. What do you say to that, pa?”
“What do I say? That it was a high-handed and outrageous proceeding.”
“Bully for you, pa! You express my sentiments. Now what are you goin’ to
do about it?”
“I shall call the Brooks boy to account. He forgets that he is under my
charge.”
“He seems to think I am under his charge. Say, pa, you won’t allow your
son to be insulted and trod upon, will you?”
“No, I won’t, Septimus. For some time I have been thinking that it would
be necessary to flog Bernard Brooks, and now I have made up my mind to
do it.”
“Good, pa! You’ll let me see you tackle him, won’t you?”
“Yes, Septimus, I will. I can understand the gratification it will give
you.”
“If you do that will pay me for what he did to me.”
“But perhaps he won’t come back,” said Mr. Snowdon in an apprehensive
tone. “In that case I shall lose the quarterly sum his guardian pays
me.”
“You don’t think he’ll run away?” asked Septimus.
Half an hour later this question was answered. Bernard was seen
approaching the house, his manner cool and composed, while he looked
neither troubled nor flurried.
CHAPTER III.  BROUGHT TO BAY.
|When Bernard saw Septimus Snowdon and his father standing in front of
the house he understood at once, from the expression of their faces,
that trouble was in store for him.
“Well, sir,” said Mr. Snowdon curtly, “so you have come home at last?”
“Yes, sir. There was no letter for you.”
“Ahem! I shall have to write a letter to your guardian.”
Bernard shrugged his shoulders, but did not think it necessary to say
anything, rather to the disappointment of Ezekiel, who wished to draw
him out, “I find,” he said, “that you have made an outrageous assault on
my innocent boy. What have you to say in extenuation of your conduct?”
“Only that your innocent boy was stoning a kitten, and bullying a young
boy.”
“Even if he were, what business was it of yours?”
“It will always be my business to protect children and animals from
being abused,” said Bernard warmly.
“You are a very impudent boy! Are you aware that the boy you assaulted
is my son?”
“I ought to be aware of it. There isn’t another boy in town who would be
guilty of such brutal conduct.”
“Are you goin’ to stand that, pa?” asked Septimus, anxious to
precipitate a conflict between Bernard and his father.
“No, I am not,” said Mr. Snowdon, compressing his lips. “Get me the
horsewhip.”
No command could have been more pleasant to Septimus. He ran into the
house, and soon reappeared with an ordinary horsewhip with which his
father was in the habit of punishing the pupils under his charge.
He handed it to his father with a malicious smile.
“There it is, pa!” he said. “Lay it on heavy.”
Mr. Snowdon did not immediately proceed to make use of the whip.
Considering Bernard to be in his power, he was disposed to play with him
as a cat plays with a mouse of whom it is preparing to make a victim.
“Do you know what I am going to do, Bernard Brooks?” he demanded
sternly.
“Suppose you tell me,” said Bernard quietly.
“I am going to flog you.”
“What for?”
“For assaulting my boy.”
“Why don’t you let him do it?”
“Septimus, do you wish to chastise Bernard with this whip, and so punish
him for his attack upon you?”
There was nothing that Septimus would have liked better, but there was
something in Bernard’s steady look that made him think it would not be
prudent.
“I guess you’d better flog him, pa,” he said, after a pause.
“Very well, my son, I will.”
Whip in hand, Ezekiel Snowdon advanced upon his refractory pupil.
Bernard did not wait meekly to receive the punishment, neither did he
care to get into a fight with the teacher. He turned and ran through the
back yard and down a lane leading to a tract of marsh which belonged to
the Snowdon farm. “He’ll get away, pa!” said Septimus.
“Try to head him off, my son!”
Septimus, who was in the path, tried to do so, but a swinging blow from
Bernard nearly prostrated him, and the fugitive kept on. Mr. Snowdon’s
blood was up. Brandishing the whip in his long and sinewy arms, he kept
his thin legs in motion, and pursued Bernard with as great speed as he
was capable of.
But Bernard had several rods the start, and he was a good runner. He
kept on, occasionally looking back to see what progress his pursuer was
making.
“What does, the boy mean by running to the marsh?” thought Mr. Snowdon.
“He is a fool. I shall catch him there to a certainty.”
Bernard probably had views of his own. Indeed, it is quite certain that
he had a plan by which he hoped to bring discomfiture upon his dignified
preceptor. He made straight for the marsh, till he found his progress
barred by a wide ditch about half full of slimy water.
