to do something. To do something, I mean," said Chadf 
"to commemorate an event so — what do they call it? — sc, 
auspicious. I see you make out, and not unnaturally," he 
continued, " that bringing me home in triumph as a sort o f 
wedding-present to mother would commemorate it better 
than anything else. You want to make a bonfire in fact, ' 
he laughed, " and you pitch me on. Thank you, thanl  
you ! " he laughed again. ,, 
He was altogether easy about it, and this made Strethe 
now see how, at bottom, and in spite of the shade of shy 
ness that really cost him nothing, he had from the firs 
moment been easy about everything. The shade of shy ; 
ness was mere good taste. People with manners former
could apparently have, as one of their best cards, the
shade of shyness too. He had leaned a little forward to
speak ; his elbows were on the table ; and the inscrutably
new face that he had got somewhere and somehow wa;i 
brought by the movement nearer to his companion's! 
There was a fascination for that companion in its no 
being, this ripe physiognomy, the face that, under observa 
tion at least, he had originally carried away from Woollett 
Strether found a certain freedom on his own side in de 
fining it as that of a man of the world — a formula tha 
indeed seemed to come now in some degree to his relief I 
that of a man to whom things had happened and wen 
variously known. In gleams, in glances, the past die 
perhaps peep out of it ; but such lights were faint and 
instantly merged. Chad was brown and thick and strong 
and, of old, Chad had been rough. Was all the difference
therefore that he was actually smooth? Possibly; for 
that he was smooth was as marked as in the taste of
sauce or in the rub of a hand. The effect of it way 
general — it had retouched his features, drawn them with
cleaner line. It had cleared his eyes and settled his colour 
and polished his fine square teeth — the main ornament of 
his face ; and at the same time that it had given him a 
form and a surface, almost a design, it had toned his voice, 
established his accent, encouraged his smile to more play 
and his other motions to less. He had formerly, with a 
great deal of action, expressed very little ; and he now 
expressed whatever was necessary with almost none at all. 
It was as if, in short, he had really, copious perhaps, but 
shapeless, been put into a firm mould and turned success- 
fully out. The phenomenon — Strether kept eyeing it as 
a phenomenon, an eminent case — was marked enough to be 
touched by the finger. He finally put his hand across the 
table and laid it on Chad's arm. " If you'll promise me — 
here on the spot and giving me your word of honour — to 
break straight off, you'll make the future the real right 
thing for all of us alike. You'll ease off the strain of this . 
decent, but none the less acute, suspense in which I've for 
so many days been waiting for you, and let me turn in to 
rest. I shall leave you with my blessing and go to bed in   
peace."   
Chad again fell back at this, and, with his hands in his 
pockets, settled a little in his chair ; in which posture he 
looked, though he rather anxiously smiled, only the more 
earnest Then Strether seemed to see that he was really 
nervous, and he took that as what he would have called a 
wholesome sign. The only mark of it hitherto had been 
his more than once taking off and putting on his wide- 
brimmed crush hat. He had at this moment made the 
motion again to remove it, then had only pushed it back, 
so that it hung informally on his strong young grizzled 
crop. It was a touch that gave the note of the familiar — 
the intimate and the belated — to their quiet colloquy ; and 
it was indeed by some such trivial aid that Strether be- 
came aware at the same moment of something else. The 
observation was at any rate determined in him by some 
light too fine to distinguish from so many others, but it 
was none the less sharply determined. Chad looked 
unmistakably during these instants — well, as Strether put 
it to himself, all he was worth. Our friend had a sudden 
apprehension of what, on certain sides, that would be. He 
saw him, in short, in a flash, as the young man marked out   
by women ; and for a concentrated minute the dignity, the I 
comparative austerity, as he funnily fancied it, of this J 
character, affected him almost with awe. There was an ji 
experience on his interlocutor's part that looked out at ji 
him from under the displaced hat, and that looked out J 
moreover by a force of its own, the deep fact of its quan-   
tity and quality, and not through Chad's intending bravado   
or swagger. So that was the way men marked out by 
women were — and also the men by whom the women 
were doubtless in turn sufficiently distinguished. It ; 
affected Strether for thirty seconds as a relevant truth ; a t 
truth which, however, the next minute, had fallen into its  
relation. " Can't you imagine there being some questions," , 
Chad asked, " that a fellow — however much impressed by  
your charming way of stating things — would like to put to  
you first?" 
" Oh yes — easily. I'm here to answer everything. I 
think I can even tell you things, of the greatest interest to 
you, that you won't know enough to ask me. We'll take 
as many days to it as you like. But I want," Strether 
wound up, " to go to bed now." 
" Really ? " 
Chad had spoken in such surprise that he was amused. 
" Can't you believe it ? — with what you put me through ? " 
The young man seemed to consider. " Oh, I haven't 
put )'ou through much — yet." 
" Do you mean there's so much more to come ? " Strether 
laughed. "All the more reason then that I should gird 
myself." And, as if to mark what he felt he could by this 
time count on, he was already on his feet. He knew he 
showed he was glad to bring his effort to an end. 
Chad, still seated, stayed him, with a hand against him, 
as he passed him between their table and the next. "Oh, 
we shall get on ! " 
The tone was, as it were, everything Strether could have 
desired ; and quite as good the expression of face with 
which the speaker had looked up at him and kindly held 
him. All these things lacked was perhaps not showing 
quite so much as the fruit of experience. Yes, experience 
was what Chad did play on him, if he didn't play any 
grossness of defiance. Of course experience was in a 
manner defiance ; but it wasn't, at any rate — rather indeed 
quite the contrary — grossness : which was so much gained. 
He fairly grew older, Strether thought, while he himself 
so reasoned. Then, with his mature pat of his visitor's 
arm, he also got up ; and there had been enough of it all, 
by this time, to make the visitor feel that something taas 
settled. Wasn't it settled that he had at least the testi- 
mony of Chad's own belief in a settlement? Strether 
found himself treating Chad's profession that they would 
get on as a sufficient basis for going to bed. He had not, 
however, after this, gone to bed directly ; for, after they 
had again passed out together into the mild, bright night, 
a check had virtually sprung from nothing more than a 
small circumstance which might have acted only as con- 
firming quiescence. There were people, expressive sound, 
projected light, still abroad, and after they had taken in for 
a moment, through everything, the great clear architectural 
street, they turned off, in tacit union, to the quarter of 
Strether's hotel. " Of course," Chad here abruptly began, 
" of course mother's making things out with you about me 
has been natural — and of course also you've had a good 
deal to go upon. Still, you must have filled out." 
He had stopped, leaving his friend to wonder a little 
, what point he wished to make ; and this it was that 
enabled Strether meanwhile to make one. " Oh, we've 
never pretended to go into detail. We weren't in the least 
bound to that. It was ' filling out' enough to miss you as 
 we did." 
 But Chad rather oddly insisted, though, under the high 
 lamp at their corner, where they paused, he had at first 
 looked as if touched by Strether's allusion to the long 
 sense, at home, of his absence. " What I mean is you 
 must have imagined." 
" Imagined what? " 
" Well— horrors." 
It affected Strether — horrors were so little, superficially, 
at least, in this robust and reasoning image. But he was 
none the less there to be thoroughly veracious. " Yes, I 
dare say we have imagined horrors. But whcre's the harm, 
if we haven't been wrong ? " 
Chad raised his face to the lamp, and it was one of the I 
moments at which he had, in his extraordinary way, most I 
his air of designedly showing himself. It was as if at   
these instants he just presented himself, his identity so 
rounded off, his palpable presence and his massive young   
manhood, as such a link in the chain as might practically 
amount to a kind of demonstration. It was as if — and 
how but anomalously ? — he couldn't, after all, help think-   
ing sufficiently well of these things to let them go for what I 
they were worth. What could there be in this for Strether but the hint of some self-respect, some sense of power 
oddly perverted, something latent and beyond access, 
ominous and perhaps enviable? The intimation had, the 
next thing, in a flash, taken on a name — a name on which   
our friend seized as he asked himself if he were not, per- 
haps, really dealing with an irreducible young pagan. ! 
This description — he quite jumped at it — had a sound 
that gratified his mental ear, so that, of a sudden, he had 
already adopted it. Pagan — yes, that was, wasn't it ? 
what Chad would logically be. It was what he must be. 
It was what he was. The idea was a clue and, instead 
of darkening the prospect, projected a certain clearness. 
Strether made out in this quick ray that a pagan was 
perhaps, at the pass they had come to, the thing most 
wanted at Woollett. They would be able to do with one, 
