"I sought it; you repelled it."
"I knew not how to keep it, that was all.  If I should say to you, 'My
son, I am sorry.  I have lived evilly.  I have wronged you; forgive me;
I am dying'!"  The marquis was breathing with that rapidity which
foretells of coming dissolution.  "What would you say, Jesuit?"
Brother Jacques stood petrified.
"That silence is scarce less than a curse," said the marquis.
Still Brother Jacques's tongue refused its offices.
"Ah, well, I brought you into the world carelessly, you have cursed me
out of it.  We are quits.  Begone!"  There was dignity in his gesture
toward the door.
Brother Jacques did not stir.
"Begone, I say, and let me die in peace."
"I will give you absolution, father."
The fierce, burning eyes seemed to search into Brother Jacques's soul.
There was on that proud face neither fear nor horror.  And this was the
hour Brother Jacques had planned and waited for!  For this moment he
had donned the robes, isolated himself, taken vows, suffered physical
tortures!  He had come to curse: he was offering absolution.
"Hypocrite, begone!" cried the marquis, seized with vertigo.  He tried
to strike the bell, but the effort merely sent it jangling to the
floor.  "Begone!"
"Monsieur!"
"Must I call for help?"
Brother Jacques could stand no more.  He rushed madly toward the door,
which he opened violently.  Sister Benie stood in the corridor,
transfixed.
"My son?" she faltered.  A pathetic little sob escaped her.  Her arms
reached out feebly; she fell.  Brother Jacques caught her, but she was
dead.  Her heart had broken.  With a cry such as Dante conceived in his
dream of hell, Brother Jacques fell beside her, insensible.
The marquis stared at the two prostrate figures, fumbling with his lips.
Then came the sound of hurrying feet, and Jehan, followed by the
Chevalier, entered.
"Jehan, quick!  My clothes; quick!"  The marquis was throwing aside the
coverlet.
"Father!" cried the Chevalier.
"Jehan, quick!  My clothes; quick!" the marquis cried.  "My clothes, my
clothes!  Help me!  I must dress!"
With trembling hands Jehan did as his master bade him.  The Chevalier,
appalled, glanced first at his father, then at Brother Jacques and
Sister Benie.  He leaned against the wall, dazed; understood nothing of
this scene.
"My shoes!  Yes, yes!  My sword!" rambled the dying man, in the last
frenzy.  "Paul said I should die in bed, alone.  No, no! . . .  Now,
stand me on my feet . . . that is it! . . .  Paul, it is you?  Help me!
Take me to her!  Margot, Margot? . . .  There is my heart, Jehan, the
heart of the marquis. . . .  Take me to her?  And I thought I dreamed!
Take me to her! . . .  Margot?"  He was on his knees beside her,
kissing her hands and shuddering, shuddering.
"Margot is dead, Monsieur," said the aged valet.  The tears rolled down
his leathery cheeks.
"Margot!" murmured the Chevalier.  He had never heard this name before.
What did it mean?  "Father?"  He came swiftly toward the marquis.
"Dead!"  The marquis staggered to his feet without assistance.  He
swung dizzily toward the candles on the mantel.  He struck them.  "Away
with the lights, fools."  The candles rolled and sputtered en the
floor.  "Away with them, I say!"  Toward the table he lurched, avoiding
the Chevalier's arms.  From the table he dashed the candles.  "Away
with the lights!  The Marquis de Périgny shall die as he lived . . . in
the dark!"
He fell upon the bed, his face hidden in the pillows.  When the
Chevalier reached his side he was dead.
CHAPTER XXXV
BROTHER!
For two weeks Brother Jacques lay silent on his cot; lay with an apathy
which alarmed the good brothers of the Order.  He spoke to no one, and
no sound swerved his dull gaze from the whitewashed ceiling of his
little room in the college.  Only one man could solve the mystery of
this apathy, the secret of this insensibility, and his lips were sealed
as securely as the door of a donjon-keep: Jehan.  Not even the
Chevalier could gather a single ray of light from the grim old valet.
He was silence itself.
Two weeks, and then Brother Jacques rose, put on his gown and his
rosary and his shovel-shaped hat.  The settlers, soldiers, trappers and
seigneurs saw him walk alone, day after day, along the narrow winding
streets, his chin in his collar, his shoulders stooped, his hands
clasped behind his back.  It was only when some child asked him for a
blessing that he raised his eyes and smiled.  Sometimes the snow beat
down upon him with blinding force and the north winds cut like the lash
of the Flagellants.  He heeded not; winter set no chill upon his flesh.
One morning he resolved to go forth upon his expiation.  He made up his
pack quietly.  Drawn by an irresistible, occult force, he wandered into
the room of the château where the tragedy had occurred. . . .  The
letter!  He felt in the pocket of his gown.  He drew a stool to the
window which gave upon the balcony overlooking the lower town and the
river, and sat down.
"To Monsieur le Marquis de Périgny, to be delivered into his hands at
my death."
He eyed the address, undecided.  He was weighing the advisability of
letting the Chevalier read it first.  And yet he had an equal right to
the reading.  He sighed, drew forth the contents and read . . . read
with shaking hands, read with terror, amazement, exultation, belief and
unbelief.  He rose quickly; the room, it was close; he breathed with
difficulty.  And the marquis had requested that he read it!  Irony!  He
had taken it up in his hands twice, and had not known!  Irony, irony,
irony!  He opened the window and stepped out upon the balcony.  Above
the world, half hidden under the spotless fleece of winter, a white sun
shone in a pallid sky.
Brother Jacques's skin was transparent, his hair was patched with grey,
his eyes were hollow, but at this moment his mien was lordly.  His pack
lay on the floor beyond, forgotten.  With his head high, his nostrils
wide, his arms pressing his sides and his hands clenched, he looked
toward France.  The smoke, curling up from the chimneys below, he saw
not, nor the tree-dotted Isle of Orléans, nor the rolling mainshore
opposite.  His gaze in fancy had traversed more than three thousand
miles.  He saw a grand château, terraced, with gardens, smooth
driveways, fountains and classic marbles, crisp green hills behind all
these, and a stream of running water.
Périgny.
He looked again and saw a great hôtel, surrounded by a high wall, along
the top of which, ran a cheval-de-frise.  Inside all was gloomy and
splendid, rich and ancient.  Magnificent tapestries graced the walls,
famous paintings, rare cut-glass, chased silver and filigreed gold, and
painted porcelain.
Rochelle.
Again; and in his dream-vision he saw mighty palaces and many lights,
the coming and going of great personages, soldiers famed in war,
statesmen, beautiful women with satin and jewels and humid eyes; great
feasts, music, and the loveliest flowers.
Paris.
His!  All these things were his.  It was empire; it was power, content,
riches.  His!  Had he not starved, begged, suffered?  These were his,
all his, his by human law and divine.  That letter!  It had lain under
the marquis's eyes all this time, and he had not known.  That was well.
But that fate should so unceremoniously thrust it into his hands!  Ah,
that was all very strange, obscure.  The wind, coming with a gust,
stirred the beads of his rosary; and he remembered.  He cast a glance
at his pack.  Could he carry it again?  He caught up his rosary.
Should he put this aside?  He was young; there were long years before
him.  He had suffered half the span of a man's life; need he suffer
longer?
He opened the letter and read it once again.
"To Monsieur le Marquis de Périgny: A necromancer in the Rue Dauphin
tells me that I shall not outlive you, which is to be regretted.
Therefore, my honored Marquis, I leave you this peculiar legacy.  When
you married the Princess Charlotte it was not because you loved her,
but because you hated me who loved her.  You laughed when I swore to
you that some day I would have my revenge.  Shortly after you were
married a trusted servant of mine left my house to serve me in yours.
And he served me well indeed, as presently you shall learn.  Two days
before Madame le Marquise gave birth to your son and heir, a certain
handsome peasant named Margot Bourdaloue also entered into the world a
son of yours which was not your heir.  Think you that it is Madame la
Marquise's son who ruffles it here in Paris under the name of the
Chevalier du Cévennes?  I leave you to answer this question, to solve
this puzzle, or become mad over it.  Recollect, I do not say that the
Chevalier is not the son of Madame la Marquise; I say, think you he is?
Monsieur, believe me, you have my heartiest sympathy in your trouble.
LOUIS DE BRISSAC."
"De Brissac?"
Brother Jacques's brows met in the effort to recall the significance of
this name.  Ah! the Grande Madame whom the Chevalier, his brother,
loved: his brother.  His brother.  Brother Jacques had forgotten his
brother.  He raised his eyes toward heaven, as if to make an appeal;
but his gaze dropped quickly and roved.  Somehow, he could not look to
heaven; the sun was too bright.  He saw the figures of a man and woman
who were leaning against the parapet.  The man's arm was clasped around
the woman's waist, their heads were close together, and they seemed to
be looking toward the south, as indeed they were.  Lovers, mused
Brother Jacques.  Why not he, too?  Had not the marquis said that he
was too handsome for a priest?  Why should he not be a lover, likewise?
A lover, indeed, when the one woman he loved was at this very hour
praying in the Convent of the Ursulines!  Presently the man below
turned his head.  It was the Chevalier. . . .  This time, when Brother
Jacques raised his eyes toward God, his gaze did not falter.  He had
cursed the author of his being, which was very close to cursing his
God.  There was before him, expiation.  He smiled wanly.
His brother.  Slowly he tore the letter in two, the halves into
quarters, the quarters into infinitesimal squares.  He took a pinch of
them and extended his arm, dropping the particles of paper upon the
current of the wind.  They rose, fell, eddied, swam, and rose again,
finally to fall on the roofs below.  Again and again he repeated this
act, till not a single square remained in his hand.  His brother.  He
re-entered the room, shouldered his pack, and passed from the château.
The dream of empire was gone; the day of expiation was begun.  Later he
was seen making his way toward the parapet.
The Chevalier and madame continued to gaze toward the south, toward the
scene of the great catastrophe of their lives.  They had been talking
it over again: the journey through the forest, the conflict at the hut,
