not to sneak into the house by another way and safely reach her room.
She had literally caught herself in the act of dodging and ducking, and
it told her there, vividly, in a single word, what she had all along
been most afraid of.
She had been afraid of the particular passage with Charlotte that would
determine her father’s wife to take him into her confidence as she
couldn’t possibly as yet have done, to prepare for him a statement
of her wrong, to lay before him the infamy of what she was apparently
suspected of. This, should she have made up her mind to do it, would
rest on a calculation the thought of which evoked, strangely, other
possibilities and visions. It would show her as sufficiently believing
in her grasp of her husband to be able to assure herself that, with his
daughter thrown on the defensive, with Maggie’s cause and Maggie’s word,
in fine, against her own, it wasn’t Maggie’s that would most certainly
carry the day. Such a glimpse of her conceivable idea, which would be
founded on reasons all her own, reasons of experience and assurance,
impenetrable to others, but intimately familiar to herself--such a
glimpse opened out wide as soon as it had come into view; for if so much
as this was still firm ground between the elder pair, if the beauty of
appearances had been so consistently preserved, it was only the golden
bowl as Maggie herself knew it that had been broken. The breakage stood
not for any wrought discomposure among the triumphant three--it stood
merely for the dire deformity of her attitude toward them. She was
unable at the minute, of course, fully to measure the difference thus
involved for her, and it remained inevitably an agitating image, the
way it might be held over her that if she didn’t, of her own prudence,
satisfy Charlotte as to the reference, in her mocking spirit, of so much
of the unuttered and unutterable, of the constantly and unmistakably
implied, her father would be invited without further ceremony to
recommend her to do so. But ANY confidence, ANY latent operating
insolence, that Mrs. Verver should, thanks to her large native
resources, continue to be possessed of and to hold in reserve, glimmered
suddenly as a possible working light and seemed to offer, for meeting
her, a new basis and something like a new system. Maggie felt, truly, a
rare contraction of the heart on making out, the next instant, what the
new system would probably have to be--and she had practically done that
before perceiving that the thing she feared had already taken place.
Charlotte, extending her search, appeared now to define herself vaguely
in the distance; of this, after an instant, the Princess was sure,
though the darkness was thick, for the projected clearness of the
smoking-room windows had presently contributed its help. Her friend came
slowly into that circle--having also, for herself, by this time, not
indistinguishably discovered that Maggie was on the terrace. Maggie,
from the end, saw her stop before one of the windows to look at the
group within, and then saw her come nearer and pause again, still with a
considerable length of the place between them.
Yes, Charlotte had seen she was watching her from afar, and had stopped
now to put her further attention to the test. Her face was fixed on her,
through the night; she was the creature who had escaped by force from
her cage, yet there was in her whole motion assuredly, even as so dimly
discerned, a kind of portentous intelligent stillness. She had escaped
with an intention, but with an intention the more definite that it
could so accord with quiet measures. The two women, at all events, only
hovered there, for these first minutes, face to face over their interval
and exchanging no sign; the intensity of their mutual look might have
pierced the night, and Maggie was at last to start with the scared sense
of having thus yielded to doubt, to dread, to hesitation, for a time
that, with no other proof needed, would have completely given her away.
How long had she stood staring?--a single minute or five? Long enough,
in any case, to have felt herself absolutely take from her visitor
something that the latter threw upon her, irresistibly, by this effect
of silence, by this effect of waiting and watching, by this effect,
unmistakably, of timing her indecision and her fear. If then, scared and
hanging back, she had, as was so evident, sacrificed all past pretences,
it would have been with the instant knowledge of an immense advantage
gained that Charlotte finally saw her come on. Maggie came on with her
heart in her hands; she came on with the definite prevision, throbbing
like the tick of a watch, of a doom impossibly sharp and hard, but to
which, after looking at it with her eyes wide open, she had none the
less bowed her head. By the time she was at her companion’s side, for
that matter, by the time Charlotte had, without a motion, without a
word, simply let her approach and stand there, her head was already
on the block, so that the consciousness that everything had now gone
blurred all perception of whether or no the axe had fallen. Oh, the
“advantage,” it was perfectly enough, in truth, with Mrs. Verver; for
what was Maggie’s own sense but that of having been thrown over on her
back, with her neck, from the first, half broken and her helpless face
staring up? That position only could account for the positive grimace of
weakness and pain produced there by Charlotte’s dignity.
“I’ve come to join you--I thought you would be here.”
“Oh yes, I’m here,” Maggie heard herself return a little flatly. “It’s
too close in-doors.”
“Very--but close even here.” Charlotte was still and grave--she had even
uttered her remark about the temperature with an expressive weight that
verged upon solemnity; so that Maggie, reduced to looking vaguely about
at the sky, could only feel her not fail of her purpose. “The air’s
heavy as if with thunder--I think there’ll be a storm.” She made the
suggestion to carry off an awkwardness--which was a part, always, of
her companion’s gain; but the awkwardness didn’t diminish in the silence
that followed. Charlotte had said nothing in reply; her brow was dark
as with a fixed expression, and her high elegance, her handsome head
and long, straight neck testified, through the dusk, to their inveterate
completeness and noble erectness. It was as if what she had come out
to do had already begun, and when, as a consequence, Maggie had said
helplessly, “Don’t you want something? won’t you have my shawl?”
 everything might have crumbled away in the comparative poverty of the
tribute. Mrs. Verver’s rejection of it had the brevity of a sign that
they hadn’t closed in for idle words, just as her dim, serious face,
uninterruptedly presented until they moved again, might have represented
the success with which she watched all her message penetrate. They
presently went back the way she had come, but she stopped Maggie again
within range of the smoking-room window and made her stand where the
party at cards would be before her. Side by side, for three minutes,
they fixed this picture of quiet harmonies, the positive charm of it
and, as might have been said, the full significance--which, as was now
brought home to Maggie, could be no more, after all, than a matter of
interpretation, differing always for a different interpreter. As she
herself had hovered in sight of it a quarter-of-an-hour before, it would
have been a thing for her to show Charlotte--to show in righteous irony,
in reproach too stern for anything but silence. But now it was she
who was being shown it, and shown it by Charlotte, and she saw quickly
enough that, as Charlotte showed it, so she must at present submissively
seem to take it.
The others were absorbed and unconscious, either silent over their game
or dropping remarks unheard on the terrace; and it was to her father’s
quiet face, discernibly expressive of nothing that was in his daughter’s
mind, that our young woman’s attention was most directly given. His wife
and his daughter were both closely watching him, and to which of them,
could he have been notified of this, would his raised eyes first, all
impulsively, have responded; in which of them would he have felt it most
important to destroy--for HIS clutch at the equilibrium--any germ of
uneasiness? Not yet, since his marriage, had Maggie so sharply and
so formidably known her old possession of him as a thing divided
and contested. She was looking at him by Charlotte’s leave and under
Charlotte’s direction; quite in fact as if the particular way she should
look at him were prescribed to her; quite, even, as if she had been
defied to look at him in any other. It came home to her too that
the challenge wasn’t, as might be said, in his interest and for his
protection, but, pressingly, insistently, in Charlotte’s, for that of
HER security at any price. She might verily, by this dumb demonstration,
have been naming to Maggie the price, naming it as a question for Maggie
herself, a sum of money that she, properly, was to find. She must remain
safe and Maggie must pay--what she was to pay with being her own affair.
Straighter than ever, thus, the Princess again felt it all put upon
her, and there was a minute, just a supreme instant, during which
there burned in her a wild wish that her father would only look up. It
throbbed for these seconds as a yearning appeal to him--she would chance
it, that is, if he would but just raise his eyes and catch them, across
the larger space, standing in the outer dark together. Then he might
be affected by the sight, taking them as they were; he might make some
sign--she scarce knew what--that would save her; save her from being
the one, this way, to pay all. He might somehow show a preference--
distinguishing between them; might, out of pity for her, signal to her
that this extremity of her effort for him was more than he asked. That
represented Maggie’s one little lapse from consistency--the sole small
deflection in the whole course of her scheme. It had come to nothing the
next minute, for the dear man’s eyes had never moved, and Charlotte’s
hand, promptly passed into her arm, had already, had very firmly
drawn her on--quite, for that matter, as from some sudden, some equal
perception on her part too of the more ways than one in which their
impression could appeal. They retraced their steps along the rest of the
terrace, turning the corner of the house, and presently came abreast of
the other windows, those of the pompous drawing-room, still lighted and
still empty. Here Charlotte again paused, and it was again as if she
were pointing out what Maggie had observed for herself, the very look
the place had of being vivid in its stillness, of having, with all its
great objects as ordered and balanced as for a formal reception, been
appointed for some high transaction, some real affair of state. In
presence of this opportunity she faced her companion once more; she
traced in her the effect of everything she had already communicated; she
signified, with the same success, that the terrace and the sullen night
would bear too meagre witness to the completion of her idea. Soon enough
then, within the room, under the old lustres of Venice and the eyes of
the several great portraits, more or less contemporary with these, that
awaited on the walls of Fawns their final far migration--soon enough
Maggie found herself staring, and at first all too gaspingly, at the
grand total to which each separate demand Mrs. Verver had hitherto made
upon her, however she had made it, now amounted.
“I’ve been wanting--and longer than you’d perhaps believe--to put a
question to you for which no opportunity has seemed to me yet quite so
good as this. It would have been easier perhaps if you had struck me as
in the least disposed ever to give me one. I have to take it now, you
see, as I find it.” They stood in the centre of the immense room, and
Maggie could feel that the scene of life her imagination had made of it
twenty minutes before was by this time sufficiently peopled. These few
straight words filled it to its uttermost reaches, and nothing was now
absent from her consciousness, either, of the part she was called upon
to play in it. Charlotte had marched straight in, dragging her rich
train; she rose there beautiful and free, with her whole aspect and
action attuned to the firmness of her speech. Maggie had kept the shawl
