head?
    "The ux exists. There is no longer room for doubt. Ocular
    proof I can now offer in the shape of five living eggs of
    this gigantic bird. All measures have been taken to hatch
    these eggs; they are now in the vast incubator. It is my plan
    to have them hatch, one by one, under the very eyes of the
    International Congress. It will be the greatest triumph that
    science has witnessed since the discovery of the New World.
          [Signed] "SUSANNE D'ALZETTE."
"Either," I cried out, in uncontrollable excitement--"either that girl
is mad or she is the cleverest woman on earth."
After a moment I added:
"In either event I am going to marry her."
XI
That evening, a few minutes before nine o'clock, I descended from a
cab in front of No. 8 Rue d'Alouette, and was ushered into a pretty
reception-room by an irreproachable servant, who disappeared directly
with my card.
In a few moments the young Countess came in, exquisite in her silvery
dinner-gown, eyes bright, white arms extended in a charming, impulsive
welcome. The touch of her silky fingers thrilled me; I was dumb under
the enchantment of her beauty; and I think she understood my silence,
for her blue eyes became troubled and the happy parting of her lips
changed to a pensive curve.
Presently I began to tell her about my bronzed-green feather; at my
first word she looked up brightly, almost gratefully, I fancied; and
in another moment we were deep in eager discussion of the subject
which had first drawn us together.
What evidence I possessed to sustain our theory concerning the
existence of the ux I hastened to reveal; then, heart beating
excitedly, I asked her about the eggs and where they were at present,
and whether she believed it possible to bring them to Paris--all these
questions in the same breath--which brought a happy light into her
eyes and a delicious ripple of laughter to her lips.
"Why, of course it is possible to bring the eggs here," she cried. "Am
I sure? Parbleu! The eggs are already here, monsieur!"
"Here!" I exclaimed. "In Paris?"
"In Paris? Mais oui; and in my own house--this very house, monsieur.
Come, you shall behold them with your own eyes!"
Her eyes were brilliant with excitement; impulsively she stretched out
her rosy hand. I took it; and she led me quickly back through the
drawing-room, through the dining-room, across the butler's pantry, and
into a long, dark hallway. We were almost running now--I keeping tight
hold of her soft little hand, she, raising her gown a trifle, hurrying
down the hallway, silken petticoats rustling like a silk banner in the
wind. A turn to the right brought us to the cellar-stairs; down we
hastened, and then across the cemented floor towards a long,
glass-fronted shelf, pierced with steam-pipes.
"A match," she whispered, breathlessly.
I struck a wax match and touched it to the gas-burner overhead.
Never, never can I forget what that flood of gas-light revealed. In a
row stood five large, glass-mounted incubators; behind the glass doors
lay, in dormant majesty, five enormous eggs. The eggs were
pale-green--lighter, somewhat, than robins' eggs, but not as pale as
herons' eggs. Each egg appeared to be larger than a large hogs-head,
and was partly embedded in bales of cotton-wool.
Five little silver thermometers inside the glass doors indicated a
temperature of 95° Fahrenheit. I noticed that there was an automatic
arrangement connected with the pipes which regulated the temperature.
I was too deeply moved for words. Speech seemed superfluous as we
stood there, hand in hand, contemplating those gigantic, pale-green
eggs.
There is something in a silent egg which moves one's deeper
emotions--something solemn in its embryotic inertia, something awesome
in its featureless immobility.
I know of nothing on earth which is so totally lacking in expression
as an egg. The great desert Sphinx, brooding through its veil of sand,
has not that tremendous and meaningless dignity which wraps the
colorless oval effort of a single domestic hen.
I held the hand of the young Countess very tightly. Her fingers closed
slightly.
Then and there, in the solemn presence of those emotionless eggs, I
placed my arm around her supple waist and kissed her.
She said nothing. Presently she stooped to observe the thermometer.
Naturally, it registered 95° Fahrenheit.
"Susanne," I said, softly.
"Oh, we must go up-stairs," she whispered, breathlessly; and, picking
up her silken skirts, she fled up the cellar-stairs.
I turned out the gas, with that instinct of economy which early
wastefulness has implanted in me, and followed the Countess Suzanne
through the suite of rooms and into the small reception-hall where she
had first received me.
She was sitting on a low divan, head bent, slowly turning a sapphire
ring on her finger, round and round.
I looked at her romantically, and then--
"Please don't," she said.
The correct reply to this is:
"Why not?"--very tenderly spoken.
"Because," she replied, which was also the correct and regular answer.
"Suzanne," I said, slowly and passionately.
She turned the sapphire ring on her finger. Presently she tired of
this, so I lifted her passive hand very gently and continued turning
the sapphire ring on her finger, slowly, to harmonize with the cadence
of our unspoken thoughts.
Towards midnight I went home, walking with great care through a new
street in Paris, paved exclusively with rose-colored blocks of air.
XII
At nine o'clock in the evening, July 31, 1900, the International
Congress was to assemble in the great lecture-hall of the Belgian
Scientific Pavilion, which adjourned the Tasmanian Pavilion, to hear
the Countess Suzanne d'Alzette read her paper on the ux.
That morning the Countess and I, with five furniture vans, had
transported the five great incubators to the platform of the
lecture-hall, and had engaged an army of plumbers and gas-fitters to
make the steam-heating connections necessary to maintain in the
incubators a temperature of 100° Fahrenheit.
A heavy green curtain hid the stage from the body of the lecture-hall.
Behind this curtain the five enormous eggs reposed, each in its
incubator.
The Countess Suzanne was excited and calm by turns, her cheeks were
pink, her lips scarlet, her eyes bright as blue planets at midnight.
Without faltering she rehearsed her discourse before me, reading from
her type-written manuscript in a clear voice, in which I could
scarcely discern a tremor. Then we went through the dumb show of
exhibiting the uxen eggs to a frantically applauding audience; she
responded to countless supposititious encores, I leading her out
repeatedly before the green curtain to face the great, damp, darkened
auditorium.
Then, in response to repeated imaginary recalls, she rehearsed the
extemporaneous speech, thanking the distinguished audience for their
patience in listening to an unknown confrère, and confessing her
obligations to me (here I appeared and bowed in self-abasement) for my
faith in her and my aid in securing for her a public hearing before
the most highly educated audience in the world.
After that we retired behind the curtain to sit on an empty box and
eat sandwiches and watch the last lingering plumbers pasting up the
steam connections with a pot of molten lead.
The plumbers were Americans, brought to Paris to make repairs on the
American buildings during the exposition, and we conversed with them
affably as they pottered about, plumber-like, poking under the
flooring with lighted candles, rubbing their thumbs up and down musty
old pipes, and prying up planks in dark corners.
They informed us that they were union men and that they hoped we were
too. And I replied that union was certainly my ultimate purpose, at
which the young Countess smiled dreamily at vacancy.
We did not dare leave the incubators. The plumbers lingered on, hour
after hour, while we sat and watched the little silver thermometers,
and waited.
It was time for the Countess Suzanne to dress, and still the plumbers
had not finished; so I sent a messenger for her maid, to bring her
trunk to the lecture-hall, and I despatched another messenger to my
lodgings for my evening clothes and fresh linen.
There were several dressing-rooms off the stage. Here, about six
o'clock, the Countess retired with her maid, to dress, leaving me to
watch the plumbers and the thermometers.
When the Countess Suzanne returned, radiant and lovely in an evening
gown of black lace, I gave her the roses I had brought for her and
hurried off to dress in my turn, leaving her to watch the
thermometers.
I was not absent more than half an hour, but when I returned I found
the Countess anxiously conversing with the plumbers and pointing
despairingly at the thermometers, which now registered only 95°.
"You must keep up the temperature!" I said. "Those eggs are due to
hatch within a few hours. What's the trouble with the heat?"
The plumber did not know, but thought the connections were defective.
"But that's why we called you in!" exclaimed the Countess. "Can't you
fix things securely?"
"Oh, we'll fix things, lady," replied the plumber, condescendingly,
and he ambled away to rub his thumb up and down a pipe.
As we alone were unable to move and handle the enormous eggs, the
Countess, whose sweet character was a stranger to vindictiveness or
petty resentment, had written to the members of the ornithological
committee, revealing the marvellous fortune which had crowned her
efforts in the search for evidence to sustain her theory concerning
the ux, and inviting these gentlemen to aid her in displaying the
great eggs to the assembled congress.
This she had done the night previous. Every one of the gentlemen
invited had come post-haste to her "hotel," to view the eggs with
their own sceptical and astonished eyes; and the fair young Countess
and I tasted our first triumph in her cellar, whither we conducted Sir
Peter Grebe, the Crown-Prince of Monaco, Baron de Becasse, and his
Majesty King Christian of Finland.
Scepticism and incredulity gave place to excitement and unbounded
enthusiasm. The old King embraced the Countess; Baron de Becasse
attempted to kiss me; Sir Peter Grebe made a handsome apology for his
folly and vowed that he would do open penance for his sins. The poor
Crown-Prince, who was of a nervous temperament, sat on the
cellar-stairs and wept like a child.
His grief at his own pig-headedness touched us all profoundly.
So it happened that these gentlemen were coming to-night to give their
