" I 've come — to count on — you," gasped 
the boy. With a feeble moan as if his own 
life were gashed out of him from a severed 
artery, Dan laid across Surbridge' s arm a little 
dog's coat of blue flannel, soiled and stained 
and torn. Part of the embroidered name on 
the coat had been worn off or cut off ; but 
some of the stitches were left where the let- 
tering had been, and by the street lamp Sur- 
bridge plainly read : 
IXY 
CHAPTER VIII 
The night, which was warm at the shore, and 
sultry in the city, was stifling in the labora- 
tory. The windows were closed. This was 
found desirable because complaints had arisen 
in the neighborhood of occasional strange 
sounds that seemed to come from the school 
of science. It was rumored that protests from 
the art school had taken shape ; that the hot- 
headed old signor had complained of some- 
thing affecting the nerves of his pupils. In 
the rear of the medical building was a hospi- 
tal, and during the hot weather when windows 
were open, patients had described to their 
nurses and doctors signs of animal distress 
which now and then disturbed the human 
sick. 
The medical school of Galen was an an- 
cient and independent institution, not affiliated 
with a university. All that age, endowment, 
and intellectual prestige could bestow was at 
the command of this powerful scientific centre. 
 
Its alumni could be found throughout the 
civilized world, and cherished a remarkably 
strong attachment to their school. They were 
ready to defend her as most men defend their 
country's flag, through evil report and good, 
were she right or were she wrong. Among 
the graduates (and especially, let it be noted, 
among the elder men belonging to an earlier 
day, before modern physiology had begun to 
control the curriculum) were to be found many 
of the noblest representatives of the medical 
profession — men of aspiration, self-denial, and 
consecration ; men on whom the sick leaned, 
and whom the dying trusted; men whom wo- 
men honored, and children loved, and the 
poor blessed ; men who hesitated at no sacri- 
fice, halted at no danger, and who would hurl 
away their own lives without a thought, to 
save a patient. These men, too busy in heal- 
ing the sick to inflict the ingenuities of a de- 
cadent science upon small, speechless creatures, 
thought little and knew less about what was 
going on in the fastnesses of their own medical 
school. Yet, the moment when her fair fame 
should be touched, they would spring to her 
defense like soldiers blindly following the 
 
colors through a fight in a fog. So widely 
scattered and so deeply united were the alumni 
of this celebrated school that they carried its 
powerful influence everywhere, and sustained 
in the public mind a respect for the institution 
amounting to idealization. Among the first to 
recognize and respond to this pervasive influ- 
ence had been the men of fortune. A multi- 
millionaire, who had devoted his superfluous 
thousands for some years to the endowment 
of societies for the prevention of cruelty to 
animals, one summer day upon a yachting 
cruise fell under the beguiling influence of 
the old professor of physiology at Galen 
— since gathered to his fate in a world where 
he may look long for a congenial occupation. 
The result was that Galen, although, as we 
say, a very ancient school, had a very modern 
building. This — a gift outright from the 
philanthropic capitalist who had devoted him- 
self hitherto to the interests of animals — was 
new from roof to cellar. It was not intended 
necessarily to be a replica of other buildings 
of its kind. The old professor had full swing, 
and had carried into execution some ideas of 
his own. 
 
The first floor of the school was given up 
to the lecture-rooms, offices, and so on, and 
to the physiological laboratory. This was sep- 
arated from the lecture-room which we shall 
call the amphitheatre by a short passageway, 
and by double and deadened walls. Every de- 
vice that the modern building art could offer 
for the dulling of sound had been employed. 
Floors and ceilings were tremendously thick, 
and heavily lined with mineral wool. In the 
basement of the building the unhappy crea- 
tures who furnished the material for experi- 
mental physiology were confined. The room 
where the dumb prisoners were incarcerated 
was in a wing ; some of its windows looked upon 
a yard that separated it from the hospital. 
This lower room could be reached in several 
ways ; for instance, by two flights of stairs — 
one running from the physiological labora- 
tory — and by a corridor that led out to the 
rear of the building. This corridor, which 
ramified in more than one direction, led to a 
low door (one of several exits) somewhat hid- 
den from observation by a porch or balcony 
whose purpose seemed to be ornamental only. 
This door, which opened upon an alle} r , was 
 
used by the janitor and laboratory assistants. 
Most of the students knew nothing of its ex- 
istence, and a casual passer would not have 
noticed it. The corridor of which mention has 
been made contained two closets ; one was 
used for the disposal of brooms, mops, snow- 
shovels, pails, and so on ; another for hanging 
coats and hats. This latter closet was not far 
from the low door of which we have spoken. 
It was now eleven o'clock. In the hospital 
the sick slept, or prayed that they might do 
so before dawn. In the school of the arts 
the silent studio, at night given over to the 
shades and shapes of beautiful things, aroused 
slowly to the consciousness of itself. The 
antiques regarded each other solemnly ; the 
statue of Pity seemed to breathe and turn 
its face ; but the figure of the Christ did not 
stir ; it hung at about the height of a cross, 
upon the wall. In the medical school a few 
stray students had finished their work in the 
dissecting room and had gone for the night. 
With the exception of the janitor and the 
engineer, the building was deserted now of 
human presence, and in its upper stories quiet. 
In the basement it could seldom be called 
quiet. In that inferno the circles of misery 
gave out the inarticulate expression of a doom 
worse because neither understood, elected, nor 
deserved. For the most part these signs of 
anguish were gentle and docile, and at night 
were much in abeyance. Now and then a dog 
howled, or, if not badly injured, barked ; and 
broken moans of pain answered from some 
awakened or some dreaming creature ; but 
most of the victims endured with the silence 
and patience by which the suffering animal 
shames the human race. 
The room was dark, and the atmosphere 
heavy, as has been said. Creatures accustomed 
to freedom and to fresh air gasped the night 
away. The large place was lined with cages, 
each occupied by its little prisoner. The in- 
oculated victims were many — rabbits, guinea 
pigs, and the like — all vicariously, and for 
the most part uselessly, enduring for the va- 
garies of science the maladies of man. Sights 
which the readers of these pages could not 
bring their delicate sensibilities to witness, 
facts which you who follow this narrative 
would not permit its writer to relate, crowded 
that den of anguish. 
 
Those four walls, packed with suffering I, 
kept their secrets well. Into this tragic place 
no curious reporter was admitted ; from it the 
omnipotence of the press was excluded ; into 
this pit no sister of mercy stepped ; to these 
wounded no hospital nurse brought the ministrations 
of her gentle art ; into this lair no 
preacher entered, and, leaving it, challenged 
Christian civilization with its existence ; into 
this hell no Christ descended. 
It was well after midnight when a slight 
disturbance occurred in the animal room. A 
