Confederacy. The immense exodus had begun again; the invasion was
developing; and as the tremendous red spectre receded, the hem of its
smoky robe brushed Sandy River and was gone, leaving a scorched regiment
or two along the railroad, and a hospital at Oxley Court House
overcrowded.
In the sunset light the cavalry returned passing the white mansion on
the hill. They brought in their dead and wounded on hay wagons; and the
boy, pale as a spectre, looked on, while the creaking wagons passed by
under the trees.
But it was his sister whose eyes caught the glitter of a gilt and yellow
sleeve lying across the hay; and she dropped her brother's hand and ran
out into the road.
"Is he dead?" she asked the trooper who was driving.
"No, miss. Will you take him in?"
"Yes," she said. "Bring him."
The driver drew rein, wheeled his team, and drove into the great
gateway. "Hospital's plum full, ma'am," he said. "Wait; I'll carry him
up. Head's bust a leetle--that's all. A day's nussin' will bring him
into camp again."
The trooper staggered upstairs with his burden, leaving a trail of dark,
wet spots along the stairs, even up to the girl's bed, where he placed
the wounded man.
The bandmaster became conscious when they laid him on the bed, but the
concussion troubled his eyes so that he was not certain that she was
there until she bent close over him, looking down at him in silence.
"I thought of you--when I was falling," he explained vaguely--"only of
you."
The color came into her face; but her eyes were steady. She set the
flaring dip on the bureau and came back to the bed. "We thought of you,
too," she said.
His restless hand, fumbling the quilt, closed on hers; his eyes were
shut, but his lips moved, and she bent nearer to catch his words:
"We noncombatants get into heaps of trouble--don't we?"
"Yes," she whispered, smiling; "but the worst is over now."
"There is worse coming."
"What?"
"We march--to-morrow. I shall never see you again."
After a silence she strove gently to release her hand; but his held it;
and after a long while, as he seemed to be asleep, she sat down on the
bed's edge, moving very softly lest he awaken. All the tenderness of
innocence was in her gaze, as she laid her other hand over his and left
it there, even after he stirred and his unclosing eyes met hers.
"Celia!" called the boy, from the darkened stairway, "there's a medical
officer here."
"Bring him," she said. She rose, her lingering fingers still in his,
looking down at him all the while; their hands parted, and she moved
backward slowly, her young eyes always on his.
The medical officer passed her, stepping quickly to the bedside, stopped
short, hesitated, and bending, opened the clotted shirt, placing a
steady hand over the heart.
The next moment he straightened up, pulled the sheet over the
bandmaster's face, and turned on his heel, nodding curtly to the girl
as he passed out.
When he had gone, she walked slowly to the bed and drew the sheet from
the bandmaster's face.
And as she stood there, dry-eyed, mute, from the dusky garden came the
whispering cry of the widow bird, calling, calling to the dead that
answer never more.
PART TWO
WHAT SHE BECAME
II
SPECIAL MESSENGER
On the third day the pursuit had become so hot, so unerring, that she
dared no longer follow the rutty cart road. Toward sundown she wheeled
her big bony roan into a cow path which twisted through alders for a
mile or two, emerging at length on a vast stretch of rolling country,
where rounded hills glimmered golden in the rays of the declining sun.
Tall underbrush flanked the slopes; little streams ran darkling through
the thickets; the ground was moist, even on the ridges; and she could
not hope to cover the deep imprint of her horse's feet.
She drew bridle, listening, her dark eyes fixed on the setting sun.
There was no sound save the breathing of her horse, the far sweet
trailing song of a spotted sparrow, the undertones of some hidden rill
welling up through matted tangles of vine and fern and long wild
grasses.
Sitting her worn saddle, sensitive face partly turned, she listened, her
eyes sweeping the bit of open ground behind her. Nothing moved there.
Presently she slipped off one gauntlet, fumbled in her corsage, drew out
a crumpled paper, and spread it flat. It was a map. With one finger she
traced her road, bending in her saddle, eyebrows gathering in
perplexity. Back and forth moved the finger, now hovering here and there
in hesitation, now lifted to her lips in silent uncertainty. Twice she
turned her head, intensely alert, but there was no sound save the cawing
of crows winging across the deepening crimson in the west.
At last she folded the map and thrust it into the bosom of her
mud-splashed habit; then, looping up the skirt of her kirtle, she
dismounted, leading her horse straight into the oak scrub and on through
a dim mile of woodland, always descending, until the clear rushing music
of a stream warned her, and she came out along the thicket's edge into a
grassy vale among the hills.
A cabin stood there, blue smoke lazily rising from the chimney; a hen or
two sat huddled on the shafts of an ancient buckboard standing by the
door. In the clear, saffron-tinted evening light some ducks sailed and
steered about the surface of a muddy puddle by the barn, sousing their
heads, wriggling their tails contentedly.
As she walked toward the shanty, leading her horse, an old man appeared
at the open doorway, milking stool under one gaunt arm, tin pail
dangling from the other. Astonished, he regarded the girl steadily,
answering her low, quick greeting with a nod of his unkempt gray head.
"How far is the pike?" she asked.
"It might be six mile," he said, staring.
"Is there a wood road?"
He nodded.
"Where does it lead?"
"It leads just now," he replied grimly, "into a hell's mint o' rebels.
What's your business in these parts, ma'am?"
Her business was to trust no one, yet there had been occasions when she
had been forced to such a risk. This was one. She looked around at the
house, the dismantled buckboard tenanted by roosting chickens, the ducks
in the puddle, the narrow strip of pasture fringing the darkening woods.
She looked into his weather-ravaged visage, searching the small eyes
that twinkled at her intently out of a mass of wrinkles.
"Are you a Union man?" she asked.
His face hardened; a slow color crept into the skin above his sharp
cheek bones. "What's that to you?" he demanded.
"Here in Pennsylvania we expect to find Union sentiments. Besides, you
just now spoke of rebels----"
"Yes, an' I'll say it again," he repeated doggedly; "the Pennsylvany
line is crawlin' with rebels, an' they'll butt into our cavalry before
morning."
She laughed, stepping nearer, the muddy skirt of her habit lifted.
"I must get to Reynolds's corps to-night," she said confidingly. "I came
through the lines three days ago; their cavalry have followed me ever
since. I can't shake them off; they'll be here by morning--as soon as
there's light enough to trace my horse."
She looked back at the blue woods thoughtfully, patting her horse's
sleek neck.
He followed her glance, then his narrowing eyes focused on her as she
turned her head toward him again.
"What name?" he asked harshly, hand to his large ear.
She smiled, raising her riding whip in quaint salute; and in a low voice
she named herself demurely.
There was a long silence.
"Gosh!" he muttered, fascinated gaze never leaving her; "to think that
you are that there gal! I heard tell you was young, an' then I heard
tell you was old an' fat, ma'am. I guess there ain't many has seen you
to take notice. I guess you must be hard run to even tell me who ye be?"
She said quietly: "I think they mean to get me this time. Is there a
clear road anywhere? Even if I leave my horse and travel afoot?"
"Is it a hangin' matter?" he asked.
She shrugged her shoulders.
Presently he said: "The hull blame country's crawlin' with rebel
cavalry. I was to Mink Creek, an' they was passin' on the pike, wagons
an' guns as fur as I could see. They levied on Swamp Holler at sunup;
they was on every road along the State line. There ain't no road nor cow
path clear that way."
"And none the other way," she said. "Can't you help me?"
He looked at her gravely, then his small eyes swept the limited
landscape.
"A hangin' matter," he mused, scratching his gray head reflectively.
"An' if they ketch you here, I guess I'll go to Libby, too. Hey?"
He passed his labor-worn hand over his eyes, pressing the lids, and
stood so, minute after minute, buried in thought.
"Waal," he said, dropping his hand and blinking in the ruddy glow from
the west, "I guess I ain't done nothin' fur the Union yet, but I'm
a-goin' to now, miss."
He looked around once more, his eyes resting on familiar scenery, then
he set down milking stool and pail and shuffled out to where her horse
stood.
"Guess I'll hev to hitch your hoss up to that there buckboard," he
drawled. "My old nag is dead two year since. You go in, miss, an' dress
in them clothes a-hangin' onto that peg by the bed," he added, with an
effort. "Use 'em easy; they was hers."
She entered the single room of the cabin, where stove, table, chair, and
bed were the only furniture. A single cheap print gown and a sunbonnet
hung from a nail at the bed's foot, and she reached up and unhooked the
garment. It was ragged but clean, and the bonnet freshly ironed.
Through the window she saw the old man unsaddling her horse and fitting
him with rusty harness. She closed the cabin door, drew the curtain at
the window, and began to unbutton her riding jacket. As her clothing
fell from her, garment after garment, that desperate look came into her
pale young face again, and she drew from her pocket a heavy army
revolver and laid it on the chair beside her. There was scarce light
enough left to see by in the room. She sat down, dragging off her
spurred boots, stripping the fine silk stockings from her feet, then
rose and drew on the faded print gown.
Now she needed more light, so she opened the door wide and pushed aside
the curtain. A fragment of cracked mirror was nailed to the door. She
faced it, rapidly undoing the glossy masses of her hair; then lifting
her gown, she buckled the army belt underneath, slipped the revolver
