"Why, yes. In France, Ma mtre had to have some 
money beside a string of gold beads and two rings and 
some bed and table linen. Papa's mother would hardly 
consent then. You have to get the permission of the 
parents on both sides, and then you have two mar 
riages." 
"How queer! Why, it is almost like buying your 
wife," I said, and I felt my eyes open wide. 
"And now we are poor enough," and she sighed. "I 
don't know whether Nanette and I could have any 
dot. Then you generally go in a convent and become 
a sister, but I shouldn't like to be shut up and only 
visit poor people and those in trouble. There is a con 
vent in New Orleans and in Canada." 
I did not think I should like convent life either. The 
Piaget girls went to the Catholic Church in state, and 
the priest was Father Shoffer. It was moved to the 
rear of St. Mary's Cathedral afterward and used as a 
school-room, but children of all denominations went to 
school together. The Methodist Church had been 
moved across the river two years before on scows, the 
first building of any account to be moved intact. 
Everybody had thronged to see the wonderful achieve 
ment. 
We used to wander by the edge of the great lake, 
often picking up shells in the sand. I had quite a col 
lection, some beautiful ones Norman had given me. 
Homer had made me a box that I covered with them, 
arranging the choicest ones on the top in a figure as 
near to a rose as I could get it. 
Ben used to walk with us sometimes. The magnifi 
cence of the lake down here, where there was no busi 
ness and nothing but the swelling waves to ruffle its 
 
bosom, always filled me with a kind of reverent awe. 
The great space ending where ? To my childish mind 
it was like the ocean that I had never seen. I could 
not truly believe there were villages and wide stretches 
of ground on the other side. I liked its immensity. 
Several times we had been here on a moonlight even 
ing, when it was silvered over and set with tiny gems. 
All at the west and south stretched the dusky, blurring 
expanse, but to the eastward one could imagine that 
one could sail into the heaven that touched the farther 
boundary of the great inland sea. That wonderful 
angelic blue with its myriad stars ! Were they worlds 
in which the souls of the redeemed lived again? I 
wanted to talk all my new thoughts over with Nor 
man. I seemed to have acquired so many in this brief 
while. 
There was another great excitement about this time. 
Was it really four years since the last Presidential elec 
tion ? The town was all astir again. The same candi 
dates were put up. Dan Hayne did a good deal of 
electioneering, though it was not in such a very eager 
manner. I believe most of the people felt very sore 
about the canal that was to open the Mississippi to us, 
which dragged along to little purpose. Then the pos 
tal regulations were so inefficient, and there was a 
complaint about many things, confusing State and 
general government. The Kentucky people were all 
for General Jackson, and some of the old men declared 
they'd vote for him as long as they lived whether he 
was alive or not. The two papers indulged in sharp 
rejoinders, and occasionally stretched the point of 
truth, at least each accused the other of doing it. 
Father pinned his faith upon the American. 
People were very busy, too, with the abundant har 
vests. Such splendid yield of wheat as there had 
been! And to think of all this labor done by hand! 
One would have been smartly ridiculed if he had pre 
dicted the day of mowers and reapers and great grain 
elevators run by steam. Many a moonlight night men 
turned out and worked until they almost dropped, some 
did stop in their tracks and take a brief nap on a 
fragrant bed, with the stars for watchers. For the 
winter was coming, when Nature took her rest and 
locked our little world with her icy chains. 
There was beef and pork packed to send away, 
piles of hides, bushels of grain, and the prominent busi 
ness men left politics to care for itself awhile. The river 
and the docks were thronged and piled high, we 
thought then. Ben was much interested in this, and 
now had gone in Norman's place, though Mr. Hub- 
bard's business was growing larger every year, and 
new warehouses were pushing in. 
But we children went to school, and at home fol 
lowed the useful arts spinning, sewing, knitting and 
cooking. We had little time for the fripperies of life. 
They were to come later. 
I did not forget my reading with Mrs. Chadwick, 
though I was growing very fond of the girls and girls' 
play. Jed Hatch had not come back, so M'liss re 
mained with us. There was a great stir about the 
copper mines in northern Michigan, and the lead at 
Galena. Then coal was being discovered here and 
 
there, and men's wits were put to work in inventing 
labor-saving and money-saving machines. 
We did not care much about these, though the 
neighbors who stopped at the garden gate or sat 
awhile on the stoop talking to father wondered a little 
if this or that could not be done, and sometimes laughed 
at father when he predicted great things for the future 
of Chicago. We did not look much like it in those 
days, though people were beginning to build brick 
houses and replace their old log structures with frame. 
Many of the streets were simply staked out. And 
when the Wrights built their really pretty mansion 
down near what was the end of Madison Street, they 
were laughed at as going out on the prairie. 
Good water seemed a serious question. There were 
so few springs good for anything. We caught rain 
water in the wet season and filtered it, putting it in 
bottles for time of need, when after a good shaking up 
it answered very well. The water from the lake was 
fine if taken from a little distance out or farther up. 
The river was simply dreadful. 
One of the best springs had an odd story. The 
children used often to congregate about it and drink 
their fill. I used to wonder if it tasted as good to the 
stag at Monan's rill as to the thirsty children. It was 
called Colonel Baubein's punch bowl. Half a dozen 
years or so before, the State ordered that the militia 
of Cook County should be duly organized, and officers' 
elected. There was quite a rivalry, but Mr. John Bau- 
bein was elected over all opposition, and it was re 
solved to have a fine celebration. At the base of a 
small bluff the spring made a natural basin. This was 
dammed up across the outlet and a keg of brandy 
poured in. Six dozen lemons, four packages of loaf 
sugar were added, and the whole stirred with a new 
clean stick. Most of the town turned out, and sitting 
around swapped stories and drank punch until they 
absolutely lowered the novel punch bowl and went 
home in a high state of hilarity. For days after one 
and another stole down, happy even in getting a taste 
of the weaker stimulant. 
It was delightful water long after that, and the 
two Baubein brothers were famous men in old 
Chicago. 
Champaign squibs and songs had a new impulse just 
then. Even the children who could made rhymes to 
the glory of Tippecanoe. And then there was a sud 
den and well-nigh unexpected rejoicing William 
Henry Harrison gained the day by a handsome 
majority. 
Father was deeply delighted, though he did not ex 
actly crow over his opponents. 
"You'll see now," he said, "this will be the begin 
ning of good times. Four years from now you will 
hardly know yourselves." No one could have im 
agined then his reign would be so brief. 
"If there could be more money, more money," cried 
everybody. The canal was given up for better times, 
but the lake was left. And when one looked over the 
list of enterprising citizens and found the hides and 
wheat, the corn and pork and beef, the beans, salt, 
the furs, and the lead, there was no need of feeling 
 
really discouraged. "Rome wasn't built in a day," 
was a favorite saying of father's. 
Mrs. Hayne and I had good long letters from Nor 
man. Mine were written at intervals and finished at 
Detroit, that, like some of the other towns, had a 
rather romantic history. It had been French and Eng 
lish, it had been a great trading place in the pioneer 
days ; it had been turned over to the United States by 
treaty, then given up to the English by General Hull 
at the same time the order had been sent for the evacu 
ation of Fort Dearborn. It had been destroyed by fire 
and rebuilt on a more generous plan, and bid fair to be 
a fine city. 
But with all these interesting matters Norman's 
heart did not waver, and he was looking steadily for 
ward. One year was almost gone. He had been very 
busy and happy, had proved of great service to Mr. 
Le Moyne, and had acquired much knowledge. He 
could talk French quite well, and was learning to read 
correctly. It seemed as if most of the northern world 
