cake of soap about you, William, have you?"
"No, sir."  William's face expressed indescribable enjoyment of the
scene.
The girl's mouth stiffened.  She was struggling to repress the almost
irresistible smile that tickled her lips.
"In times like these," said I, determined not to be outdone, "we are
often thoughtless in regard to our personal appearances.  I apologize
to the lady."
"Fine, fine!  I sincerely admire you, Mr. Comstalk.  You have the true
spirit of adventure.  Hasn't he, William?"
"He certainly has, sir."
"Comes to a private ball without an invitation, and has a merry time of
it indeed.  To have the perfect sense of humor--that is what makes the
world go round."
"Aren't you taking extra risk in offering me these pleasantries?" I
asked.
"Risks?  In what manner?"
"The man you so cleverly impersonated is at the club."  I do not know
what prompted me to put him on his guard.
The rogue laughed lightly.  "I know Mr. Haggerty's habits.  He is
hustling back to New York as fast as he can.  He passed here ten
minutes ago in the patrol, lickety-clip!  He wishes to warn all
pawnbrokers and jewelers to be on the lookout for me to-morrow.  Ten
thousand in a night!"--jovially.
"A very tidy sum, sir," said William.
"A fourth of which goes to you, my good and faithful friend."
"Thank you, sir," replied William.
Two cooler rogues I never wish to meet!
"But wouldn't it be well, sir, to hasten?" asked William.
"We have plenty of time now, my son."
"You have not entered this room," said the girl, her terror slipping
from her, "simply to offer these banalities.  What do you wish?"
"What perspicacity, William!" cried the rogue, taking out a cigarette
case.
"I don't know what that word means, sir, but as you do, it seems to fit
the occasion proper enough."
"It means, William, that this charming young lady scents our visit from
afar."
"I had a suspicion, sir, that it might mean that."  William leaned
against the wall, his beady eyes twinkling merrily.
The master rogue lighted a cigarette at one of the candles.
"Pardon me," he said, "but will you join me?"--proffering the handsome
gold case.
I took a cigarette and fired it.  (I really wanted it.)  I would show
up well before this girl if I died for it.  I blew a cloud of smoke at
the candle-flame.  There was a sparkle of admiration in the girl's
eyes.
"Mr. Comstalk, my respect for you increases each moment."  The rogue
sat down.
"And to whom might this handsome case belong?" I asked, examining it
closely.
"Oh, that has always been mine.  There was a time,"--blowing rings at
the candelabrum,--"when I was respected like yourself, rich, sought
after.  A woman and a trusted friend: how these often tumble down our
beautiful edifices!  Yes, I am a scamp, a thief, a rogue; but not
because I need the money.  No,"--with retrospective eyes--"I need
excitement, tremendous and continuous,--excitement to keep my vigilance
and invention active day and night, excitement to obliterate memory.
"But we can't do it, my friend, we can't do it.  Memory is always with
us.  She is an impartial Nemesis; she dogs the steps of the righteous
and the unrighteous.  To obliterate memory, that is it!  And where
might I find this obliteration, save in this life?  Drugs?  Pah!  Oh, I
have given Haggerty a royal chase.  It has been meat and drink to me to
fool the cleverest policeman in New York.  Till yesterday my face, as a
criminal, was unknown to any man or woman, save William here, who was
my valet in the old days.  I have gone to my clubs, dined, played
billiards; a fine comedy, a fine comedy!  To-morrow William and I sail
for Europe.  Miss Hawthorne, you wear one of the most exquisite rubies
I have ever seen.  Permit me to examine it."
The girl tore the ring from her finger and flung it on the table.  I
made a move as though to push back my chair.
"I wouldn't do it, sir," warned William quietly.
My muscles relaxed.
"Do not commit any rash action, Mr. Comstalk," said the girl, smiling
bravely into my eyes.  "This gentleman would not appreciate it."
The master rogue picked up the ring and rolled it lovingly about his
palms.
"Beautiful, beautiful!" he murmured.  "Finest pigeon-blood, too.  It is
easily worth a thousand.  Shall I give you my note of exchange for
it?"--humorously.  The girl scorned to reply.  He took out a little
chamois bag and emptied its contents on the table.  How they sparkled,
scintillated, glowed; thousands in the whitest of stones!  How he ever
had got his fingers on them is something I shall never learn.  "Aren't
they just beautiful?" he asked naïvely.  "Can you blame me for coveting
them?"  He set the ruby on top of the glittering heap.  It lay there
like a drop of blood.  Presently he caught it up and--presented it to
the girl, who eyed him in astonishment.  "I only wanted to look at it,"
he said courteously.  "I like your grit as much as I admire your
beauty.  Keep the ring."
She slipped it mechanically over her finger.
"But you, my dear Mr. Comstalk!" he cried, turning his shining eyes
upon me, while his fingers deftly replaced the gems in the bag.
"I have no jewelry," I replied, tossing aside the cigarette.
"But you have something infinitely better.  I am rather observant.  In
Friard's curio-shop you carelessly exhibited a wallet that was simply
choking to death with long yellow-boys.  You have it still.  Will you
do me the honor?"--stretching out his slim white hand.
I looked at William; he nodded.  There wasn't the slightest chance for
me to argue.  So I drew out my wallet.  I extracted the gold-bills and
made a neat little packet of them.  It hurt, hurt like the deuce, to
part with them.  But--!
"Game, William, isn't he?  Most men would have flung the wallet at my
head."
"Oh, he is game, sir; never you doubt it, sir," said the amiable
William.
"I have some silver in change," I suggested with some bitterness.
"Far be it that I should touch silver," he said generously, did this
rogue.  "Besides, you will need something to pay for this little supper
and the fare back to New York."  My bills disappeared into his pocket.
"You will observe that I trust you implicitly.  I haven't even counted
the money."
William sniggered.
"And is there anything further?" I inquired.  The comedy was beginning
to weary me, it was so one-sided.
"I am in no particular hurry," the rogue answered, his sardonic smile
returning.  "It is so long since I have chatted with people of my kind."
I scowled.
"Pardon me, I meant from a social point of view only.  I admit we would
not be equals in the eye of the Presbyter."
And then followed a scene that reminds me to this day of some broken,
fantastic dream, a fragment from some bewildering nightmare.
IX
For suddenly I saw his eyes widen and flash with anger and
apprehension.  Quick as a passing sunshadow, his hand swept the
candelabrum from the table.  He made a swift backward spring toward the
door, but he was a little too late.  The darkness he had created was
not intense enough, for there was still the ruddy glow from the logs;
and the bosom of his dress-shirt made a fine target.  Besides, the eyes
that had peered into the window were accustomed to the night.
Blang!  The glass of the window shivered and jingled to the floor, and
a sharp report followed.  The rogue cried out in fierce anguish, and
reeled against the wall.  William whipped out his revolver, but, even
from his favorable angle, he was not quick enough.  The hand that had
directed the first bullet was ready to direct the second.
All this took place within the count of ten.  The girl and I sat
stiffly in our chairs, as if petrified, it was all so swiftly
accomplished.
"Drop it!" said a cold, authoritative voice, and I saw the vague
outlines of Haggerty's face beyond the broken window-pane.
William knew better than to hesitate.  His revolver struck the floor
dully, and a curse rolled from his lips.  Immediately a heavy body
precipitated itself against the door, which crashed inward, and an
officer fearlessly entered, a revolver in each hand.  This tableau,
which lasted fully a minute, was finally disturbed by the entrance of
Haggerty himself.
"Don't be alarmed, Miss," he said heartily; "it's all over, I'm sorry
for the bullet, but it had to be done.  The rascal has nothing more
serious than a splintered bone, I am a dead shot.  A fine
night!"--triumphantly.  "It's been a long chase, and I never was sure
of the finish.  You're the cleverest rogue it has been my good fortune
to meet this many a day.  I don't even know who you are yet.  Well,
well! we'll round that up in time."
Not till the candles again sputtered with light, and William was
securely handcuffed and disarmed, did I recollect that I possessed the
sense of motion.  The smoke of powder drifted across the flickering
candles, and there was a salty taste on my tongue.
"Horrible!" cried the girl, covering her eyes.
The master rogue and his valet were led out into the assembly-room, and
we reluctantly followed.  I saw it all now.  When Haggerty called up
central at the club, he ascertained where the last call had been from,
and, learning that it came from Hollywood Inn, he took his chance.  The
room was soon filled with servants and stable-hands, the pistol-shot
having lured them from their beds.  The wounded man was very pale.  He
sat with his uninjured hand tightly clasped above the ragged wound, and
a little pool of blood slowly formed at his side on the floor.  But his
eyes shone brightly.
"A basin of water and some linen!" cried the girl to Moriarty.  "And
send all these people away."
"To yer rooms, ivery one of ye!" snapped Moriarty, sweeping his hands.
"'Tis no place for ye, be off!"  He hurried the servants out of the
room, and presently returned with a basin of water, some linen and balm.
We watched the girl as she bathed and bandaged the wounded arm; and
once or twice the patient smiled.  Haggerty looked on approvingly, and
in William's eyes there beamed the gentle light of reverence.  It was
a picture to see this lovely creature playing the part of the good
Samaritan, moving here and there in her exquisite gown.  Ah, the tender
mercy!  I knew that, come what might, I had strangely found the right
woman, the one woman.
[Illustration: We watched the girl as she bathed and bandaged the
wounded arm.]
