Logotheti. 'They don't seem to have affected you at all,' he added.
'Shall we wake her?'
Margaret hesitated, and then bent down and touched the sleeping woman's
arm gently, and called her by name in a low tone; but without the
slightest result.
'She must be very tired,' Margaret said in a tone of sympathy. 'After
all, it's not so very late. We had better let her sleep a few minutes
longer, poor thing.'
Logotheti bent his head gravely.
'We'll make up the time with the motor in going to Versailles,' he
said.
By unspoken consent, they moved away and sat down at some distance from
Madame De Rosa's chair, at the end of the room opposite to the picture.
Logotheti did not speak at once, but sat leaning forward, his wrists
resting on his knees, his hands hanging down limply, his eyes bent on
the carpet. As she sat, Margaret could see the top of his head; there
was a sort of fascination about his preternaturally glossy black hair,
and the faultless parting made it look like the wig on a barber's doll.
She thought of Lushington and idly wondered whether she was always to
be admired by men with phenomenally smooth hair.
'What are you thinking of?' Logotheti asked, looking up suddenly and
smiling as he met her eyes.
She laughed low.
'I was wondering how you kept your hair so smooth!' she answered.
'I should look like a savage if I did not,' he said. 'My only chance of
seeming civilised is to overdo the outward fashions of civilisation. If
I wore rough clothes like an Englishman, and did not smooth my hair and
let my man do all sorts of things to my moustache to keep it flat, I
should look like a pirate. And if I looked like a Greek pirate you
would have hesitated about coming to lunch with me to-day. Do you see?
There is a method in my bad taste.'
Margaret looked at him a moment and then laughed again.
'So that's it, is it? How ingenious! Do you know that I have wondered
at the way you dress, ever since I met you?'
'I'm flattered. But think a moment. I daresay you wonder why I wear a
lot of jewellery, too. Of course it's in bad taste. I quite agree with
you. But the world is often nearer to first principles than you
realise. A man who wears a ruby in his tie worth ten thousand pounds is
not suspected of wanting to get other people's money as soon as he
makes acquaintance. On the contrary, they are much more likely to try
to get his, and are rather inclined to think him a fool for showing
that he has so much. It is always an advantage to be thought a fool
when one is not. If one is clever it is much better to have it believed
that one is merely lucky. In business everybody likes lucky people, but
every one avoids a clever man. It is one of the elements of success to
remember that!'
'You won't easily persuade any one that you are a foolish person,' said
Margaret.
'It would be much harder if I did not take pains,' he answered gravely.
'Now you know my secret, but don't betray me.'
'Not for worlds!'
They both laughed a little, and their eyes met.
'But just now, I'm in a very awkward position about that,' Logotheti
continued. I cannot afford to sacrifice my reputation as a lucky fool,
and yet I want you to think me a marvel of cleverness, good taste and
perfection in every way.'
'Is that all?' asked Margaret, more and more amused.
'Almost all. You see I know perfectly well that I cannot surprise you
into falling in love with me---- Yes, she's sound asleep! The ideal
chaperon, isn't she?'
'I don't know,' Margaret answered lightly, and she glanced at Madame De
Rosa, as if she thought of waking her.
'Excuse me, you do; for if I were "some one else" you would be
delighted that she should be asleep. But that's not the question. As I
cannot surprise you into--there's no harm in saying it!--into loving
me, I'm driven to use what they call the "arts of persuasion"! But in
order to persuade, it's necessary to inspire confidence. Do you
understand?'
'Vaguely!'
'Have I succeeded at all?' His voice changed suddenly as he asked the
question.
'I don't know why I should distrust you, I'm sure,' Margaret answered
gravely. 'You are certainly very outspoken,' she continued more
lightly, as if wishing to keep the conversation from growing serious.
'In fact, I never knew anything like your frankness!'
'I'm in earnest, and I don't wish to leave the least doubt in your
mind. You are the first woman I have ever met whom I wanted to marry,
and you are likely to be the last. I'm not a boy and I know the world
as you can never know it, even if you insist upon going on the stage.
I'm not amazingly young, for I'm five-and-thirty, and I suppose I have
had as large a share of what the world holds as most rich men. That is
my position. Until I met you, I thought I had really had everything.
When I knew you I found that I had never had the only thing worth
having at all.'
He spoke quietly, without the least affectation of feeling, or the
smallest apparent attempt to make an impression upon her; but it was
impossible not to believe that he was speaking the truth. Margaret was
silent, and looked steadily at an imaginary point in the distance.
'So far,' he said, in the same tone, 'I have always got what I wanted.
I don't mean to say,' he continued quickly, as she made a movement,
'that I expected you to accept me when I asked you to marry me, at our
second meeting. I was sure you would not. I merely put in a claim--that
was all.'
Margaret turned a little and rested her elbow on the back of her chair,
facing him.
'And I told you there was some one else. Do you understand clearly? I
am frank, too. I love another man, and he loves me.'
'And you are going to be married, I suppose?' said Logotheti, his lids
contracting a very little.
'I hope so. Some day.'
'Ah! There is an obstacle. I see. A question of fortune, I daresay?'
'No.' Her tone was meant to discourage further questioning, and she
moved in her seat and looked away again.
'That man does not love you,' Logotheti said. 'If he did, nothing could
hinder your marriage, since he knows that you are willing.'
'There may be a reason you don't understand,' Margaret answered
reluctantly.
'A man who loves does not reason. A man who wants a certain woman wants
nothing else, any more than a man who is dying of thirst can want
anything but drink. He must have it or die, and nothing can keep him
from it if he sees it.'
There was a shade of more energy in his tone now, though he still spoke
quietly enough. Margaret was silent again, possibly because the same
thought had crossed her own mind during the last few days, and even an
hour ago, when she had met Lushington at the door. Since she was
willing to marry him, in spite of his birth, could he be in earnest as
long as he hesitated?
She wished that he might have said what Logotheti was saying now,
instead of reasoning with her about a point of honour.
'When people think themselves in love and hesitate,' Logotheti
continued, almost speaking her own thoughts aloud, 'it is because
something else in them is stronger than love, or quite as strong.'
'There may be honour,' said Margaret, defending Lushington in her mind,
out of sheer loyalty.
'There ought to be, sometimes, but it is more in the nature of real
love to tear honour to pieces than to be torn in pieces for it. I'm not
defending such things, I'm only stating a fact. More men have betrayed
their country for love than have sacrificed love to save their
country!'
'That's not a very noble view of love!'
'If you were passionately in love with a man, should you like him to
sacrifice you in order to save his country, especially if his country
were not yours? If it were your own, you might be as patriotic as he
and you would associate yourself with him in the salvation of your own
people. But that would not be a fair case. The question is whether, in
a matter that concerns him only and not yourself, you would set his
honour higher than his love for you and let yourself be sacrificed,
without feeling that if he had loved you as you would like to be loved
he would forfeit his honour rather than give you up.'
'That's a dreadfully hard question to answer!' Margaret smiled.
'It is only hard to answer, because you are conscious of a convention
called honour which man expects you to set above everything. Very good.
A couple of thousand years hence there will be some other convention in
its place called by another name; but love will be precisely the same
passion that it is now, because it's purely human and not subject to
any conventions when it is real--any more than you can make the
circulation of your blood conventional or the beating of your heart, or
hunger, or thirst, or sleepiness, instead of being natural as they all
are.'
'You're a materialist,' said Margaret, finding nothing else to say.
'I don't think so, but whatever I am, I'm in earnest, and I don't
pretend to be anything but human.'
He stopped and looked straight into Margaret's eyes; and somehow she
did not turn away, for there was nothing in his that she was afraid to
meet. Just then she would rather have tried to stare him out of
countenance than look for one minute at the woman's face in the
picture, which he said was so like her. She did not remember that in
all her life anything had so strangely disturbed her as that likeness.
She had seen pictures and statues by the score in exhibitions and
public places, which should have offended her maiden modesty far more.
What was there in that one painting that could offend at all? A woman's
head thrown back, a woman's hand pressing her hair to her breast--it
ended there, and that was all; and what was that, compared with the
acres of raw nudity that crowd the walls of the Salon every year.
Logotheti said that he was 'human,' and she felt it was true, in the
sense that he was a 'primitive,' or an 'elementary being,' as some
people would say. The fact that he had all the profound astuteness of
the true Oriental did not conflict with this in the least. The
astuteness of the Asiatic, and of the Greek of Asia, is an instinct
like that of the wild animal; talent alone is 'human' in any true
sense, but instinct is animal, even in men, whether it shows itself in
matters of money-getting or matters of taste.
Yet somehow Margaret was beginning to be attracted by the man. He had
never shown the least lack of respect, or of what Mrs. Rushmore would
have called 'refinement,' and he had done nothing which even distantly
resembled taking a liberty. He spoke quietly, and even gently, and his
eyes did not gloat upon her face and figure as some men's eyes did.
Even as to the picture, he had not led her to see it, for she had gone
up to it herself, drawn to it against her will, and he had only told
the truth in saying that it was like her. Yet he was very much in love
