DISENCHANTMENT
"Il segreto----"
Marie's voice rang out, clear and fluid, scattering notes through the
room, filling it with them, charging the air with melody, then, like a
chorus entering a crypt, it sank in diminishing accords and, sinking,
died slowly away.
The segreto indeed! The secret of happiness was remoter now than
when, under the teaching of the ex-first lady, she had first attacked
the score. But her voice had improved. It was fuller, more resonant
and ample.
Marie, too, had improved. In face and figure beauty had developed. Her
manner was securer, her eyes more grave, her smile less frequent. The
bud had blossomed.
In the process a year had gone. From high Norman downs she had watched
the summer pass. Autumn had met her in the Elysian Fields. There the
wolfish winter had approached. At the first bite there had been a
flight to Havre, the return to New York. Now it was spring again.
Through the open windows of the Arundel came the city's hum and with
it the subtleties and enticements of May.
A year had gone. But there are years that count double. There are
others so vast that in them you may have evolved a world, seen it glow
and subside. The solitudes of space appal. The solitudes of the heart
may be as endless as they. In those where Marie loitered a world had
had its birth and subsidence, a world with gem-like hopes for stars, a
world lighted by a sun so eager that its rays had made her blind.
There had been aspirations, gorgeous and tangental as comets are.
There had been the colorless ether of which dreams are made. For
cosmic matter there was love. A year had gone. In it, these wonders
had formed and fled.
Marie got from the piano. It had no secret to tell. But there was
another which the year had revealed, a secret which, at first opaque
and obscure, little by little had taken shape and changed from an
impossibility into a monstrous fact. Marie had begun by disavowing it.
She had disowned it, would have none of it. But disavowals cease. In
certain conditions we get used to monsters. The soul makes itself at
home with what it must. The monster to which Marie was accustoming
herself was the knowledge that her lover had lied.
In departing with him from the den of the ex-first lady it was not
merely with faith and trust, but with absolute certainty that
marriage, if delayed, was only postponed; that a week, a month at the
furthest, would see her his wife.
On the way she had stopped and wired to Gay street, telling her father
not to worry, that she had gone to be married, that she would write to
him soon.
Whether he had worried she could only surmise. But soon she had
written, inclosing a photograph of Loftus, one which she had colored,
an excellent likeness that displayed his chiseled features, wonderful
eyes and thin, black mustache with a perfection of precision that was
lifelike. Above it she wrote: "Marie's Husband." It would please her
father, she was sure, and in the letter she told him prettily, in a
little, cajoling way which he loved, that while, for the moment, he
must not know where she was, yet shortly she was planning to come and
surprise him--to surprise him more than he could ever imagine, and
show him that he could be very, very proud of her, but prouder still,
much, much prouder of the man she had married.
The plan, delightful to her, first the illness of her lover's mother,
then the lady's absence from town, prevented her from at once
effecting. Then, greatly to her uneasiness, she found that the plan
must be yet further delayed. Mrs. Loftus had gone to her manor on the
Hudson, where, her son declared, he could not take Marie "like that."
Financially it was stupid to rush things. Gradually his mother must be
prepared. Moreover, as preparation could be decently managed only in
town, to which she would not now return until autumn, it would be a
good idea to run over to Europe.
So spoke Royal Loftus. It was all false as an obituary. Financially he
was entirely independent of his mother, who, at the time, was not at
her manor, but just around the corner and never better in her life.
But Marie, wholly infatuated, quite willing to believe that the moon
was made of green cheese if only he took the trouble to so inform her,
accepted it all for gospel.
The delay, of course, was a deep disappointment. She felt it, and felt
it acutely. But in Europe she supposed that people would not know, and
would not care a rap if they did, Loftus hastened to assure her.
To his project, therefore, she yielded. Presently she was glad that
she had. The journey itself was a joy. At the Arundel he had come and
gone. Often she had been lonely. Often she had sat through hours that
limped themselves away, waiting for him, waiting fruitlessly. But
during the journey and after it, on the high Norman downs, always she
had him with her. Therein was the joy.
The places, new to her and fragrant, to which he took her interested
her very much, but very much, too, as accessories might. It was from
him that their real charm emanated. He also enjoyed himself, but less
rapturously, in a fashion more detached. He found time to busy himself
with the news of the world, with menus, with wines--occupations which
to her were extraordinary. Marie did not know what she ate; as for the
world, it was sublimated in him, a fact which she confided to him--of
which, if she had not, he would have been perfectly aware and which he
accepted at first as but a proper tribute to himself, but which ended
by boring him distinctly. An excess of anything disagrees with the
best.
The first symptoms of indigestion declared themselves in Paris. They
had there a large suite in a big hotel. So large was the suite that
frequently Marie could not find Loftus in it. He was off, returning
when he saw fit, refusing to be questioned, yawning at reproaches,
but otherwise perfectly civil, agreeing with her that it was not nice
to be left alone, yet leaving her alone whenever he felt like it.
On the Norman downs the fresh fragrance of life had put a higher color
on her cheeks, marking them with the flush of happiness and health.
But in this game of hide and nowhere to seek her face became pallid as
the curious white sky which in autumn stretches itself over Paris.
Then stealthily, like a wolf, winter approached. The cheerlessness of
it Loftus hated, as all New Yorkers do. To Marie, however, it was
welcome. It meant a return to the Arundel, where she felt that the
marriage so long delayed could not be further postponed.
The illusion was pleasant but not permanent. On re-emerging in the
noise and sunshine of New York Loftus ceased to bother himself with
the invention of excuses. He told Marie that his mother would not
listen to anything of the kind, a statement which, while frank, was
not exact. Mrs. Loftus had never heard of it, or for that matter, of
the girl, and Loftus saw no reason whatever why she should. Yet if not
frank, he was patient. Marie, on the other hand, took it all very
hard. Humiliation possessed her. By day it confronted her, spectrally.
At night it came to her, sat by her side, plucked at her sleeve, awoke
her. It was a thing she could not get away from, could not forget;
what is worse, she could not understand. It tortured her, and
concerning it she tormented him constantly, displaying a persistence
that was annoying and pathetic--the persistence of a child. It was as
such that he treated it with yawning indifference, quite as though it
were but a whim which, other things intervening, she would forget.
Other things did intervene. Among them was an adventure in Central
Park. One afternoon a brougham in which she was driving crossed a
victoria where sat a remarkably pretty woman with Loftus at her side.
Marie's eyes filled. Had he struck her he would have hurt her far
less. When next she saw him she told him so. The idea amused him. He
was not a ruffian, only a cad. Like the whim, he waved the little
tragedy away.
"That was Mrs. Annandale," he announced unabashedly, "a very old
friend of mine. I have known her all my life."
"Mrs. Annandale!" Marie exclaimed. "Not the wife of the Mr. Annandale
whom you brought here last year?"
Loftus stared at her. He did not understand. Yet then, neither did
she.
"Why," she continued, "you told me he was to marry a dark young lady."
"Yes," said Loftus, fumbling as he spoke for a cigarette. "But I told
you also not to use that expression. Say girl or young woman. If you
want to be fantastic, say young gentlewoman, but never young lady. You
are right, though. Annandale was to have married a Miss Waldron, but
she threw him over and he married somebody else."
To Marie all this was inexplicable. She did not understand how a man
thrown over by one girl could so speedily marry another. She did not
understand, either, what Loftus could be doing with her. To her mind
driving presupposed an intimacy which acquaintance might explain but
did not excuse. The matter perplexed her, and not unnaturally. It is
only through our own heart that it is possible to attempt to read the
heart of another. In her heart Marie knew that nothing earthly could
induce her to appear as intimate with a man as Loftus had with that
woman. Yet, though she knew that, she knew also that many of her
views, like many of her expressions, were not in tune with the tone of
the set in which Loftus moved.
None the less a fact remained. To her other men did not exist. To him
other women existed. However she tried to console herself with
difference in breeding, that fact, remaining, pricked. It pricked
perhaps the harder because of this particular woman's looks. The woman
herself was hateful. How, she wondered, could Loftus drive about with
her when, with herself, he would barely be seen.
And why wouldn't he? In those days Marie's whys were many. But at the
end of every one of them the answer which she always found was that it
was all because she was not his wife. Yet there always another why
recurred. Why was she not what he had sworn she should be?
The possible disinheritance which hitherto he had imaginatively
displayed had no terrors of any kind for her. On bread and kisses she
would have lived with him joyfully in a slum. To luxury she was
unused. That with which she was surrounded she would not have missed
in the least. On the contrary, it had grown odious to her; it
suggested a form of compensation the very thought of which was
sickening. It was not for this that she had left Gay street, but for
him and an honest name.
In the prolonged absence of the latter there were times when her soul
seemed to slink into the obscurities of her being and swoon there for
shame. There were times when she could not look at herself in the
glass. Quite as often she had found it difficult to look at her
servants.
After the episode in Central Park the increasing sense of degradation
affected her so deeply that with a weary idea of preserving such
self-respect as she might, summoning those servants she dismissed
them--securing, meanwhile, from an agency a woman able to do what
little was essential, a negress named Blanche who talked Irish.
When Loftus discovered what she had done he was for having the
servants immediately back. He liked to have the girl entertain for
him. He liked to have his friends come to the aviary and hear the bird
