the papers do prove valuable," and Nat smiled broadly.
"Don't raise false hopes, Nat. There may be nothing in it. But there is
nothing like being sure."
"Is the tract of land valuable?"
"Very. It is located in the most fashionable territory around Central
Park."
"When do you want me to go home?"
"You can start to-morrow if you wish. There is no rush of business on
just at present. I presume you will be back within four or five days?"
"I'll come back as soon as possible."
"Take your time. A couple of days on the farm will do you good. It will
be like a touch of old times."
"That is true," answered Nat.
The opportunity to go back to the farm pleased him. He packed his
dress-suit case that night, and left on the ten-o'clock train in the
morning. He was dressed in his best and had quite a city air about him.
Certainly he could no longer be called a "greeny."
Nat spent the night at Cleveland, and took the train to Brookville in
the morning. Almost the first person he met in the town was Sam Price.
"Hullo, are you back?" cried the country boy, shaking hands.
"Back for a few days, Sam."
"You look fine, Nat."
"I feel fine. How are you getting along?"
"Pretty good. Life on the farm is rather slow. Somebody told me you were
tired of the city."
"It isn't true, Sam."
"Fred Guff says he wants to go to the city, too, but his mother won't
let him."
"I suppose Fred helps my uncle Abner?"
"Yes, but your uncle don't get along with him very well. Fred's too slow
for him."
Sam had driven to town with his buckboard, and he readily agreed to give
Nat a ride over to Abner Balberry's farm. They were soon on the way, and
less than an hour brought them in sight of the place.
"Some young man is coming, ma!" cried Fred, who was sitting on the
doorstep, munching an apple. "Sam Price is driving him."
"Wonder what he wants here?" said Mrs. Balberry, shading her eyes with
her hands. "Mercy sakes! It's Nat!"
"Nat!" repeated the boy. "Huh! if it's him I guess he's sick of the
city. I thought he wouldn't make a go of it."
"Don't you be too sure of that," said the mother, shortly. "Nat has more
ginger in him than you have."
By this time Nat was at the horseblock. He leaped off the buckboard,
and advanced to greet Mrs. Balberry and her son.
"How do you do?" he cried, cheerily. "Aren't you surprised to see me?"
"I certainly am," answered Mrs. Balberry, as she shook hands.
"Got tired of the city, eh?" came from Fred. "I knew it wouldn't last."
"Do you think you could do anything in the city?" demanded our hero,
sharply.
"Of course I could."
"It's hard work to get along in New York."
"I don't care--I wouldn't make a failure of it if I went. I guess you
wasn't smart enough for them New Yorkers," added Fred, maliciously.
"What makes you think that, Fred?"
"If it wasn't so you wouldn't be back."
"Have you given up your place with Mr. Garwell?" asked Mrs. Balberry.
"No, I'm home on a vacation of a couple of days, that's all."
"Oh, then you are going back?" came from Fred, and his face fell.
"Certainly I am. I have a first-class position, with a promise of
advancement, so it would be sheer foolishness for me to give it up."
"Ma said you were with a real estate man."
"Yes."
"That can't pay much."
"It pays very well."
"How much?"
"Ten dollars a week, at present. But I am to get more soon."
"You don't mean to say they pay you ten dollars a week," cried Fred.
"That is my regular salary."
"Then I'm going to the city to-morrow," said Fred, decidedly.
CHAPTER XXIV
THE PAPERS IN THE TRUNK
Nat now asked for his uncle and was told that his relative was at the
barn. Placing his dress-suit case in the house, he walked down to the
barn. In the meantime Sam Price had driven off.
"Uncle Abner, where are you?"
"Who's thet a-callin' me?" came from the farmer, as he looked forth from
one of the horse stalls.
"I've come to ask you for a job," went on Nat, lightly.
"Nat! How be you?" Abner came and shook hands. "Want a job? Is it all up
in New York?"
"No, uncle, I was only fooling. I came home for a vacation of a couple
of days, that's all."
"Well, you're welcome, Nat. But it must cost money to travel so far for
jest two days' vacation."
"I came for another purpose, too. Do you remember those old papers in
the trunk in the garret?"
"Those thet belonged to your father an' grandfather?"
"Yes. Well, I am going to look them over and see if they are of any
value."
"Ain't nuthin' of any use, Nat. I looked over 'em myself, one rainy day
when I didn't have nuthin' else to do."
"Mr. Garwell thinks some of them might be valuable."
"Does he know about 'em?"
"He only knows what I told him."
"The old debts is all outlawed."
"But there are other papers--something about some land grandfather had
an interest in."
"I don't know nuthin' about that. It's so long ago, I don't believe they
are worth a cent."
"Well, it won't do any harm to look them over, and show them to Mr.
Garwell," returned our hero.
It was approaching the noon hour, and in honor of Nat's arrival, Mrs.
Balberry prepared an extra good dinner, of which the boy partook freely.
It was plainly to be seen that the former widow was the ruler of the
house, and that she compelled Abner Balberry to be far more liberal than
had been his habit in years gone by.
"Have another piece of pie, Nat," said the lady of the house,
graciously.
"Thank you, but I've had enough," answered Nat.
"Better save what's left for to-morrow," suggested Abner Balberry.
"If Nat wants another piece, he shall have it," was the lady's quick
answer.
"Oh, certainly! certainly!"
"Ma, I want another piece," came promptly from Fred.
"You've had two pieces already, Fred."
"I want another."
"Not to-day."
"Just a little piece!"
"Not another mouthful!" And Mrs. Balberry placed the remainder of the
pie in the cupboard.
"I can't never have nothing!" cried Fred, kicking the leg of the table.
"You'll have a box on the ears, Fred Guff, if you don't behave
yourself," answered his mother, and then there was silence.
After dinner, Nat talked with his uncle for a while, and then putting on
an old coat, went up into the dusty garret, and hauled out the old
trunk. It was strapped, but not locked, so he had no trouble in opening
it.
"What are you going to do?" asked Fred, who had followed him.
"Look over some papers," answered our hero, briefly.
"Want me to help you?"
"No."
"What are you going to do with the papers?"
"Take some of them to the city with me."
"Are they yours?"
"Yes."
"Say, don't you think it would be a good plan for me to go to the city
and git a job at ten dollars a week?" went on Fred, sitting down on the
top garret step.
"Yes, if you could get the ten-dollar job."
"Why can't I git it? You got it."
"I was lucky, that's all, Fred. Before I got it I might have starved to
death."
"Huh! Couldn't you git me a job with your boss?"
"I don't think so."
"I'm just as smart as you are, Nat Nason."
To this our hero made no reply. He had brought out some of the papers,
and was looking them over with much interest.
"If you don't want to help me git a job, I'll git one on my own hook,"
continued Fred, who was as dull as he considered himself bright.
"Well, you have a right to do as you please," said Nat. "But please
leave me alone now, Fred; I want to read these very carefully."
"Huh! I'm going to stay in the garret as long as I please."
Nat said no more, and Fred began to kick the step upon which he was
sitting. Then, he began to thump on the rafters of the garret, bringing
down some dirt on Nat's head.
"Stop that, Fred!" cried our hero, sharply. "Stop it, I say!"
"I ain't goin' to stop."
"If you don't stop, I'll put you downstairs, first thing you know."
"You can't do it."
"Yes, I can."
"Do you want to fight?" demanded Fred, rising and squaring off.
"No, but I want you to leave me alone."
"I ain't touched you."
"No, but you were knocking the dirt down on me. Why can't you leave me
alone?"
"I've got as much right in this garret as you have, that's why."
"You are mean."
"Don't you call me mean!" blustered Fred, and coming closer, he hit Nat
on the shoulder. At once our hero hit back, and Fred received a thump
in the mouth that caused him to topple backwards.
"Don't!" he screamed. "Don't--don't hit me again."
"Now, are you going to leave me alone?" demanded Nat.
"I'll tell my ma on you."
"If you do, I shall tell her how you annoyed me," answered Nat.
"Come down in the barnyard and I'll fight with you," said Fred, but, as
he spoke, he retreated down the stairs.
"Don't be a fool, Fred. Behave yourself, and we'll get along all right,"
said Nat, and then Fred passed to the lower floor, banging the stairway
door after him. There was a hook on the door, and this he fastened after
him.
