would marry a very poor man. I do love luxury. 
It was just splendid at the Newells'. We shall 
not be as rich as that, but maybe Harlan will 
begin some business when we are married. Part 
of his money is in a mine and it yields tremen- 
dously. Isn't that a kind of business ?" 
"Why — yes," hesitatingly. 
Then Daisy went on rhapsodizing about her 
lover. Helen could hardly take it in as a real mat- 
ter. It seemed as if something would happen to 
spoil it all, and oh, she prayed with sudden irre- 
pressible fervor that there might not. It would 
kill Daisy. Were other girls as enthusiastic? 
Polly Henderson's chum said Polly was silly over 
her lover. Daisy was full of romance and hope 
and a delicious joy. It was the way some of the 
girls in story books loved. Of course if there 
had been no love there couldn't have been many 
books. Travels — yes there was often a love 
story told in a biography. 
The dusk dropped down while the soft voice 
went purling on, and Marjorie came to announce 
dinner. 
"Fd like to come down if I might in this invalid 
gown. I don't want to be dressed up. Mn 
Hollis wouldn't mind?" coaxingly. 
 
"Why, no, dear. We shall be glad to have 
you join us." 
Daisy was very winsome in her half-invalid 
role. Every one was solicitous about her and 
the pensive sweetness surprised even Helen. 
Afterward she sat in an easy chair and leaned her 
head on her father's shoulder, with Helen on the 
other side, whose hand she held. She seemed to 
draw Mr. Hollis into her circle as well. The 
Newells were church people and most of them 
had gone to an early Christmas service. There 
was a pretty chapel in the neighborhood that two 
or three wealthy families supported. 
Mr. Bell asked for some music presently. Mar- 
jorie and the two young men rose. 
"Come, Helen," exclaimed Willard. 
"Helen belongs to me," interposed Daisy plac- 
ing her hand caressingly on the girl's shoulder. 
"But you have had her all day, and you can 
have her to-morrow." 
"And I want her now. We'll have just the 
four voices with hers," added Marjorie. 
"I'm going to take her upstairs in a few mo- 
ments, I am getting tired. Go and sing without 
her." 
Helen intercepted a beseeching glance from 
Mr. Bell to Willard, who went slowly to the 
parlor. 
Daisy kept up a tender little chat with her 
father, just enough to disturb Helen's enjoyment 
with the singing. So she did not object when 
Daisy rose to retire, although she hated to lose 
the melody of the beautiful old hymns, 
"I want you to read poetry to me," Daisy said 
when she was settled in the bed. "Some of those 
shorter poems of Mrs. Browning's. 'Bertha in 
the Lane' is so beautiful, and so pitiful, too," 
Helen read her to sleep, but they had ceased 
singing, and it was too late to go downstairs. 
Mrs. Bell came to her room and they had a 
tender little talk. 
"I'd like you to be Daisy's adopted sister," she 
said. You see, Annis and Marjorie were near 
together and dear companions, but Daisy, as one 
may say, has had to go outside for friendship, 
and I think it has not always been judicious. 
Two girls growing up in a family learn to con- 
sider each other more. We have spoiled her, 
and now we hardly know how to lead her back. 
And this late episode has rendered her more im- 
perious. She did talk a little once of going to 
college, but the doctor said she was not strong 
enough." 
 
Helen was not experienced enough to comfort, 
though she longed to. And Mrs. Bell had been 
so wise and tender to her. If she had been a 
daughter of the house. 
"But then I wouldn't have been Helen Grant," 
she said to herself afterward. And in spite of 
the various chances and changes she had a strong 
liking for her own personality. 
The trunk was delivered on Monday morning, 
Daisy was quite herself and full of eagerness to 
display its contents. There was her exquisite 
bridesmaid's gown, a filmy creation that looked 
too lovely to wear. 
"It's enchanting enough for my own wedding 
gown," she said with a joyous laugh. "And there 
is my picture hat. I did look just lovely in 
them. And think what a sight fine dresses cost ! 
There's my beautiful bracelet. Oh, dear! what 
a joy it must be to be immensely rich I Well, 
that will come to me, too. Harlan says we must 
be married in the city in one of the fine churches. 
He has rather grand ideas." 
Helen studied his photograph now and then. 
There certainly was not any special indication 
of character or mental strength. Indeed at the 
first glance she had been disappointed. 
"Photographs do not do him justice," Daisy 
said half in apology. "He is always talking and 
laughing, and it is difficult to catch a fine expres- 
sion of such a person. But he is delightful! I 
wish you could see him. And he just suits me." 
Helen was beginning to weary of the iteration, 
and of the possession that was really irksome. 
"I don't know what I shall do when you are 
gone," she moaned. "Oh, if you could stay a 
week longer. Marjorie is full of her own affairs 
and the church, and I know mamma will be say- 
ing little things all the time that will fret me 
awfully. You must write me lovely long letters 
to comfort me, at least once a week." 
"Oh, Daisy, I couldn't. You know how close 
one must study, and there are the letters to Hope. 
All the folks there think I do not write half often 
enough. You will have your lover's letters, and 
then he is to come.'* 
"But I want some one all the time. I wish I 
was rich enough to buy you." 
"I'm not poor enough to be sold," laughed 
Helen. 
"And if papa should put off the engagement! 
Oh, I do want a dear, bosom friend who will 
sympathize with me.'* 
"Don't borrow trouble," was the resolute reply. 
"Helen, you have a real hard side to you and it 
 
seems as if you delighted in turning it to me." 
"Nonsense. I am not a sentimental girl." 
"But you don't love anyone better than you 
do me?" she pleaded. 
"How many girls in school did you love last 
year when I was not there ? And oh, Daisy Bell, 
do you love any one in the wide world better than 
you do me?" 
Then Daisy had to laugh at the mock impas- 
sioned tone. 
But she did like Marjorie very much. How 
different they were. 
Helen was up early Tuesday morning and had 
her breakfast with the two gentlemen, as she was 
to go down in the train. So she had only time 
for a brief good-bye with Daisy, just roused out 
of a sound sleep. She was truly glad it could 
be no more. Mrs. Bell said — "We must take 
up our correspondence again, now each may com- 
fort the other ;" and the girl answered with misty 
eyes and tremulous lips. 
She enjoyed the journey down. She felt as if 
in a fresh atmosphere with the exhaustion swept 
away; as if she had been in the enervating air 
of a green-house. 
Willard was to take her to her train. And as 
they stood saying good-bye he exclaimed impetu- 
ously: "I wish you girls were allowed to write 
to a friend of the other sex. Daisy's letters will 
be full of sentiment that you'll have to answer — " 
"But I shall write to your mother," she hurried 
to answer. She would make no blunder now, 
though she felt the flush in her cheek. 
"I haven't had half a visit. In the summer I 
shall come to Hope to visit you." 
Then he put her on the train. 
Helen felt as if she had been away a month. 
It was a rather lowering day, but as they came 
into Westchester everything looked beautiful to 
her, and a thrill of home joy went through her 
frame. Three or four girls stood on the plat- 
form, and the hearty welcome almost brought 
tears to her eyes. 
"Oh, girls," she cried, "I am so glad to get 
