knew something of men, if only that they possess curiosity.
"What a beautiful place this is!" the stranger ventured, waving his
hand toward the still lake and the silent, misty mountains.
"There is no place quite like it," she admitted.  "You are a stranger
in Barscheit?"--politely.  He was young and certainly the best-looking
man she had seen in a month of moons.  If Doppelkinn, now, were only
more after this pattern!
"Yes, this is my first trip to Barscheit."  He had a very engaging
smile.
"You are from Vienna?"
"No."
"Ah, from Berlin.  I was not quite sure of the accent."
"I am a German-American,"--frankly.  "I have always spoken the language
as if it were my own, which doubtless it is."
"America!" she cried, her interest genuinely aroused.  "That is the
country where every one does just as he pleases."
"Sometimes."  (What beautiful teeth she had, white as skimmed milk!)
"They are free?"
"Nearly always."
"They tell me that women there are all queens."
"We are there, or here, always your humble servants."
He was evidently a gentleman; there was something in his bow that was
courtly.  "And do the women attend the theaters alone at night?"
"If they desire to."
"Tell me, does the daughter of the president have just as much liberty
as her subjects?"
"Even more.  Only, there are no subjects in America."
"No subjects?  What do they call them, then?"
"Voters."
"And do the women vote?"
"Only at the women's clubs."
She did not quite get this; not that it was too subtle, rather that it
was not within her comprehension.
"It is a big country?"
"Ever so big."
"Do you like it?"
"I love every inch of it.  I have even fought for it."
"In the Spanish War?"--visibly excited.
"Yes."
"Were you a major or a colonel?"
"Neither; only a private."
"I thought every soldier there was either a colonel or a major."
He looked at her sharply, but her eye was roving.  He became
suspicious.  She might be simple, and then again she mightn't.  She was
worth studying, anyhow.
"I was a cavalryman, with nothing to do but obey orders and, when
ordered, fight.  I am visiting the American consul here; he was a
school-mate of mine."
"Ah!  I thought I recognized the horse."
"You know him?"--quickly.
"Oh,"--casually,--"every one hereabouts has seen the consul on his
morning rides.  He rides like a centaur, they say; but I have never
seen a centaur."
The stranger laughed.  She was charming.
"He ought to ride well; I taught him."  But the gay smile which
followed this statement robbed it of its air of conceit.  "You see, I
have ridden part of my life on the great plains of the West, and have
mounted everything from a wild Indian pony to an English thoroughbred.
My name is Max Scharfenstein, and I am here as a medical student,
though in my own country I have the right to hang out a physician's
shingle."
She drew aimless figures in the dust with her riding-crop.  There was
no sense in her giving any name.  Probably they would never meet again.
And yet--
"I am Hildegarde von--von Heideloff," giving her mother's name.  He was
too nice to frighten away.
The hesitance over the "von" did not strike his usually keen ear.  He
was too intent on noting the variant expressions on her exquisite face.
It was a pity she was dark.  What a figure, and how proudly the head
rested upon the slender but firm white throat!  After all, black eyes,
such as these were, might easily rival any blue eyes he had ever seen.
(Which goes to prove that a man's ideals are not built as solidly as
might be.)
"It is rather unusual," he said, "to see a woman ride so early; but you
have the right idea.  Everything begins to wake, life, the air, the
day.  There is something in the dew of the morning that is a better
tonic than any doctor can brew."
"Take care!  If you have no confidence in your wares, you must not
expect your patients to have."
"Oh, I am a doctor of philosophy, also."
"That is to say," she observed, "if you lose your patients, you will
accept their loss without a murmur?  Very good.  May I ask what you
have come so far to study?"
"Nerves."
"Is it possible!"--with a smile as fleet as the wind.
He laughed.  This was almost like an American girl.  How easy it was to
talk to her!  He tried again to catch her eye, but failed.  Then both
looked out over the lake, mutually consenting that a pause should
ensue.  He did not mind the dark hair at all.
"Do you speak English?" she asked abruptly in that tongue, with a full
glance to note the effect.
"English is spoken to some extent in the United States," he answered
gravely.  He did not evince the least surprise at her fluency.
"Do you write to the humorous papers in your country?"
"Only to subscribe for them," said he.
And again they laughed; which was a very good sign that things were
going forward tolerably well.
And then the miserable fellow of a smith had to come out and announce
that the stranger's horse was ready.
"I'll warrant the shoe," said Bauer.
"You haven't lost any time," said Max, his regret evident to every one.
The girl smiled approvingly.  She loved humor in a man, and this one
with the yellow hair and blue eyes seemed to possess a fund of the dry
sort.  All this was very wrong, she knew, but she wasn't going to be
the princess this morning; she was going to cast off the shell of
artificiality, of etiquette.
"How much will this shoe cost me?" Max asked.
"Half a crown," said Bauer, with a sly glance at the girl to see how
she would accept so exorbitant a sum.  The princess frowned.  "But
sometimes," added Bauer hurriedly, "I do it for nothing."
"Bauer, your grandfather was a robber," the girl laughed.  "Take heed
that you do not follow in his footsteps."
"I am a poor man, your--mm---Fräulein," he stammered.
"Here's a crown," said Max, tossing a coin which was neatly caught by
the grimy hand of the smith.
"Are you very rich?" asked the girl curiously.
"Why?" counter-questioned Max.
"Oh, I am curious to know.  Bauer will tell it to every one in
Barscheit that you overpay for things, and from now on you will have to
figure living on a basis of crowns."
It is worth any price to hear a pretty woman laugh.  What a fine
beginning for a day!
"May misfortune be kind enough to bring you this way again, Herr!"
Bauer cried joyfully, not to say ambiguously.
"Listen to that!" laughed the girl, her eyes shining like the water in
the sun.  "But he means only to thank your generosity.  Now,"--with a
severe frown,--"how much do I owe you?  Take care; I've only a few
pieces of silver in my purse."
"Why, Fräulein, you owe me nothing; I am even in debt to you for this
very crown."  Which proved that Bauer had had his lesson in
courtier-ship.
The assistant soon brought forth the girl's restive filly.  Max sprang
to her aid.  How light her foot was in his palm!  (She could easily
have mounted alone, such was her skill; but there's the woman of it.)
"I am going toward the Pass," she said, reading the half-veiled appeal
in his blue eyes.
"Which way is that?" he asked, swinging into his own saddle.
"That way," nodding toward the south.  After all, there could be no
harm; in two or three hours their paths would separate for ever.
"Why,"--delightedly,--"I am going that way myself."
Old Bauer watched them till they disappeared around a turn in the road.
He returned to his forge, shaking his head as if confronted by a
problem too abstruse even for his German mind.
"Well, he's an American, so I will not waste any pity on him.  The pity
is that she must wed old Red-nose."
It would have been if she had!
So the Princess and Prince Charming rode into the country, and they
talked about a thousand and one things.  Had she ever been to France?
Yes.  To England?  She had received part of her education there.  Did
she know the Princess Hildegarde?  Slightly.  What was she like?  She
was a madcap, irresponsible, but very much abused.  Did she know Mr.
Warrington, the American consul?  She had seen him on his morning
rides.  Wasn't it a fine world?  It was, indeed.
Once they stopped at a farm.  The girl refused to dismount, bidding Max
go in and ask for a drink of milk.  Max obeyed with alacrity, returning
with two foaming goblets of warm milk.
From time to time the princess stifled the "small voice."  It was
wrong, and yet it wasn't.  What worried her was the thought that Betty
might take it into her head to follow, and then everything would be
spoiled.  Every now and then she turned her head and sighed
contentedly; the road to rearward was always clear.
"Follow me!" she cried suddenly, even daringly.
A stone wall, three feet high, ran along at their right.  The
foreground was hard and firm.  Pressing the reins on the filly's
withers, she made straight for the wall, cleared it, and drew up on the
other side.  Now, Max hadn't the least idea that the horse under him
was a hunter, so I might very well say that he took his life in his
hands as he followed her.  But Dandy knew his business.  He took the
wall without effort.  A warm glow went over Max when he found that he
hadn't broken his neck.  Together they galloped down the field and came
back for the return jump.  This, too, was made easily.  Max's
admiration knew no bounds.  It was a dangerous pastime in more ways
than one.
At eight o'clock they turned toward home, talking about another
thousand and one things.
"It has been a delightful ride," suggested Max, with an eye to the
future.
"I take this road nearly every morning," said she, looking out upon the
water, which was ruffling itself and quarreling along the sandy shores.
Max said nothing, but he at once made up his mind that he would take
