'Fighting for its own sake would tempt you, if nothing else could,'
she answered quietly.
'Ah--perhaps, perhaps,' he answered, musing.
'But you would need a cause, though ever so slight, and you have none
here, have you?'
'None that I care to take up.'
'You may find something to fight for--over the water,' Zoë suggested,
emphasising the words a little and watching his face.
The phrase meant nothing to him.
'Over the water?' he repeated carelessly. 'At home, in Venice, you
mean. Yes, if Venice needed me, I should not wait to be called twice!'
It was quite clear that he attached no meaning to the words she had
used, and this fact tallied with what the astrologer had told her in
the morning as to his having been deaf to all advances made to him by
the imprisoned Emperor's party.
Zoë leaned back in silence for a while, almost closing her eyes, and
she saw that he watched her, and that an unmistakable look of
admiration stole into his face. She was wondering whether it would
ever turn into something more, and whether she should ever see the
gleam of fight in his eyes, for her sake, that had flashed in them a
moment ago at the mere thought of battle. What did women do, to make
men love them? There is an age when girls believe that love need only
be called, like a tame dove, and that he will fly in at the window;
and there is an age when he comes to them uncalled-for. If only the
ages were the same for all, much trouble might be spared. Zoë was
perhaps between the two, but she still believed that there was some
fixed rule on which clever women acted to make men fall in love with
them, those wicked women who are described to young girls as
'designing,' and are supposed to know precisely the effect they can
produce on men at any moment, to the very nicety of an eyelash.
Zeno broke the long silence with an unexpected speech which roughly
awakened Zoë from her reflection.
'As for this Emperor John whom his son has locked up,' he said, 'his
friends have done their best to interest me in his cause. He has even
sent me messages, begging me to help him to escape. Why? What
difference can it make to me whether he or his son dies in the Amena
tower? They are poor things, both of them, and for all I care John may
starve in his chains before I will lift a finger!'
Zoë sighed and bit her lip to check herself, for his voluntary
declaration had dashed the palace of her hopes to pieces in an
instant.
Then she was ashamed of having even dreamt that he might love her,
since he despised the very cause for which she had wished to win his
love. But this state of mind did not last long, either. She was too
brave to let such a speech pass, as if she agreed with it.
'You are wrong,' she said, quite forgetting that she had set herself
to play the part of the slave. 'You ought to help him, if you can--and
you can, if you will.'
Zeno looked at her in surprise. There was something like authority in
her tone, and the two little maids, whom he had forgotten in their
corner behind him, stared in astonishment at her audacity. Not a word
of the conversation had escaped them.
'I mean,' continued Zoë, before he could find an answer to her plain
statement, 'if you are a true Venetian you should wish to put down the
man whom the Genoese and the Turks have set on the throne. Johannes is
your friend and your country's friend, though he is a weak man and
always will be. Andronicus is an enemy to Venice and a friend to her
enemies. He is even now ready to give the island of Tenedos to
them--the key to the Dardanelles----'
'What?' asked Zeno in a loud and angry tone. 'Tenedos?'
His manner had changed, and he almost rose from his seat as he bent
forwards and seized her wrist in his excitement. She was glad, and
smiled at him.
'Yes,' she answered, 'the Genoese demand it as the price of their
protection, and they will force him to give it to them. But it may not
be easy, for the governor of the island is loyal to Johannes.'
'How do you know these things?' asked Zeno, still holding her wrist
and trying to look into her eyes.
'I know them,' Zoë answered. 'If I am not telling you the truth, sell
me in the market to-morrow.'
  [Illustration: 'I know them,' Zoë answered. 'If I am not telling you
   the truth, sell me in the market to-morrow.']
'By the Evangelist,' swore Zeno, 'you will deserve it.'
CHAPTER IX
A month had passed, and yet, to all outward appearance, Zeno's manner
of living had undergone no change. He rose early and bathed in the
Golden Horn on fine days. He attended to his business in the morning,
and dined with Sebastian Polo twice a week, but generally at home on
the remaining days; and he rode out in the afternoon with a single
running footman, or stayed indoors if it rained. Even his own servants
and slaves hardly noticed any change in his habits, and only observed
that he often looked preoccupied, and sometimes sat on his balcony for
an hour without moving, his eyes fixed on the towers of the Blachernæ
palace.
They did not know how much time he spent with his beautiful Greek
slave; and they found that the two little maids, Yulia and Lucilla,
were not inclined to gossip when they came downstairs on an errand.
Omobono probably knew a good deal, but he kept it to himself, and
stored the fruits of his lively curiosity to enjoy alone the delicious
sensation of the miser gloating over his useless gold. On the whole,
therefore, life in the Venetian merchant's house had gone on much as
usual for a whole month after Zoë had fired a train which was destined
to produce momentous results when it reached the mine at last.
Zeno saw her every day now, and often twice, and she had become a part
of his life, and necessary to him; though he did not believe that he
was in love with her, any more than she would have admitted that she
loved him.
For each was possessed by one dominant thought; and it chanced, as it
rarely chances in real life, that one deed, if it could be performed,
would satisfy the hopes of both. Zeno, born patriot and leader, saw
that the whole influence of his country in the East was at stake in
the matter of Tenedos; Zoë thirsted to revenge the death of Michael
Rhangabé, her adopted father and the idol of her childhood.
If the imprisoned Emperor Johannes could be delivered from the Amena
tower, both would certainly obtain what they most desired. Johannes
would give Tenedos to Venice, in gratitude for his liberty, and the
people of Constantinople would probably tear Andronicus to ribands in
the Hippodrome, on the very spot where Rhangabé had suffered.
They would rally round their lawful sovereign if he could only be got
out of the precincts of the palace, where the usurper was strongly
guarded by his foreign mercenaries, mostly Circassians, Mingrelians,
Avars, and Slavonians. The people would not rise of themselves to
storm Blachernæ, nor would the Greek troops revolt of their own
accord; but as they all feared the soldiers of the foreign legion,
they hated them and their master Andronicus, and the presence of
Johannes amongst them would restore their courage and make the issue
certain.
Such a leader as Carlo Zeno might indeed have successfully besieged
Andronicus in his palace; but he knew, and every man and woman in
Constantinople knew well enough, that Andronicus would make an end of
his father and of his two younger brothers in prison, at the first
sign of a revolution, so that there might be no lawful heir to the
throne left alive but he himself.
Therefore it was the first and the chief object of the patriots to
bring Johannes secretly from his place of confinement to the heart of
the city, or to one of the islands, beyond the reach of danger, till
the revolution should be over and his son a prisoner in his stead;
though it was much more probable that the latter would be summarily
put to death as a traitor.
All this Zeno had understood before Zoë had spoken to him about it;
but he had not known that the Genoese had demanded Tenedos of
Andronicus as the price of their protection against the Turks; for the
negotiations had been kept very secret, and at first Carlo had not
believed the girl, and had deemed that the tale might be a pure
invention.
He had come again to see her on the following day, and again he had
vainly tried to find out who she was, and in what great Fanariote
house she had been brought up. It was impossible to get a word from
her on this subject; and she warned him that what she had told him
must not be repeated in the hearing of any Genoese, nor of any one
connected with the Court. The Genoese meant that no one should know of
the treaty till it was carried out, and until Tenedos was theirs; for
the place was very strong, as they afterwards found by experience,
and Andronicus needed their help too much to risk losing their favour
by an indiscretion.
These injunctions of silence made Carlo still more doubtful as to the
veracity of Zoë's story, and he frankly told her so and demanded
proof; but she only answered as she had at first.
'If it is not true,' she said, 'brand me in the forehead, as they
brand thieves, and sell me in the open market.'
And again he was angry, and swore that he would do so by her indeed if
the story was a lie; but she smiled confidently, and nodded her
assent.
'If you do not save the Emperor,' she said, 'you Venetians will be
driven out of Constantinople before many months; and if Genoa once
holds Tenedos how shall you ever again sail up the Dardanelles?'
Many a time she had heard Michael Rhangabé say as much to his friends,
and she knew that it was wisdom. So did Zeno, and he wondered at the
knowledge of his bought slave. So he came and went, turning over the
great question in his brain; and she awaited his coming gladly,
because she saw that he was roused, and because the longing for just
revenge was uppermost in her thoughts. Thus were the two drawn
together more and more, fate helping. Yet he told her nothing of the
steps he took so quickly after he had once made up his mind to act.
She no longer asked him what he meant to do with her; she did not
again send for the secretary to complain that her existence was dull;
she no longer was impatient with her maids; she seemed perfectly
satisfied with her existence.
She went out when she pleased to go, in the beautiful skiff, in charge
of Omobono, and always with one of the girls; and she sat in the deep
cushioned seat as the great ladies did when they were rowed to the
Sweet Waters, and as she had sat many times in old days, beside Kyría
Agatha. The secretary sat on a little movable seat in the waist of the
boat, which was built almost exactly like a modern Venetian gondola
without the hood, and the slave-girl sat in the bottom at her
mistress's feet. Zoë, the adopted daughter of the Protosparthos, had
gone abroad with uncovered face, but Arethusa, the slave, was closely
veiled, though that was not the general custom. And often, as she
glided along in the spring afternoons, she passed people she had known
only a year ago, or a little more, who wondered why she hid her
