
“ ‘Jem,’ says he, T ’m your grandfather. 
Your poor papa died a loving you, and sorry 
enough that he ’d ever been so cruel. And 
now you must come home with me, and I ’ll 
try to bring you up to be a good man, and you 
must love me in my old days.’ 

‘‘ ‘Ah,’ says the gov’ner, ‘they don’t always 

do that, unless they ’re like Ben here. I 've 
three likely sons that I have n’t heard from in 
ten years, or more.’ 

‘‘So the old gent thanked Mammy again and 
again, and said so much to me that I was red 
as a beet in the face. But, would you believe, 
the little kid would n’t stir a step with them 
without Kitty, and . Mammy begged ’em to 
wait until to-morrow. 

“Well, they went away after awhile, and we 
talked and cried, even to the gov’ner, who was 
quite knocked up about it. Jem seemed to 
care the least of any one, but then he did n’t 
understand all ’t was goin’ to be to him. 

“But was n’t there a jolly lark the next 
morning ! Old McCann was there ordering us 
out of the house, just as the carriage stopped. 
You should a’ seen his face then. It was as 
good as a picture by Nast. He cooled down 
quicker ’n ’lasses candy in a heap of snow. The 
old gent paid the rent, and told him we did n’t 
want the place any more; and, sure enough, 



before twelve that day we went out, bag and 
baggage, which was n’t saying much, after all. 

“Well, the upshot of it all is I ’ve got about 
as nice a paper stand as you ’d want to see. 
We keep pens, and writing-paper, and notions, 
and I ’ve a morning route. I ’m first president 
and the gov’ner ’s cashier, an’ you never saw 
a prouder man. We have three rooms back of 
the store, and Mammy keeps house there like 
a queen. 

“Kitty is living with Mr. Walsingham and 
Jemmy, ’though his real name is Eugene. 
They would n’t give her up. You see the old 
gent felt as if we had saved Jemmy’s life, and I 
do suppose the little kid would a’ froze to 
death that night if I had n’t taken him home. 
So he felt as if he could n’t do enough for us, 
but the gov’ner and I — we ’ve got our pride, 
too. 

“Kitty lives like a princess in a palace. She 
takes care of Jem’s clothes, and dusts up the 
parlors, and is studying music, for they all 

 


think she has a stunning voice. She conies to 
see us in a carriage, and though the gov’ner 
laughs, I see him wipe his eyes with his coat- 
sleeve, as though there was a little something 
besides fun in it. 

‘‘You better believe that I put faith in Santa 
Claus and Christmas ! Why, the year could n’t 
keep house without them. The gov’ner and I 
hang up our stockings, and get ’em full, too. 
It ’s curi’s, but always on Christmas Eve I 
take a little run round just after dark, and look 
on store steps, and in dry goods boxes, and 
sometimes I find a little chap cold and hungry, 
and I make believe for a moment that I ’m 
Santa Claus. It ’s just jolly, I tell you! And 
when the stars shine out I think of the plain of 
Judee, and the shepherds hearing the great 
song that all the world goes on singing, so that 
it can never be quite forgotten. And so Merry 
Christmas to everybody from Ben Hewes.” 



A SPLENDID long holiday!” Grace 
Howard exclaimed, rushing across 
the porch, fairly out of breath. 
‘‘Some important business calls Miss 
Johnson away to-morrow, and we girls have 
been planning such a nice time. Jennie Carl- 
ton has asked us to her house to dinner, and 
then we are going to the woods on a picnic.’’ 

“I thought you did n’t like Jennie Carlton 
very well,” Mrs. Howard rejoined. 

Grace colored. There was a sort of chronic 
difference between the two. 

“I don’t like her as well as some of the girls, 
but we have made up good friends. And when 
she asked me — it ’s to be quite a select party,” 
and Grace put a peculiar emphasis upon the 
word. 

“That is what I object to the most. If all 

 


the school-girls were going to the woods, I 
should expect you to have a pleasant time. 
But choosing some six or eight because their 
parents are wealthy seems too exclusive for 
such an occasion. I do not feel at all compli- 
mented by having you invited.” 

‘‘But I do want to go. My holiday will be 
just spoiled if I have to stay at home;” and 
Grace’s pretty face looked ready for tears. 

“Perhaps you might decide upon some bet- 
ter way of spending it,” replied her mother. 
“I am going to drive to Aunt Ellen’s in the 
afternoon, and had thought of taking you. 
Mrs. Dean was over here this morning, and 
said that Alice was wishing very much to see 
you. She seems to be failing, her mother 
fancies. Half a day would finish your book, 
would n’t it?” 

“I ’ll do that positively on Saturday,” Grace 
said; “or I might go a little while on Friday 
afternoon. O dear! I shall be glad when it is 
through.” 


“ ‘ I thought you did n’t like Jennie Carlton ’ ” 

‘‘You know it was your own desire,” Mrs. 
Howard rejoined. “And it has been such a 
pleasure to Alice.” 

Grace twisted the fringe of the table-cover 


with a misgiving that she was not in a very 



amiable frame of mind. A day or two surely 
would n’t make any difference to Alice Dean, 
but to give up a whole day’s pleasure for that ! 

Grace Howard had a good many generous 
impulses, but, one way and another, her under- 
takings often failed before reaching comple- 
tion. She had received for her birthday pres- 
ent a handsome set of story-books, in which 
she had been wonderfully interested, and pro- 
posed to read them aloud to blind Alice Dean, 
who was an invalid besides. Mrs. Dean had to 
work hard to support herself and child, and 
'-found but little time to devote to her amuse- 
ment. Grace’s clear, sweet voice gave them a 
keener charm to the sensitive child. At first 
she had done very well, it must be confessed, 
but the last book dragged along, when Grace 
began to think it almost a burthen. 

‘‘Can’t I go?” she asked presently. “I shall 
be so disappointed.” 

