the water when there came a jerk and the line was almost pulled from
the boy's hands.
"You've got him!" cried Randy, excitedly. "Good for you!"
"If I don't lose him before I get him on the rocks!" answered Jack. But
his fears were groundless, for a few seconds later the catch lay at his
feet--a fish weighing at least a pound and a half.
"That's the way to do it," said Randy.
"You might have had him--if you had cast in first," answered his
companion, modestly.
"I'll try my luck now," and Randy cast in without delay. Then Jack also
tried it again, and both boys began to fish in earnest. Soon Randy got
a bite and brought in a fish weighing as much as the first catch.
"Now we are even," said Jack.
In an hour Randy had four good-sized fish to his credit and Jack had an
equal number. Then Jack's luck fell away and Randy got three more while
his companion got nothing.
"There is no use of talking, you are a better fisherman than I," said
Jack.
"I think you drop down too deep," answered Randy. "Try it this way,"
and he showed his friend what he meant.
After that Jack's success was a trifle better, but still Randy kept
ahead of him.
When the boys had caught twenty fish between them they decided to give
up the sport. Randy knew where they could find some blackberries, and
leaving their fish in a hole among the rocks, where there was a small
pool of water, they tramped away from the river to where the blackberry
bushes were located.
"These are fine," said Jack, eating a handful with a relish. "Randy, we
ought to come berrying here some day."
"I am willing."
"These berries would make the nicest kind of pies."
"Yes, indeed! And if there is anything I love it is a good, juicy
blackberry pie."
"If we had a kettle we might take some home with us now."
"I am afraid it is too late. What time is it?"
Jack carried a neat silver watch which he consulted.
"Why, it's half-past five already! I thought it might be four. Yes,
we'll have to get back."
"Let us go down to the boat first and then row up and get the fish."
This suited the two boys, and soon they were making their way back over
the rocks to where Jack's craft had been left. As they came out from
among the trees and bushes they saw another boat on the river, headed
for Riverport.
"There is Bob Bangs again!" exclaimed Randy.
"Hullo!" yelled Jack. "Have you been fishing, too?"
"Yes," answered the big boy, and continued to row down the river.
"Have any luck?" went on Jack.
"Fine," was the short answer, and then Bob Bangs' craft drew out of
hearing.
"He was in a tremendous hurry," mused Jack.
"Perhaps he didn't want us to see what he had caught," answered Randy.
"That's likely it, Randy. I don't believe he knows as much about
fishing as I do--and that is little enough."
Having secured the rowboat, Randy and Jack rowed up to the fishing
hole, and Randy scrambled up the rocks to secure their two strings of
fish. He soon reached the shallow pool among the rocks in which they
had been placed and drew up the two strings.
"Well, I declare!" he ejaculated, as he looked the fish over. Then he
counted them carefully. "What can this mean?"
His string had held twelve fish and Jack's eight fish. Now three of the
largest fish from each string were gone. He looked around with care,
but could see nothing of the missing fish.
"Hullo! What's keeping you?" shouted Jack, from the boat.
"Come up here!" called back Randy.
"Anything wrong?"
"Yes."
"Landy! I hope the fish aren't gone!" burst out Jack, as he scrambled
up the rocks and ran to where Randy was continuing the search.
The situation was soon explained and both boys hunted around in the
neighborhood of the pool, thinking the fish might have gotten away in
some manner. Then of a sudden Jack uttered a cry:
"Look at this, Randy!"
"What is it?"
"A key ring, with two keys on it."
"Where did you find it?"
"Here, right beside the pool."
"Then somebody has been here and taken our fish!"
"Exactly what I believe."
Jack began to examine the key ring and then he uttered another
exclamation:
"Here are some initials on the ring."
"What are they?"
"I can't make out very well--they are so worn. I think the first is R."
"Let me see."
Jack passed the find over and Randy examined it.
"I can make it out," said Randy. "R. A. B."
"Robert A. Bangs!" shouted Jack.
"Bob Bangs!" murmured Randy. "Could he have been mean enough to come
here and take some of our fish?"
"It certainly looks that way."
"Let us go after him and find out."
"All right. Anyway, we can make him explain how his key ring got here."
Taking what was left of the fish, the two boys hurried back to the
rowboat and soon each was seated at an oar and pulling a good stroke in
the direction of the town.
"He must have been watching us fish," observed Jack. "And he must have
seen us place our catch in the pool."
"And took our best fish because he couldn't catch any of his own,"
concluded Randy. "Well, if he has my fish he has got to give them up,"
he added, with determination.
Rowing at a good rate of speed, it did not take the boys long to reach
the town. As they moved past one dock after another they looked for Bob
Bangs, but the big youth was nowhere in sight.
"I reckon he was afraid of being followed," said Jack.
"There is his boat," answered Randy, and pointed to the craft, which
was tied up near an old boathouse and not at the regular Bangs dock.
While the two boys rested on their oars an old man who was lame, and
who rented out boats for a living, came from the old boathouse. "Hullo,
Isaac!" called out Jack. "Have you seen Bob Bangs around here?"
"Why, yes; he just went ashore," answered Isaac Martin.
"Did he have any fish?"
"Yes, a nice string--some pretty big ones, too."
"How many?"
"Seven or eight."
"Which way did he go?"
"Up Samson Street."
"That's the back way to his house," cried Randy. "Come on!"
"What shall we do with our fish and the boat?"
"Let Isaac take care of them."
"Want me to take care of things, eh?" said the lame boatman. "Very
well, I'll do it."
The two boys were soon on the way, on a run. They knew about the route
Bob Bangs would take to get home and came in sight of the big boy just
as he was entering his father's garden by a rear gate.
"Stop, Bob!" called out Randy.
The big boy looked around hastily and was much chagrined to see the
others so close at hand. He held his string of fish behind him.
"What do you want?" he demanded, as they came closer.
"You know well enough what we want," returned Jack. "We want our fish."
"Your fish? Who has got your fish?" blustered Bob.
"You've got them," retorted Randy, and made a snatch at the string. The
big boy held fast and a regular tug of war ensued.
"Let go!"
"I won't!"
"You shall!"
"See here, Bob," interposed Jack. "It won't do you any good to hang on.
Those are our fish and we want them."
"Bah! How do you know they are your fish?"
"Because you took them from the pool in which we placed them."
"I did not."
"You did."
"You can't prove it."
"Yes, we can."
"How?"
"By this," said Jack, triumphantly, and exhibited the key ring and
keys.
CHAPTER III
EXPOSING BOB BANGS
When Bob Bangs saw the key ring his face changed color.
"Where did you get that?" he demanded.
"Got it where you dropped it--at the pool where we left our fish."
"How do you know it is mine?"
"By the initials on it."
"Humph!"
"If you don't want the key ring we'll keep it," put in Randy, quickly.
"No, you won't keep it. Give it to me."
"Then give us our fish," said Randy, quietly but firmly.
"They are not all your fish. I caught two of them."
"The two smallest, I suppose."
"No, the two largest."
"We lost six big fish and these belong to us," said Randy, and took the
best fish from the string. "Bob Bangs, it was a contemptible thing to
do," he added, with spirit. "I wouldn't do such a dirty thing for a
thousand dollars."
"Bah! Don't talk to me, unless you want to get hurt," growled the large
youth, savagely.
"I am not afraid of you, even if you are bigger than I am," said Randy,
undaunted by the fighting attitude the bully had assumed.
"It certainly was a mean piece of business," came from Jack. "If you
wanted some fish why didn't you ask us for them?"
"Humph! I can buy my fish if I want to."
"Then why did you take ours?" demanded Randy.
"I--er--I didn't know they belonged to you. I just saw the strings in
the pool and took a few," answered the boy, lamely. "Give me my key
ring."
The ring with the keys was passed over, and Randy and Jack restrung
their fish. In the meantime Bob Bangs entered his father's garden,
slamming the gate after him.
"You just wait--I'll get square with you!" he shouted back, and shook
his fist at Randy.
