tents of silver-covered dishes on the warmers. 
The fragrance of coffee was pleasantly perceptible ; 
men in conventional shooting attire roamed about the 
room, selected what they cared for, and carried it to the 
table. Mrs. Mortimer was there consuming peaches that 
matched her own complexion ; Marion Page, always more 
congruous in field costume and belted j ackct than in any- 
thing else, and always, like her own hunters, minutely 
groomed, was preparing a breakfast for her own con- 
sumption with the leisurely precision characteristic of 
her whether in the saddle, on the box, or grassing her 
brace of any covey that ever flushed. 
Captain Voucher and Lord Alderdene discussed pros- 
pects between bites, attentive to the monosyllabic opinions 
of Miss Page. Her twin brothers, Gordon and Willis, 
shyly consuming oatmeal, listened respectfully and 
waited on their sister at the slightest lifting of her 
thinly arched eyebrows. 
 
Into this company sauntered Siward, apparently no 
worse for wear. For as yet the Enemy had set upon him 
no proprietary insignia save a rather becoming pallor 
and faint bluish shadows under the eyes. He strolled 
about, exchanging amiable greetings, and presently se- 
lected a chilled grape fruit as his breakfast. Opposite 
him Mortimer, breakfasting upon his own dreadful 
bracer of an apple soaked in port, raised his heavy in- 
flamed eyes with a significant leer at the iced grape 
fruit. For he was always ready to make room upon 
his own level for other men; but the wordless grin and 
the bloodshot welcome were calmly ignored, for as yet 
that freemasonry evoked no recognition from the pallid 
man opposite, whose hands were steady as though 
that morning's sun had wakened him from pleasant 
dreams. 
" The most difficult shot in the world," Alderdene 
was explaining, " is an incoming pheasant, sailing on 
a slant before a gale." 
"A woodcock in alders doing a jack-snipe twist is 
worse," grunted Mortimer, drenching another apple in 
port. 
" Yes," said Miss Page tersely. 
" Or a depraved ruffed cock-grouse in the short 
pines; isn't that the limit? " asked Mortimer of Siward. 
But Siward only shrugged his comment and glanced 
out through the leaded casements into the brilliant Sep- 
tember sunshine. 
Outside he could see Major Belwether, pink skinned, 
snowy chop whiskers brushed rabbit fashion, very volu- 
ble with Sylvia Landis, who listened absently, head 
partly averted. Quarrier in tweeds and gaiters, his 
morning cigar delicately balanced in his gloved fingers, 
strolled near enough to be within ear-shot; and when 
Sylvia's inattention to Major Belwether's observations 
became marked to the verge of rudeness, he came forward 
and spoke. But whatever it was that he said appeared 
to change her passive inattention to quiet displeasure, 
for, as Siward rose from the table, he saw her turn on 
her heel and walk slowly toward a group of dogs pre- 
sided over by some kennel men and gamekeepers. 
She was talking to the head gamekeeper when he 
emerged from the house, but she saw him on the terrace 
and gave him a bright nod of greeting, so close to an 
invitation that he descended the stone steps and crossed 
the dew-wet lawn. 
" I am asking Dawson to explain just exactly what 
a ' Shotover Drive ' resembles," she said, turning to in- 
clude Siward in an animated conference with the big, 
scraggy, head keeper. " You know, Mr. Siward, that 
it is a custom peculiar to Shotover House to open the 
season with what is called a Shotover Drive? " 
" I heard Alderdene talking about it," he said, smil- 
ingly inspecting the girl's attire of khaki with its but- 
toned pockets, gun pads, and Cossack cartridge loops, 
and the tan knee-kilts hanging heavily pleated over 
gaiters and little thick-soled shoes. He had never cared 
very much to see women afield, for, in a rare case where 
there was no affectation, there was something else inborn 
that he found unpleasant — something lacking about a 
woman who could take life from frightened wild things, 
something shocking that a woman could look, unmoved, 
upon a twitching, blood-soiled heap of feathers at her 
feet. 
Meanwhile Dawson, dog-whip at salute, stood knee 
deep among his restless setters, explaining the ceremony 
with which Mr. Ferrall ushered in the opening of each 
shooting season: 
 
" It's our own idee, Miss Landis," he said proudly ; 
" onc't a season Mr. Ferrall and his guests likes it for 
a mixed bag. 'Tis a sort of picnic, Miss; the guns is 
in pairs, sixty yards apart in line, an' the rules is, walk 
straight ahead, dogs to heel until first cover is reached ; 
fire straight or to quarter, never blankin' nor wipin' no 
eyes ; and ground game counts as feathers for the Shot- 
over Cup." 
" Oh ! It's a skirmish line that walks straight 
ahead.'' " said Siward, nodding. 
" Straight ahead. Sir. No stoppin', no turnin' for 
hedges, fences, water or rock. There is boats Tr deep 
water and fords marked and corduroy f'r to pass the 
Seven Dreens. Luncheon at one, Miss — an hour's rest 
— then straight on over hill, valley, rock, and river to 
the rondyvoo atop Osprey Ledge. You'll see the poles 
and the big nests, Sir. It's there they score for the cup, 
and there when the bag is counted, the traps are ready 
to carry you home again." . . . And to Siward: "Will 
you draw for your lady, Sir? It is the custom." 
" Are you my ' lady '.'' " he asked, turning to Sylvia. 
" Do you want me? " 
In the smiling lustre of her eyes the tiniest spark 
flashed out at him — a hint of defiance for somebod}', 
perhaps for Major Belwether who had taken consider- 
able pains to enhghten her as to Siward's condition the 
night before; perhaps also for Quarrier, who had 
naturally expected to act as her gun-bearer in emer- 
gencies. But the gaily veiled malice of the one had 
annoyed her, and the cold assumption of the other had 
irritated her, and she had, scarcely knowing why, turned 
her shoulder to both of these gentlemen with an indefi- 
nite idea of escaping a pressure, amounting almost to 
critical importunity. 
" I'm probably a poor shot? " she said, looking smil- 
ingly, straight into Siward's eyes. " But if you'll l;;ki' 
me " 
" I will with pleasure," he said ; " Dawson, do 
we draw for position ? Very well then " ; and he 
drew a slip of paper from the box offered by the head 
keeper. 
" Number seven ! " said Sylvia, looking over his 
shoulder. " Come out to the starting line, Mr. Siward. 
All the positions are marked with golf-discs. What 
sort of ground have we ahead, Dawson ? " 
" Kind o' stiff, Miss," grinned the keeper. " Pity 
your gentleman ain't drawed the meadows an' Sachem 
Hill line. Will you choose your dog. Sir ? " 
" You have your dog, you know," observed Sylvia 
demurely. And Siward, glancing among the impatient 
setters, saw one white, heavily feathered dog, straining 
at his leash, and wagging frantically, brown eyes fixed 
on him. 
The next moment Sagamore was free, devouring his 
master with caresses, the girl looking on in smiling 
silence; and presently, side by side, the man, the girl, 
and the dog were strolling off to the starting line where 
already people were gathering in groups, selecting dogs, 
fowling-pieces, comparing numbers, and discussing the 
merits of their respective lines of advance. 
Ferrall, busily energetic, and in high spirits, greeted 
them gaily, pointing out the red disc bearing their num- 
ber, seven, where it stood out distinctly above the distant 
scrub of the foreland. 
" You two are certainly up against it ! " he said, 
grinning. " There's only one rougher line, and you're 
in for thorns and water and a scramble across the back- 
bone of the divide ! " 
 
" Is it any good ? " asked Siward. 
" Good — if you've got the legs and Sylvia doesn't 
play baby " 
" I ? " she said indignantly. " Kemp, you annoy me. 
And I will bet you now," she added, flushing, " that 
your old cup is ours." 
" Wait," said Siward, laughing, " we may not shoot 
straight." 
" You will ! Kemp, I'll wager whatever you dare ! " 
" Gloves .'' Stockings ? — against a cigarette case ? " 
he suggested. 
" Done," she said disdainfully, moving forward 
along the skirmish line with a nod and smile for the 
groups now disintegrating into couples, the Page boys 
with Eileen Shannon and Rena Bonnesdel, Marion Page 
followed by Alderdene, Mrs. Vendenning and Major 
Belwether and the Tassel girl convoyed by Leroy Mor- 
timer. Farther along the hne, taking post, she saw 
Quarrier and Miss Caithness, Captain Voucher with Mrs. 
Mortimer, and others too distant to recognise, moving 
across country with glitter and glint of sunlight on 
slanting gun barrels. 
And now Ferrall was chmbing into his saddle beside 
