" We do not see many strangers in this lonely 
land,' said Argiiello apologetically. " And 
never before have we had so distinguished a guest 
as your excellency. It was always a gala day 
when even a Boston skipper came in with a few 
bales of goods and a complexion like the hides we 
sold him. Now, alas! they are no longer permitted to enter our ports. Governor Arrillaga 
will have none of contraband trade and slaying of 
our otter. And as for Europeans other than Spaniards, save for an English sea-captain now and 
then, they know naught of our existence. " 
But Eezanov had not come to California on the 
impulse of a moment. He replied suavely: 
a There you are mistaken. Your illustrious 
father, Don Jose Mario de Argiiello, is well 
known to us as the most respected, eminent and 
influential character in the Californias. It was 
my intention, after paying a visit of ceremony to 
his excellency. Governor Arrillaga, to come to 
San Francisco for the sole purpose of meeting 
a man whose record has inspired me with the 
deepest interest. And we have all heard such 
wonderful tales of your California, of its beauty, 
its fertility, of the beneficent lives of your missionaries — so different from ours! — and of the 
hospitality and elegance of the Spaniards, that it 
has been the objective point of my travels, and I 
have found it difficult to curb my impatience while 
attending to imperative duties elsewhere." 
'' Ay, senor! " exclaimed the young Californian. " What you say fills me with a pride I 
cannot express, and I can only regret that the 
reports of our poor habitations should be so sadly 
exaggerated. Such as our possessions are, how- 
ever, they are yours while you deign to remain in 
our midst. This is my father 's house. I beg that 
you will regard it as your own. Burn it if you 
will! " he cried with more enthusiasm than commonly enlivened the phrases of hospitality. 
" He will be proud to know that a lifetime of 
severe attention to duty and of devotion to his 
King have won him fame abroad as well as 
at home. He has risen to his present position 
from the ranks, but he is of pure Spanish blood, 
not a drop of Indian; and my mother was a Moraga, of the best blood of Spain," he added artlessly. " As to the beauty and variety of our 
country, senor, of course you will visit our luxuriant south; but " They had dismounted 
 
at the Comandante 's house in the southeast 
corner of the square. Argiiello impulsively led 
Eezanov back to the gates and pointed to the 
east. " I have crossed those mountains and the 
mountains beyond, Excellency, and seen fertile 
and beautiful valleys of a vast extent, watered by 
five rivers and bounded far, far away by mountains covered with snow and gigantic trees. The 
valley beyond the southern edge of the bay, where 
the Missions of Santa Clara and San Jose are, is 
also rich, but those between the two ranges are an 
empire ; and one day when the King sends us more 
colonists, we shall recompense Spain for all she 
has lost." 
" I congratulate you ! " Eezanov, indifferent to 
his host's ancestral lode, had lifted an alert ear. 
His quick incisive brain was at work I should 
like to stretch my legs over a horse for a week 
at a time, and even to climb your highest mountains. You may imagine how much exercise a 
man may get on a vessel of two hundred and six 
tons, and it is thirty-two days since I left Sitka. 
To look upon a vast expanse of green — to say 
nothing of possible sport — after a winter of incessant rain and impenetrable forests — what a pros- 
pect ! I beg you will take me off into the wilderness as soon as possible. " 
 
" I promise you the Governor shall not withhold his consent — and there are bear and deer — 
quail, wild duck — your excellency will enjoy that 
beautiful wild country as I have done." Argiiello 
was enchanted at the prospect of fresh adventure 
in the company of this fascinating stranger. 
" But we are once more at our poor abode, senor. 
I beg that you will remember it is your own." 
They ascended the steps of the piazza, suddenly deserted, and it seemed to Rezanov that 
every sense in his being quivered responsivaly 
to the poignant sweetness of the Castilian roses. 
He throbbed with a sudden exultant premonition 
that he stood on the threshold of an historic 
future, a pagan joy in mere existence, a sudden 
rush of desire for the keen wild happiness of 
youth. Such is the elixir of California in the 
north and the spring. 
They entered a long sala typical of its day 
and of many to come; whitewashed walls hung 
with colored prints of the Virgin and saints; 
horsehair furniture, matting, deep window seats ; 
and a perennial coolness. The Chamberlain (his 
court title and the one commonly attached to his 
name) made himself as comfortable as the slippery chair would permit, and Argiiello has sent for 
his mother. 
 
Langsdorff, who had lingered on the piazza with 
the priest, entered in a moment. 
" The good padre tells me that this rose of 
Castile is the only imported flower in California,' 
he cried with enthusiasm, for although not a 
botanist there was a bump between his eyes as 
big as a child's fist and he had a nose like the 
prow of a toy sliiiJ. '' Many cuttings were 
brought from Spain " 
" What difference does it make where it came 
from? '' interrupted Kezanov, testily. " Is it not 
enough that it is beautiful, but it must have a pin 
stuck through it like some poor devil of a butterfly? '' 
" Your excellency has also the habit to probe 
into things he deems worthy of his attention,'' 
retorted the offended scientist; but he was 
obliged to closet his wrath. An inner door opened 
and the host reappeared with his mother and a 
fair demonstration of her virtues. She was a very 
large woman dressed loosely in black, but she 
carried herself with an air of complete, if somewhat sleepy, dignity, and it was evident that her 
beauty had been great. Her full face had lost 
its contours, but time had spared the fine Roman 
nose and the white skin, that birthright of the 
high-bred Castilian. Arg-iiello presented his family ceremoniously as the guest of honor rose and 
bowed with formal deference. 
" My mother, Doiia Ignacia Argiiello, your 
excellency, who unites with me in praying that 
you will regard our home as yours during your 
sojourn in the north. My sister, Maria de la 
Concepcion Marcella Argiiello, and my little sisters, Ana Paula and Gertrudes Rudisinda. My 
brothers: Gervasio — soldado distinguido of the 
San Francisco Company; Santiago, a cadet in 
the same company; Francesco and Toribio, 
whose presence at the table I beg you will overlook, for when we are so fortunate as to be all 
together, sehor, we cannot bear to be separated. 
My oldest brother, alas ! — Ignacio — is studying for 
holy orders in Mexico, and my sister Isabel visits 
at the Presidio of Santa Barbara. I beg that you 
will be seated. Excellency. ' ' And he continued the 
introduction to the lesser luminaries, with equal 
courtesy but fewer periods. 
Eezanov exchanged a few pleasant words with 
his smiling hostess before she returned to her 
distracted maids preparing the dinner; but his 
eyes during Argiiello \s declamation had wandered with a singular fidelity to the beautiful face 
of the eldest daughter of the house. She had 
responded with a humorous twinkle in her magnificent black eyes and not a hint of dif&dence. 
As she entered the room his brain had flashed 
out the thought: '' Thank heaven for a pretty 
girl after these three abominable years." Possibly his pleasure would have been salted with 
pique had he guessed that her thought was the 
twin of his own. He was the first man of any 
world more considerable than the petty court of 
the viceroy of Mexico that had visited California 
in her time, and excellent as she found his tall 
military figure and pale cold face, the novelty of 
the circumstance fluttered her more. 
Dona " Concha '' Argiiello was the beauty of 
California, and although her years were but sixteen her blood was Spanish, and she carried her 
tall deep figure and &[i.e head with the grace and 
dignity of an accomplished woman. She had 
inherited the white skin and delicate Eoman- 
Spanish profile of the Moragas, but there was an 
intelligent fire in her eyes, a sharp accentuation 
of nostril, and a full mobility of mouth, childish, 
half-developed as that feature still was, that betrayed a strong cross-current forcing the placid 
maternal flow into rugged and unexplored channels, while assimilating its fine qualities of pride 
and high breeding. Gervasio and Santiago resembled their sister in coloring and profile, but 
lacked her subtle quality of personality and divine 
innocence. Luis was more the mother's son than 
the father's — saving his olive skin; a grandee, 
modified by the simplicities of a soldier's life, 
amiable and upright. Doha Ignacia recognized 
in Concha the quintessence of the two opposing 
streams, and had long since ceased to impose 
upon a girl who had little else but her liberties 
the ordinary restraints of the Spanish maiden. 
Concha had already received many offers of marriage and regarded men as mere swingers of incense. Moreover, her cultivated mind was filled 
with ideals and ideas far beyond anything California would yield in her day. 
As Eezanov, upon Doiia Ignacia 's retreat, 
walked directly over to her, she smilingly seated 
herself on a sofa and swept aside her white voluminous skirts. She was not sure that she liked 
him, but in no doubt whatever of her delight at 
his advent. 
Her manners were very simple and artless, as 
are the manners of most women whom Nature 
has gifted with complexity and depth. 
