you.’
He drew her wrist roughly to him and kissed her hand once,
roughly, and dropped it. He had done that in the old days too, and
Maria saw it all again in a violent flash, as men see danger ahead
in a storm at night, lit up by quivering lightning.
She drew breath sharply and turned away from him. She leaned upon
the mantelpiece and rested her throbbing forehead upon her hands.
‘Oh, why have we these earthly bodies of ours?’ she moaned. ‘Why?
why? Why could not God have made us like the angels?’
‘Why not, indeed!’ echoed Castiglione, in bitter unbelief.
‘Even like the fallen angels!’ she cried desperately. ‘They fell
by pride, but not by this! Are there not temptations for heart and
soul and mind enough to try us, to raise us up if we overcome, to
damn us if we yield? Enough to send us to hell or heaven--without
this? O God, that what Thou hast made in Thine own image should be
so vile, so vile, so vile!’
Her despair was real; her cry came from an almost breaking heart.
Castiglione came to her now and laid his hand gently upon her
shoulder.
‘Maria! Look at me, dear! Don’t be afraid!’
She raised her head timidly from her hands and turned her eyes
slowly to him, more than half afraid. But when she saw that his own
were calm and grave again, she gave one little cry of relief and
buried her face upon his shoulder, clinging to him with both hands;
and her touch did not stir his pulse now.
‘No, I’m not afraid of you!’ she softly cried. ‘It was only a
moment, dear, only one dreadful moment, for I trust you with myself
as I would trust you with my soul! Sometimes--’ she looked up
lovingly to his face--‘sometimes each of us must be brave for both,
you know. As we are now, you might even kiss me once and I should
fear nothing!’
He smiled and bent down and kissed her cheek; and there was no
thought in him that he would not have told her. But then he gently
took her hands from his shoulder and made her sit down as they had
sat before.
‘That was not wrong, was it?’ she asked, with a happy smile.
‘No,’ he answered quietly, ‘there was no wrong in that, neither to
you nor to the others.’
‘I’m glad,’ she answered, ‘so glad! But it would not be right to do
it often.’
‘No, not often. Not for a long time again.’
They were both silent in the ebbing of the tide which at the full
had nearly swept them from their feet. At heart, in spite of all,
there was something strangely innocent in them both. Castiglione’s
friends would have wondered much if they could have understood
him, as some of the graver sort might. Few men of his age, beyond
the cloister, knew less of women’s ways and women’s love than he;
few soldiers, indeed, and surely not one of his brother officers.
To wear the King’s uniform ten years in the gayest and smartest
cavalry regiment of the service is not a school for austere virtue
or innocence of heart. All that Castiglione’s comrades noticed
was that he talked but little of women, who were often the chief
subject of the others’ conversation, and that he was very reticent
about the ones he knew. They respected him for that, on the whole,
though they sometimes chaffed him a little in a friendly way. They
all agreed among themselves that he had some secret and lasting
attachment for a woman of their own class whose name he succeeded
in keeping from them in spite of their repeated attempts to find
it out. He was such a manly man that they liked him the better
for it; the more, because great reticence was not their own chief
quality. For the rest, though, he was poorer than most of them,
he was always ready to join in anything except a general raid on
womankind. He played cards with them, and when he could lose no
more, he said so; he was honest in matters of horseflesh and gave
sound advice; he never shirked his duty and left it for another
to do; he was good-natured in doing a comrade’s work when he was
asked to do it for any good reason; he was the best rider in the
regiment, and he never talked about what he had done, or could
do, with a horse; he was not over clever, but he was good company
and told a story with a touch of humour; and he never borrowed
from a brother officer, nor refused to lend, if he had any money.
Altogether, he was the best comrade in the world and everybody
liked and respected him, from the rather supercilious colonel, who
was an authentic duke, and the crabbed old major, who had been
wounded at Dogali, to the rawest recruit that was drafted in from a
Sardinian village or a shepherd’s hut in the Apennines.
But none of all those who liked and respected him guessed that in
the arts of love he was considerably behind the youngest subaltern
in the regiment, at least, so far as his own experience was
concerned, for he could have written volumes about that of the rest
as described by themselves. As a cadet, indeed, he had not been
a model of austerity; but he had fallen in love with Maria a few
days after he had received his commission, and such as he had been
then he had remained ever since, except for her. If his colonel
had known this, he would have smiled sarcastically and would
have said that Castiglione was a case of arrested development,
the old major would have stared at him stupidly without in the
least comprehending that such a man could exist, and the rest of
the mess would have roared with laughter and called him a crazy
sentimentalist. But none of them knew the truth, and he had lived
his life in his own way. There are not many men in the great world
like Baldassare del Castiglione, but there are a few; and in the
little world, in simple countries, there are more of them than the
great world ever dreams of.
This long digression, if it be one, is to explain why Castiglione
accepted Maria’s strangely exalted plan for the future of both,
instead of telling her quite frankly that the chances in favour of
its success were too small for poor humanity to count upon, and
that the best way was to part again and to meet very rarely or not
at all, until the fire of life should be extinguished in the grey
years, and they could look at each other without seeing so much as
a spark of it left in each other’s tired eyes. That is what he
would have done, as a man of honour, if he had known as many other
women of his own class intimately as some of his comrades did.
Or, if he had been like them in other things too, and had loved
Maria less truly, he would have sat down to besiege the fortress
he had once stormed, and would have gone to work scientifically to
demolish its defences, making pretence of accepting the trusting
woman’s generous offer in order to outwit and conquer her by slow
degrees. And if he had done either the one or the other, that is to
say, if he had understood women’s ways, this would either have been
the story of a vulgar fault, or it would have ended abruptly with
Castiglione’s departure.
It is neither. Baldassare was innocent enough as well as honourable
enough to believe that he and Maria could keep the promise they had
made; and he loved her so dearly that the prospect of seeing her
often was like a vision of heaven already half realised.
So on that day they began the new life together, trusting that they
could live it faithfully to the end, but truly resolved to part
again for ever if real danger came near them.
They believed in themselves and in each other. Maria had faith in
a higher power from which she was to receive strength; Castiglione
had little or nothing of this, but he said to himself plainly that
if he broke his word he would die for it on the same day, and he
loved mere life enough to think the forfeit a heavy one.
They counted upon themselves and upon each other. There was
nothing to suggest that quite external circumstances might
influence their lives to make the task easier or more difficult
than they anticipated. Most certainly neither believed that there
could be moments ahead which would be harder to bear than those
through which they had already lived.
When Castiglione went away that afternoon they had agreed that he
should come again on the next day but one, and once again before
he went back to Milan, and that he should at once take steps
to exchange into the Piedmont Lancers, if possible, as his old
regiment was likely to remain in Rome fully eighteen months longer.
CHAPTER VII
If Giuliana Parenzo had been one of those nervous, sensitive
women who are always thinking about themselves and fancying that
their friends are on the point of betraying them, she would have
noticed a little change in Maria’s manner after Castiglione’s visit
to Rome. It was not that Maria was at all less fond of her than
before, or less affectionate, or apparently less glad to see her.
It was much more subtle than that. There is a great difference
between a hungry man and a man who merely has an appetite. The one
must have food, the other is only pleased to have it. Giuliana’s
friendship had long been a necessity to Maria, but it now sank to
the condition of being merely an added satisfaction in her life.
Formerly she would not have given it up for anything else; but now,
if she could have been forced to choose between Castiglione and
Giuliana, she would have given up her friend.
The Marchesa, however, was not a sensitive or nervous woman, and
she noticed nothing of the change that had taken place. She was
therefore very much surprised when her husband spoke to her about
Maria. It was late in the afternoon, some days after Castiglione
had gone back to Milan, and Parenzo had come home tired from the
Foreign Office and was smoking in his wife’s dressing-room, which
was his favourite resort at that hour. Like many busy women,
Giuliana had her writing-table there, in order to be safe from
interruption, and she was occupied with some notes which had to be
finished before dinner, while her husband sat in a low straw chair
watching her, and devising a new costume for their approaching trip
to England. He had always considered it his especial mission to
superintend his wife’s dress, and his taste was admirable. He was a
small wiry man with a neat reddish beard, not much hair on the top
of his head, and a single eyeglass. But he had an energetic nose
and forehead, and a singularly pleasant smile.
Giuliana finished one of her notes and looked up, and instantly the
smile came into his face, for he was quite as much in love with her
as when he had married her. She looked pleased, and nodded to him
before taking another sheet of paper.
‘I wanted to ask you about Maria Montalto,’ he said suddenly,
arresting her attention.
Giuliana looked a little surprised, and laid down her pen.
‘Yes, dear. What do you wish to know about her?’
‘You are just as intimate with her as ever, are you not?’ he
inquired.
‘Oh, yes! What could come between us? Why do you ask?’
‘Because if you are as good friends as you always used to be, I
think you had better tell her that people are talking about her. I
