on the contents of the heavy silver dishes successively presented to her
notice. When, at the conclusion of this ceremony, the servants had
withdrawn, she continued for a moment to stir her tea in silence, while
her glance travelled from Mr. Tredegar, sunk in his morning mail, to Mr.
Langhope, who leaned back resignedly in his chair, trying to solace
himself with Hanaford Banner, till midday should bring him a sight of
the metropolitan press.
"I suppose you know," she said suddenly, "that Bessy has telegraphed for
Cicely, and made her arrangements to stay here another week."
Mr. Langhope's stick slipped to the floor with the sudden displacement
of his whole lounging person, and Mr. Tredegar, removing his
tortoise-shell reading-glasses, put them hastily into their case, as
though to declare for instant departure.
"My dear Maria--" Mr. Langhope gasped, while she rose and restored his
stick.
"She considers it, then, her duty to wait and see Truscomb?" the lawyer
asked; and Mrs. Ansell, regaining her seat, murmured discreetly: "She
puts it so--yes."
"My dear Maria--" Mr. Langhope repeated helplessly, tossing aside his
paper and drawing his chair up to the table.
"But it would be perfectly easy to return: it is quite unnecessary to
wait here for his recovery," Mr. Tredegar pursued, as though setting
forth a fact which had not hitherto presented itself to the more limited
intelligence of his hearers.
Mr. Langhope emitted a short laugh, and Mrs. Ansell answered gently:
"She says she detests the long journey."
Mr. Tredegar rose and gathered up his letters with a gesture of
annoyance. "In that case--if I had been notified earlier of this
decision, I might have caught the morning train," he interrupted
himself, glancing resentfully at his watch.
"Oh, don't leave us, Tredegar," Mr. Langhope entreated. "We'll reason
with her--we'll persuade her to go back by the three-forty."
Mrs. Ansell smiled. "She telegraphed at seven. Cicely and the governess
are already on their way."
"At seven? But, my dear friend, why on earth didn't you tell us?"
"I didn't know till a few minutes ago. Bessy called me in as I was
coming down."
"Ah--" Mr. Langhope murmured, meeting her eyes for a fraction of a
second. In the encounter, she appeared to communicate something more
than she had spoken, for as he stooped to pick up his paper he said,
more easily: "My dear Tredegar, if we're in a box there's no reason why
we should force you into it too. Ring for Ropes, and we'll look up a
train for you."
Mr. Tredegar appeared slightly ruffled at this prompt acquiescence in
his threatened departure. "Of course, if I had been notified in advance,
I might have arranged to postpone my engagements another day; but in any
case, it is quite out of the question that I should return in a
week--and quite unnecessary," he added, snapping his lips shut as though
he were closing his last portmanteau.
"Oh, quite--quite," Mr. Langhope assented. "It isn't, in fact, in the
least necessary for any of us either to stay on now or to return.
Truscomb could come to Long Island when he recovers, and answer any
questions we may have to put; but if Bessy has sent for the child, we
must of course put off going for today--at least I must," he added
sighing, "and, though I know it's out of the question to exact such a
sacrifice from you, I have a faint hope that our delightful friend here,
with the altruistic spirit of her sex----"
"Oh, I shall enjoy it--my maid is unpacking," Mrs. Ansell gaily
affirmed; and Mr. Tredegar, shrugging his shoulders, said curtly: "In
that case I will ring for the time-table."
When he had withdrawn to consult it in the seclusion of the library, and
Mrs. Ansell, affecting a sudden desire for a second cup of tea, had
reseated herself to await the replenishment of the kettle, Mr. Langhope
exchanged his own chair for a place at her side.
"Now what on earth does this mean?" he asked, lighting a cigarette in
response to her slight nod of consent.
Mrs. Ansell's gaze lost itself in the depths of the empty tea-pot.
"A number of things--or any one of them," she said at length, extending
her arm toward the tea-caddy.
"For instance--?" he rejoined, following appreciatively the movements of
her long slim hands.
She raised her head and met his eyes. "For instance: it may mean--don't
resent the suggestion--that you and Mr. Tredegar were not quite
well-advised in persuading her not to see Mr. Amherst yesterday
evening."
Mr. Langhope uttered an exclamation of surprise.
"But, my dear Maria--in the name of reason...why, after the doctor's
visit--after his coming here last night, at Truscomb's request, to put
the actual facts before her--should she have gone over the whole
business again with this interfering young fellow? How, in fact, could
she have done so," he added, after vainly waiting for her reply,
"without putting a sort of slight on Truscomb, who is, after all, the
only person entitled to speak with authority?"
Mrs. Ansell received his outburst in silence, and the butler,
reappearing with the kettle and fresh toast, gave her the chance to
prolong her pause for a full minute. When the door had closed on him,
she said: "Judged by reason, your arguments are unanswerable; but when
it comes to a question of feeling----"
"Feeling? What kind of feeling? You don't mean to suggest anything so
preposterous as that Bessy----?"
She made a gesture of smiling protest. "I confess it is to be regretted
that his mother is a lady, and that he looks--you must have noticed
it?--so amazingly like the portraits of the young Schiller. But I only
meant that Bessy forms all her opinions emotionally; and that she must
have been very strongly affected by the scene Mr. Tredegar described to
us."
"Ah," Mr. Langhope interjected, replying first to her parenthesis, "how
a woman of your good sense stumbled on that idea of hunting up the
mother--!" but Mrs. Ansell answered, with a slight grimace: "My dear
Henry, if you could see the house they live in you'd think I had been
providentially guided there!" and, reverting to the main issue, he went
on fretfully: "But why, after hearing the true version of the facts,
should Bessy still be influenced by that sensational scene? Even if it
was not, as Tredegar suspects, cooked up expressly to take her in, she
must see that the hospital doctor is, after all, as likely as any one to
know how the accident really happened, and how seriously the fellow is
hurt."
"There's the point. Why should Bessy believe Dr. Disbrow rather than Mr.
Amherst?"
"For the best of reasons--because Disbrow has nothing to gain by
distorting the facts, whereas this young Amherst, as Tredegar pointed
out, has the very obvious desire to give Truscomb a bad name and shove
himself into his place."
Mrs. Ansell contemplatively turned the rings upon her fingers. "From
what I saw of Amherst I'm inclined to think that, if that is his object,
he is too clever to have shown his hand so soon. But if you are right,
was there not all the more reason for letting Bessy see him and find out
as soon as possible what he was aiming at?"
"If one could have trusted her to find out--but you credit my poor child
with more penetration than I've ever seen in her."
"Perhaps you've looked for it at the wrong time--and about the wrong
things. Bessy has the penetration of the heart."
"The heart! You make mine jump when you use such expressions."
"Oh, I use this one in a general sense. But I want to help you to keep
it from acquiring a more restricted significance."
"Restricted--to the young man himself?"
Mrs. Ansell's expressive hands seemed to commit the question to fate.
"All I ask you to consider for the present is that Bessy is quite
unoccupied and excessively bored."
"Bored? Why, she has everything on earth she can want!"
"The ideal state for producing boredom--the only atmosphere in which it
really thrives. And besides--to be humanly inconsistent--there's just
one thing she hasn't got."
"Well?" Mr. Langhope groaned, fortifying himself with a second
cigarette.
"An occupation for that rudimentary little organ, the mention of which
makes you jump."
"There you go again! Good heavens, Maria, do you want to encourage her
to fall in love?"
"Not with a man, just at present, but with a hobby, an interest, by all
means. If she doesn't, the man will take the place of the
interest--there's a vacuum to be filled, and human nature abhors a
vacuum."
Mr. Langhope shrugged his shoulders. "I don't follow you. She adored her
husband."
His friend's fine smile was like a magnifying glass silently applied to
the gross stupidity of his remark. "Oh, I don't say it was a great
passion--but they got on perfectly," he corrected himself.
"So perfectly that you must expect her to want a little storm and stress
for a change. The mere fact that you and Mr. Tredegar objected to her
seeing Mr. Amherst last night has roused the spirit of opposition in
her. A year ago she hadn't any spirit of opposition."
"There was nothing for her to oppose--poor Dick made her life so
preposterously easy."
"My ingenuous friend! Do you still think that's any reason? The fact is,
Bessy wasn't awake, she wasn't even born, then.... She is now, and you
know the infant's first conscious joy is to smash things."
"It will be rather an expensive joy if the mills are the first thing she
smashes."
"Oh I imagine the mills are pretty substantial. I should, I own," Mrs.
Ansell smiled, "not object to seeing her try her teeth on them."
"Which, in terms of practical conduct, means----?"
"That I advise you not to disapprove of her staying on, or of her
investigating the young man's charges. You must remember that another
peculiarity of the infant mind is to tire soonest of the toy that no one
tries to take away from it."
"Que diable! But suppose Truscomb turns rusty at this very unusual
form of procedure? Perhaps you don't quite know how completely he
represents the prosperity of the mills."
"All the more reason," Mrs. Ansell persisted, rising at the sound of Mr.
Tredegar's approach. "For don't you perceive, my poor distracted friend,
that if Truscomb turns rusty, as he undoubtedly will, the inevitable
result will be his manager's dismissal--and that thereafter there will
presumably be peace in Warsaw?"
"Ah, you divinely wicked woman!" cried Mr. Langhope, snatching at an
appreciative pressure of her hand as the lawyer reappeared in the
doorway.
VI
BEFORE daylight that same morning Amherst, dressing by the gas-flame
above his cheap wash-stand, strove to bring some order into his angry
