giving that night for the younger sets; and Selwyn, too, seemed to take
unusual interest in the discussion, though Eileen's part in the
conference was limited to an occasional nod or monosyllable.
Drina was wild to go and furious at not having been asked, but when
Boots offered to stay home, she resolutely refused to accept the
sacrifice.
"No," she said; "they are pigs not to ask girls of my age, but you may
go, Boots, and I'll promise not to be unhappy." And she leaned over and
added in a whisper to Eileen: "You see how sensible it is to make
arrangements beforehand! Because somebody, grown-up, might take him away
at this very party. That's the reason why it is best to speak promptly.
Please pass me another peach, Eileen."
"What are you two children whispering about?" inquired Selwyn, glancing
at Eileen.
"Oho!" exclaimed Drina; "you may know before long! May he not, Eileen?
It's about you," she said; "something splendid that somebody is going to
do to you! Isn't it, Eileen?"
Miss Erroll looked smilingly at Selwyn, a gay jest on her lips; but the
sudden clamour of pulses in her throat closed her lips, cutting the
phrase in two, and the same strange fright seized her--an utterly
unreasoning fear of him.
At the same moment Mrs. Gerard gave the rising signal, and Selwyn was
swept away in the rushing herd of children, out on to the veranda, where
for a while he smoked and drew pictures for the younger Gerards. Later,
some of the children were packed off for a nap; Billy with his assorted
puppies went away with Drina and Boots, ever hopeful of a fox or rabbit;
Nina Gerard curled herself up in a hammock, and Selwyn seated himself
beside her, an uncut magazine on his knees. Eileen had disappeared.
For a while Nina swung there in silence, her pretty eyes fixed on her
brother. He had nearly finished cutting the leaves of the magazine
before she spoke, mentioning the fact of Rosamund Fane's arrival at the
Minsters' house, Brookminster.
The slightest frown gathered and passed from her brother's sun-bronzed
forehead, but he made no comment.
"Mr. Neergard is a guest, too," she observed.
"What?" exclaimed Selwyn, in disgust.
"Yes; he came ashore with the Fanes."
Selwyn flushed a little but went on cutting the pages of the magazine.
When he had finished he flattened the pages between both covers, and
said, without raising his eyes:
"I'm sorry that crowd is to be in evidence."
"They always are and always will be," smiled his sister.
He looked up at her: "Do you mean that anybody else is a guest at
Brookminster?"
"Yes, Phil."
"Alixe?"
"Yes."
He looked down at the book on his knees and began to furrow the pages
absently.
"Phil," she said, "have you heard anything this summer--lately--about
the Ruthvens?"
"No."
"Nothing at all?"
"Not a word."
"You knew they were at Newport as usual."
"I took it for granted."
"And you have heard no rumours?--no gossip concerning them? Nothing
about a yacht?"
"Where was I to hear it? What gossip? What yacht?"
His sister said very seriously: "Alixe has been very careless."
"Everybody is. What of it?"
"It is understood that she and Jack Ruthven have separated."
He looked up quickly: "Who told you that?"
"A woman wrote me from Newport. . . . And Alixe is here and Jack Ruthven
is in New York. Several people have--I have heard about it from several
sources. I'm afraid it's true, Phil."
They looked into each other's troubled eyes; and he said: "If she has
done this it is the worse of two evils she has chosen. To live with him
was bad enough, but this is the limit."
"I know it. She cannot afford to do such a thing again. . . . Phil, what
is the matter with her? She simply cannot be sane and do such a
thing--can she?"
"I don't know," he said.
"Well, I do. She is not sane. She has made herself horridly conspicuous
among conspicuous people; she has been indiscreet to the outer edge of
effrontery. Even that set won't stand it always--especially as their men
folk are quite crazy about her, and she leads a train of them about
wherever she goes--the little fool!
"And now, if it's true, that there's to be a separation--what on earth
will become of her? I ask you, Phil, for I don't know. But men know what
becomes eventually of women who slap the world across the face with
over-ringed fingers.
"If--if there's any talk about it--if there's newspaper talk--if
there's a divorce--who will ask her to their houses? Who will condone
this thing? Who will tolerate it, or her? Men--and men only--the odious
sort that fawn on her now and follow her about half-sneeringly. They'll
tolerate it; but their wives won't; and the kind of women who will
receive and tolerate her are not included in my personal experience.
What a fool she has been!--good heavens, what a fool!"
A trifle paler than usual, he said: "There is no real harm in her. I
know there is not."
"You are very generous, Phil--"
"No, I am trying to be truthful. And I say there is no harm in her. I
have made up my mind on that score." He leaned nearer his sister and
laid one hand on hers where it lay across the hammock's edge:
"Nina; no woman could have done what she has done, and continue to do
what she does, and be mentally sound. This, at last, is my conclusion."
"It has long been my conclusion," she said under her breath.
He stared at the floor out of gray eyes grown dull and hopeless.
"Phil," whispered his sister, "suppose--suppose--what happened to her
father--"
"I know."
She said again: "It was slow at first, a brilliant eccentricity--that
gradually became--something else less pleasant. Oh, Phil! Phil!"
"It was softening of the brain," he said, "was it not?"
"Yes--he entertained a delusion of conspiracy against him--also a
complacent conviction of the mental instability of others. Yet, at
intervals he remained clever and witty and charming."
"And then?"
"Phil--he became violent at times."
"Yes. And the end?" he asked quietly.
"A little child again--quite happy and content--playing with toys--very
gentle, very pitiable--" The hot tears filled her eyes. "Oh, Phil!" she
sobbed and hid her face on his shoulder.
Over the soft, faintly fragrant hair he stared stupidly, lips apart,
chin loose.
A little later, Nina sat up in the hammock, daintily effacing the traces
of tears. Selwyn was saying: "If this is so, that Ruthven man has got to
stand by her. Where could she go--if such trouble is to come upon her?
To whom can she turn if not to him? He is responsible for her--doubly
so, if her condition is to be--that! By every law of manhood he is
bound to stand by her now; by every law of decency and humanity he
cannot desert her now. If she does these--these indiscreet things--and
if he knows she is not altogether mentally responsible--he cannot fail
to stand by her! How can he, in God's name!"
"Phil," she said, "you speak like a man, but she has no man to stand
loyally by her in the direst need a human soul may know. He is only a
thing--no man at all--only a loathsome accident of animated decadence."
He looked up quickly, amazed at her sudden bitterness; and she looked
back at him almost fiercely.
"I may as well tell you what I've heard," she said; "I was not going to,
at first; but it will be all around town sooner or later. Rosamund told
me. She learned--as she manages to learn everything a little before
anybody else hears of it--that Jack Ruthven found out that Alixe was
behaving very carelessly with some man--some silly, callow, and
probably harmless youth. But there was a disgraceful scene on Mr.
Neergard's yacht, the Niobrara. I don't know who the people were, but
Ruthven acted abominably. . . . The Niobrara anchored in Widgeon Bay
yesterday; and Alixe is aboard, and her husband is in New York, and
Rosamund says he means to divorce her in one way or another! Ugh! the
horrible little man with his rings and bangles!"
She shuddered: "Why, the mere bringing of such a suit means her social
ruin no matter what verdict is brought in! Her only salvation has
been in remaining inconspicuous; and a sane girl would have realised
it. But"--and she made a gesture of despair--"you see what she has
done. . . . And Phil--you know what she has done to you--what a mad risk
she took in going to your rooms that night--"
"Who said she had ever been in my rooms?" he demanded, flushing darkly
in his surprise.
"Did you suppose I didn't know it?" she asked quietly. "Oh, but I did;
and it kept me awake nights, worrying. Yet I knew it must have been all
right--knowing you as I do. But do you suppose other people would hold
you as innocent as I do? Even Eileen--the sweetest, whitest, most loyal
little soul in the world--was troubled when Rosamund hinted at some
scandal touching you and Alixe. She told me--but she did not tell me
what Rosamund had said--the mischief maker!"
His face had become quite colourless; he raised an unsteady hand to his
mouth, touching his moustache; and his gray eyes narrowed menacingly.
"Rosamund--spoke of scandal to--Eileen?" he repeated. "Is that
possible?"
"How long do you suppose a girl can live and not hear scandal of some
sort?" said Nina. "It's bound to rain some time or other, but I prepared
my little duck's back to shed some things."
"You say," insisted Selwyn, "that Rosamund spoke of me--in that way--to
Eileen?"
"Yes. It only made the child angry, Phil; so don't worry."
"No; I won't worry. No, I--I won't. You are quite right, Nina. But the
pity of it; that tight, hard-shelled woman of the world--to do such a
thing--to a young girl."
"Rosamund is Rosamund," said Nina with a shrug; "the antidote to her
species is obvious."
"Right, thank God!" said Selwyn between his teeth; "Mens sana in
corpore sano! bless her little heart! I'm glad you told me this, Nina."
He rose and laughed a little--a curious sort of laugh; and Nina watched
him, perplexed.
"Where are you going, Phil?" she asked.
"I don't know. I--where is Eileen?"
"She's lying down--a headache; probably too much sun and salt water.
Shall I send for her?"
"No; I'll go up and inquire how she is. Susanne is there, isn't she?"
