" Do you want Dr. Strang to take the case ? 
I should not blame you. You are trusting me 
very far." 
" I shall trust you farther, — to the uttermost, 
to the end." 
Although subdued conversation did not disturb 
the boy, but tended rather to soothe him (so large 
a part had the element of terror taken in his dis- 
order), yet they had been speaking in the lowest 
whispers, scarcely articulate. Their own voices 
sounded unreal to them. The physician did not 
reply to Mrs. Dane's last words. His emotion over- 
came him, and he made no effort to conceal that 
it did so, but averted his scarred face from her. 
His finger crept back to the child's pulse. 
" He is still sleeping ! " breathed Carolyn. 
The doctor glanced at his watch. " Almost an 
hour more than at any time before." 
 
Her eyes ran to the little wrist where the trained 
ringer tip rested as lightly as a leaf. 
" Stronger," he whispered, " a little. More even, 
I think." 
Across his disfigured face a frail smile stirred. 
Carolyn's courage took fire from it. She sat with 
held breath, as if the child's life — still a part of 
her own being — would exhale with the action of 
her lungs. Her eyes sought the physician eagerly. 
But his cautiously replied. 
Now, when Mrs. Dane turned her head, Kath- 
leen at the door was standing with hot soup, and 
beckoning to the doctor. 
" You, too," he said ; and Carolyn followed him. 
Kathleen took the watcher's place beside the boy, 
and the two sat down in the hall. There was a 
divan beneath the window, and a small light table. 
They put the cups of soup upon the table, and 
sipped comfortably; they had never taken a meal 
together, and both remembered the fact. Carolyn 
felt curiously comforted, as a woman does by the 
domestic atmosphere in her saddest moments. 
This had suddenly and subtly become something 
lighter and brighter than a sad moment. 
" Is there any chance ? " she asked outright. 
" Do not be too sure of it," he parried gently. 
" It seems to me possible ; that 's all I can say." 
" If Joyce should get well — " Panting, she set 
her cup down. " I think I would never complain of 
anything, never ask for anything again. It would 
be ... so much happiness. I should not know 
how to . . . bear it." 
" Do you mean," demanded the doctor, unex- 
pectedly, " that there would be no room left in 
you for any other happiness ? Of any other kind, 
I mean." 
His lowered voice took for the first time since 
they had been together the tone which no woman 
can mistake. Carolyn's eyes fled before the con- 
centration of his. 
" If the little fellow should live — could you not 
bear any more joy? Would that exhaust your 
capacity ? You could be very happy, you know. 
Power to be glad is measured by power to suffer. 
And you—" 
He stopped. Carolyn lifted her trembling face. 
Before she could check herself her innermost, ut- 
termost soul sprang to her lips. 
" His poor father ! " she said. " His poor father ! " 
The doctor did not answer. He regarded her 
solemnly. The child waked, calling faintly, and the 
two returned to the sickroom together 
The doctor did not leave it again until morn- 
ing. He expelled the mother from the room 
peremptorily, ordered her to go to sleep, and him- 
 
self watched the night out. When Carolyn came 
back, the June morning was in the room. Birds 
were singing everywhere. The pale, pearl-pink 
dawn tinged the cheeks of the sleeping child. His 
forehead was moist ; his curls lay close upon it 
in pretty rings. One hand closed about the doc- 
tor's finger. The physician gently loosened the 
clasp, and rose. He stood shining against the tall, 
black screen. He limped across the room softly, 
and took Mrs. Dane's hands in both of his. She 
stood flooded in his emotion and her own. 
" There was a change at three o'clock," he said, 
" when the tide turned to come in. The worst 
symptoms are under control of the last remedy. If 
it holds — if it lasts — I think " — he choked. 
Before Carolyn could speak he had raised her 
hand to his lips, and she felt them quivering upon it. 
The doctor did not watch the next night, but he 
did not leave the house. To Mrs. Dane's sugges- 
tion that he should occupy a comfortable bed in 
one of her empty rooms (for he was wasted with 
vigil) he returned a quick refusal, and went down- 
stairs. 
" I 'm all right on the office sofa," he said. " I 
shall stay there, as I have done before." 
He slept, and heavily, for no emergency 
disturbed him. The child fared well. Carolyn took 
her turn at watching, but was scarcely needed. 
Joyce passed from one sane, sweet sleep to another, 
and with the second daybreak his mouth curled 
into a smile, and from it the dearest word in the 
world stole out quite distinctly: — 
" Mum — mumma? " 
Carolyn dared not kiss, and could not cry, but 
she lay upon the ragged elbow of her white 
gown, and put her cheek to his. When the doctor 
came in she rose and stood, — a statue of rapture. 
She could have knelt at his feet, and knew that 
she could. Perhaps he had some consciousness of 
what was thrilling in her, for he extended his 
hand involuntarily, as if to check the expression 
of her gratitude. 
The June day had a celestial gentleness. The 
sunrise warmed without the window and within 
the room. The child put out his little fingers as if 
he would grasp the light, laughed softly, and slept 
again. The doctor moved unsteadily towards the 
bed. 
Now, at that moment, the collie came thumping 
up the stairs, and Mrs. Dane, fearing the effect of 
the disturbance in the sickroom, hurried out to 
send the dog away. This proved to be a matter 
of some moments. It was necessary to persuade 
Clyde or to convince him that he was not wanted 
(never under any circumstances an easy task), and 
 
in the end she was obliged to take him by the 
collar and tug him downstairs. When she returned, 
stepping without sound in her knit woolen slip- 
pers, the doctor was sitting in her place upon the 
empty side of the bed. He did not see her; he 
did not hear her; and as she stood upon the 
threshold, hesitating, she perceived that his arm 
had crept beneath the child, and that his tears were 
storming upon the pillow. Faintly to her ears 
there came these smothered words : — 
"Joy! Joyce! My little boy! Papas sonny boy " 
Then he lifted his wet, disfigured face. Carolyn 
stood staring upon him. He gently withdrew his 
arm, got to his feet, and made as if he would leave 
the room, but fell back that she might precede 
him. In the hall they confronted each other. 
" Cara ! " he said, " dont you know me — after 
all?" 
CHAPTER XVIII 
The great miracles of the healing art are the quiet 
ones. The boy was now sleeping more soundly 
than at any moment hitherto. A deep renewal of 
brain and body had passed upon him. Only his 
gentle, even breathing could be heard in the sol- 
emn stillness of the house. 
The two in the hall stood looking upon each 
other, as two might who had met in the after life 
that follows pain, and joy, and trust, and love, and 
all the mere emotions of an unreal earth. Both were 
as gray as the dead ; but the woman in her long 
white gown acquired an added pallor from the 
circumstance of it. She was the first to speak. 
" Dr. Royal, will you repeat what you said to 
me — just now? I am pretty tired, — and you, — 
you have not slept. We are neither of us quite 
ourselves. I should not wish to . . . wrong you 
... in any way." 
She uttered the words gently, as one speaks to 
a person mentally confused. It was plain to him 
that her instinct was to treat him as though he had 
given utterance to some temporary but unpardon- 
able hallucination. 
 
" I have said it," he replied with a terrible brevity. 
" I am your husband. I am Chanceford Dane." 
She retreated from him with an evasive, pitying 
glance. 
" My husband — you know that — is dead. He 
is buried in Balsam Cemetery. I put flowers on his 
