she put her lips close to Isabel's ear. "I'd like to get out of the
damned place and never see it again," she whispered. "I'll keep a stiff
upper lip, but those are my sentiments and I guess I have company."
She stepped lightly into the car, nodded with a grim gayety, and in
another moment had disappeared round the corner of Taylor and California
streets.
Isabel started down the hill, and almost immediately met Anne
Montgomery. She had not recognized her as they approached each other,
for the glare was in her eyes; but Miss Montgomery ran forward and
kissed her.
"What on earth did you come to this God-forsaken place for, when you had
the country to stay in?" she demanded. "Oh, Lady Victoria? I did not
know she was here. Just come with me and look at a sight."
She put her arm through Isabel's and led her rapidly for several blocks
along California Street, then down Hyde towards moving columns of
people. The fire was far south of these refugees as yet, but they looked
down every cross street and saw it; and more than once during their slow
flight they had seen the soldiers at the visible end of each long vista
move a block farther north. "I tramped a long way with them," said Miss
Montgomery, "carrying things for a woman I never saw before. Then a man
took the burden over and I started up the hill to see how some friends
were faring."
From this point they could hear the roar and crackle of the fire and the
crashing of walls; but even more formidable was that tramping of
thousands of feet, the scraping of trunks and furniture on the tracks
and stones. Isabel, still feeling like a palimpsest, lingered for an
hour looking at these refugees. They were vastly different, in all but
their impotence, from those of the early morning. Hundreds were from the
"boarding-house district"; others were householders; a large number, no
doubt, owned their carriages or automobiles, but those had been
impressed long since. It was a well and a carefully dressed crowd, for
by this time nearly every one had recovered from the shock of the
earthquake; many forgotten it, no doubt, in the new horror. They had not
the blank expression of the poor, dazed by the second calamity following
so close upon the heels of the first, but their lips were pressed, eyes
were straining towards the distant goal, and all would have been pale
but for the glare of the fire. Fortunately for most of them, men as well
as women, they had either children, pets, or even more cumbersome
belongings to claim their immediate attention; no time for either
thought or despair. They pushed trunks to which skates had been
attached, or pulled them by ropes; they trundled sewing-machines and
pieces of small furniture, laden with bundles. Many carried
pillow-cases, into which they had stuffed a favorite dress and hat, an
extra pair of boots and a change of underclothing, some valuable
bibelot or bundle of documents; to say nothing of their jewels and what
food they could lay hands on. Several women wore their furs, as an
easier way of saving them, and children carried their dolls. Their state
of mind was elemental. They lived acutely in the present moment and
looked neither behind nor before--save to a goal of safety. Misfortune
had descended upon them, and ruin no doubt would follow, but for the
present they asked no more than to save what they could carry or propel,
and to get far beyond that awful fire. The refinements of sentiment and
all complexity were forgotten; they indulged in nothing so futile as
complaint, nor even conversation. And the sense of the common calamity
sustained them, no doubt, deindividualized them for the hour. Soon after
they became their normal selves once more, and accepted the hard
conditions of the following weeks with the philosophy that was to be
expected of them. But underneath all the recovered gayety and defiant
pride of the later time more than one spirit was sprained, haunted with
a sense of dislocation, permanently saddened by the loss not of fortune
but of personal treasures, of old homes full of life-long associations,
never to be replaced nor regained. Many no doubt were better off for
losing those old anchors that held them to the past and emphasized their
years, besides keeping their sorrows green, but others had one reason
less for living. Nevertheless the philosophy born of a lifetime in an
earthquake country, of the electric climate, of their isolation, as well
as the good Anglo-Saxon strain in so many of them, brought a genuine
rebound to all physically capable of it, both old and young. But to-day
they were primitive--and entirely human. They helped one another, the
stronger carrying the weaker's burdens as a matter of course. The men
were bent almost double with increasing properties.
Isabel felt neither pity nor admiration for them; they were a mere unit,
these thousands reduced to their primal component, the third fact in the
great day of facts.
Suddenly, however, she caught sight of Lyster Stone. He carried a baby
on one arm and several rolls of painted canvas under the other. Beside
him walked the mother pushing a loaded crib; and behind him the artist
friend, to whose aid he had evidently gone, dragged a large canvas trunk
bound with an ingenious system of ropes. Stone nodded gayly when he saw
Isabel.
"Hallo!" he cried. "I was going for you later on. We'll all sleep out
to-night. Better come along." Then as Isabel only shook her head he
said, hurriedly: "Awfully sorry I forgot--promised Gwynne I'd go up and
tell you he was in for a long day's work--transporting hospital patients
and hauling dynamite. He sent peremptory orders that you and his mother
were to go to the country with the afternoon tide."
The crowd bore him on and Isabel and Anne walked up the hill again,
meeting other streams of refugees, but thinner, as most of them
preferred the easier slopes. Isabel looked at Anne curiously. There was
an unusual restlessness about her, nothing of the rudimentary expression
of the crowd. Isabel was wondering if her apparent and unusual spirits
might be due to the fact that her flat was in the Western Addition, and
that she had hired a wagon at the first alarm of fire and carried her
silver to the Presidio, when Anne suddenly began to explain herself.
"Do you know," she broke out, "I have a wonderful sense of
freedom!--of--of--hope. Something has happened at last. All the ruts
have been ploughed over. Life will never be the same here, in my time at
least. It will be like beginning all over again, with a hundred barely
imagined possibilities and an equal chance for every one. It may be a
reprehensible thing--to feel as if the destruction of your city had set
your individual soul free--but I do, and that's the end of it. And I can
tell you I've seen that expression in the eyes of many a man in the
last few hours. Not in those of the older men, perhaps, for they wear
out early enough in this climate, anyhow, and those that are close upon
sixty don't look as if they had much left to live for--although I've
seen a few flying about as if they had dropped thirty years; its all a
matter of temperament and physique. But for the rest of us! The still
energetic men, and the women that have been cankered with the tedium
vitæ, and have the brains and brawn to work. It will be the Fifties all
over again--not only something more than a bare living in prospect, but
a constant, exciting, interest in life. I saw a good many men, just
after the earthquake, looking as if they had believed the end of the
world had come, but they braced up directly the city was threatened by
something they could pit themselves against. Every man worth his salt is
fighting fire, rescuing the helpless, dragging mattresses out to the
hills and Park, and helping the women down here save their belongings.
All with automobiles and carriages are helping the authorities and
hospitals. Political factions and personal enemies are working side by
side, particularly down on the fire line. Even the mayor has won a day's
respect from his fellow-citizens, although I'm told he's terribly torn
between the Committee of Fifty and the military authorities on the one
hand, who want to blow up a wide zone, and the property-holders who
won't have their precious possessions sacrificed when the wind may
change any minute. Meanwhile the fire has a headway that will give it
the best part of the city. I never felt so alive in my life; so vividly
in the present. Can you remember the name of a book you have read, that
there is any world outside these seven square miles?"
"Yesterday is a mere dream and to-morrow is only a bare possibility! The
Fifties! I feel as if we were at the beginning of things on another
planet. I shall never trouble my head with problems or psychology again.
We are mere dancing midgets on the scalp of stupendous forces that we do
not even dimly apprehend. Earth lets us play until her patience is
exhausted with our pretentions as mere human beings, at our insane
delusion that the intellectual are not only the equal but the superior
of the physical forces; and then she merely shakes herself, and the
wisest is as helpless as the idiot, the prince even worse off than the
pauper because he has a bigger house to run out of. They all dance to
her tune like so many wooden marionettes. Hofer is no better off than
his blacksmith--whose savings are probably in the fireproof vault of
some bank, while I happen to know that more than one millionaire has not
insured his Class A buildings, thinking the expense unnecessary. No
wonder you have a sense of freedom. So have I. We are dancing to the
tune of the unseen forces. They will do the thinking. I wonder,
by-the-way, if deep down in the brain of that fleeing ruined tide of
elemental beings there is not a prick of gratified vanity that they are
in the midst of a great and horrible experience? We have been reading so
much lately of the horrors in Russia, we have read, all our lives, of
horrors and atrocities somewhere, and this State has grinned at us so
unintermittently. Now we, too, are actors in a great life-and-death
drama. I don't fancy any one is doing even that much analysis, but I
can't help thinking that the vague appreciation of the fact sustains
them in a way--possibly gives them a calm sense of superiority to the
rest of the world----Look at this."
They had reached Jackson Street on the flat of Nob Hill. It was now
evening and the exodus from Chinatown had begun. The Mongolians were
streaming up from their threatened quarter, and, like the others,
tramping silently out to the Presidio. The merchants had put on their
fine clothes, and their families--exposed to the Occidental eye for the
first time--wore gorgeous garments of bright silks covered with
embroideries. The poor little respectable wives tottered along on their
foolish feet, held up by their lords or their "big-footed"
serving-women, while their children trudged along uncomplainingly and
stared at the fire with big expressionless eyes. Mingling freely with
the wealthy autocrats of Chinatown were the coolies, and the
disreputable women with which the quarter swarmed. The Chinese rarely
import their wives. The coolies wore their blue blouses and soft felt
hats, and the women had painted their faces and built up their hair as
usual, shining tower-like coiffures stuck with large-lobed pins, cheap
or costly, according to their grade. All were as stolid as their own
wooden gods. They would have looked like a solemn procession on a festa
day had it not been for the bundles and strong-chests they carried.
"Come up to dinner, such as it is," said Isabel, to Anne. "What are you
going to do to-night?"
"Camp down in the sand-lots by Fort Mason and see what I can do for
those poor refugees. There will be great suffering, I am afraid. Many
women should be in hospital with every attention; and with all this
excitement who knows what may happen? I fancy either a tent-hospital
will be erected, or the worst cases will be taken into the fort. I am a
good nurse, and I told the Leader I should be there. There will be many
children to look after, too. The parents, the best of them, won't be up
