among those who went forward, and a pang 
pierced Helen’s heart as she longed to kneel 
beside her. Why was she not there? It had 
always seemed rather awesome to her, but to- 
 
day she felt drawn by several tender chords. 
She had many religious impulses ; what, 
therefore, was lacking? 
She had been much won by Mrs. Bell's fer- 
vent faith and loving counsels. But here it 
seemed as if many of the girls took religious 
interest as the thing to do; not saving grace 
for one’s self. 
Leslie voiced her desire as they came out. 
“ We must go thither together, Helen. I 
missed you. Let us be friends in this matter 
also.” 
Quite a bevy of the girls had taken trains 
for the day's pleasure. The snowfall had not 
been great, and was rapidly melting in the 
clear sunshine. It was a day on which to pro- 
claim good-will to men. The wind was at 
rest and the air had a balmy sort of crispness. 
“ I’ve promised to dine with Miss Van 
Meter,’ Leslie said. “ And there’s part of the 
‘ Messiah ’ to be sung in the evening, you 
know. We shall depend on your voice. Then 
let’s go to Lorraine’s room; she will be glad 
to hear that we were there.” 
Luncheon-bell rang. The chairs had a 
scared sort of look, the knives, forks, and 
spoons a lonesome aspect. Both of Helen’s 
neighbors were away. 
“ Oh, come over here, Miss Grant!” ex- 
claimed two or three of the girls. “ Doesn’t 
it seem funny? Yet there are lots of girls 
left. They ought to be sent to one hall, and 
not look so skimpy.” 
They had a bright little chat there. Helen 
turned a deaf ear to their blandishments, and 
went to her room. She had not read all her 
letters, nor inspected her gifts. Old friends 
at Hope had not forgotten her, and there was 
Uncle Jason’s five-dollar gold piece. The 
remembrance brought tears to her eyes. Mrs. 
Wilmarth’s letter was cheery, with pleasant 
gossip about Hope. Juliet's was really up- 
braiding; did she not know she could have 
studied and done just as she pleased while with 
her? The children were disappointed. They 
were growing finely, developing different 
traits, and bits of unlooked-for wisdom. It 
was so sweet to have them. But nothing 
could quite fill Helen’s place. 
How many letters there were to answer! 
She wrote until it was dark, then she went 
to the music-room, and played in the darkness 
awhile. After the evening service, some of the 
“ Messiah ” choruses were tried with most 
excellent effect. 
“ You ought to do something with that 
voice of yours, Miss Grant,” Mr. Hall said. 
“ I wish you had time to take some thorough 
training.” 
There were so many things to do in this 
busy world. But the best of all was the quiet 
end of evening in Lorraine’s room. Helen 
and Leslie had each brought a little gift for 
her, and they talked over friendship and the 
duties of life that one found even here in col- 
lege walls. 
The remainder of the time Helen addressed 
herself strenuously to the half-studied tasks 
of the few past weeks, and also took a little 
look ahead. She and Leslie and several of 
the other girls went into Cranston, chaperoned 
by Miss Van Meter, to hear the opera of 
“ Martha.” Altogether, it had been a very 
satisfactory time to Helen, and she felt ready 
to begin with fresh vigor. She had become a 
good deal interested in some new girls, or 
rather those she had scarcely remarked before. 
There were frequent opportunities for real 
friendships, for much sympathy, yet, how 
many girls were lacking in reticence, and 
seemed almost to dump the story of their life 
and home upon one. She was growing rather 
exclusive, she felt. 
One bright, pretty girl fell into a state of 
adoration about her. She was a new student, 
and seemed to have few wants ungratified, if 
one could judge by unstinted expenditure and 
pretty adornments. She had been one of the 
most enthusiastic admirers when Helen had 
won her race. 
“ You looked so splendid! ” she exclaimed, 
her soft, dark eyes aglow with enthusiasm. 
“ If I could have used a camera, I should just 
have made a picture of you as you touched 
the bar. In Greek drapery you would have 
been a flying Atalanta. Why don’t we wear 
beautiful garments as they did then?” 
“ Because we are utilitarians,” returned 
Helen with a bright, half-sarcastic laugh. 
“ Our clothes are for use ; we have so much to 
do in this world, and we cannot afford grace- 
ful, hanging drapery when we have rooms to 
dust, and just a second to get our places in 
class-rooms. Then there are athletics — ” 
“ I just hate the gym ! Do you think it is 
of any advantage to girls who are being fitted 
for society? Don’t all those ropes and bars 
and Indian clubs spoil your hands? On my 
mother’s side, we have very handsome hands. 
I wear fives in gloves, just what Queen Vic- 
toria wore.” 
She held out her hand. It was slim, with 
tapering fingers and polished pink nails. 
Helen half-envied it, though it didn’t look like 
a hand to grasp and hold on to the great things 
of life. 
“ You are larger than Queen Victoria was,” 
Helen commented. 
“ Oh, good gracious, no ! at least, not fat ! ” 
she replied, in an alarmed tone. “ I hope I 
shall never get fat. Mamma is as slim as any 
young girl, but Eloise takes after father’s peo- 
ple and is already growing stout. It doesn’t 
matter so much, for she has a lover who really 
abhors thin people, and is always quoting 
Cassius with his lean and hungry look. My 
waist measure is just seventeen inches, without 
bands and belts. How Miss Creighton does 
go on about corsets.” 
“ The poor corsets don’t hurt! ” exclaimed 
Helen, humorously. “ It’s the tight lacing.” 
“ There’s no need of my lacing tightly, but 
I never shall allow myself to get over eighteen 
inches before I am twenty-five, and never over 
twenty inches.” 
Helen took a pleasant survey of her; Shir- 
ley Chardavoyne, a romantic name that seemed 
to just suit her, though she did not in the least 
resemble Charlotte Bronte’s Shirley. She was 
slim and exquisitely formed, with a sort of 
pleading, infantile face, large, dark, soulful 
eyes, with delicately marked brows, a trans- 
parent sort of complexion, a pretty mouth with 
rosy lips that quivered when she was excited. 
She had a circle of adorers, and a circle of de- 
tractors among the hardier girls who made 
a fetich of physical culture, large waists, ro- 
bust-looking hands, and who always wore 
common-sense shoes. 
“Oh, I don’t wonder you like yourself!” 
Helen exclaimed, impulsively. “ But — we 
are all so different. One would think the vari- 
ety would get exhausted in time.” 
Shirley seemed to wonder at the remark, 
then she said, naively, “ I like you very much. 
Oh, I admire your courage and strength ! But 
I couldn’t do half the things you do, and the 
girls said you skipped a whole year, which was 
splendid! But I came to college for — well,” 
coloring daintily, “ it's a sort of fashion now. 
It gives one a prestige — don’t you think? 
And you meet so many girls. We live in a 
quiet old Virginia town where there are not 
half-enough beaux to go round. The young 
men are off to Washington to get positions. 
My brother is at Annapolis, but he is only a 
middy yet. It is stupid at home, father and 
mother reading poetry to each other, and dis- 
cussing it. I just adore poetry, but I love 
dancing and dressing up for teas and such, 
and having fun with young people. I like it 
here ever so much.” 
“ I’m glad you do,’' rejoined Helen. “ You 
will find a good many delightful girls. And 
now we must save the rest of our talk for 
