white, bony fingers were always spread around his glass--unusually long
fingers for such a short man, and out of all proportion to the scant
five-foot frame, topped with a little pointed head, in which the eyes
were set exactly as glass eyes are screwed into the mask of a fox.
"Bertie and I have been practising leads from trick hands," observed
Lady Tressilvain, removing the ice from her glass and filling it from a
soda bottle which Malcourt uncorked for her.
"Well, Herby," said Malcourt genially, "I suppose you and Helen play a
game well worth--ah--watching."
Tressilvain looked dully annoyed, although there was nothing in his
brother-in-law's remark to ruffle anybody, except that his lordship did
not like to be called Herby. He sat silent, caressing his glass; and
presently his little black eyes stole around in Malcourt's direction,
and remained there, waveringly, while brother and sister discussed the
former's marriage, the situation at Luckless Lake, and future prospects.
That is to say, Lady Tressilvain did the discussing; Malcourt, bland,
amiable, remained uncommunicatively polite, parrying everything so
innocently that his sister, deceived, became plainer in her questions
concerning the fortune he was supposed to have married, and more
persistent in her suggestions of a winter in New York--a delightful and
prolonged family reunion, in which the Tressilvains were to figure as
distinguished guests and virtual pensioners of everybody connected with
his wife's family.
"Do you think," drawled Malcourt, intercepting a furtive glance between
his sister and brother-in-law, to that gentleman's slight confusion, "do
you think it might prove interesting to you and Herby? Americans are so
happy to have your countrymen to entertain--particularly when their
credentials are as unquestionable as Herby's and yours."
For a full minute, in strained silence, the concentrated gaze of the
Tressilvains was focused upon the guileless countenance of Malcourt;
and discovered nothing except a fatuous cordiality.
Lady Tressilvain drew a deep, noiseless breath and glanced at her
husband.
"I don't understand, Louis, exactly what settlement--what sort of
arrangement you made when you married this--very interesting young
girl--"
"Oh, I didn't have anything to endow her with," said Malcourt, so
amiably stupid that his sister bit her lip.
Tressilvain essayed a jest.
"Rather good, that!" he said with his short, barking laugh; "but I
da'say the glove was on the other hand, eh, Louis?"
"What?"
"Why the--ah--the lady did the endowing and all that, don't you see?"
"See what?" asked Malcourt so pleasantly that his sister shot a look at
her husband which checked him.
Malcourt was now on maliciously humourous terms with himself; he began
to speak impulsively, affectionately, with all the appearance of a
garrulous younger brother impatient to unbosom himself to his family;
and he talked and talked, confidingly, guilelessly, voluminously, yet
managed to say absolutely nothing. And, strain their ears as they might,
the Tressilvains in their perplexity and increasing impatience could
make out nothing of all this voluntary information--understand
nothing--pick out not one single fact to satisfy their desperately
hungry curiosity.
There was no use interrupting him with questions; he answered them with
others; he whispered ambiguities in a manner most portentous; hinted at
bewildering paradoxes with an air; nodded mysterious nothings, and
finally left them gaping at him, exasperated, unable to make any sense
out of what most astonishingly resembled a candid revelation of the
hopes, fears, ambitions, and worldly circumstances of Louis Malcourt.
"Good-night," he said, lingering at the door to look upon and enjoy the
fruit of his perversity and malice. "When I start on that journey I
mentioned to you I'll leave something for you and Herby--merely to show
you how much I think of my own people--a little gift--a trifle!
No--no!"--lifting his hand with smiling depreciation as Tressilvain
began to thank him. "One must look out for one's own family. It's
natural--only natural to make some provision. Good-night, Helen!
Good-night, Herby. Portlaw and I will take you on at Bridge if it rains
to-morrow. It will be a privilege for us to--ah--watch your
game--closely. Good-night!"
And closed the door.
"What the devil does he mean?" demanded Tressilvain, peering sideways at
his wife.
"I don't exactly know," she said thoughtfully, sorting the cards. She
added: "If we play to-morrow you stick to signals; do you understand?
And keep your ring and your fingers off the cards until I can make up my
mind about my brother. You're a fool to drink American whisky the way
you did yesterday. Mr. Portlaw noticed the roughness on the aces; you
pricked them too deep. You'd better keep your wits about you, I can tell
you. I'm a Yankee myself."
"Right--O! But I say, Helen, I'm damned if I make out that brother of
yours. Doesn't he live in the same house as his wife?"
Lady Tressilvain sat listening to the uproar from the dogs as Malcourt
left the garden. But this time the outbreak was only a noisy welcome;
and Malcourt, on excellent terms with himself, patted every sleek, wet
head thrust up for caresses and walked gaily on through the driving
rain.
The rain continued the following day. Piloted by Malcourt, the
Tressilvains, thickly shod and water-proofed, tramped about with rod and
creel and returned for luncheon where their blunt criticisms on the
fishing aroused Portlaw's implacable resentment. For they sneered at the
trout, calling them "char," patronised the rather scanty pheasantry,
commented on the kennels, stables, and gardens in a manner that brought
the red into Portlaw's face and left him silent while luncheon lasted.
After luncheon Tressilvain tried the billiards, but found the game
inferior to the English game. So he burrowed into a box of cigars,
established himself before the fire with all the newspapers, deploring
the fact that the papers were not worth reading.
Lady Tressilvain cornered Shiela and badgered her and stared at her
until she dared not lift her hot face or open her lips lest the pent
resentment escape; Portlaw smoked a pipe--a sure indication of
smouldering wrath; Malcourt, at a desk, blew clouds of smoke from his
cigarette and smilingly continued writing to his attorney:
   "This is the general idea for the document, and it's up to you to
   fix it up and make it legal, and have it ready for me when I come
   to town.
   "1st. I want to leave all my property to a Miss Dorothy or Dolly
   Wilming; and I want you to sell off everything after my death and
   invest the proceeds for her because it's all she'll have to live
   on except what she gets by her own endeavours. This, in case I
   suddenly snuff out.
   "2d. I want to leave my English riding-crop, spurs, bridle, and
   saddle to a Miss Virginia Suydam. Fix it legally.
   "3d. Here is a list of eighteen ladies. Each is to have one of my
   eighteen Chinese gods.
   "4th. To my wife I leave the nineteenth god. Mr. Hamil has it in
   his possession. I have no right to dispose of it, but he will
   have some day.
   "5th. To John Garret Hamil, 3d, I leave my volume of Jean DuMont,
   the same being an essay on Friendship.
   "6th. To my friend, William Van Bueren Portlaw, I leave my dogs,
   rods, and guns with a recommendation that he use them and his
   legs.
   "7th. To my sister, Lady Tressilvain, I leave my book of comic
   Bridge rules, and to her husband a volume of Methodist hymns.
   "I'll be in town again, shortly, and expect you to have my will
   ready to be signed and witnessed. One ought always to be
   prepared, particularly when in excellent health.
                                  "Yours sincerely,
                                        "LOUIS MALCOURT."
   "P.S. I enclose a check for the Greenlawn Cemetery people. I wish
   you'd see that they keep the hedge properly trimmed around my
   father's plot and renew the dead sod where needed. I noticed that
   one of the trees was also dead. Have them put in another and keep
   the flowers in good shape. I don't want anything dead around that
   lot.
                                         "L.M."
When he had sealed and directed his letter he looked around the silent
room. Shiela was sewing by the window. Portlaw, back to the fire, stood
staring out at the rain; Lady Tressilvain, a cigarette between her thin
lips, wandered through the work-shop and loading-room where, from hooks
in the ceiling, a thicket of split-cane rod-joints hung, each suspended
by a single strong thread.
The loading-room was lined with glass-faced cases containing
fowling-pieces, rifles, reels, and the inevitable cutlery and
ironmongery associated with utensils for the murder of wild creatures.
Tressilvain sat at the loading-table to which he was screwing a delicate
vise to hold hooks; for Malcourt had given him a lesson in fly-tying,
and he meant to dress a dozen to try on Painted Creek.
So he sorted snell and hook and explored the tin trunk for hackles,
silks, and feathers, up to his bony wrists in the fluffy heap of
brilliant plumage, burrowing, busy as a burying beetle under a dead
bird.
Malcourt dropped his letter into the post-box, glanced uncertainly in
the direction of his wife, but as she did not lift her head from her
sewing, turned with a shrug and crossed the floor to where Portlaw stood
scowling and sucking at his empty pipe.
"Look at that horrid little brother-in-law of mine with his ferret eyes
and fox face, fussing around those feathers--as though he had just
caught and eaten the bird that wore them!"
Portlaw continued to scowl.
"Suppose we take them on at cards," suggested Malcourt.
"No, thanks."
"Why not?"
"They've taken a thousand out of me already."
Malcourt said quietly: "You've never before given such a reason for
discontinuing card-playing. What's your real reason?"
Portlaw was silent.
"Did you quit a thousand to the bad, Billy?"
"Yes, I did."
"Then why not get it back?"
"I don't care to play," said Portlaw shortly.
The eyes of the two men met.
"Are you, by any chance, afraid of our fox-faced guest?" asked Malcourt
suavely.
"I don't care to give any reason, I tell you."
"That's serious; as there could be only one reason. Did you think you
noticed--anything?"
"I don't know what I think.... I've half a mind to stop payment on that
check--if that enlightens you any."
