mischief-makers; and as for the consequences of their action, if they
were ever detected, they would take such a trifle as that upon
themselves. Don Alberto might be the nephew of all the popes and
anti-popes that had reigned, excepting those who were canonised saints,
and who might therefore be offended by the statement that they did not
care a cabbage who he was, not a farthing, not a fig! If he attempted
anything against the Lady Ortensia or her husband, they would not only
make him wish he were dead, but would at once oblige him by satisfying
his wish. This, at least, was Tommaso's version of what they had said,
and Cucurullo saw no reason to doubt the statement, since he had seen
the two gentlemen demolish and put to flight a whole watch in a few
moments in the affair of the serenade.

What the Bravi thought of their own situation on the morning of the Eve
of Saint John is difficult to imagine; for they were in one of those
exciting but equivocal situations in which modern financiers not
infrequently find themselves. Their feelings might possibly be compared
to those of Lord Byron when he had written offers of marriage to two
young ladies on the same day, and both accepted him; or to those of an
'operator' who has advised one intimate friend to buy a certain stock at
any price, and another to sell all he has, while he himself has not made
up his mind as to what he had better do; or to those of a jockey who has
taken money to pull a horse when he was sober, and has backed his mount
when he was drunk.

The Bravi had, indeed, concocted a plan by which they hoped to win their
money from three employers for doing three different things, each of
which was contrary to the nature of the other two. And Gambardella might
be satisfied if the attempt succeeded; but Trombin was not only his
friend's partner in the whole scheme and intent on getting an equal
share of the profits, he was also very foolishly in love with Ortensia
on his own account, and was pondering how he might substitute himself
for Don Alberto in the first act of the coming comedy, or drama.

The preparations were now completed, and the two cut-throats awaited the
Eve of Saint John without the least qualm or the smallest fear for their
own safety. Had they not three blank pardons in their pockets, for
themselves and Tommaso, to be filled in with their names if necessary,
or to be sold at a high price to some gentleman in trouble, if they did
not need them?

Nothing was wanting. Tommaso had found the very carriage for the purpose
and the horses for the first start, and he himself could drive them
four-in-hand without a postillion, for he was as good a whip as any man
who drove a papal stage-coach. He had seen Don Alberto again, and,
besides the blank pardons, he had obtained the necessary order from the
Governor of the city to pass out of any gate during the night. Don
Alberto had, of course, ascertained without difficulty that Tommaso was
only a servant who represented the two famous Bravi, and in the hands of
such men young Altieri felt that the enterprise could not fail.

The little house in the Via di Santa Sabina was also ready, but he knew
nothing of this arrangement, and was willing that the Bravi should keep
secret the spot where he was to meet Ortensia, if they preferred to do
so. When the evening came he meant that one of his own men, who had
served him in a score of adventures, should follow him and Tommaso
stealthily to the place of meeting and hold himself ready, within call,
after Tommaso had gone away with the money that was to be paid on
delivering up Ortensia.

Now before I go on to tell what happened on that memorable night, let
me say that if any of the events I am about to describe seem improbable
to a sceptical reader, he had better learn the Italian language and dive
into one of those yellow manuscript accounts of similar affairs which
were written out in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, and of
which whole volumes can still be bought in Italy for a few francs. He
will not go far without finding matter quite as surprising as what I
shall put down in this tale, though in all likelihood much more
unsavoury to his modern taste. Moreover, there is proof that a good many
of those accounts are quite as accurate as what a fairly decent
newspaper gives us nowadays for truth; and they are not, as a whole,
more nasty, though they are differently worded, because in those days
Boileau was calling 'a cat a cat, and Rolet a rascal,' and even people
who were not poets called a spade a spade.

A little rain fell during the night before Saint John's Eve, but the
morning of the twenty-third of June was clear and calm, and the air had
cooled a little. In Rome, for those who do not fear a little sunshine,
June is the most beautiful of all the months, and the loveliest June
days are those that follow showery nights. Then all the trees of the
great villas are in full leaf and all the flowers are in bloom: the
gorgeous, stiff-necked, courtly flowers in the formal beds and borders
of the Pope's gardens; the soft, sweet-scented, shapely carnations that
grow in broken pots and pitchers outside the humble windows of
Trastevere; the stately lilies in the marble fountains behind the
princely palace, and the roses that run riot in the poor Jewish
burial-ground halfway up the Aventine; the heavy-scented tuberose and
the rich blossom of bitter orange in the high Colonna gardens, and the
sweet basil growing in a rusty iron pail in the belfry of Santa Maria
Maggiore, where the old bell-ringer eats the savoury leaves with his
coarse bread and cheese, while he rests after ringing the bells for high
mass and waits till it is time to ring them again at noon, and he waters
the plant from his drinking pitcher. Then the wild onion is in flower
that scares away witches and keeps off the Evil Eye, and from all the
broad Campagna the scent of new-mown hay is wafted through the city
gates. Then, though the sun does not yet scorch the traveller, the shade
is already a heavenly refreshment; and though a man is not parched with
thirst, a cold draught from the Fountain of Egeria is more delicious
than any wine, and under the ancient trees of the pagan grove the
rose-purple cyclamens and the dark wood-violets are still blooming side
by side. The air is full of the breath of life, the deep earth is still
soft, and all trees and flowers and grasses still feel the tender youth
of the spring that is not yet quite gone.

Then, too, the gilliflowers are out, and on Saint John's Eve before
Vespers the Canons used to bless thousands upon thousands of them, tied
up in neat bunches, in small flat baskets, and the poor of Rome came to
the door of the sacristy on the south side and received them to take
home to their sick and infirm, with the blessing of Saint John and a
reviving breath of blossoming nature. But on that day many tents and
booths of boughs were also set up on the broad green that stretched
away to the hedges of vineyards and vegetable gardens, where modern
houses now are built. In each booth there was a little kitchen, a mere
earthen fire-pot, such as the alchemists used of old, but larger, and
there were tables made of boards laid on trestles with rude benches for
seats, and there were little ten-gallon barrels of wine still
unbroached, and piles of loaves covered with clean white cloths, and
there was much green lettuce for salad, floating in tubs full of water,
and there were also fresh onions without end, with their long stalks and
big bunches of tiny flowers. For on the Eve of Saint John the Baptist
all fairies good and bad, and goblins that are black or grey, and the
white hobgoblins too, and the shadowy, unearthly lemures, have deadly
power; and ghosts and wraiths go wailing through lonely church-yards,
and the fountain sprites float on the water and laugh in the pale
moonlight; the misshapen things of evil that haunt murderers' graves
move strangely in the gloom; and though the air be still, the chains
that dangle from old gibbets all clank together wildly when the
blood-spectres hang upon them with wan hands and swing themselves to and
fro; then the banshee shrieks amongst the ancient elms, and deep down in
the crypt of far San Sisto, by the Latin Gate, the Shining Corpse rises
from his grave against the south wall and glares horribly all night at
his fellow-dead. No wonder that against such terrors the Roman people
thought it wise to eat snails fried in oil, and to carry onions in
blossom in their hands, and especially to fortify their quailing
spirits with many draughts of strong wine from Genzano, and Frascati,
and Marino, till the grey dawn forelightened above the Samnite hills,
and a decent man might go home to sleep safely by daylight, and be waked
only by the bells that rang out for high mass at ten o'clock.

So in the late afternoon all those excellent preparations had been made
for resisting ghostly fear, and as soon as the sun went down the
firepots in the booths would be filled with charcoal, and presently a
marvellous smell of frying oil would pervade the air, while thousands
upon thousands of little lights would be lighted, all made of big
snail-shells filled with olive oil and tallow and each having a tiny
wick in it. But the sun was not low yet, and the great bells were
ringing to call the people into the Basilica for Vespers.

Fine coaches drove up to the transept entrance, one after the other,
bringing cardinals and princes and Roman ladies of high rank by the
score; and their gorgeously liveried footmen followed them into the
church carrying fald-stools and kneeling-cushions as if for a great
ceremony in Saint Peter's; and though it was a cloudless day in June two
huge closed umbrellas, of the colours of each family, were strapped upon
the top of every coach, but those of the cardinals were scarlet. Amongst
the many arrivals came the blue and yellow liveries of Christina of
Sweden, and with her was Don Alberto in a wonderful summer suit of pale
dove-coloured silk, and he wore the collar of the Order of Saint
Gregory; there were several other gentlemen in her train, and not a few
ladies, so that she was royally attended. She herself wore a
three-cornered blue French hunting-hat on the top of her immense black
wig, and a short riding-skirt of green cloth, and boots like a man.

The reason why there was such a concourse of society at the Lateran on
the eve of the feast was that Alessandro Stradella was going to sing an
air himself, and direct a part of the service which he had composed for
the occasion; and besides, a vast number of the common people were
collected about the Basilica, both from the city and from the Campagna,
to enjoy the customary feast of snails as a defence against witches and
fairies, and they thronged into the church through the great east door
to hear the music too, till there was no standing-room at all in the
transepts and little in the nave and aisles for thirty or forty yards
below the tabernacle, close beside which the old organ used to stand.
For there was no loft then, and the instrument stood out in the church
with its wide wooden balcony, draped all in red, which is the colour
appropriate to the Apostles, and to Martyrs also, of whom Saint John the
Baptist is counted one. The organ was a new one then, and, by the same
token, I saw it when I was young, and the keyboard was strangely made;
for there were two black keys together everywhere where we have one, the
first being for the sharp of the natural below it, and the second for
