a score of opportunities, and never leave the circle he met at Mrs.
Devon's. Nor was this counting the tens of thousands of aspirants and
imitators all over the city; nor in a host of other cities, each with
thousands of women who had nothing to do save to ape the ways of the
Metropolis. The mind could not realize the volume of this deluge of
destruction--it was a thing which stunned the senses, and thundered in
one's ears like Niagara.
The meaning of it all did not stop with the people who poured it forth;
its effects were to be traced through the whole country. There were
hordes of tradesmen and manufacturers who supplied what Society bought,
and whose study it was to induce people to buy as much as possible. And
so they devised what were called "fashions"--little eccentricities of
cut and material, which made everything go out of date quickly. There
had once been two seasons, but now there were four; and through window
displays and millions of advertisements the public was lured into the
trap. The "yellow" journals would give whole pages to describing "What
the 400 are wearing"; there were magazines with many millions of
readers, which existed for nothing save to propagate these ideas. And
everywhere, in all classes of Society, men and women were starving
their minds and hearts, and straining their energies to follow this
phantom of fashion; the masses were kept poor because of it, and the
youth and hope of the world was betrayed by it. In country villages
poor farmers' wives were trimming their bonnets over to be "stylish";
and servant-girls in the cities were wearing imitation sealskins, and
shop-clerks and sempstresses selling themselves into brothels for the
sake of ribbons and gilt jewellery.
It was the instinct of decoration, perverted by the money-lust. In the
Metropolis the sole test of excellence was money, and the possession of
money was the proof of power; and every natural desire of men and women
had been tainted by this influence. The love of beauty, the impulse to
hospitality, the joys of music and dancing and love--all these things
had become simply means to the demonstration of money-power! The men
were busy making more money--but their idle women had nothing in life
save this mad race in display. So it had come about that the woman who
could consume wealth most conspicuously--who was the most effective
instrument for the destroying of the labour and the lives of other
people--this was the woman who was most applauded and most noticed.
The most appalling fact about Society was this utter blind materialism.
Such expectations as Montague had brought with him had been derived
from the literature of Europe; in a grand monde such as this, he
expected to meet diplomats and statesmen, scientists and explorers,
philosophers and poets and painters. But one never heard anything about
such people in Society. It was a mark of eccentricity to be interested
in intellectual affairs, and one might go about for weeks and not meet
a person with an idea. When these people read, it was a sugar-candy
novel, and when they went to the play, it was a musical comedy. The one
single intellectual product which it could point to as its own, was a
rancid scandal-sheet, used mainly as a means of blackmail. Now and then
some aspiring young matron of the "elite" would try to set up a salon
after the fashion of the continent, and would gather a few feeble wits
about her for a time. But for the most part the intellectual workers of
the city held themselves severely aloof; and Society was left a little
clique of people whose fortunes had become historic in a decade or two,
and who got together in each other's palaces and gorged themselves, and
gambled and gossiped about each other, and wove about their
personalities a veil of awful and exclusive majesty.
Montague found himself thinking that perhaps it was not they who were
to blame. It was not they who had set up wealth as the end and goal of
things--it was the whole community, of which they were a part. It was
not their fault that they had been left with power and nothing to use
it for; it was not their fault that their sons and daughters found
themselves stranded in the world, deprived of all necessity, and of the
possibility of doing anything useful.
The most pitiful aspect of the whole thing to Montague was this "second
generation" who were coming upon the scene, with their lives all
poisoned in advance. No wrong which they could do to the world would
ever equal the wrong which the world had done them, in permitting them
to have money which they had not earned. They were cut off for ever
from reality, and from the possibility of understanding life; they had
big, healthy bodies, and they craved experience--and they had
absolutely nothing to do. That was the real meaning of all this orgy of
dissipation--this "social whirl" as it was called; it was the frantic
chase of some new thrill, some excitement that would stir the senses of
people who had nothing in the world to interest them. That was why they
were building palaces, and flinging largesses of banquets and balls,
and tearing about the country in automobiles, and travelling over the
earth in steam yachts and private trains.
And first and last, the lesson of their efforts was, that the chase
was futile; the jaded nerves would not thrill. The most conspicuous
fact about Society was its unutterable and agonizing boredom; of its
great solemn functions the shop-girl would read with greedy envy, but
the women who attended them would be half asleep behind their jewelled
fans. It was typified to Montague by Mrs. Billy Alden's yachting party
on the Nile; yawning in the face of the Sphinx, and playing bridge
beneath the shadow of the pyramids--and counting the crocodiles and
proposing to jump in by way of "changing the pain"!
People attended these ceaseless rounds of entertainments, simply
because they dreaded to be left alone. They wandered from place to
place, following like a herd of sheep whatever leader would inaugurate
a new diversion. One could have filled a volume with the list of their
"fads." There were new ones every week--if Society did not invent them,
the yellow journals invented them. There was a woman who had her teeth
filled with diamonds; and another who was driving a pair of zebras. One
heard of monkey dinners and pyjama dinners at Newport, of horseback
dinners and vegetable dances in New York. One heard of fashion-albums
and autograph-fans and talking crows and rare orchids and reindeer
meat; of bracelets for men and ankle rings for women; of "vanity-boxes"
at ten and twenty thousand dollars each; of weird and repulsive pets,
chameleons and lizards and king-snakes--there was one young woman who
wore a cat-snake as a necklace. One would take to slumming and another
to sniffing brandy through the nose; one had a table-cover made of
woven roses, and another was wearing perfumed flannel at sixteen
dollars a yard; one had inaugurated ice-skating in August, and another
had started a class for the study of Plato. Some were giving tennis
tournaments in bathing-suits, and playing leap-frog after dinner;
others had got dispensations from the Pope, so that they might have
private chapels and confessors; and yet others were giving "progressive
dinners," moving from one restaurant to another--a cocktail and
blue-points at Sherry's, a soup and Madeira at Delmonico's, some
terrapin with amontillado at the Waldorf--and so on.
One of the consequences of the furious pace was that people's health
broke down very quickly; and there were all sorts of bizarre ways of
restoring it. One person would be eating nothing but spinach, and
another would be living on grass. One would chew a mouthful of soup
thirty-two times; another would eat every two hours, and another only
once a week. Some went out in the early morning and walked bare-footed
in the grass, and others went hopping about the floor on their hands
and knees to take off fat. There were "rest cures" and "water cures,"
"new thought" and "metaphysical healing" and "Christian Science"; there
was an automatic horse, which one might ride indoors, with a register
showing the distance travelled. Montague met one man who had an
electric machine, which cost thirty thousand dollars, and which took
hold of his arms and feet and exercised him while he waited. He met a
woman who told him she was riding an electric camel!
Everywhere one went there were new people, spending their money in new
and incredible ways. Here was a man who had bought a chapel and turned
it into a theatre, and hired professional actors, and persuaded his
friends to come and see him act Shakespeare. Here was a woman who
costumed herself after figures in famous paintings, with arrangements
of roses and cherry leaves, and wreaths of ivy and laurel--and with
costumes for her pet dogs to match! Here was a man who paid six dollars
a day for a carnation four inches across; and a girl who wore a hat
trimmed with fresh morning-glories, and a ball costume with swarms of
real butterflies tied with silk threads; and another with a hat made of
woven silver, with ostrich plumes forty inches long made entirely of
silver films. Here was a man who hired a military company to drill all
day long to prepare a floor for dancing; and another who put up a
building at a cost of thirty thousand dollars to give a débutante dance
for his daughter, and then had it torn down the day after. Here was a
man who bred rattlesnakes and turned them loose by thousands, and had
driven everybody away from the North Carolina estate of one of the
Wallings. Here was a man who was building himself a yacht with a model
dairy and bakery on board, and a French laundry and a brass band. Here
was a million-dollar racing-yacht with auto-boats on it and a platoon
of marksmen, and some Chinese laundrymen, and two physicians for its
half-insane occupant. Here was a man who had bought a Rhine castle for
three-quarters of a million, and spent as much in restoring it, and
filled it with servants dressed in fourteenth-century costumes. Here
was a five-million-dollar art collection hidden away where nobody ever
saw it!
One saw the meaning of this madness most clearly in the young men of
Society. Some were killing themselves and other people in automobile
races at a hundred and twenty miles an hour. Some went in for
auto-boats, mere shells of things, shaped like a knife-blade, that tore
through the water at forty miles an hour. Some would hire professional
pugilists to knock them out; others would get up dog-fights and
bear-fights, and boxing matches with kangaroos. Montague was taken to
the home of one young man who had given his life to hunting wild game
in every corner of the globe, and would travel round the world for a
new species to add to his museum of trophies. He had heard that Baron
Rothschild had offered a thousand pounds for a "bongo," a huge
grass-eating animal, which no white man had ever seen; and he had taken
a year's trip into the interior, with a train of a hundred and thirty
natives, and had brought out the heads of forty different species,
including a bongo--which the Baron did not get! He met another who had
helped to organize a balloon club, and two twenty-four-hour trips in
the clouds. (This, by the way, was the latest sport--at Tuxedo they had
races between balloons and automobiles; and Montague met one young lady
who boasted that she had been up five times.) There was another young
millionaire who sat and patiently taught Sunday School, in the presence
of a host of reporters; there was another who set up a chain of
newspapers all over the country and made war upon his class. There were
others who went in for settlement work and Russian
revolutionists--there were even some who called themselves Socialists!
Montague thought that this was the strangest fad of all; and when he
met one of these young men at an afternoon tea, he gazed at him with
wonder and perplexity--thinking of the man he had heard ranting on the
street-corner.
This was the "second generation." Appalling as it was to think of,
there was a third growing up, and getting ready to take the stage. And
