
" You talk," he answered, a little sulkily, " as if 
you knew some harm of the girl." 

" No, my son, I know nothing about her, except that 
she is not single-minded, and there is no harm in not 
being single-minded. A great many single-minded 
women are fools, and some double-minded women are 
good." 

"Well, single-minded or double-minded, if she is 
what she says she is, what motive on earth could she 
have in writing to me except the motive she gives ? You 
don't deny that she tells the truth about herself ?" 

" Don't I say that she is sincere ? But a girl doesn't 
always know her own motives, or all of them. She 
may have written to you because she would like to 
begin a correspondence with an author. Or she may 
have done it out of the love of excitement. Or for 




the sake of distraction, to get away from herself and 
her gloomy forebodings." 

" And should you blame her for that ?" 

" No, I shouldn't. I should pity her for it. But, all 
the same, I shouldn't want you to be taken in by her." 

" You think, then, she doesn't care anything about 
the story?" 

" I think, very probably, she cares a great deal about 
it. She is a serious person, intellectually at least, and 
it is a serious story. Eo wonder she would like to 
know, at first hand, something about the man who 
wrote it." 

This flattered Verrian, but he would not allow its 
reasonableness. He took a gulp of coffee before saying, 
uncandidly, " I can't make out what you're driving at, 
mother. But, fortunately, there's no hurry about your 
meaning. The thing's in the only shape we could pos- 
sibly give it, and I am satisfied to leave it in Armiger's 
hands. I'm certain he will deal wisely with it — and 
kindly." 

" Yes, I'm sure he'll deal kindly. I should be very 
unhappy if he didn't. He could easily deal more wise- 
ly, though, than she has." 

Verrian chose not to follow his mother in this. " All 
is," he said, with finality, " I hope she'll never see that 
loathsome paragraph." 

" Oh, very likely she won't," his mother consoled him. 


Only four days after lie had seen Armiger, Verrian 
received an envelope covering a brief note to himself 
from the editor, a copy of the letter he had written to 
Verrian's unknown correspondent, and her answer in 
the original. Verrian was alone when the postman 
brought him this envelope, and he could indulge a cer- 
tain passion for method by which he read its contents 
in the order named; if his mother had been by, she 
would have made him read the girl's reply first of all. 
Armiger wrote : 

" My dear Verrian, — I enclose two exhibits which 
will possess you of all the facts in the case of the young 
lady who feared she might die before she read the end 
of your story, but who, you will be glad to find, is likely to live through the year. As the story ends in our 
October number, she need not be supplied with advance 
sheets. I am sorry the house hurried out a paragraph 
concerning the matter, but it will not be followed by another. Perhaps you will feel, as I do, that the incident 
is closed. I have not replied to the writer, and you 
need not return her letter. ,Tours ever, 

" M. Armiger." 

The editor's letter to the young lady read : 

" Dear Madam, — Mr. P. S. Verrian has handed me 
your letter of the 4th, and I need not tell you that it has 
interested us both. 


" I am almost as much gratified as he by the testimony your request bears to the importance of his work, 
and if I could have acted upon my instant feeling I 
should have had no hesitation in granting it, though it 
is so very unusual as to be, in my experience as an 
editor, unprecedented. I am sure that you would not 
have made it so frankly if you had not been prepared 
to guard in return any confidence placed in you; but 
you will realize that as you are quite unknown to us, 
we should not be justified in taking a step so unusual 
as you propose without having some guarantee besides 
that which Mr. Verrian and I both feel from the character of your letter. Simply, then, for purposes of 
identification, as the phrase is, I must beg you to ask 
the pastor of your church, or, better still, your family 
physician, to write you a line saying that he knows you, 
as a sort of letter of introduction to me. Then I will 
send you the advance proofs of Mr. Verrian's story. 
You may like to address me personally in the care of 
the magazine, and not as the editor. 

" Yours very respectfully, 

" M. Abmigeb." 

The editor's letter was dated the 6th of the month ; 
the answer, dated the 8th, betrayed tbe anxious haste of 
the writer in replying, and it was not her fault if what 
she wrote came to Verrian when he was no longer able to 
do justice to her confession. Under the address given 
in her first letter she now began, in a hand into which 
a kindlier eye might have read a pathetic perturbation : 

" Deae Sib, — I have something awful to tell you. I 
might write pages without making you think better 
of me, and I will let you think the worst at once. I 
am not what I pretended to be. I wrote to Mr. Verrian 

 

saying what I did, and asking to see the rest of his story 
on the impulse of the moment. I had been reading it, 
for I think it is perfectly fascinating; and a friend 
of mine, another girl, and I got together trying to guess 
how he would end it, and we began to dare each other 
to write to him and ask. At first we did not dream of 
doing such a thing, but we went on, and just for the fun 
of it we drew lots to see which should write to him. 
The lot fell to me; but we composed that letter to- 
gether, and we put in about my dying for a joke. We 
never intended to send it; but then one thing led to 
another, and I signed it with my real name and we 
sent it. We did not really expect to hear anything 
from it, for we supposed he must get lots of letters 
about his story and never paid any attention to them. 
We did not realize what we had done till I got your 
letter yesterday. Then we saw it all, and ever since 
we have been trying to think what to do, and I do not 
believe either of us has slept a moment. We have come 
to the conclusion that there was only one thing we 
could do, and that was to tell you just exactly how it 
happened and take the consequences. But there is no 
reason why more than one person should be brought into 
it, and so I will not let my friend sign this letter with 
me, but I will put my own name alone to it. You may 
not think it is my real name, but it is; you can find 
out by writing to the postmaster here. I do not know 
whether you will publish it as a fraud for the warning 
of others, but I shall not blame you if you do. I 
deserve anything. ' Tours truly, 

" Jebusha Peeegbine Bbown." 

If Verrian had been an older man life might have 
supplied him with the means of judging the writer of 
this letter. But his experience as an author had not 

 

been very great, and such as it was it had hardened 
and sharpened him. There was nothing wild or whirl- 
ing in his mood, but in the deadly hurt which had been 
inflicted upon his vanity he coldly and carefully studied 
what deadlier hurt he might inflict again. He was of 
the crueller intent because he had not known how much 
of personal vanity there was in the seriousness with 
which he took himself and his work. He had supposed 
that he was respecting his ethics and aesthetics, his 
ideal of conduct and of art, but now it was brought home 
to him that he was swollen with the conceit of his own 
performance, and that, however well others thought of 
