times building forts and having snowballing contests. But the little
girl caught a cold and had a cough that alarmed her guardian a good deal
and made him more indulgent than ever, to Elizabeth's disgust.
She was not really ill, only pale and languid and seemed to grow
thinner. She was much fairer than any one could have supposed and her
eyes looked large and wistful. Chilian put some pillows in the big
rocking-chair and tilted it back so that she could almost lie down on
it.
"You are so good to me," she would say with her sweet, faint smile.
Bentley came in now and then of an evening, and she liked to hear what
they were doing at school. Polly, too, made visits; they had a
half-holiday on Saturday. She always brought some work, and Elizabeth
considered her a very industrious girl. She was going to a birthday
party of one of her mates.
"What do they do at parties?" inquired the little girl.
"Oh, they play games. There's stagecoach. Everybody but one has a seat.
He blows a horn and sings out, 'Stage for Boston,' or any place. Then
every one has to change seats. Such a scrambling and scurrying time! and
the one who gets left has to take the horn."
"It's something like puss in the corner."
"Only ever so many can play this. Then there's 'What's my thought like?'
That's rather hard, but funny. I like twirling the platter. If you
don't catch it when it comes near you, you must pay a forfeit. And
redeeming them is lots of fun, for you are told to do all sorts of
ridiculous things. Then there's some goodies and mottoes and you can
exchange with a boy. But Kate Saltonstall's big sister had a party where
they danced. Eliza wanted some dancing, but her mother said so many
people did not approve of it for children."
"And don't you have some one to come and dance for you?"
"Oh, what a queer idea! The fun is in dancing yourself with a real nice
boy. Some people think it awfully wrong. Do you, Miss Winn?"
"No, indeed. When I was a child in England we went out and danced on the
green. Everybody did. And when there were doings at the great
houses--like Christmas, and weddings, and coming of age--the ladies, in
their silks and satins and laces, came down in the servants' hall and
danced with the butler and the footmen, and my lord took out some of the
maids. I don't think dancing hurts any one."
"I'm glad to hear you say that, Miss Winn. They are talking of having a
dancing-class in school. I hope mother will let me join it."
"And they teach it in schools there."
"And why shouldn't they here?" said Polly.
To be sure. Cynthia was much interested and made Polly promise to come
again and tell her all about it. Old Salem was awakening rapidly from
her rigid torpor.
"I wonder if I could ever have a party," she said to Cousin Leverett
that evening. "When father comes home we might have what they did at the
Perkinses when they went in their new place--a house-warming. Is that
like a party?"
"About the same thing."
"Cousin Elizabeth thinks it wicked. Wouldn't she think dancing wicked?"
"I am afraid she would."
Cynthia sighed. No, she couldn't have a party here.
She waited quite eagerly for Polly's account. The little girl was in her
own room. Miss Winn had gone out to get some medicine. Cynthia tried to
be well sometimes, so she would not have to take the nauseous stuff. No
one had invented medicated sugar pills at that time. She liked Cousin
Elizabeth's cough syrup.
Polly was overflowing with spirits.
"Oh, I want to be big, right away. Bella Saltonstall was there and she's
going into company next winter, she says. And she showed us some of the
dancing steps and they just bewitch you. It's like this"--and Polly
picked up her frock in a dainty manner and whirled about the vacant
spaces in the room.
"But doesn't it tire you dreadfully? The girls in India stand still a
great deal more and just sway about. They come in and dance for you."
"Tire you! Oh, no. That's the great fun, to do it yourself. Bella said
it was--ex--something, and the word is in the spelling-book, but I never
can remember the long words. Oh, I just wish I was fifteen and wasn't
going to school any more. And then there's keeping company and getting
married, and having your setting out. School seems stupid. There were
two boys who wanted to come home with me, but mother said Ben must. Then
I wished--well, I wished he was in college. He wants to go. Father says
Mr. Leverett has infected him with the craze."
"If I was a boy, I'd like to go. Cousin Leverett is going to take me to
Harvard next summer when they have their grand closing time."
"I'd rather be a girl and have a nice beau."
Plainly Polly had been saturated with dissipation.
Spring was suggesting her advent. The days were longer. The snow was
disappearing.
"Oh, Cousin Leverett, look--there are some buds on the trees!" she
cried.
"Yes. You can see them at intervals through the winter. They are wise
little things, and swell and then shrink back in the cold."
"I'm so glad. I can soon go out. I get very tired some days. I like
summer best."
"Yes. I do hope we shall have an early spring."
She looked up with smiling gladness.
That afternoon she had fallen asleep in the big chair. How almost
transparent she was. The long lashes lay on the whiteness of her
cheek--yes, it was really white. And there was very little color in her
lips.
Abner Hayes came up from the warehouse with some papers the Ulysses
had just brought in.
"That the captain's poor little girl?"
"Yes; she's asleep. She hasn't been very well this winter, but the first
nice balmy day I shall take her out driving. I've been almost afraid to
have the air blow on her."
"Yes, she ought to live and enjoy all that big fortune. It's a thousand
pities the captain couldn't have come back and enjoyed it with her. But
we must all go when our time comes. You never hear a hard word said
about him, and sure's there's a heaven he is in it."
Chilian held up his finger. Then he signed a paper that had to go back,
and asked if the cargo of the Ulysses was in good shape.
Elizabeth called him downstairs after that. There was a poor man wanting
some sort of a position and Chilian promised to look out for him. He had
been porter in a store, but the heavy lifting made him cough. He would
have to get something lighter.
When he returned Cynthia was standing by his table, white as a little
ghost. He almost dropped into the chair.
"Was I dreaming, or did that man say my father couldn't come back to
Salem, that he--that he was----"
She swayed almost as if she would fall. He drew her down on his knee and
her head sank on his shoulder. She was so still that he was startled.
How many times he had wondered how he would get her told. Perhaps it had
been wrong to wait.
"My little girl! My little Cynthia----"
"Wait," she breathed, and he held her closer. He had come to love her
very much, though he had taken her unwillingly.
"Is it true? But no one would say such a thing if it were not. I had
been asleep. I woke just as he said that. Perhaps I had been dreaming
about our being together. And it seemed at first as if my tongue was
stiff and I couldn't even make a sound. Did he go to heaven without me?"
Oh, what should he say to comfort her! She had so many feelings far
under the surface.
"My little dear," and his voice was infinitely fond, "I want to tell you
that he loved your mother tenderly. No one could have been better loved.
In the course of a few hours she was snatched away from him. You were so
little--five years ago. I doubt if there was ever a day in which he did
not think of her. When you are grown and come to love some one with the
strength of your whole heart, you will understand how great it is. And
when the summons came for him his first thought was that he should see
her, and with the next he must find a new home for his little girl, so
he gave you to me. It is very hard just now, but you must think how
happy they are together. Perhaps they both know you are here, where you
will be cared for and made happy, for we all love you. Every one has not
the same way of showing love, but Cousin Elizabeth has done everything
she could for you this winter. And we don't want to lose you. You won't
grudge them a few years together in that happy place?"
"Oh, are you quite sure there is a heaven?"
Oh, Cynthia, you are not the first one who has asked to have it
certified.
"Yes, dear; very sure," in the tone of faith.
"He loved mother very much?"
"Yes."
There was a long silence. He felt the slow beating of her little heart.
"Then I ought to be content, since he gave me to you, when he knew he
was going away."
"It would have been very sad if you had been left alone there. Out of
his great love he planned it this way, thinking the tidings would not
come so hard after a while. And now you can always recall him as you saw
him last and just think, in a moment of time God called and he stepped
over the narrow space that seems such a mystery to us and met her. I
wish we didn't invest death with so much that is painful, for it is
God's way of calling us to a better land where there are no more
partings. Sometime you and I will go over to them."
"I shouldn't feel afraid with you," she commented simply.
When the tea bell rang she asked to be carried to her room and laid on
Rachel's little bed. He kissed her gently and turned away.
The next was his day in Boston. But late in the afternoon, after Miss
Eunice had been visiting her an hour or so, she went to the study and
sat by the window, where she could see him come. He glanced up and she
waved her hand daintily. All day he had been wondering how he should
find her.
"I haven't coughed but a very little to-day," she exclaimed. "Cousin
Elizabeth made some new syrup. And the doctor was in. He said I was a
little lazy, that I must be more energetic."
"I've been ordering a new carriage to-day. The old one was hardly worth
repairing. And when you are stronger I think I'll buy a gentle pony and
we can go out riding. You would not be afraid after a little?"
"Not with you."
Her confidence was very sweet.
"I'm going down to tea to-night. I was down at noon."
"Oh, you are improving. I hope there will come some warm weather and
balmy airs."
"It was beautiful last spring. You know I never saw a real spring
before."
She was bearing her loss and her sorrow beautifully. All day she had
been thinking of the joy of those two when they met on the confines of
that beautiful world. It made heaven seem so near, so real. Sometimes
the tears came to her eyes. She was Cousin Chilian's little girl, so why
