white sea-gazing front which I knew for my particular landmark and which
promised so much that it would have been welcome to keep even no
more than half. Let me instantly say that it kept still more than it
promised, and by no means least in the way of leaving far below it the
worst of the outbreak of restorations and breweries. There is a road at
present to the upper village, with which till recently communication was
all by rude steps cut in the rock and diminutive donkeys scrambling on
the flints; one of those fine flights of construction which the
great road-making “Latin races” take, wherever they prevail, without
advertisement or bombast; and even while I followed along the face of
the cliff its climbing consolidated ledge, I asked myself how I could
think so well of it without consistently thinking better still of
the temples of beer so obviously destined to enrich its terminus. The
perfect answer to that was of course that the brooding tourist is never
bound to be consistent. What happier law for him than this very one,
precisely, when on at last alighting, high up in the blue air, to
stare and gasp and almost disbelieve, he embraced little by little the
beautiful truth particularly, on this occasion, reserved for himself,
and took in the stupendous picture? For here above all had the thought
and the hand come from far away--even from ultima Thule, and yet were
in possession triumphant and acclaimed. Well, all one could say was that
the way they had felt their opportunity, the divine conditions of the
place, spoke of the advantage of some such intellectual perspective as a
remote original standpoint alone perhaps can give. If what had finally,
with infinite patience, passion, labour, taste, got itself done there,
was like some supreme reward of an old dream of Italy, something perfect
after long delays, was it not verily in ultima Thule that the vow
would have been piously enough made and the germ tenderly enough
nursed? For a certain art of asking of Italy all she can give, you must
doubtless either be a rare raffine or a rare genius, a sophisticated
Norseman or just a Gabriele d’ Annunzio.
All she can give appeared to me, assuredly, for that day and the
following, gathered up and enrolled there: in the wondrous cluster and
dispersal of chambers, corners, courts, galleries, arbours, arcades,
long white ambulatories and vertiginous points of view. The greatest
charm of all perhaps was that, thanks to the particular conditions, she
seemed to abound, to overflow, in directions in which I had never yet
enjoyed the chance to find her so free. The indispensable thing was
therefore, in observation, in reflection, to press the opportunity hard,
to recognise that as the abundance was splendid, so, by the same stroke,
it was immensely suggestive. It dropped into one’s lap, naturally, at
the end of an hour or two, the little white flower of its formula: the
brooding tourist, in other words, could only continue to brood till he
had made out in a measure, as I may say, what was so wonderfully the
matter with him. He was simply then in the presence, more than ever yet,
of the possible poetry of the personal and social life of the south, and
the fun would depend much--as occasions are fleeting--on his arriving
in time, in the interest of that imagination which is his only field
of sport, at adequate new notations of it. The sense of all this, his
obscure and special fun in the general bravery, mixed, on the morrow,
with the long, human hum of the bright, hot day and filled up the golden
cup with questions and answers. The feast of St. Antony, the patron of
the upper town, was the one thing in the air, and of the private beauty
of the place, there on the narrow shelf, in the shining, shaded loggias
and above the blue gulfs, all comers were to be made free.
III
The church-feast of its saint is of course for Anacapri, as for any
self-respecting Italian town, the great day of the year, and the
smaller the small “country,” in native parlance, as well as the simpler,
accordingly, the life, the less the chance for leakage, on other
pretexts, of the stored wine of loyalty. This pure fluid, it was easy
to feel overnight, had not sensibly lowered its level; so that nothing
indeed, when the hour came, could well exceed the outpouring. All up and
down the Sorrentine promontory the early summer happens to be the time
of the saints, and I had just been witness there of a week on every day
of which one might have travelled, through kicked-up clouds and other
demonstrations, to a different hot holiday. There had been no bland
evening that, somewhere or other, in the hills or by the sea, the white
dust and the red glow didn’t rise to the dim stars. Dust, perspiration,
illumination, conversation--these were the regular elements. “They’re
very civilised,” a friend who knows them as well as they can be known
had said to me of the people in general; “plenty of fireworks and plenty
of talk--that’s all they ever want.” That they were “civilised”--on the
side on which they were most to show--was therefore to be the word of
the whole business, and nothing could have, in fact, had more interest
than the meaning that for the thirty-six hours I read into it.
Seen from below and diminished by distance, Anacapri makes scarce a
sign, and the road that leads to it is not traceable over the rock; but
it sits at its ease on its high, wide table, of which it covers--and
with picturesque southern culture as well--as much as it finds
convenient. As much of it as possible was squeezed all the morning, for
St. Antony, into the piazzetta before the church, and as much more into
that edifice as the robust odour mainly prevailing there allowed room
for. It was the odour that was in prime occupation, and one could only
wonder how so many men, women and children could cram themselves into so
much smell. It was surely the smell, thick and resisting, that was least
successfully to be elbowed. Meanwhile the good saint, before he could
move into the air, had, among the tapers and the tinsel, the opera-music
and the pulpit poundings, bravely to snuff it up. The shade outside was
hot, and the sun was hot; but we waited as densely for him to come out,
or rather to come “on,” as the pit at the opera waits for the great
tenor. There were people from below and people from the mainland and
people from Pomerania and a brass band from Naples. There were other
figures at the end of longer strings--strings that, some of them indeed,
had pretty well given way and were now but little snippets trailing in
the dust. Oh, the queer sense of the good old Capri of artistic legend,
of which the name itself was, in the more benighted years--years of the
contadina and the pifferaro--a bright evocation! Oh, the echo, on the
spot, of each romantic tale! Oh, the loafing painters, so bad and so
happy, the conscious models, the vague personalities! The “beautiful
Capri girl” was of course not missed, though not perhaps so beautiful
as in her ancient glamour, which none the less didn’t at all exclude
the probable presence--with his legendary light quite undimmed--of
the English lord in disguise who will at no distant date marry her. The
whole thing was there; one held it in one’s hand.
The saint comes out at last, borne aloft in long procession and under a
high canopy: a rejoicing, staring, smiling saint, openly delighted
with the one happy hour in the year on which he may take his own walk.
Frocked and tonsured, but not at all macerated, he holds in his hand a
small wax puppet of an infant Jesus and shows him to all their friends,
to whom he nods and bows: to whom, in the dazzle of the sun he literally
seems to grin and wink, while his litter sways and his banners flap and
every one gaily greets him. The ribbons and draperies flutter, and the
white veils of the marching maidens, the music blares and the guns go
off and the chants resound, and it is all as holy and merry and noisy
as possible. The procession--down to the delightful little tinselled and
bare-bodied babies, miniature St. Antonys irrespective of sex, led or
carried by proud papas or brown grandsires--includes so much of the
population that you marvel there is such a muster to look on--like the
charades given in a family in which every one wants to act. But it
is all indeed in a manner one house, the little high-niched island
community, and nobody therefore, even in the presence of the head of it,
puts on an air of solemnity. Singular and suggestive before everything
else is the absence of any approach to our notion of the posture of
respect, and this among people whose manners in general struck one as so
good and, in particular, as so cultivated. The office of the saint--of
which the festa is but the annual reaffirmation--involves not the
faintest attribute of remoteness or mystery.
While, with my friend, I waited for him, we went for coolness into the
second church of the place, a considerable and bedizened structure,
with the rare curiosity of a wondrous pictured pavement of majolica,
the garden of Eden done in large coloured tiles or squares, with every
beast, bird and river, and a brave diminuendo, in especial, from
portal to altar, of perspective, so that the animals and objects of the
foreground are big and those of the successive distances differ with
much propriety. Here in the sacred shade the old women were knitting,
gossipping, yawning, shuffling about; here the children were romping and
“larking”; here, in a manner, were the open parlour, the nursery, the
kindergarten and the conversazione of the poor. This is everywhere the
case by the southern sea. I remember near Sorrento a wayside chapel that
seemed the scene of every function of domestic life, including cookery
and others. The odd thing is that it all appears to interfere so little
with that special civilised note--the note of manners--which is so
constantly touched. It is barbarous to expectorate in the temple of your
faith, but that doubtless is an extreme case. Is civilisation really
measured by the number of things people do respect? There would seem to
be much evidence against it. The oldest societies, the societies
with most traditions, are naturally not the least ironic, the least
blasees, and the African tribes who take so many things into account
that they fear to quit their huts at night are not the fine flower.
IV
Where, on the other hand, it was impossible not to feel to the full
all the charming riguardi--to use their own good word--in which our
friends could abound, was, that afternoon, in the extraordinary temple
of art and hospitality that had been benignantly opened to me. Hither,
from three o’clock to seven, all the world, from the small in particular
to the smaller and the smallest, might freely flock, and here, from the
first hour to the last, the huge straw-bellied flasks of purple wine
were tilted for all the thirsty. They were many, the thirsty, they were
three hundred, they were unending; but the draughts they drank were
neither countable nor counted. This boon was dispensed in a long,
pillared portico, where everything was white and light save the blue
of the great bay as it played up from far below or as you took it in,
between shining columns, with your elbows on the parapet. Sorrento and
Vesuvius were over against you; Naples furthest off, melted, in the
middle of the picture, into shimmering vagueness and innocence; and the
long arm of Posilippo and the presence of the other islands, Procida,
the stricken Ischia, made themselves felt to the left. The grand air of
it all was in one’s very nostrils and seemed to come from sources too
numerous and too complex to name. It was antiquity in solution, with
every brown, mild figure, every note of the old speech, every tilt of
the great flask, every shadow cast by every classic fragment, adding
its touch to the impression. What was the secret of the surprising
amenity?--to the essence of which one got no nearer than simply by
feeling afresh the old story of the deep interfusion of the present with
the past. You had felt that often before, and all that could, at the
most, help you now was that, more than ever yet, the present appeared
to become again really classic, to sigh with strange elusive sounds of
Virgil and Theocritus. Heaven only knows how little they would in truth
have had to say to it, but we yield to these visions as we must, and
