Duane was still reading--or he had all the appearance of reading--when
Sylvia lifted her head from her hand and turned around with an effort
that cost her what colour had remained under the transparent skin of her
oval face.
"Duane," she said, "it occurred to me just now that you might have
really mistaken what I said and did the other night." She hesitated,
nerving herself to encounter his eyes, lifted and levelled across the
top of his paper at her.
He waited; she retained enough self-command to continue with an effort
at lightness:
"Of course it was all carnival fun--my pretending to mistake you for Mr.
Dysart. You understood it, didn't you?"
"Why, of course," he said, smiling.
She went on: "I--don't exactly remember what I said--I was trying to
mystify you. But it occurred to me that perhaps it was rather imprudent
to pretend to be on--on such impossible terms with Mr. Dysart----"
There was something too painful in her effort for him to endure. He said
laughingly, not looking at her:
"Oh, I wasn't ass enough to be deceived, Sylvia. Don't worry, little
girl." And he resumed the study of his paper.
Minutes passed--terrible minutes for one of them, who strove to find
relief in his careless reassurance, tried desperately to believe him, to
deceive that intuition which seldom fails her sex.
He, with the print blurred and meaningless before him, sat miserable,
dumb with the sympathy he could not show, hot with the anger he dared
not express. He thought of Dysart as he had revealed himself, now gone
back to town to face that little crop of financial rumours concerning
the Algonquin that persisted so wickedly and would not be quieted. For
the first time in his life, probably, Dysart was compelled to endure the
discomforts of a New York summer--more discomforts this summer than mere
dust and heat and noise. For men who had always been on respectful
financial terms with Dysart and his string of banks and his Algonquin
enterprise were holding aloof from him; men who had figured for years in
the same columns of print where his name was so often seen as director
and trustee and secretary--fellow-members who served for the honour of
serving on boards of all sorts, charity boards, hospital, museum, civic
societies--these men, too, seemed to be politely, pleasantly, even
smilingly edging away from him in some indefinable manner.
Which seemed to force him toward certain comparatively newcomers among
the wealthy financiers of the metropolis--brilliant, masterful, restless
men from the West, whose friendship in the beginning he had sought,
deeming himself farsighted.
Now that his vision had become normally adjusted he cared less for this
intimacy which it was too late to break--at least this was not the time
to break it with money becoming unbelievably scarcer every day and a
great railroad man talking angrily, and another great railroad man
preaching caution at a time when the caution of the man in the Street
might mean something so serious to Dysart that he didn't care to think
about it.
Dysart had gone back to New York in company with several pessimistic
gentlemen--who were very open about backing their fancy; and their fancy
fell on that old, ramshackle jade, Hard Times, by Speculation out of
Folly. According to them there was no hope of her being scratched or
left at the post.
"She'll run like a scared hearse-horse," said young Grandcourt gloomily.
There was reason for his gloom. Unknown to his father he had invested
heavily in Dysart's schemes. It was his father's contempt that he feared
more than ruin.
So Dysart had gone to town, leaving behind him the utter indifference of
a wife, the deep contempt of a man; and a white-faced girl alone with
her memories--whatever they might be--and her thoughts, which were
painful if one might judge by her silent, rigid abstraction, and the
lower lip which, at moments, escaped, quivering, from the close-set
teeth.
When Duane rose, folding his paper with a carelessly pleasant word or
two, she looked up in a kind of naïve terror--like a child startled at
prospect of being left alone. It was curious how those adrift seemed
always to glide his way. It had always been so; even stray cats followed
him in the streets; unhappy dogs trotted persistently at his heels; many
a journey had he made to the Bide-a-wee for some lost creature's sake;
many a softly purring cat had he caressed on his way through life--many
a woman.
As he strolled toward the eastern end of the terrace, Sylvia looked
after him; and, suddenly, unable to endure isolation, she rose and
followed as instinctively as her lesser sisters-errant.
It was the trotting of little footsteps behind him on the gravel that
arrested him. A glance at her face was enough; vexed, shocked, yet every
sympathy instantly aroused, he resigned himself to whatever might be
required of him; and within him a bitter mirth stirred--acrid,
unpleasant; but his smile indicated only charmed surprise.
"I didn't suppose you'd care for a stroll with me," he said; "it is
exceedingly nice of you to give me the chance."
"I didn't want to be left alone," she said.
"It is rather quiet here since our gay birds have migrated," he said in
a matter-of-fact way. "Which direction shall we take?"
"I--don't care."
"The woods?"
"No," with a shudder so involuntary that he noticed it.
"Well, then, we'll go cross country----"
She looked at her thin, low shoes and then at him.
"Certainly," he said, "that won't do, will it?"
She shook her head.
They were passing the Lodge now where his studio was and where he had
intended to pack up his canvases that afternoon.
"I'll brew you a cup of tea if you like," he said; "that is, if it's not
too unconventional to frighten you."
She smiled and nodded. Behind the smile her heavy thoughts throbbed on:
How much did this man know? How much did he suspect? And if he
suspected, how good he was in every word to her--how kind and gentle and
high-minded! And the anguish in her smile caused him to turn hastily to
the door and summon old Miller to bring the tea paraphernalia.
There was nothing to look at in the studio; all the canvases lay roped
in piles ready for the crates; but Sylvia's gaze remained on them as
though even the rough backs of the stretchers fascinated her.
"My father was an artist. After he married he did not paint. My mother
was very wealthy, you know.... It seems a pity."
"What? Wealth?" he asked, smiling.
"N-no. I mean it seems a little tragic to me that father never continued
to paint."
Miller's granddaughter came in with the tea. She was a very little girl
with yellow hair and big violet eyes. After she had deposited
everything, she went over to Duane and held up her mouth to be kissed.
He laughed and saluted her. It was a reward for service which she had
suggested when he first came to Roya-Neh; and she trotted away in great
content.
Sylvia's indifferent gaze followed her; then she sipped the tea Duane
offered.
"Do you remember your father?" he asked pleasantly.
"Why, yes. I was fourteen when he died. I remember mother, too. I was
seven."
Duane said, not looking at her: "It's about the toughest thing that can
happen to a girl. It's tough enough on a boy."
"It was very hard," she said simply.
"Haven't you any relatives except your brother Stuyvesant--" he began,
and checked himself, remembering that a youthful aunt of hers had eloped
under scandalous circumstances, and at least one uncle was too notorious
even for the stomachs of the society that whelped him.
She let it pass in silence, as though she had not heard. Later she
declined more tea and sat deep in her chair, fingers linked under her
chin, lids lowered.
After a while, as she did not move or speak, he ventured to busy himself
with collecting his brushes, odds and ends of studio equipment. He
scraped several palettes, scrubbed up some palette-knives, screwed the
tops on a dozen tubes of colour, and fussed and messed about until there
seemed to be nothing further to do. So he came back and seated himself,
and, looking up, saw the big tears stealing from under her closed lids.
He endured it as long as he could. Nothing was said. He leaned nearer
and laid his hand over hers; and at the contact she slipped from the
chair, slid to her knees, and laid her head on the couch beside him,
both hands covering her face, which had turned dead white.
Minute after minute passed with no sound, no movement except as he
passed his hand over her forehead and hair. He knew what to do when
those who were adrift floated into Port Mallett. And sometimes he did
more than was strictly required, but never less. Toward sundown she
began to feel blindly for her handkerchief. He happened to possess a
fresh one and put it into her groping hand.
When she was ready to rise she did so, keeping her back toward him and
standing for a while busy with her swollen eyes and disordered hair.
"Before we go we must have tea together again," he said with perfectly
matter-of-fact cordiality.
"Y-yes." The voice was very, very small.
"And in town, too, Sylvia. I had no idea what a companionable girl you
are--how much we have in common. You know silence is the great test of
mutual confidence and understanding. You'll let me see you in town,
won't you?"
"Yes."
"That will be jolly. I suppose now that you and I ought to be thinking
about dressing for dinner."
She assented, moved away a step or two, halted, and, still with her back
turned, held out her hand behind her. He took it, bent and kissed it.
"See you at dinner," he said cheerfully.
And she went out very quietly, his handkerchief pressed against her
eyes.
He came back into the studio, swung nervously toward the couch, turned
and began to pace the floor.
"Oh, Lord," he said; "the rottenness of it all--the utter rottenness."
       *       *       *       *       *
Dinner that night was not a very gay function; after coffee had been
served, the small group seemed to disintegrate as though by some
prearrangement, Rosalie and Grandcourt finding a place for themselves in
the extreme western shadow of the terrace parapet, Kathleen returning to
the living-room, where she had left her embroidery.
Scott, talking to Sylvia and Duane, continued to cast restless glances
toward the living-room until he could find the proper moment to get
away. And in a few minutes Duane saw him seated, one leg crossed over
the other, a huge volume on "Scientific Conservation of Natural
Resources" open on his knees, seated as close to Kathleen as he could
conveniently edge, perfectly contented, apparently, to be in her
vicinity.
From moment to moment, as her pretty hands performed miracles in tinted
