We had met in Germany.” 
“ Yes,” Mr. Underwood nodded. 
“ And he has a rarely attractive wife who 
was president of a college. She makes a most 
genial and felicitous home,” said Mr. Hil- 
dreth. 
“ That scores one for me,” laughed Mrs. 
Underwood. “ You see she wasn’t satisfied 
with a career.” 
“ And she was in a State where the women 
voted, and had the right to hold office,” ap- 
pended Helen. 
“ Oh, Miss Grant, did she convert you to 
suffrage?” asked Mr. Underwood. “ Are 
you strong-minded ? ” 
“ Well — I think I am not quite the ivy 
kind,” she returned deliberately. “ I like 
strength enough to stand up straight and de- 
cide some things for myself. Suffrage didn’t 
seem to spoil Mrs. Yarrow — do you not agree 
with me, Mr. Hildreth ? ” 
“ She is among the charming women I have 
met, a womanly woman, though I do not quite 
like the term. A Wordsworthian woman.” 
“ And what may that be?” asked Mrs. 
Underwood, glancing up in surprise. 
“ Oh, Laura! ” exclaimed her husband im- 
patiently. “ I recommend a course of Words- 
worth to you.” 
“ ‘ Nobly planned 
To warn, to counsel and command ” 
quoted Mr. Hildreth. 
“ Oh, yes, I knew that, too,” a little vexed. 
“ You can’t remember everything on the spur 
of the moment.” 
“ I suppose you have had a run abroad ? ” 
inquired Mr. Underwood, changing the cur- 
rent, and turning to Helen. 
“ No, I have not,” she returned with in- 
spiriting frankness. “ My father had planned 
to take me back with him and I should have 
been immured in classic shades, poring over 
and transcribing the literature and the deeds 
of a thousand or two years ago. I should not 
have liked it. And I do desire to see some- 
what of my own country first.” 
 
“ We have been spending a month in 
Canada. Mrs. Underwood has relatives in 
Montreal.” 
“ We went up as far as Quebec,’ said 
Helen, “ from Niagara Falls.” 
That was an interesting subject and they 
could all join in it. Certainly Helen had 
used her eyes and her thoughts to some pur- 
pose. Mr. Hildreth watched her with interest, 
though he kept up little asides with Miss 
Craven. 
The luncheon had been very delightful, 
served quietly by Mrs. Ruden in a really 
dignified manner. The fruit was delicious. 
“ Now you must come out and see my 
garden,” said Mr. Hildreth. “ Are you in- 
terested in flowers as well? ” 
“ I’ve been living among them most of the 
summer. Miss Craven is an enthusiast, a 
worker with rare and beautiful things.” 
“ I like them all, but I have a tender passion 
for roses. I keep them in a succession of 
bloom — not the same roses all the time,” smil- 
ing, (t though I have found several perpetual 
bloomers.” 
“ Mr. Hildreth would have made a fine 
florist,” said Mr. Underwood. 
There was a broad paved path through the 
center, the driveway being at the other side of 
the grounds, leading direct to the stable and 
carriage house. There were several rose- 
beds with paths between them. The standards 
were mostly out of bloom, but showing fine 
foliage. There were monthly roses in pro- 
fusion and in choice colors, others of larger 
growth, hybrids of various kinds in the most 
exquisite shades and perfection. Both girls 
were almost speechless with delight. 
Mr. Hildreth gathered some of the choicest, 
and turning, gave them to Miss Craven with 
an inclination of the head. Helen had taken 
a few steps forward. 
“ What is your choice ? ” he asked. 
“ Oh, giving us roses is almost like carrying 
coals to Newcastle. Is that ungrateful?” 
with a deprecating glance. “ We are not 
really going home, though, and Miss Craven 
has so many. Give me just three to wear in 
honor of this delightful visit.” 
“ Where is Miss Craven’s garden?” 
 
“ Up the Hudson, a short distance from the 
city. Kingland Manor was the old name for 
it, before it was divided and taken in hand by 
fashion. She has one of the old houses and 
several acres of ground, and has made it just 
beautiful. Every few days she sends flowers 
down to some of the children’s homes.” 
“ Oh! ” he returned in the pause. 
“ She is a philanthropist, almost a mission- 
ary. That was one reason she did not want 
to go to college. And she did not need to, I 
did,” looking up with laughing eyes. 
“ This is the choicest rose I have. It isn’t 
a very free bloomer, but they take their time 
and come out to perfection.” 
“ Oh, it is too bad to cut it. But there are 
two more buds.” She glanced up entreatingly. 
“If I were twenty years younger I should 
say, ‘ Not too good for you.’ Being an elderly 
man ” 
“You are not old!” she exclaimed resent- 
fully. 
“ I did not say I was,” laughing softly. “ I 
shall be sorry to grow old, though I shall try 
not to lose my interest in daily life. It is 
supposed that is a woman’s regret, but I think 
a man may share it.” 
He cut another half-opened rose. 
“ Now only one more. Oh, I wish Mrs. 
Yarrow were here! ” 
“ You like her very much? ” 
“ She is charming. Fresh and natural. 
But I have found a good many delightful 
people in the world. And I seem somehow to 
keep them. I shall have to stop somewhere 
or I am afraid I shall grow too diffusive.” 
“ I wouldn’t stop yet. I wondered a little 
at the professor’s good fortune.” 
“ Did you?” The girl wondered as well. 
“ You see she was not needing a home, and she 
had a fine future before her. Well, I suppose 
they both fell in love, so you see love isn’t 
dead after all.” 
“ Another thing I rejoice in. You will 
think me a romantic old fellow. Tell me how 
your friend came into such a fortune, — or was 
she born to it? ” 
“ In a certain way she was. An old uncle 
of penurious habits died and she was the only 
heir. But the home she bought. She widened 
 
out her life and has taken others in, and she 
enjoys that part of it thoroughly. She loves 
beauty and music, and the best of living.” 
The flower garden ended there and was 
succeeded by fruit and vegetables. The others 
had paused to talk and now came up with 
them. Mr. Hildreth looked at his watch. 
“ Suppose we go to the school. The sun 
has kindly tempered his glare by some drifting 
clouds. It is not very far.” 
“ Oh, you can see the tower ! Yes, I should 
like to go.” 
Helen felt that the time was passing rapidly, 
though she would have wished to go in and 
examine the books and talk about them. 
“ Don’t be so formal as to put on your hats. 
I go about with a parasol. We are a sort of 
law unto ourselves. I have heard that discard- 
ing headgear is excellent for the hair, and I 
do not want to reach the period when I shall 
have to buy a wig. I believe they are awfully 
expensive,” and Mrs. Underwood faced the 
two others with comic gravity. 
“ We used to do a great deal of that at col- 
lege. I thought it quite a saving on hats. 
They didn’t get old and faded so soon,” re- 
turned Helen. 
“ Hear that ! And yet men think women 
have no real sense of economy ! ” 
“ But you spend more on the next one,” 
said her husband with a laughing nod. 
