Pilgrims' sufferings in their second attempt to escape 
from their dread lord. In this strange equipage, there- 
fore, we set out, and nine long miles we drove through 
a country which seemed to rise with increasing surprise 
at us and our turnout on each inquiry we made for the 
 
way from chance passers. Just beyond the suburbs of 
the town we entered the region of a vast, evil smell 
which we verified as that of the decaying fish spread 
upon the fields, for a fertilizer after they had missed 
their market in that great fishing centre. Otherwise 
the landscape was much the ordinary English land- 
scape of the flatter parts, but wilder and rougher than 
in the south or west, and constantly growing more so 
as we drove on and on. Our cabman kept a good 
courage, as long as the highway showed signs of much 
travel, but when it began to falter away into a country 
road, he must have lost faith in our sanity, though he 
kept an effect of the conventional respect for his nomi- 
nal betters which English cabmen never part with ex- 
cept in a dispute about fares and distances. We stayed 
him as well as we could with some grapes and pears, 
which we found we did not want after our lunch, and 
which we handed him up through his little trap-door, 
but a plaintive quaver grew into his voice, and he let 
his horse lag in the misgiving which it probably shared 
with him. Nothing of signal interest occurred in our 
progress except at one point, near a Methodist chapel, 
where we caught sight of a gayly painted blue van, 
lettered over with many texts and mottoes, which my 
friend explained as one of the vans intinerantly used 
by extreme Protestants of the Anne Askew persuasion 
to prevent the spread of Romanism in England. 
The signs of travel had not only ceased, but a little 
in front of us the way was barred by a gate, and beyond 
this gate there was nothing but a sort of savage pasture, 
with many red and brown cattle in it, gathered ques- 
tioningly about the barrier, or lifting their heads in- 
differently from the grass. Just before we reached the 
gate we passed a peasant's cottage, where he was so- 
ciably getting in his winter's coal, and he and his wife 
 
and children, and the carter, all leaned upon whatever 
supports they found next them, and stared at the 
extraordinary apparition of two, I hope, personable 
strangers driving in a hansom of extreme type into a 
cow pasture. But we were not going to give ourselves 
away to their too probable ignorance by asking if that 
were the place where the Pilgrims who founded New 
England were first stopped from going to Holland. 
My friend dismounted, and opened the gate, and we 
drove in among the cattle, and after they had satisfied 
a peaceful curiosity concerning us, they went about 
their business of eating grass, and we strayed over 
" the large comone," and tried to imagine its looks 
nearly three hundred years before. They could not 
have been very different ; the place could hardly have 
been much wilder, and there was the " creeke hardby 
wher they lay," the hapless women and children, in 
their boat " at lowwater," while the evening came on, 
no doubt, just as it was doing with us, the weather 
clearing, and the sunset glassy and cold. Off yonder, 
away across the solitary moor, was the course of the 
Humber, marked for us by the trail of a steamer's 
smoke through the fringes of trees, and for them by 
the sail of the Dutchman, who, when he saw next day 
that " great company, both horse and foote, with bills 
and gunes, and other weapons," coming to harry those 
poor people, " swore his countries oath, ( sacremente,' 
and having the wind faire, waiged his ancor, hoysed 
sails, and away," leaving those desolate women and 
their little ones lamenting. 
VIII 
On our way back we stopped at a little country 
church, so peaceful, so very peaceful, in the evening 
 
light, where it stood, withdrawn from the highway, 
Gorman and Gothic without, and within all so sweet 
and bare and clean, that we could not believe in the 
old ecclesiasticism which persecuted the Puritans into 
the exile whither they carried the persecuting spirit 
with them. A pretty child, a little girl, opened the 
churchyard gate and held it for us to pass, and her 
gentleness made me the more question the history of 
those dreadful days in the past. When I saw a young 
lady, in the modern dress which I had so often lost 
my heart to at the Church Parade in Hyde Park, 
going up a leafy lane, toward the vicarage, from 
having been for tennis and afternoon tea at some 
pleasant home in the neighborhood, I denied the atro- 
cious facts altogether. She had such a very charm- 
ing hat on. 
The suburbs of Great Grimsby, after you reach them 
through that zone of bad smell, are rather attractive, 
and you get into long clean streets of small stone houses, 
like those of Plymouth or Southampton, and presently 
you reach the Humber, which is full of the steamers 
and sail, both fishing and deep sea, of the prosperous 
port, with great booms of sawlogs from ]STorway, half 
filling the channel, and with a fringe of tall chimneys 
from the sawmills along the shores. Great Grimsby 
is not only the centre of a vast distributing trade in 
coal and lumber, but of a still vaster trade in fish. It 
cuts one's pride, if one has believed that Gloucester, 
Massachusetts, is the greatest fishing port in the world, 
to learn that Grimsby, with a hundred more fishing 
sail, is only " one of the principal fishing ports " of 
the United Kingdom. What can one do against those 
brutal British statistics? We think our towns grow 
like weeds, but London seems to grow half such a weed 
as Chicago in a single night. 
After we were got well into the town, we found 
ourselves part of an immense bicycle parade, with bi- 
cyclers of both sexes on their wheels, in masks and 
costumes, Pierrots, and Clowns, and Harlequins and 
Columbines, in a competition for the prettiest and fan- 
ciest dress. 
When we came to start from the station on our run 
to London, we reflected that there were a great many 
of these bicyclers, and that they would probably crowd 
us in our third-class compartment. So, as we had 
bought an excellent supper in baskets, such as they 
send you on the trains everywhere in England, and 
wished to eat it in quiet, we sought out the guard who 
was lurking near for the purpose, and bribed him to 
shut us into that compartment, and not let any one else 
in. There we remained in darkness, with our curtains 
drawn, and w r hen, near train-time, the bicyclers began 
to swarm about the carriages, we heard them demand- 
ing admittance to our compartment from our faithful 
guard, if that is the right way to call him. He turned 
them away with soft answers, answers so very soft that 
we could not make out what he said, but he seemed to 
be inviting them into other compartments, which he 
doubtless pretended were better. The murmurs would 
die away, and then rise again, and from time to time 
we knew that a baffled bicycler was pulling at our door, 
or vainly bumping against it. We listened with our 
hearts in our mouths ; but no one got in, and the train 
started, and we opened our baskets and began to eat 
and to drink, like two aristocrats or plutocrats. What 
made our inhuman behavior worse was that we were 
really nothing of the kind, but both professed friends 
of the common people. The story might show that 
when it comes to a question of selfishness men are all 
alike ready to profit by the unjust conditions. How- 
 
ever, it must be remembered that those people were 
only bicyclers. If we could have conceived of them 
as masses we should have known them for brothers, and 
let them in, probably. 
IT is only some six or seven hours by train from Lon- 
don to Aberystwyth, but if you will look at the names 
on a map of the Cambrian railways, when you begin the 
Welsh part of your journey, you will seem to be in a 
stranger and farther country than that of Prester John. 
Pwllheli, Cerrig y Drudion, Gwerful Goch, Festiniog, 
Bryn Eglwys, Llanidloes, Maertwro, Carnedd Fibast, 
Clynog Fwr, Llan-y-Mawddwy Machynlleth, Dirffws, 
are a few out of the hundred names in the hills or 
along the valleys, giving the near neighborhood of Eng- 
land an effect of more than mid - Asian remoteness. 
The eye starts at their look; but if the jaw aches at 
the thought of pronouncing them, it is our own wilful 
orthographical usage that is at fault ; the words, whose 
sound the letters faithfully render, are music, and they 
largely record a Christian civilization which was cen- 
turies old when the Saxons came to drive the Britons 
into the western mountains and to call them strangers 
in the immemorial home of their race. The Britons 
of the Roman conquest, who became the Welsh of the 
baffled Saxon invaders, and are the Cymry of their own 
history and poetry, still stand five feet four in their 
stockings, where they have stood from the dawn of time, 
an inexpugnable host of dark little men, defying the 
Saeseneg in their unintelligible, imperishable speech. 
 
Of course, except in the loneliest and farthest places, 
they speak English as well as "Welsh; and they mis- 
place their aspirates, which they lost under the Nor- 
