could have jumped over a house for joy, I was so happy.  “Now  this  is
something like!” says I.  “Now,” says I, “I’m all right—show me a cloud.”

Inside of fifteen minutes I was a mile on my way towards the cloud-banks
and about a million people along with me.  Most of us tried to fly, but
some got crippled and nobody made a success of it.  So we concluded to
walk, for the present, till we had had some wing practice.

We begun to meet swarms of folks who were coming back.  Some had harps
and nothing else; some had hymn-books and nothing else; some had nothing
at all; all of them looked meek and uncomfortable; one young fellow
hadn’t anything left but his halo, and he was carrying that in his hand;
all of a sudden he offered it to me and says—

“Will you hold it for me a minute?”

Then he disappeared in the crowd.  I went on.  A woman asked me to hold
her palm branch, and then  she  disappeared.  A girl got me to hold her
harp for her, and by George,  she  disappeared; and so on and so on, till
I was about loaded down to the guards.  Then comes a smiling old
gentleman and asked me to hold  his  things.  I swabbed off the
perspiration and says, pretty tart—

“I’ll have to get you to excuse me, my friend,— I  ain’t no hat-rack.”

About this time I begun to run across piles of those traps, lying in the
road.  I just quietly dumped my extra cargo along with them.  I looked
around, and, Peters, that whole nation that was following me were loaded
down the same as I’d been.  The return crowd had got them to hold their
things a minute, you see.  They all dumped their loads, too, and we went
on.

When I found myself perched on a cloud, with a million other people, I
never felt so good in my life.  Says I, “Now this is according to the
promises; I’ve been having my doubts, but now I am in heaven, sure
enough.”  I gave my palm branch a wave or two, for luck, and then I
tautened up my harp-strings and struck in.  Well, Peters, you can’t
imagine anything like the row we made.  It was grand to listen to, and
made a body thrill all over, but there was considerable many tunes going
on at once, and that was a drawback to the harmony, you understand; and
then there was a lot of Injun tribes, and they kept up such another
war-whooping that they kind of took the tuck out of the music.  By and by
I quit performing, and judged I’d take a rest.  There was quite a nice
mild old gentleman sitting next me, and I noticed he didn’t take a hand;
I encouraged him, but he said he was naturally bashful, and was afraid to
try before so many people.  By and by the old gentleman said he never
could seem to enjoy music somehow.  The fact was, I was beginning to feel
the same way; but I didn’t say anything.  Him and I had a considerable
long silence, then, but of course it warn’t noticeable in that place.
After about sixteen or seventeen hours, during which I played and sung a
little, now and then—always the same tune, because I didn’t know any
other—I laid down my harp and begun to fan myself with my palm branch.
Then we both got to sighing pretty regular.  Finally, says he—

“Don’t you know any tune but the one you’ve been pegging at all day?”

“Not another blessed one,” says I.

“Don’t you reckon you could learn another one?” says he.

“Never,” says I; “I’ve tried to, but I couldn’t manage it.”

“It’s a long time to hang to the one—eternity, you know.”

“Don’t break my heart,” says I; “I’m getting low-spirited enough
already.”

After another long silence, says he—

“Are you glad to be here?”

Says I, “Old man, I’ll be frank with you.  This  ain’t  just as near my
idea of bliss as I thought it was going to be, when I used to go to
church.”

Says he, “What do you say to knocking off and calling it half a day?”

“That’s me,” says I.  “I never wanted to get off watch so bad in my
life.”

So we started.  Millions were coming to the cloud-bank all the time,
happy and hosannahing; millions were leaving it all the time, looking
mighty quiet, I tell you.  We laid for the new-comers, and pretty soon
I’d got them to hold all my things a minute, and then I was a free man
again and most outrageously happy.  Just then I ran across old Sam
Bartlett, who had been dead a long time, and stopped to have a talk with
him.  Says I—

“Now tell me—is this to go on forever?  Ain’t there anything else for a
change?”

Says he—

“I’ll set you right on that point very quick.  People take the figurative
language of the Bible and the allegories for literal, and the first thing
they ask for when they get here is a halo and a harp, and so on.  Nothing
that’s harmless and reasonable is refused a body here, if he asks it in
the right spirit.  So they are outfitted with these things without a
word.  They go and sing and play just about one day, and that’s the last
you’ll ever see them in the choir.  They don’t need anybody to tell them
that that sort of thing wouldn’t make a heaven—at least not a heaven that
a sane man could stand a week and remain sane.  That cloud-bank is placed
where the noise can’t disturb the old inhabitants, and so there ain’t any
harm in letting everybody get up there and cure himself as soon as he
comes.

“Now you just remember this—heaven is as blissful and lovely as it can
be; but it’s just the busiest place you ever heard of.  There ain’t any
idle people here after the first day.  Singing hymns and waving palm
branches through all eternity is pretty when you hear about it in the
pulpit, but it’s as poor a way to put in valuable time as a body could
contrive.  It would just make a heaven of warbling ignoramuses, don’t you
see?  Eternal Rest sounds comforting in the pulpit, too.  Well, you try
it once, and see how heavy time will hang on your hands.  Why,
Stormfield, a man like you, that had been active and stirring all his
life, would go mad in six months in a heaven where he hadn’t anything to
do.  Heaven is the very last place to come to  rest  in,—and don’t you be
afraid to bet on that!”

Says I—

“Sam, I’m as glad to hear it as I thought I’d be sorry.  I’m glad I come,
now.”

Says he—

“Cap’n, ain’t you pretty physically tired?”

Says I—

“Sam, it ain’t any name for it!  I’m dog-tired.”

“Just so—just so.  You’ve earned a good sleep, and you’ll get it.  You’ve
earned a good appetite, and you’ll enjoy your dinner.  It’s the same here
as it is on earth—you’ve got to earn a thing, square and honest, before
you enjoy it.  You can’t enjoy first and earn afterwards.  But there’s
this difference, here: you can choose your own occupation, and all the
powers of heaven will be put forth to help you make a success of it, if
you do your level best.  The shoemaker on earth that had the soul of a
poet in him won’t have to make shoes here.”

“Now that’s all reasonable and right,” says I.  “Plenty of work, and the
kind you hanker after; no more pain, no more suffering—”

“Oh, hold on; there’s plenty of pain here—but it don’t kill.  There’s
plenty of suffering here, but it don’t last.  You see, happiness ain’t a
 thing in itself —it’s only a  contrast  with something that ain’t
pleasant.  That’s all it is.  There ain’t a thing you can mention that is
happiness in its own self—it’s only so by contrast with the other thing.
And so, as soon as the novelty is over and the force of the contrast
dulled, it ain’t happiness any longer, and you have to get something
fresh.  Well, there’s plenty of pain and suffering in heaven—consequently
there’s plenty of contrasts, and just no end of happiness.”

Says I, “It’s the sensiblest heaven I’ve heard of yet, Sam, though it’s
about as different from the one I was brought up on as a live princess is
different from her own wax figger.”

                                * * * * *

Along in the first months I knocked around about the Kingdom, making
friends and looking at the country, and finally settled down in a pretty
likely region, to have a rest before taking another start.  I went on
making acquaintances and gathering up information.  I had a good deal of
talk with an old bald-headed angel by the name of Sandy McWilliams.  He
was from somewhere in New Jersey.  I went about with him, considerable.
We used to lay around, warm afternoons, in the shade of a rock, on some
meadow-ground that was pretty high and out of the marshy slush of his
cranberry-farm, and there we used to talk about all kinds of things, and
smoke pipes.  One day, says I—

“About how old might you be, Sandy?”

“Seventy-two.”

“I judged so.  How long you been in heaven?”

“Twenty-seven years, come Christmas.”

“How old was you when you come up?”
