“God! It’s the way it would strike most men.”
He turned to me. “You too?”
“I can see how Archie feels,” I said.
“That I’m attacking his father’s memory to glorify myself?”
“Well, not precisely: I think what he really feels is that, if your
convictions didn’t permit you to continue his father’s teaching, you
might perhaps have done better to sever your connection with the Lanfear
lectureship.”
“Then you and he regard the Lanfear lectureship as having been founded
to perpetuate a dogma, not to try and get at the truth?”
“Certainly not,” Archie broke in. “But there’s a question of taste,
of delicacy, involved in the case that can’t be decided on abstract
principles. We know as well as you that my father meant the laboratory
and the lectureship to serve the ends of science, at whatever cost to
his own special convictions; what we feel--and you don’t seem to--is
that you’re the last man to put them to that use; and I don’t want to
remind you why.”
A slight redness rose through Dredge’s sallow skin. “You needn’t,” he
said. “It’s because he pulled me out of my hole, woke me up, made me,
shoved me off from the shore. Because he saved me ten or twenty years
of muddled effort, and put me where I am at an age when my best working
years are still ahead of me. Every one knows that’s what your father did
for me, but I’m the only person who knows the time and trouble that it
took.”
It was well said, and I glanced quickly at Archie, who was never closed
to generous emotions.
“Well, then--?” he said, flushing also.
“Well, then,” Dredge continued, his voice deepening and losing its nasal
edge, “I had to pay him back, didn’t I?”
The sudden drop flung Archie back on his prepared attitude of irony. “It
would be the natural inference--with most men.”
“Just so. And I’m not so very different. I knew your father wanted a
successor--some one who’d try and tie up the loose ends. And I took the
lectureship with that object.”
“And you’re using it to tear the whole fabric to pieces!”
Dredge paused to re-light his pipe. “Looks that way,” he conceded. “This
year anyhow.”
“ This year--?” Archie gasped at him.
“Yes. When I took up the job I saw it just as your father left it. Or
rather, I didn’t see any other way of going on with it. The change came
gradually, as I worked.”
“Gradually? So that you had time to look round you, to know where you
were, to see you were fatally committed to undoing the work he had
done?”
“Oh, yes--I had time,” Dredge conceded.
“And yet you kept the chair and went on with the course?”
Dredge refilled his pipe, and then turned in his seat so that he looked
squarely at Archie.
“What would your father have done in my place?” he asked.
“In your place--?”
“Yes: supposing he’d found out the things I’ve found out in the last
year or two. You’ll see what they are, and how much they count, if
you’ll run over the report of the lectures. If your father’d been alive
he might have come across the same facts just as easily.”
There was a silence which Archie at last broke by saying: “But he
didn’t, and you did. There’s the difference.”
“The difference? What difference? Would your father have suppressed the
facts if he’d found them? It’s you who insult his memory by implying
it! And if I’d brought them to him, would he have used his hold over me
to get me to suppress them?”
“Certainly not. But can’t you see it’s his death that makes the
difference? He’s not here to defend his case.”
Dredge laughed, but not unkindly. “My dear Archie, your father wasn’t
one of the kind who bother to defend their case. Men like him are the
masters, not the servants, of their theories. They respect an idea only
as long as it’s of use to them; when it’s usefulness ends they chuck it
out. And that’s what your father would have done.”
Archie reddened. “Don’t you assume a good deal in taking it for granted
that he would have had to in this particular case?”
Dredge reflected. “Yes: I was going too far. Each of us can only answer
for himself. But to my mind your father’s theory is refuted.”
“And you don’t hesitate to be the man to do it?”
“Should I have been of any use if I had? And did your father ever ask
anything of me but to be of as much use as I could?”
It was Archie’s turn to reflect. “No. That was what he always wanted, of
course.”
“That’s the way I’ve always felt. The first day he took me away from
East Lethe I knew the debt I was piling up against him, and I never had
any doubt as to how I’d pay it, or how he’d want it paid. He didn’t pick
me out and train me for any object but to carry on the light. Do you
suppose he’d have wanted me to snuff it out because it happened to light
up a fact he didn’t fancy? I’m using his oil to feed my torch with:
yes, but it isn’t really his torch or mine, or his oil or mine: they
belong to each of us till we drop and hand them on.”
Archie turned a sobered glance on him. “I see your point. But if the job
had to be done I don’t see that you need have done it from his chair.”
“There’s where we differ. If I did it at all I had to do it in the
best way, and with all the authority his backing gave me. If I owe your
father anything, I owe him that. It would have made him sick to see the
job badly done. And don’t you see that the way to honour him, and show
what he’s done for science, was to spare no advantage in my attack on
him--that I’m proving the strength of his position by the desperateness
of my assault?” Dredge paused and squared his lounging shoulders. “After
all,” he added, “he’s not down yet, and if I leave him standing I guess
it’ll be some time before anybody else cares to tackle him.”
There was a silence between the two men; then Dredge continued in a
lighter tone: “There’s one thing, though, that we’re both in danger
of forgetting: and that is how little, in the long run, it all counts
either way.” He smiled a little at Archie’s outraged gesture. “The
most we can any of us do--even by such a magnificent effort as your
father’s--is to turn the great marching army a hair’s breadth nearer
what seems to us the right direction; if one of us drops out, here and
there, the loss of headway’s hardly perceptible. And that’s what I’m
coming to now.”
He rose from his seat, and walked across to the hearth; then, cautiously
resting his shoulder-blades against the mantel-shelf jammed with
miscellaneous specimens, he bent his musing spectacles on Archie.
“Your father would have understood why I’ve done, what I’m doing; but
that’s no reason why the rest of you should. And I rather think it’s
the rest of you who’ve suffered most from me. He always knew what I was
there for, and that must have been some comfort even when I was most
in the way; but I was just an ordinary nuisance to you and your mother
and Mabel. You were all too kind to let me see it at the time, but I’ve
seen it since, and it makes me feel that, after all, the settling of
this matter lies with you. If it hurts you to have me go on with my
examination of your father’s theory, I’m ready to drop the lectures
to-morrow, and trust to the Lanfear Laboratory to breed up a young chap
who’ll knock us both out in time. You’ve only got to say the word.”
There was a pause while Dredge turned and laid his extinguished
pipe carefully between a jar of embryo sea-urchins and a colony of
regenerating planarians.
Then Archie rose and held out his hand.
“No,” he said simply; “go on.”
FULL CIRCLE
I
GEOFFREY BETTON woke rather late--so late that the winter sunlight
sliding across his warm red carpet struck his eyes as he turned on the
pillow.
Strett, the valet, had been in, drawn the bath in the adjoining
dressing-room, placed the crystal and silver cigarette-box at his side,
put a match to the fire, and thrown open the windows to the bright
morning air. It brought in, on the glitter of sun, all the shrill crisp
morning noises--those piercing notes of the American thoroughfare
that seem to take a sharper vibration from the clearness of the medium
through which they pass.
Betton raised himself languidly. That was the voice of Fifth Avenue
below his windows. He remembered that when he moved into his rooms
eighteen months before, the sound had been like music to him: the
complex orchestration to which the tune of his new life was set. Now it
filled him with horror and weariness, since it had become the symbol of
the hurry and noise of that new life. He had been far less hurried in
the old days when he had to be up by seven, and down at the office sharp
at nine. Now that he got up when he chose, and his life had no fixed
framework of duties, the hours hunted him like a pack of blood-hounds.
He dropped back on his pillows with a groan. Yes--not a year ago there
had been a positively sensuous joy in getting out of bed, feeling
under his bare feet the softness of the sunlit carpet, and entering the
shining tiled sanctuary where his great porcelain bath proffered its
renovating flood. But then a year ago he could still call up the horror
of the communal plunge at his earlier lodgings: the listening for other
bathers, the dodging of shrouded ladies in “crimping”-pins, the cold
wait on the landing, the reluctant descent into a blotchy tin bath, and
the effort to identify one’s soap and nail-brush among the promiscuous
implements of ablution. That memory had faded now, and Betton saw only
the dark hours to which his blue and white temple of refreshment formed
a kind of glittering antechamber. For after his bath came his breakfast,
and on the breakfast-tray his letters. His letters!
He remembered--and that memory had not faded!--the thrill with which
he had opened the first missive in a strange feminine hand: the letter
beginning: “I wonder if you’ll mind an unknown reader’s telling you all
that your book has been to her?”
 Mind? Ye gods, he minded now! For more than a year after
the publication of “Diadems and Faggots” the letters, the inane
indiscriminate letters of condemnation, of criticism, of interrogation,
had poured in on him by every post. Hundreds of unknown readers had told
him with unsparing detail all that his book had been to them. And the
wonder of it was, when all was said and done, that it had really been so
little--that when their thick broth of praise was strained through the
author’s anxious vanity there remained to him so small a sediment of
definite specific understanding! No--it was always the same thing, over
and over and over again--the same vague gush of adjectives, the same
incorrigible tendency to estimate his effort according to each writer’s
personal preferences, instead of regarding it as a work of art, a thing
to be measured by objective standards!
He smiled to think how little, at first, he had felt the vanity of it
all. He had found a savour even in the grosser evidences of popularity:
the advertisements of his book, the daily shower of “clippings,” the
sense that, when he entered a restaurant or a theatre, people nudged
each other and said “That’s Betton.” Yes, the publicity had been sweet
to him--at first. He had been touched by the sympathy of his fellow-men:
