sonnets or posing; and they can stand aside with a brave heart as the
other man takes the dream out of their lives.  This is not to affirm
that they do not fight stoutly to hold this dream; simply, that they
accept defeat like good soldiers.  There are many heroes who have never
heard war's alarms.  He knew that the whole heart of Hildegarde von
Mitter had yielded to another.  But it had been thrown, as it were,
against a wall; there was this one hope, dimly burning, that some day
he might catch it on the rebound.

"Why are not all men like you?" she asked.

"The world would not be half so interesting.  Some men shall be
fortunate and others shall not; everything has to balance in some way.
I am necessary to one side of the scales, as a weight."  He spoke with
a levity he by no means felt.

"You are always making sport of yourself."

"Would it be wise to weep?  Not at all.  I laugh because I enjoy it,
just the same as I enjoy hunting or going on voyages of discovery."

"To have met you!" childishly.

"Don't talk like that.  It always makes me less sad than furious.  And
how do you know?  If it had been written that you should care for me,
would any one else have mattered?  No.  It just is, that's all.  So
we'll go on as we have done in the past, good friends.  Call me when
you need me, and wherever I am I shall come."

"How pitifully weak I must seem to you!"

"You would be no happier if you wore a mask.  Hildegarde, what has
happened?  What power has this adventurer over you?  I can not
understand.  He was man enough to say that you were guiltless of any
wrong."

"He said that?" turning upon him sharply.  She could forgive much.

He could not see her face, but by the tone of her voice he knew it had
brightened.  "Yes.  I did a freakish thing the night we arrived at the
Killigrews'.  I forced him into a corner, but it did not pan out as I
hoped.  So far as it touched me, it wasn't necessary, as I have told
you a thousand times.  Your past is nothing to me; your future is
everything, and I want it.  God knows how I want it!  Well, I wished to
find out what kind of man he is, but I wasn't very successful.
Hildegarde," and he pressed his hand down hard over hers, "I could find
a priest the day we land if you would love me.  You will always
remember that."

"As if I could ever forget your kindness!  But you forced him; there is
no merit in such a confession.  And I wonder how you forced him.  It
was not by fear.  Much as I know him there are still some unfilled
pages.  I would call him a scoundrel did I not know that in parts he
has been a hero.  What sacrifices the man has made, and with what
patience!"

"To what end?" quietly.

"No, no, Arthur!  I have promised him."

He took her by the arm roughly.  "Let us make two or three rounds and
go back.  We shan't grow any more cheerful talking this way."

"He loves her.  I saw it in his eyes; and I must stand aside and watch!"

"So must I," he said.  "Aren't you just a little selfish, Hildegarde?"

"I am wretched, Arthur; and I am a fool, besides.  Oh, that I were
cold-blooded like your women, that I could eat out my heart in secret;
but I can't, I can't!"

"But you have courage; only use it.  If what you say of him is true,
rest easy.  She is not in his orbit.  She will not be impressed by an
adventurer of his breed."

"Thank you!" with a broken laugh.  "I am only an opera-singer, here on
suffrance."

"Oh, good Lord!  I did not mean it that way.  Let us finish the walk,"
savagely.


On the afternoon of the second day out, tea was served under the
awning, and Captain Flanagan condescended to leave his bridge for half
an hour.  Through a previous hint dropped by the admiral they lured the
captain into spinning yarns; and well-salted hair-breadth escapes they
were.  He understood that the admiral's guests always expected these
flights, and he was in nowise niggard.  An ordinary sailor would have
been dead these twenty years, under any one of the exploits.

"Marvelous!" said M. Ferraud from the depths of his rugs.  "And he
still lives to tell it?"

"It's the easiest thing in the world, sir, if y' know how," the captain
declared complacently.  Indeed, he had recounted these yarns so many
times that he was beginning to regard them as facts.  His statement,
ambiguous as it was, passed unchallenged, however; for not one had the
daring to inquire whether he referred to the telling or the living of
them.  So he believed that he was looked upon as an apostle of truth.
Only the admiral had the temerity to look his captain squarely in the
eye and wink.

"Captain, would you mind if I put these tales in a book?"  Fitzgerald
put this question with a seriousness which fooled no one but the
captain.

"You come up t' the bridge some afternoon, when we've got a smooth sea,
and I'll give y' some real ones."  The captain's vanity was soothed,
but he was not aware that he had put doubt upon his own veracity.

"That's kind of you."

"An' say!" went on the captain, drinking his tea, not because he liked
it but because it was customary, "I've got a character forwards.  I'm
allus shippin' odds and ends.  Got a Frenchman; hands like a lady."

Breitmann leaned forward, and M. Ferraud sat up.

"Yessir," continued the captain; "speaks I-talyan an' English.  An' if
I ever meets a lady with long soft hands like his'n, I'm for a pert
talk, straightway."

"What's the matter with his hands?" asked the admiral.

"Why, Commodore, they're as soft as Miss Laura's here, an' yet when th'
big Swede who handles th' baggage was a-foolin' with him this mornin',
it was the Swede who begs off.  Nary a callous, an' yet he bowls the
big one round the deck like he was a liner being pierced by a sassy
tug.  An' what gets me is, he knows every bolt from stem to stern, sir,
an' an all-round good sailor int' th' bargain; an' it don' take me
more'n twelve hours t' find that out.  Well, I'm off t' th' bridge.
Good day, ladies."

When he was out of earshot the admiral roared.  "He's the dearest old
liar since Münchhausen."

"Aren't they true stories?" asked Hildegarde.

"Bless you, no!  And he knows we know it, too.  But he tells them so
well that I've never had the courage to sheer him off."

"It's amusing," said Laura; "but I do not think that it's always fair
to him."

"Why, Laura, you're as good a listener as any I know.  Read him a
tract, if you wish."

Breitmann rose presently and sauntered forward, while M. Ferraud
snuggled down in his rugs again.  The others entered into a game of
deck-cricket.

But M. Ferraud was not so ill that he was unable to steal from his
cabin at half after nine, at night, without even the steward being
aware of his departure.  It can not be said that he roamed about the
deck, for whenever he moved it was in the shadow, and always forward.
By and by voices drifted down the wind.  One he knew and expected,
Breitmann's; of the other he was not sure, though the French he spoke
was of classic smoothness.  M. Ferraud was exceedingly interested.  He
had been waiting for this meeting.  Only a phrase or two could be heard
distinctly.  But words were not necessary.  What he desired above all
things was a glimpse of this Frenchman's face.  After several minutes
Breitmann went aft.  M. Ferraud stepped out cautiously, and luck was
with him.  The sailor to whom Breitmann had spoken so earnestly was
lolling against the rail, in the act of lighting a cigarette.  The
light from the match was feeble, but it sufficed the keen eyes of the
watcher.  He gasped a little.  Strong hands indeed!  Here in the garb
of a common sailor, was one of the foremost Orleanists in France!




CHAPTER XVII

A QUESTION FROM KEATS

Breitmann and the admiral usually worked from ten till luncheon, unless
it was too stormy; and then the admiral took the day off.  The business
under hand was of no great moment; it was rather an outlet for the
admiral's energy, and gave him something to look forward to as each day
came round.  Many a morning he longed for the quarter-deck of his old
