men have in common a memory that can never die.  If there were
nothing else--God knows whether there is--that memory is enough, to
make us live at peace with one another. . . .  I do not entirely
understand how it is with me, but I know that some things have been
washed out of my heart--leaving little of the bitterness--nothing
now of anger.  It has all been too sad for such things--a tragedy
too deep for the lesser passions to meddle with. . . .  Let us
forgive each other. . . .  She will know it, somehow."
Their hands slowly closed together and remained.
"Philip!"
"Sir?"
"Ailsa is here."
"Yes, sir."
"Will you say to her that I would like to see her?"
For a moment Berkley hesitated, then rose quietly and walked into
the adjoining ward.
Ailsa was bending over a sick man, fanning away the flies that
clustered around the edge of the bowl from which he was drinking.
And Berkley waited until the patient had finished the broth.
"Ailsa, may I speak to you a moment?"
She had been aware of his entrance, and was not startled.  She
handed the bowl and fan to an attendant, turned leisurely, and came
out into the aisle.
"What is it?"
"Colonel Arran wishes to see you.  Can you come?"
"Certainly."
She led the way; and as she walked he noticed that all the lithe
grace, all the youth and spring to her step had vanished.  She
moved wearily; her body under the gray garb was thin; blue veins
showed faintly in temple and wrist; only her superb hair and eyes
had suffered no change.
Colonel Arran's eyes opened as she stooped at his bedside and laid
her lips lightly on his forehead.
"Is there another chair?" he asked wearily.
Ailsa's glance just rested on Berkley, measuring him in
expressionless disdain.  Then, as he brought another chair, she
seated herself.
"You, too, Philip," murmured the wounded man.
Ailsa's violet eyes opened in surprise at the implied intimacy
between these men whom she had vaguely understood were anything but
friends.  But she remained coldly aloof, controlling even a shiver
of astonishment when Colonel Arran's hand, which held hers, groped
also for Berkley's, and found it.
Then with an effort he turned his head and looked at them.
"I have long known that you loved each other," he whispered.  "It
is a happiness that God sends me as well as you.  If it be His will
that I--do not recover, this makes it easy for me.  If He wills it
that I live, then, in His infinite mercy, He also gives me the
reason for living."
Icy cold, Ailsa's hand lay there, limply touching Berkley's; the
sick man's eyes were upon them.
"Philip!"
"Sir?"
"My watch is hanging from a nail on the wall.  There is a chamois
bag hanging with it.  Give--it--to me."
And when it lay in his hand he picked at the string, forced it
open, drew out a key, and laid it in Berkley's hand with a faint
smile.
"You remember, Philip?"
"Yes, sir."
The wounded man looked at Ailsa wistfully.
"It is the key to my house, dear.  One day, please God, you and
Philip will live there." . . .  He closed his eyes, groping for
both their hands, and retaining them, lay silent as though asleep.
Berkley's palm burned against hers; she never stirred, never moved
a muscle, sitting there as though turned to stone.  But when the
wounded man's frail grasp relaxed, cautiously, silently, she freed
her fingers, rose, looked down, listening to his breathing, then,
without a glance at Berkley, moved quietly toward the door.
He was behind her a second later, and she turned to confront him in
the corridor lighted by a single window.
"Will you tell me what has changed you?" he said.
"Something which that ghastly farce cannot influence!" she said,
hot faced, eyes brilliant with anger.  "I loved Colonel Arran
enough to endure it--endure your touch--which
shames--defiles--which--which outrages every instinct in me!"
Breathless, scornful, she drew back, still facing him.
"The part you have played in my life!" she said bitterly--"think it
over.  Remember what you have been toward me from the first--a
living insult!  And when you remember--all--remember that in spite
of all I--I loved you--stood before you in the rags of my
pride--all that you had left me to clothe myself!--stood upright,
unashamed, and acknowledged that I loved you!"
She made a hopeless gesture.
"Oh, you had all there was of my heart!  I gave it; I laid it
beside my pride, under your feet.  God knows what madness was upon
me--and you had flung my innocence into my face!  And you had held
me in your embrace, and looked me in the eyes, and said you would
not marry me.  And I still loved you!"
Her hands flew to her breast, higher, clasped against the full,
white throat.
"Now, have I not dragged my very soul naked under your eyes?  Have
I not confessed enough.  What more do you want of me before you
consent to keep your distance and trouble me no more?"
"I want to know what has angered you against me," he said quietly.
She set her teeth and stared at him, with beautiful resolute eyes.
"Before I answer that," she said, "I demand to know why you refused
to marry me."
"I cannot tell you, Ailsa."
In a white rage she whispered:
"No, you dare not tell me!--you coward! I had to learn the
degrading reason from others!"
He grew deathly white, caught her arms in a grasp of steel, held
her twisting wrists imprisoned.
"Do you know what you are saying?" he stammered.
"Yes, I know! Your cruelty--your shame----"
"Be silent!" he said between his teeth.  "My shame is my pride!  Do
you understand!"
Outraged, quivering all over, she twisted out of his grasp.
"Then go to her!" she whispered.  "Why don't you go to her?"
And, as his angry eyes became blank:
"Don't you understand?  She is there--just across the road!" She
flung open the window and pointed with shaking anger.
"Didn't anybody tell you she is there?  Then I'll tell you.  Now go
to her!  You are--worthy--of one another!"
"Of whom are you speaking--in God's name!" he breathed.
Panting, flushed, flat against the wall, she looked back out of
eyes that had become dark and wide, fumbling in the bosom of her
gray garb.  And, just where the scarlet heart was stitched across
her breast, she drew out a letter, and, her fascinated gaze still
fixed on him, extended her arm.
He took the crumpled sheets from her in a dazed sort of way, but
did not look at them.
"Who is there--across the road?" he repeated stupidly.
"Ask--Miss--Lynden."
"Letty!"
But she suddenly turned and slipped swiftly past him, leaving him
there in the corridor by the open window, holding the letter in his
hand.
For a while he remained there, leaning against the wall.  Sounds
from the other ward came indistinctly--a stifled cry, a deep groan,
the hurried tread of feet, the opening or closing of windows.  Once
a dreadful scream rang out from a neighbouring ward, where a man
had suddenly gone insane; and he could hear the sounds of the
struggle, the startled orders, the shrieks, the crash of a cot;
then the dreadful uproar grew fainter, receding.  He roused
himself, passed an unsteady hand across his eyes, looked blindly at
the letter, saw only a white blurr, and, crushing it in his
clenched fist, he went down the kitchen stairs and out across the
road.
A hospital guard stopped him, but on learning who he was and that
he had business with Miss Lynden, directed him toward a low,
one-storied, stone structure, where, under the trees, a figure
wrapped in a shawl lay asleep in a chair.
"She's been on duty all night," observed the guard.  "If you've got
to speak to her, go ahead."
"Yes," said Berkley in a dull voice, "I've got to speak to her."
And he walked toward her across the dead brown grass.
Letty's head lay on a rough pine table; her slim body, supported by
a broken chair, was covered by a faded shawl; and, as he looked
down at her, somehow into his memory came the recollection of the
first time he ever saw her so--asleep in Casson's rooms, her
childish face on the table, the room reeking with tobacco smoke and
the stale odour of wine and dying flowers.
He stood for a long while beside her, looking down at the thin,
pale face.  Then, in pity, he turned away; and at the same moment
she stirred, sat up, confused, and saw him.
"Letty, dear," he said, coming back, both hands held out to her, "I
did not mean to rob you of your sleep."
"Oh--it doesn't matter!  I am so glad--" She sat up suddenly,
staring at him.  The next moment the tears rushed to her eyes.
"O--h," she whispered, "I wished so to see you.  I am so thankful
you are here.  There is--there has been such--a terrible
change--something has happened----"
She rose unsteadily; laid her trembling hand on his arm.
"I don't know what it is," she said piteously, "but
Ailsa--something dreadful has angered her against me----"
"Against you!"
"Oh, yes.  I don't know all of it; I know--partly."
Sleep and fatigue still confused her mind; she pressed both frail
hands to her eyes, her forehead:
"It was the day I returned from seeing you at Paigecourt. . . .  I
was deadly tired when the ambulance drove into Azalea; and when it
arrived here I had fallen asleep. . . .  I woke up when it stopped.
Ailsa was sitting here--in this same chair, I think--and I remember
as I sat up in the ambulance that an officer was just leaving
her--Captain Hallam."
She looked piteously at Berkley.
"He was one of the men I have avoided.  Do you understand?"
"No. . . .  Was he----"
