" Yes — it's for us who are beaten to teach it; 
and to teach it in our hves. It's a sort of revival 
that is needed, you see," 
" But I don't see the need," laughed the other, 
interested in spite of himself. 
" That's because you aren't one of us ! " cried 
Samuel vehemently. " Nobody else can under- 
stand — nobody! It's easy to be one of the suc- 
cesses of life. You have a comfortable home and 
plenty to eat and all. But when you've failed 
— when you're down and out — then you have to 
bear hunger and cold and sickness. And there is 
grief and fear and despair — you can have no idea 
of it! Why, I've met a little girl in this town. 
She works in the cotton mill, and it's just killed 
her by inches, body and soul. And even so, she 
can only get half a day's work; and the mother is 
trying to support the little children by sewing — 
and they're all just dying of slow starvation. 
This very morning they asked me to stay to 
breakfast, and I refused, because I knew they had 
only some bread and a few potatoes, and it wasn't 
enough for one person. You see, it's so slow — 
it's such a terribly long process — this starving 
people off by inches. And keeping them always 
tormented by hope. Don't you see. Professor 
Stewart? And just because you don't come out 
honestly and teach them the truth. Because you 
won't say to them: ' The world is too full; and 
you've got to get out of the way, so as to give us 
a chance.' Why, look, sir — you defeat your own 
purposes! These people stay, and they keep on 
having more children, and everything gets worse 
instead of better; and they have diseases and vices 
— they ruin the whole world. What's the use of 
having a world if it's got to be like this town — 
crowded with hovels full of dirty people, and sick 
people, and starving and miserable people? I 
can't see how you who live up here on the heights 
can enjoy yourselves while such things con- 
tinue." 
" Um — no," said Professor Stewart; and he 
gazed at Samuel with knitted brows — unable, for 
the hfe of him, to feel certain whether he ought 
to feel amused, or to feel touched, or to feel out- 
raged. 
As for Samuel, he realized that he was through 
with the professor. The professor had taught 
him all that he had to teach. He did not really 
understand this matter at all — that was because 
he belonged to the other world, the world of suc- 
cessful and fit people. They had their own prob- 
lems to solve, no doubt ! 
This non-comprehension was made quite clear 
by the professor's next remark. " I'm sorry to 
have disappointed you," he said. " If a little 
money will help you " 
" No," said the other qmckly. " You mustn't 
offer me money. How can that be right? That 
would be charity." 
"Ahem I" said the professor. "Yes. But 
then — you mentioned that you hadn't had any 
breakfast. Hadn't you better go into the kitchen 
and let them give you something? " 
" But what is the use of putting things off? " 
cried Samuel wildly. " If I'm going to preach 
this new idea, I've got to begin." 
" But you can't preach very long on an empty 
stomach," objected the other. 
To which Samuel answered, " The preaching 
has to be by deeds." 
And so he took his departure; and Professor 
Stewart turned back to his work-table, upon 
which lay the bulky manuscript of his monumen- 
tal work, which was entitled : " Methods of Re- 
hef ; A Theory and a Programme." Some pages 
lay before him; the top one was headed: " Chap- 
ter LXIII — Unemployment and Social Respon- 
sibility." And Professor Stewart sat before 
this title, and stared, and stared. 
CHAPTER VIII 
SAMUEL meantime was walking down the 
broad macadam avenue debating his prob- 
lem. The first glow of excitement was over, and 
he was finding difficulties. The theory still held ; 
but in the carrying out of it there were compli- 
cations. 
For one thing, it would be so hard to spread 
this doctrine. For if one tried to teach it by 
words, he seemed a hypocrite, as the professor 
had said; and on the other hand, if one simply 
practiced it, who would ever know? Suppose, 
for instance, that he starved to death during the 
next few days? That would be only one person 
removed, and apparently there were millions of 
the superfluous. 
The truth was that Samuel, in discussing the 
theory, had applied it only to himself. But now 
he pictured himself going home to tell Mrs. Sted- 
man that she must give up her futile eflFort, and 
take herself and her three children out of the 
way of the progress of the race. And he real- 
ized that he could never do it — he was not equal 
to the task. Doubtless, it was because he was 
one of the unfit. It would need some one who 
did not know them, some one who could ap- 
proach the matter from the purely scientific 
standpoint. 
Then there was another difficulty graver yet. 
Did not this doctrine really point to suicide? 
Would it not be the simplest solution of his prob- 
lem if he were to climb down to the river, and tie 
a stone about his neck, and jump in? Samuel 
wished that he had thought to ask the professor 
about this. For the idea frightened him; he 
had a distinct impression of having been taught 
that it was a dreadful sin to take one's own 
life. 
The trouble seemed to lie in the dull and vmro- 
mantic nature of the life about him. If only there 
had been some way to die nobly and heroically 
for the good of others. If only there was a war, 
for instance, and a call for men to perish on the 
ramparts ! Or a terrible pestilence, so that one 
covdd be a nurse ! But there was nothing at all 
but this slow starving to death — and while other 
people lived in plenty. Samuel thought of the 
chance of finding some work which involved 
grave peril to life or limb; but apparently even 
the danger posts were filled. The world did not 
need him, either in life or death! 
So there was nothing for it but the starving. 
Having eaten nothing that day, Samuel was 
ready to begin at once ; he tightened his belt and 
set his teeth for the grapple with the gaunt wolf 
of hunger. 
And so he strode on down the road, pining for 
a chance to sacrifice himself — and at the very 
hour that the greatest peril of his life was bearing 
down upon him. 
He had passed " Fairview," the great man- 
sion with the stately gates and the white piUars. 
He had passed beyond its vast grounds, and had 
got out into the open coxmtry. He was walking 
blindly — it made no great difference where he 
went. And then suddenly behind him there was 
a clatter of hoofs ; and he turned, and up the road 
he saw a cloud of dust, and in the midst of it a 
horse galloping furiously. Samuel stared ; there 
was some kind of a vehicle behind it, and there 
was a person in the vehicle. A single glance was 
enough for him to realize — it was a runaway! 
To Samuel the thing came as a miracle — it was 
an answer to his prayer. And it found him ready. 
The chance was offered him, and he would not 
fail — not he! He did not falter for a second. 
He knew just what he had to do, and he was 
ready — resolute, and alert, and tense. 
He moved into the center of the road. The 
horse came on, galloping at top speed; it was a 
blooded horse, swift and frantic with fear, and 
terrible to see. Samuel spread out his arms ; and 
then in a flash the creatiu:e was upon him. 
It swerved to pass him; and the boy wheeled, 
leaped swiftly, and flung himself at the bridle. 
He caught it; his arms were wrenched, but he 
himg on, and jerked himself up. The horse fltmg 
him to one side ; but with a swift clutch, Samuel 
caught him by the nostrils with one hand, and 
gripped fast. Then he drew himself up close and 
hung grimly, his eyes shut, with a grasp hke 
death. 
And he was still hanging there when the run- 
away stopped, and the occupant leaped from the 
vehicle and rushed to help him. " My jGodI " he 
cried, " but that was nerve ! " 
He was a young fellow, white as a sheet and 
trembling in every muscle. " How did you do 
it? " he panted. 
" I just held on," said Samuel. 
