and began at once, looking up at him with a serious strained 
face from which consciousness of self and the vanity of 
beauty's challenge had gone utterly. 
" Let 's have it over," she said. 
"What?" he asked. He, too, seated himself, but where 
it would not be easy to see her face. He wanted to give her 
every chance. 
" I have got to tell you," said Celia, " everything about 
me."
 
" That 's as you choose." 
" I 've got to. Don't tell me I needn't. I must. You 
don't know me. I wish I could make you. You know Mrs. 
Winterbourne adopted me." 
"Yes." 
" She cared a lot about me ; but I don't know whether it 
was about me or because she had to care about some- 
thing." 
" Did you care about her ? " 
She reflected. 
" Yes, at first. But when I began to grow up she wanted 
me to do things I couldn't do." 
" What things ? " 
" She wanted me to be clever, she didn't care how. I had 
lessons on the piano for years, then the violin. I hated them. 
I can't play." 
There was more bitter feeling in her voice than he had 
heard in it as yet. 
" Poor child! " he muttered. There was relief in pitying 
her. 
" I can sing a little, a very little. She made me have les- 
sons, but I didn't sing well enough, don't you see ? She 
thought I could paint, — I believe she thought I really could 
do that if I wasn't obstinate, — but I could n't. I am stupid, 
Mr. Lovell. I have no brain." 
He was looking at her hand lying on her knee, the deli- 
cate white hand that wore his mother's ring. He craved to 
touch it, and the sickness of the longing made him glad she 
could not see his face. Celia went on. 
" We were thrown all the time with people that could do 
things, women that write books and talk in public. Once 
she thought perhaps I could write. I tried everything, to 
please her. I wanted to, myself I wanted to be liked. But 
 
I found out one thing. I found it out all of a sudden. I 'm 
not an affectionate person." 
This was thrown in with the uplift of a timid question. 
" Aren't you ? " he asked stupidly from his dream, still 
thinking of the white hand. 
" I feel ever so far away from most people. When they 
begin to come nearer I don't like it. But I found out if I 
didn't run away, if I seemed nearer, they liked me. That 
pleased her. I was popular. She would rather have had me 
called intellectual ; but I couldn't be, and so she was glad 
to have me charming." 
" Were they men ? " Lovell asked, out of a new pang, 
"men you charmed? " 
" Not so much as women. The women were her friends. 
That was the way to please her. But she was always studying 
me and she studied out that, and one day she told me I said 
I loved people to make them love me, and that when I 'd 
gone away from them I never thought of them again. Well, 
— I didn't." 
" Then — " he reminded her, after too long a pause. 
"Then we found Bess." Her voice took on strength and 
color. " She was my own sister. I 'd never had anything my 
own. She didn't try to make me over. She just liked me 
and thought I was right. She had her voice, you know, and 
for a little while I believed that was going to set us at the 
top of things, where we could be everything mamma ex- 
pected of us. And mamma wished it — awfully. But she lost 
money and we had to come down here, and Bess won't sing, 
can't sing, when you want her to or when it'll do her any 
good, and I went mad over it, I wanted money so. I knew 
if we had enough to go away without mamma, we could man- 
age it somehow. I felt I could lead her on to sing, not 
letting her be watched and driven. I knew she 'd sing to 
 
please me. And when I heard of a way to make money, I 
listened — and if I heard of a person that had money," — 
her voice sank here, in shame unbearable, — "I wondered 
if he would send Bess and me away for her to study, 
and when she began to sing, then we could pay him 
back." 
There she paused. This was the story as she knew it. 
Of the fears upon her lest somehow she had woven a veil 
about herself through which she could not see the way, and 
the other almost formless apprehension lest after all she did 
not care so very much whether a thing were true or false, she 
did not speak. She could not, indeed, for these things were 
too subtile for her to formulate. Only dread was upon her 
lest she had closed doors upon her free spirit, doors that in 
Bess were open all day long letting in the sun and wind. It 
was her first view of wilful sin. But, she told herself, when 
these things set upon her, she had at least begun to care lest 
they were so. She had seen the face of evil. It had sickened 
her. 
" I see," Lovell said now, gravely. "Well," he continued, 
and there was still no bitterness in his tone, " there is money 
enough. You and Bess can go away now. You can go 
abroad." 
" No," said Celia, " no. I 've thought it out. I thought 
it out in a minute last night before I went to sleep. I 've 
made a bad start. Don't men start wrong i " 
" Yes. You knew that about me. You knew I 'd made a 
bad start and told me so. It was your sweetness about it 
that gave me a new chance." 
She shook her head. 
" No," she said, " I didn't know anything about it." 
" That day I came to see you in the arbor," he reminded 
her. He was passionately eager to believe that this at least 
 
had been real among the blossoms that made the garland of 
his fancy for her crowning. 
" No,' she said, " I don't remember. Maybe I said I did. 
Haven't I told you that ? You must believe it. Whatever 
I thought would please you I suppose I did." 
Another flower from the garland was torn and ragged at 
his feet. He almost saw it lying there. But he had made up 
his mind that come what sad knowledge of her there might, 
he would not say irrevocable words. 
" I'll tell you the story of it," he began. " I'm a dis- 
graced man in a small way. It's only right for you to 
know." 
He told her the story briefly, and she listened. 
"No," she said, at the end. " I thought it had something 
to do with money. Mrs. Ramsay said you had a fortune and 
wouldn't use it." 
" There 's more or less," he said briefly. " I put it away 
when I took to living here alone. But there it is. It 's 
yours. You shall use it for yourself and Bess." 
Two tears ran down her cheeks. She wiped them away, 
not to be indebted to their dramatic power, and suddenly 
got up and went to him. 
"What shall I do?" she asked him passionately. "What 
can I do? If there is any decent thing a woman in my place 
can do, tell me." 
He shook his head slightly and looked up at her with a 
whimsical smile. The irony of it all was strong upon him. 
Here was the world in summer clothes, here were brooks 
and birds and the utmost the created scheme could do for 
joyance. Here were the lover and she, the beloved. What 
foolish litany of remorse it was to harp upon old sins, past 
shames, when all the floods of life were mounting. The 
poet in him longed to break loose, to soar on wings into 
 
the face of the sun ; but there was a canker at the heart of 
life. The beloved did not love him, and there was no 
upward flight save with her. 
"You'll have to go abroad," he said, seeking dizzily for 
the commonplace. " You and Bess." 
" No," she declared, " no. I won't use your money. I 
won't use — you." 
" I could go with you," he represented again. " You could 
take me — for a courier." 
" No." Then she essayed timidly, " If I could stay here 
a little, if I could seem to keep your house — then when I 
went finally — for you must hate me — people won't talk so 
much. I can't," she cried, " I can't have you ridiculous !" 
He drew a quick breath at the respite. It was better to 
have her so, imprisoned, than to lose her. But he answered 
only,— 
" No, Celia. I don't hate you." 
" I could seem to keep your house," she was brooding. 
'' I could learn things from Bess. She knows everything." 
He entered into it as if it were a game. 
" And the old ladies of Clyde will call upon you and oflfer 
you recipes for cake." 
The slightest touch of lightness in their story moved him 
to incredulity that these things could be. There she sat, 
more lovely than he had ever known her, softer in her re- 
flective mood, a creature fitted for all the needs of life. She 
was his, so far as outer judgments went, and here it was sum- 
mer and paradise in the making. Some spell seemed to have 
made his lovely lady into a changeling. He tried impetu- 
ously to recall her. 
"Celia, we 're under a midsummer madness. Why, you 
tell me these things as if they were real. They 're not. 
You 're the dearest, the loveliest — " 
 
