"Alida," she said, in an eloquent throb, "do you--do you like him?"
"Who?" asked Alida calmly, turning clear eyes upon her.
Dorcas laughed shamefacedly.
"I don't know hardly what I'm talkin' about," she said. "I've worked
pretty hard to-day. 'Lida, if there was anybody you liked, anybody you
want to talk things over with--well"--she paused to laugh a
little--"well, if I were you, I should just put on my blue dress, the
one with the pink rosebuds, an' walk along this road down to the pine
grove an' back again."
"The idea!" said Alida, from an unbroken calm. "I should think you were
crazy."
Dorcas stopped in the road, decisively, as if the moment had come for
them to part.
"That's what I should do, 'Lida," she said, "to-night, every night along
about eight, till it happens. An' I should wear my blue."
Alida turned away, as if she felt something unmaidenly in the suggestion
and might well remove herself; yet Dorcas knew she would remember. They
had separated, and when they were a dozen paces apart, Dorcas called
again:--
"'Lida!"
Alida turned. Again Dorcas spoke shyly, from the weight of her great
task.
"'Lida, Newell Bond's sellin' off Sunset Hill. He's doin' well for
himself."
"Is he?" returned Alida primly. "I hadn't heard of it." Then she turned
and, keeping her feet carefully from the dust, went on again.
It seemed to Dorcas that night as if she could not wait to finish the
bowl of bread and milk that made her supper, and to put on her white
muslin and seat herself by the window. She felt as if the world were
rushing fast, the flowers in the garden hurrying to open, the sun to get
into the sky and make it redder than ever it had been before, and all
happy people to be happier. Something seemed sweeping after her, and she
dared not turn and look it in the face. But her heart told her it was
the moment that would come after her work had been accomplished and
Newell had found Alida. As if she had known it would be so, she saw him
coming down the road and called to him. He was walking very fast, his
head up, and his hands, she presently saw, clenched as they swung.
"Newell!" she cried, "come in."
He strode up the path and she rose to meet him. She remembered now that
she had many things to tell him, and the knowledge of them choked her.
"Newell," she began, "you mustn't go--I don't know where you're
goin'--but down that way, you mustn't go till eight o'clock. An' then I
guess you'll see her. It'll be better than the house, because her
mother's there. Why," her voice faltered and she ended breathlessly,
"what makes you look so?"
He looked like wrath. It was upon his knotted brow, the iron lips, and
in the blazing of his eyes.
"What's this I've been told?" he said, in a voice she had never heard
from him, "about Clayton Rand?"
She laughed, relieved and pleased at her own cleverness.
"It's all right, Newell," she called gleefully. "He hasn't been there
for two weeks. He's comin' to-night to take me to ride, an' I'll make
him go the turnpike road, an' she'll be down by Pine Hollow, an' you can
snap her up under her mother's nose--an' she's got on her blue."
Newell put out his hands and grasped her wrists. He held them tight and
looked at her. She gazed back in wonder. In all the months of his
repining she had not seen him so, full of warm passion, of a steady
purpose.
"Dorcas," he said, "I won't have it!"
She answered in pure wonder and with great simplicity:--
"What, Newell? What won't you have?"
He spoke slowly, leaving intervals between the words.
"I won't have you ridin' with him, nor walkin' with him, nor with any
man. If I'd known it, I'd put a stop to it before. Why, Dorcas, don't
you know whose girl you are? You're mine."
Floods of color went over her face, and she looked down. Then, as he was
silent, she had to speak.
"Newell," she said, "I only meant--I thought maybe I might help you--"
There she had to look at him, and found his eyes upon her in a grave
sweetness she could hardly understand. No such flower had bloomed for
her in her whole life.
"Why, Dorcas," he said, "think how we've worked together! What do you
s'pose we worked so for?"
Alida's name rose to her lips, but her tongue refused to speak. At that
moment it seemed too slight a word to say.
"'Twas so we could find out where we stood," the grave voice went on.
"That was it."
She felt breathless, as if they had together been pursuing some slight
thing, a butterfly, a bubble, and now, when it was under their hands,
they saw that the thing itself was not what mattered. It was the race.
They had kept step, and still together now, they had run into a safe
and happy place.
There was the beat of hoofs upon the road.
"Stay here," she breathed. "I can't go with him. I'll tell him so."
She ran out and down the path, a swift Atalanta, her white skirts
floating. Clayton Rand was at the gate. Even in the instant of his
smiling at her she realized that the smile was that of one who is
expectant of a pleasure, but only of the pleasure itself, he does not
care with whom. Her eyes glowed upon him, her brown cheeks were red with
dancing blood.
"I can't go," she said, in a full, ecstatic voice. "Thank you ever so
much. I can't ever go again. See!" she pointed down the road. "Don't she
look pretty in among the trees? That's 'Lida. She's got on her blue."
She turned and hastened up the path again. At the door she paused to
look once again at the spot of blue through the vista of summer green.
It was moving. It was mounting into Clayton Rand's wagon. Then Dorcas
went in where Newell was waiting to kiss her.
"He's drove along," she said, from her trance of happiness. "'Lida's
gone to ride with him."
Already the name meant no more to them then the bubble they had chased.
"Come, Dorcas, come," said her lover, in that new voice. "Come here to
me."
FLOWERS OF PARADISE
Hetty Niles, with a sudden distaste for her lonely kitchen, its bare
cleanliness the more revealed by the February sun, caught her shawl from
the nail and threw it over her head. She spoke aloud, in a way she had
taken up within the last week, while her solitude was still vocal with
notes out of the living past:--
"I'll go over an' see Still Lucy."
Her dry face, hardened to all weathers, wore a look of anguish, an
emotion that smoldered in the hollows about the eyes, and was tensely
drawn around the mouth. She was like one of the earth-forces, or an
earth-servitor, scarred by work and trouble, and yet so unused to
patience that when it was forced upon her she felt suffocated by it. She
hurried out into the fitful weather, and closed her door behind her.
With her shawl hugged closely, she took the path across the fields, a
line of dampness in the spongy turf, and, head down, made her way
steadily to the little white house where Still Lucy, paralyzed for over
thirty years, lay on the sofa, knitting lace. Hetty walked into this
kitchen with as little ceremony as she had used in leaving her own. She
withdrew the shawl from her head, saying, in the act,--
"How do, Lucy?"
The woman looked up from her work, and nodded brightly. To the casual
eye she was not of a defined age. Her face was unwrinkled and its
outline delicate, and her blue eyes were gay with even a childish
pleasure. She looked invitingly at the world, as if it could give her
nothing undesired. Yet the soft hair rising in a crown from her forehead
was white as silver, and her little hands were old. She was covered to
the waist with a cheerful quilt. Her fingers went in and out unceasingly
upon her work, while her bright glance traveled about the room. The
stove gave out the moist heat of a kitchen fire where the pot is
boiling, and the cat cocked a sleepy eye in the sun. Hetty seated
herself by the stove, and stretched her hand absently toward its warmth.
"Parson's be'n in," she said abruptly.
"Caroline said so," returned Lucy, in her sweet, husky old voice. "I
thought likely."
"He says I must be resigned," continued Hetty, with the same brusque
emphasis.
"Oh, yes!" said Lucy. She spoke as if it were a task to be accepted
gratefully.
"To the will o' God. 'Parson,' says I, 'I don't believe in God.'"
Lucy's fingers caught out a tangle in her thread, while her delicate
brow knotted itself briefly.
"Ain't that hard!" she breathed.
Hetty was brooding over the fire.
"That's what I told him," she went on. "An' I don't. I don't know 's
ever I did, to speak of. It never really come up till now. He repeated
texts o' Scriptur'. 'Parson,' says I, 'you ain't a woman that had one
son, as good a boy as ever stepped, an' then lost him. 'Tain't a week,'
says I, 'sence he was carried out o' this house. Don't you talk to me
about God.'"
Lucy was looking at her with eloquent responses in her face. Hetty
glanced up, and partly understood them.
"Nor you neither, Lucy," she made haste to say. "You're terrible pious,
an' you've had your troubles, an' they've be'n heavy; but you ain't had
an' lost. If I could take it on me to-day to lay there as you be,
knowin' I shouldn't get up no more, I'd jump at it if I could have
Willard back, whistlin' round an' cuttin' up didos. Yes, I would."
"I guess you would," murmured Lucy to herself. "It's too bad--too bad."
There was a step on the doorstone, and Caroline came in. She was Lucy's
sister, gaunt and dark-eyed, with high cheek-bones, and the red of
health upon them. She regarded Hetty piercingly.
"You got company over to your house?" she asked at once.
"No," Hetty answered. She added bitterly, "It's stiller'n the grave. I
don't expect company no more."
"Well," commented Caroline.
She had laid aside her shawl, and began fruitful sallies about the
kitchen, putting in a stick of wood, catching off the lid from the pot,
to regard the dinner with a frowning brow, and then sitting down to
extricate from her pocket a small something rolled in her handkerchief.
"I've be'n into Mis' Flood's," she said, "an' she gi'n me this." She
walked over to her sister, bearing the treasure with a joyous pride.
"It's as nice a slip o' rose geranium as ever I see."
Hetty's face contracted sharply.
"I've throwed away the flowers," she said.
Both sisters glanced at her in sympathetic knowledge. Caroline was
busily setting out the slip in a side of the calla pot, and she got a
tumbler to cover it.
"Them parson's wife sent over?" she asked.
Hetty nodded. "There was a dozen of 'em," she continued, with pride,
