fighting, and fighting hard, the evil in him against the good, the
chances of the future against the irreclaimable past. At the end of an
hour he returned to the strange hotel. His lips were puffed and
bleeding. He had smoked so many cigarettes and had pulled them so
impatiently from his mouth, that the dry paper had cracked the delicate
skin.
He rewrote his cable and paid for the sending of it. Then he poked about
the unfamiliar corridors till he found the dingy bar. He sat down before
a peg of whisky, which was followed by many more, each a bit stiffer
than its predecessor. At last, when he had had enough to put a normal
man's head upon the table or to cover his face with the mask of inanity,
Ryanne fell into the old habit of talking aloud.
"Horace, old top, what's the use? We'd just like to be good if we could;
eh? But they won't let us. We'd grow raving mad in a monastery. We were
honest at the time, but we couldn't stand the monotony of watching green
olives turn purple upon the silvery bough. Nay, nay!"
He pushed the glass away from him and studied the air-bubbles as they
formed, rose to the surface, and were dissipated.
"No matter what the game has been, somehow or other, they've bashed us,
and we've lost out."
He emptied the glass and ordered another. He and the bartender were
alone.
"After all, love is like money. It's better to live frugally upon the
interest than to squander the capital and go bankrupt. And who cares,
anyhow?"
He drank once more, dropped a half-sovereign upon the table, and pushed
back his chair. His eyes were bloodshot now, and the brown of his skin
had become a slaty tint; but he walked steadily enough into the
reading-room, where he wrote a short letter. It was not without a
perverted sense of humor, for a smile twisted his lips till he had
sealed the letter and addressed the envelope to George Percival Algernon
Jones. He stuffed it into a pocket and went out whistling The Heavy
Dragoons from the opera Patience.
Before the lighted window of a shop he paused. He swayed a little. From
a pocket of his new coat he pulled out a glove. It was gray and small
and much wrinkled. From time to time he drew it through his fingers,
staring the while at the tawdry trinkets in the shop-window. Finally he
looked down at the token. He became very still. A moment passed; then he
flung the glove into the gutter, and proceeded to his own hotel. He left
the letter with the porter, paid his bill, and went out again into the
dark, chill night.
He was now what he had been two months ago, the man who didn't care.
CHAPTER XIX
FORTUNE DECIDES
George and Fortune were seated at breakfast. It was early morning. At
ten they were to depart for Jaffa, to take the tubby French packet there
to Alexandria. They could just about make it, and any delay meant a week
or ten days longer upon this ragged and inhospitable coast.
"Ryanne has probably overslept. After breakfast I'll go up and rout him
out. The one thing that really tickles me," George continued, as he
pared the tough rind from the skinny bacon, "is, we shan't have any
luggage. Think of the blessing of traveling without a trunk or a valise
or a steamer-roll!"
"Without even a comb or a hairbrush!"
"It's great fun." George broke his toast.
And Fortune wondered how she should tell him. She was without any toilet
articles. She hadn't even a tooth-brush; and it was quite out of the
question for her to bother him about such trifles, much as she needed
them. She would have to live in the clothes she wore, and trust that the
ship's stewardess might help her out in the absolute necessities.
Here the head-waiter brought George a letter. The address was enough for
George. No one but Ryanne could have written it. Without excusing
himself, he ripped off the envelope and read the contents. Fortune could
not resist watching him, for she grasped quickly that only Ryanne could
have written a letter here in Damascus. At first the tan upon George's
cheeks darkened--the sudden suffusion of blood; then it became lighter,
and the mouth and eyes and nose became stern.
"Is it bad news?"
"It all depends upon how you look at it. For my part, good riddance to
bad rubbish. Here, read it yourself."
She read:
     "MY DEAR PERCIVAL:
      "After all, I find that I can not reconcile myself to the dullness
      of your olive-groves. I shall send the five-hundred to you when I
      reach New York. With me it is as it was with the devil. When he
      was sick, he vowed he would be a saint; but when he got well,
      devil a saint was he. There used to be a rhyme about it, but I
      have forgotten that. Anyhow, there you are. I feel that I am
      conceding a point in regard to the money. It is contrary to the
      laws and by-laws of the United Romance and Adventure Company to
      refund. Still, I intend to hold myself to it.
  "With hale affection,
  "RYANNE."
"What do you think of that?" demanded George hotly. "I never did a good
action in my life that wasn't served ill. I'm a soft duffer, if there
ever was one."
"I shall never be ungrateful for your kindness to me."
"Oh, hang it! You're different; you're not like any other woman in the
world," he blurted; and immediately was seized with a mild species of
fright.
Fortune stirred her coffee and delicately scooped up the swirling
circles of foam.
"Old maids call that money," he said understandingly, eager to cover up
his boldness. "My mother used to tell me that there were lots of wonders
in a tea-cup."
"Tell me about your mother."
To him it was a theme never lacking in new expressions. When he spoke of
his mother, it altered the clear and boyish note in his voice; it became
subdued, reverent. He would never be aught than guileless; it was not in
his nature to divine anything save his own impulses. While he thought he
was pleasing her, each tender recollection, each praise, was in fact a
nail added to her crucifixion, self-imposed. However, she never lowered
her eyes, but kept them bravely directed into his. In the midst of one
of his panegyrics he caught sight of his watch which he had placed at
the side of his plate.
"By Jove! quarter to nine. I've got an errand or two to do, and there's
no need of your running your feet off on my account. I'll be back
quarter after." He dug into his pocket and counted out fifty pounds in
paper and gold. "You keep this till I get back."
She pushed it aside, half rising from her chair.
"Fortune, listen. Hereafter I am George, your brother George; and I do
not want you ever to question any action of mine. I am leaving this
money in case some accident befell me. You never can tell." He took her
hand and firmly pressed it down upon the money. "In half an hour,
sister, I'll be back. You did not think that I was going to run away?"
"No."
"Do you understand me now?"
"Yes."
While he was gone she remained seated at the table. She made little
pyramids of the gold, divided the even dates from the odd, arranged
Maltese crosses and circles and stars.... Pity, pity! Well, why should
she rebel against it? Was it not more than she had had hitherto? What
should she do? She closed her eyes. She would trouble her tired brain no
more about the future till they reached Naples. She would let this one
week drift her how it would.
George came in under the time-limit of his adventure. He had been upon
the most difficult errand imaginable, at least from a bachelor's point
of view. He carried two hand-bags. One of these he deposited in
Fortune's lap.
"Shall I open it?"
"If you wish."
She noted his embarrassment, and her immediate curiosity was not to be
denied. She slipped the catch and looked inside. There were combs and
brushes, soap and tooth-powder and talc, a manicure-set, a pair of soft
woolen slippers, and.... She glanced up quickly. The faintest rose stole
under her cheeks. It was droll; it was pathetically funny. She would
have given worlds to have seen him making the purchases.
"You are not offended?" he stammered.
"Why should I be? I am human; I have slept and lived for days in a
dress, and worn my hair down my back for lack of hair-pins and combs. I
am sure that it is a very nice nightgown."
Laughter overcame her. He laughed, too; not because the situation
appealed to him as laughable, but because there was something, an
indefinable something, in that laughter of hers that made him
wonderfully happy.
"Mr. Jones...."
"George," he interrupted determinedly.
"Brother George, it was very kind and thoughtful of you. Not one man in
a thousand would have thought of--of ... hair-pins!" More laughter.
"I didn't think of them; it was the clerk."
"He...."
"She."
"Well, then, she will achieve great things," lightly, though her heart
was full.
Tactfully he reached over and swept up the money.
"Shall I ever be able to repay you?" she said.
"Yes, by letting me be your brother; by not deciding the future till we
land in Naples; by letting me keep in touch with you, whatever your
ultimate decision may be. That isn't much. Will you promise that?"
"Yes."
They spoke no more of Ryanne. It was as though he had dropped out of
their lives completely. To a certain extent he had. They were to meet
him once again, however, in the last act of this whimsical drama, which
had drawn them both out of the commonplace and dropped them for a full
spin upon the whirligig of life.
In due time they arrived at Alexandria. There they found the great
transatlantic liner, homeward bound.
Ryanne would beat them into New York by ten days. He had picked up a
boat of the P. & O. line at Port Saïd, sailing without stop to
Marseilles. From there to Cherbourg was a trifling journey.
George knew the captain, and the captain not only knew George, but had
known George's father before him. The young man went to the heart of the
matter at once; and when he had finished his remarkable tale, the
captain lowered his cigar. It had gone out.
"And all this happened in the year 1909-1910! If any one but you, Mr.
Jones, had told me this, I'd have sent him ashore as a lunatic. You have
reported it?"
"What good would it do? We are out of it, and that's enough. More, we
do not want any one to know what we've been through. If the newspapers
got hold of it, there would be no living."
