whispered to you that I could ever do such a——"
"Won’t you be serious, please?"
Her pretty, dark eyes were serious enough, even appealing.  He became
solemn at once.
"You have forced me to say this," she ventured.  "I didn’t wish to; I
thought you’d understand, but you don’t seem to.  So I am compelled to
say to you that—it is—better taste for you to—not to——"
She hesitated, glanced up at him, colored brightly.
"You know perfectly well what I mean! And there you sit, letting me try
to tell you as nicely as I can——"
"About what, dear lady?"
"About you and me!" she said, incensed. "You know perfectly well that
I’ve been obliged to avoid being alone with you."
"Why?"
"Because," she said, intensely annoyed, "I am employed by your parents,
and you are an only son of Mr. Jacob Rivett....  Is that unmistakable?"
He said nothing.
She went on: "You know I like you, Jack. You seem to like me.  If you
do, you’ll understand that this—this continually seeking me out,
separating me from the others, isn’t fair to me....  I’m trying not to
talk nonsense about it.  I know you mean nothing but kindness; but it
isn’t wise, and it is not agreeable, either.  So let us enjoy our very
delightful friendship as freely among others as we do when alone
together—"  She stopped abruptly, blushed to her hair, furious at
herself, astonished that her tongue could have blundered so.  The next
instant she understood that he was too decent to notice her blunder.
Indeed, to look at him, she almost persuaded herself that he had not
even heard her speak, so coolly remote were his eyes, so preoccupied his
air as he sat facing the far hills, blue in the July haze.
Presently he looked up at her.
"What was it you were lecturing me about?" he asked cheerfully.
"About our twosing, Jack."
"Did you say you did prefer it, or otherwise?"
"Otherwise—you monkey!" she said, laughing, free of the restraint and of
the bright color that had made even her neck hot.
"Very well," he said briskly; "keep your distance!  Don’t start running
after me the moment I come in sight across the landscape. Will you
promise?"
"I promise," she said solemnly.
"Thank you.  I shall have a little leisure now.  I’ll have so much I
won’t know what to do with it.  Can you advise me?"
"I cannot."
"Then I’ll have to think for myself.... I’ll have to do something, of
course.... Suppose you and I take a canoe——"
"Canoes hold only two, Jack."
"By Jove!  What am I thinking of!  Thank you for saving me from
incredible suffering.... So suppose we don’t take a canoe, you and I,
but we take the red runabout?"
"Jack!"
"What?"
"The red runabout holds two, only."
"I must be demented!" he said with a shudder....  "Silvette, I’ll tell
you what we’ll do—we’ll take a walk, you and I.  There’s room all around
us for millions of other people.  They can come if they like; if they
don’t, why, it’s up to them!"
"No, Jack."
"Won’t it do?"
"No.  Why won’t you be a little bit serious about a matter that, after
all, concerns me very nearly."
"I am serious," he said.  "It concerns me, too."
"No, it doesn’t."
"Indeed, it does.  Two people are not to go twosing any more; I’m one
of those people. Therefore, it concerns me, doesn’t it?"
She looked at him, confused, half smiling, half reluctant.
"Don’t you know," she said, "that your attention to me is worrying your
father and mother?"
He thought a moment, then slowly turned toward her a sober and youthful
face, from which all humor had departed; and she looked back at him out
of grave young eyes that met his very sweetly, but inexorably.
"Do you mean it, Silvette?"
"About your parents?"
"Yes."
"Yes, I do, Jack."
He said, partly to himself: "I had not noticed it."
"I have.  It’s a woman’s business to notice such things.  Otherwise,
she’ll find herself in trouble....  Inclination is a silly guide, Jack."
"For me?"
"For—us both....  I will be frank with you all the way through.  I do
like you.  I enjoy our tête-à-têtes.  They are perfectly honest and
harmless, and without significance—the significance, alas, that others
will surely attach to them....  It isn’t that there’s anything wrong
with you and me, Jack....  It’s the World that is wrong....  But—it’s
the World; and you and I must conform to its prejudices as long as we
inhabit it—at least I must."
"I suppose you must," he said.  Then, leaning a little nearer, he took
her hand, held it lightly across his palm, looked at it a moment, then
at her.
"Will you let me tell father and mother that I am in love with you, and
wish to marry you?" he said.
"Jack!" she exclaimed in consternation.
"Will you let me?"
"No, I won’t! ... Jack!  Don’t be foolish. I had no idea you had arrived
as far as that.  I had no reason to think so—to suppose for one
moment—because it has always been the jolliest and most
unsentimental—and—you never even touched me before."
Her color brightened, and her breath came irregularly.  She tried to
laugh, and failed.
"You know perfectly well that they have other ambitions for you."
"I know....  How is it with you, Silvette?"
"With me?  What do you mean?"
"Could you care for me?"
"I—I haven’t even thought about such a—I haven’t really, Jack.  You know
that, don’t you?  You must try to look back on our very brief
friendship—try to recollect how brief it has been—try to
remember—remember how happy and amusing and confident that friendship
has been—with no suspicion of sentiment to embarrass or vex——"
"I know....  Isn’t there any hope for me?"
"Hope?  No....  Don’t put it that way, Jack....  I don’t love you....
I oughtn’t to, and, thank Heaven, I don’t.  And you don’t really love
me—you dear, sweet fellow!  It’s just part of your niceness—your
generous attitude toward a girl——"
"I’m in love with you....  But that mustn’t worry you.  It had to be.
You need feel no self-reproach.  You didn’t do anything—you were just
yourself—and I"—he laughed a little—"started in to love you as soon as I
saw you....  I’m glad you know it, anyway.  We won’t say anything more
about it——"
"Jack, we will!  Do you understand that you have distressed me
dreadfully?  Do you realize what a girl’s responsibilities are when a
nice man loves her?  Do you think she can merely shrug her shoulders and
go about her daily frivolities without another thought?"
She rose to her feet, looking at him earnestly.
"Oh, Jack!  Jack!" she said, nervously clasping and unclasping her
hands; "why did you do this?  Why did you?"
He forced a laugh.  "I won’t do it again—ever," he said.  "Promise you
never to fall-in-love-again-hope-I-may-die’n-cross m’heart."
But there were no smiles left in her now.
"If you don’t behave," he threatened, "I’ll lock us both inside and sing
songs to you!" ... But the smile died out on his face.  "I was a gink to
tell you.  Don’t feel unhappy about it," again the engaging humor
glimmered in his eyes.  "Cheer up, Silvette; you may fall in love with
me yet!"
She looked up, the smile dawning, distressed, yet sweet.
"Don’t let me, Jack....  Because I’m all right, so far....  And you know
what your father wishes for you.  I want to deal honorably by him."
"All right," he said quietly.
They walked slowly back to the house together, and the girl went
directly to her room, where she found her sister mending stockings.
                              *CHAPTER IX*
                             *NON SEQUITUR*
Silvette dropped into an armchair, crossed her knees, and sat swinging
her foot and gazing through the open window in silence until Diana’s
head, lifted from time to time in smiling interrogation, could be no
longer ignored.
"Jack Rivett has asked me to marry him," she said in an expressionless
voice.
Diana laughed in frank surprise:
"That infant!"
"Yes."
"What an absurdity!"
Her sister said nothing.
"How did it come—out of a clear sky?"
"Yes....  I knew he liked me.  I had no idea he wanted to marry me."
"You’re not going to, are you?"
"No."
"I should think not.  It would be sheer cradle snatching."
"He’s a year older than I am."
"In years, yes; but, intellectually, he ought to be playing marbles.
Moreover, that sort of a boy never grows up."
"I don’t think he will....  God bestows that gift sometimes."
"What gift?"
"The gift of eternal youth....  I haven’t it....  But I believe it can
be shared."  She gazed thoughtfully at the distant hills. "Years and
years slip from me when that boy and I talk nonsense together."
"Better talk sense with him, and wake up, sweetness, or you’ll relapse
into your second childhood."
"I have just been talking sense to him.... I’m awake," she said
dreamily.
"Do you mean to admit that the interview has seriously affected you?"
"Oh, I don’t know yet."
"Better investigate," said Diana.  "You know what his parents expect of
their children. And if we are to remain here, I think, dear, that you
had better see a little less of Jack Rivett than you have been seeing.
Don’t you?"
"I am sure of it."
"Otherwise," continued Diana calmly, "it would be playing the game
fairer for you and me to seek another business engagement. These people
have been very honorable toward us.  We can scarcely permit them to
outdo us."
Silvette looked up calmly, her cheek resting on her hand.
"How dishonorable would it be?" she asked.
