romantic?
"The trouble with you is that you're romantic only on canvas. Anyway, I
can't stir you to sentiment. Can I? True, I never tried. But if you come
here, and conditions are favourable, and you are so inclined, and I am
feeling lonely, nobody can tell what might happen in a flat scow on the
stump-pond.
"To be serious for a moment, Louis, I'd really love to have you come.
You know I never before saw the real country; I'm a novice in the woods
and fields, and, somehow, I'd like to have you share my novitiate in
this--as you did when I first came to you. It is a curious feeling I
have about anything new; I wish you to experience it with me.
"Rita is awake and exploring the box of Maillard's which is about
empty. Be a Samaritan and send me some assorted chocolates. Be a god,
and send me something to read--anything, please, from Jacobs to James.
There's latitude for you. Be a man, and send me yourself. You have no
idea how welcome you'd be. The chances are that I'd seize you and
embrace you. But if you're willing to run that risk, take your courage
in both hands and come.
"Your friend,
"VALERIE WEST."
The second week of her sojourn she caught a small pickerel--the only
fish she had ever caught in all her life. And she tearfully begged the
yokel who was rowing her to replace the fish in its native element. But
it was too late; and she and Rita ate her victim, sadly, for dinner.
At the end of the week an enormous box of bonbons came for her. Neither
she nor Rita were very well next day, but a letter from Neville did
wonders to restore abused digestion.
Other letters, at intervals, cheered her immensely, as did baskets of
fruit and boxes of chocolates and a huge case of books of all kinds.
"Never," she said to Rita, "did I ever hear of such an angel as Louis
Neville. When he comes the first of August I wish you to keep tight hold
of me, because, if he flees my demonstrations, I feel quite equal to
running him down."
But, curiously enough, it was a rather silent and subdued young girl in
white who offered Neville a shy and sun-tanned hand as he descended from
the train and came forward, straw hat under one arm, to greet her.
"How well you look!" he exclaimed, laughingly; "I never saw such a
flawless specimen of healthy perfection!"
"Oh, I know I look like a milk-maid, Kelly; I've behaved like one, too.
Did you ever see such a skin? Do you suppose this sun-burn will ever
come off?"
"Instead of snow and roses you're strawberries and cream," he
said--"and it's just as fetching, Valerie. How are you, anyway?"
"Barely able to sit up and take nourishment," she admitted, demurely.
"... I don't think you look particularly vigorous," she added, more
seriously. "You are brown but thin."
"Thin as a scorched pancake," he nodded. "The ocean was like a vast
plate of clam soup in which I simmered several times a day until I've
become as leathery and attenuated as a punctured pod of kelp.... Where's
the rig we depart in, Valerie?" he concluded, looking around the
sun-scorched, wooden platform with smiling interest.
"I drove down to meet you in a buck-board."
"Splendid! Is there room for my suit case?"
"Plenty. I brought yards of rope."
They walked to the rear of the station where buckboard and horse stood
tethered to a tree. He fastened his suit case to the rear of the
vehicle, swathing it securely in, fathoms of rope; she sprang in, he
followed; but she begged him to let her drive, and pulled on a pair of
weather-faded gloves with a business-like air which was enchanting.
So he yielded seat and rusty reins to her; whip in hand, she steered the
fat horse through the wilderness of arriving and departing carriages of
every rural style and description--stages, surreys, mountain-waggons,
buck-boards--drove across the railroad track, and turned up a mountain
road--a gradual ascent bordered heavily by blackberry, raspberry,
thimble berry and wild grape, and flanked by young growths of beech and
maple set here and there with hemlock and white pine. But the
characteristic foliage was laurel and rhododendron--endless stretches
of the glossy undergrowth fringing every woodland, every diamond-clear
water-course.
"It must be charming when it's in blossom," he said, drawing the sweet
air of the uplands deep into his lungs. "These streams look exceedingly
like trout, too. How high are we?"
"Two thousand feet in the pass, Kelly. The hills are much higher. You
need blankets at night...." She turned her head and smilingly considered
him:
"I can't yet believe you are here."
"I've been trying to realise it, too."
"Did you come in your favourite cloud?"
"No; on an exceedingly dirty train."
"You've a cinder mark on your nose."
"Thanks." He gave her his handkerchief and she wiped away the smear.
"How long can you stay?--Oh, don't answer! Please forget I asked you.
When you've got to go just tell me a few minutes before your
departure.... The main thing in life is to shorten unhappiness as much
as possible. That is Rita's philosophy."
"Is Rita well?"
"Perfectly--thanks to your bonbons. She doesn't precisely banquet on the
fare here--poor dear! But then," she added, philosophically, "what can a
girl expect on eight dollars a week? Besides, Rita has been spoiled. I
am not unaccustomed to fasting when what is offered does not interest
me."
"You mean that boarding house of yours in town?"
"Yes. Also, when mother and I kept house with an oil stove and two rooms
the odour of medicine and my own cooking left me rather indifferent to
the pleasures of Lucullus."
"You poor child!"
"Not at all to be pitied--as long as I had mother," she said, with a
quiet gravity that silenced him.
Up, up, and still up they climbed, the fat horse walking leisurely,
nipping at blackberry leaves here, snatching at tender maple twigs
there. The winged mountain beauties--Diana's butterflies--bearing on
their velvety, blue-black pinions the silver bow of the goddess, flitted
ahead of the horse--celestial pilots to the tree-clad heights beyond.
Save for the noise of the horse's feet and the crunch of narrow,
iron-tired wheels, the stillness was absolute under the azure splendour
of the heavens.
"I am not yet quite at my ease--quite accustomed to it," she said.
"To what, Valerie?"
"To the stillness; to the remote horizons.... At night the vastness of
things, the height of the stars, fascinate me to the edge of uneasiness.
And sometimes I go and sit in my room for a while--to reassure
myself.... You see I am used to an enclosure--the walls of a room--the
walled-in streets of New York.... It's like suddenly stepping out of a
cellar to the edge of eternal space, and looking down into nothing."
"Is that the way these rolling hillocks of Delaware County impress you?"
he asked, laughing.
"Yes, Kelly. If I ever found myself in the Alps I believe the happiness
would so utterly over-awe me that I'd remain in my hotel under the bed.
What are you laughing at? Voluptates commendat rarior usus."
"Sit tua cura sequi, me duce tutus eris!" he laughed, mischievously
testing her limit of Latin.
"Plus e medico quam e morbo periculi!" she answered, saucily.
"You cunning little thing!" he exclaimed: "vix a te videor posse tenere
manus!"
"Di melius, quam nos moneamus talia quenquam!" she said, demurely;
"Louis, we are becoming silly! Besides, I probably know more Latin than
you do--as it was my mother's favourite relaxation to teach me to speak
it. And I imagine that your limit was your last year at Harvard."
"Upon my word!" he exclaimed; "I never was so snubbed and patronised in
all my life!"
"Beware, then!" she retorted, with an enchanting sideway glance: "noli
me tangere!" At the same instant he was aware of her arm in light,
friendly contact against his, and heard her musing aloud in deep
contentment:
"Such perfect satisfaction to have you again, Louis. The world is a gray
void without the gods."
And so, leisurely, they breasted the ascent and came out across the
height-of-land. Here and there a silvery ghost of the shorn forest
stood, now almost mercifully hidden in the green foliage of hard
wood--worthlessly young as yet but beautiful.
From tree to tree flickered the brilliant woodpeckers--they of the solid
crimson head and ivory-barred wings. The great vermilion-tufted
cock-o'-the-woods called querulously; over the steel-blue stump-ponds
the blue kingfishers soared against the blue. It was a sky world of
breezy bushes and ruffled waters, of pathless fields and dense young
woodlands, of limpid streams clattering over greenish white rocks,
pouring into waterfalls, spreading through wild meadows set with iris
and pink azalea.
"How is the work going, Louis?" she asked, glancing at him askance.
"It's stopped."
"A cause de--?"
"Je n'en sais rien, Valerie."
She flicked the harness with her whip, absently. He also leaned back,
thoughtfully intent on the blue hills in the distance.
"Has not your desire to paint returned?"
"No."
"Do you know why?"
"Partly. I am up against a solid wall. There is no thoroughfare."
"Make one."
"Through the wall?"
"Straight through it."
"Ah, yes"--he murmured--"but what lies beyond?"
"It would spoil the pleasures of anticipation to know beforehand."
He turned to her: "You are good for me. Do you know it?"
"Querida said that, too. He said that I was an experience; and that all
good work is made up of experiences that concern it only indirectly."
"Do you like Querida?" he asked, curiously.
"Sometimes."
"Not always?"
"Oh, yes, always more or less. But sometimes"--she was silent, her dark
eyes dreaming, lips softly parted.
"What do you mean by that?" he inquired, carelessly.
"By what, Louis?" she asked, naïvely, interrupted in her day-dream.
"By hinting--that sometimes you like Querida--more than at others?"
"Why, I do," she said, frankly. "Besides, I don't hint things; I say
them." She had turned her head to look at him. Their eyes met in silence
for a few moments.
"You are funny about Querida," she said. "Don't you like him?"
"I have no reason to dislike him."
"Oh! Is it the case of Sabidius? 'Non amo te, Sabidi, nec possum dicere
