Never to hear thy voice. Nay, nay, Eileen, 
Gaze on me, speak to me, give me but one word, 
And I will go and never more return.' 
But Eileen answered not; he touched her hand, 
And she felt nothing. Then he whispered, low, 
'Oh, may God keep thee for it must be done- 
Guard thee, and bless thee, thou my soul's delight! 
And when thou waken'st, wilt thou think of me, 
Of Cedric, him that loved thee, oh so true? 
Nay, for they said thou shouldst no sorrow know, 
And that would be a sorrow, yea, it would. 
And must thou then forget me, thou my love? 
And canst not give me but one single word, 
To tell me that I do not die in vain? 
Gaze at me, Eileen, see, thy love is here, 
Here as of old, above thee stooping light, 
To press a kiss upon thy tender lips. 
Ah, I can kiss thee kiss thee, my Eileen, 
Kiss as of yore, with all mj passion's woe!' 
And as he spoke he pressed her to his heart, 
Long, long, with yearning, and he felt the leap 
Of molten metal through his throbbing veins ; 
His eyes shot fire, and anguish racked his limbs, 
And he fell back, and reeled, and clutched his brow. 
An instant only gazed he on her face, 
 
And saw new life w r ithin her gray cheek leap, 
And her dark eyelids tremble. Then with moan, 
And fearful struggle, swift he fled away, 
That she might nothing of his strife perceive. 
And then, reminded of his gift of flight, 
He started from the earth, and beat aloft, 
Each sweep of his great wings a torture-stroke 
Upon his fainting heart. And thus away, 
With languid flight he moved, and Eileen, raised 
In new-born joy from off her couch of pain, 
Saw a strange bird into the distance fade." 
And so Cedric went back to the seamed rock, and 
there he heard a voice calling, "I seek Caradrion !" And 
as before he answered, 
"Come not, except to sorrow thou be born!" 
And again, in the cave 
"The hours of night sped by. 
And sounds came forth as when a woman fights 
In savage pain, a life from hers to free. 
But Eileen dwelt within the happy vale, 
Thinking no thought of him that went away." 
4. THIS had come so very easily to Thyrsis that 
he could not believe that it was good. "Just a little 
story," he said to Corydon, when he read it to her, 
and he was surprised to see how it affected her how 
the tears welled into her eyes, and she clung to him, 
sobbing. It meant more to her than any other thing 
that he had written ; it was the very voice of their 
tenderness and their grief. 
Then Thy r sis took it to the one editor he knew who 
was a lover of poetry, and was surprised again, at 
this man's delight. But he smiled sadly as he realized 
that the editor did not use poetry they did not praise 
so recklessly when it was a question of something to be 
purchased ! 
''The poem is too long for any magazine," was the 
verdict, "and it's not long enough for a book. And 
besides, poetry doesn't sell." But none the less Thyrsis, 
who would never take a defeat, began to offer it about ; 
and so "Caradrion" was added to the list of stamp-con- 
suming manuscripts, and set out to see the world at 
the expense of its creator's stomach. 
So there was one more wasted vision, one more futile 
effort and one more grapple with despair, in the hours 
when he and his wife sat wrapped in a blanket in the 
tenement-room. Corydon was growing more nervous 
and unhappy every day, it seemed to him. There were, 
apparently, endless humiliations to be experienced by 
a woman "whose husband did not support her". Some 
zealous relative had suggested to her the idea that the 
"hall-boys" might think she was not really married; 
and so now she was impelled to speculate upon the 
psychology of these Ethiopian functionaries, and look 
for slights and disapproval from them ! 
Thyrsis, from much work and little sleep, was hag- 
gard and wild of aspect ; the cry of the world, "Take 
a position !" rang in his ears day and night. The 
springs of book-reviews had dried up entirely, and by 
sheer starvation he was forced to a stage lower yet. 
A former college friend was editing a work of "con- 
temporary biography", and offered Thyrsis some hack- 
 
writing. Ic meant the carrying home of huge bundles 
of correspondence from the world's most brightly-shin- 
ing lights, and the making up of biographical sketches 
from their eulogies of themselves. With every light 
there came a portrait, showing what manner of light 
it was. As for Thyrsis, he did his writing with the 
feeling that he would like to explore with a poniard 
the interiors of each one of these people. 
For nearly three months now an eminent editor had 
been trying to summon up the courage to accept "The 
Hearer of Truth". He had written several letters to 
tell the author how good a work it was ; and now that 
it was to be definitely rejected, he soothed his conscience 
by inviting the author to lunch. The function came 
off at one of the most august and stately of the city's 
clubs, a marble building near Fifth Avenue, where 
Thyrsis, with a new clean collar, and his worn shoes 
newly shined, passed under the suspicious eyes of the 
liveried menials, and was ushered before the eminent 
editor. About the vast room were portraits of by- 
gone dignitaries ; and there were great leather-uphols- 
tered arm-chairs in which one might see the dignitaries 
of the present some of them with little tables at their 
sides, and decanters and soda and cracked ice. They 
went into the dining-room, where everyone spoke and 
ate in whispers, and the waiters flitted about like black 
and white ghosts ; and while Thyrsis consumed a cupful 
of cold bouillon, and a squab en casserole, and a plate 
of what might be described as an honorific salad, he 
listened to the soft-voiced editor discussing the prob- 
lem of his future career. 
The editor's theme was what the public wanted. The 
world had existed for a long time, it seemed, and was 
not easily to be changed ; it was necessary for an author 
to take its prejudices into consideration especially if 
he was young, and unknown, and er dependent upon 
his own resources. It seemed to Thyrsis, as he listened, 
that the great man must have arranged this luncheon 
as a stage-setting for his remarks planning it on pur- 
pose to light a blaze of bitterness in the soul of the 
hungry poet. "Look at me," he seemed to say "this 
is the way the job is done. Once I was poor and un- 
known like you actually, though you might not credit 
it, a raw boy from the country. But I had taste and 
talent, and I was judicious ; and so now for thirty years 
I have been at the head of one of the country's leading 
magazines. And see by my mere word I am able to 
bring you here into the very citadel of power ! For 
these men about you are the masters of the metropolis. 
There is a rich publisher his name is a household word 
and you saw how he touched me on the shoulder. 
There is an ex-mayor of the city you saw how he 
nodded to me ! Yonder is the head of one of the oldest 
and most exclusive of the city's landed families even 
with him I am acquainted ! And this is power ! You 
may know it by all these signs of mahogany furniture, 
and leather upholstery, and waiters of reverential de- 
portment. You may know it by the signs of respecta- 
bility and awesomeness and chaste abundance. Make 
haste to pay homage to it, and enroll yourself in its 
service !" 
Thyrsis held himself in, and parted from the editor 
with all courtesy ; but then, as he walked down Fifth 
Avenue, his fury burst into flame. Here, too, was 
power here, too, the signs of it! Palaces of granite 
and marble, and towering apartment-hotels ; an endless 
vista of carriages and automobiles, with rich women 
lolling in them, or descending into shops whose windows 
 
blazed with jewels and silver and gold. Here were the 
masters of the metropolis, the masters of life; the dis- 
pensers of patronage that "public" which he had to 
please. He would bring his vision and lay it at their 
feet, and they would give him or deny him opportunity ! 
And what was it that they wanted? Was it worship 
and consecration and love? One could read the answer 
in their purse-proud glances ; in the barriers of steel 
and bronze with which they protected the gates of their 
palaces ; in the aspects of their flunkeys, whose casual 
glances were like blows in the face. One could read 
the answer in the pitiful features of the little errand- 
girl who went past, carrying some bit of their splendor 
to them ; or of the ragged beggar, who hovered in the 
shelter of a side-street, fearing their displeasure. No, 
they were not lovers of life, and protectors; they were 
parasites and destroyers, devourers of the hopes of 
humanity! Their splendors were the distilled essence 
of the tears and agonies of millions of defeated people 
their jewels were drops of blood from the heart of 
the human race! 
5. So, with rage and bitterness, Thyrsis was gnaw- 
ing out his soul in the night-time ; distilling those fierce 
