“ Oh, Linn, dear ” — he was smothering her 
with the most unhygienic kisses — “ of course I 
should come back. God wouldn’t let anything 
happen to me when you all needed me so much. 
There, child — oh, you must excuse him ” — to the 
interested spectator. “ You see I’ve never been 
away since ” and her voice had a tremble in it. 
“ I s’pose this is the man they talked about 
who brought Rilla home. And the pretty 
horse ” 
 
Linn’s face was redder than the heat had made 
it, and he suddenly hung his head, abashed. 
“ Yes, my lad,” returned the cheerful voice. 
And did you come down to meet your 
mother ? ” 
“ Not exactly. Mis’ Briggs wanted some spices 
and I said I’d run down to the store. I knew it 
would be about train time. All the same, I did 
want to see mother,” caressing her hand and pat- 
ting it against his hot cheek. 
“ Well, if you could squeeze down between 
us ” and Mr. Mann seemed to m.ake room. 
‘‘ Oh, no, sir. I’m all dust and dirt. And I’m 
glad to have you take mother. I’ll soon run 
back. Thank you all the same,” touching his 
hat rim. 
Mr. Mann handed in his guest and spread the 
laprobe over her as carefully as if she had been 
gowned in silk. She pulled out- her veil and 
flushed as she noted that her glove finger had 
given out. And she almost wished he had not 
come — what would the Denby people think! But 
after they passed the store it did not make so 
much difference. 
“ I don’t know how used you are to children,” 
Mrs. Firth began deprecatingly, “ and we have 
so many, and in the summer clothes get soiled so 
easily; children, too,” ending with a faint ghost 
of a laugh. 
‘‘ I've never had any. My wife didn’t seem to 
care for them, and now she’s dead. I am alone 
in the world. There was a stepmother and some 
second children in our family, but they strayed 
off, I don’t know where. I live at Grafton, though 
I’ve spent most of my life in the city and at busi- 
ness. But I had a notion for something different, 
and this place seemed to come to me.” 
‘‘It’s a very pretty place, sort of a suburb to 
Ridgewood, isn’t it? Husband went over there 
several times to lay out grounds and plant trees. 
It is, well — rather for the quality. And we’re 
such very plain folks here at Denby. It’s scarcely 
changed since I was a girl — they are mostly old 
farmers, only they have built a new schoolhouse 
over there ” — nodding her head to the eastward. 
“ And that is the old church that has been here 
a hundred years. Up above is a nice little town 
— Rowaton. And there’s Ridgewood. Round 
about here it’s all farms, and it doesn’t seem as if 
people were real ambitious.” 
“ You used to teach the school, I heard.” 
Yes, that was long ago. They had a man 
one year who boarded round, and I had a few 
little folks in my house. Grandmother was alive 
 
then. The man didn’t seem to get along, and no 
one else would come for the money. I taught 
four years, and you learn a good deal by teach- 
ing. Then they built the new schoolhouse, and 
you had to be examined in lots of new things I 
didn’t know about. I didn’t care much, for Mr. 
Firth wanted to marry me. But afterward I had 
some of the ABC children at my house. Mr. 
Firth had been educated. We couldn’t go away 
on account of grandmother, you know, and he 
could turn his hand to ’most anything. So we 
lived along, and the babies came, but when grand- 
mother died we found she’d left the place to the 
children when we were dead. She wouldn’t hear 
to our going away, and that was what we meant 
to do when she was gone. And there was a little 
money that was to pay the taxes. So we just 
went on, and then he was hurt. Things happen 
mysteriously in this world, and you can’t ’count 
for it. If we could have gone away that wouldn’t 
have happened to husband.” 
It did seem as if fate had made the master- 
throw in her life. 
“ I hadn’t much opinion of wills after that. If 
you want anybody to have the good of a thing 
give it to them out and out, while it is of some 
service. Still we’ve been glad and thankful that 
 
we 've had a home, and the taxes paid seven 
years.” 
“ I hope this new will was satisfactory,” he said 
in the pause. 
‘‘ Well, it really wasn’t worth staying for. Not 
that I had been counting on anything. There’s a 
grand-nephew — and four grand-nieces. He’s run 
the farm for the old lady and kept her in every- 
thing. It’s a big farm, a hundred or so acres, 
and that’s left to him. The house is only an old 
shell. Then the clothes and bedding and furni- 
ture and dishes are to be divided among the nieces 
in equal value. The old lady never was married. 
She was grandmother’s sister.” 
No, there didn’t seem to be much hope for any 
fortune in that, and he really was sorry. 
“ It’s a shame,” he commented. 
Well, you see I hadn’t been lotting on any- 
thing, and I can’t say I was disappointed. Mary 
Jane was, awfully. She used to run in and do 
things for the old lady, and it seemed as if she 
ought to have had some recompense, and Eliza 
Ann thought the farm ought to be divided. I was 
tired of hearing them wrangle. And now the sur- 
rogate has to do something to the will ” 
“ It has to be probated.” 
‘‘ Well, if I get some extra blankets they’ll be 
 
good for winter. Mine are getting pretty well 
worn.’
She gave a soft little laugh that seemed some- 
how to come from a light heart. You wouldn’t 
think of her being pretty at first, but there was 
a subtle sort of sweetness, an elusive flavor that 
you sometimes get in a perfume, compounded of 
many things, the cordial smile, the uplift that was 
courage and hope transfused together. The brown 
eyes had a kind of liquid light, as if the sun was 
shining back of them. Most people spoke of her 
as being small, but she was quite medium size as 
to figure, but the head had a rather proud poise 
and the features were fine. In spite of children 
and hard work she had not grown old, and there 
was no sign of discouragement in her face or 
voice. Before he had reached the little old red 
house he echoed Tip’s designation — “ The beau- 
ti fullest mother.” That was what she had been 
to the children just in motherly duty, making no 
special virtue of it. 
The children were out watching; even Rilla left 
her cookery and came wiping her hands on her 
checked apron. 
Oh, my dears ! ” she cried, and the little hands 
almost dragged her out before Mr. Mann could 
alight. 
 
‘‘ You see I’ve brought her home safe. Now 
what are you going to pay me? ” 
The small faces were aghast. 
You didn’t say anything about pay,” declared 
Chan, with sudden courage. ‘‘ You just said 
you’d surely bring her home.” 
“ I wasn’t a bit sharp about bargain-making, 
was I ? ” and he laughed. 
“ I’ll div’ you my dolly,” proffered Laurel, who 
looked at least a year or two younger than her 
twin, and was backward about talking plainly; 
but her mother liked the baby words. 
“Oh, Laurel, for shame! That dirty thing!” 
and Prim snatched it away and threw it toward 
the house. Then it was Laurel’s turn to cry. Tip 
looked at her in disdain. 
“ Never mind, dear, the gentleman will know 
it came from your heart, and that it was some- 
thing you cherished. Everybody wouldn’t want 
to give away what they loved best. You’re not 
used to children,” turning to him, “ so you must 
excuse them. And I am a thousand times 
obliged to you. Marigold, you might get him a 
posy.” 
“ And if you don’t object I’ll come over some 
day and take the younger ones out for a drive. 
Occasionally I get a sort of lonesome feeling.” 
 
“Oh, you are very good!’’ and Mrs. Firth 
raised her soft, sweet eyes. 
