and at last he gave it up and, turning over buried his head in the
cushions.
This wouldn't do either: he racked his brain for further employment,
found excuses for other business letters, wrote them, then attacked a
pile of social matters--notes and letters heretofore deliberately
neglected to the ragged edge of decency.
He replied to them all, and invariably in the negative.
It gave him something to do to go out to the nearest lamp post and mail
his letters. But when again he came back into his room the silence there
left him hesitating on his threshold.
But he went in and locked his door, and kept his back turned to the desk
where pen and ink were tempting him as usual, and almost beyond
endurance now. And at last he weakened, and wrote to her once more:
       *       *       *       *       *
     "MY DEAR MRS. LEEDS--
     "I feel sure that your failure to answer my note of last week was
     unintentional.
     "Some day, when you have a moment, would you write me a line saying
     that you will be at home to me?
                            "Very sincerely yours,
                                      "RICHARD STANLEY QUARREN."
He took this note to the nearest District Messenger Office; then
returned to his room.
After an interminable time the messenger reported for the signature.
Mrs. Leeds was not at home and he had left the note as directed.
       *       *       *       *       *
The night was a white one. He did not feel very well when he sat
scanning the morning paper over his coffee. Recently he had formed the
custom of reading two columns only in the paper--Real Estate News and
Society. In the latter column Strelsa usually figured.
She figured as usual this morning; and he read the fulsome stuff
attentively. Also there was a flourish concerning an annual event at the
Santa Regina.
And Quarren read this very carefully; and made up his mind as he
finished the paragraph.
The conclusion he came to over his coffee and newspaper materialised
that afternoon at a Charity Bazaar, where, as he intended, he met
Strelsa Leeds face to face. She said, coolly amiable:
"Have you been away? One never sees you these days."
"I have been nowhere," he said, pleasantly.
She shook her pretty head in reproof:
"Is it good policy for a young man to drop out of sight? Our world
forgets over-night."
He laughed: "Something similar has been intimated to me by others--but
less gently. I'm afraid I've offended some people."
"Oh, so you have already been disciplined?"
"Verbally trounced, admonished, and still smarting under the displeasure
of the powers that reign. They seem to resent my Sunday out--yet even
their other domestics have that. And it's the first I've taken in three
years. I think I'll have to give notice to my Missus."
"The spectre of servitude still seems to obsess your humour," she
observed indifferently.
"I am that spectre, Mrs. Leeds."
"You certainly look pallid enough for any disembodied rôle. You have not
been ill, by any chance?"--carelessly.
"Not at all, thank you. Rude health and I continue to link arms."
"Then it is not by chance that you absent yourself from the various
festivities where your part is usually supposed to be a leading one?"
"All cooks eventually develop a distaste for their own concoctions," he
explained gravely.
She lifted her eyebrows: "Yet you are here this afternoon."
"Oh, yes. Charity has not yet palled on my palate--perhaps because I
need so much myself."
"I have never considered you an object of charity."
"Then I must draw your kind attention to my pitiable case by doing a
little begging.... Could I ask your forgiveness, for example? And
perhaps obtain it?"
Her face flushed. "I have nothing to forgive you, Mr. Quarren," she said
with decision.
"Do you mean that?"
"Certainly."
"I scarcely know how to take your--generosity."
"I offer none. There is no occasion for generosity or for the exercise
of any virtue, cardinal or otherwise. You have not offended me, nor I
you--I trust.... Have I?"
"No," he said.
Men came up to speak to her; one or two women nodded to her from nearby
groups which presently mingled, definitely separating her from Quarren
unless either he or she chose to evade the natural trend of things.
Neither made the effort. Then Sir Charles Mallison joined her, and
Quarren, smilingly accepting that gentleman's advent as his own congé,
took his leave of Strelsa and went his way--which chanced, also, to be
the way of Mrs. Lester Caldera, very fetching in lilac gown and hat.
Susanne Lannis, lips slightly curling, looked after them, touching
Strelsa's elbow:
"Cyrille simply cannot let Ricky alone," she said. "The bill-posters
will find a fence for her if she doesn't come to her senses."
"Who?" asked Strelsa, as one or two people laughed guardedly.
"Why, Cyrille Caldera. Elle s'affiche, ma chère!"
"Mrs. Caldera!" repeated the girl, surprised.
"And Ricky! Are you blind, Strelsa? It's been on for two weeks or
more. And she'd better not play too confidently with Ricky. You can
usually forecast what a wild animal will do, never how a trained one is
going to behave."
"Such scandal!" laughed Chrysos Lacy. "How many of us can afford to
turn our backs to the rest of the cage even for an instant? Sir Charles,
I simply don't dare to go away. Otherwise I'd purchase several of those
glittering articles yonder--whatever they are. Do you happen to know?"
"Automatic revolvers. The cartridges are charged with Japanese perfumes.
Did you never see one?" he asked, turning to Strelsa. But she was not
listening; and he transferred his attention to Chrysos.
Several people moved forward to examine the pretty and apparently deadly
little weapons; Sir Charles was called upon to explain the Japanese game
of perfumes, and everybody began to purchase the paraphernalia, pistols,
cartridges, targets, and counters.
Sir Charles came back, presently, to where Strelsa still stood,
listlessly examining laces.
"All kinds of poor people have blinded themselves making these pretty
things," she said, as Sir Charles came up beside her. "My only apparent
usefulness is to buy them, I suppose."
He offered her one of the automatic pistols.
"It's loaded," he cautioned her, solemnly.
"What an odd gift!" she said, surprised, taking it gingerly into her
gloved hand. "Is it really for me? And why?"
"Are you timid about firearms?" he asked, jestingly.
"No.... I don't know anything about them--except to keep my finger away
from the trigger. I know enough to do that."
He supposed that she also was jesting, and her fastidious handling of
the weapon amused him. And when she asked him if it was safe to carry in
her muff, he assured her very gravely that she might venture to do so.
"Turn it loose on the first burglar," he added, "and his regeneration
will begin in all the forty-nine odours of sanctity."
Strelsa smiled without comprehending. Cyrille Caldera was standing just
beyond them, apparently interested in antique jewellery, trying the
effect of various linked gems against her lilac gown, and inviting
Quarren's opinion of the results. Their backs were turned; Ricky's blond
head seemed to come unreasonably close to Cyrille's at moments. Once
Mrs. Caldera thoughtlessly laid a pretty hand on his arm as though in
emphasis. Their unheard conversation was evidently amusing them.
Strelsa's smile remained unaltered; people were coming constantly to pay
their respects to her; and they lingered, attracted and amused by her
unusual gaiety, charm, and wit.
Her mind seemed suddenly to have become crystal clear; her gay retorts
to lively badinage, and her laughing epigrams were deliciously
spontaneous. A slight exhilaration, without apparent reason, was
transforming her, swiftly, into an incarnation entirely unknown even to
herself.
Conscious of a wonderful mood never before experienced, perfectly aware
of her unusual brilliancy and beauty, surprised and interested in the
sudden revelation of powers within her still unexercised, she felt
herself, for the first time in her life, in contact with things
heretofore impalpable--and, in spirit, with delicate fingers, she
gathered up instinctively those intangible threads with which man is
guided as surely as though driven in chains of steel.
And all the while she was aware of Quarren's boyish head bending almost
too near to Cyrille Caldera's over the trays of antique jewels; and all
the while she was conscious of the transfiguration in process--that not
only a new self was being evolved for her out of the débris of the old,
but that the world itself was changing around her--and a new Heaven and
a new earth were being born--and a new hell.
That evening she fought it out with herself with a sort of deadly
intelligence. Alone in her room, seated, and facing her mirrored gaze
unflinchingly, she stated her case, minutely, to herself from beginning
to end; then called the only witness for the prosecution--herself--and
questioned that witness without mercy.
Did she care for Quarren? Apparently. How much? A great deal. Was she in
love with him? She could not answer. Wherein did he differ from other
men she knew--Sir Charles, for example? She only knew that he was
different. Perhaps he was nobler? No. More intelligent? No. Kinder? No.
More admirable? No. More gentle, more sincere, less selfish? No. Did he,
as a man, compare favorably with other men--Sir Charles for example? The
comparison was not in Quarren's favor.
Wherein, then, lay her interest in him? She could not answer. Was she
perhaps sorry for him? Very. Why? Because she believed him capable of
better things. Then the basis of her regard for him was founded on pity.
No; because from the beginning--even before he had unmasked--she had
been sensible of an interest in him different from any interest she had
ever before felt for any man.
This uncompromisingly honest answer silenced her mentally for some
moments; then she lifted her resolute gray eyes to the eyes of the
mirrored witness:
If that is true, then the attraction was partly physical? She could not
answer. Pressed for a statement she admitted that it might be that.
Then the basis of her regard for him was ignoble? She found pleasure in
his intellectual attractions. But the basis had not been intellectual?
No. It had been material? Yes. And she had never forgotten the light
pressure of that masked Harlequin's spangled arm around her while she
desperately counted out the seconds of that magic minute forfeited to
him? No; she had never forgotten. It was a sensation totally unknown to
her before that moment? Yes. Had she experienced it since that time?
