     fool courage to write this comes from I don't know. But you will
     now learn that there is nothing to me after all--not even enough of
     positive and negative to make me worth forgiveness. And so I let it
     go at that. Good-bye.
  "DESBORO."
In the same half blind, half dazed way, cursing something all the while,
he managed to seal, stamp, and direct the letter, and get himself out of
the house with it.
A club servant at the Olympian mailed it; he continued on his way to the
dining room, and stumbled into a chair between Cairns and Reggie
Ledyard, who were feasting noisily and unwisely with Stuyvesant Van
Alstyne; and the racket and confusion seemed to help him. He was
conscious of laughing and talking and drinking a great deal--conscious,
too, of the annoyance of other men at other tables. Finally, one of the
governors came over and very pleasantly told him to shut up or go
elsewhere.
They all went, with cheerfulness unimpaired by gubernatorial
admonition. There was a large dinner dance for debutantes at the
Barkley's. This function they deigned to decorate with their presence
for a while, Cairns and Van Alstyne behaving well enough, considering
the manners of the times; Desboro, a dull fire smouldering in his veins,
wandered about, haunted by a ghost whose soft breath touched his cheek.
His manners were good when he chose; they were always faultless when he
was drunk. Perfectly steady on his legs, very pale, and a trifle over
polite, the drunker he was the more courtly he invariably became,
measuredly graceful, in speech reticent. Only his pallor and the lines
about his mouth betrayed the tension.
Later, one or two men familiar with the house strolled into the distant
billiard room and discovered him standing there looking blankly into
space.
Ledyard, bad tempered when he had dined too well, announced that he had
had enough of that debutante party:
"Look at 'em," he said to Desboro. "Horrible little fluffs just out of
the incubator--with their silly brains and rotten manners, and their
'Bunny Hugs' and 'Turkey Trots' and 'Dying Chickens,' and the champagne
flaming in their baby cheeks! Why, their mothers are letting 'em dance
like filles de Brasserie! Men used to know where to go for that sort
of thing----"
Cairns, balancing gravely on heels and toes, waved one hand
comprehensively.
"Problem was," he said, "how to keep the young at home. Bunny Hug solves
it. See? All the comforts of the Tenderloin at home. Tha's
'splaination."
"Come on to supper," said Ledyard. "Your Blue Girl will be there, Jim."
"By all means," said Desboro courteously. "My car is entirely at your
disposal." But he made no movement.
"Come to supper," insisted Ledyard.
"Commer supper," echoed Cairns gravely. "Whazzer mazzer? Commer supper!"
"Nothing," said Desboro, "could give me greater pleasure." He rose,
bowed courteously to Ledyard, included Cairns in a graceful salute, and
reseated himself.
Ledyard lost his temper and began to shout at him.
"I beg your pardon for my inexcusable absent-mindedness," said Desboro,
getting slowly onto his feet once more. With graceful precision, he made
his way to his hostess and took faultless leave of her, Cairns and
Ledyard attempting vainly to imitate his poise, urbanity and
self-possession.
The icy air of the street did Cairns good and aided Ledyard. So they got
themselves out across the sidewalk and ultimately into Desboro's town
car, which was waiting, as usual.
"Little bunny-hugging, bread-and-butter beasts," muttered Ledyard to
himself. "Lord! Don't they want us to draw the line between them and the
sort we're to meet at supper?"
"They're jus' fools," said Cairns. "No harm in 'em! And I'm not going to
supper. I'll take you there an' go'me!"
"What's the matter with you?" demanded Ledyard.
"No--I'm through, that's all. You 'sult nice li'l debutantes. Rotten bad
taste. Nice li'l debbys."
"Come on, you jinx!"
"That girl in blue. Will she be there--the one who does the lute solo in
'The Maid of Shiraz'?"
"Yes, but she's crazy about Desboro."
"I waive all pretension to the charming condescension of that very
lovely young lady, and cheerfully concede your claims," said Desboro,
raising his hat and wrecking it against the roof of the automobile.
"As you wish, dear friend. But why so suddenly the solitary recluse?"
"A personal reason, I assure you."
"I see," remarked Ledyard. "And what may be the name and quality of this
personal reason? And is she a blonde?"
Desboro shrugged his polite impatience. But when the others got out at
the Santa Regina he followed. Cairns was inclined to shed a few tears
over Ledyard's insults to the "debbys."
"Sure," said the latter, soothingly. "The brimming beaker for you, dear
friend, and it will pass away. Hark! I hear the fairy feetsteps of a
houri!" as they landed from the elevator and encountered a group of
laughing, bright-eyed young girls in the hallway, seeking the private
supper room.
One of them was certainly the girl in blue. The others appeared to
Desboro as merely numerous and, later, exceedingly noisy. But noise and
movement seemed to make endurable the dull pain thudding ceaselessly in
his heart. Music and roses, flushed faces, the ringing harmony of
crystal and silver, and the gaiety à diable of the girl beside him
would ease it--must ease it, somehow. For it had to be first eased,
then killed. There was no sense, no reason, no excuse for going on this
way--enduring such a hurt. And just at present the remedy seemed to lie
in a gay uproar and many brilliant lights, and in the tinted lips of the
girl beside him, babbling nonsense while her dark eyes laughed,
promising all they laughed at--if he cared to ask an answer to the
riddle.
But he never asked it.
Later somebody offered a toast to Desboro, but when they looked around
for him in the uproar, glasses aloft, he had disappeared.
CHAPTER VII
There was no acknowledgment of his note to Jacqueline the day following;
none the next day, or the next. It was only when telephoning to
Silverwood he learned by chance from Mrs. Quant that Jacqueline had been
at the house every day as usual, busy in the armoury with the work that
took her there.
He had fully expected that she would send a substitute; had assumed that
she would not wish to return and take the chance of his being there.
What she had thought of his note to her, what she might be thinking of
him, had made him so miserable that even the unwisdom of excess could
not dull the pain of it or subdue the restless passion ever menacing him
with a shameful repudiation of the words he had written her. He had
fought one weakness with another, and there was no strength in him now.
He knew it, but stood on guard.
For he knew, too, in his heart that he had nothing to offer her except a
sentiment which, in the history of man, has never been anything except
temporary. With it, of course, and part of it, was a gentler
inclination--love, probably, of one sort or another--with it went also
genuine admiration and intellectual interest, and sympathy, and
tenderness of some unanalysed kind.
But he knew that he had no intention of marrying anybody--never, at
least, of marrying out of his own social environment. That he
understood fully; had wit and honesty enough to admit to himself. And so
there was no way--nothing, now, anyway. He had settled that
definitely--settled it for her and for himself, unrequested; settled, in
fact, everything except how to escape the aftermath of restless pain for
which there seemed to be no remedy so far--not even the professional
services of old Doctor Time. However, it had been only three days--three
sedative pills from the old gentleman's inexhaustible supply. It is the
regularity of taking it, more than the medicine itself which cures.
On the fourth day, he emerged from the unhappy seclusion of his rooms
and ventured into the Olympian Club, where he deliberately attempted to
anæsthetise his badly battered senses. But he couldn't. Cairns found him
there, sitting alone in the library--it was not an intellectual
club--and saw what Desboro had been doing to himself by the white
tensity of his features.
"Look here," he said. "If there's really anything the matter with you,
why don't you go into business and forget it? You can't fool real
trouble with what you buy in bottles!"
"What business shall I go into?" asked Desboro, unoffended.
"Stocks or literature. All the ginks who can't do anything else go into
stocks or literature."
Desboro waved away the alternatives with amiable urbanity.
"Then run for your farms and grow things for market. You could do that,
couldn't you? Even a Dutchess County millionaire can run a milk-route."
"I don't desire to grow milk," explained Desboro pleasantly.
Cairns regarded him with a grin of anxiety.
"You're jingled," he concluded. "That is, you are as jingled as you
ever get. Why?"
"No reason, thanks."
"It isn't some girl, is it? You never take them seriously. All the
same, is it?"
Desboro smiled: "Do you think it's likely, dear friend?"
"No, I don't. But whatever you're worrying about isn't improving your
personal beauty. Since you hit this hamlet you've been on one continuous
tootlebat. Why don't you go back to Westchester and hoe potatoes?"
"One doesn't hoe them in January, you know," said Desboro, always
deprecatingly polite. "Please cease to trouble yourself about me. I'm
quite all right, thanks."
"You've resigned from a lot of clubs and things, I hear."
"Admirably reported, dear friend, and perfectly true."
"Why?"
"Motives of economy; nothing more serious, John."
"You're not in any financial trouble, are you?"
"I--ah--possibly have been a trifle indiscreet in my expenditures--a
little unfortunate in my investments, perhaps. You are very kind to ask
me. It may afford you some gratification to learn that eventually I
anticipate an agreeable return to affluence."
Cairns laughed: "You are jingled all right," he said. "I recognise
the urbane symptoms of your Desboro ancestors."
"You flatter them and me," said Desboro, bowing. "They were the limit,
and I'm nearing it."
"Pardon! You have arrived, sir," said Cairns, returning the salute with
exaggerated gravity.
They parted with pomp and circumstance, Desboro to saunter back to his
rooms and lie limply in his arm chair beside an empty fireplace until
sleep overcame him where he sat. And he looked very young, and white,
and somewhat battered as he lay there in the fading winter daylight.
