"Strange as 'The Journal of Valdez.'... I have an idea. I wonder what
you might think of it."

She waited; he reflected for another moment, then, smiling:

"This is a perfectly rotten place for you," he said. "You could not do
manual labour here in this swamp under a nearly vertical sun and keep
your health for twenty-four hours. I've been in Trinidad. I know a
little about the tropics and semi-tropics. Suppose you and I form a
company?"

"What?"

"Call it the Valdez Company, or the Association of the Maltese Cross,"
he continued cheerfully. "You will do the cooking, washing, housekeeping
for two tents, and the mending. I will do the digging and the
dynamiting. And we'll go ahead doggedly, and face this thing and see it
through to the last ditch. What do you think of it? Your claim as
plotted out is no more, no less, valuable than mine. Both claims may be
worthless. The chances are that they are absolutely valueless. But there
is a chance, too, that we might win out. Shall we try it together?"

She did not answer.

"And," he continued, "if the Maltese cross happens to be included within
my claim, I share equally with you. If it chances to lie within your
claim, perhaps I might ask a third----"

"Mr. White!"

"Yes?"

"You will take two thirds!"

"What?"

"Two thirds," she repeated firmly, "because your heavier labour
entitles you to that proportion!"

"My dear Miss Sandys, you are unworldly and inexperienced in your
generosity----"

"So are you! The idea of your modestly venturing to ask a third! And
offering me a half if the Maltese cross lie inside your own territory!
That is not the way to do business, Mr. White!"

She had become so earnest in her admonition, so charmingly emphatic,
that he smiled in spite of himself.

She flushed, noticing this, and said: "Altruism is a luxury in business
matters; selfishness of the justifiable sort a necessity. Who will look
out for your interests if you do not?"

"You seem to be doing it."

Her colour deepened: "I am only suggesting that you do not make a
foolish bargain with me."

"Which proves," he said, "that you are not much better at business than
am I. Otherwise you'd have taken me up."

"I'm a very good business woman," she insisted, warmly, "but I'm too
much of the other kind of woman to be unfair!"

"Commercially," he said, "we both are sadly behind the times. To-day the
world is eliminating its appendix; to-morrow it will be operated on for
another obsolete and annoying appendage. I mean its conscience," he
added, so seriously that for a moment her own gravity remained
unaltered. Then, like a faint ray of sunlight, across her face the smile
glimmered. It was a winning smile, fresh and unspoiled as the lips it
touched.

"You will take half--won't you?" she asked.

"Yes, I will. Is it a bargain?"

"If you care to make it so, Mr. White."

He said he did, and they shook hands very formally. Then he went out
and pitched his tent beside hers, set it in order, lugged up the
remainder of his equipment, buried the jars of spring water, and,
entering his tent, changed to flannel shirt, sun-helmet, and khaki.




XXIX


A little later he called to her: she emerged from her tent, and together
they sat down on the edge of the Causeway, with the two maps spread over
their knees.

That both maps very accurately represented the topography of the
immediate vicinity there could be no doubt; the only discrepancy seemed
to lie in the situation of the Maltese cross. On White's map the cross
fell well within his half of Lot 210; in Jean Sandys' map it was
situated between her half of 210 and 220.

Plot it out as they might, using Mr. Munsell's diagram, the result was
always the same; and after a while they gave up the useless attempt to
reconcile the differences in the two maps.

From where they were sitting together on the Causeway's edge, they were
facing due west. At their feet rippled the clear, deep waters of the
swamp, lapping against the base of the Causeway like transparent little
waves in a northern lake. A slight current disclosed the channel where
it flowed out of the north western edges of the swamp, which was set
with tall cypress trees, their flaring bases like silvery pyramids deep
set in the shining ooze.

East of them the Coakachee flowed through thickets of saw-grass and
green brier, between a forest of oak, pine, and cedar, bordered on the
western side by palm and palmetto--all exactly as drawn in the map of
Pedro Valdez.

The afternoon was cloudless and warm; an exquisite scent of blossoms
came from the forest when a light breeze rippled the water. Somewhere in
those green and tangled depths jasmine hung its fairy gold from arching
branches, and wild oranges were in bloom. At intervals, when the breeze
set from the east, the heavenly fragrance of magnolia grew more
pronounced.

After a little searching he discovered the huge tree, far towering above
oak and pine and palm, set with lustrous clusters, ivory and palest
gold, exhaling incense.

"Wonderful," she said under her breath, when he pointed it out to her.
"This enchanted land is one endless miracle to me."

"You have never before been in the South?"

"I have been nowhere."

"Oh. I thought perhaps when you were a child----"

"We were too poor. My mother taught piano."

"I see," he said gravely.

"I had no childhood," she said. "After the public school, it was the
book section in department stores.... They let me go last week. That is
how I came to be in the Heikem galleries."

He clasped his hands around one knee and looked out across the
semi-tropical landscape.

Orange-coloured butterflies with wings like lighted lanterns fluttered
along the edges of the flowering shrubs; a lovely purplish-black one
with four large, white polka dots on his wings flitted persistently
about them.

Over the sun-baked Causeway blue-tailed lizards raced and chased each
other, frisking up tree trunks, flashing across branches: a snowy heron
rose like some winged thing from Heaven, and floated away into the
silvery light. And like living jewels the gorgeous wood-ducks glided in
and out where the water sparkled among the cypress trees.

"Think," he said, "of those men in armour toiling through these swamps
under a vertical sun! Think of them, starved, haggard, fever racked,
staggering toward their El Dorado!--their steel mail scorching their
bodies, the briers and poison-grass festering their flesh; moccasin,
rattler, and copperhead menacing them with death at every step; the
poisoned arrows of the Indians whizzing from every glade!"

"Blood and gold," she nodded, "and the deathless bravery of avarice!
That was Spain. And it inflamed the sunset of Spanish glory."

He mused for a while: "To think of De Soto being here--here on this
very spot!--here on this ancient Causeway, amid these forests!--towering
in his armour! His plated mail must have made a burning hell for his
body!"

She looked down at the cool, blue water at her feet. He, too, gazed at
it, curiously. For a few feet the depths were visible, then a
translucent gloom, glimmering with emerald lights, obscured further
penetration of his vision. Deep down in that water was what they
sought--if it truly existed at all.

After a few moments' silence he rose, drew the hunting-knife at his
