
But as he partly raised her Miss Armitage 
saw that her face was deadly white. 

"Oh, poor child she cried. 'What can be 
the matter? And whose babies are these? 

'They're Jack Borders little sisters — twins. 
And thats the nuss gal,’' said one of the big 
boys. 

you know where they live?” 



"Round in Arch street/’ 

"Could you take them there?” 

'Well — yes’m.” 

"Then take them,” rejoined the lady. 

The carriage being moved she sat down on 
the step and took the girl in her arms. 

“She isn’t dead — I see the flutter in the 
temple.” 

“Better go to the hospital,” proposed the 
policeman. 

Marilla opened her eyes and glanced up 
but did not seem to notice anything; then the 
lids fell and the beautiful long lashes shadowed 
her cheeks. 

“Carry her to my house across the street,” 
and she led the way. 

He picked up the light burden as if it had 
been a feather. She opened the door and asked 
him to take the child upstairs and lay heron 
the couch. 

“I am obliged to you,” she said. “In a 
way I am in Settlement work. We’ll have a 
doctor and see what is the matter. Then I’ll 
decide about the hospital. And I will find out 
about those people.” 


"You’re a good sort, ma'am,' and he 
touched his hat brim to her. 

"Jane,’ she called. "This poor child isn’t 
exactly in a faint, but something is the matter. 
Get a warm bath ready and we’ll put her in. 
I’ll telephone to Dr. Richards.” 

"Yes — he was just going out. Would be up 
for a first call.” 

Miss Armitage undressed her. She was 
clean and neat, but the poor little body was 
painfully thin. Then they carried her to the 
bath. Jane rubbed her softly and she gave 

some responsive sighs. 

"What a pretty lot of little curls and fine 
as silk. I do wonder who she can be?” 

"She’s the little nurse girl who brings those 
babies, twins I suppose they are, and sits on 
the stoop over opposite.” 

"What happened?” 

"Well it’s some sort of a collapse. Now I’ll 
find a nice nightgown, and we’ll see what the 
doctor says.” 

Marilla opened her eyes. They were a 
sort of blueish gray, but now very heavy and 
dull. Her lips moved, but the tone was very 




low. It sounded as if she said "fairy god- 
mother” and Miss Armitage smiled. 

"Oh, poor little thing!” 

Dr. Richards flew around in his auto. 

‘Ohj I thought something had happened 
to you,” he began. 

'It has,” and she detailed the simple story. 

He followed her up to the room. It was 
such a lovely, restful room. A white bed in 
the alcove, white window drapery, a carpet 
with considerable light blue in it, a dressing 
case, a writing desk, some books and pictures, 
mostly Madonnas. 

'Poor child,” he said. "She’s been worked 
too hard. All her strength seems gone. And 
a case of heat prostration. It's been an awful 
day. Who is she?” 

Miss Armitage told over the incident. 
"I have seen her sitting there several times. 
It is shady in the afternoon.” 

"Two fat babies,” and he laughed. "I 
should think one would be enough for such 
a child to manage. Overwork and underfeeding 
I think, and the heat. Ifll see if I can rouse 
her.” 

Marilla opened her eyes and the lids 



seemed to fall from absolute weariness. The 
lips moved but made no sound. 

'It is a kind of comatose state. Not know- 
ing all that is back of it I can't quite make 
up my mind. If this awful heat would let 
up! I'll leave some drops to be given to her 
and will come in one my first round in the 
morning. I haven't been to the Settlement 
House yet.'' 

"Oh, you must go. That little Mary Burns 
died at noon, and her mother is half crazy 
over it. Poor little thing, deformed and all 
that. This child has a nice straight body and 
a fine smooth skin. Ill go round in Arch 
street and see what I can learn about her.’’ 

"She looks worth saving if life really holds 
anything for her. Poor things! Why are so 
many sent into the world 'just to toil.’ ” 
was going over ” 

"Never mind now. I’ll attend to it all, and 
see the Burns’ priest. Don’t be worried. 
These drops will keep up her strength,'' 
nodding to Manila. ''And I will report in 
the morning.” 

Dr. Richards went his way. Miss Armitage 
sat and considered. Perhaps it would be as 





well to go to Mrs. Borden's. They would be 
feeling much alarmed, no doubt. She explained 
to Jane and put on her hat again and picked 
up her sun umbrella, for some streets were 
still in a glow. This was the best part of the 
city however, and there were some fine trees. 

She stopped and looked in a directory. 
There was only one Borden living on Arch 
street, a Mr. John Borden, lawyer. She made 
a note of the number. Arch street was some 
distance farther west, and then only a block 
or so. A very nice looking three-story brick 
with a stone stoop. She mounted and rang 
the bell. There certainly was a child or 
children crying. 
