He did not hear. An idea had come to him, one that had visited him in
Melbourne, again in New York, to desist from further effort, to leave
her where she was, behind the barriers she had raised. At the moment he
believed he desired her no longer, loved her no more, had never loved
her at all. Occupied with the idea he looked at this woman who had
ruined her life, ruined his own.
She had been saying something, what he did not know nor, self-centered
in his anger, did he care.
In his pocket was a revolver. He felt of it and infuriatedly cried:
“You ought to be shot.”
“Gulian!”
“You are on a par with the beast you took up with.”
“I took his name, Gulian, his name alone.”
It was her turn to be angry. The flush had gone, she was pale again and
she had abandoned the chair’s support. She stood upright, confronting
him with that purity which was hers.
“I have no more been his wife than I was yours.”
“What!”
This time he heard. But her words, conflicting with his thoughts,
rolled over together. In this mental confusion he stared.
“What!”
“It is as I tell you.”
“You swear it?”
“Do I need to?”
Still he stared. Truth which acts on us and in us like a chemical
precipitate was disclosing to him her whiteness and its own.
“Do I?” she repeated.
“No, by God, you don’t. I believe you. I can’t help myself. It is in
your eyes.”
He paused and awkwardly added:
“Forgive me.”
Faintly and sadly she smiled.
“Will you?” he asked.
“Kiss me.”
In the unique syllables of the words, which in a woman’s mouth are so
fluid, there was a forgiveness so entire and a love so great that in
passionate contrition he drew her to him. Longly their lips met. She
closed her eyes, opened them, disengaged herself, moved back a step and
looked at him. For the first time she noticed the grime on his face.
It did not astonish. It seemed natural after what they had both been
through and it occurred to her that her own appearance might be equally
bizarre.
Briefly then, in this lull in the storm, she told him what Violet had
suggested--the buying and divorce of Barouffski.
“That will take time,” he objected. “The shortest way ’round is the
quickest way out. If you had not interfered in the garden----”
A gesture completed the sentence.
“No matter,” he grimly added. “I haven’t done with him yet.”
In speaking he had crossed the room, now he recrossed it.
Imploringly Leilah approached him.
“Gulian, not that, not that! Don’t fight with him again. Don’t, I
beseech you. It is not alone that anything of the kind is so horrible
but he is one of the trickiest swordsmen here. Think what that means!
Think what would become of me if--if----”
From the pocket of his coat Verplank had taken the revolver. He looked
at it, looked at her, replaced it.
“I am a trifle interested in the matter myself. Besides, there are
other weapons than the foil. If I can shoot pigeons--and I believe I
can--I ought to be able to land a buzzard.”
At sight of the revolver Leilah had winced. Now she cried:
“Give it to me!”
Verplank, amused at her simplicity, smiled.
“That isn’t a dueling pistol.”
“But you never carried one before.”
“In the States I did not need to. Here, in Paris, particularly at
night, the streets are seldom sure. I have this thing for protection.”
“Promise me then----”
Verplank looked her over.
“Don’t be a fool.”
But as he looked, suddenly she started and he saw that she was
trembling.
“What the deuce is the matter?”
Trembling still, peeringly now she had turned to the portières.
“What is it?” he repeated.
“I am so frightened.”
“Frightened? What at?”
Uncertainly, her head drawn back as a deer’s is when surprised, she
glanced about her. Slowly then her eyes returned to his.
“I am so frightened!”
“Yes, but at what?”
She motioned at the room. “Before you came there seemed to be something
here, something around me and just now----”
“Well?”
“I heard something.”
“Your maid probably.”
With an intake of the breath she raised a finger and for a moment both
were silent.
“There is no one,” he presently told her. “And what if there were!”
At the idea, he laughed.
The laugh, succeeding the silence, while intended to reassure her, did
not wholly succeed. She turned to him anew and in a low voice, said:
“You must go. To-morrow come to Violet’s.”
“I dine there to-night.”
“Yes, I know. Tell her that to-morrow, say at three, we will both be
with her. Then she can tell us----”
But Verplank had drawn her to him. Again her eyes closed.
“Go,” she said at last.
On the sofa was his hat. He reached for it. While he did so, she moved
to the tapestry, raised it, disclosing the stair up which he had come.
“To-morrow, then,” he said, as he entered there.
She nodded at him. “At three!”
Dropping the tapestry she turned, but very quickly, for again she heard
or thought she heard a noise.
Across the room the portières were parting. Through them Barouffski
appeared.
“I might have known it,” she told herself, and realising that he had
been listening, she realised also that the opportunity was as good as
another for making an offer which she had in mind.
These ideas, instantaneous at sight of him, were for the moment stayed.
On turning she had seen but the man. Now hastening toward her was a
creature with an expression so venomous that instinctively, in search
of help, with the idea of calling to Verplank, she turned to the
tapestry again.
Quicker than she, he caught and tossed her spinning on the sofa. Then,
running to the open window, he shouted from it:
“Emmanuel! The dogs!”
Leilah, falling backward on the lounge, was too stunned to hear. But
she steadied herself, recovered, got to her feet and making again for
the stair, called at Barouffski:
“Free me from you and you shall have half of what I have.”
“Half!” he repeated. At once he was upon her. “All,” he cried. “I want
it all, all of yours and all of his.”
As he spoke he struck her, shoved her aside, raised the tapestry and
vanished. For a second she heard him hastening down, while at once from
without came the barking of dogs, the jar of oaths, the sound of cries.
What it meant she did not know. Her head was whirling. The fall, the
blow, the indignity of both clouded and confused her. From without the
uproar mounted and suddenly, the uproar prompting, into the turmoil
that was her mind, a gleam of understanding shot. At the apperception
of it she shrieked, ran to the window where she shrieked again. The
loosened dogs had sprung at Verplank, who, overwhelmed had fallen.
Again she shrieked. Answering the shriek, mingling with it, were
snarls, the gnashing of fangs, the din of great hounds ferociously
struggling for blood, tearing vehemently at flesh, at a flesh, though,
that rebelled.
Verplank rose up between them. With a kick he sent one of them
sprawling. But, in the recoil, torn at by the other hound, he stumbled.
The dog was at his throat. In protection he held his left arm against
it. With his right hand he got at the revolver in his pocket, and,
through the pocket, fired twice into the brute. Gnashing still, it
rolled away.
But now, from the other side, the second hound was on him. He saw its
eyes, felt its breath, felt its fangs. Again he fired. As he did so,
his hand relaxed. He heard a woman shrieking, the sound of hurrying
feet. The wall before him mounted. His senses scattered into night.
Suddenly the garden was filled with people. Through the gate, two
sergents de ville had come. These, forms furtive and uncertain
followed. From the house, led by Barouffski, the footmen ran. Above,
from the window, still there issued a woman’s shrieks.
Barouffski stopped, and turned. He looked up at the window. He smiled.
With one hand he tapped his breast, with the other he pointed at
Verplank. Then, in French, reassuringly, he called:
“My dear! See! You may be tranquil. I, I am unharmed. It is the robber.”
At the ignominy of that flouting jeer, Leilah, impelled by the impulse
to do something, though it were but to beat her head against a wall,
rushed from the window, and, strangling with spasms, fled out of the
room and down the stair, where horror so suffocatingly enveloped her
that in it her brain tipped, and she fell.
XI
In the golden half light of the Opéra, a chorus, soprano voices on one
side of the stage alternating with contralto on the other, vaporised
the subtle sensuality of the scene.
Violet Silverstairs, turning to her husband, who was seated behind her,
remarked:
“How much better the Italian school is than the French.”
Silverstairs, ignorant of either, and indifferent to both, promenaded
his glass about the house.
“I wonder why Tempest doesn’t show up? There is Marie de Fresnoy! I saw
de Fresnoy to-day for the first time since his duel with Barouffski.
What a ridiculous affair that was! I suppose one of these days he will
have another with d’Arcy.”
Violet turned to him again.
“Because of Marie? How absurd you are! D’Arcy doesn’t interest her. No
man could unless he drove at her with a four-in-hand, and d’Arcy has
nothing.”
Silverstairs, still promenading his glass, exclaimed:
“There he is now!”
“Who? D’Arcy?”
“Yes, with the Helley-Quetgens, in that box between the columns. Isn’t
that your friend Leilah whom he is talking to? By Jove, it is, and
