Sir John is a tyro to this man."
She said hotly: "If I should say to him what you have but now said to
me, he would have you out for your impertinence!"
"If he continues to conduct as he has begun," said I, "the chances are
that I may have him out for his effrontery."
"What! Who gave you the privilege of interfering in my affairs, you
silly ninny?"
"So that you display ordinary prudence, I have no desire to interfere,"
I retorted angrily.
"And if I do not! If I am imprudent! If I choose to be audacious,
reckless, shameless! Is it your affair?"
"Suppose I make it mine?"
"You are both silly and insulting; do you know it?"
Flushed, breathing rapidly, we sat facing each other; and I could have
shaken the little vixen, so furious was I at myself as well as at her.
"Very well," said I, "continue to play with hell-fire if you like. I'm
done with you and with him, too."
"And I with you," she said between her teeth. "And if you were not the
honest-meaning marplot that you are, Mr. Boyd should teach you a
lesson!"
"I'll teach him one now," said I, springing to my feet and gone quite
blind with rage so that I was obliged to stand still a moment before I
could discover Boyd where he stood by the open door, trying to converse
with Mrs. Lansing, but watching us both with unfeigned amazement.
"Euan!"
Lana's voice arrested me, and I halted and turned, striving to remember
decency and that I was conducting like a very boor. This was neither
the time nor place to force a quarrel on any man.... And Lana was
right. I had no earthly warrant to interfere if she gave me none;
perhaps no spiritual warrant either.
Still shaken and confused by the sudden fury which had invaded me, and
now sullenly mortified by my own violence and bad manners, I stood with
one hand resting on the banisters, forcing myself to look at Lana and
take the punishment that her scornful eyes were dealing me.
"Are you coming to your senses?" she asked coldly.
"Yes," I said. "I ask your pardon."
A moment more we gazed at each other, then suddenly her under lip
trembled and her eyes filled.
"Forgive me," she stammered. "You are a better friend to me
than--many.... I am not angry, Euan."
At that I could scarce control my own voice:
"Lanette--little Lana! Find it in your generous heart to offer me my
pardon, for I have conducted like a yokel and a fool! But--but I really
do love you."
"I know it, Euan. I did not know it was in me to use you so cruelly.
Let us be friends again. Will you?"
"Will you, Lana?"
"Willingly--oh, with all my heart! And--I am not very happy, Euan. Bear
with me a little.... There is a letter come from Clarissa; perhaps it
is that which edges my tongue and temper--the poor child is so sad and
lonely, so wretchedly unhappy--and Sir John riding the West with all
his hellish crew! And she has no news of him--and asks it of me----"
She descended a step and stood on the stair beside me, looking up at me
very sweetly, and resting her hand lightly on my shoulder--a caress so
frank and unconcealed that it meant no more then its innocent
significance implied. But at that moment, by chance, I encountered
Lois's eyes fixed on me in cold surprise. And, being a fool, and
already unnerved, I turned red as a pippin, as though I were guilty,
and looked elsewhere till the heat cooled from my cheeks.
"You dear boy," said Lana gently. "If there were more men like you and
fewer like--Sir John, there'd be no Clarissas in the world." She
hesitated, then smiled audaciously. "Perhaps no Lanas either.... There!
Go and court your sweetheart. For she gave me a look but now which
boded ill for me or for any other maid or matron who dares lay finger
on a single thrum of your rifle-shirt."
"You are wrong," said I. "She cares nothing for me in that manner."
"What? How do you know, you astounding boy?"
"I know it well enough."
Lana shot a swift and curious look straight across the room at Lois,
who now did not seem to be aware of her.
"She is beautiful... and--not made of marble," said Lana softly to
herself. "Good God, no! Scarcely made of marble.... And some man will
awaken her one day.... And when he does he will unchain Aphrodite
herself--or I guess wrong." She turned to me smiling. "That girl yonder
has never loved."
"Why do you think so?"
"I know it; but I can not tell you why I know it. Women divine where
men reason; and we are oftener right than you.... Are you truly in love
with her?"
"I can not speak of such things to you," I muttered.
"Lord! Is it as serious as that already? Is it arrived at the holy and
sacred stage?"
"Lana! For heaven's sake----"
"I am not jeering; I am realising the solemn fact that you have
progressed a certain distance in love and are arrived at a definite and
well-known milestone.... And I am merely wondering how far she has
progressed--or if she has as yet journeyed any particular distance at
all--or any more than set out upon the road. For the look she shot at
me convinces me that she has started--in fact, has reached that turn in
the thorny path where she is less inclined to defend herself than her
own possessions. You seem to be one of them."
Boyd, who had awaited the termination of our tete-a-tete with an
impatience perfectly apparent to anybody who chanced to observe him,
now seemed able to endure it no longer; and as he approached us I felt
Lana's hand on my arm tremble slightly; but the cool smile still curved
her lips.
She received him with a shaft of light raillery, and he laughed and
retorted in kind, and then we three sauntered over to the table where
was the floating island in a huge stone bowl of Indian ware.
Around this, and the tea and punch, everybody was now gathering, and
there was much talking and laughing and offering of refreshment to the
ladies, and drinking of humourous or gallant toasts.
I remember that Boyd, being called upon, instantly contrived some
impromptu verses amid general approbation--for his intelligence was as
lithe and graceful as his body was agile. And our foppish Ensign, who
was no dolt by a long shot either, made a most deft rondeau in flattery
of the ladies, turning it so neatly and unexpectedly that we all drew
our side-arms and, thrusting them aloft, cheered both him and the fair
subjects of his nimble verses.
I would have been glad to shine in that lively and amusing competition,
but possessed no such desirable talents, and so when called upon
contrived merely a commonplace toast which all applauded as in duty
bound.
And I saw Lois looking at me with an odd, smiling expression, not one
thing or another, yet scarcely cordial.
"And now," says Boyd, "each lady in turn should offer an impromptu
toast in verse."
Whereupon they all protested that the thing was impossible. But he was
already somewhat flushed with the punch and with his own success; and
says he, with that occasional and over-flourishing bow of his:
"To divinity nothing is impossible; therefore, the ladies, ever divine,
may venture all things."
"Which is why I venture to decline," remarked Lana. But he was set upon
it, and would not be denied; and he began a most flowery little speech
with the ladies as his inspiration:
"Poetry and grace in mind and body is theirs by nature," said he, "and
they have but to open the rosy petals of their lips to enthrall us all
with gems of----"
"Lord!" said Mrs. Bleecker, laughing, "I have never writ a verse in my
life save on my sampler; and if I were to open the rosy petals of my
lips, I should never have done a-giggling. But I'll do it, Mr. Boyd, if
you think it will enthrall you."
"As for me," quoth Angelina Lansing, "I require a workshop to
manufacture my gems. It follows that they are no true gems at all, but
shop-made paste. Ask Lana Helmer; she is far more adept in sugaring
refusals."
All turned smilingly toward Lana, who shrugged her shoulders, saying
carelessly:
  "I must decline!
  The Muses nine
  No sisters are of mine.
  Must I repine
  Because I'm not divine,
  And may not versify some pretty story
  To prove to you my own immortal glory?
  Make no mistake. Accept; don't offer verses.
  Kisses received are mercies--given, curses!"
Said Boyd instantly:
"A thousand poems for your couplets! Do you trade with me, Miss Helmer?"
"Let me hear your thousand first," retorted the coquette disdainfully,
"ere I make up my mind to be damned."
Major Parr said grimly:
"With what are we others to trade, who can make no verses? Is there not
some more common form of wampum that you might consider?"
"A kind and unselfish heart is sound currency," said Lana smiling and
turning her back on Boyd; which brought her to face Lois.
"Do make a toast in verse for these importunate gentlemen," she said,
"and bring the last laggard to your feet."
"I?" exclaimed Lois in laughing surprise. Then her face altered subtly.
"I may not dream to rival you in beauty. Why should I challenge you in
wit?"
"Why not? Your very name implies a nationality in which elegance,
graceful wit, and taste are all inherent." And she curtsied very low to
Lois.
For a moment the girl stood motionless, her slender forefinger crook'd
in thought across her lips. Then she glanced at me; the pink spots on
her cheeks deepened, and her lips parted in a breathless smile.
"It will give me a pleasure to do honour to any wish expressed by
anybody," she said. "Am I to compose a toast, Euan?"
I gazed at her in surprise; Major Parr said loudly: "That's the proper
spirit!"
And, "Write for us a toast to love!" cried Boyd.
But Lana coolly proposed a toast to please all, which, she explained, a
toast to love would not by any means.
"And surely that is easy for you," she added sweetly, "who of your
proper self please all who ever knew you."
"Write us a patriotic toast!" suggested Captain Simpson, "----A jolly
toast that all true Americans can drink under the nose of the British
King himself."
"That's it!" cried Captain Franklin. "A toast so cunningly devised that
