respected the aloofness of the Ellisons.  Arthur was an inveterate
traveler.  Half the year found him in Europe, painting a little,
writing a little less, frequenting the lesser known villages in France
and Italy.  He let it be understood that he abhorred cities.  In the
ten years they had appeared at less than a dozen social affairs.
Arthur did not care for horses, for hunting, for sports of any kind.
And yet he was sturdy, clear-eyed, fresh-skinned.  He walked always; he
was forever tramping off to the pine-hooded hills, with his
painting-kit over his shoulders and his camp-stool under his arm.
Later, Elsa began to understand that he was a true scholar, not merely
an educated man.  He was besides a linguist of amazing facility, a
pianist who invariably preferred as his audience his own two ears.
Arthur would have been a great dramatist or a great poet, if . . .  If
what?  If what?  Ah, that had been the crux of it all, of her doubt, of
her hesitance.  If he had fought for prizes coveted by mankind, if he
had thrown aside his dreams and gone into the turmoil, if he had taken
up a man's burden and carried it to success.  Elsa, daughter of a man
who had fought in the great arena from his youth to his death, Elsa was
not meant for the wife of a dreamer.
Paul Ellison.  What was his crime in comparison to his expiation of it?
He had built bridges, fought torrents, hurricanes, himself.  No, he was
not a scholar; he saw no romance in the multifarious things he had of
necessity put his hand to: these had been daily matter-of-fact
occupations.  A strange gladness seemed to loosen the tenseness of her
aching nerves.
Then, out of the real world about her, came with startling
distinctness, the shriek of a parrot.  She would have recognized that
piercing cry anywhere.  It was Rajah.  In the next room, and she had
not known that Warrington (she would always know him by that name) was
stopping at the same hotel!  She listened intently.  Presently she
heard muffled sounds: a clatter of metal.  A few minutes later came a
softer tinkle, scurry of pattering feet, then silence.
Elsa ran to the door and stood motionless by the jamb, waiting,
ethereally white in the moonshine.  Suddenly upon the gallery pillars
flashed yellow light.  She should have gone back to bed, but a thrill
of unknown fear held her.  By and by the yellow light went out with
that quickness which tricks the hearing into believing that the
vanishing had been accompanied by sound.  She saw Warrington, fully
dressed, issue forth cautiously, glance about, then pass down the
gallery, stepping with the lightness of a cat.
She returned hastily to her room, threw over her shoulders a kimono,
and went back to the door, hesitating there for a breath or two.  She
stepped out upon the gallery.  What had roused him at this time of
night?  She leaned over the railing and peered down into the roadway
which in daytime was given over to the rickshaw coolies.  She heard the
crunch of wheels, a low murmur of voices; beyond this, nothing more.
But as the silence of the night became tense once more, she walked as
far as Warrington's door, and paused there.
The gallery floor was trellised with moonlight and shadow.  She saw
something lying in the center of a patch of light, and she stooped.
The light was too dim for her to read; so she reentered her own room
and turned on the lights.  It was Warrington's letter of credit.  She
gave a low laugh, perhaps a bit hysterical.  There was no doubt of it.
Some one had entered his room.  There had been a struggle in which he
had been the stronger, and the thief had dropped his plunder.  (As a
matter of fact, the Chinaman, finding himself closed in upon, had
thrown the letter of credit toward the railing, in hope that it would
fall over to the ground below, where, later, he could recover it.) Elsa
pressed it to her heart as another woman might have pressed a rose, and
laughed again.  Something of his; something to give her the excuse to
see and to speak to him again.  To-morrow she would know; and he would
tell her the truth, even as her heart knew it now.  For what other
reason had he turned away from her that first day out of Rangoon, hurt
and broken?  Paul Ellison; and she had told him that she was going home
to marry his brother!
XVII
THE ANSWERING CABLE
Next morning, when it became known among the bankers and foreign
agencies that a letter of credit for ten thousand pounds had been lost
or stolen, there was more than a ripple of excitement.  They searched
records, but no loss as heavy as this came to light.  Add to the
flutter a reward of two hundred pounds for the recovery of the letter,
and one may readily imagine the scrutinizing alertness of the various
clerks and the subsequent embarrassments of peaceful tourists who
wished to draw small sums for current expenses.  Even the managing
director of the Bank of Burma came in for his share of annoyance.  He
was obliged to send out a dozen cables of notification of the loss, all
of which had to be paid out of accrued dividends.  Thus Warrington had
blocked up the avenues.  The marvelous rapidity with which such affairs
may be spread broadcast these days is the first wonder in a new epoch
of wonders.  From Irkoutsh to Aukland, from St. Johns to Los Angeles,
wherever a newspaper was published, the news flew.  Within twenty-four
hours it would be as difficult to draw against that letter as it would
be to transmute baser metals into gold.
At half past ten Warrington, apparently none the worse for a sleepless
night, entered the private office of the consul-general who, gravely
and with studied politeness, handed to him an unopened cablegram.
"I rather preferred to let you open it, Mr. Warrington," he said.
"Still, it might be something of your own," replied Warrington.  He
noted the lack of cordiality, but with passive regret.
"No cablegram would come to me from the department, especially as the
diplomatic-pouch, as we call the mail-bag, arrives Monday.  Open it.  I
wish you good luck," a little more kindly.
"May I sit down?"
"To be sure you may."
The consul-general recovered his pen and pretended to become absorbed
in the litter of papers on his desk.  But in truth he could see nothing
save the young man's face: calm, unmoved, expressing negligent interest
in what should be the most vital thing in his existence, next to life.
If the man hadn't met Elsa, to her interest and to his own alarm, he
would have been as affable as deep in his heart he wanted to be.  A
minute passed.  It seemed to take a very long time.  He tried to resist
the inclination to turn his head, but the drawing of curiosity was
irresistible.  What he saw only added to his general mystification.
The slip of paper hung pendulent in Warrington's hand; the other hand
was hidden in his beard, while his eyes seemed to be studying seriously
the medallion in the Kirmanshah.  A fine specimen of a man, mused the
consul-general, incredibly wholesome despite his ten years' knocking
about in this ungodly part of the world.  It was a pity.  They had
evidently refused to compromise.
"Bad news?"
Warrington stood up with sudden and surprising animation in his face.
"Read it," he said.
"If Ellison will make restitution in person, yes.
"ANDES."
The consul-general jumped to his feet and held out his hand.  "I am
glad, very glad.  Everything will turn out all right now.  If you wish,
I'll tell Miss Chetwood the news."
"I was going to ask you to do that," responded Warrington.  The mention
of Elsa took the brightness out of his face.  "Tell her that Parrot &
Co. will always remember her kindness, and ask her to forgive a lonely
chap for having caused her any embarrassment through her goodness to
him.  I have decided not to see Miss Chetwood again."
"You are a strong man, Mr. Warrington."
"Warrington?  My name is Ellison, Paul Warrington Ellison.  After all,
I'm so used to Warrington, that I may as well let well enough alone.
There is one more favor; do not tell Miss Chetwood that my name is
Ellison."
"I should use my own name, if I were you.  Why, man, you can return to
the States as if you had departed but yesterday.  The world forgets
quickly.  People will be asking each other what it was that you did.
Then I shall bid Miss Chetwood good-by for you?"
"Yes.  I am going to jog it home.  I want to travel first-class, here,
there, wherever fancy takes me.  It's so long since I've known absolute
ease and comfort.  I wish to have time to readjust myself to the old
ways.  I was once a luxury-loving chap.  I sail at dawn for Saigon.  I
may knock around in Siam for a few weeks.  After that, I don't know
where I'll go.  Of course I shall keep the Andes advised of my
whereabouts, from time to time."
"Another man would be in a hurry."  It was on the tip of his tongue to
tell Warrington what he knew of the Andes Construction Company, but
something held back the words, a fear that Warrington might change his
mind about seeing Elsa.
"Well, wherever you go and whatever you do, good luck go with you."
"There are good men in this world, sir, and I shall always remember you
as one of them."
"By the way, that man Mallow; have you met him yet?"
The quizzical expression in his eyes made Warrington laugh.  "No."
"I was in hopes . . ."  The consul-general paused, but Warrington
ignored the invitation to make known his intentions.
He shunted further inquiry by saying: "A letter of credit of mine was
stolen last night.  I had a tussle in the room, and was rather getting
the best of it.  The thug slipped suddenly away.  Probably hid the
letter in his loin-cloth."
"That's unfortunate."
"In a way.  Ten thousand pounds."
"Good lord!"
"I have sent out a general stop-order.  No one will be able to draw
against it.  The sum will create suspicion anywhere."
"Have you any idea who was back of the thief?  Is there any way I can
be of service to you?"
"Yes.  I'll make you temporary trustee.  I've offered two hundred
pounds for the recovery, and I'll leave that amount with you before I
go."
"And if the letter turns up?"
"Send it direct to the Andes people.  After a lapse of a few weeks the
Bank of Burma will reissue the letter.  It will simmer down to a matter
of inconvenience.  The offer of two hundred is honestly made, but only
to learn if my suspicions are correct."
"Then you suspect some one?" quickly.
"I really suspect Mallow and a gambler named Craig, but no court would
hold them upon the evidence I have.  It's my belief that it's a
practical joke which measures up to the man who perpetrated it.  He
must certainly realize that a letter so large will be eagerly watched
for."
"I shall gladly take charge of the matter here for you.  I suppose that
you will eventually meet Mallow?"
"Eventually suggests a long time," grimly.
"Ah . . .  Is there . . .  Do you think there will be any need of a
watch-holder?"
