caught half-tamed horses and galloped about the 
pasture on them, when we were so small that our 
little fat legs stuck out horizontally; how we had 
given ourselves convulsions in the green apple 
orchard, and had to be spanked every day before 
we had our hair combed. I told how we heard a 
war-story about a 'train of gunpowder,' and 
proceeded to lay such a train about the attic of 
Castleman Hall, and set fire to it. I might have 
spent the afternoon teaching the future church- 
man how to be a boy, if I hadn't suddenly caught 
a glimpse of my husband's face!" 
 
 
I DID not hear these stories all at once; I have 
put them together here because they make a 
httle picture of her honeymoon, and also because 
they show how, without meaning it, she was 
giving me an account of her husband. 
There had been even fewer adventures in the 
life of young Douglas van Tuiver than in the life 
of the Honorable Regiuald Annersley. When 
one heard the details of the upbringing of this 
"millionaire baby", one was able to forgive him 
for being self-centered. He had grown into a 
yoimg man who lived to fulfill his social duties; 
and he had taken to wife a girl who was reckless, 
high-spirited, with a streak of almost savage pride 
in her. 
Sylvia's was the true aristocratic attitude 
towards the rest of the world. It could never 
have occiured to her to imagine that anywhere 
upon the whole earth there were people superior 
to the Castlemans of Castleman County. If you 
had been ignorant enough to suggest such an 
idea, you would have seen her eyes flash and her 
nostrils quiver; you would have been enveloped 
in a net of bewilderment, and transfixed with a 
trident of mockery and scorn. That was what 
she had done in her husband-hunt. The trouble 
was that van Tuiver was not clever enough to 
realize this, and to trust her prowess against 
other beasts in the social jungle. 
 
Strange to me were such inside glimpses into 
the life of these two favorites of the gods! I 
never grew weary of speculating about them, and 
the mystery of their alliance. How had Sylvia 
come to make this marriage? She was not 
happy with him; keen psychologist that she was, 
she must have foreseen that she would not be 
happy with him. Had she dehberately sacrificed 
herself, because of the good she imagined she could 
do to her family? 
I was beginning to believe this. Irritated as 
she was by the solemn snobberies of van Tuiver's 
world, it was none the less true that she believed 
in money; she beheved in it with a faith which 
appalled me as I came to realize it. Everybody 
had to have money; the social graces, the 
aristocatic virtues, were impossible without it. 
The rich needed it — even the poor needed it. 
Could it be that the proud Castlemans of Castle- 
man Coimty had needed it also? 
If that guess at her inmost soul was correct, 
then what a drama was her meeting with me! 
A person who despised money, who had proven 
it by grim deeds — and this a person of her own 
money-worshipping sex! What was the mean- 
ing of this phenomenon — this new religion that 
was challenging the priesthood of Mammon? 
So some Roman consul's daughter might have 
sat in her father's palace, and questioned in won- 
der a Christian slave-woman, destined ere long to 
face the lions in the arena. 
The exactness of this simile was not altered by 
 
the fact that in this case the slave-woman was 
an "agnostic", while the patrician girl had been 
brought up in the creed of Christ. Sylvia had 
long since begun to question the formulas of a 
chiurch whose very pews were rented, and whose 
existence, she declared, had to be justified by 
charity to the poor. As we sat and talked, she 
knew this one thing quite definitely — that I had 
a relion, and she had none. That was the 
reason for the excitement which possessed her. 
Nor was that fact ever out of my own mind for 
a moment. As she sat there in her sxm-flooded 
morning-room, clad in an exquisite embroidered 
robe of pink Japanese silk, she was such a lovely 
thing that I was ready to cry out for the joy of 
her; and yet there was something within me, grim 
and relentless, that sat on guard, warning me that 
she was of a different faith from mine, and that 
between those two faiths there could be no com- 
promise. Some day she must find out what I 
thought of her husband's wealth, and the work 
it was doing in the world! Some day she must 
hear my real opinion of the religion of motor-cars 
and hand-woven carpets! 
 
 
Nor was the day so very far off. She sat 
opposite me, leaning forward in her eagerness, 
declaring, "You must help to educate me! I 
shall never rest until I'm of some real use in the 
world." 
"What have you thought of doing?" I inquired. 
"I don't know yet. My husband has an aunt 
who's interested in a day-nm-sery for the children 
of working-women. I thought I might help this, 
but my husband says it does no good whatever — 
it only makes paupers of the poor. Do you think 
so?" 
"I think more than that," I replied. "It sets 
women free to compete with men, and beat down 
men's wages." 
"Oh, what a puzzle!" she exclaimed; and then, 
"Is there any way of helping the poor that 
wouldn't be open to the same objection?" 
That brought us once more to the subject I had 
put aside at our last meeting. She had not for- 
gotten it, and asked again for an explanation. 
What did I mean by the competitive wage sys- 
tem? 
My pmpose in this writing is to tell the story 
of Sylvia Castleman's life, to show, not merely 
what she was, but what she became. I have to 
make real to you a process of growth in her soul; 
and at this moment the important event is her 
 
discovery of the class-struggle, and her reaction 
to it. You may say, perhaps, that you are not 
interested in the class-struggle; but you cannot 
alter the fact that you hve in an age when millions 
of people are having the coiu'se of their lives 
changed by the discovery of it. Here, for 
instance, is a girl who has been taught to keep 
her promises, and has promised to love, hoqor 
and obey a man; she is to find the task more 
difficult, because she comes to understand the 
competitive wage-system, while he does not 
imderstand it, and does not wish to. If that 
seems to you strange material out of which to 
make a domestic drama, I can only tell you that 
you have missed some of the vital facts of your 
own time. 
I gave her a little lesson in elementary eco- 
nomics. I showed her how, when a capitalist 
needed labor, he bought it in the open market, 
like any other commodity. He did not think 
about the human side of it; he paid the market- 
price, which came to be what the laborer had to 
have in order to live. No laborer could get more, 
because others would take less. 
"If that be true," I continued, "one of the 
things that follows is the futility of charity. 
"Whatever you do for the wage-worker on a gen- 
eral scale comes sooner or later out of his wages. 
If you take care of his children all day or part of 
the day, he can work for less; if he doesn't dis- 
cover that, some one else does, and imderbids 
him and takes his place. If you feed his children 
 
at school, if you bury hm free, if you insure his 
hfe, or even give him a dinner on Christmas-day, 
you simply enable his landlord to charge him 
more, or his employer to pay him less." 
Sylvia sat for a while in thought, and then 
asked, "What can be done about such a fact?" 
"The first thing to be done is to make sure that, 
you understand it. Nine-tenths of the people 
who concern themselves with social questions 
don't, and so they waste their time in futihties 
For instance, I read the other day an article by 
a benevolent old gentleman who believed that 
the social problem could be solved by teaching 
the poor to chew their food better, so that they 
would eat less. You may laugh at that — but it's 
