That night for the first time in many hours Kathlyn closed her eyes
with a sense of security.  True, it was not the most comfortable place
to sleep in, the howdah; there were ceaseless rollings from side to
side, intermingled with spine racking bumps forward, as the elephant
occasionally hastened his stride.  Kathlyn succeeded in stealing from
the god of sleep only cat naps.  Often the cold would awaken her, and
she would find that Bruce had been bracing her by extending his arm
across the howdah and gripping the rail.

"You mustn't do that," she protested feebly.  "You will be dead in the
morning."

"You might fall out."

"Then I shan't go to sleep again till the journey ends.  You have been
so good and kind to me!"

"Nonsense!"

They came out into the scrub jungle, and the moonlight lay magically
over all things.  Sometimes a shadow crossed the whitened sands;
scurried, rather; and quietly Bruce would tell her what the animals
were--jackals, with an occasional prowling red wolf.  They were not
disturbed by any of the cat family.  But there was one interval of
suspense.  Bruce spied in the distance a small herd of wild elephants.
So did Rajah, who raised his trunk and trumpeted into the night.  The
mahout, fully awake to the danger, beat the old rascal mightily with
his goad.  Yet that would have failed to hold Rajah.  Bruce averted the
danger by shooting his revolvers into the air.  The wild elephants
stampeded, and Rajah, disgruntled, was brought to the compass.

"Strange thing about a gunshot," said Bruce.  "They may never have
heard one before; but instinct tells them quickly of the menace.  Years
ago at home, when I used to fish for bass, during the closed season I'd
see thousands of duck and geese and deer.  Yet a single gunshot when
the season opened and you never could get within a mile of them."

"That is true.  I have fished and hunted with father."

"Surely!  I keep forgetting that it's ten to one you know more about
game than I do."

Silence fell upon them again.  On, on, without pausing.  Bruce was
getting sleepy himself, so he began munching biscuits.  Lighter and
lighter grew the east; the moon dimmed, and by and by everything grew
gray and the chill in the air seemed sharpest yet.

They were both awake.

Sunup they stopped by a stream.  Bruce dismounted without having the
elephant kneel and went to the water to fill his canteen.  The hunter
in him became interested in the tracks along the banks.  A tiger, a
leopard, some apes, and a herd of antelopes had been down to drink
during the night.  Even as he looked a huge gray ape came bounding out,
head-on toward Rajah, who despised these foolish beasts.  Perhaps the
old elephant missed Ali, perhaps he was still somewhat upset by his
failure to join his wild brothers the night before; at any rate,
without warning, he set off with that shuffling gait which sometimes
carried him as swiftly as a horse.  An elephant never trots nor really
runs according to our conception of the terms; he shuffles, scarcely
lifting his feet off the ground.

The mahout yelled and belabored the elephant on the skull.  Rajah did
not mind this beating at all.  Whatever his idea was, he evidently
proposed to see it fulfilled.

Cunningly he dashed under some branches, sweeping the mahout off his
neck.  The branches, with a crash as of musketry, struck the howdah,
but it held, thanks to the stoutness of the belly bands and the care
with which they had been adjusted round the huge barrel.

Bruce stood up, appalled.  For a time he was incapable of movement.
Short as the time was, it was enough to give Rajah such headway as he
needed.  He disappeared from sight.  Bruce saw the futility of shooting
at the beast.  The only thing he could do was to mount up beside
Ramabai and Pundita and give chase; and this he did in short order,
dragging up the bruised and shaken mahout with him.  The pursuing
elephant, with this extra handicap, never brought Rajah into sight.
But the trail was clear, and they followed.

Surely that poor girl was marked for misfortune.  In all the six years
Bruce had possessed Rajah he had never exhibited anything but docility.
The elephant was not running amuck, though he might eventually work
himself into that blind ungovernable rage.  Off like that, without the
slightest warning!  If Kathlyn could only keep him clear of the trees,
for the old rogue would do his best to scrape off the irksome howdah.

Kathlyn heard the shouts from behind, but she could not understand
whether these were warnings or advice.  Could they overtake her before
she was flung off?  She tried to recall the "elephant talk" Ahmed had
taught her in the old days at the farm, but just now she was too dazed.
At the end of an hour all sounds from the rear ceased; no more pistol
shots to encourage her with the knowledge that friends were near.
Rajah must have outstripped them two or three miles.

At length she came into a small clearing amid the tall jungle grass, a
dead and brittle last year's growth.  She saw two natives in the act of
kicking out a dung fire.  Rajah headed directly toward them, the fire
evidently being in the line of path he had chosen.  This rare and
unexpected freedom, this opportunity to go whither he listed, was as
the giant fern he used to eat in the days when he was free and wild in
Ceylon.

Kathlyn called out to the men, but they turned and fled in terror.  To
them Rajah was amuck.  The elephant passed the fire so closely that the
wind of his passing stirred the fire into life again; and this time it
crept toward the highly inflammable grass.  A few hundred yards beyond
Kathlyn turned to see the flames leaping along the grass.  Rajah,
getting a whiff of the acrid smoke, quickened his stride.  The fire
followed with amazing rapidity and stopped only when it reached the bed
of a trickling stream, no doubt a torrent during the big rains.  A
great pall of smoke blotted out everything in the rear; blotted out
hope, for Bruce could never pick up the trail now.

Kathlyn's eyes were feverishly dry and bright.  It was only a matter of
time when the howdah would slip down the brute's side.  She prayed that
she might die instantly.  Strange fancies flitted through her mind,
disordered by all these days of suspense and terror. . . .

And suddenly the jungle came to an end, and a long plowed field opened
into view.  Beyond this field rose a ruined wall, broken by a crumbling
gate, and lounging in the gateway were soldiers.  Near by were two
elephants employed in piling logs.

Rajah, perforce, slackened his gait.  The soldiers became animated.
Immediately the two mahouts charged their brutes toward Rajah, who
stopped.  He had had his sport.  He swayed to and fro.  One of the
mahouts reached forward and clouted Rajah on the knee.  He slowly
kneeled.  The soldiers ran forward to help Kathlyn out of the howdah.
At the sight of her skin their astonishment was great.

She was very weak and faint, and the increasing babel of tongues was
like little triphammers beating upon her aching head.  One of the
soldiers gave her a drink of water.  He held his canteen high, so that
the water trickled into her mouth; no lips but his own must touch the
nozzle, otherwise, being a Brahmin, he would be denied.  Natives
instantly flocked about, jabbering in wonder.  Some of the bolder
touched her bare arms.  The soldiers drove them back angrily.  Through
the press a horseman pushed forward.  The rider stared at the strange
captive, started and uttered an astonished cry.

"The white queen of Allaha, whom mine own eyes saw crowned at the
durbar there!" he murmured.  "By the shroud of the prophet what can
this mean?  Stop!" he called to the soldiers.  Kathlyn looked up dully.
"Convey her to his highness the Kumor!"  The prince should decide what
should be done with her.

The Kumor was big and lazy and sensual.  He gazed upon Kathlyn with
eyes which sparkled evilly, like a cat's.

"Who is this woman?" he demanded.

"Highness, she is the white queen of Allaha, but who may say that she
is here?" with a smile as evil as his master's.

"But how came she here?"

The horseman briefly recounted the events as he had seen them in the
capital of Allaha.

"Who are you, maiden?" the Kumor asked in English, for, like all
potentates, little or great, in India, he spoke English.  It presented
the delectable pastime of conspiring in two languages; for, from Bombay
to Calcutta, from Peshawar to Madras, India seethes, conspires and
takes an occasional pot shot at some poor devil of a commissioner whose
only desire is to have them combine religion and sanitation.

"I am an American.  Please take me to the English commissioner."
Somehow instinct told her that she might not expect succor from this
man with the pearls about his gross neck.

"I regret that his excellency the commissioner has gone to Bombay.
Besides, I do not know that you tell the truth.  Still, I can offer you
what pearls and emeralds you may find to your liking."

"Your Highness, there are those whose coming shortly will cause you
much annoyance if you refuse to give me proper aid.  There is no
possible way for you to cover up my appearance here.  Send me to the
commissioner's bungalow, where I may await the coming of my friends."

