
CHAPTER XI

STANDING UP TO THE MARK


Lilian Boyd bathed her mother's face and hands as usual and prepared her
breakfast. Her eyes were brighter, her voice stronger, but the girl
noticed that her face seemed a little swollen and the lines about her
mouth had lost their flexibility.

"You are surely better. You have more appetite," yet the tone was not
hopeful.

"Oh, my dear, it is nearer the end, and it is best. You will do better
without me, and what if you should find someone--a father to be proud of
you? Such things have happened, and I may have kept you out of something
that was your right. Oh, will God forgive me?"

Lilian caught the thin hand and pressed it to her lips.

"Mother, you must not worry about this. Suppose my own mother was a
widow like you going to a new home to earn her living. Why, I might have
been put in some Children's Asylum. And I have had many comforts and a
love willing to make sacrifices. I have been a dreamy girl building air
castles for the future, but I would have worked hard to make them real.
I see now how much is needed and I am not afraid----"

"Oh, if I could think you had lost nothing through my selfish love----"

"But it was your friend who sent us here. And you are not sorry we
came?"

"Oh, my child, it was truly God's providence. Mrs. Barrington has been
so good. She will help you to attain your best aims. Since we have been
here I have realized the difference between us that I only felt vaguely
before. You belong to these people. You have their ways and it is not
all education, either. This is why I feel your people could not have
been in the common walks of life."

She paused, exhausted.

"Now, you must not talk any more but try to sleep. Shall I read to you?"

"No, not now. Oh, Lilian, you will not tire of me? You will not leave
me? It cannot be long----"

"No, no, and this will be my home. Let that comfort you."

Lilian took up some embroidery. Mrs. Barrington had merely looked in to
inquire. How still the house seemed, and she was in a highly nervous
mood. What if Major Crawford should not believe the story? Well, Lilian
Boyd should never know how near she had come to being a heroine of
romance, and she should achieve some of her desires.

Mrs. Boyd drowsed. Yes, it was really the providence of God that she
should be removed. She would always have the things she most desired,
which she, Mrs. Boyd could not have given her in the pretty home Lilian
had been planning. She had been happy with her lover, then her husband.
But, Lilian would shrink from the kiss of the grimy man fresh from his
hard work, and after his brief ablutions, sitting down to supper in his
shirt sleeves and then lighting his pipe and pushing his baby up and
down the front walk, jesting and laughing with the neighbors. There were
blocks of them, most of them happy women, too, except when the babies
came too fast or died out of their arms. And a few games of cards in the
evening, a play now and then merry enough to keep one laughing. No, it
would never have done for Lilian.

And she would feel out of place in the life to which the girl aspired.
She would never get quite at ease with these refined friends whose talk
was of books and music and the part great men and women were playing in
the world.

How many times does one have a foreshadowing of the real things that
affect life! One may be heavy hearted for days groping about fearsomely
and suddenly the cloud lifts without any misfortune. Then swift in the
happiest hour comes the stroke that crushes one. Lilian looked straight
ahead in her life. She would serve her time here and repay Mrs.
Barrington for her generous kindness.

In a lovely old town like Mount Morris, the lines of caste get
unconsciously drawn. Where people have lived hundreds of years and can
trace back to some titled ancestor perhaps, where they have never known
the hard grind of poverty, but have worked on the higher lines. There
had been several noted clergymen, two bishops, scholars, senators and
even an ambassador abroad. There was no especial pride in this, it was
simply what was to be expected of sons growing up in this refined,
upright and moral atmosphere. But they sometimes passed rather proudly
by those of the next lower round who bent their energies to money
making.

Lilian had soon come to understand that and her personal pride kept her
aloof from any chance of snubs. But she would want a wider world
presently that was not bounded by a grandfather or a fortune that had
descended through generations.

There were moments when Mrs. Boyd's confession seemed a feverish dream.
She did not dare build anything on it, because she had indulged in some
romantic dreams and longings, because there had been wounded vanity
almost to a sense of shame, she held herself to a strict account. No
matter what she might gain here, she would always be considered Mrs.
Boyd's daughter. She had not expected to be received with the young
ladies of the school, and had taken no notice of the little rudenesses
that might have had a better excuse if she had been trying to crowd in.
So all the refinements of birth and education did not always conduce to
the higher generosity of heart.

Miss Arran came gently in the room with an anxious glance toward the
bed.

"Mrs. Barrington wishes to see you in the library, Miss Boyd. I will
stay here with your mother."

Lilian laid down her work as she rose and said: "Mother is asleep now."

Then she went slowly down the wide stairway, her eyes lingering on some
of the panels that had been painted in by a true artist.

"My dear child," the lady said in a voice that seemed full of emotion,
"you must have felt from the beginning that I had taken an unusual
interest in you. You suggested some person that I could not quite place,
but came to know afterward that it was one of my early scholars, a most
charming girl. She married happily and had two sons, but they both
longed for a daughter. Providence listened to their prayers and sent
them a double portion, two lovely girls. My friend's husband was a
soldier stationed on the frontier and in an Indian raid was quite
severely wounded. It was not deemed best to risk moving him and she
resolved to go out to him. One of the babies, the first born was larger
and stronger than the other, and she determined to take this one with a
most excellent nurse she had. You heard the story Mrs. Boyd told. My
friend was in the same frightful accident--the nurse was killed
outright, but the baby by some miracle had not so much as a scratch. The
only other baby was crushed beyond recognition."

Lilian sprang up, then the room seemed to swim round. She caught at the
chair back to steady herself and gave a great gasp.

"Oh, and my mother, Mrs. Boyd, took the child, but they all thought the
nurse the real mother. And, oh--she could not bear to give up the baby.
Oh, you must forgive her."

"In the confusion I can see that it was very easily done. Dr. Kendricks
went out at once. He found the mother gravely injured and the word was
that the baby was dead. It was beyond recognition. Mrs. Boyd, who had
only been stunned, had gone on her way. You have heard her side of the
story, knowing the other side when Miss Arran detailed it, we sent for
Dr. Kendricks and pieced it all together. You have been so occupied with
your supposed mother, and I must say you have been a devoted daughter,
that you have hardly noted our excitement and interest. The confession
established the facts beyond a doubt in our minds, but we were not sure
how the father would take it. And the place has altered immeasurably;
there have been so many accidents since, that that has passed into
oblivion. But no one can dispute the proof. Your mother was a noticeably
handsome girl; but there is a curious resemblance, and it grows upon
one."

"And I am scarcely handsome at all," the girl said, slowly.

"Have you no curiosity to know whom you belong to?" studying Lilian
intently.

"Oh, I dare not ask, I hardly dare believe! It is so mysterious. She,
yes, I will call her mother, though there might be a father somewhere.
And was that beautiful woman they believed dying----"

Lilian clasped her hands over her eyes. Like a flash it seemed to pass
before her. Zay Crawford's double, some of the girls had called her.

"Oh," she cried, "can I endure it? What if they do not want me?"

"If they had doubted the story it would have been kept from you. Can you
guess--"

Lilian flung herself in Mrs. Barrington's arms, with a long, dry sob.

"Oh, do not give me up," she cried imploringly. "Let me stay with you. I
will serve you faithfully for I love you, and these people are
strangers----"

"Think, what it must be after her years of sorrow to clasp her child in
