disposing of some one?"

"A good deal of talk, sir," haughtily, forgetting that he had bent
humbly enough but a few moments gone.

"Very well; go on."

Thought the man at the peephole above: "There's another adage.  When
thieves fall out, then honest men get their dues.  Yes, yes; proceed,
proceed!"

Paroff went on.  "I shall, then, go frankly to the Hargreave house and
claim my own.  Meantime I leave to you the business of luring the
butler away.  Half an hour is all I need to bring that child here, to
break the wall that stands between us and what we seek."

"Is that so?" murmured Braine.  "Olga, I want you to play a trick on
this handsome delegate-at-large.  I'm not very enthusiastic over his
talk.  I want him humiliated.  All you have to do, he says, is to walk
into the Hargreave house and walk out again.  Well, let's you and I see
that he does that and nothing else.  I'll have no one meddling with my
own game."

Some one sneezed, and everybody looked at his neighbor.  The sneeze was
repeated, but muffled, as if some one was desperately anxious to avoid
sneezing.

"It came from above!" whispered Olga.  "Don't look up!"

Braine was cool.  He walked idly across the room to where Vroon sat.
"Very well, Paroff; we give you free rein."  To Vroon he said: "Some
one is watching us from the room overhead.  I thought that room
belonged to us."

"It does," said Vroon stolidly.

"Then how is it that some one is watching from up there?  No
excitement.  I'm going to bid every one good night, then I'm going to
investigate.  When I leave you will quietly send men to all exits to
the building.  I want the man who sneezed, and I want him badly."

Olga departed with Braine, only she immediately sought the taxi that
brought her and was driven home.  It was always understood that when
any serious exploit was under way hereabouts she was to make her
departure at once.

Vroon stationed his men at the several exits and Braine went up-stairs.
The man who had sneezed, however, had vanished as completely as if he
had worn that invisible cloak one reads about in the Persian tales.  As
a matter of fact, after the second sneeze he had gone up to the roof,
got out by the trap, and jumped--rather risky business, too--to the
next roof and had clambered down the fire-escape of the second
building.  He was swearing inaudibly.  After all these days of care and
planning, after all his cleverness in locating the rendezvous of the
Black Hundred, and now to lose his advantage because of an
uncontrollable sneeze!  He would never dare go back, and just when he
was beginning to pick up fine bits of information!  So Florence
Hargreave was going to have a new father in a day or so?  There were
some clever rogues among this band of theirs; but their cleverness was
well offset by an equal number of fools.

Yes, there were some clever rogues, and to prove this assertion Braine
secured a taxicab and drove furiously away, his destination the home of
his ancient enemy.  He dropped the cab a block or two away and
presently stowed himself away in the summer house at the left of the
lawn.  It would have been a capital idea--that is, if the other man had
not thought of and anticipated this very thing.  So he used a public
pay station telephone; and Braine waited in vain, waited till the
lights in the Hargreave house went out one by one and it became wrapped
in darkness within and moonshine without.

Braine was a philosopher.  He returned to his waiting taxicab, drove
home, paid the bill, smiling grimly, and went to bed.  It was going to
be a wonderful game of blind man's buff, and it was going to be sport
to watch this fool Paroff blunder into a pit.

The next afternoon Florence and Norton sat in the summer house talking
of the future.  Lovers are prone to talk of that.  As if anything else
in the world ever equals the present!  They talked of nice little
apartments and vacations in the summer and how much they would save out
of his salary, and a thousand and one other things which would not
interest you at all if I recounted them in detail.  But they did love
each other, and they were going to be married; you may be certain of
that.  They did not care a snap of the finger what Jones thought.  They
were going to be married, and that was all there was to it.  Of course,
Florence couldn't touch a penny of her father's money.  If he, Norton,
couldn't take care of her without help, why, he wouldn't be worth the
powder to blow him up with.

[Illustration: THEY DID NOT CARE A SNAP OF THEIR FINGERS WHAT JONES
THOUGHT]

"But, my dear, you must be very careful," he said.  "Jones and I will
always be about somewhere.  If they really get hold of you once, God
alone knows what will happen.  It is not you, it is your poor father
they want to bring out into the open.  If they knew where he was they
would not bother you in the least."

"Have I really a father?  Sometimes I doubt.  Why couldn't he steal
into the house and see me, just once?"

"Perhaps he dares not.  This house is always watched, night and day,
though you'll look in vain to discover any one.  Your father knows best
what he is doing, my dear girl.  You see, I met him years ago in China;
and when he started out to do a certain thing he generally did it.  He
never botched any of his plans.  So we all must wait.  Only I'm going
to marry you all the same, whether he likes it or not.  The rogues will
try to impose upon you again; but do not pay any attention to notes or
personals in the papers.  And it was a lucky thing that I was on the
freighter that picked you up at sea.  I shall always wonder how that
yacht took fire."

"So shall I," replied Florence, her brows drawing together in
puzzlement.  "Sometimes I think I must have done it.  You know, people
out of their heads do strange things.  I seem to see myself as in a
dream.  And this man Braine is a scoundrel!"

"Yes; and more than that, he is the dear friend of the countess.  But
understand, you must never let her dream or suspect that you know.  By
lulling her into overconfidence some day she will naturally grow
careless, and then we'll have them all.  I think I understand what your
father's idea is: not to have them arrested for blackmail, but
practically to exterminate them, put them in prison for such terms of
years that they'll die there.  When you see a snake, a poisonous one,
don't let it get away.  Kill it.  Well, I must be off to work."

"And you be careful, too.  You are in more danger than I am."

"But I'm a man and can dodge quick," he laughed, picking up his hat.

"What a horrid thing money is!  If I hadn't any money, nobody would
bother me."

"I would," he smiled.  He wanted to kiss her, but the eternal Jones
might be watching from the windows; and so he patted her hand instead
and walked down the graveled path to the street.

It was difficult work for Florence to play at friendship.  She was like
her father; she did not bestow it on every one.  She had given her
friendship to the Russian, the first real big friendship in her life,
and she had been roughly disillusioned.  But if the countess could act,
so could she; and of the two her acting was the more consummate.  She
could smile and laugh and jest, all the while her heart was burning
with wrath.

One day, a week or so after her meeting with Norton in the summer
house, Olga arrived, beautifully gowned, handsome as ever.  There was
not the least touch of the adventuress in her makeup.  Florence had
just received some mail, and she had dropped the letters on the library
table to greet the countess.  She had opened them, but had not yet
looked at their contents.

They were chatting pleasantly about inconsequent things, when the maid
came in and asked Florence to come to Miss Susan's room for a moment.
Florence excused herself, wondering what Susan could want.  She forgot
the mail.

As soon as she was gone the countess, certain that Jones was not
lurking about, picked up the letters and calmly examined their
contents; and among them she found this remarkable document: "Dear
daughter I have never seen: I must turn the treasure over to you.  Meet
me at eight in the summer house.  Tell no one, as my life is in danger.
Your loving father."

The countess could have laughed aloud.  She saw this man Paroff's hand;
and here was the chance to befool and humiliate him and send him off
packing to his cold and miserable country.  She had made up once as
Florence, and she could easily do so again.  The only thing that
troubled her was the fact that she did not know whether Florence had
read the letter or not.  Thus, she did not dare destroy it.  She first
thought of changing the clock; then she concluded to drop the letter
exactly where she found it and trust to luck.



When Florence returned she explained that her absence had been due to
some trifling household affair.

Said the Russian: "I come primarily to ask you to tea to-morrow, where
they dance.  If you like, you may ask Mr. Norton to go along.  I begin
