sleepy blacksmith, still blinking in the after 
noon sunshine. 
"And if you need an interpreter," added 
Burley, "always call on me until you learn 
French enough to get on. Understand, 
George?" 
"Yas, suh." 
"Because," said Burley, walking away, "a 
thorough knowledge of French idioms is 
necessary to prevent mistakes. When in 
doubt always apply to me, George, for only 
a master of the language is competent to 
deal with these French people." 
It was his one vanity, his one weakness. 
Perhaps, because he so ardently desired pro 
ficiency, he had already deluded himself with 
the belief that he was a master of French. 
So, belt and loaded holster sagging, and 
large silver spurs clicking and clinking at 
every step, John Burley sauntered back along 
the almost deserted street of Sainte Lesse, 
thinking sometimes of his mules, sometimes 
of the French language, and every now and 
then of a dark-eyed, dark-haired girl whose 
delicately flushed and pensive gaze he had encountered as he had ridden into Sainte Lesse 
under the old belfry. 
"Stick Smith's a fool," he thought to himself impatiently. "Tray chick doesn't mean 
some chicken. It means a pretty girl, in 
French." 
He looked up at the belfry as he passed 
under it, and at the same moment, from beneath the high, gilded dragon which crowned 
its topmost spire, a sweet bell-note floated, 
another, others succeeding in crystalline 
sweetness, linked in a fragment of some an 
cient melody. Then they ceased; then came 
a brief silence; the great bell he had heard 
before struck five times. 
"Lord! that's pretty," he murmured, moving on and turning into the arched tunnel 
which was the entrance to the White Doe Inn. 
Wandering at random, he encountered the 
innkeeper in the parlour, studying a crumpled 
newspaper through horn-rimmed spectacles 
on his nose. 
"Tray jolie," said Burley affably, seating 
himself with an idea of further practice in 
French. 
"Plait-tit" 
"The bells tray beau!" 
The old man straightened his bent shoul 
ders a little proudly. 
"For thirty years, m sieu, I have been Caril- 
lonneur of Sainte Lesse." He smiled; then, 
saddened, he held out both hands toward Burley. The fingers were stiff and crippled with 
rheumatism. 
"No more," he said slowly; "the carillon is 
ended for me. The great art is no more for 
Jean Courtray, Master of Bells." 
"What is a carillon?" inquired John Burley 
simply. 
Blank incredulity was succeeded by a 
shocked expression on the old man's visage. 
After a silence, in mild and patient protest, 
he said: 
"I am Jean Courtray, Carillonneur of 
Sainte Lesse. . . . Have you never heard of 
the carillon of Sainte Lesse, or of me?" 
"Never," said Burley. "We don't have 
anything like that in America." 
The old carillonneur, Jean Courtray, began 
to speak in a low voice of his art, his profession, and of the great carillon of forty- 
six bells in the ancient tower of Sainte Lesse. 
A carillon, he explained, is a company of 
fixed bells tuned according to the chromatic 
scale and ranging through several octaves. 
These bells, rising tier above tier in a belfry, 
the smallest highest, the great, ponderous 
bells of the bass notes lowest, are not free 
to swing, but are fixed to huge beams, and 
are sounded by clappers connected by a wilderness of wires to a keyboard which is played 
upon by the bell-master or carillonneur. 
He explained that the office of bell-master 
was an ancient one and greatly honoured; 
that the bell-master was also a member of the 
municipal government; that his salary was a 
fixed one; that not only did he play upon the 
carillon on fete days, market days, and par 
ticular occasions, but he also travelled and 
gave concerts upon the few existing carillons 
of other ancient towns and cities, not alone 
in France where carillons were few, but in 
Belgium and Holland, where they still were 
comparatively many, although the German 
barbarians had destroyed some of the best at 
Liege, Arras, Dixmude, Termonde, and Ypres. 
"Monsieur," he went on in a voice which 
began to grow a little unsteady, "the Huns 
have destroyed the ancient carillons of Lou- 
vain and of Mechlin. In the superb bell- 
tower of Saint Rombold I have played for a 
thousand people; and the Carillonneur, Mon 
sieur Vincent, and the great bell-master, Josef 
Denyn, have come to me to congratulate me 
with tears in their eyes in their eyes 
There were tears in his own now, and he 
bent his white head and looked down at the 
worn floor nnder his crippled feet. 
"Alas," he said, "for Denyn and for Saint 
Rombold's tower. The Hun has passed that 
way." 
After a silence: 
"Who is it now plays the carillon in Sainte 
Lesse!" asked Burley. 
"My daughter, Maryette. Sainte Lesse has 
honoured me in my daughter, whom I myself 
instructed. My daughter the little child of 
my old age, monsieur is mistress of the bells 
of Sainte Lesse. . . . They call her Carillon- 
nette in Sainte Lesse " 
The door opened and the girl came in. 
CHAPTER XV 
Sticky Smith and Kid Glenn remained a 
week at Sainte Lesse, then left with the 
negroes for Calais to help bring up another 
cargo of mules, the arrival of which was daily 
expected. 
A peloton of the Train-des-Equipages and 
three Remount troopers arrived at Sainte 
Lesse to take over the corral. John Burley 
remained to explain and interpret the American mule to these perplexed troopers. 
Morning, noon, and night he went clanking 
down to the corral, his cartridge belt and 
holster swinging at his hip. But sometimes 
he had a little leisure. 
Sainte Lesse knew him as a mighty eater 
and as a lusty drinker of good red wine; as 
a mighty and garrulous talker, too, he be- 
came known, ready to accost anybody in the 
quiet and subdued old town and explode into 
French at the slightest encouragement. 
But Burley had only women and children 
and old men on whom to practice his earnest 
and voluble French, for everybody else was 
at the front. 
Children adored him adored his big, sil 
ver spurs, his cartridge belt and pistol, the 
metal mule decorating his tunic collar, his 
six feet two of height, his quick smile, the 
even white teeth and grayish eyes of this 
American muleteer, who always had a stick 
of barley sugar to give them or an amazing 
trick to perform for them with a handker 
chief or coin that vanished under their very 
noses at the magic snap of his finger. 
Old men gossiped willingly with him; 
women liked him and their rare smiles in the 
war-sobered town of Sainte Lesse were often 
for him as he sauntered along the quiet street, 
clanking, swaggering, affable, ready for conversation with anybody, and always ready for 
the small, confident hands that unceremoniously clasped his when lie passed by where 
children played. 
As for Maryette Courtray, called Carillon- 
nette, she mounted the bell-tower once every 
hour, from six in the morning until nine 
o clock in the evening, to play the passing of 
Time toward that eternity into which it is 
always and ceaselessly moving. 
After nine o clock Carillonnette set the drum 
and wound it; and through the dark hours of 
the night the bells played mechanically every 
hour for a few moments before Bayard 
struck. 
Between these duties the girl managed the 
old inn, to which, since the war, nobody came 
any more and with these occupations her life 
was full sufficiently full, perhaps, without 
the advent of John Burley. 
They met with enough frequency for her, 
if not for him. Their encounters took place 
between her duties aloft at the keyboard under the successive tiers of bells and his in 
tervals of prowling among his mules. 
