"I'll take a peek int' this, Milly," he said to his wife.  "We've been
waiting for this t' happen.  A million dollars in jools in a chest y'
could open with a can-opener.  Queer ginks, these Hindus.  We see lots
o' fakers, but this one is the real article.  Mebbe a reward.  All
right; little ol' Haggerty can use th' money.  I may not be home t'
supper."
"Anything more about Mr. Crawford's valet?"
Haggerty scowled.  "Not a line.  I've been living in gambling joints,
but no sign of him.  He gambled in th' ol' days; some time 'r other
he'll wander in somewhere an' try t' copper th' king.  No sign of him
round Crawford's ol' place.  But I'll get him; it's a hunch.  By-by!"
Later, the detective was conducted into the Maharajah's reception-room.
The prince, in his soft drawling English (far more erudite and polished
than Haggerty's, if not so direct), explained the situation, omitting
no detail.  He would give two thousand five hundred for the recovery of
the stones.
"At what are they valued?"
"By your customs appraisers, forty thousand.  To me they are priceless."
"Six t' ten carats?  Why, they're worth more than that."
The prince smiled.  "That was for the public."
"I'll take a look int' your bedroom," said Haggerty, rising.
"Oh, no; that is not at all necessary," protested the prince.
"How d' you suppose I'm going t' find out who done it, or how it was
done, then?" demanded Haggerty, bewildered.
A swift oriental gesture.
The hotel manager soothed Haggerty by explaining that the prince's
caste would not permit an alien to touch anything in the bedroom while
it contained the prince's belongings.
"Well, wouldn't that get your goat!" exploded Haggerty.  "That lets me
out.  You'll have to get a clairyvoint."
The prince suggested that he be given another suite.  His servants
would remove his belongings.  He promised that nothing else should be
touched.
"How long'll it take you?"
"An hour."
"All right," assented Haggerty.  "Who's got th' suite across th' hall?"
he asked of the manager, as they left the prince.
"Lord Monckton.  He and his valet left this morning for Bar Harbor.
Back Tuesday.  A house-party of Fifth Avenue people."
"Uhuh."  Haggerty tugged at his mustache.  "I might look around in
there while I'm waiting for his Majesty t' change.  Did y'ever hear th'
likes?  Bug-house."
"But he pays a hundred the day, Haggerty.  I'll let you privately into
Lord Monckton's suite.  But you'll waste your time."
"Sure he left this morning?"
"I'll phone the office and make sure. . . .  Lord Monckton left shortly
after midnight.  His man followed early this morning.  Lord Monckton
went by his host's yacht.  But the man followed by rail."
"What's his man look like?"
"Slim and very dark, and very quiet."
"Well, I'll take a look."
The manager was right.  Haggerty had his trouble for nothing.  There
was no clue whatever in Lord Monckton's suite.  There was no paper in
the waste-baskets, in the fireplace; the blotters on the writing-desk
were spotless.  Some clothes were hanging in the closets, but these
revealed only their fashionable maker's name.  In the reception-room,
on a table, a pack of cards lay spread out in an unfinished game of
solitaire.  All the small baggage had been taken for the journey.
Truth to tell, Haggerty had not expected to find anything; he had not
cared to sit idly twiddling his thumbs while the Maharajah vacated his
rooms.
In the bathroom (Lord Monckton's) he found two objects which aroused
his silent derision: a bottle of brilliantine and an ointment made of
walnut-juice.  Probably this Lord Monckton was a la-de-dah chap.  Bah!
Once in the prince's vacated bedroom Haggerty went to work with classic
thoroughness.  Not a square foot of the room escaped his vigilant eye.
The thief had not entered by the windows; he had come into the room by
the door which gave to the corridor.  He stood on a chair and examined
the transom sill.  The dust was undisturbed.  He inspected the keyhole;
sniffed; stood up, bent and sniffed again.  It was an odor totally
unknown to him.  He stuffed the corner of his fresh handkerchief into
the keyhole, drew it out and sniffed that.  Barely perceptible.  He
wrapped the corner into the heart of the handkerchief, and put it back
into his pocket.  Some powerful narcotic had been forced into the room
through the keyhole.  This would account for the prince's headache.
These Orientals were as bad as the Dutch; they never opened their
windows for fresh air.
Beyond this faint, mysterious odor there was nothing else.  The first
step would be to ascertain whether this narcotic was occidental or
oriental.
"Nothing doing yet," he confessed to the anxious manager.  "But there
ain't any cause for you t' worry.  You're not responsible for jools not
left in th' office."
"That isn't the idea.  It's having the thing happen in this hotel.
We'll add another five hundred if you succeed.  Not in ten years has
there been so much as a spoon missing.  What do you think about it?"
"Big case.  I'll be back in a little while.  Don't tell th' reporters
anything."
Haggerty was on his way to a near-by chemist whom he knew, when he
espied Crawford in his electric, stalled in a jam at Forty-second and
Broadway.  He had not seen the archeologist since his return from
Europe.
"Hey, Mr. Crawford!" Haggerty bawled, putting his head into the window.
"Why, Haggerty, how are you?  Can I give you a lift?"
"If it won't trouble you."
"Not at all.  Pretty hot weather."
"For my business.  Wish I could run off t' th' seashore like you folks.
Heard o' th' Maharajah's emeralds?"
"Yes.  You're on that case?"
"Trying t' get on it.  Looks blank jus' now.  Clever bit o' work;
something new.  But I've got news for you, though.  Your man Mason is
back here again.  I thought I wouldn't say nothing t' you till I put my
hand on his shoulder."
"I'm sorry.  I had hoped that the unfortunate devil would have had
sense to remain abroad."
"Then you knew he was over there?"--quickly.  "See him?"
"No.  I shall never feel anything but sorry for him.  You can not live
with a man as I did, for ten years, and not regret his misstep."
"Oh, I understand your side.  But that man was a born crook, an' th'
cleverest I ever run up against.  For all you know, he may have been
back of a lot o' tricks Central never got hold of.  I'll bet that each
time that you went over with him, he took loot an' disposed of it.  I
may be pig-headed sometimes, but I'm dead sure o' this.  Wait some day
an' see.  Say, take a whiff o' this an' tell me what y' think it is."
Haggerty produced the handkerchief.
"I don't smell anything," said Crawford.
Haggerty seized the handkerchief and sniffed, gently, then violently.
All he could smell was reminiscent of washtubs.  The mysterious odor
was gone.
CHAPTER XIV
This is not a story of the Maharajah's emeralds; only a knot in the
landing-net of which I have already spoken.  I may add with equal
frankness that Haggerty, upon his own initiative, never proceeded an
inch beyond the keyhole episode.  It was one of his many failures; for,
unlike the great fictional detectives who never fail, Haggerty was
human, and did.  It is only fair to add, however, that when he failed
only rarely did any one else succeed.  If ever criminal investigation
was a man's calling, it was Haggerty's.  He had infinite patience, the
heart of a lion and the strength of a gorilla.  Had he been highly
educated, as a detective he would have been a fizzle; his mind would
have been concerned with variant lofty thoughts, and the sordid would
have repelled him: and all crimes are painted on a background of
sordidness.  In one thing Haggerty stood among his peers and topped
many of them; in his long record there was not one instance of his
arresting an innocent man.
So Haggerty had his failures; there are geniuses on both sides of the
law; and the pariah-dog is always just a bit quicker mentally than the
thoroughbred hound who hunts him; indeed, to save his hide he has to be.
Nearly every great fact is like a well-balanced kite; it has for its
tail a whimsy.  Haggerty, on a certain day, received twenty-five
hundred dollars from the Hindu prince and five hundred more from the
hotel management.  The detective bore up under the strain with stoic
complacency.  "The Blind Madonna of the Pagan--Chance" always had her
hand upon his shoulder.
Kitty went to Bar Harbor, her mother to visit friends in Orange.
Thomas walked with a straight spine always; but it stiffened to think
that, without knowing a solitary item about his past, they trusted him
with the run of the house.  The first day there was work to do; the
second day, a little less; the third, nothing at all.  So he moped
about the great house, lonesome as a forgotten dog.  He wrote a sonnet
on being lonesome, tore it up and flung the scraps into the
waste-basket.  Once, he seated himself at the piano and picked out with
clumsy forefinger Walking Down the Old Kent Road.  Kitty could play.
Often in the mornings, while at his desk, he had heard her; and oddly
enough, he seemed to sense her moods by what she played.  (That's the
poet.)  When she played Chopin or Chaminade she went about gaily all
the day; when she played Beethoven, Grieg or Bach, Thomas felt the
presence of shadows.
There was a magnificent library, mostly editions de luxe.  Thomas
smiled over the many uncut volumes.  True, Dickens, Dumas and Stevenson
were tolerably well-thumbed; but the host of thinkers and poets and
dramatists and theologians, in their hand-tooled Levant . . . !  Away
in an obscure corner (because of its cheap binding) he came across a
set of Lamb.  He took out a volume at random and glanced at the
fly-leaf--"Kitty Killigrew, Smith College."  Then he went into the body
of the book.  It was copiously marked and annotated.  There was
something so intimate in the touch of the book that he felt he was
committing a sacrilege, looking as it were into Kitty's soul.  Most men
would have gone through the set.  Thomas put the book away.  Thou fool,
indeed!  What a hash he had made of his affairs!
He saw Killigrew at breakfast only.  The merchant preferred his club in
the absence of his family.
Early in the afternoon of the fourth day, Thomas received a telephone
call from Killigrew.
"Hello!  That you, Webb?"
"Yes.  Who is it?"
"Killigrew.  Got anything to do to-night?"
"No, Mr. Killigrew."
"You know where my club is, don't you?"
"Yes."
