So Kitten Brown it was for him in future. After he had fought all the
younger members of the scientific staff in turn, he gradually became
resigned to this annoying nom d'amour.
Lightly but thoroughly equipped for scientific field research, we had
arrived at the rendezvous in time to bribe the two guides engaged by the
Government to go back to their own firesides.
A week later the formidable expedition of representative ladies arrived;
and now they were sitting on the shore of Lake Susan W. Pillsbury, at a
little distance from us, trying to keep the midges from their features
and attempting to eat the fare provided for them by me.
I myself couldn't eat it. No wonder they murmured. But hunger goaded them
to attack the greasy mess of trout and fried cornmeal.
Kitten was saying to me:
"Our medicine chest isn't very extensive. I hope they brought their own.
If they didn't, some among us will never again see New York."
I stole a furtive glance at the unfortunate women. There was one among
them--but let me first enumerate their heavy artillery:
There was the Reverend Dr. Amelia Jones, blond, adipose, and close to the
four-score mark. She stepped high in the Equal Franchise ranks. Nobody
had ever had the temerity to answer her back.
There was Miss Sadie Dingleheimer, fifty, emaciated, anemic, and gauntly
glittering with thick-lensed eye-glasses. She was the President of the
National Prophylactic Club, whatever that may be.
There was Miss Margaret McFadden, a Titian, profusely toothed, muscular,
and President of the Hair Dressers' Union of the United States.
There was Mrs. Gladys Doolittle Batt, a grass one--Batt being represented
as a vanishing point--President of the National Eugenic and Purity
League; tall, gnarled, sinuously powerful, and prone to emotional
attacks. The attacks were directed toward others.
These, then, composed the heavy artillery. The artillery of the light
brigade consisted only of a single piece. Her name was Angelica White, a
delegate from the Trained Nurses' Association of America. The nurses had
been too busy with their business to attend such picnics, so one had been
selected by lot to represent the busy Association on this expedition.
Angelica White was a tall, fair, yellow-haired girl of twenty-two or
three, with violet-blue eyes and red lips, and a way of smiling a little
when spoken to--but let that pass. I mean only to be scientifically
minute. A passion for fact has ever obsessed me. I have little literary
ability and less desire to sully my pen with that degraded form of
letters known as fiction. Once in my life my mania for accuracy involved
me lyrically. It was a short poem, but an earnest one:
  Truth is mighty and must prevail,
  Otherwise it were inadvisable to tell the tale.
I bestowed it upon the New York Evening Post, but declined
remuneration. My message belonged to the world. I don't mean the
newspaper.
Her eyes, then, were tinted with that indefinable and agreeable nuance
which modifies blue to a lilac or violet hue.
Watching her askance, I was deeply sorry that my cooking seemed to pain
her.
"Guide!" said Mrs. Doolittle Batt, in that remarkable, booming voice of
hers.
"Ma'am!" said Kitten Brown and I with spontaneous alacrity, leaping from
the ground as though shot at.
"This cooking," she said, with an ominous stare at us, "is atrocious.
Don't you know how to cook?"
I said with a smiling attempt at ease:
"There are various ways of cooking food for the several species of
mammalia which an all-wise Providence--"
"Do you think you're cooking for wild-cats?" she demanded.
Our smiles faded.
"It's my opinion that you're incompetent," remarked the Reverend Dr.
Jones, slapping at midges with a hand that might have rocked all the
cradles of the nation, but had not rocked any.
"We're not getting our money's worth," said Miss Dingleheimer, "even if
the Government does pay your salaries."
I looked appealingly from one stony face to another. In Miss McFadden's
eye there was the somber glint of battle. She said:
"If you can guide us no better than you cook, God save us all this day
week!" And she hurled the contents of her tin plate into Lake Susan W.
Pillsbury.
Mrs. Doolittle Batt arose:
"Come," she said; "it is time we started. What is the name of the first
lake we may hope to encounter?"
We knew no more than did they, but we said that Lake Gladys Doolittle
Batt was the first, hoping to placate that fearsome woman.
"Come on, then!" she cried, picking up her carved and varnished mountain
staff.
Miss Dingleheimer had brought one, too, from the Catskills.
So Kitten Brown and I loaded our mule, set him in motion, and drove him
forward into the unknown.
Where we were going we had not the slightest idea; the margin of the lake
was easy travelling, so easy that we never noticed that we had already
gone around the lake three times, until Mrs. Batt recognized the fact and
turned on us furiously.
I didn't know how to explain it, except to say feebly that I was doing it
as a sort of preliminary canter to harden and inure the ladies.
"We don't need hardening!" she snarled. "Do you understand that!"
I comprehended that at once. But I forced a sickly smile and skipped
forward in the wake of my mule, with something of the same abandon
which characterizes the flight of an unwelcome dog.
In the terrified ear of Kitten I voiced my doubts concerning the
prospects of a pleasant journey.
We marched in the following order: Arthur, the heavily laden mule,
led; then came Kitten Brown and myself, all hung over with stew-pans,
shotguns, rifles, cartridge-belts, ponchos, and the toilet reticules of
the ladies; then marched the Reverend Dr. Jones, and, in order, filing
behind her, Miss Dingleheimer, Mrs. Batt, Miss McFadden, and Miss
White--the latter in her trained nurse's costume and wearing a red cross
on her sleeve--an idea of Mrs. Batt, who believed in emergency methods.
Mrs. Batt also bore a banner, much interfered with by the foliage,
bearing the inscription:
  EQUAL RIGHTS!
  EUGENICS OR EXTERMINATION!
After a while she shouted:
"Guide! Here, you may carry this banner for a while! I'm tired."
Kitten and I took turns with it after that. It was hard work,
particularly as one by one in turn they came up and hung their parasols
and shopping reticules all over us. We plodded forward like a pair of
moving department stores, not daring to shift our burdens to Arthur,
because we had already stuffed into the panniers of that simple and
dignified animal all our collecting boxes, cyanide jars, butterfly nets,
note-books, reels of piano wire, thermometers, barometers, hydrometers,
stereometers, aeronoids, adnoids--everything, in fact, that guides are
not supposed to pack into the woods, but which we had smuggled unbeknown
to those misguided ones we guided.
And, to make room for our scientific paraphernalia, we had been obliged
to do a thing so mean, so inexpressibly low, that I blush to relate it.
But facts are facts; we discarded nearly a ton of feminine impedimenta.
There was fancy work of all sorts in the making or in the raw--materials
for knitting, embroidering, tatting, sewing, hemming, stitching,
drawn-work, lace-making, crocheting.
Also we disposed of almost half a ton of toilet necessities--powder,
perfumery, cosmetics, hot-water bags, slippers, negligees, novels,
magazines, bon-bons, chewing-gum, hat-boxes, gloves, stockings,
underwear.
We left enough apparel for each lady to change once. They'd have to do
some scrubbing now. Science can not be halted by hatpins; cosmos can not
be side-tracked by cosmetics.
Toward sunset we came upon a small, crystal clear pond, set between the
bases of several lofty mountains. I was ready to drop with fatigue, but
I nerved myself, drew a deep, exultant breath, and with one of those
fine, sweeping gestures, I cried:
"Lake Mrs. Gladys Doolittle Batt! Eureka! At last! Excelsior!"
There was a profound silence behind me. I turned, striving to mask my
apprehension with a smile. The ladies were regarding the pond in
surprise. I admit that it was a pond, not a lake.
Injecting into my voice the last remnants of glee which I could summon, I
shouted, "Eureka!" and began to caper about as though the size and beauty
of the pond had affected me with irrepressible enthusiasm, hoping by my
emotion to stampede the convention.
The cold voice of Mrs. Doolittle Batt checked my transports:
"Is that puddle named after me?" she demanded.
"M-ma'am?" I stammered.
"If that wretched frog-pond has been christened with my name, somebody is
going to get into trouble," she said ominously.
A profound silence ensued. Arthur patiently switched at flies. As for
me, I looked up at the majestic pines, gazed upon the lofty and eternal
hills, then ventured a sneaking glance all around me. But I could
discover no avenue of escape in case Mrs. Batt should charge me.
"I had been informed," she began dangerously, "that the majestic body of
water, which I understood had been honoured with my name, was twelve
miles long and three miles wide. This appears to be a puddle!"
"B-b-but it's very p-pretty," I protested feebly. "It's quite round and
clear, and it's nearly a quarter of a mile in d-diameter--"
"Mind your business!" retorted Mrs. Doolittle Batt. "I've been swindled!"
Kitten Brown knew more about women than did I. He said in a fairly steady
voice:
"Madame, it is an outrage! The women of this mighty nation should make
the Government answerable for its duplicity! Your lake should have been
at least twenty miles long!"
Everybody turned and looked at Kitten. He was a handsome dog.
"This young man appears to have some trace of common-sense," said Mrs.
Batt. "I shall see to it that the Government is held responsible for
this odious act of insulting duplicity. I--I won't have my name given to
this--this wallow!--" She advanced toward me, her small eyes blazing: I
retreated to leeward of Arthur.
"Guide!" she said in a voice still trembling with passion. "Are you
certain that you have made no mistake? You appear to be unusually
ignorant."
"I am afraid there can be no room for doubt," I said, almost scared out
of my senses.
"And on top of this outrage, am I to eat your cooking?" she demanded
passionately. "Did I come here to look at this frog-pond and choke on
your cooking? Did I?"
"I can cook," said a clear, pleasant voice at my elbow. And Miss White
came forward, cool, clean, fresh as a posy in her uniform and cap. I
immediately got behind her.
"I can cook very nicely," she said smilingly. "It is part of my
profession, you know. So if you two guides will be kind enough to build
