re-established for Charlotte's advantage, though she had not thought
of it the whole short morning long. When she came back from lunch the
Vaneckens were just brushing away the crumbs of theirs, which the son
and brother seemed to have brought in for them in a paper box; at any
rate, he was now there, making believe to help them.
Mrs. Forsyth had promised to come, but she came so late in the
afternoon that she owned she had been grudgingly admitted at the
office, and she was rather indignant about it. By this time, without
having been West for three months, Peter had asked a question which
had apparently never been asked before, and Charlotte had as newly
answered it. "And now, mother," she said, while Mrs. Forsyth passed
from indignant to exultant, "I want to be married right away, before
Peter changes his mind about taking me West with him. Let us go home
at once. You always said I should have a home wedding."
"What a ridiculous idea!" Mrs. Forsyth said, more to gain time than
anything else. She added, "Everything is at sixes and sevens in the
flat. There wouldn't be standing-room." A sudden thought flashed upon
her, which, because it was sudden and in keeping with her character,
she put into tentative words. "You're more at home here than
anywhere else. You were almost born here. You've played about here
ever since you were a child. You first met Peter here. He proposed to
you here, and you rejected him here. He's proposed here again, and
you've accepted him, you say--"
"Mother!" Charlotte broke in terribly upon her. "Are you suggesting
that I should be married in a storage warehouse? Well, I haven't
fallen quite so low as that yet. If I can't have a home wedding, I
will have a church wedding, and I will wait till doomsday for it if
necessary."
"I don't know about doomsday," Mrs. Forsyth said, "but as far as
to-day is concerned, it's too late for a church wedding. Peter, isn't
there something about canonical hours? And isn't it past them?"
"That's in the Episcopal Church," Peter said, and then he asked, very
politely, "Will you excuse me for a moment?" and walked away as if he
had an idea. It was apparently to join the Vaneckens, who stood in a
group at the end of their corridor, watching the restoration of the
trunks which they had been working over the whole day. He came back
with Mr. Vanecken and Mr. Vanecken's mother. He was smiling radiantly,
and they amusedly.
"It's all right," he explained. "Mr. Vanecken is a Presbyterian
minister, and he will marry us now."
"But not here!" Charlotte cried, feeling herself weaken.
"No, certainly not," the dominie reassured her. "I know a church in
the next block that I can borrow for the occasion. But what about the
license?"
It was in the day before the parties must both make application in
person, and Peter took a paper from his breast pocket. "I thought it
might be needed, sometime, and I got it on the way up, this morning."
"Oh, how thoughtful of you, Peter!" Mrs. Forsyth moaned in admiration
otherwise inexpressible, and the rest laughed, even Charlotte, who
laughed hysterically. At the end of the corridor they met the Misses
Vanecken waiting for them, unobtrusively expectant, and they all went
down in the elevator together. Just as they were leaving the building,
which had the air of hurrying them out, Mrs. Forsyth had an
inspiration. "Good heavens!" she exclaimed, and then, in deference to
Mr. Vanecken, said, "Good gracious, I mean. My husband! Peter, go
right into the office and telephone Mr. Forsyth."
"Perhaps," Mr. Vanecken said, "I had better go and see about having my
friend's church opened, in the meanwhile, and--"
"By all means!" Mrs. Forsyth said from her mood of universal
approbation.
But Mr. Vanecken came back looking rather queer and crestfallen. "I
find my friend has gone into the country for a few days; and I don't
quite like to get the sexton to open the church without his authority,
and-- But New York is full of churches, and we can easily find another,
with a little delay, if--"
He looked at Peter, who looked at Charlotte, who burst out with
unprecedented determination. "No, we can't wait. I shall never marry
Peter if we do. Mother, you are right. But must it be in the old
ancestral five-dollar room?"
They all laughed except Charlotte, who was more like crying.
"Certainly not," Mr. Vanecken said. "I've no doubt the manager--"
He never seemed to end his sentences, and he now left this one broken
off while he penetrated the railing which fenced in the manager alone
among a group of vacated desks, frowning impatient. At some murmured
words from the dominie, he shouted, "What!" and then came out
radiantly smiling, and saying, "Why, certainly." He knew all the group
as old storers in the Constitutional, and called them each by name as
he shook them each by the hand. "Everything else has happened here,
and I don't see why this shouldn't. Come right into the
reception-room."
With some paintings of biblical subjects, unclaimed from the storage,
on the walls, the place had a religious effect, and the manager
significantly looked out of it a lingering stenographer, who was
standing before a glass with two hatpins crossed in her mouth
preparatory to thrusting them through the straw. She withdrew, visibly
curious and reluctant, and then the manager offered to withdraw
himself.
"No," Charlotte said, surprisingly initiative in these junctures, "I
don't know how it is in Mr. Vanecken's church, but, if father doesn't
come, perhaps you'll have to give me away. At any rate, you're an old
friend of the family, and I should be hurt if you didn't stay."
She laid her hand on the manager's arm, and just as he had
protestingly and politely consented, her father arrived in a taxicab,
rather grumbling from having been obliged to cut short a sitting. When
it was all over, and the Vaneckens were eliminated, when, in fact, the
Breams had joined the Forsyths at a wedding dinner which the bride's
father had given them at Delmonico's and had precipitated themselves
into a train for Niagara ("So banal," Mrs. Forsyth said, "but I
suppose they had to go somewhere, and we went to Niagara, come to
think of it, and it's on their way West"), the bride's mother remained
up late talking it all over. She took credit to herself for the whole
affair, and gave herself a great deal of just praise. But when she
said, "I do believe, if it hadn't been for me, at the last, Charlotte
would never have made up her mind," Forsyth demurred.
"I should say Peter had a good deal to do with making up her mind for
her."
"Yes, you might say that."
"And for once in her life Charlotte seems to have had her mind ready
for making up."
"Yes, you might say that, too. I believe she is going to turn out a
decided character, after all. I never saw anybody so determined not
to be married in a storage warehouse."
                                  II
                            A PRESENTIMENT
Over our coffee in the Turkish room Minver was usually a censor of our
several foibles rather than a sharer in our philosophic speculations
and metaphysical conjectures. He liked to disable me as one
professionally vowed to the fabulous, and he had unfailing fun with
the romantic sentimentality of Rulledge, which was in fact so little
in keeping with the gross super-abundance of his person, his habitual
gluttony, and his ridiculous indolence. Minver knew very well that
Rulledge was a good fellow withal, and would willingly do any kind
action that did not seriously interfere with his comfort, or make too
heavy a draft upon his pocket. His self-indulgence, which was quite
blameless, unless surfeit is a fault, was the basis of an interest in
occult themes, which was the means of even higher diversion to Minver.
He liked to have Rulledge approach Wanhope from this side, in the
invincible persuasion that the psychologist would be interested in
these themes by the law of his science, though he had been assured
again and again that in spite of its misleading name psychology did
not deal with the soul as Rulledge supposed the soul; and Minver's
eyes lighted up with a prescience of uncommon pleasure when, late one
night, after we had vainly tried to hit it off in talk, now of this,
now of that, Rulledge asked Wanhope, abruptly as if it followed from
something before:
"Wasn't there a great deal more said about presentiments forty or
fifty years ago than there is now?"
Wanhope had been lapsing deeper and deeper into the hollow of his
chair; but he now pulled himself up, and turned quickly toward
Rulledge. "What made you think of that?" he asked.
"I don't know. Why?"
"Because I was thinking of it myself." He glanced at me, and I shook
my head.
"Well," Minver said, "if it will leave Acton out in the cold, I'll own
that I was thinking of it, too. I was going back in my mind, for no
reason that I know of, to my childhood, when I first heard of such a
thing as a presentiment, and when I was afraid of having one. I had
the notion that presentiments ran in the family."
"Why had you that notion?" Rulledge demanded.
"I don't know that I proposed telling," the painter said, giving
himself to his pipe.
"Perhaps you didn't have it," Rulledge retaliated.
"Perhaps," Minver assented.
Wanhope turned from the personal aspect of the matter. "It's rather
curious that we should all three have had the same thing in mind just
now; or, rather, it is not very curious. Such coincidences are really
very common. Something must have been said at dinner which suggested
it to all of us."
"All but Acton," Minver demurred.
"I mightn't have heard what was said," I explained. "I suppose the
passing of all that sort of sub-beliefs must date from the general
lapse of faith in personal immortality."
"Yes, no doubt," Wanhope assented. "It is very striking how sudden the
lapse was. Everyone who experienced it in himself could date it to a
year, if not to a day. The agnosticism of scientific men was of course
all the time undermining the fabric of faith, and then it fell in
abruptly, reaching one believer after another as fast as the ground
was taken wholly or partly from under his feet. I can remember how
people once disputed whether there were such beings as guardian
spirits or not. That minor question was disposed of when it was
decided that there were no spirits at all."
"Naturally," Minver said. "And the decay of the presentiment must have
been hastened by the failure of so many presentiments to make good."
"The great majority of them have failed to make good, from the
beginning of time," Wanhope replied.
"There are two kinds of presentiments," Rulledge suggested, with a
philosophic air. "The true and the untrue."
"Like mushrooms," Minver said. "Only, the true presentiment kills, and
the true mushroom nourishes. Talking of mushrooms, they have a way in
Switzerland of preserving them in walnut oil, and they fill you with
