them, and finally fell over and lay helpless and kicking. It made us
all laugh, though it was a shameful thing to see. The guns were charged
with dirt, to fire a salute, but they were so crooked and so badly
made that they all burst when they went off, and killed some of the
gunners and crippled the others. Satan said we would have a storm now,
and an earthquake, if we liked, but we must stand off a piece, out of
danger. We wanted to call the people away, too, but he said never mind
them; they were of no consequence, and we could make more, some time or
other, if we needed them.
A small storm-cloud began to settle down black over the castle, and
the miniature lightning and thunder began to play, and the ground to
quiver, and the wind to pipe and wheeze, and the rain to fall, and all
the people flocked into the castle for shelter. The cloud settled down
blacker and blacker, and one could see the castle only dimly through
it; the lightning blazed out flash upon flash and pierced the castle
and set it on fire, and the flames shone out red and fierce through the
cloud, and the people came flying out, shrieking, but Satan brushed
them back, paying no attention to our begging and crying and imploring;
and in the midst of the howling of the wind and volleying of the
thunder the magazine blew up, the earthquake rent the ground wide, and
the castle’s wreck and ruin tumbled into the chasm, which swallowed it
from sight and closed upon it, with all that innocent life, not one of
the five hundred poor creatures escaping. Our hearts were broken; we
could not keep from crying.
“Don’t cry,” Satan said; “they were of no value.”
“But they are gone to hell!”
“Oh, it is no matter; we can make plenty more.”
It was of no use to try to move him; evidently he was wholly without
feelings, and could not understand. He was full of bubbling spirits,
and as gay as if this were a wedding instead of a fiendish massacre.
And he was bent on making us feel as he did, and of course his magic
accomplished his desire. It was no trouble to him; he did whatever he
pleased with us. In a little while we were dancing on that grave, and
he was playing to us on a strange, sweet instrument which he took out
of his pocket; and the music--but there is no music like that, unless
perhaps in heaven, and that was where he brought it from, he said. It
made one mad, for pleasure; and we could not take our eyes from him,
and the looks that went out of our eyes came from our hearts, and their
dumb speech was worship. He brought the dance from heaven, too, and the
bliss of paradise was in it.
Presently he said he must go away on an errand. But we could not bear
the thought of it, and clung to him, and pleaded with him to stay;
and that pleased him, and he said so, and said he would not go yet,
but would wait a little while and we would sit down and talk a few
minutes longer; and he told us Satan was only his real name, and he
was to be known by it to us alone, but he had chosen another one to be
called by in the presence of others; just a common one, such as people
have--Philip Traum.
It sounded so odd and mean for such a being! But it was his decision,
and we said nothing; his decision was sufficient.
We had seen wonders this day; and my thoughts began to run on the
pleasure it would be to tell them when I got home, but he noticed those
thoughts, and said:
“No, all these matters are a secret among us four. I do not mind your
trying to tell them, if you like, but I will protect your tongues, and
nothing of the secret will escape from them.”
It was a disappointment, but it couldn’t be helped, and it cost us a
sigh or two. We talked pleasantly along, and he was always reading our
thoughts and responding to them, and it seemed to me that this was the
most wonderful of all the things he did, but he interrupted my musings
and said:
“No, it would be wonderful for you, but it is not wonderful for me. I
am not limited like you. I am not subject to human conditions. I can
measure and understand your human weaknesses, for I have studied them;
but I have none of them. My flesh is not real, although it would seem
firm to your touch; my clothes are not real; I am a spirit. Father
Peter is coming.” We looked around, but did not see any one. “He is not
in sight yet, but you will see him presently.”
“Do you know him, Satan?”
“No.”
“Won’t you talk with him when he comes? He is not ignorant and dull,
like us, and he would so like to talk with you. Will you?”
“Another time, yes, but not now. I must go on my errand after a little.
There he is now; you can see him. Sit still, and don’t say anything.”
We looked up and saw Father Peter approaching through the chestnuts.
We three were sitting together in the grass, and Satan sat in front
of us in the path. Father Peter came slowly along with his head down,
thinking, and stopped within a couple of yards of us and took off his
hat and got out his silk handkerchief, and stood there mopping his
face and looking as if he were going to speak to us, but he didn’t.
Presently he muttered, “I can’t think what brought me here; it seems as
if I were in my study a minute ago--but I suppose I have been dreaming
along for an hour and have come all this stretch without noticing; for
I am not myself in these troubled days.” Then he went mumbling along
to himself and walked straight through Satan, just as if nothing were
there. It made us catch our breath to see it. We had the impulse to
cry out, the way you nearly always do when a startling thing happens,
but something mysteriously restrained us and we remained quiet, only
breathing fast. Then the trees hid Father Peter after a little, and
Satan said:
“It is as I told you--I am only a spirit.”
“Yes, one perceives it now,” said Nikolaus, “but we are not spirits. It
is plain he did not see you, but were we invisible, too? He looked at
us, but he didn’t seem to see us.”
“No, none of us was visible to him, for I wished it so.”
It seemed almost too good to be true, that we were actually seeing
these romantic and wonderful things, and that it was not a dream. And
there he sat, looking just like anybody--so natural and simple and
charming, and chatting along again the same as ever, and--well, words
cannot make you understand what we felt. It was an ecstasy; and an
ecstasy is a thing that will not go into words; it feels like music,
and one cannot tell about music so that another person can get the
feeling of it. He was back in the old ages once more now, and making
them live before us. He had seen so much, so much! It was just a
wonder to look at him and try to think how it must seem to have such
experience behind one.
But it made you seem sorrowfully trivial, and the creature of a day,
and such a short and paltry day, too. And he didn’t say anything to
raise up your drooping pride--no, not a word. He always spoke of men
in the same old indifferent way--just as one speaks of bricks and
manure-piles and such things; you could see that they were of no
consequence to him, one way or the other. He didn’t mean to hurt us,
you could see that; just as we don’t mean to insult a brick when we
disparage it; a brick’s emotions are nothing to us; it never occurs to
us to think whether it has any or not.
Once when he was bunching the most illustrious kings and conquerors
and poets and prophets and pirates and beggars together--just a
brick-pile--I was shamed into putting in a word for man, and asked
him why he made so much difference between men and himself. He had to
struggle with that a moment; he didn’t seem to understand how I could
ask such a strange question. Then he said:
“The difference between man and me? The difference between a mortal and
an immortal? between a cloud and a spirit?” He picked up a wood-louse
that was creeping along a piece of bark: “What is the difference
between Cæsar and this?”
I said, “One cannot compare things which by their nature and by the
interval between them are not comparable.”
“You have answered your own question,” he said. “I will expand it.
Man is made of dirt--I saw him made. I am not made of dirt. Man is
a museum of diseases, a home of impurities; he comes to-day and is
gone to-morrow; he begins as dirt and departs as stench; I am of the
aristocracy of the Imperishables. And man has the  Moral Sense . You
understand? He has the  Moral Sense . That would seem to be difference
enough between us, all by itself.”
He stopped there, as if that settled the matter. I was sorry, for at
that time I had but a dim idea of what the Moral Sense was. I merely
knew that we were proud of having it, and when he talked like that
about it, it wounded me, and I felt as a girl feels who thinks her
dearest finery is being admired and then overhears strangers making fun
of it. For a while we were all silent, and I, for one, was depressed.
Then Satan began to chat again, and soon he was sparkling along in such
a cheerful and vivacious vein that my spirits rose once more. He told
some very cunning things that put us in a gale of laughter; and when he
was telling about the time that Samson tied the torches to the foxes’
tails and set them loose in the Philistines’ corn, and Samson sitting
on the fence slapping his thighs and laughing, with the tears running
down his cheeks, and lost his balance and fell off the fence, the
memory of that picture got him to laughing, too, and we did have a most
lovely and jolly time. By and by he said:
“I am going on my errand now.”
“Don’t!” we all said. “Don’t go; stay with us. You won’t come back.”
“Yes, I will; I give you my word.”
“When? To-night? Say when.”
“It won’t be long. You will see.”
“We like you.”
“And I you. And as a proof of it I will show you something fine to see.
Usually when I go I merely vanish; but now I will dissolve myself and
let you see me do it.”
He stood up, and it was quickly finished. He thinned away and thinned
away until he was a soap-bubble, except that he kept his shape. You
could see the bushes through him as clearly as you see things through
a soap-bubble, and all over him played and flashed the delicate
iridescent colors of the bubble, and along with them was that thing
shaped like a window-sash which you always see on the globe of
the bubble. You have seen a bubble strike the carpet and lightly
bound along two or three times before it bursts. He did that. He
sprang--touched the grass--bounded--floated along--touched again--and
so on, and presently exploded--puff! and in his place was vacancy.
It was a strange and beautiful thing to see. We did not say anything,
but sat wondering and dreaming and blinking; and finally Seppi roused
up and said, mournfully sighing:
“I suppose none of it has happened.”
Nikolaus sighed and said about the same.
I was miserable to hear them say it, for it was the same cold fear that
was in my own mind. Then we saw poor old Father Peter wandering along
back, with his head bent down, searching the ground. When he was pretty
close to us he looked up and saw us, and said, “How long have you been
here, boys?”
“A little while, Father.”
“Then it is since I came by, and maybe you can help me. Did you come up
