can tell Jeff I did it. I began it when I thought it might be of some
advantage to me, but I've told Andrea to go on with it. It'll be more
amusing, on the whole."
"Go on with what?" inquired Lydia.
"Never mind. But you must write me and tell me how the election went. I
won't bother you with my address, but Alston Choate'll give it to you.
He intends to keep his eye on me, the stupid person. I wouldn't come
over here again if I were paid for it."
At the station Lydia, a little sick and sorry, because she hated changes
and also Madame Beattie kept some glamour for her, stepped out and gave
her old friend a firm hand to help her and then an arm to lean on.
Madame Beattie bade Denny a carelessly affectionate farewell and left
him her staunch ally. She knew how to bind her humbler adherents to her,
and indeed with honesty, because she usually liked them better than the
people who criticised her and combated and admired her from her own
plane. After the trunks were checked and she still had a margin of time,
she walked up and down the platform leaning on Lydia's arm, and talked
about the greyness of New England and the lovely immortalities of Italy.
When they saw the smoke far down the track, she stopped, still leaning
on Lydia.
"You've been a droll imp," she said. "If I had money I'd take you with
me and amuse myself seeing you in Italy. Your imp's eyes would be
rounder than they are now, and you'd fall in love with some handsome
scamp and find him out and grow up and leave him and we'd take an
apartment and sit there and laugh at everything. You can tell Jeff--"
the train was really nearing now and she bent and spoke at Lydia's
ear--"tell him he's going to be a free man, and if he doesn't make use
of his freedom he's a fool. She's going to run away. With Reardon."
"Who's going to run away?" Lydia shrilled up into her face. "Not
Esther?"
"Esther, to be sure. I gather they're off to-night. That's why I'm going
this morning. I don't want to be concerned in the silly business, though
when they're over there I shall make a point of looking them up. He'd
pay me anything to get rid of me."
The train was in, and her foot was on the step. But Lydia was holding
her back, her little face one sharp interrogation.
"Not to Europe?" she said. "You don't mean they're going to Europe?"
"Of course I do," said Madame Beattie, extricating herself. "Where else
is there to go? No, I sha'n't say another word. I waited till you
wouldn't have a chance to question me. Tell Jeff, but not till to-morrow
morning. Then they'll be gone and it won't be his responsibility.
Good-bye, imp."
She did not threaten Lydia with envelopment in her richness of velvet
and fur. Instead, to Lydia's confusion and wonder, ever-growing when she
thought about it afterward, she caught up her hand and gave it a light
kiss. Then she stepped up into the car and was borne away.
"I don't believe it," said Lydia aloud, and she walked off, glancing
down once at the hand that had been kissed and feeling gravely moved by
what seemed to her an honour from one of Madame Beattie's standing.
Lydia was never to forget that Madame Beattie had been a great lady, in
a different sense from inherited power and place. She was of those who
are endowed and to whom the world must give something because they have
given it so much. Should she obey her, and tell Jeff after the danger of
his stopping Esther was quite past? Lydia thought she would. And she
owned to herself the full truth about it. She did not for an instant
think she ought to keep her knowledge in obedience to Madame Beattie,
but she meant at least to give Jeff his chance. And as she thought, she
was walking home fast, and when she got there she hurried into the
library without taking off her hat, and asked the colonel:
"Where's Jeff?"
The colonel was sitting by the fire, a book in his hand in the most
correct position for reading. He had been deep in one of his friendly
little naps and had picked the book up when he heard her step and held
it with a convincing rigour.
"He's gone off for a tramp," said he, looking at her sleepily. "He'd
been writing and didn't feel very fit. I advised him to go and make a
day of it."
Anne came in then, and Lydia stared at her, wondering if Anne could
help. And yet, whatever Anne said, she was determined not to tell Jeff
until the morning. So she slowly took off her things and made brisk
tasks to do about the house. Only when the two o'clock train was nearly
due she seized her hat and pinned it on, slipped into her coat and
walked breathlessly to the station. She was there just before the train
came in and there also, a fine figure in his excellently fitting
clothes, was Reardon. He was walking the platform, nervously Lydia
thought, but he seemed not to be waiting for any one. Seeing her he
looked, though she might have fancied it, momentarily disconcerted, but
took off his hat to her and turned immediately to resume his march.
Suppose Esther came, Lydia wondered. What should she do? Should she stop
her, block her way, bid her remember Jeff? Or should she watch her to
the last flutter of her hatefully pretty clothes as she entered the car
with Reardon and, in the noise of the departing train, give one loud
hurrah because Jeff was going to be free? But the train came, and
Reardon, without a glance behind, though in a curious haste as if he
wanted at least to escape Lydia's eyes, entered and was taken away.
Again Lydia went home, and now she sat by the fire and could not talk,
her elbows on her knee, her chin supported in her hands.
"What is it?" Anne asked her. "You look mumpy."
Yes, Lydia, said, she was mumpy. She thought she had a cold. But though
Anne wanted to minister to her she was not allowed, and Lydia sat there
and watched the clock. At the early dark she grew restless.
"Farvie," said she, "shouldn't you think Jeff would come?"
"Why, no," said he, looking at her over his glasses, doing the
benevolent act, Lydia called it. "There's a moon, and he'll probably get
something to eat somewhere or even come back by train. It isn't his
night at the school."
At six o'clock Lydia began to realise that if Esther were going that day
she would take the next train. It would not be at all likely that she
took the "midnight" and got into New York jaded in the early morning.
She put on her hat and coat, and was going softly out when Anne called
to her:
"Lyd, if you've got a cold you stay in the house."
Lydia shut the door behind her and sped down the path. She thought she
should die--Lydia had frequent crises of dying when the consummations of
life eluded her--if she did not know whether Esther was going. Yet she
would not tell Jeff until it was too late, even if he were there on the
spot and if he blamed her forever for not telling him. This time she
stayed in a sheltering corner of the station, and not many minutes
before the train a dark figure passed her, Esther, veiled, carrying her
hand-bag, and walking fast. Lydia could have touched her arm, but
Esther, in her desire of secrecy, was trying to see no one. She, too,
stopped, in a deeper shadow at the end of the building. Either she had
her ticket or she was depending on the last minute for getting it.
Lydia, with a leap of conjecture concluded, and rightly, that she had
sent Sophy for it in advance. The local train came in, bringing the
workmen from the bridge, still being repaired up the track, and Lydia
shrank back a little as they passed her. And among them, finishing a
talk he had taken up on the train, was, incredibly, Jeff. Lydia did not
parley with her dubieties. She slipped after them in the shadow, came up
to him and touched him on the arm.
"Jeff!" she said.
He turned, dropped away from the men and stood there an instant looking
at her. Lydia's heart was racing. She had never felt such excitement in
her life. It seemed to her she should never get her breath again.
"What's the matter?" said Jeff. "Father all right?"
"She's going to run away with Reardon," said Lydia, her teeth clicking
on the words and biting some of them in two. "He went this afternoon.
They're going to meet."
"How do you know?"
Neither of them, in the course of their quick sentences, mentioned
Esther's name.
"Madame Beattie told me. Look over by that truck. Don't let her see
you."
Jeff turned slightly and saw the figure by the truck.
"She's going to take this train," said Lydia. "She's going to Reardon. O
Jeff, it's wicked."
Lydia had never thought much about things that were wicked. Either they
were brave things to do and you did them if you wanted to, or they were
underhand, hideous things and then you didn't want to do them. But
suddenly Esther seemed to her something floating, tossed and driven to
be caught up and saved from being swamped by what seas she knew not.
Jeff walked over to the dark figure by the truck. Whether he had
expected it to be Esther he could not have said, but even as it shrank
from him he knew.
"Come," said he. "Come home with me."
Esther stood perfectly silent like a shrinking wild thing endowed with a
protective catalepsy.
"Esther," said he, "I know where you're going. You mustn't go. You
sha'n't. Come home with me."
And as she did not move or answer he put his arm through hers and guided
her away. Just beyond the corner of the station in a back eddy of
solitude, she flung him off and darted three or four steps obliquely
before he caught her up and held her. Lydia, standing in the shadow, her
heart beating hard, heard his unmoved voice.
"Esther, you're not afraid of me? Come home with me. I won't touch you
if you'll promise to come. I can't let you go. I can't. It would be the
worst thing that ever happened to you."
"How do you know," she called, in a high hysterical voice, "where I'm
going?"
"You were going with somebody you mustn't go with," said Jeff. "We won't
talk about him. If he were here I shouldn't touch him. He's only a
fool. And it's your fault if you're going. But you mustn't go."
"I am going," said Esther, "to New York, and I have a perfect right to.
I shall spend a few days and get rested. Anybody that tells you anything
else tells lies."
"The train is coming," said Jeff. "Stand here, if you won't walk away
with me, and we'll let it go."
She tried again to wrench herself free, but she could not. Lydia,
standing in the shadow, felt a passionate sympathy. He was kind, Lydia
saw, he was compelling, but if he could have told the distracted
creature he had something to offer her beyond the bare protection of an
honourable intent, then she might have seen another gate open besides
the one that led nowhere. Almost, at that moment, Lydia would have had
him sorry enough to put his arms about her and offer the semblance of
love that is divinest sympathy. The train stopped for its appointed
minutes and went on.
"Come," said Jeff, "now we'll go home."
She turned and walked with him to the corner. There she swerved.
"No," said Jeff, "you're coming with me. That's the place for you.
They'll be good to you, all of them. They're awfully decent. I'll be
