herself in her bath robe and sat down. "I'll take my dinner
upstairs--why--what is it?"
"I want to go home."
"Home?"
"To Germany."
"But, of course you can't. There are a lot of German reservists in the
country who would like to go home and fight, but they can't get past the
British."
"Some have. I could."
"How? That is quite interesting."
"I not tell. But I want to go."
"Then go, by all means. But please wait a day or two until I get another
girl."
"Plenty girls out of job. I want to go to-morrow."
"Oh, very well. But you can't expect a full month's wages, as it is you
that is serving notice, not I."
"I do not want a full month wage. I want five hundert dollar."
Mrs. Balfame turned her amazed eyes upon the girl. Her first thought was
that the creature had been driven insane by her letters from home, and
wondered if she could overcome her if attacked. Then as she met those
small, sharp, crafty eyes, set high in the big stolid face like little
deadly guns in a fort, her heart missed a beat. But her own gaze, large
and cold, did not waver, and she said satirically:
"Well, I am sure I hope you will get it."
"I get it--from you."
Mrs. Balfame lifted her shoulders. "What next? I have contributed what
little I can afford to the war funds. I am sorry, but I cannot
accommodate you."
"You give me five hundert dollar," reiterated the thick even voice, "or
I tell the police you come in the back door two minutes after Mr.
Balfame he was kilt at the front gate."
Obvious danger once more turned Mrs. Balfame into pure steel. "Oh, no;
you will tell them nothing of the sort, for it is not true. I thought I
heard some one on the back stairs when I went down to the kitchen. As
you know I always drink a glass of filtered water before going to bed. I
had forgotten the episode utterly, but I remember now, I heard a noise
outside, even imagined that some one turned the knob of the door, and
called up to ask you if you also had heard. I did not know that anything
had happened out in front until I returned to my room."
"I see you come in the kitchen door." But the voice was not quite so
even, the shifty glance wavered. Frieda felt suddenly the European
peasant in the presence of the superior by divine right. Mrs. Balfame
followed up her advantage.
"You are lying--for purposes of blackmail. You did not see me come in
the door, because I had not been outside of it. I do not even remember
opening it to listen, although I may have done so. You saw nothing and
cannot blackmail me. Nor would any one believe your word against mine."
"I hear you come in just after me--"
"Heard? Just now you said you saw."
"Ach--"
Mrs. Balfame had an inspiration. "My God!" she exclaimed, springing to
her feet, "the murderer took refuge in the house, was hidden in the
cellar or attic all night, all the next day! He may be here yet! You may
be feeding him!"
She advanced upon the staring girl whose mouth stood open. "Of course.
Of course. You are a friend of Old Dutch. It was one of his gunmen who
did it, and you are his accomplice. Or perhaps you killed him yourself.
Perhaps he treated you as he treated so many girls, and you killed him
and are trying to blackmail me for money to get out of the country."
"It is a lie!" Frieda's voice was strangled with outraged virtue. "My
man, he fight for the fatherland. Old Dutch, he will not hurt a fly. I
would not have touch your pig of a husband. You know that, for you hate
him yourself. I have see in the eye, in the hand. I know notings of who
kill him, but--no, I have not see you come in the kitchen door, but I
hear some one come in, the door shut, you call out in so strange
voice--I believe before that you have kill him--now--now I do not
know--"
"It would be wise to know nothing,"--Mrs. Balfame's voice was charged
with meaning--"unless you wish to be arrested as the criminal, or as an
accomplice--after confessing that you entered the house within a moment
or two of the shooting. Who is to say exactly when you did come in?
Well, better keep your mouth shut. It is wise for innocent people to
know as little about a crime as possible. Why did you testify before the
coroner's jury that your tooth ached so you heard nothing? Why didn't
you tell your story then?"
"I was frightened, and my tooth--I can tink of notings else."
"And now you think it quite safe to blackmail me?"
"I want to go back to Germany--to my man--and I hate this country what
hates Germany."
"This country is neutral," said Mrs. Balfame severely. "It regards all
the belligerents as barbarians tarred with the same brush. You Germans
are so excitable that you imagine we hate when we merely don't care."
This was intended to be soothing, but Frieda's brow darkened and she
thrust out her pugnacious lips.
"Germany, she is the greatest country in the whole world," she
announced. "All the world--it muss know that."
"How familiar that sounds! Just a slight variation on the old American
brag that is quite a relief." Mrs. Balfame spoke as lightly as if she
merely had let down the bars of her dignity out of sympathy with a
lacerated Teuton. "Well, go back to your Germany, Frieda, if you can
get there, but don't try to blackmail me again. I have no five hundred
dollars to give you if I would. If you choose, you may stay your month
out, and spend your evenings taking up a collection among your German
friends. You are excused."
She had achieved her purpose. The girl's practical mind was puzzled by
the simple explanation of her mistress' presence in the kitchen, deeply
impressed by the contemptuous refusal to be blackmailed. Her shoulders
drooped and she slunk out of the room.
For a moment Mrs. Balfame clung, reeling, to the back of a chair. Then
she went downstairs and telephoned to Dwight Rush.
CHAPTER XVI
The young lawyer was to call at eight o'clock. Mrs. Balfame put on her
best black blouse in his honour; it was cut low about the throat and
softened with a rolling collar of hemstitched white lawn. This was as
far in the art of sex allurement as she was prepared to go; the bare
idea of a negligée of white lace and silk, warmed by rose-colored
shades, would have filled her with cold disgust. She was not a religious
woman, but she had her standards.
At a quarter of eight she made a careful inspection of the lower rooms;
sleuths, professional and amateur, would not hesitate to sneak into her
house and listen at keyholes. She inferred that the house was under
surveillance, for she had looked from her window several times and seen
the same man sauntering up and down that end of the avenue. No doubt
some one watched the back doors also.
Convinced that her home was still sacrosanct, she placed two chairs at a
point in the parlour farthest from the doors leading into the hall, and
into a room beyond which Mr. Balfame had used as an office. The doors,
of course, would be open throughout the interview. No one should be able
to say that she had shut herself up with a young man; on the other hand,
it was the duty of the deceased husband's lawyer to call on the widow.
Even if those young devils discovered that she had telephoned for him,
what more regular than that she should wish to consult her lawyer after
such insinuations?
Rush arrived as the town clock struck eight. Frieda, who answered the
door in her own good time, surveyed him suspiciously through a narrow
aperture to which she applied one eye.
"What you want?" she growled. "Mrs. Balfame she have seen all the
reporters already yet."
"Let the gentleman in," called Mrs. Balfame from the parlour. "This is a
friend of my late husband."
Rush was permitted to enter. He was a full minute disposing of his hat
and overcoat in the hall, while Frieda dragged her heelless slippers
back to the kitchen and slammed the door. His own step was not brisk as
he left the hall for the parlour, and his face, always colourless,
looked thin and haggard. Mrs. Balfame, as she rose and gave him her
hand, asked solicitously:
"Are you under the weather? How seedy you look. I wondered why you had
not called--"
"A touch of the grippe. Felt all in for a day or two, but am all right
now. And although I have been very anxious to see you, I had made up my
mind not to call unless you sent for me."
"Well, I sent for you professionally," she retorted coolly. "You don't
suppose I took your love making seriously."
He flushed dully, after the manner of men with thick fair skins, and his
hard blue eyes lost their fire as he stared at her. It was
incomprehensible that she could misunderstand him.
"It was serious enough to me. I merely stayed away, because, having
spoken as I did, I--well, I cannot very well explain. You will remember
that I made you promise to send for me if you were in trouble--"
"I remembered!" She felt his rebuke obscurely. "It never occurred to me
to send for any one else."
"Thank you for that."
"Did you mean anything but politeness when you said that you had been
anxious to see me?"
He hesitated, but he had already made up his mind that the time had come
to put her on her guard. Besides, he inferred that she had begun herself
to appreciate her danger.
"You have read the newspapers. You saw the reporters this afternoon. Of
course you must have guessed that they hope for a sensational trial with
you as the heroine."
"How can men--men--be such heartless brutes?"
"Ask the public. Even that element that believes itself to be select and
would not touch a yellow paper devours a really interesting crime in
high life. Never mind that now. Let us get down to brass tacks. They
want to fix the crime on you. How are they going to manage it? That is
the question for us. Tell me exactly what they said, what they made you
say."
Mrs. Balfame gave him so circumstantial an account of the interview that
he looked at her in admiration, although his rigid American face, that
looked so strong, turned paler still.
"What a splendid witness you would make!" He stared at the carpet for a
moment, then flashed his eyes upward much as Broderick had done. "Tell
me," he said softly, "is there anything you withheld from them? You know
how safe you are with me. But I must be in a position to advise you what
to say and to leave unsaid--if the worst comes."
"You mean if I am arrested?" She had a moment of complete naturalness,
and stared at him wildly. He leaned forward and patted her hand.
"Anything is possible in a case like this. But you have nothing to fear.
Now, will you tell me--"
"Do you think I did it?"
