
It might have been at Haughty's perverse 
theory that Davey was most moved to stare — 
had he not quickly betrayed, instead of this, a 
marked attention to the girl herself. "Oh you 
little wonder and joy !" 

"She is a little wonder and joy," Horton said 
— that at any rate came out clear. 

"What you are, my boy, I'm not pretending 

1 There is a gap here in the MS., with the following note by the 
author: "It is the security of the two others with him that is testi- 
fied to; but I mustn't make any sort of spread about it or about 
anything else here now, and only put Davey on some non-committal 
reply to the question addressed him, such as keeps up the mystery 
or ambiguity or suspense about Gray, his moustache and everything 
else, so as to connect properly with what follows. The real point 
is — that comes back to me, and it is in essence enough — that he 
pleads he doesn't remember, didn't notice, at all; and thereby oddly 
enough can't say. It will come to me right once I get into it. One 
sees that Davey plays with them." 

1



 

to say," Davey returned in answer to this; "for 
I don't accept her account of your vision of Gray 
as throwing any light on it at all." 

"On his judgment of Mr. Fielder, do you 
mean," Cissy earnestly asked, "or on your evi- 
dently awful opinion of his own dark nature?" 

"Haughty knows that I lose myself in his 
dark nature, at my spare moments, and with 
wind enough on to whistle in that dark, very 
much as if I had the fine excitement of the Foret 
de Bondy to deal with. He's well aware that I 
know no greater pleasure of the imagination than 
that sort of interest in him — when I happen also 
to have the time and the nerve. Let these things 
serve me now, however, only to hurry you up," 
Davey went on; "and to say that I of course 
had with our fortunate friend an impressive 
quarter of an hour — which everyone will want 
to know about, so that I must keep it till we sit 
down. But the great thing is after all for your- 
self, Haughty," he added — "and you had better 
know at once that he particularly wants to see 
you. He'll be glad of you at the very first mo- 
ment " 

But Horton had already taken him easily up. 
"Of course I know, my dear man, that he par- 
ticularly wants to see me. He has written me 
nothing else from the moment he arrived." 

"He has written you, you wretch," Cissy at 
once extravagantly echoed — "he has written you 





 

all sorts of things and you haven't so much as 
told me?" 

"He hasn't written me all sorts of things" — 
Horton directed this answer to Davey alone— 
"but has written me in such straight confidence 
and friendship that I've been wondering if I 
mayn't go round to him this evening." 

"Gussy will no doubt excuse you for that pur- 
pose with the utmost joy," Davey rejoined — 
"though I don't think I advise you to ask her 
leave if you don't want her at once to insist on 
going with you. Go to him alone, very quietly 
— and with the happy confidence of doing him 
good." 

It had been on Cissy that, for his part, Davey 
had, in speaking, rested his eyes; and it might 
by the same token have been for the benefit of 
universal nature, suspended to listen over the 
bosom of the deep, that Horton's lips phrased 
his frank reaction upon their entertainer's words. 
"Well then, ye powers, the amount of good that 
I shall undertake ! " 

Davey Bradham and Cissy Foy exchanged on 
the whole ground for a moment a considerable 
smile; his share in which, however, it might 
exactly have been that prompted the young 
woman's further expression of their intelligence, 
"It's too charming that he yearns so for Haughty 
— and too sweet that Haughty can now rush to 
him at once." To which she then appended in 





 

another tone: "One takes for granted of course 
that Rosanna was with him." 

Davey at this but continued to bloom and beam; 
which gave Horton, even with a moment's delay, 
time to assist his better understanding. "She 
doesn't even yet embrace the fact, tremendously 
as I've driven it into her, that if Rosanna had 
been there he couldn't have breathed my name." 

This made Davey, however, but throw up de- 
risive hands; though as with an impatient turn 
now for their regaining the lawn. "My dear 
man, Rosanna breathes your name with all the 
force of her lungs ! " 

Horton, jerking back his head for the bright 
reassurance, laughed out with amusement. "What 
a jolly cue then for my breathing of hers ! I'll 
roar it to all the echoes, and everything will be 
well. But what one's talking about," he said, 
"is the question of Gray's naming me" He 
looked from one of his friends to the other, and 
then, as gathering them into the interest of it: 
"I'll bet you a fiver that he doesn't at any rate 
speak to me of Miss Gaw." 

"Well, what will that prove?" Davey asked,quite 
easy about it and leading the way up the rocks. 

"In the first place how much he thinks of her," 
said Cissy, who followed close behind. "And in 
the second that it's ten to one Haughty will find 
her there." 

"I don't care if I do — not a scrap!" Horton 




 

also took his way. "I don't care for anything 

now but the jolly fun, the jolly fun !" He 

had committed it all again, by the time they 
reached the clifPs edge, to the bland participating 
elements. 

"Oh the treat the poor boy is evidently going 
to stand us all\" — well, was something that 
Davey, rather out of breath as they reached the 
lawn again and came in sight of the villa, had 
just yet no more than those light words for. He 
was more definite in remarking immediately 
after to Cissy that Rosanna would be as little 
at the other house that evening as she had been 
at the moment of his own visit, and that, since 
the nurses and other outsiders appeared to have 
dispersed, there would be no one to interfere 
with Gray's free welcome of his friend. The girl 
was so attentive for this that it made them pause 
again while she brought out in surprise: "There's 
nobody else there, you mean then, to watch with 
the dead ?" 

It made Mr. Bradham for an instant wonder, 
