have read in a book — I forget where, but it was written 
by some doctor — that white bread does not contain the 
elements necessary to the sustaining of the human body." 
" Go on ! " growled the jailer. " What yer givin' us ? " 
" I mean," explained Hal, " a diet of bread and water 
is not what Pd choose to live on." 
" What would yer choose ? " 
The tone suggested that the question was a rhetorical 
one; but Hal took it in good faith. "If I could have 
some beefsteak and mashed potatoes — " 
The door of the cell closed with a slam whose echoes 
drowned out the rest of that imaginary menu. And so 
once more Hal sat on the hard bench, and munched his 
hunk of bread, and thought jail-thoughts. 
When the quitting-whistle blew, he stood at the win- 
dow, and saw the groups of his friends once again, and got 
 
their covert signals of encouragement. Then darkness 
fell, and another long vigil began. 
It was late ; Hal had no means of telling how late, save 
that all the lights in the camps were out. He made 
up his mind that he was in for the night, and had settled 
himself on the floor with his arm for a pillow, and had 
dozed off to sleep, when suddenly there came a scraping 
sound against the bars of his window. He sat up with a 
start, and heard another sound, unmistakably the rustling 
of paper. He sprang to the window, where by the faint 
light of the stars he could make out something dangling. 
He caught at it; it seemed to be an ordinary note-book, 
such as stenographers use, tied on the end of a pole. 
Hal looked out, but could see no one. He caught hold 
of the pole and jerked it, as a signal ; and then he heard 
a whisper which he recognised instantly as Bovetta's. 
"Hello! Listen. Write your name hundred times in 
book. I come back. Understand ? " 
The command was a sufficiently puzzling one, but Hal 
realised that this was no time for explanations. He an- 
swered, " Yes," and broke the string and took the note- 
book. There was a pencil attached, with a piece of cloth 
wrapped round the point to protect it. 
The pole was withdrawn, and Hal sat on the bench, and 
began to write, three or four times on a page, " Joe Smith 
— Joe Smith — Joe Smith." It is not hard to write 
"Joe Smith," even in darkness, and so, while his hand 
moved, Hal's mind was busy with this mystery. It was 
fairly to be assumed that his committee did not want his 
autograph to distribute for a souvenir ; they must want it 
for some vital purpose, to meet some new move of the 
bosses. The answer to this riddle was not slow in com- 
ing: having failed in their effort to find money on him, 
the bosses had framed up a letter, which they were exhibit- 
ing as having been written by the would-be check-weigh- 
 
man. His friends wanted his signature to disprove the 
authenticity of the letter. 
Hal wrote a free and rapid hand, with a generous flour- 
ish ; he felt sure it would be different from Alec Stone's 
idea of a working-boy's scrawl. His pencil flew on and 
on — " Joe Smith — Joe Smith — " page after page, until 
he was sure that he had written a signature for every 
miner in the camp, and was beginning on the buddies. 
Then, hearing a whistle outside, he stopped and sprang to 
the window. 
" Throw it ! " whispered a voice ; and Hal threw it. 
He saw a form vanish up the street, after which all was 
quiet again. He listened for a while, to see if he had 
roused his jailer ; then he lay down on the bench — and 
thought more jail-thoughts I 
 Morning came, and the mine-whistle blew, and 
Hal stood at the window again. This time he noticed that 
some of the miners on their way to work had little strips 
of paper in their hands, which strips they waved con- 
spicuously for him to see. Old Mike Sikoria came along, 
having a whole bunch of strips in his hands, which he was 
distributing to all who would take them. Doubtless he 
had been warned to proceed secretly, but the excitement of 
the occasion had been too much for him ; he capered about 
like a young spring lamb, and waved the strips at Hal in 
plain sight of all the world. 
Such indiscreet behaviour met the return it invited. 
As Hal watched, he saw a stocky figure come striding 
round the corner, confronting the startled old Slovak. 
It was Bud Adams, the mine-guard, and his hard fists were 
clenched, and his whole body gathered for a blow. Mike 
saw him, and was as if suddenly struck with paralysis; 
his toil-bent shoulders sunk together, and his hands fell to 
 
his sides — his fingers opening,, and his precious strips of 
paper fluttering to the ground. Mike stared at Bud like a 
fascinated rabbit, making no move to protect himself. 
Hal clutched the bars, with an impulse to leap to his 
friend's defence. But the expected blow did not fall ; the 
mine-guard contented himself with glaring ferociously, 
and giving an order to the old man. Mike stooped and 
picked up the papers — the process taking him some time, 
as he was unable or unwilling to take his eyes off the 
mine-guard's. When he got them all in his hands, there 
came another order, and he gave them up to Bud. After 
which he fell back a step, and the other followed, his fists 
still clenched, and a blow seeming about to leap from him 
every moment. Mike receded another step, and then an- 
other — so the two of them backed out of sight around the 
corner. Men who had been witnesses of this little drama 
turned and slunk off, and Hal was given no clue as to its 
outcome. 
A couple of hours afterwards, Hal's jailer came up, this 
time without any bread and water. He opened the door 
and commanded the prisoner to " come along." Hal went 
downstairs, and entered Jeff Cotton's office. 
The camp-marshal sat at his desk with a cigar between 
his teeth. He was writing, and he went on writing until 
the jailer had gone out and closed the door. Then he 
turned his revolving chair and crossed his legs, leaning 
back and looking at the young miner in his dirty blue 
overalls, his hair tousled and his face pale from his period 
of confinement. The camp-marshal's aristocratic face 
wore a smile. "Well, young fellow," said he, "you've 
been having a lot of fun in this camp." 
" Pretty fair, thank you," answered Hal. 
" Beat us out all along the line, hey ? " Then, after 
a pause, " Now, tell me, what do you think you're going to 
get out of it ? " 
" That's what Alec Stone asked me," replied Hal. " I 
 
don't think it would do much good to explain. I doubt if 
you believe in altruism any more than Stone does." 
The camp-marshal took his cigar from his mouth, and 
flicked off the ashes. His face became serious, and there 
was a silence, while he studied Hal. " You a union or- 
ganiser ? " he asked, at last. 
" No," said HaL 
" You're an educated man ; you're no labourer, that I 
know. Who's paying you ? " 
" There you are ! You don't believe in altruism." 
The other blew a ring of smoke across the room. " Just 
want to put the company in the hole, hey ? Some kind of 
agitator f " 
" I am a miner who wants to be a check-weighman." 
« Socialist ? " 
" That depends upon developments here." 
" Well," said the marshal, " you're an intelligent chap, 
that I can see. So I'll lay my hand on the table and you 
can study it. You're not going to serve as check-weigh- 
man in North Valley, nor any other place that the i G. F. 
C has anything to do with. Nor are you going to have 
the satisfaction of putting the company in a hole. We're 
not even going to beat you up and make a martyr of you. 
I was tempted to do that the other night, but I changed 
my mind." 
" You might change the bruises on my arm," suggested 
Hal, in a pleasant voice. 
" We're going to offer you the choice of two things," 
continued the marshal, without heeding this mild sarcasm. 
" Either you will sign a paper -admitting that you took the 
twenty-five dollars from Alec Stone, in which case we will 
fire you and call it square ; or else we will prove that you 
took it, in which case we will send you to the pen for five 
or ten years. Do you get that ? " 
Now when Hal had applied for the job of check-weigh- 
man, he had been expecting to be thrown out of the camp, 
 
and had intended to go, counting his education complete. 
But here, as he sat and gazed into the marshal's menacing 
eyes, he decided suddenly that he did not want to leave 
North Valley. He wanted to stay and take the measure 
of this gigantic " burglar," the General Fuel Company, 
" That's a serious threat, Mr. Cotton," he remarked. 
" Do you often do things like that ? " 
" We do them when we have to," was the reply. 
" Well, it's a novel proposition. Tell me more about it. 
What will the charge be ? " 
" I'm not sure about that — we'll put it up to our law- 
yers. Maybe they'll call it conspiracy, maybe blackmail. 
They'll make it whatever carries a long enough sentence." 
" And before I enter my plea, would you mind letting 
me see the letter I'm supposed to have written." 
" Oh, you've heard about the letter, have you ? " said 
the camp-marshal, lifting his eyebrows in mild surprise. 
He took from his desk a sheet of paper and handed it to 
Hal, who read: 
