 
Exasperating as those women were who preferred 
to live with their children on the insufficient allocation, 
it is impossible not to feel a certain sympathy for 
them. In all their lives they had known nothing but 
grinding work; liberty is the most precious thing in 
the world and when tasted for the first time after 
years of sordid oppression it goes to the head. Moreover, the Frenchwoman has the most extraordinary 
faculty for "managing." The poorest in Paris would 
draw their skirts away from the slatterns and their 
dirty offspring in our own tenement districts. 
One day I went with Madame Paul Dupuy over to 
what she assured me was one of the poorest districts 
of Paris. Our visit had nothing to do with the war. 
She belonged to a charitable organization which for 
years had paid weekly visits to the different parishes 
 
of the capital and weighed a certain number of babies. 
The mothers that brought their howling offspring 
(who abominated the whole performance) were given 
money according to their needs — vouched for by the 
priest of the district — and if the babies showed a falling off in weight they were sent to one of the doctors 
retained by the society. 
The little stone house (situated, by the way, in an 
old garden of a hunting-lodge which is said to have 
been the rendezvous de chasse of Madame du Barry), 
where Madame Dupuy worked, with an apron 
covering her gown and her sleeves rolled up, was 
like an ice-box, and the naked babies when laid 
on the scales shrieked like demons. One male child, I 
remember, sat up perfectly straight and bellowed his 
protest with an insistent fury and a snorting disdain 
at all attempts to placate him that betokened the true 
son of France and a lusty long-distance recruit for 
the army. All the children, in fact, although their 
mothers were unmistakably poor, looked remarkably 
plump and healthy. 
After a time, having no desire to contract peritonitis, I left the little house and went out and sat in 
the car. There I watched for nearly an hour the life 
of what we would call a slum. The hour was about 
four in the afternoon, when even the poor have a little 
leisure. The street was filled with women sauntering 
up and down, gossiping, and followed by their young. 
These women and children may have had on no un- 
derclothes : their secrets were not revealed to me ; but 
 
their outer garments were decent. The" children had a 
scrubbed look and their hair was confined in tight pig-
tails. The women looked stout and comfortable. 
They may be as clean to-day but I doubt if they are 
as stout and as placid of expression. The winter was 
long and bitter and coal and food scarce, scarcer, and 
more scarce. 
The two classes of women with whom Madame 
Goujon and her friends have most difficulty are in 
the minority and merely serve as the shadows in the 
great canvas crowded with heroic figures of French 
women of all classes who are working to the limit of 
their strength for their country or their families. 
They may be difficult to manage and they may insist 
upon working at what suits their taste, but they do 
work and work hard; which after all is the point. 
Madame Goujon took me through several of the ouvroirs which her society had founded to teach the poor 
widows — whose pension is far inferior to the often 
brief allocation — a number of new occupations under 
competent teachers. 
Certainly these young benefactors had exercised all 
their ingenuity. Some of the women, of course, had 
been fit for nothing but manual labor, and these they 
had placed as scrub-women in hospitals or as servants 
in hotels or families. But in the case of the more intelligent or deft of finger no pains were being spared 
to fit them to take a good position, or, as the French 
 
would say, "situation," in the future life of the Republic. 
In a series of rooms lent to the society by one of 
the great dressmakers, I saw keen-looking women of 
all ages learning to retouch photographs, to wind 
bobbins by electricity, to dress hair and fashion wigs, 
to engrave music scores, articulate artificial limbs, 
make artificial flowers, braces for wounded arms and 
legs, and artificial teeth! Others are taught nursing, 
bookkeeping, stenography, dentistry. 
One of Madame Goujon's most picturesque revivals 
is the dressing of dolls. Before the Franco-Prussian war this great industry belonged to France. Germany took it away from France while she was prostrate, monopolizing the doll trade of the world, and the 
industry almost ceased at its ancient focus. Madame 
Goujon was one of the first to see the opportunity 
for revival in France, and with Valentine Thompson 
and Madame Verone, to mention but two of her rivals, 
was soon employing hundreds of women. A large 
room on the ground floor of M. Reinach's hotel is 
given over as a storeroom for dolls, all irreproachably 
dressed and indisputably French. 
It will take a year or two of practice and the co- 
operation of male talent after the war to bring the 
French doll up to the high standard attained by the 
Germans throughout forty years of plodding efficiency. The prettiest dolls I saw were those arrayed 
in the different national costumes of Europe, particularly those that still retain the styles of musical comedy. After those rank the Red Cross nurses, particu- 
larly those that wear the blue veil over the white. And 
I never saw in real life such superb, such imper- 
turbable brides. 
Another work in which Madame Goujon is interested and which certainly is as picturesque is Le Bon 
Gite. The gardens of the Tuilleries when regarded 
from the quay present an odd appearance these days. 
One sees row after row of little huts, models of the 
huts the English Society of Friends have built in the 
devastated valley of the Marne. Where hundreds of 
families were formerly living in damp cellars or in 
the ruins of large buildings, wherever they could find a 
sheltering wall, the children dying of exposure, there 
are now a great number of these portable huts where 
families may be dry and protected from the elements, 
albeit somewhat crowded. 
The object of Le Bon Gite is to furnish these little 
temporary homes — for real houses cannot be built 
until the men come back from the war — and these 
models in the Tuilleries Gardens show to the visitor 
what they can do in the way of furnishing a home 
that will accommodate a woman and two children, 
for three hundred francs (sixty dollars). 
It seems incredible, but I saw the equipment of 
several of these little shelters (which contain several 
rooms) and I saw the bills. They contained a bed, 
two chairs, a table, a buffet, a stove, kitchen furnishings, blankets, linen, and crockery. There were even 
window curtains. The railway authorities had re- 
duced freight rates for their benefit fifty per cent. ; and 
at that time (July, 1916) they had rescued the poor 
of four wrecked villages from reeking cellars and 
filthy straw and given some poor poilus a home to 
come to during their six days' leave of absence from 
the Front. 
The Marquise de Ganay and the Comtesse de Bryas, 
two of the most active members, are on duty in the 
offices of their neat little exhibition for several hours 
every day, and it was becoming one of the cheerful 
sights of Paris. 
There is little left of the Tuilleries to-day to recall 
the ornate splendors of the Second Empire, when the 
Empress Eugenie held her court there, and gave garden parties under the oaks and the chestnuts. There is 
a vast chasm between the pomp of courts and huts furnished for three hundred francs for the miserable 
victims of the war; but that chasm, to be sure, was 
bridged by the Commune and this war has shown 
those that have visited the Military Zone that a palace 
makes a no more picturesque ruin than a village. 
VI 
A more curious contrast was a concert given one 
afternoon in the Tuilleries Gardens for the purpose 
of raising money for one of the war relief organizations. Madame Paul Dupuy asked me if I would help 
 
her take two blind soldiers to listen to it. We drove 
first out to Reuilly to the Quinze Vingts, a large establishment where the Government has established hundreds of their war blind (who are being taught a 
score of new. trades), and took the two young 
fellows who were passed out to us. The youngest 
was twenty-one, a fiat-faced peasant boy, whose eyes 
had been destroyed by the explosion of a pistol close 
to his face. The older man, who may have been 
twenty-six, had a fine, thin, dark face and an expression of fixed melancholy. He had lost his sight from 
shock. Both used canes and when we left the car at 
the entrance to the Tuilleries we were obliged to guide 
them. 
The garden was a strange assortment of fashionable women, many of them bearing the highest titles 
in France, and poilus in their faded uniforms, nearly 
all maimed — ref ormes, mutiles ! The younger of our 
charges laughed uproariously, with the other boys, at 
the comic song, but my melancholy charge never 
smiled, and later when, under the thawing influence 
of tea, he told us his story, I was not surprised. 
He had been the proprietor before the war of a 
little business in the North, prosperous and happy 
in his little family of a wife and two children. His 
mother was dead but his father and sister lived close 
by. War came and he left for the Front confident 
that his wife would run the business. It was only a 
few months later that he heard his wife had run 
away with another man, that the shop was abandoned, and the children had taken refuge with his 
father. 
Then came the next blow. His sister died of suc- 
cessive shocks and his father was paralyzed. Then 
he lost his sight. His children were living anyhow 
with neighbors in the half ruined village, and he was 
learning to make brushes. 
