" But," said Hugh, " I haven't any trunk." He was 
entirely dazed. Indeed it was no small thing to tell a 
youth who had been out of his native town but half a 
dozen times in his life that he was to be thrown, neck and 
crop, into the continent of Europe. 
" It's your mother's little weddin' trunk," said Aunt 
Tab calmly. 
To Larry, it seemed she was enjoying the delirious 
moment with an intensity that was pain. Aunt Tab had 
never lived before. She had skulked from danger and 
crouched under leaves, and now she was out in the open, 
fighting, and she felt the glory of it. 
"Where's she sending it?" asked Hugh, frowning at 
her. He felt that, if he could take in some of these 
strange details, he might understand Aunt Tab herself, 
this new fighting Aunt Tab who trembled but yet spoke 
quietly. 
" She's sendin' it to the ship." 
"What ship?" 
" Here 'tis," said Aunt Tab, diving into her long 
pocket. She took out a newspaper clipping and gave it 
to him. " Your mother knows all about it. She asked 
the minister to Beckenham more'n a year ago what ship 
he went on, an' 'twas this one. An' your mother's kep' 
track of it ever since." 
" But maybe I can't get passage," said Hugh. If he 
had had more faith in the practical address of mother and 
Aunt Tab, he might have felt a warmer concurrence with 
them. 
" Go steerage then," said Larry violently. " Or get 
passage on another boat. Your mother's a great woman, 
Hugh. Be a man." 
" I've got to see her," said Hugh. Involuntarily he 
 
had thrown his shoulders back. Larry need not challenge 
him in that way. He was a man. 
« Yes,'' said Aunt Tab. '' That's why she thinks you 
better take the midnight. She says you come up along 
about eight an' wait in the shadder o' the big elm. She 
kinder thinks Brother Thomas'll be drivin' round the coun- 
try after you." 
" What does he want of me? " said Hugh. " He turned 
me out." 
" Well," said Aunt Tab, " be that as it may — " She 
hardly knew how to express it, but she was shrewdly con- 
fident that Brother Thomas would not let a son escape 
his jurisdiction if it could be helped. "Now, Hughie," 
said she, "here's the money." She dived to the depths 
of her pocket and brought out the roll of bills, tied tightly 
with a tape. She nodded gaily at him. " Now you have 
a good time, Hughie, an' learn all you can. An' you come 
back. Come as quick as ever you feel to — but not till 
you've learned it all." 
He was not touching the roll, and she laid it on the 
table, with a look at Larry, a question in it and a plea 
for help. 
" Yes," said Larry, " he'll take it." 
Hugh hurried after her to the door. 
" Aunt Tab," said he, " have you given me the whole 
of it?" 
She answered his look with the gayest one of her own. 
" Don't you fret, Hughie," she said. " Law ! don't you 
fret. I've got plenty more." 
But Larry knew it was all she had. Hugh caught her 
up by the door and clung to the palm leaf shawl. He 
had never kissed Aunt Tab since he was a little boy and 
she had coaxed him with peppermints ; but now he threw 
 
awkward arms about her and put a dose Idss on the pink 
cheek. It was pmker after that. This again was a greai; 
moment for Aunt Tab. And when Hugh had Uundereol 
back to his chair and sat there, his elbows on the table 
his head in his hands, Larry, too, put out his hand to 
Aunt Tabitha, and she, a little surprised, because there 
were no formal leave-takings among neighbors, in Brom- 
ley, laid hers in it. Larry, in a courtly way, carried the 
hand to his lips, and Aunt Tab, after one startled glance 
at him, was gone. And now she was crying. Bat it was 
because life was so astonishing to her, so like Grodey's too : 
for there ladies did admirable deeds, and gentlonen kissed 
their snowy finger-tips. Larry went back into the room 
and dropped a hand on Hugh's shoulder. 
" If you don't want a scrap with your father," he 
said, " you'll have to get out of here. Hell come here 
first.'' 
Hugh straightened and looked at the money. 
" There it is," he said, in wonder and distaste. 
" Count it," said Larry. 
Hugh took it gingerly — the bills were dirty, strangdy, 
to their minds, as they ought to have been from a transac- 
tion with Squire Greene — and untied the tape. He 
counted, and Larry counted with him. 
" Eleven hundred," said both, at the end, and Hugh
added: 
" She said she'd got some more. Do you s'pose she 
has?" 
Larry was unmoved in certainty that she had not ; but 
he passed over that. 
" If she hasn't, Brother Abial's a rascal: that is, more 
of a rascal than I know him to be. Now well rig up 
some kind of a belt for you, or rivet it into your inside 
pocket, and you can take a note to a friend of mine in 
 
" Boston, and he'll get you a letter of credit and hold his 
 tongue. See here : what if you should go up into my bed- 
 room and have a sleep? And if Ardelia comes to do the 
work, I'll tell her I'm writing and she can clear out. 
'' And if your father comes, I'll take my fowling-piece to 
 him." 
 Hugh was getting blind with weariness. He went up 
"' the stairs, took off his coat and threw himself on Larry's 
bed, 
All that spring Ellen had been in trouble. It was of 
a sort that attacked her savagely and the next day told 
her it wasn't a real trouble, only a suspicion of her own. 
The suspicion itself was hardly less ravaging than the 
fear it brought, because, under its whispers and her own 
credence of them, she felt so base. The trouble was the 
tin peddler. He was Feleg Simpson, who had the very soul 
of a peddler, for he had driven a cart for thirty years, 
changing his goods with the wares most in vogue. When 
he began, a young man, his cart was large, stocked with 
tin, and with brooms and pails and jingling things hung 
on behind. But the favor of tin declined somewhat, 
and he rose to granite ware, and now he carried that and 
a small stock of aluminum. The aluminum was chiefly a 
bait, to get housewives to looking and coveting; it was 
really too expensive for country neighborhoods. Only 
Clara Greene launched out recklessly, and Mary Neale 
had a few saucepans she used with care and Hannah would 
not accept at all, affecting to believe there was some- 
thing that " come off '' on the food. Also, in these later 
days, Peleg was an essence man and arrived sometimes in 
a little covered cart bearing spices, "flavoring" and 
tea. He had done well at his business, and lived in a large 
white house at Bromley Wells, five miles away, with his 
niece for housekeeper, — a feather-headed girl who was 
about to marry. The house was much admired by Brom- 
ley, as it drove by, a house with a tower, and ginger- 
bread work on the veranda pillars* Peleg was a wiry, 
 
 
tall man with thin red hair, watery blue eyes and a long 
chin-beard. He had a loud high voice and a crass sense 
of humor that contributed to the selling of ware and 
essences. Housewives laughed when they saw him coming 
up the path. He was known as droll. " Ain't he droll? " 
they said to one another, after he had been on a conquer- 
ing tour through the neighborhood, leaving, even against 
their intention, pans at every door. Only Mary Neale 
regarded him with a dispassionate and sometimes a se- 
dately wondering gaze. She did not frown upon 
his jokes. She had no self-consciousness of dignity to 
be offended; but she thought a commercial hilarity un- 
called-for. Ellen hated him. She hated his jocular talk 
and his cackling laugh, she hated his freckled hands with 
the fine gold down over them, and she hated the wrinkled 
back of his neck. The temperament of Peleg was ill- 
suited to hers. He wanted to please, and it was his mis- 
fortune to shed his favor without distinction of tempera- 
ment in its recipients. Little boys liked him, in a con- 
temptuous, thrifty way: for he gave them "lickorish" 
and gum. On little girls he bestowed small sweets and 
exacted toll; he held them at a daring height above hia 
head and snatched them to him for a kiss. He was an 
honest man. The kiss was tribute to their charms — 
pretty as pinks, he said they were; it was appropriately 
their due. They took it in various fashions, some pa- 
tiently, clutching the sweetie as they ran off and forget- 
ting at once, in its delights, the foolish odd price they 
had to pay. Grissie he never kissed at all: for when she 
was little she had smitten him soundly in the face and 
then stood her ground, insisting on the gibraltar that 
was to have been the price of the salute, and ready to 
smite again. Peleg hooted with laughter and gave her the 
gib," and ever after they were cronies, tossing derisive 
 
jeers back and forth, with no question of a gallant toll. 
But Ellen, at their one encounter, felt a world tragedy 
upon her shoulders. He had put both hands on her lit- 
