this spring, before he could think twice, and 
very much in fact as if at last fairly dizzied by 
a succession of perspectives. 
It seemed to add an instant's brightness to 
Sir Cantopher's hard little eyes, but Mrs. Mid- 
more forestalled him. "Our cousin likes to name 
her so, though he complains of never having 
heard of her. You're making that up !" she said 
rather grandly to Ralph. 
  
"Oh I seem to know all about her now," he 
more easily laughed, "and many of your names 
do strike me as differing from ours and as having 
a kind of charm." He was determined indeed 
to be easy at any cost. "I'm ever so taken with 
Sir Cantopher's we've nothing at home like 
that," he instanced with a smile that covered 
the liberty taken, if liberty it should appear. 
"Do you find it so much better than your 
own?" Molly inquired on this, in her outright 
way and as with a hint at impatience of many 
things. 
"Ah, my dear, if mine's to be good enough 
for you I'm quite content with it and it's in 
deed better than a great many we have. But I 
like Sir Cantopher more than I can perhaps 
make you understand" our young man but de 
sired to explain. It had at once, however, the 
effect of so moving to a queer small stridency of 
mirth the personage indicated, that a further 
remark was required. "I mean of course that 
we've no such honours, for the fine sound, and 
what shall I call it but the matching of the parts, 
of 'em?" 
Whenever he explained this perception grew 
he produced a particular attention, the atten 
tion to which even Molly's impatiences yielded, 
and which had been most marked in the cold 
hush, consequent to all appearance on too much 
precipitation, vaguely scaring him just before his 
  
fellow-guest's arrival. It was the way indeed 
in which this fellow-guest now fixed him that 
made him grasp for an instant, as a sort of ban 
upon scares, the idea either of explaining a great 
deal more or of not explaining a mite. Yes, there 
was an extraordinary moment during which the 
four of them, Sir Cantopher included, affected 
him really as hanging on his choice watching, 
that is, to see which course he would take. It 
was as if he did precipitate wonders, at a given 
juncture, just by some shade of a tone, a mere 
semiquaver, perhaps lighted too with a flicker 
of facial earnestness though there was something 
all the while that he clearly couldn't help. It 
might, it must, have been the sense itself of 
spreading his wings, which would catch him up 
this way again and again, and which, when it 
came to that, he wouldn't have checked if he 
could, for how otherwise was he to surmount ? 
to surmount and surmount being exactly his 
affair, and success in it his inspiration, together 
with the fine truth that if the choice had to be 
between their puzzlement and his he'd be blest 
if he wouldn't risk theirs, since this there would 
doubtless after all be ways of surmounting, 
whereas he felt that mightn't be at all the case 
for his own. It had been repeated for him that 
each time he didn't flounder made somehow, 
almost immediately after, for the greater felicity 
of another time, and thus not to flounder at the 
  
actual point he was dealing with would be best 
assured by his right selection of the alternative 
they seemed so to wait for him to take. 
He had taken it within ten seconds, had chosen: 
not again, no, not again would he explain the 
least mite; and they might make what they 
could of that they would make more of it at 
the worst than they surely would make of its 
opposite. He kept up his gaiety for Sir Can- 
topher, hard as his innocence sought to temper 
it; which was what had just all but happened 
in his ridiculous identification of his sister-in- 
law to be. He mustn't use ridiculous terms 
for now he could see that the name of his designa 
tion of her was so tainted, and what a trap had 
virtually been set him by Mr. Perry there, pro 
digiously instinctive Mr. Perry, who withal gave 
him the impression of a straighter and easier 
relation with Sir Cantopher than that enjoyed 
by the ladies of his house. This might have 
been but because they were ladies, any woman's 
relation with almost any man proceeding, it was 
needless to reflect, by curves and crooks and 
hooks much more than by ruled line. Ralph, 
however that might be, felt himself face Sir Can 
topher as with an accepted exposure to such 
penalties as would attach to leading him a bit 
of a dance by some turn that should possibly 
affect him as violent. Yes, he risked so affecting 
him, so far as the withholding of conciliatory 
  
graces of thought, those he had been scattering 
too many of, represented a danger. It would 
do most toward leaving him blankish, and being 
so left was probably always the accident with 
which Sir Cantopher had least to reckon. Ralph 
moreover wouldn't have been able to say, re 
ducing it to that finest point, that if such a con 
dition on the part of the patron of the Midmores 
might amount to a rather arid complication it 
would be after all the complication he should 
most mind. He was minding, that is he was 
averting, another much more than this in taking 
up what Sir Cantopher had been saying about 
his affianced bride. He did so under the con 
viction that leaving that personage to make the 
best of things would prove a less danger than 
leaving it to Molly who, for that matter, waited 
upon his dealing with his difficulties, since as 
difficulties he so oddly chose to feel them, in a 
manner that almost put words into his mouth. 
"I haven't the least idea where this young 
lady may be deficient for other people I can 
only feel that I haven't a single flaw to pick either 
in her beauty, her mind, or her manners.'   Not 
only so much as that Ralph rejoiced to hear him 
self say, liking the sound of it still more, as ever, 
the moment he had uttered it, but he knew at 
once also how long he could have kept it up if 
he hadn't presently been stopped. "As far as 
ever she'll go in any sense I'll go with her all the 
  
way, and wherever she stops or wanders off I 
shall like her reasons for it, because they'll be 
hers let alone that I'll wander with her too, 
believing that whatever turn we take together 
can only be for our happiness." The further 
words were perhaps a bit sententious, spoken 
that way before the others, but not enough, 
certainly not enough, could he publicly commit 
himself, with the effect of it again and still again 
that fresh and strange one of the motive, with 
all its rich force, constituted so much more after 
the fact than before it. He knew moreover, 
knew by something now as much represented in 
her face as if it had been a face painted on canvas 
just to express it, that he was acting as directly 
upon his mistress as if no word of it concerned 
their companions. That was his boon, to what 
ever result he did it, for he measured at this mo 
ment that he couldn't again have borne her having 
lost touch of him. It was indeed now as if he had 
read the words from her lips before she spoke 
them. 
"I do like so waiting for what you say to such 
clever people and then," she added with the 
greatest gravity, "not being in the least dis 
appointed." 
"My dear, my dear, how can a man as much 
in love as I am be disappointing ? I mean," 
Ralph laughed, "to the loved object herself?" 
"I don't know, I'm sure, sir," Molly returned 
  
with a sort of solemnity, almost a sort of anxiety, 
that made her handsomer than any look she had 
yet worn. "If there were a way you'd be wise 
enough to find it; because, so far from my be 
lieving possible that you can fall short anywhere, 
as you have had to listen to so much about my 
doing, I see that the cleverness even of the most 
famous people will always find you ready, and 
don't care with whom it may ever be that I pass 
for a fool if I have wit enough for you as between 
ourselves. I like you as you are, sir. I like you 
as you are," Molly Midmore repeated. 
"Now do you see sir, how fortune insists and 
insists on smiling on me?" Ralph asked of Sir 
Cantopher after he had done the most radiant 
