family ? 
Jimmie would try to explain to his distressed spouse. It 
was a question of saving a hundred million people from the 
horrors of war; what did one man matter, in comparison with 
that? But alas, the argument did not carry at all, the simple 
truth being that the one man mattered more to Lizzie than all 
the other ninety-nine million, nine hundred and ninety-nine 
thousand, nine hundred and ninety-nine. And besides, what 
could the one man do ? One poor, obscure, helpless workingman 
out of a job 
"But it's the organisation!" he cried. "It's all of us to- 
gether it's the party! We promised to stand together, so we 
got to do it ! If I drop out, I'm a coward, a traitor ! We must 
make the workers understand " 
"But you can't!" cried Lizzie. 
"But we're doin' it ! Come see !" 
"And what can they do ?" 
Which of course started Jimmie off on a propaganda speech. 
What could the workers do? Say rather, what could they not 
do I How could any war be fought without the workers ? If 
only they would stand together, if they would rise against their 
capitalist oppressors 
"But they won't!" sobbed the woman. "They got no use 
for you at all! You go an' get fired or you get your face 
beat in, like poor Bill Murray " 
"But is that any worse than goin' to war?" 
"You ain't got to go to war!" 
"Who says I ain't ? I got to go, if the country goes. They'll 
drag me off an' make me ! If I refuse they'll shoot me ! Ain't 
they doin' that in England an' France an' Eoosia an' all them 
countries ?" 
"But will they do it here?" cried Lizzie, aghast. 
"Sure they will! That's exactly what they're gettin' ready 
for what we're fightin' to stop them from! You don't know 
what's goin' on in this country listen here !" 
And Jimmie hauled out the last issue of the "Worker," 
which quoted speeches made in Congress, calling for conscrip- 
 
tion, declaring that such a measure was an essential war-step. 
"Don't you see what they're up to ? An' if we're goin' to stop 
them, we gotta act now, before it's too late. Hadn't I just as 
good go to jail here in Leesville as be shipped over to Europe to 
be shot or maybe drowned by a submarine on the way?" 
And thus a new terror was introduced into Lizzie's life 
robbing her of sleep for many a night thereafter, planting in 
her mother-heart for the first time the idea that she might be 
concerned in the world-war. "What'd become of the babies?" 
she wailed; and Jimmie answered: Whose business was it to 
bother about working-class babies, under the hellish capitalist 
system ? 
So Jimmie had his way for a bit he went into Leesville 
and helped distribute literature, and held the torch at street- 
meetings, where some people hooted at them and others defended 
them, and the police had to interfere to prevent a riot. It was at 
this time that a militant majority was trying to drive through 
the Senate a declaration of war against Germany, and a hand- 
ful of pacifists blocked the way in the closing hours of the 
session, thus causing a delay of several weeks. How you re- 
garded this action depended upon your point of view. The 
President denounced them as "wilful men," and the Wall Street 
newspapers apparently wanted them lynched; whereas Jimmie 
and his fellows in the local hailed them as heroes and friends 
of mankind. The Socialists argued that the President had 
been re-elected, only four months before, by pacifist votes, and 
upon a pacifist platform ; and now he was sweeping the country 
into war, and denouncing those who stood upon his former 
convictions ! 
On top of this came another event which set Jimmie almost 
beside himself with excitement. For three days all news from 
Petrograd was cut off; and then came a report, electrifying 
the world the Tsar had been overthrown, the Russian people 
were free ! Jimmie could hardly believe his eyes ; he went in 
to the meeting of the local three nights later, to find the com- 
rades celebrating as if the world were theirs. Here was the 
thing they had been preaching, day in and day out, all these 
weary years, amid ridicule, hatred and persecution; here waa 
the Social Revolution, knocking at the gates of the world! It 
would spread to Austria and Germany, to Italy, France, Eng- 
land and so to Leesville ! Everywhere the people would come 
into their own, and war and tyranny would vanish like a hate- 
ful nightmare! 
Speaker after speaker got up to proclaim this glorious future ; 
they sang the Marseillaise and the Internationale, and the 
Russians who were present clasped one another in their arms, 
with tears running down their cheeks. It was voted that they 
must hold a mass-meeting immediately, to explain this epoch- 
making event to the people of the city; also they must stand 
more firmly than ever by their programme of opposition to 
war. Now, with Social Revolution knocking at the gates of 
the world, what was the use of America's going in for militarism ? 
So Jimmie set to work with redoubled fervour, giving all 
his time to agitation. He had apparently no chance of getting 
a job, and for the moment he gave up trying. The keeper of 
the cross-roads store, being down on Him because of his ideas, 
refused him any more credit; and so poor Lizzie was driven to 
do what she had vowed never to do take off the stocking from 
her right leg, and unsew the bandage from her ankle, and 
extract one of the ten precious twenty dollar bills. Their 
bright yellow was considerably faded now, their beautiful crisp- 
ness gone entirely; but the store-keeper made no kick on that 
account he returned the change, and incidentally took occasion 
to give her a friendly warning concerning her husband's reck- 
less talk. There was trouble coming to him, and his wife had 
better shut him up before it was too late. So poor Lizzie ceased 
being a pacifist, and went home to have more hysterics on her 
husband's bosom. 
Being unable to hold him back, she sent word by the mail- 
carrier to old Peter Drew to come up and help ; the old farmer 
hitched up his bony mare and drove to see them, and for a 
couple of hours talked America while Jimmie talked Rus- 
sia. Was America to lie down before the Kaiser? Jimmie 
would answer that they were going to bring down the Kaiser 
in the same way they had brought down the Tsar. The 
workers of Russia having shown the way, nevermore would the 
workers of any nation bow to the yoke of slavery. Yes, even 
 
in the so-called republics, such as France, which was ruled by 
bankers, and America, which was ruled by Wall Street even 
here, the workers would read the lesson of revolt ! 
"But in America the people can get anything they want,"
cried the bewildered old man. "They only have to vote " 
"Vote?" snarled Jimmie. "An' have their votes thrown out 
by some rotten political gang, like they got here in Leesville? 
Don't talk to me about votin' they told me I'd moved into a 
new district an' lost my vote lost it because I lost my job ! 
So it's old man Granitch has the say whether I can vote or 
not! You'll find the same thing true of two-thirds of the 
men in the Empire Shops half the unskilled men in the coun- 
try got no votes, because they got no home, no nothinV 
"But," argued the old soldier, "how will you run your new 
working-class government, if not by votes?" 
"Sure, we'll run it by votes," Jimmie answered "but first 
we'll turn out the capitalists; they won't have the money to 
buy political machines ; they won't own the newspapers an' print 
lies about us. Look at this Leesville 'Herald' right now just 
plain downright lies they print we can't get any truth at all 
to the people." 
And so it went. It was of no use for the old man to plead 
for the "country"; to Jimmie the "country" had let itself be 
lost, suppressed, taken over by the capitalists, the "plutes." 
Jimmie's sense of loyalty was not to his country, but to his 
class, which had been exploited, hounded, driven from pillar 
to post. In past times the government had allowed itself to 
be used by corporations; so now it was in vain that the Presi- 
dent made appeals for justice and democracy, using the beautiful 
language of idealism. Jimmie did not believe that he meant 
it; or anyhow, Wall Street would see that nothing came of 
his promises. The "plutes" would take his words and twist 
them into whatever sense they wished ; and meantime they went 
on pouring out abuse on Jimmie Higgins throwing the same 
old mud into his eyes, blinding him with the same old hatred. 
So there was no way for an old soldier and patriot to break 
through the armour of Jimmie's prejudice. 
IV 
Next day was to be the great mass-meeting in celebration of 
the Eussian revolution; and would you believe it, Lizzie was 
hoping to persuade Jimmie to stay away; she had brought Mr. 
Drew to help persuade him ! Poor Lizzie had visions of every- 
body in the hall being carted off to jail, of Jimmie getting up 
and shouting something, causing the police to fall on him and 
beat in his skull with their clubs. It was in vain he declared 
that he was going to do nothing more romantic than sell litera- 
ture and act as usher. She clasped him in her arms, weeping 
copiously, and when he was still obdurate, she declared that 
she would go with him. She would try to persuade Mrs. Drew 
to take care of the babies for one night. 
Old Peter Drew answered that he would be interested to 
attend the meeting himself. How would it do for him to come 
for Lizzie and the little ones, and leave the latter at his home, 
and then drive with Lizzie to the meeting? They could meet 
Jimmie at the Opera-house, where he would be spending the 
day decorating. Then after the meeting they could all drive 
back together. Fine! said Jimmie, who had visions of the 
old soldier becoming infected with revolutionary fever. 
But alas, it did not work out that way. To Jimmie's con- 
sternation the old man turned up at the Opera-house in a faded 
blue uniform with brass buttons all over it ! Everybody stared, 
of course; and they stared all the harder because they saw this 
military personage in company with Comrade Higgins. The 
old boy gazed about at the swarms of people, many of them 
