I smiled in spite of my suspicion and perplexity, and Thusis smiled too,
such a gay little confidential smile that I could not resist the occult
offer of confidence that it very plainly implied.
"You are not here to keep tabs on me?" I demanded.
"You very nice young man, of course not!"
"Do you really think I’m nice, Thusis?"
"I think you’re adorable!"
The rush of emotion to the head made me red and dizzy.  I had never been
talked to that way by a young girl.  I didn’t know it was done.
And another curious thing about this perfectly gay and unembarrassed
eulogy of hers, she said it as frankly and spontaneously as she might
have spoken to another girl or to an attractive child: there was
absolutely no sex consciousness about her.
"Are you going to let us remain and be your very faithful and diligent
servants?" she asked, mischievously amused at the shock she had
administered.
"Thusis," I said, "it’s going to be rather difficult for me to treat you
as a servant.  And if your friends are of the same quality——"
"It’s perfectly easy," she insisted.  "If we presume, correct us.  If we
are slack, punish us.  Be masculine and exacting; be bad tempered about
your food—"  She laughed delightfully—"Raise the devil with us if we
misbehave."
I didn’t believe I could do that and said so; and she turned on me that
bewildering smile and sat looking at me very intently, with her white
hands clasped in her lap.
"You don’t think we’re a band of robbers conspiring to chloroform you
and Mr. Smith some night and make off with your effects?" she inquired.
We both laughed.
"You’re very much puzzled, aren’t you, Mr. O’Ryan," she continued.
"I am, indeed."
"But you’re so nice—so straight and clean yourself—that you’d give me
the benefit of any doubt, wouldn’t you?"
"Yes."
"That’s because you’re a sportsman.  That’s because you play all games
squarely."  Her face became serious; her gray eyes met mine and seemed
to look far into them.
"Your country is neutral, isn’t it?" she said.
"Yes."
"You are not."
"I have my ideas."
"And ideals," she added.
"Yes, I have them still, Thusis."
"So have I," she said.  "I am trying to live up to them.  If you will
let me."
"I’ll even help you——"
"No!  Just let me alone.  That is all I ask of you."  Her youthful face
grew graver.  "But that is quite enough to ask of you.  Because by
letting me alone you are incurring danger to yourself.
"Why do you tell me?"
"Because I wish to be honest with you.  If you retain me as your servant
and accept me and my friends as such,—even if you live here quietly and
blamelessly, obeying the local and Federal laws and making no inquiries
concerning me or my three friends,—yet, nevertheless, you may find
yourself in very serious trouble before many days."
"Political trouble?"
"All kinds of trouble, Mr. O’Ryan."
There was a silence; she sat there with slender fingers tightly
interlocked as though under some sort of nervous tension, but the faint
hint of a smile in the corners of her mouth—which seemed to be part of
her natural expression—remained.
She said: "And more than that: if you let us remain as your servants, we
shall trust to you and to Mr. Smith that neither one of you by look or
word or gesture would ever convey to anybody the slightest hint that I
and my friends are not exactly what we appear to be—your household
servants."
"Thusis," said I, "what the deuce are you up to?"
"What am I up to?" She laughed outright:—"Let me see!  First—" counting
on her fingers, "I am trying to find a way to live up to my ideals;
second, I am going to try to bring happiness to many, many people;
third, I am prepared to sacrifice myself, my friends, my nearest and
dearest." ... She lifted her clear eyes: "I am quite ready to sacrifice
you, too," she said.
I smiled: "That would cost you very little," I said.
There was another short silence.  The girl looked at me with a curious
intentness as though mentally appraising me—trying to establish in her
mind any value I might represent to her—if any.
"It’s like an innocent bystander being hit by a bullet in a revolution,"
she murmured: "it’s a pity: but it is unavoidable, sometimes."
"I represent this theoretical and innocent bystander?"
"I’m afraid you do, Mr. O’Ryan; the chances are that you’ll get hurt."
A perfectly inexplicable but agreeable tingling sensation began to
invade me, amounting almost to exhilaration.  Was it the Irish in me,
subtly stirred, by the chance of a riot?  Was it a possible opportunity
to heave a brick, impartially and with Milesian enthusiasm?
"Thusis," said I, "there is only one question I must ask you to answer."
"I know what it is."
"What?"
"You are going to remind me that, to-day, the whole world is divided
into two parts; that the greatest war of all times is being waged
between the forces of light and of darkness.  And you are going to ask
me where I stand."
"I am."
The girl rose; so did I.  Then she stepped forward, took my right hand
and rested her other upon it.
"I stand for light, for the world’s freedom, for the liberties of the
weaker, for the self-determination of all peoples.  I stand for their
right to the pursuit of happiness.  I stand for the downfall of all
tyranny—the tyranny of the mob as well as the tyranny of all autocrats.
That is where I stand, Mr. O’Ryan.... Where do you stand?"
"Beside you."
She dropped my hand with an excited little laugh:
"I was certain of that.  In Berne I learned all about you.  I took no
chances in coming here.  I took none in being frank with you."  She
began to laugh again, mischievously: "Perhaps I took chances in being
impertinent to you.  There is a dreadful and common vein of frivolity in
me.  I’m a little reckless, too.  I adore absurd situations, and the
circumstances—when you unwillingly discovered that I was
attractive—appealed to me irresistibly. And I am afraid I was silly
enough—common enough—malicious enough to thoroughly enjoy it.... But,"
she added naïvely, "you gave me rather a good scare when you threatened
to kiss me."
"I’m glad of that," said I with satisfaction.
"Of course," she remarked, "that would have been the climax of
absurdity."
"Would it?"
"Certainly."
"Why?"
"Fancy such a nice young man kissing his cook in the cellar."
"That isn’t what you meant."
"Isn’t it?" she asked airily.
"No."
"What did I mean then, Mr. O’Ryan?"
"I don’t know," said I thoughtfully.
She gave me one of her smiling but searching looks, in which there
seemed a hint of apprehension.  Then, apparently satisfied by her
scrutiny, she favored me with a bewitching smile in which I thought to
detect a slight trace of relief.
"You will keep me, then?" she asked.
"Yes."
"Thank you!"
She stretched out her beautiful hand impulsively: I took it.
"Thanks—and good-by," she said a trifle gravely, Then, with a shadow of
the smile still lingering: "Good-by: because, from now on, it is to be
master and servant.  We must both remember that."
I was silent.
"You will remember, won’t you?" she said—the laughter flashed in her
eyes:—"especially if we ever happen to be in the cellar together?"
I said, forcing a smile and my voice not quite steady: "Suppose we
finish that scene, now, Thusis?"
"Good heavens!" she said:—"and the Admiral watching us!"  She drew her
hand from mine and pointed at the picture over my mantel.
"I’m afraid of that man," she said.  "The cellar is less terrifying——"
"Thusis!"
But she laughed and slipped through the door. "Good-by, Don Michael!"
she called back softly from the stairs.
I walked back slowly to the center of my room and for a long time I
stood there quite motionless, staring fixedly at the Admiral.
                                  *V*
                             *AN ODD SONG*
"There’s one thing certain," thought I; "my household personnel is
altogether too pulchritudinous for a man like Smith, and it begins to
worry me."
Considerably disturbed in my mind I reconnoitered Smith’s rooms, and
found him, as I suspected, loitering there on pretense of re-arranging
the contents of his bureau-drawers.
Now Smith had no legitimate business there; it was Clelia’s hour to do
his rooms.  But, as I say, I already had noticed his artless way of
hanging about at that hour, and several times during the last two weeks
I had encountered him conversing with the girl while she, her blonde
hair bound up in a beguiling dust-cap, and otherwise undeniably
fetching, leaned at ease on her broom and appeared quite willing to be
cornered and conversed with.
My advent always galvanized this situation; Clelia instantly became busy
with her broom and duster, and Smith usually pretended he had been
inquiring of Clelia where I might be found.
He attempted the same dishonesty now, and, with every symptom of
delight, cordially hailed me and inquired where I’d been keeping myself
since breakfast.
"I’ve been out doors," said I coldly, "where I hoped—if I did not really
expect—to find you."
This sarcasm put a slight crimp in his assurance, and he accompanied me
out with docile alacrity, which touched me.
"It’s too good a household to spoil," said I.  "A little innocent
gaiety—a bit of persiflage en passant—that doesn’t interfere with
discipline.  But this loitering about the vicinity of little Clelia’s
too brief skirts is almost becoming a habit with you."
"She’s a nice girl," returned Smith, vaguely.
"Surely.  And you’re a very nice young man; but you know as well as I do
that we can’t arrange our social life to include the circle below
stairs."
