Brisson shook hands, also, with Ilse, cordially, and then was
introduced to Jim.

"What are you doing here?" he inquired humorously of Palla. "And, by
the way,"--dropping his voice--"these Reds don't exactly love me, so
don't use my name."

Palla nodded and whispered to Jim: "He secured all that damning
evidence at the Smolny for our Government."

Brisson and Ilse were engaged in low-voiced conversation: Palla
ventured to look about her.

The character of the gathering was foreign. There were few American
features among the faces, but those few were immeasurably superior
in type--here and there the intellectual, spectacled visage of
some educated visionary, lured into the red tide and left there
drifting;--here and there some pale girl, carelessly dressed, seated
with folded hands, and intense gaze fixed on space.

But the majority of these people, men and women, were foreign in
aspect--round, bushy heads with no backs to them were everywhere;
muddy skins, unhealthy skins, loose mouths, shifty eyes!--everywhere
around her Palla saw the stigma of degeneracy.

She said in a low voice to Jim: "These poor things need to be properly
housed and fed before they're taught. Education doesn't interest empty
stomachs. And when they're given only poison to stop the pangs--what
does civilisation expect?"

He said: "They're a lot of bums. The only education they require is
with a night-stick."

"That's cruel, Jim."

"It's law."

"One of your laws which does not appeal to me," she remarked, turning
to Brisson, who was leaning over to speak to her.

"There are half a dozen plain-clothes men in the audience," he said.
"There are Government detectives here, too. I rather expect they'll
stop the proceedings before the programme calls for it."

Jim turned to look back. A file of policemen entered and carelessly
took up posts in the rear of the hall. Hundreds of flat-backed heads
turned, too; hundreds of faces darkened; a low muttering arose from
the benches.

Then the man at the table on the rostrum got up abruptly, and pulled
out his red handkerchief as though to wipe his face.

At the sudden flourish of the red fabric, a burst of applause came
from the benches. Orator and audience were en rapport; the former
continued to wave the handkerchief, under pretence of swabbing his
features, but the intention was so evident and the applause so
enlightening that a police officer came part way down the aisle and
held up a gilded sleeve.

"Hey!" he called in a bored voice, "Cut that out! See!"

"That man on the platform is Max Sondheim," whispered Brisson. "He'll
skate on thin ice before he's through."

Sondheim had already begun to speak, ignoring the interruption from
the police:

"The Mayor has got cold feet," he said with a sneer. "He gave us a
permit to parade, but when the soldiers attacked us his police clubbed
us. That's the kind of government we got."

"Shame!" cried a white-faced girl in the audience.

"Shame?" repeated Sondheim ironically. "What's shame to a cop? They
got theirs all the same----"

"That's enough!" shouted the police captain sharply. "Any more of that
and I'll run you in!"

Sondheim's red-rimmed eyes measured the officer in silence for a
moment.

"I have the privilege," he said to his audience, "of introducing to
you our comrade, Professor Le Vey."

"Le Vey," whispered Brisson in Palla's ear. "He's a crack-brained
chemist, and they ought to nab him."

The professor rose from one of the benches on the rostrum and came
forward--a tall, black-bearded man, deathly pale, whose protruding,
bluish eyes seemed almost stupid in their fixity.

"Words are by-products," he said, "and of minor importance. Deeds
educate. T. N. T., also, is a byproduct, and of no use in conversation
unless employed as an argument--" A roar of applause drowned his
voice: he gazed at the audience out of his stupid pop-eyes.

"Tyranny has kicked you into the gutter," he went on. "Capital makes
laws to keep you there and hires police and soldiers to enforce those
laws. This is called civilisation. Is there anything for you to do
except to pick yourselves out of the gutter and destroy what kicked
you into it and what keeps you there?"

"No!" roared the audience.

"Only a clean sweep will do it," said Le Vey. "If you have a single
germ of plague in the world, it will multiply. If you leave a single
trace of what is called civilisation in the world, it will hatch out
more tyrants, more capitalists, more laws. So there is only one
remedy. Destruction. Total annihilation. Nothing less can purify this
rotten hell they call the world!"

Amid storms of applause he unrolled a manuscript and read without
emphasis:

"Therefore, the Workers of the World, in council assembled, hereby
proclaim at midnight to-night, throughout the entire world:

"1. That all debts, public and private, are cancelled.

"2. That all leases, contracts, indentures and similar instruments,
products of capitalism, are null and void.

"3. All statutes, ordinances and other enactments of capitalist
government are repealed.

"4. All public offices are declared vacant.

"5. The military and naval organisations will immediately dissolve
and reorganise themselves upon a democratic basis for speedy
mobilisation.

"6. All working classes and political prisoners will be immediately
freed and all indictments quashed.

"7. All vacant and unused land shall immediately revert to the people
and remain common property until suitable regulations for its
disposition can be made.

"8. All telephones, telegraphs, cables, railroads, steamship lines and
other means of communication and transportation shall be immediately
taken over by the workers and treated henceforth as the property of
the people.

"9. As speedily as possible the workers in the various industries will
proceed to take over these industries and organise them in the spirit
of the new epoch now beginning.

"10. The flag of the new society shall be plain red, marking our unity
and brotherhood with similar republics in Russia, Germany, Austria and
elsewhere----"

"That'll be about all from you, Professor," interrupted the police
captain, strolling down to the platform. "Come on, now. Kiss your
friends good-night!"

A sullen roar rose from the audience; Le Vey lifted one hand:

"I told you how to argue," he said in his emotionless voice. "Anybody
can talk with their mouths." And he turned on his heel and went back
to his seat on the bench.

Sondheim stood up:

"Comrade Bromberg!" he shouted.

A small, shabby man arose from a bench and shambled forward. His hair
grew so low that it left him practically no forehead. Whiskers blotted
out the remainder of his features except two small and very bright
eyes that snapped and sparkled, imbedded in the hairy ensemble.

"Comrades," he growled, "it has come to a moment when the only law
worth obeying is the law of force!----"

"You bet!" remarked the police captain, genially, and, turning his
back, he walked away up the aisle toward the rear of the hall, while
all around him from the audience came a savage muttering.

Bromberg's growling voice grew harsher and deeper as he resumed: "I
tell you that there is only one law left for proletariat and tyrant
