"But I won't change my name. I won't put such an affront on the poor
dear who thought--yet there! I shall never know what he thought, but
who, however wrongly, did it because of me. If only I had not told him!
I ought never to have said a word. Never! That door slams the loudest.
It wakes me. It is slamming all the time."
"That too shall pass."
Cassy doubted it. The door and the noise of it hurt. Her eyes filled.
Yet, too sensitive to weep at anybody, even at an inkbeast, she stood
up, went to the window and, while reabsorbing her tears, looked, or
affected to look, at a lean stripe of blue sky.
Meditatively Jones considered her. "Fine day for a walk."
It was as though he had offered her a handkerchief. Tearful no longer,
but annoyed, she turned and sat down.
"You seem very original."
"It is absentmindedness, I think. I meant to ask, are you ever down near
the Stock Exchange?"
"That is where Mr. Lennox goes, isn't it?"
"There are others that frequent the neighbourhood. Among them is a
deacon named Dunwoodie."
"Isn't he the lawyer who acted for Mr. Lennox?"
"Now you mention it, I believe he is. Anyway, I wonder if you would care
to have him act for you?"
Cassy crossed her hands. "I don't understand you."
"For a moment or two, he didn't either. Then he said he would like to
see you. That was an hour ago. I have just come from his office."
"But what in the world does he want of me? Everything is over now, isn't
it? Or are there more doors? Really, if there are, I don't think I can
stand it. I don't think I can, Mr. Jones."
"Yes, but there are doors that don't slam, doors that are closed and
locked and barred. Sometimes there is romance behind them, sometimes
there are santal-wood boxes crammed with rubies; sometimes there are
secrets, sometimes there are landscapes of beckoning palms. One never
quite knows what there is behind closed doors. He may open one or two
for you. Wouldn't it interest you to let him try?"
Cassy's eyelids had been a trifle tremulous, in her under-lip there had
been also a little uncertainty. But at the vistas which the novelist
dangled at her, she succeeded in looking, as she could look,
immeasurably remote.
"That sort of thing is chorus-girl!"
Blankly Jones stared. "What sort of thing?"
"Why, you want me to bring an action. I will do nothing of the kind.
Even if he were living, I would rather be dead. Besides, it was all my
fault. I ought to have known better."
"Better than what?" enquired the novelist, who now had got his bearings.
"Mr. Jones, I told you all about it."
"Forgive me, if I seem to contradict you. You did not tell all."
Cassy stiffened.
"How could you?" Jones continued. "Details are so tiresome. To-day when
I was talking to Dunwoodie, I advanced a few. Dunwoodie is a very
ordinary person. Details bore you, they bore me. He dotes on them. By
the way, you said something about changing your name. I wish you would.
Couldn't you take mine?"
"You are ridiculous."
"As you like. Any one else would call me mercenary."
He's crazy, Cassy uncomfortably reflected. What shall I do?
Modestly the novelist motioned. "Ten Eyck Jones now! It doesn't rhyme
with Victor Hugo or even with Andrew Carnegie, but it has a lilt. It
might be worse."
"What are you talking about?" Cassy, with increasing discomfort, put in.
"There is a little thing that turns men into flint and women into putty.
That's what I am talking about. I am talking money."
"Thank you. The subject does not interest me."
"Ah, but you are evolved! Would that the butcher were! We all have to
consider his incapacities and money helps us. I have an idea that your
dear departed may have left you a trifle."
"Really, Mr. Jones, you are talking nonsense."
"It is a specialty of mine."
"Besides, it is impossible."
"Impossible is a word that intelligent young women never employ."
"Very good. Admitting the possibility, I won't take it."
"It might be paid into your bank."
"I haven't any bank."
"One could be found for you."
"I would tell them not to accept it."
"The bank that won't accept money does not exist."
Cassy flushed. "I rather liked you. Couldn't you be less hateful?"
"You are trying to pick a quarrel with me."
"Nothing of the kind."
"Then will you let me take you to Dunwoodie?"
"Certainly not."
"Then will you go alone?"
"But why? Why should I? What does this man with an absurd name want of
me?"
Jones pulled at a cuff. "Well, look at it from this angle. Before you
discovered that your marriage was a sham, you were prepared to assume a
few obligations and some of them may still subsist. The man with the
absurd name can tell you what they are. Surely you are not a slacker.
This is war-time."
With that abandonment which is so gracious in a woman, Cassy half raised
a hand. "My front line is wavering."
Jones reached for his hat. "Over the top then!"
Under the table they crawled.
XXXIV
"Your very obedient servant, madam."
With that and a fine bow, Dunwoodie greeted Cassy when Jones had
succeeded in getting her into the inner and airy office. The old ruffian
drew a chair.
"Do me the honour."
Cassy sat down. What a funny old man, she thought.
Jones addressing the door, remarked dreamily: "Pendente lite, I will
renew my acquaintance with Swinburne's 'Espousals.'"
Dunwoodie glared. "You will find it in the library." Then he sat down,
folded his hands on his waistcoat and smiled at Cassy. "Nice day."
"Very."
"Down here often?"
Cassy shook her docked hair. "No, and I don't at all know why I am here
now. I do know though, and I may as well tell you at once, I have no
intention of making a fuss."
Dunwoodie's smile, a smile quasi-ogrish, semi-paternal, expanded. "If
our Potsdam friend only resembled you!"
For a young woman so recently and doubly bereaved, Cassy's blue smock
and yellow skirt seemed to him properly subdued. Moreover, from a word
that Jones had dropped, he realised that wealth had not presided at
their selection.
He twirled his thumbs. "But let me ask, what may your full name be?"
"Bianca Cara."
"Hum! Ha! Most becoming. And how young are you?"
Well, I like that! thought Cassy, who answered: "Twenty-one."
Dunwoodie crossed his legs. "You think me an impertinent old man. I
don't mean to be impertinent. I take a great interest in you."
"Very good of you, I'm sure."
"Not at all. Is your grandmother living?"
"For heaven's sake! You did not know her, did you?"
"No, but I stand ready to take her place."
"You would find it difficult. She is buried in Portugal."
"The place of your grandfather then, the place of any one whom you can
trust."
"But why?"
"Well, let me ask. What are your plans?"
"My plans? Mr. Jones asked me that. I have a sort of a voice and I am
looking for an engagement. But the season is ending. Then too I am told
I ought to change my name. I won't do it."
"Hum! Ha! But it appears that you have."
He's crazy too, thought Cassy, who said: "I don't know what you are
talking about."
Dunwoodie extracted his towel. "Why, my dear young lady, you are Mrs.
Paliser."
Cassy flushed. "I am nothing of the kind. I don't know how you got such
an idea."
Dunwoodie, quite as though he were doing some hard thinking, folded and
refolded that towel which was his handkerchief. "Yet you married Montagu
Paliser, Jr., did you not?"
"Not at all. That is I thought I did, but the man who performed the
ceremony was a gardener."
"Dear me! Is it possible! And where was this?"
What is it to you? thought Cassy. "At Paliser Place, if you must know."
"And when did it occur?"
"Really, Mr. Dunwoodie, I can't see why you are putting me through this
examination, but if it is of any benefit to you, it happened just five
days before he died."
"Anybody about?"
"Oh, yes. There were two other servants who enjoyed it very much. I
heard them laughing and I don't blame them. It was a rare treat. A child
would have laughed at it. All my fault too. I behaved like a ninny. But
my great mistake was in telling my father. I would give the world if I
had not. Won't you please send for Mr. Jones? As I told you, I don't
know why I am here."
Dunwoodie shook out the towel. "You must blame him then. He said you
were Paliser's widow."
"Well, you see I am not."
"Yet you consented to be his wife."
"Whose? Mr. Jones'?"
"Paliser's, my dear young lady. However fictitious the ceremony, you
consented to be Paliser's wife."
"What if I did? It has nothing to do with it now."
"Just a little, perhaps. Did you hear Jones say that he would renew his
acquaintance with Swinburne?"
"From the way he talks, one might think he knew him by heart."
"Yaas, he is very objectionable. But you are referring to the poet. He
was referring to the jurist. The jurist wrote a very fine book. Let me
quote a passage from it. 'It is the present and perfect consent the
which alone maketh matrimony, without either solemnisation or'--here,
Dunwoodie, skipping the frank old English, substituted--'or anything
else, for neither the one nor the other is the essence of matrimony, but
consent only. Consensus non concubitus facit matrimoniam.' Hum! Ha! In
other words, whether marriage is or is not contracted in facie ecclesiæ,
it is consent alone that constitutes its validity. You understand
Latin?"
Cassy laughed. "I dream in it."
Dunwoodie laughed too. "Pleasant dreams to you always. But what I have
