"You mean you looked into our rooms from here?"
"Yes, clairvoyantly."
"What did you see?"
"The Iaglamichi!" she said with a shudder. "Kai! The Toug of Djamouk is
anointed at last!"
"Is that the beast of a Mongol who did this murder?"
"Djamouk and Prince Sanang planned it," she said, trembling a little.
"But that butchery was Yaddin's work, I think. Kai! The work of
Yaddined-Din, Tougtchi to Djamouk the Fox!"
They stood confronting each other, the length of the sitting-room
between them. And after the silence had lasted a full minute Cleves
reddened and said: "I am going to sleep on the couch at the foot of your
bed, Tressa."
His young wife reddened too.
He said: "This affair has thoroughly scared me. I can't let you sleep
out of my sight."
"I am quite safe. And you would have an uncomfortable night," she
murmured.
"Do you mind if I sleep on the couch, Tressa?"
"No."
"Will you call me when you are ready?"
"Yes."
She went into her bedroom and closed the door.
When he was ready he slipped a pistol into the pocket of his
dressing-gown, belted it over his pyjamas, and walked into the
sitting-room. His wife called him presently, and he went in. Her
night-lamp was burning and she extended her hand to extinguish it.
"Could you sleep if it burns?" he asked bluntly.
"Yes."
"Then let it burn. This business has got on my nerves," he muttered.
They looked at each other in an expressionless way. Both really
understood how useless was this symbol of protection--this man the girl
called husband;--how utterly useless his physical strength, and the
pistol sagging in the pocket of his dressing-gown. Both understood that
the only real protection to be looked for must come from her--from the
gifted and guardian mind of this young girl who lay there looking at him
from the pillows.
"Good-night," he said, flushing; "I'll do my best. But only one of God's
envoys, like you, knows how to do battle with things that come out of
hell."
After a moment's silence she said in a colourless voice: "I wish you'd
lie down on the bed."
"Had you rather I did?"
"Yes."
So he went slowly to the bed, placed his pistol under the pillow, drew
his dressing-gown around him, and lay down.
After he had lain unstirring for half an hour: "Try to sleep, Tressa,"
he said, without turning his head.
"Can't you seem to sleep, Victor?" she asked. And he heard her turn her
head.
"No."
"Shall I help you?"
"Do you mean use hypnosis--the power of suggestion--on me?"
"No. I can help you to sleep very gently. I can make you very drowsy....
You are drowsy now.... You are very close to the edge of sleep....
Sleep, dear.... Sleep, easily, naturally, confidently as a tired boy....
You are sleeping, ... deeply ... sweetly ... my dear ... my dear, dear
husband."
CHAPTER XI
YULUN THE BELOVED
Cleves opened his eyes. He was lying on his left side. In the pink glow
of the night-lamp he saw his wife in her night-dress, seated sideways on
the farther edge of the bed, talking to a young girl.
The strange girl wore what appeared to be a chamber-robe of frail gold
tissue that clung to her body and glittered as she moved. He had never
before seen such a dress; but he had seen the girl; he recognised her
instantly as the girl he had seen turn to look back at Tressa as she
crossed the phantom bridge over that misty Florida river. And Cleves
comprehended that he was looking at Yulun.
But this charming young thing was no ghost, no astral projection. This
girl was warm, living, breathing flesh. The delicate scent of her
strange garments and of her hair, her very breath, was in the air of the
room. Her half-hushed but laughing voice was deliciously human; her
delicate little hands, caressing Tressa's, were too eagerly real to
doubt.
Both talked at the same time, their animated voices mingling in the
breathless delight of the reunion. Their exclamations, enchanting
laughter, bubbling chatter, filled his ears. But not one word of what
they were saying to each other could he understand.
Suddenly Tressa looked over her shoulder and met his astonished eyes.
"Tokhta!" she exclaimed. "Yulun! My lord is awake!"
Yulun swung around swiftly on the edge of the bed and looked laughingly
at Cleves. But when her red lips unclosed she spoke to Tressa: and,
"Darling," she said in English, "I think your dear lord remembers that
he saw me on the Bridge of Dreams. And heard the bells of Yian across
the mist."
Tressa said, laughing at her husband: "This is Yulun, flame-slender,
very white, loveliest in Yian. On the rose-marble steps of the Yezidee
Temple she flung a stemless rose upon Djamouk's shroud, where he had
spread it like a patch of snow in the sun.
"And at the Lake of the Ghosts, where there is freedom to love, for
those who desire love, came Yaddin, Tougtchi to Djamouk the Fox, in
search of love--and Yulun, flame-slim, and flower-white.... Tell my dear
lord, Yulun!"
Yulun laughed at Cleves out of her dark eyes that slanted charmingly at
the corners.
"Kai!" she cried softly, clapping her palms. "I took his roses and tore
them with my hands till their petals rained on him and their golden
hearts were a powdery cloud floating across the water.
"I said: 'Even the damned do not mate with demons, my Tougtchi! So go to
the devil, my Banneret, and may Erlik seize you!'"
Cleves, his ears ringing with the sweet confusion of their girlish
laughter, rose from his pillow, supporting himself on one arm.
"You are Yulun. You are alive and real----" He looked at Tressa: "She is
real, isn't she?" And, to Yulun: "Where do you come from?"
The girl replied seriously: "I come from Yian." She turned to Tressa
with a dazzling smile: "Thou knowest, my heart's gold, how it was I
came. Tell thy dear lord in thine own way, so that it shall be simple
for his understanding.... And now--because my visit is ending--I think
thy dear lord should sleep. Bid him sleep, my heart's gold!"
At that calm suggestion Cleves sat upright on the bed,--or attempted to.
But sank back gently on his pillow and met there a dark, delicious rush
of drowsiness.
He made an effort--or tried to: the smooth, sweet tide of sleep swept
over him to the eyelids, leaving him still and breathing evenly on his
pillow.
The two girls leaned over and looked down at him.
"Thy dear lord," murmured Yulun. "Does he love thee, rose-bud of Yian?"
"No," said Tressa, under her breath.
"Does he know thou art damned, heart of gold?"
"He says no soul is ever really harmed," whispered Tressa.
"Kai! Has he never heard of the Slayer of Souls?" exclaimed Yulun
incredulously.
"My lord maintains that neither the Assassin of Khorassan nor the
Sheiks-el-Djebel of the Eight Towers, nor their dark prince Erlik, can
have power over God to slay the human soul."
"Tokhta, Rose of Yian! Our souls were slain there in the Yezidee
temple."
Tressa looked down at Cleves:
"My dear lord says no," she said under her breath.
"And--Sanang?"
Tressa paled: "His mind and mine did battle. I tore my heart from his
grasp. I have laid it, bleeding, at my dear lord's feet. Let God judge
between us, Yulun."
"There was a day," whispered Yulun, "when Prince Sanang went to the Lake
of the Ghosts."
Tressa, very pallid, looked down at her sleeping husband. She said:
"Prince Sanang came to the Lake of the Ghosts. The snow of the
cherry-trees covered the young world.
"The water was clear as sunlight; and the lake was afire with scarlet
carp.... Yulun--beloved--the nightingale sang all night long--all night
long.... Then I saw Sanang shining, all gold, in the moonlight.... May
God remember him in hell!"
"May God remember him."
"Sanang Noïane. May he be accursed in the Namaz Ga!"
"May he be tormented in Jehaunum!--Sanang, Slayer of Souls."
Tressa leaned forward on the bed, stretched herself out, and laid her
face gently across her husband's feet, touching them with her lips.
Then she straightened herself and sat up, supported by one hand, and
looking silently down at the sleeping man.
"No soul shall die," she said. "Niaz!"
"Is it written?" asked Yulun, surprised.
"My lord has said it."
"Allahou Ekber," murmured Yulun; "thy lord is only a man."
Tressa said: "Neither the Tekbir nor the fatha, nor the warning of
Khidr, nor the Yacaz of the Khagan, nor even the prayers of the Ten
Imaums are of any value to me unless my dear lord confirms the truth of
them with his own lips."
"And Erlik? Is he nothing, then?"
"Erlik!" repeated Tressa insolently. "Who is Erlik but the servant of
Satan who was stoned?"
Her beautiful, angry lips were suddenly distorted; her blue eyes blazed.
Then she spat, her mouth still tremulous with hatred. She said in a
voice shaking with rage:
"Yulun, beloved! Listen attentively. I have slain two of the Slayers of
the Eight Towers. With God's help I shall slay them all--all!--Djamouk,
Yaddin, Arrak Sou-Sou--all!--every one!--Tiyang Khan, Togrul,--all shall
I slay, even to the last one among them!"
"Sanang, also?"
"I leave him to God. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the
living God!"
Yulun calmly paraphrased the cant phrase of the Assassins: "For it is
written that we belong to God and we return to Him. Heart of gold, I
shall execute my duty!"
Then Yulun slipped from the edge of the bed to the floor, and stood
there looking oddly at Tressa, her eyes rain-bright as though choking
back tears--or laughter.
"Heart of a rose," she said in a suppressed voice, "my time is nearly
ended.... So.... I go to the chamber of this strange young man who holds
my soul like a pearl afire between his hands.... I think it it written
