"Oh, the beautiful shops!"

Of all the things in the world--this side of the world--worth having,
nothing else seemed comparable to jade--a jade necklace. Not the stone
that looked like dull marble with a greenish pallor--no. She wanted the
deep apple-green jade, the royal, translucent stone. And she knew that she
had as much chance of possessing the real article as she had of taking her
pick of the scattered Romanoff jewels.

Jane held to the belief that when you wished for something you couldn't
have it was niggardly not to wish magnificently.

She dressed hurriedly, hastened through her breakfast of tea and toast and
jam, and was about to sally forth upon the delectable adventure, when
there came a gentle knock on the door. She opened it, rather expecting a
boy to announce that Captain Dennison was below. Outside stood a Chinaman
in a black skirt and a jacket of blue brocade. He was smiling and
kotowing.

"Would the lady like to see some things?"

"Come in," said Jane, readily.

Ling Foo deposited his pack on the floor and opened it. He had heard that
a single woman had come in the night before and, shrewd merchant that he
was, he had wasted no time.

"Furs!" cried Jane, reaching down for the Manchurian sable. She blew aside
the top fur and discovered the smoky down beneath. She rubbed her cheek
against it ecstatically. She wondered what devil's lure there was about
furs and precious stones that made women give up all the world for them.
Was that madness hidden away in her somewhere?

"How much?"

She knew beforehand that the answer would render the question utterly
futile.

"A hundred Mex," said Ling Foo. "Very cheap."

"A hundred Mex?" That would be nearly fifty dollars in American money.
With a sigh she dropped the fur. "Too much for me. How much is that
Chinese jacket?"

"Twenty Mex."

Jane carried it over to the window.

"I will give you fifteen for it."

"All right."

Ling Foo was willing to forego his usual hundred per cent. profit in order
to start the day with a sale. Then he spread out the grass linen.

Jane went into raptures over some of the designs, but in the end she shook
her head. She wanted something from Shanghai, something from Hong-Kong,
something from Yokohama. If she followed her inclination she would go
broke here and now.

"Have you any jade? Understand, I'm not buying. Just want to see some."

"No, lady; but I can bring you some this afternoon."

"I warn you, I'm not buying."

"I shall be glad to show the lady. What time shall I call?"

"Oh, about tea time."

Ling Foo reached inside his jacket and produced a string of cut-glass
beads.

"How pretty! What are they?"

"Glass."

Jane hooked the string round her neck and viewed the result in the
mirror. The sunshine, striking the facets, set fire to the beads. They
were really lovely. She took a sudden fancy to them.

"How much?"

"Four Mex." It was magnanimous of Ling Foo.

"I'll take them." They were real, anyhow. "Bring your jade at tea time and
call for Miss Norman. I can't give you any more time."

"Yes, lady."

Ling Foo bundled up his assorted merchandise and trotted away infinitely
relieved. The whole affair was off his hands. In no wise could the police
bother him now. He knew nothing; he would know nothing until he met his
honourable ancestors.

From ten until three Jane, under the guidance of Captain Dennison, stormed
the shops on the Bunds and Nanking Road; but in returning to the Astor
House she realized with dismay that she had expended the major portion of
her ammunition in this offensive. She doubted if she would have enough to
buy a kimono in Japan. It was dreadful to be poor and to have a taste for
luxury and an eye for beauty.

"Captain," she said as they sat down to tea, "I'm going to ask one more
favour."

"What is it?"

"A Chinaman is coming with some jade. If I'm alone with him I'm afraid
I'll buy something, and I really can't spend another penny in Shanghai."

"I see. Want me to shoo him off in case his persistence is too much for
you."

"Exactly. It's very nice of you."

"Greatest pleasure in the world. I wish the job was permanent--shooing 'em
away from you."

She sent him a quick sidelong glance, but he was smiling. Still, there was
something in the tone that quickened her pulse. All nonsense, of course;
both of them stony, as the Britishers put it; both of them returning to
the States for bread and butter.

"Why didn't you put up here?" she asked. "There is plenty of room."

"Well, I thought perhaps it would be better if I stayed at the Palace."

"Nonsense! Who cares?"

"I do." And this time he did not smile.

"I suppose my Chinaman will be waiting in the lobby."

"Let's toddle along, then."

Dennison followed her out of the tea room, his gaze focused on the back of
her neck, and it was just possible to resist the mad inclination to bend
and kiss the smooth, ivory-tinted skin. He was not ready to analyze the
impulse for fear he might find how deep down the propellant was. A woman,
young in the heart, young in the body, and old in the mind, disillusioned
but not embittered, unafraid, resourceful, sometimes beautiful and
sometimes plain, but always splendidly alive.

Perhaps the wisest move on his part was to avoid her companionship, invent
some excuse to return by the way of Manila, pretend he had transfer
orders. To spend twenty-one days on the same ship with her and to keep his
head seemed a bit too strong. Had there been something substantial
reaching down from the future--a dependable job--he would have gone with
her joyously. But he had not a dollar beyond his accumulated pay; that
would melt quickly enough when he reached the States. He was thirty; he
would have to hustle to get anywhere by the time he was forty. His only
hope was that back in the States they were calling for men who knew how to
manage men, and he had just been discharged--or recalled for that
purpose--from the best school for that. But they were calling for
specialists, too, and he was a jack of all trades and master of none.

He knew something about art, something about music, something about
languages; but he could not write. He was a fair navigator, but not fair
enough for a paying job. He could take an automobile engine apart and
reassemble it with skill, but any chauffeur could do that.

"Hadn't we better go into the parlour?" he heard Jane asking as they
passed out.

"We'll be alone there. It will be easier for you to resist temptation, I
suppose, if there isn't any audience. Audiences are nuisances. Men have
killed each other because they feared the crowd might mistake common sense
for the yellow streak."

Instantly the thought leaped into the girl's mind: Supposing such an event
lay back of this strange silence about his home and his people? She
recalled the ruthless ferocity with which he had broken up a street fight
between American and Japanese soldiers one afternoon in Vladivostok.
Supposing he had killed someone? But she had to repudiate this theory. No
officer in the United States Army could cover up anything like that.

"Come to the parlour," she said to Ling Foo, who was smiling and
kotowing.

Ling Foo picked up his blackwood box. Inwardly he was not at all pleased
