If our analysis of present-day society is correct, we have the enormous
populations of the modern industrial countries, living always on the
verge of starvation, their chance for survival depending at all times
upon the ability of their employers to find a profitable market for a
surplus of goods. At first the employer seeks that market at home; but
when the home markets are glutted, he goes abroad; and so develops the
phenomenon of foreign trade and rivalry for foreign trade, as the basic
fact of capitalism, and the fundamental cause of modern war.
Let us get clear a simple distinction concerning foreign trade. There is
a kind of trade which is normal, and would thrive in a "free" society.
In the United States we can produce nearly all the necessities of life,
but there are a few which we cannot produce--rubber, for example, and
bananas, and good music. These things we wish to import. We buy them
from other countries, and incur a debt, which we pay with products which
the other countries need from us; wheat, for example, and copper, and
moving pictures with cowboys in them. This is equal exchange, and a
natural phenomenon. A "free" society would produce such surplus goods as
were necessary to procure the foreign products that it desired. When it
had produced that much, the workers would stop and take a vacation until
they wanted more foreign products.
But under capitalism we have an entirely different condition--we produce
a surplus of goods which we have to sell in order to keep our
factories running, and to keep our working population from starving. And
note that it does not help us to get back an equal quantity of foreign
goods in exchange. We must have what we call "a favorable balance"; that
is, we must have other people going into debt to us, so that we can be
continually shipping out more goods than we take back; continually
piling up credits which we can "negotiate," or turn into cash, so that
we can go on and repeat the process of making more goods, selling them
for more profits, and putting the surplus into the form of more
machinery, to make still more goods and still more profits.
And then, after a while, we come upon this embarrassing phenomenon;
nations which buy and do not sell must either do it by sending us gold,
or by our giving them credit. The sending of gold cannot go on
indefinitely, because then we should have all the gold, and if other
nations had none that would destroy their credit. On the other hand,
business cannot be done by credit indefinitely; for the very essence of
credit is a promise to pay, and payment can only be made in goods, and
how can we take the goods without ruining our own industry?
Fifteen years ago I pointed this out in a book. The argument was
irrefutable, and the conclusion inescapable, but the few critics who
noted it repeated their usual formula about "dreamers and theorists."
Now, however, the business mills have ground on, and what was theory has
become fact before our eyes. We have trusted the nations of Europe for
some $10,000,000,000 worth of goods, and they are powerless to pay, and
if they did pay, they would bankrupt American industry. France wishes to
collect an enormous indemnity from Germany, but nobody can figure out
how this indemnity can be paid without ruining French industry. The
French have demanded coal from Germany, and have got more than they can
use, and are "dumping" it in Belgium and Holland, with the result that
the British coal industry is ruined. The French clamor that the Germans
must pay for the destruction they wrought in Northern France, and the
Germans offer to send German workmen to rebuild the ruined towns; but
the French denounce this as an insult--it would deprive French
workingmen of their jobs! So I might continue for pages, pointing out
the manifold absurdities which result from a system of industry for the
profit of a few, instead of for the use of all.
Ever since I first began to read the newspapers, some twenty-five or
thirty years ago, all our political life has been nothing but the
convulsions of a social body tortured by the constricting ring of the
profit system. Everywhere one group struggling for advantage over
another group, and politicians engaged in playing one interest against
another interest! My boyhood recollections of public life consist of
campaign slogans having to do with the tariff: "production and
prosperity," "reciprocity," "the full dinner pail," "the foreigner pays
the tax," etc.
The workingman, under the profit system, is like a man pounding away at
a pump. He can get a thin trickle of water from the spout of the pump if
he works hard enough, but in order to get it he has to supply ten times
as much to some one who has tapped the pipe. But the tapping has been
done underground, where the workingman cannot see it. All the workingman
knows is that there is no job for him if the products of "cheap foreign
labor" are allowed to be "dumped" on the American market. That is
obvious, and so he votes for a tax on foreign imports, high enough to
enable his own employer to market at a profit. He does not realize that
he is thus raising the price of everything that he buys, and so leaving
himself worse off than he was before.
All governments are delighted with this tariff device, because they are
thus enabled to get money from the public without the public's knowing
it. "The foreigner pays the tax," we are told, and as a result of this
arrangement the steel trust just before the war was selling its product
at a high price to the American people, and taking its surplus abroad
and selling it to the foreigner at half the domestic price. And we see
this same thing in every line of manufacture, and all over the world. We
see one nation after another withdrawing itself as a market for
manufactured products, and entering the lists as a marketer. One more
nation now able to fill all its own needs, and going out hungrily to
look for foreign customers, adding to the glut of the world's
manufactured products and the ferocity of international competition!
At the close of the Civil War the total exports of the United States
averaged approximately $300,000,000, and the total imports were about
the same. In 1892 the exports first touched $1,000,000,000, while the
imports were about nine-tenths of that sum. In the year 1913 the exports
were nearly $2,500,000,000, while the imports were $600,000,000 less;
and in the year 1920 our exports were over $8,000,000,000 and our
imports a little over $5,000,000,000! So we have a "favorable balance"
of almost $3,000,000,000 a year--and as a result we are on the verge of
ruin!
This "iron ring" of overproduction and lack of market exercises upon our
industrial body a steady pressure, a slow strangling. But because the
body is in convulsions, struggling to break the ring, the pressure of
the ring is worse at some times than at others. We have periods of what
we call "prosperity," followed by periods of panic and hard times. You
must understand that only a small part of our business is done by means
of cash payments, whether in gold or silver or paper money. Close to 99%
of our business is done by means of credit, and this introduces into the
process a psychological factor. The business man expects certain
profits, and he capitalizes these expectations. Business booms, because
everybody believes everybody else's promises; credit expands like a huge
balloon, with the breath of everybody's enthusiasm. But meantime real
business, the real market, remains just what it was before; it cannot
increase, because of the iron ring which restricts the buying power of
the mass of the people by the competitive wage. So presently the time
comes when somebody realizes that he has over-capitalized his hopes; he
curtails his orders, he calls in his money, and the impulse thus started
precipitates a crash in the whole business world. We had such a crash in
1907, and I remember a Wall Street man explaining it in a magazine
article entitled, "Somebody Asked for a Dollar."
We learned one lesson by that panic; at least, the big financial men
learned it, and had Congress pass what is called the "Federal Reserve
Act," a provision whereby in time of need the government issues
practically unlimited credit to banks. This, of course, is fine for the
banks; it puts the credit of everybody else behind them, and all they
have to do is to stop lending money--except to the big insiders--and sit
back and wait, while the little men go to the wall, and the mass of us
live on our savings or starve. We saw this happen in the year 1920, and
for the first time we had "hard times" without having a financial panic.
But instead we see prices staying high--because the banks have issued so
much paper money and bank credits.
CHAPTER LX
CAPITALIST WAR
     (Shows how the competition for foreign markets leads nations
     automatically into war.)
In a discussion of the world's economic situation, published in 1906,
the writer portrayed the ruling class of Germany as sitting in front of
a thermometer, watching the mercury rising, and knowing that when it
reached the top, the thermometer would break. This thermometer was the
German class system of government, and the mercury was the Socialist
vote. In 1870 the vote was 30,000, in 1884 it was 549,000, in 1893 it
was 1,876,000, in 1903 it was 3,008,000, in 1907 it was 3,250,000, in
1911 it was 4,250,000. Writing between 1906 and 1913, I again and again
pointed out that this increase was the symptom of social discontent in
Germany, caused by the overproduction of invested capital throughout the
world, and the intensification of the competition for world markets. I
pointed out that a slight increase in the vote would be sufficient to
transfer to the working class of Germany the political power of the
German state; and I said that the ruling class of Germany would never
permit that to happen--when it was ready to happen Germany would go to
war, to seize the trade privileges of some other nation.
There was a time when wars were caused by national and racial hatreds.
There are still enough of these venerable prejudices left in the world,
but no student of the subject would deny that the main source of modern
wars is commercial rivalry. In 1917 we sent Eugene V. Debs to prison for
declaring that the late world war was a war of capitalist greed. But two
years later President Wilson, who had waged the war, declared in a
public speech that everybody knew it had been a war of commercial
rivalries.
The aims of modern war-makers are two. First, capitalism must have raw
materials, including coal and oil, the sources of power, and gold and
silver, the bases of credit. Parts of the world which are so unfortunate
as to be rich in these substances become the bone of contention between
rival financial groups, organized as nations. Some sarcastic writer has
defined a "backward" nation as one which has gold mines and no navy. We
are horrified to read of the wars of the French monarchs, caused by the
jealous quarrels of mistresses; but in 1905 we saw Russia and Japan go
to war and waste a million lives because certain Russian grand dukes had
bribed certain Chinese mandarins and obtained concessions of timber on
the Yalu River. We now observe France and Germany vowed to undying hate
because of iron mines in Lorraine, and the efforts of France to take the
coal mines of Silesia from Germany, and give them to Poland, which is
another name for French capitalism.
The other end sought by the war-makers is markets for manufactured
products, and control of trade routes, coaling stations and cables
necessary to the building up of foreign trade. England has been
"mistress of the seas" for some 300 years, which meant that her traders
had obtained most of these advantages. But then came Germany, with her
newly developed commercialism, shoving her rival out of the way. The
Englishman was easy-going; he liked to play cricket, and stop and drink
tea every afternoon. But the German worked all day and part of the
night; he trained himself as a specialist, he studied the needs of his
