called Lone Mountain, and they had picnics in it. Odd 
they both should have had young daughters. Another 
link — what? as the English say. Well — anyhow — he 
told me to tell you that he was just as fond of your 
father as of your mother, and that you must try to 
imagine that he is your father from this time forth, and 
come to him when you are in doubt about anything." 

Alexina looked her straight in the eyes. ' ' I have sometimes thought uncle daddy didn't like Mortimer." 

"On the contrary, he rather likes him. He respects a 
capacity for hard work, and persistence, and a reputation for uncompromising honesty. But of course Mortimer is young — in business, that is; and father thinks — 
but you had better talk with him." 

"No. Why should I? But I don't mind you. At 
least I could not discuss Mortimer with any one else. 
I am furious with Tom Abbott. He wants me to put 
my money in trust, with himself and uncle daddy as 
trustees — ignoring Mortimer, whom he pretends to like. 
He says Maria's fortune has been kept intact, that he 
has never touched a cent of it, but that men in business 
are likely to get into tight places and use their wife's 
money. Nothing would induce Mortimer to touch my 
money, but he would feel pretty badly cut up if I let 
any one else look after my affairs. Of course I wouldn't 
even discuss the matter with Tom. And if Morty does 
need money at any time I'll lend it to him. Why not? 
What else would any one expect me to do ? " 

' ' Of course Tom Abbott went to work the wrong way, 
the blundering idiot. No one doubts Mortimer's good 
faith, but the times are awful, money has paresis ; and 
when you are obliged to take any of your own out of the 
stocking in order to keep business going, it is easily lost. 
Dad hopes you will hang on like grim death to your 
inheritance. You see — the times are so abnormal, Mortimer hasn't had time to prove his abilities yet; he's just 
been able to hold on; and if things don't mend and he 



 

should lose out, why — if you still have your own little 
fortune, at least you'll not be any worse off than you 
are now. Don't you see?" 

' ' Yes, I see. But Mortimer has told me of other panics 
and bad times. They always pass, and better times come 
again. And if he has been able to hold on, that at least 
shows ability, for others have gone under. Of course 
we shall live here and run the house — as mother did. 
I couldn't bear to live anywhere else, and Morty adores 
it too." 

"Oh, rather. I couldn't imagine you anywhere else." 

"Geary and Ballinger sent me ten thousand dollars 
for a wedding present and Morty bought some bonds 
for me, but I'm going to sell a few and refurnish the 
lower rooms. I love the old house but I like cheerful 
modern things. The poor old parlors and dining-room 
do look like sarcophagi. ' ' 

'' Good. I'll help. We 'll have no end of fun. ' ' 





There was a pause and then Alexina said : ' ' Mortimer 
is so determined to be a rich man and thinks of so little 
else and works so hard, that he is bound to be. Otherwise, such gifts would be meaningless." 

She made the statements with an unconscious rising 
inflection. Aileen did not answer and turned her sharp 
revealing green eyes on the eucalyptus grove which concealed Ballinger House from the vulgar gaze, and incidentally shut off a magnificent view. 

"I don't know whether I like Gora Dwight or not," 
she remarked. 

"Neither do I. But I admire her. She is a wonder. " 

"Oh, yes, I admire her, and I've a notion she's got 
something big in her, some sort of destiny. But those 
light eyes in that dark face give me the creeps. It isn't 
that I don't trust her. I believe her to be insolently 
honest and honorable — and just, if you like. But — 
perhaps it's only the accident of her queer coloring — 
she gives me the impression that while she might go to 



 

the stake for her pride, she'd murder you in cold blood 
if you got in her way." 

' ' Poor Gora ! You make her all the more interesting. ' ' 

"Did she ever tell you that she corresponds with that 
Englishman who was out here at the time of the earthquake and fire and had that ghastly adventure with his 
sister? We all met him at the Hofer ball — Gathbroke 
his name was. ' ' 

Alexina was staring at her with an amazed frown. 
"Correspond — Gora? ... I remember now he told me 
she helped him to carry his sister's body out to the old 
cemetery. Is he interested in her?" 

"I shouldn't wonder. They've corresponded off and 
on ever since. I walked home with her one afternoon 
before I went south — she interests me frantically — and 
she invited me up to her quite artistic attic in Geary 
Street, where she still lives, and gave me the most vivid 
description of that night. It made me crawl. She stared 
straight before her as she told it. Her eyes were just 
like gray oval mirrors in which it seemed to me I saw 
the whole thing pass. . . . 

"Then she showed me a photograph he had recently 
sent her — stunning thing he is, all right, and looks years 
older than when he was here. She also alluded to things 
he had said in a letter or two. So my phenomenally 
quick wits inferred that they correspond. Perhaps they 
are engaged. Pretty good deal for her. ' ' 





Alexina, to her surprise, felt intensely angry, although 
she had the presence of mind to cast up her eyes until 
the white showed below the large brilliant iris and she 
looked like a saint in a niche. 

She had kept Gathbroke out of her thoughts for nearly 
four years, deliberately. For a time she had hated him. 
Mortimer's love-making had seemed tame in comparison 
with that primitive outburst, and never had she felt any 
such fiery response to the man she had loved and chosen 
as during those few moments when she had been in that 
impertinent, outrageous, loathsome young Englishman's 



 

arms. At first slie had wondered and resented, loyally 
concluding that it was her own fault, or that of fate for 
endowing her with such a slender emotional equipment 
that she used it all up at once on the wrong man. 
Finally, she found it wise not to think about it at all 
and to dismiss the intruder from her thoughts. 

Now she felt outraged in her sense of possession. . . . 
Unconsciously she had enshrined him as the secret mate 
of her inmost secret self ... a self she was barely conscious of even yet . . . lurking in her subconsciousness, 
the personal and peculiar blend of many and diverse 
aneestora. . . . Sometimes she had glimpsed it . . . wondered a little with a not unpleasant sense of apprehension. . . . 

But for the most part Circumstance had decreed that 
she abide on the abundant surface of her nature and 
enjoy a highly enjoyable life as it came. Now, she had 
experienced her first grief, which at the same time was 
her first set-back. She did not go out at all. She saw 
much of Mortimer and little of any one else. It was the 
summer season and all her friends were in the country 
or in Europe. 

She had given Mortimer her power of attorney (largely 
a gesture of defiance, this) and he had attended to all 
details connected with her new fortune. Between the 
inheritance tax, small legacies, and depreciations, she 
would have a little over six thousand dollars a year; 
which, however, with Mortimer's contribution, would run 
the old house, and keep her wardrobe up to mark after 
she went out of mourning. She knew nothing of the 
value of money, and was accustomed to having little to 
spend and everything provided. But her mind regarding finances was quite at rest. Even if Mortimer remained a victim of the hard times, they would be quite 
comfortable. 
