No sooner had Clinch and his motley followers disappeared in the dusk
than Smith unslung his basket-pack, fished out a big electric torch,
flashed it tentatively, and then, reslinging the pack and taking his
rifle in his left hand, he set off at an easy swinging stride.
His course was not toward Star Pond; it was at right angles with that
trail. For he was taking no chances. Quintana might already have left
Drowned Valley by that third exit unknown to Clinch.
Smith's course would now cut this unmarked trail, trodden only by game
that left no sign in the shallow mountain rivulet which was the path.
The trail lay a long way off through the night. But if Quintana had
discovered and taken that trail, it would be longer still for him--twice
as long as the regular trail out.
For a mile or two the forest was first growth pine, and sufficiently
open so that Smith might economise on his torch.
He knew every foot of it. As a boy he had carried a jacob-staff in the
Geological Survey. Who better than the forest-roaming nephew of Henry
Harrod should know this blind wilderness?
The great pines towered on every side, lofty and smooth to the feathery
canopy that crowned them under the high stars.
There was no game here, no water, nothing to attract anybody except the
devastating lumberman. But this was a five thousand acre patch of State
land. The ugly whine of the steam-saw would never be heard here.
On he walked at an easy, swinging stride, flashing his torch rarely,
feeling no concern about discovery by Quintana's people.
It was only when he came into the hardwoods that the combined necessity
for caution and torch perplexed and worried him.
Somewhere in here began an outcrop of rock running east for miles. Only
stunted cedar and berry bushes found shallow nourishment on this ridge.
When at last he found it he travelled upon it, more slowly, constantly
obliged to employ the torch.
After an hour, perhaps, his feet splashed in shallow water. That was
what he was expecting. The water was only an inch or two deep; it was
ice cold and running north.
Now, he must advance with every caution. For here trickled the thin flow
of that rocky rivulet which was the other entrance and exit penetrating
that immense horror of marsh and bog and depthless sink-hole known as
Drowned Valley.
       
For a long while he did not dare to use his torch; but now he was
obliged to.
He shined the ground at his feet, elevated the torch with infinite
precaution, throwing a fan-shaped light over the stretch of sink he had
suspected and feared. It flanked the flat, wet path of rock on either
side. Here Death spread its slimy trap at his very feet.
Then, as he stood taking his bearings with burning torch, far ahead in
the darkness a light flashed, went out, flashed twice more, and was
extinguished.
Quintana!
Smith's wits were working like lightning, but instinct guided him before
his brain took command. He levelled his torch and repeated the three
signal flashes. Then, in darkness, he came to swift conclusion.
There were no other signals from the unknown. The stony bottom of the
rivulet was his only aid.
In his right hand the torch hung almost touching the water. At times he
ventured sufficient pressure for a feeble glimmer, then again trusted to
his sense of contact.
For three hundred yards, counting his strides, he continued on. Then, in
total darkness, he pocketed the torch, slid a cartridge into the breech
of his rifle, slung the weapon, pulled out a handkerchief, and tied it
across his face under the eyes.
Now, he drew the torch from his pocket, levelled it, sent three quick
flashes out into darkness.
Instantly, close ahead, three blinding flashes broke out.
For Hal Smith it all had become a question of seconds.
Death lay depthless on either hand; ahead Death blocked the trail in
silence.
Out of the dark some unseen rifle might vomit death in his very face at
any moment.
He continued to move forward. After a little while his ear caught a
slight splash ahead. Suddenly a glare of light enveloped him.
"Is it you, Harry Beck?"
Instinct led again while wits worked madly: "Harry Beck is two miles
back on guard. Where is Sard?"
The silence became terrible. Once the glaring light in front moved, then
become fixed. There was a light splashing. Instantly Smith realised that
the man in front had set his torch in a tree-crotch and was now cowering
somewhere behind a levelled weapon. His voice came presently:
"Hé! Drap-a that-a gun damn quick!"
Smith bent, leisurely, and laid his rifle on a mossy rock.
"Now! You there! Why you want Sard! Eh?"
"I'll tell Sard, not you," retorted Smith coolly. "You listen to me,
whoever you are. I'm from Sard's office in New York. I'm Abrams. The
police are on their way here to find Quintana."
"How I know? Eh? Why shall I believe that? You tell-a me queeck or I
blow-a your damn head off!"
"Quintana will blow-a your head off unless you take me to Sard,"
drawled Smith.
A movement might have meant death, but he calmly rummaged for a
cigarette, lighted it, blew a cloud insolently toward the white glare
ahead. Then he took another chance:
"I guess you're Nick Salzar, aren't you?"
"Si! I am Salzar. Who the dev' are you?"
"I'm Eddie Abrams, Sard's lawyer. My business is to find my client. If
you stop me you'll go to prison--the whole gang of you--Sard, Quintana,
Picquet, Sanchez, Georgiades and Harry Beck,--and you!"
After a dead silence: "Maybe you'll go to the chair, too!"
It was the third chance he took.
There was a dreadful stillness in the woods. Finally came a slight
series of splashes; the crunch of heavy boots on rock.
"For why you com-a here, eh?" demanded Salzar, in a less aggressive
manner. "What-a da matt', eh?"
"Well," said Smith, "if you've got to know, there are people from
Esthonia in New York.... If you understand that."
"Christi! When do they arrive?"
"A week ago. Sard's place is in the hands of the police. I couldn't stop
them. They've got his safe and all his papers. City, State, and Federal
officers are looking for him. The Constabulary rode into Ghost Lake
yesterday. Now, don't you think you'd better lead me to Sard?"
"Cristi!" exclaimed Salzar. "Sard he is a mile ahead with the others.
Damn! Damn! Me, how should I know what is to be done? Me, I have my
orders from Quintana. What I do, eh? Cristi! What to do? What you say I
should do, eh, Abrams?"
A new fear had succeeded the old one--that was evident--and Salzar came
forward into the light of his own fixed torch--a well-knit figure in
slouch hat, grey shirt, and grey breeches, and wearing a red bandanna
over the lower part of his face. He carried a heavy rifle.
He came on, sturdily, splashing through the water, and walked up to
Smith, his rifle resting on his right shoulder.
"For me," he said excitedly, "long time I have worry in this-a damn
wood! Si! Where you say those carbinieri? Eh?"
"At Ghost Lake. Your signature is in the hotel ledger."
"Cristi! You know where Clinch is?"
"You know, too. He is on the way to Drowned Valley."
"Damn! I knew it. Quintana also. You know where is Quintana? And Sard? I
tell-a you. They march ver' fast to the Dump of Clinch. Si! And there
they would discover these-a beeg-a dimon'--these-a Flame-Jewel. Si!
Now, you tell-a me what I do?"
Smith said slowly: "If Quintana is marching on Clinch's he's marching
into a trap!"
Salzar blanched above his bandanna.
"The State Troopers are there," said Smith. "They'll get him sure."
"Cristi," faltered Salzar, "--then they are gobble--Quintana, Sard,
everybody! Si?"
Smith considered the man: "You can save your skin anyway. You can go
back and tell Harry Beck. Then both of you can beat it for Drowned
Valley."
He picked up his rifle, stood a moment in troubled reflection:
"If I could overtake Quintana I'd do it," he said. "I think I'll try. If
I can't, he's done for. You tell Harry Beck that Eddie Abrams advises
him to beat it for Drowned Valley."
Suddenly Salzar tore the bandanna from his face, flung it down and
stamped on it.
"What I tell Quintana!" he yelled, his features distorted with rage. "I
don't-a like!--no, not me!--no, I tell-a heem, stay at those Ghost-a
Lake and watch thees-a fellow Clinch. Si! Not for me thees-a wood. No! I
spit upon it! I curse like hell! I tell Quintana I don't-a like. Now,
eet is trouble that comes and we lose-a out! Damn! Damn! Me, I find me
Beck. You shall say to José Quintana how he is a damfool. Me, I am
finish--me, Nick Salzar! You hear me, Abrams! I am through! I go!"
He glared at Smith, started to move, came back and took his torch, made
a violent gesture with it which drenched the woods with goblin light.
"You stop-a Quintana, maybe. You tell-a heem he is the bigg-a fool! You
tell-a heem Nick Salzar is no damn fool. No! Adios, my frien' Abrams. I
beat it. I save my skin!"
Once more Salzar turned and headed for Drowned Valley.... Where Clinch
would not fail to kill him.... The man was going to his death.... And
it was Smith who sent him.
Suddenly it came to Smith that he could not do this thing; that this man
had no chance; that he was slaying a human being with perfect safety to
himself and without giving him a chance.
"Salzar!" he called sharply.
The man halted and looked around.
"Come back!"
Salzar hesitated, turned finally, slouched toward him.
Smith laid aside his pack and rifle, and, as Salzar came up, he quietly
took his weapon from him and laid it beside his own.
"What-a da matt'?" demanded Salzar, astonished. "Why you taka my gun?"
Smith measured him. They were well matched.
"Set your torch in that crotch," he said.
Salzar, puzzled and impatient, demanded to know why. Smith took both
torches, set them opposite each other and drew Salzar into the white
glare.
"Now," he said, "you dirty desperado, I am going to try to kill you
clean. Look out for yourself!"
For a second Salzar stood rooted in blank astonishment.
"I'm one of Clinch's men," said Smith, "but I can't stick a knife in
your back, at that! Now, take care of yourself if you can----"
His voice died in his throat; Salzar was on him, clawing, biting,
kicking, striving to strangle him, to wrestle him off his feet. Smith
reeled, staggering under the sheer rush of the man, almost blinded by
