world, if one is a woman, young and pretty. A 
woman such as I am might help take care of Mr. 
Taber and no one comment upon it. But you 
couldn't. Never in this world ! Let the hotel people 
take care of him; it's their affair. They sold him 
the whisky. Come along with us in the morning. 
Your father. . . ." 
Prudence felt the hands stiffen oddly; and again 
the thought came to her that perhaps this poor 
child's father had once been, perhaps still was, in the 
same category as this Taber. 
"It's a fine idea, my child, but you mustn't do it. 
Even if he were an old friend, you couldn't afford to 
do it. But a total stranger, a man you never saw 
twenty-four hours ago! It can't be thought of. It 
isn't your duty." 
 
"lieel bewildered," said Ruth. "Is it wrong, 
then, to surr ider to good impulses? " 
"In the present instance, yes. Can't I make you 
imderstand? Perhaps it sounds cruel to you; but 
we women often have to be cruel defensively. You 
don't want people to snub you later. This isn't 
your island, child; it's the great world." 
"So I perceive," said Ruth, withdrawing her 
hands. "He is all alone. Without care he will 
die." 
"But, goodness me, the hotel will take care of 
him! Why not? They sold him the poison. Be- 
sides, I have my doubts that he is so very sick. Probably he will come around to-morrow and begin all 
over again. You're alone, too, child. I'm trying 
to make you see the worldly point of view, which 
always inclines toward the evil side of things." 
"I have promised'. After all, why should I care 
what strangers think? " Ruth asked with sudden heat. 
"Is there no charity? Isn't it understood? " 
''Of course it is! In the present instance I can 
offer it and you can't, or shouldn't. There are un- 
written laws governing human conduct. Who invented them? Nobody knows. But woe to those 
who disregard them! Of course, basically it is all 
wrong; and sometimes God must laugh at our ideas 
of rectitude. But to live at peace with your neighbour. . . ." 
Ruth brushed her eyes with one hand and with the 
other signed for the spinster to stop. "No more, 
please! I am bewildered enough. I miderstand 
nothing of what you say. I only know that it is 
right to do what I do." 
"Well," said Sister Prudence, "remember, I tried 
to save you some future heartaches. Grod bless you, 
anyhow!" she added, with a spontaneity which surprised Sister Angelina into uttering an individual 
gasp. "Good-bye!" 
For a moment Ruth was tempted to fling herself 
against the withered bosom; but long since she had 
learned repression. She remained stonily in the 
middle of the hallway until the spinsters' door shut 
them from view ... for ever. 
 
SLOWLY Ruth entered her own room. She 
opened her suitcase —  new and smelling 
strongly of leather — and took out of it a 
book, dogeared and precariously held together, bound 
in faded blue cloth and bearing the inscription: 
The Universal Handbook. Herein was the sum of 
human knowledge in essence. 
In the beginning it was a dictionary. Words were 
given with their original meaning, without their 
ramifications. K you were a poet in need of rhymes, 
you had only to turn to a certain page. Or, if you 
were about to embark upon a nautical career, here 
was all the information required. It also told you 
how to write on all occasions, how to take out a 
patent, how to doctor a horse, and who Achates was. 
You could, if you were ambitious to round out your 
education, memorize certain popular foreign phrases. 
But beyond "amicable agreement in which mutual 
concessions are made," the word "compromise" was 
as blank as the Canton wall at night. There were 
words, then, that ran on indefinitely, with reversals? 
Here they meant one thing; there, the exact op- 
posite. To be sure, Ruth had dimly been aware of 
this; but now for the xa ime she was made painfully conscious of it. Mutual concessions! — and 
then to turn it around so that it suggested that an 
act of kindness might be interpreted as moral obloquy ! 
Walls; queer, invisibly walls that receded when- 
ever she reached out, but that still remained between 
her and what she sought. The wall of the sky, the 
wall of the horizon, the wall behind which each human being hid —  the wall behind which she herself 
was hiding ! If only her mother had lived, her darling 
mother! 
Presently the unhappy puzzlement left her face; 
and an inward glow began to lighten it. The curtain before one mystery was torn aside, and she saw 
in reality what lay behind the impulse that had led 
her into the young man's room. Somebody to whom 
she would be necessary, who for days would have to 
depend upon her for the needs of life. An inarticulate 
instinct which now found expression. Upon what 
this instinct was based she could not say; she was conscious only of its insistence. Briefly explained, she 
was as the child who discards the rag baby for the 
living one. Spurlock was no longer a man before 
this instinct; he was a child in trouble. 
Her cogitations were dissipated by a knock on the 
door. The visitor was the hotel manager, who 
respectfully announced that the doctor was ready 
for her. So Ruth took another step toward her 
destination, which we in our vanity call destiny. 
 
"Wm he live?" asked Ruth. . 
"Thanks to you,'' said the doctor. "Without 
proper medical care, he would have been dead by 
morning." He smiled at her as he smiled at death, 
cheerfully. 
The doctor's smile is singular; there is no other 
smile that reaches the same level. It is the immediate 
inspiration of confidence; it alleviates pain, because 
we know by that smile that pain is soon to leave us; 
it becomes the bulwark against our depressive 
thoughts of death; and it is the promise that we still 
have a long way to go before we reach the Great 
Terminal. 
In passing, why do we fear death? For our sins? 
Rather, isn't it the tremendous inherent human curiosity to know what is going to happen to-morrow 
that causes us to wince at the thought of annihila' 
tion? A subconscious resentment against the idea 
of entering darkness while our neighbour will proceed with his petty affairs as usual? 
"It's nip and tuck," said the doctor; "but we'll 
pull him through. Probably his first serious bout 
with John Barleycorn. If he had eaten food, this 
wouldn't have happened. It is not a dissipated 
face." 
"No; it is only —  what shall I say? —  troubled. The 
ragged edge." 
"Yes. This is also the ragged edge of the world, 
too. It is the bottom of the cup, where all the dregs 
appear to settle. But this chap is good wine yet. 
We'll have him on his way before many days. But 
. . . he must want to hve in order that the inclination to repeat this incident may not recur. The 
manager tells me that you are an American. So am 
I. For ten years IVe been trying to go home, but 
my conscience will not permit me, I hate the Orient. 
It drives one mad at times. Superstition —  you 
knock into it whichever way you turn. The Oriental 
accepts my medicines kowtowing, and when my back 
is turned, chucks the stuff out of the window and 
bums joss-sticks. I hate this part of the world.'' 
"So do V replied Ruth. 
" You have Kved over here? '' —  astonished. 
"I was bom in the South Seas and I am on my way 
to America, to an aunt." 
"Well, it's mighty fine of you to break your journey in this fashion —  for someone you don't know, a 
passer-by." 
He held out his dry hard hand into which she 
placed hers. The manager had sketched the girl's 
character, or rather had interpreted it, from the incidents which had happened since dinner. "You 
will find her new." New? That did not describe 
her. Here, indeed, was a type with which he had 
never until now come into contact — sl natural 
woman. She would be extraordinarily interesting as 
a metaphysical study. She woidd be surrendering 
all her impulses —  particularly the good impulses — 
 
many of which society had condemned long since 
because they entailed too much trouble. Imagine 
her, putting herself to all this delay and inconven- 
ience for a young wastrel she did not know and who, 
the moment he got on his feet, would doubtless pass 
out of her life without so much as Thank you ! And 
it was ten to one that she would not comprehend the 
ingratitude. To such characters, fine actions are in 
themselves sufficient. 
Perhaps her odd beauty — and that too was na- 
tural — stirred these thoughts into being. Ashen 
blonde, a shade that would never excite the cynical 
commentary which men applied to certain types of 
blondes. It would be protective; it would with age 
turn to silver unnoticeably. A disconcerting gray 
eye that had a mystifying depth. In the artificial 
light her skin had the tint and lustre of a yellow pearl. 
She would be healthy, too, and vigorous. Not the 
explosive vigour of the north-bom, but that which 
Vould quietly meet physical hardships and bear 
