weeks. It was the dinner hour but his wife was 
not at the piano. He tapped on the door that 
led from the parlor to her bedroom, and 
although there was no response he turned the 
knob and entered. 
Madeleine was lying on the bed, asleep 
apparently. 
He went forward anxiously; he had never 
known her to sleep at this hour before. He 
touched her lightly on the shoulder, but she did 
not awaken. Then he bent over her, and drew 
back with a frown. But although horrified he 
was far from suspecting the whole truth. He 
had been compelled to break more than one 
patient of too ardent a fidelity to his prescriptions. 
He forced an emetic down her throat, but it 
had no effect. Then he picked her up and 
carried her into the bath room and held her 
 
head under the shower. The blood flowed 
down from her congested brain. She struggled 
out of his arms and looked at him with dull 
angry eyes. 
" What do you mean ? " she demanded. 
" How dared you do such a thing to me ? " 
" You had taken too much, my dear," he said 
kindly. "Or else it affects you more than it 
did — possibly because you no longer need it. 
I shall taper you off by degrees, and then I 
think we can do without it." 
" Without it ? I couldn't live without it. 
I need more — and more — " She looked about 
wildly. 
" Oh, that is all right. They always think so 
at first. In six months you will have forgotten 
it. Remember, I am a doctor — and a good 
one, if I say so myself." 
She dropped her eyes. "Very well," she 
said humbly. " Of course you know best." 
" Now, put on dry clothes and let us have 
dinner. It seems a year since I dined with 
you." 
" I haven't the strength." 
He went into the parlor and returned with a 
small glass of cognac. " This will brace you 
 
up, and, as I said, you must taper off. But I'll 
measure the doses myself, hereafter." 
She put on an evening gown, but with none 
of her old niceness of detail. She merely put 
it on. Her wet hair she twisted into a knot 
without glancing at the mirror. As she entered 
the parlor she staggered slightly. Talbot 
averted his eyes. He may have had similar 
cases, and, as a doctor, become hardened to all 
manifestations of human weakness, but this 
patient was his wife. It was only temporary, 
of course, and a not unnatural sequel. But 
Madeleine ! He felt as a priest might if a 
statue of the Virgin opened its mouth and 
poured forth a stream of blasphemy. 
Then he went forward and put his arm about 
her. "Brace up," he said. "I hear the 
waiters in the dining-room. They must not see 
you like this. Where — where have you taken 
your meals ? " 
" In my bedroom." 
" I hoped so. Has any one seen you ? " 
" I don't know — no. I think not. I have 
been careful enough. I do not wish to disgrace you." 
He was obliged to give her another glass of 
 
cognac, and she sat through the dinner without 
betraying herself, although she would cat 
nothing. She was sullen and talked little, and 
when the meal was over she went directly to 
bed. 
Dr. Talbot followed her, however, and 
searched her wardrobe and bureau drawers. 
He found nothing. When he returned to the 
parlor he locked the cupboard where he kept his 
hospitable stares and put the key in his pocket. 
But he did not go out, and toward midnight he 
heard her moving restlessly about her room. 
She invited him eagerly to enter when he 
tapped. 
" I'm nervous, horribly nervous," she said. 
" Give me some more cognac — anything." 
" You'll have nothing more tonight. I shall 
give you a dose of valerian." 
She swallowed the noxious mixture with a 
grimace and was asleep in a few moments. 
XXX 
THE DOCTOR was still very busy but he 
returned to the hotel four times a day 
and gave her small doses of whatever liquor she 
demanded. In a short time he diluted them 
with Napa Soda water. She was always pacing 
the room when he entered and looked at him 
like a wild animal at bay. But she never mentioned Masters' name, even when her nerves 
whipped her suddenly to hysterics j and although 
he sometimes thought he should go mad with 
the horror of it all, he had faith in his method, 
and in her own pride, as soon as the first torments wore down. She refused to walk out of 
doors or to wear anything but a dressing gown
she took her slender meals in her room. 
But Madeleine's sufferings were more mental 
than physical, although she was willing the 
doctor should form the natural conclusion. 
She was possessed by the fear that a cure would 
be forced upon her j she W2& indifferent even to 
the taste of liquor, and had merely preferred 
 
it formerly to bitter or nauseous tonics  in 
Society it had been a necessary stimulant, when 
her strength began to fail, nothing more. After 
her grim decision she had forced large quan- 
tities down her throat by sheer strength of will. 
But she had found the result all that she had 
expected J she had alternated between exhilaration and oblivion, and was sure that it was 
killing her by inches. Now, she could indulge 
in neither wild imaginings nor forget. And if 
he cured her ! — but her will when she chose 
to exert it was as strong as his, and her resource 
seldom failed her. 
One day in her eternal pacing she paused 
and stared at the keyhole of the cupboard, then 
took a hairpin from her head and tried to pick 
the lock. It was large and complicated and 
she could do nothing with it. She glanced at 
the clock. The doctor would not return for an 
hour. She dressed hastily and went out and 
bought a lump of soft wax. She took an impress of the keyhole and waited with what 
patience she could summon until her husband 
had come and gone. Then she went out again. 
The next day she had the key and that night 
she needed no valerian. 
 
Doctor Talbot paced the parlor himself vintil 
morning. But he did not despair. He had 
had not dissimilar esq^eriences before. He removed his supplies to the cellar of the hotel and 
carried a flask in his pocket from which he 
measured her daily drams. 
The same chambermaid had been on her floor 
for years, and was devoted to her. She sent 
her out for gin on one pretext or another, 
although the woman was not deceived for a 
moment 5 she had "seen how it was" long 
since. But she was middle-aged, Irish, and 
sympathetic. If the poor lady had sorrows let 
her drown them. 
Madeleine was more wary this time. She 
told her husband she was determined to take 
her potions only at noon and at night  in the 
daytime she restrained herself after four o'clock, 
although she took enough to keep up her spirits 
at the dinner-table to which she had thought it 
best to return. 
The doctor, thankful, no longer neglected his 
practice, and left immediately after dinner for 
the Club as she went to her room at once and 
locked the door. There was no doubt of her 
hostility, but that, too, was not unnatural, and 
he was content to wait. 
 
Society returned to town, but she flatly refused to enter it. Nor would she receive any 
one who called. The doctor remonstrated in 
vain. He trusted her perfectly and a glass of 
champagne at dinner would not hurt her. If 
she expected to become quite herself again she 
must have diversions. She was leading an unnatural life. 
She deigned no answer. 
He warned her that tongues would wag. He 
had met several of the women during the summer and told them her lungs were healed. . . . 
No doubt he had been over-anxious, mistaken — 
in the beginning. He wished he had given 
her a tonic of iron arsenic and strychnine, alternated with cod-liver oil. But it was too late for 
regrets, and at least she was well on the road 
to recovery 5 if she snubbed people now they 
would take their revenge when she would be 
