this newspaper publicity.”
“Then let your committee vote the money, and return it to Mr. T-S,
and also to Mary Magna.”
It took the man sometime to figure out a reply to this proposition.
“We have no objection to Mr. T-S coming here,” he said, “or Miss
Magna either.”
“That is,” said I, “so long as they obey the law, and don’t get in
bad with the Western City ‘Times’!” After a moment I added, “You may
make your mind easy. I will go downstairs and wait for Mr.
Carpenter, and tell him he is not wanted.”
And so I left the Labor Temple and walked up and down on the
sidewalk in front. It was really rather unreasonable of me to be
annoyed with this labor man for having voiced the same point of view
of “common sense” which I had been defending to Carpenter’s group on
the previous evening. Also, I was obliged to admit to myself that if
I were a labor leader, trying to hold together a group of
half-educated men in the face of public sentiment such as existed in
this city, I might not have the same carefree, laughing attitude
towards life as a certain rich young man whose pockets were stuffed
with unearned increments.
To this mood of tolerance I had brought myself, when I saw a white
robe come round the corner, arm in arm with a frock coat of black
broadcloth. Also there came Everett, looking still more ghastly, his
nose and lip having become purple, and in places green. Also there
was Korwsky, and two other men; Moneta, a young Mexican cigarmaker
out of work, and a man named Hamby, who had turned up on the
previous evening, introducing himself as a pacifist who had been
arrested and beaten up during the war. Somehow he did not conform to
my idea of a pacifist, being a solid and rather stoutish fellow,
with nothing of the idealist about him. But Carpenter took him, as
he took everybody, without question or suspicion.
XLV
I joined the group, and made clear to them, as tactfully as I could,
that they were not wanted inside. Comrade Abell threw up his hands.
“Oh, those labor skates!” he cried. “Those miserable, cowardly,
grafting politicians! Thinking about nothing but keeping themselves
respectable, and holding on to their fat, comfortable salaries!”
“Vell, vat you expect?” cried Korwsky. “You git de verkin’ men into
politics, and den you blame dem fer bein’ politicians!”
“Nothing was said about returning the money, I suppose?” remarked
Everett, in a bitter tone.
“Something was said,” I replied. “I said it. I don’t think the money
will be returned.”
Then Carpenter spoke. “The money was given to feed the hungry,” said
he. “If it is used for that purpose, we can ask no more. And if men
set out to preach a new doctrine, how can they expect to be welcomed
at once? We have chosen to be outcasts, and must not complain. Let
us go to the jail. Perhaps that is the place for us.” So the little
group set out in a new direction.
On the way we talked about the labor movement, and what was the
matter with it. Comrade Abell said that Carpenter was right, the
fundamental trouble was that the workers were imbued with the
psychology of their masters. They would strike for this or that
improvement in their condition, and then go to the polls and vote
for the candidates of their masters. But Korwsky was more vehement;
he was an industrial unionist, and thought the present craft unions
worse than nothing.
Little groups of labor aristocrats, seking to benefit themselves at
the expense of the masses, the unorganized, unskilled workers and
the floating population of casual labor! That was why those “skates”
 at the Labor Temple has so little enthusiasm for Carpenter and his
doctrine of brotherhood! In this country where every man was trying
to climb up on the face of some other man!
Our little group had come out on Broadway. It attracted a good deal
of attention, and a number of curiosity seekers were beginning to
trail behind us. “We’ll get a crowd again, and Carpenter ‘ll be
making a speech,” I thought; and as usual I faced a moral conflict.
Should I stand by, or should I sneak away, and preserve the dignity
of my family?
Suddenly came a sound of music, fifes and drums. It burst on our
ears from round the corner, shrill and lively--“The Girl I Left
Behind Me.” Carpenter, who was directly in front of me, stopped
short, and seemed to shrink away from what was coming, until his
back was against the show-window of a department-store, and he could
shrink no further.
It was a company of ex-service men in uniform; one or two hundred,
carrying rifles with fixed bayonets which gleamed in the sunshine.
There were two fifers and two drummers at their head, and also two
flags, one the flag of the Brigade, and the other the flag of
Mobland. I remembered having noted in the morning papers that the
national commander of the brigade was to arrive in town this
morning, and no doubt this was a delegation to do him honor.
The marchers swept down on us, and past us, and I watched the
prophet. His eyes were wide, his whole face expressing anguish. “Oh
God, my Father!” he whispered, and seemed to quiver with each thud
of the tramping feet on the pavement. After the storm had passed, he
stood motionless, the pain still in his face “It is Rome! It is
Rome!” he murmured.
“No,” said I, “it is Mobland.”
He went on, as if he had not heard me. “Rome! Eternal Rome! Rome
that never dies!” And he turned upon me his startled eyes. “Even the
eagles!”
For a moment I was puzzled; but then I remembered the golden eagle
with wings outspread, that perches on top of our national banner.
“We only use one eagle,” I said, somewhat feebly.
To which he answered, “The soul of one eagle is the same as the soul
of two.”
Now, I had felt quite certain that Carpenter would not get along
very well with the Brigade, and I was more than ever decided that he
must be got out of the way somehow or other. But meantime, the first
task was to get him away from this crowd which was rapidly
collecting. Already he was in the full tide of a speech. “Those
sharp spears! Can you not see them thrust into the bowels of human
beings? Can you not see them dripping with the blood of your
brothers?”
I whispered to Everett, thinking him one among this company of
enthusiasts who might have a little common sense left. “We had
better get him away from here!” And Everett put his hand gently on
the prophet’s shoulder, and said, “The prisoners in the jail are
hoping for us.” I took him by the other arm, and we began to lead
him down the street. When we had once got him going, we walked him
faster and faster, until presently the crowd was trailing out into a
string of idlers and curiosity seekers, as before.
XLVI
The party came to the city jail, and knocked for admission. But no
doubt the authorities had taken consultation in the meantime, and
there was no admission for prophets. The party stood on the steps,
baffled and bewildered, a pitiful and pathetic little group.
For my part, I thought it just as well that Carpenter had not got
inside, for I knew what he would find there. It happens that my Aunt
Jennie belongs to a couple of women’s clubs, and they have been
making a fuss about our city jail; they have kept on making it for
many years, but apparently without accomplishing anything. The place
was built a generation ago, for a city of perhaps one-tenth our
present size; it is old and musty, and the walls are so badly
cracked that it has been condemned by the building department. It is
so crowded that half a dozen men sometimes sleep on the floor of a
single cell. They are devoured by vermin, and lie in semi-darkness,
some of them shivering with cold and others half suffocated. They
stay there, sometimes for many months unheeded, because the courts
are crowded, and if Comrade Abell’s word may be taken in the matter,
every poor man is assumed to be guilty until he is proven innocent.
I have heard Aunt Jennie arguing the matter with considerable
energy. Our banks are housed in palaces, and our Chamber of Commerce
and our Merchants and Manufacturers and our Real Estate Exchange and
all the rest of our boosters have commodious and expensive quarters;
but our prisoners lie in torment, and no one boosts for them.
Did Carpenter know these things? Had the strikers or his little
company of agitators, told him about them? Suddenly he said, “Let us
pray;” and there on the steps of the jail he raised his hands in
invocation, and prayed for all prisoners and captives. And when he
finished, Comrade Abell suddenly lifted his voice and began to sing.
I would not have supposed that so big a voice could have come out of
so frail a body; but I was reminded that Abell had been practicing
on soap-boxes a good part of his life. He was one of these shouting
evangelists--only his gospel was different. He sang:
    Arise, ye pris’ners of starvation!
    Arise, ye wretched of the earth!
    For justice thunders condemnation,
    A better world’s in birth.
I think I would have shuddered, even more than I did, if I had known
the name of this song; if I had realized that this group of fanatics
were sounding the dread Internationale on the steps of our city
jail! I suspect that what saved them was the fact that the guardians
of the jail had no more idea what it was than I had!
The group had sung a couple of verses, when the iron-barred doors
were opened, and a policeman stepped out. He addressed Carpenter,
who was not singing. “Tell that bunch of nuts of yours to can the
yowling.”
To which Carpenter replied: “I tell you that if these men should
hold their peace, the stones of your jail would immediately cry
out!” And he turned, and looked up and down the streets of the city,
and suddenly I saw that he was weeping. “Oh, Mobland, Mobland! If
you had known even at this time the way of justice! But the way is
hid from your eyes, and you will not see it, and now the hour is
coming, the horrors of the class war are upon you, ruin and
destruction are at hand! Your towers of pride shall fall, your own
children shall destroy you; they shall not leave you one stone upon
another, because you knew not the time for justice when it came.”
The doors of the jail opened again, and three or four more policemen
came out, with clubs in their hands. “Get along, now!” they said
roughly, and began poking the prophet and his disciples in the back;
they poked them down the stairs and along the street for a block or
so--until they were sure the ears of the jail inmates would no
longer be troubled by offensive sounds. But still they did not
arrest them, and I marveled, wondering how long it could go on. I
had an uneasy feeling that the longer the climax was postponed, the
more severe it would be.
There was quite a crowd following us now, hoping that something
sensational would happen. And presently a woman saw us, and rushed
