moment--was due to an obscure fear of seeing the world depopulated of
men, or of repressed religious instinct, or apology for being females
and unable to fight.  He was extremely rude.
And now this infernal woman had completely thrown him off his balance.
He could think of nothing else.  His work had been deplorable--the last
week at all events--and although a month since nothing would have given
him more exquisite satisfaction than to write a paper on the authentic
drama, he would now be quite indifferent if censorship had closed every
theatre on Broadway.  Such an ass, such a cursed ass had he become in
one short month.  He had tramped half the nights and a good part of
every day trying to interest himself by the wayside and clear his
brain.  He might as well have sat by his fire and read a piffling novel.
Nevertheless, until Gora Dwight had brought her detached analytical
faculty to bear on his case, he had not admitted to himself that he was
in love with the woman.  He had chosen to believe that, being unique
and compact of mystery, she had hypnotized his interest and awakened
all the latent chivalry of his nature--something the modern woman
called upon precious seldom.  He had felt the romantic knight ready to
break a lance--a dozen if necessary--in case the world rose against
her, denounced her as an impostor.  True, she seemed more than able to
take care of herself, but she was very beautiful, very blonde, very
unprotected, and in that wistful second youth he most admired.  He had
thought himself the chivalrous son of chivalrous Southerners, excited
and not too happy, but convinced, at the height of his restlessness and
absorption, that she was but a romantic and passing episode in his life.
When Gora Dwight had ruthlessly led him into those unconsciously
guarded secret chambers of his soul and bidden him behold and ponder,
he had turned as cold as if ice-water were running in his veins,
although he had continued to smile indulgently and had answered with
some approach to jocularity.  He was floored at last.  He'd got the
infernal disease in its most virulent form.  Not a doubt of it.  No
wonder he had deluded himself.  His ideal woman--whom, preferably, he
would have wooed and won in some sequestered spot beautified by nature,
not made hideous by man--was not a woman at all, but a girl; twenty-six
was an ideal age; who had read and studied and thought, and seen all of
the world that a girl decently may.  He had dreamed of no man's
leavings, certainly not of a woman who had probably had more than one
lover, and, no doubt, would not take the trouble to deny it.  He hated
as much as he loved her and he felt that he would rather kill than
possess her.
It was half an hour after he reached his rooms before he finished
striding up and down; then, with a final anathema, he flung himself
into a chair before his table.  At least his brain felt clearer, now
that he had faced the truth.  Time enough to wrestle with his problem
when he had won his leisure.  If he couldn't switch her off for one
night at least and give his brain its due, he'd despise himself, and
that, he vowed, he'd never do.  He wrote steadily until two in the
morning.
XVIII
He awoke at noon.  His first impression was that a large black bat was
sitting on his brain.  The darkened room seemed to contain a visible
presence of disaster.  He sprang out of bed and took a hot and cold
shower; hobgoblins fled, although he felt no inclination to sing!  He
called down for his breakfast and opened his hall door.  A pile of
letters lay on his newspapers, and the topmost one, in a large envelope,
addressed in a flowing meticulously fine hand, he knew, without
speculation, to be from Madame Zattiany.
He threw back the curtains, settled himself in an armchair, read his
other letters deliberately, and glanced at the headlines of the papers,
before he carefully slit the envelope that had seemed to press his
eyeballs.  The time had come for self-discipline, consistently exercised.
Moreover, he was afraid of it.  What--why had she written to him?  Why
hadn't she telephoned?  Was this a tardy dismissal?  His breath was short
and his hands shaking as he opened the letter.
It was sufficiently commonplace.
"Dear Mr. Clavering:
"I have been in Atlantic City for a few days getting rid of a cold.  I
hope you have not called.  Will you dine with me tomorrow night at half
after eight?  I shall not ask any one else.
"Sincerely,
  "MARIE ZATTIANY."
So her name was Marie.  It had struck him once or twice as humorous that
he didn't know the first name of the woman who was demanding his every
waking thought.  And she had been out of town and unaware that he had
deliberately avoided her.  Had taken for granted that he had been polite
enough to call--and had left his cards at home.
Should he go?  He'd have his breakfast first and do his thinking
afterward.
He did ample justice to the breakfast which was also lunch, read his
newspapers, cursed the printers of his own for two typographical errors
he found in his column, then called up her house.  Feeling as normal and
unromantic as a man generally does when digesting a meal and the news, he
concluded that to refuse her invitation, to attempt to avoid her, in
short, would not only be futile, as he was bound to respond to that
magnet sooner or later, but would be a further confession of cowardice.
Whatever his fate, he'd see it through.
He gave his acceptance to the butler, went out and took a brisk walk,
returned and wrote his column for the next day, then visited his club and
talked with congenial souls until it was time to dress for dinner.  No
more thinking at present.
Nevertheless, he ascended her steps at exactly half-past eight with the
blood pounding in his ears and his heart acting like a schoolboy's in his
first attack of calf love.  But he managed to compose himself before the
footman leisurely answered his ring.  If there was one point upon which
he was primarily determined it was to keep his head.  If he gave her a
hint that she had reduced him to a state of imbecility before his moment
came--if it ever did!--his chances would be done for--dished.  He looked
more saturnine than ever as he strode into the hall.
"Dinner will be served in the library, sir," said the footman.  "Madame
will be down in a moment."
A tête-à-tête by the fire!  Worse and worse.  He had been fortified by
the thought of the butler and footman.  An hour under their supercilious
eyes would mean the most impersonal kind of small talk.  But they'd
hardly stand round the library.
However, the small table before the blazing logs looked very cosy and the
imposing room was full of mellow light.  Two Gothic chairs had been drawn
to the table.  They, at least, looked uncomfortable enough to avert
sentiment.  Not that he felt sentimental.  He was holding down something
a good deal stronger than sentiment, but he flattered himself that he
looked as saturnine as Satan himself as he warmed his back at the fire.
He hoped she had a cold in her head.
But she had not.  As she entered, dressed in a white tea gown of chiffon
and lace, she looked like a moonbeam, and as if no mortal indisposition
had ever brushed her in passing.  Instead of her pearls she wore a long
thin necklace of diamonds that seemed to frost her gown.  She was smiling
and gracious and infinitely remote.  The effect was as cold and steadying
as his morning's icy shower.
He shook her hand firmly.  "Sorry you've been seedy.  Hope it didn't lay
you up."
"Oh, no.  I fancy I merely wanted an excuse to see Atlantic City.  It was
just a touch of bronchitis and fled at once."
"Like Atlantic City?"
"No.  It is merely an interminable line of ostentatiously rich hotels on
a board walk!  None of the grace and dignity of Ostend--poor Ostend as
it used to be.  The digue was one of the most brilliant sights in
Europe--but no doubt you have seen it," she added politely.
"Yes, I spent a week there once, but Bruges interested me more.  I was
very young at the time."
"You must have been!  Don't you like to gamble?  The Kursaal could be
very exciting."
"Oh, yes, I like to gamble occasionally."  (God!  What banal talk!)
"Gambling with life, however, is a long sight more exciting."
"Yes, is it not?  Atlantic City might do you good.  You do not look at
all well."
"Never felt better in my life.  A bit tired.  Generally am at this time
of the year.  May take a run down to Florida."
"I should," she said politely.  "Shall you stay long?"
"That depends."  (Presence of servants superfluous!)  "Are you fond of
the sea?"
"I detest it--that boundless flat gray waste.  A wild and rocky coast in
a terrific storm, yes--but not that moving gray plain that comes in and
falls down, comes in and falls down.  It is the mountains I turn to when
I can.  I often long for the Austrian Alps.  The Dolomites!  The
translucent green lakes like enormous emeralds, sparkling in the sun and
set in straight white walls.  A glimpse of pine forest beyond.  The roar
of an avalanche in the night."
"New York and Atlantic City must seem prosaic."  He had never felt so
polite.  "I suppose you are eager to return?"  (Why in hell don't those
servants bring the dinner!)
"I have not seen the Alps since two years before the war.  Some day--yes!
Oh, yes!  Shall we sit down?"
The two men entered with enormous dignity bearing plates of oysters as if
offering the Holy Grail and the head of Saint John the Baptist on a
charger.  Impossible to associate class-consciousness with beings who
looked as impersonal as fate, and would have regarded a fork out of
alignment as a stain on their private 'scutcheon.  They performed the
rite of placing the oysters on the table and retired.
Madame Zattiany and Clavering adjusted themselves to the Gothic period.
The oysters were succulent.  They discussed the weather.
"This was a happy thought," he said.  "It feels like a blizzard outside."
"The radiator in the dining-room is out of order."
"Oh!"
She was a woman of the world.  Why in thunder didn't she make things
easier?  Had she asked him here merely because she was too bored to eat
alone?  He hated small talk.  There was nothing he wanted less than the
personalities of their previous conversations, but she might have
entertained him.  She was eating her oysters daintily and giving him the
benefit of her dark brown eyelashes.  Possibly she was merely in the mood
for comfortable silences with an established friend.  Well, he was not.
Passion had subsided but his nerves jangled.
And inspiration came with the soup and some excellent sherry.
"By the way!  Do you remember I asked you--at that last first-night--if
you wouldn't like to see something of the Sophisticates?"
"The what?"
"Some of them still like to call themselves Intellectuals, but that
title--Intelligentsia--is now claimed by every white collar in Europe who
has turned Socialist or Revolutionist.  He may have the intellect of a
cabbage, but he wants a 'new order.'  We still have a few
pseudo-socialists among our busy young brains, but youth must have its
ideals and they can originate nothing better.  I thought I'd coin a new
