refused at first; it being an important part of his policy that all the
responsibility and insistance should come from his wife, and that he
should appear forced into it contrary to his will.
Dr. Lushington, however, says to Lady Byron,--
 'I was originally consulted by Lady Noel on your behalf while you
 were in the country. The circumstances detailed by her were such
 as justified a separation; but they were not of that aggravated
 description as to render such a measure indispensable. On Lady
 Noel's representations, I deemed a reconciliation with Lord Byron
 practicable, and felt most sincerely a wish to aid in effecting it.
 There was not, on Lady Noel's part, any exaggeration of the facts,
 nor, so far as I could perceive, any determination to prevent a
 return to Lord Byron: certainly none was expressed when I spoke of a
 reconciliation.'
In this crisis, with Lord Byron refusing the separation, with
Lushington expressing a wish to aid in a reconciliation, and Lady Noel
not expressing any aversion to it, the whole strain of the dreadful
responsibility comes upon the wife.
She resolves to ask counsel of her lawyer, in view of a statement of
the whole case.
Lady Byron is spoken of by Lord Byron (letter 233) as being in town
with her father on the 29th of February; viz., fifteen days after the
date of the last letter to Mrs. Leigh. It must have been about this
time, then, that she laid her whole case before Lushington; and he gave
it a thorough examination.
The result was, that Lushington expressed in the most decided terms his
conviction that reconciliation was impossible. The language he uses is
very striking:--
 'When you came to town in about a fortnight, or perhaps more, after my
 first interview with Lady Noel, I was, for the first time, informed
 by you of facts utterly unknown, as I have no doubt, to Sir Ralph and
 Lady Noel. On receiving this additional information, my opinion was
 entirely changed. I considered a reconciliation impossible. I declared
 my opinion, and added, that, if such an idea should be entertained, I
 could not, either professionally or otherwise, take any part towards
 effecting it.'
It does not appear in this note what effect the lawyer's examination
of the case had on Lady Byron's mind. By the expressions he uses, we
should infer that she may still have been hesitating as to whether a
reconciliation might not be her duty.
This hesitancy he does away with most decisively, saying, 'A
reconciliation is impossible;' and, supposing Lady Byron or her
friends desirous of one, he declares positively that he cannot, either
professionally as a lawyer or privately as a friend, have anything to
do with effecting it.
The lawyer, it appears, has drawn, from the facts of the case,
inferences deeper and stronger than those which presented themselves to
the mind of the young woman; and he instructs her in the most absolute
terms.
Fourteen years after, in 1830, for the first time the world was
astonished by this declaration from Dr. Lushington, in language so
pronounced and positive that there could be no mistake.
Lady Byron had stood all these fourteen years slandered by her husband,
and misunderstood by his friends, when, had she so chosen, this opinion
of Dr. Lushington's could have been at once made public, which fully
justified her conduct.
If, as the 'Blackwood' of July insinuates, the story told to Lushington
was a malignant slander, meant to injure Lord Byron, why did she
suppress the judgment of her counsel at a time when all the world
was on her side, and this decision would have been the decisive blow
against her husband? Why, by sealing the lips of counsel, and of all
whom she could influence, did she deprive herself finally of the very
advantage for which it has been assumed she fabricated the story?
CHAPTER IV.
THE CHARACTER OF THE TWO WITNESSES COMPARED.
It will be observed, that, in this controversy, we are confronting two
opposing stories,--one of Lord and the other of Lady Byron; and the
statements from each are in point-blank contradiction.
Lord Byron states that his wife deserted him. Lady Byron states that he
expelled her, and reminds him, in her letter to Augusta Leigh, that the
expulsion was a deliberate one, and that he had purposed it from the
beginning of their marriage.
Lord Byron always stated that he was ignorant why his wife left him,
and was desirous of her return. Lady Byron states that he told her that
he would force her to leave him, and to leave him in such a way that
the whole blame of the separation should always rest on her, and not on
him.
To say nothing of any deeper or darker accusations on either side,
here, in the very outworks of the story, the two meet point-blank.
In considering two opposing stories, we always, as a matter of fact,
take into account the character of the witnesses.
If a person be literal and exact in his usual modes of speech,
reserved, careful, conscientious, and in the habit of observing
minutely the minor details of time, place, and circumstances, we give
weight to his testimony from these considerations. But if a person
be proved to have singular and exceptional principles with regard to
truth; if he be universally held by society to be so in the habit of
mystification, that large allowances must be made for his statements;
if his assertions at one time contradict those made at another; and if
his statements, also, sometimes come in collision with those of his
best friends, so that, when his language is reported, difficulties
follow, and explanations are made necessary,--all this certainly
disqualifies him from being considered a trustworthy witness.
All these disqualifications belong in a remarkable degree to Lord
Byron, on the oft-repeated testimony of his best friends.
We shall first cite the following testimony, given in an article from
'Under the Crown,' which is written by an early friend and ardent
admirer of Lord Byron:--
 'Byron had one pre-eminent fault,--a fault which must be considered as
 deeply criminal by everyone who does not, as I do, believe it to have
