Mrs. Dinneford had made a mistake, and she saw it--saw that she was
now more than ever in the power of this woman, whether she was true or
false. If false, more fatally in her power.
At this dead-lock in the interview between these women there came a
diversion. The sound of feet was heard on the stairs, then a hurrying
along the narrow passage; a hand was on the door, but the key had been
prudently turned on the inside.
With a quick motion, Mrs. Bray waved her hand toward the adjoining
chamber. Mrs. Dinneford did not hesitate, but glided in noiselessly,
shutting and locking the door behind her.
“Pinky Swett!” exclaimed Mrs. Bray, in a low voice, putting her finger
to her lips, as she admitted her visitor, at the same time giving a
warning glance toward the other room. Eyeing her from head to foot, she
added, “Well, you are an object!”
Pinky had drawn aside a close veil, exhibiting a bruised and swollen
face. A dark band lay under one of her eyes, and there was a cut with
red, angry margins on the cheek.
“You are an object,” repeated Mrs. Bray as Pinky moved forward into the
room.
“Well, I am, and no mistake,” answered Pinky, with a light laugh. She
had been drinking enough to overcome the depression and discomfort of
her feelings consequent on the hard usage she had received and a night
in one of the city station-houses. “Who’s in there?”
Mrs. Bray’s finger went again to her lips. “No matter,” was replied.
“You must go away until the coast is clear. Come back in half an hour.”
And she hurried Pinky out of the door, locking it as the girl retired.
When Mrs. Dinneford came out of the room into which he had gone so
hastily, the roll of bank-notes still lay upon the floor. Mrs. Bray had
prudently slipped them into her pocket before admitting Pinky, but as
soon as she was alone had thrown them down again.
The face of Mrs. Dinneford was pale, and exhibited no ordinary signs of
discomfiture and anxiety.
“Who was that?” she asked.
“A friend,” replied Mrs. Bray, in a cold, self-possessed manner.
A few moments of embarrassed silence followed. Mrs. Bray crossed the
room, touching with her foot the bank-bills, as if they were of no
account to her.
“I am half beside myself,” said Mrs. Dinneford.
Mrs. Bray made no response, did not even turn toward her visitor.
“I spoke hastily.”
“A vampire!” Mrs. Bray swept round upon her fiercely. “A blood-sucker!”
 and she ground her teeth in well-feigned passion.
Mrs. Dinneford sat down trembling.
“Take your money and go,” said Mrs. Bray, and she lifted the bills from
the floor and tossed them into her visitor’s lap. “I am served right. It
was evil work, and good never comes of evil.”
But Mrs. Dinneford did not stir. To go away at enmity with this woman
was, so far as she could see, to meet exposure and unutterable disgrace.
Anything but that.
“I shall leave this money, trusting still to your good offices,” she
said, at length, rising. Her manner was much subdued. “I spoke hastily,
in a sort of blind desperation. We should not weigh too carefully the
words that are extorted by pain or fear. In less than an hour I will
send you a hundred dollars more.”
Mrs. Dinneford laid the bank-bills on a table, and then moved to the
door, but she dared not leave in this uncertainty. Looking back, she
said, with an appealing humility of voice and manner foreign to her
character,
“Let us be friends still, Mrs. Bray; we shall gain nothing by being
enemies. I can serve you, and you can serve me. My suspicions were ill
founded. I felt wild and desperate, and hardly knew what I was saying.”
She stood anxiously regarding the little dark-eyed woman, who did not
respond by word or movement.
Taking her hand from the door she was about opening, Mrs. Dinneford came
back into the room, and stood close to Mrs. Bray:
“Shall I send you the money?”
“You can do as you please,” was replied, with chilling indifference.
“Are you implacable?”
“I am not used to suspicion, much less denunciation and assault. A
vampire! Do you know what that means?”
“It meant, as used by me, only madness. I did not know what I was
saying. It was a cry of pain--nothing more. Consider how I stand, how
much I have at stake, in what a wretched affair I have become involved.
It is all new to me, and I am bewildered and at fault. Do not desert me
in this crisis. I must have some one to stand between me and this woman;
and if you step aside, to whom can I go?”
Mrs. Bray relented just a little. Mrs. Dinneford pleaded and humiliated
herself, and drifted farther into the toils of her confederate.
“You are not rich, Mrs. Bray,” she said, at parting, “independent in
spirit as you are. I shall add a hundred dollars for your own use; and
if ever you stand in need, you will know where to find an unfailing
friend.”
Mrs. Bray put up her hands, and replied, “No, no, no; don’t think of
such a thing. I am not mercenary. I never serve a friend for money.”
But Mrs. Dinneford heard the “yes” which flushed into the voice that
said “no.” She was not deceived.
A rapid change passed over Mrs. Bray on the instant her visitor left the
room. Her first act was to lock the door; her next, to take the roll of
bank-bills from the table and put it into her pocket. Over her face a
gleam of evil satisfaction had swept.
“Got you all right now, my lady!” fell with a chuckle from her lips. “A
vampire, ha!” The chuckle was changed for a kind of hiss. “Well, have it
so. There is rich blood in your veins, and it will be no fault of mine
if I do not fatten upon it. As for pity, you shall have as much of it
as you gave to that helpless baby. Saints don’t work in this kind of
business, and I’m not a saint.”
And she chuckled and hissed and muttered to herself, with many signs of
evil satisfaction.
CHAPTER VIII.
FOR an hour Mrs. Bray waited the reappearance of Pinky Swett, but the
