money matters. There might be worse sons-in-law. The Grandons are a
good old family, and carry weight, and Mr. Murray, whose taste is
altogether for manufacturing, fancies he sees in this business both
interest and profit. So if Polly and the young man decide to like each
other--
Eugene Grandon would no doubt fly out indignantly if he fancied his
matrimonial matters were being settled by older and as they think wiser
heads. For once he is fortunately blind. He likes Pauline Murray
because, if she is not the rose, she brings the scent of it continually
within his reach. Every day Violet grows more charming and the distance
between them lessens. He thinks nothing now of looking her up, of
following her about, of planning drives and walks, and while the heads
are away, he is cavalier to both ladies. They discuss various tender
points and come to love. Eugene no longer sneers and treats it lightly.
Violet is touched by the gentle lowering of tone, the faint hesitation,
the softness that comes and goes over his face, the dreamy smile, the
far light in his eyes, as if his brain was richly satisfied with some
vision. This is love, she thinks, exultantly. Mr. and Mrs. Latimer must
have had just this blessed experience, but no other marriage, not even
Gertrude's, comes up to her ideal. And to think that hundreds must go
through the world without this greatest, finest of all joys. She pities
them, she pities herself profoundly. There are moments when it seems as
if she must throw herself at her husband's feet and tell him that she
is famishing for this divine food. And yet in their brief seasons
together she grows cold, distant, afraid. She cannot even feel as she
did when her ankle was hurt and he so tenderly indulgent. She esteemed
that as love, but she knows better now, sad, sad wisdom!
Yet there is something fascinating in this double life she leads. It
must be what people take when their great hopes are gone. The
diversions of society, the threads of others' lives, the curious,
dangerous study of the feelings and emotions of those about her. Only a
year ago she was such an ignorant little body, now she is so wise, and
she sighs over it.
The days are crowded full of enjoyment. Mrs. Latimer gives the
loveliest tea and the most enchanting musicale with amateurs. Violet
is asked to play, and proposes that Eugene and Miss Murray distinguish
themselves in a duet from "Don Pasquale," which they sing admirably.
Pauline Murray has a soprano voice, with brilliant execution.
"I do believe," exclaims Mrs. Latimer, studying Violet, "that you will
equal madame as a society woman. I am not sure that I shall admire the
cultivated pansy as much as the shy, sweet wood violet, but perhaps it
is better. We women with distinguished husbands must keep pace in
attractiveness, or the world will take them from us in its sweeping
admiration."
"I never did have such a lovely time!" Pauline Murray says, after the
musicale. "And you know I never should have thought of Robin Adair
for an encore if it had not been for Eugene." She has come to the
young man's Christian name. "Wasn't it a perfect success? I never sang
it so well in my life. If papa could have heard it!" And she hums over
a stanza,--
    "After the ball was o'er
    What made my heart so sore--"
Some tears fill Violet's eyes and she turns away. Then, lest her
emotion shall make her appear ungracious, she praises liberally.
Days and nights seem to have wings. The travellers return, and Mr.
Haviland, back from Europe, comes up to Grandon Park. The gentlemen
retire to the tower and discuss business over cigars, and the result is
an offer for all right and title to the interest of Grandon & Co. left
by James Grandon to his family, and for Mr. St. Vincent's patent. The
last is so liberal that Floyd accepts at once; the rest must be
considered by the parties concerned, but it has the consent and advice
of Floyd Grandon and Mr. Connery.
It is late when the conclave breaks up, but Grandon goes up-stairs with
a lighter heart than he has carried in many a long day. He has hardly
dared to believe in this conclusion, and there will no doubt be some
hard fighting before the matter is ended, but he indulges in a long,
exultant breath of freedom. His life will be his own henceforward.
Passing through Cecil's room, he finds both heads on one pillow. Violet
has waked Cecil with her good-night kiss, and the exigeant child has
prisoned her with two soft arms and drawn her close to her own pink
cheek and rosy, fragrant lips. They seem like a picture, gold and
chestnut hair intermingled, complexion of pearl, and the other of
creamy tints, soft as a sun-ripe peach. She has fallen asleep there, as
she so often does, for youth and health defy carking cares. How lovely
they are! Floyd Grandon suddenly counts himself a happy man, and yet he
does not waken her with the kisses he longs to shower on brow and cheek
and lip. If he did, how brave she would be for the temptation of
to-morrow.
After breakfast Floyd summons his mother and Eugene into the library.
Lucia Brade calls in her pony phaeton and entices Pauline, who is
always ready for a pleasure. Violet flutters about her room, sends
Cecil and Jane out for a constitutional, and then picks up a book.
Summer is on the wane, and the air has a fragrance of ripening grapes,
sun-warmed fruit, and the luxurious sweetness of madeira-blooms. The
voices from the library touch her faintly. Mrs. Grandon's has a high,
aggressive swell now and then, and Eugene's drops to that sort of
sullen key she knows so well in the past. What is taking place? Will
there be some new trouble for Floyd?
She walks down to the summer-house from some half-defined, delicate
motive. After a while the three gentlemen go away, Floyd giving a
questioning glance around. She drops her book on her knee and lapses
into a wondering mood, when a step breaks her revery.
Eugene is flushed and angry, yet it does not make him the less
handsome, though it is very different from his usual indolent ease.
"What is the matter?" she asks, for form's sake, for she almost knows.
"Matter!" and he kicks viciously at a pebble that has dared to rear its
head in the smooth walk, sending it over on the grassy lawn. "The
matter is that Floyd is selling us all out with a high hand. That is
what Murray's visit and all this going to and fro mean. He has had an
offer, and he doesn't care for anything so long as you come out on
