happy home, he'd have been alive to-day. But we can't alter facts. He's
dead, and all our grief won't bring him back."
Benjamin Howard looked at the man curiously. "His grief doesn't seem to
be very profound," he thought. "I will test him."
"Even if I were convinced that poor Harry was dead," he said, "I should
not deliver up the money till you had established a legal claim to it."
"So you mean to put all possible obstacles in my way," said John Fox,
provoked. "I thought so. But, Mr. Howard, let me tell you that you can't
rob the orphan."
"Meaning yourself?"
"No, I mean the dead boy--that is the orphan's estate--without settling
with me. I am a man of influence, I'd have you know, and I'll put the
matter in the hands of the lawyer right off."
"It might be well, first, to listen to what I have to say."
"Aha! he's scared!" thought John Fox.
"I'm ready to hear what you've got to say," he answered, "but it won't
influence me a particle."
"I think it will. Harry Vane is alive!"
"What!" ejaculated John Fox, his face expressing his dismay. "It's a
lie. I don't believe it."
"Georgie," said Mr. Howard to his little son, who just then entered the
room, "go to my desk and bring me Harry Vane's letter."
This was done at once, John Fox meanwhile sitting in painful suspense.
"This letter," said Mr. Howard, taking it in his hand, "was posted, as
you see, at Melbourne, Australia. Harry was shipwrecked on an island,
from which he finally escaped, and was carried to Melbourne. He writes
me that he has gone to the mines, and is hoping to find some gold
there."
"Is this true?" asked Fox in a hollow voice.
"I will read you the letter, and show you the signature."
"I think it's a forgery."
"No chance of that. I know Harry Vane's handwriting well. But you don't
look well, Mr. Fox. I thought you would be pleased to hear that Harry
had escaped from the perils of shipwreck and is alive."
John Fox did not reply, but after examining the letter he rose with a
rueful countenance, and departed unceremoniously, a badly disappointed
man.
"It'll cost me three dollars to get back," he groaned, "and I shall have
to stop at a hotel, for there is no train till to-morrow. 'Most ten
dollars gone altogether--just thrown away! I'm a very unlucky man."
The news he carried home brought grief to Mrs. Fox and Joel. Only Sally
seemed glad that Harry was still living. For so expressing herself she
was severely rebuked by her mother.
CHAPTER XXXVII.
HOME AGAIN.
It was a bright, beautiful morning when our three friends landed in New
York. Their voyage had been a favorable one, and they had made some
pleasant acquaintances, but they were overjoyed to tread once more the
familiar streets and see the familiar sights of the American
metropolis.
They registered at a quiet hotel on the European system, intending to
remain in the city a few days. They sought out a prominent broker and
asked his advice about the investment of their money. He received them
in a friendly manner, and gave them the best advice in his power. Each
reserved three hundred dollars for present use.
It was a novelty to all of them to be free from anxiety on the score of
money, and it may well be believed that all enjoyed the feeling.
The second morning, as they were walking down Broadway, their eyes fell
upon a familiar figure. Directly in front of them they beheld a slender
young man, dressed in the extreme of fashion, swinging a light cane. As
he walked along it was easy to see that he was on the most comfortable
and agreeable terms with himself, and firmly persuaded that he was an
object of general admiration.
"Montgomery Clinton!" exclaimed Harry and Jack simultaneously.
"You don't mean to say you know that critter!" said Obed, eying Mr.
Clinton with evident curiosity.
"Yes, he was one of the Nantucket passengers, and shipwrecked with
us," said Harry. "He did not remain in Australia, but took a return
vessel at once."
"That was lucky. A critter like that wouldn't be of much account at the
mines."
"Stop! I am going to speak to him."
Harry quickened his step, and touched Mr. Clinton on the shoulder.
Clinton turned languidly, but when he saw who it was his face expressed
undisguised pleasure.
"Mr. Vane!" he exclaimed. "I'm awfully glad to see you, don't you
know?"
"You haven't forgotten my friend Jack, I hope," said Harry, indicating
the young sailor.
"I am glad to see him, too," said Mr. Clinton, with modified pleasure,
offering two fingers for Jack to shake, for he had not forgotten that
Jack had been a sailor.
"When did you come from Australia?" asked Clinton.
"We only arrived day before yesterday."
"And what luck did you have at the mines?"
"We struck it rich. We are all capitalists, Jack and all."
"You don't say so! I wish I had gone with you, really now."
"I don't think you'd have liked it, Mr. Clinton. We had a hard time. We
had to wade through mud and mire, and sleep on the ground, and twice we
were captured by bushrangers. They wanted Jack and myself to join the
band."
"You don't say so--really?"
"They might have made you a bushranger, Mr. Clinton, if they had caught
you."
"I never would consent, never!" said Mr. Clinton, with emphasis.
Jack smiled at the idea of the elegant Mr. Clinton being transformed
into an outlaw and bushranger.
"I am awfully glad I did not go with you," he said, shuddering.
"Let me make you acquainted with my friend, Mr. Obed Stackpole, Mr.
Clinton," said Harry. "He was with us in all our trials and dangers."
