“Rome was rough, and crude, and poor, Mary. Rome was nothing to
this. This is Satan on my Father’s throne, making new worlds for
himself.” He paced the room again, then turned and said: “I don’t
understand this world. I must know more about it, if I am to save
it!” There was such grief, such selfless pity in his voice as he
repeated this: “I must know more!”
“You know everything!” exclaimed Mary, suddenly. “You are all
wisdom!”
But he went on, speaking as if to himself, pondering his problem:
“To serve others, yet not to indulge them; for the cause of their
enslavment is that they have accepted service without return. And
how shall one preach patience to the poor, when the masters make
such preaching a new means of enslavement?” He looked at me, as if
he thought that I could answer his question. Then with sudden energy
he exclaimed: “I must meet those who are in rebellion against
enslavement! Tomorrow I want to meet the strikers--all the strikers
in your city.”
“You’ll have your hands full,” I said--for I was a coward, and
wanted to keep him out of it.
“How shall I find them?” he persisted.
“I don’t know; I suppose their headquarters are at the Labor
Temple.”
“I will go there. Meantime, I fear I shall have to be alone. I need
to think about the things I have learned.”
“Where are you going to stay?”
“I don’t know.”
Said Mary, hesitatingly: “My car is outside--”
He answered: “In ancient days I saw the young patricians drive
through the streets in their chariots; no, I shall not ride with
them again.”
Said I: “I have an apartment at the club, with plenty of room--”
“No, no, friend. I have seen enough of the masters of this city.
From now on, if you want to see me, you will find me among the
poor.”
“If I may meet you in the morning,” I said--“to show you to the
Labor Temple--” Yes, I would see him through!
“By all means,” said he. “But you must come early, for I cannot
delay.”
“Where shall I come?”
“Come here. I am sure these people will give me shelter.” He looked
about him. “I suspect that some of them sleep in this room; but they
have a little porch outside, and if they will let me stay there I
shall be alone, which is what I want now.” After a moment, he added,
“What I wish to do is to pray. Have you ever tried prayer, Mary?”
She answered, simply, “I wouldn’t know how.”
“Come to me, and I will teach you,” he said.
XXIV
I went early next morning, but not early enough. The Mexican woman
told me that “the master” had waited, and finally had gone. He had
asked the way to the Labor Temple, and left word that I would find
him there. So I stepped back into my taxi, and told the driver to
take the most direct route.
Meantime I kept watch for my friend, and I did not have to watch
very long. There was a crowd ahead, the street was blocked, and a
premonition came to me: “Good Lord, I’m too late--he’s got into some
new mess!” I leaned out of the window, and sure enough, there he was
standing on the tail-end of a truck, haranguing a crowd which packed
the street from one line of houses to the other. “And before he got
half way to the Labor Temple!” I thought to myself.
I got out, and paid the driver of the taxi, and pushed into the
crowd. Now and then I caught a few words of what Carpenter was
telling them, and it seemed quite harmless--that they were all
brothers, that they should love one another, and not do one another
injustice. What could there have been that made him think it
necessary to deliver this message before breakfast? I looked about,
noting that it was the Hebrew quarter of the city, plastered with
signs with queer, spattered-up letters. I thought: “Holy smoke! Is
he going to convert the Jews?”
I pushed my way farther into the crowd, and saw a policeman, and
went up to him. “Officer, what’s this all about?” I spoke as one
wearing the latest cut of clothes, and he answered accordingly.
“Search me! They brought us out on a riot call, but when we got
here, it seems to have turned into a revival meeting.”
I got part of the story from this policeman, and part from a couple
of bystanders. It appeared that some Jewish lady, getting her
shopping done early, had complained of getting short weight, and the
butcher had ordered her out of his shop, and she had stopped to
express her opinion of profiteers, and he had thrown her out, and
she had stood on the sidewalk and shrieked until all the ladies in
this crowded quarter had joined her. Their fury against soaring
prices and wages that never kept up with them, had burst all bounds,
and they had set out to clean up the butcher-shop with the butcher.
So there was Carpenter, on his way to the Labor Temple, with another
mob to quell!
“You know how it is,” said the policeman. “It really does cost these
poor devils a lot to live, and they say prices are going down, but I
can’t see it anywhere but in the papers.”
“Well,” said I, “I guess you were glad enough to have somebody do
this job.”
He grinned. “You bet! I’ve tackled crowds of women before this, and
you don’t like to hit them, but they claw into your face if you
don’t. I guess the captain will let this bird spout for a bit, even
if he does block the traffic.”
We listened for a minute. “Bear in mind, my friends, I am come among
you; and I shall not desert you. I give you my justice, I give you
my freedom. Your cause is my cause, world without end. Amen.”
“Now wouldn’t that jar you?” remarked the “copper.” “Holy Christ, if
you’d hear some of the nuts we have to listen to on street-corners!
What do you suppose that guy thinks he can do, dressed up in
Abraham’s nightshirt?”
