his claims to gentility lay in that, or in his blue 
satin vest and flaring purple scarf-pin, or in his 
dingy, dusty shop, or in his stock of flashy 
jewelry, — largely consisting of brass and 
paste, — was not quite clear to the inquiring 
mind. Gypsy looked about her, and was sorry 
that she had come. 
“ What will you have to-day, ma’am?” asked 
the jeweller, promptly ; “ ear-rings, bracelets, — 
finest Etruscan gold, them bracelets, — fine 
assortment of diamonds, stone cameos, and this 
ruby, ma’am, — the genooine article, worth fifty 
dollars if it ’s worth a copper, but seeing it ’s you, 
now, I ’ll let you have it for a song, — I ’ll say 
ten dollars, and that ’ll be throwin’ of it away.” 
“ Oh, I wouldn’t have you throw it away on 
me, I ’m sure,” said Gypsy, with mischief in 
her eyes. “ I don’t exactly see how you could 
afford to lose forty dollars on it either. 
Besides, I didn’t come to buy anything. I came 
to sell some jewelry.” 
“Oh, you did, did you?” said the jeweller, 
with a sudden change of tone; “well, I don’t 
do much in that line. I sometimes take folks’ 
old silver and such to oblige ’em, but it isn’t 
worth nothing to me.” 
Gypsy had opened her purse, and the trinkets 
fell out upon the glass show-case. She spread 
them out, and asked how much he was willing 
to give her. The jeweller looked them over 
with ill-concealed eagerness, and took them up 
with masterly indifference. 
“ Hum ! — look as if they ’d been through the 
wars ; if I was to give you seventy-five cents 
for ’em, it would be more than they ’re worth.” 
“ Seventy-five cents ! ” exclaimed Gypsy ; 
“ why, I wouldn’t sell one of the buttons for 
that,” and she began to put them back in her 
purse. 
“Well, say a dollar, then; come now, that’s 
fair.” 
“ No, sir, I don’t think it is fair at all,” said 
Gypsy, shutting up her purse very fast. 
“ Dollar and a quarter, then, — call it a bar- 
gain.” But Gypsy walked right out of the 
shop. 
She strolled about awhile, feeling discouraged 
enough, but, Gypsy-like, more provoked that 
anybody should try to cheat her, till at last she 
stumbled upon another jeweller’s, — a handsome 
store, large and clean and well-lighted, with a 
display of watches and silver in the windows. 
So she pulled out her purse again and went in. 
There was a well-dressed man behind the 
counter, who had a very singular smile. Gypsy 
noticed it before she had shut the door, and was 
so absorbed in looking at it that she forgot 
what she had come for, and never said a 
word. 
“ How can I serve you ? ” said the man, 
politely. 
“Oh, how do you do?” said Gypsy, red- 
dening. 
“ I ’m very well, I thank you,” said the 
jeweller, his singular smile becoming so very singular 
that Gypsy was more confused than ever. 
She felt as if he were making fun of her, and she 
knew that she had said a stupid thing; so, by 
way of making up for it, with her face on fire, 
she broke out: — 
“ I want to sell a heart and some buttons for 
my brother ; that is — I mean — well, do you pay 
people for old jewelry? That ’s what I mean.” 
Well, it depended on the quality; sometimes 
he did and sometimes he did n’t; he would look 
at anything she might have and tell her. So 
out came the heart and the buttons, the ring 
and the lava stud, a second time. The jeweller 
took them up one by one, examined them care- 
fully, laid them down, and said, looking as if 
he were relieving himself of some excellent 
joke, that he would give her two dollars and a 
half for the whole. 
“Why, I expected to get ten, just as much as 
could be ! “ said Gypsy. 
“ Two dollars and a half is all they ’re worth. 
Miss,” repeated the jeweller, and his remarkable 
smile broadened and grew to such an extent 
that Gypsy’s indignation got the better of her 
politeness. 
“ I should like to know what you ’re laughing 
at, if you please ! I don’t see anything so very 
funny ! ” 
“ Oh, nothing, nothing. I beg your pardon ; 
only to think that you expected ten dollars ! 
but nothing is the matter at all.” 
“ Then you won’t give me any more than two 
dollars and a half! ” said Gypsy, faintly, her 
ripe red lips quivering with disappointment. 
“ Two dollars and a half would never pay 
