of all to him. The last darling was Bess. They would 
always be family names. 
We had had one other tremendous flood to sub 
merge a part of the city. Then great pains had been 
taken to protect us from the overflow of the lake. 
We studied security more than money. When we 
looked at the splendid buildings did we ever say 
to ourselves: "This is the great Babylon we have 
builded!" 
There had been a long, dry hot spell. Late corn had 
withered and scorched up before ripening. Winter 
wheat was parched. Our pretty flower garden was 
watered assiduously, and the lawn, but the blossoms 
drooped, the grass turned brown. What sweltering 
days they were those September days, with the glow 
ing, pitiless sun that set in a bed of flames that scorched 
up the kindly dews. It did not seem as if there was any 
 
moisture left in the lake. What would we have done 
without our splendid water-works! 
Then October came in. We had talked of a journey 
up in Michigan for a little relief, but fortunately we 
had not gone. 
There came up a strong southwest breeze and we 
took courage, although there was not a cloud in the 
sky. "But it must rain presently," we all said. 
Sitting there on the porch, which was quite a high 
one, we saw the spires of flame shooting up skyward. 
It was so far away that we only looked and com 
mented. Whether it was the unfortunate kick of Mrs. 
O'Leary's cow that sent the lighted lamp over in the 
hay, as is the commonly received version, or some 
other fatal incident, the fire broke out in a crowded 
portion of the city, where old rookeries abounded, 
always a menace. One almost felt it would safeguard 
the city to have them burn down, and burn they did. 
Whether any more vigorous work or alarm could have 
prevented the spread no one could decide afterward. 
But by midnight the conflagration was overwhelm 
ing. Fire and wind swept in wild fury. It came 
northward in two grand, separate columns, tossing its 
firebrands to the right and the left, and then it made 
a mighty sweep over the river. Was there ever any 
thing like it for sublimity and terror? The brute 
creation was crazed. Horses ran wildly about, roared 
and kicked, the air was filled with cries and screams 
of maddened people. On and on it flew, whirling great 
masses of flame from one point to another. Grand 
hotels, warehouses, stored full of valuables, the Cham- 
her of Commerce, the banks, the great shopping palace 
of Fields, Leiter & Co. it was no respecter of persons. 
We had sent the two smaller children to bed tired 
out, but we could not go, fascinated with terror. I knew 
a great part of my investments were swallowed up 
that Homer would lose much of the work of his life. 
This way and that it dashed. Stone and marble 
crumbled and went down. There had been the burn 
ing Rome and Alexander's orgie at Persepolis were 
they to be compared to this? 
We had thought ourselves safe, but the demon flew 
on and on. Nothing could withstand him. We began 
to pick up our valuables and load whatever wagons we 
had and send them out toward Lincoln Park. The 
streets were full of crying, shrieking, homeless people. 
And when it came nearer, nearer, we, too, joined the 
throng, but we were all safe together and made our 
way out where the air was not quite so dense with 
smoke, and at length dropped on the brown, shrivelled 
grass, and clasped our arms about each other. 
It has been written over many times, the loss and 
ruin, the indomitable energy of the people, the suffer 
ing and the courage, the heartiness with which every 
one set about mending his broken fortunes and help 
ing his neighbors. Safes and money had perished. 
But the grand spontaneous outburst of sympathy, the 
proffers of help from other cities was cheering in the 
extreme. With one voice they said, and we said, 
Chicago must be rebuilt in a better and more enduring 
shape. It is true that many solid structures had gone 
with the flimsy ones. 
 
There was no more Old Chicago. And the Little 
Girl had come to middle life, but her eyes had the old 
light, her lips were soft and sweet as she kissed me 
that morning in the midst of our desolation. 
"We have each other," she said, "and our children 
and father and mother." 
Are some people "born for luck?" as the saying is. 
If so, surely John Gaynor was. He had sold his sum 
mer crops and a good part of his corn, and the day 
the money was paid him turned it over on a new pur 
chase of prairie land he had made. If it had been in 
the bank it would have gone to feed the flames. 
"I told you land wouldn't burn up," he said. "We 
have the sure promise until the last great conflagra 
tion." 
But my row of stores and buildings were gone. I 
was a poor man and must begin the struggle with 
business again, if one could find anything to do in such 
devastation. Homer had fared better. Mother and 
