before the Divine life can ultimate itself--an unceasing
regeneration is going on--a purifying from self-love is the daily
life of two partners. The wisdom which the man has from the Lord,
and the love which the woman has from Him, are ever seeking
conjunction. But the false and the evil that clings to every earthly
being is constantly warring against this Heavenly union; in
conjugial partners, hell is opposed to heaven, and it is only by a
steady looking to the Lord, that Heavenly love can be preserved. The
Lord opens the inmost degree of thought and feeling in the two, and
elevates their love to higher planes, and thus increases their joys
and felicities; and when it is a true spiritual love, an entire
union of heart and mind, then the two have entered heaven, and enjoy
its beautiful blessedness even while their material bodies yet dwell
upon this coarse outer world.
"How wonderful is the wisdom of the Lord! How blessed is His love,
in thus creating two that they may become a one! The sympathy, the
gentle affection, the loving tender confidence, that, like magnetic
thrills, makes one conscious of the inmost life of the other, gives
a charm--a fulness of satisfaction--a serene blessedness to
existence, that no isolated being can possibly conceive of, let
external circumstances be what they may.
"Conjugial love is independent of external circumstances; it is
heaven-derived, and receives nothing from the earth. It gives
heavenly joy to all of its surroundings. It is that glorious inner
sunshine of life, that blesses the poor man as boundlessly as the
rich. And how beautiful it is for two to realize that time and
space have nothing to do with their union. In each other they see
eternity; they know from whence their emotions flow, and know that
the fountain is Infinite. The Lord is the beginning and end; to
them, the first and the last. They live in Him, from Him, and
to Him. They love only His Divine image in each other; they seek
to do good to others, as organs of His Divine life. He is the glory
and blessedness of their whole being.
"And if such blissful emotions can be realized in this cold, hard,
ungenial, outer life, what must it be when the two pass into the
conscious presence of the Divine Father, and behold each other not
in angular material forms, and dead material light, but in the
Divine light of Heaven, in Heavenly forms,--radiant in intelligence
glowing in the rosy love of eternal youth--beautiful in the 'beauty
of the Lord?'"
How pure, how wise, how beautiful! Here is the true doctrine, that
man and woman are not equal in the sense so often asserted in these
modern times; that they are created with radical differences, and
that the life of neither is perfect until they unite in marriage
union--one man with one wife.
THE FAIRY WIFE.
AN APOLOGUE.
A MERCHANT married a Fairy. He was so manly, so earnest, so
energetic, and so loving, that her heart was constrained toward him,
and she gave up her heritage in Fairyland to accept the lot of
woman.
They were married; they were happy; and the early months glided away
like the vanishing pageantry of a dream.
Before the year was over he had returned to his affairs; they were
important and pressing, and occupied more and more of his time. But
every evening as he hastened back to her side she felt the weariness
of absence more than repaid by the delight of his presence. She sat
at his feet, and sang to him, and prattled away the remnant of care
that lingered in his mind.
But his cares multiplied. The happiness of many families depended on
him. His affairs were vast and complicated, and they kept him longer
away from her. All the day, while he was amidst his bales of
merchandise, she roamed along the banks of a sequestered stream,
weaving bright fancy pageantries, or devising airy gayeties with
which to charm his troubled spirit. A bright and sunny being, she
comprehended nothing of care. Life was abounding in her. She knew
not the disease of reflection; she felt not the perplexities of
life. To sing and to laugh--to leap the stream and beckon him to
leap after her, as he used in the old lover-days, when she would
conceal herself from him in the folds of a water-lily--to tantalize
and enchant him with a thousand coquetries--this was her idea of how
they should live; and when he gently refused to join her in these
childlike gambols, and told her of the serious work that awaited
him, she raised her soft blue eyes to him in a baby wonderment, not
comprehending what he meant, but acquiescing, with a sigh, because
he said it.
She acquiesced, but a soft sadness fell upon her. Life to her was
Love, and nothing more. A soft sadness also fell upon him. Life to
him was Love, and something more; and he saw with regret that she
did not comprehend it. The wall of Care, raised by busy hands, was
gradually shutting him out from her. If she visited him during the
day, she found herself a hindrance and retired. When he came to her
at sunset he was preoccupied. She sat at his feet, loving his
anxious face. He raised tenderly the golden ripple of loveliness
that fell in ringlets on her neck, and kissed her soft beseeching
eyes; but there was a something in his eyes, a remote look, as if
his soul were afar, busy with other things which made her little
heart almost burst with uncomprehended jealousy.
She would steal up to him at times when he was absorbed in
calculations, and throwing her arms around his neck, woo him from
his thought. A smile, revealing love in its very depths, would
brighten his anxious face, as for a moment he pushed aside the
world, and concentrated all his being in one happy feeling.
She could win moments from him, she could not win his life; she
could charm, she could not occupy him! The painful truth came slowly
over her, as the deepening shadows fall upon a sunny Day, until at
last it is Night: Night with her stars of infinite beauty, but
without the lustre and warmth of Day.
She drooped; and on her couch of sickness her keen-sighted love
perceived, through all his ineffable tenderness, that same
