"I don't believe it's morning. You can build it yourself."
"No, it's your week. Besides, you made me do it twice for you your last
turn, and I shan't touch it. Besides, it is morning."
Joy rose with a groan, and began to fumble for the matches. All at once
Gypsy heard a very fervent exclamation.
"What's the matter?"
"The old thing's tipped over—every single, solitary match!"
Gypsy began to laugh.
"It's nothing to laugh at," chattered Joy; "I'm frozen almost to death,
and this horrid old fire won't do a thing but smoke."
Gypsy, curled up in the warm bed, smothered her laugh as best she could,
to see Joy crouched shivering before the stove-door, blowing away
frantically at the fire, her cheeks puffed out, her hands blue as
indigo.
"There!" said Joy, at last; "I shan't work any more over it. It may go
out if it wants to, and if it don't it needn't."
She came back to bed, and the fire muttered and sputtered a while, and
died out, and shot up again, and at last made up its mind to burn, and
burned like a small volcano.
"What a noise that fire makes! I hope it won't wake up mother. Joy,
don't it strike you as rather funny it doesn't grow light faster?"
"I don't know."
"Get up and look at the entry clock; you're on the front side."
Poor Joy jumped out shivering into the cold again, opened the door
softly, and ran out. She came back in somewhat of a hurry, and shut the
door with a bang.
"Gypsy Breynton!"
"What?"
"If I ever forgive you!"
"What is the matter?"
"It's just twenty-five minutes past eleven!"
Gypsy broke into a ringing laugh. Joy could never bear to be laughed at.
"I don't see anything so terrible funny, and I guess you wouldn't if
you'd made that old—"
"Fire; I know it. Just to think!—and you shivering and blowing away at
it. I never heard anything so funny!"
"I think it was real mean in you to wake me up, any way."
"Why, I thought I heard it strike six as much as could be. Oh, dear, oh,
dear!"
Joy couldn't see the joke. But the story of that memorable night was not
yet finished.
The faint, gray morning really came at last, and the girls awoke in good
earnest, ready and glad to get up.
"I feel as if I'd been pulled through a knothole," said Joy.
"I slept with one eye open all the time I did sleep," said Gypsy,
drearily. "I know one thing. I'll never try to lie awake as long as I
live."
"Not when you have a lover go to Europe?"
"Not if I have a dozen lovers go to Europe. How is that fire going to be
built, I'd like to know?—every stick of wood burned out last night."
There was no way but to go down into the wood-shed and get some. It was
yet early, and quite dark.
"Go the back stairs," said Gypsy, "so's not to wake people up."
Joy opened the door, and jumped, with a scream that echoed through the
silent entry.
"Hush-sh! What is the matter?"
"A—a—it's a ghost!"
"A ghost! Nonsense!"
Gypsy pushed by trembling Joy and ran out. She, too, came back with a
jump, and, though she did not scream, she did not say nonsense.
"What can it be?"
It certainly did look amazingly like a ghost. Something tall and white
and ghastly, with awful arm extended. The entry was very dark.
Joy sprang into bed and covered up her face in the clothes. Gypsy stood
still and winked fast for about a minute. Then Joy heard a fall and a
bubbling laugh.
"That old Tom! It's nothing but a broom-handle and a sheet. Oh, Joy,
just come and see!"
After that, Joy declared she wouldn't go to the wood-shed alone, if she
dressed without a fire the rest of her life. So Gypsy started with her,
and they crept downstairs on tiptoe, holding their very breath in their
efforts to be still, the stairs creeking at every step. Did you ever
particularly want stairs to keep still, that they didn't creak like
thunder-claps?
The girls managed to get into the wood-shed, fill their basket, and
steal back into the kitchen without mishap. Then came the somewhat
dubious undertaking of crawling upstairs in darkness that might be felt,
with a heavy and decidedly uncertain load of wood.
"I'll go first and carry the basket," said Gypsy. "One can do it easier
than two."
So she began to feel her way slowly up.
"It's black as Egypt! Joy, why don't you come?"
"I'm caught on something—oh!" Down fell something with an awful crash
that echoed and reëchoed, and resounded through the sleeping house. It
was succeeded by an utter silence.
"What is it?" breathed Gypsy, faintly.
"The clothes-horse, and every one of Patty's clean clothes!"
Scarcely were the words off from Joy's lips, when Gypsy, sitting down on
the stairs to laugh, tipped over her basket, and every solitary stick of
that wood clattered down the uncarpeted stairs, thumped through the
banisters, bounced on the floor, rolled into the corners, thundered
against the cellar door. I don't believe you ever heard such a noise in
all your life.
Mr. and Mrs. Breynton ran from one direction, Tom from another, Winnie
from a third, and Patty, screaming, in fearful dishabille, from the
attic, and the congress that assembled in that entry where sat Gypsy
speechless on one stair, and Joy on another, the power fails me to
describe.
But this was the end of that Christmas night.
It should be recorded that the five-dollar bill and the portfolio with
