While Mrs. Codman was absent from the room, Bert 
gave her father a brief account of Charlie's disappear-ance. 
" You must pardon mCj Mrs. Codman," said Mr, Bow- 
man, in a tone of feeling, when she had returned, "for 
speaking in the lively tone I did. I little guessed the 
anxiety you must feel about your son. Is tiiis the miniature ? " 
" A very attractive face ! " he said. " I don't wonder 
at Bert's taking a fancy to it." 
. " I cannot wonder at your sorrow in losing, even for 
a time, such a boy as this face seems to indicate,'' he 
added. 
" You think there is a chance of his coming back to 
me?" asked Mrs. Codman, anxiously. 
" I am hardly prepared to express an opinion on the 
scanty information which Bert has been able to give me. 
If you are willing to tell me the story in detail, I will 
tell you what I think of the chances." 
Mrs. Codman told the story, mentioning, also, the 
 
 
name of Peter Manson, and the language T hich he had 
used. 
" I sometimes see this Manson," said the merchant, 
" and know him by reputation. He is a miser," 
" lie pretends to be very poor." 
" All pretence. I do not see what object he could 
have had in spiriting your son away." 
Further conversation followed, but, as might be ex- 
pected, no satisfactory result was reached. Mrs. Cod- 
man, however, felt relieved and more hopeful in the 
knowledge that her employer knew of her loss, and 
would do what he could to discover Charlie. 
It was only a week later that he came into the school- 
room with a smile upon his face. 
"Father, you bring good news; isn't it so?" said 
Bert. -  «' m. 
" I hope so." . 
Mrs. Codman looked up with a glance of eager inquiry. 
"As I took up the morning paper," said the merchant, t' my eyes, by chance, ran down the list of adver- 
tised letters. Recognizing the name of Mrs. Codman 
among them, I took the liberty of sending to the. office 
for it. It is post-marked at Rio Janeiro." 
" Oh, give it to me quick ! " exclaimed Mrs, Codman, 
in agitation. 
" Is it from Charlie ? " asked Bert. 
'' It is, it is !" exclaimed the happy mother  as she 
recognized the familiar handwriting; and too impatient 
to unseal the letter, she tore it open and devoured the 
contents. 
 
It Tvas the letter which Charlie had commenced oa 
shipboard. We will give the greater part of it. 
'' Dearest Mother, — . 
" I hope this letter will reach you in safety, and 
will relieve you of some of the anxiety you must have 
felt about your wandering boy. You will start with 
surpiise when you see where this is dated. I am three 
thousand miles from you, dear mother, but not by my 
own act. But I must tell you how I came to leave you. 
(This portion of the letter is omitted.) You mustn't 
think I have suffered all the time on board the ship, 
though it is hard work, and, for some reason, the captain 
and mate have both been my enemies. I have had one 
faithful friend, to whom I am very much indebted. He 
is a rough sailor, and neither educated nor refined, but 
he has a warm heart, and has been very kind to your 
boy. Indeed, mother, I don't know how much trouble 
I should have had, if it hadn't been for honest Bill 
Sturdy. Some time I hope you will have the pleasure of 
taking him by the hand, and" thanking him for alljie has 
done for me. The greatest act of "frfendship for which I 
have to thank him I will not write here, but I will tell 
you some time. 
"As we were neither of us treated as well as we 
ought to be, we have deserted the vessel, and trans- 
ferred ourselves to a ship bound to Liverpool, and 
thence to New York ; so that it may be some months 
from now before I see you again. 
" I am so afraid you have suffered since I left you, 
not only from solitude and anxiety about me, but have 
becfti compelled to labor beyond your strength. You 
were so poorly paid for that horrid sewing, and had to 
work so hard at it. But when I come back we will live 
together, as we once did ; and though it will not be a 
luxurious home, it shall be a happy one. As you may 
have moved elsewhere, you must leave word with those 
who occupy our old room where you live, so that when I 
come back, which will be just as soon as I can, I may 
come at once to you, and tell you how much I have 
missed you. 
" From your affectionate 
« Chablie.'' 
Knowing that Mr. Bowman felt a friendly interest in 
Charlie's welfare, Mrs. Codman, her eyes dim with happy 
tears, handed him the letter which he read attentively. 
" A very good letter," he said, " and very creditaMe 
to the writer. When he returns, if you and he are both 
willing, my counting- 
room. His letter is sufficient recommendation.". 
How differently the world looks according to the mood 
