Watson's house. Levi had walked on the shelving rocks, and reached the
landing without crossing the bridge. Dock was disappointed, and began
to climb the rocks to readjust the plank. As he ascended, he discovered
Mr. Fairfield, just stepping on the bridge. He shouted, but it was too
late; the end of the plank slipped off, the old man danced upon
nothing, and sank in the abyss below.
CHAPTER V.
AN INDUCTIVE ARGUMENT.
Dock Vincent was appalled to find that he had tumbled Mr. Fairfield
into the chasm; not that he was disturbed by any compunctions of
conscience, but because he wished to keep on the right side of the old
man, from prudential motives. He was in doubt whether to exhibit
himself to the injured man or not. If he showed himself, he might be
suspected of setting the trap into which the miser had fallen.
The old man might be dead, and curiosity, if no stronger motive,
induced him to inquire into his condition; but he took the precaution
to reach the path by a roundabout way, and approach the chasm as though
he had just come from his house. When he reached the abyss, he found
Mr. Fairfield had risen, and was trying to climb up the rocks. He was
groaning and taking on as though he had been badly hurt.
"What's the matter, Squire Fairfield?" demanded Dock. "What you doing
down there?"
"O! O!" groaned the miser.
"Looking for your money in there?"
"O! No! O! I fell in," said the sufferer, in gasps.
"Fell in! Why, how did that happen?" asked Dock, with well-feigned
astonishment.
"I donno. O! that plank gin away, O, and let me down."
"Are you hurt?"
"Most killed," replied Mr. Fairfield, holding his breath, and then
exploding the words.
Dock walked down the shelving bank above the water, and then entered
the chasm.
"Where are you hurt?" he asked.
"My hips is both broke, and I'm jarred e'enamost to pieces."
"I guess your hips aren't broke; you couldn't stand up if they were,"
suggested Dock.
"Sunthin's broke, I know."
"Sit down on this rock, and let me see what is broke."
Mr. Fairfield complied, and Dock, who, as the master of a vessel, had
had some experience with sickness and injuries, carefully examined the
old man's limbs. He was badly bruised in several places, on the legs
and arms, but no bones appeared to be broken, so far as Dock's surgical
skill could discern. The jar of the fall had doubtless racked his frame
severely; but the miser was still a strong man, physically, and could
bear a pretty hard rap.
After resting a while, and rubbing his limbs, the sufferer was able,
with the assistance of Dock, to walk home. He went to bed, and his wife
bathed his limbs, and dressed the bruises on his legs and arms.
"Shall I go for the doctor, Squire Fairfield?" asked Dock, when he had
assisted the patient into his bed.
"The doctor? No; he charges a dollar a visit," replied the old man,
fearfully; for the idea of paying a physician's bill filled him with
horror. "You say there ain't no bones broke; so I don't need no
doctor."
"He don't need no doctor," added Mrs. Fairfield.
"I don't think you do myself. I've had worse cases than this aboard my
vessel, and I got along without any doctors. You'll be all right in a
week or two, Squire Fairfield."
"It's jest my luck," sighed the miser. "Everything's goin' wrong with
me. I shouldn't be a grain surprised if the house burned down over my
head afore I got out agin. I shan't ketch no dog-fish to-day, that's
sartain. There's ten dollars out o' my pocket, as sure's you live!"
Dock was a rough comforter; but he spoke such words of consolation as
the occasion required and his vocabulary contained.
"It's jest my luck," repeated the miser. "Every other man in town might
have walked over that plank, and it wouldn't gin away. I walked over
that plank last night, and airly this morning. I see, when I stepped on
to it, that somebody had been a movin' on it; but I didn't know the
'tother eend was only just ketched on to the rock."
"Who moved it?" asked Dock, rather disturbed by this suggestion of a
suspicion.
"I don't know nothin' about it; but somebody's been a movin' on it, or
it wouldn't a gin away under me, and let me down."
"But who could have moved the plank?" persisted Dock.
"I donno; the eend I stepped on was kinder hauled up."
"You say the plank was all right in the morning, when you went down?"
"Sartin it was. I went over it, and fixed the dory, ready to go arter
dog-fish, arter breakfast."
"Well, the question is, Who has been down to the P'int since you went?"
"I donno; but I believe somebody's tryin' to kill me--that's what I
believe."
"O, nonsense! who should want to kill you?"
"I donno," replied Mr. Fairfield, hastily, and in a tone which implied
that he knew very well who intended to kill him, but he did not wish to
name the person. "If I hadn't been as tough as an old black-fish, it
would have killed me, as sure as fate; that's the whole truth on't!"
"But who could have set such a trap?" persisted Dock.
"You didn't--did you?" added the old man, innocently.
"Of course I didn't. You don't think I'd do such a thing as that," said
Dock, laughing.
"My wife didn't--did she?"
"Massy sakes! What's got into your head, Nathan?" interposed the old
lady. "Goodness knows I didn't do no sech thing."
Mrs. Fairfield was a simple-minded woman, and she did not comprehend
that her disabled lord was only reasoning by an interrogatory and
inductive method.
"Certainly Mrs. Fairfield didn't meddle with the plank," added Dock.
"'Twan't Mr. Watson--was it? nor the Watson gal, nuther?"
"No," answered Dock.
