" Don 't tell him from me," said her father. " And 
don 't keep making promises and breaking them. I 'll  
help the man in with your things." 
He went out, and came in again with one end of a 
trunk, as if he had been giving the man a hand with 
it into the house at home, and she suffered him as 
passively as she had suffered him to do her such ser 
vices all her life. Then he took her hand laxly in 
his, and stooped down for another chary kiss. " Good 
by, Marcia." 
 
" Why, father ! Are you going to leave me ? " she 
faltered. 
He smiled in melancholy irony at the bewilder 
ment, the childish forgetfulness of all the circum 
stances, which her words expressed. " Oh, no ! I 'm 
going to take you with rue." 
His sarcasm restored her to a sense of what she had 
said, and she ruefully laughed at herself through her 
tears. " What am I talking about ? Give my love 
to mother. When will you come again ? " she asked, 
clinging about him almost in the old playful way. 
" When you want me," said the Squire, freeing 
himself. 
" I 'll  write ! " she cried after him, as he went down 
the steps ; and if there had been, at any moment, a con 
sciousness of her cruelty to him in her heart, she lost 
it, when he drove away, in her anxious waiting for 
Bartley 's return. It seemed to her that, though her 
father had refused to see him, his visit was of happy 
augury for future kindness between them, and she 
was proudly eager to tell Bartley what good advice 
her father had given her. But the sight of her hus 
band suddenly turned these thoughts to fear. She 
trembled, and all that she could say was, " I know 
father will be all right, Bartley." 
" How ? " he retorted, savagely. " By the way he 
abused me to you ? Where is he ? " 
" He 's gone, gone back." 
" I don 't care where he 's gone, so he 's gone. Did 
he come to take you home with him ? Why didn 't 
you go ? Oh, Marcia ! " The brutal words had hardly 
escaped him when he ran to her as if he would arrest 
them before their sense should pierce her heart. 
She thrust him back with a stiffly extended arm. 
" Keep away ! Don 't touch me ! " She walked by 
him up the stairs without looking round at him, and 
he heard her close their door and lock it. 
 
XVI. 
BARTLEY stood for a moment, and then went out 
and wandered aimlessly about till nightfall. He 
went out shocked and frightened at what he had 
done, and ready for any reparation. But this mood 
wore away, and he came back sullenly determined 
to let her make the advances toward reconciliation, if 
tli ere was to be one. Her love had already made 
his peace, and she met him in the dimly lighted little 
hall with a kiss of silent penitence and forgiveness. 
She had on her hat and shawl, as if she had been 
waiting for him to come and take her out to tea ; and 
on their way to the restaurant she asked him of his 
adventure among the newspapers. He told her 
briefly, and when they sat down at their table he 
took out the precious order and showed it to her. 
But its magic was gone ; it was only an order for 
twenty-five dollars, now ; and two hours ago it had 
been success, rapture, a common hope and a common 
joy. They scarcely spoke of it, but talked soberly of 
indifferent things. 
She could not recur to her father 's visit at once, 
and he would not be the first to mention it. He did 
nothing to betray his knowledge of her intention, as 
she approached the subject through those feints that 
women use, and when they stood again in their little 
attic room she was obliged to be explicit. 
" What hurt me, Bartley," she said, " was that you 
should think for an instant that I would let father 
ask me to leave you, or that he would ask such a 
 
thing. He only came to tell me to be good to you, 
and help you, and trust you ; and not worry you 
with my silliness and and jealousy. And I 
don 't ever mean to. And I know he will be good 
friends with you yet. He praised you for working 
so hard ; " she pushed it a little beyond the bare 
fact ; " he always did that ; and I know he 's only 
waiting for a good chance to make it up with you." 
She lifted her eyes, glistening with tears, and it 
touched his peculiar sense of humor to find her 
offering him reparation, when he had felt himself so 
outrageously to blame ; but he would not be outdone 
in magnanimity, if it came to that. 
" It 's all right, Marsh. I was a furious idiot, or I 
should have let you explain at once. But you see 
I had only one thought in my mind, and that was 
my luck, which I wanted to share with you ; and 
when your father seemed to have come in between 
us again " 
" Oh, yes, yes ! " she answered. " I understand." 
