eagerly for further particulars. 
The truth was that Felix had conceived the daring 
idea of giving a set of lectures on morality. While he 
held that the only permanent good can be done by 
building up physical and moral cleanliness in men by 
slow degrees, he was yet strongly impressed by the 
power of the word alone. Perhaps it was not possible 
for him to greatly benefit the people of Stratford in 
his short stay there. Real teaching demanded time, 
a life full of effort, and he was convinced that his own 
star called him elsewhere. These people were stolid 
and bigoted, not stifled with misery nor sunk in crime, 
and he longed for a work among those who sorely 
needed comfort. Would not the best thing here be 
to rouse an enthusiasm for good deeds, by personal ap- 
peal, leaving it to take what form it might ? 
People came to the lectures unsuspiciously, and 
Felix, realizing the importance of not creating a panic 
(which would only serve to drive away the conserva- 
tive, leaving, perhaps, a few dare-devils who would 
listen to him as long as what he said disagreed with 
popular opinions), meant to be sufficiently careful of 
his phrases. Beginning with the physical basis of good 
and evil deeds, he electrified the staid members of 
Stratford society by a new version of the time-worn 
doctrine of the influence of Adam's fall. He uttered 
some truths startling to ears accustomed only to Scrip- 
tural axioms served up year after year in the same 
dress, sometimes a sad masquerade, it must be owned. 
A few of the more pronounced among his unfavorable 
critics staid away from the second lecture ; others 
halted in opinion, and went with the majority of the mo- 
ment, while a third class, composed chiefly of young peo- 
ple, were ready to become his loyal disciples. At length, 
in consequence of some statement a trifle more hetero- 
dox than usual, a wave of excited feeling rose against 
him, and it became a question of public interest whether 
it was not the duty of the town to refuse him shelter. 
A self-appointed committee of two resolved to visit 
him and settle the matter. A judicious questioning 
must force him to show decided colors, for, however 
ready Felix had been in avowing principles, he let 
points of doctrine altogether alone, neither denying 
nor affirming. Deacon James and Cyrus Pearson had 
talked much together on this question of the day. 
Perhaps the suggestion came from them, or possibly 
originated with some citizen less willing to undertake 
responsibility ; in any case, one crisp, clear night 
found the two, in the full dress of gingham necker- 
chiefs and Sunday suits, at Mrs. Potter's door. 
" Yes, he's here," said the widow, a little fluttered. 
" Walk right in and I'll call him. Cold, Deacon, ain't 
it ? I'll try to get this stick in. It's a knot that 
wouldn't split, an' bein' hard wood, it keeps the fire. 
Is your folks well, Mr. Pearson ? " 
" Tolable well. Abbie's had a cold, but she allers 
expects it this time o' year. Oh, here's the master," 
as Felix came in from the kitchen with another hard 
knot, a stubborn, gnarly mass that defied splitting from 
every one of its knobs. 
"Good evening, gentlemen," he said, heartily, put- 
 
ting down the stick to shake hands. " Glad to see you. 
Mrs. Potter, will you have this in now ? " 
' No, I just put one in. I'll go out an' do my clear- 
in' away ; the folks have come to see you." 
Felix devoted himself accordingly to the entertain- 
ment of his visitors, neither of whom seemed quite at 
ease, though he supposed their silence to be only the 
result of unaccustomed clothes, and the responsibility 
of making a call. The conversation drifted from the 
clear sky to the sea, and the. need of a new town-hall. 
Then there came a pause. Cyrus, feeling that the 
moment for making a plunge had arrived, began with 
his fluently nervous speech. 
' We called to talk over a little matter o' doctrine, 
Mr. Kewe. I don't suppose you'd feel behindhand 
in statin' your convictions, should you ? " 
Cyrus was a thin man of a uniform color, having 
sandy hair and a face ash-like rather than pale. He 
was wiry animation beside the Deacon, who simply 
represented so many pounds avoirdupois. His large 
frame, heavy face surmounted by black hair, large 
hands, and slow utterance, made up a vast whole. 
' Convictions ? " said Felix. " Certainly, if I have 
formed any. On what subject ? " 
There had been no doubt in the mind of Cyrus that 
his meaning would be caught at once. To be asked 
for more explicit explanation was embarrassing. He 
fidgeted in his chair for a moment, and then turned 
to the Deacon, saying feebly, " I b'lieve it's your turn 
to speak now." 
The Deacon had been slowly drawing up the heavy 
artillery, which was as slowly bent upon the opposing 
ranks. ' We've heerd it said you was goin' to be a 
minister o' the Gospel, an' nobody's ever mentioned 
your denomination." 
;< Oh, I see," said Felix, settling himself gravely to 
the subject. ' No, I don't at all mind telling you that 
I'm of no denomination. I do not belong to any one 
