"And with all that money !" sighed the father. 
" I don't believe they have the habit of wine at 
table. I suspect that when they don't drink tea and 
coffee with their dinner, they drink ice-water." 
" Horrible !" said Bromfield Corey. 
"It appears to me that this defines them." 
 
" Oh yes. There are people who give dinners, 
and who are not cognoscible. But people who have 
never yet given a dinner, how is society to assimilate 
them V 
"It digests a great many people," suggested the 
young man. 
" Yes ; but they have always brought some sort 
of sauce piquante with them. Now, as I under 
stand you, these friends of yours have no such 
sauce." 
" Oh, I don't know about that !" cried the son. 
" Oh, rude, native flavours, I dare say. But that 
isn't what I mean. Well, then, they must spend. 
There is no other way for them to win their way to 
general regard. We must have the Colonel elected 
to the Ten O'clock Club, and he must put himself 
down in the list of those willing to entertain. Any 
one can manage a large supper. Yes, I see a gleam 
of hope for him in that direction." 
In the morning Bromfield Corey asked his son 
whether he should find Lapham at his place as early 
as eleven. 
" I think you might find him even earlier. I Ve 
never been there before him. I doubt if the porter 
is there much sooner." 
"Well, suppose I go with you, then ?" 
" Why, if you like, sir," said the son, with some 
deprecation. 
" Oh, the question is, will he like ?" 
"I think he will, sir;" and the father could see 
that his son was very much pleased. 
 
Lapham was rending an impatient course through 
the morning's news when they appeared at the door 
of his inner room. He looked up from the news 
paper spread on the desk before him, and then he 
stood up, making an indifferent feint of not knowing 
that he knew Bromfield Corey by sight. 
" Good morning, Colonel Lapham," said the son, 
and Lapham waited for him to say further, " I wish 
to introduce my father." 
Then he answered, " Good morning," and added 
rather sternly for the elder Corey, " How do you do, 
sir? Will you take a chair ?" and he pushed him one. 
They shook hands and sat down, and Lapham 
said to his subordinate, " Have a seat ; " but young 
Corey remained standing, watching them in their 
observance of each other with an amusement which 
was a little uneasy. Lapham made his visitor speak 
first by waiting for him to do so. 
" I 'm glad to make your acquaintance, Colonel 
Lapham, and I ought to have come sooner to do so. 
My father in your place would have expected it of 
a man in my place at once, I believe. But I can't 
feel myself altogether a stranger as it is. I hope 
Mrs. Lapham is well ? And your daughter ? " 
"Thank you!' said Lapham, "they're quite well." 
" They were very kind to my wife " 
* Oh, that was nothing !" cried Lapham. " There 's 
nothing Mrs. Lapham likes better than a chance of 
that sort. Mrs. Corey and the young ladies well ?" 
" Very well, when I heard from them. They 're 
out of town." 
 
"Yes, so I understood," said Lapham, with a nod 
toward the son. "I believe Mr. Corey, here, told 
Mrs. Lapham." He leaned back in his chair, stiffly 
resolute to show that he was not incommoded by 
the exchange of these civilities. 
" Yes," said Bromfield Corey. " Tom has had 
the pleasure which I hope for of seeing you all. I 
hope you 're able to make him useful to you here ?" 
Corey looked round Lapham's room vaguely, and 
then out at the clerks in their railed enclosure, 
where his eye finally rested on an extremely pretty 
girl, who was operating a type-writer. 
"Well, sir," replied Lapham, softening for the 
first time with this approach to business, " I guess 
it will be our own fault if we don't. By the way, 
Corey," he added, to the younger man, as he 
gathered up some letters from his desk, "here's 
something in your line. Spanish or French, I 
guess." 
" I 'll run them over," said Corey, taking them to 
his desk. 
His father made an offer to rise. 
" Don't go," said Lapham, gesturing him down 
again. " I just wanted to get him away a minute. 
I don't care to say it to his face, I don't like the 
principle, but since you ask me about it, I 'd just 
as lief say that I Ve never had any young man take 
hold here equal to your son. I don't know as you 
care " 
