says to, you bring it right straight back to me. Now, 
can 't you do that ? " 
" I don 't know but I can," Clementina faltered. 
" Well, then take it ! " 
Mrs. Lander put the bills into her hand but she 
did not release her at once. She pulled Clementina 
down and herself up till she could lay her other arm 
on her neck. " I want you should let me kiss you. 
Will you ? " 
" Why, certainly," said Clementina, and she kissed 
the old woman. 
" You tell your mother I 'm comin to see her before 
I go ; and I guess," said Mrs. Lander in instant ex 
pression of the idea that came into her mind, " we 
shall be goin pretty soon, now." 
" Yes m," said Clementina. 
She went out, and shortly after Lander came in 
with a sort of hopeful apathy in his face. 
Mrs. Lander turned her head on her pillow, and so 
confronted him. " Albe t, what made you want me 
to see that child ? " 
Lander must have perceived that his wife meant 
business, and he came to it at once. " I thought you 
might take a fancy to her, and get her to come and 
live with us." 
"Yes?" 
" We 're both of us gettin pretty well ow, and you'd 
ought to have somebody to look after you if I 'm not 
around. You want somebody that can do for you ; 
 
and keep you company, and read to you, and talk to 
you well, moa like a daugLta than a suvvant some 
body that you'd get attached to, maybe " 
" And don 't you see," Mrs. Lander broke out se 
verely upon him, " what a ca e that would be ? Why, 
it 's got so already that I can 't help thinkin about her 
the whole while, and if I got attached to her I'd have 
her on my mind day and night, and the moa she done 
for me the more I should be tewin around to do for 
her. I shouldn 't have any peace of my life any moa. 
Can 't you see that ? " 
" I guess if you see it, I don 't need to," said Lan 
der. 
" Well, then, I want you shouldn 't eva mention her 
to me again. I 've  had the greatest escape ! But I 've  
got her off home, and I 've  give her money enough 
I had a time with her about it so that they won 't 
feel as if we'd made cm trouble for nothing, and now 
I neva want to hear of her again. I don 't want we 
should stay here a great while longer ; I shall be fret- 
tin if I 'm in reach of her, and I shan 't get any good 
of the ai a. Will you promise ? " 
"Yes." 
" Well, then ! " Mrs. Lander turned her face upon 
the pillow again in the dramatization of her exhaust 
ion ; but she was not so far gone that she was insen 
sible to the possible interest that a light rap at the 
door suggested. She once more twisted her head in 
that direction and called, " Come in ! " 
The door opened and Clementina came in. She 
advanced to the bedside smiling joyously, and put 
 
the money Mrs. Lander had given her down upon the 
counterpane. 
" Why, you haven 't been home, child ? " 
" No m," said Clementina, breathlessly. " But I 
couldn 't take it. I knew they wouldn 't want me to, 
and I thought you'd like it better if I just brought it 
back myself. Good-mo ning." She slipped out of 
the door. Mrs. Lander swept the bank-notes from the 
coverlet and pulled it over her head, and sent from 
beneath it a stifled wail. " Now we got to go ! And 
it 's all youa fault, Albe t." 
Lander took the money from the floor, and smooth 
ed each bill out, and then laid them in a neat pile on 
the corner of the bureau. He sighed profoundly but 
left the room without an effort to justify himself. 
V. 
THE Landers had been gone a week before Clem 
entina 's mother decided that she could spare her to 
Mrs. Atwell for a while. It was established that she 
was not to serve either in the dining-room or the carv 
ing room ; she was not to wash dishes or to do any 
part of the chamber work, but to carry messages and 
orders for the landlady, and to save her steps, when 
she wished to see the head- waiter, or the head-cook ; 
or to make an excuse or a promise to some of the lady- 
boarders ; or to send word to Mr. Atwell about the 
buying, or to communicate with the clerk about rooms 
taken or left. 
She had a good deal of dignity of her ow r n and 
such a gravity in the discharge of her duties that the 
chef, who was a middle-aged Yankee with grown girls 
of his own, liked to pretend that it was Mrs. Atwell 
herself who was talking with him, and to discover just 
as she left him that it was Clementina. He called 
her the Boss when he spoke of her to others in her 
hearing, and he addressed her as Boss when he feigned 
to find that it was not Mrs. Atwell. She did not mind 
that in him, and let the chef have his joke as if it were 
