wherever you went. They tipped the man who carried their coats and the
boy who opened the door. In the washrooms they tipped the boys who
filled the basins for them and those who gave them a second brushing.
The piazzas of the inn were crowded with automobiling parties, in all
sorts of strange costumes. It seemed to Montague that most of them were
flashy people--the men had red faces and the women had loud voices; he
saw one in a sky-blue coat with bright scarlet facing. It occurred to
him that if these women had not worn such large hats, they would not
have needed quite such a supply of the bright-coloured veiling which
they wound over the hats and tied under their chins, or left to float
about in the breeze.
The dining-room seemed to have been built in sections, rambling about
on the summit of the cliff. The side of it facing the water was all
glass, and could be taken down. The ceiling was a maze of streamers and
Japanese lanterns, and here and there were orange-trees and palms and
artificial streams and fountains. Every table was crowded, it seemed;
one was half-deafened by the clatter of plates, the voices and
laughter, and the uproar of a negro orchestra of banjos, mandolins, and
guitars. Negro waiters flew here and there, and a huge, stout
head-waiter, who was pirouetting and strutting, suddenly espied Oliver,
and made for him with smiles of welcome.
"Yes, sir--just come in, sir," he said, and led the way down the room,
to where, in a corner, a table had been set for sixteen or eighteen
people. There was a shout, "Here's Ollie!"--and a pounding of glasses
and a chorus of welcome--"Hello, Ollie! You're late, Ollie! What's the
matter--car broke down?"
Of the party, about half were men and half women. Montague braced
himself for the painful ordeal of being introduced to sixteen people in
succession, but this was considerately spared him. He shook hands with
Robbie Walling, a tall and rather hollow-chested young man, with slight
yellow moustaches; and with Mrs. Robbie, who bade him welcome, and
presented him with the freedom of the company.
Then he found himself seated between two young ladies, with a waiter
leaning over him to take his order for the drinks. He said, a little
hesitatingly, that he would like some whisky, as he was about frozen,
upon which the girl on his right, remarked, "You'd better try a
champagne cocktail--you'll get your results quicker." She added, to the
waiter, "Bring a couple of them, and be quick about it."
"You had a cold ride, no doubt, in that low car," she went on, to
Montague. "What made you late?"
"We had some delays," he answered. "Once we thought we were arrested."
"Arrested!" she exclaimed; and others took up the word, crying, "Oh,
Ollie! tell us about it!"
Oliver told the tale, and meantime his brother had a chance to look
about him. All of the party were young--he judged that he was the
oldest person there. They were not of the flashily dressed sort, but no
one would have had to look twice to know that there was money in the
crowd. They had had their first round of drinks, and started in to
enjoy themselves. They were all intimates, calling each other by their
first names. Montague noticed that these names always ended in
"ie,"--there was Robbie and Freddie and Auggie and Clarrie and Bertie
and Chappie; if their names could not be made to end properly, they had
nicknames instead.
"Ollie" told how they had distanced the policeman; and Clarrie Mason
(one of the younger sons of the once mighty railroad king) told of a
similar feat which his car had performed. And then the young lady who
sat beside him told how a fat Irish woman had skipped out of their way
as they rounded a corner, and stood and cursed them from the
vantage-point of the sidewalk.
The waiter came with the liquor, and Montague thanked his neighbour,
Miss Price. Anabel Price was her name, and they called her "Billy"; she
was a tall and splendidly formed creature, and he learned in due time
that she was a famous athlete. She must have divined that he would feel
a little lost in this crowd of intimates, and set to work to make him
feel at home--an attempt in which she was not altogether successful.
They were bound for a shooting-lodge, and so she asked him if he were
fond of shooting. He replied that he was; in answer to a further
question he said that he had hunted chiefly deer and wild turkey. "Ah,
then you are a real hunter!" said Miss Price. "I'm afraid you'll scorn
our way."
"What do you do?" he inquired.
"Wait and you'll see," replied she; and added, casually, "When you get
to be pally with us, you'll conclude we don't furnish."
Montague's jaw dropped just a little. He recovered himself, however,
and said that he presumed so, or that he trusted not; afterward, when
he had made inquiries and found out what he should have said, he had
completely forgotten what he HAD said.--Down in a hotel in Natchez
there was an old head-waiter, to whom Montague had once appealed to
seat him next to a friend. At the next meal, learning that the request
had been granted, he said to the old man, "I'm afraid you have shown me
partiality"; to which the reply came, "I always tries to show it as
much as I kin." Montague always thought of this whenever he recalled
his first encounter with "Billy" Price.
The young lady on the other side of him now remarked that Robbie was
ordering another "topsy-turvy lunch." He inquired what sort of a lunch
that was; she told him that Robbie called it a "digestion exercise."
That was the only remark that Miss de Millo addressed to him during the
meal (Miss Gladys de Mille, the banker's daughter, known as "Baby" to
her intimates). She was a stout and round-faced girl, who devoted
herself strictly to the business of lunching; and Montague noticed at
the end that she was breathing rather hard, and that her big round eyes
seemed bigger than ever.
Conversation was general about the table, but it was not easy
conversation to follow. It consisted mostly of what is known as
"joshing," and involved acquaintance with intimate details of
personalities and past events. Also, there was a great deal of slang
used, which kept a stranger's wits on the jump. However, Montague
concluded that all his deficiencies were made up for by his brother,
whose sallies were the cause of the loudest laughter. Just now he
seemed to the other more like the Oliver he had known of old--for
