peculiar temperament is, perhaps, the hardest there 
is to manage." 
" And had you not been the most assiduous and 
wisest of mothers, you never could have moulded 
it into any form of beauty." 
" jVIany an anxious day and sleepless night has it 
cost me. I sowed the seed in tears ; but the dews 
of heaven watered the earth, and when the tender 
blade shot forth, the Sun of Righteousness warmed 
and strengthened it. Oh, how often have I felt 
discouraged ! The selfishness of the boy was so 
strong, and he had so little regard for order. To 
counteract these, I labored daily, and almost hourly. 
But I seemed to make little progress — sometimes 
all my efforts appeared fruitless. Still, I perse- 
vered, and it has not been in vain." 
 
''' no. Tou have saved him from his worst 
enemy, himself." 
'  Henry is now old enougli for college. What 
sh'dU we do w;th him ?" the mother said. 
"Send him to University with his brother, 
I suppose. There is not a better institution in the 
country." 
"Do you think it Mill be safe to send him from 
home ?" asked Mrs. Hartley. 
" Why not ?" 
" His disposition has changed little since he was 
a child. He is still confiding, and easily led away 
by others. Clarence had a strong will and prominent faults, which could be attacked vigorously
but the defects of Henry's character were hard to 
reach. I have thought much on ihe subject of 
sending him to college, but feel more and more reluctant to do so the nearer the time comes for 
making a decision on the subject." 
" We ought not to deprive him of the advantages 
of a good education. He should stand side by side 
with his brother in this respect." 
" True. But cannot you give him all these ad- 
vantages at a less risk." 
" I know of no institution in this city where the 
same advantages may be secured as at ." 
" I believe there is none. But, should we look 
alone at this ? Will oar child be safe there ? Is 
his character yet decided enough for us to trust 
him from our side ? I think not. The frankness 
with which Clarence has written to us of the va- 
rious temptations that have assailed him from time 
to time, has opened my eyes to the dangers that 
must encompass a boy like Henry in such a place. 
I should not feel happy a moment were he to go 
there." 
" Then he must not go," said Mr. Hartley, firmly. 
"You have ever been a true mother to our chil- 
dren, and your love has thus far led you to deter- 
mine wisely in regard to them. Though I must 
own that I feel very reluctant to deprive the boy 
of the advantages of a thorough college course 
of instruction," 
"Have not my reasons force in your mind?" 
asked Mrs. Hartley. " Do you not believe that it 
would be wrong for us to jeopardize the spiritual 
interests of our cliild, in the eager pursuit of intellectual advantages." 
"I certainly do. The latter should only be for 
tlie sake of the former. The intellect should be 
cultivated as the means of developing the moral 
powers, that both in union may act in life with 
true efficiency. If all the higher objects of educa- 
tion can be secured by keeping our child at home, 
 
we ought not, under any circumstance?, to send 
him away." 
"They may often be better secured away from 
home, if the boy have firmness enough to resist the 
temptations that will assail him. But tiie question 
whether the boy can so resist, must be decided by 
the parents before he is sent out to make his first 
trial on the world-arena," 
"My own feeling is, that we had better keep 
Henry under our guidance as long as it can be 
done. He is not a boy with the quick intellect of 
