" her little rushlight might shine bright ;" — and her aunt had 
no cause to complain of her. Sometimes, if overpressed, Ellen 
would ask Miss P'ortune to let her stop ; saying, as Alice had 
advised her, that she wished to have her do such and such 
things ; Miss Fortune never made any objection ; and the 
hours of spinning that wrought so many knots of yarn for 
her aunt, wrouglit better things yet for the little spinner : 
patience and gentleness grew with the practice of them ; this 
wearisome work was one of the many seemingly untoward 
things which in reality bring out good. The time Ellen did 
secure to herself was held the more precious and used the 
more carefully. After all it was a very profitable and pleasant winter to her. 
John's visit came as usual at the holidays, and was enjoyed 
as usual ; only that every one seemed to Ellen more pleasant 
than the last. The sole other event that broke the quiet 
course of things, (beside the journeys to Ventnor) was the 
death of Mrs. Van Brunt. This happened very unexpectedly 
and after a short illness, not far from the end of January. 
Ellen was very sorry ; both for her own sake and Mr. Van 
Brunt's, who she was sure felt much, though according to 
his general custom he said nothing. Ellen felt for him none 
the less. She little thought what an important bearing this 
event would have upon her own future well-being. 
The winter passed and the spring came. One fine mild 
pleasant afternoon, early in May, Mr. Van Brunt came into 
the kitchen and asked Ellen if she wanted to go with him 
and see the sheep salted. Ellen was seated at the table 
with a large tin p m in her lap, and before her a huge heap 
of white beans wliich she was picking over for the Saturday's 
favorite dish of pork and beans. She looked up at him with 
a hopeless face. 
" I should like to go veiy much indeed, Mr. Van Brunt, 
but you see I can't. All these to do !" 
" Beans, eh ?" said he, putting one or two in his mouth. 
" Where's your aunt ?" 
Ellen pointed to the buttery. He immediately went to the 
door and rapped on it with his knuckles." 
" Here ma'am !" said he, — " can't you let this child go 
with me ? I want her along to help feed the sheep." 
To Ellen's astonishment her aunt called to her through the 
closed door to " go along and leave the beans till she came 
back." Joyfully Ellen obeyed. She turned her back upon the 
beans, careless of the big heap wliich would still be there to pick 
over when she returned ; and ran to get her bonnet. In all 
the time she had been in Thirlwall something had always 
prevented her seeing the slieep fed with salt, and she went 
eagerly out of the door with Mr. Van Brunt to a new pleasure. 
They crossed two or three meadows back of the barn to 
a low rocky hill covered with trees. On the other side of 
this they came to a fine field of spring wheat. F ootsteps 
must not go over the young grain ; Ellen and Mr. Van Brunt 
coasted carefully round by the fence to another piece of rocky 
woodland that lay on the far side of the wheat-field. It was 
a veiy fine afternoon. The grass was green in the meadow ; 
the trees were beginning to show their leaves ; the air was 
soft and spring-like. In great glee Ellen danced along, 
luckily needing no entertainment from Mr, Van Brunt, who 
was devoted to his salt-pan. His natural taciturnity seemed 
greater than ever ; he amused himself all the way over the 
meadow with turaino^ over his salt and tastino- it, till Ellen 
laughingly told him she believed he was as fond of it as the 
sheep were ; and then he took to chucking little bits of it 
right and left, at anything he saw that was big enough to 
serve for a mark. Ellen stopped him again by laughing at 
his wastefulness ; and so they came to the wood. She left 
him then to do as he liked, while she ran hither and thither 
to search for flowers. It was slow getting through the wood. 
He was fain to stop and wait for her. 
" Aren't these lovely ?" said Ellen as she came up with 
her hands full of anemones, — " and look — there's the liverwort. 
I thought it must be out before now — the dear little thing ! — 
but I can't find any blood-root, Mr. Van Brunt." 
" I guess they're gone," said Mr. Van Brunt. 
" I suppose they must," said Ellen. " I am sorry; I like 
them so much. I believe I did get them earlier than this 
two years ago when I used to take so many walks Vr'ith you. 
Only think of my not having been to look for flowers before 
this spring." 
" It hadn't ought to ha' happened so, that's a fact," said 
Mr. Van Brunt. "I don't know how it has." 
