
" Miss Humphreys. Did you never see her ? she is here, 
or has been here, a great deal of the time. Grandma calls her 
her fourth daughter ; and she is just as much at home as if 
she was ; and she brought her here." 

" And she's at home too, I suppose. Well, it's no busi- 
ness of mine." 

" What do you know of her ?" 

" 0, enough — that's just it — don't want to know any 
more." 

" Well you needn't ; but what's the matter with her ?" 
"I don't know — I'll tell you some other time — she's a 
conceited little piece. We had the care of her coming up the 







river, that's how I come to know about her ; 'ma said it was 
the last child she would be bothered with in that way." 

Presently the two girls came back, bringing word to clear 
the table, for aunt Sophia was coming with the moroccos. 
As soon as she came Ellen Chauncey sprang to her neck and 
whispered an earnest question. " Certainly !" aunt Sophia 
said, as she poured out the contents of the bag ; and her little niece delightedly told Ellen she was to have her share as 
well as the rest. 

The table was now strewn with pieces of morocco of all 
sizes and colors, which were hastily turned over and examined with eager hands and sparkling eyes. Some were 
mere scraps, to be sure ; but others showed a breadth and 
length of beauty which was declared to be "first-rate," and 
" fine ;" and one beautiful large piece of blue morocco in 
particular was made up in imagination by two or three of the 
party in as many different ways. Marianne wanted it for a 
book-cover ; Margaret declared she could make a lovely reticule with it ; and Ellen could not help thinking it would make 
a very pretty needlebox, such a one as she had seen in the 
possession of one of the girls, and longed to make for Alice. 

" Well, what's to be done now ?" said Miss Sophia, — " or 
am I not to know ?" 

** you're not to know — you're not to know, aunt Sophy," 
cried the girls ; — you mustn't ask." 

" I'll tell you what they are going to do with 'em," said 
George Walsh, coming up to her with a mischievous face, 
and adding in a loud whisper, shielding his mouth with his 
hand, — they're going to make pr " 

He was laid hold of forcibly by the whole party screaming 
and laughing, and stopped short from finishing his speech. 

" Well then I'll take my departure," said Miss Sophia ; — 
" but how will you manage to devide all these scraps ?" 

" Suppose we were to put them in the bag again, and 
you hold the bag, and we were to draw them out without 
looking," said Ellen Chauncey, — " as we used to do with the 
sugar- plums." 

As no better plan was thought of this was agreed upon ; 
and little Ellen shutting up her eyes very tight stuck in her 
hand and pulled out a little bit of green morocco about the 
size of a dollar. Ellen Montgomery came next ; then Mar- 






garet, then Marianne, then their mutual friend Isabel Haw- 
thorn. Each had to take her turn a great many times ; 
and at the end of the drawing the pieces were found to be 
