at the end of your journey."
"I should think you might be glad for your own sake, Mr.
Carleton."
"No  my journey is not ended "
"Not?"
"No  it will not be ended till I get back to New York, or
rather till I find myself here again  I shall make very
little delay there "
"But you will not go any further to-night?" said Fleda, her
eye this time meeting his fully.
"Yes  I must take the first train to New York. I have some
reason to expect my mother by this steamer."
"Back to New York!" said Fleda. "Then taking care of me has
just hindered you in your business."
But even as she spoke, she read the truth in his eye, and her
own fell in confusion.
"My business?" said he, smiling;  "you know it now, Elfie. I
arrived at Mrs. Evelyn's just after you had quitted it,
intending to ask you to take the long-talked-of drive; and
learned, to my astonishment, that you had left the city, and,
as Edith kindly informed me, under no better guardianship than
that in which I found you. I was just in time to reach the
boat."
"And you ere in the boat night before last?"
"Certainly."
"I should have felt a great deal easier if I had known that,"
said Fleda.
"So should I," said he; "but you were invisible, till I
discerned you in the midst of a crowd of people before me in
the car."
Fleda was silent, till the sleigh stopped, and Mr. Carleton
had handed her out.
"What's going to be done with this here trunk?" said heir
driver, trying a tug at one handle.
"I will send somebody down to help you with it," said Fleda.
"It is too heavy for one alone."
"Well, I reckon it is," said he. "I guess you didn't know I
was a cousin, did you?"
"No," said Fleda.
"I believe I be."
"Who are you?"
"I am Pierson Barnes. I live to Quarrenton for a year back.
Squire Joshua Springer's your uncle, aint he?"
"Yes, my father's uncle."
"Well, he's mine too. His sister's my mother."
"I'll send somebody to help you, Mr. Barnes."
She took Mr. Carleton's arm, and walked half the way up to the
house without daring to look at him.
"Another specimen of your countrymen," he said, smiling.
There was nothing but quiet amusement in the tone, and there
was not the shadow of anything else in his face. Fleda looked,
and thanked him mentally, and drew breath easier. At the
house-door he made a pause.
"You are coming in, Mr. Carleton?"
"Not now."
"It is a long drive to Greenfield, Mr. Carleton;  you must
not turn away from a country-house till we have shown
ourselves unworthy to live in it. You will come in and let us
give you something more substantial than those Quarrenton
oysters. Do not say no," she said, earnestly, as she saw a
refusal in his eye  "I know what you are thinking of, but
they do not know that you have been told anything  it makes
no difference."
She laid her gentle detaining hand, as irresistible in its way
as most things, upon his arm, and he followed her in.
Only Hugh was in the sitting-room, and n a great easy-chair by
the fire. It struck to Fleda's heart; but there was no time
but for a flash of thought. He had turned his face and saw
her. Fleda meant to have controlled herself and presented Mr.
Carleton properly, but Hugh started up; he saw nothing but
herself, and one view of the ethereal delicacy of his face
made Fleda for a moment forget everything but him. They were
in each other's arms, and then still as death. Hugh was
unconscious that a stranger was there, and though Fleda was
very conscious that one was there who was no stranger  there
was so much in both hearts, so much of sorrow and joy, and
gratitude and tenderness, on the one part and on the other, so
much that even if they had been alone lips could only have
said silently  that for a little while they kissed each other
and wept in a passionate attempt to speak what their hearts
