twinkling, beautiful, but silent. There was no speech nor 
language, no pitying voice or helping hand, from that distant 
sky. One after another the voices of business or pleasure 
died away ; all on the boat were sleeping, and the ripples at 
the prow were plainly heard. Tom stretched himself out 
on a box, and there, as he lay, he heard, ever and anon, 
a smothered sob or cry from the prostrate creature. " Oh, 
what shall I do ? O Lord ! O good Lord, do help me ! " and 
so, ever and anon, until the murmur died away in silence. 
At midnight Tom waked with a sudden start. Something 
black passed quickly by him to the side of the boat, and he 
heard a splash in the water. No one else saw or heard anything. He raised his head the woman's place was vacant ! 
He got up, and sought about him in vain. The poor bleeding heart was still at last, and the river rippled and dimpled 
just as brightly as if it had not closed above it. 
Patience ! patience ! ye whose hearts swell indignant at 
wrongs like these. Not one throb of anguish, not one tear 
of the oppressed, is forgotten by the Man of Sorrows, the 
Lord of G-lory. In his patient, generous bosom, he bears the 
anguish of a world. Bear thou, like him, in patience, and 
labour in love ; for, sure as he is Grod, " the year of his 
redeemed shall come." 
The trader waked up bright and early, and came out to 
see to his live stock. It was now his turn to look about in 
perplexity. 
" Where alive is that gal ? " he said to Tom. 
Tom, who had learned the wisdom of keeping counsel, did 
not feel called on to state his observations and suspicions, 
but said he did not know. 
" She surely couldn't have got off in the night at any of 
the landings, for I was awake and on the look-out whenever 
the boat stopped. I never trust these yer things to other 
folks.;' 
This speech was addressed to Tom quite confidentially, as 
if it was something that would be specially interesting to him. 
Tom made no answer. 
The trader searched the boat from stem to stern, among 
boxes, bales, and barrels, around the machinery, by the 
chimneys, in vain 
" Now, I say, Tom, be fair about this yer," he said, when, 
after a fruitless search, he came where Tom was standing. 
" You know something about it, now. Don't tell me I 
know you do. I saw the gal stretched out here about ten 
o'clock, and agin at twelve, and agin between one and two ; 
and then at four she was gone, and you was a sleeping right 
there all the time. Now, you know something you can't 
help it." 
" "Well, mas'r," said Tom, " towards morning something 
brushed by me, and I kinder half woke ; and then I hearn 
a great splash, and then I clare woke up, and the gal was 
gone. That's all I know on't." 
The trader was not shocked nor amazed ; because, as we 
said before, he was used to a great many things that you are 
not used to. Even the awful presence of Death struck no 
eolemn chill upon him. He had seen Death many times 
met him in the way of trade, and got acquainted with him 
and he only thought of him as a hard customer, that embarrassed his property operations very unfairly ; and so he only 
swore that the gal was a baggage, and that he was devilish 
unlucky, and that, if things went on in this way, he should 
not make a cent on the trip. In short, he seemed to consider 
himself an ill-used man, decidedly ; but there was no help for 
it, as the woman had escaped into a State which never will 
give up a fugitive not even at the demand of the whole 
glorious Union. The trader, therefore, sat discontentedly 
down, with his little account-book, and put down the missing 
body and soul under the head of losses ! 
" He's a shocking creature, isn't he, this trader ? so 
unfeeling ! It's dreadful, really ! " 
" Oh, but nobody thinks anything of these traders ! They 
are universally despised never received into any decent 
society." 
But who, sir, makes the trader ? Who is most to blame ? 
The enlightened, cultivated, intelligent man, who supports 
the system of which the trader is the inevitable result, or 
the poor trader himself? You make the public sentiment 
that calls for his trade, that debauches and depraves him, 
till he feels no shame in it; and in what are you. better 
than he ? 
Are you educated and he ignorant, you high and he low, 
you refined and he coarse, you talented and he simple ? 
In the day of a future judgment these very considerations 
