And for years, leech-like, Martin, sinking lower and lower all the
time, continued his adhesion to the lawyer, abstracting continually,
but in gradually diminishing sums, the money needed for natural life
and sensual indulgence, until often his demands went not above a
dollar. Grind, reluctantly as he yielded to these demands, believed it
wiser to pay them than to meet the exposure Martin had it in his
power to make. And so it went on, until, one day, to his inexpressible
relief, Grind read in the morning papers an account of the sudden and
violent death of his enemy. His sleep was sounder on the night that
followed than it had been for a long, long time.

Of Edward Claire, and his happy family--not happy merely from an
improved external condition, for the foundation of their happiness was
laid in a deeper ground--we have not much to relate.

When Claire brought to Fanny the title-deeds of the property which he
had recovered from Jasper, she pushed them back upon him, saying, as
she did so--

"Keep them, father--keep them. All is yours."

"No, my dear child," replied Claire, seriously, yet with tenderness
and emotion, "all is not mine. All is yours. This property, through
a wise Providence, has come into your possession. I have no right to
it."

"If it is mine, father," said Fanny, "have I not a right to do with it
what I please?"

"In a certain sense you have."

"Then I give it all to you--you, my more than father!"

"For such a noble tender, my dear child, I thank you in the very
inmost of my heart. But I cannot accept of it, Fanny."

"Why not, father? Why not? You have bestowed on me more than wealth
could buy! I know something of what you have borne and suffered for
me. Your health, now impaired, was broken for me. Oh, my father! can
I ever forget that? Can I ever repay you all I owe? Were the world's
wealth mine, it should be yours."

Overcome by her feelings, Fanny wept for some time on the breast of
him she knew only as her father; and there the interview closed for
the time.

Soon after it was renewed; and the occasion of this was an
advantageous business offer made to Claire by Mr. Melleville, if he
could bring in a capital of twelve thousand dollars. Two of the houses
received from Jasper, with some stocks, were sold to furnish this
capital, and Claire, after his long struggle, found himself in a
safe and moderately profitable business; and, what was more, with a
contented and thankful spirit. Of what treasures was he possessed?
Treasures of affection, such as no money could buy; and, above all,
the wealth of an approving conscience.

Mrs. Claire--happy wife and mother!--how large too was her wealth.
From the beginning she had possessed the riches which have no
wings--spiritual riches, that depend on no worldly changes; laid up in
the heaven of her pure mind, where moth could not corrupt, nor thieves
break through and steal. The better worldly fortune that now came
added to her happiness, because it afforded the means of giving to
their children higher advantages, and procured for them many blessings
and comforts to which they were hitherto strangers.

Five years, passed under an almost cloudless sky, succeeded, and
then the sweet home circle was broken by the withdrawal of one whose
presence made perpetual sunshine. One so good, so lovely, so fitted
in every way to form the centre of another home circle as Fanny Elder,
could hardly remain unwooed or unwon. Happily, in leaving the paternal
haven, her life-boat was launched on no uncertain sea. The character
of her husband was based on those sound, religious principles, which
regard justice to man as the expression of love to God.

A few weeks after the husband of Fanny had taken his lovely young wife
to his own home, Claire waited upon him for the purpose of making a
formal transfer of his wife's property.

"There are four houses," said Claire, in describing the property;
"besides twelve thousand dollars which I have in my business. A
