  her her time, and paid her fare to G.”—[The sick and infirm are
  always provided for, you know.]—“Hadn’t seen her for tree years,”
  said George; “but soon as I heard of it, went right down,—hired a
  house, and got some one to take care ob her,—and used to go to see
  her ebery tree months.” He is a mechanic, and worked sometimes all
  night to earn money to do this. His master asks twenty dollars per
  month for his services, and allows him fifty cents per week for
  clothes, etc. J. says, if he could only save, by working nights,
  money enough to buy himself, he would get some one he could trust to
  buy him; “den work hard as eber, till I could buy my children, den
  I’d get away from dis yer.”—
  “Where?”
  “O! Philadelphia—New York—somewhere North.”
  “Why, you’d freeze to death.”
  “O, no, Missis! I can bear cold. I want to go where I can belong to
  myself, and do as I want to.”
The following communication has been given to the writer by Captain
Austin Bearse, ship-master in Boston. Mr. Bearse is a native of
Barnstable, Cape Cod. He is well known to our Boston citizens and
merchants.
  I am a native of the State of Massachusetts. Between the years 1818
  and 1830 I was, from time to time, mate on board of different
  vessels engaged in the coasting trade on the coast of South
  Carolina.
  It is well known that many New England vessels are in the habit of
  spending their winters on the southern coast in pursuit of this
  business. Our vessels used to run up the rivers for the rough rice
  and cotton of the plantations, which we took to Charleston.
  We often carried gangs of slaves to the plantations, as they had
  been ordered. These slaves were generally collected by slave-traders
  in the slave-pens in Charleston,—brought there by various causes,
  such as the death of owners and the division of estates, which threw
  them into the market. Some were sent as punishment for
  insubordination, or because the domestic establishment was too
  large, or because persons moving to the North or West preferred
  selling their slaves to the trouble of carrying them. We had on
  board our vessels, from time to time, numbers of these
  slaves,—sometimes two or three, and sometimes as high as seventy or
  eighty. They were separated from their families and connections with
  as little concern as calves and pigs are selected out of a lot of
  domestic animals.
  Our vessels used to lie in a place called Poor Man’s Hole, not far
  from the city. We used to allow the relations and friends of the
  slaves to come on board and stay all night with their friends,
  before the vessel sailed.
  In the morning it used to be my business to pull off the hatches and
  warn them that it was time to separate; and the shrieks and
  heart-rending cries at these times were enough to make anybody’s
  heart ache.
  In the year 1828, while mate of the brig Milton, from Boston, bound
  to New Orleans, the following incident occurred, which I shall never
  forget:
  The traders brought on board four quadroon men in handcuffs, to be
  stowed away for the New Orleans market. An old negro woman, more
  than eighty years of age, came screaming after them, “My son, O, my
  son, my son!” She seemed almost frantic, and when we had got more
  than a mile out in the harbor we heard her screaming yet.
  When we got into the Gulf Stream, I came to the men, and took off
  their handcuffs. They were resolute fellows, and they told me that I
  would see that they would never live to be slaves in New Orleans.
  One of the men was a carpenter, and one a blacksmith. We brought
  them into New Orleans, and consigned them over to the agent. The
  agent told the captain afterwards that in forty-eight hours after
  they came to New Orleans they were all dead men, having every one
  killed themselves, as they said they should. One of them, I know,
  was bought for a fireman on the steamer Post Boy, that went down to
  the Balize. He jumped over, and was drowned.
  The others,—one was sold to a blacksmith, and one to a carpenter.
  The particulars of their death I didn’t know, only that the agent
  told the captain that they were all dead.
  There was a plantation at Coosahatchie, back of Charleston, S. C.,
  kept by a widow lady, who owned eighty negroes. She sent to
  Charleston, and bought a quadroon girl, very nearly white, for her
  son. We carried her up. She was more delicate than our other slaves,
  so that she was not put with them, but was carried up in the cabin.
  I have been on the rice-plantations on the river, and seen the
  cultivation of the rice. In the fall of the year, the plantation
  hands, both men and women, work all the time above their knees in
  water in the rice-ditches, pulling out the grass, to fit the ground
  for sowing the rice. Hands sold here from the city, having been bred
