in the charnel house is commemorated but the event of their 
deepest shame and degradation, their total vanquishment un- 
dei the dominion of death, the triumph of corruption. 
Here all that was visible of them is insulted by the last 
enemy, in the deepest, most humiliating posture of contumely. 
From Pere la Chaise I came home to dinner at six. H., 
meanwhile, had been sitting to M. Belloc. 
After dinner H. and the two Misses C. rode out to the Bois 
de Boulogne, the fashionable drive of Paris. 
We saw all the splendid turnouts, and all the not splendid. 
Our horse was noted for the springhalt. It is well to have 
something to attract attention about one, you know. 
Sabbath, June 19. After breakfast went with Miss W. to 
the temple St. Marie, to hear Adolphe Monod. "Was able to 
understand him very well. Gained a new idea of the capabilities of the French language as the vehicle of religious 
thought and experience. I had thought that it was a language 
incapable of being made to express the Hebrew mind and feeling of Scripture. I think differently. The language of Ca- 
naan can make its way through all languages, and in the 
French it has a pathos, point, and simplicity which are wonderful. There were thoughts in the sermon which I shall 
never forget. I feel myself highly rewarded for going. 
The congregation was as large as the church could possibly hold, and composed of very interesting and intelligent- 
looking people. His subject was, " If any man lack wisdom, 
let him ask of God, who giveth willingly, and without up-braiding," &c. It was most touchingly adapted to the wants 
of the unhappy French, and of all poor sinners ; and it came 
home to me in particular, as if it had been addressed to me 
singly, so that I could not help crying. 
The afternoon and evening spent at home, reading. H. 
went in the morning with Madame de T. to the Catholic 
service, at the church St. Germaine lAuxerrois, and her 
companion pointed out the different parts of the service. 
H. said she was moved with compassion towards these 
multitudes, who seem so very earnest and solemn. Their 
prayer books contain much that is excellent, if it was not 
mixed with so much that is idolatrous. 
Monday, June 20. Went to have our passport vised. The 
sky was black, and the rain pouring in torrents. As I 
reached the quay the Seine was rushing dark, and turbidly 
foaming. I crept into a fiacre, and was amused, as we rattled 
on, to see the plight of gay and glittering Paris. One poor 
organ grinder, on the Pont National, sat with his umbrella 
over his head, and his body behind the parapet, grinding 
away, in the howling storm. It was the best use for a hand 
organ I ever saw. The gardens of the Tuileries presented 
a sorry sight. The sentries slunk within their boxes. The 
chairs were stacked and laid on their sides. The paths 
were flooded ; and the classic statues looked as though they 
had a dismal time of it, in the general shower bath. 
My passport went through the office of the American em- 
bassy, prefecture of the police, and the bureau des affaires 
etrangeres, and the Swiss legation, and we were all right for 
the frontier. 
Our fair hostesses are all Alpine mountaineers, posted up in 
mountain lore. They make you look blank one moment with 
horror at some escape of theirs from being dashed down a 
precipice ; the next they run you a rig indeed over the Righi ; 
anon you shamble through Chamounix, and break your neck 
over the Col-de-balm e, and, before you are aware, are among 
the lucking at Intcrlachen. 
Wednesday, June 22. Adieu to Paris ! Ho for Chalons 
sur Saone ! Alter affectionate farewells of our kind friends, 
by eleven o'clock we were rushing, in the pleasantest of cars, 
over the smoothest of rails, through Burgundy that was ; I 
reading to H. out of Dumas' Impressions de Voyage, going 
over our very route. We arrived at Chalons at nine in the 
evening, and were soon established in the Hotel du Park, in 
two small, brick-floored chambers, looking out upon the steam- 
boat landing. 
Thursday, 23. Eight o'clock A. M. Since five we have 
had a fine bustle on the quay below our windows. There 
lay three steamers, shaped, for all the world, like our last 
night's rolls. One would think Ichabod Crane might sit 
astride one of them and dip his feet in the water. They 
ought to be swift. UHirondelle (the Swallow) flew at five ; 
another at six. We leave at nine. 
Eleven o'clock. Here we go, down the Saone. Cabin 
thirty feet by ten, papered and varnished in imitation of 
maple. Ladies knitting, netting, nodding, napping; gentle- 
men yawning, snoring ; children frolicking ; dogs whining. 
Overhead a constant tramping, stamping, and screeching of 
the steam valve. H. suggests an excursion forward. We 
