"Two years--nearly three, indeed."
Mr. Ashlin was graceful and distingue, and Ida was attacked by an
unaccountable curiosity. She interrogated the bride.
"What handsome man was that, you were conversing with, awhile ago,
Celestia?"
Her face was broad with smiles. "Law! why Mr. Cranleigh, my husband, to
be sure! Haven't you been introduced? Here! Mr. Cran--"
"Oh! don't!" said Ida. "I know him--don't interrupt him! I alluded to
that tall gentleman by the folding-doors."
"That's Mr. Ashlin. He used to live close by Pa's; and then his uncle
died out in Cuba or West India, I forget which--and he went off there,
where he's been three years, rolling in money they say. He's mighty
smart too--I'm 'most afraid of him. Don't he look like a-a-cannibal!"
said Mrs. Cranleigh, some reminiscence of New Zealand history coming to
her help.
"His is a dark beauty, certainly," replied Ida, hiding a smile. "I
should say if he had not lived abroad, that I had seen his face
somewhere else."
"You needn't be setting your cap!" retorted the bride, spitefully,
"He won't be so easy caught as that Mr. Euston, you all think such an
Adolphus. He's engaged."
"Ah! who is the fortunate lady?"
"A Miss Courtland,--or some such name;--that is--he was engaged once,
but, seems to me, I've heard that he jilted her, and she married a rich
old man for his 'tin.'"
"What did you call her? Speak lower!" said Ida.
"Law! you're scared! what ails you?"
"Nothing--nothing!" laughing. "You had as well be silent about this
Mr. Ashlin,--he has quick ears, and gentleman do not admire gossiping
ladies. You have a splendid bouquet--is this Mr. Cranleigh's taste?"
And while the history of the courtship, from their meeting at the
"Sulphur Springs" to the present glorification, was pouring upon her
tympanum, she was arguing away her unjustifiable suspicions. His
general appearance was that of the gentleman she had a glimpse of
in Mr. Read's parlor; and Mrs. Read's behaviour that evening was so
extraordinary as to give colour to the story;--But Celestia always
garbled the simplest narrations, murdering names and jumbling facts,
until it was next to impossible to arrive at the truth. A three years'
absence, too! How nonsensical she was! Her fears returned, however,
with reinforcements, when he attached himself to Mrs. Read's cordon of
admirers. These were not all young men. Elderly gentlemen, who had not
lost their eye for fair faces, and taste for repartee, were recipients
of as gracious welcomes as were apportioned to their youthful rivals;
and sagacious damsels, of doubtful belleship and charms, crept beneath
the wings of her popularity, large enough to shelter a female favorite
or so. Mr. Ashlin entered the outmost precincts of this circle, and by
imperceptible advances penetrated to the centre of attraction. Mrs.
Read flushed slightly, with surprise or displeasure, as he established
himself by her side; but nothing intimidated, he presently usurped
the management of the conversation; holding up some to ridicule so
cleverly that they had only themselves to blame, and did not suspect
his agency; flattering others, until they dropped off like surfeited
leeches; and angering some so openly, that Ida, who was near enough
to get an inkling of what was transpiring, was assured that he was
playing for a rich stake. His purpose was effected; he had a clear
field; and with no alteration of manner, unless a shade of respect
moderated his gay insouciance, he continued his attentions. No place
is better for a confidential confabulation than a crowded room, if the
parties understand how to conduct it. The initiated would have surmised
from an occasional gleam of the eye, and the varying expression of
that most uncontrollable of features, the mouth, that something more
important than sugared nothings was upon the tapis; but to the purblind
merrymakers, as a body, Mrs. Read was examining a portfolio of prints,
and her companion, a travelled gentleman, descanting upon "High Art"
in "the States," as contrasted with the love for poetry, painting and
music, which, it was said, prevailed in gay, pleasure-loving Havana.
Ida was surprised that Mr. Ashlin requested a presentation to
herself, and still more at the pertinacity with which he cultivated
the acquaintance he must see she did not desire. He triumphed over
her prejudice, inveterate as she had thought it. His air of deep
interest--the admiration, too respectful to be conveyed in words, which
spoke in every look and action, were dangerous flattery, and Ida was
not invulnerable. But in reviewing the events of the evening, distrust
obscured the pleasing recollection of his captivating address and the
magic of his eloquence. Why was it bestowed upon her--a stranger, and
so little attractive in her appearance? Why, especially, should he have
asked permission to call? He knew Mrs. Read, and to her the application
should, in etiquette, have been made. There was a vague apprehension
hanging over her--a foreboding, for which she could assign no cause.
He called, as he had promised, "at an early day." The family were
