gliding into the bar-room, and his first act was to seize upon a brandy
decanter, pour out nearly half a pint of the fiery liquid, and drink it
off. How badly his hand shook--so badly that he spilled the brandy both
in pouring it out and in lifting the glass to his lips! What a
shattered wreck he was! He looked really worse now than he did on the
day before, when drink gave an artificial vitality to his system, a
tension to his muscles, and light to his countenance. The miller of ten
years ago, and the tavern-keeper of today! Who could have identified
them as one?
Slade was turning from the bar, when a man? came in. I noticed an
instant change in the landlord's countenance. He looked startled;
almost frightened. The man drew a small package from his pocket, and
after selecting a paper therefrom, presented it to Slade, who received
it with a nervous reluctance, opened, and let his eye fall upon the
writing within. I was observing him closely at the time, and saw his
countenance flush deeply. In a moment or two it became pale
again--paler even than before.
"Very well--all right. I'll attend to it," said the landlord, trying to
recover himself, yet swallowing with every sentence.
The man who was no other than a sheriff's deputy, and who gave him a
sober, professional look, then went out with a firm step, and an air of
importance. As he passed through the outer door, Slade retired from the
bar-room.
"Trouble coming," I heard the bar-keeper remark, speaking partly to
himself and partly with the view, as was evident from his manner, of
leading me to question him. But this I did not feel that it was right
to do.
"Got the sheriff on him at last," added the bar-keeper.
"What's the matter, Bill?" inquired a man who now came in with a
bustling, important air, and leaned familiarly over the bar. "Who was
Jenkins after?"
"The old man," replied the bar-keeper, in a voice that showed pleasure
rather than regret.
"No!"
"It's a fact." Bill, the bar-keeper, actually smiled.
"What's to pay?" said the man.
"Don't know, and don't care much." "Did he serve a summons or an
execution?"
"Can't tell."
"Judge Lyman's suit went against him."
"Did it?"
"Yes; and I heard Judge Lyman swear, that if he got him on the hip,
he'd sell him out, bag and basket. And he's the man to keep his word."
"I never could just make out," said the bar-keeper, "how he ever came
to owe Judge Lyman so much. I've never known of any business
transactions between them."
"It's been dog eat dog, I rather guess," said the man.
"What do you mean by that?" inquired the bar-keeper.
"You've heard of dogs hunting in pairs?"
"Oh, yes."
"Well, since Harvey Green got his deserts, the business of fleecing our
silly young fellows, who happened to have more money than wit or
discretion, has been in the hands of Judge Lyman and Slade. They hunted
together, Slade holding the game, while the judge acted as
blood-sucker. But that business was interrupted about a year ago; and
game got so scarce that, as I suggested, dog began to eat dog. And here
comes the end of the matter, if I'm not mistaken. So mix us a stiff
toddy. I want one more good drink at the 'Sickle and Sheaf,' before the
colors are struck."
And the man chuckled at his witty effort.
During the day, I learned that affairs stood pretty much as this man
had conjectured. Lyman's suits had been on sundry notes payable on
demand; but nobody knew of any property transactions between him and
Slade. On the part of Slade, no defense had been made--the suit going
by default. The visit of the sheriff's officer was for the purpose of
serving an execution.
As I walked through Cedarville on that day, the whole aspect of the
place seemed changed. I questioned with myself, often, whether this
were really so, or only the effect of imagination. The change was from
cheerfulness and thrift, to gloom and neglect. There was, to me, a
brooding silence in the air; a pause in the life-movement; a folding of
the hands, so to speak, because hope had failed from the heart. The
residence of Mr. Harrison, who, some two years before, had suddenly
awakened to a lively sense of the evil of rum-selling, because his own
sons were discovered to be in danger, had been one of the most tasteful
in Cedarville. I had often stopped to admire the beautiful shrubbery
and flowers with which it was surrounded; the walks so clear--the
borders so fresh and even--the arbors so cool and inviting. There was
not a spot upon which the eye could rest, that did not show the hand of
taste. When I now came opposite to this house, I was not longer in
