"Tom is hoisting the signal," added Captain Sedley, pointing to a blue
flag on the shore, which the gardener had been directed to hoist when
anyone wished to go to the Island.
"We will go, Frank," said Tony; and away dashed the boat towards the
main shore.
"Ah, my Butterflies," said a voice, as they approached the landing.
"Mr. Walker!" exclaimed Tony. "Ready--up! Now let us give him three
cheers. I was afraid he would not come."
The salute was given, and acknowledged by Mr. Walker.
"I am glad to see you again, my brave boy," said the gentleman, as he
grasped Tony's hand.
"I was afraid you would not deem our invitation worth accepting."
"I would not have missed of coming for the world, my young friend. Here
is Mrs. Walker; you know her."
Tony shook hands with the lady, and she said a great many very pretty
things to him, which made the gallant little hero blush like a rose in
June, and stammer so that he could hardly make them understand him.
"Shall I help you into the boat, Mrs. Walker?" said Tony.
"You shall, my little gallant; though I shall not be so glad to get into
it as I was the other day."
The boat put off again, and Mr. and Mrs. Walker were filled with
admiration of the excellent discipline of the rowers. They were warmly
greeted by the party at the island, and lustily cheered by the crew of
the Zephyr, which was again manned for the purpose of giving their
liberal friend this complimentary salute.
"Off again, my lads?" asked Mr. Walker, as the Butterflies prepared to
go for the Munroe family.
Captain Sedley explained to him the nature of their present errand; and,
of course, the warm-hearted gentleman found renewed occasion to applaud
the nobleness of Tony and his companions. He could hardly find terms
sufficiently strong to express his sense of admiration, especially when
he learned the sacrifice which they had made.
"A fleet of boats!" exclaimed he. "If it would raise up such boys as
these, it ought to be procured at the public expense. Thank God! I am
rich."
"I understand you, Mr. Walker," replied Captain Sedley; "but I beg you
will not let your generosity do anything more for the boys."
"Captain Sedley, I love those boys! They are good boys, and good boys
are a scarcity nowadays. There is nothing too good for them."
"You are enthusiastic."
"But I tell you, sir, there are no such boys as those in the world!"
exclaimed Mr. Walker, with a gesture of earnestness.
"O, yes, sir; I presume, under the same discipline, other boys would be
the same."
"Then let them have the same discipline."
"It would cost a fortune. It is a very extravagant recreation, this
boating."
"But it makes men of them. I read the constitution of the clubs, and
Tony tells me it is carried out to the fullest extent."
"No doubt of it. There are boys among them, who, under other
circumstances, would be bad boys. I am satisfied the club keeps them
true to themselves and their duty."
"That's just my idea; and these noble-hearted little fellows have
bestowed the money I gave them in such a commendable manner, I mean to
give them as much more."
"That was my own feeling about the matter; but I do not think it is a
good plan to make good all they sacrifice. This fleet scheme was a
cherished project, and it was noble in them to give it up that they
might do a good deed."
"Noble! It was heroic--I was just going to use a stronger word."
"It is good for them to practise self-denial. That is all that makes the
deed a worthy one."
"Exactly so."
"Therefore, my friend, we will not say anything more about the fleet at
present."
"But if they bear it well, if they don't repent what they have done,
why, I should not value one or two thousand dollars. Besides, it might
be the means of bringing a large number of boys within the pale of good
influences."
"That is my own view; and by and by we will talk more of the matter."
Captain Sedley then introduced Mr. Walker to the company, and the
benevolent gentleman took a great deal of pains to inform himself in
relation to the influence of the boat clubs upon the boys. He asked a
great many questions of their parents, and of Mr. Hyde, the teacher.
They all agreed that the young men were the better for the associations;
that the discipline was very useful, and the physical exercise very
healthy; but some of them were afraid their sons would acquire such a
taste for the water as to create a desire to follow the seas. But few of
them considered boating, under the discipline of the clubs, a dangerous
recreation; so that the only real objection was the tendency to produce
