good."
"Yes."
"To work for a lower end, then, is to misapply labour, so far as the
man is concerned. He robs himself of his own highest reward, while
Providence bends the efforts he makes, and causes them to effect
good uses to the neighbour he would, in too many cases, rather
insure than benefit."
"You have a curious way of looking at things, or, rather, into
them," said Mr. Markland, forcing a smile. "There is a common saying
about taking the conceit out of a man, and I must acknowledge that
you can do this as effectually as any one I ever knew."
"When the truth comes to us," said the old gentleman, smiling in
return, "it possesses the quality of a mirror, and shows us
something of our real state. If we were more earnest to know the
truth, so far as it applied to ourselves, we would be wiser, and, it
is to be hoped, better. Truth is light, and when it comes to us it
reveals our true relation to the world. It gives the ability to
define our exact position, and to know surely whether we are in the
right or the wrong way. How beautifully has it been called a lamp to
our path! And truth possesses another quality--that of water. It
cleanses as well as illustrates."
Mr. Markland bent his head in a thoughtful attitude, and walked on
in silence. Mr. Allison continued:
"The more of truth we admit into our minds, the higher becomes our
discriminating power. It not only gives the ability to know
ourselves, but to know others. All our mental faculties come into a
more vigorous activity."
"Truth! What is truth?" said Mr. Markland, looking up, and speaking
in a tone of earnest inquiry.
"Truth is the mind's light," returned Mr. Allison, "and it comes to
us from Him who said 'Let there be light, and there was light,' and
who afterward said, 'I am the light of the world.' There is truth,
and there is the doctrine of truth--it is by the latter that we are
led into a knowledge of truth."
"But how are we to find truth? How are we to become elevated into
that region of light in which the mind sees clearly?"
"We must learn the way, before we can go from one place to another."
"Yes."
"If we would find truth, we must first learn the way, or the
doctrine of truth; for doctrine, or that which illustrates the mind,
is like a natural path or way, along which we walk to the object we
desire to reach."
"Still, I do not find the answer to my question. What or where is
truth?"
"It often happens that we expect a very different reply to the query
we make, from the one which in the end is received--an answer in no
way flattering to self-love, or in harmony with our life-purpose.
And when I answer you in the words of Him who, spake as never man
spoke--'I am the way, the truth, and the life,' I cannot expect my
words to meet your state of earnest expectation--to be really
light to your mind."
"No, they are not light--at least, not clear light," said Mr.
Markland, in rather a disappointed tone. "If I understand the drift
of what you have said, it is that the world has no truth but what
stands in some relation to God, who is the source of all truth."
"Just my meaning," replied Mr. Allison.
A pause of some moments followed.
"Then it comes to this," said Mr. Markland, "that only through a
religious life can a man hope to arrive at truth."
"Only through a life in just order," was the reply.
"What is a life in just order?"
"A life in harmony with the end of our creation."
"Ah! what a volume of meaning, hidden as well as apparent, does your
answer involve! How sadly out of order is the world! how little in
harmony with itself! To this every man's history is a living
attestation."
"If in the individual man we find perverted order, it cannot, of
course, be different with the aggregated man."
"No."
"The out of order means, simply, an action or force in the moral and
mental machinery of the world, in a direction opposite to the right
movement."
"Yes; that is clear."
"The right movement God gave to the mind of man at the beginning,
when he made him in the likeness and image of himself."
"Undoubtedly."
"To be in the image and likeness of God, is, of course, to have
qualities like him."
"Yes."
"Love is the essential principle of God--and love seeks the good of
