"Mr. Stanton isn't so careful in his expenses as he might be," said Mr.
C., petulantly, disregarding the idea started by his neighbor; "he buys
things I should not think of buying. Now, I was in his house the other
day, and he had just given three dollars for a single book."
"Perhaps it was a book he needed in his studies," suggested the old
gentleman who began the conversation.
"What's the use of book larnin' to a minister, if he's got the real
spirit in him?" chimed in a rough-looking man in the farthest corner;
"only wish you could have heard Elder North give it off--there was a
real genuine preacher for you, couldn't even read his text in the Bible;
yet, sir, he would get up and reel it off as smooth and fast as the best
of them, that come out of the colleges. My notion is, it's the spirit
that's the thing, after all."
Several of the auditors seemed inclined to express their approbation of
this doctrine, though some remarked that Mr. Stanton was a smarter
preacher than Elder North, for all his book larnin'.
Some of the more intelligent of the circle here exchanged smiles, but
declined entering the lists in favor of "larnin'."
"O, for my part," resumed Mr. C., "I am for having a minister study, and
have books and all that, if he can afford it; but in hard times like
these, books are neither meat, drink, nor fire; and I know I can't
afford them. Now, I'm as willing to contribute my part to the minister's
salary, and every other charity, as any body, when I can get money to do
it; but in these times I can't get it."
The elderly gentleman here interrupted the conversation by saying,
abruptly, "I am a townsman of Mr. Stanton's, and it is my opinion that
he has impoverished himself by giving in religious charity."
"Giving in charity!" exclaimed several voices; "where did he ever get
any thing to give?"
"Yet I think I speak within bounds," said the old gentleman, "when I say
that he has given more than the amount of two thousand dollars yearly to
the support of the gospel in this state; and I think I can show it to be
so."
The eyes of the auditors were now enlarged to their utmost limits, while
the old gentleman, after the fashion of shrewd old gentlemen generally,
screwed up his mouth in a very dry twist, and looked in the fire without
saying a word.
"Come now, pray tell us how this is," said several of the company.
"Well, sir," said the old man, addressing himself to Mr. C., "you are a
man of business, and will perhaps understand the case as I view it. You
were speaking this evening of lawyer Lennox. He and your minister were
both from my native place, and both there and in college your minister
was always reckoned the smartest of the two, and went ahead in every
thing they undertook. Now, you see Mr. Lennox, out of his talents and
education, makes say three thousand a year. Mr. Stanton had more talent,
and more education, and might have made even more; but by devoting
himself to the work of the ministry in your state, he gains, we will
say, about four hundred dollars. Does he not, therefore, in fact, give
all the difference between four hundred and three thousand to the cause
of religion in this state? If, during the business season of the year,
you, Mr. C., should devote your whole time to some benevolent
enterprise, would you not feel that you had virtually given to that
enterprise all the money you would otherwise have made? Instead,
therefore, of calling it a charity for you to subscribe to your
minister's support, you ought to consider it a very expensive charity
for him to devote his existence in preaching to you. To bring the gospel
to your state, he has given up a reasonable prospect of an income of two
or three thousand, and contents himself with the least sum which will
keep soul and body together, without the possibility of laying up a cent
for his family in case of his sickness and death. This, sir, is what I
call giving in charity."
THE ELDER'S FEAST.
A TRADITION OF LAODICEA.
At a certain time in the earlier ages there lived in the city of
Laodicea a Christian elder of some repute, named Onesiphorus. The world
had smiled on him, and though a Christian, he was rich and full of
honors. All men, even the heathen, spoke well of him, for he was a man
courteous of speech and mild of manner.
His wife, a fair Ionian lady but half reclaimed from idolatry, though
baptized and accredited as a member of the Christian church, still
lingered lovingly on the confines of old heathenism, and if she did not
believe, still cherished with pleasure the poetic legends of Apollo and
Venus, of Jove and Diana.
A large and fair family of sons and daughters had risen around these
parents; but their education had been much after the rudiments of this
world, and not after Christ. Though, according to the customs of the
church, they were brought to the font of baptism, and sealed in the name
of the Father, and the Son, and Holy Ghost, and although daily, instead
of libations to the Penates, or flower offerings to Diana and Juno, the
name of Jesus was invoked, yet the spirit of Jesus was wanting. The
