“Oh, I sha’n’t say anything,” exclaimed Mrs. Mason; “I’ve no ill will
against Dr. Harvey, and I’d rather cut off my right hand than injure
him.”
“But is the report true?”
“True, Mr. Query? Do you suppose I ever saw Dr. Harvey drunk? Then how
can you expect me to know? Oh, I don’t wish to say anything against the
man, and I won’t.”
After visiting Mrs. Mason, Mr. Query went to half a dozen others to
learn the truth respecting Dr. Harvey’s habits. Nobody would confess
that they knew anything, about his drinking; but Mr. Smith “was not as
much surprised as others might be;” Mr. Brown “was sorry if the report
was true,” adding, that the best of men had their faults. Miss Single
had frequently remarked the doctor’s florid complexion, and wondered if
his colour was natural; Mr. Clark remembered that the doctor appeared
unusually gay, on the occasion of his last visit to his family; Mrs.
Rogers declared that, when she came to reflect, she believed she had
once or twice smelt the man’s breath; and Mr. Impulse had often seen him
riding at an extraordinary rate for a sober Gentleman. Still Mr. Query
was unable to ascertain any definite facts respecting the unfavourable
report.
Meanwhile, with his usual industry, Dr. Harvey went about his business,
little suspecting the scandalous gossip that was circulating to his
discredit. But he soon perceived he was very coldly received by some
of his old friends, and that others employed Dr. Jones. Nobody sent for
him, and he might have begun to think that the health of the town was
entirely re-established, had he not observed that his rival appeared
driven with business, and that he rode night and day.
One evening Dr. Harvey sat in his office, wondering what could have
occasioned the sudden and surprising change in his affairs, when,
contrary to his expectations, he received a call to visit a sick child
of one of his old friends, who had lately employed his rival. After
some hesitation, and a struggle between pride and a sense of duty,
he resolved to respond to the call, and at the same time learn, if
possible, why he had been preferred to Dr. Jones, and why Dr. Jones had
on other occasions been preferred to him.
“The truth is, Dr. Harvey,” said Mr. Miles, “we thought the child
dangerously ill, and as Dr. Jones could not come immediately, we
concluded to send for you.”
“I admire your frankness,” responded Dr. Harvey, smiling; “and shall
admire it still more, if you will inform me why you have lately
preferred Dr. Jones to me. Formerly I had the honour of enjoying your
friendship and esteem, and you have frequently told me yourself, that
you would trust no other physician.”
“Well,” replied Mr. Miles, “I am a plain man, and never hesitate to tell
people what they wish to know. I sent for Dr. Jones instead of you, I
confess not that I doubted your skill--”
“What then?”
“It is a delicate subject, but I will, nevertheless, speak out. Although
I had the utmost confidence in your skill and faithfulness--I--you know,
I--in short, I don’t like to trust a physician who drinks.”
“Sir!” cried the astonished doctor.
“Yes--drinks,” pursued Mr. Miles. “It is plain language, but I am a
plain man. I heard of your intemperance, and thought it unsafe--that is,
dangerous--to employ you.”
“My intemperance!” ejaculated Dr. Harvey.
“Yes, sir! and I am sorry to know it. But the fact that you sometimes
drink a trifle too much is now a well known fact, and is generally
talked of in the village.”
“Mr. Miles,” cried the indignant doctor, “this is scandalous--it is
false! Who is your authority for this report?”
“Oh, I have heard it from several mouths but I can’t say exactly who is
responsible for the rumour.”
And Mr. Miles went on to mention several names, as connected with the
rumour, and among which was that of Mr. Query.
The indignant doctor immediately set out on a pilgrimage of
investigation, going from one house to another, in search of the author
of the scandal.
Nobody, however, could state where it originated, but it was universally
admitted that the man from whose lips it was first heard, was Mr. Query.
Accordingly Dr. Harvey hastened to Mr. Query’s house, and demanded of
that gentleman what he meant by circulating such scandal.
“My dear doctor,” cried Mr. Query, his face beaming with conscious
innocence, “I haven’t been guilty of any mis-statement about you, I
can take my oath. I heard that there was a report of your drinking,
and all I did was to tell people I didn’t believe it, nor know anything
about it, and to inquire were it originated. Oh, I assure you, doctor, I
haven’t slandered you in any manner.”
“You are a poor fool!” exclaimed Dr. Harvey, perplexed and angry. “If
you had gone about town telling everybody that you saw me drunk, daily,
you couldn’t have slandered me more effectually than you have.”
