a good while, when she awoke again. It startled her to see
that a light came flickering through the cracks of her door
from the kitchen. She slipped out of bed and softly and
quickly lifted the latch. But it was not the house on fire.
The light came from Mrs. Landholm's candle dying in its
socket; beyond the candle, on the hearth, was the mistress of
the house on her knees. Elizabeth would have doubted even then
what she was about, but for the soft whisper of words which
came to her ear. She shut the door as softly and quickly
again, and got into bed with a kind of awe upon her. She had
certainly heard people stand up in the pulpit and make
prayers, and it seemed suitable that other people should bend
upon cushions and bow heads while they did so; but that in a
common-roofed house, on no particular occasion, anybody should
kneel down to pray when he was alone and for his own sake, was
something that had never come under her knowledge; and it gave
her a disagreeable sort of shock. She lay awake and watched to
see how soon Mrs. Landholm's light would go away; it died, the
faint moonlight stole in through the window unhindered; and
still there was no stir in the next room. Elizabeth watched
and wondered; till after a long half hour she heard a light
step in the kitchen and then a very light fall of the latch.
She sprang up to look at the moon; it had but little risen;
she calculated the time of its rising for several nights back,
and made up her mind that it must be long past twelve. And
this a woman who was tired every day with her day's work and
had been particularly tired to-night! for Elizabeth had
noticed it. It made her uncomfortable. Why should she spend
her tired minutes in praying, after the whole house was
asleep? and why was it that Elizabeth could not set her down
as a fool for her pains? And on the contrary there grew up in
her mind, on the instant, a respect for the whole family that
wrapped them about like a halo.
One morning when Elizabeth came through the kitchen to mount
her horse, Mrs. Landholm was doing some fine ironing. The blue
habit stopped a moment by the ironing-table.
"How dreadfully busy you are, Mrs. Landholm."
"Not so busy that I shall not come out and see you start," she
answered. "I always love to do that."
"Winnie," said Elizabeth putting a bank bill into the little
girl's hand, "I shall make you my messenger. Will you give
that to the man who takes care of my horse, for I never see
him, and tell him I say he does his work beautifully."
Winifred blushed and hesitated, and handing the note back said
that she had rather not.
"Won't you give it to him!"
The little girl coloured still more. "He don't want it."
"Keep your money, my dear," said Mrs. Landholm; "there is no
necessity for your giving him anything."
"But why shouldn't I give it to him if I like it?" said
Elizabeth in great wonderment.
"It is a boy that works for my father, Miss Haye," said
Winthrop gravely; "your money would be thrown away upon him."
"But in this he works for me."
"He don't know that."
"If he don't -- Money isn't thrown away upon anybody, that ever
I heard of," said Elizabeth; "and besides, what if I choose to
throw it away?"
"You can. Only that it is doubtful whether it would be picked
up."
"You think he wouldn't take it?"
"I think it is very likely."
"What a fool! -- Then I shall send away my horse!" said
Elizabeth; "for either he must be under obligation to me, or I
to him; and I don't choose the latter."
"Do you expect to get through the world without being under
obligation to anybody?" said Winthrop smiling.
But Elizabeth had turned, and marching out of the house did
not make any reply.
"What's the objection to being under obligation, Miss
Elizabeth?" said Mrs. Landholm. Elizabeth was mounting her
horse, in which operation Winthrop assisted her.
"It don't suit me!"
"Fortune's suits do not always fit," said Winthrop. "But then
--"
"Then what?" --
"She never alters them."
Elizabeth's eyes fired, and an answer was on her lip, but
meeting the very composed face of the last speaker, as he put
her foot in the stirrup, she thought better of it. She looked
