without knowledge, without intellectual resources, or even
intellectual powers, without books, or any acquaintance with books,
or any desire for such acquaintance! What domestic happiness can
there be in such a case? As well might we talk of the domestic
happiness of a Dog-kennel or sheep-pen, a stable or a pig-stye. And
just in proportion as ignorance predominates, so are the chances of
domestic happiness diminished. Where there is great ignorance, and
contentment with ignorance, there is vice; and vice is not
happiness--it cannot be. Therefore, all other things equal, that
family will have the greatest chance of the greatest share of
domestic happiness where each member of it has the mind to take in,
and the heart to give out, a constant succession of fresh ideas,
gained from observation, experience, and books. Reader, think of
these things.
A SYLVAN MORALITY; OR, A WORD TO WIVES.
  "These summer wings
  Have borne me in my days of idle pleasure;
  I do discard them."
  "And, Benedick, love on; I will requite thee,
  Taming my wild heart to thy loving hand."
WE have a young relative, about whom we are going to relate a little
anecdote connected with insect history, which requires, however, a
few prefatory words.
At the age of seventeen Emily S. "came out," gilt and lettered, from
the Minerva Press of a fashionable boarding-school, and was two
years afterwards bound (in white satin) as a bride. In the short
period intervening between these two important epochs, she had had a
prodigious run of admiration. Sonnets had been penned on her
pencilled brow, and the brows of rival beauties had contracted at
the homage paid to hers. All this Emily had liked well enough--perhaps
a little better than she ought; but where was the wonder? for besides
excuses general (such as early youth and early training) for loving
the world and the world's vanities, she had an excuse of her own, in
the fact that she had nothing else to love--no mother, no sister, no
home--no home at least in its largest and loving sense. She was the
orphan but not wealthy ward of a fashionable aunt, in whom the selfish
regrets of age had entirely frozen the few sympathies left open by
the selfish enjoyments of youth.
When Emily married, and for a few months previous, it was of course
to be presumed that she had found something better than the world
whereon to fix the affection of her warm young heart. At all events,
she had found a somebody to love her, and one who was worthy to be
loved in return. Indeed, a better fellow than our friend F-- does
not live; but though fairly good-looking, and the perfect gentleman,
he was not perhaps exactly the description of gentleman to excite
any rapid growth of romantic attachment in the bosom of an admired
girl of nineteen.
Why did she marry him? Simply because amongst her admirers she liked
nobody better, and because her aunt, who was anxious to be relieved
of her charge, liked nobody so well;--not because he had much to
offer, but because it was little he required.
Soon after their marriage the happy pair set out for Paris.
F-- though his means were slender and tastes retired, made every
effort (as far as bridegroom could so feel it) to gratify his lively
young wife by a stay at the capital of pleasure. After subsequent
excursion, they returned within a year to England, and settled at a
pretty cottage in Berkshire, to which we speedily received a cordial
invitation. It was no less readily accepted; for we were anxious to
behold the "rural felicity," of which we little doubted our friends
were in full possession.
The result, however, of a week's sojourn at their quiet abode, was
the reluctant opinion that, somehow or another, the marriage
garments of the young couple did not sit quite easy; though to point
out the defect in their make, or to discover where they girted, were
matters on which it required more time to form a decided judgment.
One thing, however, was pretty obvious. With her matronly title,
Emily had not assumed an atom of that seriousness--not sad, but
sober--which became her new estate; nor did she, as we shrewdly
suspected, pay quite as much attention to the cares of her little
ménage as was rendered incumbent by the limited amount of her
husband's income. She seemed, in short, the same thoughtless
pleasure-loving, pleasure-seeking girl as ever; now that she was
captured, the same volatile butterfly as when surrounded and chased
by butterflies like herself. But her captor? asks some modern
Petruchio--had he not, or could he not contrive to clip her pinions?
Poor F--! not he! he would have feared to "brush the dust" from
off them; and, from something of this over-tenderness, had been
feeding, with the honeyed pleasures of the French capital, those
tastes which (without them) might have been reconciled already to
the more spare and simple sociabilities of a retired English
