a chance to get ahead." 
" We always give boys a good chance." 
Harry wanted that mysterious " we " defined. As 
it was, he was left to infer that Mr. Flint was a 
partner in the concern, unless the five doll.irs per 
week was an argument to the contrary ; but he didn't 
like to ask strange questions, and desired to know 
whom "he worked for." 
Edward Flint did not " work for " any body. He 
was a clerk in the extensive dry goods establishmnent 
of the Messrs. Wake and Wade, which, he declared, 
was the largest concern in Boston ; and one might 
further have concluded that Mr. Flint was the most 
important personage in the said concern. 
Mr. Flint was obliged to descend from his lofty 
dignity, and compound the dollar and twenty cents 
with the stable boy by promising to get him the 
vacant place in the establishment of Wake and 
Wade, if his influence was sufficient to procure it. 
Harry was satisfied, and begged him not to distress 
himself about the debt. The visitor took his leave, 
promising to see him again the next day. 
About noon, Joe Flint appeared at the stable 
again, perfectly sober. Major Phillips had lent him 
ten dollars, in anticipation of his month's wages, and 
he had been home to attend to the comfort of his 
suffering family. After dinner, he had a long talk 
with Harry, in which, after paying him the money 
disbursed on the previous evening, he repeated his 
solemn resolution to drink no more. He was very 
grateful to Harry, and hoped he should be able to 
Xo as much for him. 
" Don't drink any more, Joe, and it will be the 
Dest day's work I ever did," added Harry. 
" I never will, Harry — never ! ' protested Joe. 
CHAPTER XVT. 
IH ^THICH HARRY GOES INTO THE DBY GOODS 
BUSINESS. 
Me. Edward Flint's reputation as a gentleman 
»f honor and a man of his word suffered somewhat 
in Harry's estimation ; for he waited all day, and 
all the evening, without hearing a word from the 
firm of Wake and \* ade. He had actually be- 
gun to doubt whether the accomplished young man 
had as much influence with the firm as he had led 
him to suppose. But his ambition would not permi I 
him longer to be satisfied with the humble sphere c/ 
a stable boy ; and he determined, if he did not heu,i 
from Edward, to apply for the situation himself. 
The next day, having procured two hours' leave 
of absence from the stable, he called at the home of 
Joe Flint to obtain further particulars concerning 
Raward and hb situation. He found the fiunily a 
much better circumstances than at his previous visit. 
Mrs. Flint was sitting up, and was rapidly conva- 
lescing ; Katy was busy and cheerful ; and it seemed 
a different place from that to which he had been the 
nessenger of hope and comfort two nights before. 
They were very glad to see him, and poured forth 
their gratitude to him so eloquently that he was obliged 
to change the topic. Mrs. Flint was sure that her 
husband was an altered man. She had never before 
known him to be so earnest and solemn in his reso- 
lutions to amend and lead a new life. 
But when Harry alluded to Edward, both Katy 
and her mother suddenly grew sad. They acknowl- 
edged that they had sent for him in their extremity, 
out that he did not come till the next morning, when 
the bounty of the stable boy had relieved them from 
the bitterness of want. The mother dropped a tear 
as she sooke of the wayward son ; and Harry had 
not the heart to press the inquiries he hf.d come to 
make. 
After speaking as well as he dared to speak of 
Edward, he took his leave, and hastened to the estab- 
lishment cf Wake and Wade, to applj for the vacant 
 
place. He had put on his best clothes, and hU 
appearance this time was very creditable. 
Entering the store, he inquired for Edward Flint ; 
