
This paused the man to look at her more attentively. The young
woman, becoming conscious that she was an object of close scrutiny
by a stranger, turned partly away, so that her face could not be
seen.

"There is something singularly familiar about her," mused the young
man as he left the store. "Who can she be? I have certainly seen her
before."

"Ah, good-afternoon, Perkins!" said a familiar voice, while a
friendly hand was laid upon his arm. "You seem to be in a browner
mood than usual!"

"I am a little thoughtful, or abstracted, just as you please,"
replied the individual addressed.

"Are you, indeed? May I ask the reason?"

"The reason hardly seems to be a sufficient one--and, therefore, I
will not jeopardize your good opinion of me by mentioning it."

"O, very well! I am content to have my friends conceal from me their
weaknesses."

The two young men then walked on arm and arm for some distance. They
seemed to be walking more for the sake of a little conversation than
for any thing else, for they went slowly, and after winding about
among the labyrinthine streets for ten or twenty minutes, took their
way back again.

"There she is again, as I live!" Perkins exclaimed, half pausing, as
the young woman he had seen at the tailor's passed quickly by them
on their turning a corner.

"You've noticed her before, then?" remarked the friend, whose name
was Milford.

"I saw her a little while ago in a clothing store; and her
appearance instantly arrested my attention. Do you know who she is?"

"I do not. But I'd give something to know. You saw her in a clothing
store?"

"Yes. In the shop of that close-fisted Berlaps. She is one of his
seamstresses--a new one, by the way--to whom he has just given work.
So he informed me."

"Indeed! She must be in great extremity to work for his pay. It is
only the next remove, I am told, from actual starvation."

"But tell me what you know of her, Milford. She seems to have
attracted your notice, as well as mine."

"I know nothing of her whatever," replied the young man, "except
that I have met her five or six times during the last two weeks,
upon the Warren Bridge, on her way to Charlestown. Something in her
appearance arrested my attention the first time I saw her. But I
have never been able to catch more than a glimpse of her face. Her
vail is usually drawn."

"Who can she visit in Charlestown?"

"No one, I have good reason to think."

"Why so?"

"I had once the curiosity to follow her as far as I deemed it
prudent and courteous. She kept on entirely through the town--at
least through the thickly settled portion of it. Her step was too
quick for the step of one who was merely going to pay a friendly
visit."

"You have had, if I understand you, at least a glimpse of her
countenance?"

"Yes. Once, in passing her, her vail was half drawn aside, as if to
get a freer draught of air."

"And her face?"
