never will he be able to break the restraint; for wherever he goes
and whatever he does, he will feel that his actions are watched by
one who will punish the bad and reward the good.

And in the same way might this be applied to all dispositions and
feelings. How cheering is it to a timid child to be told that at no
time is he left alone: but that the Being who made every thing
preserves and keeps every thing, and that nothing can happen but by
his permission! This is to disarm fear of its terrors, and to
implant a confidence in the mind, for the child will feel that while
his actions are good he is under the protection of an Almighty
Parent. In the same way, in stimulating a child to the performance
of a duty, the end proposed should be the favour of God. This would
insure the duty being entered upon with a right spirit--not merely
for the sake of show and effect, but springing from the heart and
the mind--and, at the same time, it would prevent any thing of
hypocrisy. If it were only the estimation of the world which was to
be regarded, a child could soon understand that the applause would
be gained by the mere exterior performance, be the motive what it
might: but when the motive is centered in God, it is readily
understood that the feeling must be genuine; otherwise, whatever the
world may say, God will look upon it as unworthy and base. We
believe it would be found to work the best results, if all the
actions of a child were made thus to depend upon their harmony with
the will of God; for it would give a sacredness to every action,
make every motive a high and holy one, and harmonise the thoughts of
the heart with the actions of the life.

But in this mode of teaching, it is essentially necessary that a
mother should herself be an example of the truth she teaches. It
will be worse than useless to teach a child that God is always at
hand, 'and spieth out all our ways,' if she act as though she did
not believe in the existence of a Deity.

In the same way will it hold good of every requirement. It will be
vain to teach a child that lying is a great crime in God's sight,
when a mother in her own words shows no regard to truth; and equally
so of all other passions and feelings. It is idle to teach a child
that pride--hatred--revenge--anger, are unholy passions, if a
mother's own conduct displays either of them. How useless is it to
teach that vanity should never be indulged in, when a mother
delights in display! Such instruction as this is like the web of
Penelope--unpicked as fast as done. The greatest reverence is due to
a child; and previously to becoming a teacher, a mother should learn
this hardest of all lessons--'Know thyself.' Without this, the
instruction she gives her children will at best prove very
imperfect. It is quite useless to teach children to reverence any
thing, when a mother's conduct shows that, practically at least, she
has no belief in the truths she inculcates. And a very hard
requirement this is: but it is a requirement absolutely necessary,
if education is meant to be any thing more than nominal. The finest
lesson on the beauty of truth is enforced by a mother never herself
saying what is false; for children pay great regard to consistency,
and very soon detect any discrepancies between that which is taught
and that which is practised.

The best method of inculcating truth on the minds of children is by
analogy and illustration. They cannot follow an argument, though
they readily understand a comparison: and, by a judicious
arrangement, every thing, either animate or inanimate, might be made
to become a teacher. What lesson on industry would be so likely to
be instructive as that gathered from a bee-hive? The longest
dissertation on the evils of idleness and the advantages of industry
would not prove half so beneficial as directing the observation to
the movements of the bee--that ever-active insect, which, without
the aid of reason, exercises prudence and foresight, and provides
against the wants of winter. A child will readily understand such
instruction as this, and will blush to be found spending precious
hours in idleness. And in the same way with other duties, whether to
God or mankind, the fowls of the air and the flowers of the field
might be made profitable teachers, and the child would, wherever he
went, be surrounded with instruction.

This mode of teaching has this special recommendation--it raises up
no evil passions: and a child which would display an evil temper by
being reproved in words, will feel no such rancor at a lesson being
inculcated in a way like this.

This instruction will also be much longer remembered than one
delivered in words, forasmuch as the object upon which the
