
This turbulent spirit thus secured, Paul took 
the helm, and the yacht was brought to hei 
course again. By this time the schooner had 
lowered her boat from the stern davits, and Cap- 
tain Littleton and his companions were pulling 
towards the Flyaway. 

" What does this mean ? " demanded the cap- 
tain, sternly, as he leaped over the rail. " Paul," 
he continued, as he discovered his young friend at 
the helm, " I am astonished to see you here." 

The boys hung their heads with shame, and 
Paul preferred to let some other person vindicate 
him from the implied charge. 

'' Will you explain this, Paul ? " said Captain 
Littleton. " If it had been my own son, I could 
not have been more surprised." 

" Paul is innocent, sir," interposed Tom, step- 
ping forward. Frank Thompson and myself are 
the guilty ones. He and I got up the scrape ; 
we fastened Paul and Dick in the cabin, and 



 

deceived the rest of the fellows. We kept Paul 
a prisoner till we had nearly wrecked the Flya- 
way, and then we called him up, and he saved 
the yacht and all our lives." 

" That sounds like a true story, Tom, and I 
am glad to find you have the manliness to ac- 
knowledge your guilt. Paul, your hand ; I have 
been grieving over you all day, and now I am 
rejoiced to find you are still true to yourself and 
the good character you have hitherto borne." 

Paul gave the captain his hand, and thanked 
him for the kind words he had spoken. 

"What was the quarrel I witnessed just before 
I came on board ? " asked Captain Littleton. 

'' Frank Thompson wanted to run away from 
you, and have the cruise out," replied Paul. 
" Tom and all the rest of the party opposed him, 
and finally took the helm away from him by 
force." . 

Paul proceeded to give a more detailed account 
of the events which had transpired on board of 
the Flyaway since her departure from Portsmouth 



 

harbor. Tom and the other mutineers expressed 
feheir sorrow for what they had done, and were 
ready to submit to such punishment as the cap- 
tain thought it necessary to inflict upon them. 
But Paul told him how penitent they had been, 
that Tom had promised to reform his life, and he 
thought they had already been severely punished 
for their misconduct by the terrors of the long 
and anxious night they had passed through. This 
he proved by showing that all of them had re- 
fused to follow Frank's plan of continuing the 
cruise. 

"But they punished you more than they pun- 
ished themselves, by keeping you on deck all 
night," said Captain Littleton. 

" It was not punishment to me, for I was inno- 
