no one professed a willingness to stand in his shoes. The fire-eating
Captain would most probably blow that gentleman’s brains out in the
heat of his first excitement. Poor Jacob, not a very courageous man,
was almost beside himself with fear, when his view of the case was
confidently asserted. One advised this course of conduct on the part of
Jacob, and another advised that, while all agreed that it would on no
account be safe for him to fall in the Captain’s way immediately on his
return. More than a dozen people, friends of Jacob, were on the alert,
to give him the earliest intelligence of Captain Allen’s arrival in
S----, that he might hide himself until the first fearful outbreak of
passion was over.

Well, in about two weeks the Captain returned with his little son.
Expectation was on tip-toe. People’s hearts beat in their mouths. There
were some who would not have been surprised at any startling occurrence;
an apparition of the scarred sea-dog, rushing along the streets,
slashing his sword about like a madman, would have seemed to them
nothing extraordinary, under the circumstances.

But expectation stood so long on tip-toe that it grew tired, and came
down a few inches. Nothing occurred to arouse the quiet inhabitants.
Captain Allen was seen to enter his dwelling about two o’clock in the
afternoon, and although not less than twenty sharp pairs of eyes were
turned in that direction, and never abated their vigilance until night
drew down her curtains, no one got even a glimpse of his person.

Jacob Perkins left the town, and took refuge with a neighbor living two
miles away, on the first intimation of the Captain’s return.

The next day passed, but no one saw the Captain. On the third day a
member of the inquisitorial committee, who had his house under constant
observation, saw him drive out with his son, and take the road that
went direct to the neighborhood where Jacob Perkins lay concealed in the
house of a friend.

Poor Jacob! None doubted but the hour of retribution for him was at
hand. That he might have timely warning, if possible, a lad was sent
out on a fleet horse, who managed to go by Captain Allen’s chaise on the
road. Pale with affright, the unhappy fugitive hid himself under a hay
rick, and remained there for an hour. But the Captain passed through
without pause or inquiry, and in due course of time returned to his
home, having committed no act in the least degree notable.

And so, as if nothing unusual had happened, he was seen, day after day,
going about as of old, with not a sign of change in his deportment that
any one could read. In a week, Jacob Perkins returned to his home, fully
assured that no harm was likely to visit him.

No event touching Captain Allen or his family, worthy of record,
transpired for several years. The only servants in the house were negro
slaves, brought from a distance, and kept as much as possible away from
others of their class in town. Among these, the boy, John, grew up. When
he was ten years old, Jacob Perkins, though in some fear, performed the
sacred duty promised to his mother on that memorable morning, when he
looked upon her pale, statuesque countenance for the last time. A flush
covered the boy’s face, as he received the locket, and understood from
whence it came. He stood for some minutes, wholly abstracted, as if
under the spell of some vivid memory.

Tears at length filled his eyes, and glistened on the long fringed
lashes. Then there was a single, half-repressed sob--and then, grasping
the locket tightly in his hand, he turned from Jacob, and, without a
word, walked hastily away.

When the boy was sixteen, Captain Allen took him to sea. From that
period for many years, both of them were absent for at least two-thirds
of the time. At twenty-five, John took command of a large merchant-man,
trading to the South American coast, and his father, now worn down by
hard service, as well as by years, retired to his home in S----, to
close up there, in such repose of mind as he could gain, the last days
of his eventful life. He died soon after by apoplexy.

Prior to this event, his son, the younger Captain Allen, had brought
home from Cuba a Spanish woman, who took the name of his wife. Of her
family, or antecedents, no one in our town knew anything; and it was
questioned by many whether any rite of marriage had ever been celebrated
between them. Of this, however, nothing certain was known. None of the
best people, so called, in S----paid her the hospitable compliment of a
visit; and she showed no disposition to intrude herself upon them.
And so they stood towards each other as strangers; and the Allen house
