Bible says so too: — ‘Open ye the gates, 
that the righteous nation which keepeth 
the truth may enter in.’ And who will 
welcome them, Debby?” 

“The Lord Jesus, first,” said Debby. 

‘There, to welcome, Jesus waits, — 

Gives the crowns his followers win.’ ” 

“Then they will be welcomed and 
crowned by Jesus!” said Mrs. Delaine. 
“Will not that be a reward for a weary 
little traveller?” 

“Will they be weary ?” said Debby. 

“ Some of them will be weary,” her 
mother answered. “ Look at Jane King, 
Debby: don’t you think she sometimes 
gets weary of going barefoot, and of having little to eat, and not much fire in 
the cold weather, and having to work 
hard?” 



“I don’t know,” said Debby. “She 
didn’t look so.” 

“Then, if all that does not trouble her,” 
said Mrs. Delaine, “I can tell you what 
she does get weary of sometimes. Of 
not loving Jesus enough, — of being but 
a poor, unfaithful little traveller, after 
all.” 

“Oh, I guess that’s true,” said Debby. 
‘ ‘ She said something like that. 

“And what does the last verse mean, 
when it says, — 

‘Each the welcome ‘Come’ awaits’? 



What does the Bible tell about that?” 

“ I don’t know, mother,” said Debby. 

“If you turn to the twenty-fifth chapter 
of Matthew,” said her mother, “you will 
find that it tells about a day when the Son 
of Man (that means the Lord Jesus, you 
know, Debby) shall come in his glory. 




When he came to this world before, it 
was in poverty and humiliation; but the 
next time it shall be ‘in his glory, and 
all the holy angels with him. Then 
shall he sit upon the throne of his glory ; 
and before him shall be gathered all 
nations.’ ” 

“That means people from all the different countries,” said Debby. “I had that 
in my geography lesson.” 

“Yes,” said her mother; “it means all 
the people from all the countries: — from 
Greenland, and India, and Africa, and all 
the rest. They shall be all gathered before 
him, ‘and he shall separate them one from 
another, as a shepherd divideth the sheep 
from the goats.’ 

“Now, when men divide the nations, 
