like one who walks with some unseen excellence and meditates on some
untold joy. As she was crossing the court to come towards her uncle,
her eye was attracted by the sparkle of something on the ground, and,
stooping, she picked up a heart-shaped locket, curiously made of a
large amethyst, and fastened with a golden arrow. As she pressed upon
this, the locket opened and disclosed to her view a folded paper. Her
mood at this moment was so calm and elevated that she received the
incident with no start or shiver of the nerves. To her it seemed a
providential token, which would probably bring to her some further
knowledge of this mysterious being who had been so especially confided
to her intercessions.
Agnes had learned of the Superior of the Convent the art of reading
writing, which would never have been the birthright of the peasant-girl
in her times, and the moon had that dazzling clearness which revealed
every letter. She stood by the parapet, one hand lying in the white
blossoming alyssum which filled its marble crevices, while she read and
seriously pondered the contents of the paper.
TO AGNES
        Sweet saint, sweet lady, may a sinful soul
        Approach thee with an offering of love,
        And lay at thy dear feet a weary heart
        That loves thee, as it loveth God above?
        If blessed Mary may without a stain
        Receive the love of sinners most defiled,
        If the fair saints that walk with her in white
        Refuse not love from earth's most guilty child,
        Shouldst thou, sweet lady, then that love deny
        Which all-unworthy at thy feet is laid?
        Ah, gentlest angel, be not more severe
        Than the dear heavens unto a loving prayer!
        Howe'er unworthily that prayer be said,
        Let thine acceptance be like that on high!
There might have been times in Agnes's life when the reception of this
note would have astonished and perplexed her; but the whole strain of
thought and conversation this evening had been in exalted and poetical
regions, and the soft stillness of the hour, the wonderful calmness
and clearness of the moonlight, all seemed in unison with the strange
incident that had occurred, and with the still stranger tenor of the
paper. The soft melancholy, half-religious tone of it was in accordance
with the whole undercurrent of her life, and prevented that start of
alarm which any homage of a more worldly form might have excited.
It is not to be wondered at, therefore, that she read it many times
with pauses and intervals of deep thought, and then with a movement
of natural and girlish curiosity examined the rich jewel which had
enclosed it. At last, seeming to collect her thoughts, she folded the
paper and replaced it in its sparkling casket, and, unlocking the door
of the shrine, laid the gem with its enclosure beneath the lily-spray,
as another offering to the Madonna. "Dear Mother," she said, "if indeed
it be so, may he rise from loving me to loving thee and thy dear Son,
who is Lord of all! Amen!" Thus praying, she locked the door and turned
thoughtfully to her repose, leaving the monk pacing up and down in the
moonlit garden.
Meanwhile the cavalier was standing on the velvet mossy bridge which
spanned the stream at the bottom of the gorge, watching the play of
moonbeams on layer after layer of tremulous silver foliage in the
clefts of the black, rocky walls on either side. The moon rode so
high in the deep violet-colored sky, that her beams came down almost
vertically, making green and translucent the leaves through which they
passed, and throwing strongly marked shadows here and there on the
flower-embroidered moss of the old bridge. There was that solemn,
plaintive stillness in the air which makes the least sound--the hum
of an insect's wing, the cracking of a twig, the patter of falling
water--so distinct and impressive.
It needs not to be explained how the cavalier, following the steps of
Agnes and her grandmother at a distance, had threaded the path by which
they ascended to their little sheltered nook,--how he had lingered
within hearing of Agnes's voice, and, moving among the surrounding
rocks and trees, and drawing nearer and nearer as evening shadows drew
on, had listened to the conversation, hoping that some unexpected
chance might gain him a moment's speech with his enchantress.
The reader will have gathered from the preceding chapter that the
conception which Agnes had formed as to the real position of her
admirer from the reports of Giulietta was false, and that in reality
he was not Lord Adrian, the brother of the King, but an outcast and
landless representative of one branch of an ancient and noble Roman
family, whose estates had been confiscated and whose relations had
been murdered, to satisfy the boundless rapacity of Cæsar Borgia, the
infamous favorite of the notorious Alexander VI.
The natural temperament of Agostino Sarelli had been rather that of the
poet and artist than of the warrior. In the beautiful gardens of his
