composition, such as some anatomists tell us has taken place 
in the structure of our bodies our blood our very teeth. 
A dentist, who filled a tooth for me the other day, imparted 
divers scientific items of information to me that may illustrate your position. Enamel, madam, is not what enamel 
was in the days of our ancestors ! he affirmed pathetically ; 
 the color, the very ingredients of the bone, the calcareous 
base of the teeth, differ sadly from the indestructible molars 
of fifty years ago. At this passage of his jeremiade, he 
chanced to touch the nerve in the unhappy c molar he was 
excavating, and I am persuaded that I suffered as really 
as my grandmother would have done, had she sat in my 
place." 
She paused, and beat time with her fingers on Jeannie's 
shoulder to the wild, varying waltz that swept the giddy 
crowd around the room in fast and flying circles. 
" Your analogy asserts, then, that at heart women are 
alike in all ages ?" 
" Why not, as well as men ?" 
" Then why does not action remain the same, if that be 
true?" 
" Because custom fashion, if you prefer this name an 
unaccountable, irresponsible power owing its birth oftenest to accident or caprice, says, Do this ! and it is done ! 
be it to perpetrate a cravat-bow, a marriage, or a murder !" 
Another pause in which music and dancers seemed 
sweeping on to sweet intoxication so joyous in their 
abandon were the gushing strains ; so swift the whirl of 
 
the living ring. The fingers played lightly and rapidly on 
Jeannie's plump shoulder then rested on a half-beat. 
" Yes !" She was looking towards the crowd, but her eye 
was fixed, and her accents slow and grave. " Hearts live 
and hearts love, while time endures. The heart selects its 
mate in life's spring-time, with judgment as untaught as 
that of the silly bird that asks no companion but the one 
the God of Nature has bestowed upon it. But s.ee you not, 
my good brother " she faced him, a smile wreathing her 
lip a strange glitter in her eye " see you not to what 
woeful disorders these untrained desires, this unsophisticated 
following out of unregulated affections would give rise ? It 
would sap the foundations of caste ; level all wholesome distinctions of society; consign the accomplished daughters of 
palatial halls hoary with a semi-decade of years to one- 
story cottages and a maid-of-all work; doom nice young 
men to the drudgery of business for the remainder of their 
wretched lives, to maintain wives whose dowries would not 
keep their lily-handed lords in French kids for a year ; cover 
managing mammas with ignominy, and hasten ambitious papas to their costly vaults in as Dickens has it some gen 
teel place of interment. Come what may of blasted hopes 
and wrecked hearts, the decencies of life must be observed. 
Every heart has its nerve genuine, sensitive, sometimes 
vulgarly tenacious of life but there are corrosives that will 
eat it out ; fine, deadly wires, that can probe and torture 
and extract it. And when the troublesome thing is finally 
gotten rid of, there is an end to all obstacles t judicious 
courtships and eligible alliances !" She laughed scornfully, 
and Philip recoiled, without knowing why he did so, as he 
heard her. 
" That is ill very well, when the nature of the contract is 
understood on both sides," he said, gloomily. " I doubt, 
however, whether the beautiful economy of your system 
 
will be appreciated by those whose living hearts are bound 
to the bloodless plaster-casts you describe." 
"These accidents will occur in spite of caution on the 
part of the best managers of suitable marriages. By far 
the larger proportion of the shocks inflicted upon polite circles arise from this very cause. Pygmalion grows weary 
of wooing his statue, and wants sympathy in his disappointment and loneliness." 
The dance was ended. The fantastic variations of the 
waltz were exchanged for a noble march pealing through 
the heated rooms like a rush of the healthful sea-breeze. 
The spark died in Sarah's eye. Her voice took its habit 
ual pitch. 
" I have permitted myself to become excited, and, I am 
afraid, have said many things that I had no right to think 
much less to utter. If my freedom has displeased you, I am 
sorry." 
" The error if error there were was mine," rejoined 
Philip. " I led the conversation into the channel ; you, after awhile, followed. I believe there is no danger of our 
misunderstanding each other." 
" Darby and Joan ! good children in the corner !" cried 
Lucy, flushed with exercise and radiant with good humor, 
