character--to conquer himself. It was hard for him to give in, but he
was satisfied with himself, and began to feel that he had really made
some progress in the great work.
He wanted to write a letter to Bertha, and tell her all about the
events of the day--how patiently he had submitted to reproof and
punishment; and record his solemn determination to conquer himself. He
had no light, and no materials for writing; so, at an early hour, he
went to bed; and fatigued with the labors and excitement of the day, he
forgot in sleep that he was a prisoner.
At reveille, in the morning, he was discharged from arrest, and ordered
to report for duty in the school room. He was still strong in his good
resolutions, and the sneers and frowns of Nevers and his clique did not
disturb him--did not even tempt him to indulge in the cheap retaliation
of sneers and frowns in return.
In the course of the day Richard found that he was a lion. He had
thrashed the bully of the school, and won the enviable position of
champion of the Institute. But even this glory did not seem to be worth
much; for since the fight, he realized that he had whipped a bigger
fellow than Nevers.
For a week, in school and out, Richard was true to himself, and behaved
nobly. More times than we have room to record, during this period, he
got the better of his ever-familiar foe, and every new victory improved
his morale and added to his prestige.
At this point in his school career, the students were ordered to
perform the usual round of camp duty; and at eight o'clock in the
morning, the battalion took up the line of march for the appointed
place, at the other end of Tunbrook Lake, distant ten miles by the
road.
CHAPTER XIV.
RICHARD DOES GUARD DUTY, AND IS CAPTURED BY AN ENEMY.
Camping out was a great event at Tunbrook, and the students looked
forward to it with pleasant anticipations for weeks. The principal was
shrewd in his policy, and no one knew when it would take place till it
was announced, only a day or two before the march. By this plan he
prevented any diversion of the thoughts from the lessons. Neither did
the boys know where they were going when they started. They obeyed the
orders which were given from time to time, and even when they halted
for the night and pitched their tents, they could not find out whether
they had reached the end of the march or not. The colonel told them
that soldiers should be taught to obey orders, and cured of all
propensity to ask questions.
The tour of camp duty for the summer term had been almost a continuous
march; and during the campaign of ten days, they had travelled over a
hundred miles. Colonel Brockridge was an earnest believer in the
necessity of physical development in boys. He was of the opinion that
they could stand almost every thing, if they were regularly and
systematically inured to hardship. Weak papas and tender mammas raised
their hands with horror at the idea of having their Johnny sleep on the
ground in a tent, and stick to the camp whether it was fair weather or
foul; but the colonel could adduce hundreds of instances where boys of
puny constitutions had become strong and vigorous under this treatment.
He believed that more boys had been spoiled by being "babied" than ever
had been injured in the slightest degree by hardship--if military duty,
as it was performed at Tunbrook, could be called hardship. It was very
certain that the boys enjoyed camping out; and if a few of them sneezed
or coughed after their return, these were not regarded as fatal
symptoms.
Richard was in his element when the school was put upon its muscle.
Though nothing but a private in Company D, and subject to the orders of
his inferiors in body and mind, he performed his duty cheerfully, and
enjoyed it very much. After Nevers had been cured of his folly, there
was not another boy in the establishment who had the hardihood or the
desire to impose upon him.
Every thing was done with military order and precision on the morning
that the battalion marched from the Institute. Though the reader knows
where they were going, not an officer or a private had a suspicion of
their destination; and none but a few of the new comers asked the
question, or appeared to care. In front of the battalion was the band,
and behind it came the wagons containing the tents, baggage, and
pontoon train. The principal and the instructors were scattered along
the line, where they could superintend the operations of the column.
Major Morgan, in command of the battalion, had evidently received
instructions for a portion of the day; for, without any direction from
the teachers, he led his command over the road to the grove, and in
fifteen minutes after they started, the order to halt was given. The
battalion stood rigid as a stake where they were ordered, and presently
the engineer corps was detached for duty. The pontoon wagon was brought
up, and unloaded by the side of the river. The boats, which were of
rubber, were inflated, and the business of building a bridge across the
stream was commenced.
