upon his face where the sweat of pain already stood. Eleanor went to
the wood, and with much trouble and searching managed to find or break
off two or three sticks of a few feet in length. She planted these for
a frame near the sick man's head and spread her light summer shawl over
them to make a screen. It was a light screen; nevertheless much better
than nothing. Then Eleanor kneeled down by the man to see what more she
could do. Red and pale changed fast and fearfully upon his face; big
drops stood on the brow and cheeks. Eleanor doubted whether he were
conscious, he lay so still. She took her pocket-handkerchief to wipe
the wet brow. A groan answered her at that. It startled her, for it was
the first sound she had heard the sick person utter. Putting down her
face to receive if possible some intimation of a wish, she thought he
said or tried to say something about "drink." Eleanor rose up and
sought to recollect where last and nearest she had seen water. It was
some distance behind; a little spring that had crossed their foot-way
with its own bright track. Then what could she bring some in? The
phials! Quick the precious pond water and bog water was poured out,
with one thought of the nameless treasures for Mr. Rhys's microscope
that she was spilling upon the ground; and Eleanor took the basket
again and set off on the backward way. She was in a hurry, the sun was
warm, the distance was a good quarter of a mile; by the time she had
found the stream and filled her phial and retraced again her steps to
where the sick man lay, she was heated and weary; for every step was
hurried with the thought of that suffering which the water might
alleviate. This was pure, sparkling, good water with which the phials
were now filled. But when Eleanor got back to him, the man could not
open his lips to take it. She feared he would die, and suddenly.
It was a wild uncultivated place they were in. No signs of human
habitation were to be seen, except far up away on a hillside in the
distance, where smoke went up from a farmhouse or some sort of a house;
towards which Eleanor looked with earnest longings that the human help
which was there could be brought within available distance. It was
greatly too far for that. How soon would Mr. Rhys be back? Impossible
to say; she could not tell what length of road he might have to travel.
And the man seemed dying. Eleanor knelt down again, and with the
precious contents of one of the phial bathed the brow and the lips that
she thought would never return to their natural colour again. She did
it perseveringly; it was all she could do. Perhaps it gave comfort. But
Eleanor grew tired, and felt increasingly lonely and desirous that some
one should come. No one did come by that way, nor was likely to come,
until the return of Mr. Rhys; the place was not near a highway; only on
a wild mountain track. It struck Eleanor then that the sufferer's head
lay too low, upon the ground. She could not move him to a better
position; and finally placing herself on the grass beside him, she
contrived with great exertion to lift his head upon her lap. He could
not thank her; she did not know if he were aware of what she did; but
then Eleanor had done all. She schooled herself to sit patiently and
wipe the brow that lay upon her knee, and wait; knowing that death
might come to take her charge before any other arrival relieved her of
it. Eleanor had a great many thoughts meanwhile; and as she sat there
revolved Mr. Rhys's 'sermon' in her mind over and over, and from one
end to the other and back again.
So at last Mr. Rhys found her. He came as he had gone, full speed;
jumped off his horse, and took a very grave survey of the group on the
ground. It was not early. Mr. Rhys had been a long time away; it seemed
half a day's length to Eleanor.
"Have you been there all this time?" was his question.
"O no."
"I will take your place," said he kneeling down and lifting the
unconscious head from Eleanor's lap. "There is a waggon coming. It will
be here directly."
Eleanor got up, trembling and stiff from her long constrained position.
The waggon presently came in sight; a huge covered wain which had need
to move slowly. Mr. Rhys had stayed by it to guide it, and only spurred
forward when near enough to the place. Into it they now lifted the sick
man, and the horses' heads were turned again. Mr. Rhys had not been
able to bring a doctor.
"Why here is Powis!" exclaimed Eleanor, as on the waggon coming round
she discovered her pony hitched to the back of it. Mr. Rhys unhitched
him. Powis was saddled.
"I thought you would have done enough for to-day," said he; "and I went
round by the farm to bring him. Now you will ride home as fast as you
please."
"But I thought the farm was out of your way?"
"I had time to gallop over there and meet the waggon again; it went so
slowly."
"O thank you! But I do not need Powis--I can walk perfectly well. I am
sure you need him more than I do, Mr. Rhys. I do not need him at all."
"Come, mount!" said he. "I cannot ride on a side saddle, child."
Eleanor mounted in silence, a little surprised to find that Mr. Rhys
