Cinderella!"
"What, for a tableau?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"You must ask the manager. I do not know anything about that."
Preston and Theresa and Hamilton and Alexander now went into an eager
discussion of this question, and before it was settled the party
discovered that it was time to break up.
CHAPTER XV.
"Well Daisy," said Mr. Randolph that evening, "how do you like your new
play that you are all so busy about?"
"I like it pretty well, papa."
"Only pretty well! Is that the most you can say of it? I understood that
it was supposed to be an amusement of a much more positive character."
"Papa, it is amusing--but it has its disagreeablenesses."
"Has it? What can they be? Or has everything pleasant its dark side?"
"I don't know, papa."
"What makes the shadows in this instance?"
It seemed not just easy for Daisy to tell, for her father saw that she
looked puzzled how to answer.
"Papa, I think it is because people do not behave perfectly well."
It was quite impossible for Mr. Randolph to help bursting into a laugh
at this; but he put his arms round Daisy and kissed her very
affectionately at the same time.
"How does their ill behaviour affect your pleasure, Daisy?"
"Papa--you know I have to play with them."
"Yes, I understand that. What do they do?"
"It isn't they, papa. It is only Alexander Fish--or at least it is he
most."
"What does he do?"
"Papa--we are in a tableau together."
"Yes. You and he?"
"Yes, papa. And it is very disagreeable."
"Pray how, Daisy?" said Mr. Randolph, commanding his features with some
difficulty. "What is the tableau?"
"Papa, you know the story of Priscilla?"
"I do not think I do. What Priscilla?"
"Priscilla and John Alden. It is in a book of engravings."
"O!--the courtship of Miles Standish?"
"Miles Standish was his friend, papa."
"Yes, I know now. And are you Priscilla?"
"Yes, papa."
"And who is Miles Standish?"
"O, nobody; he is not in the picture; it is John Alden."
"I think I remember. Who is John Alden, then?"
"Papa, they have put Alexander Fish in, because he has long curling
hair; but I think Preston's hair would do a great deal better."
"Preston is under some obligation to the others, I suppose, because he
is manager. But how does Alexander Fish abuse his privileges?"
"Papa," said Daisy unwillingly,--"his face is turned away from the other
people, so that nobody can see it but me;--and he winks."
Daisy brought out the last word with an accession of gravity impossible
fully to describe. Mr. Randolph's mouth twitched; he bent his head down
upon Daisy's, that she might not see it.
"That is very rude of him, Daisy," he said.
"Papa," said Daisy, who did not relish the subject, and chose a
departure,--"what is a Puritan?"
"A Puritan!"
"Yes, papa. What is it? Priscilla was a Puritan."
"That was a name given to a class of people in England a long time ago."
"What did it mean?"
"They were a stiff set of people, Daisy; good enough people in their
way, no doubt, but very absurd in it also."
"What did they do, papa?"
"Concluded to do without whatever is graceful and beautiful and
pleasant, in dress or arts or manners. The more disagreeable they made
life, they thought it was the better."
"Why were they called that name? Were they purer than other people?"
"I believe they thought themselves so."
"I think they look nice in the picture," said Daisy meditatively. "Are
there any Puritans now, papa?"
"There are people that are called Puritans. It is a term apt to be
applied to people that are stiff in their religion."
"Papa," said Daisy when an interval of five minutes had passed,--"I do
not see how people can be stiff in their religion."
"Don't you. Why not?"
"Papa, I do not see how it can be stiff, to love God and do what he
says."
"No--" said Mr. Randolph; "but people can be stiff in ways of their own
devising."
"Ways that are not in the Bible, papa?"
