cuts everywhar, I put in at the back-door, jest as Kitty come
trottin’ out of the pantry with a big berry-pie in her hand. I
startled her, she tripped over the sill and down she come; the dish
flew one way, the pie flopped into her lap, the juice spatterin’ my
boots and her clean gown. I thought she’d cry, scold, have
hysterics, or some confounded thing or other; but she jest sat still
a minute, then looked up at me with a great blue splosh on her face,
and went off into the good-naturedest gale of laughin’ you ever
heard in your life. That finished me. ‘Gay,’ thinks I; ‘go in and
win.’ So I, did; made love hand over hand, while I stayed with Joe;
pupposed a fortnight after, married her in three months, and there
she is, a tip-top little woman, with a pair of stunnin’ boys in her
arms!”
Out came a well-worn case, and Dick proudly displayed the likeness
of a stout, much bejewelled young woman, with two staring infants on
her knee. In his sight, the poor picture was a more perfect work of
art than any of Sir Joshua’s baby-beauties, or Raphael’s Madonnas,
and the little story needed no better sequel than the young father’s
praises of his twins, the covert kiss he gave their mother when he
turned as if to get a clearer light upon the face. Ashamed to show
the tenderness that filled his honest heart, he hummed “Kingdom
Coming,” while relighting his cigar, and presently began to talk
again.
“Now, then, Flint, it’s your turn to keep guard, and Thorn’s to tell
his romance. Come, don’t try to shirk; it does a man good to talk of
such things, and we’re all mates here.”
“In some cases it don’t do any good to talk of such things; better
let ‘em alone,” muttered Thorn, as he reluctantly sat down, while
Flint as reluctantly departed.
With a glance and gesture of real affection, Phil laid his hand upon
his comrade’s knee, saying, in his persuasive voice, “Old fellow, it
will do you good, because I know you often long to speak of
something that weighs upon you. You’ve kept us steady many a time,
and done us no end of kindnesses; why be too proud to let us give
our sympathy in return, if nothing more?”
Thorn’s big hand closed over the slender one upon his knee, and the
mild expression, so rarely seen upon his face, passed over it as he
replied,--
“I think I could tell you almost anything if you asked me that way,
my boy. It isn’t that I’m too proud,--and you’re right about my
sometimes wanting to free my mind,--but it’s because a man of forty
don’t just like to open out to young fellows, if there is any danger
of their laughing at him, though he may deserve it. I guess there
isn’t now, and I’ll tell you how I found my wife.”
Dick sat up, and Phil drew nearer, for the earnestness that was in
the man dignified his plain speech, and inspired an interest in his
history, even before it was begun. Looking gravely at the river and
never at his hearers, as if still a little shy of confidants, yet
grateful for the relief of words, Thorn began abruptly,--
“I never hear the number eighty-four without clapping my hand to my
left breast and missing my badge. You know I was on the police in New
York, before the war, and that’s about all you do know yet. One bitter
cold night, I was going my rounds for the last time, when, as I turned
a corner, I saw there was a trifle of work to be done. It was a bad
part of the city, full of dirt and deviltry; one of the streets led to
a ferry, and at the corner an old woman had an apple-stall. The poor
soul had dropped asleep, worn out with the cold, and there were her
goods left, with no one to watch ‘em. Somebody was watching ‘em,
however; a girl, with a ragged shawl over her head, stood at the mouth
of an alley close by, waiting for a chance to grab something. I’d seen
her there when I went by before, and mistrusted she was up to some
mischief; as I turned the corner, she put out her hand and cribbed an
apple. She saw me the minute she did it, but neither dropped it nor
ran, only stood stocks still with the apple in her hand till came up.
“‘This won’t do, my girl,’ said I. I never could be harsh with ‘em,
poor things! She laid it back and looked up at me with a miserable
sort of a smile, that made me put my hand in my pocket to fish for a
ninepence before she spoke.
“‘I know it won’t,’ she says. ‘I didn’t want to do it, it’s so mean,
but I’m awful hungry, sir.’
“‘Better run home and get your supper then.’
“‘I’ve got no home.’
“‘Where do you live?’
“‘In the street.’
“‘Where do you sleep?’
“‘Anywhere; last night in the lock-up, and I thought I’d get in
there again, if I did that when you saw me. I like to go there, it’s
warm and safe.’
“‘If I don’t take you there, what will you do?’
“‘Don’t know. I want to go over there and dance again, as I used to;
