of the 4th, he had obtained but three hours' sleep; and thus deprived of
the rest which a growing boy needs, he had passed through the fearful
scenes of the battle, in which his energies, mental and physical, had been
tasked to their utmost. He was completely worn out, and in spite of the
surroundings of the hospital, he went to sleep, obeying to the letter the
orders of the surgeon.
After twelve hours of almost uninterrupted slumber, Tom's condition was
very materially improved, and when the doctor went his morning round, our
sergeant buoyantly proposed to join his regiment forthwith.
"Not yet, my boy," said the surgeon, kindly. "I shall not permit you to do
duty for at least thirty days to come," he added, as he felt the patient's
pulse.
"I feel pretty well, sir," replied Tom.
"No, you don't. Your regiment will remain here, I learn, for a few days,
and you must keep quiet, or you will have a fever."
"I don't feel sick, and my head doesn't pain me a bit."
"That may be, but you are not fit for duty. You did too much yesterday.
They say you behaved like a hero, on the field."
"I tried to do my duty," replied Tom, his pale cheek suffused with a
blush.
"Boys like you can't stand much of such work as that. We must fix you up
for the next battle; and you shall go into Richmond with the rest of the
boys."
"Must I stay in here all the time?"
"No, you may go where you please. I will give you a certificate which will
keep you safe from harm. You can walk about, and visit your regiment if
you wish."
"Thank you, doctor."
Hapgood had been compelled to leave the hospital before his patient waked,
and Tom had not yet learned any thing in regard to the casualties of the
battle. Armed with the surgeon's certificate, he left the hospital, and
walked to the place where the steward told him he would find his regiment.
Somewhat to his astonishment he found that he was very weak; and before he
had accomplished half the distance to the camp, he came to the conclusion
that he was in no condition to carry a knapsack and a musket on a long
march. But after resting himself for a short time, he succeeded in
reaching his friends.
He was warmly received by his companions, and the veteran of the company
had nearly hugged him in his joy and admiration.
"Honorable mention, Tom," said Hapgood. "You will be promoted as true as
you live."
"O, I guess not," replied Tom, modestly. "I didn't do any more than any
body else. At any rate, you were close by my side, uncle."
"Yes, but I followed, and you led. The commander of the division says you
shall be a lieutenant. He said so on the field, and the colonel said so
to-day."
"I don't think I deserve it."
"I do; and if you don't get a commission, then there ain't no justice left
in the land. I tell you, Tom, you shall be a brigadier if the war lasts
only one year more."
"O, nonsense, uncle!"
"Well, if you ain't, you ought to be."
"I'm lucky to get out alive. Whom have we lost, uncle?"
"A good many fine fellows." replied Hapgood, shaking his head, sadly.
"Poor Ben dropped early in the day."
"Yes, I was afraid he'd got most to the end of his chapter afore we went
in. Poor fellow! I'm sorry for him, and sorry for his folks."
"Fred Pemberton said he should be killed, and Ben said he should not, you
remember."
"Yes, and that shows how little we know about these things."
"Bob Dornton was killed, too."
"No, he's badly hurt, but the surgeon thinks he will git over it. The
cap'n was slightly wounded." And Hapgood mentioned the names of those in
the company who had been killed or wounded, or were missing.
"It was an awful day," sighed Tom, when the old man had finished the list.
"There will be sad hearts in Pinchbrook when the news gets there."
"So there will, Tom; but we gained the day. We did something handsome for
'Old Glory,' and I s'pose it's all right."
"I would rather have been killed than lost the battle."
"So would I; and betwixt you and me, Tom, you didn't come very fur from
losing your number in the mess," added the veteran, as he thrust his
little fingers into a bullet hole in the breast of Tom's coat. "That was
rather a close shave."
"I felt that one, but I hadn't time to think about it then, for it was
just as we were repelling that flank movement," replied Tom, as he
unbuttoned his coat, and thrust his hand into his breast pocket. "Do you
suppose she will give me another?" he added, as he drew forth the envelope
which contained the letter and the photograph of the author of his socks.
A minie ball had found its way through the envelope, grinding a furrow
through the picture, transversely, carrying away the chin and throat of
