
"Why because a fisher is a kind of a Spartan animal, while he is about
his business."

"What kind of an animal is that?" said Daisy, looking up from her
arrangements. She had set out a plate of delicate rolls, and another
with bread and butter folded in, a napkin; and still she paused with her
hand in the basket.

"Go on, Daisy. I want to see what comes next."

"I don't know," said Daisy. "Why, Joanna has made us a lemon pie!"

"Capital!" said Preston. "And what have you got in that dish?"

"I know," said Daisy. "Joanna has put in some jelly for me. What sort of
an animal is that, Preston?"

"It is a sort I shall not be to-day--with jelly and lemon pie. But what
has Joanna put in for me? nothing but bread?"

"Why there are sandwiches."

"Where?"

"Why there! Those rolls are stuffed with meat, Preston."

"Splendid!" said Preston, falling foul of the rolls immediately. "What
sort of an animal is a Spartan? My dear little Daisy, don't you know?"

"I don't believe I know anything," said Daisy humbly.

"Don't you want to?"

"O yes, Preston! if I had anybody to help me,--I do."

"Well--we'll see. How perfect these sandwiches are! when one's hungry."

"I am hungry too," said Daisy. "I think the sound of the water makes me
hungry. O I wish I had given Sam some!--I never thought of it. How
hungry he must be!"

"He'll get along," said Preston, helping himself to another roll.

"But how could I forget!" said Daisy. "And he did not have a second
breakfast either. I am so sorry!" Daisy's hands fell from her own
dainties.

"There is nothing here fit for him," said Preston. "I dare say he has
his own pockets full."

"They were full of water, the last thing," said Daisy, quaintly.

Preston could not help laughing. "My dear Daisy," he said, "I hope you
are not getting soft-hearted on the subject of servants?"

"How, Preston?"

"Don't;--because it is foolish."

"But Preston," said Daisy, looking earnestly at his handsome pleasant
face which she liked very much,--"don't you know what the Bible says?"

"No."

It says, "The rich and the poor meet together; the Lord is the maker of
them all."

"Well," said Preston, "that don't mean that he made them all alike."

"Then if they are not made alike, what is the difference?"

"Good gracious!" said Preston; "do you often ask such questions, Daisy?
I hope you are not going to turn out a Mrs. Child, or a philanthropist,
or anything of that sort?"

"I am not going to be a Mrs. Anybody," said Daisy; "but why don't you
answer me?"

"Where did you get hold of those words?"
