
"Yes, missy, he's crazy; but he soon git ober it," answered Quin,
laughing.

"Why do you laugh, Quin? You don't seem to be at all concerned about
him," added Lily.

"Bad fit, missy!"

"What ails him?"

"Bad fit, missy; my ole massa use to hab lots ob dem fits," chuckled
Quin.

"But what kind of a fit is it, Quin?"

"Notin, missy, only Cyd done drink too much whiskey, and get
drunk--dat's all."




CHAPTER XVIII.

THE AFFRAY ON THE LAKE


Even Lily laughed when she realized that her friend Cyd was in no danger
of dying in the bad fit which had attacked him; she laughed at his
strange actions and his silly expressions; they all laughed for a time,
but there was something very serious in the occasion. The patient was
taken down into the cabin, and put to bed in his bunk.

When he was asleep again, and the rest of the party had returned to the
deck, the serious part of the affair came up for consideration; and the
meeting was so solemn and momentous that even the good luck of the two
sportsmen was forgotten, and the game and fish were allowed to remain
unnoticed in the bateau. To Dan and Lily it was a terrible thing for a
boy like Cyd to get drunk. It was very funny, but it was awfully serious
in view of future consequences.

Several bottles of wine and liquor had been deposited in the lockers
under the seats in the standing room, and Cyd had helped himself as he
sat there alone. This was the key to his mysterious sickness; and while
his companions congratulated themselves upon Cyd's expected recovery, it
was deemed prudent to place all the intoxicating beverages on board in a
secure place. A locker in Lily's cabin was selected for this purpose,
and it was soon out of Cyd's reach.

Dan wanted to throw all the liquor overboard, except a couple of bottles
to be used as medicine; but Quin thought that some use might be made of
it at a future time. There was no one on board, except Cyd, who would
drink it; and he had imbibed rather as a frolic than because he had any
taste for the fiery article.

The patient slept all the rest of the day and all the following night.
The next morning he was afflicted with a terrible headache, and was so
stupid that he was good for nothing. He was severely reprimanded for his
folly, and made a solemn promise never to partake again; and as the
dangerous fluid was all locked up, and the key in Lily's possession, it
was believed that he would not violate his obligation.

Roast ducks and geese, and fried fish, were the food of the party for
several days to come; and the change from salt provision was very
agreeable. About once a week Dan and Quin repeated the excursion to the
lake, and almost always returned with a plentiful supply of fish and
game. The fugitives lived well, especially as pigeons, partridges, and
an occasional wild turkey graced their table. A roast coon was not an
unusual luxury; for by extending their hunting-grounds in various
directions, they added very much to the variety of their larder.

The small stores, such as butter, salt, sugar, coffee, and tea, were
exhausted in the fall, though they had been very carefully expended.
They had been so long accustomed to their luxurious living, that the
want of these articles was felt as a very great hardship. Their nice
ducks and geese were absolutely loathsome without salt, and Dan came to
the conclusion that salt was a necessity, and that it must be procured
at any risk. About twenty miles from the camp there was a village where
groceries could be obtained; and after a great deal of consideration it
was decided to undertake a journey for this purpose. They had been five
