wrongdoing, and his present thought was how he should get her out of the
scrape. He was honestly willing to sacrifice himself for her sake. While
he was faithfully considering the question, in the dim light of his own
moral sense, Miss Fanny suddenly burst into tears, and cried with a
violence and an unction which were a severe trial to his nerves.
"Don't cry, Fanny," said he; "I'll get you out of the scrape."
"I don't want to get out of it," sobbed she.
Now, this was the most paradoxical reply which the little maiden could
possibly have made, and Noddy was perplexed almost beyond the hope of
redemption. What in the world was she crying about, if she did not wish
to get out of the scrape? What could make her cry if it was not the fear
of consequences--of punishment, and of the mean opinion which her
friends would have of her, when they found out that she was wicked
enough to set a building on fire? Noddy asked no questions, for he could
not frame one which would cover so intricate a matter.
"I am perfectly willing to be punished for what I have done," added
Fanny, to whose troubled heart speech was the only vent.
"What are you crying for?" asked the bewildered Noddy.
"Because--because I did it," replied she; and her choked utterance
hardly permitted her to speak the words.
"Well, Miss Fanny, you are altogether ahead of my time; and I don't know
what you mean. If you cry about it now, what did you do it for?"
"Because I was wicked and naughty. If I had thought only a moment, I
shouldn't have done it. I am so sorry I did it! I would give the world
if I hadn't."
"What will they do to you?" asked Noddy, whose fear of consequences had
not yet given place to a higher view of the matter.
"I don't care what they do; I deserve the worst they can do. How shall I
look Bertha and my father in the face when I see them?"
"O, hold your head right up, and look as bold as a lion--as bold as two
lions, if the worst comes."
"Don't talk so, Noddy. You make me feel worse than I did."
"What in the world ails you, Miss Fanny?" demanded Noddy, grown
desperate by the perplexities of the situation.
"I am so sorry I did such a wicked thing! I shall go to Bertha and my
father, and tell them all about it, as soon as they come home," added
Fanny, as she wiped away her tears, and appeared to be much comforted by
the good resolution which was certainly the best one the circumstances
admitted.
"Are you going to do that?" exclaimed Noddy, astonished at the
declaration.
"I am."
"And get me into a scrape too! They won't let me off as easy as they do
you. I shall be sent off to learn to be a tinker, or a blacksmith."
"You didn't set the boat-house on fire, Noddy. It wasn't any of your
doings," said Fanny, somewhat disturbed by this new complication.
"You wouldn't have done it, if it hadn't been for me. I told you what I
said to Ben--that I wished the boat-house was burned up; and that's what
put it into your head."
"Well, you didn't do it."
"I know that; but I shall have to bear all the blame of it."
Noddy's moral perceptions were strong enough to enable him to see that
he was not without fault in the matter; and he was opposed to Fanny's
making the intended confession of her guilt.
"I will keep you out of trouble, Noddy," said she, kindly.
"You can't do it; when you own up, you will sink me to the bottom of the
river. Besides, you are a fool to do any such thing, Miss Fanny. What do
you want to say a word about it for? Ben will think some fellow landed
from the river, and set the boat-house on fire."
"I must do it, Noddy," protested she. "I shall not have a moment's peace
till I confess. I shall not dare to look father and Bertha in the face
if I don't."
"You won't if you do. How are they going to know anything about it, if
you don't tell them?"
"Well, they will lay it to you if I don't."
"No matter if they do; I didn't do it, and I can say so truly, and they
will believe me."
"But how shall I feel all the time? I shall know who did it, if nobody
else does. I shall feel mean and guilty."
"You won't feel half so bad as you will when they look at you, and know
all the time that you are guilty. If you are going to own up, I shall
keep out of the way. You won't see me at Woodville again in a hurry."
"What do you mean, Noddy?" asked Fanny, startled by the strong words of
her companion.
"That's just what I mean. If you own up, they will say that I made you
do it; and I had enough sight rather bear the blame of setting the
boat-house afire, than be told that I made you do it. I can dirty my own
hands, but I don't like the idea of dirtying yours."
"You don't mean to leave Woodville, Noddy?" asked Fanny, in a
reproachful tone.
