scribed by the sergeant, till he could no longer be seen 
by the pickets. The last obstacle seemed to be over- 
come ; and he hastened to the place where he had con- 
cealed his uniform, which he wished to put on before he 
approached the pickets on the other side. It was now 
nearly dark, and he had no time to spare ; for, if he 
approached his own men in the darkness, he would be 
in danger of being shot before they discovered who he 
was, though he had full confidence in the discretion of 
Hapgood. 

"Without difficulty, he found the place where he had 
concealed his clothes ; and, after assuring himself that 
lone of the rebel pickets were in sight, he hastily put 
them on. To prevent any unpleasant suspicions, he took 
the precaution to hide the gray pants he had worn, in 
the long grass of the swamp, so that they need not 
attract the attention of any stroller who might pass in 
that direction. Though we have frequently held our 
hero up as a model of modesty, we are compelled to 




acknowledge that he felt exceeclinirlv -well satisfied with 



himself on the present occasion. He felt that he had 
done what, in the homely vocabulary of the boys of 
Pinchbrook might well be called a big thing." 

He had fully and successfully accomplished the ardu- 
ous purposes of his mission. He had examined the 
positions, and counted the forces of the rebels. He had 
received very valuable information from Mr. Raynes, 
and from others whom he had encountered in his walk 
through the enemy's lines. He was satisfied that he 
should receive a warm welcome from those who had 
sent him upon the perilous tour. He had earned the 
first bar to his shoulder-straps, and was proud of his 
achievement. 

The work had been done, and he was within a short 
distance of the Union lines, within a short distance of 
the devoted Hapgood. who was patiently but anxiously 
waiting to give him a soldier's reception. Above all, 
he was safe : and he trembled when he thought of the 



perils through which he had passed, of the consequences 
which must have followed the discovery of his real char- 
acter. As he had thanked God for the boon of life after 
the battle was over, so now he thanked him for the 
signal success which had crowned his labors in the eood 



cause. The last article of his raiment was put on and 
adjusted : he rose from the ground to walk towards the 
Union lines. 



" I say, Yank, you look better'n you did 'fore yer 
changed your clothes," said a voice, which struck his 
ear with startling distinctness. 

Soraers looked in the direction from which the voice 
came, and discovered a villanous-looking countenance, 
that had just risen from the tall swamp-grass, within a 
couple of rods of the spot where he stood. The man 
was unmistakably a rebel, one of the most savage and 
implacable of rebels at that ; such a character as we 
read of in connection with slave-hunts in Mississippi, or 
" free fights " in Arkansas. He wore a long, tangled 
beard ; and his hair had probably never known the use 
of a comb. The grayback looked as cool and impudent 
as though he was perfectly assured of. his prey, and 
