"There are plenty of them."
"No doubt of it; but they are not the kind I want. I need a man who will
play into my hand, as well as grind up the Yankees. I have no idea of
burning all the property captured by my vessel."
"Why don't you take command yourself?"
"I have other business to do."
"There are scores of Confederate naval officers in Canada and New
Brunswick," suggested Langdon.
"I know them all, and I wouldn't trust them to command a mud-scow. In a
word, Langdon, I want this Somers, and I must have him."
"But he is a northern Yankee. He would sooner cut his own throat than
engage in such an enterprise."
"Thank you for that," said Somers to himself. "If you had known me all
my lifetime, you couldn't have said a better or a truer thing of me."
"I know he is actually reeking with what he calls loyalty. He will be a
hard subject, but I think he can be brought over."
"Perhaps he can."
"It must be done; that is the view we must take of the matter."
"It will be easier to believe it than to do it."
"This is to be your share of the enterprise."
"Mine?"
"Yes."
"Well, I think you have given me the biggest job in the work."
"It can be done," said Coles, confidently. "Somers is a mere boy in
years, though he is smarter and knows more than any man in the navy in
the prime of life."
"I'm afraid he is too smart, and knows too much to be caught in such a
scrape."
"No; he is young and ambitious. Offer him a commission as a commander in
the Confederate navy, to begin with. I have the commission duly signed
by the president of the Confederacy, countersigned by the secretary of
the navy, with a blank for the name of the man who receives it, which I
am authorized to fill up as I think best. Somers must have this
commission."
"If he will take it."
"He will take it. In the old navy he is nothing but a paltry ensign. He
has been kept back. His merit has been ignored. He must stand out of the
way for numskulls and old fogies. Even if the war should last ten years
longer, he could not reach the rank, in that time, which I now tender
him. He will at once be offered the command of a fine steamer, and may
walk the quarter deck like a king. He is ambitious, and if you approach
him in the right way, you can win him over."
Somers listened with interest to this precious scheme. He did not even
feel complimented by the exalted opinion which such a man as Coles
entertained of him. It would be a pleasant thing for a young man like
him to be a commander, and have a fine steamer; but as he could regard
only with horror the idea of firing a gun at a vessel bearing the stars
and stripes, he was not even tempted by the bait; and he turned his
thoughts from it without the necessity of a "Get thee behind me, Satan,"
in dismissing it.
"Where is this Somers?" asked Langdon.
"He is at the Continental," replied Coles. "He has been appointed fourth
lieutenant of the Chatauqua; but what a position for a man of his
abilities! He is better qualified to command the ship than the numskull
to whom she has been given. Waldron, the first lieutenant, is smart: he
ought to be commander; though I think Somers did all the hard work in
Doboy Sound, for which Waldron got the credit, and for which he was
promoted. Pillgrim, the second lieutenant, is a renegade Virginian."
"We had some hopes of him, at one time," said Langdon.
"He is worse than a Vermont Yankee now--has been all along, for that
matter. I tried to do something with him, but he talked about the old
flag, and other bosh of that sort."
"Let him go," added Langdon, with becoming resignation.
"Let him go! He never went. He has always been a Yankee at heart. If the
navy department wouldn't trust him, it was their fault, not his, for the
South has not had a worse enemy than he since the first gun was fired at
Sumter. He is none the better, and all the more dangerous to us, because
he gives the South credit for skill and bravery."
Somers was pleased to hear this good account of Lieutenant Pillgrim; not
because he had any doubt in regard to his loyalty, but because it
confirmed the good impression he had received of his travelling
companion. If the conspirators would only have graciously condescended
to resolve the doubts in his mind in regard to some indefinite previous
acquaintance he had had with the second lieutenant of the Chatauqua, he
would have been greatly obliged to them. They did not do this, and
Somers was still annoyed and puzzled by the belief, patent to his
consciousness, that he had somewhere been intimate with the "renegade
Virginian," before they met at the house of Commodore Portington.
"Now, Langdon, you must contrive to meet Somers, sound him, and bring
him over. You must be cautious with him. He is a young man of good
