be performed before Daisy could settle in her new home, and 
accept her new life. Richard had proposed that she and Mabel 
should go up to Mrs. Wilcox's for a day only ; but her plead- 
ing eyes disarmed him. 
" I would rather go alone," she said, quietly. " I think 
Mrs. Wilcox will want me to stay. She has been so kind." 
"I mean you shall go up often," he returned. " But just 
now a visit might not be prudent." 
" Please let me go." Her lip quivered like that of an 
entreating child. 
" My dear Daisy, you shall do as you will. Only remem- 
ber, you belong to us now." 
She laid her cheek on his hand with a mute caress that 
was both fond and grateful. 
He took her up one morning, and at an appointed day 
came for her. How she spent the vigil, in that room where 
 
the baby died, he dimly guessed. What hours of anguish, 
what prayers for divine grace, went up to the great white 
throne, and what angels came and ministered to her, he also 
fancied, for she was never out of his mind a moment. 
He thought when she came down the garden path to meet 
him, that lovely August afternoon, he had never seen her 
look sweeter in her days of comparative content. She was 
pale and thin ; her lips had lost their bright coloring ; but the 
holy calm on her countenance fairly transfigured her. He 
remembered observing just such saintly expressions in the 
baby's face at times. She was glad to see him ; the faint 
flush in her cheek confessed it at his first words. 
Mrs. Wilcox assisted her in packing. Less than a year 
before, she had helped her find places for these books and 
pictures, and welcomed her with moth'erly fondness. Now 
she paused to say, amid a gush of tears, 
" Mrs. Bertrand ! I don't know what I shall do without 
you ! " 
Father Wilcox was equally pained at relinquishing her. 
She had spent hours leaning her fair head on his knee, weep- 
ing silent tears, and listening to the tremulous tones, dearer 
to her than ever, for she knew he might soon be with her 
lost darling. All summer he had been growing feebler, and 
was looking daily for the hour when he should " depart and 
be with Christ." 
" Dr. Bertrand said I might come and see you often," she 
exclaimed, with her farewell. " Shall it be every week ? " 
The old gentleman's eyes lighted with sudden jcy. She 
turned to Richard for approbation. 
" Yes," he answered, " I will bring you up every week." 
" Thank you." The tone was very sweet. 
The trunks were to be sent down the next day. That 
evening, after the joyful welcomes were over, there was an 
animated discussion as to which room should be Daisy's. 
The three girls had shared the large apartment adjoining 
their sitting-room, while the smaller one was claimed by 
 
Archie. Besides Richard's there was only one other 
" papa's room." 
" Not where papa died, or mamma either," said Lily ; " and 
it's delightful." 
" Suppose we make a sitting-room of that," was Richard's 
proposition, " and give Daisy the present one. You will all 
be nearer together then. And I heard Archie talking quite 
largely of a study ; he might take one of the upper rooms, 
and turn his into a sanctum." 
" Capital ! " exclaimed Archie, delightedly. " You plan 
admirably, Dick. The girls are nowhere in comparison. 
We will have a gay time to-morrow." 
So the next day there was quite a revolution in affairs. 
Archie insisted on hanging Daisy's pictures, and brought up 
a little etegere that he declared he had heard Richard pro- 
nounce a nuisance in the office. Tessy filled her vases with 
lovely flowers, and the fresh, fragrant room looked supremely 
inviting. But Daisy persuaded Mabel to share it with her 
during the remainder of her stay. 
The busy days that followed served to draw her from the 
solitude of intense sorrow. She was greatly interested in 
the happy, honorable love before her, so different from her 
own hasty wooing and ill-starred marriage. Philip had ac- 
cepted the position of assistant rector with Mr. Chaloner, 
and persuaded his friend to take immediate advantage of it, 
in joining a party of clerical brethren on a tour to the White 
