no more compunction than if he were speaking of a 
litter of kittens. 

"Well, I felt as if I was in a pretty tight place ; 
some like a man I've heard of somewhere, who was being 
chased by a buffalo across a large field. At last he 
came to a precipice a hundred feet high. Of course, it 
would be death for 'him to jump off, and it would be just 
as much death for him to stay where he was. So he just 
waited till the old buffalo was close to him, and then he 
dodged out of the way, and the buffalo, who was going 
at full speed, leaped over the precipice, and was dashed 
to pieces. Well, I thought whether I couldn't do some- 
thing of that kind. I knew that, if' I shouldn't fight, 
the pirates would be as good as their word, and kill me, 
and, if I did, I should be guilty of piracy, and be liable 
to be hung as a pirate, if ever I got caught." 

" That was a pretty hard choice," said Charlie. 

" So it seemed to me," said Bill. " The only thing I 
thought of that would do me any good, was to turn upon 
the pirates some way. If I could only have jumped 
into the water, unobserved, and swam to the other ship, 
I would have fought to the last, in their defence." 

" Why didn't you do it ? " 

"Well, my lad, there were two objections. In the 
first place, the pirates would have seen what I was at, 



 


and fired at me in the water. In the second place, the 
sailors on board the Sally Ann, thinking that I was a 
pirate, would have suspected I was up to some mischief, 
». and so, most likely, they would have blazed away at me, 
too. So, between the two fires, I shouldn't liave stood 
a'very good chance." 

" I don't know but you are right." 

" No, my lad, it didn't take me very long to decide 
that there was nothing to be gained in this way. At 
that moment, I chanced to go down below for some- 
thing, when my eye rested on — what do you think?" 

"What was it?" 

" It was a keg of powder " said Bill, shaking the ashes 
from his pipe. " Perhaps, my lad, you can guess what 
thought that put me up to." 

"Was it to blow them all up?" asked Charlie, in 
excitement. 

" You've hit it, my lad." 

" But that would be dangerous to you." 

" I knew that well enough," said the sailor. " There 
was precious little chance of old Bill Sturdy living to 
tell the story ; but, my lad, I'll tell you what made me 
overlook that. I must either J;um pirate and always 
remain so, with a pretty considerable chance of swing- 
ing from the gallows some time, or else be butchered by 
the pirates for refusing to join them. So, as there 
didn't seem to be much but death in prospect, that con- 
sideration didn't weigh much. Then I thought that, if 
I did die by the explosion, I should have the satisfaction 
of knowing that the rascally pirates would share my 
'fate, and the Red Rover, the scourge of the seas, would 
never do any more harm. Besides that, I should save 

 


