was the place of Abraham's tent. There, as at Shechem, 'he 
builded an altar unto the Lord, and called upon the name of 
the Lord.' But perhaps the failure of rains was beginning 
to dry up the pastures ; for he did not seem to stay long anywhere. He journeyed again, ' going on still towards the 
south.' When the rains fail in Palestine, the springs of the 
hills are many of them cut off; and the rivers are not large 
enough to water the lowlands. Everything depends on the 
regular seasons of rain ; which are also somewhat irregular ; 
and when they are withheld, a famine very soon comes ; and 
now as then, corn is sought from Egypt. So it was in 
Abraham's time ; there came a famine, and he went down to 
the great garden-field of the East." 
" Why was Egypt so, uncle Sam ? " said Priscilla. 
" Why, the Nile overflowed it," said Liph. 
" It did not overflow all Egypt," said Dan. 
" Liph is right, however," said my uncle ; " the Egypt of 
those Bible times meant just the region watered by the Nile. 
Towards the Mediterranean, that region is a wide level tract, 
of a great many square miles in extent ; farther south, in 
Upper Egypt, it is a long, winding, narrow valley. When 
the river rises, from the rains on the mountains in the south, 
it overflows its banks and spreads its waters, rich with the 
earthy deposit they carry, over all this low tract ; and they 
cannot flow back again when the river returns to its channel, 
because the banks are a little higher that the inland fields, 
which slope down gradually from them. They want no rain 
la Egyptf and get none, except towards the northern shore. 
The river makes all the land one rich spread of green fruitfulness. Just so far as the Nile waters can flow, or be coaxed 
on in canals and ditches, it is all a bright brilliant green, 
after the inundations ; and at the very border of this green, 
where the irrigation ceases, the dry yellow desert starts up. 
The black mud of the soil; the broad, brown, gentle immense river; the clear rich green of universal fruitfulness, 
— that is, or that was, Egypt. The tribes that dwelt in 
the desert, on either hand, were different people, although 
frequently subdued under the power of the rich valley 
kingdom." 
"It don't seem as if that could have been a very great 
kingdom," said Dan. 
" Yet you know it was. The mightiest, the most magnificent, the most wonderful in works of art and genius, of any 
kingdom of ancient times. It would take the ruins of three 
or four other great nations, poured into a heap, to equal the 
amount and the splendour of what Egypt has left us to look 
at. There was the Hamite power, and cultivation, and 
superb tastes, and skilful domination ; and in Egypt it lasted 
long. The situation of Egypt helped that Four thousand 
miles of unbroken desert on the west of her, and nearly 
as much on the east, she was remarkably secured against 
enemies." 
" Were the Pyramids built yet, uncle Sam, when Abraham 
went there?" 
" Yes ; so much of Egypt's glory was already in existence, 
as well as we can make out. Thirty of these grand 'old 
structures already stood along the valley of the Nile ; not 
looking dark and rough as they do now, but cased — some of 
them, at least — in brilliant white marble, and yellow lime- 
stone, and red granite, smooth and fine, polished and covered 
with sculptures. Egypt's glory had begun, under the genius 
of Ham's children ; but Karnack and Ipsamboul were not 
yet. It was early." 
"What are those, uncle Sam?" 
"Karnack and Ipsamboul? We shall hear about them 
by and by. Tiny ; just now we are only going into Egypt 
 
for a little while to get com ; and the story here is about 
Abraham's fault. 
"At this time Egypt was under the rule of some foreigners, who had lately conquered it ; the ' Shepherd-kings' they 
are called, because they are supposed to have belonged to 
some of the powerful pastoral nations who kept flocks and 
made war. At any rate, they were foreigners, and they ruled 
Egypt or part of Egypt for some hundreds of years. The 
first and most powerful of these Shepherd-kings had built 
and fortified a city here, near the mouth of the Nile, on one 
of its eastern branches, very near the border of the kingdom. 
Here he kept a standing army of some half a million of men, 
to overawe and keep in check his unfriendly subjects, I suppose ; and thither the king came at least once in the year, at 
spring time, to give pay and com to his troops ; and often, 
no doubt, he made it his residence for much longer. This 
city was the ancient Zoan. Abraham could go but very 
little way into the land before he would meet the signs of 
this prince's power and of the neighbourhood of his court 
