sleepy, his wife tired, and Gypsy was always 
ready for bed ; so that the house was usually 
still soon after nine. On this night Mrs. 
Breynton had a headache (it sometimes seemed 
to Gypsy that her mother had a great many 
headaches of late), and it was rather dull with- 
out Tom, so that they separated even earlier 
than usual. By half-past nine they were prob- 
ably all asleep. 
Gypsy had a remarkably unpleasant dream. 
She thought that she was standing on the edge 
of a huge circular chasm lined with winding 
stairs, which gave back a hollow, ugly echo to 
the foot. They seemed to be built of ancient 
wood, worm-eaten and moss-grown ; to have 
stood there for centuries, crumbling away and 
winding down into utter darkness. The horrible 
thing about them was that nobody knew 
what was at the bottom. Another horrible 
thing was that nobody who went down ever 
came up. While she stood peering over the 
edge and shivering, Tom pushed by her with a 
cry and sprang into the chasm, and began to 
leap down the hideous stairway. She stretched 
out her arms to him, calling him by name, but 
he did not or would not hear her. She leaped 
down after him, and, impelled by the fearful, 
dizzy motion, kept winding on and could not 
stop. She called him, but he did not answer. 
He was always just ahead of her, but never 
within her reach. He shot on and down, and 
the hollow echo of his leaping steps came back, 
and the daylight dimmed and his form grew faint 
and faded out of her sight, and darkness fell, and 
only the echoes were left, which weakened and 
grew thin, and were lost in utter silence. 
She started up with a cry of terror which 
woke her. A faint moonbeam was falling in 
upon the bed. She remembered that the moon 
rose late that night, and could not light her 
room till after ten. She was just getting up to 
see what time it was when she heard the kitchen 
clock strike the half-hour. She remembered 
Tom, and was wide awake at once. He had 
undoubtedly come in while she was asleep, — 
very likely his steps coming up the stairs had 
given her that ugly dream ; still she thought 
she should go to sleep a little more comfortably 
to feel sure. So she opened her door softly and 
looked out into the entry ; all was still. She 
stepped on tiptoe to Tom’s room ; the door was 
open ; the room was empty. 
Well, only a quarter of an hour after time. 
But it was a singularly late lyceum lecture. 
And he said he should certainly be at home. 
She went back to her own room and crept 
shivering into bed, but she could not sleep ; she 
rose and went to the window: both yard and 
street lay hushed and solitary in the moonlight ; 
no human being was in sight; not a sound was 
to be heard but the moaning of the wind. The 
lecture must be over long ago, for the lights 
were out in Mrs. Surly’s house, and her 
boarders always went to the lyceum. It must have 
been over an hour ago. Where could he be? 
Gypsy began to be frightened. Her cheeks 
grew hot and her hands grew cold ; she jumped 
up and began to walk across the room as fast as 
she could walk; she came back and sat down 
again, and looked again into the yard and up 
the moonlit street, and jumped up and paced 
the room again. Once a drunken singer in the 
street passed by the house ; her cheeks grew 
hotter and her hands grew colder. She had 
grown too restless for the narrow room, so she 
threw her dress and shawl about her, went softly 
out, and sat down on the stairs where she could 
watch the door. 
If Tom only had not gone with Francis! If 
she could have got up a candy-pull and kept 
