“Yes it was. Ask Ida. Why won’t you draw Aunt Rachel, Ida? I think she’d
make a capital picture.”
“So I will,” said Ida, hesitatingly, “if she will let me.”
“Now, Aunt Rachel, there’s a chance for you,” said Jack. “I advise you
to improve it. When it’s finished, it can be hung up at the Art Rooms,
and who knows but you may secure a husband by it?”
“I wouldn’t marry,” said his aunt, firmly compressing her lips, “not if
anybody’d go down on their knees to me.”
“Now I am sure, Aunt Rachel, that’s cruel in you.”
“There ain’t any man that I’d trust my happiness to.”
“She hasn’t any to trust,” observed Jack, sotto voce.
“They’re all deceivers,” pursued Rachel, “the best of ‘em. You can’t
believe what one of ‘em says. It would be a great deal better if people
never married at all.”
“Then where would the world be a hundred years hence?” suggested her
nephew.
“Come to an end, most likely,” said Aunt Rachel; “and I don’t know but
that would be the best thing. It’s growing more and more wicked every
day.”
It will be seen that no great change has come over Miss Rachel Crump
during the years that have intervened. She takes the same disheartening
view of human nature and the world’s prospects, as ever. Nevertheless,
her own hold upon the world seems as strong as ever. Her appetite
continues remarkably good, and although she frequently expresses herself
to the effect that there is little use in living, probably she would be
as unwilling to leave the world as any one. I am not sure that she does
not derive as much enjoyment from her melancholy as other people from
their cheerfulness. Unfortunately, her peculiar way of enjoying herself
is calculated to have rather a depressing influence upon the spirits of
those with whom she comes in contact--always excepting Jack, who has a
lively sense of the ludicrous, and never enjoys himself better than in
bantering his aunt.
Ida is no less a favorite with Jack than with the other members of the
household. Rough as he is sometimes, Jack is always gentle with Ida.
When she was just learning to walk, and in her helplessness needed the
constant care of others, he used, from choice, to relieve his mother of
much of the task of amusing the child. He had never had a little sister,
and the care of a child as young as Ida was a novelty to him. It was,
perhaps, this very office of guardian to the child, assumed when she was
so young, that made him feel ever after as if she was placed under his
special protection.
And Ida was equally attached to Jack. She learned to look up to him for
assistance in anything which she had at heart, and he never disappointed
her. Whenever he could, he would accompany her to school, holding her by
the hand; and fond as he was of rough play, nothing would induce him to
leave her.
“How long have you been a nurse-maid?” asked a boy, older than himself,
one day.
Jack’s fingers itched to get hold of his derisive questioner, but he had
a duty to perform, and contented himself with saying, “Just wait a few
minutes, and I’ll let you know.”
“I dare say,” was the reply. “I rather think I shall have to wait till
both of us are gray before that time.”
“You won’t have to wait long before you are black and blue,” retorted
Jack.
“Don’t mind what he says, Jack,” whispered Ida, fearful lest he should
leave her.
“Don’t be afraid, Ida; I won’t leave you; I guess he won’t trouble us
another day.”
Meanwhile the boy, emboldened by Jack’s passiveness, followed, with more
abuse of the same sort. If he had been wiser, he would have seen a storm
gathering in the flash of Jack’s eye; but he mistook the cause of his
forbearance.
The next day, as they were again going to school, Ida saw the same boy
dodging round the corner, with his head bound up.
“What’s the matter with him, Jack?” she asked.
“I licked him like blazes, that’s all,” said Jack, quietly.
“I guess he’ll let us alone after this.”
CHAPTER VIII. A STRANGE VISITOR.
IT was about eleven o’clock in the forenoon, Mrs. Crump was in the
kitchen, busy in preparations for dinner, when a loud knock was heard at
the door.
“Who can it be?” ejaculated Mrs. Crump. “Aunt Rachel, there’s somebody
at the door; won’t you be kind enough to see who it is?”
“People have no business to call at such an hour in the morning,”
 grumbled Aunt Rachel, as she laid down her knitting reluctantly, and
rose from her seat. “Nobody seems to have any consideration for anybody
else. But that’s the way of the world.”
Opening the outer door, she saw before her a tall woman, dressed in
a gown of some dark stuff, with marked, and not altogether pleasant
