expedition to prevent her companion from deserting her, rather than to
insure an equal division of the punishment for stealing.
"What shall we do now?" asked Kate, as she landed from the boat, which
Fanny held with the boat-hook.
"We will go up to the railroad station, and take the train for New York
city."
"But what are you going to do with the boat?"
"I don't care anything about the boat. I have had all I want of her.
But I think I will let the sails down, and fasten her to the bank. If
they should find her, she might betray us."
Fanny lowered the sails, and fastened the painter to a stake on the
bank. The two girls then started for the village, which was about a
quarter of a mile below the place where they had landed. When they had
gone a short distance, they saw a man mending a boat on the bank of the
river. Kate took particular notice of him, for she was already planning
the means of her deliverance from the arbitrary sway of her companion.
The two girls were very well dressed, and it was not an uncommon thing
for young ladies to manage their own boats on the Hudson; so, if they
had been seen to land from the Greyhound, no notice was taken of the
circumstance. They were not likely to be molested, except by their own
guilty consciences. They walked directly to the railroad station, and
ascertained that the train would leave in half an hour. Fanny, anxious
to conciliate her associate, and accustom her to her new situation,
invited her to a saloon, where they partook of ice-creams; but partial
as Kate was to this luxury, it did not taste good, and seemed to be
entirely different from any ice-cream she had ever eaten before.
When it was nearly time for the train to arrive, Fanny bought two
tickets, and they joined the crowd that was waiting for the cars. Kate
seemed to be so fully reconciled to the enterprise, that her friend did
not doubt her any longer; she had no suspicion of her intended
defection.
"I am almost choked," said Kate, when the whistle of the locomotive was
heard in the distance. "I must have a drink of water."
"You have no time."
"I won't be gone but a second," replied Kate.
"I will wait here--but be quick."
Kate went into the station-house, and passing out at the door on the
other side, ran off towards the river as fast as her legs would carry
her. She reached the outskirts of the village before she slackened her
pace, and then, exhausted and out of breath with running, she paused to
ascertain if Fanny was in pursuit of her. No one was to be seen in the
direction from which she had come, and taking courage from her success,
she walked leisurely towards the place where the Greyhound had been
left.
The man she had passed on her way down was still at work on his boat,
and Kate, telling him such a story as suited her purpose, engaged him
to sail the Greyhound up to Woodville. They embarked without any
interruption from Fanny, and in a couple of hours she was landed at the
pier from which she had started. Kate paid her boatman three dollars
from the money which Fanny had given her, and then walked up to the
mansion.
She told Mrs. Green the whole truth, and gave her the eighteen dollars
remaining in her possession. She then went home to make peace with her
mother, to whom also she told the whole story, blaming Fanny for
everything except her own truancy, and pleading that she had been led
away in this respect.
Mr. Long was still engaged in the search for Fanny, though the loss of
the money in the closet had not been discovered till Kate appeared.
CHAPTER VII.
THE SOLDIER'S FAMILY.
Fanny stood on the platform in front of the station-house, waiting for
the return of Kate. She had no suspicion that her friend had deserted
her, and was at that moment running away as fast as she could. The
train was approaching, and with the nervousness of one not accustomed
to travelling, she feared they might be left. The cars stopped, and
Kate did not return. Fanny rushed into the station-house in search of
her. She was not there! she was not in the building; she was not to be
seen from the open door.
Then Fanny realized that her companion's courage had failed, and that
she had deserted her. The bell on the locomotive was ringing, and the
train was in the act of starting. Fanny was quick and decisive in her
movements, and she bounded out of the building, and stepped upon the
train after it was in motion. She was angry and indignant at the
defection of Kate, and, taking a seat in the car, she nursed her bitter
feelings until her wrath had expended itself.
Kate's desertion affected the plans of the runaway, for in a few hours,
at most, what she had done, and what she intended to do, would be known
at Woodville. Mr. Long would take one of the afternoon trains for the
city, and the whole police force of the great metropolis would be on
the lookout for her before dark. Constables and policemen were now more
