audience. The star was but poorly supported by the stock company, who
had been compelled to get up their parts at short notice. It was,
perhaps, the consciousness of this poor support that made the leading
actor’s personation less striking and effective than usual. The audience
remained cold, and seldom indulged in applause. It seemed desirable,
therefore, that the remaining parts of the performance should go off
well.
Helen had watched the progress of the play from one of the wings. Her
unpractised eyes could not detect deficiencies, and she became so
absorbed as to forget for the time being that she herself was soon to
take part. As the curtain fell, the manager walked hastily forward to
the place where she stood.
“Miss Ford,” he said, “you will be called immediately. We shall expect
you to do your best. Above all, don’t allow yourself to be frightened.
Think as little as possible of the audience, and you will do well
enough.”
Until this moment Helen had not thought of the possibility of failure.
Now the conviction dawned upon her in all its force, that she was about
to sing before two thousand people—she who had always lived in such
perfect quiet and tranquillity. Her heart began to flutter like an
imprisoned bird, and her color went and came. For a moment she felt that
she would gladly be back in her humble room by her father’s side. At
this trying moment she felt a gentle touch upon her arm. Turning
quickly, her eyes rested on the kind face of Mrs. Girdle.
“Oh, Mrs. Girdle,” she whispered, in a tremulous tone. “I am so
frightened. I don’t dare to go on.”
“Keep up your courage, Helen,” said her friend, gently pressing her
hand. “I can understand your feelings, for I have passed through a
similar ordeal. It is a trial, but one through which you will pass
triumphantly. You have only to fancy that you are singing in your own
room at home. Make a resolute effort, and you will succeed.”
“I will try,” said Helen, more composed.
“Miss Ford!”
It was the call-boy’s voice, and she hurried to the place from which she
was to make her entrance upon the stage. Another moment and she stood
before the audience. There was something so sweet and simple in her
loveliness, that a general murmur of approbation was heard, and then
there was a round of applause. This came near unnerving Helen. She
caught a glimpse of the sea of faces that were turned towards her, and
her head began to whirl. But Mrs. Girdle’s reassuring words came back to
her. Above all, the thought of her father, in whose behalf she had taken
this step, inspired her with a determination to succeed. The blush of
momentary embarrassment which suffused her face did her no harm. It
enlisted the warm sympathy of the audience, who again exhibited their
good-will by a fresh outbreak of applause.
There was one present, however, who gazed at Helen as if petrified with
astonishment.
“Look!” ejaculated M’lle Fanchette, convulsively clutching the arm of
her companion. “If there isn’t Helen Ford on the stage. I can scarcely
believe my eyes.”
“I believe you are right,” returned the young gentleman addressed. “I
had no idea she was connected with the theatre.”
“It can’t be possible she’s going to sing!” ejaculated M’lle Fanchette.
“Well, if ever——”
Just then the music struck up.
In a voice slightly tremulous, but gaining in strength as she proceeded,
Helen commenced. There was no fear of failure now. She had forgotten the
audience. She sang with all the freedom and joyousness of a bird, as if
her whole heart was in the song. There was an indefinable charm about
her manner, so thoroughly natural in its simplicity. She was evidently
winning golden opinions.
As the last note died away, a storm of applause greeted her from all
parts of the house. This recalled Helen to herself. No longer occupied
by the song, she gazed around her half bewildered, with the air of a
startled fawn. At this moment a magnificent bouquet, thrown from one of
the boxes, alighted at her feet. Too little accustomed to the stage to
understand that it was meant for her, she was about to withdraw without
taking it, when a hoarse whisper was heard from one of the wings, “Pick
it up.”
Mechanically she obeyed the direction, and bowing hastily, her cheeks
burning with confusion, she retreated from the stage.
The manager met her.
“You have done very well, Miss Ford,” he said, encouragingly. “They are
calling you back. You must go on the stage once more. And mind you don’t
undo the favorable impression you have already produced.”
Go back again! Helen’s heart fluttered nervously, but there was no
appeal. She drew a long breath, and went back.
Her re-appearance was greeted with enthusiasm. Then followed a profound
silence—a hush of expectation. The clear voice of Helen once more broke
the stillness, as she re-commenced her song. Helen’s eyes were directed
