He was dissatisfied with his rank, and this had a tendency to make him a
grumbler. It needed only an appearance of tyranny or injustice to array
him in spirit against the authorities of the ship. Shuffles knew his
state of mind, and was prepared to take advantage of it, hoping through
him to gain other discontented spirits in the cabin.
When the first part of the port watch was relieved, the "Chain"
consisted of five links, and the conspirators were well satisfied with
the present success of the enterprise. Each of the new members of the
League was commissioned to obtain a recruit, whose name was given to
him, and he was required to report upon the case, to Shuffles, before
eight bells in the afternoon watch. As a measure of precaution, it was
required that no meetings should be held; that not more than three
members should assemble for business at any one time. The utmost care
and circumspection were urged, and it was agreed that not a word should
be said in the steerage, where it was possible for any of the professors
to overhear it.
The second part of the port watch, with Pelham as officer of the deck,
went on duty at ten o'clock. The wind had been freshening for the last
two hours, and it was now necessary to reduce sail. The royals were
first taken in, and then the top-gallant sails.
"We can't lay this course, sir," said Burchmore, the quartermaster, who
was conning the helm. "The wind is hauling to the eastward."
"Make the course east by north then," replied Pelham, without taking the
trouble to consult the captain or Mr. Fluxion, both of whom were on
deck.
"The wind is north-north-east, sir," reported the quartermaster, a short
time afterwards.
"Keep her east then."
At six bells the wind was north-east, and coming heavier and heavier
every moment. The ship was headed east-south-east, and it was evident
that she still had on more sail than she could easily carry.
"What's the course, Mr. Pelham?" asked Captain Gordon.
"East-south-east, sir," replied Pelham.
"The course given out was east-north-east."
"I have changed it three times within the last hour," answered the
fourth lieutenant, in rather surly tones.
"By whose order?" demanded the captain.
"By no one's order, sir."
"You know the regulation for the officer of the deck. He is not
permitted to alter the course of the ship, unless to avoid some sudden
danger, without informing the captain."
"I had to alter the course, or have the topsails thrown aback," replied
Pelham.
"Very likely it was proper to alter the course; but it was also proper
to inform me, especially when I was on deck."
"Very well, Captain Gordon. I will not alter the course again without
your order," added the fourth lieutenant, stiffly.
"The regulation is not mine, Mr. Pelham," continued the captain,
sternly.
As the wind increased, sail was reduced to topsails and courses, jib and
spanker; but at seven bells even these were found to be too much for
her.
"Captain Gordon, it is coming heavier," said Mr. Fluxion. "I think it
will be necessary to reef."
"I was thinking of that, sir. The wind is north-east, and blowing a
gale."
"You had better call all hands, and do it at once."
"Mr. Pelham, you will call all hands to reef topsails!"
"All hands, sir?"
"Certainly, Mr. Pelham; that was my order," replied the captain, more
sharply than usual, for there was something in the manner of the officer
of the deck which he did not like, and he found it necessary to maintain
the dignity of his position.
Pelham touched his cap; he felt the weight of authority upon him heavier
than ever before. Until recently he had always performed his duty
cheerfully, and was considered a first-rate officer. Since the new
regulation had been put in force, and he had been compelled to deliver
up ten sovereigns in his possession he had been rather disagreeable. In
the cabin he had used some language reflecting upon the principal, and
he was now regarded as a malcontent by the captain, and by those who
still sustained the discipline of the ship.
"Morrison," called he, as he went forward to the waist.
"Here, sir," replied the boatswain, who belonged in this quarter watch;
and there was a boatswain's mate in each of the others.
"Call all hands to reef topsails."
The shrill pipe of the boatswain's whistle soon rang above the howling
winds, which now sounded gloomily through the rigging. The call was
repeated in the steerage, and at the door of the after cabin, where it
could be heard by the officers, for no one on board is exempted when all
hands are called. This was the first taste of the hardships of a
