Courtis," said Maude Clare, with a virtuous 
look of reproof. " If I did such things, I 
wouldn't boast of them." 
"Miss Smith didn't carry her Euclid to 
church, and study behind her muff, all sermon 
time, I suppose? Oh, no!" said Jacqueline, 
with her inevitable effort to be sarcastic. 
"Well," said Maude Clare, sharply, but with 
brightened colour, "that is a different thing. 
Besides, it was a very unusual case ; I hadn't 
learned a solitary proposition, and if I go into 
recitation in that trim, Brother Ayre annihilates 
me." 
" I think it was just the same thing," pro 
nounced Gypsy, boldly, "we were all wrong; 
T was wrong, and Jo was wrong, and it was 
wrong in you, Maude, and there! I won't 
preach a sermon, but I believe it is our busi 
ness to keep the Sabbath holy." 
To say just that, before a crowded roomful, 
before Maude Clare 's vexed eyes, required - 
did it not, girls? some courage. 
HE Character of Caesar." 
(Goodness !) 
" Enthusiasm." (Picture me 
writing on Enthusiasm !) 
" Eyes." 
" Destruction of Pompeii." 
" Advantages of Mathematics and other dis 
ciplinary studies." (Oh, Horrors! } 
" Sorrowing Nature." 
" Marius in the Ruins of Carthage." ( Ma- 
rius? Marius? Wasn't he a Carthaginian 
General?) 
" Sylvan Scenes." 
" Longfellow 's Psalm of Life." 
" Autobiography of a (what ? C-o-s-Cos- 
mop Cos-mopo Oh, yes) Cosmopolite." 
" Lost Opportunities." 
" History of Judith." 
Gypsy laid down the paper, and she and 
Maude Clare looked at each other blankly. 
" Charming, aren't they ? " 
" Enchanting ! " 
" If the amiable Ayre had searched the 
dictionaries (I verily believe she has) for 
the most outrageous and impossible set of 
subjects, she couldn't have succeeded better. 
I think it is a shame we have to write com 
positions, anyway. My sister went to school 
in New York, and she didn't write but one in 
two years." 
As Maude Clare had never yet seen the sub 
ject that was not " outrageous and impossible," 
and had never been known to write a composi 
tion without pronouncing the task a shame, 
Gypsy was not as much interested as she might 
have been, but looked over the paper thought 
fully to choose her topic. 
Maude Clare thought that she would take the 
" Character of Caesar." 
"If you only knew anything about him, you 
know ! " remarked Gypsy, candidly. 
" Perhaps I know more than you give me 
credit for, my dear. At any rate, I mean to 
write on Caesar." 
Jane came in, after Maude had gone, and 
found Gypsy perched on the arm of the 
rocking-chair, still groaning over the list of 
subjects. 
" If I could be absolute monarch of America 
awhile, Jane Bruce, I would decree that people 
should all stay little girls till composition days 
were over ; then you could write Histories of a 
Pennv and Memorials of a Jointed Doll, to the 
end of the chapter. Put on waterfalls and long 
dresses, and they dump you into Enthusi 
asm and such, and not a thing more do you 
know about them than you did in the jointed 
doll days. I think it is an imposition. Let 
