the bottom of the back window, I scrambled to the top of the carriage,
where I was obliged to spread out like a frog, and was in imminent
danger of sliding off. Of course this feat of gymnastics could not be
effected without considerable noise. It was evident to the driver that
something decided had taken place, or was about to take place, and he
began to rein in his horses.
Just as I reached my perch on the top of the hack, all sprawling, the
vehicle was approaching one of those small public houses at the corner
of a cross street, which abound in the upper part of New York and
Harlem. In front of it burned a street lamp. Tom Thornton--and I could
distinctly make him out now, though I did not see his face--had bent his
head down to look in at the front window. He doubtless expected to find
the cause of the noise and the jar within the hack; at least, thinking I
was there, it was natural for him to look inside for it. I suppose he
thought I was breaking out through the top of the vehicle.
With the wrench in my hand, I sprang forward; but my blood was almost
frozen at the necessity of striking him a blow on the head which might
kill him, and the thought that I might take his life partially paralyzed
my arm. I struck, but it was a feeble stroke compared with what it
should have been to effect my purpose. His hat appeared to break the
force of the blow, and he sprang to his feet. Then I saw that he had a
heavy cane in his hand, and I was sorry I had not struck harder.
"Drive on! Don't stop here!" said he to the driver, fearful, perhaps,
that I might obtain assistance from the hotel.
With his cane in one hand, he reached forward with the other to grasp me
by the collar; or this was what I supposed he intended to do. He did not
see that I had a weapon, and getting up on my knees, I hit him again,
this time with better effect, for he fell over backward upon the horses.
The driver hauled in his team again, and seemed to be appalled at the
fate of his companion.
The instant he stopped I slid off the top of the hack to one of the hind
wheels, and thence to the ground. I opened the door of the carriage, and
told Kate to get out with all possible haste. I assisted her to the
ground, and taking her by the hand, actually dragged her after me. The
gloom of the night covered us, and we fled as fast as my companion's
trembling limbs would permit. I turned into a cross street, on which
there were no buildings, and followed it till we came to another avenue.
I expected to be pursued; whether we were or not, I do not know, for we
were not molested, and I neither saw nor heard anything which indicated
a search. Whether the hackman, knowing that he was engaged in doubtful
business, did not call for assistance, or whether the pursuit was
delayed till it was too late to catch us, I have no information. We
walked down the avenue as rapidly as possible, till I was satisfied we
should not be overtaken.
"O, Ernest Thornton," gasped Kate, out of breath with fatigue and
terror, after we had walked a couple of miles, "I shall sink to the
ground soon!"
"I am sorry for you, Kate; but what can I do?" I replied.
"I am tired out; and I am so frightened, I can hardly walk."
"Don't be alarmed; we are safe now," I added, drawing her arm through
mine. "Now lean on me."
"But you must be tired, Ernest Thornton."
"No, not a particle; let me help you as much as I can."
"This is much easier than it was before," said she; and she clung to me
like a frightened child--as indeed she was.
"Don't be afraid to lean your whole weight upon me," I added. "I would
carry you if I could."
I think it was her fears more than her exertions that exhausted her;
and, by the time we had walked another mile, as I estimated the
distance, she declared that she felt better, and more able to walk than
at first. As we continued on our way, I saw a horse car on another
avenue,--street railroads at that time were not so abundant as now,--and
we followed a cross street till we came to the track.
"I feel ever so much better now!" exclaimed Kate, as the circumstances
became more hopeful.
"There is nothing more to fear," I replied. "I wish I knew how Tom
Thornton was."
"Why, what is the matter with him?" asked Kate, with astonishment; and I
perceived that she had no definite idea of what had happened before the
public house. The poor girl was so terrified that she had hardly known
anything from the time our suspicions were first excited till we had
walked two or three miles from the scene of the affray.
"Did you think, Kate, that he permitted us to leave the carriage?" I
asked.
"I didn't think anything about it; I was so frightened I couldn't
think."
"I hope he is not badly hurt," I added, musing.
"Badly hurt! Why, what do you mean, Ernest Thornton?" she asked, her
terror renewed by my words.
"Don't be alarmed, Kate; he deserved all he got, and more too, if the
