Modern Rome appeared, first and last, hideous. 
It is the least interesting town in Italy, and the archi- 
tecture is hopelessly ugly especially the architect- 
ure of the churches. The Papal city contrives at 
the beginning to hide the Imperial city from your 
thought, as it hides it in such a great degree from 
your eye, and old Rome only occurs to you in a sort 
of stupid wonder over the depth at which it is buried. 
I confess that I was glad to get altogether away 
from it after a first look at the ruins in the Forum, 
and to take refuge in the Conservatorio delle Mendi- 
canti, where we were charged to see the little Vir- 
ginia G. The Conservatorio, though a charitable in- 
stitution, is not so entirely meant for mendicants as its 
name would imply, but none of the many young girls 
there were the children of rich men. They were 
often enough of parentage actually hungry and rag- 
ged, but they were often also the daughters of honest 
poor folk, who paid a certain sum toward their 
maintenance and education in the Conservatorio. 
Such was the case with little Virginia, whose father 
was at Florence, doubly impeded from seeing her by 
the fact that he had fought against the Pope for the 
Republic of 1848, and by the other fact that he had 
since wrought the Pope a yet deadlier injury by turn- 
ing Protestant. 
 
Ringing a garrulous bell that continued to jingle 
some time after we were admitted, we found our- 
selves in a sort of reception-room, of the general 
quality of a cellar, and in the presence of a portress 
who was perceptibly preserved from mold only by 
the great pot of coals that stood in the centre of 
the place. Some young girls, rather pretty than 
not, attended the ancient woman, and kindly acted 
as the ear-trumpet through which our wishes were 
conveyed to her mind. The Conservatorio was not, 
so far, as conventual as we had imagined it ; but as 
the gentleman of the party was strongly guarded 
by female friends, and asked at once to see the Su- 
perior, he concluded that there was, perhaps, some- 
thing so unusually reassuring to the recluses in his 
appearance and manner that they had not thought it 
necessary to behave very rigidly. It later occurred to 
this gentleman that the promptness with which the 
pretty mendicants procured him an interview with the 
Superior had a flavor of self-interest in it, and that 
he who came to the Conservatorio in the place of a fa- 
ther might have been for a moment ignorantly viewed 
as a yet dearer and tenderer possibility. From what- 
ever danger there was in this error the Superior soon 
appeared to rescue him, and we were invited into a 
more ceremonious apartment on the first floor, and 
the little Virginia was sent for. The visit of the 
strangers caused a tumult and interest in the quiet 
old Conservatorio of which it is hard to conceive 
now, and the excitement grew tremendous when it 
appeared that the signori were Ainericani and Prot- 
 
estanti. We imparted a savor of novelty and im- 
portance to Virginia herself, and when she appeared, 
the Superior and her assistant looked at her with no 
small curiosity and awe, of which the little maiden 
instantly became conscious, and began to take ad- 
vantage. Accompanying us over the building and 
through the grounds, she cut her small friends 
wherever she met them, and was not more than 
respectful to the assistant. 
It was from an instinct of hospitality that we were 
shown the Conservatorio, and instructed in regard to 
all its purposes. We saw the neat dormitories with 
their battalions of little white beds ; the kitchen with 
its gigantic coppers for boiling broth, and the refec- 
tory with the smell of the frugal dinners of genera- 
tions of mendicants in it. The assistant was very 
proud of the neatness of every thing, and was glad 
to talk of that, or, indeed, any thing else. It ap- 
peared that the girls were taught reading, writing, 
and plain sewing when they were young, and that 
the Conservatorio was chiefly sustained by pious 
