music is almost incessant. The machinery by which they are operated
consists of an immense metallic cylinder, or drum, covered all over with
cogs and pins, like that in a music-box. As this drum turns by the
action of a huge weight, the pins strike against the levers that
communicate with the bells. For half an hour on Sunday they are played
by hand, as at Antwerp.
The praise bestowed upon the chimes seemed to the students to be well
merited. There is nothing more touching and beautiful than the music of
these bells. The boys could not help taking in the inspiration they
imparted; and when it transpired that Mr. Modelle, the professor of
elocution, had a copy of Longfellow in his pocket, they almost
unanimously insisted that the poems relating to the scene should be
read. They gathered around him, the circle closely flanked by the men,
women, and children of the dull old town, who had apparently been roused
from their lethargy by the advent of the young Americans. In his deep
bass tones he read the Carillon first.
   "In the ancient town of Bruges,
   In the quaint old Flemish city,
   As the evening shades descended,
   Low and loud, and sweetly blended,
   Low at times and loud at times,
   And changing like a poet's rhymes,
   Rang the beautiful wild chimes
   From the belfry in the market
   Of the ancient town of Bruges."
The students listened with almost breathless interest till the last line
of the "Belfry" was read; there was something so grand and beautiful in
the poem itself, as the images of the past are brought up,--
   "I beheld the pageants, splendid,
   That adorned those days of old:
   Stately dames like queens attended,
   Knights who bore the Fleece of Gold,"--
and something in the association of the living lines with the real
belfry of Bruges before them, that the impression was one to be
remembered for years.
After a hasty walk through a couple of the ancient streets of the city,
the students returned to the railroad station, and the train started for
Brussels, a ride of about two hours from Bruges. It was half past nine
when they arrived at the capital of Belgium. The party were greeted by
Mr. Fluxion, who had been sent direct from Antwerp to make arrangements
for their stay over night. Captain Kendall, his officers and crew, were
sent to the Hôtel Royal in the Rue Fossé aux Loups. It was a small
hotel, but very nice and comfortable. Mr. Molenschot, the proprietor,
spoke English, but he appeared to be the only person in the house who
could do so. He was very polite and attentive to the students, and spoke
familiarly and pleasantly to them about "my hotel."
Mr. Fluxion himself had a faculty for keeping a hotel, and understood
precisely what tired travellers wanted when they came in late in the
evening; and he had ordered, in addition to the thé complet, the
bif-stek and pomme de terre. The boys were as hungry as wolves, and
the solid part of the entertainment was very inviting. Each dish of
beefsteak was covered over with nicely browned fried potatoes. In a few
moments there was hardly a vestige of the feast remaining on the table.
The Young America's ship's company were quartered at the Hôtel de
l'Univers, and the Hôtel de Suède, so that the party was separated; and
Paul was rather glad of it, because there were some belonging to the
ship who were not influenced by the motives which prevailed in the
Josephine. He could control his crew, even without the aid of Mr.
Fluxion, who, with several of the professors also lodged at the Royal.
They were a jolly party at the supper table; and as none of the waiters
spoke a word of English, there was a great deal of fun made in giving
their orders; but everybody was remarkably good-natured, including the
waiters themselves.
"Waiter," called Lynch, who, as a general rule, was not guilty of
knowing much about any of his studies, "bring me the bur."
The servant took no notice of him.
"Call him a garçon" said Grossbeck.
"Garçon!" shouted Lynch.
"Monsieur," replied the man.
"Bring me the bur."
"You might as well call for a Canada thistle," laughed Duncan, who was
one of the best French scholars in the Josephine.
"I want some butter; I have eaten up all the bif-stek, and all the
pomme de terres, and now I want some bread and butter. These fellows
don't understand their own language."
"M'apportez du beurre," added Duncan.
"Oui, oui, oui!" exclaimed the waiter, producing the required article.
"That's the idea," replied Lynch; "that man's improving. But this
beurre is so fresh I can't eat it; I want some salt."
"Call for it, then," laughed Duncan.
