made others believe? 
The mental atmosphere pervading the house of Mr. 
Otis served to restore me. Anne's cheerful self-reliance 
roused me from the despondent mood into which I was 
falling. But my life was not to be quite as I had planned 
it. Mrs. Ingalls, offended it seemed at my delay, had ac- 
cepted another person to fill the place. And from Philip 
I received a most kindly letter, enclosing an offer of a sit- 
uation in a school to teach music, drawing, and painting. 
He urged me to accept it if I was still resolved upon the 
course I had marked out. 
Mr. Otis had interested himself warmly in my lost for- 
tune. Mr. St. John thanked him in a most cordial letter 
when he came to hear of the fact. A year might elapse 
before it was finally settled, and perhaps a few thousand 
dollars could be saved. As the time of my departure was 
drawing nigh, I informed Mr. St. John of the change in 
my arrangements, not omitting Philip's kindly interest. 
It was hardly worth while to return to Laurelwood, I 
added, if Mrs. Lawrence would allow Thirza to pack the 
remainder of my wardrobe, and send it to Baltimore. 
Anne insisted that henceforward I should consider her 
house as my home. 
"You will remember that I am your sister now, and 
that it will not do for you to neglect me. I shall claim all 
your vacations," Anne said, with some tender tears in her 
eyes. 
I thanked Heaven for this dear friend as I started out to 
try the world anew. 
Elm Grove Seminary was situated in the western part 
of the State of New York. I could not help thinking of 
the tender care that had made so many journeys delight- 
ful to me; and by contrast this seemed tiresome and per- 
 
plexing. Yet I had some curiosity to see my new home, 
and I thought a round of active duties would still this 
restless gnawing at my heart crowd out the ghost of 
dreams dead forever. 
The seminary was delightfully located, half a mile from 
the village, a lovely, sleepy place, that looked as if it might 
be taking a Rip Van Winkle nap. The white cottnges 
were embowered with vines and trees, and the churches 
ivy grown. I was glad to find it different from anything 
I had ever seen. 
The interior was no novelty. I had been used to board- 
ing-schools, and the long halls, recitation-rooms, and rows 
of sleeping apartments greeted me with a most natural 
look. I was ushered into the reception-room, where Mrs. 
Ellingwood awaited me. 
She was a tall, fine-looking woman, with great suavity 
of manner, but a cold gray eye, and a rigid mouth that 
bespoke strong determination. One would not be drawn 
to her in any friendly relation. She enlarged upon the 
order, strictness, and precision with which everything was 
carried on, her high principles and views of duty towards 
the young ladies intrusted to her care ; in short, she made 
me understand that she was the head of the establishment, 
and that all were to respect her authority. 
In return, I felt she was very well satisfied. I had come 
highly recommended, and, as she had a peculiar love for 
the best society, the fact of my having been a member of 
it, and met with a reverse of fortune, was a passport to 
her favor. I followed Laura Ilastings's worldly-wise max- 
ims, and made the most of myself and my accomplish- 
ments. 
Friday was the first of September ; but school did not 
open until the following Monday. I had time to look 
about me, and decided that it would be a very tolerable 
place. My room was pleasswit, overlooking the south and 
the village ; but what a contrast to the spacious one I had 
left! no soft carpet and curtains, no airy marble Graces, 
and the sweetness of countless flowers. It was not to be 
shared with anyone, however, and I was thankful for that. 
So I hung up my dresses, arranged a few articles of virtu, 
turned my chairs, to take off the stiff, orderly look, and 
filled a shelf with some choice volumes. 
There were quite a number of scholars, and during the 
next day they increased rapidly. I met most of my fellow- 
teachers, but there was not one that won me in the slight- 
est degree. By Sunday evening I was as miserably lone- 
