"It is thirty!" said Ransom.
I had thrown a ball now which they could keep up without me.
To my joy, the whole three became so much engaged in the game,
that I was forgotten. I could afford to forget too; and
quitting the fair lake and the glorious mountain that looked
down upon it, ceasing to hear the eager debate which went on
at my side, my thoughts flew over the water to a uniform and a
sword that were somewhere in that struggle of rights and
wrongs. My heart sank. So far off, and I could not reach him;
so busy against the feelings and prejudices of my friends, and
I could not reconcile them; in danger, and I could not be
near; in trouble, perhaps, and I could not help. It would not
do to think about. I brought my thoughts back, and wondered at
old Mont Pilatte which looked so steadily down on me with the
calm of the ages.
CHAPTER X.
WAITING
For weeks after this sail on the lake my life was like a fête
day. Expeditions of all sorts were planned and carried out for
my pleasure. One day we were exploring the lake shores in a
boat; the next, we went back into the country, as far as we
could go and return before evening; a third day we climbed the
mountains somewhere and got glorious new views of what the
world is. Nothing could hinder, in those days, but that my
draught of pleasure was very full. Whatever weight might lie
at my heart, when I found myself high, high up above the
ordinary region of life, resting on a mountain summit from
which I looked down upon all that surrounded me other days; a
little of that same lifting up befel the thoughts of my heart
and the views that have to do with the spirit's life. I stood
above the region of mists for a little. I saw how the
inequalities of the lower level, which perplex us there, sink
into nothing when looked upon from a higher standpoint. I saw
that rough roads led to quiet valleys; and that the blessed
sunlight was always lying on the earth, though down in one of
those depths one might lose sight of it for a time. I do not
know how it is, but getting up into a high mountain has a
little the effect of getting out of the world. One has left
perplexities and uncertainties behind; the calm and the
strength of the everlasting hills is about one; the air is not
defiled with contentions or rivalries or jealousies up there;
and the glory of creation reminds one of other glory, and
power, and wisdom and might; and one breathes hope and rest.
So I used to do. Of all our excursions, I liked best to go up
the mountains. No matter how high, or by how difficult a road.
Mamma and papa were only now and then of the party. That I was
very sorry for, but it could not be helped. Mamma had seen it
all, she said; and when I urged that she had not been to this
particular "horn," she said that one "horn" was just like
another, and that when you had seen one or two you had seen
them all. But I never found it so. Every new time was a new
revelation of glory to me. If I could have had papa with me,
my satisfaction would have been perfect; but papa shunned
fatigue, and never went where he could not go easily. I was
obliged to be content with my brother and my brother's
friends; and after I had made up my mind to that, the whole
way was a rejoicing to me, from the time I left the house till
we returned, a weary and hungry party, to claim mamma's
welcome again. Our party was always the same four. Mr. de
Saussure and Hugh Marshall were, I found, very intimately at
home with my father and mother, and naturally they were soon
on the same footing with me. As far as care went, I had three
brothers to look after me, of whom indeed Ransom was not the
most careful; and as to social qualifications, they were
extremely well-bred, well-educated, and had a great deal of
general and particular cultivation. In the evenings we had
music and conversation; which last was always very pleasant
except when it turned upon American affairs. Then I had great
twinges of heart, which I thought it wise to keep to myself as
closely as possible.
I remember well the twinge I had, when one evening early in
September De Saussure came in, the utmost glee expressed in
his eyes and manner, and announced his news thus; -
"They have had a battle at Springfield, and Lyon is killed."
"Who is Lyon?" I could not help asking, though it was
incautious.
"You should not ask," he said more gently as he sat down by
me; "you have no relish for these things. Even the cause of
liberty cannot sweeten them to you."
"Who is Lyon, De Saussure?" my father repeated.
