was taking a high place in all my classes. I had gone past St.
Clair in two or three things. Miss Lansing was too far behind
in her studies to feel any jealousy on that account; but
besides that, I was an unmistakeable favourite with all the
teachers. They liked to have me do anything for them or with
them; if any privilege was to be given, I was sure to be one
of the first names called to share it; if I was spoken to for
anything, the manner and tone were in contrast with those used
towards almost all my fellows. It may have been partly for
these reasons that there was a little positive element in the
slights which I felt. The effect of the whole was to make a
long struggle in my mind. "The world knoweth us not"  gave
the character and condition of that party to which I belonged.
I was feeling now what those words mean,  and it was not
pleasant.

This struggle had been going on for several weeks, and growing
more and more wearying, when Mrs. Sandford came one day to see
me. She said I did not look very well, and obtained leave for
me to take a walk with her. I was glad of the change. It was a
pleasant, bright afternoon; we strolled up the long avenue,
then gay and crowded with passers to and fro in every variety
and in the height of the mode; for our avenue was a favourite
and very fashionable promenade. The gay world nodded and bowed
to each other; the sun streamed on satins and laces, flowers
and embroidery; elegant toilettes passed and repassed each
other, with smiling recognition; the street was a show. I
walked by Mrs. Sandford's side in my chinchilla cap, for I had
not got a straw hat yet, though it was time; thinking,  "The
world knoweth us not"  and carrying on the struggle in my
heart all the while. By and by we turned to come down the
avenue.

"I want to stop a moment here on some business," said Mrs.
Sandford, as we came to Miss Cardigan's corner; "would you
like to go in with me, Daisy?"

I was pleased, and moreover glad that it was the hour for my
companions to be out walking. I did not wish to be seen going
in at that house and to have all the questions poured on me
that would be sure to come. Moreover I was curious to see how
far Miss St. Clair's judgment would be verified. The marble
hall was undoubted; it was large and square, with a handsome
staircase going up from it; but the parlour, into which we
were ushered the next minute, crossed all my expectations. It
was furnished with dark chintz; no satin, red or blue, was
anywhere to be seen; even the curtains were chintz. The carpet
was not rich; the engravings on the walls were in wooden
frames varnished; the long mirror between the windows, for
that was there, reflected a very simple mahogany table, on
which lay a large work basket, some rolls of muslin and
flannel, work cut and uncut, shears and spools of cotton.
Another smaller table held books and papers and writing
materials. This was shoved up to the corner of the hearth,
where a fire  a real, actual fire of sticks  was softly
burning. The room was full of the sweet smell of the burning
wood. Between the two tables, in a comfortable large chair,
sat the lady we had come to see. My heart warmed at the look
of her immediately. Such a face of genial gentle benevolence;
such a healthy sweet colour in the old cheeks; such a hearty,
kind, and withal shrewd and sound, expression of eye and lip.
She was stout and dumpy in figure, rather fat; with a little
plain cap on her head and a shawl pinned round her shoulders.
Somebody who had never been known to the world of fashion. But
oh, how homely and comfortable she and her room looked! she
and her room and her cat; for a great white cat sat with her
paws doubled under her in front of the fire.


"My sister begged that I would call and see you, Miss
Cardigan," Mrs. Sandford began, "about a poor family named
Whittaker, that live somewhere in Ellen Street."

"I know them. Be seated," said our hostess. "I know them well.
But I don't know this little lady."

"A little friend of mine, Miss Cardigan; she is at school with
your neighbour opposite,  Miss Daisy Randolph."

"If nearness made neighbourhood," said Miss Cardigan,
