from Virginia."
But the warmest battle was on the question of the right of colored
persons to ride in the cars. The chivalry maintained their side by
such kind of language as this: "Has any gentleman who was born a
gentleman, or any man who has the instincts of a gentleman, felt
himself degraded by the fact that he was not honored by a seat beside
some free negro? Has any lady in the United States felt herself
aggrieved that she was not honored with the company of Miss Dinah or
Miss Chloe, on board these cars?"
Again, in the course of the debate, another senator says of Mr. Sumner,
"He may ride with negroes, if he thinks proper, so may I; but if I
see proper not to do so, I shall follow my natural instincts, as he
follows his."
"I shall vote for this amendment," says Henry Wilson; "and my own
observation convinces me that justice, not to say decency, requires
that I should do so. Some weeks ago, I rode to the capitol in one of
these cars. On the front part of the car, standing with the driver,
were, I think, five colored clergymen of the Methodist Episcopal
church, dressed like gentlemen, and behaving like gentlemen. These
clergymen were riding with the driver on the front platform, and inside
the car were two drunken loafers, conducting and behaving themselves so
badly that the conductor threatened to turn them out."
"The senator from Illinois tells us," said Mr. Wilson, "that the
colored people have a legal right to ride in these cars now. We know
it; nobody doubts it; but this company into which we breathed the
breath of life, outrages the rights of twenty-five thousand colored
people in this District, in our presence, in defiance of our opinions.
* * * I tell the senator from Illinois that I care far more for
the rights of the humblest black child that treads the soil of the
District of Columbia than I do for the prejudices of this corporation,
and its friends and patrons. The rights of the humblest colored man
in the capital of this Christian nation are dearer to me than the
commendations or the thanks of all persons in the city of Washington
who sanction this violation of the rights of a race. I give this vote,
not to offend this corporation, not to offend anybody in the District
of Columbia, but to protect the rights of the poor and the lowly,
trodden under the heel of power. I trust we shall protect rights, if
we do it over prejudices and over interests, until every man in this
country is fully protected in all the rights that belong to beings made
in the image of God. Let the free man of this race be permitted to run
the career of life; to make of himself all that God intended he should
make, when he breathed into him the breath of life."
So there they had it, at the mouth of an educated northern working-man,
who knew what man as man was worth, and the retiring senators, giving
up the battle, wailed forth as follows:
"Poor, helpless, despised, inferior race of white men, you have very
little interest in this government, you are not worth consideration in
the legislation of this country; but let your superior Sambo's interest
come in question, and you will find the most tender interest on his
behalf. What a pity there is not somebody to lamp-black white men, so
that their rights could be secured."
Mr. Powell thought that the Senator from Massachusetts, the next time
one of his Ethiopian friends comes to complain to him on the subject,
should bring an action for him in court, and adds, with the usual good
taste of his party: * * "The Senator has indicated to his fanatical
brethren those people who meet in free love societies, the old ladies
and the sensation preachers, and those who live on fanaticism, that he
has offered it, and I see no reason why we should take up the time of
the Senate in squabbling over the Senator's amendments, introducing the
negro into every wood-pile that comes along."
Mr. Saulsbury closes a discussion on negro testimony with the following
pious ejaculation: "He did not wish to say any more about the nigger
aspect of the case. It is here every day; and I suppose it will be
here every day for years to come, till the Democratic party comes
in power and wipes all legislation of this character out of the
statute-book, which I trust in God they will do."
All this sort of talk, shaken in the face of the joyous band of
brothers who were going on their way rejoicing, reminds us forcibly
of John Bunyan's description of the poor old toothless giant, who in
his palmy days used to lunch upon pilgrims, tearing their flesh and
cracking their bones in the most comfortable way possible, but who now
having sustained many a severe brush, was so crippled with rheumatism
that he could only sit in the mouth of his cave, mumbling, "You will
never mend till more of you are burned."
Thank God for the day we live in, and for such men as Henry Wilson and
his compeers of the 37th and 38th Congresses. They have at last put our
American Union in that condition which old Solon gave as his ideal of
true Democracy, namely:
A STATE WHERE AN INJURY TO THE MEANEST MEMBER IS FELT AS AN INJURY TO
THE WHOLE.
