Maggie's slender frame quivered with apprehension while they waited for
a reply to the summons. Lawrence answered the bell more promptly than
when its call had disturbed him at his dinner.
"Is André Maggimore here?" asked Leo, timidly.
"Who?" demanded Lawrence.
"André Maggimore--the barber--the hair-dresser," replied Leo.
"You mane the man that had the fit," added the servant. "Indade, he's
here, thin."
"How is he?" asked Maggie, her heart bounding with fear lest she should
be told that her poor father was no more.
"He's a little better; but the docthor says it'll be a long day till he
is able to handle his razors again. What's this he called the disase?
The para-ly-sis! That's just what it is!"
"Poor mon père!" sighed Maggie.
"We would like to see him, if you please," added Leo.
"And who be you? Are you his children?" asked Lawrence.
"We are."
"I'm sorry for you; but he's very bad," added Lawrence, who had an
Irish heart under his vest, as he closed the front door.
"Is he--will he--"
Poor Maggie could not ask the question she desired to ask, and she
covered her face and wept.
"No, he won't," replied Lawrence, tenderly. "He won't die. The docthor
says he's comin' out of it; but the para-ly-sis will bodther him for
a long time."
Maggie was comforted by this reply, and she followed Lawrence up stairs
to the chamber where André lay. He had been conveyed from Elinora's
dressing-room to an apartment in the L, over the dining-room, where the
banker and his friends smoked their cigars after dinner. He was lying
on a lounge, covered with blankets, and the housekeeper was attending
him.
"Poor mon père!" exclaimed Maggie, as she threw herself on her knees
on the floor by the side of the sick man's couch, and kissed his pale,
thin face.
Leo bent over his father's prostrate form, and clasped one of his silky
hands, which now felt so cold that the touch chilled his heart. The
doctor had just come in to pay his patient a second visit, and stood by
the lounge, regarding with interest the devotion of the boy and girl.
André had "come out" of the fit, and recognized his children, as he
always called them. He smiled faintly, and tried to return the pressure
of Leo's hand, and to kiss the lips of Maggie, pressed to his own; but
his strength was not yet equal to his desire.
"I think it would be better to remove him to the hospital," said the
doctor to the housekeeper. "He will be well nursed there."
"No, no, no!" exclaimed Maggie, rising and walking up to the physician.
Her idea of the hospital was not a very clear one, and she did not
consider it much better than a prison; at least, it was to her a place
where sick people who had neither home nor friends were sent; a place
where other hands than her own would lave her father's fevered brow,
and administer the cooling draught. To her it was sacrilege to permit
any but herself to nurse him; and she felt that it was a privilege to
stand day and night by his bed, and hold his hand, and anticipate all
his wants. Her womanly instincts were strong, and she heard with horror
the suggestion to take the sufferer to the hospital.
"Your father would be very kindly cared for at the hospital," said the
doctor.
"But it would not be his own home!" pleaded Maggie. "O, he so loves his
own home! He always staid there when he was not in the shop. It would
break his heart to send him away from his own home when he is sick."
"Have you a mother?" asked Dr. Fisher, kindly.
"I have not; but I will nurse him by day and night. I will be mother,
wife, and daughter to him. Do not send him away from me--not from his
own home!" continued Maggie, so imploringly that the good physician had
to take off his spectacles and wipe the moisture from his eyes.
"We will take good care of him at home," added Leo.
"Very well," replied the doctor. "He shall be removed to his own home,
since you desire it so much. Lawrence, will you send for a carriage?"
"I will, sir," answered the servant, leaving the room.
André had turned his eyes towards the group, and appeared to understand
the matter they were discussing. He smiled as he comprehended the
decision, and made an effort to embrace Maggie, when she again knelt at
his side; but a portion of his frame was paralyzed, and he could not
move.
"Your father may be sick a long time," said Dr. Fisher.
"I'm so sorry! But I will take such good care of him!" replied Maggie.
"He needs very careful nursing."
"O, he shall have it! He would rather have me nurse him than any other
person. I will watch him all the time. I will sit by his bed all day
and all night," added she, with womanly enthusiasm.
"You will wear yourself out. You are not strong enough to do without
