"You don't!" returned the other, doubtfully. "Well, you're more modest
than I thought for. Then why are you to get so much?"
"Perhaps Mr. Rockwell will tell you," said Dick, "if you tell him you're
very particular to know, and will lose a night's rest if you don't find
out."
"I wouldn't give you a dollar a week."
"Then I'm glad I aint goin' to work for you."
"I don't believe your story at all. I don't think Mr. Rockwell would be
such a fool as to overpay you so much."
"P'r'aps I shouldn't be the only one in the establishment that is
overpaid," observed Dick.
"Do you mean me, you young rascal?" demanded the book-keeper, now very
angry.
"Don't call names. It isn't polite."
"I demand an answer. Do you mean to say that I am overpaid?"
"Well," said Dick, deliberately, "if you're paid anything for bein'
polite, I should think you was overpaid considerable."
There is no knowing how long this skirmishing would have continued, if
Mr. Rockwell himself had not just then entered the counting-room. Dick
rose respectfully at his entrance, and the merchant, recognizing him at
once, advanced smiling and gave him a cordial welcome.
"I am glad to see you, my boy," he said. "So you didn't forget the
appointment. How long have you been here?"
"Half an hour, sir."
"I am here unusually early this morning. I came purposely to see you,
and introduce you to those with whom you will labor. Mr. Gilbert, this
is a young man who is going to enter our establishment. His name is
Richard Hunter. Mr. Gilbert, Richard, is our book-keeper."
Mr. Gilbert nodded slightly, not a little surprised at his employer's
cordiality to the new boy.
"So the fellow was right, after all," he thought. "But it can't be
possible he is to receive ten dollars a week."
"Come out into the ware-room, and I will show you about," continued Mr.
Rockwell. "How do you think you shall like business, Richard?"
Dick was on the point of saying "Bully," but checked himself just in
time, and said instead, "Very much indeed, sir."
"I hope you will. If you do well you may depend upon promotion. I shall
not forget under what a heavy obligation I am to you, my brave boy."
What would the book-keeper have said, if he had heard this?
"How is the little boy, sir?" asked Dick.
"Very well, indeed. He does not appear even to have taken cold, as might
have been expected from his exposure, and remaining in wet clothes for
some time."
"I am glad to hear that he is well, sir."
"You must come up and see him for yourself, Richard," said Mr. Rockwell,
in a friendly manner. "I have no doubt you will become good friends very
soon. Besides, my wife is anxious to see and thank the preserver of her
boy."
"I shall be very glad indeed to come, sir."
"I live at No. ---- Madison Avenue. Come to-morrow evening, if you have
no engagement."
"Thank you, sir."
Mr. Rockwell now introduced Dick to his head clerk with a few words,
stating that he was a lad in whose welfare he took a deep interest, and
he would be glad to have him induct him into his duties, and regard with
indulgence any mistakes which he might at first make through ignorance.
The head clerk was a pleasant-looking man, of middle age, named Murdock;
very different in his manners and bearing from Mr. Gilbert, the
book-keeper.
"Yes, sir," he said, "I will take the young man under my charge; he
looks bright and sharp enough, and I hope we may make a business man of
him in course of time."
That was what Dick liked. His heart always opened to kindness, but
harshness always made him defiant.
"I'll try to make you as little trouble as possible, sir," he said. "I
may make mistakes at first, but I'm willin' to work, and I want to work
my way up."
"That's right, my boy," said Mr. Murdock. "Let that be your
determination, and I am sure you will succeed."
"Before Mr. Murdock begins to instruct you in your duties," said Mr.
Rockwell, "you may go to the post-office, and see if there are any
letters for us. Our box is No. 5,670."
"All right, sir," said Dick; and he took his hat at once and started.
He reached Chatham Square, turned into Printing House Square, and just
at the corner of Spruce and Nassau Streets, close by the Tribune Office,
he saw the familiar face and figure of Johnny Nolan, one of his old
associates when he was a boot-black.
"How are you, Johnny?" he said.
"Is that you, Dick?" asked Johnny, turning round. "Where's your box and
brush?"
