"Are you always going to set up all night?" he whispered.
"No; you must do it half the time. You must learn to steer, and you may
as well begin now."
"But I don't know how."
"You must learn."
"I don't think I can. I ain't much at anything except hard work."
"Take the oar, Sim, and try your hand at it. I had to learn, and you
must do the same."
He took hold of the oar with me, while I, in a low tone, explained to
him how to manage it. I then left it to his care. As I expected, he
permitted the raft to whirl around.
"I told you I couldn't do it," said he, in disgust.
"Keep trying. When you see her head going one way, put the oar in the
same direction. Don't wait till she is half round, but take her when she
first begins to wabble," I added, assisting him to get the raft into
position again.
But Sim did better than I had anticipated, and in half an hour he
declared that he had "got the knack of the thing." I watched him for a
while, until I had entire confidence in his ability. He was not so wide
awake as he had been earlier in the night, and some fearful gapes
suggested what he needed most. I had fixed up a bed for him on the floor
of the house, and I found that he was quite willing to turn in when I
gave him permission to do so. His excitement had died out suddenly; but
I had no doubt of his zeal when the time for the hard work should come.
I was not sleepy, or even tired, myself; and hour after hour, till the
daylight came, I stood at my post, solitary and alone, busy with
thoughts of the present and the future. The steering of the raft was
merely mechanical, after I became accustomed to it. I was glad to see
the morning light, and to hear the song of the spring birds. The sun
rose bright and beautiful, but my fellow-voyagers still slept. I enjoyed
the scene, and I permitted them to slumber as long as they would.
CHAPTER XVIII.
AT THE MOUTH OF THE OHIO.
It must have been eight o'clock when Flora opened the window of her
room. She told me she had slept soundly, and felt as well as ever she
did in her life. I think Sim would have snored till noon if I had not
called him; but he had slept at least six hours, and I concluded that he
could stand it till night. I gave him the steering oar, and Flora and I
got breakfast. Our first meal on board was not entirely satisfactory,
for we had no table, and only one chair.
I took the helm again while Sim ate his breakfast, and then went to bed
myself; for I found, after my night of watching and excitement, I was in
no condition to work. My companions were as considerate of me as I had
been of them, and permitted me to sleep till the middle of the
afternoon. I was "as good as new" then; and, after we had dined, I put
up a table, and made a couple of stools.
During the day, we met two steamboats, and passed a huge flat-boat
loaded with grain; but no one on board of them seemed to take any
particular notice of us. Every kind of a craft is seen on the great
western rivers, and none is so strange as to excite a sensation in the
mind of the beholder. At six o'clock we had been afloat about twenty
hours; and, according to my estimate, it was nearly time for us to see
the Mississippi. The Wisconsin had widened as we advanced, and I was
sure that we should be in the great river before midnight.
After supper, I discussed with Sim the subject of keeping watch during
the night, and we decided that four hours were enough for each of us to
steer at one time. But we had no means of measuring time in the night,
and we could only guess at the length of the watch. I was to serve from
eight till twelve, and Sim from twelve till four, when I was to take my
place again.
Flora retired early on the second night, and I sent Sim to bed as soon
as it was fairly dark. I was alone again, in the solitude of that waste
of waters. The novelty of the scene had in some measure worn off. I had
nothing but my own thoughts to amuse me. The river appeared still to be
widening, and, as I had anticipated, before my watch had ended, the raft
entered the Mississippi. The river was high, the current much stronger
than it had been in the Wisconsin, and the progress of the raft was
correspondingly increased. I met a steamboat struggling against the
stream, and passed quite near to her. The swell that she left behind her
caused the raft to roll heavily for a moment; but it did not disturb the
sleepers in the house.
I called Sim at twelve o'clock, as nearly as I could judge, and he
faithfully promised me that he would keep awake till daylight. I left
him alone on the platform, and turned in, though not without some doubts
in regard to his ability to be true to his promise. I went to sleep very
promptly, and I must do Sim the justice to say that I found the raft all
right when he called me at sunrise, an hour later than the time agreed
upon. He told me that nothing had happened during the night, except
that a steamboat had nearly upset the raft.
I do not intend to make a daily record of our voyage down the river. One
