made me do it. I'll tell you about it, if you like."
"Go on," added Mr. Watson.
"Perhaps I'm worse than you think I am; but I'll tell the whole truth."
"That's what we want."
"Levi's uncle borrowed a screw-driver of me in the shop. I wanted to
use it pretty soon, and I went over to Mr. Fairfield's after it. He was
fixing a board to put over a hole in the plastering in his chamber. I
saw he had cut away the laths, and I knew he wasn't putting up the
piece to keep the cold out, as he said. I made up my mind he had money
hid in that hole. At the fire, when the folks had left the room, and
all the men were on the roof, I took off that board, for I thought the
money would be all lost if there was any there. I found the four bags
of gold. I dropped them out the window into the lilac bushes, and put
the board up again. I didn't mean to steal it then. I never stole
anything in my life, not even a pin."
"What did you put the board up again for?" asked Levi.
"I didn't screw it up till afterwards. I carried the gold over to the
shop, and hid it under the floor. Then I went back and fastened up the
board, just as I found it. While I was doing this Dock Vincent came in,
and saw what I was doing. I turned it off as well as I could, and
helped move the furniture where the water was coming down upon it.
There was a lot of money in those bags, and I didn't like to give them
up. Dock had said something to me about going to Australia with him,
and I thought I could take the money out here with me.
"Just as soon as it came out that the gold was gone, Captain Vincent
pitched into me. He knew then what I was screwing up that board for. It
wasn't any use to deny it to him after what he had seen. I said I would
give it back to the old man, and tell him I had taken it to keep it
from being lost in the fire. Dock said it wan't worth while to do that;
the old man had lost it, and he wouldn't feel any worse if he didn't
find it. We talked it over, and after a while I agreed to divide with
him.
"Then he began to tell me, a little at once, about carrying off Miss
Watson again. I didn't like the job; but Dock said he'd send me to jail
for stealing the gold if I didn't go in with him; and I had to go. When
the new Starry Flag came round, he told me Levi wanted to hire me
before the mast, and told me to engage with him, so as to help him get
Miss Watson when the time came. All along, Dock said that Levi was in
his way. If he could get rid of him, he could carry her off without any
trouble. So he laid the stealing to him, and tried to prove it on him.
"Dock told me to put the bag and some of the gold in the state-room,
but I hadn't any chance to do it; the steward was in my way all the
time. The yacht was going off the next day, and Dock wanted to have
Levi taken up before he started. I handed the bag I had fixed to Ben
Seaver, and told him I had forgotten to do what the captain had
ordered. I asked him to give it to the steward, and tell him Levi
wanted him to put it into a locker in his state-room. Ben did just what
I told him; and I knew he was going off that day. Levi was taken up;
but things didn't work as Dock wanted. He was discharged.
"All this time the money was hid under the shop. After the examination,
Dock wanted the money divided. I had taken out one hundred and fifty
dollars. We put fifty in the bag before, and divided a hundred. I
agreed to meet him at the old fish-house, that was burned, and I
carried the bags down, and put them under an old sail, where I could
get the money when we wanted it.
"Dock and I met in the fish-house at ten o'clock. He had a lantern, so
that we could see to count the money. We sat down on the rocks to talk
the matter over, for Dock wanted the whole of the money then, and
promised to give me my share when we got to Australia. I didn't like
this; and while we were talking about it, the steward tumbled down
through the floor of the loft right between us. I never was so scared
in my life. I thought the evil one was after me for what I had done.
Dock was as scared as I was, and we both ran off as fast as our legs
would carry us.
"We went into Dock's back kitchen, and staid there till the alarm of
fire was given. We meant to go back, but neither of us dared to do so.
The fish-house got afire, and burned up; and that was the last we saw
of the gold. Augustus can tell you better than I can where it went to."
"I have told that already," interposed the steward.
"When the Caribbee was ready to sail," continued Mat, "Dock went to New
York, and told Captain Gauley to follow as soon as Miss Watson was on
board. I was told to watch my chance when Levi was on board the yacht,
and go to her, saying he had sent me for her. I waited three days
without having such a chance, when the race at Portland fixed things
just as I wanted them. You know how I worked it. I wouldn't have done
it if I hadn't been afraid Dock would send me to jail. As soon as we
got to New York, Captain Gauley sent a letter to Boston, where Dock was
keeping himself out of sight till he could get the money. I suppose he
sent his letter to Mr. Watson as soon as he heard Miss Watson was
missing. We waited ten days below New York; but Dock didn't come. Then
