him was right. Our young hero had taken an important step toward
securing that genuine respectability which he was ambitious to
attain.
Weary with the day's work, and Dick perhaps still more fatigued by
the unusual mental effort he had made, the boys soon sank into a
deep and peaceful slumber, from which they did not awaken till six
o'clock the next morning. Before going out Dick sought Mrs. Mooney,
and spoke to her on the subject of taking Fosdick as a room-mate.
He found that she had no objection, provided he would allow her
twenty-five cents a week extra, in consideration of the extra
trouble which his companion might be expected to make. To this
Dick assented, and the arrangement was definitely concluded.
This over, the two boys went out and took stations near each other.
Dick had more of a business turn than Henry, and less shrinking from
publicity, so that his earnings were greater. But he had undertaken
to pay the entire expenses of the room, and needed to earn more.
Sometimes, when two customers presented themselves at the same time,
he was able to direct one to his friend. So at the end of the week
both boys found themselves with surplus earnings. Dick had the
satisfaction of adding two dollars and a half to his deposits in
the Savings Bank, and Fosdick commenced an account by depositing
seventy-five cents.
On Sunday morning Dick bethought himself of his promise to Mr.
Greyson to come to the church on Fifth Avenue. To tell the truth,
Dick recalled it with some regret. He had never been inside a church
since he could remember, and he was not much attracted by the
invitation he had received. But Henry, finding him wavering, urged
him to go, and offered to go with him. Dick gladly accepted the
offer, feeling that he required someone to lend him countenance
under such unusual circumstances.
Dick dressed himself with scrupulous care, giving his shoes a
"shine" so brilliant that it did him great credit in a professional
point of view, and endeavored to clean his hands thoroughly; but, in
spite of all he could do, they were not so white as if his business
had been of a different character.
Having fully completed his preparations, he descended into the
street, and, with Henry by his side, crossed over to Broadway.
The boys pursued their way up Broadway, which on Sunday presents
a striking contrast in its quietness to the noise and confusion
of ordinary week-days, as far as Union Square, then turned down
Fourteenth Street, which brought them to Fifth Avenue.
"Suppose we dine at Delmonico's," said Fosdick, looking towards that
famous restaurant.
"I'd have to sell some of my Erie shares," said Dick.
A short walk now brought them to the church of which mention has
already been made. They stood outside, a little abashed, watching
the fashionably attired people who were entering, and were feeling
a little undecided as to whether they had better enter also, when
Dick felt a light touch upon his shoulder.
Turning round, he met the smiling glance of Mr. Greyson.
"So, my young friend, you have kept your promise," he said. "And
whom have you brought with you?"
"A friend of mine," said Dick. "His name is Henry Fosdick."
"I am glad you have brought him. Now follow me, and I will give you
seats."
CHAPTER XVII
DICK'S FIRST APPEARANCE IN SOCIETY
It was the hour for morning service. The boys followed Mr. Greyson
into the handsome church, and were assigned seats in his own pew.
There were two persons already seated in it,--a good-looking lady of
middle age, and a pretty little girl of nine. They were Mrs. Greyson
and her only daughter Ida. They looked pleasantly at the boys as
they entered, smiling a welcome to them.
The morning service commenced. It must be acknowledged that Dick
felt rather awkward. It was an unusual place for him, and it need
not be wondered at that he felt like a cat in a strange garret. He
would not have known when to rise if he had not taken notice of what
the rest of the audience did, and followed their example. He was
sitting next to Ida, and as it was the first time he had ever been
near so well-dressed a young lady, he naturally felt bashful. When
the hymns were announced, Ida found the place, and offered a
hymn-book to our hero. Dick took it awkwardly, but his studies had
not yet been pursued far enough for him to read the words readily.
However, he resolved to keep up appearances, and kept his eyes
fixed steadily on the hymn-book.
At length the service was over. The people began to file slowly out
of church, and among them, of course, Mr. Greyson's family and the
two boys. It seemed very strange to Dick to find himself in such
different companionship from what he had been accustomed, and he
could not help thinking, "Wonder what Johnny Nolan 'ould say if he
