"Will you allow me to furnish a badge for each of the faithful?" asked
Grace Arbuckle, who stood near the principal, and was deeply interested
in the proceedings.
"Certainly, Miss Arbuckle; and I am sure the young gentlemen will set
an additional value upon the decoration if it is bestowed by you,"
replied Mr. Lowington, as gallantly as though he had been a much
younger man.
"Thank you, sir," answered Grace, blushing at the compliment.
"Miss Arbuckle will give a badge to each of you," continued the
principal to the faithful few.
The crew on deck applauded lustily.
"It will be a white ribbon on the left breast," said Grace.
"A white ribbon on the left breast," repeated Mr. Lowington, as Grace
hastened to the cabin to procure the materials for the decoration. "I
learn that those who refused to answer the boatswain's call, expected
to be asked for an explanation of their conduct. I cannot make terms
with mutineers. I should have proceeded in a different manner if I had
not believed there was a misunderstanding. I am willing to explain for
your benefit, but not for those below. Do you understand?"
"Ay, ay, sir!" shouted the students.
"With a promise on your part to keep your own counsels, I will explain.
Those of you who will agree not to communicate anything I may say to
the mutineers will signify it by going abaft the mizzen-mast on the
quarter-deck. Those who decline to agree to these terms will remain in
the waist."
Every officer, including Perth, and every seaman, promptly marched to
the quarter-deck.
"At the wheel, do you agree to the terms?" said the principal,
addressing the quarter-master and seaman who were steering.
"Yes, sir," replied both.
"Mr. Peaks, you will see that no one is at the ladder of the main
hatch," continued the principal, turning to the adult boatswain.
"Ay, ay, sir," replied Peaks, who soon reported that all the mutineers
were still in the mess-rooms.
"Now, young gentlemen, I am told it is generally believed in the
steerage that the trip down the Rhine has been abandoned; that the ship
is bound to Belfast to convey our good friends to their home. This is a
mistake, and probably the one which made the mischief in part. I have
no idea of going to Belfast, and no idea of abandoning the excursion
into Germany."
The boys applauded with a zeal which indicated how satisfactory the
intelligence was to them.
"Certainly the discipline of the ship needs improving, but I was
satisfied that two or three days' service at sea would restore it to
its former standard. If the squadron remains at Havre during our
absence, both vessels must go into the docks, which involves
considerable expense. I therefore purposed to make a harbor at Brest,
and go from there to the Rhine. For this reason the baggage of our
friends was brought on board. That is really all that need be said. Are
you satisfied?"
"Ay, ay, sir!" shouted the crowd.
"But remember that this explanation is made for your benefit, and not
for that of the students in the steerage. They have chosen their own
remedy, and they must abide the issue. You are now dismissed."
"Not yet, if you please, Mr. Lowington," interposed Grace, who had
stationed herself, with her mother on the port side of the mizzen-mast.
"If the young gentlemen will pass this way, they shall be decorated
with the white ribbon of the Order of the Faithful."
"The Order of the Faithful!" exclaimed Mr. Lowington, laughing, while
all the students applauded. "You will pass forward on the port side of
the mizzen-mast, and be initiated into the Order of the Faithful."
"I shall join that order," said Commodore Kendall, as he placed himself
in the single line formed by the boys.
"Let the flag-officer go first," added some of the students, dragging
Paul to the head of the column.
"Commodore Kendall, you are received into the Order of the Faithful,"
said Grace, as she pinned upon the left breast of his coat the white
ribbon, which was doubled, so that the two ends hung down.
"Thank you, Miss Arbuckle. I will endeavor to be faithful," replied the
flag-officer, as he touched his cap to the fair initiator.
Captain Shuffles followed him, and in half an hour the entire party
were duly initiated and decorated. As fast as Mrs. Arbuckle could cut
off and double the ribbons, Grace adjusted them. She explained that she
had purchased a large quantity of narrow white and blue ribbon in Paris
to make trimmings for a dress; and when the principal had spoken of a
distinguishing mark for those who did their duty, it had suggested to
her the white ribbon of the Order of the Faithful. She was delighted to
have her idea so well received.
"We have had some secret societies on board this ship," laughed Paul
Kendall, after he had received his decoration. "I move you we form
