Mark remained in the bookstore on the same footing as before. He was
not old enough to succeed to Rowell's vacant place, but Mr. Baker, as
a mark of his satisfaction with him, and partly also to compensate
for the temporary suspicions which he had entertained of his honesty,
advanced his wages a dollar a week. He therefore now received four
dollars, which yielded him no little satisfaction, as it enabled him to
pay a larger share of his expenses.
They were all seated in Richard Hunter's pleasant room in St. Mark's
Place one evening, when Dick said suddenly:--
"Oh, by the way, Fosdick, I forgot to tell you that I had a letter from
Mr. Bates to-day."
"Did you? What does he say?"
"I will read it to you."
Richard drew the letter from the envelope, and read as follows:--
  "MY DEAR MR. HUNTER:--I have received your letter, reporting that
  you have as yet obtained no trace of my unfortunate grandson, John
  Talbot. I thank you sincerely for your kind and persistent efforts. I
  fear that he may have left New York, possibly in the care of persons
  unfit to take charge of him. It is a great source of anxiety to me
  lest he should be suffering privation and bad treatment at this
  moment, when I, his grandfather, have abundance of worldly means, and
  have it in my power to rear him handsomely. I cannot help feeling
  that it is a fitting punishment for the cruel harshness with which
  I treated his mother. Now I am amassing wealth but I have no one to
  leave it to. I feel that I have small object in living. Yet I cannot
  give up the thought that my grandson is still living. I cannot help
  indulging the hope that some day, by the kind favor of Providence, he
  may be given back to me.
  "If it will not be too much trouble to you and Mr. Fosdick, I shall
  feel indebted if you will still continue on the watch for the lost
  boy. Any expenses which you may incur, as I have already assured you,
  will be most cheerfully paid by your obliged friend and servant,
  "HIRAM BATES."
While Richard was reading this letter, Mark listened attentively.
Looking up, Richard observed this.
"Did you ever meet with a boy named John Talbot, Mark?" he inquired.
"No," said Mark, "not John Talbot."
"Did you ever meet any boy named Talbot? It is not certain that the
name is John."
"Talbot used to be my name," said Mark.
"Used to be your name!" exclaimed Richard, in surprise. "I thought it
was Manton."
"Some of the boys gave me that name, because there was a story came out
in one of the story papers about Mark Manton. After a while I got to
calling myself so, but my real name is Mark Talbot."
"It would be strange if he should turn out to be the right boy after
all, Dick," said Fosdick. "Where is the photograph? That will soon
settle the question."
Richard Hunter opened his desk, and took out the card photograph which
Mr. Bates had left with him.
"Mark," he said, "did you ever see any one who looked like that
picture?"
Mark took the picture in his hand. No sooner did his eyes rest upon it
than they filled with tears.
"That is my mother" he said. "Where did you get it?"
"Your mother! Are you sure?"
"Yes; I should know it anywhere, though it looks younger than she did."
"Do you know what her name was, before she was married?"
"Yes; she has told me often. It was Irene Bates."
"How strange!" exclaimed Richard and Fosdick together. "Mark,"
continued Richard, "I think you are the very boy I had been in search
of for several months. I had succeeded without knowing it."
"Please tell me all about it," said Mark. "I don't understand."
"I have a great piece of good luck to announce to you, Mark. Your
grandfather is a rich man, formerly in business in New York, but now a
successful merchant in Milwaukie. He has no child, no descendant except
yourself. He has been anxiously seeking for you, intending to give you
all the advantages which his wealth can procure."
"Do you think I shall like him?" asked Mark, timidly.
"Yes; I think he will be very kind to you."
"But he was not kind to my mother. Although he was rich, he let her
suffer."
"He has repented of this, and will try to make up to you his neglect to
your mother."
Mark was still thoughtful. "If it had come sooner, my poor mother might
still have been alive," he said.
"I think I had better telegraph to Mr. Bates to-morrow," said Richard.
"The news will be so welcome that I don't like to keep it back a single
day."
"Perhaps it will be better," said Fosdick. "You will have to give up
