 he has enveloped his poetical disclosures in a system impenetrable
 except to a very few; and his constant desire of creating a sensation
 makes him not averse to be the object of wonder and curiosity, even
 though accompanied by some dark and vague suspicions.
 'Nothing has contributed more to the misunderstanding of his real
 character than the lonely grandeur in which he shrouds it, and his
 affectation of being above mankind, when he exists almost in their
 voice. The romance of his sentiments is another feature of this mask
 of state. I know no one more habitually destitute of that enthusiasm
 he so beautifully expresses, and to which he can work up his fancy
 chiefly by contagion.
 'I had heard he was the best of brothers, the most generous of
 friends, and I thought such feelings only required to be warmed and
 cherished into more diffusive benevolence. Though these opinions are
 eradicated, and could never return but with the decay of my memory,
 you will not wonder if there are still moments when the association of
 feelings which arose from them soften and sadden my thoughts.
 'But I have not thanked you, dearest Lady Anne, for your kindness in
 regard to a principal object,--that of rectifying false impressions.
 I trust you understand my wishes, which never were to injure Lord
 Byron in any way; for, though he would not suffer me to remain his
 wife, he cannot prevent me from continuing his friend; and it was from
 considering myself as such that I silenced the accusations by which my
 own conduct might have been more fully justified.
 'It is not necessary to speak ill of his heart in general; it is
 sufficient that to me it was hard and impenetrable,--that my own must
 have been broken before his could have been touched. I would rather
 represent this as my misfortune than as his guilt; but, surely,
 that misfortune is not to be made my crime! Such are my feelings; you
 will judge how to act.
 'His allusions to me in "Childe Harold" are cruel and cold, but
 with such a semblance as to make me appear so, and to attract all
 sympathy to himself. It is said in this poem that hatred of him will
 be taught as a lesson to his child. I might appeal to all who have
 ever heard me speak of him, and still more to my own heart, to witness
 that there has been no moment when I have remembered injury otherwise
 than affectionately and sorrowfully.
 'It is not my duty to give way to hopeless and wholly unrequited
 affection; but, so long as I live, my chief struggle will probably
 be not to remember him too kindly. I do not seek the sympathy of the
 world, but I wish to be known by those whose opinion is valuable and
 whose kindness is dear to me. Among such, my dear Lady Anne, you will
 ever be remembered by your truly affectionate
  'A. BYRON.'
On this letter I observe Lord Lindsay remarks that it shows a noble
but rather severe character, and a recent author has remarked that it
seemed to be written rather in a 'cold spirit of criticism.' It seems
to strike these gentlemen as singular that Lady Byron did not enjoy the
poem! But there are two remarkable sentences in this letter which have
escaped the critics hitherto. Lord Byron, in this, the Third Canto
of 'Childe Harold,' expresses in most affecting words an enthusiasm
of love for his sister. So long as he lived he was her faithful
correspondent; he sent her his journals; and, dying, he left her and
her children everything he had in the world. This certainly seems like
an affectionate brother; but in what words does Lady Byron speak of
this affection?
'I had heard he was the best of brothers, the most generous of
friends. I thought these feelings only required to be warmed and
cherished into more diffusive benevolence. THESE OPINIONS ARE
ERADICATED, AND COULD NEVER RETURN BUT WITH THE DECAY OF MEMORY.'
Let me ask those who give this letter as a proof that at this time no
idea such as I have stated was in Lady Byron's mind, to account for
these words. Let them please answer these questions: Why had Lady Byron
ceased to think him a good brother? Why does she use so strong a word
as that the opinion was eradicated, torn up by the roots, and could
never grow again in her except by decay of memory?
And yet this is a document Lord Lindsay vouches for as authentic, and
which he brings forward in defence of Lord Byron.
Again she says,'Though he would not suffer me to remain his wife, he
cannot prevent me from continuing his friend.' Do these words not say
that in some past time, in some decided manner, Lord Byron had declared
to her his rejection of her as a wife? I shall yet have occasion to
explain these words.
Again she says, 'I silenced accusations by which my conduct might have
been more fully justified.'
The people in England who are so very busy in searching out evidence
against my true story have searched out and given to the world an
important confirmation of this assertion of Lady Byron's.
It seems that the confidential waiting-maid who went with Lady Byron
on her wedding journey has been sought out and interrogated, and, as
