"I have no doubt he will let me go."
"Your evidence is necessary to convict Lynch. I am told that the young
fellow wants to make a confession."
"I should like very much to hear it, for I don't know even yet why
those fellows followed me up so closely."
"We shall know to-morrow.--How do you feel, Mr. Farringford?" added Mr.
Rockwood, turning to my father.
"Better, sir; I hope to be out in a few days."
"You were once a very able business man, and I have no doubt you know
as much now as you ever did. I have been looking for a man who is
competent to take charge of my property in St. Louis. You are the right
man, if--"
"If I keep sober," added my father, when the planter paused. "I have no
claim whatever upon your confidence; but I assure you I believe it is
quite impossible for me ever to drink another drop of liquor."
This important matter was discussed for some time, but it ended in the
appointment of my father as agent of the planter. When our visitor
had departed, the future looked bright and pleasant; and it seemed to
me that the day was drawing nearer when our family should be reunited
under one roof.
  CHAPTER XXVI.
  IN WHICH PHIL LISTENS TO THE CONFESSION OF HIS PERSECUTOR, AND ENDS
  PLANE AND PLANK.
I went to my work on Monday morning, and Plane and Plank were to
employ me for the day. Certainly I never went to work so cheerfully in
my life, for somehow all my mishaps seemed to have been turned into
blessings. When I found my father a miserable drunkard and outcast,
that seemed to me the greatest mishap which could possibly befall me.
But now he was a new man, through the blessed ministrations of Mrs.
Greenough; and through him I hoped to find the highest of earthly bliss
in our reunited family.
My mishaps with the villains who had stolen my money, and who had
probably intended to force me into a course of crime, had given me
such a powerful friend as Mr. Rockwood. My father had been appointed
his agent, with a salary at the rate of twelve hundred dollars a year
for the first three months, with a promise of an increase, if he was
faithful and steady. I fully believed that my father was sincere, and
that, as he said, it would be quite impossible for him to drink another
drop of liquor. I believed it, because I knew that he prayed to God
morning, noon, and night for strength; and I was sure that he whom God
helps cannot fail.
Mr. Clinch gave me permission, at nine o'clock, to be absent the rest
of the day, if necessary. He was curious to know what business I had
at the courts, and I told him enough of the story to enable him to
understand the situation.
"I was sure that Morgan Blair was getting into bad ways," said Mr.
Clinch. "I tell you, Phil, when a young fellow is lazy, and don't take
any interest in his business, he is getting into a bad way. All I want
to know about a boy is, whether he feels an interest in his business or
not. Then I can tell pretty well about his morals."
"I think he fell into bad company, sir."
"Of course he did; idlers always fall into bad company. A young fellow
must have a taste for bad company before he can be led a great ways
out of the right track. The first bad company a young fellow keeps is
himself. If he don't begin there, he won't begin anywhere else. Those
are my sentiments."
Mr. Clinch talked to me while I was preparing to go to the
station-house; and when I was ready I hastened to the place appointed.
I found Mr. Rockwood and both the Gracewoods there, with Lynch and
Blair in irons. They looked pitiable enough now. They had been arrested
at the very moment when they considered themselves entirely successful
in their wicked enterprise, and of course the shock of disaster was
very heavy.
"You are an old one, Phil Farringford," said Lynch, with a sickly
smile. "You have brought me to grief finally. If I can get out of this
scrape, I don't know but I should be willing to go to a prayer-meeting
with you."
"It would do you good," I replied. "Why were you so determined to rob
me, Lynch?"
"Because I thought you were a great deal fatter pullet than you turned
out to be. I heard you and that gentleman," he added, pointing to
Mr. Henry Gracewood, "talking pretty large about your money. As you
exhibited some of it, I was satisfied that you really had the gold, and
I thought it would do me more good than it would you. However, you were
so full of fight that I gave it up till you vexed me so here in the
city. After I had given you back your hundred dollars, I was determined
to be even with you. Then I followed, and made the acquaintance of my
good friend Morgan Blair."
"Yes; and I wish you had been at the bottom of the Mississippi before I
had ever seen you," blubbered Blair, his eyes filling with tears.
