Then we might get a portfolio and arrange them on 
the pages. In this manner one can look at them 
without tumbling them over, and they will last a 
long while." 
Even Eob was interested in the collection, and 
brought them home some very beautiful specimens. 
On Saturday morning they all went to the woods and 
had a gay time gathering nuts and leaves. Kob was 
quite like himself and in the best of spirits. 
In the afternoon several girls came over to see 
Kathie. Uncle Eobert asked his nephew if he did 
not want to help him varnish the leaves, and Eob 
went at it with much interest. They had a very 
brilliant collection in mingled scarlet, gold, crimson, 
and brown. They were laid on a smooth board to 
dry, and were to be left there over Sunday. After- 
ward Eob washed his hands and changed his clothes, 
and then he did not know exactly what to do with 
himself. Uncle Eobert found him sauntering around 
the library. 
" Eob," he said, cheerily, " you have not had any 
money for so long that I believe I shall give you 
your allowance to-day." 
Eob drew back rather haughtily. He had resolved 
all along that lie would not take any more money, 
but lie remembered that he still owed seven cents, 
so there was quite a- struggle between pride and 
justice. 
" I owe you seven cents for the mislaid articles/' 
he answered, huskily, " and - I don't want the rest." 
" Why, Eob ! Do you get along better without 
money ? " 
Eob's lip quivered a little, and he averted his 
eyes for a moment; but one of those sudden and 
irrepressible impulses seized him, and he glanced 
up in spite of himself. 
" Eob," said his uncle, in a very winning tone, 
" let us forgive and forget, and be good friends." 
Somehow Eob couldn't help thinking of the first 
night of joy at his uncle's return, and his stubborn 
courage gave way. He winked very hard to keep 
the tears out of his eyes. 
" My boy, you have been fighting a rather severe 
battle alone " ; and his uncle's hand was laid softly 
upon his shoulder, and how it was he could never 
exactly tell, but he hid his face in the little nook 
made by the protecting arm, and actually cried. 
" Eob," his uncle began, in a low tone, " I have 
 
suffered too by being shut out of your confidence 
for the last two weeks. Suppose we try again. I 
did not mean to be as severe to you as you have 
been to yourself." 
And so they clasped hands in token of reconcilia- 
tion, but it was some moments before Eob was calm. 
" I suppose it did seem hard, but I have a fancy 
that the discipline has been productive of some good. 
The first week you were at school your record was 
perfect, and it has not been since, until the past fort- 
night. But I want you to try the money again. I 
think it better that a boy should be able to face 
temptation than always be kept out of it." 
Eob was thinking. The first week it had been a 
sore trial, and every day he had felt angry and mor- 
tified, but of late he had hardly remarked it. He 
had not gone quite so much with Luther Simonds's 
party, and he believed that was the reason his de- 
portment had been better, and his scholarship more 
perfect. 
" You don't say a word, Eob. Do you not care to 
be friends ? ' 
" O Uncle Eobert, it wasn't that. Yes, I 'm very 
it 
glad " ; and his voice choked up again. 
"Then we will begin anew. The old debt shall 
be forgiven, and we will start fair." 
There was something so frank and cheery in his 
uncle's tone that Eob's heart warmed to a very 
tender love. 
" I didn't mean not to take any more money be- 
