or any one else against her? She was free to choose a husband, and we
have no right to cavil at her choice. I hope she will be very happy. I
used to love her--we loved each other very fondly once. There are some
excellent traits in Rosa’s character, and when she is once married she
will be less volatile.”
“Don’t you believe it. Her flightiness and insincerity are ingrain! I
believed in her once myself--she had such beguiling ways, it was hard
to disapprove of anything she said or did. But I was secretly aware, all
the time, that there was a radical defect in her composition. A woman
who has been engaged, or as good as engaged, to six or eight different
men, cannot retain much purity of mind or strength of affection. I
heard you tell her yourself once that such unscrupulous flirtation and
bandying of hearts were profane touches that rubbed the down from the
peach.”
“That was the extravagant talk of a silly, romantic girl,” replied
Mabel, with a smile that changed to a sigh before the sentence was
finished. “I was somewhat given to lecturing other people, in those
days, upon subjects of which I knew little or nothing. Nine men out
of ten care little how roughly the peach has been rubbed, provided the
flavor is not injured to their taste. It is only once in a great while
that you meet with one whose palate is so nice that he can detect the
difference between fruit that has been hawked through the market and
that just picked from the tree. First love is a myth at which rational
people laugh.”
“Perhaps so,” said Mrs. Sutton dubiously.
In view of the circumstances of Mabel’s marriage, she felt that
it behooved her to be circumspect in condemnation of transferred
affections.
“But that does not alter the fact of Rosa Tazewell’s infamous behavior
to Alfred Branch and others of her beaux. Isn’t the poor fellow drinking
himself into his grave, all through his disappointment? And here she is
going to be as honored a wife as if she had never perjured herself, or
ruined an honest, loving man’s prospects for life!”
Mabel went on with her work, and did not reply.
“I have had uncomfortable suspicions about certain passages in her
intercourse with us, since I heard this news,” continued Mrs. Sutton,
edging her chair toward her niece, and dropping her voice. “I am afraid
I can date the beginning of her cruelty to Alfred back to that September
she spent here--to the latter part of it, I mean. Little scenes come to
my memory that caused me trifling uneasiness then. I shall never
forget, for instance, how she eyed you, the morning Winston came home so
unexpectedly.”
And she described the incident recorded in the latter part of our
opening chapter.
“Can it be,” she pursued, “that she had even then designs upon the man
she is about to marry? She knew all the circumstances of the trouble
that ensued, and if disposed to be meddlesome, she had the means at her
command.”
“I told her nothing,” said Mabel briefly.
“But she pumped me pretty effectually,” confessed the aunt shamefacedly.
“I thought there could be no harm in giving her a synopsis of the
case--she being your intimate friend.”
Another gleam of pensive amusement crossed Mabel’s face. She knew
too well the nature of her aunt’s “synopsis” to doubt that Rosa was
conversant with every phase of the affair, concerning which her own lips
had been so sternly sealed.
“You have nothing with which to reproach yourself,” she said,
tranquilly. “She marries with her eyes open.”
“You don’t imagine for one instant that she would be annoyed by any such
scruples as beset you!” cried Mrs. Sutton scoffingly. “Why, the woman
would sooner go to the altar with a handsome, dashing libertine, who had
broken hearts by the dozen, than marry a quiet, honest Christian, who
had never breathed of love to any ears except hers. The aim of her life
is to create or experience a sensation. I don’t quite see how she could
have made trouble in that sad affair, but I should like to be positive
that she did not.”
“You may safely acquit her of that sin,” rejoined Mabel. “There was
neither need nor room for her interference. Whatever may have been her
inclination, she was shrewd enough to perceive that the natural course
of events was bringing about the desired end--if it were a desirable one
to her--without her help or hindrance. But, aunt! doesn’t it strike
you that this is a very profitless talk, and very uncharitable? It is
a sorry task, this volunteering our assistance to the dead past to bury
its dead. And I, for one, have too much bound up in the future to offer
my service in the painful work. Look! is not this pretty?”
She was embroidering a white merino cloak for an infant, in a pattern
so rich and elaborate, that Mrs. Sutton groaned in commingled admiration
and sympathy as she inspected it.
“You are throwing time and strength away upon this work!” she
expostulated. “I don’t know another lady in your circumstances who would
