She saw it in the distended nostrils, where the fine red veins 
came so suddenly to the surface ; in the firmly-set scarlet 
mou:h ; the little frown contracting the brows. 

"Well?" She was elated to have him tell the story of his 
life over to her, for he had hitherto been so reticent. 

"There were some good men in the shop, some who were 
low and ignorant ; but they made amends in brawn and skill. 
There was laughing, coarse jesting, songs, and treats. You 
gave your ten hours' work, amid smoke, and grime, and noise, 
and felt vilely unclean at night, at least I did : tired in brain 
and body. The offset to this was a good business at which 
you could get work when times were brisk and shops not 
over-crowded. I believe I hated the rabble." 

She always scouted the idea of aristocracy. The McRaes had 
been plain untitled people, and she was a thorough old demo 
crat ; yet she liked the flash of pride in the last of the McRaes, 
the heir of the broad lands. 

" I meant to go away when I was through." 

" Where ? What did you expect to do ?" 

" My mind was not quite clear. I had a friend there 
well," thrusting down the old phantoms "I could not leave 
him." Somehow he felt that he should stumble over the word 
"father" just now, with her hawk's eyes upon him. For 
though his face was partially turned away, he knew that she 
was minutely inspecting it. 


 

"You were a good son in that respect, and I think filial 
gratitude hardly one of the modern virtues. You will have 
your reward." 

"He cared for me in my infancy. It is simple payment 
I mean, not reward." 

She twisted the leaves of her book absently. Ready and 
straightforward, even to rudeness, as she often was, she hesitated 
a little here. 

He was thinking over the other miserable failure, the time 
he had fancied himself a genius, and the bitter awakening. 

"So when I could not have culture, refinement, time for 
study, and all that ; when I found my place was in the ranks 
with the others, I made a desperate strike for myself and them, 
and was worsted. That is all. I am ready to begin anew. I 
shall not soon quarrel with fate." 

She had a secret misgiving, from the repressed look in his 
face and the determined closing of the lips, that it was nol all. 
" I am ready for my work," in a low resolute tone. 
It was her turn now. She shut the book with an impatient 
force, as if it had offended her. 

"Victor Hurst," she began, clearing her throat and raising 
her neck out of the folds of lace that she always wore inside her 
dress, "I had a purpose in bringing you hither. I think your 
father made a mistake in choosing a distasteful occupation for 
you ; but we will not quarrel with that since it has made us 
friends, or at least been the means of drawing us together. I 
never had son or daughter, and I believe your mother and 
myself are the last of a long line." 

A dim fear seized upon Victor, and his heart beat almost to 
suffocation. 

" I ask you, therefore, to carry on the family name in this 
old place after I am sleeping down there in the graveyard of 
the McRaes. " 

His face flushed a deep and painful crimson, and there was 
a constriction in his throat, as if a serpent were winding its 

