stretching herself and purring out her gratitude. The 
carpet was bright, some pictures hung around the 
walls, a bookcase was in one wide recess, and the 
bay-window was filled with Jessie’s flowers. There 
was a lamp burning on the centre-table, and the por 
celain shade was beautifully ornamented with several 
tiny pictures. It was a charming, cosey room. 
And as Charlie enjoyed this in a half-sleepy way 
another picture came into his mind, — a plain, low- 
ceiled room, with a rather worn rag-carpet on the 
floor, very common furniture, and a faded chintz- 
covered lounge, very few books, no pictures worth 
mentioning, two tired-looking women always sewing, 
and dear little Kathie. What a hard life she had ! 
“Jessie,” he said, “I think Kathie Alston is the 
best and noblest little girl that I ever knew.” 
“She seems very nice and pleasant. I like her 
because she always looks so cheerful.” 
“And she isn’t a bit selfish. She would give up 
anything if some one else wanted it. And she ’s 
continually thinking of others, and wishing they were 
happy-” 
 
" The right spirit, I am sure” 
“ And Kob ’s such a — well, he 's rude and 
thoughtless, and never seems to appreciate what 
she does. He is good-natured to us boys, and a 
capital fellow for fun, but I wish Kathie had a 
nice home — ” 
“ Isn’t her home pleasant ? Mrs. Alston appears 
to be a very kind woman.” 
“ Oh, I like her and Kathies Aunt Euth, but it is 
sad to be poor, and to have to work hard.” 
“Yes, indeed,” Jessie said. 
“ Kathie ’s always thinking of her Aunt Ruth, and 
wishing she was well. It s real hard to be sick and 
lame.” 
“ I have met Miss Conover several times, and I 
think she bears her burdens very patiently.” 
“ But it ’s hard, all the same.” 
“Yes, Charlie, it is”; and Jessie drooped her 
thoughtful brown eyes. 
There was a pause, and presently Charlie began 
again : “ Jessie, do you think we could do anything 
to make Miss Conover happier.” 
“ I don’t know, Charlie ; have you thought of any 
plan ? ” 
 
“ Only ” — Charlie hesitated a little — “ if we 
could take her out to ride.” 
“ Do you think she would go ? ” 
“ Why, yes ” ; and then Charlie repeated the few 
words that had passed between him and Kathie. 
‘'We might do that. Dolly is so gentle that no 
one would be afraid with her. Sleigh-riding did you 
mean ? ” 
“ Yes. Wouldn’t it be nice ? Kathie would feel 
so delighted.” 
“ Suppose we go next week, the first nice day ? 
We will take the two-seat sleigh, and invite both 
Kathie and her aunt.” 
“ Splendid ! ” said Charlie. 
“ And I can do it very nicely. Mrs. Thomas asked 
me the other day whom she could get to do some 
fine needlework. I ’ll go and see if Miss Conover 
can undertake it, and then we will ask them to drive 
with us.” 
“ Just the thing. 
Then he came to kiss Jessie, and went off to bed 
thankful that he had discovered a way of making 
some one happy, and, most of all, Kathie. 
The next day being Sunday there was no playing 
 
or snow-balling. It was cold but clear, and sunny as 
a midsummer day. The children were none the worse 
for their ice-palace party ; even Freddy, when he woke 
up, was as bright as a daisy. 
Sunday was always a long day to Eob. He went 
to church in the morning with his mother and Kathie, 
and to Sunday school in the afternoon ; but it seemed 
