disposed to do it without consulting the comfort and convenience of Mr.
Waterford, who meditated the mischief against her.
The defeated skipper continued to shout at me in the most furious
manner, threatening me with all the terrors of the law and his own
wrath. I was willing to refer the whole subject to Mr. Collingsby after
we returned to Chicago; and I regarded him as an all-sufficient
defender against both the law and the wrath of Mr. Waterford. I saw him
make his way to the shore, shake the mud and water from his garments,
and then hasten to a point of land which projected out into the lake at
the mouth of the creek. But he might as well have hastened towards the
other end of the lake, for long before he could reach it, I had passed
the point, and was out in the open lake.
I was out of hailing distance of the unhappy skipper when he reached
the point, though I could still see his violent gestures. Miss
Collingsby sat in the standing-room, watching her late persecutor with
anxious interest. Perhaps she feared he might, by some foul mischance,
undo what I had done; that he might annihilate the waste of waters
before him, and step between her and me. I had no such fears. There
were no boats or vessels near us, and I was satisfied that Mr.
Waterford would be obliged to walk several miles to a station on the
railroad which passed through the swamp and over the lagoon.
I was so well satisfied with the good fortune that grew out of my
catastrophe, that I soon neglected to think of Mr. Ben Waterford. I
left him to enjoy his own reflections; and I hoped one of them would
be, that villany could not long prosper even in this world. I wished
that he might recall, if he had ever heard of it, the Scotch poet's
proverb, that
    "The best laid schemes o' mice an' men
                    Gang aft a-gley,
    An' lea'e us nought but grief and pain
                    For promised joy."
This bit of romance was not likely to end in a marriage, thanks to the
returning or awaked sense of Miss Collingsby.
I ceased to think of my discomfited skipper, and turned my thoughts to
Mr. Charles Whippleton, to whom I devoted my whole attention. The
Florina had passed out of the creek in the midst of the encounter
between Waterford and myself; and the junior partner of our firm must
have seen me when I was pitched over the bow of the tender. Whether he
had been able to see the issue of the battle or not, I did not know,
for his yacht passed beyond the point before it was terminated. The
Florina was headed to the eastward, and I judged that she was about a
mile ahead of me when I tripped the anchor of the Marian. I intended to
chase him even into the adjoining lakes, if he led me so far. I meant
to recover Mrs. Whippleton's treasure, if it took me all summer, and
used up all the money I had in the world.
Marian Collingsby looked very sad and anxious. Her chest heaved with
emotion as she realized how serious was the movement upon which we had
entered. I was confident that, if she ever reached the shelter of her
father's roof, she would never be imprudent again; that she would have
more regard for her father's solid judgment than for her own fanciful
preferences.
"You don't know how frightened I was, Philip," said she, when I took my
place at the helm.
"I don't wonder. I was frightened myself; but it was more for you than
for me," I replied, as I let out the main sheet.
"But what a terrible fight you had with him!" exclaimed she, with
something like a shudder.
"O, that was nothing!" I replied, laughing, in order to encourage her.
"Nothing! Why, he struck at you with the oar!"
"And I struck at him with the boat-hook. I have been in a worse fight
than that."
"You have!"
"Yes; I have been where the bullets flew thick and fast."
"You!"
"I was in a battle with the Indians; and I once had the happiness to
rescue a young lady from the savages; so I think this is a very mild
kind of fighting."
"What a hero you have been!"
"Not much of a hero; but I don't like to see anything go wrong with a
young lady. I never saw a young lady till I was twelve years old, and I
find myself very kindly disposed towards all of them--strange as it may
seem."
Miss Collingsby tried to smile, but she did not feel able to do so.
CHAPTER XX.
IN WHICH PHIL SAILS THE MARIAN ACROSS LAKE MICHIGAN.
"Where are you going now, Philip?" asked Miss Collingsby.
"I am obliged to chase Mr. Whippleton. I told you what he had been
doing. He has swindled your father out of a large sum of money, and he
has also robbed me of a valuable package, which was put in my care for
safe keeping. I must catch him if I follow him all night."
