all right in a few minutes." 
" Then I think this is the night when you 
are going to stay and take tea with me,'' said 
Mr. Richmond. " I promised you a roasi 
apple, I remember. Are there any more 
apples that will do for roasting, Miss Red- 
wood ? " 
" O, Mr. Richmond, I do not care for the 
apple ! " Matilda cried. 
" But if I don't have it, you will stay and 
take tea with me ? " 
Matilda looked wistful, and hesitated. Her 
mother would not miss her ; but could Mark 
get the tea without her ? 
" And I dare say you want to talk to me 
about something; isn't it so?" the minister 
continued. 
" Yes, Mr. Richmond ; I do." 
That settles it. She will stay, Miss Redwood. I shall have some gingerbread, I hope. 
 
And when you are ready, Tilly, you can come 
to me in my room." 
The minister quitted the kitchen, in good 
time ; for now the cakes were almost done 
and needed care. A little watchful waiting, 
and then the plumped up, brown, glossy 
loaves of gingerbread said to even an inexperienced eye that it was time for them to come 
out of the oven. Miss Redwood shewed Ma- 
tilda how to arrange them on a sieve, where 
they would not get steamy and moist; and 
Matilda's eye surveyed them there with very 
great satisfaction. 
" That's as nice as if I had made it myself," said the housekeeper. " Now don't you 
want to get the minister's tea ? " 
What shall I do, Miss Redwood?" 
" I thought maybe you'd like to learn how 
to manage something else. He's had no dinner to-day to speak of and if eatin' ain't 
the business of life, which it ain't, I guess, with 
him ; yet stoppin' eatin' would stop business, 
he'd find ; and I'm goin' to frizzle some beef 
 
for his supper, and put an egg in. Now I'll 
cut the beef and you can stir it, if you 
like." 
Matilda liked very much. She watched 
the careful shaving of the beef in paper-like 
fragments; then at the housekeeper's direction she put some butter in a pan on the fire, 
and when it was hot threw the beef in and 
stirred it back and forward with a knife, so as 
not to let it burn and so as to bring all the 
shavings of beef in contact with the hot pan 
bottom and into the influence of the boiling 
butter. At the moment of its being done, the 
housekeeper broke an egg or two into the pan ; 
and then in another moment bade Matilda 
take it from the fire and turn it out. Meanwhile Miss Redwood had cut bread and made 
the tea. 
" Now you can go and call the minister," 
she said. 
Matilda thought she was having the rarest 
of pleasant times, as she crossed the little dining room and the square yard of hall that 
 
came next, and went into the study. Fire 
Was burning in the wide chimney there as 
usual ; the room was very sweet and still ; Mr 
Richmond sat before the fire with a book. 
" I thought you were coming to talk to me, 
Tilly?" he said, stretching out his hand to 
draw her up to him. 
" Miss Redwood was shewing me how to 
do things, Mr. Richmond." 
Then you do want to talk to me ? " 
" O yes, sir. But Mr. Richmond, tea is 
ready." 
" We'll eat first then, and talk afterward. 
What is the talk to be about, Tilly ? just to 
give me an idea." 
" It is about I do not know what is right 
about something, Mr. Richmond. I do not 
know what I ought to do." 
