thankful that I have no taste for such menial employments. I do not
believe that I could even toast a piece of bread"; and Ada leaned back
in the low rocker, the very picture of complacency.
Kathie was silent, revolving several matters in her mind "all in a
jumble," as she would have said. She knew it would be useless to
undertake to explain to Ada the great difference between their lives.
Mamma, Aunt Ruth, and Uncle Robert believed in the great responsibility
of existence. Weeks, months, and years were not given to be squandered
away in frivolous amusement. To do for each other was one of the first
conditions, not merely the small family circle, but all the wide world
outside who needed help or sympathy. And if one did not know how to do
anything--
"But when you go to school you cannot do so much," pursued Ada. "There
will be all your lessons. I suppose you will study French and Italian.
You cannot think how I was complimented on my singing while I was at
Saratoga. Several gentlemen said my pronunciation was wonderful in one
so young. I hope I shall be able to come out next summer."
"Come out!" repeated Kathie, bewildered.
"Yes, be regularly introduced to society. I am past fifteen, and growing
tall rapidly. I hope I shall have an elegant figure. I want to be a
belle. Don't you suppose you shall ever go to Saratoga?"
"I don't know,"--dubiously.
"It would be a shame for you to grow up here where there is no society.
You would surely be an old maid, like your Aunt Ruth."
"She isn't so very old," returned Kathie, warmly.
"But every woman over twenty-five is an old maid. I mean to be married
when I am eighteen."
Kathie brushed out her hair, hung up her clothes, and waited for Ada to
get into bed so that she might say her prayers in peace. Ada had
outgrown "Our Father which art in heaven," and "had no knack of making
up prayers," she said.
But it seemed to Kathie that there were always so many things for which
to give thanks, so many fresh blessings to ask. She almost wondered a
little, sometimes, if God didn't get tired of listening.
CHAPTER II.
DRAFTED.
MISS JESSIE smiled a little at Ada's assumption of womanhood when the
two girls came over to drink tea.
"Ah," said Grandmother Darrell, wiping her glasses, "she's no such a
girl as Kathie! The child's worth half a dozen of her. After all,
there's no place like the country to bring up boys and girls."
For Grandmother Darrell, like a good many other people, fancied
everything that came from the city must be more or less contaminated.
"I think Miss Darrell would make your uncle a very nice wife," Ada
said, graciously. "Do you suppose there is anything in it?"
Kathie flushed scarlet, remembering the pain and trouble of last winter.
"I don't want to talk about it," she answered, in a low tone.
Ada nodded her head sagaciously. It was quite evident that she had hit
upon the truth.
Some of the Brookside girls thought Ada "so splendid," Lottie Thorne
among them, who now treated Kathie in a very amiable manner, and always
took pains to speak with her as they came out of church. Of course,
Lottie was growing older and a little more sensible, as well as worldly
wise.
They took Ada to all the pleasant haunts, rowed over the lake, made two
or three visits, and Mrs. Alston invited some girls, or rather young
ladies, to tea; but Ada showed a decided preference for the young
gentlemen. Even unsuspicious Kathie remarked how soon her headaches
disappeared, and how ready she was to sing if some of the boys would
stand at the piano and turn her music.
"A budding coquette," said Aunt Ruth, with a quiet smile.
"What a pity that girls should be reared to such idle, frivolous lives,
and have their minds so filled with vanity and selfishness!" Mrs. Alston
replied. "Can such blossoming bring forth good, wholesome fruit?"
Mr. Meredith felt a little annoyed. The visit was not quite the success
he had hoped, and he saw more clearly than ever the difference between
the two girls; but ah, how unlike their mothers were!
Was he growing more serious, clearer-eyed? What was there about this
family that charmed so insensibly? The higher motives, the worthier
lives, with a more generous outlook for neighbor and friend!
Kathie was ashamed to confess it even to herself, but she said good by
at the station with a sense of relief. For days a horrible thought had
been haunting her,--suppose Uncle Robert should be drafted! The
abruptly terminated conversation had not been renewed; indeed, there had
been so many pleasures at Cedarwood that one hardly wanted to bring in
such a subject. But if it did happen, Kathie felt she should want no
stranger eyes to witness her grief.
For when the question came directly home, she felt that she could not
give him up; yet how brave she had been last winter! If General
Mackenzie could look into her heart, he would find that she hardly
