long appealed to my fancy, wherein they capriciously 
allied themselves to the history of aging single 
women in lonely New England village houses, — 
pathetic sisters lingering upon the neutral ground 
between the faded hopes of marriage and the yet 
unrisen prospects of consumption. The work implies 
an imperfect yet real love of beauty, the leisure for 
it a degree of pecuniary ease : the thoughts of the 
sisters rise above the pickling and preserving that 
occupied their heartier and happier mother ; they are 
in fact in that aesthetic, social, and intellectual mean, 
in which single women are thought soonest to wither 
and decline. With a little more power, and in our 
later era, they would be writing stories full of ambi- 
tious, unintelligible, self-devoted and sudden collaps- 
ing young girls and amazing doctors ; but as they 
are, and in their time, they must do what they can. 
A sentimentalist may discern on these vases not only 
the gay designs with which they omamented them, 
but their own dim faces looking wan from the win- 
dows of some huge old homestead, a world too wide 
for the shrunken family. All April long the door- 
yard trees crouch and shudder in the sour east, all 
Jvme they rain canker-worms upon the roof, and 
then in autumn choke the eaves with a fall of tat- 
tered and hectic foliage. From the window the 
fading sisters gaze upon the unnatural liveliness of 
the summer streets through which the summer 
boarders are driving, or upon the death-white drifts 
of the intolerable winter. Their father, the captain, 
is dead ; he died with the Calcutta trade, having sur- 
vived their mother, and left them a hopeless compe- 
tency and yonder bamboo chairs ; their only brother 
is in California ; one, though she loved, had never 
a lover ; her sister's betrothed married West, whither 
he went to make a home for her, — and ah ! is it 
vases for the desolate parlor mantel they decorate, or 
faneral ums ? And when in time, they being gone, 
the Califomian brother sends to sell out at auction 
the old place with the household and kitchen furni- 
ture, is it withered rose-leaves or ashes that the pur- 
chaser finds in these jars ? 
They are empty now ; and I wonder how came they 
here ? How came the show-case of Dr. Merrifield, 
Surgeon-Chiropodist here? How came here yon 
Italian painting ? — a poor, silly, little affected Ma- 
donna, simpering at me from her dingy gilt frame 
till I buy her, a great bargain, at a dollar. From 
what country church or family oratory, in what revo- 
lution, or stress of private fortunes, — then from what 
various cabinets of antiquities, in what dear Vicenza, 
or Ferrara, or Mantua, camest thou, O Madonna? 
Whose likeness are you, poor girl, with your every- 
day prettiness of brows and chin, and your Kaphael- 
esque crick in the neck ? I think I know a part of 
your story. Tou were once the property of that 
ruined advocate, whose sensibilities would sometimes 
consent that a valet de place of uncommon delicacy 
should bring to his ancestral palace some singularly 
meritorious foreigner desirous of purchasing from his 
 
rare collection, — a collection of rubbish scarcely to be 
equaled elsewhere in Italy. You hung in that fam- 
ily-room, reached after passage through stately vesti- 
bules and grand stairways ; and O, I would be 
cheated to the bone, if only I might look out again 
from some such windows as were there, upon some 
such damp, mouldy, broken-statued, ruinous, en- 
chanted garden as lay below ! In that room sat the 
advocate's mother and hunchback sister, with their 
smoky sealdini and their snuffy priest; and there 
the wife of the foreigner, self-elected the taste of his 
party, inflicted the pang courted by the advocate, 
and asked if you were for sale. And then the mined 
advocate clasped his hands, rubbed them, set his head 
heart-brokenly on one side, took you down, heaved 
a sigh, shrugged his shoulders, and sold you — you! 
a family heirloom ! Well, at least yon are old, and 
you represent to me acres of dim, religious canvas in 
that beloved land ; and here is the dollar now asked 
