It is indented to a remarkable degree with bays and inlets, and the
whole interior is dotted with small lakes, usually connected by a
river, like a number of eggs on a string. The Lim Fjord, which you see
in the north, formerly only extended to within a short distance of the
North Sea; but in 1825 a tempest broke through the narrow neck of
land, and opened a passage for small vessels. These inland lakes are
full of fish, and salmon was once so plenty that householders were
forbidden by law to feed their servants with this food more than once
a week.
"The two largest islands are Fünen and Seeland, which are separated by
the Great Belt, and the former from the main land by the Little Belt.
In winter these are frozen over, as is the Sound in the severer
seasons, and have been crossed by armies engaged in military
operations. The country is well wooded, and you will find plenty
of large oaks and beeches. This morning you passed Elsinore, where
Shakespeare locates Hamlet; but you cannot find where 'the morn walks
o'er the dew of yon high eastern hill,' for there are no hills there;
nor 'the dreadful summit of the cliff, that beetles o'er his base into
the sea.' It is a flat region, with only a low cliff to border the
sea; certainly with no such tremendous steeps as the poet describes.
Besides, Hamlet lived and died in Jutland. But Shakespeare used the
poet's license.
"Nearly all of Denmark lies between latitude fifty-five and
fifty-eight; but, though the thermometer sometimes falls to twenty-two
degrees below zero in winter, the average temperature is mild. The
climate does not materially differ from the eastern coast of
Massachusetts. The air is so humid that the grass and trees have a
livelier green than the countries farther south, and droughts are
almost unknown. When France and Germany are parched and dry, Denmark
is fresh and green. The people are engaged principally in agriculture
and commerce. The chief exports are grain, cattle, and horses.
"The government is a constitutional monarchy. The king is assisted in
the executive department by a 'Royal Privy Council' of seven
ministers. The legislature is called the Rigsdag, and consists of the
Landsthing, or upper house, and the Folkething, or lower house. Of the
former, twelve are nominated for life, by the king, from the present
or past members of the lower house, and the remaining fifty-four are
elected, in four classes, by the largest tax-payers in country
districts, in towns, in cities, and by deputies representing the
ordinary voters. The members of the lower house are chosen directly by
the people. All male citizens of twenty-five, except paupers, and
servants who are not householders, are voters.
"The established religion of the state is Lutheran, and the king must
be of this church. He nominates the bishops, who have no political
power, as in England. They have the general supervision and management
of all the affairs of the church in the kingdom. Although there are
only about thirteen thousand non-Lutherans in Denmark, entire
religious toleration prevails, and no man can be deprived of his
civil and political rights on account of his creed.
"Free education is provided by the government for all children whose
parents cannot afford to pay for tuition, and attendance at school,
between the ages of seven and fourteen, is compulsory. All the people,
therefore, are instructed in the elementary branches; and, besides
the University of Copenhagen, there is a system of high and middle
schools, available for the children of merchants, mechanics, and the
more prosperous of the laboring classes.
"Every able-bodied man in Denmark, who has attained the age of
twenty-one, is liable to serve as a soldier for eight years in
the regular army, and eight more in the army of the reserve. In
preparation for this duty, every man is enrolled, and required to
drill for a period of from four to six months, according to the arm
of the service in which he is placed; and those who do not become
proficient in this time are required to drill for another and longer
period. The kingdom is divided into military districts, and all the
soldiers are required to drill from thirty to forty-five days every
year. The navy of Denmark consists of thirty-one steamers of all
classes, six of which are iron-clads, carrying three hundred and
twelve guns, and manned by nine hundred men.
"Little is known of the history of this country before the eighth
century, but the Cimbri occupied it before the time of Christ. The
Danes conquered portions of England, and in the eleventh century,
Canute, who introduced Christianity into his realm, completed the
conquest. Norway was also included in his kingdom, and under him and
his successors, during the next two hundred years, Denmark attained
the summit of her power and glory. Holstein, Lauenburg, and several
other of the northern provinces of Germany, and even a portion of
Prussia, were subjected to her sway. Waldemar II., a successor of
Canute, with his eldest son, was daringly captured, while resting from
the fatigues of the chase, one evening, by Count Schwerin, whom the
king had provoked to wrath by some flagrant injustice. This bold act
