gone out of her obedience. 
" Matilda " said Mrs.. Candy. 
" Yes, ma'am." 
" You have been an hour and a halt trying 
to fix that patch." 
" Isn't it long enough for one day ? " 
said Matilda wearily, sitting back on her 
heels. 
She had got down on the floor the better 
to manage the work ; a large garment with a 
large patch to be laid. 
" Too long, by an hour ; but not long 
enough, inasmuch as it is not yet done." 
" I am too tired to do it." 
" We will see that." 
Matilda sat back on her heels, looking at 
the hopeless piece of linen. She was flushed 
and tired and angry, but she only sat there 
looking at the linen. 
" It has got to be done," said Mrs. Candy. 
" I must get rested first," said Matilda. 
" You are not to say ' must ' to me," said 
her aunt. " My dear, I shall make you do 
whatever I order. You shall do exactly what 
I tell you in everything. Your times of having your own way are ended. You will do 
my way now. And you will put on that 
patch neatly before you eat." 
" Maria will want me." 
" Maria will do very well without." 
Matilda looked at her aunt in equal surprise and dismay. Mrs. Candy had not 
seemed like this before. Nothing had prepared her for it. But Mrs. Candy was a 
 
cold-natured woman, not the less fiery and 
proud when roused. She could be pleasant 
enough on the surface and in general intercourse with people ; she could have petted 
Matilda and made much of her, and was 
indeed quite inclined that way. If only Mrs. 
Laval had not taken her up, and if Matilda 
had not been so independent. The two 
things together touched her on the wrong 
side. She was nettled that the wish of Mrs. 
Laval was to see only Matilda, of the whole 
family ; and upon the back of that, she was 
displeased beyond endurance that Matilda 
should withstand her authority and differ 
from her opinion. There was no fine and 
delicate nature in her, to read that of the 
child ; only a coarse pride that was bent upon 
having itself regarded. She thought herself 
disregarded. She was determined to put 
that down with a high hand. 
Seeing or feeling dimly somewhat of all 
this, Matilda sat on the floor in a kind of 
despair, looking at her patch. 
" You had better not sit so but go about 
it," said Mrs. Candy. 
" Yes. I am tired," said Matilda. 
" You will not go- down to dinner," said 
Mrs. Candy. 
Could she stand it ? Matilda thought. 
Could she bear it, and not cry? She was 
getting so tired and downhearted. It was 
quite plain there would be no going out this 
afternoon to buy things for Lilac lane. That 
delightful shopping must be postponed. That 
hope was put further in the distance. She sat 
moodily still. She ceased to care when the 
patching got done. 
" Losing time," said Mrs. Candy at length, 
getting up and putting by her own basket. 
" The bell will ring in a few minutes, Matilda ; and I shall leave you here to do your 
work at your leisure." 
The child looked at her and looked down 
again, with what slight air of her little head 
it is impossible to describe, though it undoubtedly and unmistakably signified her 
disapproval. It was Matilda's habitual gesture, but resented by Mrs. Candy. She 
stepped up to her and gave the side of her 
head a smart stroke with the palm of her hand. 
" You are not to answer me by gestures, 
you know I told you," she exclaimed. And 
