that must be, just as mud must be in April ; a 
thing to put on overshoes for." 
And now what did she think ? 
"Who knows what to think," said Perley 
Kelso, " that is just waked up ? " 
"Miss Kelso.'" said Sip. 
" Yes," said Miss Kelso. 
"I never knew in all my life how grand a 
room could be till I come into this grand room 
to-night. Now, you see, if it was mine — " 
" What would you do, if this grand room were 
yours ? " asked Miss Kelso, curiously. 
" Just supposing it, you know, — am I very 
saucy ? " 
" Not very. Sip." 
" Why," said Sip, " the fact is, I 'd bring Nynee 
Mell in to spend an evening ! " 
An engraving that lay against a rich easel in a 
corner of the room attracted the girl's attention 
presently. She went down on her knees to examine 
it. It chanced to be Lemude's dreaming 
Beethoven. Sip was very still about it. 
" What is that fellow doing.'" she asked, after a 
while, — " him with the stick in his hand." 
She pointed to the leader of the shadowy orchestra, 
touching the baton through the glass, 
with her brown finger. 
" I have always supposed," said Perley, " that 
he was only floating with the rest ; you see the 
orchestra behind him." 
" Floating after those women with their arms 
up .? No, he isn't ! " 
" What is he doing ? " 
" It 's riding over him, — the orchestra. He 
can't master it. Don't you see .' It sweeps him 
along. He can't help himself. They come and 
come. How fast they come ! How he fights 
and falls ! O, I know how they come. That 's 
the way things come to me ; things I could do, 
things I could say, things I could get rid of if I 
had the chance ; they come in the mills mostly ; 
they tumble over me just so ; I never have the 
chance. How he fights ! I didn't know there 
was any such picture as that in the world. I 'd 
like to look at that picture day and night. See ! 
O, I know how they come." 
" Miss Kelso — " after another silence and 
still upon her knees before the driving Dream 
and the restless dreamer. " You see, that 's it. 
That 's hke your pretty things. I 'd keep your 
pretty things if I was you. It ain't that there 
shouldn't be music anywhere, ft 's only that 
the music shouldn't ride over the master. Seems 
to me it is like that." 
CHAPTER VI. 
MOULDINGS AND BRICKS. 
" MAVERICK ! " 
IVX " At your service." 
" But Maverick — " 
" What then ? " 
" Last year, at Saratoga, I paid fifteen dollars 
apiece for having my dresses done up ! " 
"Thus supporting some pious and respectable 
widow for the winter, I have no doubt." 
" Maverick ! how much did  think about the 
widow ? " 
" I should say, from a cursory examination of 
the subject, that your thoughts would be of less 
consequence — excuse me — to a pious and respectable 
widow, than — how many times fifteen ? 
Without doubt, a serious lack of taste on the part 
of a widow ; but, I fear, a fatal fact." 
" But, Maverick ! I know a man on East Street 
whom I never could make up my mind to look in 
the face again, if he should see the bill for
santalina in those carriage cushions ! " 
The bill was on file, undoubtedly, suggested 
Maverick. Allow her friend an opportunity to 
see it, by all means. 
" Maverick ! do you see that shawl on the arm 
