The intentions of the married pair, in fact, ran exactly contrary to
one another. John meant to bring Lillie to a sober, rational, useful
family life; and Lillie meant to run a career of fashionable display,
and make John pay for it.
Neither, at present, stated their purposes precisely to the other,
because they were “honey-mooning.” John, as yet, was the enraptured
lover; and Lillie was his pink and white sultana,—his absolute
mistress, her word was law, and his will was hers. How the case was
ever to be reversed, so as to suit the terms of the marriage service,
John did not precisely inquire.
But, when husband and wife start in life with exactly opposing
intentions, which, think you, is likely to conquer,—the man, or
the woman? That is a very nice question, and deserves further
consideration.
CHAPTER VI.
HONEY-MOON, AND AFTER.
WE left Mr. and Mrs. John Seymour honey-mooning. The honey-moon, dear
ladies, is supposed to be the period of male subjection. The young
queen is enthroned; and the first of her slaves walks obediently in her
train, carries her fan, her parasol, runs of her errands, packs her
trunk, writes her letters, buys her any thing she cries for, and is
ready to do the impossible for her, on every suitable occasion.
A great strong man sometimes feels awkwardly, when thus led captive;
but the greatest, strongest, and most boastful, often go most
obediently under woman-rule; for which, see Shakspeare, concerning
Cleopatra and Julius Cæsar and Mark Antony.
But then all kingdoms, and all sway, and all authority must come to
an end. Nothing lasts, you see. The plain prose of life must have its
turn, after the poetry and honey-moons—stretch them out to their utmost
limit—have their terminus.
So, at the end of six weeks, John and Lillie, somewhat dusty and
travel-worn, were received by Grace into the old family-mansion at
Springdale.
Grace had read her Bible and Fénelon to such purpose, that she had
accepted her cross with open arms.
Dear reader, Grace was not a severe, angular, old-maid sister, ready to
snarl at the advent of a young beauty; but an elegant and accomplished
woman, with a wide culture, a trained and disciplined mind, a
charming taste, and polished manners; and, above all, a thorough
self-understanding and discipline. Though past thirty, she still had
admirers and lovers; yet, till now, her brother, insensibly to herself,
had blocked up the doorway of her heart; and the perfectness of the
fraternal friendship had prevented the wish and the longing by which
some fortunate man might have found and given happiness.
Grace had resolved she would love her new sister; that she would look
upon all her past faults and errors with eyes of indulgence; that she
would put out of her head every story she ever had heard against her,
and unite with her brother to make her lot a happy one.
“John is so good a man,” she said to Miss Letitia Ferguson, “that I am
sure Lillie cannot but become a good woman.”
So Grace adorned the wedding with her presence, in an elegant Parisian
dress, ordered for the occasion, and presented the young bride with a
set of pearl and amethyst that were perfectly bewitching, and kisses
and notes of affection had been exchanged between them; and during
various intervals, and for weeks past, Grace had been pleasantly
employed in preparing the family-mansion to receive the new mistress.
John’s bachelor apartments had been new furnished, and furbished, and
made into a perfect bower of roses.
The rest of the house, after the usual household process of
purification, had been rearranged, as John and his sister had always
kept it since their mother’s death in the way that she loved to see
it. There was something quaint and sweet and antique about it, that
suited Grace. Its unfashionable difference from the smart, flippant,
stereotyped rooms of to-day had a charm in her eyes.
Lillie, however, surveyed the scene, the first night that she took
possession, with a quiet determination to re-modernize on the very
earliest opportunity. What would Mrs. Frippit and Mrs. Nippit say to
such rooms, she thought. But then there was time enough to attend
to that. Not a shade of these internal reflections was visible in
her manner. She said, “Oh, how sweet! How perfectly charming! How
splendid!” in all proper places; and John was delighted.
She also fell into the arms of Grace, and kissed her with effusion; and
John saw the sisterly union, which he had anticipated, auspiciously
commencing.
The only trouble in Grace’s mind was from a terrible sort of
clairvoyance that seems to beset very sincere people, and makes them
sensitive to the presence of any thing unreal or untrue. Fair and soft
and caressing as the new sister was, and determined as Grace was to
believe in her, and trust her, and like her,—she found an invisible,
chilly barrier between her heart and Lillie. She scolded herself, and,
