of hailing a stage, and changing the conversation. The farther down town
they went the busier the street grew; and about the Astor House, where
they alighted, there was already a bustle that nothing but a fire could
have created at the same hour in Boston. A little farther on the steeple
of Trinity rose high into the scorching sunlight, while below, in the
shadow that was darker than it was cool, slumbered the old graves among
their flowers.
“How still they lie!” mused the happy wife, peering through the iron
fence in passing.
“Yes, their wedding-journeys are ended, poor things!” said Basil; and
through both their minds flashed the wonder if they should ever come to
something like that; but it appeared so impossible that they both smiled
at the absurdity.
“It’s too early yet for Leonard,” continued Basil; “what a pity the
church-yard is locked up. We could spend the time so delightfully in
it. But, never mind; let us go down to the Battery,--it’s not a
very pleasant place, but it’s near, and it’s historical, and it’s
open,--where these drowsy friends of ours used to take the air when
they were in the fashion, and had some occasion for the element in its
freshness. You can imagine--it’s cheap--how they used to see Mr. Burr
and Mr. Hamilton down there.”
All places that fashion has once loved and abandoned are very
melancholy; but of all such places, I think the Battery is the most
forlorn. Are there some sickly locust-trees there that cast a tremulous
and decrepit shade upon the mangy grass-plots? I believe so, but I do
not make sure; I am certain only of the mangy grass-plots, or rather the
spaces between the paths, thinly overgrown with some kind of refuse and
opprobrious weed, a stunted and pauper vegetation proper solely to the
New York Battery. At that hour of the summer morning when our friends,
with the aimlessness of strangers who are waiting to do something else,
saw the ancient promenade, a few scant and hungry-eyed little boys and
girls were wandering over this weedy growth, not playing, but moving
listlessly to and fro, fantastic in the wild inaptness of their
costumes. One of these little creatures wore, with an odd involuntary
jauntiness, the cast-off best drew of some happier child, a gay little
garment cut low in the neck and short in the sleeves, which gave her the
grotesque effect of having been at a party the night before. Presently
came two jaded women, a mother and a grandmother, that appeared, when
they had crawled out of their beds, to have put on only so much clothing
as the law compelled. They abandoned themselves upon the green stuff,
whatever it was, and, with their lean hands clasped outside their knees,
sat and stared, silent and hopeless, at the eastern sky, at the heart of
the terrible furnace, into which in those days the world seemed cast to
be burnt up, while the child which the younger woman had brought with
her feebly wailed unheeded at her side. On one side of these women
were the shameless houses out of which they might have crept, and which
somehow suggested riotous maritime dissipation; on the other side were
those houses in which had once dwelt rich and famous folk, but which
were now dropping down the boarding-house scale through various
un-homelike occupations to final dishonor and despair. Down nearer the
water, and not far from the castle that was once a playhouse and is now
the depot of emigration, stood certain express-wagons, and about these
lounged a few hard-looking men. Beyond laughed and danced the fresh blue
water of the bay, dotted with sails and smokestacks.
“Well,” said Basil, “I think if I could choose, I should like to be a
friendless German boy, setting foot for the first time on this happy
continent. Fancy his rapture on beholding this lovely spot, and these
charming American faces! What a smiling aspect life in the New World
must wear to his young eyes, and how his heart must leap within him!”
“Yes, Basil; it’s all very pleasing, and thank you for bringing me. But
if you don’t think of any other New York delights to show me, do let us
go and sit in Leonard’s office till he comes, and then get out into the
country as soon as possible.”
Basil defended himself against the imputation that he had been trying
to show New York to his wife, or that he had any thought but of whiling
away the long morning hours, until it should be time to go to Leonard.
He protested that a knowledge of Europe made New York the most
uninteresting town in America, and that it was the last place in the
world where he should think of amusing himself or any one else; and then
they both upbraided the city’s bigness and dullness with an enjoyment
that none but Bostonians can know. They particularly derided the notion
of New York’s being loved by any one. It was immense, it was grand in
some ways, parts of it were exceedingly handsome; but it was too vast,
too coarse, too restless. They could imagine its being liked by a
successful young man of business, or by a rich young girl, ignorant of
life and with not too nice a taste in her pleasures; but that it should
be dear to any poet or scholar, or any woman of wisdom and refinement,
that they could not imagine. They could not think of any one’s loving
New York as Dante loved Florence, or as Madame de Stael loved Paris, or
as Johnson loved black, homely, home-like London. And as they twittered
