beginning to use less of the slang which she had picked up during her
long apprenticeship to a street life. Though her position, even at Mrs.
Merton’s, had not been as favorable as it might have been elsewhere, the
influences were far better than in the home (if it deserved the name) in
which she had been reared, and the association of the school which she
attended had, likewise, been of advantage to her. I do not wish it to be
understood that Tom had in three months changed from a young Arab into a
refined young lady. That would be hardly possible; but she had begun to
change, and she could never again be quite the wild, reckless girl whose
acquaintance we made at the street-crossing.
Tom went out with Mrs. Murphy, helping her to carry her basket of
apples. Leaving her at her accustomed stand, she went to the newspaper
offices, and laid in a small supply. With these she went to Fulton
Ferry, partly because she fancied that there was no danger of granny’s
coming there in pursuit of her. Even if the encounter did take place she
was resolved not to go back. Still it was better to avoid it altogether.
Tom was rather late in the field. Most of her competitors had been
selling papers for an hour, and some had already sold quite a number.
However, not being in the least bashful, she managed to obtain her share
of the trade that remained. The boats came in at frequent intervals,
loaded down with passengers,—clerks, shop-boys, merchants, bankers,
book-keepers, operatives, who made a home in Brooklyn, but spent the day
in the busy metropolis.
“Morning papers, sir?” asked Tom, to a rather portly gentleman, who did
business in Wall Street.
“Yes; give me the ‘Herald.’”
He drew a coin from his pocket, and handed to Tom.
“Never mind about the change,” he said.
Tom was about to put it in her pocket, supposing from the size that it
was a five-cent piece; but, chancing to glance at it more particularly,
she saw that it was a five-dollar gold piece.
Her eyes sparkled with joy. To her it was an immense fortune. She had
never, in all her life, had so much money before. “But did he mean to
give her so much?” was the question that suggested itself to her
immediately. He had, to be sure, told her to keep the change, but Tom
knew too much of human nature and the ways of the world to think it
likely that anybody would pay five dollars in gold for a morning paper,
without asking for a return of the change.
Now I am quite aware that in three cases out of four the lucky
news-vender would have profited by the mistake, and never thought of
offering to correct it. Indeed, I am inclined to think that Tom herself
would have done the same three months before. Even now she was strongly
tempted to do so. But she remembered the false charge that had been made
against her by Mrs. Merton the day before, and the indignation she felt.
“If I keep this, and it’s ever found out, she’ll be sure I took the
twenty dollars,” thought Tom. “I won’t do it. I won’t let her call me a
thief. I’ll give it back.”
The purchaser of the paper was already half through Fulton Market before
Tom made up her mind to return the money. She started on a run, afraid
her resolution might give way if she stopped to consider.
She easily recognized the man who had paid her the money.
“Mister,” said Tom, touching him to attract his attention.
“What’s wanted?” he inquired, looking at our heroine.
“Did you mean to give me this?” and Tom displayed the gold piece.
“Did I give it to you?”
“Yes, you bought a ‘Herald,’ you know, and told me to keep the change.”
“Well, why didn’t you?” he asked, in some curiosity.
“I thought you made a mistake.”
“I shouldn’t have found it out. Didn’t you want to keep it?”
“Yes,” said Tom, unhesitatingly.
“Why didn’t you?”
“I thought it would be stealing.”
“You’re a natural phenomenon!”
“Is that a bad name?” demanded Tom.
“No, not in this case. So I told you to keep the change, did I?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Then you’d better do it.”
“Do you mean it?” asked Tom, astonished.
“To be sure. I never break my word.”
“Then I’ll do it,” said Tom. “Aint I in luck this morning, though?”
“Yes, I think you are. As I probably know more of business than you, my
young friend, will you permit me to give you a piece of advice?”
“All right,” said Tom.
“Then, as gold is at a premium, you had better sell that gold piece, and
take the value in currency.”
“Where can I sell it?” asked Tom.
“I don’t, in general, solicit business, but, if you have confidence in
my integrity, you may call at my office, No. — Wall Street, any time
to-day, and I will give you the market value of the gold.”
“I don’t understand all them big words,” said Tom, rather puzzled, “but
