in the morning," Uncle Eobert said, smilingly. " The 
earliest is at three, I believe." 
Freddy was in a state of supreme exaltation. He 
had at last become the owner of a pretty silver watch 
in a hunting-case. It was a sore temptation to wind 
it up about every five minutes, for it seemed as if it 
must run down or something happen to it. 
Kathie had not been forgotten. General Mackenzie 
had brought her a beautiful chromo, which was not 
 
unveiled to curious eyes until Christmas morning. 
And here was a set of the poems she loved, and stray 
books for which she had expressed a longing. 
" I began to think there was nothing else for me to 
have," she said, archly. 
" Did you suppose that you had gone to the end 
of pleasures so soon ? " asked Uncle Robert. 
" No, I can never do that " ; and her soft eyes were 
lustrous with emotion. 
A lovely day with a crisp, fresh air, not too cold for 
sleigh-riding, and the whole world seemed musical 
with the undertone of bells. They all went to church 
in the morning, and then had a quiet dinner. It was 
so good to have Aunt Ruth once more that Kathie 
almost dreaded the advent of any one. There were 
so many dear old events to talk over. 
She only went down to the Morrisons' to light their 
tree and witness the children's joy. Ethel's father 
had come back for a brief visit. He was doing very 
well indeed, and thought another year he might ven- 
ture to take his little daughter out with him. 
Fred came home from every tree laden with spoils. 
His mother felt quite sure that he would make him- 
self sick eating so many cakes and candies, and be- 
 
sought him to save his appetite for the party. At 
last he began his grand dressing operations, but came 
to a dead halt about his neck-ribbon. What color 
did Aunt Euth think the prettiest ? Kathie was sure 
to say blue, but he wore blue to school and every- 
where. 
" I think I have a pretty lavender one," said Aunt 
Ruth. 
She found it, and tied it to perfection. Kathie 
scented his handkerchief with her " Kiss me quick," 
and gave him a fond kiss herself. 
"Why, it is almost like the time you went to a 
party," exclaimed Freddy, " ever and ever so long ago 
in a blue silk dress." 
Kathie laughed merrily. She could never forget 
that Cinderella episode. 
"Bat you are grander still," she answered. "I 
did not have any Uncle Robert, nor any ponies and 
sleigh." 
Mr. Meredith and Jessie were over a little while 
in the evening. Kathie felt that it had been a very 
happy day, if a quiet one. Her heart seemed full 
to overflowing. 
Fred's party was a brilliant success. Several little 
girls kissed him for the prettiest, and he danced in 
every set. His head ached a little the next morning, 
and he did not want any breakfast, but by noon he 
was out snowballing, as merry as a cricket. 
Kathie went over to Emma's on Tuesday afternoon 
and stayed all night with her. She had wanted Ka- 
thie for her bridesmaid at first, but this had not been 
deemed advisable, so Sue Coleman was to stand 
instead, with a friend of Mr. Langdon. Kathie took 
her pretty gift with her. There would be no display 
of bridal presents, or, indeed, of any kind. A simple 
marriage in church with a few friends present, and a 
serious taking up of the new life before them. Yet 
Emma was very happy with the tender joy of love 
and trust. During her brief engagement she had 
grown into her lover's heart to be a part of himself. 
Somewhere their lives had touched and assimilated, 
and they were not the lives to stray off again into 
tangled or hidden paths. 
There was a larger concourse than they had ex- 
pected. Emma was in an exquisitely becoming trav- 
