to him. When I get a house you'll all be glad to come and see me, I
shall make it so bright and sunny and funny, and give you such lovely
things to eat; and in my house everybody shall do just as they please,
and have their own way if they can find out what it is. I know people
will like it."
"I believe you, Pussy," said Mr. Van Arsdel; "but houses don't grow on
bushes, you know."
"Well, haven't I six thousand dollars, all my own, that grandma left
me?"
"And how much of a house do you think that would buy?"
"Perhaps as big a one as you and mother began in."
"You never would be satisfied with such a house as we began in."
"Why not? Are we any better than you were?"
"No. But nowadays no young folks are contented to do as we did."
"Then, papa, you are going to see a new thing upon the earth, for Harry
and I am going to be pattern folks for being rational and contented. We
are going to start out on a new tack and bring in the golden age. But,
bless me! there's Aunt Maria coming down the street! Now, Harry, comes
the tug of war. I am going now to emancipate mamma and proclaim the new
order of things," and out she flitted.
"Mr. Henderson," said Mr. Van Arsdel, when she had gone, "I think it is
about certain that I am to look on you as a future member of our family.
I'll be fair with you, that you may take steps with your eyes open. My
daughters are supposed to be heiresses, but, as things are tending, in a
very short time I may be put back to where I started in life and have
all to begin over. My girls will have nothing. I see such a crisis
impending and I have no power to help it."
"My dear sir," said I, "while I shall be sorry for your trouble, and
hope it may not come, I shall be only too glad to prove my devotion to
Eva."
"It is evident," said Mr. Arsdel, "that her heart is set on you, and,
after all, the only true comfort is in having the one you want. I myself
never cared for fashion, Mr. Henderson, nor parties, nor any of this
kind of fuss and show the women think so much of; and I believe that Eva
is a little like me. I like to go back to the old place in summer and
eat huckleberries and milk, and see the cows come home from pasture, and
sit in father's old arm-chair. It wouldn't take so much running and
scheming and hard thinking and care to live, if folks were all of my
mind. Why, up in New Hampshire where I came from, there's scarcely ever
an estate administered upon that figures up more than five thousand
dollars, and yet they all live well--have nice houses, nice tables, give
money in charity, and make a good thing of life."
There was something really quite pathetic in this burst of confidence
from the worthy man. Perhaps I was the first one to whom he had
confessed the secret apprehensions with which he was struggling.
"You see, Mr. Henderson, you never can tell about investments. Stocks
that seem to stand as firm as the foundations of the earth, that the
very oldest and shrewdest and longest-headed put into, run down and
depreciate--and when they get running you can't draw out, you see. Now I
advanced capital for the new Lightning Line Railroad to the amount of
two hundred thousand, and pledged my Guatemala stock for the money, and
then arose this combination against the Guatemala stock, and it has
fallen to a fourth of its value in six months, and it takes heavy
rowing--heavy. I'd a great deal rather be in father's old place, with an
estate of five thousand dollars, and read my newspaper in peace, than to
have all I have with the misery of managing it. I may work out and I may
not."
CHAPTER XXXIX.
ACCEPTED AND ENGAGED.
And so at last I was accepted, and my engagement with Eva was recognized
as a fait accompli.
In the family of my betrothed were all shades of acquiescence. Mrs. Van
Arsdel was pensively resigned to me as a mysterious dispensation of
Providence. Mr. Van Arsdel, though not in any way demonstrative, showed
an evident disposition to enter into confidential relations with me. Ida
was whole-hearted and cordial; and Alice, after a little reconnoitering,
joined our party as a gay, generous young girl, naturally disposed to
make the best of things, and favorably inclined toward the interests of
young lovers.
Mr. Trollope, in The Small House at Allington, represents a young man
just engaged, as feeling himself in the awkward position of a captive
led out in triumph, for exhibition. The lady and her friends are spoken
of as marching him forth with complacency, like a prize ox with ribbons
in his horns, unable to repress the exhibition of their delight in
having entrapped him. One would infer from this picture of life such a
scarcity of marriageable men that the capture even of such game as young
Crosbie, who is represented to be an untitled young man, without fortune
or principle, is an occasion of triumph.
In our latitudes, we of the stronger sex are not taught to regard
ourselves as such overpoweringly delightful acquisitions, and the
