rather see there, except perhaps Thackeray ; 
or, for entertainment, Boswell ; or old Pepys ; or 
one of the people who was left out of the Ark. 
They were talking one foggy London night at 
Hazlitt's about whom they would most like to 
have seen, when Charles Lamb startled the company by declaring that he would rather have 
seen Judas Iscariot than any other person who 
had lived on the earth. For myself, I would 
rather have seen Lamb himself once, than to 
have lived with Judas. Herbert, to my great 
delight, has not changed ; I should know him 
anywhere, the * same serious, contemplative 
face, with lurking humor at the corners of the 
mouth, the same cheery laugh and clear, distinct 
enunciation as of old. There is nothing 
so winning as a good voice. To see Herbert 
again, unchanged in all outward essentials, is 
not only gratifying, but valuable as a testimony 
to nature's success in holding on to a personal 
identity, through the entire change of matter 
that had been constantly taking place for so 
many years. I know very well there is here 
no part of the Herbert whose hand I had shaken 
at the Commencement parting ; but it is an 
astonishing reproduction of him, a material 
likeness ; and now for the spiritual. 

Such a wide chance for divergence in the 
spiritual. It has been such a busy world for 
twenty years. So many things have been torn 
up by the roots again that were settled when 
we left college. There were to be no more 
wars ; democracy was democracy, and progress, 
the differentiation of the individual, was a mere 
question of clothes ; if you want to be different, 
go to your tailor ; nobody had demonstrated that 
there is a man-soul and a woman-soul, and that 
each is in reality only a half-soul, putting the 
race, so to speak, upon the half-shell. The social 
oyster being opened, there appears to be two 
shells and only one oyster ; who shall have it ? 
So many new canons of taste, of criticism, of 
morality have been set up ; there has been such 
a resurrection of historical reputations for new 
judgment, and there have been so many discoveries, geographical, archaeological, geological, bio 
logical, that the earth is not at all what it was 
supposed to be ; and our philosophers are much 
more anxious to ascertain where we came from 
than whither we are going. In this whirl and 
turmoil of new ideas, nature, which has only the 
single end of maintaining the physical identity 
in the body, works on undisturbed, replacing 
particle lor particle, and preserving the likeness 
more skilfully than a mosaic artist in the Vati 
can ; she has not even her materials sorted and 
labelled, as the Roman artist has his thousands 
of bits of color ; and man is all the while doing 
his best to confuse the process, by changing his 
climate, his diet, all his surroundings, without 
the least care to remain himself. But the mind ? 
It is more difficult to get acquainted with 
Herbert than with an entire stranger, for I have 
my prepossessions about him, and do not find 
him in so many places where I expect to find 
him. He is full of criticism of the authors I 
admire ; he thinks stupid or improper the books 
I most read ; he is sceptical about the " movements " I am interested in ; he has formed very 
different opinions from mine concerning a hun 
dred men and women of the present day ; we 
used to eat from one dish ; we couldn't now 
find anything in common in a dozen ; his pre 
judices (as we call our opinions) are most ex 
traordinary, and not half so reasonable as my 
prejudices ; there are a great many persons and 
things that I am accustomed to denounce, un- 
contradicted by anybody, which he defends ; his 
public opinion is not at all my public opinion. I 
am sorry for him. He appears to have fallen into 
influences and among a set of people foreign to me. 
I find that his church has a different steeple on 
