children, had his face shamefully disfigured. It did 
not happen with us, though our bar-keeper would 
have done it without hesitation. This young man 
had been going down, down, down, for a year or two, 
until he was at the bottom of the ladder. His wife 
had left him and gone to her friends. He was out 
of a place, for no one in business would have him. 
One night about eleven o clock he was found 
asleep in one of the boxes of a well-known restau 
rant, where he had emptied his pockets of the few 
small coins he had borrowed from some old ac 
quaintance who could not deny him. 
" Dead beat !" exclaimed a man who had his at 
tention called to him. 
" Dead beat it is !" responded another, with a 
laugh. Both knew him, and knew from what a 
height into this fearful depth he had fallen. 
" I'm going to label him," said a bar-keeper, and 
he took from a drawer a stick of caustic. Three or 
four men looked on without a word of remonstrance, 
and saw him write the letters D. B. on the young 
man 's forehead. He was then turned into the street 
with the red brand burnt on his flesh. 
It was meant as a bit of cruel sport, but wrought 
the young man 's reformation. When he looked into 
a glass on the next morning to see what gave the 
strange hot tightness to his forehead, and saw D. B. 
there in great red capitals, he was so shocked and 
pained and humiliated that he made a vow never to 
pass through the door of a tavern again so long 
as he lived. 
As far as I know to the contrary, he has kept his 
promise. It was a great many weeks before the red 
letters faded away, and before he ventured on the 
street again. But when he did go out, he went earn 
estly to work in the store of a relative who w;ts 
moved to give him a chance. He is to-day in a good 
business, steady and prosperous, with his family 
around him. 
In another case the son of a well-known lawyer 
in the city who had his wine for dinner and served 
it to his guests fell naturally into drinking habits. 
At twenty-one he was a very fast young man. At 
twenty-four he was clear out of his depth, a sorrow 
and a shame to his friends. 
He came into our place one bitter cold night in 
winter, tipsy as a lord, and drank with a couple of 
cronies who were with him. Afterward they tried 
to get him away, but he was growing very stupid 
and refused to go. So they left him. He got a 
newspaper after he was alone and tried to read, but 
 
soon fell asleep. It was after eleven o clock when he 
came, and it was getting on toward twelve. 
" You must get that fellow out, Bill," said Lloyd 
to our bar-keeper. 
"All right," answered Bill, who went over to 
where the young man sat asleep in his chair. His 
head had fallen back and his mouth was wide open. 
His young, almost boyish, face, marred so sadly by 
dissipation, had a sad and suffering expression. None 
but the hardened or cruel could look upon it with 
out pity. 
" Time to go !" said Bill, giving him a rough 
shake. 
But he might almost as well have tried to arouse 
the dead. He was sleeping the drunkard 's heavy 
sleep. 
Then with his huge hand he gripped the back of 
his neck and lifted him by main strength. 
" Stand up, sir! There, now!" and Bill tried to 
steady him on his feet. But the nerveless limbs 
gave way, and the sleeper fell heavily on the floor, 
striking the back of his head against the leg of a 
table. 
No one interfered or offered any remonstrance. 
" I 'll fetch him," said Bill, with the lively interest 
of one engaged in some favorite sport. We always 
had hot water on the stove ready for making punches. 
He filled a pint measure half full of this, and put in 
