all that was going on, detected this action, and he became suspicious
that Phil had bought supper out of his earnings.
“Why did you give your bread to Giuseppe?” he demanded.
“Because I was not hungry,” answered Phil.
“Why were you not hungry? Did you buy some supper?”
“No, signore.”
“Then you should be hungry.”
“A kind lady gave me some supper.”
“How did it happen?”
“I knew her son. His name is Paolo. He asked me to go home with him.
Then he gave me a good supper.”
“How long were you there? You might have been playing and brought me
some more money,” said the padrone, who, with characteristic meanness,
grudged the young fiddler time to eat the meal that cost him nothing.
“It was not long, signore.”
“You can eat what is given you, but you must not waste too much time.”
A boy entered next, who showed by his hesitating manner that he did
not anticipate a good reception. The padrone, accustomed to judge by
appearances, instantly divined this.
“Well, Ludovico,” he said, sharply, “what do you bring me?”
“Pardon, padrone,” said Ludovico, producing a small sum of money.
“I could not help it.”
“Seventy-five cents,” repeated the padrone, indignantly. “You have been
idle, you little wretch!”
“No, padrone. Indeed, I did my best. The people would not give me
money.”
“Where did you go?”
“I was in Brooklyn.”
“You have spent some of the money.”
“No, padrone.”
“You have been idle, then. No supper to-night. Pietro, my stick!”
Pietro was one of the older boys. He was ugly physically, and his
disposition corresponded with his appearance. He could have few good
traits, or he would not have possessed the confidence of the padrone.
He was an efficient assistant of the latter, and co-operated with him in
oppressing the other boys. Indeed, he was a nephew of the padrone’s,
and for this reason, as well as his similarity of disposition, he was
treated with unusual indulgence. Whenever the padrone felt suspicious
of any of the boys, he usually sent them out in company with Pietro, who
acted as a spy, faithfully reporting all that happened to his principal.
Pietro responded with alacrity to the command of the padrone, and
produced a stout stick, which he handed to his uncle.
“Now strip off your jacket,” said the padrone, harshly.
“Spare me, padrone! Do not beat me! It was not my fault,” said the
unhappy Ludovico, imploringly.
“Take off your jacket!” repeated the padrone, pitilessly.
One look of that hard face might have taught Ludovico, even if he had
not witnessed the punishment so often inflicted on other boys, that
there was no hope for him.
“Help him, Pietro,” said the padrone.
Pietro seized Ludovico’s jacket, and pulled it off roughly. Then he drew
off the ragged shirt which the boy wore underneath, and his bare back
was exposed to view.
“Hold him, Pietro!”
In Pietro’s firm grasp, the boy was unable to stir. The padrone whirled
the stick aloft, and brought it down upon the naked flesh, leaving
behind a fearful wheal.
Ludovico shrieked aloud, and again implored mercy, but in vain, for the
stick descended again and again.
Meanwhile the other boys looked on, helpless to interfere. The more
selfish were glad that they had escaped, though not at all sure but it
would be their turn next evening. There were others who felt a passive
sympathy for their unlucky comrade. Others were filled with indignation
at the padrone, knowing how cruel and unjust were his exactions. Among
these was Phil. Possessed of a warm and sympathetic heart, he never
witnessed these cruel punishments without feeling that he would like to
see the padrone suffering such pain as he inflicted upon others.
“If I were only a man,” he often thought, “I would wrench the stick from
his hand, and give him a chance to feel it.”
But he knew too well the danger of permitting his real sentiments to be
reflected in his face. It would only bring upon him a share of the same
punishment, without benefiting those who were unfortunate enough to
receive it.
When Ludovico’s punishment was ended, he was permitted to go to bed,
but without his supper. Nor was his the only case. Five other boys were
subjected to the same punishment. The stick had no want of exercise
on that evening. Here were nearly forty boys, subjected to excessive
fatigue, privation, and brutal treatment daily, on account of the greed
of one man. The hours that should been given in part to instruction, and
partly to such recreation as the youthful heart craves, were devoted to
