his statement by accidentally crushing through and disappearing 
to his arm -pits. He got out and we hunted for the path with 
the lantern. He said there was only one path and that it was 
but vaguely defined. "We could not find it. The lava surface 
was all alike in the lantern light. But he was an ingenious 
man. lie said it was not the lantern that had informed him 
that we were out of the path, bat his feet. He had noticed a 
crisp grinding of line lava-needles under his feet, and some 
instinct reminded him that in the path these were all worn 
away. So he put the lantern behind him, and began to search 
with his boots instead of his eyes. It was good sagacity. The 
first time his foot touched a surface that did not grind under 
it he announced that the trail was found again ; and after that 
we kept up a sharp listening for the rasping sound and it always 
warned us in time. 
It was a long tramp, but an exciting one. We reached the 
North Lake between ten and eleven o'clock, and sat down on 
a huge overhanging lava-shelf, tired but satisfied. The specta- 
cle presented was worth coming double the distance to see. 
Under us, and stretching away before us, was a heaving sea of 
molten fire of seemingly limitless extent. The glare from it 
was so blinding that it was some time before we could bear to 
look upon it steadily. It was like gazing at the sun at noon- 
day, except that the glare was not quite so white. At unequal 
distances all around the shores of the lake were nearly white- 
hot chimneys or hollow drums of lava, four or five feet high, 
and up through them were bursting gorgeous sprays of lava- 
gouts and gem spangles, some white, some red and some golden 
— a ceaseless bombardment, and one that fascmated the eye 
with its unapproachable splendor. The more distant jets, 
eparkling up through an intervening gossamer veil of vapor, 
seemed miles away ; and the furtlier the curving ranks of fiery 
fountains receded, the more foiry-like and beautiful they 
appeared. 
Now and then the surging bosom of the lake under our noses 
would calm down ominously and seem to be gatliering streno-th 
for an enterprise ; and then all of a sudden a red dome of lava 
of the bulk of an ordinary dwelling would heave itself aloft 
like an escaping balloon, then burst asunder, and out of its 
heart would flit a jDale-green film of vapor, and float upward 
and vanish in the darkness — a released soul soaring homeward 
from captivity with the damned, no doubt. The crashing 
plunge of the ruined dome into the lake again would send a 
world of seething billows lashing against the shores and shaking 
the foundations of our perch. By and by, a loosened mass of 
the hanging shelf we sat on tumbled into the lake, jarring the 
surroundings like an earthquake and delivering a suggestion 
that may have been intended for a hint, and may not. We did 
not wait to see. ' 
We got lost again on our way back, and were more than an 
hour hunting for the path. We were where we could see the 
beacon lantern at the look-out house at the time, but thought 
it was a star and paid no attention to it. We reached the hotel 
at two o'clock in the morning pretty well fagged out. 
Kilauea never overflows its vast crater, but bursts a passage 
for its lava through the mountain side when relief is necessary, 
and then the destruction is fearful. About 1840 it rent its 
overburdened stomach and sent a broad river of fire careering 
down to the sea, which swept away forests, huts, plantations 
and every thing else that lay in its path.* The stream was fA)e 
"miles broad, in places, and tioo hundred feet deep, and the dis- 
tance it traveled was forty miles. It tore up and bore away 
acre-patches of land on its bosom like rafts — rocks, trees and 
all intact. At night the red glare was visible a hundred miles 
at sea ; and at a distance of forty miles fine print could be read 
at midnight. Tiie atmosphere was poisoned with sulphurous 
vapors and choked with falling ashes, pumice stones and cin- 
ders ; countless columns of smoke rose up and blended together 
in a tumbled canopy that hid the heavens and glowed with a 
ruddy flush reflected froui the iires below ; here and there jets 
of lava sprung hundreds of feet into the air and burst into rocket-sprays 
that returned to earth in a crimson rain ; and all the 
while the laboring mountain shook with Nature's great palsy 
and voiced its distress in moanings and the muflled booming 
of subterranean thunders. 
Fishes 'vero killed for twenty miles along the shore, where 
the lava entered the sea. The earthquakes caused some loss 
of human life, and a prodigious tidal wave swept inland, carry- 
ing every thing before it and drowning a numlier of natives. 
The devastation consummated along the route traversed by the 
