the coast of the bay, within recent historic periods, in 
different spots at different times, has risen and sunk and 
risen again, in simple obedience to the pulsations of the 
great fiery monster below. It puffs up or sinks, like the 
crust of a baking apple-pie. This region is evidently 
not done ; and I think it not unlikely it may have to be 
turned over again before it is. We had seen where Her- 
culaneum lies under the lava and under the town of Re- 
sina ; we had walked those clean and narrow streets of 
Pompeii, and seen the workmen picking away at the 
embedded gravel, sand, and ashes which still cover 
nearly two-thirds of the nice little, tight little Roman 
city ; we had looked at the black gashes on the moun- 
tain-sides, Avhere the lava streams had gushed and rolled 
and twisted over vineyards and villas and villages ; and 
we decided to take a nearer look at the immediate cause 
of all this abnormal state of things. 
In the morning when I awoke the sun was just rising 
behind Vesuvius ; and there was a mighty display of gold, 
and crimson in that quarter, as if the curtain was about 
to be lifted on a grand performance,   — say a ballet at 
San Carlo, which is the only thing the Neapolitans think 
worth looking at. Straight up in the air, out of the 
mountain, rose a white pillar, spreading out at the top 
like a palm-tree, or, to compare it to something I have 
seen, to the Italian pines, that come so picturesquely into 
all these Naples pictures. If you will believe me, that 
pillar of steam was like a column of fire, from the sun 
shining on and through it, and perhaps from the reflec- 
tion of the background of crimson clouds and blue and 
gold sky, spread out there and hung there in royal and 
extravagant profusion, to make a highway and a regal 
gateway, through which I could just then see coming the 
horses and the chariot of a southern perfect day. They 
said that the tree-shaped cloud was the sign of an erup- 
tion ; but the hotel-keepers here are always predicting 
that. The eruption is usually about two or three weeks 
distant ; and the hotel proprietors get this information 
from experienced guides, who observe the action of the 
water in the wells ; so that there can be no mistake about 
it. 
We took carriages at nine o'clock to Resina, a drive 
of four miles, and one of exceeding interest, if you wish 
to see Naples life. The way is round the curving bay 
by the sea; but so continuously built up is it, and so 
enclosed with high walls of villas, through the open 
gates of which the golden oranges gleam, that you seem 
never to leave the city. The streets and quays swarm 
with the most vociferous, dirty, multitudinous life. It is 
a drive through Rag Fair. The tall, whitey-yellow 
houses fronting the water, six, seven, eight stories high, 
are full as bee-hives ; people are at all the open windows ; 
garments hang from the balconies and from poles thrust 
out; up every narrow, gloomy, ascending street are 
crowds of struggling human shapes ; and you see how 
like herrings in a box are packed the over half a million 
people of Naples. In front of the houses are the mar- 
kets in the open air, — fish, vegetables, carts of oranges ; 
in the sun sit women spinning from distaffs or weaving 
fishing-nets ; and rows of children who were never washed 
and never clothed but once, and whose garments have 
nearly wasted away ; beggars, fishermen in red caps, 
sailors, priests, donkeys, fruit-venders, street-musicians, 
carriages, carts, two-wheeled break-down vehicles, — the 
whole tangled in one wild roar and rush and Babel, — a 
shifting, varied panorama of color, rags, — a pandemonium 
such as the world cannot show elsewhere, — thai is what 
one sees on the road to Resina. The drivers all drive 
in the streets here as if they held a commission from the 
Devil, cracking their whips, shouting to their horses, and 
dashing; into the thickest tangle with entire recklessness. 
They have one cry, used alike for getting more speed out 
of their horses or for checking them, or in warning to 
the endangered crowds on foot. It is an exclamatory 
grunt, which may be partially expressed by the letters 
" a-e-ugh." Everybody shouts it, — mule-driver, "coachee," 
or cattle driver; and even I, a passenger, fancied I could 
do it to disagreeable perfection after a time. Out of this 
throng in the streets I like to select the meek, patient, 
diminutive little donkeys, with enormous panniers that 
