"That's what I just do mean; and I ought to know. If a body once gets
down, there's no chance to get up again, and then the drink comes easy."
"Do you know of anybody in distress near here, Mrs. Staples?" Matilda
asked.
"Half of 'em is, I guess," was the answer.
"But is there anybody you know?"
"Mrs. Binn's little boy is sick," remarked Sarah, as her mother was
pondering.
"What's the matter with him?"
"It's a kind o' waste, they say."
"Not a fever, or anything of that kind?" inquired David.
"O no, sir; he's been wasting, now, these three or four months."
"And they are not comfortable, Sarah?" Matilda asked.
"There's few is, livin' where those lives," said Mrs. Staples; "and of
course, sickness makes things wuss. No, they're fur from comfortable, I
should say."
"They haven't anything to give him," said Sarah low to Matilda.
"Any medicine, you mean?"
"No, Miss Matilda; nothing to eat, that he can eat."
"O David!" exclaimed Matilda, "let us go there. Where is it?"
David inquired again carefully about the sickness, to be sure that he
might take Matilda there; and then they went. Sarah volunteered to
guide them. But how shall I tell what they found. It was not far off, a
few blocks only; in one of a tall row of tenement houses, grim and
dismal, confronted by a like row on the other side of the street. Every
one like every other. But inside, Matilda only remembered how unlike it
was to all she had ever seen in her life before. Even Lilac lane was
pleasantness and comfort comparatively. The house was sound indeed;
there was no tumble-down condition of staircase or walls; the steps
were safe, as they mounted flight after flight. But the entries were
narrow and dirty; the stairways had never seen water; the walls were
begrimed with the countless touches of countless dirty hands and with
the sweeping by of foul draperies. Instinctively Matilda drew her own
close round her. And as they went up and up, further from the street
door, the air grew more close and unbearable; heavy with vapours and
odours that had no chance at any time to feel the purification of a
draught of free air. Poor cookery, soapsuds, unclean humanity and
dirty still life, mingled their various smell in one heavy
undistinguishable oppression.
"Oh, why do people build houses so high!" said little Matilda, as she
toiled with her tired feet up the fourth staircase.
"For more rents, Miss Matilda," said Sarah who preceded them.
"For money!" said Matilda. "How tired the people must be that live
here."
"They don't go down often," Sarah remarked.
At the very top of the house they were at last. There, in the end of
the narrow entry-way, on the floor, was--what? A tumbled heap of dirty
clothes, Matilda thought at first, and was about to pass it to go to
the door which she supposed Sarah was making for; when Sarah stopped
and drew aside a piece of netting that was stretched there. And then
they saw, on the rags which served for his bed covers, the child they
had come to see. A little, withered, shrunken piece of humanity, so
nearly the colour of the rags he lay upon that his dark shock of matted
curly hair made a startling spot in the picture.
"What's the matter, Sarah?" said Matilda in a distressed whisper.
"This is Mrs. Binn's boy, Miss Matilda, that you came to see."
"That? Why does he--why do they put him there?"
"Mrs. Binn's room is so small and so hot. It's there, Miss Matilda;
you'll see it. When she's doing her washing and ironing, the place is
so full of steam and so hot; and there ain't no room for the bed
neither; and so she put Josh here."
Sarah led the way to Mrs. Binn's room, and Matilda followed her in a
bewildered state of mind. She saw as soon as the door was opened the
truth of Sarah's statements. The attic room was so small that Mrs.
Binn's operations must have been carried on with the greatest
difficulty; impossible Matilda would have thought them, but there were
the facts. One dormer window in the roof was effectually shut up and
hindered from its office of admitting air, by the pipe of the stove
which passed out through the sash. As it was the end of the week, no
washing encumbered the six feet clear of space; but the stove was fired
up and Mrs. Binn was ironing and some clothes were hung up to air. It
was neither desirable nor very practicable to go in; only Matilda edged
a little way within the door, and David and Sarah stood at the opening.
"What's all to do?" said Mrs. Binn at this unlooked-for interruption,
stopping iron in hand and peering at them between shirts and overalls
hanging on the cords stretched across the room. She was a red-faced
woman; no wonder! a small, incapable-looking, worn-out-seeming woman
besides.
"This lady has come to see Josh, Mrs. Binn."
"What does she want of him?"
