off easier if he pleaded guilty, and made all the restitution in his
power. The captain had about concluded to do so, but he desired to
consult his counsel.
"It's a light wind, and we must be off at once," said Mr. Hines,
impatiently. "You can go with us, if you like, Squire Gilfilian, but I
can't wait for you to discuss the case."
The squire was willing to go to Rockland, and in half an hour the
Skylark was standing down the bay.
CHAPTER XVIII.
ROBERT BARKESDALE MONTAGUE.
"Well, Captain Chinks, did you find the man who paid that five hundred
dollar bill to Colonel Montague?" asked Squire Gilfilian, as he seated
himself in the standing-room, opposite his client.
"I didn't look for him," replied the captain, studying the seams in the
deck.
"I thought that was what you went down there for. You told me that, in
your opinion, Bobtail here had sent some one down to Bar Harbor to buy
this boat with the money taken from the letter," added the squire, whose
"fine judicial mind" had not yet grasped the truth. "I don't see any
other way that this bill could have got to Bar Harbor."
"Mr. Hines and I saw the man that received the bill for the boat," added
the deputy sheriff.
Captain Chinks looked up at the speaker, as if to entreat him to deal
gently.
"Well, who gave him the bill?" demanded the squire, impatiently.
"The captain can tell you."
"How can he tell me? He didn't see the man. Why didn't you see him,
captain?"
"I had something else to think of," replied the culprit, with the most
woe-begone expression that ever darkened the face of man. "It's no use
for me to try to beat to windward any more. I gave him the bill myself,
Squire Gilfilian. That's the truth."
"You!" gasped the lawyer.
"I gave it to him."
"That can be proved, for Mr. Gordon identified him as he came off the
steamer at Bar Harbor," added Mr. Brooks.
"I don't deny it," said the captain, meekly.
"But where did you get the bill?" asked the squire.
Captain Chinks did not answer immediately. It was too humiliating to
tell the whole truth, and the lawyer seemed to be very slow to
comprehend it.
"I had no more notion of opening that letter than I had of flying," he
said, at last, after the squire had repeated his question.
"Did you open it?"
"I'll tell you just how it was; but, upon my word, I didn't mean to open
it. Bobtail came into your office that day with the two letters in his
hand, one for you and one for me. He gave me one of them, and I tore it
open without looking at the address."
"Did I give you the wrong one?" asked the skipper.
"You did; and that was what made all the mischief," answered the
captain, wishing to lessen his guilt if possible.
"I didn't know I gave you the wrong one. I had no reason for doing so. I
put the other on the desk, as you told me to do," explained Bobtail.
"Yes; you tossed it on the desk, and it fell with the address down. You
went out then, and I found the letter I had opened was for Squire
Gilfilian, and had a five hundred dollar bill in it."
"There was no harm done even then," said the lawyer. "If you had given
it to me and explained the mistake, it would have been all right."
"That's where I made my mistake, squire. I was afraid you would think I
meant to steal your money, or pry into your business, and I put the
letter into my pocket. It came from the bank robbers, and I didn't
suppose you would believe any such letter had been sent to you."
"I didn't till the man identified the bill," replied the squire. "Mrs.
Taylor gave me the bill in the morning, and while I was writing her
release, Mr. Slipwing came into the office. When the woman paid me the
money, I couldn't help wondering where she got so large a bill.
Happening to think of her son's connection with the letter, it occurred
to me that he had opened that letter. Slipwing described the bill before
he saw it, so as fully to identify it. Of course I was entirely
satisfied then that Bobtail had stolen the letter."
"I don't blame you for thinking so," said the skipper.
"It looked like a plain case; but it is singular how that bill came back
to me. You went off to Mount Desert that day, Captain Chinks."
"Yes; I expected a lot of stuff from the provinces. I went to Bar
Harbor, and bought the boat."
"And you paid the bill from the letter for the boat? Now, that brings up
another question. The bill belonged to me, and I claim it. What Mrs.
Taylor paid me amounts to nothing."
"I don't believe you can make that go, Squire Gilfilian," said Mr.
Hines. "If I mistake not, there's a decision the other way."
