resolved. You know me.” Mrs. Dinneford said this passionately.
The two women were silent for a little while. Mrs. Bray, the nurse, kept
her face partly turned from Mrs. Dinneford. She was a short, dry, wiry
little woman, with French features, a sallow complexion and very black
eyes.
The doctor looked in. Mrs. Dinneford went quickly to the door, and
putting her hand on his arm, pressed him back, going out into the entry
with him and closing the door behind them. They talked for a short time
very earnestly.
“The whole thing is wrong,” said the doctor as he turned to go, “and I
will not be answerable for the consequences.”
“No one will require them at your hand, Doctor Radcliffe,” replied
Mrs. Dinneford. “Do the best you can for Edith. As for the rest, know
nothing, say nothing. You understand.”
Doctor Burt Radcliffe had a large practice among rich and fashionable
people. He had learned to be very considerate of their weaknesses,
peculiarities and moral obliquities. His business was to doctor them
when sick, to humor them when they only thought themselves sick, and to
get the largest possible fees for his, services. A great deal came under
his observation that he did not care to see, and of which he saw as
little as possible. From policy he had learned to be reticent. He held
family secrets enough to make, in the hands of a skillful writer, more
than a dozen romances of the saddest and most exciting character.
Mrs. Dinneford knew him thoroughly, and just how far to trust him. “Know
nothing, say nothing” was a good maxim in the case, and so she divulged
only the fact that the baby was to be cast adrift. His weak remonstrance
might as well not have been spoken, and he knew it.
While this brief interview was in progress, Nurse Bray sat with the baby
on her lap. She had taken the soft little hands into her own; and evil
and cruel though she was, an impulse of tenderness flowed into her heart
from the angels who were present with the innocent child. It grew
lovely in her eyes. Its helplessness stirred in her a latent instinct of
protection. “No no, it must not be,” she was saying to herself, when the
door opened and Mrs. Dinneford came back.
Mrs. Bray did not lift her head, but sat looking down at the baby and
toying with its hands.
“Pshaw!” ejaculated Mrs. Dinneford, in angry disgust, as she noticed
this manifestation of interest. “Bundle the thing up and throw into that
basket. Is the woman down stairs?”
“Yes,” replied Mrs. Bray as she slowly drew a light blanket over the
baby.
“Very well. Put it in the basket, and let her take it away.”
“She is not a good woman,” said the nurse, whose heart was failing her
at the last moment.
“She may be the devil for all I care,” returned Mrs. Dinneford.
Mrs. Bray did as she was ordered, but with an evident reluctance that
irritated Mrs. Dinneford.
“Go now and bring up the woman,” she said, sharply.
The woman was brought. She was past the prime of life, and had an evil
face. You read in it the record of bad passions indulged and the signs
of a cruel nature. She was poorly clad, and her garments unclean.
“You will take this child?” said Mrs. Dinneford abruptly, as the woman
came into her presence.
“I have agreed to do so,” she replied, looking toward Mrs. Bray.
“She is to have fifty dollars,” said the nurse.
“And that is to be the last of it!” Mrs. Dinneford’s face was pale, and
she spoke in a hard, husky voice.
Opening her purse, she took from it a small roll of bills, and as she
held out the money said, slowly and with a hard emphasis,
“You understand the terms. I do not know you--not even your name. I
don’t wish to know you. For this consideration you take the child away.
That is the end of it between you and me. The child is your own as much
as if he were born to you, and you can do with him as you please. And
now go.” Mrs. Dinneford waved her hand.
“His name?” queried the woman.
“He has no name!” Mrs. Dinneford stamped her foot in angry impatience.
The woman stooped down, and taking up the basket, tucked the covering
that had been laid over the baby close about its head, so that no one
could see what she carried, and went off without uttering another word.
It was some moments before either Mrs. Dinneford or the nurse spoke.
Mrs. Bray was first to break silence.
“All this means a great deal more than you have counted on,” she said,
in a voice that betrayed some little feeling. “To throw a tender baby
out like that is a hard thing. I am afraid--”
“There, there! no more of that,” returned Mrs. Dinneford, impatiently.
“It’s ugly work, I own, but it had to be done--like cutting off a
diseased limb. He will die, of course, and the sooner it is over, the
better for him and every one else.”
“He will have a hard struggle for life, poor little thing!” said the
nurse. “I would rather see him dead.”
