"Thank you, sir. I have had no doubts; I could see that frame in my mind
as plainly before a stick had been touched as I do now."
"You have done well, and I am quite sure that you will make a yacht of
it. Now, if you will give me a receipt for one hundred dollars, I will
let you have so much towards the price of the Maud, for I suppose you
want to pay your men off to-night."
"I have money enough, sir, to pay my men, and I don't ask you for any
money yet," replied the young boat-builder.
"But I prefer to pay you as the work progresses."
Donald did not object, and wrote the receipt. He was a minor, and his
mother, who was the administratrix of her husband's estate, was the
responsible party in the transaction of business; but he did not like to
sign his mother's name to a receipt, and thus wholly ignore himself,
and, adopting a common fiction in trade, he wrote, "Ramsay and son,"
which he determined should be the style of the firm. Ramsay might mean
his father or his mother, and he had already arranged this matter with
her. Mr. Rodman laughed at the signature, but did not object to it, and
Donald put the money in his pocket, after crediting it on the book.
This was the day appointed for the first regatta of the Yacht Club. The
coming event had been talked about in the city during the whole week,
not only among the boys, but among the men who were interested in
yachting. About a dozen yachts had been entered for the race, though
only four of them belonged to the club; those that were not enrolled
being nominally in charge of members, in order to conform to the
regulations. Donald had measured all these boats, and made a schedule of
them, in which appeared the captain's name, the length of the craft,
with the correction to be subtracted from the sailing time in order to
reduce it to standard time. There were columns in the table for the
starting time, the return time, and the sailing time. The "correction"
was virtually the allowance which a large yacht made to a smaller one
for the difference in length.
The club had adopted the regulation of the Dorchester Yacht Club, which
contained a "table of allowance per mile." In this table, a yacht one
hundred and ten feet six inches long, is taken as the standard for
length. The Skylark was just thirty feet long on the water-line, and her
allowance by the table was two minutes forty-three and four tenths
seconds for every mile sailed in a regatta. The Sea Foam's length was
three inches less, and her allowance was one and three tenths seconds
more. Donald had his table all ready for the use of the judges, of whom
he had been appointed the chairman. Mr. Montague's large yacht had been
anchored in the bay, gayly dressed with flags and streamers, to be used
as the judges' boat. The yachts were to start at ten o'clock.
"I don't want to leave my work a bit," said Donald, as he took off his
apron. "I may have to lose a whole day in the race, and I can't afford
it."
"Now, I think you can," replied Kennedy.
"It looks too much like boys' play."
"No matter what it is. If you are going to make a business of building
yachts and sail-boats, it is for your interest to encourage this sort of
thing all you can," added Kennedy.
"I think you are right there," answered Donald, who had not before taken
this view.
"Besides, you ought to see how the boats work. You will get some ideas
that will be of use to you. You should observe every movement of the
boats with the utmost care. I think you will make more money attending
the regattas, if there was one every week, than by working in the shop."
"You are right, Kennedy, and I am glad you expressed your opinions, for
I shall feel that I am not wasting my time."
"Your father has been to Newport and New York on purpose to attend
regattas, and I am sure, if he were here now, he would not miss this
race for a fifty-dollar bill," continued the workman.
Donald was entirely satisfied, and went into the house to dress for the
occasion. He was soon ready, and walked down the beach towards the
skiff he used to go off to the sail-boat. The sky was overcast, and the
wind blew a smashing breeze, promising a lively race. The Juno had been
entered for the regatta, but she was still at her moorings off the shop,
and Donald wondered where Laud was, for he had been very enthusiastic
over the event. Before he could embark, the new proprietor of the Juno
appeared. He was dressed in a suit of new clothes, wore a new round-top
hat, and sported a cane in his hand. His mustache had been freshly
colored, and every hair was carefully placed. He did not look like a
yachtman; more like a first-class swell.
"I have been all the morning looking for some fellows to sail with me,"
said Laud. "I can't find a single one. Won't you go with me, Don John?"
"Thank you; I am one of the judges, and I can't go," replied Donald,
who, if he had not been engaged, would have preferred to sail with some
more skilful and agreeable skipper than Laud Cavendish.
"Won't your men go with me?"
"I don't know; you can ask them."
"I am entitled to carry five, and I want some live weights to-day, for
