the two conspirators crept away softly to find 
their blanket. But it was safely packed away 
in the bottom of a chest, and some search was 
necessary to bring it to the surface ; in the midst 
of which, Tom and Gem appeared on the scene, 
curious to know what was going on. 
" Run away, children, and shut the door after 
you ! " said Hugh, coming up from the chest with 
a red face. 
"No, Mr. Fitz!" replied Tom, deliberately 
seating himself on a box ; " not one step do I go 
until I know what you're up to — some fun, I 
know. Come, Bessie; tell us, that's a good 
fellow." 
" We shall have to tell them, Hugh," said 
Bessie, " or they might spoil the whole thing." 
So the plan was hastily explained. 
" Come along, Gem,'.' said Tom, in great glee. 
"All right, Bessie, we won't spoil your fun." 
The two ehildren ran off down the back stairs, 
and out upon the terrace behind the house. 
" Don't you say one word, Gem Morris," said 
Tom in an excited whisper, " but I'm going to 
be in this game, if I know myself. The blanket's 
very well, but the dogs are better, and Graham 
Marr is terribly afraid of 'em. I never liked 
him since he called me ' my lad,' and this will be a 
good chance to pay him off." So saying, Tom 
started towards the carriage-house, closely 
followed by Gem ; for, as Hugh said, they always 
hunted in couples, and whether they played or 
quarrelled, they were always together. 
Opening a side door of the carriage-house, 
Tom called out Pete and Grip ; Turk had a 
 
kennel of his own, and sleepily obeyed his 
master's summons. 
" Now Gem," said Tom, " I shall go round to 
the big barberry-bush, and when the blanket 
comes down I shall send the dogs at it. They 
won't hurt anybody, — they never do, — but they'll 
make believe to be awful savage, and Grip will 
bark like mad. You'd better slip round into the 
parlor and look through the blinds ; it's dark 
there." Gem obeyed softly, and Tom disappeared 
around the corner of the house, followed by the 
dogs, who understood from their master's low 
order, that a secret recormoissance was to be 
made, and moved stealthily behind him single file, 
big Turk first, then Pete Trone, Esq., and last of 
all plebeian Grip, his tail fairly sweeping the 
ground in the excess of his caution. 
On the piazza all was peaceful and romantic. 
No thought of coming clanger clouded the poet's 
fancies, as he repeated a stanza composed the 
previous evening by the light of the moon. " I 
never write by gas-light, Miss Warrington," he 
said, " but I keep pencil and paper at hand to 
transcribe the poetical thoughts that come to me 
in the moonlight. Here is a verse that floated 
into my mind when the moon was at its highest 
splendor last night : — 
* Shine out, Oh moon ! in the wide sky, — 
The creamy cloud, — the dreamy light — 
My heart is seething in the night. 
Shine out, Oh moon I and let me die.' " 
"I think we'd better let him, don't you ?" 
whispered Hugh to Bessie -at the upper window. 
She assented, and down went the great blanket 
on the heads of the two below, enveloping them 
in sudden darkness. At the same instant the 
three dogs plunged forward antl pawed at the 
dark mass ; Grip barking furiously, and Pete 
nosing underneath as if he was in search of a rat- 
hole. The noise brought Aunt Faith to the door. 
" What is it ? " she said in alarm, gazing at the 
struggling blanket with her near-sighted eyes. 
" Nothing, Aunt Faith, but some of the 
children's nonsense," answered Sibyl, extricating
herself, and stepping out from the stifling covering. 
