" Which God gives to all who ask Mm." 
Did she ask him truly? She prayed, of course, but 
nothing seemed to come of it. Grace to help her bear the 
trials ; but they were as sharp and bitter every day, and 
appeared to rasp some new sensitive nerve that they had 
missed hitherto. 
Why was it ? Would Jessie be so calm and sweet if 
she was jostled about by the great, rough world ? 
And Jessie shrank a little, it must be confessed. Every 
year they grew poorer. Their little hoard had all been 
spent, and now they would be compelled to make a drain 
upon Clement; for Madge, single-handed, could not fill 
the void. And so Home Nook appeared more of an im 
possibility than ever before. 
Once only Madge touched upon her errand for Philip, 
but she saw that it had completely passed from his mind. 
He had with his earliest convalescence questioned his 
mother whether any message had ever been sent to him, 
and the matter of the salary being so entirely business- 
like, he had dismissed the subject with a little sigh. When 
he recovered, there would be the olden search for some- 
thing to do. 
February ended with unusual mildness. Philip began 
to walk out a little, and then rapidly regained his strength. 
It made them all happier to have him able to go about. 
As soon as he felt strong enough he took a journey down 
to the old house of Graham & Co. 
The book-keeper mentioned it to Mr. Graham, who was 
not in at the time. 
" Did he ask for me ? " was the rather sharp query. 
" No. We talked a little about business. There's no 
chance for him here again?" 
" Not the slightest," in a cold, decisive tone. 
So I told him." 
Mr. Graham gnawed his mustache a little. 
" Ward was a fool ! " he said to himself. Still, let the 
poor fellow go. He has had bad luck enough ! " 
So Philip Ashburton little guessed at the cloud that 
overshadowed him, even when several applications, to 
whom Graham & Osborne had been given as a reference, 
were Jeclined. Still, something must be done. 
He obtained a situation at last in a broker's office, with 
a man whose face and manner he disliked at the first inter- 
view. Yet he could hardly afford to be particular. 
Horace Bradley was well known as a sharp and shrewd 
financial operator. He took the measure of Philip Ash- 
burton at once, covertly laughed at the honesty in every 
line of his face, and the frankness so strongly characteristic 
 
of it. The young fellow would be useful to him in various 
ways, and he meant to turn the connection to good ac 
count while it was fresh and taking. 
Philip was quite ready for business, and went at it with 
an energy that gratified his employer. New to these 
ways, unsuspicious, and most anxious to give satisfaction, 
he was quite deep in the mysteries of that most fascinat- 
ing species of gambling speculation before he scarce- 
\y realized where he stood. 
It was in the time of the great excitements, when men 
ran wild over victory or defeat, coined the life-blood of 
friend or enemy into gold what did it matter ? The 
fever entered many a noble soul and poisoned it, and the 
haste to be rich bade fair to sap the strong and true foun- 
dations whereon all nobility of character rests. 
Before he was hardly aware he was drifting with the 
tide. What if he joined this mad rush, and won the 
golden fortune that seemed to stand aloof from honest 
exertion ? They all needed it so much ! And there was 
Home Nook. If he could help Clement in restoring this 
heritage ! 
The struggle and decision were forced upon him sooner 
than he expected. He came home, one evening, looking 
more worn arid tired than usual. 
" What is the matter ? " asked Jessie. " You are over- 
working." 
" No, it is not that," with a faint smile. 
" Then something troubles you." 
He made no answer for several minutes. 
" You have not lost your situation again ? " 
That was in Madge's quick, tremulous voice. 
