  [Illustration]
MAGNOLIA WEEK.
      April 20.
It is vain to propose and announce subjects from week to week. One must
write what one is thinking of. When the mind is full of one thing, why
go about to write on another?
The past week we have been engrossed by magnolias. On Monday, our friend
D----, armed and equipped with scaling-ladders, ascended the glistening
battlements of the great forest palaces fronting his cottage, and bore
thence the white princesses, just bursting into bud, and brought them
down to us. Forthwith all else was given up: for who would take the
portrait of the white lady must hurry; for, like many queens of earth,
there is but a step between perfected beauty and decay,--a moment
between beauty and ashes.
We bore them to our chamber, and before morning the whole room was
filled with the intoxicating, dreamy fragrance; and lo! while we slept,
the pearly hinges had revolved noiselessly, and the bud that we left the
evening before had become a great and glorious flower. To descend to
particulars, imagine a thick, waxen-cupped peony of the largest size,
just revealing in its centre an orange-colored cone of the size of a
walnut. Around it, like a circlet of emeralds, were the new green
leaves, contrasting in their vivid freshness with the solid, dark-green
brilliancy of the old foliage. The leaves of the magnolia are in
themselves beauty enough without the flower. We used to gather them in a
sort of rapture before we ever saw the blossom; but all we can say of
the flower is, that it is worthy of them.
We sat down before this queen of flowers, and worked assiduously at her
portrait. We had, besides the full blossom, one bud of the size and
shape of a large egg, which we despaired of seeing opened, but proposed
to paint as it was. The second morning, our green egg began to turn
forth a silver lining; and, as we worked, we could see it slowly opening
before us. Silvery and pearly were the pure tips; while the outside was
of a creamy yellow melting into green. Two days we kept faithful watch
and ward at the shrine; but, lo! on the morning of the third our
beautiful fairy had changed in the night to an ugly brownie. The petals,
so waxen fair the night before, had become of a mahogany color; and a
breeze passing by swept them dishonored in showers on the floor. The
history of that magnolia was finished. We had seen it unfold and die.
Our pearly bud, however, went on waxing and opening till its day came
for full perfection.
The third day, our friend again brought in a glorious bouquet. No
ordinary flower-vase would hold it. It required a heavy stone jar, and a
gallon of water; but we filled the recess of our old-fashioned Franklin
stove with the beauties, and the whole house was scented with their
perfume.
Then we thought of the great lonely swamps and everglades where
thousands of these beauties are now bursting into flower with no earthly
eye to behold them.
The old German legends of female spirits inhabiting trees recurred to
us. Our magnolia would make a beautiful Libussa. A flower is commonly
thought the emblem of a woman; and a woman is generally thought of as
something sweet, clinging, tender, and perishable. But there are women
flowers that correspond to the forest magnolia,--high and strong, with a
great hold of root and a great spread of branches; and whose pulsations
of heart and emotion come forth like these silver lilies that illuminate
the green shadows of the magnolia-forests.
Yesterday, our friend the Rev. Mr. M---- called and invited us to go with
him to visit his place, situated at the mouth of Julington, just where
it flows into the St. John's. Our obliging neighbor immediately proposed
to take the whole party in his sailing-yacht.
An impromptu picnic was proclaimed through the house. Every one dropped
the work in hand, and flew to spreading sandwiches. Oranges were
gathered, luncheon-baskets packed; and the train filed out from the two
houses. The breeze was fresh and fair; and away we flew. Here, on the
St. John's, a water-coach is more to the purpose, in the present state
of our wood-roads, than any land-carriage; and the delight of sailing is
something infinitely above any other locomotion. On this great,
beautiful river you go drifting like a feather or a cloud; while the
green, fragrant shores form a constantly-varying picture as you pass.
Yesterday, as we were sailing, we met a little green, floating island,
which seemed to have started out on its own account, and gone to seek
its fortune. We saw it at first in the distance,--a small, undulating
spot of vivid green. Our little craft was steered right alongside, so
that we could minutely observe. It was some half-dozen square yards of
pickerel-weed, bonnet, water-lettuce, and other water-plants, which, it
would seem, had concluded to colonize, and go out to see the world in
company. We watched them as they went nodding and tilting off over the
blue waters, and wondered where they would bring up.
But now we are at the mouth of Julington, and running across to a point
of land on the other side. Our boat comes to anchor under a grove of
