"I am sorry Jessie has retired," he said, sincerely. "She would have
been happy to see you. But, in view of to-morrow's journey, she went
up to her chamber an hour ago. I am afraid she is asleep by this
time."
The doctor shook himself out of a menacing relapse.
"Eh! asleep--is she? Ah, well! that is as it should be. Don't
disturb her! I merely called to kiss her, and bid her 'God speed.'
She is a dear and a good girl. Her price is above rubies. She
carries our love and best wishes with her into her retirement.
Since she is not up, I will leave my message with you. I believe--it
seems to me that I had a message"--with an ominous twitch of the
handkerchief, and a dreamier accent.
"She will appreciate your kind remembrance of her, sir. She prizes
your friendship very fondly."
"Ah!" another mental shoulder-jog. "We shall hardly see her again
until autumn, I presume? I infer as much from what Mrs. Baxter has
told me of her plans."
"There has been no definite time set for her return," said Roy,
evasively, his heart heavier than before at the thought that Jessie
had expressed to her cousin a desire for a long sojourn in the
country.
Yet if he had failed to keep her with him now, what warrant had he
for confidence in his ability to lure her back?
"You will be lonely without her!" the worthy President observed,
something in the atmosphere of this, her especial apartment,
conveying to his straying wits an indistinct perception of the void
her absence would make in the daily life of the man before him. In
his own way, he missed his restless and faithful Jane when she was
not at home.
"I shall!"
Not another word before the lips were closely sealed.
The doctor looked at him quickly and keenly, then put out his hand
to pat his shoulder.
"Keep up a brave heart, my lad! although the desire of your eyes be
removed from your side, for a few weeks. Nothing cheats time of
heaviness, like work and hope. One you will find here in your
accustomed avocations. The second will culminate in fruition when
you are reunited to her you love, and, please GOD--in the
blessedness of a father's love and delight, when your firstborn is
given into your arms. It is a joy HE has seen fit to deny me. I
shall take my name down into the grave with me. HIS will be done!
But I have not, on that account, the less sympathy with you at this
juncture. Say to our Jessie that our prayers will follow her. You
will go to her at the beginning of vacation, of course. And should
you wish to run down to Dundee, for a day or two, each week during
the remainder of term-time, I will gladly take your classes. You can
recompense me by letting me christen the heir"--a fatherly smile
overspreading the dry face. "The advent is expected towards the last
of July, Mrs. Baxter says."
Conscious that, in the drunkenness of his astonishment, he returned
a lame and seemingly ungracious reply to offer and congratulations,
Roy made no movement to detain the eccentric guest, when he, after
another dazed look around the apartment, as if wondering how he had
got there, espied the door, and approached it with the briefest of
"Good-nights." While the master of the house stood rooted to the
floor, the visitant accomplished his exit, unchallenged and
unattended. Another man would have taken mortal offence at the lack
of respectful ceremony. The doctor, in his semi-trance, had not an
idea of the commotion he had excited.
"I am not surprised that I am an offence in her eyes--that she must
accuse me in her heart, of being less than man," muttered the
husband, at length, passing a shaking hand over his pale forehead.
"She ought to hate me for my seeming indifference--my unfeeling
silence. She would if she were not an angel. My poor girl! And she
has borne it all, without a murmur; like the brave, true woman she
is. GOD forgive me! I can never pardon myself!"
He was sitting, his arms crossed upon the table, and his head laid
upon them, when Jessie glided in stealthily. Over her white wrapper
she had thrown a crimson shawl, and her long hair was loose upon her
shoulders. Whatever resolve had drained her cheeks and lips of
bloom, and lighted the steady flame in her eyes, had been acted upon
with precipitancy, lest her nerve should fail.
She halted upon the threshold, on seeing the bowed figure; then
advanced more rapidly, but without noise.
"Roy! are you awake?"
"Yes."
But he did not lift his face.
"Are you sick?"
"No!"
"Can you listen to me for a few minutes!"
