" Mother, did you speak? " asked the girl. 
Mrs. Vervain turned her face away ; she sighed 
deeply, stretched her thin hands on the pillow, and 
seemed to be sinking, sinking down through the 
bed. She ceased to breathe and lay in a dead 
faint. 
Florida felt rather than saw it all. She did not 
cry out nor call for help. She brought water and 
cologne, and bathed her mother's face, and then 
chafed her hands. Mrs. Vervain slowly revived ; 
she opened her eyes, then closed them ; she did not 
speak, but after a while she began to fetch her 
breath with the long and even respirations of sleep. 
Florida noiselessly opened the door, and met 
the servant with a tray of coffee. She put her 
finger to her lip, and motioned her not to enter, 
asking in a whisper : " What time is it, Nina ? I 
forgot to wind my watch." 
" It's nine o clock, signorina ; and I thought 
you would be tired this morning, and would like 
 
your coffee in bed. Oh, misericordia ! " cried the 
girl, still in whisper, with a glance through the 
doorway, " you haven 't been in bed at all ! " 
" My mother doesn 't seem well. I sat down 
beside her, and fell asleep in my chair without 
knowing it." 
" Ah, poor little thing ! Then you must drink 
your coffee at once. It refreshes." 
" Yes, yes," said Florida, closing the door, and 
pointing to a table in the next room, "put it down 
here. I will serve myself, Nina. Go call the gon 
dola, please. I am going out, at once, and I want 
you to go with me. Tell Checa to come here and 
stay with my mother till I come back." 
She. poured out a cup of coffee with a trembling 
hand, and hastily drank it ; then bathing her eyes, 
she went to the glass and bestowed a touch or two 
upon yesterday's toilet, studied the effect a moment, 
and turned away. She ran back for another look, 
and the next moment she was walking down to 
the water-gate, where she found Nina waiting her 
in the gondola. 
A rapid course brought them to Ferris's landing. 
" Ring," she said to the gondolier, u and say that 
one of the American ladies wishes to see the con 
sul." 
Ferris was standing on the balcony over her, 
where he had been watching her approach in mute 
wonder. " Why, Miss Vervain," he called down, 
" what in the world is the matter ? " 
 
"I don 't know. I want to see you," said Flor 
ida, looking up with a wistful face. 
" I'll come down." 
" Yes, please. Or no, I had better come up. 
Yes, Nina and I will come up." 
Ferris met them at the lower door and led them 
to his apartment. Nina sat down in the outer 
room, and Florida followed the painter into his stu 
dio. Though her face was so wan, it seemed to 
him that he had never seen it lovelier, and he had 
a strange pride in her being there, though the 
disorder of the place ought to have humbled him. 
She looked over it with a certain childlike, timid 
curiosity, and something of that lofty compassion 
with which young ladies regard the haunts of men 
when they come into them by chance ; in doing 
this she had a haughty, slow turn of the head that 
fascinated him. 
" I hope," he said, " you don 't mind the smell," 
which was a mingled one of oil-colors and tobacco- 
smoke. " The woman's putting my office to rights, 
and it's all in a cloud of dust. So I have to brino- 
you in here." 
Florida sat down on a chair fronting the easel, 
and found herself looking into the sad eyes of Don 
Ippolito. Ferris brusquely turned the back of the 
canvas toward her. u I didn 't mean you to see 
that. It isn 't  ready to show, yet," he said, and 
