wrapped thick in forests.” He continues: “Turning 
southward, they paddled down the stream, through a 
solitude unrelieved by the faintest trace of man.” 
A big cat-fish collided with Marquette’s canoe, and 
startled him; and reasonably enough, for he had been 
warned by the Indians that he was on a foolhardy jour- 
ney, and even a fatal one, for the river contained a 
demon “ whose roar could be heard at a great distance, 
and who would engulf them in the abyss where he 
dwelt.” I have seen a Mississippi cat-fish that was 
more than six feet long, and weighed two hundred and 
fifty pounds; and if Marquette’s fish was the fellow to 
that one, he had a fair right to think the river’s roaring 
demon was come. 
At length the buffalo began to appear, grazing in herds on the great 
prairies which then bordered the river; and Marquette describes the fierce 
and stupid look of the old bulls as they stared at the intruders through the 
tangled mane which nearly blinded them. 
The voyagers moved cautiously : 
Landed at night and made a 6re to cook their evening meal; then ex- 
tinguished it, embarked again, paddled some way farther, and anchored in 
the stream, keeping a man on the watch till morning. 
They did this day after day and night after night ; and 
at the end of two weeks they had not seen a human 
being. The river was an awful solitude, then. And 
it is now, over most of its stretch. 
But at the close of the fortnight they one day came 
upon the footprints of men in the mud of the western 
bank — a Robinson Crusoe experience which carries an 
electric shiver with it yet, when one stumbles on it in 
print. They had been warned that the river Indians 
were as ferocious and pitiless as the river demon, and 
destroyed all comers . without waiting for provocation; 
but no matter, Joliet and Marquette struck into the 
country to hunt up the proprietors of the tracks. They 
found them by and by, and were hospitably received 
and well treated — if to be received by an Indian chief 
who has taken off his last rag in order to appear at his 
level best is to be received hospitably ; and if to be 
treated abundantly to fish, porridge, and other game, 
including dog, and have these things forked into one’s 
mouth by the ungloved fingers of Indians, is to be well 
treated. In the morning the chief and six hundred of 
his tribesmen escorted the Frenchmen to the river and 
bade them a friendly farewell. 
On the rocks above the present city of Alton they 
found some rude and fantastic Indian paintings, which 
they describe. A short distance below “ a torrent of 
yellow mud rushed furiously athwart the calm blue 
current of the Mississippi, boiling and surging and 
sweeping in its course logs, branches, and uprooted 
trees.” This was the mouth of the Missouri, “that 
savage river,” which ” descending from its mad career 
through a vast unknown of barbarism, poured its turbid 
floods into the bosom of its gentle sister.” 
By and by they passed the mouth of the Ohio ; they 
passed canebrakes ; they fought mosquitoes ; they 
floated along, day after day, through the deep silence 
and loneliness of the river, drowsing in the scant shad* 
of make-shift awnings, and broiling with the heat; they 
encountered and exchanged civilities with another party 
of Indians ; and at last they reached the mouth of the
Arkansas (about a month out from their starting-point), 
where a tribe of war-whooping savages swarmed out to 
meet and murder them ; but they appealed to the Virgin 
for help ; so in place of a fight there was a feast, and 
plenty of pleasant palaver and fol-de-rol. 
They had proved to their satisfaction that the 
Mississippi did not empty into the Gulf of California, 
or into the Atlantic. They believed it emptied into the 
Gulf of Mexico. They turned back now, and carried 
their great news to Canada. 
But belief is not proof. It was reserved for La Salle 
to furnish the proof. He was provokingly delayed by 
one misfortune after another, but at last got his ex- 
pedition under way at the end of the year 1681. In 
the dead of winter he and Henri de Tonty, son of 
Lorenzo Tonto, who invented the tontine, his lieuten- 
ant, started 8own the Illinois, with a following of 
eighteen Indians brought from New England, and 
