bored to death.  Does the old lady think I would put on a frock and
overalls, and go out and plough, or hoe potatoes?"
"It's a good, healthy business," pursued Aunt Deborah, unconscious of
the thoughts which were passing through her nephew's mind, "and you
wouldn't have to spend much for dress.  Then I'm gittin' old, and
though I don't want to make no promises, I'd very likely will it to
you, ef I was satisfied with the way you managed."
"You're very kind, aunt," said Ferdinand, "but I'm afraid I wasn't
cut out for farming.  You know I never lived in the country."
"Why, yes, you did," said the old lady.  "You was born in the
country, and lived there till you was ten years old."
"To be sure," said Ferdinand, hastily, "but I was too young then to
take notice of farming.   What does a boy of ten know of such things?"
"To be sure.  You're right there."
"The fact is, Aunt Deborah, some men are born to be farmers, and some
are born to be traders.  Now, I've got a talent for trading.  That's
the reason I've got such a good offer from San Francisco."
"How did you get it?  Did you know the man?"
"He used to be in business in New York.  He was the first man I
worked for, and he knew what I was.  San Francisco is full of money,
and traders make more than they do here.  That's the reason he can
afford to offer me so large a salary."
"When did he send for you?"
"I got the letter last week."
"Have you got it with you?"
"No, aunt; I may have it at the hotel," said the young man,
hesitating, "but I am not certain."
"Well, it's a good offer.  There isn't nobody in Centreville gets so
large a salary."
"No, I suppose not.  They don't need it, as it is cheap living here."
"I hope when you get out there, Ferdinand, you'll save up money.
You'd ought to save two-thirds of your pay."
"I will try to, aunt."
"You'll be wantin' to get married bimeby, and then it'll be
convenient to have some money to begin with."
"To be sure, aunt.   I see you know how to manage."
"I was always considered a good manager," said Deborah, complacently.
"Ef your poor father had had my faculty, he wouldn't have died as
poor as he did, I can tell you."
"What a conceited old woman she is, with her faculty!" thought
Ferdinand, but what he said was quite different.
"I wish he had had, aunt.  It would have been better for me."
"Well, you ought to get along, with your prospects."
"Little the old woman knows what my real prospects are!" thought the
young man.
"Of course I ought," he said.
"Excuse me a few minutes, nephew," said Aunt Deborah, gathering up
her knitting and rising from her chair.  "I must go out and see about
tea.  Maybe you'd like to read that nice book you brought."
"No, I thank you, aunt.  I think I'll take a little walk round your
place, if you'll allow me."
"Sartin, Ferdinand.  Only come back in half an hour; tea'll be ready
then."
"Yea, aunt, I'll remember."
So while Deborah was in the kitchen, Ferdinand took a walk in the
fields, laughing to himself from time to time, as if something amused
him.
He returned in due time, and sat down to supper Aunt Deborah had
provided her best, and, though the dishes were plain, they were quite
palatable.
When supper was over, the young man said,--
"Now, aunt, I think I will be getting back to the hotel."
"You'll come over in the morning, Ferdinand, and fetch your trunk?"
"Yes, aunt.  Good-night."
"Good-night."
"Well," thought the young man, as he tramped back to the hotel.
"I've opened the campaign, and made, I believe, a favorable
impression.  But what a pack of lies I have had to tell, to be sure!
The old lady came near catching me once or twice, particularly about
the color of my hair.  It was a lucky thought, that about the French
barber.  It deceived the poor old soul.  I don't think she could ever
have been very handsome.  If she was she must have changed fearfully."
In the evening, John Clapp and Luke Harrison came round to the hotel
to see him.
"Have you been to see your aunt?" asked Clapp.
"Yes, I took tea there."
"Have a good time?"
"Oh, I played the dutiful nephew to perfection.  The old lady thinks
a sight of me."
"How did you do it?"
