me.' 



"I am glad you have instructed us. We 
might have rushed into some extravagance. May 
we have our white gowns done up fresh, please ? ' 
asked Fan comically. 

Jennie laughed. She was very happy, one 
could see that. A connection had come to stay 
with Mrs. Ryder while Jennie was away, for 
Richard had insisted upon Niagara and the 
Canadas. Afterward they were to move into 
the great house. 

Papa came home on Saturday night, looking 
brown and bright and rested. On Tuesday morii- 
ine Jennie was married. Winthrop came to 

stand with Fan, I think he would not have 
trusted any one else. He was troubled with an 
insane belief that every body wanted Fan, 
" which is iv err y flattering on his part," said Fan, 
"considering that the only other lover I ever 
had has gone off and married some one else, 
never breaking his heart a bit ! 

"Would you have had him, Fanny?' 

"No, little goosie ! And he has the best wife 
that lie could have found in the wide world.'' 
The fact had been noised abroad, and the 
marriage was quite largely attended. It pro- 
voked various comments. I think there were 
some who did envy Jennie Ryder her good 
fortune, and many who rejoiced in it. Still 
there was a feeling that Richard's mother would 

not quite approve. lie had written to her and 
Kate, not giving them time to answer by the 
marriage date. 

I felt my own heart beat as I stood there so 
still and solemn. There was a great awe in 
going out of the old life and putting on the 
new, belonging to yourself one moment, and the 
next having the sense of ownership irrevocably 
taken away. I shivered a little wondering how 
any one could be glad to do it. Some day Fan 
would stand there, and I would feel her gone 
out of my life. 

Then Mrs. Whitcomb had to return to get 
the house in order. Louis expected to enter 
Columbia College. Stephen thought it better on 
account of his health, and the home influence. 
Stewart would be away another year. 

Enclosed in her letter was a note to mamma. 
Would it be agreeable for Louis to spend a 



 

week or ten days with us ? He was very 
anxious so to do. 

" Of course," answered mamma. 

Indeed we were pleased with the opportunity 
of seeing him. Somehow he had become quite 
a hero in our eyes. 

I really do not think I should have known 
him elsewhere. I was up in my room sitting 
on the low window-sill in the breeze, reading a 
magazine. The blinds were tied a little apart, 
bowed, and as I heard the gate click I looked 
