“Invariably.”
“If I had been here at the time I should have said, ‘Ponce’ (of course
we should have been intimate enough to call each other by our first
names)--‘Ponce, my good friend, have your spring a little nearer while
you are magically about it!’” And taking off his straw hat the poet
wiped his white forehead, and looked at us with a quizzical expression
in his brilliant eyes.
“It is warm,” confessed Aunt Diana, who, weary and worried, was
toiling along almost in silence. Mokes was nearly out of sight with the
“other young lady;” Iris and the Captain were absorbed in that murmured
conversation so hopeless to outsiders; and Spartan matron though she
was, she had not the courage to climb around after the Professor in
cloth boots that drew like a magnet the vicious cacti of the thicket.
Miss Sharp had leather boots, and climbed valiantly.
At last we came to the place, and filed in through a broken-down fence.
We found a deserted house, an overgrown field, a gully, a pool, and an
old curb of coquina surrounding the magic spring.
“I wonder if any one was ever massacred here?” observed Sara, looking
around.
“The Fountain of Youth,” declaimed John, ladling out the water. “Who
will drink? Centuries ago the Indians of Cuba came to these shores to
seek the waters of immortality, and as they never returned, they are
supposed to be still here somewhere enjoying a continued cherubic
existence. Father Martyn himself affirms in his letter to the Pope that
there is a spring here the water thereof being drunk straightway maketh
the old young again. Ladies and gentlemen, the original and only Ponce
de Leon Spring! Who will drink?”
We all drank; and then there was a great silence.
“Well,” said the poet, deliberately, looking around from his seat on the
curb, “take it altogether, that shanty, those bushes, the pig-sty, the
hopeless sandy field, the oozing pool, and this horrible tepid water,
drawn from, to say the least, a dubious source--a very dubious
source--it is, all in all, about the ugliest place I ever saw!”
There was a general shout.
“We have suspected it in our hearts all winter,” said the “other young
lady;” “but not one of us dared put the thought into words, as it was
our only walk.”
The poet staid with us a day or two longer, and charmed us all with his
delightful, winsome humor.
“Do you know, I really love that man,” I announced.
“So do I,” said Iris.
“That is nothing,” said John; “he is ‘the poet whom poets love,’ you
know.”
“But we are not poets, Mr. Hoffman.”
“We are only plebes, and plebes may very well love what poets love, I
think.”
“But it does not always follow,” I said.
“By no means. In this case, however, it is true. All love Eugenio, both
poets and plebes.”
“He is the Mendelssohn of poets,” I said; “and, besides that, he is the
only person I ever met who reminded me of my idea of Mendelssohn
personally--an idea gathered from those charming ‘letters’ and the
Auchester book.”
The next evening Eugenio and Sara went off for a stroll on the sea-wall;
two hours later Sara came back to our room, laid a blank book on the
table, and threw herself into a chair.
“Tired?” I asked.
“Yes.”
“It is a lovely evening.”
“Yes.”
“Did you have a pleasant time?”
“Yes.”
I knew that blank book well; it contained all Sara’s printed stories and
verses; my eyes glanced toward it.
“Yes,” said Sara; “there it is! I gave it to him yesterday. I knew he
would read it through, and I knew also that I could read his real
opinion in those honest eyes of his.”
“Well?”
“There isn’t a thing in it worth the paper it is written on.”
“Oh, Sara!”
“And what is more, I have known it myself all along.”
“Is it possible he said so?”
“He? Never. He said every thing that was generous and kind and cordial
and appreciative; and he gave me solid assistance, too, in the way of
advice, and suggestive hints worth their weight in gold to an isolated
beginner like myself. But--”
“But?”
“Yes, ‘but.’ Through it all, Martha, I could see the truth written in
the sky over that old look-out tower; we were on the glacis under that
tower all the time, and I never took my eyes off from it. That tower is
