amount he eats."
"I guess I'll try him a leetle longer," said the deacon. "He aint had
no sort of bringin' up, you know."
So at the end of four weeks Sam still continued a member of the
deacon's household.
As for Sam, things were not wholly satisfactory to him. In spite of
all his adroit evasions of duty, he found himself obliged to work more
than he found agreeable. He didn't see the fun of trudging after the
deacon up and down the fields in the warm summer days. Even his meals
did not yield unmingled satisfaction, as he had learned from
experience that Mrs. Hopkins did not approve of giving him a second
slice of pie, and in other cases interfered to check the complete
gratification of his appetite, alleging that it wasn't good for boys
to eat too much.
Sam took a different view of the matter, and felt that if he was
willing to take the consequences, he ought to be allowed to eat as
much as he pleased. He was not troubled with the catechism any more.
The deacon found him so stolid and unteachable that he was forced to
give up in despair, and Sam became master of his own time in the
evening. He usually strayed into the village, where he found company
at the village store. Here it was that he met a youth who was destined
to exercise an important influence upon his career. This was Ben
Barker, who had for a few months filled a position in a small retail
store in New York city. Coming home, he found himself a great man.
Country boys have generally a great curiosity about life in the great
cities, and are eager to interview any one who can give them authentic
details concerning it. For this reason Ben found himself much sought
after by the village boys, and gave dazzling descriptions of life in
the metropolis, about which he professed to be fully informed. Among
his interested listeners was Sam, whose travels had been limited by a
very narrow circle, but who, like the majority of boys, was possessed
by a strong desire to see the world.
"I suppose there as many as a thousand houses in New York," he said to
Ben.
"A thousand!" repeated Ben, in derision. "There's a million!"
"Honest?"
"Yes, they reach for miles and miles. There's about twenty thousand
streets."
"It must be awfully big. I'd like to go there."
"Oh, you!" said Ben, contemptuously. "It wouldn't do for you to go
there."
"Why not?"
"You couldn't get along nohow."
"I'd like to know why not?" said Sam, rather nettled at this
depreciation.
"Oh, you're a country greenhorn. You'd get taken in right and left."
"I don't believe I would," said Sam. "I aint as green as you think."
"You'd better stay with the deacon, and hoe potatoes," said Ben,
disparagingly. "It takes a smart fellow to succeed in New York."
"Is that the reason you had to come home?" retorted Sam.
"I'm going back pretty soon," said Ben. "I shan't stay long in such a
one-horse place as this."
"Is it far to New York?" asked Sam, thoughtfully.
"Over a hundred miles."
"Does it cost much to go there?"
"Three dollars by the cars."
"That isn't so very much."
"No, but you've got to pay your expenses when you get there."
"I could work."
"What could you do? You might, perhaps, black boots in the City Hall
Park."
"What pay do boys get for doing that?" asked Sam, seriously.
"Sometimes five cents, sometimes ten."
"I'd like it better than farmin'!"
"It might do for you," said Ben, turning up his nose.
"What were you doing when you were in New York, Ben?"
"I was chief salesman in a dry goods store," said Ben, with an air of
importance.
"Was it a good place?"
"Of course it was, or I wouldn't have stayed there."
"What made you leave it?"
"I had so much care and responsibility that the doctor told me I must
have rest. When the boss was away, I run the store all alone."
There was no one to contradict Ben's confident assertions, and though
some doubt was entertained by his listener none was expressed.
Considering Ben's large claims, it was surprising that his services
were not sought by leading New York firms, but, then, merit is not
always appreciated at once. That was Ben's way of accounting for it.
Sam was never tired of asking Ben fresh questions about New York. His
imagination had been inflamed by the glowing descriptions of the
