her — on some business?" 

The tidy servant ushered him into the library, which 
was used as a general sitting-room, it being sunny, and 
Mrs. Walsingham having an old-world love for sunshine. 

" Would the gentleman give his name?" 

He hesitated— then said— " I am a stranger." 

A light step in the hall, and the entrance of a fair, 
pretty-looking woman, as every one said, in a soft blue 
cashmere morning-dress, with the daintest of slippered 
feet, and stray curls wandering out of her net, like a 
gleam of gold around her piquant face. Somehow he 
could hardly believe her any kin to Dora, and yet, Dora 
had just that turn of the head, that bright, arch, fear- 
less expression. 

He rose awkwardly, and flushed in his embarrass- 
ment. But then, he was such a plain, straightforward 
fellow, and never beat about for fanciful phrases, when 
the truth was at hand. 

"lam Ralph Tremaine," he said — "your daughter 
Dora's husband ! " 

She gave a little cry of surprise, and then glanced 
him over. The large, gray eyes looked so tender and 
pitiful, the soft lines about the mouth were hardly hidden 



by the narrow droop of moustache, the broad brow was 
frank and honorable ; just the kind of man one would 
take for a friend, and trust implicitly. With the words 
— " Tour daughter Dora's husband," still sounding in 
her brain, she gave him her band. 

' There has been a misunderstanding," he said, rather 
confusedly, "but, I believe, a few words can explain it. 
And — Jasper Cameron is dead ! " 

"Thank God! Dora is free, and will be — happy." 
'Tes, I hope — it is not too late ! Can I see Dora?" 
His voice was unsteady with emotion. Dora's mother 
had no arbitrary desire to hear the explanations first, 
and was off like a flash. When she returned, the low 
tone had in it the sound of hardly suppressed tears. 
' ' Will you come up to her room ? " 
She led the way, and he followed gravely, his heart 
beating at every step, as if it would strangle him. Mrs. 
Walsingham opened the door, and he entered alone. 

Dora had been lying on the sofa, with a breakfast 
shawl thrown lightly over her. She bad made it, last 
winter, and he remembered well the contrast of the 
scarlet with the soft chinchilli. As she rose, it slipped 
to the floor, and she stood there, strangely abashed, 
trembling, flushing, her eyes overflowing with tears. 

His glance took her in, instantly, from the shimmer- 
ing hair, down to the foot that hesitated in its next 
step. And then she was folded in his arms, clasped to 
his heart. 



"Oh, Dora ! " and there was a world of tenderesfc 
pathos, as well as softened upbraiding in his voice ; 
"oh, Dora, why have you waited? Why did you not 
fly to me before? What other refuge could there be, 
for you, like your husband's home and heart ? " 

She strove to unclasp his arms, and put him away. 
For, now she felt suddenly hard and cold towards him. 
When was this refuge open to her ? 

" Ralph," she said bitterly, " I have had no husband, 
since that June morning so long ago ! I have been an 
