JVTQT many years ago the shore bordering the head 
 of Lake Michigan, the northern curve of that 
silver sea, was a wilderness unexplored. It is a wilderness still, showing even now on the school-maps 
nothing save an empty waste of colored paper, generally a pale, cold yellow suitable to the climate, all 
the way from Point St. Ignace to the iron ports on 
the Little Bay de Noquet, or Badderknock in lake 
phraseology, a hundred miles of nothing, according to 
the map-makers, who, knowing nothing of the region, set it down accordingly, withholding even those 
long-legged letters, " Chip-pe-was," " Eic-ca-rees," that 
stretch accommodatingly across so much townless ter- 
ritory farther west. This northern curve is and always 
has been off the route to anywhere ; and mortals, even 
Indians, prefer as a general rule, when once started, 
to go somewhere. The earliest Jesuit explorers and 
the captains of yesterday's schooners had this in com- 
mon, that they could not, being human, resist a cross- 
cut; and thus, whether bark canoes of two centuries 

ago or the high, narrow propellers of to-day, one and 
all, coming and going, they veer to the southeast or 
west, and sail gayly out of sight, leaving this northern curve of ours unvisited and alone. A wilderness 
still, but not unexplored ; for that railroad of the 
future which is to make of British America a garden 
of roses, and turn the wild trappers of the Hudson's 
Bay Company into gently smiling congressmen, has it 
not sent its missionaries thither, to the astonishment 
and joy of the beasts that dwell therein? According to tradition, these men surveyed the territory, and 
then crossed over (those of them at least whom the 
beasts had spared) to the lower peninsula, where, 
the pleasing variety of swamps being added to the 
labyrinth of pines and sand-hills, they soon lost 
themselves, and to this day have never found what 
they lost. As the gleam of a camp-fire is occasioally seen, and now and then a distant shout heard 
by the hunter passing along the outskirts, it is sup- 
posed that they are in there somewhere, surveying 
still.

Not long ago, however, no white man's foot had penetrated within our curve. Across the great river and 
over the deadly plains, down to the burning clime of 
Mexico and up to the arctic darkness, journeyed our 
countrymen, gold to gather and strange countries to 
see ; but this little pocket of land and water passed 
they by without a glance, inasmuch as no iron mountains rose among its pines, no copper* lay hidden in its 
sand ridges, no harbors dented its shores. Thus it remained an unknown region, and enjoyed life accord- 
ingly. But the white man's foot, well booted, was on 
the way, and one fine afternoon came tramping through. 
" I wish I was a tree," said to himself this white man, 
one Jarvis Waring by name. " See that young pine, 
how lustily it grows, feeling its life to the very tip of 
each green needle ! How it thrills in the sun's rays, 
how strongly, how completely it carries out the intention 
of its existence ! It never has a headache, it 
Bah! what a miserable, half-way thing is man, who 
should be a demigod, and is a creature for the very 
trees to pity ! " And then he built his camp-fire, called 
in his dogs, and slept the sleep of youth and health, 
none the less deep because of that Spirit of Discontent 
that had driven him forth into the wilderness ; probably 
the Spirit of Discontent knew what it was about. Thus 
for days, for weeks, our white man wandered through 
the forest and wandered at random, for, being an excep- 
tion, he preferred to go nowhere ; he had his compass, 
but never used it, and, a practised hunter, eat what 
came in his way and planned not for the morrow. 
" Now am I living the life of a good, hearty, comfortable 
bear," he said to himself with satisfaction. 

" No, you are not, Waring," replied the Spirit of Discontent, 
"for you know you have your compass in your 
pocket and can direct yourself back to the camps on 



 

Lake Superior or to the Sault for supplies, which is 
more than the most accomplished bear can do." 

" come, what do you know about bears ? " answered 
Waring; "very likely they too have their depots of 
