was one thing I wanted to talk about to-night."
"Well, get St. John and Angie to talking tree together, and she'll
edify him. St. John is O. K. about all the particulars of how they
managed in the catacombs, without doubt, and he gets ahead of us all
preaching about the primitive Christians, but come to a Christmas
tree for New York street boys and girls, in the 19th century, I'll
bet on Angie to go ahead of him. He'll have to learn of her--and you
see he won't find it hard to take, either. Jim knows a thing or two."
And Jim cocked his head on one side, like a saucy sparrow, and looked
provokingly knowing.
"Now, Jim, what do you mean?"
"Oh, nothing. Alice says I mustn't think anything or say anything, on
pain of her high displeasure. But, you just watch the shepherd and
Angie to-night."
"Jim, you provoking creature, you mustn't talk so."
"Bless your heart, who is talking so? Am I saying anything? Of course
I'm not saying anything. Alice won't let me. I always have to shut my
eyes and look the other way when Angie and St. John are around, for
fear I should say something and make a remark. Jim says nothing, but
he thinks all the more."
Now, we'll venture to say that there isn't a happy young wife in the
first months of wifehood that isn't predisposed to hope for all her
friends a happy marriage, as about the summit of human bliss; and so
Eva was not shocked like Alice by the suggestion that her rector might
become a candidate for the sacrament of matrimony. On the contrary,
it occurred to her at once that the pretty, practical, lively,
efficient little Angie might be a true angel, not merely of church and
Sunday-school, but of a rector's house. He was ideal and theoretic,
and she practical and common-sense; yet she was pretty enough, and
picturesque, and fanciful enough for an ideal man to make a poem
of, and weave webs around, and write sonnets to; and as all these
considerations flashed at once upon Eva's mind, she went on settling a
spray of geranium with rose-buds, a pleased dreamy smile on her face.
After a moment's pause, she said:
"Jim, if you see a bird considering whether to build a nest in the
tree by your window, and want him there, the way is to keep pretty
still about it and not go to the window, and watch, and call people,
saying, 'Oh, see here, there's a bird going to build!' Don't you see
the sense of my parable?"
"Well, why do you talk to me? Haven't I kept away from the window, and
walked round on tip-toe like a cat, and only given the quietest look
out of the corner of my eye?"
"Well, it seems you couldn't help calling my attention and Alice's.
Don't extend the circle of observers, Jim."
"See if I do. You'll find me discretion itself. I shall be so quiet
that even a humming bird's nerves couldn't be disturbed. Well, good
by, for the present."
"Oh, but, Jim, don't forget to do what you can about Maggie. It
really seems selfish in me to be absorbed in my own affairs, and not
doing anything to help Mary, poor thing, when she's so good to me."
"Well, I don't see but you are doing all you can. I'll see about it
right away and report to you," said Jim; "so, au revoir."
Angie came in about lunch time; the two sisters, once at their tea
and toast, discussed the forthcoming evening's preparations and the
Christmas Sunday-school operations: and Eva, with the light of Jim's
suggestions in her mind, began to observe certain signs of increasing
intimacy between Angie and Mr. St. John.
"O Eva, I want to tell you: I went to see those poor Prices, Saturday
afternoon; and there was John, just back from one of those dreadful
sprees that he will have every two or three weeks. You never saw a
creature so humble and so sorry, and so good, and so anxious to make
up with his wife and me, and everybody all round, as he was. He was
sitting there, nursing his wife and tending his baby, just as handy
as a woman,--for she, poor thing, has had a turn of fever, in part, I
think, brought on by worry and anxiety; but she seemed so delighted
and happy to have him back!--and I couldn't help thinking what a shame
it is that there should be any such thing as rum, and that there
should be people who make it their business and get their living by
tempting people to drink it. If I were a Queen, I'd shut up all the
drinking-shops right off!"
"I fancy, if we women could have our way, we should do it pretty
generally."
"Well, I don't know about that," said Angie. "One of the worst shops
in John's neighborhood is kept by a woman."
"Well, it seems so hopeless--this weakness of these men," said Eva.
"Oh, well, never despair," said Angie. "I found him in such a good
mood that I could say anything I wanted to, and I found that he was
feeling terribly because he had lost his situation in Sanders' store
on account of his drinking habits. He had been a porter and errand boy
there, and he is so obliging and quick that he is a great favorite;
