

ORANGE CUSTARD PUDDING. +

1 quart milk.

5 eggs. The beaten yolks of all, the whites of two.

Grated peel of 1 orange.

4 table-spoonfuls powdered sugar for custard, and 2 spoonfuls for
méringue.

Scald the milk, and pour carefully over the eggs which you have beaten
light with the sugar. Boil one minute, season, and pour into a buttered
pudding-dish. Set this in a pan of boiling water, and bake about half
an hour, or until well “set.” Spread with a méringue made of the
reserved whites. Return to oven to harden, but do not let it scorch.

Eat cold.


ROCK CUSTARD PUDDING. +

1 quart milk.

6 eggs.

1 cup powdered sugar for custard and méringue.

1 table-spoonful rice-flour, wet up with cold water.

A little salt.

Vanilla flavoring.

Boil the milk; beat up the yolks of the eggs with three-quarters of
the sugar; cook in the milk until the mixture is smoking hot; stir in
the rice-flour, salt, and boil just one minute. Pour into a buttered
baking-dish, and bake in a pan of hot water until the custard is
nearly, but not quite “set.” Have ready the whites beaten very stiff
with the rest of the sugar, and flavored with vanilla. Without drawing
the dish from the oven, drop this all over it in great spoonfuls,
covering it as irregularly as possible. Do it quickly, lest the custard
should cool and fall. Shut the oven-door for about five minutes more
until the méringue is delicately browned and the custard firm.

Eat cold, with powdered sugar sifted over it.


A PLAIN BOILED PUDDING. (No. 1.)

3 cupfuls of flour—full ones.

2 cupfuls of “loppered” milk or buttermilk. Sour cream is best of all
if you can get it.

1 full teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in hot water.

A little salt.

½ cupful powdered suet.

Stir the sour milk gradually into the flour until it is free from
lumps. Put in suet and salt; lastly beat in the soda-water thoroughly,
but quickly.

Boil an hour and a half, or steam two hours.

Eat at once, hot, with hard sauce.


PLAIN BOILED PUDDING. (No. 2.)

1 cup loppered milk or cream.

½ cup molasses.

½ cup butter, melted.

