are very shallow yet; and where the fishers are to stand and cast 
their nets, it is a waste of barrenness. You have never been on the 
shores of the Dead Sea, Arthur; you do not know how a little 
thread of green on the mountain side shews where a spring of 
sweet water runs down through the waste.'
'What then, Mr. Rollo?' said Wych Hazel.
'It is such a tiny thread of life upon the universal brown death.'
'Is that what the world looks like to you?' said Hazel, wondering.
'And the work is even far smaller than that, if you look at it in its 
minute details. Did you ever read the life of Agnes Jones, Arthur?'
'Yes.'
'Prim lent me the book; and I found a good word in it the other 
day. The writer says, I cannot give you the exact words,"If we 
do every little thing that comes to us, God may out of our many 
littles make a great whole." Therein lies the very truth of our work. 
It is so in Morton Hollow. Not building schoolhouses or making 
villages; anybody can do that; it is the word of interest to one, the 
word of sympathy to another; the holding a broken arm; giving 
help and refreshment in individual cases. Love, in short, like the 
sun, working softly and everywhere. As those threads of green on 
the mountain side are made up of multitudinous tiny leaves and 
mosses, nourished by countless invisible drops of spray.'
'Working in all sorts of ways'said the Doctor; while Hazel sat 
thinking of the green that was beginning to line the banks of 
Morton Hollow. 'You may notice that a real spring goes literally 
wherever it can. Men may wall it in with stone channels, or force it 
into the air; but let it alone, it follows every possible opening. The 
deep main stream, and the little side rills, and the single drops that 
go each to a single leaf.'
Rollo looked up and smiled. 'There is Gyda coming to fetch you, 
Hazel.'
'Well,' said Hazel. 'And you will go on talking all sorts of things 
that I ought to hear.'
She rose up and stood looking down into the fire. The other two 
rose also and stood looking at her. It was a pretty picture. Gyda, a 
little apart, watched them all with her little bright eyes.
'But,' Hazel began again,'to do that,for every little drop to do 
thatthere must be a head of water. It is not the mere trickling 
down of something which happens to be at the top!'Whereupon 
the little fingers took an extra knot.
'Each drop may do the ministry of one, may it not?' said Rollo. 
'You need not count the drops. The only thing is that they be living 
water.'
'Yes, the living water comes with a will. I remember,in Mme. 
Lasalle's brook,how busy the drops were. Not in a hurry, but in 
such sweet haste.'
'True!' said Dr. Arthur. 'Each with a clear bright purpose, if not a 
plan.'
'Perhaps, best not the plan,' said Rollo.
She stood gravely thinking for a moment, then looked up and 
shook hands with Dr. Arthur, wishing him good night. But no 
words came when she gave her hand to Mr. Rollo; onlyperhaps 
in default of wordsa beautiful, vivid blush.
The room to which the old Norsewoman conducted her was a very 
plain little place, with whitewashed walls and the simplest of 
furniture. Gyda manifested some concern lest her guest should 
suffer for want of a fire. 'But the gentlemen had to have the other 
room,' she said.
'O the fire is no matter,' said Hazel. 'But where do you sleepwith 
such a houseful?'
'I have my little nest just by, my lady. I'd be glad to keep it! And 
yet this is a strange place for my lad to have his home; and it's 
been his home now for a year, nearly. How much longer will I 
keep him, my lady?'
Gyda asked the most tremendous questions with a sort of 
privileged simplicity; she looked now for her answer.
'Keep him?'Hazel repeated the words in a maze.
'Yes, my lady. I know I must lose my lad from this home; but 
when is it to be?'
'A great whileI don't know,nobody knows,' said Hazel very 
much disturbed. 'Nobody thinks anything about it yet. So you need 
not even recollect it, Mrs. Boërresen.'
Gyda looked at her with a tender, incredulous, pleased smile upon 
her face. 'Do you think he will wait a great while, my lady?' she 
said. And then she came up and kissed Wych Hazel's hand, and 
went away.
CHAPTER XIII.
UNDER THE CHESTNUT TREES.
Mr. Falkirk did not go out to breakfast that Sunday morning; and 
no one at Chickaree but the two old retainers knew how Miss 
