He tried his luck again, and once was on the point of being engaged at
three dollars per week, when a question as to his parents revealed the
fact that he was without a guardian, and this decided the question
against him.
"It's of no use," said Ben, despondently. "I might as well go back."
So he turned, and retraced his steps down Broadway. By the time he got
to the City Hall Park he was quite tired. Seeing some vacant seats
inside, he went in and sat down, resting his bundle on the seat beside
him. He saw quite a number of street boys within the inclosure, most of
them boot-blacks. As a rule, they bore the marks of their occupation
not only on their clothes, but on their faces and hands as well. Some,
who were a little more careful than the rest, were provided with a small
square strip of carpeting, on which they kneeled when engaged in
"shining up" a customer's boots. This formed a very good protection for
the knees of their pantaloons. Two were even more luxurious, having
chairs in which they seated their customers. Where this extra
accommodation was supplied, however, a fee of ten cents was demanded,
while the boot-blacks in general asked but five.
"Black your boots?" asked one boy of Ben, observing that our young
adventurer's shoes were soiled.
"Yes," said Ben, "if you'll do it for nothing."
"I'll black your eye for nothing," said the other.
"Thank you," said Ben, "I won't trouble you."
Ben was rather interested in a scene which he witnessed shortly
afterwards. A young man, whose appearance indicated that he was from the
country, was waylaid by the boys, and finally submitted his boots to an
operator.
"How much do you want?"
"Twenty-five cents," was the reply.
"Twenty-five cents!" exclaimed the customer, aghast. "You're jokin',
aint you?"
"Reg'lar price, mister," was the reply.
"Why, I saw a boy blackin' boots down by the museum for ten cents."
"Maybe you did; but this is the City Hall Park. We're employed by the
city, and we have to charge the reg'lar price."
"I wish I'd got my boots blacked down to the museum," said the victim,
in a tone of disappointment, producing twenty-five cents, which was
eagerly appropriated by the young extortioner.
"I say, Tommy, give us a treat, or we'll peach," said one of the boys.
Tom led the way to the ice-cream vender's establishment, where with
reckless extravagance he ordered a penny ice-cream all round for the
half-dozen boys in his company, even then making a handsome thing out of
the extra pay he had obtained from his rustic patron.
By this time it was half-past two o'clock. So Ben learned from the City
Hall clock. He was getting decidedly hungry. There were apple and cake
stands just outside the railings, on which he could have regaled
himself cheaply, but his appetite craved something more solid. There was
a faint feeling, which nothing but meat could satisfy.
Ben had no idea how much a plate of meat would cost at a restaurant. He
had but twenty-two cents, and whatever he got must come within that
limit. Still he hoped that something could be obtained for this sum.
Where to go,--that was the question.
"Can you tell me a good place to get some dinner?" he asked of a boy,
standing near him.
"Down on Nassau Street or Fulton Street," was the reply.
"Where is Fulton Street?" asked Ben, catching the last name.
"I'm goin' that way. You can go with me if you want to."
Ben readily accepted the companionship proffered, and was led past the
museum, the site of which, as I have said, is now occupied by the Herald
Building.
Turning down Fulton Street, Ben soon saw a restaurant, with bills of
fare displayed outside.
"That's a good place," said his guide.
"Thank you," said Ben.
He scanned the bill in advance, ascertaining to his satisfaction that he
could obtain a plate of roast beef for fifteen cents, and a cup of
coffee for five. This would make but twenty cents, leaving him a balance
of two cents.
He opened the door and entered.
There was a long table running through the centre of the apartment, from
the door to the rear. On each side, against the sides of the room, were
small tables intended for four persons each. There were but few eating,
as the busy time at down-town restaurants usually extends from twelve to
half-past one, or two o'clock, and it was now nearly three.
Ben entered and took a seat at one of the side tables, laying his bundle
on a chair beside him.
A colored waiter came up, and stood awaiting his orders.
"Give me a plate of roast beef," said Ben.
"Yes, sir. Coffee or tea?"
"Coffee."
