“Only this if there is any sudden change, promise to send for me, no
matter at what hour it is. I must say ‘good-bye’”.
“I will come for you. But, Rose, I am sure you may sleep in peace
tonight, and I hope to have good news for you in the morning.”
“Bless you for that! Come early, and let me see him soon. I will be very
good, and I know it will not do him any harm.”
“No fear of that. The first thing he said when he could speak was ‘Tell
Rose carefully,’ and as I came away he guessed where I was going and
tried to kiss his hand in the old way, you know.”
Mac thought it would cheer her to hear that Charlie remembered her, but
the sudden thought that she might never see the familiar little gesture
anymore was the last drop that made her full heart overflow, and Mac saw
the “hero” of the morning sink down at his feet in a passion of tears
that frightened him. He took her to the sofa and tried to comfort her,
but as soon as the bitter sobbing quieted she looked up and said quite
steadily, great drops rolling down her cheeks the while: “Let me cry it
is what I need, and I shall be all the better for it by and by. Go to
Charlie now and tell him I said with all my heart, ‘Good night!’?
“I will!” And Mac trudged away, marveling in his turn at the curiously
blended strength and weakness of womankind.
That was the longest night Rose ever spent, but joy came in the morning
with the early message: “He is better. You are to come by and by.” Then
Aunt Plenty forgot her lumbago and arose; Aunt Myra, who had come to
have a social croak, took off her black bonnet as if it would not be
needed at present, and the girl made ready to go and say “Welcome back,”
 not the hard “Good-bye.”
It seemed very long to wait, for no summons came till afternoon, then
her uncle arrived, and at the first sight of his face Rose began to
tremble.
“I came for my little girl myself, because we must go back at once,” he
said as she hurried toward him hat in hand.
“I’m ready, sir.” But her hands shook as she tried to tie the ribbons,
and her eyes never left the face that was full of tender pity for her.
He took her quickly into the carriage and, as they rolled away, said
with the quiet directness which soothes such agitation better than any
sympathetic demonstration: “Charlie is worse. I feared it when the pain
went so suddenly this morning, but the chief injuries are internal and
one can never tell what the chances are. He insists that he is better,
but he will soon begin to fail, I fear, become unconscious, and slip
away without more suffering. This is the time for you to see him, for he
has set his heart on it, and nothing can hurt him now. My child, it is
very hard, but we must help each other bear it.”
Rose tried to say, “Yes, Uncle” bravely, but the words would not
come, and she could only slip her hand into his with a look of mute
submission. He laid her head on his shoulder and went on talking so
quietly that anyone who did not see how worn and haggard his face had
grown with two days and a night of sharp anxiety might have thought him
cold.
“Jessie has gone home to rest, and Jane is with poor Clara, who has
dropped asleep at last. I’ve sent for Steve and the other boys. There
will be time for them later, but he so begged to see you now, I thought
it best to come while this temporary strength keeps him up. I have
told him how it is, but he will not believe me. If he asks you, answer
honestly and try to fit him a little for this sudden ending of so many
hopes.”
“How soon, Uncle?”
“A few hours, probably. This tranquil moment is yours make the most of
it and, when we can do no more for him, we’ll comfort one another.”
Mac met them in the hall, but Rose hardly saw him. She was conscious
only of the task before her and, when her uncle led her to the door, she
said quietly, “Let me go in alone, please.”
Archie, who had been hanging over the bed, slipped away into the inner
room as she appeared, and Rose found Charlie waiting for her with such
a happy face, she could not believe what she had heard and found it easy
to say almost cheerfully as she took his eager hand in both of hers:
“Dear Charlie, I’m so glad you sent for me. I longed to come, but waited
till you were better. You surely are?” she added, as a second glance
showed to her the indescribable change which had come upon the face
which at first seemed to have both light and color in it.
“Uncle says not, but I think he is mistaken, because the agony is all
gone, and except for this odd sinking now and then, I don’t feel so much
amiss,” he answered feebly but with something of the old lightness in
his voice.
“You will hardly be able to sail in the Rajah, I fear, but you won’t
mind waiting a little while we nurse you,” said poor Rose, trying to
talk on quietly, with her heart growing heavier every minute.
“I shall go if I’m carried! I’ll keep that promise, though it costs
me my life. Oh, Rose! You know? They’ve told you?” And, with a sudden
memory of what brought him there, he hid his face in the pillow.
“You broke no promise, for I would not let you make one, you remember.
