“Perhaps the person who wanted the house you have hired would be
willing to take it now, and purchase the furniture you have put into
it?” suggested Mrs. Oliphant, when the subject was resumed.

Perhaps he would; but my idea just then was that he would not have the
opportunity to do so.

“I think not; the party who wanted it would have furnished it at half
the expense I have incurred,” I replied.

“Couldn’t you let it as a furnished house?” she added.

“My lease does not permit me to underlet it.”

“I think it would be cruel to take Lilian away from her own pleasant
home, when she wishes to remain here so much,” continued Mrs. Oliphant,
a little more sharply than she had yet spoken. “But, of course, it is
none of my business and I do not wish to interfere between you.”

After supper, I saw Lilian alone in our room. She was as resolute as a
little tiger. She positively refused to go into the English basement
house, or to have anything to do with it.

“I think you have insulted my mother,” she added.

“Insulted her!” I exclaimed, rather startled by this new charge which
had evidently been put into her brain by “dear ma.”

“She has made her arrangements to board us, and now you want to go
away.”

“She hasn’t made any arrangements at all. Not an article of furniture
has been added to the house.”

“She says she has; and I think she knows best,” retorted Lilian,
sharply.

“You have spoken to me every day for a month about furnishing our room.”

“I think we ought to furnish it.”

“And pay thirty dollars a week for our board! I don’t think so,” I
replied; and this was almost the first time I had ventured to disagree
with her.

“Mother says she boards us cheaper than any body else would,” snapped
my pretty one. “Now you insult her for her kindness to us.”

“I have already explained my position to her. I did not mean to insult
her, and I don’t think my conduct will bear that construction. But,
Lilian, the house in Needham Street is all ready for us. I have even
hired a servant girl, who is there now.”

“I will not go into it, Paley. If you wish to abuse my mother you can,
but I will not. I am sorry you have ceased to love me.”

“I have not ceased to love you, Lilian,” I replied, putting my arm
around her neck and kissing her.

Then I went over the whole argument again, and if I did not convince
her that I had not insulted or wronged her mother, it was because her
fears set logic at naught.

“You will sell the furniture, and give up the house—won’t you, Paley?”
said she, in her most fascinating way.

“I would if I could Lilian, but the die is cast. I must go, or I am
ruined.”

Suddenly, in a fit of passion, she shook my arm from her neck and
shrunk from me.

“For the last time, Paley, I say it, I will never go into that house,”
said she, angrily.

“I am sorry, Lilian,” I replied, sadly. “You do not act like the loving
wife you have always been.”

“I will not be insulted any longer.”

