the Temple of Theseus, the Parthenon, the Propylæa, the theatres, and
other public buildings, to which age has now given a soft and creamy
tone; the Pentelic marble must have been too brilliant for the eye, and
its dazzling lustre was no doubt softened by the judicious use of color.
Fragments which we broke off had the sparkle and crystalline grain
of loaf-sugar, and if they were placed upon the table one would
unhesitatingly take them to sweeten his tea. The whole mountain-side
is overgrown with laurel, and we found wild-flowers all the way to
the summit. Amid the rocks of the higher slopes, little shepherd-boys,
carrying the traditional crooks, were guarding flocks of black and white
goats, and, invariably as we passed, these animals scampered off and
perched themselves upon sharp rocks in a photographic pose.
Early as we were, the wind had risen before us, and when we reached
the bare back of the summit it blew so strongly that we could with
difficulty keep our feet, and gladly took refuge in a sort of stone
corral, which had been a camp and lookout of brigands. From this
commanding point they spied both their victims and pursuers. Our guide
went into the details of the capture of the party of Englishmen who
spent a night here, and pointed out to us the several hiding-places in
the surrounding country to which they were successively dragged. But my
attention was not upon this exploit. We looked almost directly down upon
Marathon. There is the bay and the curving sandy shore where the
Persian galleys landed; here upon a spur, jutting out from the hill,
the Athenians formed before, they encountered the host in the plain,
and there—alas! it was hidden by a hill—is the mound where the one
hundred and ninety-two Athenian dead are buried. It is only a small
field, perhaps six miles along the shore and a mile and a half deep, and
there is a considerable marsh on the north and a small one at the south
end. The victory at so little cost, of ten thousand over a hundred
thousand, is partially explained by the nature of the ground; the
Persians had not room enough to manouvre, and must have been thrown into
confusion on the skirts of the northern swamp, and if over six thousand
of them were slain, they must have been killed on the shore in the panic
of their embarkation. But still the shore is broad, level, and firm, and
the Greeks must have been convinced that the gods themselves terrified
the hearts of the barbarians, and enabled them to discomfit a host which
had chosen this plain as the most feasible in all Attica for the action
of cavalry.
A sea-haze lay upon the strait of Euripus and upon Euboea, and nearly
hid from our sight the forms of the Cyclades; but away in the northwest
were snow peaks, which the guide said were the heights of Parnassus
above Delphi. In the world there can be few prospects so magnificent as
this, and none more inspiring to the imagination. No one can properly
appreciate the Greek literature or art who has not looked upon the Greek
nature which seems to have inspired both.
Nothing now remains of the monuments and temples which the pride and
piety of the Athenians erected upon the field of Marathon. The visitor
at the Arsenal of Venice remembers the clumsy lion which is said to have
stood on this plain, and in the Temple of Theseus, at Athens, he may see
a slab which was found in this meadow; on it is cut in very low relief
the figure of a soldier, but if the work is Greek the style of treatment
is Assyrian.
The Temple of Theseus, which occupies an elevation above the city
and west of the Areopagus, is the best-preserved monument of Grecian
antiquity, and if it were the only one, Athens would still be worthy of
a pilgrimage from the ends of the earth. Behind it is a level esplanade,
used as a drill-ground, upon one side of which have been gathered some
relics of ancient buildings and sculptures; seated there in an ancient
marble chair, we never wearied of studying the beautiful proportions of
this temple, which scarcely suffers by comparison with the Parthenon or
that at Pæstum. In its construction the same subtle secret of curved
lines and inclined verticals was known, a secret which increases its
apparent size and satisfies the eye with harmony.
While we were in Athens the antiquarians were excited by the daily
discoveries in the excavations at the Keramicus (the field where the
Athenian potters worked). Through the portion of this district outside
the gate Dipylum ran two streets, which were lined with tombs; one ran
to the Academe, the other was the sacred way to Eleusis. The excavations
have disclosed many tombs and lovely groups of funereal sculpture, some
of which are in situ, but many have been removed to the new Museum. The
favorite device is the seated figure of the one about to die, who in
this position of dignity takes leave of those most loved; perhaps it is
a wife, a husband, a lovely daughter, a handsome boy, who calmly awaits
the inevitable moment, while the relatives fondly look or half avert
their sorrowful faces. In all sculpture I know nothing so touching as
these family farewells. I obtained from them a new impression of the
Greek dignity and tenderness, of the simplicity and nobility of their
domestic life.
The Museum, which was unarranged, is chiefly one of fragments, but
what I saw there and elsewhere scattered about the town gave me a finer
