Point till I raised the reef — quarter less twain — 
then straightened up for the middle hai till I got 
well abreast the old one-limbed cotton-wood in the 
bend, then got my stern on the cotton-wood and 
head on the low plac*' above the point, and came 
throu<'h a-boomin< — nine and a half" 
" Pretty square crossing, an't it ?" 
" Yes, but the upper bar's working down fast." 
Another pilot spoke up and said : —  
" I had better water than that, and ran it lower 
down ; started out from the false point — mark 
twain — raised the second reef abreast the big snag 
in the bend, and had quarter less twain." 
One of the i;or<xeous ones remarked : — 
"I don't want to find fault  your leadsmen, 
but that's a good deal of water for Plum Point, it 
seems to me." 
There was an approving nod all around as this 
quiet snub dropped on the boaster and "settled" 
him. And so they went on talk -talk -talking. 
Meantime, the thing that was running in my mind 
was, " Now if my ears hear aright, I have not only 
to get the names of all the towns and islands and 
bends, and so on, by heart, but I must even get up 
a warm personal acquaintances with every old 
snag and one-limbed cotton-wood and obscure 
wood pile that ornaments the banks of this river 
for twelve hundred miles ; and more than that, I 
must actually know where these things are in the 
dark, unless these guests are gifted with eyes that 
can piorce tln'()u<'h two luilcH of .solid hlaeknesM; 
I wish the pil()tin l)UHinos8 was in Jericho and I 
had never thought of it." 
At (hisk Mr. B tapped the his bell three 
times (the signal to land), and the captain emerged 
from his drawing-room in the forward end of the 
texas, and looked up inquiringly. Mr. B said: 
" We will lay up here all night, captain." 
" Very well, sir." 
That was all. The boat came to shore and was 
tied up for the night. It seemed to me a fine thing 
that the pilot could do as he pleased without asking 
so grand a captain's permission. I took m supper 
and went immediately to bed, discouraged by my 
day's observations and experiences. My late voy- 
are's note-bookinff was but a confusion of meaning- 
less names. It had tangled me all up in a knot 
every time I had looked at it in the daytime. I 
now hoped for respite in sleep ; but no, it reveled 
all through my head till sunrise again, a frantic and 
tireless nightmare. 
Next morning I felt pretty rusty'' and low spirited. 
We went booming along, taking a good many 
chances, for we were anxious to " get out of the 
river" (as getting out to Cairo was called) before 
night should overtake us. But Mr. B 's part- 
ner, the other pilot, presently grounded the boat, 
and we lost so much time getting her olf, that it 
was plain the darkness would overtake us a good 
long way above the mouth. This was a great 
misfortune, especially to certain of our visiting 
pilots, wlioso boats would have to wait for their 
return, no niattoi* how Umg that iiii<,'lit )'. It 
sobered the pilot-liousc talk a good deal. Coming 
up-stream, pilots did not nnnd low water or any 
kind of darkness ; nothing stopped them but fog. 
But down-stream work was different; a boat was 
too nearly lielpless, with a stiff current pushing 
behind her ; so it was not customary to run down- 
stream at night in low water. 
There seemed to be one small hope, however : if 
we could get through the intricate and dangerous 
Hat Island crossing before night, we could venture 
the rest, for we would have plainer sailing and l)et- 
ter water. But it would be insanity to attempt 
Hat Iand at night. So there was a deal of looking 
at watches all the rest of the day, and a constant 
ciphering upon the speed we were making ; Hat 
Island was the eternal subject ; sometimes hope 
was high and sometimes we were delayed in a bad 
