stjiish. You can hand me your list to-morrow. Is that 
nine? Maud, we must say good-evening, and retire. 
Mrs. Kinnard, breakfast is at eight, dinner at half-past 
twelve, and supper at six, invariably, whether the doctor 
is here or not. Irregular meals betoken a very careless 
household, in my estimation ; and there is nothing like 
system for young people. Say good- night, Maud." 
The elder lady bowed with sweeping stiffness, and 
Maud with almost comical primness. No tender good 
night kiss, no cordial wishes. The doctor gave a care 
less nod, as if he was glad to be rid of them thus easily. 
Then he turned to his mother, and began to make some 
casual inquiries as to what had transpired in his absence. 
Mrs. Kinnard, senior, had been scrutinizing the pretty 
doll her son had so foolishly married. Oddly enough, 
from her first entrance as an inmate of her son's house, 
she had been afraid he would marry Adelaide Grove. 
Both women had tried hard for the supremacy ; but Miss 
Grove kept that over the children, and the rule of the 
household, in some degree. But when his engagement to 
that designing young flirt, Miss Endicott, was announced, 
his mother was astounded. 
 
"Barton," she said, "there is no need whatever of 
your marrying again. Adelaide can look after the chil 
dren ; and I can supervise the house. You will find that 
you are plunging yourself into a sea of trouble. But, if 
you must marry, Adelaide would be so much more suita 
ble. She is nearer to the children than any stranger can 
be ; she is experienced, and" 
But Mrs. Kinnard was not suffered to recount the 
newty discovered virtues of Adelaide Grove. 
"Mother," said Dr. Kinnard, with a solemnity that 
effectually hushed caviling, "I pleased you years ago 
by marrjing Mary Grove : now I shall please myself by 
marrying Nelly Endicott. As for the children, in their 
own mother's lifetime they were left to the care of ser 
vants and Aunt Adelaide. When they are old enough, I 
shall send them away to school. Miss Endicott has been 
brought up amongst children ; and, if I were to die in a 
year's time, I could leave mine in no better hands. I 
hope you will love and welcome her as a daughter ; but 
I am marrying her for nr^self alone." 
Mrs. Kinnard was awed by her son's manner ; and she 
admitted to herself that he was of an obstinate turn. 
But now she fancied that it really had been the desire of 
her life, instead of the dread, that Adelaide should fill 
this position. So the two women formed a tacit league, 
cemented by mutual disappointment. If Dr. Kinnard 
had not married at all, Miss Grove would have been 
satisfied ; but that he should dare to choose youth and 
beauty in preference to experience and money was an 
insult. Since she could not venture to retaliate upon 
him, she nursed her indignation, and kept it warm for 
the new-comer. 
Nelly understood, and was chilled by the coldness. 
She tried to keep up a little conversation ; but it was 
difficult. Dr. Kinnard was annoyed by his mother's 
want of cordiality, yet he felt that some excuse was due 
her age, and that, at her time of life, people did not readily 
adapt themselves to changes. But it was so different at 
the rectory ! That atmosphere of love, and frank, unaf 
fected gayety, had in it such an air of wholesome, winning 
warmth ; it so soon broke through the crust of selfish 
reserve ; it gave so freely of its best, making a contin 
ual feast, alike for the chosen guest, the wayfarer, and 
the home-circle. 
It was a relief when the elder lady retired. Aunt Ade 
laide had not condescended to make a second appearance. 
Nelly drew a long breath. Dr. Kinnard roused him 
self from a mood of though tfulness. 
" I daresay you are tired to death. I'll take a look in 
the office, and then we will go up stairs." 
" Oh ! let me go with you. I want to see your den ; " 
and Nelly's face was so animated and eager, that he 
smiled fondly. 
" Come along, then. I'll call Jane to shut up the 
parlor. It's a dreary place to me: parlors alwaj-s are 
except yours at the rectory." 
" That was hardly a parlor. Do you know I like the 
