if the tombstone suggested to him the trump of judgment, he could not
separate it from the war-whoop that had been the last sound in the ear
of Phineas Arms. The Indian always preceded murder by the war-whoop;
and this was an advantage that the artillery had in the fight with the
elderberry Indians. It was warned in time. If there was no war-whoop,
the killing didn't count; the artilleryman got up and killed the
Indian. The Indian usually had the worst of it; he not only got killed
by the regulars, but he got whipped by the home-guard at night for
staining himself and his clothes with the elderberry.

But once a year the company had a superlative parade. This was when
the military company from the north part of the town joined the
villagers in a general muster. This was an infantry company, and not
to be compared with that of the village in point of evolutions. There
was a great and natural hatred between the north town boys and the
centre. I don't know why, but no contiguous African tribes could be
more hostile. It was all right for one of either section to "lick" the
other if he could, or for half a dozen to "lick" one of the enemy if
they caught him alone. The notion of honor, as of mercy, comes into
the boy only when he is pretty well grown; to some, neither ever comes.
And yet there was an artificial military courtesy (something like that
existing in the feudal age, no doubt) which put the meeting of these
two rival and mutually detested companies on a high plane of behavior.
It was beautiful to see the seriousness of this lofty and studied
condescension on both sides. For the time, everything was under martial
law. The village company being the senior, its captain commanded the
united battalion in the march, and this put John temporarily into the
position of captain, with the right to march at the head and "holler;"
a responsibility which realized all his hopes of glory.

I suppose there has yet been discovered by man no gratification like
that of marching at the head of a column in uniform on parade,—unless
perhaps it is marching at their head when they are leaving a field of
battle. John experienced all the thrill of this conspicuous authority,
and I dare say that nothing in his later life has so exalted him
in his own esteem; certainly nothing has since happened that was so
important as the events of that parade day seemed. He satiated himself
with all the delights of war.




XVIII

COUNTRY SCENES


It is impossible to say at what age a New England country boy becomes
conscious that his trousers-legs are too short, and is anxious about
the part of his hair and the fit of his woman-made roundabout. These
harrowing thoughts come to him later than to the city lad. At least, a
generation ago he served a long apprenticeship with nature only for a
master, absolutely unconscious of the artificialities of life.

But I do not think his early education was neglected. And yet it is
easy to underestimate the influences that, unconsciously to him, were
expanding his mind and nursing in him heroic purposes. There was the
lovely but narrow valley, with its rapid mountain stream; there were
the great hills which he climbed only to see other hills stretching
away to a broken and tempting horizon; there were the rocky pastures,
and the wide sweeps of forest through which the winter tempests
howled, upon which hung the haze of summer heat, over which the great
shadows of summer clouds traveled; there were the clouds themselves,
shouldering up above the peaks, hurrying across the narrow sky,—the
clouds out of which the wind came, and the lightning and the sudden
dashes of rain; and there were days when the sky was ineffably blue and
distant, a fathomless vault of heaven where the hen-hawk and the eagle
poised on outstretched wings and watched for their prey. Can you say
how these things fed the imagination of the boy, who had few books and
no contact with the great world? Do you think any city lad could have
written "Thanatopsis" at eighteen?



If you had seen John, in his short and roomy trousers and ill-used
straw hat, picking his barefooted way over the rocks along the
river-bank of a cool morning to see if an eel had "got on," you
would not have fancied that he lived in an ideal world. Nor did
he consciously. So far as he knew, he had no more sentiment than a
jack-knife. Although he loved Cynthia Rudd devotedly, and blushed
