acquiescence, and excited eyes.
“Now we are ready;” and Gladys folded her hands with the rapturous
contentment of a child at its first fairy spectacle.
“All but the story. I will fetch it;” and Helwyze stepped quickly behind
the screen before either could stir.
Gladys half rose, but Canaris drew her down again, whispering, in an
almost resentful tone,—
“Let him, if he will; you wait on him too much. I put the papers in
order; he will read them easily enough.”
“Nay, do not be angry, dear; he does it to please me, and surely no one
could read it better. I know you would feel too much to do it well,” she
answered, her hand in his, with its most soothing touch.
There was no time for more. Helwyze returned, and, after a hasty
resettling of the manuscript, read on, without pausing, to the story’s
end, as if unconscious of fatigue, and bent on doing justice to the
power of the protégé whose success was his benefactor’s best reward.
At first, Gladys glanced at her husband from time to time; but presently
the living man beside her grew less real than that other, who, despite a
new name and country, strange surroundings, and far different
circumstances, was so unmistakably the same, that she could not help
feeling and following his fate to its close, with an interest almost as
intense as if, in very truth, she saw Canaris going to his end. Her
interest in the woman lessened, and was lost in her eagerness to have
the hero worthy of the love she gave, the honor others felt for him;
and, when the romance brought him to defeat and death, she was so
wrought upon by this illusion, that she fell into a passion of sudden
tears, weeping as she had never wept before.
Felix sat motionless, his hand over his eyes, lips closely folded, lest
they should betray too much emotion; the irresistible conviction that it
was good, strengthening every instant, till he felt only the
fascination and excitement of an hour, which foretold others even more
delicious. When the tale ended, the melodious voice grew silent, and
nothing was heard but the eloquent sobbing of a woman. Words seemed
unnecessary, and none were uttered for several minutes, then Helwyze
asked briefly,—
“Shall we burn it?”
As briefly Canaris answered “No;” and Gladys, quickly recovering the
self-control so seldom lost, looked up with “a face, clear shining after
rain,” as she said in the emphatic tone of deepest feeling,—
“It would be like burning a live thing. But, Felix, you must not kill
that man: I cannot have him die so. Let him live to conquer all his
enemies, the worst in himself; then, if you must end tragically, let the
woman go; she would not care, if he were safe.”
“But she is the heroine of the piece; and, if it does not end with her
lamenting over the fallen hero, the dramatic point is lost,” said
Helwyze; for Canaris had sprung up, and was walking restlessly about the
room, as if the spirits he had evoked were too strong to be laid even by
himself.
“I know nothing about that; but I feel the moral point would be lost, if
it is not changed. Surely, powerful as pity is, a lofty admiration is
better; and this poem would be nobler, in every way, if that man ends by
living well, than by dying ignominiously in spite of his courage. I
cannot explain it, but I am sure it is so; and I will not let Felix
spoil his best piece of work by such a mistake.”
“Then you like it? You would be happy if I changed and let it go before
the world, for your sake more than for my own?”
Canaris paused beside her, pale with some emotion stronger than
gratified vanity or ambitious hope. Gladys thought it was love; and,
carried out of herself by the tender pride that overflowed her heart and
would not be controlled, she let an action, more eloquent than any
words, express the happiness she was the first to feel, the homage she
would be the first to pay. Kneeling before him, she clasped her hands
together, and looked up at him with cheeks still wet, lips still
tremulous, eyes still full of wonder, admiration, fervent gratitude, and
love.
In one usually so self-restrained as Gladys such joyful abandonment was
doubly captivating and impressive. Canaris felt it so; and, lifting her
up, pressed her to a heart whose loud throbbing thanked her, even while
he gently turned her face away, as if he could not bear to see and
receive such worship from so pure a source. The unexpected humility in
his voice touched her strangely, and made her feel more deeply than ever
how genuine was the genius which should yet make him great, as well as
beloved.
“I will do what you wish, for you see more clearly than I. You shall
be happy, and I will be proud of doing it, even if no one else sees
any good in my work.”
“They will! they must! It may not be the grandest thing you will ever
do, but it is so human, it cannot fail to touch and charm; and to me
that is as great an act as to astonish or dazzle by splendid learning or
wonderful wit. Make it noble as well as beautiful, then people will love
