out of what is earthly and that is all they care 
about. However they comfort themselves with the 
thought that when the thunder-showers once come 
with their violent rain-pours, then surely there will 
be stones and soil enough rolling down upon the 
field from off the hill in the end to destroy all that 
is standing upon it. Verily that is not a godly sort 
of satisfaction, but a true Satanic delight, for Satan 
rejoices when any evil happens to people. 

" And at last, the wish of the peasants seems 
to be fulfilled. There comes up an uncommonly 
violent thunder-storm; the rain pours down from 
heaven in streams, as if the clouds had burst; so 
that regular brooks are flowing down the village 
streets. Then the envious people triumph; there 
is no mistake about it, the field lying so exposed 
on the slope of the hill, must be thoroughly laid 
waste. Those two men, it may well be, tremble 
too, for the storm is too frightful; but lose heart 
they do not; on the contrary the need drives them 
to more ardent prayer: "Lord, help, and do not let 
the field be spoiled. Thou art the strong, almighty 
God of Sabaoth, and thy hand is not shortened, but 
thine arm is stretched out still." So they prayed; 
and when the storm was past they went confidently up to the field, a good many accompanying 



 

them ; and as they were going, and while the many 
who went along could hardly hide their delight, 
they were singing in their hearts the hymn 



me j n Gott will gescheh allzeit, 
Sein Wille 1st der beste ; 
Zu helfen ist Er dem bereit, 
Der an Urn glaubet feste." ' " 

" Ditto, we don't understand that." 

" It means about this. * The will of my God be 
done always. His will is the best. He is always 
ready to help them who rest on him in firm faith.' " 

"'With that, they are able to look up cheerfully 
and they are of good courage. And when they 
arrive at the field, what do they see? The entire 
field is unharmed. The stalks of grain lift their 
heads up bravely, as if they too would give thanks 
for the beautiful rain which has so refreshed them. 
But on both sides of the field a whole stream has 
poured down from the hill, and nothing is to be 
seen but a wild mass of rocks and stones. Whose 
is the strong hand which seized the rain flood and 
parted it just before it came to the field and so gently led it down on both sides of the field ? Moved 
to the depth of their hearts, our two friends were 
constrained to cry out "The Lord, he is the God! 
The Lord, he is the God! Give our God the glory." 
And it is to be hoped that many of the unbelievers, 
if not aloud yet quietly, joined in the prayer with 
them. 

" And now, when the harvest was finished, and 
the farmer brought to the pastor what he had prom- 



 

ised to give the Lord of the produce of the field, 
and then also the pastor's vow was made known 
to the farmer, the two fell upon their knees again 
and thanked the Lord for his goodness, because 
his mercy endureth forever. Must not such gifts 
to the heathen go with God's special blessing resting upon them ? ' ' 

