 
might enjoy our pain and humiliation. But, let 
us remember, that if there be no unclean, no vile 
and hurtful things, in our minds, the opening of 
a window, and flashing in of light, cannot touch 
our tranquil states. If the chambers of our souls 
are always swept and garnished, sunbeams can 
only reveal order and beauty. 
And so, if miserable for the day, after such a 
visitation, good must follow with those who 
aspire after good with those who, once made 
conscious of disease, turn to the great Physician. 
We may not be able to think well of him who dis 
covered to us how weak, vain, selfish or mean- 
spirited we were, because he only sought to 
wound and humiliate. Nay, we will hold our 
selves guarded at the next interview, lest he reveal to us other spider-filled corners, and humble 
us in his presence again. 
Salutary as the influence of these disturbers of 
our peace may be, through the revelations they 
give us of ourselves, they only help us to disco 
ver evil, which they scent as the crow scents car- 
rion. They are not physicians ; have no oint 
ment for the sores they uncover; no balm for the 
wounds made in sharp thrusts into our tender 
sides. They hurt us, and then go on their way 
rejoicing that they left us in pain. With us, if 
we are indeed of those who are striving to ascend 
to the higher regions of spiritual life, where the 
sky is clear, and the air serene, they leave, in 
their departure, the difficult but essential duty of 
forgiveness. Let us see to it that our hurt in the 
contact is less than was intended ; nay, that good 
come, where evil was designed. 
Of that other class to which we have referred, 
the individuals come to us as angels come, search 
ing for good. They are those who say to evil, be 
far from me. In their company the bad in us 
hides itself still farther away, or skulks to the 
dim exteriors of our conscious life, shorn for the 
time of strength. All that is generous and no 
ble ; all that is self-denying ; all that gives us 
sympathy with our fellow-man; all that invests 
goodness with beauty, is made alive and active in 
 
our souls. They come to us in light they come 
to us in love making truth clearer, and affection 
warmer. The peace that dwells with them, per 
vading their atmosphere like the odorous sphere 
surrounding a flower, and penetrating to our life, 
is no slumbrous calm. The sun is shining; the air 
is clear and vital ; good seeds in the ground have 
sprung up in thrifty stalks, and the harvest nods 
hopefully in the swelling grain. And we feel, 
while with them, our own earth drinking the sun, 
and thank God for the signs of fruitfulness in our 
souls. All is not a barren waste, as we some 
times feared. They have made us more in love 
with goodness ; strengthened our better purposes ; 
taught us lessons of forgiveness, and shown us how 
to walk with him, who, when upon earth, went 
about doing good. Blessings on all such! Theii 
lives are in heaven. In the Golden Age, angels 
walked with men ; not in natural bodies, but in 
bodies of spiritual substance, made visible to the 
spiritual eyes of celestial men, living in primal 
innocence. Sin closed the inner senses, and 
though 
" Myriads of spiritual beings walk the earth unseen, 
Whether we sleep or wake," 
our darkened vision perceives them not. And 
yet, in God 's inercy, angels still walk and talk 
with us, leading our thoughts upward, and these 
are they of whom we have just spoken. Their 
lives are in heaven ; but they dwell in natural bo 
dies, and talk with us face to face. Blessings on 
them, we repeat. 
Our changes of state are all dependent on 
things within us. Disturbing influences may 
come from without ; but, if there is nothing to 
