No sun upon an Easter Day 
Is half so fair at sight.” 
I used to look at her sometimes, and wish — well, I 
never had the plan quite straight in my mind. If we 
were only richer ! If some one would paint Theo, and 
catch this dazzling, elusive charm. I could see how she 
would look on the walls of the Academy, — just “ A young 
girl,” and nothing more. She seemed such a radiant 
impersonation of youth. Or if she could have a true and 
thorough musical education, go to Rome and Vienna, and 
stand some day before an admiring multitude, singing in 
her sweet, unconscious way There were girls who had 
educated their sisters — could I not do something ? Three 
hundred and fifty a year to buy clothes, odds and ends, 
pay car-fares : well, the surplus thereof looked paltry 
enough. Two more children to rear, and poor papa — oh ! 
it seemed as if I had never wanted money so badly as 
when I was dancing the Lancers at the sociable of the 
Homespun Club, and listening to the chatter of youth and 
hope and frolic. 
I sometimes look back to that night when Theo’s des- 
tiny came uppermost in the scale. If it only could have 
been different ! And it is still a puzzle to me why it all 
came. I never was a wonderful hand at finding out hid- 
den meanings. 
Theo came and sat down by me presently, drawing her 
 
breath with a quick pant. Her cheeks were still brilliant; 
but there was a curious little blue streak about her mouth, 
just back of the line of red. 
“You are all tired out,” I said. 
“I am getting fat, and scant of breath,” she laughed. 
Mr. Ross looked her over, and seemed to smile to him- 
self. Why did he keep so close to her ? 
We fell into a talk concerning amusements. He seldom 
went anywhere : he did not believe he was fond of soci- 
ety ; and then his business required constant reading up. 
What was it ? Oh ! he was a chemist. He had been in 
Philadelphia four years ; but the firm he was with failed, 
and they gave him letters to New- York people. HaAung 
no vacancy, they sent him to Northwood. He always 
spent two or three days in New York during every week. 
I asked how long he had been in America. 
“ A little more than six years.” 
‘ ‘ Did he like it as well as England ? ’  
“Business-chances were better, unless we meant to 
destroy every thing, like the Kilkenny cats.” 
“ And not leave any cats,” laughed Theo. 
“We have a brother in the Northern army,” she said 
presently, with a tender gravity. 
“ I am sorry for you, and him too. It will be the old 
story of Ireland repeated, I fancy. I do not understand 
the causes, for I have paid so little attention to your poli- 
tics ; but I hope your people will hit upon a compromise 
before you quite destroy your country.” 
“It will not be destroyed,” said Theo positively. 
“ Think of your wars of the roses. In what part of 
England have you lived, Mr. Ross? ” 
“ At the north. My father lived at New Castle in our 
childhood. I have a sister married there, and one in Aus- 
tralia. I have two brothers in Manchester, and my 
mother lives with one of them. But I went to Edinburgh 
when I was about sixteen.” 
Then they branched into a talk about old Edinburgh 
town, and he really was very entertaining. Theo said 
she was too tired to waltz again, and it was getting quite 
late. 
“ Miss Theo,” he said, “ there is going to be a concert 
given next week by quite a celebrated Scotch vocalist. 
You are so interested in Scottish matters, perhaps you and 
your sister would like to go. I should be most happy to 
escort you.” 
She looked puzzled a moment, then accepted. 
Afterward there was a stir about getting cloaked and 
shawded. We were taken possession of by two loyal 
squires, and reached home at twelve, tired and sleepy. 
“ But, Theo,” I said, “how could you accept an invita- 
tion from a stranger ? ’ ’ 
“Why, we are quite friends already, I am sure. He 
seems to be very nice, and you know I shouldn’t want to 
