
' This shows us what the meaning of life is,' he said. 

' No,' said Diana, ' it doesn't to me. It is just a 
puzzle, and as much a puzzle here as ever. I don't see 
what the use of life is, or what we all live for ; I don't see 
what it amounts to.' 

' What do you mean ? ' asked her companion, but not 
as if he were startled, and Diana went on. 

' I shouldn't say so if people were always having a good 
time, and if they were just right and did just right. 
But they are not, Mr. Masters ; you know they are not ; 
even the best of them, that I see ; and things like this are 
always happening, one way or another. If it isn't here, it 
is somewhere else, and if it isn't one time, it is another ; and 
it is all confusion. I don't see what it all comes to.' 

' That is the thought of a moment of pain,' said the 
minister. 

' No, it is not,' said Diana. ' I think it often. I think it 
all the while. Now this very afternoon I was sitting at 



 

the door here, you know what sort of a day it has been, 
Mr. Masters ? ' 

'I know. Perfect. Just June.' 

' Well, I was looking at it, and feeling how lovely it was ; 
everything perfect ; and somehow all that perfection took a 
kind of sharp edge and hurt me. I was thinking, why 
nothing in the world was like it, or agreed with it ; nothing 
in human life, I mean. This afternoon, when the company 
was here and all the talk going on ; that was like nothing 
out of doors all the while ; and this is not like it.' 

There was a sigh, deep drawn, that came through the 
minister's lips ; then he spoke cheerfully 'Ay ; God's 
works have parted company somehow.' 

' Parted ? ' said Diana curiously. 

' Yes. You remember surely that when he had made 
all things at first, he beheld them very good.' 

' Well, they are not very good now ; not all of them.' 

'Whose fault is that?' 

' I know,' said Diana, 'but that does not help me with 
my puzzle. Why does the world go on so ? what is the use 
of my living, or anybody 's ? What does it amount to ? ' 

' That's your lesson,' the minister answered, with a 
quick glance from his calm eyes. Not a bit of sentiment 
or of speculative rhapsody there ; but downright, cool 
common sense, with just a little bit of authority. Diana 
did not know exactly how to meet it ; and before she had 
arranged her words, they heard wheels again, and then the 
doctor came in. 

The doctor approved of what had been done, and aided in renewed application of the same remedies. After a 
time, these seemed at last successful ; the girl revived ; 
and the doctor after administering a little tea and weak 
brandy and water, ordered that she should be kept quiet 



 

where she was, the room be darkened when daylight came 
on, the windows kept open, and handkerchiefs wet with 
cold water be laid on her head. And then he took his departure ; and Diana went to communicate to her mother 
the orders he had left. 
