generous heart ; and if you pardoned me for mis- 
taking you a single moment for one who had 
neither soul nor heart, I could never look you in 
the face again ! " 
 
Bartlett : " You seem to be taking a good provis- 
ional glare at me beforehand, then, Miss Wyatt. 
I've never been so nearly looked out of coun- 
tenance in my life. But you needn't be afraid ; I 
shall not pardon your crime." Constance abruptly 
drops her head upon his breast, and again in- 
stantly repels herself. 
Constance : " No, you must not if you could. 
But you can't you can't care for me after hear- 
ing what I could say to my father " 
Bartlett : " That was in a moment of great ex- 
citement." 
Constance: "After hearing me rave about a 
man so unworthy of any one you cared for 
No, your self-respect everything demands 
that you should cast me off." 
Bartlett : " It does. But I am inexorable, 
you must have observed the trait before. In this 
case I will not yield even to my own colossal self- 
respect." Earnestly : " Ah, Constance, do you 
think I could love you the less because your heart 
was too true to swerve even from a traitor till he 
was proved as false to honor as to you ? " Lightly 
 
again : " Come, I like your fidelity to worthless 
people; I'm rather a deep and darkling villain 
myself." 
Constance, devoutly : " You ? Oh, you are as 
nobly frank and open as as as papa ! " 
Bartlett: "No, Constance, you are wrong, for 
once. Hear my dreadful secret : I 'm not what I 
seem, the light and joyous creature I look, I 'm 
an emotional wreck. Three short years ago, I 
was frightfully jilted " they all turn upon him in 
surprise "by a young person who, I'm sorry to 
say, hasn't yet consoled me by turning out a 
scamp." 
Constance, drifting to his side with a radiant 
smile : " Oh, I 'm so glad." 
Bartlett, with affected dryness: "Are you? I 
didn't know it was such a laughing matter. I 
was always disposed to take those things seri- 
ously." 
Constance : " Yes, yes ! But don't you see ? It 
places us on more of an equality." She looks at 
him with a smile of rapture and logic exquisitely 
compact. 
 
Bartlett : "Does it? But you're not half as 
happy as I am." 
Constance : " Oh, yes, I am ! Twice." 
Bartlett : " Then that makes us just even, for so 
am I." They stand ridiculously blest, holding each 
other's hand a moment, and then Constance, still 
clinging to one of his hands, goes and rests her 
other arm upon her mother's shoulder. 
Constance: "Mamma, how wretched I have 
made you, all these months ! " 
Mrs. Wyatt : " If your trouble 's over now, my 
child," she tenderly kisses her cheek, " there 's 
no trouble for your mother in the world." 
Constance : u But I 'm not happy, mamma. I 
can't be happy, thinking how wickedly unhappy 
I 've been. No, no ! I had better go back to the 
old wretched state "again; it's all I'm fit for. I'm 
so ashamed of myself. Send him away ! " She 
renews her hold upon his hand. 
Bartlett : " Nothing of the kind. I was requested 
to remain here six weeks ago, by a young lady. 
Besides, this is a public house. Come, I haven't 
finished the catalogue of my disagreeable qualities 
 
yet. I'm jealous. I want you to put that arm 
on my shoulder." He gently effects the desired 
transfer, and then, chancing to look up, he discov- 
