
"'Soon after the departure of the pupils was made known, I had a visit
from an eight-year-old boy. He had a groschen in his hand and a
reading-book under his arm. He told me that he had found this groschen
fourteen days before on the way to church; that he had asked his father
to publish the discovery, and he himself had announced it in school. But
nobody had been found to own the groschen. I said to him: "Well, what do
you think, my child? does the groschen belong to you? will you buy
something with it?" The boy answered, "No, the groschen is not mine, so
I am not going to keep it. I will give it to the dear Saviour for the
poor heathen children, to get a spelling-book for them." When I
questioned him further, he said that once in the church, where his
father takes him every Sunday, I had said "whoever keeps what does not
belong to him is a thief; and"--he added with great seriousness, "you
said, a Christian child must not be a thief!" I received the groschen
now and thanked him. But the boy had not done yet. He asked me if it
were true that two of the pupils had been expelled from the
Mission-house. When with a sorrowful face I assented, he answered, "You
need not be so troubled about it. You can send me instead. I can spell
already, and I will soon learn to read." When the little fellow with
great earnestness had said that, I could not help folding him to my
breast in heartfelt gladness. Then I knelt down, and together with him
prayed that the Lord would some time make a true missionary of him. He
went away at last, but could not at first rightly understand how it was
that I had as yet no use for him.

"'Soon after this, I receive a letter from a dear friend who had been
making a lively stir in the matter of the Mission among his school and
the parish to which his school belonged. The Lord had granted him access
to the hearts of great and small, and with cordial pleasure he had been
collecting till he should have a full thaler made up, which then should
be sent me. Now he wrote the thaler was made up, and he sent it, and
this was how it had come about. In a hospital, where he is accustomed to
hold devotional service for an hour, he had mentioned the conversion of
the heathen. The next day came a widow, shoved four groschen under one
of the books which lay on the table, and then, with a greeting from her
children, laid two groschen on the table, saying, "Now the thaler will
be made up!" To this Mission thaler, which indeed was made up now, a
little girl of nine years old had every Sunday contributed two pennies,
which she received from her mother to buy rolls with. Some time after,
the mother brought the child's two pennies again, silently; but it
struck our friend that she had great tears in her eyes. The thing was
soon explained. The child had fallen ill. Sunday her mother said to her,
"To-day you shall keep your roll for yourself." "No," the child
answered, "I could not be easy if I did. I promised my dear Saviour
once, that as long as you gave me two pennies to buy rolls with, I would
give the money on Sunday for the heathen." How glad that true mother's
heart must have been! She had reason to say, "But what a value these two
pennies had for me! I could not let them out of my hands at first, for
joy." God bless mother, child, and teacher! The Mission must indeed
thrive when such gifts are offered. From another dear friend of
missions, personally unknown to me, moreover, I received a contribution
for the Mission, in the making up of which both men and beasts had given
their help. The contributors were specially mentioned, the men at their
head; then at the conclusion followed, "A hen, so much and so much."'"

"Well, Ditto," said Flora, "I will say, you do read the most
extraordinary stories."

"Like them?"

"No, I don't think I do much. Do you bring them forward as our examples,
hen and all?"

"You might do worse."

"But, Ditto," Maggie said anxiously, "you do not think we ought to go
without what we want, do you, for the sake of the heathen?"

"Ask Mr. Murray that question, Maggie. Whose hat is that I see over the
wall, coming up to the gate?"

Maggie jumped up to look, and then, with a scream of "Uncle Eden! Uncle
Eden!" sprang away down the path to meet him. The others dropped book
and work and followed her. The pine wood was screened off from the
shrubbery and pleasure grounds (but indeed all Mosswood pretty much was
pleasure grounds) by a low stone wall, in which wall a little gate
admitted to the entrance of the wood. By the time Mr. Murray, skirting
the wall, had come to that point, the group of young people had reached
it also, and there Mr. Murray received a welcome that might have
