you think it ought to, and it is only when the rain 
turns to snow that you see any decided green color by 
contrast with the white. The snow gradually covers 
everything very quietly, however. Winter comes 
back without the least noise or bustle, tireless, mali- 
cious, implacable. Neither party in the fight now 
makes much fuss over it ; and you might think that 
Nature had surrendered altogether, if you did not find 
about this time in the woods, on the edge of a snow- 
bank, the modest blossoms of the trailing arbutus, 
shedding their delicious perfume. The bravest are 
always the tenderest, says the poet. The season, in 
its blind way, is trying to express itself. 
And it is assisted. There is a cheerful chatter in 
the trees. The blackbirds have come, and in numbers, 
households of them, villages of them, — communes, 
rather. They do not believe in God, these black- 
birds. They think they can take care of themselves. 
We shall see. But they are well informed. They 
arrived just as the last snow-bank melted. One can- 
not say now that there is not greenness in the grass ; 
not in the wide fields, to be sure, but on lawns and 
banks sloping south. The dark-spotted leaves of 
the dog-tooth violet begin to show. Even Fahrenheit's 
contrivance joins in the upward movement : the mer- 
cury has suddenly gone up from thirty degrees to 
sixty-five degrees. It is time for the ice-man. Ice 
has no sooner disappeared than we desire it. 
There is a smile, if one may say so, in the blue sky, 
and there is softness in the south wind. The song- 
sparrow is singing in the apple-tree. Another bird- 
note is heard, — two long, musical whistles, liquid but 
metallic. A brown bird this one, 'darker than the 
song-sparrow, and without the latter's light stripes, 
and smaller, yet bigger than the queer little chipping- 
bird. He wants a familiar name, this sweet singer, 
who appears to be a sort of sparrow. He is such a 
contrast to the blue-jays, who have arrived in a pas- 
sion, as usual, screaming and scolding, the elegant, 
spoiled beauties ! They wrangle from morning till 
night, these beautiful, high-tempered aristocrats. 
 
Encouraged by the birds, by the bursting of the 
lilac-buds, by the peeping-up of the crocuses, by tradi- 
tion, by the sweet fiutterings of a double hope, another 
sign appears. This is the Easter bonnets, most de- 
lightful flowers of the year, emblems of innocence, 
hope, devotion. Alas that they have to be worn under 
umbrellas, so much thought, freshness, feeling, ten- 
derness, have gone into them ! And a northeast 
storm of rain, accompanied with hail, comes to crown 
all these virtues with that of self-sacrifice. The frail 
hat is offered up to the implacable season. In fact, 
Nature is not to be forestalled nor hurried in this way. 
Things cannot be pushed. Nature hesitates. The 
woman who does not hesitate in April is lost. The 
appearance of the bonnets is premature. The black- 
birds see it. They assemble. For two days they 
hold a noisy convention, with high debate, in the tree- 
tops. Something is going to happen. 
Say, rather, the usual thing is about to occur. 
There is a wind called Auster, another called Eurus, 
another called Septentrio, another Meridies, besides 
Aquilo, Vulturnus, Africus. There are the eight 
great winds of the classical dictionary, — arsenal of 
mystery and terror and of the unknown, — besides 
the wind Euroaquilo of St. Luke. This is the wind 
that drives an apostle wishing to gain Crete upon the 
African Syrtis. If St. Luke had been tacking to get 
to Hyannis, this wind would have forced him into 
Holmes's Hole. The Euroaquilo is no respecter of 
persons. 
These winds, and others unnamed and more terrible, 
circle about New England. They form a ring about 
it : they lie in wait on its borders, but only to spring 
upon it and harry it. They follow each other in con- 
tracting circles, in whirlwinds, in maelstroms of the 
atmosphere : they meet and cross each other, all at a 
moment. This New England is set apart : it is the ex- 
ercise-ground of the weather. Storms bred elsewhere 
