" Ah, very odd, very odd," said the other, who 
was the clever man of the two. 
"Pity it 's so beastly hot," resumed the first 
speaker, after a pause. 
" You know we are in a low latitude," said his 
friend. 
" I dare say," remarked the other. 
"I wonder," said the second speaker, presently, 
"if they can give one a bath y 
" I dare say not," rejoined the other. 
"Oh, I say !" cried his comrade. 
This animated discussion was checked by their 
arrival at the hotel, which had been recommended 
to them by an American gentleman whose acquaintance 
they made with whom, indeed, they 
became very intimate on the steamer, and who 
had proposed to accompany them to the inn and 
introduce them, in a friendly way, to the proprietor. This plan, however, had been defeated by 
their friend 's finding that his " partner" was 
awaiting him on the wharf, and that his com 
mercial associate desired him instantly to come 
and give his attention to certain telegrams received from St. Louis. But the two Englishmen, 
with nothing but their national prestige and personal graces to recommend them, were very well 
received at the hotel, which had an air of capa 
cious hospitality. They found that a bath was 
not unattainable, and were indeed struck with the 
facilities for prolonged and reiterated immersion 
with which their apartment was supplied. After 
bathing a good deal more, indeed, than they had 
ever done before on a single occasion they made 
their way into the dining-room of the hotel, which 
was a spacious restaurant, with a fountain in the 
middle, a great many tall plants in ornamental 
tubs, and an array of French waiters. The first 
dinner on land, after a sea-voyage, is, under any 
circumstances, a delightful occasion, and there 
was something particularly agreeable in the circumstances in which our young Englishmen found 
themselves. They were extremely good-natured 
young men ; they were more observant than they 
appeared; in a sort of inarticulate, accidentally 
dissimulative fashion, they were highly appreciative. This was, perhaps, especially the case with 
the eider, who was also, as I have said, the man of 
talent. They sat down at a little table, which was 
a very different affair from the great clattering 
seesaw in the saloon of the steamer. The wide 
doors and windows of the restaurant stood open, 
beneath large awnings, to a wide pavement, 
where there were other plants hi tubs, and rows 
of spreading trees, and beyond which there was 
a large shady square, without any palings, and 
with marble-paved walks. And above the vivid 
verdure rose other faades of white marble and 
of pale chocolate-colored stone, squaring them 
selves against the deep blue sky. Here, outside, 
in the light and the shade and the heat, there 
was a great tinkling of the bells of innumerable 
street cars, and a constant strolling and shuffling 
and rustling of many pedestrians, a large proportion of whom were young women in Pompa 
dour-looking dresses. Within, the place was cool 
and vaguely lighted, with the plash of water, the 
odor of flowers, and the flitting of French waiters, as I have said, upon soundless carpets. 
"It 's rather like Paris, you know," said the 
younger of our two travellers. 
  
" It 's like Paris only more so," bis companion 
rejoined. 
"I suppose it 's the French waiters," said the 
first speaker. "Why don 't they have French 
waiters in London ?" 
"Fancy a French waiter at a club," said his 
friend. 
The young Englishman stared a little, as if he 
could not fancy it. " In Paris I'm very apt to 
dine at a place where there 's an English waiter. 
Don 't you know what s-his-name s, close to the 
thingumbob ? They always set an English waiter at me. I suppose they think I can 't speak 
French." 
" Well, you can t." And the elder of the young 
Englishmen unfolded his napkin. 
His companion took no notice whatever of this 
