  Sliced Apple Pie.
  ——


OYSTER SOUP.

Drain the liquor from the oysters through a colander. Put the liquor
over the fire with half as much water, salt, pepper, and a large
tablespoonful of butter for each quart of soup. Let it boil up well,
and put in the oysters. Heat slowly, and as soon as they “ruffle,”
which should be about five minutes after they reach the boil, strain
off the soup. Have in another vessel as much boiling milk as there was
oyster liquor. Pour the oysters into a hot tureen, put a large spoonful
of butter upon them; when it melts entirely, turn in the milk. Stir in
well, add the hot soup, cover, and serve with sliced lemon and crackers.


BROWN FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN.

Joint the chicken neatly, and lay in salted cold water half an hour.
Cut a quarter of a pound of salt pork into strips, and fry in good
dripping. Strain it out, skin the chicken as far as possible, and fry
in the same fat, with a sliced onion. Chop the pork fine and put into
a saucepan; next, the onion; at last, the fowl. Sprinkle a teaspoonful
of mixed allspice and cloves over all, pour on cold water to cover them
well, put on a tight lid, and stew gently for an hour or more, until
the meat is tender. Arrange the fowl upon a hot dish; strain the gravy;
season to taste with pepper, salt, and parsley; thicken with browned
flour; boil up once; pour over the chicken; cover, and let all stand
for five minutes before serving.


LADIES’ CABBAGE.

Boil a firm cabbage in two waters. Drain, then set aside to get cold.
Chop fine; add two beaten eggs, a tablespoonful of butter, pepper,
salt, and three tablespoonfuls of milk. Stir all well, and bake brown
in a buttered pudding-dish. Eat very hot.


POTATOES AU NATUREL.

Choose those of uniform size; put on in their skins, in boiling water.
When about half done, check the boil suddenly by a cupful of cold
water. This is said to make old potatoes mealy. Boil again until a fork
will pierce them. Drain off the water; sprinkle with salt to make the
skins crack, and dry out in the uncovered pot, on the range, for a few
minutes before peeling.


SLICED APPLE PIE.

  1 lb. of prepared flour.
  ¾ lb. of butter.
  Ice-water to make stiff dough.

Chop half of the butter into the flour. Work up with ice-water. Roll
out thin; baste all over with butter, and sprinkle lightly with flour;
fold closely into a long roll; flatten, and re-roll as thin as at
first; then baste again. Repeat this three times. Set the last roll
in a cold place for at least an hour. Roll out, and line two buttered
pie-plates, reserving enough for upper crusts.

Pare, core and slice juicy pippins; put a layer within the crust;
sprinkle sugar liberally over it, strew half a dozen whole cloves upon
this; then more apples, etc., until the dish is full. Cover with crust
and bake.

Eat barely warm, with sugar and cream.



  First Week.      Saturday.
  ——
  A Plain Soup.
  Breaded Mutton Chops.      Milanaise Potatoes.
  Currant Jelly.      Green Peas.
  ——
  Cocoanut Sponge Pudding.
  ——
