me to see. She had pink stockings ; she was very 
wicked." 
" She was a soubrette" Gertrude announced, 
 
who had never seen a play in her life. " They 
call that a soubrette. It will be a great chance 
to learn French." Charlotte gave a little soft, 
helpless groan. She had a vision of a wicked, 
theatrical person, clad in pink stockings and red 
shoes, and speaking, with confounding volubility, 
an incomprehensible tongue, flitting through the 
sacred penetralia of that large, clean house. " That 
is one reason in favor of their coming here," Ger- 
trude went on. " But we can make Eugenia speak 
French to us, and Felix. I mean to begin the 
next time." 
Mr. Wentworth had kept her standing near 
him, and he gave her his earnest, thin, unrespon- 
sive glance again. " I want you to make me a 
promise, Gertrude," he said. 
" What is it? " she asked, smiling. 
" Not to get excited. Not to allow these 
these occurrences to be an occasion for excite- 
ment." 
She looked down at him a moment, and then 
she shook her head. " I don't think I can promise 
that, father. I am excited already." 
Mr. Wentworth was silent a while ; they all 
were silent, as if in recognition of something auda- 
cious and portentous. 
"I think they had better go to the other house," 
said Charlotte, quietly. 
   
" I shall keep them in the other house," Mr. 
Wentworth subjoined, more pregnantly. 
Gertrude turned away; then she looked across 
at Robert Acton. Her cousin Robert was a great 
friend of hers ; she often looked at him this way 
instead of saying things. Pier glance on this occa- 
sion, however, struck him as a substitute for a 
larger volume of diffident utterance than usual in- 
viting him to observe, among other things, the 
inefficiency of her father's design if design it 
was for diminishing, in the interest of quiet 
nerves, their occasions of contact with their for- 
eign relatives. But Acton immediately com- 
plimented Mr. Wentworth upon his liberality. 
" That 's a very nice thing to do," he said, " giv- 
ing them the little house. You will have treated 
them handsomely, and, whatever happens, you 
will be glad of it." Mr. Wentworth was liberal, 
and he knew he was liberal. It gave him pleas- 
ure to know it, to feel it, to see it recorded ; and 
this pleasure is the only palpable form of self- 
indulgence with which the narrator of these inci- 
dents will be able to charge him. 
" A three days' visit at most, over there, is all 
I should have found possible," Madame Munster 
remarked to her brother, after they had taken 
possession of the little white house. " It would 
have been too intime decidedly too intime. 
 
Breakfast, dinner, and tea en famille it would 
have been the end of the world if I could have 
reached the third day." And she made the same 
observation to her maid Augustine, an intelligent 
person, who enjoyed a liberal share of her confi- 
dence. Felix declared that he would willingly 
spend his life in the bosom of the Went worth 
family ; that they were the kindest, simplest, most 
amiable people in the world, and that he had 
taken a prodigious fancy to them all. The Bar- 
oness quite agreed with him that they were simple 
and kind ; they were thoroughly nice people, and 
she liked them extremely. The girls were per- 
fect ladies ; it was impossible to be more of a lady 
than Charlotte Wentworth, in spite of her little 
village air. " But as for thinking them the best 
company in the world," said the Baroness, " that 
is another thing ; and as for wishing to live porte 
