haunches he began coolly to draw in the lasso, against the combined
strength of man and horse. The muscular force of a big grizzly is
simply enormous. Usually he is attacked from two sides, two lassos being
thrown around him. For a single antagonist he is sometimes more than a
match, as seemed likely in the present case. The rieta being attached
to the pommel of the saddle, of course the bear, in pulling as he did,
hand over hand, steadily brought the vaquero and his steed nearer. The
horse, terrified, trembled in every limb, and tried to rear; but his
strength was as nothing when opposed to the steady power of his massive
antagonist.
Relieved from the immediate attentions of the grizzly, Tom did not
continue to run, but stood still, and, forgetting his own peril,
remained an excited spectator of the struggle between the bear and the
vaquero.
The Mexican in an excited manner shouted to him to shoot. This brought
Tom to a sense of his duty. A third person had been brought into danger
by an effort to give him assistance, and he was too manly to leave him
to his fate. He raised his rifle, and, taking quick aim, fired. Our
young hero was of course inexperienced, and it was only by a piece of
good fortune that his bullet inflicted a serious wound, striking the
bear in the throat. The blood began to flow and the grizzly, growling
fiercely, slackened his hold on the lasso. The vaquero followed up
Tom's shot by another, equally effective, and the powerful animal
dropped to the ground, dangerous still if approached, but unfitted for
pursuit.
The vaquero reined his horse back, and his dark face became illumined
with a smile of satisfaction.
"He will do no more harm," he said in good English, but with a foreign
accent. "The danger is over."
"Is the critter used up?" shouted Onthank, cautiously, from his elevated
perch. "Is he defunct?"
"He soon will be," answered Tom. "I guess it will be safe to come down."
Ebenezer Onthank needed no second invitation. He "shinned" down the tree
in a manner not unlike the grizzly, and approached the spot where the
huge foe was lying, the life-blood flowing from his throat.
"I'd like to kick you, you big brute!" said Mr. Onthank.
The bear slowly turned upon him his glazing eyes, and they expressed so
much ferocity that almost involuntarily the Yankee drew back. The bear
partly raised himself, and tried to drag himself towards his
adversaries; but the effort was vain.
"He is one of the largest I have seen," said the vaquero. "See how
strong he is!"
"It was lucky for me that you came up," said Tom. "He was almost upon
me."
"I had about given you up, Tom," said Onthank, "and I thought my turn
was coming next."
"We are much indebted to you, sir," said Tom, gratefully, to the
Mexican. "You have saved my life."
The vaquero courteously expressed his satisfaction, and, remounting
his horse, resumed his journey.
"I never want to see another grizzly," said Onthank. "This one is enough
for me, darn his ugly pictur'!"
"I quite agree with you, Mr. Onthank," said Tom.
CHAPTER XVIII.
TOM'S OLD HOME.
Leaving Tom for a time, we will cross the continent, and, a little
earlier in point of time, look in upon Mark Nelson and his family at
their humble home in New Hampshire.
For years Mr. Nelson had been struggling to provide a comfortable living
for his wife and children. The struggle was not an easy one. His small
farm was sterile, and yielded grudgingly its annual crops. Then the
mortgage held by Squire Hudson imposed a burden of interest very hard to
meet. Each half year sixty-six dollars must be raised somehow to satisfy
the squire's demand. Though a rich man, with ready money in plenty, he
never failed to call for his money on the very day it was due. Once or
twice he had granted a delay of a day or two; but his manner was so
unpleasant that the farmer, except from dire necessity, was hardly
likely to ask a renewal of the favor.
The six months immediately following Tom's departure from home were not
favorable to his father. There was a drought of considerable duration,
which made the crops smaller than usual, and thus materially decreased
the farmer's income. When the semi-annual interest became due, with the
most energetic effort Mark Nelson had got together but thirty-six
dollars towards it, leaving a deficit of thirty dollars.
"I feel anxious about to-morrow, Mary," he said, as the little family
sat together the night before in the plain sitting-room. "I have never
been so much behindhand before with the interest."
"How much do you lack, Mark?" asked Mrs. Nelson.
"Thirty dollars."
"That is a good deal of money," said his wife, gravely.
