not so easy to find an answer to her last query 
about breakfast; she had so many objections to 
everything I proposed. Her fancy was at last hit 
by a Welsh rabbit and coffee ; and as the physician 
put no veto upon any article of food for her, I did 
her pleasure, and prepared what I had only pro 
posed in jest or in desperation. But Olive liked 
her breakfast, and it seemed to agree with her. 
She certainly liked my cookery, which was a certain 
gratification. Bat not another bit of serious talk 
with her did she let me have, all day. 

This morning, after breakfast and after the room 
had been put up, and the maid was gone, and I sat 
beside the bed with some work in my hand, she 
began again of her own accord. She was lying 
comfortably propped up on her pillows, and had 
been surveying me and things in general for a 
while with observant eyes. Then she spoke. 

" So you think, Desire, that having all they want 
is enough to make people happy ? " 

"I never said so," I replied, looking up. "I 
know better. That is, if what they want is the 
things of this world." 

" You know better," she repeated slowly. How 
do you know better ? " 

" By experience. The only possible way, I suppose." 



 

; By experience ! " said Olive, again repeating my 
words. " That means, then, that you have tried it. 
Which way have you tried it ? " 

" How do you mean ? " 

" My meaning is plain enough. You must know 
it by one of two ways. Either you have had all 
you wanted, or you have not had it. Which way, 
Desire?" 

"Nobody has everything he wants, except you," 
said I smiling. 

" Then you have not had all you wanted ? " The 
question was put rather keenly. 

"No," said I. "Did you think I had? Nobody 
has, as I said, except you." 

" What have you wanted, Desire, that you have 
not had?" 

" I do not look unhappy, do I ? " 

" No." 

"Then you may be satisfied about me; don't you 
think so? My face tells the truth. Whatever I
may ever have wished for, that has not been given 
me, I am absolutely content with the decision, Olive. 
I do not wish anything different now from what it 
is. I can trust my Father in heaven thoroughly; 
and what he does riot think good to give me, Olive, 
I do not icant" 

I met her eyes as I spoke, and her eyes met mine, 
eager, piercing, questioning, and not satisfied. I 
think the water stood in mine as I finished, and 
I cast my eyelids down. 

"You don't tell me, " said Olive low. 


