a few weeks with my cousin."
"Is it possible!" exclaimed Victor, in surprise and annoyance. "Perhaps
he is to be here as an errand boy?" he suggested, evidently relieved by
the idea.
"Oh, no; he will be treated in all respects as one of the family."
"Hadn't you better tell your mother that he was once a newsboy? She
might recall the invitation."
"It would make no difference with her. It seems to me, Victor, you are
prejudiced against Frank."
"No, I am not; but I like to see newsboys and telegraph messengers keep
their place."
"So do I. I hope Frank will keep his place till he can find a better
one."
"That isn't what I meant. How can you associate with such a boy on an
equality?"
"Because he seems well-bred and gentlemanly."
"I don't believe he gets more than three or four dollars a week," said
Victor, contemptuously.
"Then I really hope his wages will soon be increased."
Victor saw that he could do Frank no harm, and was forced, out of
policy, to treat our hero with more politeness than he wished.
When Frank rose to go, Mrs. Vivian desired him to send round his trunk,
and take possession of his room the next day.
"She doesn't suspect that I never owned a trunk," thought Frank. "I will
buy one to-morrow, though I haven't got much to put in it."
CHAPTER XV.
AT WALLACK'S THEATRE.
The next day Frank devoted what small leisure he had to the purchase of
a trunk, in which he stored his small supply of clothing, leaving out,
however, the clothes in which he made his first appearance in the city.
These he gave to his friend, Dick Rafferty, to whom they were a welcome
gift, being considerably better than those he usually wore. Dick might,
out of his earnings, have dressed better, but when he had any extra
money it went for some kind of amusement. He was one of the steadiest
patrons of the Old Bowery, and was often to be seen in the gallery of
other places of amusement. He was surprised to hear of Frank's intended
removal from the lodging-house.
"I say, Frank," he said, "you're gettin' on fast. Here you are, goin' to
live in a tip-top house up-town. You'll be a reg'lar swell."
"I hope not, Dick. I don't like swells very much."
"You won't notice your old friends bimeby."
"That shows you don't know me, Dick. I shall be glad to notice you
whenever we meet."
"I don't see why I can't be in luck too," said Dick. "I wish I could
find some rich lady to give me a room in her house."
"You'll have to get some new clothes first, Dick."
"I know I aint got a genteel look," said Dick, surveying his well-worn
clothes, soiled and ragged; "but it wouldn't be no use if I was to dress
in velvet."
"Unless you kept your face clean," suggested Frank.
"A feller can't be washin' his face all the time," said Dick.
"It's the fashion to have a clean face in good society," said Frank,
smiling.
"It must be a good deal of trouble," said Dick. "Is my face very dirty?"
"Not very. There's a black spot on each cheek, and one on the side of
your nose, and your chin looks a little shady."
"A feller can't keep very clean in my business."
"I suppose it is rather hard," Frank admitted; "but you won't be a
boot-black always, I hope."
"I'd just as lieves give it up for bankin', or cashier of a
savings-bank," said Dick. "Them's light, genteel kinds of business, and
don't dirty the hands."
"Well, Dick, if I hear of an opening in either line I'll let you know.
Now I must go and buy a trunk."
"I never expect to get as far as a trunk," said Dick. "I shall feel like
a gentleman when I can set up one. It wouldn't be no use to me now. I'd
have to stuff it with rocks to make a show."
"Poor Dick!" thought Frank as he left his friend. "He takes the world
too easy. He hasn't any ambition, or he wouldn't be content to keep on
blacking boots when there are so many better ways of making a living. If
I ever get a chance to give him a lift I will. He aint much to look at,
but he's a good-hearted boy, and would put himself to a good deal of
trouble to do me a favor."
It was not much trouble to pack his trunk. Indeed, he had scarcely
enough clothing to fill it one-third full.
"I may have to adopt Dick's plan, and fill it with rocks," said Frank to
himself. "Some day I shall be better supplied. I can't expect to get on
too fast."
The room assigned to Frank was a small one; but it was neatly furnished,
and provided with a closet. The bed, with its clean white spread, looked
