Rupert had disobeyed her orders so far as to keep 
the two figures in sight; he had watched them 
from one turning to another, and had seen that his 
help was needed, even before he heard Dolly's cry. 
Then, with a spring, he was there. Mr. Copley 
leaned now upon his arm, and Dolly fell behind, 
thankful unspeakably for the relief. She knew by 
this time that she could never have found her way ; 
and it was plain her father could not. 

" Rupert," said Mr. Copley, half recognizing the 
assistance afforded him "you're a good fellow! 
and always in the way when you aren't wanted; 
by George ! " But he leaned on his arm heavily. 

Dolly followed close; she could not well keep 
beside them ; and felt in that hour more thoroughly lonely perhaps than at any other of her life be- 
fore or after. Rupert was a relief; and yet so the 
shame was increased. She stepped along through 
moonlight and shadow, through moonlight and 
shadow, feeling that light was gone out of her pathway of life forever, as far as this world was con- 
cerned. What was left, when her father was lost 
to her ? her father ! and riot by death, that would 
not have been to lose him utterly; but now his 
very identity was gone. Her father, wliorn all 
her life she had loved; manly, frank, able, active, 
taking the lead in every society where she had 
seen him, making other men do his bidding always, until the passion of gaining and the lust 
of drink got hold of him ! Was it the same, that 
figure in front of her, leaning on somebody's arm 



 

and glad to lean, and going with lame unsteady 
gait whither he was led, so like the way his mental 
course had been lately ? Was that her father ? The 
bitterness of Dolly's feeling it is impossible to put 
into words. Tears could bring no relief, and nature did not summon them to the impossible service. The fire at her heart would have burnt them 
up; for there was a strange passion of resistance 
and sense of wrong mixed with Dolly's bitter pain. 
The way was not short, and it seemed threefold the 
length it was; every step was so hard, and the crowd 
of thoughts was so disproportionately great. 

They were rather ruminating thoughts of grief 
and pain, than considerative of what was to be 
done. For the first, the thing was to get Mr. Copley home. Dolly did not look beyond that. She 
was glad to find herself arrived at St. Mark's again ; 
and presently they were all three in the gondola. 
Mr. Copley leaned in a corner, laid his head against 
a cushion, and slept, or seemed to sleep. The other 
two were as silent; but I think both felt at the 
moment as if they would never sleep again. Eupert's face was in shadow ; he watched Dolly's face 
which was in light. She forgot it could be watched ; 
her eyes stared into the moonshine, not seeing it, or 
looking through it ; the sweet face was so very grave 
that the watcher felt his heart ache. Not the gentle gravity of young maidenhood, looking into the 
vague light; but the anxious, searching gaze of 
older life looking into the vague darkness. Rupert did not dare speak to her, though he longed. 



 

What would he not have given for the right and 
the power to comfort ! But he knew he had neither. He had sense enough not to try. 

It was customary for Mr. Copley, after he had 
been late out at night, to keep to his room until a 
late hour the next morning; so Dolly knew what 
she had to expect. It suited her very well this time, 
for she must think what she would say to her father 
when she next saw him. She took care that a cup 
of coffee such as he liked was sent him; and then, 
after her own slight breakfast, sat down to plan 
her movements. So Rupert found her, with her 
Bible in her lap, but not reading; sitting gazing 
out upon the bright waters of the lagoon. He 
