whole of the Old World. The moisture came to his eyes as 
he imagined how she would pray morning and night just the 
same, and that he would be there to see her ; he said to him 
self that he would never laugh at her, but would bring his 
unbelieving heart and lay it in her hand : if she could mold 
it, well and good, she might ; he would be glad. So he walked 
on, down the river-road, his long-repressed, stifled hope and 
love out of bonds at last. 

A sound fell on his dulled ear, and brought him back to 
reality ; it was a footstep. " I had better not be seen," he 
thought, and, climbing up the bank, he kept on through the 
thick hillside-forest. After a moment or two, around the 
curve came John Royce, walking as if for a wager ; two pis 
tols gleamed in the belt he had hastily buckled around his 
waist, and the wrinkle between his eyes had deepened into a 
frown. 

" It can not be possible ! " thought Wainwright. But 
rapid reflection convinced him that, impossible as it seemed, it 
might be true, and that, in any case, he had not a moment to 
lose. He was above Royce, he was nearer the trail to Brother 
Bethuel s, and, what was more, he was familiar with all its 
turnings. " Not to be able to save Eliot ! " he thought, as he 
hurried forward over the slippery, brown pine-needles. And 
then it came to him how much he had relied upon that to 
hold Honor, and he was ashamed. But almost immediately 
after rose to the surface, for the first time in his life, too, the 
blunt, give-and-take feeling of the man as a man, the thought 
" You are doing all this for her ; she ought to repay you." 
He hardly knew himself ; he was like Bothwell then, and other 
burly fellows in history ; and he was rather pleased to find 
himself so. He hastened across a plateau where the footing 



 

was better; he had turned farther up the mountain-side, so 
that Royce could not by any possibility hear him as he brushed 
hastily through the undergrowth, or stepped on crackling twigs 
or a rolling stone. The plateau soon ended, and the slanting 
hillside slanted still more steeply. He pushed on, keeping his 
breath as well as he was able, running wherever he could, 
climbing over rocks and fallen trees. He was so far above 
the road now that he could not see Royce at all, but he kept 
his efforts up to the task by imagining that the young man 
was abreast of him below which was true. He began to 
pant a little. The sleeve of his flannel coat had been held 
and torn by a branch ; he had tripped on a round stone, and 
grazed his knee. He was very tired ; he began to lope as the 
Indians do, making the swing of the joints tell ; but he was 
not long enough to gain any advantage from that gait. At 
last he met the trail, and turned up the mountain ; the ascent 
seemed steeper now that he was out of breath. His throat 
was dry; surely, he had time to drink from the brook. He 
knelt down, but before he could get a drop he heard a sound 
below, and hurried on. Alarmed, he sprang forward like a 
hare ; he climbed like a cat, he drew himself up by his hands ; 
he had but one thought to reach the house in time. His 
coat was torn now in more places than one ; a sharp edge of 
rock had cut his ankle so that his stocking was spotted with 
red above the low walking-shoe. The determination to save 
Eliot drove him on like a whip of flame : he did not know 
how much Royce knew, but feared everything. His face had 
a singular appearance : it was deeply flushed, the teeth were 
set, the wrinkles more visible than ever, and yet there was a 
look of the boy in the eyes which had not been there for 
years. He was in a burning heat, and breathed with a regu 
lar, panting sound ; he could hear the circulation of his own 
blood, and began to see everything crimson. The trail now 
turned straight up the mountain, and he went at it fiercely ; 
he was conscious of his condition, and knew that he might 
fall in a fit at the house-door : never mind, if he could only get 




there ! His eyes were glassy now, his lips dry. He reached 
the house, opened the door, and fell into a chair. Brother 
