anced herself with a pole, or performed wonderful feats ? " 
asked Titania, breathlessly. 
a Yes, there was. She rode, too, and it seemed as if she 
would break her neck. And yes, she danced on a rope, 
and I made just sure she would fall ; and how can they 
stick on so?" 
"I wasn't trained to ride, but I did all the rest, and a 
great flying leap that people crowded to see. I used to 
hold my breath at first, for it seemed as if I must be dashed 
to pieces. And you didn't quite hate that little girl ? " 
" Hate her ? Why, no, my dear." 
"Then don't hate me. Let me tell you all the rest, and 
how hard it was, for no one ever took care of me again like 
my dear Dick." 
" If you don't mind I will get some sewing, as the dishes 
are washed, and I won't sweep up just now; but I wasn't 
brought up to idle away my time, and when I was ten 
year old I had five patchwork quilts pieced ; but gracious 
me, I've never needed 'em, and shall leave 'em all to 
'Mirny's children, two little girls she's got, and two boys, 
and when I was only four, mother used to make me say 
the Busy Bee 
' And Satan finds some mischief still 
For idle bands to do.' 
But they ain't brought up that way nowadays, and nobody 
knits stockings or does fine darning. Patching 's spoiled 
it all, and sewing-machines have just ruined women's 
nice work, and I wouldn't take one of the nasty, noisy, 
puckering things that can't sew a smooth seam, and use a 
sight of cotton, with long ends going to waste. There, my 
dear, I've kinder set up the idea of your being on the stage 
before me, and it don't seem so overwhelming like as it did 
at first ; and now you'll go on about your Dick, as you call 
him, though children in my day always said mister, except 
Quakers, who always call first names." 
Titania took up the thread of her story again. The 
journeys and triumphs with Dick, his accident and death, 
over which the soft voice trembled and the tender eyes 
were tearful ; the hotel life, Kate's marriage, and her trans- 
fer to Owen Thomas. 
" And she could go off and leave you after loving you 
like a child!" interrupted Miss Madeira indignantly. "And 
I don't believe that chap cared half as much for her as he 
did for the money, for men are deceitful creatures, and 
smooth-spoken, and ready to take everything. But 'twould 
serve her just right." 
The hardships of the life that followed brought the hon- 
est tears to Miss Madeira's eyes. They ran down her long 
nose, and she sniffed a little, and coughed, and rubbed her 
spectacles, but finally gave way to a good hearty cry, drop- 
ping her work, and clasping Titania in her arras. 
" You poor lamb ! " she exclaimed. " What a mercy 
your back wasn't broke and a hump growing out of your 
shoulders ; and that man ought to be sent to prison for 
,cruelty, and a book wrote about him. And his own poor 
little boy a cripple from misconduct and temper ; and St. 
Paul was about right when he said, them as staid single 
did better. Marriage is a great risk, and even poor 'Mirny, 
whose husband wouldn't lift a finger to her, but he being 
away so much of the time, and she having babies to take 
care of all the time, and I do believe I'm better off without 
a chick or a child ; but you can't most always tell. And 
there you was all alone in a hospital, a poor little mite that 
should have had a mar a-taking care of you. And what 
then ? I declare it's just like a story, and you won't think 
me foolish for crying ? I always cry over Joseph and his 
brethren, to this day." 
Foolish ! Why, it seemed to Titania as if she could 
iust adore Miss Madeira with her queer, jumbled-together 
sentences, and her stiff, angular figure that held so merci- 
ful and kindly a soul. 
There was not much more until she came to Mrs. Win- 
stead. She had gone briefly over it all ; the stern self- 
repression in which she had held herself the last two years 
was not conducive of garrulity. The smaller trials and 
sufferings she scarcely touched upon. She felt very bitter 
and indignant against Mrs. Winstead ; indeed, it seemed 
as if she could forgive the cruelty and neglect of Owen 
Thomas more easily. 
" And you don't mean that you was took to Arlington ? " 
