less, if the oven is quick.
Having seen these rolls, smoking, light, and delicious, upon my own
table, at least twice a week for ten years, with scarcely a failure in
the mixing or baking, I can confidently recommend the receipt and the
product. You can make out part of your Graham dough in the same manner.
FRENCH ROLLS. (No. 2.)
    1 quart milk; new, warm milk is best.
    1 teacup yeast.
    1 quart and a pint of flour.
When this sponge is light, work in a well-beaten egg and two
tablespoonfuls melted butter, with a teaspoonful of salt, half a
teaspoonful soda dissolved in hot water, one tablespoonful white sugar
and enough white flour to make a soft dough. Let this stand four
or five hours, roll out into round cakes and fold as in No. 1, or
shape with your hands into balls. Set these closely together in the
baking-pan; let them rise one hour, and just before putting them into
the oven, cut deeply across each ball with a sharp knife. This will
make the cleft roll, so familiar to us in French restaurants. Bake half
an hour.
RISEN BISCUIT. 
    1 quart milk.
    ¾ cup lard or butter—half-and-half is a good rule.
    ¾ cup of yeast.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
    Flour to make a soft dough.
Mix over night, warming the milk slightly and melting the lard or
butter. In the morning, roll out into a sheet three-quarters of an inch
in thickness; cut into round cakes, set these closely together in a
pan, let them rise for twenty minutes, and bake twenty minutes.
These delightful biscuits are even better if the above ingredients be
set with half as much flour, in the form of a thin sponge, and the rest
of the flour be worked in five hours later. Let this rise five hours
more, and proceed as already directed. This is the best plan if the
biscuits are intended for tea.
SALLY LUNN. (No. 1.) 
    1 quart of flour.
    4 eggs.
    ½ cup melted butter.
    1 cup warm milk.
    1 cup warm water.
    4 tablespoonfuls yeast.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
    ½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
Beat the eggs to a stiff froth, add the milk, water, butter, soda,
and salt; stir in the flour to a smooth batter, and beat the yeast
in well. Set to rise in a buttered pudding-dish, in which it must be
baked and sent to table. Or, if you wish to turn it out, set to rise
in a well-buttered mould. It will not be light under six hours. Bake
steadily three-quarters of an hour, or until a straw thrust into it
comes up clean. Eat while hot.
This is the genuine old-fashioned Sally Lunn, and will hardly give
place even yet to the newer and faster compounds known under the same
name.
SALLY LUNN. (No. 2.) 
    1 scant quart flour.
    4 eggs.
    1 teacupful milk.
    1 teacupful lard and butter mixed.
    1 teaspoonful cream-tartar.
    ½ teaspoonful soda, dissolved in hot water.
    1 teaspoonful salt.
Beat the eggs very light, yolks and whites separately, melt the
shortening, sift the cream-tartar into the flour; add the whites the
last thing.
POTATO BISCUIT.
    8 potatoes of medium size, mashed very fine.
    4 tablespoonfuls butter, melted.
    2 cups milk, blood-warm.
    1 cup yeast.
    Flour to make a thin batter.
    2 tablespoonfuls white sugar.
Stir all the above ingredients together except the butter, and let the
sponge rise until light—four or five hours will do; then add the melted
butter with a little salt and flour, enough to make soft dough. Set
aside this for four hours longer, roll out in a sheet three-quarters of
an inch thick, cut into cakes; let these rise one hour, and bake.
MRS. E——‘S BISCUIT (Soda.) 
    1 quart flour.
    2 heaping tablespoonfuls of lard.
