" She won't die of one dreadful night, nor of a 
dozen. Remember that I am a distinguished phy- 
sician." 
Mrs. Penniman hesitated a moment; then she 
risked her retort. " Your being a distinguished 
physician has not prevented you from already los- 
ing two members of your family." 
She had risked it, but her brother gave her such 
a terribly incisive look a look so like a surgeon's 
lancet that she was frightened at her courage. 
And he answered her, in words that corresponded 
to the look, " It may not prevent me, either, from 
losing the society of still another." 
Mrs. Penniman took herself off with whatever air 
of depreciated merit was at her command, and re- 
paired to Catherine's room, where the poor girl was 
closeted. She knew all about her dreadful night, 
for the two had met again, the evening before, after 
Catherine left her father. Mrs. Penniman was on 
the landing of the second floor when her niece came 
up-stairs ; it was not remarkable that a person of so 
much subtlety should have discovered that Cathe- 
rine had been shut up with the Doctor. It was still 
less remarkable that she should have felt an extreme 
curiosity to learn the result of this interview, and 
that this sentiment, combined with her great amia- 
bility and generosity, should have prompted her to 
regret the sharp words lately exchanged between 
her niece and herself. As the unhappy girl came 
into sight in the dusky corridor, she made a lively 
demonstration of sympathy. Catherine's bursting 
heart was equally oblivious ; she only knew that her 
aunt was taking her into her arms. Mrs. Penniman 
drew her into Catherine's own room, and the two 
women sat there together far into the small hours, 
the younger one with her head on the other's lap, 
sobbing, and sobbing at first in a soundless, stifled 
manner, and then at last perfectly still. It gratified 
Mrs. Penniman to be able to feel conscientiously 
that this scene virtually removed the interdict which 
Catherine had placed upon her indulging in fur- 
ther communion with Morris Townsend. She was 
not gratified, however, when, in coming back to her 
niece's room before breakfast, she found that Cathe- 
rine had risen and was preparing herself for this meal. 
" You should not go to breakfast," she said ; " you 
are not well enough, after your fearful night." 
"Yes, I am very well, and I am only afraid of 
being late." 
" I can't understand you," Mrs. Penniman cried. 
" You should stay in bed for three days." 
" Oh, I could never do that," said Catherine, to 
whom this idea presented no attractions. 
Mrs. Penniman was in despair ; and she noted, 
with extreme annoyance, that the trace of the night's 
tears had completely vanished from Catherine's eyes. 
She had a most impracticable physique. " What ef- 
fect do you expect to have upon your father," her 
aunt demanded, "if you come plumping down, with- 
out a vestige of any sort of feeling, as if nothing in 
the world had happened ?" 
" He would not like me to lie in bed," said Cathe- 
rine, simply. 
"All the more reason for your doing it. How 
else do you expect to move him ?" 
Catherine thought a little. "I don't know how; 
but not in that way. I wish to be just as usual." 
And she finished dressing and, according to her 
aunt's expression, went plumping down into the pa- 
ternal presence. She was really too modest for con- 
sistent pathos. 
And yet it was perfectly true that she had had a 
dreadful night. Even after Mrs. Penniman left her 
she had had no sleep ; she lay staring at the uncom- 
forting gloom, with her eyes and ears filled with the 
movement with which her father had turned her out 
of his room, and of the words in which he had told 
her that she was a heartless daughter. Her heart 
was breaking; she had heart enough for that. At 
moments it seemed to her that she believed him, and 
