side-issue. 
" Don't say all this before Angela ! " he exclaimed, 
with a kind of artificial, energy. " You know she is 
not in the least at fault and that it can only give her 
pain. The thing is between ourselves." 
Angela wag sitting there, looking up at both the 
men. " I like to hear it," she said. 
" You have a singular taste ! " Bernard declared. 
" I know it 's bei'iween ourselves," cried Gordon, " and 
that Miss Vivian is not at fault. She is only too 
lovely, too wise, too good ! It is you and I that are 
at fault — horribly at fault ! You see I admit it, and 
you don't. I never dreamed that I should live to say 
such things as this to you ; but I never dreamed you 
would do what you have done ! It's horrible, most 
horrible, that such a difference as this should come 
between two men who believed themselves — or whom 
I believed, at least — ihe best friends in the world. 
Por it is a difference —   it 's a great gulf, and nothing 
will ever fill it up. I must say so ; I can't help it. 
You know I don't express myself easily ; so, if I break 
out this way, you may know what I feel. I know it 
is a pain to Miss Vivian, and I beg her to forgive me. 
She has so much to forgive that she can forgive that, 
too. I can't pretend to accept it ; I can't sit down 
and let it pass. And then, it isn 't only my feelings ; 
it 's the right ; it 's the justice. I jiiust say to her that 
you have no right to marrV her ; and beg of her to 
listen to me and let you go." j 
" My dear Gordon, are you crazy ? " Bernard de- 
manded, with an energy which, this time at least, was 
sufficiently real. 
" Very likely I am crazy. I am crazy with disap- 
pointment and the bitterness*, of what I have lost. 
Add to that the wpetphedness o)f what I have found ! " 
" Ah, don't say that, Mr. Wright," Angela hegged. 
He stood for an instant looking at her, but not heed- 
ing her words. " Will you listen to me again ? Will 
you forget the wrong I did you ? — my stupidity and 
folly and unworthiness ? Will you blot out the past 
and let me begin again. I see you as clearly now as 
the light of that window. Will you give me another 
chance ? " 
Angela turned away her eyes and covered her face 
with her hands. " You do pain me ! " she murmured. 
" You go too far," said Bernard. " To what position 
does your extraordinary proposal relegate your wife ? " 
Gordon turned his pleading eyes on his old friend 
without a ray of concession ; but for a moment he 
hesitated. " Don't speak to me of my wife. I have 
no wife." 
" Ah, poor girl ! " said Angela, springing up from 
the sofa. 
" I am perfectly serious," Gordon went on, address- 
ing himself again to her. " No, after all, I am not 
crazy ; I see only too clearly — I see what should be ; 
when people see that, you call them crazy. Bernard 
has no right — he must give you up. If you really 
care for him, you should help him. He is in a very 
false position ; you shouldn 't wish to see him in such 
a position. I can't explain to you — if it were even 
for my own sake. But Bernard must have told you ; 
it is not possible that he has not told you ? " 
" I have told Angela everything, Gordon," said Ber- 
nard. 
" I don't know what you mean by your having done 
me a wrong ! " the girl exclaimed. 
" If he has told you, then — I may say it ! In lis- 
tening to him, in believing him." 
" But you didn' t believe me," Bernard exclaimed, 
" since you immediately went and offered yourself to 
Miss Vivian ! " 
'' I believed you all the same ! When did I ever 
not believe you ? " 
"The last words I ever heard from Mr. Wright 
were words 'of the deepest kindness," said Angela. 
She spoke with such a serious, tender grace, that 
Gordon seemed stirred to his depths again. 
" Ah, give me another chance ! " he moaned. 
The poor girl could not help her tone, and it was in 
