should feel it my duty to chronicle the important part he took in the
battle of Chickamauga, where he acted as chief of staff to General
Rosecranz, aiding his superior officer at a most critical point in the
battle by advice which had an important influence in saving the day. I
should like to describe the wonderful and perilous ride of three miles
which he took, exposing his life at every moment, to warn General Thomas
that he is out-flanked, and that at least seventy thousand men are
closing down upon his right wing, to crush his twenty-five thousand to
fragments. Sometimes I hope a poet, of fitting inspiration, will sing of
that ride, and how, escaping from shot and shell, he plunged down the
hill through the fiery storm, reaching Thomas in safety, though his
noble horse at that moment fell dead at his feet. I can not spare time
for the record, but must refer my young reader to the pages of Edmund
Kirke, or General James S. Brisbin.
Other duties, and another important field of action, await Garfield, and
we must hurry on. But, before doing so, I must not fail to record that
the War Department, recognizing his important services at the battle of
Chickamauga, sent him a fortnight later the commission of a
major-general.
CHAPTER XXVI.
THE CANAL-BOY BECOMES A CONGRESSMAN.
While Garfield was serving his country to the utmost of his ability in
the field, the voters of the Nineteenth District of Ohio, in which he
had his home, were called upon to select a man to represent them in
Congress. It perhaps exceeds any other portion of the State in its
devotion to the cause of education and the general intelligence of its
inhabitants. The people were mostly of New England origin, and in
selecting a representative they wanted a man who was fitted by
education, as well as fidelity, to do them credit.
Their choice fell upon Garfield, who was known to them at home as the
head of one of their chief institutions of learning, and whose
reputation had not suffered in the field. They did not even consult him,
but put him in nomination, and elected him by an overwhelming majority.
It was a gratifying compliment, for in our country an election to
Congress is regarded as a high honor, which no one need be reluctant to
accept. We have on record one of our most distinguished statesmen--John
Quincy Adams--who, after filling the Presidential chair, was content to
go back to Washington as a member of the House of Representatives from
his district in Massachusetts. It was undoubtedly more in harmony with
the desires and tastes of the young man--for he was still a young
man--than service in the field. But he felt that that was not the
question. Where was he more needed? The war was not over. Indeed, it
seemed doubtful when it would be finished; and Garfield was now in a
position to serve his country well as a military commander.
When on the march to Chattanooga, Garfield consulted Gen. Rosecranz,
owning that he was perplexed in attempting to decide.
Rosecranz said: "The war is not yet over, nor will it be for some time
to come. Many questions will arise in Congress which will require not
only statesman-like treatment, but the advice of men having an
acquaintance with military affairs. For that reason you will, I think,
do as good service to the country in Congress as in the field. I not
only think that you can accept the position with honor, but that it is
your duty to do it."
He added, and we may be sure that his advice accorded with the personal
judgment of the man whom he was addressing, "Be true to yourself, and
you will make your mark before your country."
Some months were to elapse before he would require to go to Washington,
for Congress was not to meet till December.
He went to Washington, undecided even yet whether to remain as a
legislator, or to return to his old comrades in the army. He only wished
to know where he could be of most service to his country, and he finally
decided to lay the matter before President Lincoln.
Lincoln gave substantially the same advice as Rosecranz: "We need men
who will help us carry the necessary war measures; and, besides, we are
greatly lacking in men of military experience in the House to promote
legislation about the army. It is your duty, therefore, to enter
Congress."
When, on the 5th of December, 1863, Garfield took his seat in the House
of Representatives, he was the youngest member of that body. The
Military Committee was the most important committee of Congress, and he
was put upon that, on account of his practical experience in the field.
This, of course, brought him, though a new and young member, into
immediate prominence, and his familiarity with the wants of the army
enabled him to be of great service.
I do not propose to detail at tiresome length the legislative
achievements of Gen. Garfield in the new position which he was destined
to fill for eighteen years. I shall only refer to such as illustrate his
characteristic devotion to duty without special regard to his own
interests. He never hesitated to array himself in opposition to the
popular will, if he thought the people were wrong. It was not long
