"The name of our guest." 

"Well who is he?" 

"He is English; his name is Southwode. He came to America on business two 
months ago; to New York; then found it was needful for him to see some 
people in Rochester; and was on his way when he was taken ill at our 
door." 

"That's all?" 

"Pretty much all. He is not much of a talker. I never found out so much 
till to-day." 

"It is quite enough. I suppose he will go on to Rochester now?" 

"Not for two or three days yet, Liph; he is very weak; but I guess we 
will have him out to supper with us this evening. You may put a glass of 
roses on the table, Rotha, and make it look very nice. And set the table 
in the hall." 

Unlike most of its kind, this farmhouse had a wide hall running through 
the middle of it. Probably it had been built originally for somewhat 
different occupation. At any rate, the hall served as a great comfort to 
Mrs. Carpenter in the summer season, enabling her to get out of the hot 
kitchen, without opening her best room, the "parlour." 

It was a pretty enough view that greeted the stranger here, when he was 
called to supper and crept out of his sick room. Doors stood open at 
front and rear of the house, letting the breeze play through. It brought 
the odours of the new hay and the shorn grass, mingled with the breath of 
roses. Roses were on the table too; a great glass full of them; not 
skilfully arranged, certainly, but heavy with sweetness and lovely in 
various hues of red and blush white. A special comfortable chair was 
placed for him, and a supper served with which an epicure could have 
found no fault. Mrs. Carpenter's bread was of the lightest and whitest; 
the butter was as if the cows had been eating roses; the cold ham was 
cured after an old receipt, and tender and juicy and savoury to suit any 
fastidious appetite; and there were big golden raspberries, and cream 
almost as golden. Out of doors, the eye saw green fields, with an elm 
standing here and there; and on one side, a bit of the kitchen garden. 
Mr. Southwode was a silent man, at least he was certainly silent here; 
but he was observant; and his looks went quietly from one thing to 
another, taking it all in. Perhaps the combination was strange to him and 
gave him matter for study. There was conversation too, as the meal went 
on, which occupied his ears, though he could hardly be said to take an 
active part in it. His host made kind efforts for his entertainment; and 
Rotha and her father had always something to discuss. Mr. Southwode 
listened. It was not the sort of talk he expected to hear in a farmhouse. 
The girl was full of intelligence, the father quite able to meet her, and 
evidently doing it with delight; the questions they talked about were 
worthy the trouble; and while on the one hand there was keen 
inquisitiveness and natural acumen, on the other there was knowledge and 
the habit of thought and ease of expression. Mr. Southwode listened, and 
now and then let his eye go over to the fair, placid, matronly face at 
the head of the table. Mrs. Carpenter did not talk much; yet he saw that 
she understood. And more; he saw that in both father and mother there was 
culture and literary taste and literary knowledge. Yet she did her own 
work, and he came in to-day in his shirt sleeves from the mowing of his 
own fields. Mr. Southwode drew conclusions, partly false perhaps, but 
partly true. He thought these people had seen what are called better 
days; he was sure that they were going through more or less of a struggle 
now. Moreover, he saw that the farmer was not strong in body or sound in 
health, and he perceived that the farmer's wife knew it. 

The supper ended, a new scene opened for his consideration. With quick 
and skilful hands the mother and daughter cleared the table, carrying the 
things into the kitchen. Rotha brought a Bible and laid it before her 
father; and mother and daughter resumed their seats. Mr. Carpenter read a 
chapter, like a man who both knew and loved it; and then, a book being 
given to the stranger, the other three set up a hymn. There was neither 
formality nor difficulty; as the one had read, so they all sang, as if 
they loved it. The voices were not remarkable; what was remarkable, to 
the guest, was the sweet intonations and the peculiar appropriation with 
which the song was sung. It was a very common hymn, 

   "Jesus, I love thy charming name, 
   'Tis music to my ear;"--


