" And then — when we had the money?" she asks. 
"Well, we must cheapen processes, cheapen labor, try 
the clap-trap style instead of the old fine methods that 
belonged to gentlemen. Has the race advanced at the 
cost of the individual, I wonder? Is success the sign- 
manual instead of honor, honesty? Miss Ormiston, this 
is why women are kept* from business. In this close, bit- 
ter struggle, they would surely lose their high faith, their 
delicacy ; nay, even that fine purity that is as the bloom of 
the unplucked grape. I — we should have saved you 
from this. St. George would, I know." 
"It is my inheritance we are discussing, not anything 
belonging to Mr. St. George," she says in fine disdain ; 
and she draws herself up to her fullest height, while some- 
thing sweeps across her face leaving it marble, pure and 
cold. " He saved it once when its loss would have been 
his fault, but now it is my care, my duty. I cannot tell 
— I must think — " And her voice breaks a little. 
" Let us put off the evil day until to-monow," he suggests
in profound pity. 
 
Chbisticas Ormiston drives slowly homeward in her 
pony phaeton, sitting very erect and holding the reins in 
a grasp unconsciously tight. All the way she can see the 
range of wooded hills in their baffling, changeful beauty, 
and presently one comer of the old gray house is visible. 
Her inheritance always, hers even in exile, and for the 
first time she shivers a little, thinking it will be hers solita- 
rily. To her and her children forever. She has thought 
so little about marriage. She is three-and-twenty, and no 
man save Ward Allaire has ever asked her. Her friends 
so far have been among married people verging on to, or 
past, middle life. She has never positively longed for 
love; she has felt no especial need for tenderness. Is 
this unwomanly, she wonders ? Yet if there was some one 
of her very own, a brother, perhaps, like Philip Donald- 
son! 
Could she go away from Glen Ormiston? No one can 
thrust her out now ; she must go of her own accord, and 
that she will never do. She will live in a few rooms if 
her income shrivels up, she and Mrs. Byrne, and grow old 
«id wrinkled. It seems so utterly absurd to bright, well- 
conditioned youth! 
Ormiston Mills is her inheritance as well, the true gift 
of her father, all that has been wrested from his labors 
and efforts. To let that go would be cruel disrespect to 
him; and then what would her life be worth? What 
would there be in it? Should she have had the other, a 
wife's interest — and she gives a smile of Booni. What 
interest would there have been in Ward Allaire ? Can she 
 
 
go oat and meet some one quite to her liking? She is 
sufficient for herself in this respect, but the years will go 
on and what then? 
It is not lore or marriage that must occupy her 
thoughts. What would her father hare done in an extrem- 
ity like this? What gift had he that could resolve the 
simple elements of chance into success? What do men 
begin with when they make this fight for commercial 
life? 
Christmas wanders about the old house in a curious 
frame of mind, not utterly despairing, but strangely 
purposeless ; at loss, as when the strong supports hare 
been swept from under one. The afternoon clouds up 
gloomily and is depressing. The frosts hare nipped the 
tenderest leaves and flowers, and they hang disconsolately, 
or blow sullenly in the fitful wind. Like a refrain, the 
question goes through her mind until it seems part of a 
chant that she fits to sombre music : What must be done 
to save Ormiston Mills? 
In the evening she has a fire lighted in the place that, 
oddly enough, goes by the name of " Mr. St. George's 
room." She lights the lamps on either side, for she does 
not want uncanny shadows as she sits trying to remember 
her earliest training, and the counsel her father gave her, 
much beyond her years then. It is so fragmentary and 
elusive. 
Here is the old desk at which she used to stand and 
write until every inch of her tall, thin body ached. The 
