been considerately dripping outside, in order to leave the interior to
the shipwrecked company, and they lifted Mrs. Maynard, finally wrapped
in, Grace’s India-rubber cloak, and looking like some sort of strange,
huge chrysalis, and carried her out into the storm and up the steps.

Grace followed last with Mr. Libby, very heavyhearted and reckless. She
had not only that sore self-accusal; but the degradation of the affair,
its grotesqueness, its spiritual squalor, its utter gracelessness, its
entire want of dignity, were bitter as death in her proud soul. It was
not in this shameful guise that she had foreseen the good she was to do.
And it had all come through her own wilfulness and self-righteousness.
The tears could mix unseen with the rain that drenched her face, but
they blinded her, and half-way up the steps she stumbled on her skirt,
and would have fallen, if the young man had not caught her. After that,
from time to time he put his arm about her, and stayed her against the
gusts.

Before they reached the top he said, “Miss Breen, I’m awfully sorry for
all this. Mrs. Maynard will be ashamed of what she said. Confound it! If
Maynard were only here!”

“Why should she be ashamed?” demanded Grace. “If she had been drowned,
I should have murdered her, and I’m responsible if anything happens to
her,--I am to blame.” She escaped from him, and ran into the house. He
slunk round the piazza to the kitchen door, under the eyes of the ladies
watching at the parlor windows.

“I wonder he let the others carry her up,” said Miss Gleason. “Of
course, he will marry her now,--when she gets her divorce.” She spoke
of Mrs. Maynard, whom her universal toleration not only included in the
mercy which the opinions of the other ladies denied her, but round
whom her romance cast a halo of pretty possibilities as innocently
sentimental as the hopes of a young girl.




IV.

The next morning Grace was sitting beside her patient, with whom she
had spent the night. It was possibly Mrs. Maynard’s spiritual toughness
which availed her, for she did not seem much the worse for her
adventure: she had a little fever, and she was slightly hoarser; but she
had died none of the deaths that she projected during the watches of the
night, and for which she had chastened the spirit of her physician
by the repeated assurance that she forgave her everything, and George
Maynard everything, and hoped that they would be good to her poor little
Bella. She had the child brought from its crib to her own bed, and
moaned over it; but with the return of day and the duties of life she
appeared to feel that she had carried her forgiveness far enough, and
was again remembering her injuries against Grace, as she lay in her
morning gown on the lounge which had been brought in for her from the
parlor.

“Yes, Grace, I shall always say if I had died and I may die yet--that I
did not wish to go out with Mr. Libby, and that I went purely to please
you. You forced me to go. I can’t understand why you did it; for I don’t
suppose you wanted to kill us, whatever you did.”

Grace could not lift her head. She bowed it over the little girl whom
she had on her knee, and who was playing with the pin at her throat,
in apparent unconsciousness of all that was said. But she had really
followed it, with glimpses of intelligence, as children do, and now at
this negative accusal she lifted her hand, and suddenly struck Grace a
stinging blow on the cheek.

Mrs. Maynard sprang from her lounge. “Why, Bella! you worthless little
wretch!” She caught her from Grace’s knee, and shook her violently.
Then, casting the culprit from her at random, she flung herself
down again in a fit of coughing, while the child fled to Grace for
consolation, and, wildly sobbing, buried her face in the lap of her
injured friend.

“I don’t know what I shall do about that child!” cried Mrs. Maynard.
“She has George Maynard’s temper right over again. I feel dreadfully,
Grace!”

“Oh, never mind it,” said Grace, fondling the child, and half addressing
it. “I suppose Bella thought I had been unkind to her mother.”

