tire world the name of Henry VIII. brought a shiver, 
aid suggested an ogre whose nostrils breathed de- 
stiuction and whose hand dealt scourgings and 
death; but to this boy the name brought only sen- 
satons of pleasure, the figure it invoked wore a 
countenance that was all gentleness and affection. 
He called to mind a long succession of loving pas- 
sages between his father and himself, and dwelt 
fondly upon them, his unstinted tears attesting how 
deep and real was the grief that possessed his heart. 
As the afternoon wasted away, the lad, wearied with 
his troubles, sunk gradually into a tranquil and heal- 
ing slumber. 
After a considerable time — he could not tell how 
long — his senses struggled to a half-consciousness, 
and as he lay with closed eyes vaguely wondering 
where he was and what had been happening, he 
noted a murmurous soimd, the sullen beating of rain 
upon the roof. A snug sense of comfort stole over 
him, which was rudely broken, the next moment, 
by a chorus of piping cackles and coarse laughter. 
It startled him disagreeably, and he unmuffled his 
head to see whence this interruption proceeded. A 
grim and unsightly picture met his eye. A bright 
fire was burning in the middle of the floor, at the 
other end of the bam; and around it, and lit weirdly 
up by the red glare, lolled and sprawled the mothest 
company of tattered gutter-scum and ruffians, of 
both sexes, he had ever read or dreamed of. There 
were huge, stalwart men, brown with exposure, long- 
haired, and clothed in fantastic rags; the were 
middle-azed youths, of truculent countenance, and 
similarly dad; there were blind mendicants, with 
patched or bandaged eyes; crippled ones, with 
wooden legs and crutches; there was a villain- 
iooking peddler with his pack; a knife-grinder, a 
tinker, and a barber-surgeon, wnth the implements 
of their trades; some of the females were hardly 
grown girls, some were at prime, some were old and 
wrinlded hags, and all were loud, brazen, foul- 
mouthed; and all soiled and slatternly; there were 
three sore-faced babies; there were a couple of 
starveling curs, with strings about their ned, whose 
office w'as to lead the blind. 
The night was come, the gang had just finished 
feasting, an orgy was beginning, the can of liquor 
was passing from mouth to mouth. A general cry 
broke forth: 
“A song! a song from the Bat and Dick Dot- 
and-go-One!” 
One of the blind men got up, and made ready by 
casting aside the patches that sheltered his excdlent 
eyes, and the pathetic placard which recited the 
cause of his calamity. Dot-and-go-One disencum- 
bered himself of his timber leg and took his place, 
upon sound and healthy limbs, beside his fellow- 
rascal; then they roared out a rollicking ditty, and 
were reinforced by the whole crew, at the end of 
each stanza, in a rousing chorus. By the time the 
last stanza was reached, thehalf-drunken enthusiasm 
had risen to such a pitch that everybody joined in 
and sang it dear through from the beginning, pro- 
ducing a volume of villainous sound that made the 
rafters quake. These were the inspiring words: 
“Bien Daxkmans then, Bouse Mort and Ken, 
The bien Coves bings awast, 
On Chates to trine by Ronae Coves dine 
For his long lib at last. 
Bing’d out bien Morts and toure, and toure, 
Bing out of the Rome vile bine. 
And toure the Cove that cloy’d yoirr duds. 
Upon the Chates to trine.”* 
Conversation followed; not in the thieves’ dialect 
of the song, for that was only used in talk when 
unfriendly ears might be listening. In the course of 
it it appeared that Hobbs” was not altogether 
a new recruit, but had trained in the gang at some 
former time. His later history was called for, and 
when he said he had “accidentally” Idiled a man, 
considerable satisfaction was expressed; when he 
