up at the question of money. But he overruled his 
suspicion by an effort that was another relief to the 
 
struggle in which he was wrenching his mind from 
Miss Kiugsbury 's outrageous behavior. "What have 
you got there?" he asked gravely, and not unkindly, 
and being used to prompt the reluctance of lady 
clients, he put out his hand for the paper she held. 
It was the bill of the threatening creditor, for indefi 
nitely repeated dozens of tivoli beer. 
" Why do they come to you with this ? " 
" Mr. Hubbard is away." 
"Oh, yes. I heard. When do you expect him 
home?" 
" I don 't know." 
" Where is he ? " 
She looked at him piteously without speaking. 
Atherton stepped to his door, and gave the order 
forgotten before. Then he closed the door, and came 
back to Marcia. " Don 't you know where your hus 
band is, Mrs. Hubbard ? " 
" Oh, he will come back ! He couldn 't leave me ! 
He 's dead, I know he 's dead; but he will come 
back ! He only went away for the night, and some 
thing must have happened to him." 
The whole tragedy of her life for the past fortnight 
was expressed in these wild and inconsistent words ; 
she had not been able to reason beyond the pathetic 
absurdities which they involved ; they had the effect 
of assertions confirmed in the belief by incessant 
repetition, and doubtless she had said them to her 
self a thousand times. Atherton read in them, not 
only the confession of her despair, but a prayer for 
mercy, which it would have been inhuman to deny, 
and for the present he left her to such refuge from 
herself as she had found in them. He said, quietly, 
"You had better give me that paper, Mrs. Hubbard," 
and took the bill from her. " If the others come with 
their accounts again, you must send them to me. 
When did you say Mr. Hubbard left home ? " 
 
" The night after the election," said Marcia. 
" And he didn 't say how long he should be gone ? " 
pursued the lawyer, in the feint that she had known 
he was going. 
" No," she answered. 
" He took some things with him ? " 
" Yes." 
" Perhaps you could judge how long he meant to 
be absent from the preparation he made ? " 
" I 've never looked to see. I couldn 't ! " 
Atherton changed the line of his inquiry. " Does 
any one else know of this ? " 
" No," said Marcia, quickly, " I told Mrs. Halleck 
and all of them that he was in New York, and I said 
that I had heard from him. I came to you because you 
were a lawyer, and you would not tell what I told you." 
" Yes," said Atherton. 
"You want it kept a secret. Oh, do you think he 's 
dead ? " she implored. 
"No," returned Atherton, gravely, "I don 't think 
he 's dead." 
" Sometimes it seems to me I could bear it better 
if I knew he was dead. If he isn 't dead, he 's out of 
his mind ! He 's out of his mind, don 't you think, 
and he 's wandered off somewhere ? " 
She besought him so pitifully to agree with her, 
bending forward and trying to read the thoughts in 
his face, that he could not help saying, " Perhaps." 
A gush of grateful tears blinded her, but she choked 
down her sobs. 
" I said things to him that night that were enough 
to drive him crazy. I was always the one in fault, 
but he was always the one to make up first, and he 
never would have gone away from me if he had 
known what he was doing ! But he will come back, 
I know he will," she said, rising. " And oh, you won 't 
say anything to anybody, will you ? And he 'll  get 
 
back before they find out. I will send those men to 
