Captain Mayfield gave me the sailing directions as we went along, and I
compared them with those in the Coast Pilot. All the passengers had
come on deck when it was announced that we were close in to Key West.
Colonel Shepard was very anxious about the Islander.
The city of Key West is located on the western end of an island of the
same name. Near it is Fort Taylor, a vast structure built on an
artificial island, and connected with Key West by a long bridge. On a
hill is Whitehead Light, and on the north side of the island are
several observatories. The town, consisting mostly of cottages, is near
these towers.
When we were off Fort Taylor, we had a full view of the harbor, but the
Islander was not to be seen.
"There she goes!" exclaimed Washburn, pointing to the north-west.
She carried no sail; but when I looked through the glass I made out her
rig, though she was four miles away.
CHAPTER XV.
A PARTIAL SOLUTION OF THE MYSTERY.
"What does Captain Blastblow mean? Does he mean to run away with the
Islander?" demanded Colonel Shepard, when he realized that his
steam-yacht was again trying to elude him.
"He must have seen the Sylvania," I replied, very much perplexed by the
conduct of the captain of the Islander. "If he stopped at Key West at
all, he must have seen us before he started."
"Is it possible to overtake her, Captain Alick?" asked Colonel Shepard,
nervously.
"As the case now stands, Captain Blastblow is running away from us. He
has some object in view which we cannot comprehend. I have no doubt we
can overtake her, for she can't run in behind any keys, or dodge into
any unfamiliar channels."
"But I ought not to ask you to pursue her any farther," continued the
owner of the runaway steam-yacht. "I know your party wish to stop here,
and I will not compel them to go any farther."
"I think we can see all we want to of Key West from the deck,"
interposed my father. "At any rate, if we wish to spend any time in Key
West, it will be easy enough to come back here, for we have the whole
summer before us, and the winter, too, if the summer is not long
enough."
"I have no desire to stop here, and Margie would much rather continue
with her friend, Miss Edith, than stop at this place," added Mr.
Tiffany. "We are all quite interested in solving the problem of the
intentions of the captain of the Islander."
"We will leave the whole matter to Alick; and whatever he does we will
not complain," said my father.
"You are very considerate and kind, gentlemen, and I am under very
great obligations to you and to Captain Alick for all the favors you
have extended to me," replied the colonel.
"If it is left to me we will chase the Islander," I added. "But we must
land our shipwrecked passengers here, and that will take a little time;
and I want a pilot, for I don't like to lose any time in those shoal
waters and crooked channels."
"Get your boats all ready, Captain Alick, and it won't take five
minutes to land me and my men, and I will put your steamer where you
can get a pilot in two minutes," interposed Captain Mayfield. "I have
no doubt we should have all perished if you had not come to the wreck
at no small peril to your vessel; and I hope the time will come when I
shall have a chance to do something for you."
"Oh, that's all right," I replied. "I hope I never shall be in a
situation to need such help as we had a chance to give you, Captain
Mayfield."
I gave the order to clear away the boats, the davits were swung out,
and the falls manned ready to drop them into the water without a
moment's delay. The ship's company of the Olive shook hands with me,
and thanked me very warmly for what the Sylvania had done for them. I
was sorry to part with them so hastily, but the anxiety of the colonel
seemed to admit of no other course. Captain Mayfield ran the steamer
within a hundred yards of the shore by Tift's observatory. He rang to
back her, and as soon as she had lost her headway, the two boats were
dropped into the water, with two hands in each. They were then brought
up to the gangway steps, which had been rigged out for the use of the
ladies, who were all ready to embark.
We assisted Mrs. Mayfield and her daughter into the stern-sheets of
one, and the captain joined them. The boat shoved off, when the mate
and four of the sailors had stowed themselves away. The captain and the
ladies waved their adieus as soon as Dyer and Hop began to pull. Before
the port boat was off the second mate and the rest of the seamen had
piled into the starboard boat, and both were off at nearly the same
time.
I saw the seamen in both boats assisting the oarsmen, and the boats
went through the water at a lively rate. Not more than two minutes had
elapsed before the party were all on shore. Several men hastened up to
