dress. As more light flashed into the room, he 
saw her standing in her white clothes. She looked 
very tall and pale? She brought him a tablespoon- 
ful of brandy, which he swallowed obediently, and 
for which he felt better. Then, without percepti 
ble hesitation, this remarkable young woman took 
out her medicine-case. 
" Are you a woman ? " he panted. 
" I am a doctor." 
" Take away your sugar-plums ! " 
She drew the rubber strap over the case. 
" As you please. Your condition calls for a 
remedy. I can't have you subject to these nerv 
ous sinking-turns." 
"I need no remedy but one. It is the only 
one, the Divine Remedy in deed and truth. You 
refuse it to me." 
" I have refused you nothing." 
"True; I have asked for nothing. But you 
would deny me, if I did." 
" Yes," she replied solemnly, " I should." 
" Sit down by me," pleaded Yorke. " I want 
to finish this." 
 
You had much better wait," she urged with 
decision, but not without tenderness, that ready, 
cruel, professional tenderness ; he would rather 
she had poisoned him. 
" I will not wait. I am stronger. See ! I am 
all right now, although, as you said, not strong 
enough to What a merciless thing that was 
to say ! " 
" I know it must have seemed so, Mr. Yorke. 
Believe, if you can, that I mean to be kind." 
" It seems to me," said Yorke, struggling up 
against the bright bizarre sofa pillows, and turn 
ing his haggard face towards her, " that the only 
thing I am strong enough to do, yet, is to love 
you. I believe it is the only thing I have ever done 
strongly in my life. It will not be the last. I can 
see already how it is going to alter everything. 
Good God ! What is a man going to do, with life 
before him, and such a feeling in it ! It will take 
the work of ten to hold him. There isn't  a woman 
of the whole of you that knows what it is. 
There 's more of you than any other woman I ever 
knew, but you don't know ; you cant know." 
She sat on the edge of the chair, a little side- 
wise, leaning back, just as she had dropped there 
when he asked her to sit by him, her hands clasped 
over the medicine-case, with whose rubber strap 
 
she had bound her fingers down. She watched 
him with a look which no plummet in his soul 
could fathom. 
" You are wrong ! " lie cried. " You are cold, 
unnatural ! It was unwomanly in you to tell me 
I was only nervous ! " 
" It is not the first time that a woman has been 
called unwomanly for saying the truth," said
Doctor Zay, without flinching. " I do not doubt I 
have seemed unwomanlike to you in many other 
respects. Your ideal and my fact are a world 's 
width apart." 
" You have never seemed unwomanly to me, in 
all that we have been through, never once!" 
said Yorke. " I have thought you, from the very 
first you have been to me the loveliest woman I 
ever knew ! " His voice shook. She sat, without 
a change either in her attitude or expression, 
regarding him with narrow, inscrutable eyes. 
" I have not thought," he went on, with gather 
ing strength, " I have not dared to think, that I 
had won anything from you, a sick man whin 
ing on your little bottles for the breath of life ! 
And I know that others, other men I understand 
my cruel disadvantage ; it is that that galls me 
so!" 
* Other men have nothing to do with it," she 
 
