each. 
Far off at the other end of the room De Pretis 
struck a chord on the piano. They started at the 
sound. 
" When ? " whispered Nino, hurriedly. 
"At midnight, under my window," she answered 
quickly, not thinking of anything better in her haste. 
 
"I will tell you then. You must go; my father will 
soon be here. No, not again," she protested. But 
he drew her to him, and said good-bye in his own 
manner. She lingered an instant, and tore herself 
away. De Pretis was playing loudly. Nino had to 
pass near him to go away, and the maestro nodded 
carelessly as he went by. 
"Excuse me, maestro," said Hedwig, as Nino 
bowed himself out; "it was a question of arranging 
certain lessons." 
"Do not mention it," said he indifferently; "my 
time is yours, signorina. Shall we go through with 
this solfeggio once more ? " 
The good maestro did not seem greatly disturbed 
by the interruption. Hedwig wondered, dreamily, 
whether he had understood. It all seemed like a 
dream. The notes were upside down in her sight, 
and her voice sought strange minor keys unconsciously, as she vainly tried to concentrate her attention upon what she was doing. 
"Signorina," said Ercole at last, "what you sing 
is very pretty, but it is not exactly what is written 
here. I fear you are tired." 
"Perhaps so," said she. "Let us not sing any 
more to-day." Ercole shut up the music and rose. 
She gave him her hand, a thing she had never done 
before; and it was unconscious now, as everything 
she did seemed to be. There is a point when dream 
ing gets the mastery, and appears infinitely more real 
than the things we touch. 
Nino, meanwhile, had descended the steps, expect 
ing every moment to meet the count. As he went 
 
down the street, a closed carriage drove by with the 
Lira liveries. The old count was in it, but Nino 
stepped into the shadow of a doorway to let the equipage pass, and was not seen. The wooden face of 
the old nobleman almost betrayed something akin to 
emotion. He was returning from the funeral, and 
it had pained him; for he had liked the wild baroness, in a fatherly, reproving way. But the sight of 
him sent a home thrust to Nino's heart. 
"Her death is on my soul for ever, he muttered 
between his set teeth. 
Poor innocent boy, it was not his fault if she had 
loved him so much. Women have done things for 
great singers which they have not done for martyrs 
or heroes. It seems so certain that the voice that 
sings so tenderly is speaking to them individually. 
Music is such a fleeting, passionate thing that a 
woman takes it all to herself; how could he sing like 
that for an} one else ? And yet there is always some 
one for whom he does really pour out his heart, and 
all the rest are the dolls of life, to be looked at, and 
admired for their dress and complexion, and to laugh 
at when the fancy takes him to laugh; but not to 
love. 
At midnight Nino was at his post, but he waited 
long and patiently for a sign. It was past two, and 
he was thinking it hopeless to wait longer, when his 
quick ear caught the sound of a window moving on 
its hinges, and a moment later something fell at his 
feet with a sharp, metallic click. The night was 
dark and cloudy, so that the waning moon gave little 
light He picked up the thing, and found a small 
 
pocket handkerchief wrapped about a minute pair 
of scissors, apparently to give it weight. He expected a letter, and groped on the damp pavement 
with his hands. Then he struck a match, shaded it 
from the breeze with his hand, and saw that the 
handkerchief was stained with ink and that the stains 
were letters, roughly printed to make them distinct. 
He hurried away to the light of a street lamp to read 
the strange missive. 
 
CHAPTER X. 
