asked permission to be her cavalier. In this way they 
had become almost intimate. Miss Blanchard 's name was 
Augusta ; she was slender, pale, and elegant ; she had 
a very pretty head and brilliant auburn hair, which she 
braided with classic simplicity. She talked in a sweet 
soft voice, used language at times a trifle superfine, and 
made literary allusions. These had often a patriotic 
 
strain, and Rowland had more than once been treated 
to quotations from Mrs. Sigourney in the cork-woods 
of Monte Mario, and from Mr. "VVillis among the ruins 
of Veii. Rowland was of a dozen different minds about 
her, and was half surprised at times to find himself 
treating it as a matter of serious moment that he should 
like her or not. He admired her, and indeed there was 
something admirable in her combination of beauty and 
talent, of isolation and self-support. He used sometimes 
to go into the little high-niched ordinary room which 
served her as a studio, and find her working at a panel 
six inches square, at an open casement, profiled against 
the deep blue Roman sky. She received him with a 
meek-eyed dignity that made her seem like a painted 
saint on a church window receiving the daylight in all 
her being. The breath of vulgar rumour passed her by 
with folded wings. And yet Rowland wondered why 
he did not like her better. If he failed, the reason was 
not far to seek. There was another woman whom he 
liked better, an image in his heart which gave itself little 
airs of exclusiveness. 
On that evening to which allusion has been made, 
when Rowland was left alone between the starlight and 
the waves with the sudden knowledge that Mary Garland 
was to become another man 's wife, he had made after a 
while the simple resolution to forget her. And every 
day since, like a famous philosopher who wished to 
abbreviate his mourning for a faithful servant, he had said 
to himself in substance "Remember to forget Mary 
Garland. " Sometimes it seemed as if he were succeeding ; 
then, suddenly, when he was least expecting it, he would 
find her name inaudibly on his lips, and seem to see her 
eyes meeting his eyes. All this made him uncomfortable, 
and seemed to portend a possible discord. Discord was 
not to his taste ; he shrank from imperious passions, and 
the idea of finding himself jealous of an unsuspecting 
friend was simply disgusting. More than ever, then, 
 
the path of good manners was to forget Mary Garland, 
and he cultivated oblivion, as we may say, in the person 
of Miss Blanchard. Her fine temper, he said to himself, 
was a trifle cold and conscious, her purity prudish per 
haps, her culture pedantic. But since he was obliged 
to give up hopes of Mary Garland, Providence owed him 
a compensation, and he had fits of angry sadness in which 
it seemed to him that to attest his right to sentimental 
satisfaction he should indulge in some defiantly incon 
gruous passion, And what was the use, after all, of 
bothering about a possible which was only perhaps a 
dream ? Even if Maiy Garland had been free, what right 
had he to assume that he should have pleased her ? The 
actual was good enough. Miss Blanchard had beautiful 
hair, and if she were a trifle old-maidish, there was 
nothing like matrimony for curing old-maidishness. 
Madame Grandoni, who had formed with the com 
panion of Rowland 's rides an alliance which might have 
been called defensive on the part of the former and 
attractive on that of Miss Blanchard, was an excessively 
ugly old lady, highly esteemed in Roman society for her 
homely benevolence and her shrewd and humorous good 
sense. She had been the widow of a German archaeo 
logist who came to Rome in the early ages as an attache 
of the Prussian legation on the Capitoline. Her good 
sense had been wanting on but a single occasion, that of 
her second marriage. This occasion was certainly a 
momentous one, but these are by common consent not 
test cases. A couple of years after her first husband 's 
death she had accepted the hand and the name of a Neapo 
litan music-master, ten years younger than herself, and 
with no fortune but his fiddle-bow. The marriage was 
most unhappy, and the Maestro Grandoni was suspected 
of using the fiddle-bow as an instrument of conjugal correc 
