the right side of him.”
Of course the nine other boys who had arrived that day all talked
about the exciting events which had transpired since they left
Burlington in the forenoon. Still, no one belonging to the steamer
heard them say any thing. They made no comments on the conduct of
Oscar: possibly they were afraid they might be reported to him. But
they had learned to feel a great admiration for Dory; first, because
he was not afraid of the rebel, and, second, because he could handle a
sailboat and manage a steamer.
It was about dark when the Sylph arrived at the landing in Burlington.
Captain Gildrock was on the wharf, waiting her coming. As soon as he
went on board, Mr. Brookbine reported the case of discipline to him,
and informed him that the prisoner was confined in the ice-house.
“All right: let him stay there,” replied the captain, when he had
listened to the account of the doings of the new scholar. “Then Dory
has had a hard time of it. I was afraid he might have some
difficulty.”
“No fear for Dory,” replied the carpenter, laughing. “He can take care
of himself. He fought his own battle in the Goldwing, and won the day
every time.”
“I knew that Chester was the worst fellow in the party, but I did not
expect him to break out so soon. I am glad to hear that the others
have behaved well,” said Captain Gildrock, as he walked forward where
the boys were assembled. “How are you getting on, boys?”
“First-rate, sir,” replied several of them in the same breath.
“I am glad to hear it; and none of us will have any trouble as long as
we mean well. What you mean is more than half the battle in morals. I
did not expect you so soon, and I am afraid Dory has not looked out
for your stomachs.”
“Yes, he has, sir,” said Ben Ludlow. “He had a basket of provisions on
the boat, and we fed out of that.”
This was the lunch he had taken the night before, and it had served
over a dozen instead of two. But the boys had been so much excited by
the novel event of a sail in a fresh breeze that they were not in
condition to do justice to the rations.
When the captain learned that the scholars had eaten only the supply
of food intended for two, he took the whole party to the hotel to
supper. After Captain Gildrock and Dory returned, the engineer and
carpenter went. The latter suggested that the prisoner in the
ice-house had been forgotten.
“I shall not forget him, but he may go without his supper to-night. A
little fasting will do him good. His father and mother are both dead,
and his uncle is one of the richest men in the State. He told me that
nothing but the sharpest discipline would do him any good. He will run
away as soon as he gets a chance; and this must be prevented,” replied
the captain.
Jepson and Brookbine returned in less than half an hour. The captain
had quite a chat with the boys while they were waiting. He told them
something about his plans, and was so kind and familiar with them that
they began to like him.
“I am told that some of you have been wild boys, and have been turned
out of school,” said he. “Except in one instance, I don’t know who
they are. I prevented your parents and others from telling me any
thing about your misconduct. You are all alike to me so far, and every
boy has his own reputation to make.
“You will not be judged at all by the past, but by what you do in the
future. I want you to remember this, boys. All of you will have to
work in the shops, and wherever there is any thing to do. You will
have to learn your book-lessons as well as how to work in wood and
metal. But there will be lots of fun as well as hard work. In a few
days we shall man this steamer, and every one of you will have a
station on board of her.”
“Hurrah!” shouted one of the new pupils in his enthusiasm; and the
cheer was taken up by the entire party.
“Before winter I hope some of you will be as competent to handle a
sailboat or a steamer as Dory is. But bear in mind that it is not all
play. I am going to make useful men of you, and I hope you will second
all my endeavors.”
The arrival of the carpenter and engineer interrupted the
conversation, and in a few minutes more the Sylph was standing up the
lake. It was dark now; and the boys gathered around Captain Gildrock
again, for he could not talk without interesting them.
“Who is steering this steamer now, Captain Gildrock?” asked Jim
Alburgh.
“Dory is steering her,” replied the captain.
“But it is dark: how can he find his way back to Beech Hill?”
“Did you suppose that ships that cross the ocean, being out of sight
of land for weeks at a time, stopped in the night?” asked the captain.
“I didn’t think any thing at all about it,” replied Jim. “I don’t know
any thing about it. It is as dark as a pocket, and I should not think
