     I can say it honestly and truly, without fear of my conscience
     pricking. You know too, for I have told you, how my boyhood and
     manhood have been passed, and if there is anything you do not know
     I will tell you hereafter, for I would always hate to feel that
     there was anything about me you did not know--I could not feel it.
     But then, say you, he should have told me what he was going to do
     abroad. And so I have, dear lady; for though I have not explained
     it all to you, I have placed all needful knowledge in safe hands,
     where you can obtain it for the asking, if ever the least shadow of
     doubt should cross your mind. Only I pray you, as suing a great
     boon, not to doubt--that is all, for I would rather you did not
     know yet.
     "This letter is being written by degrees. I have not written all
     this at once, for I find it as hard to express my thoughts to you
     on paper as I find it easy by word of mouth. It seems a formal
     thing to write, and yet there should be nothing less marred by
     formality than such a letter as mine. It is only that the choice is
     too great. I have too much to say, and so say nothing. I would ask,
     if I were so honoured by Heaven, the tongues of men and of angels,
     and all the mighty word-music of sage and prophet, that I might
     tell you how I love you, my heart's own. I would ask that for one
     hour I might hold in my hand the bâton of heaven's choir. Then
     would I lead those celestial musicians through such a grand plain
     chant as time has never dreamt of, nor has eternity yet heard it;
     so that rank on rank of angels and saints should take up the song,
     until the arches of the outer firmament rang again, and the stars
     chimed together; and all the untold hierarchy of archangelic voice
     and heavenly instrument should cry, as with one soul, the
     confession of this heart of mine--'I love.'
     "Another day has passed, and I think I have heard in my dreams the
     bursts of music that I would fain have wafted to your waking ears.
     Verily the lawyers in New York say well, that I am not Claudius.
     Claudius was a thing of angles and books, mathematical and earthy,
     believing indeed in the greatness of things supernal, but not
     having tasted thereof. My beloved, God has given me a new soul to
     love you with, so great that it seems as though it would break
     through the walls of my heart and cry aloud to you. This new
     Claudius is a man of infinite power to rise above earthly things,
     above everything that is below you--and what things that are in
     earth are not below you, lady mine?
     "Again the time has passed, in a dull reluctant fashion, as if he
     delighted to torment, like the common bore of society. He lingers
     and dawdles through his round of hours as though it joyed him to be
     sluggish. It has blown a little, and most of the people are
     sea-sick. Thank goodness! I suppose that is a very inhuman
     sentiment, but the masses of cheerful humanity, gluttonously
     fattening on the ship's fare and the smooth sea, were becoming
     intolerable. There is not one person on board who looks as though
     he or she had left a human being behind who had any claim to be
     regretted. Did any one of these people ever love? I suppose so. I
     suppose at one time or another most of them have thought they loved
     some one. I will not be uncharitable, for they are receiving their
     just punishment. Lovers are never sea-sick, but now a hoarse
     chorus, indescribable and hideous, rises from hidden recesses of
     the ship. They are not in love, they are sea-sick. May it do them
     all possible good!
     "Here we are at last. I hasten to finish this rambling letter that
     it may catch the steamer, which, I am told, leaves to-day. Nine
     days we have been at sea, and the general impression seems to be
     that the last part of the passage has been rough. And now I shall
     be some weeks in Europe--I cannot tell how long, but I think the
     least possible will be three weeks, and the longest six. I shall
     know, however, in a fortnight. My beloved, it hurts me to stop
     writing--unreasonable animal that I am, for a letter must be
     finished in order to be posted. I pray you, sweetheart, write me a
     word of comfort and strength in my journeying. Anything sent to
     Baring's will reach me; you cannot know what a line from you would
     be to me, how I would treasure it as the most sacred of things and
     the most precious, until we meet. And so, à bientôt, for we must
     never say 'goodbye,' even in jest. I feel as though I were
     launching this letter at a venture, as sailors throw a bottle
     overboard when they fear they are lost. I have not yet tested the
     post-office, and I feel a kind of uncertainty as to whether this
     will reach you.
     "But they are clamouring at my door, and I must go. Once more, my
     own queen, I love you, ever and only and always. May all peace and
     rest be with you, and may Heaven keep you from all harm!"
This letter was not signed, for what signature could it possibly need?
Margaret read it, and read it again, wondering--for she had never had
such a letter in her life. The men who had made love to her had never
