It was the loveliest of days in early June, and the children 
were wild with delight. The ladies of the committee and 
the teachers were to accompany them and spend part 
of the day in various entertainments. There was to be a 
simple lunch at noon, and a supper at four, quite in reg- 
ular order, and the return home shortly after. By a sort 
of tacit understanding, friends would be welcomed at the 
close of the feast. 
" When we are fagged out and have lost our freshness," 
appended Georgie Hal ford. 
Some of the mothers came too, with a baby in their 
arms, pleased to see their little ones made much of, and 
out on a holiday belonging to their very selves , not shreds 
and fragments of some other pleasure. They sang their 
pretty, joyous carols, they marched in a circle, and then 
sat down to the abundant table. 
The young men began to stroll in presently, those who 
could get off for an hour or two. There was some merry 
jesting and serving, not quite to the manner born ; and 
some of them awkwardly helped afterward in the clearing- 
up. The wagon came for the luggage, the children formed 
again in a procession ; there was a vote of thanks and much 
cheering, and the day's delight was relegated to remem- 
brance, to be enjoyed over and over again by the little 
ones. 
" There is no use of our strolling through the town like 
a baud of gypsies," said Georgie Halford, who had an 
admirer at her elbow. " Let us walk down the river road : 
it will be nearer for all. " 
" Excellent," declared half a dozen voices. 
They paired off. Louise Collamore accepted an escort, 
and Fay, after a moment's wavering, joined her. Why it 
was she did not walk with Kathie and Eugene she could 
hardly tell ; an intangible sign of preference in her broth- 
er's face and manner as he gathered up Kathie's parasol 
and pretty straw satchel with its blue ribbons, and slipped 
her hand through his arm. Somehow they always offered 
Kathie their choicest. 
Eugene loitered behind. Kathie had been very busy 
and helpful all clay, quite like old times, and yet she was 
as daintily fresh, with no sign of fatigue, as if the day had 
just begun. 
Over on the little winding river the sun twinkled ; out 
on the lake it lay in a quivering sheet, full of translucent 
purples and greens, with a shimmer of gold. There was 
a fragrance in the trees overhead and in the turf under 
their feet. Here a wood-robin sang, and one over beyond 
answered. There was such a sense of richness, fulness, 
and life everywhere, that Kathie drew long breaths of con- 
tent. 
She glanced at Eugene, so unusuallj r quiet, for ordina- 
rily he was of the gay order of young men, always ready 
to take his share in amusing and being amused. There 
was a little shadow under his eyes, and his face had a 
tense, set expression ; the laughing lips compressed, the 
eyes glancing straight ahead, as if confronting some vis- 
ion in the glowing yet softened air. 
The motion she made, slight as it was, roused him from 
his revery. All day he had been dreaming over oppor- 
tunity, and now it had come, to find him nervous and illy 
prepared. 
" Engene," she said softty, " something troubles you." 
"Yes." His voice was husky, and he made quite a 
pretence of clearing it. " Kathie, did you ever suppose 
do you think any one might be unhappy about you ? " 
* ' Unhappy about me ? " There was a touch of incre- 
dulity in the very sympathetic tone of her voice. " Why 
should any one be?" as if not sure the thing was possible. 
" But one might be. Can't you understand, Kathie?" 
The dream girl of Eugene's love was to respond at a word, 
and he seemed to himself, at that moment, like one on a 
wide and louety sea. 
" What have I done ? " pausing suddenly. 
" You have made me love you ; love you till I can think 
of nothing else ; till I long for you day and night, and am 
jealous if any one comes near you " ; his voice deep with 
bobeyondish earnestness, and his face scarlet, his eyes shining 
almost to tears. 
" Oh ! " She faced him and saw all this, then she turned 
her eyes toward the rippling water. The robin's song 
