wretch as well as a knave. He had seen something pretty in the way of a
silk cap, which a stray pedlar had brought with other things, and he
thought he should enjoy bargaining for it the next time the pedlar came
with his wares. He knew that he should probably bargain for an hour and
then not buy it after all,--but nevertheless he might be weak, and then
he should like to feel that he had got the thing out of his betters by
his own skill, instead of squandering money from his hoard. He seldom
indulged in the luxury of buying what he fancied, but when he did he
generally made some one else pay for it. There was a certain refinement
of miserliness about him.
At first he imagined that it might be best to drop some hint to his
mistress, just enough to frighten her into paying for his silence. But
his calmer reflection told him that he would be thereby killing the
goose that laid the golden eggs. Batiscombe's ingenuity would make some
change in the arrangements and he would have to begin all over again.
Evidently the best thing was to make his master pay, and let the lovers
go quietly on their course, so that he could at any time produce
evidence of his veracity. He watched his opportunity. Marcantonio often
inquired whether the signora were in the house, or were gone out. If she
was out he supposed she had gone into the garden or to pay visits; he
never disturbed her arrangements, knowing how much she enjoyed being
perfectly free, and feeling sure she would not get into mischief. She
made a point of calling on everybody, telling him afterwards where she
had been, and the two or three hours she spent with Julius escaped
notice in her clever account of the spending of the day. Now and then
she would say she had been down to the rocks, in case her husband should
ever take it into his head to go and find her there, and she was quite
sure that by this time Julius was changed beyond recognition.
Temistocle had not long to wait. One day in August, Marcantonio chanced
to inquire of him where the marchesa might be. Temistocle was prepared;
with the utmost gravity and respect he dealt his blow, speaking as
though he were saying the most natural thing in the world.
"I suppose," he said, "that her excellency is gone out in the boat with
the Signor Batiscombe." He pronounced all the letters of the name, as
though it had been Italian; but it was unmistakable. Marcantonio turned
upon him in amazement.
"Animal!" he exclaimed, "are you drunk?"
"I, eccellenza?" cried Temistocle in hurt tones. "I drunk? Heaven
forbid."
"Then you are crazy," remarked Marcantonio, more and more astonished.
"The Signor Batiscombe is no longer here."
"Pardon me, eccellenza," retorted the servant respectfully. "I imagined
that your excellency knew. The Signor Batiscombe comes every day, and
takes the Signora Marchesa out in a boat. He is become a very strange
signore, for he dresses like a fisherman, and has let his beard grow as
long as this--so," the man explained, holding his hand a few inches from
his face. "Mi maraviglio, io!" he exclaimed, casting his eyes to the
ground.
Marcantonio was speechless with amazement and horror, and turned his
back upon the servant. A man less thoroughly a gentleman in every sense
would have fallen upon Temistocle and beaten him, then and there. By a
great effort, Marcantonio collected himself, and turned again.
"You have not to make any remarks upon the appearance of the Signor
Batiscombe," he said briefly. "Basta!"
Temistocle had nothing left but to bow and leave the room. He did not
understand his master in the least; he was just like a foreigner, he
thought.
But Marcantonio dropped into an arm-chair, the moment he was alone, as
though all the strength and life were suddenly gone from him. He could
not in the least realise the extent of the revelation contained in
Temistocle's words. He did not know what to do, and for the moment it
did not even strike him that there was anything to be done. In the
course of half an hour he grew calmer and began to review the situation.
He remembered distinctly every word of Diana's concerning the trouble
when Batiscombe was in the house. Diana had said very distinctly that
Julius had insulted Leonora--and Diana always spoke the truth.
Marcantonio had not asked her what the insult had been. He could not
bring himself to do it, and he did not want to know anything more. He
would have cheerfully fought with Batiscombe on the strength of his
sister's assertion, but she had dissuaded him, and now he was sorry for
it.
The servant had spoken with an air of conviction, as though he thought
it quite natural, and only wondered at Batiscombe's strange appearance.
There could not be any doubt about it, at all.
A new sensation took possession of Marcantonio--an utterly new passion,
which he did not recognise as part of himself. He was jealous. He did
not, he would not, understand the truth, but he would prevent his wife
from ever seeing Julius Batiscombe again, and then he would go in search
of him and wreak his vengeance without stint. At the same time he hoped
he might avoid a scene with Leonora. He was brave enough to fight the
