 
contrary, thought there was something to be gained by 
having a little humbug I was willing to try it ! I don 't 
see that the situation is really changed. Mary is all that 
she ever was more than all. But I don 't care for her ! 
I don 't care for anything, and I don 't find myself inspired 
to make an exception in her favour. The only difference 
is that I don 't care now whether I care for her or not. 
Of course marrying such a useless lout as I am is out of 
the question for any woman, and I should pay Mary a 
poor compliment to assume that she is in a hurry to 
celebrate our nuptials." 
"Oh, you ll do you re in love !" said Rowland, not 
very logically. It must be confessed at any cost that this 
assertion was made for the sole purpose of hearing Roderick deny it. 
But it quite failed of its aim. Roderick gave a liberal 
shrug of his shoulders, and an irresponsible toss of his 
head. " Call it what you please ! I am past caring for 
the names of things. " 
Rowland had not only been illogical, he had also been 
slightly disingenuous. He did not believe that his companion was in love ; he had argued the false to learn the 
true. The truth was that Roderick was again in some 
degree under a charm, and that he found a healing virtue 
in the company of a woman of tact. He had said shortly 
before that her voice was sweet to his ear ; and this was 
a happy sign. If her voice was sweet it was probably 
that her glance was not amiss, that her touch had a quiet 
magic, and that her whole personal presence had learned 
the art of not being irritating. So Rowland reasoned, 
and invested Mary Garland with the subtlest merits. 
It was true that she herself helped him little to definite 
conclusions, and that he remained in puzzled doubt as to 
whether these happy touches were still a matter of the 
heart or had become simply a matter of the conscience. 
He watched for signs that she took a pleasure in Rode 
rick 's favour again ; but it seemed to him that she was on 
 
her guard against interpreting it too largely. It was now 
her turn he fancied that he sometimes gathered from cer 
tain nameless indications of glance and tone and gesture 
it was now her turn to be indifferent, to care for other 
things. Again and again Rowland asked himself what 
these things were that she might be supposed to care for, 
to the injury of ideal constancy ; and again, having 
designated them, he divided them into two portions. 
One was that larger experience in general which had 
come to her with her arrival in Europe ; the vague sense, 
borne in upon her imagination, that there were more 
things one might do with one 's life than youth and ignorance and Northampton had dreamt of; the revision of 
old pledges in the light of new emotions. The other was 
the experience in especial of Rowland 's what ? Here 
Rowland always paused, in perfect sincerity, to measure 
afresh his possible claim to the young girl 's regard. 
What might he call it ? It had been more than civility, 
and yet it had been less than devotion. It had spoken 
of a desire to serve, but it had said nothing of a hope of 
reward. Nevertheless Rowland 's fancy hovered about 
the idea that it was recompensable, and his reflections 
ended in a reverie which perhaps did not define it, but 
at least on each occasion added a little to its volume. 
Since Mary had asked him as a sort of favour to herself 
to come with them to Switzerland, he thought it possible 
she might let him know whether he seemed to have done 
her a service. The days passed without her doing so, 
and at last Rowland walked away to an isolated eminence 
some five miles from the inn and murmured to the silent 
rocks that she was ungrateful. Listening nature appeared 
not to contradict him, so that on the morrow he asked 
the young girl with a touch of melancholy malice whether 
it struck her that his deflection from his other plan had 
been attended with brilliant results. 
" Why, we are delighted that you are with us !" she 
answered. 
 
He was anything but satisfied with this ; it seemed to 
imply that she had forgotten that she had formally asked 
him to come. He reminded her of her request, and re 
called the place and time. "That evening on the 
terrace, late, after Mrs. Hudson had gone to bed, and 
Roderick being absent. " 
