husband. Well, I don't wonder. And you must have had some rare charm to
win him against such great odds. If you knew the world well, you would
have to admit that women like madame only blossom now and then, and
are--shall we call them the century plants of the fashionable
world?"--and she smiles--"not that they have to be a hundred years old
to bloom; indeed, they seem never to grow old. I like to watch her, she
is so elegant and fascinating."

She comes up just then and crosses over to Violet, having stopped for a
little chat with Mr. Grandon in the hall. Violet is unexceptionable,
though it seems inharmonious to see such a bright young creature in
mourning; but the fashionable and the literary world will open its
doors to Mrs. Grandon, and madame has the wisdom to be first. She is
not much given to caressing ways, but she kisses Violet, and is struck
by a peculiar circumstance,--Violet does not kiss her back. She liked
this beautiful woman so very much before, and now she feels as if she
never wanted to see her. She is absolutely sorry that she has come, for
after one has partaken of hospitality the fine line is passed.

Mrs. Latimer is very curiously interested in this young wife. She has
listened to Laura's strictures and bewailing, for Laura has gone down
to madame body and soul, but when the professor said, "Mrs. Grandon is
such an excellent German scholar, Mrs. Grandon is the most charming
little wife," and when she met her at the betrothal she resolved to
know her better, and finds her a fresh, sweet, innocent girl. Probably
she did appeal strongly to Floyd Grandon's chivalrous instincts when
she saved his child's life, but she is worth loving for herself alone.

Mr. Latimer takes Violet in, and she is very glad not to fall to the
lot of some stranger. Madame and Mr. Grandon are at opposite ends of
the table. It is a perfect lunch, with good breeding and serving, that
is really a fine art. Violet does enjoy it. Mr. Latimer knows just
how to entertain her, and he entertains her for his own pleasure as
well. He likes to see her wondering eyes open in their sweet, fearless
purity; he watches the loveliest of color as it ripples over her face,
the dimples that seem to play hide-and-seek, and the rare glint of her
waving hair as it catches the light in its dun gold reflexes.

"I know two people who would rave over you," he says, in a very low
tone, just for her ear, "Mr. and Mrs. Dick Ascott. This was their
house, you know, and they could not have paid Madame Lepelletier a
higher compliment than renting to her,--it is the apple of their eye,
the chosen of their heart! They are both artists and we think
charming people, but Dick was resolved his wife should have some
Parisian art culture. They are to be back in two years, and I hope you
will not change in the slightest particular. I command you to remain
just as you are."

"Two years," she repeats, with a dreamy smile that is entrancing, and
presently glances up with such a sweet, shy look, that John Latimer,
not often moved by women's smiles, rather suspecting wiles, feels
tempted to kiss her on the spot.

"I hope," she says afterwards, with the most delicious seriousness,
"that I shall not disappoint any one two years from this time."

"Don't you dare to," he replies, warningly.

Gertrude and the professor are really the stars of this morning's
luncheon, and they are having such an engrossing conversation on the
other side of the table that no one but Marcia remarks this little
episode. Everything to her savors of flirtation. Marcia Grandon could
not entertain a simple, honest regard for any one; she is always
studying effects, and she is hungry for admiration. All the small
artifices she uses she suspects in every one else, and now in her
secret heart she accuses Mrs. Floyd of flying at high game.

Take it altogether, it is a decidedly charming little party. Mrs.
Vandervoort, though not a handsome woman, is at the very height of
fashion, and is particularly well-bred, as the Delancys are not modern
people, but have the blue blood of some centuries without much
admixture; there are a few others: madame makes her parties so select
that it is a favor to be invited to one.

She seeks out Violet just as they are beginning to disperse.

"My dear Mrs. Grandon," she says, in that persuasive voice that wins
even against the will, "I have been planning a pleasure for you with
Mr. Grandon. You are to come down here for a day and a night next week,
and we are to go to the opera; it is to be 'Lohengrin,' and you will be
