
"Why, Louise," she exclaimed in surprise, "isn't that 
the Leonard Howarth who used to call on us long ago ? 
I fancied once he had quite a, penchant for Eleanor." 

" The very same. I met them at Newport last summer, 
where they own one of the loveliest of cottages. Mrs. 
Howarth is in quite delicate health, — not sickly, but not 
at all strong. I was there at a five o'clock tea about a 
month ago, and certainly their city house leaves nothing 
to be desired. She was an heiress, but you remember 
Mr. Howarth had a fortune from an old uncle. He is a 
perfect and most agreeable gentleman. Why did not we 
know about this uncle? Eleanor would have done ever 
so much better, but certainly Tom's position was most 
promising. Who ever could dream that an old business 
house like Wilmerding, Marshall & Co. could crumble to 
pieces in that manner ? " 

"The younger partners were too extravagant, and it 
was very hard times just then. I never specially fancied 
Mr. Howarth — " with a kind of indecisive intonation. 

" He was too grave for a young man ; but he is one of 
the kind who, at middle life, is simply magnificent. Mr. 
Mount joy was saying that two or three years ago he went 
to the help of a friend in great trouble with a mine. 
They were not sure whether the lead was lost or worn 
out, but they put in some new machinery and struck a 
vein of fabulous richness. You might have known, 
mother, that such a man would be sure to carry weight, 
and to succeed." 



 

" It is too late now," replied Mrs. Wilder, with a sigh. 

" I shall invite the Cavendish Moretons over here, and 
give them some kind of entertainment, — a recherchS din- 
ner, I think, with just the cream of the city. Then there are 
some lovely drives, or would be, if it was a little later in 
the season. Are you going to the Wetherell dinner?" 

"Of course," responded Mrs. Wilder, but she sighed 
again. 

She went home heavy-hearted. There was a Mordecai 
sitting at the gate that she was afraid she could not dis- 
lodge. They had been short sighted not to send Eleanor 
entirely away, — she saw that now. So long as the patient 
wife kept in the background, it was well enough to dole 
her out a few gifts and keep her supplied with sewing ; to 
say, when anyone inquired closely, " Yes, poor Eleanor's 
marriage was rather unfortunate. She is living very 
quietly, devoting herself to her children." 

That had an aroma of a much higher flavor than the 
story Mrs. Beach told ; but between the latter and the 
former there was a great gulf fixed, and the torment sel- 
dom rose to the purer atmosphere. 

Mrs. Wilder's troubles had but just begun. In her own 
pretty sitting-room she found the elder Mrs. Marshall, 
whose eyes were absolutely red with weeping. 

" Oh, my dear Mrs. Wilder, such a dreadful, dreadful 
blow ! I have brought you a letter to read, — I thought 
I should go crazy over it. My poor son ! my dear, de- 
serted boy ! Have you heard ? " 

Mrs. Wilder's face took on an expression of austerity. 
She might be mortified about Eleanor's step in the face 
of hoary tradition, but she could not forget that back of 
it lay Thomas Marshall's brutal vice. 

" I suppose Eleanor bore it as long as she could," she 
began slowly, hardly daring to range herself on the 
woman's side. 
