Wash lacked. Jeff Monroe had seen the Dasher cheated out of her prey, as
he regarded it, and he knew he was sure to be condemned by his
associates if he failed to capture the Winooski.
Nim Splugger was in the barge with him, and this worthy assured the
coxswain that Dory would not dare to run into him. It was all bully in
his opinion. The crew expressed their disapprobation in very emphatic
terms at the weakness of Mad Twinker in allowing himself to be cheated
out of his game.
The Goldwing had been obliged to beat up to the position of the
Winooski, and her approach was not so appalling as when she neared the
Dasher. But she had gone well to windward so as to get a good full, and
she was making at least eight knots when she came within hailing
distance of the Racer. Dory gave the same warning as before, and
repeated it several times. But the Racer did not budge. Her crew were
all ready to leap into the Winooski.
Dory had fully made up his mind to smash the Racer. A collision would
certainly accomplish her destruction. It was probable that the Goldwing
would bear the barge under her bottom, and thus go over her. The
coxswain and all his crew were very ignorant in regard to the management
of a boat, and could not realize the peril to which they were exposing
themselves.
Probably most of the crew of the Racer could not swim, and, even if they
could, some of them might be seriously injured if the schooner went over
the barge. There was more than a possibility that one or more lives
might be lost in the encounter. The skipper of the Goldwing shuddered
when he thought of such a catastrophe. At the worst, the Chesterfields
could only capture the Winooski; and that would not kill or hurt anyone.
It was not a case of life and death; in fact it was nothing more than a
frolic on the part of the Chesterfields.
In another instant the Goldwing would strike the Racer, and the
calamity the skipper dreaded must come, either in whole or in part. If
he "backed down," Oscar would laugh at him, and his other companions
would rail at him for timidity. But Dory had the moral courage to brave
any censure or sarcasm rather than expose the lives of the enemy.
"Down with the helm, Matt!" shouted he with startling energy.
Matt promptly obeyed, and the sails of the schooner shook in the wind.
"What did you do that for, Dory?" demanded Oscar Chester, utterly
disgusted at the backing down of the skipper.
But there was no time to answer the question. Instead of striking the
Racer, the Goldwing was struck by the barge on her broadside. But the
blow came at an angle of about forty-five degrees, and the stem slid off
by the stern. Still it was a hard rap, and the yacht shook under its
force. Doubtless her side was dented and scraped, but she sustained no
injury of any consequence.
"Keep your places, fellows!" yelled Jeff Monroe, as the rowers began to
stand up and think how they should save themselves, for they thought
the barge was smashed in the collision. "We are all right! Keep your
places!"
The Racer was not injured, but she was thrown from her course, and
brought up with her stern alongside the schooner. Two of her spoon oars
were broken, and two more of them lost overboard, for all the starboard
oars had been swept from the rowlocks by the contact with the yacht. The
crew were in utter confusion, for their discipline was not proof against
such a scene as that which had just transpired.
"Do you mean to drown us all?" demanded Jeff. "You have made a pretty
mess of it."
"You act as though you intended to drown yourself and your crew,"
replied Dory, as he directed Matt to fill away again.
"We shall get even with you yet!" retorted Jeff angrily.
The barge had come about, so that she was now in the trough of the sea,
though the waves were not heavy; but the motion served to increase the
confusion on board of her. The crew obeyed the order of the coxswain to
keep their seats for the simple reason that they could not stand up in
the rolling craft. In a few minutes Jeff had brought something like
order out of the snarl.
The discipline on board proved to be not more than skin deep, for about
every one of the crew had something to say, and a general jaw ensued.
Some of them blamed and scolded their coxswain, and hard words were used
before the Goldwing was out of hearing distance. The first business,
when the grumblers had "talked out," was to pick up the oars and the
pieces; and, by the time this was done, the Winooski was out in the
heaviest of the sea. The Goldwing stood off and on between the fleet she
was protecting and the barges of the Chesterfields. The Dasher had gone
to the assistance of the Racer.
"What under the canopy made you back down, Dory?" asked Oscar, in a more
gentlemanly tone than he had used before when he alluded to the subject.
"If one of those fellows had been drowned, I should not have forgiven
myself to my dying day," replied Dory.
"There was no danger of drowning any of them," added Oscar.
"I don't believe many of them can swim, and I think the Goldwing would
