had offered to close her own house (so far as Cynthy and Pompey would
permit), and stay with her for a while.
It was known now that Mrs. Harold was to have charge of Garda. The
Gracias friends were grieved by this tidings; they had supposed that
Garda would be left to them. But they all liked Margaret, and when, a
little later, they learned that she had asked Dr. Kirby to fill the
office of guardian, they welcomed with gladness this guarantee that they
were not to be entirely separated from the child whom they had known and
loved from her birth, that one of them was to have the right, in some
degree, to direct her course, and watch over her. These unworldly
people, these secluded people, with their innocently proud, calm belief
in their own importance, never once thought of its being possibly an
advantage to Garda, this opportunity to leave Gracias-รก-Dios, to have
further instruction, to see something of the world. They could not
consider it an advantage to leave Gracias-รก-Dios, and "further
instruction," which, of course, meant northern instruction, they did not
approve; as for "the world," very little confidence had they in any
world so remote from their own. That, indeed, was the Gracias idea of
New York--"remote." Nor did the fact that Mrs. Harold had a fortune (a
very large one it would have seemed to them had they known its amount)
make any especial impression. They would each and all have welcomed
Garda to their own homes, would have freely given her a daughter's share
in everything they possessed; that, from a worldly point of view, these
homes were but poor ones, and a daughter's share in incomes which were
in themselves so small and uncertain, a very limited possession--these
considerations did not enter much into their thoughts. Their idea was
that for a fatherless, motherless girl, love was the great thing; and of
love they had an abundance.
Before he had had his interview with Margaret, before he knew of her
intention to ask him to be guardian, Dr. Kirby had gone about silent;
with a high color; portentous. Much as he admired Mrs. Rutherford, he
did not present himself at the eyrie; his mirror told him that he had
not the proper expression. But Margaret did not delay; on the third day
she made her request; and then the Doctor went home stepping with all
his old trimness, his toes well turned out, his head erect.
"It's very fortunate, ma" (the Doctor's a in this word had a sound
between that of a in "mare" and in "May"), "that she has asked me,"
he said to his mother; "I doubt whether I could have kept silence
otherwise. I admire Mrs. Rutherford highly, as you know; she is a lady
of the finest bearing and presence. And I admire Mrs. Harold too. But if
they had attempted--if Mrs. Harold had attempted to take Garda off to
the North, and keep her there, without any link, any regularly
established communication with us, I fear" (the Doctor's face had
grown red again)--"I fear, ma, I should have balked; I should have just
set my feet together, put down my head, and--raised the devil behind!"
"Why, my son, what language!" said his mother, surprised; though she
felt, too, the force of his comparison, as she lived in the country of
the mule.
"Excuse me, ma; I am excited, or rather I have been. But Garda is one of
us, you know, and we could not, I could not, with a clear conscience
allow them to separate her from us entirely, hurry her off into a
society of which we know little or nothing, save that it is totally
different from our own--modern--mercantile--hurrying" (the Doctor was
evidently growing excited again)--"all that we most dislike. You are
probably thinking that there are Mrs. Rutherford, Mrs. Harold, yes, and
Mr. Winthrop too (if he would only dress himself more as a gentleman
should), to answer for it, to serve as specimens. Those charming ladies
would grace, I admit, any society--any society in the world! But I am
convinced that they are not specimens, they are exceptions; I am
convinced that society at the North is a very different affair. And,
besides, Garda belongs here. Her ancestors have been men of
distinction,--among the most distinguished, indeed, of this whole coast;
I may be mistaken, of course, ma; I may be too severe; but still I
cannot help thinking that at the North this would fall on ignorant ears;
that the people there are too--too ignorant of such matters to
appreciate them."
"I reckon you are right," replied Mrs. Kirby. "Still, Reginald, we must
not forget that it was the mother's own wish that Mrs. Harold should
take charge of Garda."
"Yes, ma, I know. Poor little Mistress Thorne, to whom I was most
sincerely attached"--here the Doctor paused to give a vigorous
cough--"was, we must remember, a New-Englander by birth, after all; and
in spite of her efforts (most praiseworthy they were too), she never
quite outgrew that fact. It couldn't, therefore, be expected that she
should comprehend fully the great advantages (even taking merely the
worldly view of it) of having her daughter continue to live here--here
where such a descent is acknowledged, and proper honor paid to ancestors
of distinction."
"True, my son," said the neat little old lady, knitting on. "But still a
mother has a good deal to do with the 'descent!' I'm not sure that she
