they are without “rehabilitation.”
We will begin with a dish the mention of which provokes a sneer more
often than any other known to civilization.
Hash.
Rid cold corned or roast beef of fat, skin and gristle, and mince it in
a wooden tray with a sharp chopper until the largest piece is not more
than an eighth of an inch square.
With two cupfuls of this mix a cupful of mashed potato rubbed smooth
with a potato beater or wooden spoon.
Season well with pepper and salt if the beef be fresh, if corned use
the salt sparingly and pepper well.
Set a clean frying-pan on the stove with a cupful of beef gravy in it
from which you have skimmed all the fat. Clear soup will do if you
have no gravy. If you have neither, pour into the pan a half-pint of
boiling water and stir into this three tablespoonfuls of butter. When
the butter-water (or gravy) reaches the boil, add a half-teaspoonful of
made mustard.
Then put in the meat and potato and stir—scraping the bottom of the pan
to prevent sticking—for five minutes, or until you have a bubbling-hot
mass, not stiff, nor yet semi-liquid. It must have been brought to
boiling heat and kept at it about five minutes, cooking so fast that
you have to stir and toss constantly lest it should scorch.
Heap on a hot dish, and eat from hot plates.
Hash Cakes.
Having prepared the hash as above set it aside until cold, when mould
into flat cakes as you would sausage meat, and roll in flour. Heat
nice beef-dripping to a boil in a frying-pan, lay in the cakes, and fry
to a light brown on both sides.
Beef Croquettes.
You can make these of the cold hash by moulding it into rolls about
three and a half inches long, and rather more than an inch in diameter.
Roll these over and over on a floured dish or board to get them smooth
and regular in shape; flatten the ends by setting each upright on the
floury dish, and put enough dripping in the pan to cover them as they
lie on their sides in it. It should be very hot before they go in.
Roll over carefully in the fat as they brown, not to spoil the shape.
Do not put too many in the pan at once; as fast as they are done take
them up and lay in a hot colander until all are ready. Arrange neatly
on a heated flat dish and serve.
A Mutton Stew.
Cut slices of cold mutton half an inch thick, trim away fat and skin
and divide the lean meat into neat squares about an inch across.
Drop a piece of onion as large as a hickory-nut in a cupful of water
and boil fifteen minutes. Strain the water through a bit of muslin,
squeezing the onion hard to extract the flavor. Allow this cupful of
water to two cupfuls of meat. If you have less mutton use less water;
if more increase the quantity of liquid.
Pour the water into a clean saucepan and when it boils add two full
tablespoonfuls of butter cut into bits and rolled over and over in
browned flour until no more will adhere to the butter.
Stir this in with a little pepper and salt, a pinch of mace and a
teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Boil up once and drop in the meat. Cover
closely and let it simmer at one side of the stove, almost, but never
quite boiling, for ten minutes.
Turn into a deep dish and serve very hot.
Minced Mutton on Toast.
Trim off skin and fat from slices of cold mutton and mince in a
chopping-tray. Season with pepper and salt.
Into a clean frying-pan, pour a cupful of mutton-gravy which has been
skimmed well, mixed with a little hot water and strained through a bit
of coarse muslin.
When this boils, wet a teaspoonful of browned flour with three
tablespoonfuls of cold water, and a teaspoonful of tomato or walnut
catsup, or half a teaspoonful of Worcestershire sauce. Rub out all the
lumps and stir into the gravy in the frying-pan. Boil up once well
before putting in the mutton.
As soon as the mixture bubbles and smokes all over, draw it to one
side of the range where it will keep hot, but not quite boil; cover
it closely, and let it stand five minutes. Warmed-over mutton becomes
insipid when cooked too much.
Before the mince is put into the pan, toast the bread. Cut thick slices
from a stale loaf, and trim off the crust. If you would have them look
particularly nice, cut them round with a cake or biscuit-cutter. Toast
to a light-brown, and keep hot until the mince is cooked.
Then lay the toast on a heated platter; butter the rounds well on both
sides, and pour on each a tablespoonful of boiling water. Heap a
great spoonful of the minced mutton on each piece.
The mince should not be a stiff paste, nor yet so soft as to run all
over the dish. A cupful of gravy will be enough for three cupfuls of
meat.
