with broad forehead, near-sighted eyes, and narrow chest of a student;
not at all what a girl of seventeen should be, physically, though a
clear mind and a brave spirit shone in her clever face and sounded in
her resolute voice.
"I shall very gladly do what I can for you, my dear. It is very simple,
and I am sure that a few months of my sort of training will help you
much; for you are just the kind of girl who should have a strong body,
to keep pace with a very active brain," answered Miss Orne, taking
Sally's thin, inky fingers in her own, with a friendly pressure that
showed her good will.
"Madame says violent exercise is not good for girls, so we gave up
gymnastics long ago," said Maud, in her languid voice, wishing that
Sally would not suggest disagreeable things.
"One does not need clubs, dumb bells, and bars for my style of exercise.
Let me show you;" and rising, Miss Orne went through a series of
energetic but graceful evolutions, which put every muscle in play
without great exertion.
"That looks easy enough," began Nelly.
"Try it," answered Miss Orne, with a sparkle of fun in her blue eyes.
They did try,--to the great astonishment of the solemn portraits on the
wall, unused to seeing such antics in that dignified apartment. But some
of the girls were out of breath in five minutes; others could not lift
their arms over their heads; Maud and Nelly broke several bones in their
corsets, trying to stoop; and Kitty tumbled down, in her efforts to
touch her toes without bending her knees. Sally got on the best of all,
being long of limb, easy in her clothes, and full of enthusiasm.
"Pretty well for beginners," said Miss Orne, as they paused at last,
flushed and merry. "Do that regularly every day, and you will soon gain
a few inches across the chest and fill out the new jerseys with firm,
elastic figures."
"Like yours," added Sally, with a face full of such honest admiration
that it could not offend.
Seeing that she had made one convert, and knowing that girls, like
sheep, are sure to follow a leader, Miss Orne said no more then, but
waited for the leaven to work. The others called it one of Sally's
notions, but were interested to see how she would get on, and had great
fun, when they went to bed, watching her faithful efforts to imitate her
teacher's rapid and effective motions.
"The wind-mill is going!" cried Kitty, as several of them sat on the
bed, laughing at the long arms swinging about.
"That is the hygienic elbow-exercise, and that the Orne Quickstep, a
mixture of the grasshopper's skip and the water-bug's slide," added
Julia, humming a tune in time to the stamp of the other's foot.
"We will call these the Jersey Jymnastics, and spell the last with a J,
my dear," said Nelly; and the name was received with as much applause as
the young ladies dared to give it at that hour.
"Laugh on, but see if you don't all follow my example sooner or later,
when I become a model of grace, strength, and beauty," retorted Sally,
as she turned them out and went to bed, tingling all over with a
delicious glow that sent the blood from her hot head to warm her cold
feet, and bring her the sound, refreshing sleep she so much needed.
This was the beginning of a new order of things, for Miss Orne carried
her energy into other matters besides gymnastics, and no one dared
oppose her when Madame shut her ears to all complaints, saying, "Obey
her in everything, and don't trouble me."
Pitchers of fresh milk took the place of tea and coffee; cake and pie
were rarely seen, but better bread, plain puddings, and plenty of fruit.
Rooms were cooled off, feather beds sent up garret, and thick curtains
abolished. Sun and air streamed in, and great cans of water appeared
suggestively at doors in the morning. Earlier hours were kept, and brisk
walks taken by nearly all the girls; for Miss Orne baited her hook
cleverly, and always had some pleasant project to make the wintry
expeditions inviting. There were games in the parlor instead of novels,
and fancy-work in the evening; shorter lessons, and longer talks on the
many useful subjects that are best learned from the lips of a true
teacher. A cooking class was started, not to make fancy dishes, but the
plain, substantial ones all housewives should understand. Several girls
swept their own rooms, and liked it after they saw Miss Orne do hers in
a becoming dust-cap; and these same pioneers, headed by Sally, boldly
coasted on the hill, swung clubs in the coach-house, and played tag in
the bowling-alley rainy days.
It took time to work these much-needed changes, but young people like
novelty; the old routine had grown tiresome, and Miss Orne made things
so lively and pleasant it was impossible to resist her wishes. Sally did
begin to straighten up, after a month or two of regular training; Maud
outgrew both corsets and backache; Nelly got a fresh color; Kitty found
her thin arms developing visible muscles; and Julia considered herself a
Von Hillern, after walking ten miles without fatigue.
But dear, fat Cordy was the most successful of all; and rejoiced greatly
over the loss of a few pounds when she gave up over-eating, long naps,
