refuse it." 
" That is true," said Elizabeth thoughtfully. " We 
must get into somebody's good graces. Here's Si, for 
instance," as they came in sight of his giant figure in 
bold contrast with Philip's slender one. ' He has a 
great deal of influence among the men." 
There was no time to say more, for Philip called out, 
ecstatically, ' Si says he will take us out in his boat, 
if we want to go." 
' No, not jestly thet," said Si, gravely, a twinkle in 
his keen eyes, ' I asked ef you wanted to go." 
' I am quite sure we shouldn't refuse, if you were to 
invite us," said Elizabeth, thinking this was their op- 
portunity. ' Do you think you will ? " 
p< I shouldn't wonder a mite. You're considerable 
of a stranger, 'Lizabeth. The schoolmaster, too ; I 
didn't think o' seein' him in these parts again." 
They pushed out into the calm sea. There was a 
gorgeous sunset, and a rising moon. 
' Lookin' 'round for a school ? " asked Si, managing 
his oars as if they were merely extended arms. 
' No. Your committee needn't be shy of me. But 
I do want to give a course of lectures. Do you think 
I could get the hall ? " 
' Could ef folks wanted to hear the lecters. What 
be they religious ? " 
 
"Not exactly. Historical." 
' I sh'd like it well enough myself. I s'pose you're 
doin' it for practice." 
Philip laughed at this juncture, and Elizabeth shook 
her head at him. 
" No. I'll tell you the real reason," she said. " Mr. 
Kewe thinks it will do us good to hear something be- 
sides town talk, and so do I. Do you think any 
body really would object to his giving them in the 
hall ? " 
' Like enuff," said Si, with large scorn. " Some of 
'em acted like a passel o' fools, year ago last fall. I'll 
see to 't myself, 'f you want me to." 
This was far more than Felix hoped, and he thanked 
Si warmly. 
' Somebody ought to sing," said Philip, who found 
the moonlight conducive to dreaming, and knew by 
experience how charming Fancy could make herself 
when Music was by. 
' Don't you sing ? " asked Si. " What, neither on 
you ? Wai, I'll sing myself." 
The proposition seemed to please him so that he 
stopped to look at them in sheer enjoyment of its 
startling nature. 
"All right, Si," said Philip, in high feather. "Go 
ahead." 
' Now, I aint sung a note for forty year," Si went 
on, in a gently explanatory manner. " My woman 
would laugh masterly, ef she sh'd get hold on't. Don't 
you never say a word." And thereupon he began the 
following song, in an ambitiously loud, but not un- 
musical tone : 
Gipsy come triplin' over the plain, 
Gipsy sung most nobly. 
Sung for to make the green-wood ring, 
For to charm the heart of his lady. 
"Go bring me out my red-roan steed, 
My black is not so speedy. 
I've rode all day and I'll ride all night 
Till I overtake my lady." 
He rode till he come to the broad water's side, 
The water so black and so rily. 
Tears came tricklin' down his cheeks 
When he beheld his lady. 
The effect of a chorus made up of syllables not to 
be expressed in print, and sung to a tune of rollicking 
ins and outs, was quite marvelous. 
" Splendid, Si ! " cried Philip, applauding. " But 
where was his lady ? " 
' Lord knows," said Si, briefly and conclusively. ' I 
never did." 
' In the water, of course," said Felix. ' Another 
gipsy had kidnapped her, and when they were cross- 
