XXIII. 
SINCE New Year's there had scarcely been a mild 
day, and the streets were full of snow, growing foul 
under the city feet and hoofs, and renewing its purity 
from the skies with repeated falls, which in turn lost 
their whiteness, beaten down, and beaten black and 
hard into a solid bed like iron. The sleighing was 
incomparable, and the air was full of the din of 
bells ; but Lapham's turnout was not of those that 
thronged the Brighton road every afternoon ; the 
man at the livery-stable sent him word that the 
mare's legs were swelling. 
He and Corey had little to do with each other. 
He did not know how Penelope had arranged it with 
Corey ; his wife said she knew no more than he did, 
and he did not like to ask the girl herself, especially 
as Corey no longer came to the house. He saw that 
she was cheerfuller than she had been, and helpfuller 
with him and her mother. Now and then Laphani 
opened his troubled soul to her a little, letting his 
thought break into speech without preamble or con 
clusion. Once he said 
" Pen, I presume you know I 'm in trouble." 
 
 
" We all seem to be there," said the girl. 
" Yes, but there 's a difference between being there 
by your own fault and being there by somebody 
else's." 
" I don't call it his fault," she said. 
" I call it mine," said the Colonel. 
The girl laughed. Her thought was of her own 
care, and her father's wholly of his. She must 
come to his ground. " What have you been doing 
wrong ? " 
" I don't know as you 'd call it wrong. It 's what 
people do all the time. But I wish I'd let stocks 
alone. It 's what I always promised your mother I 
would do. But there's no use cryin' over spilt 
milk ; or watered stock, either." 
" I don't think there 's much use crying about 
anything. If it could have been cried straight, it 
would have been all right from the start," said the 
girl, going back to her own affair ; and if Lapham 
had not been so deeply engrossed in his, he might 
have seen how little she cared for all that money 
could do or undo. He did not observe her enough 
to see how variable her moods were in those days, 
and how often she sank from some wild gaiety into 
abject melancholy; how at times she was fiercely 
defiant of nothing at all, and at others inexplicably 
humble and patient. But no doubt none of these 
signs had passed unnoticed by his wife, to whom 
Lapham said one day, when he came home, " Persis, 
what 's the reason Pen don't marry Corey ?" 
"You know as well as I do, Silas," said Mrs. 
 
Lapham, with an inquiring look at him for what 
lay behind his words. 
" Well, I think it 's all tomfoolery, the way she 's 
going on. There ain't any rhyme nor reason to it." 
He stopped, and his wife waited. " If she said the 
word, I could have some help from them." He hung 
his head, and would not meet his wife's eye. 
" I guess you 're in a pretty bad way, Si," she said 
pityingly, " or you wouldn't have come to that." 
" I 'in in a hole," said Lapham, " and I don't know 
where to turn. You won't let me do anything about 
those mills " 
" Yes, I 'll let you," said his wife sadly. 
He gave a miserable cry. " You know I can't do 
anything, if you do. O my Lord !" 
She had not seen him so low as that before. She 
did not know what to say. She was frightened, and 
could only ask, "Has it come to the worst ?" 
" The new house has got to go," he answered 
evasively. 
She did not say anything. She knew that the 
work on the house had been stopped since the be 
ginning of the year. Lapham had told the architect 
