were making lots of money, and it was n’t best to get rich too fast,"
answered Tilda, wisely.
"That’s a good thing for us to remember, Benson, especially just now,
and not count the cost of this little improvement in our cattle cars too
closely," said Mr. Jacobs, as the old gentlemen came up in time to hear
Tilda’s speech.
"Your mother is a remarkable woman; I must come and see her," added Mr.
Benson.
"Yes, sir; she is.  She’d be pleased to see you any day."  And Tilda
stood up respectfully as her elders addressed her.
"Getting too rich, are you?  Then I suppose it would n’t do to ask you
to invest this in your business for me?" asked Mr. Jacobs, holding up
two silver dollars, as if he felt bashful about offering them.
Two pairs of eyes sparkled; and Patty’s hand went out involuntarily, as
she thought how many things she could get with all that money.
"Would they buy a lamb? and would you like to use it that way?" asked
Tilda, in a business-like tone.
"I guess Miller would let you have one for that sum if Miss Alice makes
the bargain, and I should very much like to start a flock if you would
attend to it for me," answered Mr. Jacobs, with a laughing nod at the
young lady, who seemed to understand that way of making bargains.
"We ’d like it ever so much!  We ’ve wanted a lamb all summer; and we’ve
got a nice rocky pasture, with lots of pennyroyal and berry bushes and a
brook, for it to live in.  We could get one ourselves now we are so
rich; but we ’d rather buy more things for ma, and mend the roof ’fore
the snow comes: it’s so old, rain runs down on our bed sometimes."
"That’s bad; but you seem fond of water, and look as if it agreed with
you," said Mr. Jacobs, playfully poking Tilda’s soaked apron with his
cane.
They all laughed; and Mr. Benson said, looking at his watch,--
"Come, Alice, we must go.  I want my dinner, and so does Jacobs.
Good-by, little water-witches.  I ’ll see you again."
"Do you s’pose they ’ll remember the lambs and hats, and all they
promised?" asked Patty, as the others turned away.
"I don’t believe they will.  Rich folks are so busy having good times
they are apt to forget poor folks, seems to me," answered Tilda, shaking
her head like a little Solomon.
"Bless my heart, what a sharp child that is! We must not disappoint her;
so remind me, Alice, to make a memorandum of all this business,"
whispered Mr. Benson, who heard every word.
"The President is a very nice man, and I know he ’ll keep his word.
See! he dropped the money in my tray, and I never saw him do it," cried
Patty, pouncing on the dollars like a robin on a worm.
"There’s a compliment for you, and well worth the money.  Such
confidence is beautiful," said Mr. Jacobs, laughing.
"Well, I ’ve learned a little lesson, and I ’ll lay it to heart so well
I won’t let either of you forget," added Alice, as they drove away;
while Tilda and Patty trudged home, quite unconscious that they had set
an example which their elders were not ashamed to follow.
So many delightful things happened after this that the children felt as
if they had got into a fairy tale.  First of all, two nice rough straw
hats and four useful aprons were given them that very night.  Next day
Miss Alice went to see their mother, and found an excellent woman,
trying to bring up her girls, with no one to help her.
Then somehow the roof got mended, and the fence, so that passing cattle
could not devastate the little beds where the children carefully
cultivated wild flowers from the woods and hills. There seemed to be a
sudden call for berries in the neighborhood,--for the story of the small
Samaritans went about, and even while they laughed, people felt an
interest in the children, and were glad to help them; so the dimes in
the spoutless teapot rose like a silver tide, and visions of new gowns,
and maybe sleds, danced through the busy little brains.
But, best and most wonderful of all, the old gentlemen did not forget
the sheep.  It was astonishing how quickly and easily it was all done,
when once those who had the power found both the will and the way.
Every one was interested now: the stage-drivers joked no more; the
brakemen lent a hand with the buckets while waiting for better means of
relief; and cross Mr. Weed patted Tilda and Patty on the head, and
pointed them out to strangers as the "nice little girls who stirred up
the railroad folks."  Children from the hotel came to look at them, and
Elviry Morris was filled with regret that she had no share in this
interesting affair.
Thus the little pail of water they offered for pity’s sake kept the
memory of this much-needed mercy green till the lake poured its full
tide along the channel made for it, and there was no more suffering on
that road.
The first day the new pumps were tried every one went to see them work;
and earliest of all were Tilda and Patty, in pink aprons and wreaths of
evergreens round their new hats, in honor of the day.  It was sweet to
see their intense satisfaction as the water streamed into the troughs,
