For sentiments of this description neither orthodoxy nor pessimism is
to blame. They are merely the resultants of the obvious and the true;
they leap into being in every intelligent mind. The holiday crowd on
its way to the Derby, to Coney Island, the Lido, or to any one of the
other thousand places of popular resort, causes even the ordinary
observer to wonder why it is that he cannot go too, and enjoy himself
with the same boisterous good humor which palpitates all about him; he
thinks at first that he has some fibre lacking, some incapacity for
that enjoyment which has in so large a measure been given to others;
but little by little the conviction breaks upon him that he has a fibre
more, and that it is the others who lack the finer perceptions with
which he is burdened.
That the others are to be envied, and he to be pitied, there can be no
manner of doubt, but all the same the fact that he is unable to take
part in popular amusements steadfastly remains; and while the matter of
the extra fibre is more or less reassuring, it is not always perfectly
satisfactory, and he then begins to look about for the reason. If to
his power of observation there be added also a receptive mind and an
introspective eye, it will be unnecessary for him to have ever heard of
M. Renan to become gradually aware that he is the victim of a gigantic
swindle. In common with many others, he has somehow imagined that the
world was a broad and fertile plain, with here and there a barren
tract. It is impossible for him to give any reason for this fancy; "In
the world ye shall have tribulation," is the explicit warning of the
Founder of Christianity, and to this warning all creeds, save that of
the early Hellenists, concur. It did not, therefore, come from any
religious teaching, nor, for that matter, from any philosophy. Still
the impression, however vague it may seem when analyzed, has none the
less been with him, as with all others, the reason being simply that he
grew up with it as he may have grown up with fairy tales, and it is not
until his aspirations stumble over facts that he begins to see that
life, instead of being the pleasant land flowing with milk and honey,
which he had imagined, is in reality something entirely different.
These deductions, of course, need not follow because a man finds that
he is more or less indifferent to every form of entertainment, from a
king's revel to a walking-match; but they may follow of any man who has
begun to dislike the propinquity of the average, and to feel that where
the crowd find amusement there will be nothing but weariness and
vexation of spirit for him. Under such circumstances he is an
instinctive pessimist, and one who needs but little theoretic
instruction to learn that he, as all others, has been made use of, and
cheated to boot. The others, it is true, are, generally speaking,
unaware of the deception that has been practiced on them; they have, it
may be, a few faint suspicions that something has gone wrong somewhere,
but even in uttermost depression the untutored look upon their
misfortunes as purely individual, and unshared by the world at large.
Of the universality of suffering, of the fact, as John Stuart Mill has
put it, that there is no happiness for nineteen twentieths of the
world's inhabitants, few have any conception or idea. They look, it may
be, over their garden wall, and, hearing their neighbor grumble, they
think that, being cross-grained and ill-tempered, his life is not one
of unalloyed delight. But their vision extends no further. They do not
see the sorrow that has no words, nor do they hear the silent knell of
irrecoverable though unuttered hopes, "the toil of heart, and knees,
and hands." Of all these things they know nothing; household worries,
and those of their neighbor and his wife, circle their existence. If
they are not contented themselves, then happiness is but a question of
distance. Another street, or another town, or another country holds it,
and if the change is made, the old story remains to be repeated.
There are those, too, who from dyspepsia, torpidity of the liver, or
general crankiness of disposition, are inclined to take a gloomy view
of all things; then there is a temperamental pessimism which displays
itself in outbursts of indignation against the sorrows of life, and in
frantic struggles with destiny and the meshes of personal existence;
there is also the sullen pessimism of despair noticeable in the quiet
folding of hands, and which with tearless eyes awaits death without
complaint; then there are those who complain and sulk, who torment
themselves and others, and who have neither the spunk to struggle nor
the grace to be resigned,--this is the "forme miserable;" there is
also a haphazard pessimism which comes of an unevenness of disposition,
and which asserts itself on a rainy day, or when stocks are down;
another is the accidental type, the man who, with loss of wife, child,
or mistress, settles himself in a dreary misanthropy; finally, there is
hypochondria, which belongs solely to pathology.
In none of these categories do the victims have any suspicion that a
philosophical significance is attached to their suffering. Curiously
enough, however, it is from one or from all of these different classes
that the ordinary acceptation of pessimism is derived; it is these
forms that are met with in every-day life and literature, and yet it is
precisely with these types, that spring from the disposition and
