" We could take her between us, Mrs. Bowen," 
suggested Imogene. " The back seat is wide." 
"Then the party is made up," said Colville, " and 
Effie hasn't demeaned herself by asking to go where 
she wasn't invited." 
The child turned inquiringly toward her mother, 
who met her with an indulgent smile, which became 
a little flush of grateful appreciation when it reached 
Colville; but Mrs. Bowen ignored Imogene in the 
matter altogether. 
The evening passed delightfully. Mr. Morton had 
another book which he had brought to show Imogene, 
and Mrs. Bowen sat a long time at the piano, striking 
this air and that of the songs which she used to 
 
sing when she was a girl : Colville was trying to 
recall them. When he and Imogene were left 
alone for their adieux, they approached each other 
in an estrangement through which each tried to 
break. 
" Why don't you scold me ? " she asked. " I have 
neglected you the whole evening." 
" How have you neglected me t " 
" How ? Ah ! if you don't know " 
" No. I dare say I must he very stupid. I saw 
you talking with Mr. Morton, and you seemed in- 
terested. I thought I 'd better not intrude." 
She seemed uncertain of his intention, and then 
satisfied of its simplicity. 
" Isn't it pleasant to have Mrs. Bowen in the old 
mood again t " he asked. 
" Is she in the old mood ? " 
"Why, yes. Haven't you noticed how cordial 
she is ? 
" I thought she was rather colder than usual." 
" Colder ! " The chill of the idea penetrated even 
through the density of Colville's selfish content. A 
very complex emotion, which took itself for indigna- 
tion, throbbed from his heart. " Is she cold with 
you, Imogene ? " 
" Oh, if you saw nothing -" 
" No ; and I think you must be mistaken. She 
never speaks of you without praising you." 
" Does she speak of me ? " asked the girl, with 
her honest eyes wide open upon him. 
" Why, no," Colville acknowledged. " Come to 
 
reflect, it 's I who speak of you. But how — how is 
she cold with you ? " 
" Oh, I dare say it 's a delusion of mine. Perhaps 
I'm cold with her.'' ' 
"Then don't be so, my dear ! Be sure that she 's 
your friend — true and good. Good night." 
He caught the girl in his arms, and kissed her 
tenderly. She drew away, and stood a moment 
with her repellent fingers on his breast. 
" Is it all for me ? " she asked. 
" For the whole obliging and amiable world," he 
answered gaily. 
XIX. 
The next time Colville came he found himself 
alone with Imogene, who asked him what he had 
been doing all day. 
" Oh, living along till evening. What have 
you ? " 
She did not answer at once, nor praise his speech 
for the devotion implied in it. After a while she 
said: "Do you believe in courses of reading? Mr. 
Morton has taken up a course of reading in Italian 
poetry. He intends to master it." 
"Does he?" 
" Yes. Do you think something of the kind would 
be good for me ? " 
" Oh, if you thirst for conquest. But I should 
prefer to rest on my laurels if I were you.'' 
Imogene did not smile. "Mr. Morton thinks I 
should enjoy a course of Kingsley. He says he 's 
very earnest.'' 
" Oh, immensely. But aren't you earnest enough 
already, my dear ? " 
