Good-bye, mamma. Good-bye, Count."
With a quick nod, she turned and left them, and went in search of
Teresina, whose duty it was to accompany her to the bath. The maid was
unusually cheerful, though she had not failed to notice the change in
Beatrice's manner which had taken place since the day of the betrothal,
and she understood it well enough, as she had told Bastianello. Moreover
she pitied her young mistress sincerely and hated San Miniato with all
her heart; but she was so happy herself that she could not possibly hide
it.
"You are very glad that I am to be married, Teresina," said Beatrice as
they went out of the house together, the maid carrying a large bag
containing bathing things.
"I, Signorina? Do you ask me the real truth? I do not know whether to be
glad or sorry. I pray you, Signorina, tell me which I am to be."
"Oh--glad of course!" returned Beatrice, with a bitter little laugh. "A
marriage should always be a matter for rejoicing. Why should you not be
glad--like every one else?"
"Like you, Signorina?" asked Teresina with a glance at the young girl's
face.
"Yes: Like me." And Beatrice laughed again in the same way.
"Very well, Signorina. I will be as glad as you are. I shall find it
very easy."
It was Beatrice's turn to look at her, which she did, rather
suspiciously. It was clear enough that the girl had her doubts.
"Just as glad as you are, Signorina, and no more," said Teresina again,
in a lower voice, as though she were speaking to herself.
Beatrice said nothing in answer. As they reached the end of the path
through the garden, they saw Ruggiero and his brother sitting as usual
by the porter's lodge. Both got up and came quickly forward.
Bastianello took the bag from Teresina's hand, and the maid and the two
sailors followed Beatrice at a little distance as she descended the
inclined tunnel.
It was pleasant, a few minutes later, to lie in the cool clear water and
look up at the blue sky above and listen to the many sounds that came
across from the little harbour. Beatrice felt a sense of rest for the
first time in several days. She loved the sea and all that belonged to
it, for she had been born within sight of it and had known it since she
had been a child, and she always came back to it as to an element that
understood her and which she understood. She swam well and loved the
easy, fluent motion she felt in the exercise, and she loved to lie on
her back with arms extended and upturned face, drinking in the light
breeze and the sunshine and the deep blue freshness of sky and water.
While she was bathing Bastianello and Teresina sat together behind the
bathing-house, but Ruggiero retired respectfully to a distance and
busied himself with giving his little boat a final washing, mopping out
the water with an old sponge, which he passed again and again over each
spot, as though never satisfied with the result. He would have thought
it bad manners indeed to be too near the bathing-place when Beatrice was
in swimming. But he kept an eye on Teresina, whom he could see talking
with his brother, and when she went into the cabin, he knew that
Beatrice had finished her bath, and he found little more to do in
cleaning the old tub, which indeed, to a landsman's eye, presented a
decidedly smart appearance in her new coat of white paint, with a
scarlet stripe. When he had finished, he sauntered up to the wooden
bridge that led to the bathing cabins and sat down on the upper rail,
hooking one foot behind the lower one. Bastianello, momentarily
separated from Teresina, came and stood beside him.
"A couple of fenders would save the new paint on her, if we are going
for crabs," he observed, thoughtfully.
Ruggiero made that peculiar side motion of the head which means assent
and approval in the south.
"And we will bring our own kettle for the crabs, and get the milk from
the hotel," continued the younger brother, who anticipated an extremely
pleasant evening in the society of Teresina. "And I have told Saint
Peter to bring the torches, because he knows where to get them good,"
added Bastianello who did not expect Ruggiero to say anything. "What
time do we go?"
"Towards an hour and a half of the night," said Ruggiero, meaning two
hours after sunset. "Then the padroni will have eaten and the rocks will
be covered with crabs, and the moon will not be yet risen. It will be
dark under Scutari till past midnight, and the crabs will sit still
under the torch, and we can take them with our hands as we always do."
"Of course," answered Bastianello, who was familiar with the sport, "one
knows that."
"And I will tell you another thing," continued Ruggiero, who seemed to
warm with the subject. "You shall pull stroke and I will pull bow. In
that way you will be near to Teresina and she will amuse herself the
better, for you and she can take the crabs while I hold the torch."
"And the Signorina and the Count can sit together in the stern," said
Bastianello, who seemed much pleased with the arrangement. "The best
