"Do you want assistance?" asked the coxswain.
"Of course I do!" exclaimed the skipper. "We shall all go to the bottom
in a few minutes, for there is a good deal of ballast in the boat."
"All right! We will stand by you," replied Dick.
"Can't you do something more than that?" demanded Bissell, in shaky
tones.
"I will send two hands on board to assist you," added Dick. "Dory, you
will go on board of the Silver Moon. Take any one you please with you,
and report what you think should be done."
"As Paul Bristol is of the least use in the barge, I will take him,"
replied Dory, as he unshipped his oar.
"He is not the best boatman on board," added the coxswain.
"If he will only obey orders, that is all I want of him," answered
Dory, as he made his way to the bow of the barge.
A standing order to all hands was never to stand up in a boat when it
could possibly be avoided, and Dory crawled on all fours, from thwart to
thwart, between the oarsmen. He was followed by Paul, in the same safe
though undignified manner, for he thought it was not derogatory to
follow the example of the skipper of the Goldwing. The bowman hauled the
boat up so that the two hands could get on board of her.
Just at that moment all the girls screamed, or, as Paul expressed it,
"squealed," and the lee side of the Silver Moon rolled under, taking in
a barrel or two of water.
"We shall all be drowned!" shrieked one of the ladies, as they all
sprang out of their seats and rushed over to the weather side, throwing
the boat out of trim so that she took in another barrel of water over
the port side.
"She won't sink yet, ladies, unless you sink her," said Dory, rather
sharply. "Three of you on each side, and don't move for your lives. You
will certainly swamp the boat if you don't keep still. Don't one of you
move again without orders."
"That's what's the matter," said the skipper. "I can't keep them
still."
"They must keep still," added Dory with emphasis.
Just at that moment came another roll, and Dory told Paul to stand in
the middle of the boat, and allow none of the passengers to move. He
took position near him, and together they kept the ladies quiet, and
very little water was taken aboard.
"I am about used up," said Bissell, who was still baling with all his
might, though he was nearly exhausted. "I have been throwing out the
water for more than an hour."
"You might as well try to bail out Lake Champlain as this boat, while
she lies in her present position. The water comes in faster than you can
throw it out," said Dory. "Here come our other barges. Don't be alarmed,
ladies. Even if the boat sinks, we can save every one of you. Do as you
are told, and you shall be made comfortable in a few minutes."
Oscar Chester put the Gildrock about with consummate skill, though the
barge shipped some water during the manoeuvre. Thad Glovering did quite
as well in the Winooski. In a few moments, the three barges had brought
their bows up to the water-logged sloop. The oars were trailed, and
bunters put over the sides to prevent the boats from grinding against
each other. The Silver Moon smoothed the water for them a little, and
they rode very easily on the swell.
Dick Short reported to the acting commodore what he had done, and Oscar
said he should not interfere. At this time, Dory reported the condition
of the sloop, and advised that two of the six ladies be taken into each
barge. With great difficulty, on account of the uneasy motion of the
boats, the passengers were transferred to the stern-sheets of the
barges. They were all wet through, but the commodore would not allow the
boats to leave the scene of the disaster until the safety of the Silver
Moon was assured.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE WORK OF AN INCOMPETENT SKIPPER.
The removal of the six ladies made the Silver Moon a little more
buoyant; but she was in hardly less peril than before, for she rolled
even worse than when her passengers were on board. Dory formed a very
unfavorable opinion of the seamanship of Bissell almost as soon as he
had put his foot over the gunwale of the sloop. Nothing at all was the
matter with the Silver Moon. Her rudder was not disabled, and the
halyards on the mainsail were in working condition. The craft had lost
nothing, but the skipper had lost his head.
But the Beech Hiller did not utter a word of rebuke, or even a critical
comment on the management of the sloop. He saw how it was, and
understood the situation perfectly, but he did not feel called upon to
censure the action which had been taken, or the steps which had been
neglected. The craft was in the trough of the sea, and half full of
water. He looked about him, and discovered a pair of oars stowed away
under the seats in the large room.
"As you are tired out, Mr. Bissell, Paul will bale for a while till you
get rested," said Dory, as soon as the passengers had been transferred
