myself with that of the beacon in the bay, as well as 
with a bouillon of which I partook at the buffet afore 
said; for, since the morning, I had not ventured to 
return to the table d hote at Narbonne. The Hotel 
Nevet, at Montpellier, which I reached an hour later, 
has an ancient renown all over the south of France, 
advertises itself, I believe, as h plus vaste du midi. It 
 
seemed to me the model of a good provincial inn; a 
big rambling, creaking establishment, with brown, 
labyrinthine corridors, a queer old open-air vestibule, 
into which the diligence, in the bon temps, used to 
penetrate, and an hospitality more expressive than 
that of the new caravansaries. It dates from the days 
when Montpellier was still accounted a fine winter re 
sidence for people with weak lungs; and this rather 
melancholy tradition, together with the former celebrity 
of the school of medicine still existing there, but from 
which the glory has departed, helps to account for its 
combination of high antiquity and vast proportions. 
The old hotels were usually more concentrated; but 
the school of medicine passed for one of the attrac 
tions of Montpellier. Long before Mentone was dis 
covered or Colorado invented, British invalids travelled 
down through France in the post-chaise or the public 
coach to spend their winters in the wonderful place 
which boasted both a climate and a faculty. The air 
is mild, no doubt, but there are refinements of mild 
ness which were not then suspected, and which in a 
more analytic age have carried the annual wave far 
beyond Montpellier. The place is charming, all the 
same; and it served the purpose of John Locke; who 
made a long stay there, between 1675 and 1679, and 
became acquainted with a noble fellow-visitor, Lord 
Pembroke, to whom he dedicated the famous Essay. 
There are places that please, without your being able 
to say wherefore, and Montpellier is one of the num 
ber. It has some charming views, from the great pro- 
  
menade of the Peyrou; but its position is not strikingly 
fair. Beyond this it contains a good museum and the 
long facades of its school, but these are its only de 
finite treasures. Its cathedral struck me as quite the 
weakest I had seen, and I remember no other monu 
ment that made up for it. The place has neither the 
gayety of a modern nor the solemnity of an ancient 
town, and it is agreeable as certain women are agree 
able who are neither beautiful nor clever. An Italian 
would remark that it is sympathetic; a German would 
admit that it is gemuthlich. I spent two days there, 
mostly in the rain, and even under these circum 
stances I carried, away a kindly impression. I think 
the Hotel Nevet had something to do with it, and the 
sentiment of relief with which, in a quiet, even a 
luxurious, room that looked out on a garden, I reflected 
that I had washed my hands of Narbonne. The phyl 
loxera has destroyed the vines in the country that sur 
rounds Montpellier, and at that moment I was capable 
of rejoicing in the thought that I should not breakfast 
with vintners. 
The gem of the place is the Musee Fabre, one of 
the best collections of paintings in a provincial city. 
Francois Fabre, a native of Montpellier, died there in 
1837, after having spent a considerable part of his 
life in Italy, where he had collected a good many 
valuable pictures and some very poor ones, the latter 
class including several from his own hand. He was 
the hero of a remarkable episode, having succeeded 
no less a person than Vittorio Alfieri in the affections 
of no less a person than Louise de Stolberg, Countess 
of Albany, widow of no less a person than Charles 
Edward Stuart, the second pretender to the British 
crown. Surely no woman ever was associated senti 
mentally with three figures more diverse, a disqualified 
sovereign, an Italian dramatist, and a bad French 
painter. The productions of M. Fabre, who followed 
in the steps of David, bear the stamp of a cold me 
diocrity; there is not much to be said even for the 
portrait of the genial countess (her life has been written 
by M. Saint-Rene-Taillandier, who depicts her as de 
