converted the temples of his father into places of fire- 
 
worship, and had burnt thousands of human victims ; 
rejoicing in the splendour of his ceremonies and in 
the fierce love of blood that grew upon him as his 
vices obtained the mastery over his better sense. But 
under both kings the old Aryan worship of the 
Magians had existed among the people, and the 
Magians themselves had asserted, whenever they 
dared, their right to be considered the priestly caste, 
the children of the Brahmins of the Aryan house. 
Gomata — the false Smerdis — was a Brahmin, at 
least in name, and probably in descent ; and during 
his brief reign the only decrees he issued from his 
retirement in the palace of Shushan, were for the 
destruction of the existing temples and the establishment of the Magian worship throughout the kingdom. 
When Darius had slain Smerdis, he naturally pro- 
ceeded to the destruction of the Magi, and the streets 
of Shushan ran with their blood for many days. He 
then restored the temples and the worship of Aura- 
mazda, as well as he was able ; but it soon became 
evident that the religion was in a disorganised state 
and that it would be no easy matter to enforce a pure 
monotheism upon a nation of men who, in their hearts, 
were Magians, nature-worshippers ; and who, through 
successive reigns, had been driven by force to the 
adoration of strange idols. It followed that the 
people resisted the change and revolted whenever 
they could find a leader. The numerous revolutions, 
which cost Darius no less than nineteen battles, were, 
almost without exception, brought about in the at- 
tempt to restore the Magian worship in various prov- 
inces of the kingdom, and it may well be doubted 
 
whether, at any time in the world's history, an equal 
amount of blood was ever shed in so short a period in 
the defence of religious convictions. 
Darius himself was a man who had the strongest 
belief in the power of Auramazda, the All-Wise God, 
and who did not hesitate to attribute all the evil in 
the world to Ahriman, the devil. He had a bitter 
contempt for all idolatry, nature-worship and superstition generally, and he adhered in his daily life to 
the simple practices of the ancient Mazdayashnians. 
But he was totally unfitted to be the head of a 
religious movement ; and, although he had collected 
such of the priesthood as seemed most worthy, and had 
built them temples and given them privileges of all 
kinds, he was far from satisfied with their mode of 
worship. He could not frame a new doctrine, but he 
had serious doubts whether the ceremonies his priests 
performed were as simple and religious as he wished 
them to be. The chants, long hymns of endless repe- 
tition and monotony, were well enough, perhaps ; the 
fire that was kept burning perpetually was a fitting 
emblem of the sleepless wisdom and activity of the 
Supreme Being in overcoming darkness with light. 
But the boundless intoxication into which the priests 
threw themselves by the excessive drinking of the 
Haoma, the wild and irregular acts of frenzy by 
which they expressed their religious fervour when 
under the influence of the subtle drink, were adjuncts 
to the simple purity of the bloodless sacrifice which 
disgusted the king, and he hesitated long as to some 
reform in these matters. The oldest Mazdayashnians 
declared that the drinking of Haoma was an act, at 
 
unce pleasing to God and necessary to stimulate the 
zeal of the priests in the long and monotonous chanting, which would otherwise soon sink to a mere 
perfunctory performance of a wearisome task. The 
very repetition which the hymns contained seemed to 
prove that they were not intended to be recited by 
men not under some extraordinary influence. Only 
the wild madness of the Haoma drinker could sustain 
such an endless series of repeated prayers with fitting 
devotion and energy. 
All this the king heard and was not satisfied. He 
attended the ceremonies with becoming regularity and 
sat through the performance of the rites with exem- 
plary patience. But he was disgusted, and he desired 
a reform. Then he remembered how Zoroaster himself was a good Mazdayashnian, and how he had occupied himself with religious studies from his youth up, 
