kingdom of God comes not to outward but to inward observation, and
that as for the prophetic words which have been spoken on this subject,
"they are spirit, and they are life."
I. And what of the changed aspects of science that is to grow out of
this alleged peculiar Divine manifestation?
P. To answer that question fully would require volumes. Be content,
then, for the present, with the following brief words: Hitherto science
has been almost wholly materialistic in its tendencies, having nothing
to do with spiritual things, but ignoring and casting doubts upon them;
while spiritual matters, on the other hand, have been regarded by the
Church wholly as matters of faith with which science has nothing to
do. But through these modern manifestations, God is providentially
furnishing to the world all the elements of a spiritual science which,
when established and recognized, will be the stand-point from which
all physical science will be viewed. It will then be more distinctly
known that all external and visible forms and motions originate from
invisible, spiritual, and ultimately divine causes; that between cause
and effect there is always a necessary and intimate correspondence;
and hence that the whole outer universe is but the symbol and sure
index of an invisible and vastly more real universe within. From
this unitary basis of thought the different sciences as now correctly
understood may be co-related in harmonic order as One Grand Science, the
known of which, by the rule of correspondence, will lead by easy clews
to the unknown. The true structure and government of human society
will be clearly hinted by the structure and laws of the universe,
and especially by that microcosm, or little universe, the human
organization. All the great stirring questions of the day, including the
questions of suffrage, woman's rights, the relations between labor and
capital, and the questions of general political reform, will be put into
the way of an easy and speedy solution; and mankind will be ushered into
the light of a brighter day, socially, politically, and religiously,
than has ever yet dawned upon the world.
I. My invisible friend, the wonderful nature of your communication
excites my curiosity to know your name ere we part. Will you have the
kindness to gratify me in this particular?
P. That I may not do. My name is of no consequence in any respect.
Besides, if I should give it, you might, unconsciously to yourself, be
influenced to attach to it the weight of a personal authority, which
is specially to be avoided in communications of this kind. There is
nothing to prevent deceiving spirits from assuming great names, and you
have no way of holding them responsible for their statements. With
thinkers--minds that are developed to a vigorous maturity--the truth
itself should be its only and sufficient authority. If what I have told
you appears intrinsically rational, logical, scientific, in harmony with
known facts, and appeals to your convictions with the force of truth,
accept it; if not, reject it; but I advise you not to reject it before
giving it a candid and careful examination. I may tell you more at some
future time, but for the present, farewell.
CONCLUSION.
Here the interview ended. It was a part of my original plan, after
reviewing various theories on this mysterious subject, to propound one
of my own; but this interview with Planchette has changed my mind.
I confess I am amazed and confounded, and have nothing to say. The
commendable motive which the invisible intelligence, whatever it may
be, assigned in the last paragraph for refusing to give its name,
also prompts me to withhold my own name from this publication for the
present, and likewise to abstain from the explanation I intended to
give of certain particulars as to the manner and circumstances of this
communication. On its own intrinsic merits alone it should be permitted
to rest; and as I certainly feel that my own conceptions have been
greatly enlarged, not to say that I have been greatly instructed, I give
it forth in the hope that it may have the same effect upon my readers.
HOW TO WORK PLANCHETTE.
We have received letters from different persons who have tried
Planchette, but failed to make her work. Our correspondents wish to know
the reason of the failure, and what conditions must be complied with on
their part to remedy the difficulty. We reply by the insertion of the
following rules, which should be read in connection with the descriptive
paragraph near the commencement of this pamphlet:
  =RULES TO BE OBSERVED IN USING PLANCHETTE.=
  For some persons (strong magnetizers), "Planchette" moves at once,
  and for one such person it moves rapidly and writes distinctly. With
  such a person it is not necessary for another to put their hands on;
  it will operate alone for them, and better than with two persons.
  It has been noticed that one pair of male and one pair of female
  hands form a more perfect Battery to work "Planchette" than two
  males or two females would do.
  It has also been noticed that one light and one dark complexioned
  person are better than two light or two dark persons would be
  together; also, that two females, with their hands on together, are
