going to evening-service at King's Chapel ; but it was the 
next thing to it. Of course all girls didn't do it ; there 
were families that viewed such a custom with disfavour. 
But this was where the girls were of the romping sort; 
there had to be some things they were known not to do. 
As a general thing, moreover, the practice was confined to 
the decorous; it was a sign of culture and quiet tastes. 
All this made it innocent for Verena, whose life had 
exposed her to much worse dangers ; but the thing referred 
itself in Olive's mind to a danger which cast a perpetual 
shadow there the possibility of the girl's embarking with 
some ingenuous youth on an expedition that would last 
much longer than an evening. She was haunted, in a 
word, with the fear that Verena would marry, a fate to 
which she was altogether unprepared to surrender her; 
and this made her look with suspicion upon all male 
acquaintance. 
Mr. Pardon was not the only one she knew ; she had an 
example of the rest in the persons of two young Harvard 
law- students, who presented themselves after tea on this 
same occasion. As they sat there Olive wondered whether 
Verena had kept something from her, whether she were, 
after all (like so many other girls in Cambridge), a college- 
' belle,' an object of frequentation to undergraduates. It 
was natural that at the seat of a big university there should 
be girls like that, with students dangling after them, but she 
didn't want Verena to be one of them. There were some 
that received the Seniors and Juniors; others that were 
accessible to Sophomores and Freshmen. Certain young 
ladies distinguished the professional students ; there was a 
group, even, that was on the best terms with the young 
men who were studying for the Unitarian ministry in that 
queer little barrack at the end of Divinity Avenue. The 
advent of the new visitors made Mrs. Tarrant bustle 
immensely ; but after she had caused every one to change 
ii8   xv. 
places two or three times with every one else the company 
subsided into a circle which was occasionally broken by 
wandering movements on the part of her husband, who, in 
the absence of anything to say on any subject whatever, 
placed himself at different points in listening attitudes, 
shaking his head slowly up and down, and gazing at the 
carpet with an air of supernatural attention. Mrs. Tarrant 
asked the young men from the Law School about their 
studies, and whether they meant to follow them up 
seriously; said she thought some of the laws were very 
unjust, and she hoped they meant to try and improve them. 
She had suffered by the laws herself, at the time her father 
died ; she hadn't got half the prop'ty she should have got 
if they had been different. She thought they should be for 
public matters, not for people's private affairs; the idea 
always seemed to her to keep you down if you were down, 
and to hedge you in with difficulties. Sometimes she 
thought it was a wonder how she had developed in the 
face of so many ; but it was a proof that freedom was 
everywhere, if you only knew how to look for it. 
The two young men were in the best humour; they 
greeted these sallies with a merriment of which, though it 
was courteous in form, Olive was by no means unable to 
define the spirit. They talked naturally more with Verena 
than with her mother; and while they were so engaged 
Mrs. Tarrant explained to her who they were, and how one 
of them, the smaller, who was not quite so spruce, had 
brought the other, his particular friend, to introduce him. 
This friend, Mr. Burrage, was from New York ; he was 
very fashionable, he went out a great deal in Boston (' I 
have no doubt you know some of the places,' said Mrs. 
Tarrant) ; his " fam'ly " was very rich. 
' Well, he knows plenty of that sort,' Mrs. Tarrant went 
on, ' but he felt unsatisfied ; he didn't know any one like us. 
He told Mr. Gracie (that's the little one) that he felt as if 
he must ; it seemed as if he couldn't hold out. So we told 
Mr. Gracie, of course, to bring him right round. Well, I 
hope he'll get something from us, I'm sure. He has been 
reported to be engaged to Miss Winkworth; I have no 
doubt you know who I mean. But Mr. Gracie says he 
 
hasn't looked at her more than twice. That's the way 
rumours fly round in that set, I presume. Well, I am glad 
we are not in it, wherever we are ! Mr. Grade is very 
