myself. But Bridget came into the kitchen ; she 's in 
great trouble about her lover, silly thing ! as if men were 
worth it ! " And Janet makes a contemptuous gesture. 
" ' Walk a bit with me,' says she ; and I just sauntered 
down the lawn, looking for the girls with one eye. How 
late they are I Oh, you 're quite sure the baby 'a safe ? " 
 
 
 
There is a hysterical catch in her voice. " Poor Miss 
Olive ! she was so fond of her cousin. And she was so 
ill before they went away, — she begged so to stav, 
only-" 
Janet flushes scarlet up to the roots of her strong chest- 
nut hair. There have been so many bitter and cruel 
things said about this young wife, — sneers, slurs, — and 
as she looks upon her pale sweet face, she feels as if she 
could fall down and worship her. They have all judged 
her wrongly. They have prejudiced their friends and 
neighbors, and Mrs. Wentworth must stand quite alone. 
The tender face is full of infinite pity for the dead or 
dying girl who hated her the most wrathfuUy of all. 
And that she should be here alone with her cousin's wife ! 
" When did she come? " Janet asks, huskily. She has 
loosened the dress and chafed the hands ; she moistens the 
brow with some aromatic hartshorn, and dampening a towel 
with it, holds it to the thin nostrils. 
Doris relates the brief experience. " I thought immedi- 
ately who it was," she says ; " but she was so in earnest 
to come to this room." 
Janet knows that Mrs. Wentworth has taken possession 
of it ; that it is to her a sort of Mecca. How can she 
endure to see Olive lying on this bed ? 
" I had better take her to another room," the girl 
remarks, carrying out her own train of thought. 
" Perhaps — if she is not — if she returns to conscious- 
ness, she might like to find herself here," Doris murmurs, 
in an incoherent manner. 
" She is an angel," Janet thinks. " If she had heard 
the dreadful things Miss Olive said about her ! And per- 
haps she has said some of them to-night ! " 
Doris kneels down by the side of the bed. There is an 
inarticulate cry in her soul. For what, for whom shall 
she pray ? All her short life Doris has been religiously 
inclined; she has borne her trials meekly; but now she 
 
 
wants a strong hand to take hers, — a voice of power and 
might to lead her out of this labyrinth. Who has been 
wrong? Who was right? Why does the punishment fall 
everywhere ? If she could give her life for this poor girl, 
what would it avail, since Lloyd has gone? And she 
knows Lloyd Wentworth did not love his cousin Olive. 
It is not the comfort it ought to be. She can only cry, 
" Come near to us all, Saviour of those who suffer. Give 
us strength, give me strength and wisdom. " For she is not 
certain that life will be any boon to this poor unbalanced 
girl. 
Martha and Marie return, and the former is amazed at 
the position of affairs, as Janet briefly explained them. 
" Mrs. Wentworth ought to have word immediately," 
she says, and then proceeds to a more vigorous treatment. 
Olive responds by a long, shuddering sigh. She is not 
dead. Doris sighs as well. 
At this juncture Dr. Prescott arrives. There is no sur- 
prise visible in his countenance, but an eagerness that 
seems quite friendly as he crosses at once to Doris. His 
eyes seem to take her in from head to foot, and she 
trembles a little at this, the second verdict Westwater 
will give her. 
" My dear Mrs. Wentworth," he begins, extending his 
hand, " will you allow me to say that I am glad to have 
an opportunity of meeting you, although the incident that 
brings us together is so sad ? You know we were abroad 
with your husband the first part of his journey ; indeed, 
he appears to have gone from our hands directly to yours, 
lie was a sweet, delightful lad ; he always seems a boy 
to me. Perhaps you do not know that he wrote me an 
enthusiastic letter about you. I feel guilty in not having 
called upon you socially, but doctors sometimes indulge 
