' You should have come back sooner ; then perhaps she 
wouldn't have gone, povera vecchia] 'she rejoined in a 
moment. ' It is too many days since you have been here. 
She liked you I know that.' 
' She liked me, but she didn't like me to come,' said 
Hyacinth. ' Wasn't that why she went, because we came ? ' 
' Ah, that other one with the long legs yes. But you 
are better.' 
' The Princess doesn't think so, and she is the right 
judge,' Hyacinth replied, smiling. 
' Eh, who knows what she thinks ? It is not for me 
to say. But you had better come in and wait. I dare 
say she won't be long, and it would gratify her to find 
you.' 
 
Hyacinth hesitated. ' I am not sure of that.' Then he 
asked, ' Did she go out alone ? ' 
' Sola, sola? said Assunta, smiling. ' Oh, don't be 
afraid ; you were the first ! ' And she flung open the door 
of the little drawing-room, with an air of irresistible solicita- 
tion and sympathy. 
He sat there nearly an hour, in the chair the Princess 
habitually used, under her shaded lamp, with a dozen 
objects around him which seemed as much a part of herself 
as if they had been folds of her dress or even tones of 
her voice. His thoughts were tremendously active, but his 
body was too tired for restlessness ; he had not been at 
work, and had been walking about all day, to fill the time ; 
so that he simply reclined there, with his head on one of 
the Princess's cushions, his feet on one of her little stools 
one of the ugly ones, that belonged to the house and 
his respiration coming quickly, like that of a man in a state 
of acute agitation. Hyacinth was agitated now, but it was 
not because he was waiting for the Princess; a deeper 
source of emotion had been opened to him, and he had 
not on the present occasion more sharpness of impatience 
than had already visited him at certain moments of the 
past twenty hours. He had not closed his eyes the night 
before, and the day had not made up for that torment. A 
fever of reflection had descended upon him, and the range 
of his imagination had been wide. It whirled him through 
circles of immeasurable compass ; and this is the reason 
that, thinking of many things while he sat in the Princess's 
chair, he wondered why, after all, he had come to Madeira 
Crescent, and what interest he could have in seeing the 
lady of the house. He had a very complete sense that 
everything was over between them ; that the link had 
snapped which bound them so closely together for a while. 
And this was not simply because for a long time now he 
had received no sign nor communication from her, no in- 
vitation to come back, no inquiry as to why his visits had 
stopped. It was not because he had seen her go in and 
out with Paul Muniment, nor because it had suited Prince 
Casamassima to point the moral of her doing so, nor even 
because, quite independently of the Prince, he believed her 
to be more deeply absorbed in her acquaintance with that 
superior young man than she had ever been in her relations 
with himself. The reason, so far as he became conscious 
of it in his fitful meditations, could only be a strange, 
detached curiosity strange and detached because every- 
thing else of his past had been engulfed in the abyss that 
opened before him as, after Mr. Vetch had left him, he 
stood under the lamp in a paltry Westminster street. That 
had swallowed up all familiar feelings, and yet out of the 
ruin had sprung the impulse which brought him to where 
he sat. 
The solution of his difficulty he flattered himself he 
had arrived at it involved a winding-up of his affairs ; and 
though, even if no solution had been required, he would 
have felt clearly that he had been dropped, yet as even in 
that case it would have been sweet to him to bid her good- 
bye, so, at present, the desire for some last vision of her 
own hurrying fate could still appeal to him. If things had 
not gone well for him he was still capable of wondering 
whether they looked better for her. It is a singular fact, 
that there rose in his mind a sort of incongruous desire to 
pity her. All these were odd feelings enough, and by 
 
the time half an hour had elapsed they had throbbed them- 
selves into weariness and into slumber. While he remem- 
