direction." 
Lemuel said nothing. 
The minister stood baffled again. After a bad 
moment he asked, " Have you anything particular 
in view ? " 
" I don't know as I have." 
" How long can you remain here ? " 
" I don't know exactly." 
Sewell turned and followed the manager into the 
refrigerator room, where he had remained patiently 
whistling throughout this interview. 
When he came back, Lemuel had carried one 
trayful of bowls upstairs, and returned for another 
load, which he was piling carefully up for safe 
transportation. 
"The manager tells me," said Sewell, "that 
practically you can stay here as long as you like, if 
you work, but he doesn't think it desirable you 
should remain, nor do I. But I wish to find you 
here again, when I come back. I have something in 
view for you." 
This seemed to be a question, and Lemuel said, 
"All right," and went on piling up his bowls. He 
 
added, " I shouldn't want you to take a great deal 
of trouble. " 
" Oh, it 's no trouble," groaned the minister. 
"Then I' may depend upon seeing you here any 
time during the day ? " 
" I don't know as I' m going away," Lemuel ad 
mitted. 
"Well, then, good-bye, for the present," said 
Sewell, and after speaking again to the manager, 
and gratefully ordering some kindling which he did 
not presently need, he went out, and took his way 
homeward. But he stopped half a block short of his 
own door, and rang at Miss Vane 's. To his per 
turbed and eager spirit, it seemed nothing short of a 
divine mercy that she should be at home. If he had 
not been a man bent on repairing his wrong at any 
cost to others, he would hardly have taken the step 
he now contemplated without first advising with his 
wife, who, he felt sure, would have advised against 
it. His face did not brighten at all when Miss Vane 
came briskly in, with the " How'd ye do ? " which he 
commonly found so cheering. She pulled up the 
blind and saw his knotted brow. 
" What is the matter ? You look as if you had got 
Lemuel Barker back on your hands." 
" I have," said the minister briefly. 
" Miss Vane gave a wild laugh of delight. " You 
dorit mean it ! " she sputtered, sitting down before 
him, and peering into his face. " What do you 
mean ? " 
Sewell was obliged to possess Miss Vane 's entire 
ignorance of all the facts in detail. From point to 
point he paused; he began really to be afraid she 
would do herself an injury with her laughing. 
She put her hand on his arm and bowed her head 
forward, with her face buried in her handkerchief. 
" What what do you suppose-pose they did with 
the po-po-poem they stole from him ? " 
" Well, one thing I' m sure they didn't do," said 
Sewell bitterly, " They didn't read it." 
Miss Vane hid her face in her handkerchief, and 
then plucked it away, and shrieked again. She 
stopped, with the sudden calm that succeeds such a 
paroxysm, and, "Does Mrs. Sewell know all about 
this ? " she panted. 
" She knows everything, except my finding him 
in the dish-washing department of the Wayfarer 's 
Lodge," said Sewell gloomily, " and my coming to 
you." 
" Why do you come to me ? " asked Miss Vane, 
her face twitching and her eyes brimming. 
" Because," answered Sewell, " I'd rather not go 
to her till I have done something." 
Miss Vane gave way again, and Sewell sat regard 
ing her ruefully. 
" What do you expect me to do ? " She looked 
