
“In the L part!” cried Minnie, clasping her hands in rapture. “I’ve
always said what a perfect little apartment it was by itself.”

“Well, don’t say it again, then,” returned her sister. “Always is often
enough. Well, in the L part Go on, mother! Don’t ask where you were,
when it’s so exciting.”

“I don’t care whether it’s in the L part or not. There’s plenty of room
in the great barn of a place everywhere.”

“But what about his taking care of the business in Boston?” suggested
Eunice, looking at her father.

“There’s no hurry about that.”

“And about the excursion to aesthetic centres abroad?” Minnie added.

“That could be managed,” said her father, with the same ironical smile.

The mother and the girls went on wildly planning Dan’s future for him.
It was all in a strain of extravagant burlesque. But he could not take
his part in it with his usual zest. He laughed and joked too, but at the
bottom of his heart was an uneasy remembrance of the different future he
had talked over with Mrs. Pasmer so confidently. But he said to himself
buoyantly at last that it would come out all right. His mother would
give in, or else Alice could reconcile her mother to whatever seemed
really best.

He parted from his mother with fond gaiety. His sisters came out of the
room with him.

“I’m perfectly sore with laughing,” said Minnie. “It seems like old
times--doesn’t it, Dan?--such a gale with mother.”




XXXI.

An engagement must always be a little incredible at first to the
families of the betrothed, and especially to the family of the young
man; in the girl’s, the mother, at least, will have a more realising
sense of the situation. If there are elder sisters who have been
accustomed to regard their brother as very young, he will seem all the
younger because in such a matter he has treated himself as if he were
a man; and Eunice Mavering said, after seeing the Pasmers, “Well, Dan,
it’s all well enough, I suppose, but it seems too ridiculous.”

“What’s ridiculous about it, I should like to know?” he demanded.

“Oh, I don’t know. Who’ll look after you when you’re married? Oh, I
forgot Ma’am Pasmer!”

“I guess we shall be able to look after ourselves,” said Dan; a little
sulkily.

“Yes, if you’ll be allowed to,” insinuated his sister.

They spoke at the end of a talk in which he had fretted at the reticence
of both his sister and his father concerning the Pasmers, whom they had
just been to see. He was vexed with his father, because he felt that he
had been influenced by Eunice, and had somehow gone back on him. He was
vexed and he was grieved because his father had left them at the door
of the hotel without saying anything in praise of Alice, beyond the
generalities that would not carry favour with Eunice; and he was
depressed with a certain sense of Alice’s father and mother, which
seemed to have imparted itself to him from the others, and to be the
Mavering opinion of them. He could no longer see Mrs. Pasmer harmless if
trivial, and good-hearted if inveterately scheming; he could not see
the dignity and refinement which he had believed in Mr. Pasmer; they had
both suffered a sort of shrinkage or collapse, from which he could not
rehabilitate them. But this would have been nothing if his sister’s and
his father’s eyes, through which he seemed to have been looking, had
not shown him Alice in a light in which she appeared strange and queer
almost to eccentricity. He was hurt at this effect from their want of
sympathy, his pride was touched, and he said to himself that he should
not fish for Eunice’s praise; but he found himself saying, without
surprise, “I suppose you will do what you can to prejudice mother and
Min.”
