to hear her sing. She sang Rock of Ages in her best 
black alpaca with her work-worn hands crossed upon 
the gingham apron which she put on to save the dress. 
But ah, she said, Jack needed a man to manage him. 
And one day when she said this, in spite of her gentle 
unconsciousness, or because of it, the old dory-mate to 
whom she said it said he thought so too, and that if she 
had no objections he would like to be that man. 
And the Fairharbor widow, who had never thought 
of such a thing, said she didn't know as she had ; for 
nobody knew, she said, how near to starving they had 
come ; and it was something to have a sober man. So, 
on this reasonable basis, Jack acquired a step-father, 
and his step-father sent him straightway to the Grand 
Banks. 
He meant it well enough, and perhaps it made no 
difference in the end. But Jack was a little fellow to 
go fishing, — only ten. His first voyage was hard: it 
was a March voyage ; he got badly frostbitten, and the 
skipper was rough. He was knocked about a good deal, 
and had the measles by himself in his berth ; and the 
men said they didn't know they had brought a baby tc 
the Banks, for they were very busy ; and Jack lay and 
cried a little, and thought about his mother, and wished 
he hadn't kicked her, but forgot it when he got well. 
So he swaggered about among the men, as a boy does 
when he is the only one in a crew, and aped their talk, 
and shared their grog, and did their hard work, and 
learned their songs, and came home with the early stages 
of moral ossification as well set in upon his little heart 
as a ten-year-old heart allows. 
The next voyage did not mend the matter ; nor the 
next. And though the old dory-mate was an honest fellow,
he had been more successful as a dory-mate than 
he was as a step-father. He and Jack did not " get on." 
Sometimes Jack's mother wondered if he had needed a 
man to manage him ; but she never said so. She was 
a good wife, and she had fuel enough, now ; she only 
kissed Jack and said she meant it for the best, and then 
she went away and sang Rock of Ages to the tune of 
Martyn, very slow, and quite on the wrong key. It 
seemed to make her feel better, poor thing. Jack some- 
times wondered why. 
When he was twelve years old he came home from a 
winter voyage one night, and got his pay for his share, 
— boy's pay, yet, for a boy's share ; but bigger than it 
used to be, — and did not go home first, but went
rollicking off with a crowd of Portuguese. It was a Sun- 
day night, and his mother was expecting him, for she 
knew the boat was in. His step-father expected him 
too, — and his money ; and Jack knew that. His mother 
had been sick, but Jack did not know that; she had been 
very sick, and had asked for him a great deal. There 
had been a baby, — born dead while its father was off- 
shore after cod, — and it had been very cold weather ; 
and something had gone wrong. 
At midnight of that night some one knocked at the 
door of the crumbling cottage. The step-father opened 
it ; he looked pale and agitated. Some boys were there 
in a confused group ; they bore what seemed to be a 
lifeless body on a drag, or bob-sled ; it was Jack, dead 
drunk. 
It was the first time, — he was only twelve, — and 
one of the Fairharbor boys took the pipe from his 
mouth to explain. 
" He was trapped by a Portygee, and they 've stole 
every cent of him, 'n kicked him out, 'n lef him, 
stranded like a monk-fish, so me and the other fellers 
we borryed a sled and brung him home, for we thought 
his mother 'd rather. He ain't dead, but he's just as 
drunk as if he was sixty ! " 
The Fairharbor boy mentioned this circumstance with 
a kind of abnormal pride, as if such superior maturity 
were a point for a comrade to make note of. But 
Jack's step-father went out softly, and shut the door, 
and said : 
" Look here, boys, — help me in with him, will you ? 
Not that way. His mother 's in there. She died an 
hour ago." 
And so the curse of his heredity came upon him. 
