Be this as it may, beyond my reach for yet another year she did remain.
Gently as she inclined toward me, to love she made no haste.  The force
of my feeling was so great at times, it seemed incredible that hers did
not rush to meet me like part of the game incoming wave broken by a
coast island and joining--seemingly two, but in reality one--upon the
shoreward side.  For the first time in my life, in that rising tide of
my great love, I truly knew humility.  My unworthiness of her was more
present with me even than my longing for her.  If I could have scourged
my soul clear of all unfitness for her as our Saviour was said to have
scourged the tradesmen out of the Temple, I should have counted myself
blessed, even though I never won her; though I beat out my last hope of
her with the very blows which I inflicted upon myself.
In the vibrations of my strong emotion it used to surprise me that my
will was such a cripple against the sensibilities of that delicate
creature.  I was a man of as much will as was naturally good for me;
and my training had made it abnormal like a prize-fighter's bicepital
muscle.  People of my profession need some counter-irritant, which they
seldom get, to the habit of command.  To be the ultimate control for a
clientèle of a thousand people, to enforce the personal opinion in
every matter from a broken constitution to a broken heart, deprives a
man of the usual human challenges to an athletic will.  In his case, if
ever, motion follows least resistance.  His will-power grows by a
species of pommelling; not by the higher tactics of wrestling.
But I, who gave the fiat on which life or death hung poised as
unhesitatingly as I controlled the fluctuations of an influenza; and I,
to whom the pliability of the feminine will had long since become an
accepted and somewhat elemental fact, like the nature of milk-toast; I,
Dr. Thorne, who had the habit of success, who expected to make his
point, who was accustomed to receive obedience, who fought death or
hysteria, an opposing school or a tricky patient, with equal fidelity,
as one who pursues the avocation of life,--I stood, conquered before
this slender woman whose eyes, like the sword of flame, turned this way
and that, guarding the barred gates of the only Eden I had ever chosen
to enter.
In short, for the first time in my life I found myself a suppliant; and
I found myself thus and there for the sake of a feeling.
It was not for science' sake, it was not for the sake of personal fame,
or for the glory of an idea, or for the promulgation of a discovery.  I
had not been overcome upon the intellectual side of my nature.  I had
been conquered by an emotion.  I had been beaten by a thing for which,
all my life, I had been prescribing as confidently as I would for a
sprain.  Medical men will understand me, and some others may, when I
say that I experienced surprise to come face to face at last, and in
this unanswerable personal way, with an invisible, intangible power of
the soul and of the body, which could not be treated as "a symptom."
I loved her.  That was enough, and beyond.  I loved her.  That was the
beginning and end.  I loved her.  I found nothing in the Materia Medica
that could cure the fact.  I loved her.  Science gave me no explanation
of the phenomenon.  I did not love her scientifically.  I loved her
terribly.
I was a man of middle age, and had called myself a scientist and
philosopher.  I had thought, if ever, to love soberly and
philosophically.  Instead of that I loved as poets sing, as artists
paint, as the statues look, as the great romances read, as ideals
teach,--as the young love.
As the young do?  Nay.  What young creature ever loved like that?
  They know not love who sip it at the spring.
  Youth is a fragile child that plays at love,
  Tosses a shell, and trims a little sail,
  Mimics the passion of the gathered years,
  And is a loiterer on the shallow bank
  Of the great flood that we have waited for.
I do not think of any other thing which a man cannot do better at
forty, than at twenty.  Why, then, should he not the better love?
My lady had a stately soul; but she gave it sweet graciousness and
little womanly appeals and curves, that were to my heart as the touch
of her hand was to my pulse.  I was so happy in her presence that I
could not believe I had ever been sad; and I longed so for her in
absence that I could scarcely believe I had become happy.  She was to
my thoughts as the light is to the crystal.  She came into my life as
the miracles came to the unbelieving.  She moved through my days and
through my dreams, as the rose-cloud moved upon the mountain sky.  She
floated between me and my sick.  She hovered above me and my dying.
She was a mist between me and my books.  Once when I took the knife for
a dangerous operation, the steel blade caught a sunbeam and flashed;
and I looked at the flash--it seemed to contain a new world--and I
thought: "She is my own.  I am a happy man!"  But I was sorry for my
patient.  I was not rough with him.  And the operation succeeded.
What is to be said?  I loved her.  Love is like faith.  He who has it
understands before you speak.  But to him who has it not, it cannot be
