"A relation of Giovanni Saracinesca?" he inquired. Then he added
immediately, "Will you kindly excuse me for one moment?" and left the
room abruptly. The Prince was considerably astonished, but he held his
papers firmly in his hand, and did not move from his seat. The curate
returned in a few seconds, bringing with him a little painted porcelain
basket, much chipped and the worse for age, and which contained a
collection of visiting-cards. There were not more than a score of them,
turning brown with accumulated dust. The priest found one which was
rather newer than the rest, and after carefully adjusting a pair of huge
spectacles upon his nose, he went over to the lamp and examined it.
"'Il Conte del Ferice,'" he read slowly. "Do you happen to know that
gentleman, my good sir?" he inquired, turning to the Prince, and looking
keenly at him over his glasses.
"Certainly," answered Saracinesca, beginning to understand the situation.
"I know him very well."
"Ah, that is good!" said the priest. "He was here two years ago,
and had those same entries concerning Giovanni Saracinesca copied.
Probably--certainly, indeed--the papers you have there are the very ones
he took away with him. When he came to see me about it, he gave me this
card."
"I wonder he did," answered Saracinesca.
"Indeed," replied the curate, after a moment's thought, "I remember that
he came the next day--yes--and asked to have his card returned. But I
could not find it for him. There was a hole in one of my pockets--it had
slipped down. Carmela, my old servant, found it a day or two later in the
lining of my cassock. I thought it strange that he should have asked for
it."
"It was very natural. He wished you to forget his existence."
"He asked me many questions about Giovanni," said the priest, "but I
could not answer him at that time."
"You could answer now?" inquired the Prince, eagerly.
"Excuse me, my good sir; what relation are you to Giovanni? You say you
are from Rome?"
"Let us understand each other, Signor Curato," said Saracinesca. "I
see I had better explain the position. I am Leone Saracinesca, the prince
of that name, and the head of the family." The priest bowed respectfully
at this intelligence. "My only son lives with me in Rome--he is now
there--and his name is Giovanni Saracinesca. He is engaged to be married.
When the engagement became known, an enemy of the family attempted to
prove, by means of these papers, that he was married already to a certain
Felice Baldi. Now I wish to know who this Giovanni Saracinesca is, where
he is, and how he comes to have my son's name. I wish a certificate or
some proof that he is not my son,--that he is alive, or that he is dead
and buried."
The old priest burst into a genial laugh, and rubbed his hands together
in delight.
"My dear sir--your Excellency, I mean--I baptised Felice Baldi's second
baby a fortnight ago! There is nothing simpler--"
"I knew it!" cried the Prince, springing from his chair in great
excitement; "I knew it! Where is that baby? Send and get the baby at
once--the mother--the father--everybody!"
"Subito! At once--or come with me. I will show you the whole family
together," said the curate, in innocent delight. "Splendid children they
are, too. Carmela, my cloak--sbrigati, be quick!"
"One moment," objected Saracinesca, as though suddenly recollecting
something. "One moment, Sign or Curato; who goes slowly goes safely.
Where does this man come from, and how does he come by his name? I would
like to know something about him before I see him."
"True," answered the priest, resuming his seat. "I had forgotten. Well,
it is not a long story. Giovanni Saracinesca is from Naples. You know
there was once a branch of your family in the Neapolitan kingdom--at
least so Giovanni says, and he is an honest fellow. Their title was
Marchese di San Giacinto; and if Giovanni liked to claim it, he has a
right to the title still."
"But those Saracinesca were extinct fifty years ago," objected the
Prince, who knew his family history very well.
"Giovanni says they were not. They were believed to be. The last Marchese
di San Giacinto fought under Napoleon. He lost all he possessed--lands,
money, everything--by confiscation, when Ferdinand was restored in 1815.
He was a rough man; he dropped his title, married a peasant's only
daughter, became a peasant himself, and died obscurely in a village near
Salerno. He left a son who worked on the farm and inherited it from his
mother, married a woman of the village of some education, and died of the
cholera, leaving his son, the present Giovanni Saracinesca. This Giovanni
received a better education than his father had before him, improved his
farm, began to sell wine and oil for exportation, travelled as far as
Aquila, and met Felice Baldi, the daughter of a man of some wealth, who
has since established an inn here. Giovanni loved her. I married them. He
went back to Naples, sold his farm for a good price last year, and
returned to Aquila. He manages his father-in-law's inn, which is the
