breast, so suddenly that he could not escape her. ' Oh, my 
poor Giovanni ! ' she moaned. ' What has happened to you ? 
Have you been hurt ? Are you dying ? For Heaven's sake 
speak like yourself ! ' 
He seized her wrists and held her before him so that she 
was forced to hear what he said. Even then his grasp did 
not hurt her. His hands were like manacles of steel in 
which hers could turn though she could not withdraw them. 
' I am hurt to death,' he said, between his teeth. ' I 
have been to Gouache's rooms and have brought away your 
letter and your pin the pin I gave you, Corona. Do you 
understand now, or must I say more ? ' 
' My letter ? ' cried Corona in the utmost bewilderment. 
' Yes,' he answered, releasing her and instantly producing 
the note and the gold ornament. ' Is that your paper ? Is this 
your pin ? Answer me or no ! they answer for themselves. 
You need say nothing, for you can have nothing to say. 
They are yours and you know it. If they are not enough 
there is the woman who let you in, who saw you bring 
them. What more do you want ? ' 
As long as Giovanni's accusations had been vague and 
general, Corona had remained horrorstruck, believing that 
some awful and incomprehensible calamity had befallen her 
husband and had destroyed his reason. The moment he 
produced the proof of what he said, her presence of mind 
returned, and she saw at a glance the true horror of the 
situation. She never doubted for a moment that she was 
the victim of some atrocious plot, but having something to 
face which she could understand her great natural courage 
 
asserted itself. She was not a woman to moan and weep 
helplessly when there was an open danger to be met. 
She took the letter and the pin and examined them by 
the light, with a calmness that contrasted oddly with her 
previous conduct. Giovanni watched her. He supposed 
that she had acted surprise until he had brought forward 
something more conclusive than words, and that she was 
now exercising her ingenuity in order to explain the 
situation. His lip curled scornfully, as he fancied he saw 
the meaning of her actions. After a few seconds she looked 
up and held out the two objects towards him. 
' The paper is mine,' she said, ' but I did not write the 
letter. The pin is mine too. I lost it more than a month 
ago.'
' Of course,' replied Giovanni, coldly. ' I expected that 
you would say that. It is very natural. But I do not ask 
you for any explanations. I have them already. I will 
take you to Saracinesca to-morrow morning and you will 
have time to explain everything. You will have your whole 
life to use, until you die, for no other object. I told you I 
would not kill you.'
' Is it possible that you are in earnest ? ' asked Corona, 
her voice trembling slightly. 
' I am in earnest. Do you think I am a man to jest over 
euch deeds ? ' 
' And do you think I am a woman to do such deeds ? ' 
' Since you have done them what answer can there be ? 
Not only are you capable of them. You are the woman 
who has done them. Do lifeless things, like these, lie ? ' 
'No. But men do. I believe you, Giovanni. You 
found these things in Monsieur Gouache's rooms. You 
were told I put them there. Whoever told you so uttered 
the most infamous falsehood that ever was spoken on earth. 
The person who placed them where they were did BO in the 
hope of ruining me. Can you look back into the past and 
tell me that you have any other reason for believing in this 
foul plot ? ' 
' Reasons ? ' cried Giovanni, fiercely. ' Do you want more 
reasons ? We have time. I will give you enough to satisfy 
you that I know all yon have done. Was not this man 
for ever near you last year, wherever you met, talking with 
you in low tones, showing by every movement and gesture 
lhat he distinguished you with his base love ? Were you 
not together in a corner last Tuesday night just as the 
insurrection broke out ? Did he not kiss your hand when 
you both thought no one was looking ? ' 
' He kissed my hand before every one,' replied Corona, 
whose wrath was slowly gathering as she saw her husband's 
determination to prove her guilty. 
' There were people in the room,' continued Giovanni in 
