after a moment continued haltingly: 
"I — oh — I hardly know how to tell it. I 
seemed to be standing with you in a room more 
familiar to me than any room in this castle; a 
room full of tapestries and skins and cushions 
and couches; a room which if I had seen it in a 
picture I should have recognized as Oriental, 
although I have never seen an Oriental room. I 
have always had an indescribable longing to see 
Constantinople, and it seemed to me in that 
dream as if I had but to walk to the window and 
look down upon it — as if I had looked down upon 
it many times and loved its beauty. But although 
I was with you, and your arms were about me, we 
were not as we are now — as we were before the 
dream: we had suffered all that a man and a 
woman can suffer who love and are held apart. 
And you looked as you do now, yet utterly 
different. You looked years older, and you were 
dressed so strangely. I do not know how I 
 
looked, but I know how I felt. I felt that I had 
made up my mind to commit a deadly sin, and 
that I gloried in it. I had suffered because to 
love you was a sin; but I only loved you the more 
for that reason. Then you slowly drew me 
further into the room and pressed me more 
closely in your arms and kissed me again, and 
then — I — oh — I do not know — it is all so vague 
I don't know what it meant — but it seemed as if 
the very foundations of my life were being swept 
away. And yet — oh, I cannot explain ! I do 
not know, myself." And she would have thrown 
herself headlong on the sofa had not Dartmouth 
sprang forward and caught her. 
"There, never mind," he said, quickly. " Let 
that go. It is of no consequence. A dream like 
that must necessarily end in a climax of 
incoherence and excitement." 
He drew her down on the sofa, and for a 
moment said nothing further. He had to 
acknowledge that she had deepened the mystery, and 
given no key. A silence fell, and neither 
moved. Suddenly she raised her head. " What 
was your dream ? " she demanded. 
" The same. I don't pretend to explain it. 
And I shall not insult your understanding by 
inventing weak excuses. If it means anything 
we will give the problem no rest until we have 
solved it. If we cannot solve it, then we are 
justified in coming to the conclusion that there 
 
is nothing in it. But I believe we shall get to 
the bottom of it yet." 
" Perhaps," she said, wearily; " I do not know. 
I only feel that I shall never be myself again, 
but must go through life with that woman's 
burden of sin and suffering weighing me down." 
She paused a moment, and then continued: " In 
that dream I wore a dress like this, and that is 
the reason I put it on to-night. I was getting 
some things in Paris before I left, and [ bought 
it thinking you would like it; I had heard you 
say that yellow was your favorite color. When 
my maid opened the door of my wardrobe to-night 
to take out a dress, and I saw this hanging there, it 
gave me such a shock that I caught at a chair to 
keep from falling. And then I felt irresistibly 
. impelled to put it on. I felt as if it were a shroud, 
vivid in color as it is; but it had an uncanny 
fascination for me, and I experienced a morbid de- 
light in feeling both spirit and flesh revolt, and 
yet compelling them to do my will. I never 
knew that it was in me to feel so, but I suppose I 
am utterly demoralized by so realistically living 
over again that awful experience of my 
childhood. If it happened again I should either be 
carried back to the vault for good and all, or end 
my days in the topmost tower of the castle, with 
a keeper, and the storms and sea-gulls for sole 
