"I am perfectly aware of it, Mary."
"Don't address me so familiarly, sir."
"Mrs. Burton, then, I am perfectly acquainted with that fact, and would
not have spoken now, but I saw you were anxious about the future, and I
wished to reassure you. Of course I wouldn't hurry you; I only meant to
get some kind of an answer that I might depend upon."
"And you thought that, after loving such a man as Richard Burton, I
would be satisfied to take such a man as you?" said the widow, with
stinging sarcasm.
"Richard Burton was not an angel," said Wolverton, harshly, for his
pride was touched by the contempt which she made no effort to conceal.
"Don't dare to say anything against him!" said the widow, her eyes
flashing ominously.
"Well, then, he was an angel," said Wolverton, sulkily; "but he's dead,
and you will need to look to another protector."
"My son will protect me," said Mrs. Burton, proudly.
"That boy?" said Wolverton, contemptuously. "But I make allowance for a
mother's feelings. Once more, Mary, I make you the offer. Remember that
I am a rich man, and can surround you with luxuries."
"I would rather live in a log house on a crust, than to marry you, Mr.
Wolverton," she said, impetuously. "If you were the only man in the
world, I would go unmarried to my grave rather than wed you!"
Wolverton rose, white with wrath.
"You are tolerably explicit, madam," he said. "I can't charge you with
beating round the bush. But let me tell you, ma'am, that you have done
the unwisest act of your life in making me your enemy."
"I did not mean to make you an enemy," said Mrs. Burton, softening. "I
suppose I ought to acknowledge the compliment you have paid me, but I
must decline, once for all, and request you never again to mention the
subject."
Aaron Wolverton was not so easily appeased.
"I do not care to stay any longer," he said. "You had better mention to
your son about the interest."
Mrs. Burton had an opportunity to do this almost immediately, for Bob
and Clip entered the house just as Wolverton was leaving it.
"What have you done to Mr. Wolverton, mother?" asked Bob. "He looked
savage enough to bite my head off, and wouldn't even speak to me."
"Robert, I have some bad news to tell you. Mr. Wolverton tells me that
your father didn't pay him the interest on the day of his death."
"I believe he tells a falsehood," said Bob, quickly.
"But he says, with some show of reason, if the interest was paid, why
didn't your father take a receipt?"
"Can no receipt be found?"
"No; I searched your father's wallet in vain."
"What is a receipt, missis?" asked Clip.
"It's a piece of paper with writing on it, Clip," said the widow,
adjusting her explanations to Clip's intelligence.
"Golly! I saw de old man take a piece of paper from Massa Burton's
pocket after he was dead--when he was a-lyin' on the ground."
"Say that again, Clip," said Bob, eagerly.
Clip repeated it, and answered several questions put to him by Mrs.
Burton and Bob.
"It's all clear, mother," said Bob. "That old rascal has got up a scheme
to rob you. He thinks there isn't any proof of the payment. If he
suspected that Clip had been a witness of his robbery he would have been
more careful."
"What shall I do, Bob?"
"Wait a while. Let him show his hand, and then confront him with Clip's
testimony. I wonder if he destroyed the receipt?"
"Probably he did so."
"If he didn't, I may get it through Sam. Don't be worried, mother.
It'll all come out right."
One thing the widow did not venture to tell Bob--about Mr. Wolverton's
matrimonial offer. It would have made him so angry that she feared he
would act imprudently.
CHAPTER VII.
WOLVERTON'S ADVENTURE WITH CLIP.
Bob and his mother deliberated as to whether they should charge Mr.
Wolverton openly with the theft of the receipt. On the whole, they
decided to wait a while, and be guided by circumstances. If he took any
measures to collect the money a second time, there would be sufficient
reason to take the aggressive.
Bob had another reason for delay. He intended to acquaint Sam Wolverton
with the matter, and request him to keep on the lookout for the receipt.
Should he find it, he knew that Sam would gladly restore it to the
rightful owner. He cautioned Clip not to say anything about what he saw
on the day of his father's death, as it would put Wolverton on his
guard, and lead him to destroy the receipt if still in his possession.
I must now relate a little incident in which Clip and Aaron Wolverton
were the actors.
