with friendly hilarity. "I 'll take her back, if 
she 'll come." 
"Well, I don 't think I am ready quite yet," 
the girl replied. " But I hope very much we 
shall cross with you again." 
"Talk about crossing it s on these boulevards 
we want a life-preserver ! " Delia remarked. They 
had passed out of the hotel and the wide vista 
of the Rue de la Paix stretched up and down. 
There were many vehicles. 
" Won 't this thing do ? I 'll tie it to either of 
you," George Flack said, holding out his bundle. 
" I suppose they won 't kill you if they love you," 
he went on, to the younger girl. 
"Well, you've  got to know me first," she 
answered, laughing and looking for a chance, 
while they waited to pass over. 
" I didn 't know you when I was struck." He 
applied his disengaged hand to her elbow and 
propelled her across the street. She took no notice 
of his observation, and Delia asked her, on the 
other side, whether their father had given her 
that money. She replied that he had given her 
loads she felt as if he had made his will ; which 
led George Flack to say that he wished the old 
gentleman was his father. 
"Why, you don 't mean to say you want to be 
our brother ! " Francie exclaimed, as they went 
down the Rue de la Paix. 
" I should like to be Miss Delia s, if you can 
make that out," said the young man. 
" Well, then, suppose you prove it by calling 
me a cab," Miss Delia returned. " I presume you 
and Francie don 't think this is the deck." 
" Don 't she feel rich ? " George Flack demanded 
of Francie. " But we do require a cart for our 
goods;" and he hailed a little yellow carriage, 
which presently drew up beside the pavement. 
The three got into it and, still emitting innocent 
pleasantries, proceeded on their way, while at the 
Hotel de 1 Univers et de Cheltenham Mr. Dosson 
wandered down into the court again and took his 
place in his customary chair. 
II. 
THE court was roofed with glass ; the April air 
was mild ; the cry of women selling violets came 
in from the street and, mingling with the rich 
hum of Paris, seemed to bring with it faintly the 
odour of the flowers. There were other odours 
in the place, warm, succulent and Parisian, which 
ranged from fried fish to burnt sugar ; and there 
were many things besides : little tables for the 
post-prandial coffee; piles of luggage inscribed 
(after the initials, or frequently the name, R. P. 
Scudamore or D. Jackson Hatch), Philadelphia, 
Pa., or St. Louis, Mo. ; rattles of unregarded bells, 
flittings of tray-bearing waiters, conversations 
with the second-floor windows of admonitory 
landladies, arrivals of young women with cofnn- 
like bandboxes covered with black oilcloth and 
depending from a strap, sallyings forth of persons 
staying and arrivals, just afterwards, of other 
persons to see them ; together with vague prostra 
tions on benches of tired heads of American 
families. It was to this last element that Mr. 
Dosson himself in some degree contributed, but 
it must be added that he had not the extremely 
bereft and exhausted appearance of certain of his 
fellows. There was an air of meditative patience, 
of habitual accommodation in him ; but you would 
have guessed that he was enjoying a holiday 
rather than panting for a truce, and he was not 
so enfeebled but that he was able to get up from 
time to time and stroll through the porte coch&re 
to have a look at the street. 
He gazed up and down for five minutes, with 
his hands in his pockets, and then came back; 
that appeared to content him ; he asked for very 
little had no restlessness that these small 
excursions would not assuage. He looked at the 
