St. Louis, since the war, has spread westward over the gentle ridges
which parallel the river, and become a city vast in territory and most
attractive in appearance. While the business portion has expanded into
noble avenues with stately business and public edifices, the residence
parts have a beauty, in handsome streets and varied architecture, that
is a continual surprise to one who has not seen the city for twenty
years. I had set down the length of the city along the river-front
as thirteen miles, with a depth of about six miles; but the official
statistics are: length of river-front, 19.15 miles; length of western
limits, 21.27; extent north and south in an air line, 17; and length
east and west on an air line, 6.62. This gives an area of 61.37 square
miles, or 39,276 acres. This includes the public parks (containing 2095
acres), and is sufficient room for the population of 450,000, which
the city doubtless has in 1888. By the United States census of 1870 the
population was reported much larger than it was, the figures having no
doubt been manipulated for political purposes. Estimating the natural
increase from this false report, the city was led to claim a population
far beyond the actual number, and unjustly suffered a little ridicule
for a mistake for which it was not responsible. The United States census
of 1880 gave it 350,522. During the eight years from 1880 there were
erected 18,574 new dwelling-houses, at a cost of over fifty millions of
dollars.
The great territorial extension of the city in 1876 was for a time a
disadvantage, for it threw upon the city the care of enormous street
extensions, made a sporadic movement of population beyond Grand avenue,
which left hiatuses in improvement, and created a sort of furor of
fashion for getting away from what to me is still the most attractive
residence portion of the town, namely, the elevated ridges west of
Fourteenth Street, crossed by Lucas Place and adjoining avenues. In this
quarter, and east of Grand avenue, are fine high streets, with detached
houses and grounds, many of them both elegant and comfortable, and
this is the region of the Washington University, some of the finest
club-houses, and handsomest churches. The movements of eity populations,
however, are not to be accounted for. One of the finest parts of the
town, and one of the oldest of the better residence parts, that south of
the railways, containing broad, well-planted avenues, and very stately
old homes, and the exquisite Lafayette Park, is almost wholly occupied
now by Germans, who make up so large a proportion of the population.
One would have predicted at an early day that the sightly bluffs below
the eity would be the resort of fashion, and be occupied with fine
country houses. But the movement has been almost altogether westward and
away from the river. And this rolling, wooded region is most inviting,
elevated, open, cheerful. No other eity in the West has fairer suburbs
for expansion and adornment, and its noble avenues, dotted with
conspicuously fine residences, give promise of great beauty and
elegance. In its late architectural development, St. Louis, like
Chicago, is just in time to escape a very mediocre and merely imitative
period in American building. Beyond Grand avenue the stranger will be
shown Vandeventer Place, a semiprivate oblong park, surrounded by many
pretty and some notably fine residences. Two of them are by Richardson,
and the city has other specimens of his work. I cannot refrain from
again speaking of the effect that this original genius has had upon
American architecture, especially in the West, when money and enterprise
afforded him free scope. It is not too much to say that he created a new
era, and the influence of his ideas is seen everywhere in the work of
architects who have caught his spirit.
The city has addressed itself to the occupation and adornment of its
great territory and the improvement of its most travelled thoroughfares
with admirable public spirit. The rolling nature of the ground has been
taken advantage of to give it a nearly perfect system of drainage and
sewerage. The old pavements of soft limestone, which were dust in dry
weather and liquid mud in wet weather, are being replaced by granite in
the business parts and asphalt and wood blocks (laid on a concrete base)
in the residence portions. Up to the beginning of 1888 this new pavement
had cost nearly three and a half million dollars, and over thirty-three
miles of it were granite blocks. Street railways have also been pushed
all over the territory. The total of street lines is already over one
hundred and fifty-four miles, and over thirty miles of these give rapid
transit by cable. These facilities make the whole of the wide territory
available for business and residence, and give the poorest inhabitants
the means of reaching the parks.
The park system is on the most liberal scale, both public and private;
the parks are already famous for extent and beauty, but when the
projected connecting boulevards are made they will attain world-wide
notoriety. The most extensive of the private parks is that of the
combined Agricultural Fair Grounds and Zoological Gardens. Here is held
annually the St. Louis Fair, which is said to be the largest in the
United States. The enclosure is finely laid out and planted, and
contains an extensive park, exhibition buildings, cottages, a
race-track, an amphitheatre, which suggests in size and construction
