himself a student of human nature in behalf of 
literature, and he now set about studying Mela. 
He tempted her to express her opinion on all points, 
and he laughed so amiably at the boldness and 
humorous vigour of her ideas that she was delighted 
with him. She asked him if he was a New-Yorker 
by birth ; and she told him she pitied him, when he 
said he had never been West, She professed her- 
self perfectly sick of New York, and urged him to 
go to Moffitt if he wanted to see a real li\e town. 
He wondered if it would do to put her into literature 
just as she was, with all her slang and brag, but he 
decided that he would have to subdue her a great 
deal : he did not see how he could reconcile the facts 
of her conversation with the facts of her appearance : 
  
her beauty, her splendour of dress, her apparent 
right to be where she was. These things perplexed 
him ; he was afraid the great American novel, if 
true, must be incredible. Mela said he ought to 
hear her sister go on about New York when they 
first came ; but she reckoned that Christine was 
getting so she could put up with it a little better, 
now. She looked significantly across the room to 
the place where Christine was now talking with 
Beaton ; and the student of human nature a.sked, 
Was she here ? and, "Would she introduce him ? 
Mela said she would, the first chance she got ; and 
she added. They would be much pleased to have 
him call. She felt herself to be having a beautiful 
time, and she got directly upon such intimate terms 
with the student of human nature that she laughed 
with him about some peciiliarities of his, such as his 
going so far about to ask things he wanted to know 
from her ; she said she never did believe in beating 
about the bush much. She had noticed the same 
thing in Miss Vance when she came to call that 
day ', and when the young man Owned that he came 
rather a good deal to Mrs. Horn's house, she asked 
him, "Well, what sort of a girl was Miss Vance, any- 
way, and where did he suppose she had met her 
brother ? The student of human nature could not 
say as to this, and as to Miss Vance he judged it 
safest to treat of the non-society side of her chai'- 
acter, her activity in charity, her special devotion to 
the work among the poor on the East Side, which 
she personally engaged in. 
  
" Oh, that 's where Conrad goes, too ! " Mela inter- 
rupted. "I'll bet anything that's where she met 
him. I loisJit I could tell Christine ! But I suppose 
she would want to kill me, if I was to speak to her 
now." 
The student of human nature said politely, " Oh, 
shall I take you to her ? " 
Mela answered, " I guess you better yiot ! " with 
a laugh so significant that he could not help his 
inferences concerning both Christine's absorption in 
the person she was talking with, and the habitual 
Auolence of her temper. He made note of how Mela 
helplessly spoke of all her family by their names, as 
if he were already intimate with them ; he fancied 
that if he could get that in skilfully, it would be a 
valuable colour in his study ; the English lord whom 
she should astonish with it, began to form himself 
out of the dramatic nebulosity in his mind, and to 
whirl on a definite orbit in American society. But 
he was puzzled to decide whether Mela's willingness 
to take him into her confidence on short notice was 
typical or personal : the trait of a daughter of the 
natural-gas millionaire, or a foible of her own. 
Beaton talked with Christine the greater part of 
the evening that was left after the concert. He was 
very grave, and took the tone of a fatherly friend ; 
he spoke guardedly of the people present, and mode- 
rated the severity of some of Christine's judgments 
of their looks and costumes. He did this out of 
a sort of unreasoned allegiance to Margaret, whom 
he was in the mood of wishing to please by being 
very kind and good, as she always was. He had 
