ported to a modern capital. But in Schwarzburg he felt that he 
was at home. The huge cathedral with its spires and arches and 
rich fretwork of dark stone, seemed to him the model of what all 
cathedrals should be. The swift river that ran between over- 
hanging buildings, and beneath old bridges that were carved with 
armorial bearings and decorated with the rare ironwork of cunning 
smiths, famous long ago, bore in its breast the legends of his own 
forest home, and was impersonated in many a verse he had learned 
to sing with his comrades. The shady nooks and corners, the turns 
in the crooked streets, the dark archways of old inns, the swinging 
signs with their rich deep colour and Gothic characters, the projecting; 
balconies/glazed with round bull's eyes of blown glass set in heavy 
lead, the marvellously wrought weathercocks of iron and gold on the 
 
corners of the houses, every outward detail of the time-honoured 
and time-mellowed town spoke to his heart in accents he not only 
understood but loved. Even the modern note did not jar upon him. 
There were few officers in the streets, few soldiers in bright uniforms. 
Occasionally a troop of white cuirassiers rode slowly through the 
main thoroughfare, looking more like mediseval knights than 
Prussian soldiers. Their enormous stature, their bronzed faces, their 
snow-white dress and gleaming corslets, the stately, solemn tramp 
of their great horses, their straight broad blades without curve or 
bend erect at their sides, all made them utterly unlike the ordinary 
soldiery of present times, and rendered their appearance perfectly 
harmonious with their surroundings. Even the students in their 
long boots and coloured caps did not look modern, as they strolled 
along in knots of three and four from the University to the mess at 
dinner-time, or thronged the pavements of the high street towards 
evening, when the purple light was on the cathedral spires and the 
shadows were deepening below. 
Greif loved it all, and to some extent his affection was returned. 
He was certainly the most popular student who had ever trod the 
stones of Schwarzburg, as he was by nature one of the most thoroughly 
German. He had his quarrels, no doubt, but the way he settled 
them only served to increase his reputation. He was pointed out 
as the man of forty duels, who had never received a serious wound, 
and it was said to his credit that he never wantonly provoked any 
man, and that his victories had been qhiefly gained over adversaries 
from neighbouring Universities. He was looked upon as the 
natural representative of Schwarzburg in all great affairs, and when 
he presided, in the turn of his Korps, over one of the periodical 
festivities, his appearance was the occasion for a general ovation. 
The feeling that he was to be warmly welcomed was pleasant to 
Greif as he got out upon the platform and shook hands with a 
dozen who awaited him, but the remembrance that this was 
probably his last return as a student among his comrades gave him 
a passing sensation of sadness. He was approaching the end of a 
very happy period in his life, and though there was much happiness 
in the future, he was young enough to regret what he must leave 
so soon. Few men know what it is to be the central figure at a 
great University, and those who have been so fortunate know well 
enough how painful is the leavetaking and how hard the last good- 
bye to the scene of their triumphs. That moment had not yet 
come for Greif, but he could not help seeing how very near it was. 
The students led him home to his lodgings over the river, and 
installed themselves as they could, all smoking and talking at once, 
 
while he opened his boxes and disposed some of his belongings in 
their places. They told him all the news, with the vivacity of 
men who have twenty-four hours the start of a friend. The Rhine 
Korps had increased its numbers considerably and seemed already 
inclined to show its teeth to the Westphalia Korps. The Saxon 
Korps had lost one of their best fighters, who had suddenly gone 
to another University. Hardly any of the Prussian Korps had 
arrived, and it was doubtful whether they could renew the 
lease of their old drinking-hall. They themselves their yellow 
caps showed that they were Swabians were already on the look-out 
for new * foxes ' to enlist, and believed that they had secured a 
couple of excellent novices. The fencing-master of the Prussians 
had declared his intention of fighting a pitched battle sabres and 
no bandages with the fencing-master of the Rhiners. It was 
to be hoped that neither would be badly hurt, as they were both 
good teachers and worth their salaries. There was a new waiting- 
girl at the Stamm-Kneipe where they dined, and of course all the 
foxes would fall in love. They, the fellows, would of course not think 
of such a thing. It would be quite beneath their dignity. As for 
the professors, all those who were not favourites grew older and 
older and duller and duller. One of the oldest and dullest had 
been married in the summer to a girl of eighteen, a crying shame 
