exclaimed resolutely. 
" O Miss Thurston ! " 
Pryor looked at her so steadily that he almost had 
his heart in his eyes. 
" Yes," she resumed, in a tone that was friendly to 
a point of frank meaning. " It is hard, I know, for 
the girls. Ad is nice." 
"But you" 
" Well, I've brought him into this trouble, almost 
against his will, and it would be cruel not to see him 
through. So I shall have to put up a card over the 
hall-door, ' All hope abandon, ye who enter here.' " 
" You are cruel," he said. " That was not the way 
the flaming sword was used." 
" But, you see, we do not mean to have any falls 
from grace until the five years are ended." 
" Pryor is more than half in love with your sister," 
Joe Crawford said that night. 
 
CHAPTER VIII 
ON Monday morning we began to pack up our 
bulky articles. The smaller ones had gone in the 
manner in which Pip was brought up, " by hand." 
I had hired a wagon of a neighbor ; and after break 
fast, we made ready, and moved. Joe and I put the 
kitchen-stove in place, and the fire was kindled. Joe 
and Eve put the matting down in the two chambers, 
and the furniture was placed in proper position after 
some moving about. Eve had chosen the room with 
the bay-window, and it furnished very prettily. 
Indeed, the bedroom suite had never looked half so 
pretty in the big room over the station. Then she 
prepared the dinner ; but we were compelled to have 
it in the kitchen, as our conveniences were of that 
sort, and extremely limited. 
" The first thing to-morrow morning we must go 
down to Northwood, and buy some more matting, a 
dining-table, and chairs. When we get rich, we can 
have some carpets. I have just fifty dollars." 
" Which you ought to spend on yourself." 
 
" As I mean to ; " and Eve nodded complacently. 
" The 1st of June I shall have ten dollars more. 
The 1st of July thirty dollars ; and if the class in 
painting gets together, I have offered to give a 
class of ten girls twelve lessons for five dollars 
apiece, just half price ; but having them all at once 
makes the difference. That will be fifty dollars, you 
see," triumphantly. 
" You seem to coin money," I said jocosely. " I 
shall have to look well to my ways." 
" Oh ! this is a sort of summer harvest," she laughed. 
" But I do hope to go on with the music ; and now I 
have my own dear piano for aid and comfort. For 
fifty dollars we must furnish our dining-room, and 
cover our parlor-floor." 
" Well, you know how to work miracles," I replied. 
Then we went out in the garden. The grass was 
looking green and lovely : there were some daffodils 
in bloom, and here and there a crocus. The rose 
bushes had been trimmed : there were indications of 
tulips, and great mounds of day-lilies. We could 
think how lovely it would be when the fruit-trees 
came out : the cherries were showing white, and the 
peaches were in a haze of pink, but nothing really 
open. We had discovered a great lilac, and several 
bushes of syringa. 
" I can hardly wait," she declared ; " and yet I wish 
 
the days were twice as long, there is so much to do. 
Why, I never knew time to go so fast." 
We were to sleep in our own house that night, and 
Joe was to take the lounge down at the office. He 
insisted that I should not come down for the first 
train but I knew I should be awake. I spent the 
evening taking the piano out of its coffin, as Eve called 
it. The packing had been well done, and it had not 
suffered a scratch; but it needed polishing, and, no 
doubt, tuning. We decided where it should stand ; 
and, as soon as we had the matting down, I would 
