that her father was willing to receive her, but her alone. "You must
take your choice," he had said, she repeated--"You must take your
choice."
"And what is that choice?" Mistrial had asked.
"I have made it," she answered, "and by it I will abide."
But at this he had expostulated; and when, seeing at last what he
meant--understanding that he would have her feign a compliance for the
sake of coin which at her father's death she could come back and share
with him--when, divining the infamy of his thought, she refused, he had
struck her in the face.
Because a man is not Chesterfield, it does not follow he is Sykes.
Mistrial had never struck a woman before, and in this initial assault it
is probable that he was actuated less by a desire to punish than by that
force which overmasters him who has ceased to be master of himself. By
instinct he was not a gentleman; for some time past he had not even
taken the trouble to appear one; yet at that moment, dancing in derision
before him, he saw the letters that form the monosyllable Cad. The sense
of abasement he displayed was so immediate and sincere, that Justine,
who, trembling with anger and disgust, stood staring in his face, read
it there and understood. Instead of separating them forever, the blow
reunited their hands. During the week that followed they were nearer to
each other than they had been for months before. The reconciliation was
seemingly complete. Mistrial made himself the lover again, and Justine
permitted herself to be wooed. They left their hotel and found a
flat--a furnished apartment in the neighborhood of Central Park; and
there the storm departing placed a rainbow in its stead.
A rainbow, however, is not a fixture, and this one went its way. While
Justine closed her eyes Mistrial's were alert. He had no intention of
suffering her to be disinherited, and though it was well enough to rely
on the courts it was better still not to be forced to do so. Rather than
run an avoidable risk he would have abandoned his wife, and forced her
through that abandonment to return to her father's house, convinced that
afterwards he could win her together with the estate back again to him.
Meanwhile another interview could not in any way jeopardize the chances
to which he clung. On the contrary, it might be highly serviceable. Mr.
Dunellen, he had learned, was much broken; he had given up his practice,
the the world even, everything in fact save perhaps the devil that was
in him, and sat uncompanioned in the desolate and spacious emptiness of
his house. It was only natural that he should wish to coerce his
daughter into obedience; yet now that he saw she was steadfast, her
pride unhumbled still, it was not improbable that he would yield; it was
presumable even that he was then waiting, weak of heart, prepared at her
next advance to welcome and forgive.
Of these things Mistrial made his wife aware, and it was then that the
rainbow departed. His arguments were as revolting as the cynicism they
exhaled. But she made no attempt to combat them. Since she had seen her
father she had felt a sorrow for him that Mistrial's altered demeanor
had given her time to heed. She knew that his attitude was due to her
defiance of his express commands, but she had no reason to suppose that
he had any other objection to her husband than such as his poverty might
have caused or instinctive antipathy might bring. But now, her own
experience aiding, she knew that he had been right; and, as he seemed
feeble and dispassionate, in answer to Mistrial's arguments she tied her
bonnet-strings and went. It was early in the afternoon when she started,
it was night when she returned.
Mistrial had been waiting for her, and when she entered the room in
which he sat he rose eagerly and aided her with her wrap. He was
impatient, she could see; and she was impatient also.
"Why did you not tell me of Guy's sister?" she began, at once.
And as he answered nothing she continued: "Years ago I knew of what she
died; it was only to-day I learned that it was you who murdered her."
"It is a lie."
"Oh, protest. I knew you would."
"From whom is it you heard this thing? Not from your father, I am sure."
As Mistrial spoke he gazed at her inquisitorially with shrewd,
perplexing eyes.
"What does it matter?" she answered. Her head was thrown back, her lips
compressed. "What does it matter since the charge is true?"
"But it is false," he cried; "it is a wanton lie. Your father never
could have stated it."
"Ah, but he did, though; and Guy was there to substantiate what he
said."
"Guy!" As he pronounced her cousin's name there came into his face an
expression which she knew and which she had learned to dread. "Madam,
you mean your lover, I suppose. And it is his ipse dixit you accept in
preference to mine?"
"Mistrial, you know he is not my lover."
"I know he was in love with you, and you with him."
"So he was; so he is, I think; and it was not until this night I saw my
own mistake."
