in her hat, and tiny shoes on her feet, was very tempting to her
childish soul.  But she felt that so dainty a thing was not for her, and
her old wooden darling, with the staring eyes and broken nose, was
dearer to her than the delicate stranger could ever be.  So she smiled
to soothe the disappointed child, but shook her head again.
At that, the English lassie lost her temper, stamped her foot, scolded,
and began to cry, ordering the maid to take the flower and come away at
once.
"She will have it; and she must not cry. Here, child, will you sell it
for this?" said the maid, pulling a handful of groschen out of her deep
pocket, sure that Trudel would yield now.
But the little house-mother’s quick eye saw that the whole handful would
not buy the meat and wine, much as it looked, and for the third time she
shook her yellow head.  There was a longing look in her face, however;
and the shrewd maid saw it, guessed that money would win the day, and
diving again into her apron-pocket, brought out a silver gulden and held
it up.
"For this, then, little miser?  It is more than the silly flower is
worth; but the young fräulein must have all she wants, so take it and
let us be done with the crying."
A struggle went on in Trudel’s mind; and for a moment she did not speak.
She longed to keep her dear tulip, her one joy, and it seemed so hard to
let it go before she had even seen it blossom once; but then the money
would do much, and her loving little heart yearned to give poor father
all he needed. Just then her mother’s voice came down from the open
window, softly singing an old hymn to lull the sick man to sleep.  That
settled the matter for the dutiful daughter; tears rose to her eyes, and
she found it very hard to say with a farewell caress of the blue and
yellow pot as she gave it up,--
"You may have it; but it is worth more than a gulden, for it is a
dragon-tulip, the finest we have.  Could you give a little more? my
father is very sick, and we are very poor."
The stout maid had a kind heart under her white muslin neckerchief; and
while Miss Maud seized the flower, good Marta put another gulden into
Trudel’s hand before she hastened after her charge, who made off with
her booty, as if fearing to lose it.
Trudel watched the child with the half-opened tulip nodding over her
shoulder, as though it sadly said "good-by" to its former mistress, till
her dim eyes could see no longer.  Then she covered her face with her
apron and sobbed very quietly, lest grandmother should hear and be
troubled.  But Trudel was a brave child, and soon the tears stopped, the
blue eyes looked gladly at the money in her hand, and presently, when
the fresh wind had cooled her cheeks, she went in to show her treasure
and cheer up the anxious hearts with her good news.
She made light of the loss of her flower, and still knitting, went
briskly off to get the meat and wine for father, and if the money held
out, some coffee for grandmother, some eggs and white rolls for mother,
who was weak and worn with her long nursing.
"Surely, the dear God does help me," thought the pious little maid,
while she trudged back with her parcels, quite cheery again, though no
pretty kitten ran to meet her, and no gay tulip stood full-blown in the
noonday sun.
Still more happy was she over her small sacrifices when she saw her
father sip a little of the good broth grandmother made with such care,
and saw the color come into the pale cheeks of the dear mother after she
had taken the eggs and fine bread, with a cup of coffee to strengthen
and refresh her.
"We have enough for to-day, and for father to-morrow; but on Sunday we
must fast as well as pray, unless the hose be done and paid for in
time," said the old woman next morning, surveying their small store of
food with an anxious eye.
"I will work hard, and go to Vrow Schmidt’s the minute we are done.  But
now I must run and get wood, else the broth will not be ready," answered
Trudel, clattering on her wooden shoes in a great hurry.
"If all else fails, I too shall make my sacrifice as well as you, my
heart’s darling.  I cannot knit as I once did, and if we are not done,
or Vrow Schmidt be away, I will sell my ring and so feed the flock till
Monday," said the grandmother, lifting up one thin old hand, where shone
the wedding-ring she had worn so many years.
"Ah, no,--not that!  It was so sad to see your gold beads go, and
mother’s ear-rings and father’s coat and Jan and my lovely flower! We
will not sell the dear old ring.  I will find a way.  Something will
happen, as before; so wait a little, and trust to me," cried Trudel,
with her arms about the grandmother, and such a resolute nod that the
rusty little black cap fell over her nose and extinguished her.
She laughed as she righted it, and went singing away, as if not a care
lay heavy on her young heart.  But when she came to the long dike which
kept the waters of the lake from overflowing the fields below, she
walked slowly to rest her tired legs, and to refresh her eyes with the
blue sheet of water on one side and the still bluer flax-fields on the
