are destroyed by a certain parasitic fly, which 
has preempted that vague ? geographical region. 
We read that heart' s-ease and red clover w T ould 
disappear from England if humble-bees were 
exterminated there. Or we hear of the " walking-stick 
insect," which, that it may protect 
itself from danger, is made to resemble a 
" walking-stick closely overgrown with moss." 
Or again, we are asked to believe that the 
ball-and-socket decorations on the wing-feathers
of the Argus pheasant are aesthetically appreciated 
by the female during courtship. Or 
our attention is concentrated upon the fact 
that among the Kalmucks, who practice the 
custom of bridal races (the bride having a fair 
start), " no instance occurs of a girl being 
caught unless she has a partiality for the 
pursuer." Or we are told that if human repro- 
duction were not offset by mortality, there 
would not, in a thousand years, be standing- 
room upon the earth for the progeny of man. 
Again, we are reminded that the Holy Inquisition
killed off the bravest, freest, and most 
independent minds of its time, and thus 
appreciably depleted Europe of her best material. 
Or it is suggested that the culture of Greece 
and the empire of Rome seem to have their 
chief purpose and value as subsidiaries " to 
the great stream of Anglo-Saxon emigration 
to the West." Or we are asked if the idea 
of a universal and beneficent Creator be not 
the result, in the mind of man, of elevation 
" by long-continued culture." 
The connection of these rather burly statements
with the spiritual future of mankind is 
not at first sight apparent ; and, to the merely 
scientific student, may remain obscure. Yet 
the continuity in such a progression of selected 
facts is subtle, and the workmanship nice. 
From beginning to end, the link within the 
link is the force of individuality. The relation 
of individuality to spirituality completes the 
chain which, in view of that relation, it is here 
our purpose to examine. 
Man is born to fight for his life. This is 
the upshot of the new wisdom. (After all it 
is rather an old wisdom.) He has been de- 
veloped from ancestral, inferior organizations 
which, in turn, have had to fight for their 
lives. All the great and little facts of history 
converge to this truth. Conflict with the elements
has mown down non-combatants. The
attraction between the sexes has served as the 
great appreciator of personal values. Death, 
like " gray-haired Saturn, quiet as a stone," has 
stood guard against the event of the world's 
becoming uninhabitable from excess of life. 
Climate, disease, accident, anguish, love, war, 
superstition, even civilization itself, have each 
served their turn in the awful battle. All 
are but so many foes to the new-born babe. 
Carlyle put one view of the truth in his 
rough way when he said that the ultimate 
question between any two human beings is : 
"Can I kill thee? or, canst thou kill me?" 
We rate by thousands of years the age of 
the great design carved in the Cambodian 
temple, which represents a wheel of incho- 
ate, writhing forms — serpents, dragons, mon- 
keys, and men — revolving in a conflict vast 
and mysterious, and typifying u The Struggle 
of Natural Life toward the Ideal and Spir- 
itual." Existence is a challenge. Circum- 
stance is the gauntlet. Success is victory, 
and failure is defeat. Death is, or may be, 
escape. 
It will be seen that to say all this is to say 
simply that the struggle for existence is de- 
cided by the ratio of individuality to the odds. 
Whether we have to do with the duels of mas- 
