except the frosting on top. That you won't find 
 
much at Maroni's, though you will occasionally. I 
don't mean the ladies ever, of course." The ladies 
present seemed liarmless and reputable looking 
people enough, but certainly they wore not of the 
first fashion, and, except in a few instances, not 
Americans. "It's like cutting straight down 
through a fruit-cake," Fulkerson went on, "or a 
mince-pie, when you don't know who made the pie ; 
you get a little of everything." He ordered a small 
flask of Chianti with the dinner, and it came in 
its pretty wicker jacket. March smiled upon it 
with tender reminiscence, and Fulkerson laughed. 
" Lights you up a little. I brought old Dryfoos 
here one day, and he thought it was sweet-oil ; 
that 's the kind of bottle they used to have it in at 
the country drug-stores." 
" Yes, I remember now ; but I 'd totally forgotten 
it," said March. " How far back that goes ! who 's 
Dryfoos ? " 
"Dryfoos?" Fulkerson, still smiling, tore off a 
piece of the half-yard of French loaf which had been 
supplied them, with two pale, thin disks of butter, 
and fed it into himself. " Old Dryfoos ? Well, of 
course ! I call him old, but he ain't so very. 
About fifty, or along there." 
"No," said March, "that isn't very old — or not 
so old as it used to be." 
" Well, I suppose you 've got to know about him, 
anyway," said Fulkerson thoughtfully. "And I've 
been wondering just how I should tell you. Can't 
always make out exactly how much of a Bostoiiian 
 
you really are ! Ever been out in the natural gas 
country ? " 
" No," said March. " I 've had a good deal of 
curiosity about it, but I 've never been able to get 
away except in summer, and then we always pre- 
ferred to go over the old ground, out to Niagara 
and back through Canada, the route we took on our 
 wedding journey. The children like it as much as 
we do." 
"Yes, yes," said Fulkerson. "Well, the natural 
gas country is worth seeing. I don't mean the 
Pittsburg gas-fields, but out in Northern Ohio and 
Indiana around Moffitt — that 's the place in the 
heart of the gas region that they 've been booming 
so. Yes, you ought to see that country. If you 
haven't been "West for a good many years, you 
haven't got any idea how old the country looks. 
You remember how the fields used to be all full of 
stumps ] " 
" I should think so." 
" "Well, you won't see any stumps now. All that 
country out around Moffitt is just as smooth as a 
checker-board, and looks as old as England. You 
know how we used to burn the stumps out ; and 
then somebody invented a stump-extracter, and we 
pulled them out with a yoke of oxen. Now they 
just touch 'em off with a little dynamite, and they 've 
got a cellar dug and filled up with kindling ready 
for house-keeping whenever you want it. Only 
they haven't got any use for kindling in that coimtry 
— all gas. I rode along on the cars through those 
level black fields at corn-planting time, and every 
once in a -while I 'd come to a place witli a piece of 
ragged old stove-pipe stickin' up out of the ground, 
and blazing away like forty, and a fellow jiloughing 
all round it and not minding it any more than if it 
was spring violets. Horses didn't notice it, either. 
Well, they 've always known about the gas out there ; 
thoy say there are places in the woods whoreit's 
been burning ever since the country was settled. 
" But when \ on come in sight of Moffitt — my, oh 
my ! Well, you come in smell of it about as soon. 
That gas out there ain't odourless, like the Pittsburg 
gas, and so it 's perfectly safe ; but the smell isn't 
bad — about as bad as the finest kind of benzine. 
Well, the first thing that strikes you when you 
