The Irishman, who had been in a confused state ever since Cicely had
forced his canoe into the water again after he had hauled it up on the
beach, and had beaten his hands off fiercely with the oar when he had
tried to stop her progress--a little creature like that turning suddenly
so strong--answered, hurriedly, "It's goin' I am; ye can see it
yersilf!" and was off like a shot. "Wan attack from a fimmale will
do!" was his thought.
The nurse then effected a change of dress; with the aid of part of her
own clothing and part of Cicely's and Porley's, she got Eve and Jack
into dry garments of some sort, Jack being wrapped in a flannel
petticoat. The wind had grown much more violent, but the strange
atmospheric conditions had passed away; the lightning had ceased. It was
now an ordinary gale, the waves dashed over the beach, and the wind
drove by with a shriek; but it was not cold. The four women sheltered
themselves as well as they could, Cicely holding Jack closely; she would
not let any one else touch him.
A little after two o'clock the crouched group heard a sound, and Hollis
appeared in the circle of light shed by the flaring wind-swept fire. He
bore a load of provisions and garments in baskets, in a sack suspended
from his neck, in bags dangling from his arms, as well as in his hands
and pockets; he had even brought a tea-kettle; it was a wonder how he
had come so far with such a load, the wind bending him double. Priscilla
Mile made tea as methodically as though the open beach, with the roaring
water and the shrieking gale, had been a quiet room. Hollis watched them
eat with an eagerness so intense that unconsciously his face made
masticating movements in sympathy. When they had finished, a start
passed over him, as if he were awakening, and, making a trumpet of his
hands, he shouted to Cicely: "Must go now; 'f I don't, the old
judge'll be trying to get here. Back--with boat--soon as ca-a-an."
"I'll take your coat, if you don't mind," said Mrs. Mile, shrieking at
him in her turn; "then Miss Bruce can have this shawl." And she
tapped her chest violently to show him her meaning. Hollis denuded
himself, and started.
With the first light of dawn he was back. They reached the camp about
ten o'clock the next morning.
At three in the afternoon Cicely woke from a sleep of four hours. Her
first movement was to feel for Jack.
Jack was sitting beside her, playing composedly with four spools and a
little wooden horse on rollers.
"We'd better dress him now, hadn't we?" suggested Mrs. Mile, coming
forward. She spoke in her agreeing voice; Mrs. Mile's voice agreed
beforehand that her patients should agree with her.
"I will dress him," said Cicely, rising.
"I wouldn't, now, if I were you, Mrs. Morrison; you're not strong
enough."
"Where is my dress?" asked Cicely, looking about her.
"You don't want anything, surely, but your pretty blue wrapper?" said
Mrs. Mile, taking it from its nail.
"Bring me my thick dress and my walking-shoes, please."
They were brought.
Eve came in while Cicely was dressing.
"Eve, who is this person?" Cicely demanded, indicating the nurse with a
sideward wave of her head.
"Oh, I'm just a lady's maid--they thought you'd better have one; Porley,
in that way, you know, isn't good for much," answered Mrs. Mile,
readily.
"Whatever you are, I shall not need your services longer," said Cicely.
"Do you think you could go to-night?"
"Certainly, ma'am; by the evening boat."
"There is no evening boat. I must have been ill a long while,--you talk
in such a wheedling manner. I am well now, at any rate, and you can
return to Port aux Pins whenever you like; no doubt you have been much
missed there."
Mrs. Mile, giving Eve a significant look, went out.
The storm was over, but the air had turned much colder; the windows of
the lodge were closed. Eve seated herself by the east window.
"I have been ill, then?" asked Cicely.
"Yes."
"I have been out of my mind?"
"Yes," Eve answered again, in a listless voice.
"I'm not so any longer,--you understand that?"
"I understand," Eve responded.
Her cheeks were white, the lines of her face and figure had fallen; she
looked lifeless.
Cicely stopped her work of dressing Jack, and gazed at her sister-in-law
for a moment or two; then she came and stood before her. "Perhaps you
didn't understand what I said on the beach? I told you that I remembered
everything, knew everything. And that I forgave you because you had
saved baby; you jumped into the lake and saved him." She paused a
moment; "I forgive you--yes; but never let us speak of it again--never
