 
cry of " master, a tiger !" Wide awake in a moment, I 
looked around, and they pointed me to two spar kling little 
balls that gleamed upon us from the thicket not far from 
our outermost watch-fire. There was no doubt that they 
were the eyes of a tiger who only awaited a favourable 
opportunity to seize and carry off some one of us. Father 
Templyn, our ever ready protector, was awakened, and we 
agreed to aim at the same time for the spot just between 
the two points of light. We shot and immediately heard 
a struggling and writhing as of some creature in the death 
struggle, which grew less and less distinct, and then 
oea,sed. In the meantime the noise of our rifles had roused 
the rest of our party, and as I really could keep awake 
no longer, the baker undertook to watch in my stead for 
the rest of the night. But at break of day we were again 
aroused by a joyful shout from him. He informed us that 
we had been fortunate enough to kill a Royal tiger of the 
largest size, and our servants were already engaged in skin- 
ning him. We found that both balls had taken effect, and 
had shattered his skull ; as then we had each an equal 
claim to the beautifully spotted hide, we drew lots for it, 
and fortune favored me. As soon as our people had 
finished their task of skinning the tiger, we again started 
on our way. 
We were now quite near to the mountains which cross 
the island, and as the path in the plain swarmed so with 
ants that we every moment simk deep into their nests 
and progress was most difiicult, we determined to ascend 
the mountains for a little distance in hopes of finding a 
better path and satisfying our curiosity as to the surround- 
 
ing country. This plan d'Allemand did not relish at all 
and he did his best to dissuade us from adopting it ; yet, 
had it not been for a sad accident which we shortly 
met with, and which frustrated our purpose, he would 
hardly have succeeded in altering our fixed determi- 
nation. 
We had already turned our steps in the direction deci- 
ded upon, when in passing by a thinly-clothed tree we 
observed a mass of honey — a bee hive so immense that it 
awakened in us a strong desire to possess it; but the 
bough from which it hung was so high as to preclude the 
possibility of smoking out the bees according to the usual 
custom. We were just turning from it when one of our 
servants offered to climl) the tree and chop off the bough 
with an axe, so that we could easily overcome our little 
enemies. We accepted his offer and promised him a 
double share of the sweet booty for his daring. The poor 
fellow climbed the tree and reached the heavily-laden 
bough in safety ; it already quivered with the first stroke 
of his axe, but he was prevented from giving another by 
the bees, who rushed raging in thick swarms fi"om their 
cells, and so cruelly attacked his naked body that he 
uttered a loud cry, and closing his eyes, turned to come 
down ; unfortunately, in his descent he made a mis-step, 
fell and broke his leg. This misfortune drew a cross 
through our reckoning — a continuation of our former plan 
was not to be thought of, as we could not possibly leave 
the sufferer to the mercy of fate, or rather to certain des- 
truction. Nothing was left for us but to place him upon a 
litter of boughs, hastily woven together, and seek the 
 
nearest inhabited place, which our guide assured as we 
eouid reach the same day. 
If this untimely event made us sullen and silent, the 
Frenchman provoked us still more by his ill-timed and 
extravagant merriment. He made no attempt to conceal 
his delight at the stupidity of the man, which had brought 
us to our senses, and destroyed our nonsensical plan. He 
blessed the bees, and vowed he would write a song in praise 
of their brave defence of their property. We could not 
listen to him without vexation, but we did not think it 
worth while to point out to him his want of courtesy and 
good feeling. Fate, however, revenged us upon him. In 
the joy of his heart he attempted to spring over the trunk 
of an old decayed tree that was lying directly in his path ; 
with one leap he was on the other side, but sank up to 
his shoulders in the soft mud, which only a thin treach- 
erous bark, as it were, covered. His sudden disappearance 
