tryst had been taken, at a small but immaculate table ; but 
Mrs. Dallovv was not yet on the scene, and they had time for 
a sociable settlement time to take their places and xmfolcl 
their napkins, crunch their rolls, breathe the savoury air and 
watch the door, before the usual raising of heads and sus- 
peiisicm of forks, the sort of stir that accompanied most of 
this lady's movements, announced her entrance. The dame de, 
comptoir ducked and re-ducked, the people looked round, Peter 
and Nick got up, there was a shuffling of chairs Julia was 
there. Peter had related how he had stopped at her hotel to 
bring her with him and had found her, according to her 
custom, by no means ready ; on which, fearing that his guests 
would come first to the rendezvous and find no proper welcome, 
he had come off without her, leaving her to follow. He had 
not brought a friend, as he intended, having divined that Julia 
would prefer a pure family party, if she wanted to talk about 
her candidate. Now she stood there, looking down at the 
table and her expectant kinsfolk, drawing off her gloves, letting 
her brother draw off her jacket, lifting her hands for some 
rearrangement of her bonnet. She looked at Nick last, smiling, 
but only for a moment. She said to Peter, " Are we going to 
dine here? Oh dear, why didn't you have a private room ? " 
Nick had not seen her at all for several weeks, and had seen 
her but little for a year, but her off-hand, cursory manner had 
not altered in the interval. She spoke remarkably fast, as if 
speech were not in itself a pleasure to have it over as soon 
as possible ; and her brusquerie was of the kind that friendly 
critics account for by pleading shyness. Shyness had never 
appeared to him an ultimate quality or a real explanation of 
anything ; it only explained an effect by another effect, giving 
a bad fault another name. What he suspected in Julia was 
that her mind was less graceful than her person ; an ugly, a 
really damnatory idea, which as yet he had only half accepted. 
It was a case in which she was entitled to the benefit of every 
doubt and ought not to be judged without a complete trial. 
Dormer, meanwhile, was afraid of the trial (this was partly 
why, of late, he had been to see her so little), because he was 
afraid of the sentence, afraid of anything, happening which 
should lessen the pleasure it was actually in the power of her 
beauty to give. There were people who thought her rude, and 
he hated rude women. If he should fasten on that view, or 
rather if that view should fasten on him, what could still 
please and what he admired in her would lose too much of its 
sweetness. If it be thought odd that he had not yet been 
able to read the character of a woman he had known since 
childhood, the answer is that that character had grown faster 
than Nick Dormer's observation. The growth was constant, 
whereas the observation was but occasional, though it had 
begun early. If he had attempted to phrase the matter to 
himself, as he probably had not, he might have said that the 
effect she produced upon him was too much a compulsion ; not 
the coercion of design, of importunity, nor the vulgar pressure 
of family expectation, a suspected desire that he should like 
her enough to marry her, but something that was a mixture 
of diverse things, of the sense that she was imperious and 
generous but probably more the former than the latter and 
of a certain prevision of doom, the influence of the idea that he 
should come to it, that he was predestined. 
This had made him shrink from knowing the worst about 
her ; the desire, not to get used to it in time, but what was 
more characteristic of him, to interpose a temporary illusion. 
Illusions and realities and hopes and fears, however, fell into 
confusion whenever he met her after a separation. The 
separation, so far as seeing her alone or as continuous talk 
was concerned, had now been tolerably long ; had lasted really 
ever since his failure to regain nib seat. An impression had 
come to him that she judged that failure rather harshly, had 
thought he ought to have done better. This was a part of 
her imperious strain, and a part to which it was not easy to 
accommodate one's self on a present basis. If he were to 
marry her he should come to an understanding with her : he 
should give her his own measure as well as take hers. But 
the understanding, in the actual case, might suggest too much 
that he was to marry her. You could quarrel with your wife, 
because there were compensations for her ; but you might 
not be prepared to offer these compensations as prepayment 
for the luxury of quarrelling. 
It was not that such a luxury would not be considerable, 
Nick Dormer thought, as Julia Dallow's fine head poised itself 
before him again ; a high spirit was a better thing than a poor 
