he should feel if the situations were reversed. He realized that the
commander of the Scotian had been very careless in the discharge of
his duty in permitting any vessel to come alongside of her without
considering that she might be an enemy. This inefficiency was doubtless
the cause of his distress. Christy had kept uppermost in his mind the
advice of his father at the last moment before he sailed, and he asked
himself if, while the prisoner was thus exciting his sympathy and
compassion, the latter was not expecting the Arran would appear and
reverse the fortunes of war.
"I am sorry you take such a severe view of your situation," added the
captain of the Bronx. "But my first duty is to ascertain the character
of the vessel which you surrender."
"You shall have no doubt in regard to that, Captain Passford," answered
the commander of the Scotian, proudly. "I am not a dickering merchant,
trying to make money out of the situation of my country. The Scotian,
as you call her, is the Confederate steamer Ocklockonee, and here is my
commission as a lieutenant in the Confederate Navy," he added as he took
the document from his pocket and tendered it to his captor.
Christy looked at the paper, and then examined the other papers in
the packet. They left no doubt in his mind as to the character of the
Ocklockonee, if he had had any before. He folded up the commission and
politely returned it to the owner. The examination was completed so far
as he was concerned; but Captain Dinsmore did not seem to be satisfied,
though he made no complaint that anything was wrong in the proceedings.
He was evidently a very proud and high-strung man, and appeared to be
unable to reconcile himself to the situation.
"I am a ruined man!" he exclaimed several times; and when he looked at
the commander of the Bronx, measuring him from head to foot, as he had
already done several times, it seemed to increase his distress of mind,
and make him more nervous than before.
"While I regret that a brave man like yourself, captain, should be at
war with the government which I honor and love, I hope that personally
your future will be as bright as I am sure your merit deserves," said
Christy.
"If it had been a square and well-fought action, I should not feel
as I do about it. You will pardon me, and understand that I mean no
disrespect to you, captain, but I look upon myself as the victim of a
Yankee trick," said Captain Dinsmore, bitterly. "But please to consider
that I do not charge any blame or treachery upon you, sir."
"I think I can understand your feelings, sir; but I cannot see that in
resorting to strategy to save my men, my conduct has been in any manner
dishonorable," replied Christy, holding his head a little higher than
usual. "I should hold that I had been guilty of misconduct if I had
failed to take advantage of the circumstances under which I have
captured the Ocklockonee."
"I quite agree with you, Captain Passford. I should have done the same
thing myself if the opportunity had been presented to me," the guest
hastened to say. "But that does not in the least degree relieve me from
the consequences of my own negligence. When you are more at leisure,
I hope you will permit me to make an explanation of the situation in
which I was placed."
"I shall be happy to listen to anything you may desire to say to me when
I have the leisure to hear you."
"Thank you, sir."
Christy hastened on deck to attend to the many duties required of him.
The first sight that presented itself when he reached the head of the
companion way was the form of the second lieutenant, which remained as
it had fallen from the rail. He sent for Dr. Spokely, and directed him
to ascertain whether or not Pawcett was dead. While the surgeon was
examining him, Mr. Sampson came up from below with a bolt in his hand,
and touched his cap to the commander.
"You are at work on the engine of the Ocklockonee, are you?" asked
Christy, and this inquiry was one of the duties which had been on his
mind before he left the cabin.
"Yes, sir; and I have already examined her engine; I suppose you mean
the Scotian, for that is the name on her stern, they tell me," replied
the chief engineer.
"Her new name is the Ocklockonee."
"I have examined the engine," replied Sampson.
"Is the damage very serious?" asked the captain anxiously.
"Far from it; she has broken a bolt which disables her, and she ought to
have had one to replace it without more than five minutes' delay, but it
appears that they have not one on board; at least none could be found
when it was wanted, and they were at work forging one when the Bronx
came alongside."
"All right; repair the damage as soon as possible. I heard a scuffle in
the engine room just as we were running alongside the Ocklockonee," said
the captain, looking inquiringly at the engineer.
"Yes, sir; there was a scuffle there. Pink Mulgrum was rushing down the
ladder when I stopped him. He tried to push by me when I made signs to
