Sphinx before they set them on fire. The four guns in the hold had been
hoisted out to make room for the bales, and the vessel had been put in
condition for her voyage.
Early in the evening, the two steamers were standing out into the Gulf
headed to the south-east. In the middle of the afternoon of the next
day, Mr. Flint reported to the flag-officer off Pensacola Bay. The
wounded captain was as comfortable as a young man could be with two
bullet-holes in his limbs. It was the first time he had been wounded so
as to disable him; but he felt that he had faithfully done his duty to
his country, and he was as cheerful as a man in his condition could be.
Dr. Connelly reported that he would not be fit for service again for six
or eight weeks.
Mr. Pennant, the third lieutenant, on account of his wound, which was
not severe enough to render him unfit for ordinary duty, was appointed
prize-master of the Sphinx, with orders to report at New York for
condemnation. A furlough was given to Christy, with a stateroom on board
of the captured steamer. She was fitted out so that she could defend
herself, or even capture any vessel of the enemy within her reach, and
not too strong for her. She was not as fast as the Bronx, but she had
logged over twelve knots on the passage from Barataria Bay, and was
therefore likely to be added to the force of the navy.
Ensign Flint was appointed to the command of the Bronx by the
flag-officer, who had called upon Captain Passford in his stateroom.
Christy had not failed to commend his executive officer in the highest
terms. The commodore suggested that Christy could not be very kindly
disposed towards Captain Battleton of the Vernon, on account of his
decision against him in the matter of his identity.
"On the contrary, I do not see how he could have done otherwise,
commodore, and I have expressed to him my friendly feeling," replied
Christy. "I think he is a devoted and faithful officer, sir."
  [Illustration: Dave Receives his Appointment as Steward.--Page 364.]
"He desires employment on more active duty than the command of a
store-ship, and I am instructed to give him such a position if I have
one at my disposal," added the flag-officer.
"I certainly hope you will do so, sir, if possible."
"I propose to appoint him executive officer of the Bronx."
"I am sure Mr. Flint could not have a better man."
In due time this appointment was made, and Captain Flint, on the
recommendation of Christy, was entirely satisfied to receive him as
his first lieutenant.
"One thing more, Captain Passford," continued the flag-officer; "the
ship's steward of the Mercidita has been very sick for three weeks, and
has applied for a sick-leave. I shall be obliged to transfer Mr. Nawood
of the Bronx to his place."
"I can mention just the right person to take Mr. Nawood's place," said
Christy eagerly.
"You seem to have a man ready for every vacant position. Who is he?"
asked the commodore with a pleasant smile.
"His name is David Davis; but he is not a relative of the president of
the Southern Confederacy, for he is a mulatto. He has rendered very
important service on several occasions, and there is not a truer or
braver man on board of the Bronx, or any other ship of the squadron,"
replied Christy with enthusiasm.
The commodore shook his head, but he looked very good-natured. Christy
narrated the part Dave had taken in the capture of Captain Flanger in
the cabin, and in recovering possession of the Bronx when it was shown
that the officers were rebels. Mr. Flint was sent for. He was quite as
earnest in his plea for the steward as the commander had been, and the
written appointment of Mr. David Davis was in Christy's hands when the
flag-officer took his leave of the wounded commander.
"Dave," said the wounded lieutenant, the next time the steward came into
the room, "no more 'massa,' no more 'moggywompus,' no more 'done do it.'
You know better than to use such expressions, and you are no longer a
'nigger;' you are the ship's steward of the Bronx."
"What's that, Captain Passford?" demanded Dave, opening his eyes like a
pair of saucers.
Christy handed him the appointment just made, and the steward danced
about like a madman. He had expected nothing for his meritorious
service, and he found himself in a position of trust and responsibility.
He expressed his gratitude in the most earnest language, and without
using a single objectionable phrase, for his education was better than
his habit in the use of speech.
Ensign McLinn, who had served on board of the little steamer, but had
recently been on sick leave, was appointed second lieutenant of the
Bronx, while Mr. Camden, outranked by the other officers, remained as
third lieutenant. Christy and Mr. Pennant were transferred to the
Sphinx, with a prize crew; and that same evening the Bronx sailed under
her new commander, with sealed orders, to the eastward.
The Sphinx sailed the next day for New York, and made a tolerably quick
passage. Of course Christy was received with open arms by the family at
