garments and splendid weapons, and the necessary information, he left
the forest and rode into the capital city. Then he went to the King and
desired of him a private audience, which was granted. He said that he
was the son of a powerful Christian prince, and had been taken captive
by the Tartars, but had escaped, and he offered to make all Tartary
subject to the King, if only he might marry his daughter. And whether by
magic, or by eloquence, he succeeded, for the King was old and
feeble-minded. But soon after the wedding, he poisoned his father-in-law
and became king in his place, though there were many in the land who
had a better right, being closely connected with the royal blood.'
'This is the story of Khaled,' said Abdullah. 'I know the truth. Why do
you weary me, trying to deceive me, and calling him a robber? But it is
true that in Nejed there are men of good descent who have a better right
to sit on the throne.'
'Hear what followed,' answered Almasta. 'This man Ismaïl afterwards took
captive a woman of the Tartars, who knew who he was, though he supposed
her ignorant. And he gave her in marriage to the youngest and bravest of
his captains, a man to whom Allah had vouchsafed the tongue of
eloquence, and the teeth of strength, and the lips of discretion to
close together and hide both at the proper season. The woman told her
husband who Ismaïl was, and instructed him concerning the palace, its
passages and secret places, and the treasures that were hidden there.
And she told him also that Ismaïl had made a covenant with the Sultan of
his own country, which would bring destruction upon the nation he now
ruled. For she loved her husband on account of his youth and beauty, and
she had embraced his faith and was ready to die for him.'
'The husband's name was Abdullah,' said Abdullah. 'And he also loved his
wife, who surpassed other women in beauty, as a bay mare surpasses
pigs.'
'He afterwards loved her still better,' answered Almasta, 'for though he
was only chief over four hundred tents, she gave him a kingdom. Hear
what followed. But I will call him Abdullah if you please, though his
name was Mskhet.'
'Allah is merciful! There are no such names in Arabia. This one is like
the breaking of earthen vessels upon stones. Call him Abdullah.'
'Abdullah therefore went to the wisest and most discreet of his kindred,
and spoke to them of the great treasures which were hidden in the
palace, and he pointed out to their obscured sight that all this wealth
had been got by them and their fathers in war, and had been taken in
tithes from the people, and was now in the possession of Ismaïl. And
they talked among themselves and saw that this was indeed true. And at
another time, he told them that Ismaïl was not really of their religion,
but a hypocrite. And again a third time he told them the whole truth, so
that their hearts burned when they knew that their King was but a robber
who had been condemned to death. Though they were discreet men, the
story was in some way told abroad among the soldiers, doubtless by the
intervention of angels, so that all the people knew it, and were angry
against Ismaïl and ready to break out against him so soon as a man could
be found to lead them.'
'But,' said Abdullah, 'this Ismaïl doubtless had a strong guard of
soldiers about him, and had given gifts to his captains, and shown
honour to them, so that they were attached to him.'
'Undoubtedly,' replied Almasta, 'and but for his wife, Abdullah could
not have succeeded. She advised him to go to his discreet kindred and
friends and say to them, "See, if you will afterwards support me, I will
go alone into the palace and will get the better of this Ismaïl, when he
is asleep, and I will so do that the soldiers shall not oppose me. And
afterwards, you will all enter together and the treasure shall be
divided. But we will throw some of it to the people, lest they be
disappointed." And so he did. For his wife knew the secret entrances to
the palace and took him in with her by night, disguised as a woman. And
they went together silently into the harem, and slew Ismaïl and bound
his wife, and took the keys of the treasure chambers from under the
pillow. After this they took from the gold as many bags as there were
soldiers, and waked each man, giving him a sack of sherifs, and bidding
him take as much more as he could find, for the King was dead. Then
Abdullah's friends were admitted and they divided the treasure, and went
abroad before it was day, calling upon the people that Ismaïl was dead
and that a man of their own nation was King in his place, and scattering
handfuls of gold into every house as they passed. And, behold, before
the second call to prayer, Abdullah was King, and all the people came
and did homage to him. And Abdullah himself was astonished when he saw
how easy it had been, and loved his wife even better than before.'
So Almasta finished her tale and there was silence for a time, while
Abdullah sat still and gazed at the closed tents in the starlight, and
listened to the distant chewing of the camels.
'Give me some water,' he said at last. 'I am very thirsty.'
She brought him drink from the skin, and soon afterwards he lay down to
rest. But they said nothing more to each other that night of the story
which Almasta had told.
