"Then you do not believe in Saints?"
"Not until they are canonised and made articles of belief--unless you
are one, Madame."
"I have thought of trying it," answered Maria Consuelo, calmly.
"Saintship is a career, even in society, whatever you may say to the
contrary. It has attractions, after all."
"Not equal to those of the other side. Every one admits that. The
majority is evidently in favour of sin, and if we are to believe in
modern institutions, we must believe that majorities are right."
"Then the hero is always wrong, for he is the enthusiastic individual
who is always for facing odds, and if no one disagrees with him he is
very unhappy. Yet there are heroes--"
"Where?" asked Orsino. "The heroes people talk of ride bronze horses on
inaccessible pedestals. When the bell rings for a revolution they are
all knocked down and new ones are set up in their places--also executed
by the best artists--and the old ones are cast into cannon to knock to
pieces the ideas they invented. That is called history."
"You take a cheerful and encouraging view of the world's history, Don
Orsino."
"The world is made for us, and we must accept it. But we may criticise
it. There is nothing to the contrary in the contract."
"In the social contract? Are you going to talk to me about
Jean-Jacques?"
"Have you read him, Madame?"
"'No woman who respects herself--'" began Maria Consuelo, quoting the
famous preface.
"I see that you have," said Orsino, with a laugh. "I have not."
"Nor I."
To Orsino's surprise, Madame d'Aranjuez blushed. He could not have told
why he was pleased, nor why her change of colour seemed so unexpected.
"Speaking of history," he said, after a very slight pause, "why did you
thank me yesterday for having got you a card?"
"Did you not speak to Gouache about it?"
"I said something--I forget what. Did he manage it?"
"Of course. I had his wife's place. She could not go. Do you dislike
being thanked for your good offices? Are you so modest as that?"
"Not in the least, but I hate misunderstandings, though I will get all
the credit I can for what I have not done, like other people. When I saw
that you knew the Del Ferice, I thought that perhaps she had been
exerting herself."
"Why do you hate her so?" asked Maria Consuelo.
"I do not hate her. She does not exist--that is all."
"Why does she not exist, as you call it? She is a very good-natured
woman. Tell me the truth. Everybody hates her--I saw that by the way
they bowed to her while we were waiting--why? There must be a reason. Is
she a--an incorrect person?"
Orsino laughed.
"No. That is the point at which existence is more likely to begin than
to end."
"How cynical you are! I do not like that. Tell me about Madame Del
Ferice."
"Very well. To begin with, she is a relation of mine."
"Seriously?"
"Seriously. Of course that gives me a right to handle the whole
dictionary of abuse against her."
"Of course. Are you going to do that?"
"No. You would call me cynical. I do not like you to call me by bad
names, Madame."
"I had an idea that men liked it," observed Maria Consuelo gravely.
"One does not like to hear disagreeable truths."
"Then it is the truth? Go on. You have forgotten what we were talking
about."
"Not at all Donna Tullia, my second, third or fourth cousin, was married
once upon a time to a certain Mayer."
"And left him. How interesting!"
"No, Madame. He left her--very suddenly, I believe--for another world.
Better or worse? Who can say? Considering his past life, worse, I
suppose; but considering that he was not obliged to take Donna Tullia
with him, decidedly better."
"You certainly hate her. Then she married Del Ferice."
"Then she married Del Ferice--before I was born. She is fabulously old.
Mayer left her very rich, and without conditions. Del Ferice was an
impossible person. My father nearly killed him in a duel once--also
before I was born. I never knew what it was about. Del Ferice was a spy,
in the old days when spies got a living in a Rome--"
"Ah! I see it all now!" exclaimed Maria Consuelo. "Del Ferice is white,
and you are black. Of course you hate each other. You need not tell me
any more."
"How you take that for granted!"
"Is it not perfectly clear? Do not talk to me of like and dislike when
