put an end to it in this fashion. I wouldn't keep a mau 
wlio drank to the neglect of his business. I'd excuse him 
for the first offence, maybe the second. Then I'd discharge 
him. If all the employers would join in some such meas- 
ure " — 
" It would shut up the saloons ; " and Winterburne 
smiles cordially over at his partner. "They're ready 
enough to trust a man when he has work, or is likely to get 
it. If everybody else had as much confidence in him ! " 
" They could take their choice. They'd still be free 
 
agents ; " and he nods his head satirically. " There'd be 
no compulsion." 
" Meanwhile, what would the family do ? The wife and 
children would have to support him, or he must turn tramp 
or criminal. Have you a right to let him loose that way ? " 
" Oh ! " remarks Dale, " some one else might hire him." 
" Not if the employers banded together. And in posi- 
tions of responsibility or high trust, or where lives may be 
at stake, I think no one has any right to put a man who 
drinks occasionally. When the infrequent ' larks,' and 
' tears,' and ' good times ' are made quite as disreputable as 
the every-day drinking, there will be a change all around. 
When the man who sells rum is not esteemed as highlj' as 
the man who sells bread, when the brewer and distiller are 
not put on a par with all other manufacturers, even the 
poor muddled drunkard may come to see that sobriety is 
really a virtue, one of the economic virtues. But the poor 
fellow bids fair to be crushed by the nether millstone 
before he is rescued." 
" All those folks down there," Dale nods his head with 
an irritated fling, "have coddled up Braxton and two or 
three of the others that had sickness this winter. And 
you see what a little effect it has had upon them." 
" There was a wise man once who recommended that the 
Christian virtues should be used toward the indifferent and 
the ungrateful. The Gentiles, he told his followers, knew 
enough to be kindly to those who treated them well." 
Dale flushes angrily. He has been one of the steady 
attendants at the revival, since it was in his church. He 
has, to be sure, had no great faith in it. And he has sim- 
ply refrained from joining his party on this question, he 
has made no stand against it. He, too, fancies he believes 
in impartial rights for all men. 
The next step Winterburne takes is to purchase a strip 
of land that has been lying waste for a long while. Since 
there seems no possibility of iron in it, the sale passes un- 
questioned. There is space for twenty houses. A building 
association has been discussed, and a meeting is called to 
consider the feasibility of forming one. Or Winterburne 
will build the houses and sell them on very moderate in- 
stalments. 
On the whole, it is rather amusing. Winterburne looks 
upon a property owner as a sort of ballast to the j)lace. 
But there is the other side — in dull times a man cannot 
take his house on his back and seek fresh fields of labor. 
Neither can he sell. 
"How many of you," asks Winterburne, "have been in 
this town five years ? " 
It would seem mostly all of them had. 
" Then you ought to feel some pride in its improvement. 
Dull times may come, to be sure, but they seldom last very 
long. And if you have your house you can certainly 
weather it better. You can leave your -families in security 
while you tramp for work. You save up something where, 
on the other hand, you would be likely to spend it all." 
" It looks very fair," says a small, sharp-faced man, tak- 
ing the. floor; "but when you're fast this way, and the 
bosses want to give a cut at wages, you daren't stand out, 
for fear you'd lose your house. They get the upper hand 
of you everywhere. And if your house isn't paid for and 
you're out of work, there's a sharp foreclosure, and you lose 
what you've put in it." 
"If any man chooses to build one of these houses or buy 
it after it is built, and any misfortune happens to him, the 
association will pay him exactly what it cost. The interest 
will have gone for rent. So he can be sure of a purchaser. 
And if he can sell it for more than that, he has the oppor- 
tunity,'' announces Winterburne. 
He well knows he will be back of everything, although 
