The “Senator” still lingered. He was sorry for the young people; it had
been a dull evening for them. In the goodness of his heart he tried
to make it pleasant for them now; tried to remove the ill impression
necessarily left by the general defeat; tried to be chatty, even tried
to be gay. But the responses were sickly, there was no starting any
enthusiasm; he would give it up and quit--it was a day specially picked
out and consecrated to failures.

But when Gwendolen rose up promptly and smiled a glad smile and said
with thankfulness and blessing, “Must you go?” it seemed cruel to
desert, and he sat down again.

He was about to begin a remark when--when he didn’t. We have all been
there. He didn’t know how he knew his concluding to stay longer had been
a mistake, he merely knew it; and knew it for dead certain, too. And so
he bade goodnight, and went mooning out, wondering what he could have
done that changed the atmosphere that way. As the door closed behind him
those two were standing side by side, looking at that door--looking at
it in a waiting, second-counting, but deeply grateful kind of way. And
the instant it closed they flung their arms about each other’s necks,
and there, heart to heart and lip to lip--

“Oh, my God, she’s kissing it!”

Nobody heard this remark, because Hawkins, who bred it, only thought it,
he didn’t utter it. He had turned, the moment he had closed the door,
and had pushed it open a little, intending to re-enter and ask what
ill-advised thing he had done or said, and apologize for it. But he
didn’t re-enter; he staggered off stunned, terrified, distressed.




CHAPTER XXII.

Five minutes later he was sitting in his room, with his head bowed
within the circle of his arms, on the table--final attitude of grief and
despair. His tears were flowing fast, and now and then a sob broke upon
the stillness. Presently he said:

“I knew her when she was a little child and used to climb about my
knees; I love her as I love my own, and now--oh, poor thing, poor
thing, I cannot bear it!--she’s gone and lost her heart to this mangy
materializee! Why didn’t we see that that might happen? But how could
we? Nobody could; nobody could ever have dreamed of such a thing. You
couldn’t expect a person would fall in love with a wax-work. And this
one doesn’t even amount to that.”

He went on grieving to himself, and now and then giving voice to his
lamentations.

“It’s done, oh, it’s done, and there’s no help for it, no undoing
the miserable business. If I had the nerve, I would kill it. But
that wouldn’t do any good. She loves it; she thinks it’s genuine and
authentic. If she lost it she would grieve for it just as she would
for a real person. And who’s to break it to the family! Not I--I’ll die
first. Sellers is the best human being I ever knew and I wouldn’t any
more think of--oh, dear, why it’ll break his heart when he finds it out.
And Polly’s too. This comes of meddling with such infernal matters!
But for this, the creature would still be roasting in Sheol where
it belongs. How is it that these people don’t smell the brimstone?
Sometimes I can’t come into the same room with him without nearly
suffocating.”

After a while he broke out again:

“Well, there’s one thing, sure. The materializing has got to stop right
where it is. If she’s got to marry a spectre, let her marry a decent one
out of the Middle Ages, like this one--not a cowboy and a thief such
as this protoplasmic tadpole’s going to turn into if Sellers keeps on
fussing at it. It costs five thousand dollars cash and shuts down on
the incorporated company to stop the works at this point, but Sally
Sellers’s happiness is worth more than that.”

He heard Sellers coming, and got himself to rights. Sellers took a seat,
and said:

“Well, I’ve got to confess I’m a good deal puzzled. It did certainly
eat, there’s no getting around it. Not eat, exactly, either, but it
nibbled; nibbled in an appetiteless way, but still it nibbled; and
