suffocated. The words of the women that had drawn her to them were empty
as blanks in a dream; the jeers of the mob vacant as an empty bier. To but
one thing was she alive, the fact that death could be. Little by little,
as the impossible merged into the actual, the understanding came to her
that the worst that could be had been done, and she ceased to suffer. The
departing hierarchy, the dispersing mob, retreating before encroaching
night, left her unimpressed. To her the setting sun was Christ.
The soldiers passed. She did not see them. Calcol called to her. She did
not hear. The women had gone from her; she did not notice it. She stood as
a cataleptic might, her eyes on the cross. Once only, when the Christ had
uttered his despairing cry, she too had cried in her despair. In the roar
of the mob the cry was lost as a stone tossed in the sea. Since then she
had been dumb, sightless also, existing, if at all, unconsciously, her
life-springs nourished by death.
Though she gazed at the cross, she had ceased to distinguish it. A little
group that had reached it before the soldiery left had been unmarked by
her. On the platform of her dream a serpent had emerged. In its coils were
her immortal hopes. It was that she saw, and that alone. Those moments of
agony in which the imagination oscillates between the past and the future,
devouring the one, fumbling the other, had been endured, and resignation
failed to bring its balm. She had believed with a faith so firm that now
in its demolition there was nothing left—an abyss merely, where light was
not.
A hand touched her, and she quivered as a leaf does at the wing of a bird.
“Mary, come with us,” some one was saying; “we are taking him to a tomb.”
Just beyond were men and women whom she knew. Joseph of Haramathaïm, a
close follower of the Master; Nikodemon, the richest man in all Judæa;
Johanna, Mary Clopas, Salomè, Bernice, and the servants of the opulent
Jew. It was Ahulah who had touched her; and as Mary started she saw before
her a coffin which the others bore.
“Come with us,” Ahulah repeated; and Mary crossed the intervening ridge to
where the gardens were and the tombs she had already passed.
At the door of a sepulchre the brief procession halted. Within was a room,
a little grotto furnished with a stone slab and a lamp that flickered,
surmounted by an arch. The coffin, placed on the slab, routed a bat that
flew to the arch, and a lizard that scurried to a crevice. In the coffin
the Christ lay, his head wrapped in a napkin, the body wound about by
broad bands of linen that were secured with gum and impregnated with
spices and with myrrh. The odor of aromatics filled the tomb. The bat
escaped to the night. A stone was rolled before the opening, the brief
procession withdrew, and Mary was left with the dead.
The momentary exertion, the bier, the sepulchre, the sight of the Christ
in his cerements, the brooding quiet—these things had roused her. Her mind
was nimbler, and thought more active. One by one the stars appeared. They
would vanish, she told herself, as her hopes had done. Only they would
reappear, and belief could not. It had come as a rainbow does, and
disappeared as vaporously, little by little, before the full glare of
might. For a minute, hours perhaps, she stood quite still, interrogating
the past in which so much had been, gauging the future in which so much
was to be. The one retreated, the other fled. Thoughts came to her
evanescently, and faded before they were wholly formed. At one moment she
was beckoning the unicorns from the desert, the winged lions from the
yonderland, commanding them to bear her to the home of some immense
revenge. At others she was asking her way of griffins, propounding the
problem to the Sphinx. But the unicorns and lions took flight, the
griffins spread their wings, the Sphinx fell asleep. There was no answer
to her appeal.
Behind the sepulchre the moon rose; it dropped a beam near by. There is
light somewhere, it seemed to say; and in that telegram from Above, she
thought of Rome. She remembered now, in Rome was Tiberius, and in him
Revenge. She smiled at her own forgetfulness. Yes, it was there. She would
go to him, she would exact reparation; there should be another
crucifixion. Pilate should be nailed to the cross, Judas on one side,
Caiaphas on the other. Only it would be at Rome where there was no
Passover to interfere with the torture they endured. Things were done
better there. Men were crucified, not with the head up, but with the feet;
and so remained, not for hours, but for days; and died, not of their
wounds alone, but of hunger too.
A chariot of dream caught her, and, borne across the intervening space,
she saw herself in a palace where there were gods and monsters, columns of
transparent quartz, floors of malachite, roofs of gold. And there, on a
dais, the Cæsar lay. Behind him a fan, luminous as a peacock’s tail,
oscillated to the tinkling of mysterious keys. In his crown was the
lividity of uncolored dawns, in his sceptre the dominion of the world. An
ulcer devoured his face, and in his ear a boy repeated the maxims of
Elephantis. Mary threw herself at his feet, her tears fell on them as rain
on leaves. “Vengeance,” she implored; but he listened merely to the boy at
his side. “Death is your servant,” she cried. “You command, it obeys.” The
ulcer oozed, the face grew vague, he gave no answer. She stood up and
menaced him. “Behind you spectres crouch; you may not see them. I do;
