
Syracuse. A woman of rank had 
given birth to a child with three 
heads. Apollonius examined it. 

"There will be three emperors at 
once," he announced. "But their 
reign will be shorter than that of 
kings on the stage." 

Within that year Galb;i, who was 
emperor for an instant, died at the 
gates of Rome. Vitellius, after being 
emperor in little else than dream, was 
butchered in the Forum; and Otho, 
in that fine antique fashion, killed 
himself in Gaul. Apollonius mean- 
while was in Alexandria, predicting 
the purple to Vespasian, the rise of 
the House of Flavia; invoking Jupiter 
in his protege- 's behalf; and presently, 
the prediction accomplished, he was 
back in Rome, threatening Domitian, 
warning him that the House of Flavia 
would fall. 

The atmosphere then was charged I 




with the marvelous; the world was 

filled with prodigies, with strange 
gods, beckoning chimeras and credulous crowds. Belief in the supernatural was absolute ; the occult 
sciences, astrology, magic, divination, 
all had their adepts. In Greece there 
were oracles at every turn, and with 
them prophets who taught the art of 
adultery and how to construe the past. 
On the banks of the Rhine there 
were virgins who were regarded as 
divinities, and in Gaul were men who 
were held wholly divine. 

Jerusalem too had her follies. 
There was Simon the Magician, 
founder of gnosticism, father of every 
heresy, Messiah to the Jews, Jupiter 
to the Gentiles — an impudent self- 
made god, who pretended to float in 
the air, and called his mistress 
Minerva — a deification, parenthetically, which was accepted by Nicholas, his successor, a deacon of the 
church, who raised her to the eighth 
heaven as patron saint of hist. To 
him, as to Simon, she was Ennoia, 
Prunikos, Helen of Troy. She had 
been Delilah, Lucretia. She had 
prostituted herself to every nation 
she had sung in the byways, and hidden robbers in the vermin of her bed. 
But by Simon she was rehabilitated. 
It was she, no doubt, of whom Caligula thought when he beckoned to 
the moon. In Rome she had her 
statue, and near it was one to Simon, 
the holy god. 

But of all manifestations of divinity 
the most patent was that which haloed 
Vespasian. He expected it, Suetonius says, but it is doubtful if anyone 
else did. One night he dreamed that 
an era of prosperity was to dawn for 
him and his when Nero lost a tooth. 
The next day he was shown one 




 


