"I think we have figured this matter out correctly, Mr. Passford," said
Captain Chantor, as they gazed at the attenuated streak of black.

"Captain Rombold is a very competent officer, and you and he seem to
have agreed in your calculations," added Christy.

The steamer to the eastward soon came in sight; she and the Chateaugay
were headed for the same point, and by noon they were in plain sight of
each other. In another hour they were within hailing distance.

"That is not the Dornoch," said Christy decidedly.

"No; she is much larger than the Dornoch," added Mr. Gilfleur.

"I am disappointed," replied the captain.

The steamer showed the British flag, and went on her way to the
south-west. The Chateaugay continued on her course without change till
eight bells in the afternoon watch, when a heavier volume of smoke was
descried in the north-east. No change was made in the course, and at the
beginning of the second dog watch the craft from which the smoke issued
could be seen with the naked eye. She was headed to the south-west, and
it was evident that her course would carry her to the westward of the
Chateaugay. The darkness soon settled down upon the ocean, and the port
light of the stranger showed itself over the starboard quarter of the
ship, proving that it crossed the wake of the other.

The action, if the steamer proved to be the Dornoch, must be deferred
till the next morning. It was impossible to determine what she was in
the darkness, and Captain Chantor ordered the course to be changed to
correspond with that of the stranger, which manifested no disposition to
get away from her. All night the two vessels maintained the same
relative position, and both were making about ten knots an hour.
At daylight in the morning the commander and Christy were on the
quarter-deck, anxiously observing the stranger. She was carefully
examined with the glasses.

"That is the Dornoch!" exclaimed Mr. Gilfleur, after a long inspection
with the glass.

"No doubt of it," added Christy.

"You are sure of it?" inquired the commander.

"We have both been on board of her, and I am perfectly sure of it,"
replied Christy, who proceeded to explain the details by which he
identified her; and the captain was entirely satisfied.

The Dornoch was not more than two miles distant from the Chateaugay, for
in the early morning hours the course had been changed a couple of
points, to bring her nearer for examination. It was now a chase, and the
chief engineer was instructed to give the ship her best speed. It was
soon evident that the Dornoch was hurrying her pace, for her
smoke-stacks were vomiting forth immense inky clouds.

"I doubt if Captain Rombold cares to fight with my uncle on board," said
Christy. "He can see that the Chateaugay is of heavier metal than the
Dornoch."

"I should suppose that it would be his first care, as perhaps he regards
it as his first duty, to put his passenger on board of a steamer bound
to England," added the commander. "It appears to be a question of speed
just now."

The Chateaugay was driven to her utmost, and it was soon clear that she
was too much for her antagonist. At two bells in the forenoon watch she
was about a mile abreast of the chase, which had not yet shown her
colors. The flag of the United States floated at the peak, and the
commander ordered a shot to be fired across the forefoot of the Dornoch.

This was an order for her to come to; but, instead of doing so, she
flung out the Confederate flag, and fired a shotted gun, the ball from
which whizzed over the heads of the Chateaugay's officers on the
quarter-deck.




CHAPTER XIV

