of Bonifazio.
"Do you happen to know," he asked, "if there was much scarlet fever in
the city last winter? I have always wondered how poor Lord Herbert
caught it."
Bonifazio had known Lord Herbert for years, just as Donald had known
Ghisleri, for the two friends had often made short journeys together,
taking their servants with them. The Italian thought a long time before
he gave an answer.
"No, Signore. I do not remember hearing that there were many cases. But
then, I am not in the way of knowing. It may have been."
"You are a very discreet man, Bonifazio," said Ghisleri. "Lord Herbert
fell ill on the day after he had dined in Casa Savelli. Do you think you
could find out for me whether any one of the servants had the scarlet
fever at that time?"
"Perhaps, signore. I will try. I know Giuseppe, the butler, who is a
very good person, but who is not fond of talking. When there is such an
illness they either send the servants to the hospital, in the Roman
houses, or else they put them in an attic and try not to let any one
know. For the rest, I will do what I can. You say well, Signore, for it
is possible that the blessed soul of the Milord caught the fever at the
dinner in Casa Savelli."
"That is what I think," said Ghisleri. And he thought a good deal more
also, which he did not communicate to his man.
Bonifazio, as his master said, was discreet. He was also very patient
and very uncommunicative, as the men of the Abbruzzi often are. They
make the best servants when they can be got, for, in addition to the
good qualities most of them possess in a greater or less degree, they
are almost always physically very strong men, though rarely above middle
height, and often extremely pale. Ghisleri knew that so soon as
Bonifazio had anything to tell, he would tell it without further
question or reminder.
Several days passed, during which Ghisleri, who gained strength rapidly,
began to resume his former mode of life, went to the club, saw his
friends, and made a few visits. He went more than once to Maddalena's
house and stayed some time with her when he found her alone. Little by
little he fancied that her look was changing and growing more
indifferent. He was glad of it. He wished that he might be to her
exactly what she was to him. That, indeed, could never be, but he wished
it were possible. He knew that when she ceased to love him altogether,
she could never feel friendly devotion, gratitude, or respect for him,
and he felt all three for her in a far greater degree than she could
imagine. On the whole, during that time their relations were peaceable,
and altogether undisturbed by the frequent differences that had so often
nearly estranged them from one another in earlier days. There was, of
course, an air of constraint about their meetings, more evident in
Maddalena's manner than in Ghisleri's, and the latter hardly hoped that
this could ever quite wear off and leave at last a sincere and true
friendship behind it. That was, indeed, the best that could be hoped for
either of them, and he had no right to expect the best, nor anything
approaching to it.
One evening as he was dressing for dinner, Bonifazio gave him the news
he desired. It had not been easy to extract any communication on the
subject from old Giuseppe, the Savelli's butler, but such as he had at
last given was clear, concise, and to the point. There had been a case
of scarlet fever in the house. Donna Adele's maid had taken it, and was
just convalescent at the time when the Ardens dined with Adele and her
husband. The woman's name was Lucia, and on falling ill she had been at
once removed to a distant room in the upper part of the palace. The case
had been rather a severe one, Giuseppe believed, and it was only within
the last few weeks that Lucia seemed to have regained her strength. She
was at present at Gerano with her mistress, but had written to the wife
of the Savelli's porter saying that she had been dismissed, and was to
leave at the end of the month, and asking for assistance in finding a
new place. Ghisleri was satisfied for the present. It was quite clear
that Arden must have caught the fever that killed him so suddenly in
Casa Savelli. Whether Donna Adele had in any way communicated the
contagion was another matter, and not easily decided. Her inexplicable
nervousness, beginning about the time that Arden died, might be
accounted for on the ground that she was aware of having been the
unintentional cause of his illness, and felt that by a little precaution
she might have averted the catastrophe. The idea was constantly present
in Ghisleri's mind, but it lacked detail and clearness, and constituted
at most a rather strong suspicion. Of course it was quite possible, and,
considering Adele's character, more than likely, that she had never been
near the maid during her illness. If she had never had the scarlet fever
herself, it was quite certain. But that was a point easily settled, and
was a very important one.
On the following day, Ghisleri called at the Palazzo Braccio. The
Princess received him, as she always did, without any signs of
satisfaction, but without marked coldness. To her he was always "that
