V.


The day was still far from dawning when Northwick crept up the silent
avenue, in the dark of its firs, toward his empty house, and stealthily
began to seek for that home in it which had haunted his sleeping and
waking dreams so long. He had a kind of ecstacy in the risk he ran; a
wild pleasure mixed with the terror he felt in being what and where he
was. He wanted to laugh when he thought of the perfect ease and safety
of his return. At the same time a thrilling anxiety pierced him through
and through, and made him take all the precautions of a thief in the
night.

A thief in the night: that was the phrase which kept repeating itself to
him, till he said it over under his breath, as he put off his shoes, and
stole up the piazza-steps, and began to peer into the long windows, at
the blackness within. He did not at once notice that the shutters were
open, with an effect of reckless security or indifference, which struck
a pang to his heart when he realized it. He felt the evil omen of this
faltering in the vigilance which had once guarded his home, and which he
had been the first to break down, and lay it open to spoil and waste. He
tried the windows; he must get in, somehow, and he did not dare to ring
at the door, or to call out. He must steal into his house, as he had
stolen out of it.

One of the windows yielded; the long glass door gave inward, and he
stepped on the carpetless floor of the library. Then the fact of the
change that must have passed upon the whole house enforced itself, and
he felt a passionate desire to face and appropriate the change in every
detail. He lit one of the little taper matches that he had with him,
and, hollowing his hands around it, let its glimmer show him the
desolation of the dismantled and abandoned rooms. He passed through the
doors set wide between library and drawing-room and dining-room and
hall; and then from his dying taper he lit another, and mounted the
stairs. He had no need to seek his daughter's rooms to satisfy himself
that the whole place was empty; they were gone; but he had a fantastic
expectation that in his own room he might find himself. There was
nothing there, either; it was as if he were a ghost come back in search
of the body it had left behind; any one that met him, he thought, might
well be more frightened than he; and yet he did not lose the sense of
risk to himself.

He had an expectation, born of long custom, and persisting in spite of
the nakedness of the place otherwise, that he should see the pictured
face of his wife, where it had looked so mercifully at him that last
night from the portrait above the mantel. He sighed lightly to find it
gone; her chair was gone from the bay-window, where he had stood to gaze
his last over the possessions he was abandoning. He let his little taper
die out by the hearth, and then crept toward the glimmer of the window,
and looked out again. The conservatories and the dairies and the barns
showed plain in the gray of the moonless, starless night; in the
coachman's quarters a little point of light appeared for a moment
through the window, and then vanished.

Northwick knew from this that the place was inhabited; unless some
homeless tramp like himself was haunting it, and it went through his
confusion that he must speak to Newton, and caution him about tramps
sleeping in the barns anywhere; they might set them on fire. His mind
reverted to his actual condition, and he wondered how long he could come
and go as a vagrant without being detected. If it were not for the
action against vagrants which he had urged upon the selectmen the summer
before, he might now come and go indefinitely. But he was not to blame;
it was because Mrs. Morrell had encouraged the tramps by her reckless
charity that something had to be done; and now it was working against
him. It was hard: he remembered reading of a man who had left his family
one day, and taken a room across the street, and lived there in sight of
them unknown till he died: and now he could not have passed his own door
without danger of arrest as a vagrant. He struck another match, and
looked at himself in the mirror framed as a window at one side of the
bay; he believed that with the long white beard he wore, and his hair
which he had let grow, his own children would not have known him.

It was bitter; but his mind suddenly turned from the thought, with a
lightness it had, and he remembered that now he did not know where his
children lived. He must find out, somehow; he had come to see them; and
he could not go back without. He must hurry to find them, and be gone
again before daylight. He crept out to the stairs, and struck a match to
light himself down, and he carried it still burning, toward the window
he had left open behind him in the library. As soon as he stepped out on
the piazza he found himself gripped fast in the arms of a man.
