look for a failure. He saw the Professor 's 
daughter, whom he used to take to drive ; he 
thought she looked a little old, to-day. He 
saw all the fellows, he noticed that George 
Washington Clay, the negro, had on a new 
frock-coat, and wondered if he hired it 
from a pawnbroker s. He saw Calhoun 
and O Grian, quite distinctly. Trouncey 
was one of the ushers. He was listening, all 
ears, all eyes, a big, good-hearted, unreason 
ing adorer, hoping with all his might that 
the speaker would " come in at the death." 
Lee Calhoun was attending politely, not 
wishing him ill, either. Jamie, pale with 
emotion, half hidden by a pillar, lifted to 
the young speaker the face of gentle trust 
which had steadied him through so many 
college scrapes, and had for three years been 
so dear to him, Jamie, ready, Don half 
believed, to give up his own hope of the 
valedictory, if he could secure the De Court 
ney for his chum. 
And here sat Dr. Fleet, his fine, scholarly 
face illuminated with critical pleasure. 
Evidently the minister expected his other 
boy to win his spurs out of that oration. 
And here 
After his eye had first dared meet hers, 
it seemed to Donald that he saw nothing, 
that he knew nothing, that he felt nothing, 
in all this great, still house, but Fay. She 
simply filled the place. She sat, leaning 
forward a little, her head slightly bent, her 
little blue fan, with its white lace edge, held 
poised, like a thought arrested, against the 
curve of her soft cheek. Her sweet, intelligent 
face was upturned. Her deep eyes 
seemed to veil themselves as if there were 
something more within them than her mod 
est feeling would reveal among so many 
people. Her attitude, her breathlessness, 
her fitful color, her half-averted look, all 
said : 
 
" I believe in you ! But I'm not going 
to tell ! You're doing well. Steady, sir, 
steady ! Don't look at me so hard ! Stea-dy ! 
You II get it" 
The girl 's inspiration was finer than wine 
to him. 
Donald felt as if he spoke on wings, and 
lived upon the hopes of Paradise. And 
there ! Before he knew it, the young orator 
had come to the end, had paused, bowed, 
and turned to leave the stage. A thunder 
of applause recalled him. Donald turned, 
surprised. He did not expect such a storm. 
Wave upon wave it broke about him. 
Marcy was a very popular young man at 
Harle. His success was considered certain, 
and the general pleasure was emphatic. 
Flowers fell on him as he stood bowing. 
The Professor 's daughter classically asked 
Trouncey to toss a wreath of laurel ; Merry 
Gorond stood upon a seat and threw, with 
precision, a blazing bouquet of the reddest 
roses to be found in Harle ; but Fay, Fay 
threw no flowers ; she sat with downcast 
eyes. Donald felt a momentary pang ; 
when, softly, almost unobserved, there fell 
at his feet a tiny cluster of white violets, 
hidden in their own leaves. Dr. Fleet 
threw them in a very quiet way ; Fay 's card 
was not even tied to them ; but that was not 
needed. Donald gathered them quickly out 
of sight and hid them in his breast pocket, 
as he bowed himself off the stage. 
" Good elocution," he heard one of the 
committee whisper, as he passed by. 
" The oration was well constructed, too." 
