"I will not promise to answer it." She still looked away from him.
"I hope you will. Do you mean to lend this money to some one? If it
were an ordinary payment you would certainly not want it in notes in
the house."
"How do you know?" asked Marion with some impatience.
"Because no human man of business with whom I have ever had anything to
do likes to trot about town with a hundred thousand dollars' worth of
notes in his pocket. And there is very little doubt in my mind about
what you mean to do with the money. You mean to give it to your
husband. Am I right?"
Mrs. Darche blushed a little and a shade of annoyance crossed her face.
"Why should I tell you what I am to do with it?" she asked.
"Because I am your legal adviser," answered Brett without hesitating,
"and I may give you some good advice."
"Thank you, I do not want any advice."
Another pause followed this declaration, which only seemed to confirm
the lawyer in his surmises.
"I will call it by another name," he said at last in a conciliatory
tone. "I will call it information. But it is information of a kind that
you do not expect. I should certainly not have said anything about it
if you had not sent for me on this business. Is it of any use to beg
you to reconsider the question of lending this money?"
"No, I have made up my mind."
"To lend it to your husband?"
"Dear Mr. Brett," said Marion, beginning to be impatient again, "I said
that I would rather not tell you."
"I fancy that I am not mistaken," Brett answered. "Now my dear friend,
you will be the last to know what every one has known for some time,
but it is time that you should know it. The affairs of the Company are
in a very bad state, so bad indeed, that an inquiry has been going on
into the management. I do not know the result of it yet, but I am very
much afraid that it will be bad, and that it will have very
disagreeable consequences for you all."
"Consequences?" repeated Mrs. Darche. "What consequences? Do you mean
that we shall lose money?"
"I mean that and I mean something more. It is very serious. Your
husband is deeply involved, and his father's name is so closely
associated with his in all the transactions that it seems almost
impossible to say which of the two is innocent."
"Innocent!" cried Marion, laying her hand suddenly upon the arm of her
chair and starting forward, then rising quickly to her feet and looking
down at him. "What do you mean? Why do you use that word?"
The expression had hardly escaped Brett's lips when he realised the
extent of his carelessness. He rose and stood beside her, feeling, as a
man does, that she had him at a disadvantage while he was seated and
she was standing.
"I beg your pardon," he said, "I should have been more careful. I
should have said which of the two is responsible for--"
"Something disgraceful?" interrupted Mrs. Darche whose excitement was
only increased by his hesitation. "For heaven's sake, do not keep me in
this suspense. Speak! Tell me! Be quick!"
"I should not have spoken at all except as your adviser," said Brett.
"Nothing definite is known yet, but something is wrong. As a purely
business transaction it is madness to lend money to John Darche. Can
you believe for a moment that the treasurer of such a Company, that the
men who control such a Company, would ask you to lend them a hundred
thousand dollars at a few hours' notice, if they were not on the very
verge of ruin?"
"No, but that is not what happened."
She stopped short and moved away from him a little, hesitating as to
what she should say next. It was impossible to describe to him the
scene which had taken place between her and her husband.
"I cannot tell you, and yet I want you to know," she said, at last.
"Do you not trust me?" said Brett, hoping to encourage her.
"Certainly. Trust you! Oh yes, I trust you with all my heart."
She turned and faced him again.
"Then tell me," said he. "Tell me what happened in as few words as
possible. Just the bare facts."
"It is the bare facts that are so hard to tell."
She turned away from him again feeling that if she allowed her eyes to
meet his she could not long withhold her confidence.
"I suppose your husband let you guess that there was trouble, so that
you made the offer spontaneously, and then he accepted it."
"Well--yes--no--almost."
Still she hesitated, standing by the writing-table, and idly turning
over the papers.
"I saw that he was worried and harassed and that something was wearing
upon him, and I did so want to help him! I thought it might--no I will
not say that."
"But it will not help matters to throw good money after bad," answered
