Charmian as with the necessity she was now in of telling her about her
last meeting with Ludlow. She began, "They almost did," and when
Charmian in the intensity of her interest could not keep turning around
to stare at her, Cornelia took hold of her head and turned her face
toward the fire again. Then she went on to tell how it had all
happened. She did not spare herself at any point, and she ended the
story with the expression of her belief that she had deserved it all.
"It wasn't boxing that little wretch's ears that was the disgrace; it
was having brought myself to where I had to box them."
"Yes, that was it," sighed Charmian, with deep conviction.
"And I had to tell him that I could never care for him, because I
couldn't bear to tell him what a fool I had been."
"No, no; you never could do that!"
"And I couldn't bear to have him think I was better than I really was,
or let him care for me unless I told him all about that miserable old
affair."
"No, you couldn't, Cornelia," said Charmian solemnly. "Some girls
might; most girls would. They would just consider it a flirtation,
and not say anything about it, or not till after they were engaged, and
then just laugh. But you are different from other girls--you are so
true! Yes, you would have to tell it if it killed you; I can see
that; and you couldn't tell it, and you had to break his heart. Yes,
you had to!"
"Oh, Charmian Maybough! How cruel you are!" Cornelia flung herself
forward and cried; Charmian whirled round, and kneeling before her,
threw her arms around her, in a pose of which she felt the perfection,
and kissed her tenderly.
"Why didn't you let me see how you were looking? How I have gone
on----"
Cornelia pulled herself loose. "Charmian! Do you dare to mean that I
want him to ever speak to me again--or look at me?"
"No, no----"
"Or that I'm sorry I did it?"
"No; it's this cold that's making me so stupid."
"If he were to come back again this instant, I should have to tell him
just the same, or else tell him about that--that--and you know I
couldn't do that if I lived a thousand years."
Now she melted, indeed, and suffered Charmian to moan over her, and
fortify her with all the reasons she had urged herself in various forms
of repetition. Charmain showed her again how impossible everything that
she had thought impossible was, and convinced her of every conviction.
She made Cornelia's tragedy her romance, and solemnly exulted in its
fatality, while she lifted her in her struggle of conscience to a
height from which for the present at least, Cornelia could not have
descended without a ruinous loss of self-respect. In the renunciation
in which the worshipper confirmed her saint, Ludlow and his rights and
feelings were ignored, and Cornelia herself was offered nothing more
substantial than the prospect that henceforth she and Charmian could
live for each other in a union that should be all principle on one side
and all adoration on the other.
XXXIII.
Cornelia did not go to pass that week in Lent with Mrs. Westley. When
she went, rather tardily, to withdraw her promise, she said that the
time was now growing so short she must give every moment to the
Synthesis. Mrs. Westley tacitly arranged to cancel some little plans
she had made for her, and in the pity a certain harassed air of the
girl's moved in her, she accepted her excuses as valid, and said, "But
I am afraid you are overworking at the Synthesis, Miss Saunders. Are
you feeling quite well?"
"Oh, perfectly," Cornelia answered with a false buoyancy from which she
visibly fell. She looked down, and said, "I wish the work was twice as
hard!"
"Ah, you have come to that very soon," said Mrs. Westley; and then they
were both silent, till she added, "How are you getting on with your
picture of Miss Maybough?"
"Oh, I'm not doing anything with that," said Cornelia, and she stood up
to go.
"But you are going to exhibit it?" Mrs. Westley persisted.
"No, T don't know as I am. I should have to offer it first."
"It would be sure to be accepted; Mr. Ludlow thinks it would."
"Oh, yes; I know," said Cornelia, feeling herself get very red. "But I
guess I won't offer it. Goodbye."
Mrs. Westley kept the impression of something much more personal than
artistic in Cornelia's reference to her picture, and when she met
Ludlow a few days after, she asked him if he knew that Miss Saunders
was not going to offer her picture to the Exhibition.
He said simply that he did not know it.
"Don't you think she ought? I don't think she's looking very well, of
late; do you?"
"I don't know; isn't she? I haven't seen her----" He began carelessly;
