The woman followed him, with the child in her arms. A stout German, who
appeared to be the proprietor of the establishment, was sitting in an
arm-chair, smoking a pipe. He scanned the party phlegmatically.
"What you wants?" he asked.
"Can you give this lady a room?" asked Dan.
"Is she your vife?" asked the German, with a broad grin.
"No; she is an acquaintance of mine. Her husband has driven her out of
his house in a fit of drunkenness. Can she sleep here?"
"Has she got any money?" asked the Dutchman, shrewdly.
"I will pay for her lodging."
"That's all right. She shall stay here."
"What will you charge?"
"Fifty cents a night for the lodging."
"Here it is."
"Will the lady go up now?" asked the landlord, upon whom the silver
half-dollar produced a visible impression.
"Yes," said the woman; "my poor baby is tired."
"You had better stay here two nights," said Dan. "Don't let your husband
know where you are just yet. Here is money to pay for another night's
lodging, and enough to buy food besides."
"God bless you, boy!" she said, gratefully. "But for you I should have
had to stay out all night."
"Oh, no; some one would have taken you in."
"You don't know this neighborhood; the policeman would have found me,
and taken me to the station-house. For myself I care little; but my poor
babe, who is worse than fatherless----" and she burst into tears.
"Keep up your courage, madam. Brighter days may be in store," said Dan,
cheerfully.
"I will come and see you day after to-morrow," said Dan. "Good-night."
Our hero must not be awarded too great credit for his generosity. He
knew that Mr. Rogers would willingly defray all expenses connected with
the discovery, and that the money he had advanced to his unfortunate
companion would be repaid. Had it been otherwise, however, his generous
heart would have prompted him to relieve the woman's suffering.
CHAPTER XX.
LAYING THE TRAIN.
Very early the next morning Dan rang the bell at Mr. Rogers' residence.
"Can I see Mr. Rogers?" he asked.
"The master won't be up for an hour," said the servant.
"Tell him Dan wishes to see him on business of importance."
The girl shrugged her shoulders.
"I don't think he'll see you. He was up late last night," she said.
"Never mind. Let him know I am here."
"It's very important you make yourself," said Susan, crossly.
"I am a person of great importance," said Dan, smiling. "Mr. Rogers
will see me, you'll find."
Two minutes later Susan descended the stairs a little bewildered.
"You're to walk into the parlor," she said. "Master'll be down
directly."
Dan did not have long to wait. Mr. Rogers came down stairs almost
directly in dressing-gown and slippers.
"Well, Dan, what is it?" he asked.
"The store is to be broken open to-night and the safe robbed!" said Dan.
"Good heavens! By whom?"
"By two men living in Houston street--at least, one lives there."
"Have you any more to tell?"
"Yes, sir; they are employed by Mr. Talbot."
Mr. Rogers started.
"Are you sure of this?" he asked.
"Quite sure."
"How did you find out?"
"Partly by accident, sir."
"Go on. Tell me all."
Dan rehearsed the story, already familiar to our readers, combining with
it some further information he had drawn from the woman.
"I didn't think Talbot capable of this," said Mr. Rogers. "He has been
in our employ for ten years. I don't like to think of his treachery,
but, unhappily, there is no reason to doubt it. Now, Dan, what is your
advice?"
"I am afraid my advice wouldn't be worth much, Mr. Rogers," said Dan,
modestly.
"I am not sure of that. I am indebted to you for this important
discovery. You are keen and ready-witted. I won't promise to follow your
advice, but I should like to hear it."
"Then, sir, I will ask you a question. Do you want to prevent the
robbery, or to catch the men in the act?"
"I wish to catch the burglars in the act."
"Then, sir, can you stay away from the store to-day?"
"Why?"
"Your looks might betray your suspicions."
