it had always meant something to her, and represented a set of ideas
which she used in order to explain the inexplicable. It was true, also,
so far as she could see, that between Hester and Crowdie the affinity
was mutual and almost equally strong, and Katharine thought with an
unpleasant sensation of the way Crowdie sometimes smiled at his wife. Of
course, she thought, if one did not object to a certain amount of
womanliness in a man’s looks and manner, nor to a pale, pear-shaped face
with intensely red lips, nor to a figure which altogether lacked
masculine dignity--if one could forget all those things and consider
what Crowdie must seem to a blind woman, for instance, and if one could
forgive a certain insolent softness of speech which now and then was
his, why, then, Crowdie was one of the most charming of men. There was
no word but that one. Take him all in all,--his remarkable power as a
portrait painter, developed by study and real industry, his exquisite
voice and perfect taste in singing--so perfect that there was not a
trace of that art which it is art’s mission to conceal--his
conversation, which was often brilliant and almost always
interesting,--taking him all in all, thought Katharine, and quite apart
from his appearance, he was a marvellously gifted man. She had never
known a man like him. Paul Griggs was not to be despised as a judge of
men, for he had seen and known many who were worth knowing, and Paul
Griggs liked Crowdie and was intimate with him. It was true that no
other man of Katharine’s acquaintance liked him, but Griggs’ opinion
might outweigh that of many just men. But when she thought of Crowdie’s
appearance, she marvelled how any woman could love him. There was
something about it which thrilled her painfully, like a strong, bad
taste--yet not so as to hinder her from feeling sympathy for Hester, in
spite of all the latter had said during the past half hour.
“How you love him!” she exclaimed, when the voice had died away, and
Hester leaned back again in her seat.
The words were spoken impulsively and half unconsciously--the natural
expression of the young girl’s wonder. But Hester’s eyes turned quickly,
with a suspicious glance which Katharine did not see and could not have
understood.
“Well--is there any harm in my loving my husband?” asked Hester, in a
tone of unmistakable resentment.
Katharine turned and looked at her in surprise, not realizing that she
could possibly have given offence.
“Harm! why no--no more harm than there is in my saying so--nor than I
meant, when I spoke. Why, are you angry?”
“I’m not angry. Why did you say it, though--and just then? I want to
know.”
She fixed her eyes on Katharine, and a little colour came back suddenly
to her cheeks, just where it had been while Crowdie was singing--as a
transparent glass, that has been heated red in the flame and has cooled,
flushes where it had flushed before, almost as soon as it is brought to
the fire.
“Why did I say it?” repeated Katharine, surprised. “I don’t know, I’m
sure. It was a very natural remark. Everybody knows that you love your
husband very much. I suppose it struck me particularly at that moment.
How strange of you to take offence!”
“I’m not offended. I only want to know why you said it just then. Did I
change colour--or what?”
“A little colour came into your face--yes. It’s very becoming,” added
Katharine, by way of propitiation.
“Yes--I know. You needn’t tell me that I’m generally too pale. Were my
eyes different from usual?”
“They were very bright, with a far-away look at the same time--as though
you saw him through the wall.”
“Do you think any one would have noticed how I looked? I mean--any one
sitting near me, as you are?”
“I should think so--yes,” answered Katharine, without much hesitation.
“I only said what any one would have thought who happened to see you
just then. I didn’t think there was any harm in it. I shall certainly
never say it again, since you’re displeased.”
“Oh--that doesn’t matter!” exclaimed Hester, with a little scornful
laugh. “As we’re not to be friends any more, you can displease me as
much as you like now. It doesn’t matter in the least!”
“How strange you are, Hester!” Katharine said, thoughtfully. “I don’t in
the least understand you.”
“We never really understood each other,” replied Hester. “We only
thought we did. But--as I say--since we’re not to be friends any more,
it’s of no consequence.”
“You can’t say that--that we never understood each other,” said
Katharine. “It’s not true.”
“Oh yes, it is! We never understood--never, what I mean by
understanding. So I blush, and stare, and behave like a schoolgirl, when
Walter comes in singing! I didn’t know it. I am glad you’ve told me, for
I don’t like to do foolish things in public.”
“I don’t think it’s always foolish to show what one feels. It’s better
