" Her voice seems one of great promise. And 
it is doubtful whether her eyes would admit of 
the continued strain of designing, though she has 
such beautiful ideas. Mr. Olmstead has taken a 
great interest in her. Of course Mrs. Duane will 
go wherever it is best, and do what is best. 
What a strange providence there has been in all 
this ! " 
" Does he, Mr. Olmstead — I mean, are you 
all likely to spend the winter in the city?" she 
asked in a little confusion. " Will you remain here 
until cold weather ? Tell me what you would like ; 
for I must join Mrs. Vantine to-morrow, or she 
will descend upon us and be horrified." 
" To-morrow ! O Sabrina, do not go." 
"I had better," she answered. "I have had 
a lovely summer, Pearl, and I have been learning 
a little about the great work there is to do in the 
world. I am glad of this glimpse into your coun- 
try. In the future," she hesitated a little, "I 
may come to you and share a wider work. But 
just now, are you content to stay here and let 
me go for a little ? I have not freed myself from 
worldly shackles." 
There was a touch of conventional gayety in 
the voice. Not even Pearl's fine intuitions could 
divine the struggle going on in her mind. 
" I have had so little of you lately," began 
Pearl regretfully. " And we all iToped — we 
wanted you to help plan." 
No, she could not trust herself to stay and 
plan, to see Mr. Olmstead daily, until she had 
more strength of purpose or will. It was harder 
giving up herself than she had first thought. 
And what if she made a plunge back into the 
vortex of society, met other men, accepted the 
intangible homage paid to beauty and wealth ? 
Was she quite sure Mr. Olmstead's fancy had 
any deeper foundation ? Perhaps she had used 
little arts, — the slow droop or raising of the eyes, 
an inflection of the voice, a pose of grace. That 
had been part of her training. To be attractive 
was an aim. But if, instead, one made truth, 
kiixdlines's, unselfishness attractive ! 
Oh, she must not dream ! She roused herself 
suddenly, and clasped Pearl's arm with a touch 
of apprehension. 
" But Miss Barclay ! O Pearl — are you not 
afraid of what may come to pass ? " 
" Of the — shall we say transition ? When one 
looks at it as she does, and says with the Psalmist, 
' My cup runneth over,' and in his love, ' I can 
fear no evil it is only going forward gently to 
meet the end. She would like to remain here, for 
the end cannot be far off. And she would like to 
sleep in the old churchyard at Greenfields. Mrs. 
Duane is resigned. There will be Rhea. The 
girl loves them both with all the fervor of her 
awakened nature. Then I suppose Chester House 
will be shut up again. Yet it seems as if some 
one ought to live here right along. I wish you 
really cared for it. Or, if there were some one 
who did ! '' 
She could think of some one in whose story she 
was deeply interested. How could she, in turn, 
interest Sabrina? 
It came into Miss Eastwood's mind that here 
might be the beginning of a charity, with Pearl 
at its head. 
" We can talk it over when I come back ; " she 
could not in a moment formulate a plan. " Stay 
as long as you can ; shelter whoever you will. I 
couldn't do anything half so worthy with it. I feel 
poor in the ways of comfort that you give with 
exquisite sympathy. I must study to gain the 
ability to plan for the benefit of others. I want 
you to have the power to carry out your aims and 
plans." 
She bent and kissed her with tenderness. Was 
her dream taking definite shape.? Pearl and an- 
