not the noble qualities Alexander Junior looked for in a son-in-law. Not
at all, sir. He preferred Benjamin Slayback of Nevada. The Lauderdales
were quite able to make society accept Benjamin Slayback of Nevada,
because Benjamin Slayback of Nevada was quite able to stand upon his own
feet anywhere, having worked for all he had, like a man, and having
pushed himself into the forefront of political life by sheer energy and
ability, and having as good a right and as good a chance in every way as
any man in the country. No, he was certainly not a Lauderdale. If
Lauderdales were to go on marrying Lauderdales and no one else, there
would soon be an end of society. He advised John Ralston to go to Nevada
and marry Benjamin Slayback’s sister, if she would look at him, which
was more than doubtful, considering that he was the most atrociously
idle young ne’er-do-weel--here Alexander’s Scotch upper lip snapped like
a steel trap--that ever wasted the most precious years of life between
the society of infatuated women by day, sir, and the temptations of the
card-table and the bottle by night--the favourite of fine ladies, the
boon companion of roisterers and the sport of a London tailor.
Which was a tremendous speech when delivered at close quarters in
Alexander Junior’s metallic voice, and in his most irately emphatic
manner, while the grey veins swelled at his grey temples, and one iron
hand was clenched ready to strike the palm of the other when the end of
the peroration was reached. He allowed himself, as a relation, even more
latitude in his language than he would have arrogated to himself as
Katharine’s father. He met John Ralston not only as the angry stage
father meets the ineligible and determined young suitor, but as one
Lauderdale meeting another--the one knowing himself to be
irreproachable, upbraiding the other as the disgrace of the family, the
hardened young sinner, and the sport of his tailor. That last expression
had almost brought a smile to Ralston’s angry face.
He had behaved admirably, however, under such very trying circumstances,
and afterwards secretly took great credit to himself for not having
attacked him whom he wished for a father-in-law with the furniture of
the latter’s own library, the chairs being the only convenient weapons
in the room. Alexander the Safe, as his own daughter called him, could
probably have killed John Ralston with one back-hander, but John would
have liked to try him in fight, nevertheless. Instead of doing anything
of the kind, however, John drew back two steps, and said as much as he
could trust himself to say without foaming at the mouth and seeing
things in scarlet. He said that he did not agree with his cousin
Alexander upon all the points the latter had mentioned, that he did not
care to prolong a violent scene, and he wished him good morning.
Thereupon he had left the house, which was quite the wisest thing he
could do, for when Alexander was alone he found to his extreme annoyance
that he had a distinct sensation of having been made almost ridiculous.
But he soon recovered from that, for whatever the secret mainspring of
his singular character might be, it was certainly not idle vanity.
Mrs. Lauderdale had consoled Katharine, and Ralston too, for that
matter, as well as she could, and with sincere sympathy. Ralston
continued to come to the house very much as he pleased, and Mr.
Lauderdale silently tolerated his presence on the rare occasions of
their meeting. He had certainly said more than enough to explain his
point of view, and he considered the matter as settled. It was really
not possible to keep a man who was his cousin altogether away, and he
suffered also from a delusion common to many fathers, which led him to
think that no one would ever dare to act against his once clearly
expressed wishes.
Between Katharine and her mother and Ralston there remained a sort of
tacit understanding. There was no formal engagement, of course, which
would have had to be concealed from Mr. Lauderdale, but Mrs. Lauderdale
meant that the two young people should be married if they continued to
love one another, and she generally left them as much together as they
pleased when Ralston came.
It was, therefore, not strange that they should both be surprised by the
nature of her sudden question as she stood by the fireplace looking
sideways at Ralston, with her back to the light.
“What is the use?” asked Katharine, repeating the words in astonishment
and emphasizing the last one.
“Yes. What is the use? It is leading to nothing. You never can be
married, and you know it by this time. You had much better separate at
once. It will be easier for you now, perhaps, than by and by. You are
both so young!”
“Excuse me, cousin Emma,” said Ralston, “but I think you must be
dreaming.”
He spoke very quietly, but the light was beginning to gleam in his
eyes. His mother was said to have a very bad temper, and John was like
her in many respects. But Mrs. Lauderdale continued to speak quite
calmly.
“I have been thinking about you two a great deal lately,” she said. “I
have made a mistake, and I may as well say so at once, now that I have
discovered it. You wouldn’t like me to go on letting you think that I
