could give way to his sense of amusement, and laughed long and loud. He
did not, however, arouse Jack and Obed, who, like himself, were sound
sleepers. He didn't like, however, to have all the amusement to himself,
so he shook the Yankee till he awoke.
"What's the matter?" asked Obed, in a drowsy tone.
"We've been robbed," answered Harry.
"What!" exclaimed Mr. Stackpole in dismay, bounding from his pallet, now
thoroughly awake. "What is that you say?"
"The nugget is gone!" said Harry.
"Confusion!" ejaculated Obed. "When? Who took it?"
"Don't be alarmed, Obed," said Harry quietly. "It's only the bogus
nugget. The real one is safe where we hid it."
"Tell me all about it, Harry. What skunk has been in here?"
"You know the man that was spying about our claim--the tramp."
"Did you see him?"
"Not till he was just getting out of the window."
Harry recounted briefly his sudden awakening, and the sight that greeted
him as he opened his eyes.
"I wish I'd been awake. I'd have boosted him out of that window," said
Obed grimly.
"I have no doubt you would, Obed," said Harry, laughing, "but I think we
needn't feel much of a grudge against the poor fellow. When he comes to
examine his booty by daylight, it's my impression he'll feel sick
enough."
Obed laughed too. "I'd like to be looking on when he makes the
discovery," he said. "He'll look green enough, I guess."
"How could the fellow have found out that we had found it?" said Harry,
with a puzzled expression.
"He must have been out late and seen us coming from the mine."
"It is lucky we thought of hiding it, and leaving the rock in its place,
Obed."
"That's so. The rock came in handy for once."
"Do you think there is any danger of another visit to-night?"
"No; he probably won't discover how he has been tricked till morning."
"And even if he does he may suppose that this rock is what we brought
with us."
"Possibly. Still, Harry, I think we'd better keep awake and watch
to-night. It will only be for one night, as to-morrow we can make
arrangements to send the nugget by express to Melbourne."
"I thought we should be carrying it there ourselves."
"No, it would not be safe. To-morrow everybody will know that we have
found a nugget, and if we attempted to carry it ourselves we should not
get ten miles away without being attacked, and perhaps killed."
"Then we can send it by express?" queried Harry.
"Yes, I have inquired into this--not that I thought we would be lucky
enough to need the information. The government escorts charge one per
cent., and besides the Crown exacts a royalty of ten per cent."
"That's pretty steep, isn't it, Obed?"
"I will cheerfully bear my part of it," said Obed. "I remember there was
an old fellow in our place who owned considerable property--at any rate
he was taxed for fifteen thousand dollars. Whenever taxes became due he
was always groanin' and predictin' that he'd end his days in the
poorhouse. My father, who was only taxed for fifteen hundred, said to
him one day, 'Mr. Higgins, if you'll give me half of your property, I'll
agree to pay taxes on the whole, so that you'll have nothing to pay.'"
"Did he accept?" asked Harry, with a smile.
"Not much, but he stopped growlin'. It may have given him a new idea of
the matter."
"How soon do you think of getting away, Obed?"
"As soon as we have sold the claim," answered the Yankee. "When it gets
reported round the camp what we've found there'll be plenty that'll want
to buy it on speculation, you may be sure of that."
"I didn't think of that," said Harry, his eyes brightening. "We're
luckier than I thought."
"Yes," answered Obed jocularly, "we're men of property now. I'm afraid
we'll have to pay taxes ourselves when we get home."
CHAPTER XXVI.
A THIEF'S EMBARRASSMENT.
When the thief left Obed Stackpole's cabin with his booty his heart was
filled with exultation. He had been drifting about for years, the
football of fortune, oftener down than up, and had more than once known
what it was to pass an entire day without food. And all this because he
had never been willing to settle down to steady work or honest industry.
He had set out in life with a dislike for each, and a decided preference
for living by his wits. Theft was no new thing for him. Once he had
barely escaped with his life in one of the Western States of America for
stealing a horse. He had drifted to Australia, with no idea of working
at the mines or anywhere else, but with the intention of robbing some
lucky miner and making off with the proceeds of his industry.
Well, he had succeeded, and his heart was light.
