twenty-four years of her life she never had
betrayed violence of spirit before : even her hatred 
of the Estenegas had been a religion rather 



than a personal feeling. It was the first glimpse 
of her soul that she had accorded them, and 
they were aghast. What — what had happened 
to this proud, reserved, careless daughter of the 
Iturbi y Moncadas ? 

Dofia Trinidad drew down her mouth. Pru- 
dencia began to cry. Then, for the moment, 
Chonita was forgotten. Two horses galloped 
into the court-yard. 

"Reinaldo!" 

The door had but an inside knob : Don Guil- 
lermo threw it open as a young man sprang up 
the three steps of the corridor, followed by a 
little man who carefully picked his way. 

"Yes, I am here, my father, my mother, 
my sister, my Prudencia ! Ay, Eustaquia, 
thou too." And the pride of the house kissed 
each in turn, his dark eyes wandering absently 
about the room. He was a dashing caballero, 
and as handsome as any ever born in the Cali- 
fomias. The dust of travel had been removed 
— at a saloon — from his blue velvet gold-embroidered 
serape, which he immediately flung 
on the floor. His short jacket and trousers 
were also of dark-blue velvet, the former 
decorated with buttons of silver filigree, the latter 
laced with silver cord over spotless linen. The 
front of his shirt was covered with costly lace. 


His long botas were of soft yellow leather 
stamped with designs in silver and gartered 
with blue ribbon. The clanking spurs were 
of silver inlaid with gold. The sash, knotted 
gracefully over his hip, was of white silk. 
H is curled black hair was tied with a blue ribbon, 
and clung, clustering and damp, about a low 
brow. He bore a strange resemblance to 
Chonita, in spite of the difference of color, 
but his eyes were merely large and bril- 
li^pt ; they had no stars in their shallows. His 
mouth was covered by a heavy silken mus- 
tache, and his profile was bold. At first glance 
he impressed one as a perfect type of manly 
strength, aggressively decided of character. It 
was only when he cast aside the wide sombrero 
— which, when worn a little back, most becomingly 
framed his face — that one saw the narrow, 
insignificant head. 

For a time there was no conversation, only 
a series of exclamations. Chonita alone was 
calm, smiling a loving welcome. In the excite- 
ment of the first moments little notice was 
taken of the devoted bailer, who ardently re- 
garded Chonita. 

Don Juan de la Borrasca was flouting his 
sixties, fighting for his youth as a parent fights 
for its young. His withered little face wore 


the complacent smile of vanity ; his arched 
brows furnished him with a supercilious expres- 
sion which atoned for his lack of inches, — he was 
barely five feet two. His large curved nose 
was also a compensating gift from the god- 
mother of dignity, and he carried himself so 
erectly that he looked like a toy general. His 
small black eyes were bright as glass beads, 
