philanthropist would be dozing upstairs in a cloud of smoke before a
table covered with reports, and Alexander Junior would be still down
town. In consideration of the importance of getting Charlotte out of the
way, Katharine was more than usually cordial to her--a mistake often
made by young people, who do not seem to understand the very simple fact
that the best way to make people go away is generally to be as
disagreeable as possible.
The consequence was that Charlotte enjoyed herself immensely, and it
required the sight of her father’s photograph, which stood upon Mrs.
Lauderdale’s writing-table in the library, to keep her from proposing to
spend two or three days in the house after her husband should have gone
back to Washington. But the photograph was there, and it was one taken
by the platinum process, which made the handsome, steely face look more
metallic than ever. Charlotte gazed at it thoughtfully, and could almost
hear the maxims of virtue and economy with which those even lips had
preached her down since she had been a child, and she decided that she
would not stay. Her husband was not to her taste, but he never preached.
Mrs. Lauderdale had for her eldest daughter that sentiment which is
generally described as a mother’s love, and which, as Frank Miner had
once rather coarsely put it, will stand more knocking about than old
boots. Charlotte was spoiled, capricious, frivolous in the extreme,
ungrateful beyond description, weak where she should have been strong
and strong where she should have been tender. And Mrs. Lauderdale knew
it all, and loved her in spite of it all, though she disapproved of her
almost at every point. Charlotte had one of those characters of which
people are apt to say that they might have turned out splendidly, if
properly trained, than which no more foolish expression falls from the
lips of commonplace, virtuous humanity. Charlotte, like many women who
resemble her, had received an excellent training. The proof was that,
when she chose to behave herself, no one could seem to be more docile,
more thoughtful and considerate of others or more charming in
conversation. She had only to wish to appear well, as the phrase goes,
and the minutest details necessary to success were absolutely under her
control. What people meant when they said that she might have turned out
splendidly--though they did not at all understand the fact--was that a
woman possessing Charlotte Slayback’s natural gifts and acquired
accomplishments might have been a different person if she had been born
with a very different character--a statement quite startling in its
great simplicity. As it was, there was nothing to be done. Charlotte had
been admirably ‘trained’ in every way--so well that she could exhibit
the finest qualities, on occasion, without any perceptible effort, even
when she felt the utmost reluctance to do so. But the occasions were
few, and were determined by questions of personal advantage, and even
more often by mere caprice.
On that particular day, when she lunched quietly in her old home, her
conduct was little short of angelic, and Katharine found it hard to
realize that she was the same woman who on the previous afternoon had
made such an exhibition of contemptible pettiness and unreasoning
discontent. Katharine, had she known her sister less well, would almost
have been inclined to believe that Benjamin Slayback of Nevada was a
person with whom no wife of ordinary sensibility would possibly live.
But she knew Charlotte very well indeed.
And as the hands of the clock went round towards three, Charlotte showed
no intention of going away, to Katharine’s infinite annoyance, for she
knew that Ralston would be punctual, and would probably come even a
little before the time she had named. It would not do to let him walk
into the library, after the late scene between him and her mother. The
latter had said nothing more about the matter, but only one day had
intervened since Mrs. Lauderdale had so unexpectedly expressed her total
disapproval of Katharine’s relations with John. It was not probable
that Mrs. Lauderdale, who was not a changeable woman, would go back to
her original position in the course of a few hours, and there would
certainly be trouble if John appeared with no particular excuse.
Katharine, as may be imagined, was by no means in a normal mood, and if
she made herself agreeable to her sister, it was not at first without a
certain effort, which did not decrease, in spite of Charlotte’s own
exceptionally good temper, because as the latter grew more and more
amiable, she also seemed more and more inclined to spend the whole
afternoon where she was.
Hints about going out, about going upstairs to the room in which Mrs.
Lauderdale painted, about possible visitors, had no effect whatever.
Charlotte was enjoying herself and her mother was delighted to keep her
and listen to her conversation. Katharine thought at last that she
should be reduced to the necessity of waiting in the entry until Ralston
came, in order to send him away again before he could get into the
library by mistake. She hated the plan, which certainly lacked dignity,
and she watched the hands of the clock, growing nervous and absent in
what she said, as she saw that the fatal hour was approaching.
At twenty minutes to three Charlotte was describing to her mother the
gown worn by the English ambassadress at the last official dinner at
