hers, her hand in his ; but the girl, emotion- 
alized and distraught, seemed struggling 
with herself. 

" Tell me," he whispered. " Tell me 
that you love. Tell me," he repeated. 
" Surely you must. Always I have hungered 
for you. You have been the odor of the 
feast at which I longed to sit, the shadow of 
the hope I dreamed to claim. At the time I 
did not know, but when I saw you I knew it 
was you I had been seeking ; I knew it, and 
I have found you at last. For I have, 





Myrrha, have I not ? Myrrha, tell me that 
I have. Speak to me, say you love." 

" You know it," she answered, but in that 
semi-breve a leaf uses when it whispers to 
the wind. 

" And may God bless you, then, for the 
gift to me." 

The girl disengaged her hand. The 
accompaniment was ceasing. "For tanf 
d'amor" the notes quawered and sobbed, 
died away in diminuendo, and with a final 
roulade Mrs. Smithwick rose from the 
piano. 

" There ! " she exclaimed. " I feel ten 
years younger." 

Cloden had risen, too. 

" May I, Mrs. Smithwick, with entire 
courtesy, inquire how old you are ? " 

" How old ? " And she laughed gayly. 
" How old ? You really want to know ? 
Well, there ; I am a hundred." 

" I never believe but half what a lady 
tells me," Cloden answered, with a smile as 
gay as her own. " But, if I ask, it is 





because I wished to assure you that in 
all your life you have never seen, never 
heard, never read, never imagined, never 
dreamed " 

" My, my ! What now ? " 

"Of a man a fraction as happy as I. 
Miss Attersol," and at this prelude the smile 
went from his face and a gravity, ceremonious, correct, came in its stead, " has just 
done me the honor to consent to be my 
wife." 

Mrs. Smithwick opened her mouth, closed 
it, opened it again, and stepped back, flab- 
bergasted, undone, speechless with bewilderment and joy. 

"Aunt, dear!" Myrrha exclaimed. "I 
didn't say " 

But the words dissolved the spell. Mrs. 
Smithwick flung herself at the girl, and em- 
braced her hysterically with raptures and 
tears. 

