in the sun, we could see the dromedaries lumbering 
along, we could see the wedding and the funeral, 
and more oftener than anything else we could see 
them praying, because they don't allow nothing to 
prevent that : whenever the call came, several times 
a day, they would stop right there, and stand up 
and face the east and lift back their heads, and 
spread out their arms and begin, and four or five 
times they would go down on their knees, and then 
fall forwards and touch their forehead to the 
ground. 
Well, it warn't good to go on talking about 
them, lovely as they was in their life, and dear to 
us in their life and death both, because it didn't do 
no good, and made us too down-hearted. Jim 
allowed he was going to live as good a life as he 
could, so he could see them again in a better world ; 
and Tom kept still and didn't tell him they was 
only Mohammedans — it warn't no use to disappoint 
him, he was feeling bad enough just as it was. 
When we woke up next morning we was feeling 
a little cheerfuller, and had had a most powerful 
good sleep, because sand is the comfortablest bed 
there is, and I don't see why people that can afford 
it don't have ' it more. And it's terrible good 
ballast, too ; I never see the balloon so steady 
before. 
Tom allowed we had twenty tons of it, and 
wondered what we better do with it ; it was good 
sand, and it didn't seem good sense to throw it 
away. Jim says : 
' Mars Tom, can't we tote it back home en sell 
it ? How long'll it take ? ' 
' Depends on the way we go.' 
' Well, sah, she's wuth a quarter of a dollar a 
load at home, en I reckon we's got as much as 
twenty loads, hain't we ? How much would dat 
be?' 
' Five dollars.' 
' By jings, Mars Tom, le's shove for home right 
on de spot ! Hit's more'n a dollar en a half apiece, 
hain't it ? ' 
'Yes.' 
' Well, ef dat ain't makin' money de easiest 
ever I struck ! She jes' rained in — never cos' us a 
lick o' work. Le's mosey right along, Mars Tom.' 
But Tom was thinking and ciphering away so 
busy and excited he never heard him. Pretty soon 
he says : 
' Five dollars — sho ! Look here, this sand's 
worth— worth — why, it's worth no end of money.' 
' How is dat, Mars Tom ? Go on, honey, go 
on!' 
 Well, the minute people knows it's genuwyne 
sand from the genuwyne Desert of Sahara, they'll 
just be in a perfect state of mind to git hold of 
some of it to keep on the whatnot in a vial with a 
label on it for a curiosity. All we got to do is to 
put it up in vials and float around all over the 
United States and peddle them out at ten cents 
apiece. We've got all of ten thousand dollars' 
worth of sand in this boat.' 
Me and Jim went all to pieces with joy, and 
begun to shout whoopjamboreehoo ; and Tom says : 
'And we can keep on coming back and fetching 
sand, and coming back and fetching more sand, 
and just keep it a-going till we've carted this whole 
Desert over there and sold it out ; and there ain't 
ever going to be any opposition, either, because 
we'll take out a patent.' 
' My goodness ! ' I says. ' We'll be as rich as 
Creosote, won't we, Tom ? ' 
' Yes — Creesus, you mean. Why, that dervish 
was hunting in that little hill for the treasures of 
the earth, and didn't know he was walking over 
the real ones for a thousand miles. He was 
blinder than he made the driver.' 
'Mars Tom, how much is we gwyne to be 
worth ? ' 
' Well, I don't know yet. It's got to be ciphered, 
