herself, but made no reply.
“If I am honored with your presence,” continued Bayard, still with
some decision of manner, “I shall count upon your sympathy.... God
knows I need it!” he added in a different tone.
“And you shall have it,” said Helen softly.
It was too dark to see the melting of her face; but he knew it
was there. They stood on the piazza of the cottage in the strong,
salt wind. Her muslin dress blew back. The dim light of the candle
within scarcely defined her figure. They seemed to stand like
creatures of the dusk, uncertain of each other or of themselves.
He held out his hand; she placed her own within it cordially. How
warm and womanly, how strong and fine a touch she had! He bade her
good-night, and hurried away.
That “something” which is to supersede the sermon was not written
that night. Bayard found himself unable to work. He sat doggedly
at his desk for an hour, then gave it up, put out his light, and
seized his hat again. He went down to the beach and skirted the
shore, taking the spray in his face. His brain was on fire; not
with intellectual labor. His heart throbbed; not with anxiety for
the fishing population. He reached a reef whence he could see
the Mainsail Hotel, and there sat down to collect himself. The
cottage was lighted now; the parlor windows glimmered softly; the
long, lace curtains were blowing in and out. Shadows of figures
passed and repassed. The Professor had settled the state of the
Unforgiven, and had come back from the clam study; he paced to and
fro across the parlor of the Flying Jib; a graceful figure clung to
his theologic arm, and kept step with him as he strode.
Presently she came to the low window, and pushed back the lace
curtain, which had blown in, half across the little parlor. She
lifted her arms, and shut the window.
The waves beat the feet of the cliff monotonously; like the bars
of a rude, large music which no man had been able to read. Bayard
listened to them with his head thrown back on the hard rock, and
his hat over his eyes. Even the gaze of the stars seemed intrusive,
curious, one might say impertinent, to him. He desired the shell of
the mollusk that burrowed in the cleft of the cliff.
The tide was rising steadily. The harbor wore its full look; it
seemed about to overflow, like a surcharged heart. The waves rose
on; they took definite rhythm. All the oldest, sweetest meanings of
music--the maddest and the tenderest cries of human longing--were
in the strain:--
    “Komm beglücke mich?
      Beglücke mich!”
Those mighty lovers, the sea and the shore, urged and answered,
resisted and yielded, protested and pleaded, retreated and met,
loved and clasped, and slept. When the tide came to the full, the
wind went down.
XV.
  DEAR MR. BAYARD,--I have been thinking since I saw you. I have
  health, and a summer. What can I do to help your work? I haven’t
  a particle of experience, and not much enthusiasm. But I am ready
  to try, if you are willing to try me. I don’t think I’m adapted
  to drunkards. I don’t know which of us would be more scared. He
  would probably run for the nearest grogshop to get rid of me.
  Aren’t there some old ladies who bother you to death, whom you
  could turn over to me?
                            Yours sincerely,
                                                 HELEN CARRUTH.
This characteristic note, the first that he had ever received from
her, reached Bayard by mail, a few days after his call at the
cottage of the Flying Jib.
He sat down and wrote at once:--
  MY DEAR MISS CARRUTH,--There is an old lady. She doesn’t bother
  me at all, but I am at my wits’ end with her. She runs away from
  the institution where she belongs, and there’s no other place
  for her. At present she is inflicting herself on Mrs. Job Slip,
  No. 143 Thoroughfare Street, opposite the head of Angel Alley.
  Her mind is thought to be slightly disordered by the loss of
  her son, drowned last winter in the wreck of the Clara Em. Mrs.
  Slip will explain the circumstances to you more fully. Inquire
  for Johnny’s mother. If the old woman ever had any other name,
  people have forgotten it, now. I write in great haste and stress
  of care. It will not be necessary to traverse Angel Alley to
  reach this address, which is quite in the heart of the town, and
  perfectly safe and suitable for you. I thank you very much.
                             Yours sincerely,
                                                   EMANUEL BAYARD.
Helen frowned a little when she read this. No Bishop of a diocese,
dictating the career of a deaconess, no village rector, guiding
some anxious and aimless visiting young lady through the mild
