under my hat. The sailor turned slowly where he stood, and swung Jack
round by the arm steadily and easily, and began to walk him down the
pathway from the house. He walked him straight down that path, as
steadily as Fate; and all the time I saw the moonlight shining on his
wet oilskins. He walked him through the gate, and across the beach road,
and out upon the wet sand, where the tide was high. Then I got my breath
with a gulp, and ran for them across the grass, and vaulted over the
fence, and stumbled across the road. But when I felt the sand under my
feet, the two were at the water's edge; and when I reached the water
they were far out, and up to their waists; and I saw that Jack Benton's
head had fallen forward on his breast, and his free arm hung limp beside
him, while his dead brother steadily marched him to his death. The
moonlight was on the dark water, but the fog-bank was white beyond, and
I saw them against it; and they went slowly and steadily down. The water
was up to their armpits, and then up to their shoulders, and then I saw
it rise up to the black rim of Jack's hat. But they never wavered; and
the two heads went straight on, straight on, till they were under, and
there was just a ripple in the moonlight where Jack had been.
It has been on my mind to tell you that story, whenever I got a chance.
You have known me, man and boy, a good many years; and I thought I would
like to hear your opinion. Yes, that's what I always thought. It wasn't
Jim that went overboard; it was Jack, and Jim just let him go when he
might have saved him; and then Jim passed himself off for Jack with us,
and with the girl. If that's what happened, he got what he deserved.
People said the next day that Mamie found it out as they reached the
house, and that her husband just walked out into the sea, and drowned
himself; and they would have blamed me for not stopping him if they'd
known that I was there. But I never told what I had seen, for they
wouldn't have believed me. I just let them think I had come too late.
When I reached the cottage and lifted Mamie up, she was raving mad. She
got better afterwards, but she was never right in her head again.
Oh, you want to know if they found Jack's body? I don't know whether it
was his, but I read in a paper at a Southern port where I was with my
new ship that two dead bodies had come ashore in a gale down East, in
pretty bad shape. They were locked together, and one was a skeleton in
oilskins.
FOR THE BLOOD IS THE LIFE
We had dined at sunset on the broad roof of the old tower, because it
was cooler there during the great heat of summer. Besides, the little
kitchen was built at one corner of the great square platform, which made
it more convenient than if the dishes had to be carried down the steep
stone steps, broken in places and everywhere worn with age. The tower
was one of those built all down the west coast of Calabria by the
Emperor Charles V. early in the sixteenth century, to keep off the
Barbary pirates, when the unbelievers were allied with Francis I.
against the Emperor and the Church. They have gone to ruin, a few still
stand intact, and mine is one of the largest. How it came into my
possession ten years ago, and why I spend a part of each year in it, are
matters which do not concern this tale. The tower stands in one of the
loneliest spots in Southern Italy, at the extremity of a curving rocky
promontory, which forms a small but safe natural harbour at the southern
extremity of the Gulf of Policastro, and just north of Cape Scalea, the
birthplace of Judas Iscariot, according to the old local legend. The
tower stands alone on this hooked spur of the rock, and there is not a
house to be seen within three miles of it. When I go there I take a
couple of sailors, one of whom is a fair cook, and when I am away it is
in charge of a gnome-like little being who was once a miner and who
attached himself to me long ago.
My friend, who sometimes visits me in my summer solitude, is an artist
by profession, a Scandinavian by birth, and a cosmopolitan by force of
circumstances. We had dined at sunset; the sunset glow had reddened and
faded again, and the evening purple steeped the vast chain of the
mountains that embrace the deep gulf to eastward and rear themselves
higher and higher toward the south. It was hot, and we sat at the
landward corner of the platform, waiting for the night breeze to come
down from the lower hills. The colour sank out of the air, there was a
little interval of deep-grey twilight, and a lamp sent a yellow streak
from the open door of the kitchen, where the men were getting their
supper.
Then the moon rose suddenly above the crest of the promontory, flooding
the platform and lighting up every little spur of rock and knoll of
grass below us, down to the edge of the motionless water. My friend
lighted his pipe and sat looking at a spot on the hillside. I knew that
he was looking at it, and for a long time past I had wondered whether he
would ever see anything there that would fix his attention. I knew that
spot well. It was clear that he was interested at last, though it was a
long time before he spoke. Like most painters, he trusts to his own
eyesight, as a lion trusts his strength and a stag his speed, and he is
always disturbed when he cannot reconcile what he sees with what he
believes that he ought to see.
