halt here, and they waited for further events.
They had not long to wait, for the fire on the rock flashed up with a
brilliant light; and it was evident that Mr. Hasbrook had assisted in
preparing the fuel, and that no little pitch and light wood had been
used. Captain Truman, as the illumination indicated, was in the road,
and marching to the south; while the first company had halted, facing to
the north.
"Mr. Hasbrook must have robbed his woodshed of most of its contents,"
said the captain, who had taken Deck under his wing.
"All his house and stable servants were lugging wood to the rock; and
they must have piled up about a cord of it, Captain," replied Deck.
"The fire not only serves as a signal, but it gives no little light on
the subject before the house," replied the officer.
Skirmishers had been sent out ahead. The place where the enemy was
concealed was a wooded knoll, according to the description given of it
by a scout; and by the light of the huge bonfire it was in plain sight.
Twenty men had been sent out on this service under Sergeant Fronklyn.
When he came near enough, he opened fire upon the knoll, the object
being to draw the enemy from his covert.
"The fire sheds its light for the benefit of the enemy as well as for
our side of the question. Like an impartial judge, it serves both
parties alike," said the captain. "The skirmishers will bring them out,
and that is all we want. So far as our operations are concerned, I think
the enemy must be in perfect darkness; for I have not permitted a single
one of the town's people to come this side of the square."
"They have waked up now," added Deck, as a volley of musketry came out
of the grove on the knoll, which was quite near the road.
"I hope they will not recognize the uniforms of the skirmishers,"
continued the captain.
The main body of the company had slowly followed the advance all the
time, and the crisis of the affair was at hand. The captain reasoned
that the guerillas could not be aware of the combination made by the
major, or they would have retired; and they were likely to mistake the
skirmishers for the Home Guards, if they did not make out the uniform.
After the volley from the knoll, the enemy made a sortie from his
position, and rushed furiously upon the assailants, firing at will all
the time.
Captain Truman gave the order for his men to charge the foe; and the
troopers darted ahead at full gallop. They could see the uniforms of the
skirmishers, and for a moment there was a hot hand-to-hand fight, for
the enemy were plucky enough for the occasion. But if the company could
distinguish the uniforms of the skirmishers, so also could the enemy by
this time; and they could see that the road between them and the village
was full of troopers.
Major Vinegold could not help seeing that he was caught in a trap, and
his bugle sounded the recall. Doubtless his guerillas saw the situation
also; for they were not slow to obey the signal. They detached
themselves from the conflict, and retreated. The voice of Captain Gordon
could be heard above the din; and the enemy was headed to the south at a
gallop. Doubtless the guerilla commander was astounded to find himself
confronted by a company of cavalry in full uniform, instead of a band of
Home Guards.
The signal-fire on the rock of Plain Hill had done its perfect work, and
the first company had moved forward slowly, with skirmishers in front,
and soon came upon the retreating enemy. Captain Gordon charged upon
them, and they fought bravely on both sides. Doubtless the commander of
the guerillas was appalled when he discovered another company in front
of him. Probably he was outnumbered three to one. He fought like a tiger
himself, but his men began to break into the fields on either side. The
officers soon stopped this means of escape by extending their lines
entirely around their hapless foe.
"Do you surrender?" demanded Captain Truman.
"Never!" yelled Major Vinegold, in front of his company.
Deck dashed at him as he made this emphatic reply, and their sabres
flashed fire. Ceph made one of his furious leaps, and the commander of
the enemy sank to the ground as his rider struck a desperate blow.
"We surrender!" shouted the second in command.
CHAPTER XXXVI
MAJOR VINEGOLD OF THE GUERILLAS
The second in command of the guerillas was a more sensible man than
Major Vinegold, who appeared to be a fire-eater, like Captain Stinger;
and when resistance was utterly hopeless, he announced his surrender in
a voice loud enough to be heard a long distance, and neither side struck
a blow afterwards. Deck Lyon appeared to have delivered the last
sabre-stroke; for as soon as his lieutenant saw his chief topple from
his horse, he uttered the words that ended the conflict.
"You gave the finishing touch to the fight, Deck!" exclaimed Captain
Truman in a loud voice, so that all the company could hear him.
"Three cheers for Deck Lyon!" shouted an enthusiastic trooper; and they
were given.
