vainly in her pocket and then on the table. "Here, Dolly. Quick! Read
it!"
And then Dolly, also excited, read Jared's letter aloud.
Ruth came in in time to hear this sentence: "I am to have charge of
their Charleston office (the office of the Columbian Line), at a salary
of three thousand dollars a year."
"Who? What? Not Jared? And at Charleston?" cried the girl, clapping
her hands. "Oh, how splendid! For it's the water, you know; the
salt-water at last. With the ships coming and going, and the ocean, it
won't be so awfully inland to him, poor fellow, as Raleigh and Atlanta."
"And the large salary," said Genevieve, still breathless. "That's
Horrie! I have felt sure, from the first, that he would do something for
us. Such an old friend of mine. Dear, dear Horrie!"
A week later Chase returned. "Yes, he'll get off to Charleston, ma'am,
in a few days," he said to Mrs. Franklin. "When he is settled there, you
must pay him a visit. I guess you'll end by going there to live."
"Oh, we can't; we have this house, and no house there. If I could only
sell that place in Florida! However, we can stop in Charleston when we
go to Florida this winter. That is, if we go," added the mother,
remembering her load of debts. But she soon forgot it again; she forgot
everything save her joy in the brighter life for her son. "How can I
thank you?" she said to Chase, gratefully.
"Oh, it's no favor, ma'am. We have always needed a first-class man at
Charleston, and we've never had it; we think ourselves very lucky in
being able to secure Mr. Franklin."
As he went back to the Old North with Etheridge, whom he had met at
L'Hommedieu (as Mrs. Franklin would have said, "of course!"), Chase
added some further particulars. "You never saw such a mess as he'd made
of it, commodore. He told me--we had a good deal of talk when we took
that French Broad drive--that his business wasn't what he had hoped it
would be when he went into it; that he was afraid it was running down.
Running down? It was at a standstill; six months more, and he would have
been utterly swamped. The truth is, he didn't know how to manage it. How
should he? What does a navy man know about leather? He saw that it was
all wrong, yet he didn't know how to help it; that took the heart out of
him, you see. There was no use in going on with it a day longer; and so
I told him, as soon as I had looked into the thing a little. He has,
therefore, made an arrangement--sold out. And now he is going to take a
place at Charleston--our Columbian Line."
"To the tune of three thousand dollars a year, I understand?"
"He'll be worth it to us. A navy officer as agent will be a feather in
our caps. It's a pity he couldn't take command of one of our
steamers--with his hankering for the sea. Our steamer officers wear
uniforms, you know?"
"Take care that he doesn't knock you down," said Etheridge, dryly.
"Oh, I haven't suggested it. I see he's cranky," Chase answered.
When Jared Franklin reached Charleston, he went to the office of the
Columbian Company. It faced a wharf or dock, and from its windows he
could see the broad harbor, the most beautiful port of the South
Atlantic coast. He looked at Fort Sumter, then off towards the low white
beaches of Morris Island; he knew the region well; his ship had lain
outside during the war. Deliciously sweet to him was the salt tang of
the sea; already, miles inland, he had perceived it, and had put his
head out of the car window; the salt marshes had been to him like a
tonic, as the train rushed past. The ocean out there in the east, too,
that was rather better than a clattering street! Words could never
express how he loathed the remembrance of the hides and the leather. A
steamer of the Columbian Line came in. He went on board, contemptuous of
everything, of course, but enjoying that especial species of contempt.
Ascending to the upper deck, he glanced at the rigging and smoke-stacks.
They were not what he approved of; but, oh! the solace of abusing any
sort of rigging outlined against the sky! He went down and looked at the
engines; he spoke to the engineer; he prowled all over the ship, from
stem to stern, his feet enjoying the sensation of something underneath
them that floated. That evening, seated on a bench at the Battery, with
his arms on the railing, he looked out to sea. His beloved old life came
back to him; all his cruises--the Mediterranean ports, Villefranche and
the Bay of Naples; the harbors of China, Rio Janeiro, Alexandria;
tropical islands; the color of the Pacific--while the wash of the water
below sounded in his ears. At last, long after midnight, he rose; he
came back to reality again. "Well, even this is a great windfall. And I
must certainly do the best I can for that long-legged fellow"--so he
said to himself as he went up Meeting Street towards his hotel. He liked
Chase after a fashion; he appreciated his friendliness and his genius
for business. But this was the way he thought of him--"that long-legged
fellow." Chase's fortune made no impression upon him. At heart he had
the sailor's chronic indifference to money-making. But at heart he had
also something else--Genevieve; Genevieve and her principles and plans,
Genevieve and her rules.
CHAPTER VI
