through the game.”
The other laughed gratingly.
“‘New’ is a mild way of putting it. We call her ‘Kit’s windfall’ at our
Club. Madame’s disciple had, as she fondly imagined, netted a couple
of veritable musical lions, and ten people were invited to hear their
after-dinner roar. The very day before the feast the male lion fell
sick, and the lioness wouldn’t or couldn’t leave her mate. Kitty was
tearing her false bang over the note apprising her of the disaster when
a card was brought in, telling her that an old schoolmate who had been
educated as a music-teacher, and had a niceish talent for recitation,
had removed to the city. Kit caught at the straw; raced around to
inspect her, judged her to be more than eligible, and roped her in.
Delorme was at the dinner and told me the story, which his wife had
from Kit’s own lips. The new ‘find’ had beauty as well as a voice and
a taste for theatricals, and a neat income, so Kit says—some thirty
thousand a year. Moreover, she is tremendously grateful for the lift in
the world, and so daft with enjoyment of her first glimpse of le bon
ton that she would send Kit ten out of the thirty thousand sooner than
lose her social standing. She doesn’t guess that she will be tossed
aside like a squeezed orange next year, poor thing!”
Arthur leaned against the door-frame, too giddy and sick to move, had
action been practicable in such a press. One of the tedious “waits”
inseparable from amateur performances gave every woman there a chance
to outscream her neighbor. It might be dishonorable not to make himself
known to the gossips who considered themselves absolved by the payment
of an entrance fee from the obligation to speak well, or not at all, of
their hosts. He did not put the question to himself whether or not he
should continue to listen. In a judicial mood he would have weighed the
pros and cons of fact or fiction in the tale he had heard. Every
word had, to his consciousness, the stamp of authenticity. In the shock
of the confirmation of his worst misgivings with regard to his wife’s
chosen intimate, his ruling thought was of the anguish the truth would
cause her. How best to lessen the shock to her tender, loving heart,
how to mitigate her mortification, began already to put his deliberate
faculties upon the strain.
The wiry falsetto and wheezy laugh struck in from his very elbow.
“Kit’s exemplary spouse may not share her pecuniary profits, but he has
an eye to innings of another sort. I met him at the Club last night,
and saw that he had about six champagnes and four cocktails more than
his brain could balance. An hour later, I was passing the house of our
pretty prima donna when a carriage drew up and out stepped Jack and
turned to help out his wife’s favorite. And, by Jove! the way he did it
was to put his arm about her waist, swing her to the side-walk and try
to kiss her! She espied me, I suppose, for she broke away from him with
a little screech, and flew up her steps like a lapwing. She must have
had her latchkey all ready, for she got the door open in a twinkling,
and slammed it. I guffawed outright, and didn’t Jack swear!”
“What a beastly cad he is!” said the deep voice disgustfully.
Few men in the circumstances would have kept so forcibly in mind the
shame to wife and children that would follow a blow and quarrel then
and there, as the commonplace husband upon whose ear and heart every
vile word had fallen like liquid fire. He rent a path through the
throng, got his hat and coat and went out of the abhorrent place. He
had seen to it that Susie’s hired carriage was always driven by the
same man—a steady, middle-aged American—and recognizing him upon the
box, signaled him to draw up to the sidewalk, stepped into the vehicle,
and prepared to wait as patiently as might be until the man’s number
should be called by the attendant policeman.
The “show” was not over for an hour longer, and his carriage was the
last called. The fair manager had detained her lieutenant to exchange
felicitations over the triumph of the evening. Susie appeared, finally,
running down the steps so fast that her attendant only overtook her at
the curbstone. He had come out bareheaded, and without other protection
against the bitter March wind than his evening dress and thin shoes.
Mrs. Cornell’s hand was on the handle of the carriage door, and he
covered it with his own.
“Are you cruel or coquettish, sweet Annie Laurie?” he asked in accents
thickened by liquor and laughter.
By the electric light Arthur saw the pale terror of her face, as she
tried to wrest her fingers from the ruffianly grasp. Without a second’s
hesitation the husband leaped out through the other door, passed behind
the carriage, lifted the man, taller and heavier than himself, by the
nape of the neck, and laid him in the gutter.
“The fellow is drunk!” he remarked contemptuously to the policeman who
hastened up, imagining that the gentleman had tripped and fallen. “It
is lucky you are here to look after him.”
He handed his trembling wife into the carriage, swung himself in after
her, and bade the coachman drive home.
Then—for as I have expressly affirmed, this man was heroic in naught
save his love for wife and children—he put strong tender arms about
