museums, and the serious, tragical theatres of the 
people. The East Side was left pretty much to 
itself, now that the winter philanthropists had gone 
away, and was enjoying its summer nights and its 
irresponsible poverty. 
They even looked in at Father Damon's chapel, 
the dimly lighted fragrant refuge from the world 
and from sin. Why not? They were interested 
in the morals of the region. Had not Miss Tavish 
danced for one of the guilds ; and had not Carmen 
given Father Damon a handsome check in support 
of his mission? It was so satisfactory to go into 
such a place and see the penitents kneeling here 
and there, the little group of very plainly dressed 
sinners attracted by Father Damon's spiritual face 
and unselfish enthusiasm. Carmen said she felt 
like kneeling at one of the little boxes and confess- 
ing the sins of her neighbors. And then the four 
Carmen, Miss Tavish, Mavick, and Jack had a 
little supper at Wherry's, which they enjoyed all the 
more for the good action of visiting the East Side 
a little supper which lasted very late, and was 
more and more enjoyed as it went on, and was, in 
fact, so gay that when the ladies were set down at 
their houses, Jack insisted on dragging Mavick off 
to the Beefsteak Club and having something manly 
to drink ; and while they drank he analyzed the 
comparative attractions of Carmen and Miss Tav- 
ish ; he liked that kind of women, no nonsense in 
them ; and presently he wandered a little and lost 
the cue of his analysis, and, seizing Mavick by the 
arm, and regarding him earnestly, in a burst of con- 
fidence declared that, notwithstanding all appear- 
ances, Edith was the dearest girl in the world. 
It was at this supper that the famous society 
was formed, which the newspapers ridiculed, and 
which deceived so many excellent people in New 
York because it seemed to be in harmony with the 
philanthropic endeavor of the time, but which was 
only an expression of the Mephistophelian spirit of 
Carmen the Society for Supplying Two Suspend- 
ers to Those who have only One. 
By the end of June there was no more doubt 
about the heat of the town than about its odors. 
The fashionable residence part was dismantled and 
deserted. At least miles and miles of houses seemed 
to be closed. Few carriages were seen in this quar- 
ter, the throngs of fashion had disappeared, com- 
paratively few women were about, and those that 
appeared in the Sunday promenade were evidently 
sight-seers and idlers from other quarters ; the 
throng of devotees was gone from the churches, 
and indeed in many of them services were sus- 
pended till a more convenient season. The hotels, 
to be sure, were full of travellers, and the club- 
houses had more habitues than usual, and were 
more needed by the members whose families had 
gone into the country. 
Notwithstanding the silence and vacation aspect 
of up -town, the public conveyances were still 
thronged, and a census would have shown no such 
diminution of population as seemed. Indeed, 
while nobody was in town, except accidentally, the 
greater portion of it presented a more animated ap- 
pearance than usual, especially at night, on account 
of the open windows, the groups on door-steps and 
curb-stones, and the restless throng in the streets 
buyers and sellers and idlers. To most this out- 
door life was a great enjoyment, and to them the 
unclean streets with the odors and exhalations of 
decay were homelike and congenial. Nor did they 
seem surprised that a new country should so com- 
pletely reproduce the evil smells and nastiness of 
the old civilizations. It was all familiar and pictu- 
resque. Work still went on in the crowded tene- 
ment-houses, and sickness simply changed its char- 
acter, death showing an increased friendliness to, 
young children. Some impression was of course 
made by the agents of various charities, the guilds 
and settlements bravely strove at their posts, some 
