throubble theirselves. I’m not askin’ charity; an’ av they did it
unbeknownst to me, I’ll hammer thim well, that I will! They’re as well
off as common folk, an’ ye needn’t be worritin’. Av that’s all ye come
fer, ye kin be goin’ about yer own bisniss, bedad! An’ ye kin tell Mr.
What’s-his-name that I’m not sufferin’ fer help.”

This was not the fashion in which Miss Nevins was generally received.
“You do not understand”—with rising color. “We desire to be of whatever
service we can; and if your child is ill, you cannot have a better
friend—”

“Frind! is it? Bedad, I kin choose me own frinds! An’ if he knows whin
he’s well off, he’ll not show his foine forrum here, er his mug’ll get a
party mash on it. Frind, indade!”

The irate woman looked formidable as she rose, but Miss Nevins did not
mean to be daunted.

“You may see the time when you will be glad of a friend, though you need
not worry about his coming. I shall tell him you are not worth his
interest. As for the child”—and her indignation sparkled in her eyes.

“The child wants none of his help, ye kin tell him. I kin look afther
her mesilf.”

“Good-day,” and the visitor opened the door. Dil stepped back in the
obscurity. The lady held up her fine cloth gown, and gave her nose a
haughty wrinkle or two as she inhaled the stifling air once, and then
did not breathe until she was in the court.

“Such a horrid hole!” she commented. “The child ought to be moved to a
hospital—or perhaps she is well by this time. John is so easily taken
in—his swans so often turn out to be geese. As if I would have given
her any money, the impudent, blowsy thing! I know pretty well how far to
trust that class! Though it’s rather funny,” and she smiled in the midst
of her disgust; “they are always whining and pleading poverty, and will
be abject enough for a quarter. And she was very high and mighty! I’ll
write a good long letter to John about it, but I won’t trouble her
ladyship again.”

Dil stood shaking with terror, and some moments elapsed before she had
courage enough to open the door. She was in a degree prepared for a line
of defence.

Her mother seized her by the arm, and fairly shouted at her,—

“Who was the man who kim to see ye, ye young huzzy?”

“Man! When did a man come? I don’t remember,” assuming surprise.

“I’ll help yer mem’ry thin wid that;” and Dil’s ears rang with the sound
of the blow.

“There wasn’t any man since the wan that sang a long whiles ago. Mrs.
Murphy knew. She said he was a Moody an’ Sankey man, an’ that they do be
goin’ round singin’ and prayin’. An’ they all stood in the hall, the
women about. Mrs. Murphy kin tell you.”

Mrs. Quinn was rather nonplussed.

“What did he gev ye?”

“Nothin’,” sobbed Dil. “It was poor old Mrs. Bolan that had the money.”

“Not a cint?” She took Dil by the shoulder. “Dil Quinn, I don’ no
whether to belave yer; but if he’d gev ye any money, an’ ye’d bin such a
deceivin’ little thafe, I’d break ivery bone in yer mean little body.
Howld yer tongue! I ain’t done nothin’ but ast a civil question.”

Dil tried to stop sobbing. Her mother was in a hurry to get out, or
matters might have been worse.

“Stop yer snivelin’,” commanded her mother. “But if I hear of any more
men singin’ round, I’ll make ye wish yer never been born.”

The baby cried at this juncture, and Dil took it up. Mrs. Quinn went
out, and there would be peace until midnight.

Bess sat in the carriage, wild-eyed and ghostly, trembling in every
limb.
