The pink villa witnessed the wedding. Fanny never knew how she got
through that day. She was calm; she did not once lose her self-control.

They were to sail directly for New York from Naples, and thence to
Florida; the Italian colonists were to go at the same time.

"Mamma comes next year," Eva said to everybody. She looked indescribably
beautiful; it was the radiance of a complete happiness, like a halo.

By three o'clock they were gone, they were crossing the bay in the
little Naples steamer. No one was left at the villa with Fanny--it was
her own arrangement--save Horace Bartholomew.

"She won't mind being poor," he said, consolingly, "she won't mind
anything--with him. It is one of those sudden, overwhelming loves that
one sometimes sees; and after all, Fanny, it is the sweetest thing life
offers."

"And the mother?" said Fanny.




THE STREET OF THE HYACINTH


I

It was a street in Rome--narrow, winding, not over-clean. Two vehicles
meeting there could pass only by grazing the doors and windows on either
side, after the usual excited whip-cracking and shouts which make the
new-comer imagine, for his first day or two, that he is proceeding at a
perilous speed through the sacred city of the soul.

But two vehicles did not often meet in the street of the Hyacinth. It
was not a thoroughfare, not even a convenient connecting link; it
skirted the back of the Pantheon, the old buildings on either side
rising so high against the blue that the sun never came down lower than
the fifth line of windows, and looking up from the pavement was like
looking up from the bottom of a well. There was no foot-walk, of course;
even if there had been one no one would have used it, owing to the easy
custom of throwing from the windows a few ashes and other light trifles
for the city refuse-carts, instead of carrying them down the long stairs
to the door below. They must be in the street at an appointed hour, must
they not? Very well, then--there they were; no one but an unreasonable
foreigner would dream of objecting.

But unreasonable foreigners seldom entered the street of the Hyacinth.
There were, however, two who lived there one winter not long ago, and
upon a certain morning in the January of that winter a third came to see
these two. At least he asked for them, and gave two cards to the Italian
maid who answered his ring; but when, before he had time to even seat
himself, the little curtain over the parlor door was raised again, and
Miss Macks entered, she came alone. Her mother did not appear. The
visitor was not disturbed by being obliged to begin conversation
immediately; he was an old Roman sojourner, and had stopped fully three
minutes at the end of the fourth flight of stairs to re-gain his breath
before he mounted the fifth and last to ring Miss Macks's bell. Her card
was tacked upon the door: "Miss Ettie F. Macks." He surveyed it with
disfavor, while the little, loose-hung bell rang a small but exceedingly
shrill and ill-tempered peal, like the barking of a small cur. "Why in
the world doesn't she put her mother's card here instead of her own?" he
said to himself. "Or, if her own, why not simply 'Miss Macks,' without
that nickname?"

But Miss Macks's mother had never possessed a visiting-card in her life.
Miss Macks was the visiting member of the family; and this was so well
understood at home, that she had forgotten that it might not be the same
abroad. As to the "Ettie," having been called so always, it had not
occurred to her to make a change. Her name was Ethelinda Faith, Mrs.
Macks having thus combined euphony and filial respect--the first title
being her tribute to æsthetics, the second her tribute to the memory of
her mother.

"I am so very glad to see you, Mr. Noel," said Miss Macks, greeting her
visitor with much cordial directness of voice and eyes. "I have been
expecting you. But you have waited so long--three days!"

Raymond Noel, who thought that under the circumstances he had been
unusually courteous and prompt, was rather surprised to find himself
