"Who is going to get a good dahabeeyah for us at this time of year?"
"Don't spoil it. I'll get twenty," responded the other lady.
And then there was a silence.
"Well, Dorothy, are you going to leave it to us to decide?"
"Yes, mamma," Dorothy answered. Her eyes had grown dull again; she sat
listening to the wind as if she had forgotten what they were talking
about.
"It's decided, then. We will go to Cannes," remarked Mrs. North,
serenely.
Her Aunt Charlotte's discomfited face drew a sudden laugh from the
niece. And this laughter, once begun, did not cease; peal succeeded
peal, and Dorothy threw herself back on the cushions of the sofa,
overcome with merriment. Mrs. North glanced towards the doors to see if
they were well closed. But Charlotte Tracy was so glad to hear the sound
again that she did not care about comments from the servants; Dorothy's
face, dull and tired, above the dead black of the widow's attire, had
been like a nightmare to her.
They went to Cannes. And Mrs. North's suggested "two months" had now
lengthened, in her plans, to three. But before two weeks, had passed
they were again at Belmonte.
"Now that we have made one fiasco, Charlotte, and taken that horrible
journey, all tunnels, twice within twenty days, we must not make
another; we must decide to remain where we are for the present. If
Dorothy grows restless again, be firm. Be firm, as I shall be."
"Surely we ought to be indulgent to her now, Laura?"
"Not too much so. Otherwise we shall be laying up endless bother for
ourselves. For we have a year of hourly employment before us, day by
day. In the way of seeing to her, I mean."
"She will not make us the least trouble," said Mrs. Tracy, indignantly.
"I am not finding fault with her. But she cannot help her age, can she?
She is exceedingly young to be a widow, and she has a large fortune; but
for a year, at any rate, if I know myself, gossip shall not touch my
daughter."
"A year? I'll guarantee ten," said Mrs. Tracy, still indignant.
"I don't care about ten; three will do. Yes, I see you looking at me
with outraged eyes. But there's no need. I liked Alan as much as you
did; I appreciated every one of his good points. With all that, you
cannot pretend to say that you believe Dorothy really loved him. She was
too young to love anybody. The love was on his side, and you were as
much surprised as I was when she took a fancy to accept it."
Mrs. Tracy could not deny this. But she belonged to that large class of
women who, from benevolent motives, never acknowledge unwelcome facts.
"I think you are perfectly horrid!" she said.
Dorothy, back at Belmonte, was troublesome only in the sense of being
always in motion. Having exhausted the garden, she began to explore the
country. She went to Galileo's tower; to the lonely little church of
Santa Margherita; the valley of the Ema knew her slender black figure.
Once she crossed the Greve, and, following the old Etruscan road,
climbed to the top of the height beyond, where stands the long, blank
Shameless Villa outlined against the sky.
"Do you know, I am afraid I am lame," said Mrs. Tracy, the morning after
this long tramp to the Shameless.
"Well, why do you go? One of us is enough," answered Mrs. North.
To the walks Dorothy now added lessons in German and Italian. Mrs. North
drove down to Florence and engaged Fräulein Bernstein and Mademoiselle
Scarletti. Next, Dorothy said that she wished to take lessons in music.
"A good idea. You ought to play much better than you do," said her
mother.
"Piano; but singing too, please," Dorothy answered.
Again Mrs. North descended to Florence; Fräulein Lundborg was engaged
for instrumental music, and Madame Farinelli for vocal. Dorothy wished
to have a lesson each day from each of her teachers. "It's a perfect
procession up and down this hill!" thought Mrs. Tracy. There was a piano
in the billiard-room, and another in the drawing-room; but now Dorothy
wished to have a third piano in her own sitting-room up-stairs.
"But, my dear, what an odd fancy! Are you going to sing there by
yourself?" her mother inquired.
"Yes!" said Dorothy.
"Do you think she is well?" asked Mrs. Tracy, confidentially, with some
anxiety.
"Perfectly well. It is the repressed life she is leading," Mrs. North
answered. "But we must make the best of it. This is as good a place as
any for the next three months."
But again this skilful directress was forced to abandon the "good
place." Early in March, when the almond-trees were in bloom, Dorothy,
coming in from the garden, announced, "I hate Belmonte! Let us go
away, mamma--anywhere. Let us start to-morrow."
"We took you to Cannes, and you did not wish to stay. We shall be
leaving Belmonte in any case in June; that isn't long to wait."
"You like Paris; will you go to Paris?" the girl went on.
