course if you are going a long way, they are the only things."
He spoke in a jerky way, annoyed and discomfited by her forcing the
conversation off the track. Though he was aware that he had gone further
than he intended, when he proposed to spend the winter in Florence.
Moreover, he was very tenacious by nature, and had rarely been seriously
opposed during his short life. Her persistent refusal to tell him the
cause of her deep-rooted dislike exasperated him, while her frank and
careless manner and good-fellowship fascinated him more and more.
"Tell me all about the yacht," she said. "I'm sure she is a beauty,
though you call her an old tub."
"I don't want to talk about yachts," he answered, returning to the
attack in spite of her. "I want to talk about the chances of seeing you
after we part here."
"There aren't any," replied the young girl carelessly. "What is the name
of the yacht?"
"Very commonplace--'Lucy,' that's all. I'll make chances if there are
none--"
"You mustn't say that 'Lucy' is commonplace. That's my mother's name."
"I beg your pardon. I couldn't know that. It always struck me that it
wasn't much of a name for a yacht, you know. That was all I meant. He's
a queer old bird, my father; he always says he took it from the Bride of
Lammermoor, Heaven knows why. But please--I really can't go away and
feel that I'm not to see you again soon. You seem to think that I'm
chaffing. I'm not. I'm very serious. I like you very much, and I don't
see why one should just meet and then go off, and let that be the
end--do you?"
"I don't see why not," exclaimed Clare, hating the unexpected longing
she felt to agree with him, and tell him to come and stay in Florence as
much as he pleased. "Come--it's too cold here. I must be going in."
CHAPTER IX
Brook Johnstone had never been in the habit of observing his sensations
nor of paying any great attention to his actions. He was not at all an
actor, as Clare believed him to be, and the idea that he could ever have
taken pleasure in giving pain would have made him laugh. Possibly, it
would have made him very angry, but it certainly had no foundation at
all in fact. He had been liked, loved, and made much of, not for
anything he had ever taken the trouble to do, but partly for his own
sake, and partly on account of his position. Such charm as he had for
women lay in his frankness, good humour, and simplicity of character.
That he had appeared to be changeable in his affection was merely due to
the fact that he had never been in love. He vaguely recognised the fact
in his inner consciousness, though he would have said that he had been
in love half a dozen times; which only amounted to saying that women he
had liked had been in love with him or had thought that they were, or
had wished to have it thought that he loved them or had perhaps, like
poor Lady Fan, been willing to risk a good deal on the bare chance of
marrying one of the best of society's matches in the end. He was too
young to look upon such affairs very seriously. When he had been tired
of the game he had not lacked the courage to say so, and in most cases
he had been forgiven. Lady Fan might prove an exception, but he hoped
not. He was enormously far removed from being a saint, it is true, but
it is due to him to repeat that he had drawn the line rigidly at a
certain limit, and that all women beyond that line had been to him as
his own mother, in thought and deed. Let those who have the right to
cast stones--and the cruelty to do so--decide for themselves whether
Brook Johnstone was a bad man at heart, or not. It need not be hinted
that a proportion of the stone-throwing Pharisees owe their immaculate
reputation to their conspicuous lack of attraction; the little band has
a place apart and they stand there and lapidate most of us, and secretly
wish that they had ever had the chance of being as bad as we are without
being found out. But the great army of the pure in heart are mixed with
us sinners in the fight, and though they may pray for us, they do not
carp at our imperfections--and occasionally they get hit by the
Pharisees just as we do, being rather whiter than we and therefore
offering a more tempting mark for a jagged stone or a handful of pious
mud. You may know the Pharisee by his intimate knowledge of the sins he
has never committed.
Besides, though the code of honour is not worth much as compared with
the Ten Commandments, it is notably better than nothing, in the way of
morality. It will keep a man from lying and evil speaking as well as
from picking and stealing, and if it does not force him to honour all
women as angels, it makes him respect a very large proportion of them as
good women and therefore sacred, in a very practical way of sacredness.
Brook Johnstone always was very careful in all matters where honour and
his own feeling about honour were concerned. For that reason he had told
Clare that he had never done anything very bad, whereas what she had
seen him do was monstrous in her eyes. She had not reflected that she
knew nothing about Lady Fan; and if she had heard half there was to be
known she would not have understood. That night on the platform Lady Fan
had given her own version of what had taken place on the Acropolis at
