the Disagreeable Woman. Sometimes she appeared at breakfast; but never
at dinner or tea. Though she never indulged in conversation to any
extent, I think we all missed her.
One Sunday afternoon, soon after the gathering described in the last
chapter, I walked up Fifth Avenue to Central Park. It was a pleasant day
and many were out. Through the magnificent avenue I walked in a
leisurely way, and wondered idly how it would seem to own a residence in
this aristocratic street. I could not repress a feeling of envy when I
thought of the favored class who dwelt in the long line of palaces that
line the avenue. Their lives seemed far removed from that of a
struggling physician, who was in daily doubt how long he could maintain
his modest style of living in the crowded metropolis.
Arrived at Fifty-ninth street I sauntered toward the menagerie. This is
the favorite resort of children, and of young persons from the country.
Perhaps I, myself, might be classed among the latter. I did not care so
much, however, to observe the animals as the visitors. I had a hope that
I might see some one whom I knew.
At first I could see no familiar face. But presently I started, as my
glance fell on the short and somewhat plump figure of the young woman
from Macy's.
She was not alone. With her walked a tall, sun-burned young man, who was
evidently from the country. She leaned confidingly upon his arm, and her
face was radiant. He was evidently an old friend, perhaps a lover. He,
too, looked contented and happy. Were they lovers? It looked like it. If
so, the matrimonial plans of Prof. Poppendorf were doomed to
disappointment. Delicacy dictated my silent withdrawal, but I confess
that my curiosity was aroused, and I resolved to gratify it.
Accordingly I pressed forward and overtook the young woman from Macy's
and her escort. She looked up casually, and a little flush overspread
her face when she recognized me.
"Dr. Fenwick!" she said, impulsively.
I turned and lifted my hat.
"I am glad to meet you, Miss Canby!" I said.
At the same time I looked inquiringly at her escort.
"Stephen," she said, "this is Dr. Fenwick from our boarding-house."
"Proud to know you, sir," said the young man, offering his hand.
I shook it heartily.
"You have not mentioned your friend's name, Miss Canby," I said.
"Excuse me! I am very neglectful. This is Stephen Higgins from our town.
I used to go to school with him."
"I am glad to make your acquaintance, Mr. Higgins."
"Same to you, sir."
"I suppose you are on a visit to the city, Mr. Higgins."
"Yes, sir. I came here to spend Sunday, and see Ruth."
"I presume you have been in the city before?"
"Not for five years. It's a pretty smart place. I'm so turned round that
I hardly know which way to turn."
"You will have a good guide in Miss Canby."
"In Ruth, yes."
"I wish I could go round with him all the time he is here, Dr. Fenwick,
but to-morrow I shall have to go back to my work at Macy's."
She gave a little sigh as she spoke.
"Do you intend to stay long, Mr. Higgins?"
"Only a day or two. It's pretty expensive stayin' in York."
"I want him to stay over till Tuesday, Dr. Fenwick. He can't see much if
he goes home to-morrow."
"If you could be with me, Ruth--"
"But I can't, so it's no use talking about it."
"Wouldn't Mr. Macy give you a day off?"
"If I could find him perhaps he would," she said, laughing.
"Why can't you find him? Isn't he at the store every day?"
"Mr. Macy is dead, Stephen."
"Then how can he keep store?" asked Stephen, bewildered.
"Somebody else runs it in his name?"
"Don't let me interfere with your plans," I said, feeling that perhaps I
might be in the way.
They both urged me to stay, and so I did.
By this time all the attractions of the menagerie had been seen, and I
proposed to walk to the lake.
"How would you like to live in the city, Mr. Higgins?" I asked.
"First rate, if I could find anything to do."
"What is your business at home?"
"I work on father's farm. Next year, as father's gettin' feeble, I may
take it on shares."
"That will be better, perhaps, than seeking a situation in the city."
"I should like to be here on account of Ruth," he said, wistfully.
She smiled and shook her head.
"There's nothing for me to do in the country," she said.
"I might find something for you to do," he said, eagerly.
Then I saw how it was, and felt inclined to help him.
