can't find a jury't would acquit him!"

Night after night, we conscientiously sat out the aforesaid afterpiece,
innocently supposed to be our due because it had formed a part of the
initial performance. However long our weary strollers might delay it,
in the empty hope of our going home content, there we waited until the
curtain went up. It was a dreary piece of business, varied by
horse-play considered "kind o' rough" by even the more boisterous among
us. Sometimes it was given, minstrel-wise, in the time-honored panoply
of burnt cork; again, poor weary souls! they lacked even the spirit to
blacken themselves, and clinging to the same dialogue, played boldly in
Caucasian fairness, with the pathetically futile disguise of a Teuton
accent. And last of all, Mr. Wilde would appear before the curtain, and
"in behalf of Mrs. Wilde, self and company" thank us movingly for our
kind attention, and announce the next night's bill.

The last half hour was my chosen time for leaning back against the
wall, and allowing thought and glance to dwell lovingly on Tiverton
faces. O worn and rugged features of the elder generation to whose
kinship we are born! What solution, even of Time, the all-potent,
shall wash your meaning from the heart? An absolute lack of
self-consciousness had quite transformed the gaze they bent upon the
stage. A veil had been swept aside, and the true soul shone forth; that
soul which ever dwells apart, either from the dignity of its estate or,
being wrought of fibre more delicate than air, because it fears recoil
and hurt. There were Roxy and her husband, he too well content with
life as it is, to be greatly moved by its counterfeit; she sparkling
back some artless reply to the challenge of feeble romance and wingless
wit. There was Uncle Eli, a little dazed by these strange doings, the
hand on his knee shaking, from time to time, under the stimulus of
unshared thought. There was Miss Lucindy, with Ellen and all the
McNeils, a care-free, happy phalanx, smiling joyously at everything set
before them, with that spontaneous rapture so good to see. One night,
Nance Pete appeared, and established herself, with great importance, in
the first row of the ten-cent seats; but she fell asleep, and snored
with embarrassing volume and precision. She never came again, and
announced indifferently, to all who cared to hear, that when she
"wanted to see a passel o' monkeys, she'd go to the circus, an' done
with it." There, too, one night when Comedy burlesqued her own rapt
self, was Dana Marden; but he came alone. Mary had a cold, we heard,
and "thought she'd better stay in." Dana sat through the foolish play,
unmoved. His brow loomed heavy, like Tragedy's own mask, and it grew
ever blacker while the scene went on. Hiram Cole whispered me,--

"He'll kill himself afore he's done with it. He's gone in for the whole
hog, but he 'ain't growed to it, as Old Josh had. The Marden blood run
emptin's afore it got to him."

The last night came of all our blissful interlude, and on that night,
by some stroke of fate, the bill was "Oliver Twist." Of that
performance let naught be spoken, save in reverence. For, by divine
leading it might seem, and not their own good wit, those poor players
had been briefly touched by the one true fire. Shakespeare had beckoned
them, and they had passed him by; Comedy and Tragedy had been their
innocent sport. How funny their tragedy had been, how sad their comedy,
Momus only might tell. But to-night some gleaming wave from a greater
sea had lifted them, and borne them on. Still they played, jarringly,
for that was their untutored wont. Their speech roared, loud defiance
to grammar's idle saws, their costumes were absurd remnants of an
antique past; but a certain, rude, and homely dignity had transfigured
them, and enveloped, too, this poor drama which, after all, goes very
deep, down to the springs of life and love. There was a dirty and
wicked abomination of a Fagin. Wilde himself played Sykes, and we of
Tiverton, who know little about the formless monster dwelling under the
garnished pavement of every great city, and rising, once in a century
or so, to send red riot and ruin through the streets,--even we could
read the story of his word and glance. Unconsciously to ourselves, we
guessed at Whitechapel and the East End "tough," and shuddered under
the knowledge of evil. Mrs. Wilde, her heavy face many a shade sincerer
than when she walked in dirty white satin, was Nancy; and in her death,
culminated the grand moment of Tiverton's looking the drama in the
face, and seeing it for what it is,--the living sister of life itself.
Sykes really killed her alarmingly well. Round the stage he dragged
her, bruised and speechless, with such cruel realism that we women
crouched and shivered; and when she staggered to her knees, and told
her pitiful lie for the brute she loved, the general shudder of worship
and horror thrilled us into a mighty reverence for the tie stronger
than death and hell, binding the woman to the man, and lifting Love
triumphant on his cross of pain. With Nancy's final sigh, another swept
through the hall, like breath among the trees, and, drawn by what
