he would ascend to pray. Peter, James, and John 
were tired with the day's traveling, but no one of 
them objected. The Rabbi's manner was something 
not to be argued with. 
They were at the foot of beautiful Lebanon, high- 
est and whitest of mountains. It was an Alpine 
ascent, involving a night spent in air too rarefied 
for comfortable breathing, if one made the snow- 
touched summit. The little party did not, but 
mounted to a nearer foothill, and wondered why 
this toil was added to a hot day's march. Jesus 
climbed in advance, apart. His stout staff fell 
firmly on the rocks. He showed less than usual 
signs of weariness. Yet his friends knew how worn 
he was. 
The great mountain divided Jewish from Gentile 
territory. It was an imposing height, and the view 
therefrom was significant and inspiring. 
The sun had set. Cool was coming. The road 
started among cultivated slopes, and wound upwards 
through orchards, vines, and grain fields. Figs and 
266 THE STORY OF JESUS CHRIST 
apricots, mulberry, corn, and melon interchanged 
outlines and colors of leaf or blossom or forming 
fruit. The air was sweet. The world was ripen- 
ing. Clumps of oak succeeded to this richer level ; 
dwarf shrubs and rock ravines thickened as the 
climb grew steeper. Turf, gravel, stunted cedars, 
gorges and crevices, began to take the place, of 
warmer scenery. Warm became cool, delightful to 
the sun-smitten travelers ; and now from above them 
the scent of snow ! The group drew it in to thirsty 
senses and to weary frames. Strength came, as it 
always comes with snow. They felt invigorated and 
excited. The hot, dusty world lay below them, as 
life lies below death, a trouble escaped. Their 
spirits rose, and so their souls. 
To the dull watchers down in the plain and valley, 
stately Lebanon gave no sign that mystery swept 
over his head that night. Life went on as usual to 
common minds and in common circumstances. Who 
guessed that a wonder thrilled the mountain ? The 
lowland and the heights are far apart. Lebanon 
was always a beautiful summit, and the eyes of the 
sad or the sick turned to it on this as on many other 
evenings. 
Sunset on this peak has been captured by the 
vivid pen of one who knew it well. 
" Close upon the rose color deepening into red " 
came " a death-like pallor, and darkness relieved by 
snow." ... "A deep ruby flush was slowly fol- 
lowed by warm purple shadows." The Sea of Gali- 
lee, " between its dim walls of hill," was lighted 
with "a delicate, greenish-yellow hue. The flush 
THE MOUNTAIN: AND THE TOMB 267 
died out . . . and a pale, steel-colored shade suc- 
ceeded. . * . A long, pyramidal shadow slid down 
. . . and crept across the plain. Damascus was 
swallowed up by it ... the pointed end of the 
shadow stood out distinctly against the sky a 
dusky cone o dull color against the flush of the 
afterglow. It was the shadow of the mountain it- 
self, stretching away for seventy miles across the 
plain the most marvelous shadow, perhaps, to be 
seen anywhere. . . . The sun at length slid into the 
sea, and went out like a blue spark." 
In the color, in the glory, remote from men, apart 
from the fret of life, a group of four passed from 
twilight to dark, in the attitude and in the absorp- 
tion of worship. Jesus had prayed aloud with his 
three friends, calling upon them did they ever 
reveal what endearing blessings? He had now 
moved somewhat apart from them that he might 
have the privacy of personal and silent prayer. 
They watched him reverently. But they were very 
tired. The Master prayed a long time to-night. 
And if one should fall asleep, and offer him that 
disrespect ? 
The three, struggling against the drowsiness which 
began to overcome them, suddenly stirred and 
