thought upon this righteous maid-aven- 
ger. Rather will he choose to smile over 
the memory of that Marwood de Whiche- 
halse who kissed pretty Annie at the 
door, and in payment for his whistle was 
so sturdily clouted by the giant John. 
When John Fry and his valiant little 
charge made their way across Exmoor, 
from Tiverton to Oare, they halted at 
Dulverton ; and there it was that the im- 
mortal "farm-hand" demanded "Hot 
mootton pasty for twoo trarv'lers, at 
number vaive, in vaive minutes ! " The 
coach road from Lynton thither is char- 
acteristic and satisfying; for on either 
side lies the moor, barren, brown, crack- 
ling with coarse grass diversified by 
patches of heather, "the green of bracken, 
the red of whortleberry," and tenanted, 
as of old, by ponies and red deer. It is 
like Dartmoor as one sister resembles an- 
other, and yet strangely individual and 
different. Dartmoor is broken by abrupt 
hills and gigantic rocky remains: Ex- 
 
moor sweeps away in rolling billows. In 
the deep glens at the foot of these enor- 
mous earth-ridges hasten clear streams 
of varying size, but all swarming with 
fish; for the moor is the "mother of 
manie rivers." Over the sides of the 
ridges themselves trickle swifter rills, in 
goyals or gullies, to join the torrent be- 
low, — in winter a torrent, indeed; for 
then such mountain waters throw aside 
the decorum of habit, and swollen by the 
early rains leap forth, destructive and 
dauntless, to meet the sea. But in the 
centre of the great tract, peopled every- 
where by thousands of sheep, lie its 
monotony and dreariness of waste moor- 
land. It is when they approach the sea 
that the great downs become majestic 
and truly satisfying. Then they drop 
suddenly hundreds of feet, cleft perhaps 
by a romantic fissure, where sweeps some 
rushing streamlet, foam-fringed and vo- 
cal. Here and there are bogs, but alas 
for the partisan who would fain shudder 
over the bones of Carver Doone bleaching 
' below the ooze ! Not one, says a cool and 
unsympathetic authority, is dangerous. 
"It always rains on Exmoor," runs 
a proverb; and the couplet defining 
 
Dunkery's barometric qualification, an- 
nounces with the eccentric rhyming of a 
weather distich, — 
" When Dunkery's top cannot be seen, 
Homer will have a flooded stream." 
Clouds are the hourly attendants of an 
Exmoor sky ; but, when they lower on 
Dunkery, then the rain may be said to 
have given official warning of its ap- 
proach. To climb this beacon hill with- 
out a guide is to suffer some diminution 
of spiritual vainglory, unless, indeed, the 
gods go with you every step. The pleas- 
antest footway from Porlock leads, 
through the valley of the Horner, where 
that gurgling, shouting, utterly irrespon- 
sible water creature goes tumbling along 
over stone and shallow, slapping his 
sides, joking, singing, waking the valley 
to a madness of mirth. The air there is 
dark with " green things growing." You 
can scarcely make your way for love of 
the thickening leaves on either hand. 
Everywhere is the beauty woven out of 
ferns and brawling waters. Crossing the 
