sacristan, whom he had known for years, could do it easily. But Tebaldo
recognised at once that he had no hold upon the man, who might betray
him at any moment. Money would tempt the fellow, but no sum could
silence him afterwards, if he should demand more, as was very probable.
Besides, it would be necessary to write to him, and the man might lose
the letter, even if he were able to read it well enough to understand,
which was doubtful. There was Don Atanasio, the apothecary. He would do
much out of hatred for the Saracinesca, as his daughter had done
already. But he was a cautious old man, dependent, in a large measure,
upon the government, and would not be inclined to endanger his position
to oblige Tebaldo. It would not do to risk a refusal.
Then it occurred to the wretched man that women had more than once saved
men who loved them from desperate danger, and that, after all, he might
do worse than to tell Aliandra the truth. If she were willing, she could
go up to Santa Vittoria on a pretext and visit the little church, and
get rid of the sacristan. Then, if she wore a wide cloak, she could
kneel down on pretence of looking through the grating, and her slim
woman's arm could run through it in a moment, and her hand could not
fail to find the knife. He could remember, now, exactly at how many
inches from the left he had dropped it through. The details came back to
him with vivid clearness, though at first he had almost quite forgotten
them.
He almost made up his mind to go to Aliandra for assistance, and the
half-decision was a sudden and immense relief. He could eat and drink,
and he felt that he should sleep. Immediately his mind outran this first
plan, and he saw himself in Rome again, in three or four days at the
most, engaged to marry the great heiress, resuming his regular life of
wise courtship, and discussing with his future wife the details of a
brilliant existence. He drove away the subconsciousness that the thing
was not yet done, and revelled in visions in which there was no fear.
But that did not last long, for he could not sleep, after all; and the
knowledge that he must act quickly grew constantly more disturbing, till
he rose in the night and sat by the open window, working out his plan.
He must go to Randazzo again and see Aliandra; then he must wait at the
inn, while she went up to Santa Vittoria. The hours of waiting would be
hard to bear, but at the end of them there would be freedom. She would
come back, and he should see her pass. He should go to her father's
house. She would meet him at the door and draw him into the familiar
sitting-room, and a moment later the weapon would be in his hand. After
all, if he once had it, she could have no proof against him, beyond her
mere assertion, if she should ever turn against him. For the sake of his
love for her, she would never do that, he thought.
He telegraphed to Tatò at dawn to meet him at the Piedimonte station. It
was a Thursday, and he felt sure that the judge would not be at leisure
to go up to Santa Vittoria before Sunday. It was most probable, too,
that the bishop would choose the Sunday to reconsecrate the church, and
it occurred to Tebaldo that it would be strange if the two should meet
as they were always meeting in his dreams. But there was plenty of time
before that, and all would come right. Aliandra would not refuse to do
him this service.
Tatò met him at Piedimonte in person, instead of sending down his man,
and in obedience to Tebaldo's telegram he had brought a light conveyance
in which the two sat side by side, with Tebaldo's little valise at their
feet, and his rifle between them. They were old acquaintances, for Tatò
had driven the Corleone family for years himself, and by deputy, as it
were, while he had been serving his time in Ponza. He had a profound
respect for Tebaldo, for he knew how the latter with his brothers had
long ago led the soldiers astray when pursuing the brigands in the
neighbourhood of Camaldoli There was probably no man in that part of the
country who knew as much about people of all sorts and conditions, and
about their movements, as the smart-looking owner of the stable at
Piedimonte, nor anyone who could keep his own counsel better. He was a
thorough type of the 'maffeuso,' at all points, as San Giacinto had at
first observed to Orsino. San Giacinto had always believed that the man
had known of Ferdinando's intended attack, and of the pitfall in the
avenue.
Tatò told Tebaldo that he had driven San Giacinto alone up to Camaldoli
on the previous evening, returning during the night.
'What courage!' he exclaimed, with some genuine admiration, as he spoke
of the big man. 'After all that has happened! He is a man of iron, full
of courage and blood.'
'There was no particular danger in driving up to Camaldoli,' observed
Tebaldo, indifferently.
Tatò looked at him curiously for a moment, to see whether he were in
earnest.
'Then you do not know?' he enquired. 'They are in the woods above
Maniace.'
'They' means the outlaws, or the carabineers, as the sense requires.
Tebaldo looked quickly at Tatò in his turn.
'How many?' he asked.
