say," he quickly went on, " that that effect was 
not produced this afternoon " 
" You confine yourself to saying," Rose inter 
rupted, "that it's not produced in our actual 
situation ! " 
He stared, through the thicker dusk ; after 
 
which, " I don't understand you ! " he dropped. 
"I do say," he declared, "that whatever your 
success to-day may be admitted to have consisted 
of, I didn't at least then make the admission. I 
didn't at that moment understand you any more 
than I do now ; and I don't think I said anything 
to lead you to suppose I did. I showed you 
simply that I was bewildered, and I couldn't 
have shown it more than by the abrupt way I 
left you. I don't recognise that I'm committed to 
anything that deprives me of the right of asking 
you for a little more light." 
" Do you recognise by chance," Rose returned, 
"the horrible blow " 
"That has fallen on all this wretched place? 
I'm unutterably shocked by it. But where does 
it come into our relations ? " 
Rose smiled in exquisite pity, which had the 
air, however, of being more especially for herself. 
" You say you were painfully affected ; but you 
really invite me to go further still. Haven't I put 
the dots on all the horrid i's ? Haven't I dragged 
myself through the dust of enough confessions ? " 
Dennis slowly and grimly shook his head; he 
doggedly clung to his real refuge. " I don't 
understand you I don't understand you." 
Rose, at this, overcame her diffidence. "It 
would be inexpressibly horrible to me to appear 
to be free to profit by Mr. Bream's misfortune." 
Dennis thought a moment. " To appear, you 
mean, to have an interest in the fact that the 
death of his daughter leaves him at liberty to 
invite you to become his wife ? " 
"You express it to admiration." 
He discernibly wondered. " But why should 
you be in danger of that torment to your delicacy 
if Mr. Bream has the best of reasons for doing 
nothing to contribute to it?" 
" The best of Mr. Bream's reasons," Rose re 
turned, "won't be nearly so good as the worst 
of mine ! " 
"That of your making a match with someone 
else ? I see," her companion said. " That's the 
precaution I'm to have the privilege of putting in 
your power." 
She gave the strangest of smiles ; the whites of 
her excited eyes shimmered in the gloom. " You 
make my position perfect." 
Dennis hesitated. "And what do I make my 
own?" 
" Exactly the one you came to take. You have 
taken it by your startling presence ; you're up to 
 
your neck in it, and there's nothing that will be 
come you so as to wear it bravely and gallantly. 
If you don't like it," Rose added, "you should 
have thought of that before." 
" You like it so much on your side," Dennis 
returned, "that you appear to have engaged in 
measures to create it even before the argument 
for it had acquired the force that you give such 
a fine account of." 
" Do you mean by giving it out as a fact ? It 
was never too soon to give it out: the right 
moment was the moment you were there. Your 
arrival changed everything ; it gave me on the spot 
my advantage ; it precipitated my grasp of it." 
Vidal's expression was like a thing battered 
dead, and his voice was a sound that matched it. 
" You call your grasp your announcement ? " 
She threw back her head. " My announcement 
has reached you ? Then you know I've cut off 
your retreat." Again he turned away from her; 
