prayer-book remained unopened on the sacred desk. 
The desk itself was empty. The audience was, in 
fact, authoritatively dismissed dismissed without 
a benediction, like some obscure or erring thing that 
did not deserve it. 

The people stared in one another's faces for an 
astounded moment, and then, without words, with 
hanging heads, they moved to the open air and 
melted out of the church. 

The sexton rushed up to the vestryman, pale with 
fear. 

"Sir," he whispered, "he is not in the vestry- 
room. He has taken himself away God knows 
whither. What are we to do ? " 

" Trust him," replied the church officer, with a 
face of peace, " and God who sent him. Who he 
may be, I know no more than you ; but that he is 
a man of God I know. He is about his Father's 
business. Do not meddle with it." 

" Lord forbid ! " cried the sexton. " I d sooner 
meddle with something I can understand." 




Upon the afternoon of that long-remembered 
Sunday there was seen in Saint Agatha's the 
strangest sight that those ancient walls had 
witnessed since the corner-stone was laid with a silver 
trowel in the name of the Father and of the Son 
and of the Holy Ghost "whom we, this people, 
worship." 

Before the chimes rang for the vesper service, 
the house was filled. Before the bronze lips of the 
bells were mute, the pews were packed. Before the 
stranger reappeared, the nave and the transept over 
flowed. The startled sexton was a leaf before the 
wind of the surging crowd. He could not even 
enforce the fire-laws, and the very aisles were 
jammed. Who carried the story? How do such 
wraiths of rumors fly ? 

Every member of that church not absent from 
town or known to be ill in his bed sought his pew 
that afternoon. Many indeed left their sick-rooms 
to be present at that long-remembered service. But 
no man or woman of these came alone. Each 
brought a chosen companion ; many, two or three ; 
some came accompanied by half a dozen worshipers : 
and upon these invited guests Saint Agatha's looked 
with an astonishment that seemed to be half shame ; 




for up those velvet aisles there moved an array of 
human faces at which the very angels and virtues 
in the painted windows seemed to turn their heads 
and stare. 

Such wretchedness, such pallor, hunger, cold, 
envy, sickness, sin, and shame were as unknown to 
those dedicated and decorated walls as the inmates 
of hell. Rags and disease, uncleanliness and woe 
and want, trod the house of God as if they had the 
right there. Every pew in the church was thrown 
open. Tattered blanket shawls jostled velvet cloaks, 
and worn little tan-colored reefers, half concealing 
the shivering cotton blouses of last summer, rubbed 
against sealskin furs that swept from throat to foot. 
Wretched men, called in by the throb of repentance 
that follows a debauch, lifted their haggard eyes to 
the chancel from the pews of the wardens, and 
women of the town sat gently beside the " first 
