"The rail along the top of the boat in which the rowlocks are set. You
mustn't let an oar touch that. Keep hold of the handle with the blade
on the water. Then, without any command, you will ship the oar; in
other words, drop the loom into the rowlock. Now go through that again.
Steady, and don't hurry. Do it in about the time the stroke oarsman
gives you."
Frank gave the commands again, beginning with "Up oars!" till the
oarsmen had shipped their oars; and it was very well done, and Uncle
Ben actually praised the crew.
"The next command is 'Give way together!'" said the old sailor. "You
will take the time from the stroke oar, and pull with it all the time."
Fred Harper was the aftermost rower; and the instructor asked him to
vacate his seat, which Ben took himself, with the oar in his hands.
"Now carry the handle of the oar forward to easy arm's length towards
the starn," continued Ben, suiting the action to the word; and all
followed his example. "Drop the end of the oar into the water till the
blade is just covered, no deeper. Then pause a bit, and pull the
handle towards you to your breasts, or very nearly there."
The crew followed the instructions, and imitated the old seaman till
they had taken their first stroke. These movements were repeated
several times, till they could do them well. Then they began again with
Frank giving the commands, and they went through the whole till they
could do everything to the satisfaction of the teacher.
"Now, bowman, you may weigh the anchor," said Uncle Ben; and the hearts
of the boys beat rapidly, for the time for actual rowing had come.
Tony Weston hauled in the grapnel, and stowed it in the fore-sheets.
"Up oars!" commanded Frank, rising from his seat; and all the oars were
elevated in good order, though not quite perfect. "Let fall!" he
continued; and this movement was very well done, and all shipped their
oars. "Give way together!"
The boat began to move, and the motion seemed to perplex some of the
oarsmen. A few of them appeared to be trying to touch bottom, and on
the second stroke they were in a snarl.
"Avast, all!" shouted Uncle Ben. "This won't do! Some of you act as
though you were spearing eels. You are not to bury your oar in the
water above the blade at any time. You must keep the flat part of the
oar up and down in the water always. If you turn it in pulling, the
blade will shoot up into the air, or dive down towards the bottom."
Then he practised them for a full half-hour on this step, and finally
brought them up to a very handsome stroke. Then Frank gave the commands
again, and they pulled passably well. Directing the coxswain to head
the Zephyr up the lake, Ben gave his attention to individuals, pointing
out their faults, and correcting them. The boat seemed to be as light
as a feather; and even with the indifferent rowing, she made tremendous
headway, as the boys thought. She was soon at the head of the lake.
"Now, boys, we have to stop as well as start her," said the teacher,
some time before the boat reached the head of the lake, where the river
flowed into it; "and the command will be, 'Stand by to lay on your
oars!' But that order is only for you to be ready to do it. The next
command will be 'Oars!' The last order, Frank, must be given at the
beginning of a stroke, the oars being in the water. Then, boys, you
will level your oars, all in a straight line, not one above or below
the others; and you will turn, or feather them, as it is called, so
that they would lie flat on the water if dropped down; but they must
not be dropped down, not one of them. Now give the command, Frank. You
need not stand up to do it, unless there's an emergency."
"Stand by to lay on your oars!" called the coxswain. "Oars!" he added
after a short pause.
This movement, like the others, required to be done several times; but
the Zephyr lost her headway at the mouth of the river. On the return,
the young oarsmen were instructed in feathering their oars. They were
told precisely how to turn the hands so as to bring the oar up flatwise
as it came out of the water, and how to reverse the motion when it was
dipped for the stroke. They had become somewhat accustomed to handling
the oars, and Uncle Ben warmly commended the proficiency they made.
Frank had headed the boat for Centre Island; and when she was abreast
of it, Ben called his attention to the fact that his father and mother
were both on the beach, observing the movements of the Zephyr and her
crew.
It was nearly time to go ashore; but the old sailor gave them two more
lessons,--one from laying on the oars to holding water when it was
desirable to check the headway, and the other to back the craft in
order to stop the headway at once.
Ben declared that the club had done exceedingly well for the first day
afloat, and now they must go to the spot where Captain and Mrs. Sedley
were looking at them. Frank was directed to run for the cottage of the
widow Weston.
"Now we must give the captain the compliment of tossing oars to him,"
said Ben on the way over. "When a boat in the navy is to meet or pass
one containing a superior officer, it is the fashion to salute him with
