long glance. 
His mother said, " Well, then, that's all right, and 
Jeff needn't do anything for them on that account. 
And I've made up my mind about one thing : whatever 
the hotel does has got to be done for the whole hotel. 
It can't pick and choose amongst the guests." West- 
over liked so little the part of old family friend which 
he seemed, whether he liked it or not, to bear with 
the Durgins, that he would gladly have got away now, 
but Mrs. Durgin detained him with a direct appeal. 
" Don't you think so, Mr. Westover ? " 
Jeff spared him the pain of a response. "Very 
well," he said to his mother, " I'm not the hotel, and 
you never want me to be. I can do this on my own 
account." 
 
" Not with my coach and not with my hosses," said 
his mother. 
Jeff rose. " I might as well go on down to Cam- 
bridge, and get to work on my conditions." 
" Just as you please about that," said Mrs. Durgin, 
with the same impassioned quiet that showed in her 
son's handsome face and made it one angry red to his 
yellow hair. " We've got along without you so far, 
this summer, and I guess we can the rest of the time. 
And the sooner you work ofE your conditions the 
better, I presume." 
The next morning Jeff came to take leave of him, 
where Westover had pitched his easel and camp-stool 
on the slope behind the hotel. 
" Why, are you really going ? " he asked. " I was 
in hopes it might have blown over." 
" No, things don't blow over so easy with mother," 
said Jeff, with an embarrassed laugh, but no resent- 
ment. " She generally means what she says." 
" Well, in this case, Jeff, I think she was right." 
" Oh, I guess so," said Jeff, pulling up a long blade 
of grass, and taking it between his teeth. " Anyway, 
it comes to the same thing as far as I'm concerned. 
It's for her to say what shall be done and what sha'n't 
be done in her own house, even if it is a hotel. That's 
what I shall do in mine. We're used to these little 
differences ; but we talk it out, and that's the end of 
it. I shouldn't really go, though, if I didn't think I 
ought to get in some work on those conditions before 
the thing begins regularly. I should have liked to 
help here a little, for I've had a good time and I ought 
 
to be willing to pay for it. But she's in good hands. 
Jackson's well — for him — and she's got Cynthia." 
The easy security of tone with which JefE pronounced 
the name vexed Westover. " I suppose your mother 
would hardly know how to do without her, even if you 
were at home," he said, dryly. 
" Well, that's a fact," Jefi assented, with a laugh 
for the hit. " And Jackson thinks the world of her. 
I believe he trusts her judgment more than he does 
mother's about the hotel. Well, I must be going. 
You don't know where Mrs. Vostrand is going to be 
this winter, I suppose ? " 
" No, I don't," said Westover. He could not help 
a sort of blind resentment in the situation. If he 
could not feel that Jeff was the best that could be for 
Cynthia, he had certainly no reason to regret that his 
thoughts could be so lightly turned from her. But 
the fact anomalously incensed him as a slight to the 
girl, who might have been still more sacrificed by 
JeS's constancy. He forced himself to add, " I fancy 
Mrs. Vostrand doesn't know herself." 
" I wish I didn't know where I  was going to be," 
said Jeff. " Well, good-by, Mr. Westover. I'll see 
you in Beston." 
" Oh, good-by." The painter freed himself from 
his brush and palette for a parting handshake, reluc- 
tantly. 
Jeff plunged down the hill, waving a final adieu 
from the corner of the hotel before he vanished round 
it. 
Mrs. Vostrand and her daughter were at breakfast 
 
