saw that Owen had at this moment his sharpest necessity of speech, and
so long as he didn't release her hand she could only submit to him. Her
defense would be perhaps to look blank and hard; so she looked as blank
and as hard as she could, with the reward of an immediate sense that
this was not a bit what he wanted. It even made him hang fire, as if he
were suddenly ashamed of himself, were recalled to some idea of duty and
of honor. Yet he none the less brought it out. "There's one thing I dare
say I ought to tell you, if you're going so kindly to act for me; though
of course you'll see for yourself it's a thing it won't do to tell
her." What was it? He made her wait for it again, and while she
waited, under firm coercion, she had the extraordinary impression that
Owen's simplicity was in eclipse. His natural honesty was like the scent
of a flower, and she felt at this moment as if her nose had been brushed
by the bloom without the odor. The allusion was undoubtedly to his
mother; and was not what he meant about the matter in question the
opposite of what he said--that it just would do to tell her? It would
have been the first time he had said the opposite of what he meant, and
there was certainly a fascination in the phenomenon, as well as a
challenge to suspense in the ambiguity. "It's just that I understand
from Mona, you know," he stammered; "it's just that she has made no
bones about bringing home to me--" He tried to laugh, and in the effort
he faltered again.
"About bringing home to you?"--Fleda encouraged him.
He was sensible of it, he achieved his performance. "Why, that if I
don't get the things back--every blessed one of them except a few
she'll pick out--she won't have anything more to say to me."
Fleda, after an instant, encouraged him again. "To say to you?"
"Why, she simply won't marry me, don't you see?"
Owen's legs, not to mention his voice, had wavered while he spoke, and
she felt his possession of her hand loosen so that she was free again.
Her stare of perception broke into a lively laugh. "Oh, you're all
right, for you will get them. You will; you're quite safe; don't
worry!" She fell back into the house with her hand on the door.
"Good-bye, good-bye." She repeated it several times, laughing bravely,
quite waving him away and, as he didn't move and save that he was on the
other side of it, closing the door in his face quite as he had closed
that of the drawing-room in hers. Never had a face, never at least had
such a handsome one, been so presented to that offense. She even held
the door a minute, lest he should try to come in again. At last, as she
heard nothing, she made a dash for the stairs and ran up.
IX
In knowing a while before all she needed, Fleda had been far from
knowing as much as that; so that once upstairs, where, in her room, with
her sense of danger and trouble, the age of Louis Seize suddenly struck
her as wanting in taste and point, she felt that she now for the first
time knew her temptation. Owen had put it before her with an art beyond
his own dream. Mona would cast him off if he didn't proceed to
extremities; if his negotiation with his mother should fail he would be
completely free. That negotiation depended on a young lady to whom he
had pressingly suggested the condition of his freedom; and as if to
aggravate the young lady's predicament designing fate had sent Mrs.
Gereth, as the parlor-maid said, "up the back road." This would give the
young lady more time to make up her mind that nothing should come of the
negotiation. There would be different ways of putting the question to
Mrs. Gereth, and Fleda might profitably devote the moments before her
return to a selection of the way that would most surely be tantamount to
failure. This selection indeed required no great adroitness; it was so
conspicuous that failure would be the reward of an effective
introduction of Mona. If that abhorred name should be properly invoked
Mrs. Gereth would resist to the death, and before envenomed resistance
Owen would certainly retire. His retirement would be into single life,
and Fleda reflected that he had now gone away conscious of having
practically told her so. She could only say, as she waited for the back
road to disgorge, that she hoped it was a consciousness he enjoyed.
There was something she enjoyed; but that was a very different matter.
To know that she had become to him an object of desire gave her wings
that she felt herself flutter in the air: it was like the rush of a
flood into her own accumulations. These stored depths had been
fathomless and still, but now, for half an hour, in the empty house,
they spread till they overflowed. He seemed to have made it right for
her to confess to herself her secret. Strange then there should be for
him in return nothing that such a confession could make right! How could
it make right that he should give up Mona for another woman? His
attitude was a sorry appeal to Fleda to legitimate that. But he didn't
believe it himself, and he had none of the courage of his suggestion.
She could easily see how wrong everything must be when a man so made to
be manly was wanting in courage. She had upset him, as people called it,
and he had spoken out from the force of the jar of finding her there. He
had upset her too, heaven knew, but she was one of those who could pick
themselves up. She had the real advantage, she considered, of having
