still believe it ! But it is hard walking ! . . . 
(Observe the cruelty give me a parenthesis 
to say it : This comfortable Englishman, 
tasting the fruits of the world, pouring what 
he called " criticism " on a dying man, prisoner 
in an island in the South Sea, where the mails 
come but once a month, and where a poor 
fellow might be buried before he could know 
that his book sold, or his critics repented them 
of their sins ! Facts like this deepen a natural 
skepticism as to the usefulness of the art of 
criticism into a fierce pang of resentment for 
the dying author's sake.) 
" I am an idler and a cumberer of the 
ground," he writes in one of the last letters 
to which he set his trembling pen. " It may 
be excused to me, perhaps, by twenty years of 
industry and ill health, which have taken the 
cream off the y milk. ... I am almost ready to 
call the world an error. Because ? Because I 
have not drugged myself with successful work, 
and there are all kinds of ... unfriendly 
trifles buzzing in my ear. If I could find a 
place where I could lie down and give up for 
(say) two years, and allow the sainted public 
to support me, if it were a lunatic asylum, 
wouldn't I go, just ! . . . But you men with 
salaries don't know how a family weighs on a 
fellow's mind." 
Stevenson is our latest and most pathetic 
specimen of the not inconsiderable list of 
invalid writers who have been important to the 
world ; and if the rest of them had " spoken 
out " as bluntly, as quaintly, and as wistfully 
as he, we might all have been the wiser or the 
gentler for their candor ; at least, all but those 
critics who appropriate wisdom and scorn gen 
tleness, and who will doubtless perceive in 
these very outcries of genius and of dissolution, 
wailing over from Samoa, a fault of syn 
tax, or an error in taste, or some pathological 
inefficiency, to be picked up and sported on 
the point of an easy pen. The solemn, antique 
writhing of power overcome by fate, the great 
attitude, like that of the Laocoon, the gran 
deur of strength rending its own weakness, 
the long, touching conflict of spirit with flesh, 
the massive determination crowding down physical 
disorder which would have killed a lesser 
creature twenty times over, twenty years be 
fore who is to rate all this in an estimate of 
the man's value to literature ? No one ; abso 
lutely no one who has not fought the lions of 
physical disease in the cage of a life bolted by 
the sharp need of daily bread ; no one who has 
not fought them with the sinew and the nerve 
of a creative genius. 
An invalid or disabled writer does not ask 
for the sops and gruels of the sick-room ; he 
does not expect his metre to be scanned by 
his headaches, or his perspicacity to be taken 
by the physician's thermometer. He is the 
last man toiling and suffering, to appeal to the 
stethoscope against his rhetoric or his construction. 
He asks nothing but fair play, and 
that fair sense which is the basis of fair play. 
In a word, he ought to be judged by the presence 
of a certain quality which suffering only 
gives, as well as by the absence of certain 
other qualities which are the properties of 
health alone. It is precisely this discrimina 
tion which is too often lacking in comfortable 
folk sitting easily on critics salaries and 
dictating through nerves cooled by the critical, not 
fevered by the creative, faculty. 
" I have a brave soul in a coward body," 
said one of our poets when he fainted under a 
painful accident. How is a champion football 
player to understand that ? 
Wise was Hazlitt, who wrote of " The inso 
