CHAPTER XXXIX 
It was away past midnight, and had been a tremendous 
day in the matter of excitement and fatigue, but that was 
no matter to Joan when there was business on hand. She 
did not think of bed. The generals followed her to her 
official quarters, and she delivered her orders to them 
as fast as she could talk, and they sent them off to their 
different commands as fast as delivered ; wherefore the 
messengers galloping hither and thither raised a world of 
clatter and racket in the still streets ; and soon were added 
to this the music of distant bugles and the roll of drums — 
notes of preparation ; for the vanguard would break camp 
at dawn. 
The generals were soon dismissed, but I wasn't ; nor 
Joan ; for it was my turn to work now. Joan walked the 
floor and dictated a summons to the Duke of Burgundy to 
lay down his arms and make peace and exchange pardons 
with the King ; or, if he must fight, go fight the Saracens. 
' Pardonnez-vous I'un  I'autre de bon coeur, entierement, 
ainsi que doivent faire loyaux chretiens, et, s'il vous plait 
de guerroyer, allez contre les Sarrasins.' It was long, but 
it was good, and had the sterling ring to it. It is my 
opinion that it was as fine and simple and straightforward 
and eloquent a state paper as she ever uttered. 
It was delivered into the hands of a courier, and he 
galloped away with it. Then Joan dismissed me, and told 
me to go to the inn and stay ; and in the morning give to 
her father the parcel which she had left there. It contained 
presents for the Domremy relatives and friends and a 
peasant dress which she had bought for herself. She said 
she would say good-bye to her father and uncle in the 
morning if it should still be their purpose to go instead of 
tarrying awhile to see the city. 
I didn't say anything, of course ; but I could have said 
that wild horses couldn't keep those men in that town half 
a day. They waste the glory of being the first to carry the 
great news to Domremy — the taxes remitted for ever ! — and 
hear the bells clang and clatter, and the people cheer and 
shout ? Oh, not they. Patay and Orleans and the Coro- 
nation were events which in a vague way these men under- 
stood to be colossal ; but they were colossal mists, films, 
abstractions : this was a gigantic reality ! 
When I got there, do you suppose they were abed ? 
Quite the reverse. They and the rest were as mellow as 
mellow could be ; and the Paladin was doing his battles 
over in great style, and the old peasants were endangering 
the building with their applause. He was doing Patay 
now : and was bending his big frame forward and laying 
out the positions and movements with a rake here and a 
rake there of his formidable sword on the floor, and the 
peasants were stooped over with their hands on their spread 
knees observing with excited eyes and ripping out ejacula- 
tions of wonder and admiration all along : 
' Yes, here we were, waiting — waiting for the word ; 
our horses fidgeting and snorting and dancing to get away, 
we lying back on the bridles till our bodies fairly slanted 
to the rear; the word rang out at last — ' Go f and we 
went ! 
' Went ? There was nothing like it ever seen ! Where 
we swept by squads of scampering English, the mere wind 
of our passage laid them flat in piles and rows ! Then we 
plunged into the ruck of Fastolfe's frantic battle-corps and 
tore through it like a hurricane, leaving a causeway of the 
dead stretching far behind ; no tarrying, no slacking rein, 
but on ! on! on! far yonder in the distance lay our prey — 
Talbot and his host looming vast and dark like a storm- 
cloud brooding on the sea ! Down we swooped upon 
them, glooming all the air with a quivering pall of dead 
leaves flung up by the whirlwind of our flight. In another 
moment we should have struck them as world strikes 
world when disorbited constellations crash into the Milky 
Way, but by misfortune and the inscrutable dispensation 
of God I was recognised ! Talbot turned white, and 
shouting, '' Save yourselves, it is the Standard-bearer of 
Joan of Arc ! " drove his spurs home till they met in the 
middle of his horse's entrails, and fled the field with his 
billowing multitudes at his back ! I could have cursed 
myself for not putting on a disguise. I saw reproach in 
the eyes of her Excellency, and was bitterly ashamed. I 
had caused what seemed an irreparable disaster. Another 
