a new remedy. When she has had some sleep she 
will be all right. This isn't quite a normal state 
yet. Call me if there is any special change." 

Then he went down to the office again. People 
came more in the morning or the evening, and he 
had attended to his urgent calls. He was glad not 
to go out just then. But he thought of the young 
people on their way to the palace of delight. Had 
he ever been young and joyous, as the youth of 
to-day ? He had studied and worked, taught some, 
used up all his time, and had none for the passing- 
vagaries. What made him feel old, and as if some 
of the rarest delights would pass him by? 



There was a light tap at the office-door, though 
it stood ajar. He rose and opened it wider. 

" Why, Daisy Jasper ! ' he cried in amazement. 
" Or is it your wraith? I thought you had gone to 
the fair with Hanny." 

She had been very pale ; now she flushed a little. 
There was a trcmulousness about her, and shadows 
under her eyes. 

" I had a headache all the morning; most of the 
night as well. It has gone off somewhat, but I 
didn't feel well enough for that." 

" No, of course not." He led her to the pretty 
library, that was always having a picture or a set 
of books added. You couldn't put in any more 
easy-chairs. He placed her in one. As he touched 
her hand, he felt the feverish tremble. 

" My dear child, what is it? " 

Her eyes drooped, and tears beaded the lashes. 

" You shouldn't have come out. Why did you 
not send for me? ' 

"I I wanted to come. I knew Hanny would 
be gone. I wanted to see you." She was strangely 
embarrassed. 

He was standing by the side of the chair and 
took her hand again. How limp and lifeless it 
seemed ! 

" I wanted to see you - -to ask you, to tell you 

- oh, how shall I say it ! if you could help me a 
little. You are so wise, and can think of so man}' 
ways- -and I am so afraid he loves me it would 
not be right - 

Yes, that was it. This bright, charming, wcll- 





bred, fortunate young fellow loved her. He could 
keep her like a little queen. And she had some 
conscientious scruple about her health, and her 
triflino- lameness, and all. A word from him would 

o 

keep her where she was. He had carried her in 
his arms, his little ewe lamb. No man could ever 
give her the exquisite care that he would be able 
to bestow. Oh, could he let any one take her out 
of his life ! 

Yet some one younger and richer loved her. 
