people, to make talk lively, described to 
each other and imitated. Every one knew 
the straighteners ; every one knew the dia- 
dem and the button, the scallops and satin 
bands; everyone, though Maisie had never 
betrayed her, knew even Clara Matilda. 

It was on account of these things that 
mamma got her for so little money, really 
for nothing. So much, one day when Mrs. 
Wix had accompanied her into the drawing- 
room and left her, the child heard one of the 
ladies she found there a lady with eye- 
brows arched like skipping-ropes and thick 
black stitching, like ruled "lines," on beau- 
tiful white gloves announce to another. 
She knew governesses were poor; Miss Over- 
more was unmentionably and Mrs. Wix fa- 
miliarly so. Neither this, however, nor the 
old brown frock, nor the diadem, nor the 
button, made a difference for Maisie in 
the charm put forth through everything, the 
charm of Mrs. Wix's conveying that some- 
how, in her ugliness and her poverty, she was 
peculiarly and soothingly safe, safer than 
any one in the world than papa, than 
mamma, than the lady with the arched 
eyebrows, safer even, though much less 
beautiful, than Miss Overmore, on whose 
loveliness, as she supposed it, the little girl 
was faintly conscious that one could n't rest 
with quite the same tucked-in and kissed- 
for-good-night feeling. Mrs. Wix was as 
safe as Clara Matilda, who was in heaven, 
and yet, embarrassingly, also in Kensal 
Green, where they had been together to see 
her little huddled grave. It was from some- 
thing in Mrs. Wix's tone, which, in spite of 
caricature, remained indescribable and inimi- 
table, that Maisie, before her term with her 
mother was over, drew this sense of a tender- 
ness that would never fail her. If she knew 
her instructress was poor and queer she also 
knew that she was not nearly so "qualified" 
as Miss Overmore, who could say lots of 
dates straight off (letting you hold the book 
yourself), state the position of Malabar, play 
six pieces without notes, and, in a sketch, 
put in beautifully the trees and houses and 
difficult parts. Maisie herself could play 
more pieces than Mrs. Wix, who was more- 
over visibly ashamed of her houses and trees 
and could only, with the help of a smutty 
forefinger, of doubtful legitimacy in the 
field of art, do the smoke coming out of the 
chimneys. 

They dealt, the governess and her pupil, 
in "subjects;" but there were many the 
governess put off from week to week and 
that they never got to at all ; she only used 
to say "We 'll take that in its proper order." 
Her order was a circle as vast as the untrav- 
elled globe. She had not the spirit of 
adventure, and the child could perfectly see 
how many subjects she was afraid of. She 
took refuge on the firm ground of fiction, 
through which, indeed, there flowed the blue 
river of truth. She knew swarms of stories, 
mostly those of the novels she had read, 
relating them with a memory that never 
faltered and a wealth of detail that was 
Maisie's delight. They were all about love 
and beauty and countesses and wickedness. 
Her conversation was practically an end- 
less narrative, a great garden of romance, 
with sudden vistas into her own life and 
gushing fountains of fact. These were the 
parts where they most lingered. She made 
the child take with her again every step of 
