common garb of American civilisation. “Why aren’t you rigged up, too?”
she asked.
“Oh, I’m hardly one of them. I’m only an Eastern man—a New Yorker—and
am staying at Del Monte for a day or two. I rode over to see them this
afternoon, and they insisted upon my staying for dinner. What on earth
are you doing here by yourself at this time of night?”
Patience explained. Then she added wistfully, “I shall be frightened to
death going home through those woods alone. I’ll imagine that that
corpse and those dreadful-looking men are behind me at every step.”
“Just drop onto my horse and I’ll take you home. I’m pretty tired of all
this.” He raised his arms and lifted her down, placing her in front of
him. “Lucky I had an English saddle,” he said, and as he bent his head
Patience could see that he was smiling. “Oh!” he added abruptly, “I have
seen you before. Now—tell me where to go.”
Patience directed him, and they cantered away unobserved.
“Where did you see me?” she asked, “and how odd that you should remember
me!”
“You have wonderful eyes. Although I’m an Irishman I won’t go so far as
to say they are pretty, but they look as if they had been born to see so
much. It would be difficult to forget them. Upon me soul you are
actually trembling. Did you never have a compliment before?”
“Never! And I guess I’ll remember it longer than you remember my eyes.
Where did you see me?”
“I was standing at the window of the house in Alvarado Street when you
came along from school with a dozen or more of the girls. You all
stopped to gaze at a passing circus troupe, and—I noticed you first
because you stood a little apart from the others.”
“I usually do,” said Patience, drily.
He did not add that, attracted by the eagerness of her gaze and her
rapid changes of expression, he had asked who she was, and that a
Montereño present had related the family history and her own notable
performances in no measured terms. “She’s got bad blood in her and the
temper of Old Nick himself. She’ll come to no good, homely as she is,”
the man had concluded. “Curious enough, the boys all like her and would
spark her if they got a show; but she’s hell-set on gettin’ an education
at present and doesn’t notice them much.”
Patience made him talk on for the pleasure of hearing his voice. “Are
you a real Irishman?” she asked.
“Well, I’ve been an American for twenty years, but there’s a good deal
of Irish left in me yet, especially in me tongue.”
“I’d keep it, if I were you. It’s nicer even than the Spanish. Do you
think our voices are horrid?”
“I think that if you’d pitch yours a little lower it would be an
improvement,” he said, smiling. And Patience registered a vow which she
kept. In after years when great changes had come upon her, her voice was
envied and emulated.
As they left the forest and entered Carmel Valley Patience pointed to
her home, then suddenly took the reins from his hand and directed the
horse toward the Mission. The waning moon hung over the ocean, and the
Mission stood out boldly.
“Come up to my tower,” said Patience; “the view is something! That
will be your reward. I never took any one there before.”
“All right,” he said, “I may as well make a night of it.” He tethered
his horse and followed her up the spiral stair.
“Solomon is not here,” she said regretfully. “He’s out foraging. Now!”
The young man walked to the window and inspected the view. Patience
regarded him with rapt admiration. He was tall and strong and well
dressed. She had never dreamed that anything romantic could really
happen to her; and as she was sure that it would be her last experience
as well as her first, she suddenly felt depressed and miserable, her
imagination leaping to the finish.
He turned and met her eyes. “What are you thinking of?” he asked.
But Patience was too shy to tell him, and asked him if he liked the
view.
“It’s a jolly view and no mistake. You’re not a happy child, are you?”
he added, abruptly. With the enthusiasm and spontaneous kindness of his
Irish blood he had conceived the idea of dropping a seed in this plastic
soil, and was feeling his way toward the right spot.
“I don’t know that I am,” said Patience, haughtily. “I suppose some of
those people told you things.”
“Well, they did, that’s a fact. But you mustn’t get angry with me,
please, for upon me word I like you better than any one I’ve met in
California.”
“Don’t you live here?”
“My home is in New York, and I return to-morrow.”
“Oh! Well, I don’t see how I should interest you.”
“You do, though, and that’s all there is to it. I’m neither as cautious
as an Englishman nor as practical as an American—though God rest the
two of them; I mean nothing to their detriment. But there’s a force in
you, and force doesn’t go to waste, although it’s more often than not
