"To battle against them will make me strong."
"Suppose you get in a tight place?"
"Then I will write to you for help."
"That's better. On this condition I will make no further opposition to
your wishes. But have you any money?"
"Ten dollars."
"Rather a small sum to begin the world with."
"Yes, sir. If you are willing to lend me fifty more I think I can get
along till I can earn some."
"Willingly. Where do you propose to go?"
"To the West. My father has a cousin, a lady, married, and living in a
small town on the banks of the Mississippi. I have never been to the
West. I should like to go out there and see if I can't find some
employment in that neighborhood."
"I suppose I must not object, but your plan appears to me rather
quixotic."
"You might not have thought so at my age, Mr. Miller."
"No; we look upon such things differently as we grow older. When do you
want to start?"
"To-morrow."
"Stay at my house till then."
"Thank you, sir. I will go home this afternoon and get my carpet-bag and
a few underclothes, and then I shall be ready to start to-morrow
morning."
Jasper did as proposed. He would gladly have dispensed with this call at
the house which had once been a home to him, but was so no longer; but
it was necessary to make it.
He caught sight of Tom Forbes near the house.
"Tom," he called out, "do you know if Mrs. Kent is at home?"
"No, Master Jasper, she went out riding, and her cub went with her."
"I am afraid you're not respectful, Tom," said Jasper, laughing.
"He don't deserve respect. He puts on as many airs as a prince. I
warrant he was poor enough before his mother took him home. What do you
think he said to me?"
"What was it?"
"'Look here, Tom, you harness the horse right up, do you hear? Don't
stand dawdling there, for I and mother are going out to ride.'"
"That sounds like Nicholas."
"You may be sure he ain't used to prosperity, or he wouldn't put on so
many airs!"
"Well, Tom, I'm glad Mrs. Kent is out. I don't want to meet her, nor
Nicholas, either."
"You'll see 'em at supper, won't you?"
"No; I shall not be here to supper."
"When are you coming back?"
"Not at all."
"You don't mean that, Master Jasper?"
"Yes, I do."
"Are you going to school?"
"No; I'm going out West."
"Out West?" exclaimed Tom Forbes, stopping work in surprise.
"Yes, Tom, I'm going out there to seek my fortune."
"But there ain't any need of that, Master Jasper. Didn't your father
leave you a fortune?"
"I'm not to have it till I'm twenty-one, and till then my step-mother is
my guardian. Now, I put it to you, Tom, can I stay at home to be treated
as you saw me treated this morning?"
"No, you can't, that's a fact. Master Jasper, I wish you'd take me with
you as your servant."
"As to that, Tom, I am in no position to have a servant; I've got to
work for my own living."
"And she here living on the fat of the land!" exclaimed Tom,
indignantly. "It's an outrageous shame!"
"Strong language, Tom," said Jasper, smiling. "Mind my amiable
step-mother doesn't hear you."
"I don't care if she does."
"Thank you for your offer, Tom, but I must go alone. Perhaps I shall
prosper out there. I hope so, at any rate."
"Have you got any money, Master Jasper? I've got a few dollars laid by.
If they'll do you any good you're welcome to take 'em. I shan't need
'em."
"Thank you, Tom," said Jasper, cordially grasping his toil-embrowned
hand, "but I am well provided for. Mr. Miller, my father's friend, is
mine, too. He has lent me some money, and will lend me more if I need
it."
"I'm glad of that. You'll always find friends."
Half an hour later, as Jasper was going up the street, with his
carpet-bag in one hand, he saw the open carriage approaching in which
Mrs. Kent and Nicholas were seated. He would liked to have escaped
observation, but there was no chance.
