There are no people who are quite so vulgar as the over-refined ones. 
— Puddnhead Wilson s New Calendar. 
VE sailed from Calcutta toward the end of March ; 
stopped a day at Madras; two or three days in 
Ceylon ; then sailed westward on a long flight for 
Mauritius. From my diary : 
April 7. We are far abroad upon the smooth waters of 
the Indian Ocean, now ; it is shady and pleasant and peaceful 
under the vast spread of the awnings, and life is perfect again 
— ideal. 
The difference between a river and the sea is, that the river 
looks fluid, the sea solid — usually looks as if you could step 
out and walk on it. 
The captain has this peculiarity — he cannot tell the truth 
in a plausible way. In this he is the very opposite of the 
austere Scot who sits midway of the table ; he cannot tell a lie 
in an iplausible way. When the captain finishes a statement 
the passengers glance at each other privately, as who should 
say, " Do you believe that ? " When the Scot finishes one, the 
look says, " How strange and interesting." The whole secret 
is in the manner and method of the two men. The captain is 
a little shy and diffident, and he states the simplest fact as if he 
were a little afraid of it, while the Scot delivers himself of the 
most abandoned lie with such an air of stern veracity that one 
is forced to believe it although one knows it isn't so. For in- 
stance, the Scot told about a pet flying-fish he once owned, tbat 
lived in a little fountain in his conservatory, and supported 
itself by catching birds and frogs and rats in the neighboring 
fields. It was plain that no one at the table doubted this 
statement. 
By and by, in the course of some talk about custom-house 
annoyances, the captain brought out the following simple every- 
day incident, but through his infirmity of style managed to 
tell it in such a way that it got no credence. He said : 
" I went ashore at Naples one voyage when I 
was in that trade, and stood around helping my 
passengers, for I could speak a little Italian. Two 
or three times, at intervals, the officer asked me if I 
had anything dutiable about me, and seemed more 
and more put out and disappointed every time I 
told him no. Finally a passenger whom I had 
helped through asked me to come out and take 
something. I thanked him, but excused myself, 
saying I had taken a whisky just before I came 
ashore. 
" It was a fatal admission. The oflBcer at once 
made me pay sixpence import-duty on the whisky — 
just from ship to shore, you see; and he lined me 
£5 for not declaring the goods, another £5 for falsely 
denying that I had anything dutiable about me, 
also £5 for concealing the goods, and £50 for smug- 
gling, which is the maximum penalty for unlawfully 
bringing in goods under the value of sevenpence 
ha'penny. Altogether, sixty-five pounds sixpence 
for a little thing like that." 
The Scot is always believed, yet he 
never tells anything but lies ; whereas the 
captain is never believed, although he never 
tells a lie, so far as I can judge. If he should say his uncle 
was a male person, he would probably say it in such a way 
that nobody would believe it ; at the same time the Scot could 
claim that he had a female uncle and not stir a doubt in any- 
body's mind. My own luck has been curious all my literary 
life ; I never could tell a lie that anybody would doubt, nor a 
truth that anybody would believe. 
Lots of pets on board — birds and things. In these far 
countries the white people do seem to run remarkably to 
pets. Our host in Cawnpore had a fine collection of birds — 
the finest we saw in a private house in India. And in Colombo, 
Dr. Murray's great compound and commodious bungalow were 
well populated with domesti- 
cated company from the 
woods : frisky little squirrels ; 
a Ceylon mina walking socia- 
bly about the house ; a small 
green parrot that whistled a 
single urgent note of call with- 
out motion of its beak; also 
chuckled ; a monkey in a cage 
on the back veranda, and some 
