But the courtiers, the most learned, 
are the worst men when they come 
abroad that any man shall hear or read 
of. Many of the gentlewomen have 
sound knowledge of Greek and Latin, 
and are skilful in Spanish, Italian and 
French ; and the noblemen even surpass 
them. The old ladies of the court avoid 
idleness by needle-work, spinning of silk, 
or continual reading of the Holy Script- 
ures or of histories, and writing diverse 
volumes of their own, or translating for- 
eign works into English or Latin ; and 
the young ladies, when they are not 
waiting on her majesty, " in the mean 
time apply their lutes, citherns, prick- 
song, and all kinds of music." The 
elders are skilful in surgery and the dis- 
tillation of waters, and sundry other 
artificial practices pertaining to the orna- 
ture and commendation of their bodies ; 
and when they are at home they go into 
the kitchen and supply a number of deli- 
cate dishes of their own devising, mostly 
after Portuguese receipts ; and they prepare 
bills of fare (a trick lately taken up) 
to give a brief rehearsal of all the dishes 
of every course. I do not know whether 
this was called the " higher education of 
women " at the time. 

In every office of the palaces is a 
Bible, or book of acts of the church, or 
chronicle, for the use of whoever comes 
in, so that the court looks more like a 
university than a palace. Would to 
God the houses of the nobles were ruled 
like the queen's ! The nobility are fol- 
lowed by great troops of serving-men in 
showy liveries ; and it is a goodly sight 
to see them muster at court, which, be- 
ing filled with them, " is made like to 
the show of a peacock's tail in the full 
beauty, or of some meadow garnished 
with infinite kinds and diversity of 
pleasant flowers." Such was the disci- 
pline of Elizabeth's court that any man 
who struck another within it had his 
right hand chopped off by the execu- 
tioner in a most horrible manner. 

The English have always had a pas- 
sion for gardens and orchards. In the 
Roman time grapes abounded and wine 
was plenty, but the culture disappeared 
after the Conquest. From the time of 
Henry IV. to Henry VIII. vegetables 
were little used, but in Harrison's day 
the use of melons, pompions, radishes, 
cucumbers, cabbages, turnips, and the 
like was revived. They had beautiful 
flower-gardens annexed to the houses, 
wherein were grown also rare and me- 
dicinal herbs ; it was a wonder to see 
how many strange herbs, plants, and 
fruitswere daily brought from the Indies, 
America, and the Canaries. Every rich 
man had great store of flowers, and in 
one garden might be seen from three 
hundred to four hundred medicinal herbs. 
Men extol the foreign herbs to the neg- 
lect of the native, and especially tobac- 
co, "which is not found of so great effi- 
cacy as they write." In the orchards 
were plums, apples, pears, walnuts, fil- 
berts; and in noblemen's orchards store 
of strange fruit — apricots, almonds, 
peaches, figs, and even in some oranges, 
lemons, and capers. Grafters also were 
at work with their artificial mixtures, 
