some fine possibilities in Palmer that would not 
only be thwarted by the hjfliience of such a woman, 
but wholly nullified. With a mind like Thirza's 
yet there was nothing but good) comradeship be 
tween them. Did even Thirza appreciate all his 
excellencies ? 
There was nothing in this mental question to 
stir her temperature, but she did experience an 
uncomfortable flush even in her cheeks. She 
would not follow out this reasoning. But Roy 
could not have been very much in love with Bessie 
during the brief interim before her aunt came. 
He was not lover-like. In her mind she convicted 
 
 
Bessie of falsehood. Did the girl love him ? 
Could she make herself content with the surround 
ings, the pursuits of his life ? She ridiculed and 
sneered at it. Perhaps her anger had been merely 
a jealous coquetry. 
How should she meet her in the morning ? 
Helen would have liked not to see her again. 
She did try to dismiss the matter ; but one of the 
first sounds she heard was Bessie's gay voice carol 
ling a snatchy little song as she swept off the porch. 
Then she called to Roy, and he answered in a cor 
dial tone. 
It was the finer nature that experienced the 
embarrassment. Helen felt that she had no right 
to have this secret of Bessie's flung at her in such 
a rude manner. She wished she did not know it. 
But Bessie was in a delightful mood, helpful to 
Aunt Hannah, courteous with a charming shade 
of deference to Miss Brooke, and nai'vely innocent 
to herself, quite ignoring the scene of last night. 
And though Bessie Deane could not have analyzed 
the component parts, she intuitively guessed at 
some of the secret springs. Miss Otis would be 
distant, perhaps a shade colder toward Roy Palmer. 
If he had taken any heart of grace, any hope of 
future intimacy, the demeanor of Miss Otis, with 
her nervous self-consciousness, would destroy it. 
Bessie noted that she did not address a single 
sentence to him, and answered him with evident 
constraint. 
After that there was a gentle sort of confusion. 
The trunks came down and were sent off. Miss 
Brooke had a little aside with Miss Gage, while 
Bessie flew about her work in a cheery fashion. 
Helen devoted herself to Aunt Esther, who seemed 
a good deal moved by the prospect of parting, per 
haps from the sub-conscious misgiving that this 
would be her last summer anywhere. It had been 
very pleasant, and Roy Palmer, in his kindly, 
thoughtful fashion, had helped make it so. She 
had liked his friend Ward very much, and though 
she could not quite approve of independent careers 
for women, Miss Rolfe did not seem so far out of 
the way, according to her lights. 
Miss Margaret Brooke went out to Bessie. 
" My dear," she said, with a softness in her tone 
that was next to emotion, " I want to thank you 
for your readiness to oblige my sister and myself, 
and all your kindness. I want you to accept this 
little gift," and she squeezed something in her 
hand. " I hope your future will be a pleasant 
one, and that some day we shall hear of your 
being very happy." 
Bessie blushed. Did she suspect Roy Palmer 
would be concerned in the happiness ? 
In a few moments they were driving away in 
 
the same manner they had come. Miss Otis' 
veil was pinned tightly to her hat, not in 
any easy fashion that she could raise. Bessie 
nodded to herself in satisfaction. Miss Otis 
would not look at Roy the second time to marry 
him ; so why should she wind even the charm of 
intelligence and appreciation about him, and rouse 
vague hopes ? Bessie looked upon herself almost 
