lessons or do a bit of crocheting. Daisy was learning a great many
things. Or they went a little farther up and over to the river, which
was much wider at that time. The old farms had been cut up into blocks;
but while they were waiting for some one to come along and build them
up, the thrifty Germans had turned them into market gardens, and they
presented a very pretty appearance.
They could see the small clusters of houses on Long Island, and the end
of Blackwell's Island,--a terrible place to them. The boys had seen the
"Black Maria," which the little girl thought must be some formidable
giant negress capable of driving the criminals along as one would a
flock of sheep, and she was quite surprised when she learned it was a
wagon merely. The East River was quite pretty up here, and the
ferry-boats made a line of foam that sparkled in the sun.
Occasionally Doctor Joe joined the party, and took them in other
directions. He had accepted the offer of an old physician on East
Broadway, which was then considered very aristocratic. The basement
windows had pretty lace curtains, and the dining-rooms had beaufets in
the corners, on which the glass and silver were arranged. The brass
doorknobs and the name-plate shone like gold, and the iron railings of
the stoops were finished with quite pretentious newels, that the
children called sentry boxes.
Grand Street, at the eastern end, had many private dwellings. Ridge and
Pitt and Willet streets were quite steep and made splendid coasting
places in winter. There was the Methodist church, in which many famous
worthies had preached, and even at the end of the century the old place
keeps its brave and undaunted front.
Strawberries did not come until June; and the girls took them round the
streets in tiny deep baskets. There were no such mammoth berries as we
have now; but, oh, how sweet and luscious they were! Little girls
carried baskets of radishes from door to door, and first you heard
"strawbrees," then something that sounded like "ask arishee," which I
suppose was brief for "ask any radishes."
The fish and clam men were a great delight to the children. One curious,
weather-beaten old fellow who went through First Street had quite a
musical horn, and a regular song.
    "Fine clams, fine clams, fine clams, to-day,
    That have just arrived from Rockaway.
    They're good to boil, and they're good to fry,
    And they're good to make a clam pot-pie.
    My horse is hired, and my waggon isn't mine.
    Look out, little boys, don't cut behind!"
Where the rhyme was lame, he made up with an extra flourish and trill to
the notes. The cats used to watch out for him. They seemed to know when
Friday came, and they would be sitting on the front stoops, dozing until
they heard the welcome sound of the horn. There were huckster waggons
with vegetables, and a buttermilk man.
An old coloured woman used to come round with brewer's yeast, and one
morning she had a great piece of black cambric twisted about her bonnet.
"Who are you in mourning for, auntie?" asked Margaret.
"My ol' man, Miss Margret. Happened so lucky! He jest died Sat'day
night, an' we buried him on Sunday, an' here I am goin' round on
Monday,--not losin' any time. Happened so lucky!"
Jim went into spasms of merriment over the economy of the incident.
CHAPTER III
CHANCES AND CHANGES
The Whitneys had moved in May, to the great regret of everybody. Their
family had changed considerably through the winter. Archibald, the
younger son, was married, and Mr. Theodore had an opportunity to go
abroad for a year.
The widowed cousin in Beach Street was married and went to Baltimore
with her two children. That left the two old aunts who owned the house
quite alone. Mrs. Whitney and Delia had taken turns staying with them.
The children were all sorry to lose Nora and Pussy Gray.
"People say it's bad luck to move a cat," said Nora, in her sententious
fashion; "but we don't believe in it. We've moved him twice already. And
you just put a little butter on his feet--"
"Butter!" interrupted the children, amazed.
"Why, yes. That's to make him wash his paws. If you can make him wash
and purr in a new place, he will stay. And then you must take him round
and show him every room and every closet. And you must come down real
often, Hanny. There's the lovely little park, you know. Aunt Boudinot
has a key. They're such nice queer old ladies, you'll be sure to like
them."
"I don't always like queer people," said Hanny, rather affronted.
"I don't mean cross or ugly. Aunt Clem has soft down all over her
cheeks, and such curly white hair. She's awful old and wrinkled and
deaf; but Dele can make her hear splendid. Aunt Patty isn't so old. Her
real name is Patricia. And Aunt Clem's is Clementine."
The children were not alone in regret. Ben was almost broken-hearted to
lose Mr. Theodore. The boy and the man had been such good friends. And
