your generosity."
"I am not doing anything generous.  You are making it hard for me to do
what is right. You are almost threatening to do something violent, to
hinder me."
"No.  I know perfectly well that I should never do anything of that
sort, and I think you know it, too.  To treat Harmon as he deserves
would certainly make a scandal which must reflect upon you."
"Please remember that he is still my husband--"
"Yes," interrupted Wimpole, bitterly, "and that is his only title to
consideration."
Helen was on the point of rebuking him, but reflected that what he said
was probably true.
"Please respect it, then, if you think so," she said quietly.  "You say
that you care for me--no, I won’t put it so--you do care for me. You
love me, and I know you do.  Let us be perfectly honest with each other.
As long as you help me do right, it is not wrong to love me as you do,
though I am another man’s wife. But as soon as you stand between me and
my husband, it is wrong--wicked!  It is wicked, no matter what he may
have been to me.  That has nothing to do with it.  It is coming between
man and wife--"
"Oh--really--that is going too far!"  Wimpole raised his head a little
higher, and seemed to breathe the night air angrily through his
nostrils.
"No," answered Helen, persistently, for she was arguing against her
heart, if not against her head, "it is not going at all too far.  Such
things should be taken for granted, or at least they should be left to
the man and wife in question to decide.  No one has any right to
interfere, and no one shall.  If I can forgive, you can have nothing to
resent; for the mere fact of your liking me very much does not give you
any sort of right to direct my life, does it? I am glad that you are so
fond of me, for I trust you and respect you in every way, and even now I
know that you are interfering only because you care for me.  But you
have not the right to interfere, not the slightest, and although you may
be able to, yet if I beg you not to, it will not be honourable of you to
come between us."
Colonel Wimpole moved a little impatiently.
"I will take my honour into my own hands," he said.
"But not mine," answered Helen.
They looked at each other in the gloom, as they leaned upon the railing.
"Yours shall be quite safe," said the colonel slowly.  "But if you will
drop that letter into the river, you will make things easier in every
way."
"I should write it over again.  Besides, I have telegraphed to him
already."
"What?  Cabled?"
"Yes.  You see that you can do nothing to hinder me.  He has my message
already.  The matter is decided."
She bent her head again, looking down into the rushing water as though
tired of arguing.
"You are a saint," said the colonel.  "I could not have done that."
"Perhaps I could not, if I had waited," answered Helen, in a voice so
low that he could hardly hear the words.  "But it is done now," she
added, still lower, so that he could not hear at all.
Wimpole had been a man of quick decisions so long as he had been a
soldier, but since then he had cultivated the luxury of thinking slowly.
He began to go over the situation, trying to see what he could do, not
losing courage yet, but understanding how very hard it would be to keep
Helen from sacrificing herself.
And she peered down at the black river, that rushed past with a cruel
sound, as though it were tearing away the time of freedom, second by
second.  It was done, now, as she had said. She knew herself too well to
believe that even if she should toss the letter into the stream, she
would not write another in just such words. But the regret was deep, and
thrilled with a secret, aching pulse of its own, all through her, and
she thought of what life might have been, if she had not made the great
mistake, and of what it still might be if she did not go back to her
husband.  The man who stood beside her loved her, and was ready to give
everything, perhaps even to his honour, to save her from unhappiness.
And she loved him, too, next to honour.  In the tranquil life she was
leading, there could be a great friendship between them, such as few
people can even dream of.  She knew him, and she knew herself, and she
believed it possible, for once in the history of man and woman.  In a
measure, it might subsist, even after she had gone back to Harmon, but
not in the same degree, for between the two men there would be herself.
Wimpole would perhaps refuse altogether to enter Harmon’s door or to
touch Harmon’s hand.  And then, in her over-scrupulousness, during the
time she was to spend with Archie, she knew that she should hesitate to
receive freely a man who would not be on speaking terms with the husband
whom she had taken back, no matter how she felt towards Wimpole.
Besides, he had told her that he loved her, and that made a difference,
