interfere in the matter at all."

The younger lady looked dissatisfied, but did not reply.

The feelings with which Ben heard this revelation may be imagined.
He never for a moment doubted the truth of the story. It made clear
to him what had seemed singular hitherto. He had never been able
to understand why Major Grafton should pick him up, and without
any inquiry into his capacity offer him an engagement as private
secretary. He had found that the office was merely nominal, and that
there were no duties to speak of connected with it. Major Grafton
had shown no particular interest in him, and evidently cared nothing
for him, save as he served his purpose. But if his presence enabled
Grafton to remain in possession of a large income, there was no need
to inquire further. Ben saw that he was made an important agent in a
wicked conspiracy to divert a large fortune from its lawful owners.

What ought he to do?




                           CHAPTER XXIV.

                        THE MAISON DE FOUS.


This question of what he ought to do disturbed Ben not a little.
As an honorable boy he did not wish to benefit any longer than was
absolutely necessary by a deception which involved injustice and
fraud. He was living very comfortably, it is true, and his allowance
was a handsome one. He sent half of it to his mother, and this was
sufficient to provide all that was needed for her and his sister's
comfort. He had done this innocently, hitherto, but now that his
eyes were opened, his knowledge would make him an accomplice in the
conspiracy.

In his uncertainty he decided upon what was not, perhaps, the most
judicious course, to ask Major Grafton directly in regard to the
matter.

An opportunity soon came.

"Major Grafton," Ben began, "how long since did Philip die?"

The major regarded him suspiciously. The question put him on his
guard.

"A few months ago," he answered indifferently.

"Were you--his guardian?"

"You seem curious this morning, Philip," answered the major, coldly.

If Ben had been older and more experienced he would have been
able to get at the truth indirectly, but it was his nature to be
straightforward.

"I heard something yesterday that disturbed me," he said.

Major Grafton threw himself back in an easy-chair and fixed his eyes
searchingly on the boy.

"Tell me what you heard," he said, shortly, "and from whom."

"I was sitting on a bench near the lake when two ladies began
speaking about you--and me."

"Tell me what they said," broke in Grafton, impatiently.

"The truth must be told," thought Ben, "even if Major Grafton gets
offended."

"They said that Philip had a large fortune, and you were his
guardian. When he died the money was to go to some cousins in New
York. They said that you had concealed his death, and so continued
to draw the income of the property, and were palming off me for him.
They seemed to think I was your nephew, and was in the plot."

Major Grafton was a good deal disturbed by what Ben had told him. Of
