“He should have been here this hour or more. And so should my
fly-away daughter!”
Chivers surrounded this description of Miss Prodmore with the deep
discretion of silence, and then, after a moment, evidently reflected
that silence, in a world bestrewn with traps to irreverence, might be
as rash as speech. “Were they coming--a--together, sir?”
He had scarcely mended the matter, for his visitor gave an inconsequent
stare. “Together?--for what do you take Miss Prodmore?” This young
lady’s parent glared about him again as if to alight on something
else that was out of place; but the good intentions expressed in the
attitude of every object might presently have been presumed to soothe
his irritation. It had at any rate the effect of bridging, for poor
Chivers, some of his gaps. “It is in a sense true that their
‘coming together,’ as you call it, is exactly what I’ve made
my plans for today: my calculation was that we should all punctually
converge on this spot. Attended by her trusty maid, Miss Prodmore, who
happens to be on a week’s visit to her grandmother at Bellborough,
was to take the 1.40 from that place. I was to drive over--ten
miles--from the most convenient of my seats. Captain Yule”--the
speaker wound up his statement as with the mention of the last touch in
a masterpiece of his own sketching--“was finally to shake off for a
few hours the peculiar occupations that engage him.”
The old man listened with his head askance to favour his good ear, but
his visible attention all on a sad spot in one of the half-dozen worn
rugs. “They must be peculiar, sir, when a gentleman comes into a
property like this and goes three months without so much as a nat’ral
curiosity----! I don’t speak of anything but what is nat’ral,
sir; but there have been people here----”
“There have repeatedly been people here!” Mr. Prodmore complacently
interrupted.
“As you say, sir--to be shown over. With the master himself never
shown!” Chivers dismally commented.
“He shall be, so that nobody can miss him!” Mr. Prodmore, for his
own reassurance as well, hastened to retort.
His companion risked a tiny explanation. “It will be a mercy indeed
to look on him; but I meant that he has not been taken round.”
“That’s what I meant too. I’ll take him--round and round:
it’s exactly what I’ve come for!” Mr. Prodmore rang out; and his
eyes made the lower circuit again, looking as pleased as such a pair of
eyes could look with nobody as yet quite good enough either to terrify
or to tickle. “He can’t fail to be affected, though he has been
up to his neck in such a different class of thing.”
Chivers clearly wondered awhile what class of thing it could be. Then
he expressed a timid hope. “In nothing, I dare say, but what’s
right, sir----?”
“In everything,” Mr. Prodmore distinctly informed him, “that’s
wrong! But here he is!” that gentleman added with elation as
the doorbell again sounded. Chivers, under the double agitation of
the appeal and the disclosure, proceeded to the front as fast as
circumstances allowed; while Mr. Prodmore, left alone, would have
been observed--had not his solitude been so bleak--to recover a
degree of cheerfulness. Cheerfulness in solitude at Covering End was
certainly not irresistible, but particular feelings and reasons had
pitched, for their campaign, the starched, if now somewhat ruffled,
tent of his large white waistcoat. If they had issued audibly from
that pavilion, they would have represented to us his consciousness
of the reinforcement he might bring up for attack should Captain
Yule really resist the house. The sound he next heard from the front
caused him none the less, for that matter, to articulate a certain
drop. “Only Cora?--Well,” he added in a tone somewhat at variance
with his “only,” “he shan’t, at any rate, resist her!”
This announcement would have quickened a spectator’s interest in
the young lady whom Chivers now introduced and followed, a young
lady who straightway found herself the subject of traditionary
discipline. “I’ve waited. What do you mean?”
Cora Prodmore, who had a great deal of colour in her cheeks and a great
deal more--a bold variety of kinds--in the extremely high pitch of
her new, smart clothes, meant, on the whole, it was easy to see, very
little, and met this challenge with still less show of support either
from the sources I have mentioned or from any others. A dull, fresh,
honest, overdressed damsel of two-and-twenty, she was too much out
of breath, too much flurried and frightened, to do more than stammer:
“Waited, papa? Oh, I’m sorry!”
Her regret appeared to strike her father still more as an impertinence
than as a vanity. “Would you then, if I had not had patience for you,
have wished not to find me? Why the dickens are you so late?”
Agitated, embarrassed, the girl was at a loss. “I’ll tell you,
papa!” But she followed up her pledge with an air of vacuity and
then, dropping into the nearest seat, simply closed her eyes to her
danger. If she desired relief, she had caught at the one way to get
