The priest raised his head. " Why do 
you ask ? " 
Roldan related his suspicions. 
The priest shot a furtive glance through 
the open window at the dark square. 
" I don't know," he said slowly. " Some 
times I have thought you see, many are 
stubborn and intractable, and have to be 
flogged and chained. Privately I think we 
are wasting our energies. We will leave 
California several beautiful monuments for 
posterity to wonder at, but as for the 
Indians we will end where we began. 
They are always escaping and running 
back to the mountains. Their every in 
stinct is for barbarism ; they have not one 
for civilization, nor can any be planted 
whose roots will not trail over the surface. 
The good Lord intended them to be 
savages, nothing more; and it is mistaken 
sentimentalism However, it is not for 
me to criticise, and I beg, Don Roldan, 
that you will not repeat what I have 
said." 
 
" Of course I shall not ; but tell me, do 
you think there is danger? " 
" We have one rather bright young 
Indian there are about a dozen
exceptions in all California, and they are
treacherous. His name is Anastacio, and he has 
great influence with the other Indians. A 
good many of them are angry at present 
because they have been punished for steal 
ing grapes and stores, and just now they 
are rather excited because it has been 
proposed to banish Anastacio to a Mission 
where there are more soldiers, he is 
regarded as the inciter of the outrages." 
" Have you soldiers here ? " 
" Eleven. The guard house is in the 
left hand corner of the square. But what 
could they do in an uprising? We must 
get rid of Anastacio. I will go now and 
speak to Padre Flores." 
Roldan went out into the square and 
strolled over to the soldiers quarters. 
The door was closed, but light streamed 
from an uncovered window, and he had a 
good view of the guard room. A half 
dozen soldiers were lying about on 
 
benches, half-dressed, smoking the eternal 
cigarito. Two were at a table writing. 
None looked alert, but as Roldan passed 
out of the plaza to the open beyond, he 
encountered a sentinel who was ready to 
gossip with the young don and told him 
that three more were on duty on the 
several sides of the square. 
Roldan strolled on to the rancheria, a 
collection of six or eight hundred huts of 
mud and straw among a thicket of willows 
by the creek. Here all was dark and 
quiet. He glanced through several of the 
uncurtained windows and saw whole fam 
ilies peacefully asleep. Suddenly he 
paused and held his breath, at the same 
time retreating into the heavy shade of 
a willow. A number of doors had opened 
almost simultaneously ; there was the 
sharp crunch of dry brush, and dark 
figures glided, with the snake-like motion 
peculiar to the Indian, toward the upper 
end of the rancheria. 
Roldan waited a moment, then followed 
softly. He had set himself the duty of 
saving the Mission which had shown him 
 
hospitality, and was not to be deterred. 
