monized with his thoughts and helped the grave 
illusion in which — perhaps out of sheer idleness — 
he loved to think himself back in the abbey in Eng- 
land. And so he led a life unlike the lives around 
him, and many of the people in the quarter learned 
to know him by sight, and called him and his 
men 'the English'; and as most of the people of 
Rome were very much occupied with their own 
affairs, chiefly evil, Gilbert was allowed to live as 
he pleased. But for the fact that even his well-filled 
purse must in the course of time be exhausted, he 
might have spent the remainder of his life in the 
Lion Inn, by the bridge, carelessly meditative and 
simply happy. But other forces were at work to 
guide his life into other channels, and he had reck- 
oned ill when he had fancied, being himself unmoved, 
 
that the love of such a woman as Queen Eleanor was 
a mere incident without consequence, forgotten like 
a flower of last year's blossoming. 
Several times during the winter and in the spring 
that followed, the friar Arnold came to see him in 
his lodgings and talked of the great things that were 
coming, of the redemption of man from man by the 
tearing down of all sovereign power, whether of pope 
or emperor, or king or-'prince, to make way for the 
millennium of a universal republic. Then the fanatic's burning eyes flashed like beacons, his long arms 
made sudden and wild gestures, his soft brown hair 
stood from his head as though lifted by a passing 
breeze, and his whole being was transfigured in the 
flash of his own eloquence. When he spoke to 
the Romans with that voice and with that look, 
they rose quickly to a tumult, as the sea under a 
gale, and he could guide them in their storming to 
ends of destruction and terror. But there was no 
drop of southern blood in Gilbert's veins nor any- 
thing to which the passionate Italian's eloquence 
appealed. Instead of catching fire, he argued; in- 
stead of joining Arnold in his attempt to turn the 
world into a republic, he was more and more per- 
suaded of the excellence of all he had left behind him 
in the north. He incarnated that aristocratic temper 
which has in all times, since Duke William crossed 
the water, leavened the strong mass of the Anglo- 
Saxon character, balancing its rude democratic 
strength with the keenness of a higher physical 
organization and the nobility of a more disinterested 
daring, and again and again rousing the English- 
speaking races to life and conquest, when they were 
sunk deep in the sordid interests of trade and money- 
making. So when Arnold talked of laws and insti- 
tutions which should again make Rome the mistress 
of the world, Gilbert answered him by talking of 
men who had the strength to take the world and to 
be its masters and make it obey whatsoever laws 
they saw fit to impose. Between the two there was 
the everlasting difference between theory and action ; 
and though it chanced that just then Arnold, the 
dreamer, was in the lead of change and revolution, 
while Gilbert, the fighter, was idling away weeks 
and months in a dream, yet the fact was the same, 
and in manly strength and inward simplicity of 
thought Gilbert Warde, the Norman, was far nearer 
to the man who made Rome imperial than was the 
eloquent Italian who built the mistress city of his 
thoughts out of ideas and theories, carved and 
hewn into shapes of beauty by the tremendous tools 
of his wit and his words. At the root of the great 
difference between the two there was on the one side 
the Norman's centralization of the world in himself, 
as being for himself, and on the other the Latin's 
power and readiness to forget himself in the imagi- 
nations of an ideal state. 
"Men are talking of a second Crusade," said 
Arnold, one day, when he and Gilbert had chanced 
to meet in the garden court of Saint Peter's. 
Gilbert was standing with his back against one of 
the cypress trees, watching the fiery monk 'with 
thoughtful eyes. 
"They talk of Crusades," said Arnold, stopping 
