look his capture over at leisure.
She was a fairly large vessel and seemed to have a big carrying
capacity. What she was loaded with no one could guess, but at any rate
she was a big prize for a small crew like that of the Uncas.
"I think I'll retire from business after to-day," Clif heard the old
boatswain remark.
That personage had had one arm badly damaged in the struggle that had
taken place in the morning with the Spanish gunboat; but he seemed to
have forgotten his wounds in the general excitement.
The little tug steamed up boldly toward her big prize, which lay idly
tossing on the waves. One could see her officers and crew standing on
deck watching the approach.
"I'll bet they feel happy!" Clif muttered to himself.
The lieutenant loaned him the glass. Then he could see the faces of the
men.
There was one of them he might have recognized had he been careful; but
he did not recognize it, and so he failed to save himself some mighty
unpleasant adventures indeed.
They were all typical Spanish faces, dark and sullen; but there was one
there even darker and more sullen than the rest.
And the owner of that countenance had a glass in his hand and was
staring at those on the tug. Though the cadet did not know it, that man
was at that instant watching him.
And there was an expression of furious hate on his face as he looked.
Lieutenant Raymond expected no further trouble; but he took no chances.
Men were stationed at the three remaining six-pounders, and the rest of
the crew was armed.
In silence the Uncas steamed up to within a hundred yards of her prize.
And then came the signal to stop engines.
It was the time for a boarding party. Clif, as junior officer, knew that
that was his duty, and without a word he proceeded to get the small boat
off.
It was quite a task in that heavy sea, but the eager sailors worked with
a will, and though nearly swamped twice, managed to get clear of the
tug.
And Clif was seated in the stern, heading for the big merchantman.
"Keep your eyes open," he heard the lieutenant shout. "They may make
trouble."
And Clif nodded and the boat shot away. They wouldn't catch him napping
on board that Spanish vessel--not much!
But they come perilously near it all the same.
It was a rough trip in that tossing rowboat. It seemed to sink and then
fairly bound up on the next wave, its bow went down and its stern shot
up. It did everything except turn over, while the spray fairly flew over
it.
But the sturdy sailors worked with a will, and the distance was not very
great. In a short time the little craft shot round in the lee of the
Spaniard.
"A ladder there!" shouted Clif.
And in a few moments the rope ladder came tumbling down. It seemed to
come with bad grace though, as if it knew its owners didn't want to
send it.
The rowboat was backed near and Clif, with a sudden spring, caught the
ladder and leaped clear of the waves.
Before he went up he turned to the sailors.
"Two of you follow me," he commanded.
He climbed quickly up the ladder and stepped out on the deck, gazing
about him eagerly.
He saw about a dozen dark-faced Spaniards gathered together and glaring
at him; one of them, wearing the uniform of the captain, stepped forward
toward him.
He was a surly, ill-looking man, with a heavy dark mustache. He bowed
stiffly to the cadet.
"The senor takes possession," he said, in a low voice.
Clif was so busy watching this man that he did not look around the
vessel. But we must do so.
We must glance for one instant at the capstan, which was just behind
where the jaunty young cadet was standing. There was an interesting
person near the capstan.
Clif did not see him; and neither did the sailors, nor even the
Spaniards on the vessel. For he was crouching behind the capstan, out of
sight.
He was a small man, dark and swarthy. He was the same one we noticed
glaring at Clif; he had recognized him, and realized in a flash that the
issue between them was death--death for one or else death for the other.
For Clif knew the man, and would secure him the instant he saw him; his
crimes were many--treason and attempted assassination the worst.
For the man was Ignacio!
And his dark, beady eyes were glittering with hatred as he crouched in
his momentary hiding-place. He was quivering all over with rage; the
