After this touch of irony she added earnestly, “And I do hope, my dear,
you will use judgment in speaking to him, and tact.  You mustn’t go at it
bluntly.  Remember that Mr. Kendricks is not at all to blame.  He began
to show her attention to oblige us, and if she has fallen in love with
him it is our fault.”
“I shall handle him without gloves,” I said.  “I shall tell him he had
better go away.”
I was joking, but she said seriously, “Yes; he must go away.  And I don’t
envy you having to tell him.  I suppose you will bungle it, of course.”
“Well, then, you must advise me,” I said; and we really began to consider
the question.  We could hardly exaggerate the difficulty and delicacy of
the duty before me.  We recognised that before I made any explicit demand
of him I must first ascertain the nature of the whole ground and then be
governed by the facts.  It would be simple enough if I had merely to say
that we thought the girl’s affections were becoming engaged, and then
appeal to his eager generosity, his delicate magnanimity; but there were
possible complications on his side which must be regarded.  I was to
ascertain, we concluded, the exact nature of the situation before I
ventured to say anything openly.  I was to make my approaches by a series
of ambushes before I unmasked my purpose, and perhaps I must not unmask
it at all.  As I set off on my mission, which must begin with finding
Kendricks at his hotel, Mrs. March said she pitied me.  She called me
back to ask whether I thought I had really better do anything.  Then, as
I showed signs of weakening, she drove me from her with, “Yes, yes!  You
must!  You must!”
XVII
IT was still so early that I had my doubts whether I should find
Kendricks up after the last night’s revelry, but he met me half-way
between our hotel and his.  He said he was coming to see how Mrs. March
was bearing Miss Gage’s immense success at the ball; but perhaps this was
not his sole motive.  He asked frankly how the young lady was, and
whether I thought Mrs. March would consider a lunch at a restaurant by
the lake a good notion.  When I said I had very little doubt she would,
and proposed taking a turn in the park before I went back with him, he
looked at his watch and laughed, and said he supposed it was rather
early yet, and came very willingly with me.
We had the pretty place almost to ourselves at that hour.  There were a
half-dozen or so nursemaids, pushing their perambulators about, or
standing the vehicles across the walk in front of the benches where they
sat, in the simple belief of all people who have to do with babies that
the rest of the world may be fitly discommoded in their behalf.  But they
did not actively molest us, and they scarcely circumscribed our choice of
seats.  We were by no means driven to the little kiosk in the lake for
them, and I should rather say that we were fatefully led there, so apt
were the associations of the place to my purpose.  Nothing could have
been more natural than that I should say, as we sat down there, “This was
where I first saw Miss Gage with her friends”; and it was by a perfectly
natural transition that I should go on to speak, in a semi-humorous
strain, of the responsibility which Mrs. March and myself had incurred by
letting our sympathy for her run away with us.  I said I supposed that if
we had not been willing from the first to try to realise for her some of
the expectations we imagined she had in coming to Saratoga, she never
would have fallen to our charge; that people really brought a great many
more things upon themselves than they were willing to own; and that fate
was perhaps more the fulfilment of our tacit ambitions than our overt
acts.  This bit of philosophy, which I confess I thought fine, did not
seem to impress Kendricks.  He merely said that it must be great fun to
have the chance of baffling the malice of circumstance in a case like
that, and I perceived that he felt nothing complex in the situation.  In
fact, I doubt whether youth perceives anything complex in life.  To the
young, life is a very plain case.  To be sure, they are much more alarmed
than their elders at getting tangled up in its web at times, but that is
because they have not had our experience in getting untangled, and think
they are never going to get out alive.  When they do, they think that it
is the only tangle they are ever going to be in, and do not know that
they are simply going on from one to another as long as there is enough
of them left to be caught in a mesh.  To Kendricks we Marches were simply
two amiable people, who had fancied doing a pleasant thing for a
beautiful girl that accident had thrown it in our power to befriend, and
were by no means the trembling arbiters of her destiny we felt ourselves
to be.  The difference between his objective sense and my subjective
sense was the difference between his twenty-seven years and my fifty-two,
and while this remained I saw that it would be useless to try to get on
common ground with him, or to give him our point of view.  If I were to
speak to him at all, it must be with authority, with the right of one who
stood in the place of the girl’s parents, and had her happiness at heart.
That is, it was something like that; but my words say it too bluntly.  I
found myself beginning, “I have rather had a notion that her father might
come on, and take the enterprise off our hands,” though, to tell the
truth, I had never imagined such a thing, which came into my head at that
