knew, to the intense publicity of her profession ; but she had a whimsical mind and 
wonderful nerves ; she was subject, in short, 
to sudden flickers of antipathy and sympathy, 
red gleams in the grey, fitful awakings and 
followings, odd caprices of curiosity. She 
had a friend who had invented a new career 
for women that of being in and out of 
people 's houses to look after the flowers. 
Mrs. Jordan had a manner of her own of 
sounding this allusion; "the flowers," on 
her lips, were, in happy homes, as usual as 
the coals or the daily papers. She took 
charge of them, at any rate, in all the rooms, 
at so much a month, and people were quickly 
finding out what it was to make over this 
delicate duty to the widow of a clergyman. 
The widow, on her side, dilating on the 
initiations thus opened up to her, had been 
splendid to her young friend over the way 
she was made free of the greatest houses, 
the way, especially when she did the dinner- 
tables, set out so often for twenty, she felt 
that a single step more would socially, would 
absolutely, introduce her. On its being 
asked of her, then, if she circulated only in 
a sort of tropical solitude, with the upper 
servants for picturesque natives, and on her 
having to assent to this glance at her limitations, 
she had found a reply to the girl 's 
invidious question. "You've no imagination, 
my dear!" that was because the social door 
might at any moment open so wide. 
Our young lady had not taken up the 
charge, had dealt with it good-humouredly, 
just because she knew so well what to think 
of it. It was at once one of her most cher 
ished complaints and most secret supports 
that people didn' t understand her, and it 
was accordingly a matter of indifference to 
her that Mrs. Jordan shouldn t; even though 
Mrs. Jordan, handed down from their early 
twilight gentility and also the victim of 
reverses, was the only member of her circle 
in whom she recognized an equal. She was 
   
perfectly aware that her imaginative life was 
the life in which she spent most of her time ; 
and she would have been ready, had it been 
at all worth while, to contend that, since her 
outward occupation didn' t kill it, it must be 
strong indeed. Combinations of flowers and 
green stuff forsooth? What she could handle 
freely, she said to herself, was combinations 
of men and women. The only weakness in 
her faculty came from the positive abundance 
of her contact with the human herd; 
this was so constant, had the effect of becoming so cheap, that there were long stretches 
in which inspiration, divination and interest, 
quite dropped. The great thing was the 
flashes, the quick revivals, absolute accidents 
all and neither to be counted on nor to be 
resisted. Some one had only sometimes to 
put in a penny fora stamp, and the whole 
thing was upon her. She was so absurdly 
constructed that these were literally the 
moments that made up made up for the 
long stiffness of sitting there in the stocks, 
made up for the cunning hostility of Mr. 
Buckton and the importunate sympathy of 
the counter-clerk, made up for the daily, 
deadly, flourishy letter from Mr. Mudge, 
made up even for the most haunting of her 
worries, the rage at moments of not knowing how her mother did "get it." 
She had surrendered herself moreover, of 
late, to a certain expansion of her conscious 
ness; something that seemed perhaps vulgarly 
accounted for by the fact that, as the 
blast of the season roared louder and the 
waves of fashion tossed their spray further 
over the counter, there were more impressions 
