
"I'll scare him a little," said Luke.

He fired after the fugitive, taking care not to hit him, however. Tom
Burns heard the bullet whistling by his head, and with a cry of terror
increased his speed till he reached a place where he felt secure.
Then, sinking down on the ground, he uttered an ejaculation of relief.

"That is a terrible man!" he panted. "He'd as soon take my life as
not. I won't get in his way again if I can help it."

Luke Robbins laughed.

"That is my parting message," he said. "Well, Ernest, where do you
want to go? What are your plans?"

"I don't know," answered Ernest, gravely. "I am not sure that I have
any plans. I feel upset completely."

"Sit down here and I'll talk to you."

He pointed to a little ridge which would serve as a seat.

The two sat down together.

"Now, how much money have you got?"

"A hundred dollars,"

"It isn't much. Is that all your uncle left?"

"I think so. He said nothing about having more."

"It isn't much to begin the world with. I wish for your sake, boy,
that I had some to give you, but I never knew how to get together
money."

"I guess it will do, Luke. I have health and strength. I think I can
make my way."

"But you have no trade."

"Have you?"

"No, Ernest. You've got me there. I am only a hunter, but I don't make
much of a living. I don't recommend you to follow in my steps. I'd
like to keep you with me, but it wouldn't pay you."

"One thing is certain, Luke. I must get away from here. There is
nothing I can do in Oak Forks."

"Where do you want to go, lad?"

"I don't know. I might go eastward to Chicago or New York, or I might
go West to California. Have you ever been to either place, Luke?"

"No, lad, but if I had my choice I'd go westward. I've heard fine
stories of California. I think I should like to see that land, and
push on to the Pacific ocean."

"Why don't you go?"

"Stop a minute! Let me think!"

The hunter assumed a thoughtful look. He remained silent for five
minutes. Then he said, as if to himself, "Why not?"

Ernest still kept silence, but his eyes were fixed upon the face of
the hunter.

Finally Luke looked up.

"How do you want to go, lad?" he asked. "Do you want to go by the
railroad, or are you in for a tramp over the mountains and plains?"

"That depends on whether I am to go alone or not. If I go alone I
shall prefer to go by rail."

"Are you in for a long tramp with me?" asked Luke, his face glowing
with new-born enthusiasm.
