"Come here, you little brat!" he said harshly.
Philip looked with a frightened expression.
"What do you want of me?" he asked.
"What do I want? Come here and see."
The little fellow approached.
He was received with a sharp slap in the face.
"Why do you hit me, Oscar?" Philip asked tearfully.
"Because you didn't come quicker," answered the young tyrant.
"I didn't know you were in a hurry."
"Well, you know it now."
"You wouldn't have hit me when papa was alive," said Philip with a flash
of spirit.
"Well, he isn't alive, see?"
"I know he isn't, and I am alone in the world."
"Well, don't snivel! If anything makes me sick at the stomach it is to
see a boy snivel."
"Maybe you'd cry if your papa was dead."
"There ain't much fear. The old man's too tough," responded Oscar, who
had no sentimental love for his father. Indeed, it would have been
surprising if he had shown any attachment to Nahum Sprague, who was
about as unattractive in outward appearance as he was in character and
disposition.
"You didn't tell me what you wanted me to do."
"Just wait till I tell you, smarty. Do you see this bottle?"
"Yes."
"Take it to the saloon and get it full of whisky."
"Papa didn't want me to go into a liquor saloon."
"Well, your papa ain't got nothing to do with you now. See? You just do
as I tell you."
Philip took the bottle unwillingly and started for the saloon.
"Mind you don't drink any of it on the way home," called out Oscar.
"As if I would," said Philip indignantly. "I don't drink whisky and I
never will."
"Oh, you're an angel!" sneered Oscar. "You're too good for this world.
Ain't you afraid you'll die young, as they say good boys do?"
"I don't believe you'll die young, Oscar."
"Hey? Was that meant for an insult? But never mind! I don't pretend to
be one of the goody-goody Sunday-school kids. Now mind you don't loiter
on the way."
Oscar sat down on the doorstep and began to whittle.
The door opened and his father came out.
"Why didn't you go to the saloon as I told you?" he asked hastily.
"It's all the same. I sent Philip."
"You sent that boy? He ain't fit to send on such an errand."
"Why ain't he? He can ask to have the bottle filled, can't he?"
"What did he say? Was he willing to go?"
"He said his papa," mimicked Oscar, "didn't want him to go into a liquor
saloon."
"He did, hey? All the more reason for making him go. His
poverty-stricken father can't help him now. Why, I am keeping the boy
from starving."
"Are you going to keep him always, dad?"
"I ought to turn him over to the town, but folks would talk. There's a
man in New York that his father said would send for him. I don't know
whether he will or not. There's a matter of fifty dollars due to me for
burying John Lillis. That's the way I get imposed upon."
Philip kept on his way to the saloon. He was a timid, sensitive boy, and
he shrank from going into the place which was generally filled with
rough men. Two miners were leaning against the front of the wooden
shanty used for the sale of liquor when Philip appeared.
As he passed in one said to the other, "Well, I'll be jiggered if here
isn't a kid comin' for his liquor. I say, kid, what do you want?"
"Some whisky," answered Philip timidly.
"How old are you?"
"Ten."
"I say, young 'un, you're beginnin' early."
"I don't want it for myself," returned Philip half indignantly.
"Oh, no, of course not. You won't take a sip yourself, of course not."
"No, I won't. My papa never drank whisky, and he told me not to."
"Where is your papa?"
"Gone to Heaven."
The miner whistled.
"Then who sent you for whisky?"
"Mr. Sprague."
"Old Nahum?"
"His name is Nahum."
"I thought he was too mean to buy whisky. Do you live with him?"
"Yes, sir."
"Is he any kin to you?"
"No," answered Philip quickly.
