girl," Harold said ; " like a good, true daughter and even, 
though she doesn't love me nearly so much as I love her, 
I will say, like a good, true sister. I'm bound to tell you, 
my dear Tishy," he went on, "that I think it awfully 
happy, with the trend of manners, for any really nice 
young thing to be a bit lost to sight. London, upon my 
honor, is quite too awful for girls, and any big house in 
BOOK EIGHTH: TISHY GRENDON 
the country is as much worse — with the promiscuities 
;md opportunities and all that — as you know for your- 
elves. I  know some places," Harold declared, " where, 
\i I had any girls, Td see 'em shot before I'd take 'em." 
'  Oh, you know too much, my dear boy !" Vanderbank 
remarked with commiseration. 
' Ah, my brave old Van," the youth returned,    don't 
speak as if you had illusions. I know," he pursued to the 
ladies,   just where some of Van's must have perished, 
and some of the places I've in mind are just where he 
has left his tracks. A man must be wedded to sweet 
superstitions, not, nowadays, to have to open his eyes. 
Nanda, love," he benevolently concluded,  ' stay where 
you are. So, at least, I sha'n't blush for you. That 
you've the good fortune to have reached your time of 
life with so little injury to your innocence makes you a 
case by yourself, of which we must recognize the claims. 
If Tishy can't stump you, that's nothing against you — 
Tishy comes of one of the few innocent English families 
that are left. Yes, you may all cry ' Oho !'— but I defy 
you to name me, say, five, or at most seven, in which 
some awful thing or other hasn't happened. Of course 
ours is one, and Tishy's is one, and Van's is one, and 
Mr. Longdon's is one, and that makes you, bang oif, four. 
So there you are !" Harold gaily wound up. 
 ''I see now why he's the rage !" Vanderbank observed 
to Nanda. 
But Mrs. Grcndon expressed to their young friend a 
lingering wonder. ''Do you mean you go in for the 
adoption — ?" 
 ' Oh, Tishy I" Nanda mildly murmured. 
Harold, however, had his own tact.  '' The dear man's 
taking her quite over ? Not altogether unreservedly. 
I'm with the governor : I think we ought to get some- 
thing. 'Oh yes, dear man, but what do you give us for 
her V — that's what I  should say to him. I mean, don't 
  
you know, that I don't think she's making quite the bar- 
gain she might. If he were to want me I don't say he 
mightn't have me, but I should have it on my conscienc H 
to make it in one way or another a good thing for m " 
parents. You are nice, old woman" — he turned to his 
sister —  ''and one can still feel, for the flower of your 
youth, something of the wonderful ' reverence ' that we 
were all brought up on. For God's sake therefore — all 
the more — don't really close with him till you've had 
another word or two with me. I'll be hanged" — he ap- 
pealed to the company again — ''if he shall have her for 
nothing !" 
" See rather," Vanderbank said to Mrs. Grendon, 'Miow 
little it's like your really losing her that she should be 
able, this evening, fairly to bring the dear man to you. 
At this rate we don't lose her — we simply get him as well." 
" Ah, but is it quite the dear man's company we want ?" 
— and Harold looked anxious and acute.    If that's the 
best arrangement Nanda can make — !" 
" If he hears us talking in this way, which strikes me 
as very horrible," Nanda interposed very simply and 
gravely, " I don't think we're likely to get anything." 
"• Oh, Harold's talk," Vanderbank protested, "offers, I 
think, an extraordinary interest ; only, I'm bound to say, 
it crushes me to the earth. I've to make, at least, as I 
listen to him, a big effort to bear up. It doesn't seem 
long ago," he pursued to his young friend, " that I used 
to feel I was in it ; but the way you bring it home to me, 
dreadful youth, that I'm already not—T 
Harold looked earnest to understand. " The hungry 
generations tread you down— is that it ?" 
Vanderbank gave a fine sad head-shake.  '' We speak 
a different language." 
" Ah, but I think I perfectly understand yours !" 
" That's just my anguish — and your advantage. It's 
