mother came into it. I have no fashion of saying pretty 
society things. You must train me." 

"And Mrs. Kenneth knew ? " 

" She divined. And she would not let me lose heart, 
though, as I said, I should have gone on hoping until 
your regard was placed elsewhere. And suddenly I came 
to understand. Yet I wonder, dear, if it will not be a 
grave life for you ? I shall try to put in it all the joy, all 
the pleasure that youth can take." 

" But I like the other things also. Life would grow 
tiresome to me if I had to dance through it." 

"Yet I like to look on at the dancing and the good 
cheer of youth. It is only now and then that youth drops 
out of life during the early period, as it did out of mine. 
It would not have happened if I had been in a family. 
Poky old scholar as I am, I have more of a longing for 
family life than many who have only to reach out their 
hand to have." 

She would be satisfied. She knew now she should de- 
sire to be in a wider life than her mother's. She wanted 
to be in touch with some of the greater qualities and suc- 
cesses, the more intellectual manifestations of science and 
philosophy and advancement of the world. No one had 





quite comprehended this side of her nature, and to be 
understood thrilled her. 

He was considering another point in a man's way. 

"And you would have given me up to Ruth," he said, 
in a reluctant, regretting tone. 

" If you loved her " 

A soft little smile made a sunrise in the eyes and 
lingered about the lips. She knew now this could not 
have been, and she would have proved more than human 
if she had not experienced a leaping pulse of gladness. 

Presently he said, "I was charged with a message. 
Mrs. Kenneth desired me to ask you to dinner, insisted 
that you must come. We will not even have Bertram. 
And to-morrow I will explain to your father. I have 
never thought much about money, indeed am afraid I 
have been rather heedless with it, but I am glad to have 
something to offer you beside my salary, not that one 
would need to starve on that." 

He hated to leave her, but he would not stop to 
luncheon. He was a very earnest lover, after all. The 
strange, sweet knowledge that he alone of all the world 
had the power and privilege of making this girl happy, 
gave him an exquisite sense of responsibility and de- 
light. 

As Princess was going through the hall, she espied the 
pile of letters. Two for her — one from Ray, one from 
papa. She broke the seal of that first and ran her eye 
along the lines. There was some solicitude about Sher- 
burne, and then a message for her very self and some 
fatherly counsel. 

Mr. Sevier had begged the privilege of addressing her 
on the tender and grave subject of marriage. 

" The young man is unexceptionable in every way and 





