John turned skillfully on the little green and drove away. Lucy Ann
stayed at the window watching him, the breeze lifting her gray curls,
and the sun smiling at her. She withdrew slowly into the attic, and sank
down upon the floor, close by the window. She sat there and thought, and
the wind still struck upon her unheeded. Was she always to be subject to
the tyranny of those who had set up their hearth-stones in a more
enduring form? Was her home not a home merely because there were no men
and children in it? She drew her breath sharply, and confronted certain
problems of the greater world, not knowing what they were. To Lucy Ann
they did not seem problems at all. They were simply touches on the
individual nerve, and she felt the pain. Her own inner self throbbed in
revolt, but she never guessed that any other part of nature was
throbbing with it. Then she went about her work, with the patience of
habit. It was well that the attic should be cleaned, though the savor of
the task was gone.
Next day, she walked to Sudleigh, with a basket on her arm. Often she
sent her little errands by the neighbors; but to-day she was uneasy, and
it seemed as if the walk might do her good. She wanted some soda and
some needles and thread. She tried to think they were very important,
though some sense of humor told her grimly that household goods are of
slight use to one who goes a-cousining. Her day at John's would be
prolonged to seven; nay, why not a month, when the winter itself was not
too great a tax for them to lay upon her? In her deserted house, soda
would lose its strength, and even cloves decay. Lucy Ann felt her will
growing very weak within her; indeed, at that time, she was hardly
conscious of having any will at all.
It was Saturday, and John and Ezra were almost sure to be in town. She
thought of that, and how pleasant it would be to hear from the folks: so
much pleasanter than to be always facing them on their own ground, and
never on hers. At the grocery she came upon Ezra, mounted on a
wagon-load of meal-bags, and just gathering up the reins.
"Hullo!" he called. "You didn't walk?"
"Oh, I jest clipped it over," returned Lucy Ann carelessly. "I'm goin'
to git a ride home. I see Marden's wagon when I come by the
post-office."
"Well, I hadn't any expectation o' your bein' here," said Ezra. "I meant
to ride round to-morrer. We want you to spend Thanksgivin' Day with us.
I'll come over arter you."
"Oh, Ezra!" said Lucy Ann, quite sincerely, with her concession to his
lower fortunes, "why didn't you say so! John's asked me."
"The dogs!" said Ezra. It was his deepest oath. Then he drew a sigh.
"Well," he concluded, "that's our luck. We al'ays come out the leetle
end o' the horn. Abby'll be real put out. She 'lotted on it. Well,
John's inside there. He's buyin' up 'bout everything there is. You'll
git more'n you would with us."
He drove gloomily away, and Lucy Ann stepped into the store, musing. She
was rather sorry not to go to Ezra's, if he cared. It almost seemed as
if she might ask John to let her take the plainer way. John would
understand. She saw him at once where he stood, prosperous and hale, in
his great-coat, reading items from a long memorandum, while Jonathan
Stevens weighed and measured. The store smelled of spice, and the clerk
that minute spilled some cinnamon. Its fragrance struck upon Lucy Ann
like a call from some far-off garden, to be entered if she willed. She
laid a hand on her brother's arm, and her lips opened to words she had
not chosen:--
"John, you shouldn't ha' drove away so quick, t' other day. You jest
flung out your invitation an' run. You never give me no time to answer.
Ezra's asked me to go there."
"Well, if that ain't smart!" returned John. "Put in ahead, did he? Well,
I guess it's the fust time he ever got round. I'm terrible sorry, Lucy.
The children won't think it's any kind of a Thanksgivin' without you.
Somehow they've got it into their heads it's grandma comin'. They can't
seem to understand the difference."
"Well, you tell 'em I guess grandma's kind o' pleased for me to plan it
as I have," said Lucy Ann, almost gayly. Her face wore a strange,
excited look. She breathed a little faster. She saw a pleasant way
before her, and her feet seemed to be tending toward it without her own
volition. "You give my love to 'em. I guess they'll have a proper nice
time."
She lingered about the store until John had gone, and then went forward
to the counter. The storekeeper looked at her respectfully. Everybody
had a great liking for Lucy Ann. She had been a faithful daughter, and
now that she seemed, in so mysterious a way, to be growing like her
mother, even men of her own age regarded her with deference.
"Mr. Stevens," said she, "I didn't bring so much money with me as I
might if I'd had my wits about me. Should you jest as soon trust me for
some Thanksgivin' things?"
"Certain," replied Jonathan. "Clean out the store, if you want. Your
credit's good." He, too, felt the beguilement of the time.
"I want some things," repeated Lucy Ann, with determination. "Some
