resemblance."
"Very likely," replied Mrs. Dixon placidly. "There was a woman in
Trenton who looked just like me, so that no one could tell us apart."
"Yes," admitted Percy; "I must be mistaken. This boy had a very nice
suit on, while Jed was dressed in rags."
When they reached home Squire Dixon was abed and asleep. Percy came down
late to breakfast.
"By the way, Percy," said his father, as he helped him to breakfast,
"Fogson has just been over to report that the boy Jed has mysteriously
disappeared. He never went back after bringing me the message yesterday
afternoon."
Percy dropped his knife and fork and stared at his father in open-eyed
amazement.
"Then it was Jed, after all!" he exclaimed.
CHAPTER XIII.
FOGSON IN PURSUIT.
"What do you mean, Percy?" asked Squire Dixon, referring to his son's
exclamation at the close of the preceding chapter. "Do you know anything
of Jed?"
"Yes; I saw him last evening at Duncan."
"But what took him there? What was he doing?"
"He was on the stage. He was playing in 'The Gold King.'"
"What do you mean by this absurd statement?" demanded his father
angrily.
"It is true. Ask mother if it isn't."
"I think Percy is right," said Mrs. Dixon. "The young actor bears a
wonderful resemblance to the boy Jed."
"But Jed doesn't know anything about acting."
"That is why I thought I was mistaken. But if Jed has run away it must
be he."
"Why didn't you manage to speak to him after the play?"
"I did, and he denied that he was Jed. He calls himself Ralph Clinton."
"Really, this is a most surprising circumstance," said the squire. "The
boy is a hardened young villain. His running away from those who are
lawfully set over him in authority is a most audacious and highhanded
outrage."
"That's what I think," chimed in Percy. "What shall you do about it?
Shan't you go after him?"
"I think it my duty to do so. As soon as breakfast is over, ask Mr.
Fogson to come round here. Tell him I have news of the fugitive."
Three-quarters of an hour later Simeon Fogson was admitted into the
august presence of the Overseer of the Poor.
"I hear you have news of Jed Gilman," he said. "That is what your son
Percy tells me."
"It is true, Mr. Fogson. The young scapegrace has joined a company of
actors. What is he coming to?"
"To the gallows, I think," answered Fogson. "But how did you learn
this?"
"Percy saw him on the stage last evening."
"And he actually played a part?"
"Yes."
"In his ragged suit?"
"No," answered Percy. "He had a telegraph boy's suit first, and
afterwards a nice brown suit--as nice as mine."
"Where did he get 'em?" asked Fogson.
"That's the question!" returned the squire solemnly. "There is a strange
mystery about the boy's goings on. Have you observed anything queer in
his conduct of late?"
"I have noticed that he has been unusually impudent. Ha, I have it!"
said Fogson, suddenly, slapping his thigh.
"What have you?" asked Percy.
"There was an actor stayed at the poorhouse night before last--an actor
named Bertram. It is he that has lured Jed astray."
"There was an actor by that name in the play last evening."
"Then that settles it. Squire Dixon, what shall I do?"
"I think, Mr. Fogson, you had better go at once to Duncan--I will lend
you my buggy--and secure the boy, tying him hand and foot, if necessary,
and take him back to the poorhouse."
Simeon Fogson smiled grimly. It was an errand that suited him.
"I will do so," he said, "and I will lose no time."
"Don't ask for Jed Gilman," suggested Percy. "Ask for Ralph Clinton.
That's the name he goes by now."
Mr. Fogson drew out a stub of a lead-pencil and put down this name. In
twenty minutes he was on his way, and an hour later he drew up in front
of the hotel in Duncan.
He left the buggy and entered the public room of the inn.
"Is there such a boy as Ralph Clinton here?" he asked the clerk.
"Yes; do you want to see him?"
"I should like very much to see him," answered Fogson grimly.
"He is in No. 12. Jim, show the gentleman up. He is sick."
