of dollars invested, or hidden somewhere. He thinks he’s got rid of me,
but” (here an oath escaped his lips) “he will find he’s mistaken.”
All this was new to Mrs. Barclay, who had heard very little of her
husband’s family.
“Perhaps if you find him you could induce him to come and live with
us,” she said. “He might take an interest in the children and do
something for them.”
“More likely he would want to live off us. However, if I could once get
him here, I’d manage to get my hand into his purse. It’s a good idea.”
“Does he live alone? He must be an old man.”
“He’s all bent and shriveled up; he’s got a telegraph boy living with
him, he told me. I hate telegraph boys--I met one the other night--an
impudent young rascal! I’d like to meet him again. I’d wring the kid’s
neck for him.”
“Where did you meet him, James?”
James Barclay eyed his wife suspiciously. He did not care to tell her
under what circumstances he met Paul Parton.
“Never you mind, old woman!” he said. “It’s no concern of yours.”
“If you don’t want to tell me, I don’t care to know, James,” she
answered, meekly.
“Well, I don’t want to tell you. But about the old man’s coming here,
it’s a good idea of yours. I will send off the telegraph boy, for he
might be dangerous. Ten to one he’s trying to get the old man to leave
him his property. I wish I knew where he is.”
“Haven’t you got any clew?”
“No, he’s hid somewhere. He won’t come out of his hole for fear of
meeting me.”
“If you could meet this telegraph boy, you might learn through him
where your father is.”
“Unfortunately, Mrs. B., I don’t know the telegraph boy--never met
him--shouldn’t know him from Adam.”
“I suppose he has a number.”
“That’s so, old woman!” exclaimed Barclay, slapping his knee with
emphasis. “I think I know where I can find out his number, and then
it’ll be easy to find him. He can’t hide from me, for he has to be on
duty every day. But I shall want money--just give me that dollar!”
“I can’t, James; the poor children would have to go without their
supper.”
“Look here, Mrs. B., I want you to understand that you’ve got to obey
your husband. I’ll give you back the money as soon as I can, but I need
it to track my father. Let me once get hold of him, and it’ll be all
right. I will soon have plenty of money.”
“But I can’t spare the money, James. The children must have their
supper.”
“I’m tired of your talk,” he rejoined, roughly. “If you refuse me the
money, I’ll raise it in some other way.”
He glared round the room, and his eyes rested on a dress that his wife
had just ironed.
“I can raise something on that,” he said, seizing the dress, and
preparing to carry it away.
“Stop, James, for pity’s sake!” cried his wife, terrified. “That dress
belongs to one of my customers. It would be stealing to take it!”
“She’s probably got plenty of others; she can spare it,” he said.
His wife hastened to him and tried to wrench the dress from his grasp,
but holding it in one hand beyond her reach, he gripped her arm with
the other so hard that she uttered a cry of pain.
At this moment the door was pushed open, and a new character appeared
upon the scene in the person of a stalwart policeman.
“What’s all this?” he demanded, in a tone of authority. “Release that
woman, or I’ll take you in.”
CHAPTER XIV. ON THE TRACK OF NUMBER 91.
The policeman’s sudden appearance can be easily explained. He and his
family occupied rooms in the same house with Mrs. Barclay, and he
happened to be passing the door of her apartment when he heard the cry.
“What’s all this?” he demanded once more.
“None of your business!” returned Barclay, indignantly. “What call have
you to intrude where you’re not wanted?”
“I often do that,” said the policeman, grimly. “Mrs. Barclay, who is
this man?”
“My husband, sir.”
“There, do you hear that?” demanded Barclay. “I have a right to be
here.”
“What were you about to do to your wife? What made her cry out?” asked
the policeman, sharply. “I ask you that question, Mrs. Barclay.”
“My husband was carrying off that dress to pawn it,” replied the wife.
“It does not belong to me, and it would have got me into trouble.”
“What have you to say to that?” asked the officer, turning to Barclay.
“My wife would give me no money,” answered Barclay, sullenly, “and I
threatened to pawn her dress.”
“She says it was not her dress.”
