did not make the eggs. And then there was the 
journey, the heat in the city, the grateful sight 
of the Deerfield, the splendid morning, the old 
barn, the watering -trough, the view from the 
hill — everything just as it used to be. 
"Dear Phil, it is so nice to have you here," 
and there were tears in Alice's eyes, she was so 
happy. 
After breakfast Philip strolled down the coun- 
try road through the village. How familiar was 
every step of the way ! — the old houses jutting 
 
out at the turns in the road ; the glimpse of the 
river beyond the little meadow where Captain 
Eice was killed ; the spring under the ledge over 
which the snap-dragon grew ; the dilapidated 
ranks of fence smothered in vines and fire- weeds ; 
the cottages, with flower-pots in front ; the stores, 
with low verandas ornamented with boxes and 
barrels ; the academy in its green on the hill ; the 
old bridge over which the circus elephant dared 
not walk ; the new and the old churches, with 
rival steeples ; and, not familiar, the new inn. 
And he knew everybody, young and old, at 
doorways, in the fields or gardens, and had for 
every one a hail and a greeting. How he enjoyed 
it all, and his self-consciousness added to his pleas- 
ure, as he swung along in his well-fitting city 
clothes, broad-shouldered and erect — it is aston- 
ishing how much a tailor can do for a man who 
responds to his efforts. It is a pleasure to come 
across such a hero as this in real life, and not 
have to invent him, as the saying is, out of the 
whole cloth. Philip enjoyed the world, and he 
enjoyed himself, because it was not quite his old 
self, the farmer's boy going on an errand. There 
must be knowledge all along the street that he 
was in the great law office of Hunt, Sharp & 
Tweedle. And, besides, Philip's name must be 
known to all the readers of magazines in the 
town as a writer, a name in more than one list 
I 
 
of " contributors." That was fame. Translated, 
however, into country comprehension it was 
something like this, if he could have heard the 
comments after he had passed by : 
" Yes, that's Phil Burnett, sure enough; but I'd 
hardly know him ; spruced up mightily. I won- 
der what he's at ?" 
" I heard he was down in 'New York trying to 
law it. I heard he's been writin' some for news- 
papers. Accordin' to his looks, must pay a durn 
sight better'n farmin'." 
" "Well, I always said that boy wa'n't no skee- 
zics." 
Almost the first question Philip asked Alice 
on his return was about the new inn, the Pea- 
cock Inn. 
" There seemed a good deal of stir about it as 
I passed." 
" "Why, I forgot to tell you about it. It's the 
great excitement. Eivervale is getting known. 
The Mavicks are there. I hear they've taken 
pretty much the whole of it." 
"The Mavicks?" 
" Yes, the New York Mavicks, that you wrote 
us about, that were in the paper." 
" How long have they been there ?" 
"A week. There is Mrs. Mavick and her 
daughter, and the governess, and two maids, and 
a young fellow in uniform — yes, livery — and a 
 
coachman in the same, and a stableful of horses 
and carriages. It upset the village like a circus. 
And they say there's a French clief in white cap 
and apron, who comes to the side-door and jab- 
bers to the small boys like fireworks." 
" How did it come about ?" 
" Naturally, I guess; a city family wanting a 
