was gone like the last glimmer of a fading sun-spot.

"Oh, dear! Oh, dear!" cried the Dryad, clasping her highly ornamental
hands; "what on earth will you think of my stupidity?"

"Nothing," said Jones, resolutely, swallowing hard and gazing at the
tangled jungle.

"It was too stupid," insisted the Dryad; and, as the silence of Jones
assented, she added, "but it is not very nice of you to say so."

"Why, I didn't," cried Jones.

"You did," said the Dryad, tears of vexation in her blue eyes. "And to
pay for your discourtesy you shall make me a silk net and I shall give
up golf and spend my entire time in hunting for White Devils, to make
amends."

The suggested penance appeared to attract Jones.

"Give up golf--which I am perfectly mad about," repeated the Dryad,
"just because you were horrid when I tried to help you."

"That will be delightful," said Jones, naïvely. "We will hunt Ajax
together--all day, every day----"

"Oh, I shall catch--something--the first time I try," observed the
Dryad, airily. She teed up a practice ball, hit it a vicious whack,
followed its flight with narrowing blue eyes, and, turning placidly upon
Jones, smiled a dangerous smile.

"If I don't catch an Ajax before you do I'll forfeit anything you
please," she said.

"I'll take it," said Jones.

"But," cried the Dryad, "what do you offer against it?"

"Whatever I ask from you," he said, deliberately.

"You are somewhat vague, Mr. Jones."

"I won't be when I win."

"Tell me what you want--if you win!"

"What? With this caddie hanging around and listening?" The Dryad,
wide-eyed and flushed, regarded him in amazement.

Jones picked up a pinch of wet sand from the box, moulded it with great
care into a tiny truncated cone, set it on the tee, set his ball on top
of it, whipped the air persuasively with his driver once or twice, and,
settling himself into the attitude popularly attributed to the Colossus
of Rhodes, hit the ball for the longest, cleanest drive he had ever
perpetrated.

"Dryad," he said, politely, "it is now up to you."

       

Of all the exquisite creatures that float through the winter sunshine of
the semi-tropics this is the most exquisite and spirituelle. Long,
slender, swallow-tailed wings, tinted with pearl and primrose, crossed
with ashy stripes and double-barred with glowing crimson--this is the
shy, forest-haunting creature that the Dryad sought to snare, and sought
in vain.

Sometimes, standing on the long, white shell roads, where myriads of
glittering dragon-flies sailed, far away a pale flash would catch the
sun for an instant; and "Ready! Look out!" would cry the Dryad. Vanity!
Swifter than a swallow the Ajax passed, a pearly blurr against the glare
of the white road; swish! swish! the silken nets swung in vain.

"Oh, bother," sighed the Dryad.

Again, in the dim corridors of the forest, where tall palms clustered
and green live oaks spread transparent shadows across palmetto thickets,
far in some sunlit glade a tiny wing-flash would bring the Dryad's
forest cry: "Quick! Oh, quick!" But the woodland ghost was gone.

