"I must be dreaming," thought Dodger. "It's very queer. I am dreaming
I am at sea. I suppose that explains it."
He listened and heard the swish of the waters as they beat against the
sides of the vessel.
He noted the pitching of the ship, and there was an unsteady feeling
in his head, such as those who have gone to sea will readily recall.
Dodger became more and more bewildered.
"If it's a dream, it's the most real dream I ever had," he said to
himself.
"This seems like a ship's cabin," he continued, looking about him. "I
think if I got up I should be seasick. I wonder if people ever get
seasick in dreams?"
There was another pitch, and Dodger instinctively clung to the edge of
his berth, to save himself from being thrown out.
"Let me see," he said, trying to collect his scattered recollection.
"I went to sleep in a house uptown--a house to which Curtis Waring
lured me, and then made me a prisoner. The house was somewhere near
One Hundred and Twenty-fifth Street. Now it seems as if I was on board
a ship. How could I get here? I wish somebody would come in that I
could ask."
As no one came in, Dodger got out of the berth, and tried to stand on
the cabin floor.
But before he knew it he was staggering like one intoxicated, and his
head began to feel bad, partly, no doubt, on account of the sleeping
potion which he had unconsciously taken.
At this moment the steward entered the cabin. "Hello, young man! Have
you got up?" he asked.
"Where am I?" asked Dodger, looking at him with a dazed expression.
"Where are you? You're on the good ship Columbia, to be sure?"
"Are we out to sea?"
"Of course you are."
"How far from land?"
"Well, about fifty miles, more or less, I should judge."
"How long have I been here?"
"It seems to me you have a poor memory. You came on board last
evening."
"I suppose Curtis Waring brought me," said Dodger, beginning to get
his bearings.
"There was a gentleman came with you--so the mate told me. I don't
know his name."
"Where is the ship bound?"
"To San Francisco, around Cape Horn. I supposed you knew that."
"I never heard of the ship Columbia before, and I never had any idea
of making a sea voyage."
The steward looked surprised.
"I suppose your guardian arranged about that. Didn't he tell you?"
"I have no guardian."
"Well, you'll have to ask Capt. Barnes about that. I know nothing,
except that you are a passenger, and that your fare has been paid."
"My fare paid to San Francisco?" asked Dodger, more and more at sea,
both mentally and physically.
"Yes; we don't take any deadheads on the Columbia."
"Can you tell me what time it is?"
"About twelve o'clock. Do you feel hungry?"
"N--not very," returned Dodger, as a ghastly expression came over his
face, and he tumbled back into his berth, looking very pale.
The steward smiled.
"I see how it is," he said; "you are getting initiated."
"What's that?" muttered Dodger, feebly.
"You're going to be seasick. You'll hardly be able to appear at the
dinner table."
"It makes me sick to think of eating," said Dodger, feebly.
As he sank back into his berth, all thoughts of his unexpected
position gave way to an overpowering feeling of seasickness.
He had never been tried in this way before, and he found the sensation
far from agreeable.
"If only the vessel would stop pitching," he groaned. "Oh, how happy I
should be if I were on dry land."
But the vessel wouldn't stop--even for a minute.
The motion, on the other hand, seemed to increase, as was natural, for
they were getting farther and farther from land and were exposed to
the more violent winds that swept the open ocean.
There is something about seasickness that swallows up and draws away
all minor cares and anxieties, and Dodger was too much affected to
consider how or why it was that he so unexpectedly found himself a
passenger to California.
"Lie flat on your back," said the steward. "You will feel better if
you do."
"How long is it going to last?" groaned Dodger, feeling quite
miserable.
