history. As for spittoons, they were invented for our 
own Southern aristocrats who loved tobacco then as 
now. They decorate our Capitol as a mere matter of 
form. I don't pretend to hope that ninety representa- 
tive Americans are Beau Brummels, but there must be 
a respectable minority of gentlemen whether self- 
made or not I don't care. I am going to make a 
deliberate attempt to know that minority, and shall 
call on Lady Mary Montgomery this afternoon as the 
first step. So you are resigned, are you not, Molly 
dear?" 
"No, I am not! But what can I do? I have 
spoiled you, and you would be just the same if I hadn't. 
You are more like the men of the family than the 
women they always would have their own way. 
Are they all married?" she added anxiously. 
"Do you mean the ninety Senators and the three 
hundred and fifty-six Representatives? I am sure 
I do not know. Don't let that worry you. It is my 
mind that is on the qui vtve, not my heart." 
"You'll hear some old fool make a Websterian 
speech full of periods and rhetoric, and you'll straight- 
way imagine yourself in love with him. Your head 
will be your worst enemy when you do fall in love." 
" Webster is the greatest master of style this country 
has produced. I should hate a man who used either 
' periods ' or rhetoric. I am the concentrated essence 
of modernism and have no use for ' oratory ' or ' eloquence.' Some of the little speeches in the Record are 
masterpieces of brevity and pure English, particularly 
Senator North's." 
" You are modern. If we had a Clay, I could understand you I am too exhausted to discuss the matter 
further ; you must drop it for the present. What will 
Jack Emory say?" 
" I have never given him the least right to say anything." 
" I almost wish you were safely married to him. 
He has not made a great success of his life, but he is 
your equal and his manners are perfect. I shall live 
in constant fear now of your marrying a horror with 
a twang and a toothpick." 
" I promise you I won't do that and that I never 
will marry Jack Emory." 
II 
BETTY MADISON had exercised a great deal of self- 
control in resisting the natural impulse to cultivate 
a fad and grapple with a problem. Only her keen 
sense of humor saved her. On the Sunday following 
her return, while sauntering home after a long restless 
tramp about the city, she passed a church which many 
colored people were entering. Her newly awakened 
curiosity in all things pertaining to the political life of 
her country prompted her to follow them and sit 
through the service. The clergyman was light in color, 
and prayed and preached in simpler and better Eng- 
lish than she had heard in more pretentious pulpits, 
but there was nothing noteworthy in his remarks be- 
yond a supplication to the Almighty to deliver the 
negro from the oppression of the " Southern tyrant," 
followed by an admonition to the negro to improve 
himself in mind and character if he would hope to 
compete with the Whites; bitter words and violence 
but weakened his cause. 
This was sound common-sense, but the reverse of 
the sensational entertainment Betty had half expected, 
and her eyes wandered from the preacher to his congregation. There were all shades of Afro-American 
color and all degrees of prosperity represented. Coal- 
black women were there, attired in deep and expensive 
mourning. "Yellow girls" wore smart little tailor 
costumes. Three young girls, evidently of the lower 
middle class of colored society, for they were cheaply 
dressed, had all the little airs and graces and mannerisms of the typical American girl. In one corner 
a sleek mulatto with a Semitic profile sat in the recognized attitude of the banker in church; filling his 
corner comfortably and setting a worthy example to 
the less favored of Mammon. 
But Betty's attention suddenly was arrested and held 
by two men who sat on the opposite side of the aisle, 
although not together, and apparently were unrelated. 
There were no others quite like them in the church, 
but the conviction slowly forced itself into her mind, 
magnetic for new impressions, that there were many 
elsewhere. They were men who were descending the 
