salts sent little shivers over her, but did not completely 
rouse her. 
“I don’t know what we are to do,” said Barbe, help- 
lessly. “She’s such a child in most things — a baby ! She 
talks to that crane until I do believe he understands 
every word she says. And the cockatoo really cries after 
her, and all those herons — and I feel so afraid, sometimes, 
she’ll begin to charm those horrible snakes and reptiles ! 
I did think she was caring less for Gervaise, but it has 
gone deeper, it seems. And that most unfortunate mar- 
riage !” 
“But if Hugh never should come back! If Gervaise 
should find he had died or been killed ” 
“Then the way is clear for establishing this mar- 
riage.” 
There was a great wrench at Angelique’s heart. 
Perhaps it would be better this way. What brought the 
vision of the enthusiastic young American before her? 
She hated herself that she could think of him. 
“Oh, but you see,” cried Barbe, in anguish, “he does 
not care for her in that way. She is merely a sweet, 
pretty child to him, that he has had to soothe and appease 
and put off until she can understand. It is not real love. 
Now, Philippe adored her.” 
Angelique sighed and went on with her ministrations. 
Between them both they succeeded in restoring her, but 
she looked at them out of woe-begone eyes. 
“Oh,” she cried, at length, “he will never, never come 
back ! I did not think it would be so hard. There are 
all those Indian tribes, with horrid names, who scalp 
every one or burn them at the stake. Oh, poor Ger- 
vaise! And now I wish we had never seen that M’sieu 
Norton. Did he send that beautiful hound? I shall hate 
it, I know.” 
“Zenobie Lavalette goes wild over it. We can let her 
take it.” 
Something like a flash crossed the weary blue eyes. 
“I would rather Hortense should have it,” she made 
answer. 
“He may have taken it with him. It is not here, and 
he said nothing about it when he went away.” 
Angelique colored consciously, with the recollection of 
what he did say. 
“I want Viny to come and hold me,” she insisted, 
rather fretfully. 
Viny came, and took her on her lap in the great reed 
rocking-chair, and crooned out songs in her soft voice, 
that was like a rushy rivulet and had no high notes. 
The next day, and the next day, Sylvie lay on the small 
white cot, or was in Viny’s arms. She wanted nothing to 
eat — she would not even talk. Her eyes seemed to grow 
larger and more wistful, and the color went out of her 
cheeks. 
“What shall we do ?” Barbe kept saying. “Poor petite 
lamb. She looks like her mother.” 
“Is that Telano crying?” she asked of Viny on the 
eve of the second day. 
“Poor Telano. He has done nothing but mourn all 
day little Missy. He will not eat anything.” 
“That is like me.” She smiled faintly. “Do you 
think he would starve?” 
“He looks so sorrowful, and shakes his head.” 
“And he might die. Oh, Viny, I shouldn’t like to die. 
It must be horrid to be shut up in one of those stone 
vaults and never see any one again. All the world is 
so lovely ! The magnolias are coming out — I smell 
them — and the jasmin. Yes, it is pleasanter to live even 
if — the people you love do go away. Viny, carry me 
downstairs, and let me comfort poor Telano.” 
Viny took her down and sat her in the hammock. 
Telano ran awkwardly from the crape-myrtle allee where 
he had been bemoaning his sorrows to the birds of the air. 
The sun was almost down, and the soft red and purplish 
lights were tinted with lavender and green. 
“Poor Telano!” He laid his head in the lap of his 
little mistress and uttered strange, pathetic cries, some of 
them not unlike a turkey’s gobble. When he had gone 
through the whole gamut of sounds, he looked up in 
Sylvie’s face. 
“Yes, Telano, two whole long days! I wasn’t asleep 
