hard. She dared not raise her eyes to the man beside her.
“You wish to go now?” he asked, gently.
“Yes, please,” she replied, “I think so; it is very late.”
Helen scarcely knew what happened during the drive home, for she
passed it in a half-dazed condition, almost overwhelmed by what she
had done. She answered mechanically to all Mr. Harrison’s remarks
about his arrangements of the house and his plans elsewhere, but all
reference to his wealth seemed powerless to waken in her a trace of
the exultation that had swept her away before, while every allusion
to their personal relationship was like the touch of fire. Her
companion seemed to divine the fact, and again he begged her
anxiously not to forget the promise she had given. Helen answered
faintly that she would not; but the words were hard for her to say
and it was an infinite relief to her to see Oakdale again, and to
feel that the strain would soon be over, for the time at any rate.
“I shall stay somewhere in the neighborhood,” said Mr. Harrison.
“You will let me see you often, Helen, will you not?”
“Yes,” answered Helen, mechanically.
“I will come to-morrow,” said the other, “and take you driving if
you like; I promised to go back and lunch with your aunt to-day, as
I thought I was to return to the city.” In a moment more the
carriage stopped in front of Helen’s home, and the girl, without
waiting for anyone to assist her, leaped out and with a hasty word
of parting, ran into the house. She heard the horses trotting away,
and then the door closed behind her, and she stood in the dark,
silent hallway. She saw no one, and after gazing about her for a
moment she stole into her little music-room and flung herself down
upon the couch, where she lay with her head buried in her hands.
It was a long time afterwards when she glanced up again; she was
trembling all over, and her face was white.
“In Heaven’s name, how can I have done it?” she whispered hoarsely,
to herself. “How can I have done it? And what am I to do now?”
Nur wer der Minne Macht ent-sagt, nur wer der Liebe Lust verjagt
CHAPTER VII
  “Wie kommt’s, dass du so traurig bist,
    Da alles froh erscheint?
  Man sieht dir’s an den Augen an,
    Gewiss, du hast geweint.”
Helen might have spent the afternoon in that situation, tormenting
herself with the doubts and fears that filled her mind, had it not
been for the fact that her presence was discovered by Elizabeth, the
servant, who came in to clean the room. The latter of course was
astonished to see her, but Helen was in no mood to vouchsafe
explanations.
“Just leave me alone,” she said. “I do not feel very well. And don’t
tell father I am here yet.”
“Your father, Miss Helen!” exclaimed the woman; “didn’t you get his
letter?”
“What letter?” And then poor Helen was made aware of another
trouble.
“Mr. Davis wrote Mrs. Roberts last night,” answered the servant.
“He’s gone away.”
“Away!” cried the girl. “Where to?”
“To New York.” Then the woman went on to explain that Mr. Davis had
been invited to take the place of a friend who was ill, and had left
Oakdale for a week. Helen understood that the letter must have
reached her aunt after her own departure.
“Dear me!” the girl exclaimed, “How unfortunate! I don’t want to
stay here alone.”
But afterwards it flashed over her that if she did she might be able
to have a week of quiet to regain her self-possession. “Mr. Harrison
couldn’t expect to visit me if I were alone,” she thought. “But
then, I suppose he could, too,” she added hastily, “if I am engaged
to him! And I could never stand that!”
“Miss Helen,” said the servant, who had been standing and watching
her anxiously, “you look very ill; is anything the matter?”
“Nothing,” Helen answered, “only I want to rest. Leave me alone,
please, Elizabeth.”
“Are you going to stay?” the other asked; “I must fix up your room.”
“I’ll have to stay,” said Helen. “There’s nothing else to do.”
“Have you had lunch yet?”
“No, but I don’t want any; just let me be, please.”
Helen expected the woman to protest, but she did not. She turned
away, and the girl sank back upon the couch and covered her face
again.
“Everything has gone wrong!” she groaned to herself, “I know I shall
die of despair; I don’t want to be here all alone with Mr. Harrison
coming here. Dear me, I wish I had never seen him!”
And Helen’s nervous impatience grew upon her, until she could stand
it no more, and she sprang up and began pacing swiftly up and down
