"that we fear to frighten."

"Oh," I returned, "I fear, mostly, I think, to frighten any one. I'm
not particularly brave. I haven't, at all events, in spite of my
certitude, interrogated Mrs. Server, and I give you my word of honour
that I've not had any denial from her to prop up my doubt. It still
stands on its own feet, and it was its own battle that, when I came here
at your summons, it was prepared to fight. Let me accordingly remind
you," I pursued, "in connection with that, of the one sense in which you
were, as you a moment ago said, talked over by me. I persuaded you
apparently that Long's metamorphosis was not the work of Lady John. I
persuaded you of nothing else."

She looked down a little, as if again at a trap. "You persuaded me that
it was the work of somebody." Then she held up her head. "It came to the
same thing."

If I had credit then for my trap it at least might serve. "The same
thing as what?"

"Why, as claiming that it was she."

"Poor May--'claiming'? When I insisted it wasn't!"

Mrs. Brissenden flushed. "You didn't insist it wasn't anybody!"

"Why should I when I didn't believe so? I've left you in no doubt," I
indulgently smiled, "of my beliefs. It was somebody--and it still is."

She looked about at the top of the room. "The mistake's now yours."

I watched her an instant. "Can you tell me then what one does to recover
from such mistakes?"

"One thinks a little."

"Ah, the more I've thought the deeper I've sunk! And that seemed to me
the case with you this morning," I added, "the more you thought."

"Well, then," she frankly declared, "I must have stopped thinking!"

It was a phenomenon, I sufficiently showed, that thought only could
meet. "Could you tell me then at what point?"

She had to think even to do that. "At what point?"

"What in particular determined, I mean, your arrest? You surely
didn't--launched as you were--stop short all of yourself."

She fronted me, after all, still so bravely that I believed her for an
instant not to be, on this article, without an answer she could produce.
The unexpected therefore broke for me when she fairly produced none. "I
confess I don't make out," she simply said, "while you seem so little
pleased that I agree with you."

I threw back, in despair, both head and hands. "But, you poor, dear
thing, you don't in the least agree with me! You flatly contradict me.
You deny my miracle."

"I don't believe in miracles," she panted.

"So I exactly, at this late hour, learn. But I don't insist on the
name. Nothing is, I admit, a miracle from the moment one's on the
track of the cause, which was the scent we were following. Call the
thing simply my fact."

She gave her high head a toss. "If it's yours it's nobody else's!"

"Ah, there's just the question--if we could know all! But my point is
precisely, for the present, that you do deny it."

"Of course I deny it," said Mrs. Briss.

I took a moment, but my silence held her. "Your 'of course' would be
what I would again contest, what I would denounce and brand as the word
too much--the word that spoils, were it not that it seems best, that it
in any case seems necessary, to let all question of your consistency
go."

On that I had paused, and, as I felt myself still holding her, I was not
