broad cuffs and silver buttons, the butcher, bared of arm and head,
with the wind fluttering his apron, the baker, white and sallow as his
own muffins, ostlers, shop-keepers, chapmen, men in fustian
shouldering pick or shovels, drovers in blue smocks carrying looped
snake-whips. Now comes one in musty wig and steel spectacles, bulging
umbrella under one arm, inquisitive nose buried in a Maryland
newspaper--a schoolmaster!--or do I not know the breed. Anon, I see
some tall, awkward riflemen, loitering idly before signs or gawking up
at the county court-house, where a gilt fish swims in the sky.
Sometimes a horseman, in the uniform of Lord Dunmore's guards, trots
by gracefully, with a smile and low salute for his friends and a stare
at the fresh-cheeked maids who steal demurely along, basket on arm, to
rifle the market for an early squash or a bunch o' green pease.
Many citizens I notice are reading the newspapers as they walk; many
men meet and stop and converse eagerly, looking behind them at times
as though an eavesdropper might be near. With bell and clapper the
vender of ginger and cocoa-nut pushes his cart before him; peddlers,
bending under Delaware baskets or leather trays, stand in the street,
calling their wares: "Colours for the races!" "Tablets!" "Pencils!"
"Chains!" "Cock-gaffs--steel or brass!" "Gentlemen's fancy!"
"Dog-bells!" "Ferret-bits!"
A barefoot child in rags offers bills for the bull-baiting and for the
Theatre Royal, crying in a thin, monotonous voice: "Race-week bills,
my lords and gentlemen! Race-week bills for the Theatre Royal, my
lady! Plays to be played--'The Beau's Stratagem,' 'Beggar's Opera,'
'The Devil to Pay,' 'The Fair Penitent,' 'The Virgin Unmasked!' and a
variety of farces and merry pantomimes--and the bills are only a
penny, my lady! The tickets to be had at Jamison's Coffee-House at
four shillings--the bill to be had of me, Rosalie, child of Tanner
Bridewell--only a penny!"
The pitiful voice in the sunshine touched me; I opened the window and
tossed a shilling to the child, then hid behind the curtains while she
kissed her palm at my window.
The winding of a brass horn brought me out of my concealment to peep
again down into the street, where people were flocking around a public
crier, who stood on a horse-block blowing his horn.
"Attention! Attention!" he cried, unfolding a paper, and presently
commenced to read his news to the crowd:
"By permission of the Right Honourable Earl of Dunmore, Governor of
Virginia! Four days' sport on Roanoke Plain. The Colonial Club
offering prizes of £100 and £50; the Richmond Club offering two purses
of £50. Attention! Sport on the Roanoke; an even and delightsome
plain, most sweet and pleasant. To-day the Nobleman's and Gentleman's
Purse of £50, free for any horse except Doctor Connolly's Scimitar,
who won the plate last season. Second, a silver cup worth £12.
Tuesday, County Subscription Purse of £50. No person will erect a
booth or sell liquor without subscribing £2 to expenses of races.
"Gentlemen fond of fox-hunting will meet at the Buckeye Tavern by
daybreak during the races.
"God save the King!"
He folded his paper, picked up his horn, and stepped down from the
horse-block. After a little while I heard his horn again, sounding at
the north angle of the square, and his strident voice, announcing the
races, came fitfully on the wind.
I turned back into the room and began my toilet. How strange to find
this town, undisturbed in its rural pleasures, busy about its own
affairs, while scarce a night's journey to the north the frontier was
in ashes, and the dead lay in the charred embers of their own
door-sills!
How strange to look out on the peace of these sunny streets, with the
cinders of Cresap's camp still clinging to my hunting-shirt; with my
own blood caking the sore on my arm where a Cayuga child had thrust a
lighted pine-splinter into my flesh! Strange!--ay, astonishing that
these people here behind their fortress, their block-housen, their
earthworks and stockades, should forget those who dwelt beyond the
gates, wresting the dark soil, inch by inch, from the giant pines of
the wilderness.
With a knife which Cresap had given me, I sat down to scrape the mud
and filth from my hunting-shirt and to pick out the burrs and docks
which clotted the fringe on my leggings.
Sombre thoughts filled me; I had a hard rôle to play before Lord
Dunmore; I had a harder rôle to act before Silver Heels, if she were
still here in Pittsburg.
It gave me no pleasure to find myself so near her. The attitude she
had assumed towards me that last night in Johnstown had hurt enough to
leave a scar. But when scars appear, wounds are healed; and so was
mine. It was true, I had never loved her as men love sweethearts. Her
sudden and amazing appearance as a woman had aroused my curiosity; her
popularity and beauty my jealousy. It was hurt pride that tempered me
when the playfellow I had tolerated and protected and tormented at my
