"I only want to get a message to my wife.  You see, I promised her."
"We 'll run into Wood's Hole in the morning, by all means," said Romer
cordially.  "It's a great place for ducks, anyhow, off there."
"Oh--ducks?" repeated Avery stupidly.  He had forgotten that they came
to kill ducks.
"We 're goin' to have a breeze o' wind," observed one of the crew, who
was lowering the jib-topsail.
"I'd like to take the dispatch myself, when we get there, if I may,"
the seasick lawyer hazarded, somewhat timidly.  But next morning, when
the Dream dropped anchor off Wood's Hole, and the tender was lowered,
he was flat in his berth.  He could not take the dispatch, and a detail
of two from the crew bounced off with it, pounding over the choppy sea.
The frail and fashionable tender looked like one of the little Florida
shells that are sold by the quart; there was now a considerable sea;
the yacht herself was pretty wet.  Romer was in excellent spirits.
"We might get a duck or two before breakfast, if it isn't too rough,"
he suggested.  "Sorry you 're laid up."
"Oh--ducks?" repeated Avery again.  He wished he could have a chance
to forget that he had left his wife too ill to lift her head, and had
come wallowing out here to kill ducks.
"I can't remember that a duck ever did me any harm," he said savagely,
aloud.
He heard the occasional report of guns over his head with a sense of
personal injury.  Nobody hit any ducks, and he was glad of it.  The
Dream cruised about, he did not know where.  He had ceased to feel any
interest in her movements.  He did not even ask where they had anchored
for the night.  The wind rose steadily throughout the day.  As the
force of the blow increased, his physical miseries ascended and his
moral consciousness declined.  His anxiety for his wife blurred away in
a befuddled sense of his own condition.
"I don't believe she's any worse off than I am," he thought.  This
reflection gave him some comfort.  He slept again that night the
shattered sleep of the seasick and unhappy, and woke with a cry.
A port-hole of gray dawn darkened by green waters was in the stateroom,
which seemed to be standing on its experienced and seaworthy head.  The
yacht was keeling and pitching weakly.  Tom Romer stood beside the
berth, looking at his guest; he did not smile.  It was an uncommon
thing to see Tom Romer without a smile.  The yachtsman wore oilskins
and a sou'wester, and dripped with salt water like a Grand Banker.
"God!  Romer, what's the matter?"  Avery got to his feet at once.  He
forgot that he was seasick.  His bodily distresses fled before the
swift, strong lash of fright.
"The fact is," replied Romer slowly, "we 've struck a confounded
gale--a November gale," he added.  "It's turned easterly.  She 's
been dragging her anchor since two.  Now"--
"Now what?" demanded Avery sharply.  He staggered into his clothes
without waiting for an answer.
"Well--we 've snapped our road."
"Road?"  The landsman struggled to recall his limited stock of nautical
phrases.  "That's the rope you tie your anchor to?  Oh!  What are you
going to do?" he asked, with unnatural humility.  The fatal
helplessness of ignorance overwhelmed him.  If he ever lived to get
back, he would turn the tables, and conduct Romer through a complicated
lawsuit.
"Run into the Sound if I can," returned Romer.  "It won't do to get
caught on some of these shoals round here."
"Of course not," replied Avery, who did not know a shoal from a siren.
"Say, Romer, what's the amount of danger?  Out with it!"
"Oh, she's good for it," said the yachtsman lightly.  Then his voice
and manner changed.  His insouciant black eyes peered suddenly at his
guest as if from a small, keen, marine lens.
"Say,  old fellow," he said slowly, "I hope there was n't any sort of a
quarrel,--you know,--any domestic unpleasantness, before you came on
this trip?  I wish to blank I 'd left you ashore."
"Quarrel?  A demon could n't quarrel with my wife!" exploded Avery.
"That was my impression," returned his host.  "Beg pardon, Avery.  You
see--to be honest, I can't say exactly how we 're coming out of this.
There are several things which might happen.  I thought"--the sportsman
stammered, and stopped.
"If you should pull through and I should n't," said Avery, lifting a
gray face,--"I 'm not a swimmer, and you are,--tell her I 'd give my
immortal soul if I had n't left her.  Tell her--I--God!  Romer, she was
very sick!  She did n't want me to go."
"I 've always thought," said the bachelor, "that if I had a wife--a
woman like that"--  His face hardened perceptibly, dripping under his
sou'wester.  "You fellows don't know what you 've got," he added
abruptly.  He scrambled up the companionway without looking back.
Avery followed him abjectly.
At this moment the yacht groaned, grated, and keeled suddenly.  Water
poured over the rail.  The deck rang with cries.  Avery got up, and
