mutual agreement, and without any quarrel. She stopped at last, rather
frightened at having said so much, but quite sure that she had done
right, and believing that she knew the whole truth and had told it all.
She waited for his answer in some trepidation.
"My dear lady," he said at last, "I am very glad you have been so frank.
Ever since your daughter wrote me that letter I have felt that it must
end in this way. As she does not wish to marry me, I quite agree that
our engagement should end at once, so that the agreement is really
mutual and friendly, and I shall say so."
"How good you are!" cried the Countess, delighted.
"There is only one thing I ask of you," Guido said, after pressing his
right hand upon his forehead in an attempt to stop the throbbing that
now began again. "I do not think I am asking too much, considering what
has happened, and I promise not to make any use of what you tell me."
"You have a right to ask us anything," the Countess answered,
contritely.
"Who is the man that has taken my place?"
The Countess stared at him blankly a moment, and her mouth opened a
little.
"What man?" she asked, evidently not understanding him.
"I naturally supposed that your daughter felt a strong inclination for
some one else," Guido said.
"Oh dear, no!" cried the Countess. "You are quite mistaken!"
"I beg your pardon, then. Pray forget what I said."
He saw that she was speaking the truth, as far as she knew it, and he
had long ago discovered that she was quite unable to conceal anything
not of the most vital importance. She repeated her assurance several
times, and then began to review the whole situation, till Guido was in
torment again.
At last the door opened and Lamberti entered. He saw at a glance how
Guido was suffering, and came to his side.
"I am afraid he is not so well to-day," he said. "He looks very tired.
If he could sleep more, he would get well sooner."
The Countess rose at once, and became repentant for having stayed too
long.
"I could not help telling him everything," she explained, looking at
Lamberti. "And as for Cecilia being in love with some one else," she
added, looking down into Guido's face and taking his hand, "you must put
that out of your head at once! As if I should not know it! It is
perfectly absurd!"
Lamberti stared fixedly at the top of her hat while she bent down.
"Of course," Guido said, summoning his strength to bid her good-bye
courteously, and to show some gratitude for her visit. "I am sorry I
spoke of it. Thank you very much for coming to see me, and for being so
frank."
In a sense he was glad she had come, for her coming had solved the
difficulty in which he had been placed. He sank back exhausted and
suffering as she left the room, and was hardly aware that Lamberti came
back soon afterwards and sat down beside him. Before long his friend
carried him back to his bed, for he seemed unable to walk.
Lamberti stayed with him till he fell asleep under the influence of a
soporific medicine, and then called the man-servant. He told him he had
taken the revolver from the drawer, because his master was not to be
married after all, and might do something foolish, and ought to be
watched continually, and he said that he would come back and stay
through the night. The man had been in his own service, and could be
trusted now that he had slept.
Lamberti left the Palazzo Farnese and walked slowly homeward in the
white glare, smoking steadily all the way, and looking straight before
him.
                               CHAPTER XXV
The Countess wrote that afternoon to Baron Goldbirn, of Vienna, and to
the Princess Anatolie, now in Styria, that the engagement between her
daughter and Signor Guido d'Este was broken off by mutual agreement. She
had told Cecilia that she had been to see Guido and had confessed the
plain truth, and that there need be no more comedies, because men never
died of that sort of thing after all, and it was much better for them to
be told everything outright. Cecilia seemed perfectly satisfied and
thanked her. Then the Countess said she would like to go to Brittany, or
perhaps to Norway, where she had never been, but that if Cecilia
preferred Scotland, she would make no objection. She would go anywhere,
provided the place were cool, and on the top of a mountain, or by the
sea, but she wished to leave at once. Everything had been ready for
their departure several days ago.
"You do not really mean to leave Rome till Guido--I mean, till Signor
d'Este is out of all danger, do you?" asked the young girl.
"My dear, since you are not going to marry him, what difference can it
make?" asked the Countess, unconsciously heartless. "The sooner we go,
the better. You are as pale as a sheet and as thin as a skeleton. You
will lose all your looks if you stay here!"
