circus was at Antwerp in April.
"Can't we get up something like that?" I suggested, hopelessly.
"Who would do it? Miss Claridge's fish-tights are in the prop-box;
who's to wear them?"
He began to say something else, but stopped suddenly, eyes fixed. We
were seated nearly opposite each other, and I turned around, following
the direction of his eyes.
Jacqueline stood behind me in the smoky light of the torch--Jacqueline,
bare of arm and knee, with her sea-blue eyes very wide and the witch-locks
clustering around the dim oval of her face. After a moment's absolute
silence she said: "I came from Paradise. Don't you remember?"
"From Paradise?" said Speed, smiling; "I thought it might be from
elf-land."
And I said: "Of course I remember you, Jacqueline. And I have an idea
you ought to be in bed."
There was another silence.
"Won't you sit down?" asked Speed.
"Thank you," said Jacqueline, gravely.
She seated herself on a sack of sawdust, clasping her slender hands
between her knees, and looked earnestly at the elephant.
"He won't harm you," I assured her.
"If you think I am afraid of that," she said, "you are mistaken,
Monsieur Scarlett."
"I don't think you are afraid of anything," observed Speed, smiling;
"but I know you are capable of astonishment."
"How do you know that?" demanded the girl.
"Because I saw you with your drum on the high-road when we came past
Paradise. Your eyes were similar to saucers, and your mouth was not
closed, Mademoiselle Jacqueline."
"Oh--pour ça--yes, I was astonished," she said. Then, with a quick,
upward glance: "Were you riding, in armor, on a horse?"
"No," said Speed; "I was on that elephant's head."
This appeared to make a certain impression on Jacqueline. She became
shyer of speech for a while, until he asked her, jestingly, why she
did not join the circus.
"It is what I wish," she said, under her breath.
"And ride white horses?"
"Will you take me?" she cried, passionately, springing to her feet.
Amazed at her earnestness, I tried to explain that such an idea was
out of the question. She listened anxiously at first, then her eyes
fell and she stood there in the torch-light, head hanging.
"Don't you know," said Speed, kindly, "that it takes years of
practice to do what circus people do? And the life is not gay,
Jacqueline; it is hard for all of us. We know what hunger means; we
know sickness and want and cold. Believe me, you are happier in
Paradise than we are in the circus."
"It may be," she said, quietly.
"Of course it is," he insisted.
"But," she flashed out, "I would rather be unhappy in the circus
than happy in Paradise!"
He protested, smiling, but she would have her way.
"I once saw a man, in spangles, turning, turning, and ever turning
upon a rod. He was very far away, and that was very long ago--at the
fair in Bannalec. But I have not forgotten! No, monsieur! In our
net-shed I also have fixed a bar of wood, and on it I turn, turn
continually. I am not ignorant of twisting. I can place my legs over
my neck and cross my feet under my chin. Also I can stand on both
hands, and I can throw scores of handsprings--which I do every morning
upon the beach--I, Jacqueline!"
She was excited; she stretched out both bare arms as though preparing
to demonstrate her ability then and there.
"I should like to see a circus," she said. "Then I should know what
to do. That I can swing higher than any girl in Paradise has been
demonstrated often," she went on, earnestly. "I can swim farther, I
can dive deeper, I can run faster, with bare feet or with sabots, than
anybody, man or woman, from the Beacon to Our Lady's Chapel! At bowls
the men will not allow me because I have beaten them all, monsieur,
even the mayor, which he never forgave. As for the farandole, I tire
last of all--and it is the biniou who cries out for mercy!"
She laughed and pushed back her hair, standing straight up in the
yellow radiance like a moor-sprite. There was something almost
unearthly in her lithe young body and fearless sea-blue eyes,
sparkling from the shock of curls.
"So you can dive and swim?" asked Speed, with a glance at me.
"Like the salmon in the Läita, monsieur."
"Under water?"
"Parbleu!"
After a pause I asked her age.
"Fifteen, M'sieu Scarlett."
"You don't look thirteen, Jacqueline."
