there is going--remember that she can play with us quite as much as we
play with her."
"She doesn't want to play with me, my dear," Kate lucidly replied;
"she doesn't want to make me suffer a bit more than she need. She cares
for me too much, and everything she does or doesn't do has a value.
This has a value--her being as she has been about us to-day. I
believe she's in her room, where she's keeping strictly to herself
while you're here with me. But that isn't 'playing'--not a bit."
"What is it then," the young man returned--"from the moment it isn't
her blessing and a cheque?"
Kate was complete. "It's simply her absence of smallness. There is
something in her above trifles. She generally trusts us; she doesn't
propose to hunt us into corners; and if we frankly ask for a
thing--why," said Kate, "she shrugs, but she lets it go. She has really
but one fault--she's indifferent, on such ground as she has taken about
us, to details. However," the girl cheerfully went on, "it isn't in
detail we fight her."
"It seems to me," Densher brought out after a moment's thought of this,
"that it's in detail we deceive her"--a speech that, as soon as he had
uttered it, applied itself for him, as also visibly for his companion,
to the afterglow of their recent embrace.
Any confusion attaching to this adventure, however, dropped from Kate,
whom, as he could see with sacred joy, it must take more than that to
make compunctious. "I don't say we can do it again. I mean," she
explained, "meet here."
Densher indeed had been wondering where they could do it again. If
Lancaster Gate was so limited that issue reappeared. "I mayn't come
back at all?"
"Certainly--to see her. It's she, really," his companion smiled, "who's
in love with you."
But it made him--a trifle more grave--look at her a moment. "Don't make
out, you know, that every one's in love with me."
She hesitated. "I don't say every one."
"You said just now Miss Theale."
"I said she liked you--yes."
"Well, it comes to the same thing." With which, however, he pursued:
"Of course I ought to thank Mrs. Lowder in person. I mean for
this--as from myself."
"Ah but, you know, not too much!" She had an ironic gaiety for the
implications of his "this," besides wishing to insist on a general
prudence. "She'll wonder what you're thanking her for!"
Densher did justice to both considerations. "Yes, I can't very well
tell her all."
It was perhaps because he said it so gravely that Kate was again in a
manner amused. Yet she gave out light. "You can't very well 'tell' her
anything, and that doesn't matter. Only be nice to her. Please her;
make her see how clever you are--only without letting her see that
you're trying. If you're charming to her you've nothing else to do."
But she oversimplified too. "I can be 'charming' to her, so far as I
see, only by letting her suppose I give you up--which I'll be hanged if
I do! It is," he said with feeling, "a game."
"Of course it's a game. But she'll never suppose you give me up--or I
give you--if you keep reminding her how you enjoy our interviews."
"Then if she has to see us as obstinate and constant," Densher asked,
"what good does it do?"
Kate was for a moment checked. "What good does what--?"
"Does my pleasing her--does anything. I can't," he impatiently
declared, "please her."
Kate looked at him hard again, disappointed at his want of consistency;
but it appeared to determine in her something better than a mere
complaint. "Then I can! Leave it to me." With which she came to him
under the compulsion, again, that had united them shortly before, and
took hold of him in her urgency to the same tender purpose. It was her
form of entreaty renewed and repeated, which made after all, as he met
it, their great fact clear. And it somehow clarified all things so to
possess each other. The effect of it was that, once more, on these
terms, he could only be generous. He had so on the spot then left
everything to her that she reverted in the course of a few moments to
one of her previous--and as positively seemed--her most precious ideas.
"You accused me just now of saying that Milly's in love with you. Well,
if you come to that, I do say it. So there you are. That's the good
she'll do us. It makes a basis for her seeing you--so that she'll help
us to go on."
Densher stared--she was wondrous all round. "And what sort of a basis
does it make for my seeing her?"
"Oh I don't mind!" Kate smiled.
"Don't mind my leading her on?"
She put it differently. "Don't mind her leading you."
"Well, she won't--so it's nothing not to mind. But how can that
'help,'" he pursued, "with what she knows?"
