had been made comfortable in his steamer-chair, 
and Boyne had been sent about his business. 
" I will try to think some up," she promised him, 
"as soon as I have any real opinion of you," and 
he asked her if he might consider that a beginning. 
She looked at him out of her indomitable blue 
eyes, and said, " If it hadn 't been for your card, 
and the Keverend on it, I should have said you 
were an actor." 
"Well, well," said Mr. Breckon, with a laugh, 
"perhaps I am, in a way. I oughtn 't to be, of 
course, but if a minister ever forces himself, I 
suppose he 's acting." 
" I don 't see," said Lottie, instantly availing her 
self of the opening, " how you can get up and pray, 
Sunday after Sunday, whether you feel like it or 
not." 
 
The young man said, with another laugh, hut not 
so gay, " Well, the case has its difficulties." 
" Or perhaps you just read prayers," Lottie sharp 
ly conjectured. 
"No," he returned, "I haven 't that advantage 
if you think it one. I 'm a sort of a Unitarian. Very 
advanced, too, I 'm afraid." 
" Is that a kind of Universalis* " 
"Not not exactly. There 's an old joke I 'm 
not sure it 's very good which distinguishes be- 
tween the sects. It 's said that the Universalists 
think God is too good to damn them, and the Uni 
tarians think they are too good to be damned." 
Lottie shrank a little from him. "Ah!" he cried, 
"you think it sounds wicked. Well, I 'm sorry. 
I 'm not clerical enough to joke about serious 
things." 
He looked into her face with a pretended anxiety. 
" Oh, I don 't know," she said, with a little scorn. 
" I guess if you can stand it, I can." 
" I 'm not sure that I can. I 'm afraid it 's more 
in keeping with an actor 's profession than my own. 
Why," he added, as if to make a diversion, " should 
you have thought I was an actor ?" 
"I suppose because you were clean-shaved; and 
your pronunciation. So Englishy." 
"Is it? Perhaps I ought to be proud. But I 'm 
not an Englishman. I am a plain republican Amer 
ican. May I ask if you are English ?" 
"Oh!" said Lottie. "As if you thought such 
a thing. We 're from Ohio." 
 
Mr. Breckon said, " Ah !" Lottie could not make 
out in just what sense. 
By this time they were leaning on the rail of 
the promenade, looking over at what little was left 
orf Long Island, and she said, abruptly : " I think 
I will go and see how my father is getting along." 
" Oh, do take me with you, Miss Ken ton !" Mr. 
Breckon entreated. " I am feeling very badly about 
that poor old joke. I know you don 't think well 
of me for it, and I wish to report what I ve been 
saying to your father, and let him judge me. I ve 
heard that it 's hard to live up to Ohio people when 
you 're at your best, and I do hope you 'll believe 
I have not been quite at my best. Will you let 
me come with you ?" 
Lottie did not know whether he was making fun 
of her or not, but she said, " Oh, it 's a free country," 
and allowed him to go with her. 
His preface made the judge look rather grave; 
but when he came to the joke, Kenton laughed and 
said it was not bad. 
" Oh, but that isn 't quite the point," said Mr. 
Breckon. " The question is whether I am good in 
repeating it to a young lady who was seeking seri 
ous instruction on a point of theology." 
" I don 't know what she would have done with 
the instruction if she had got it," said the judge, 
dryly, and the young man ventured in her behalf : 
"It would be difficult for any one to manage, 
perhaps." 
