"She is not frivolous, changeable, inconsistent, like me."
"Nor so lovable!" he whispered.
"What did you say then?" she asked.
"Nothing.  I will do what I can to aid you to avoid those you dislike."
And how, with madame here, to keep these three men from killing each
other?  He would that morning speak to Du Puys.  The soldier might find
a way.
"Victor, what has Monsieur le Chevalier done that he comes to this
land?"
"He and his father had a difference of opinion; that is all I can say."
"But here, in this wilderness!  Why not back to Paris, where Mazarin
restored him to favor?"
"Who can explain?"
The day wore on.  Madame was very successful in her manoeuvers to keep
out of the way of her persecutors, as she had now come to call them.
They saw her only at the evening meal, seated at a table some distance
from the regular mess; and the presence of the Father Superior kept
them from approaching.
It was a brave meal; the Frenchmen noisy and hungry, the priests
austere and quiet, the Indian converts solemnly impressed by their new
dignity.  When the meal was over and the women had repaired to their
cabin for the night.  Major du Puys signified that he desired to speak
in private to Messieurs d'Hérouville, d'Halluys, and du Cévennes; and
they wonderingly followed him into the inclosure.
"Messieurs," began the major, "there must he no private quarrels here.
Men found with drawn swords shall be shot the following morning without
the benefit of court-martial."
"Monsieur!" exclaimed D'Hérouville.
The Chevalier stamped restlessly, and the vicomte frowned.
"Have the patience to hear me through.  There is ill-blood between you
three.  The cause does not interest me, but here my word is law.  The
safety of the mission depends wholly upon our order and harmony.  The
savage is always quarreling, and he looks with awe upon the
tranquillity with which we go about our daily affairs.  To maintain
this awe there must be no private quarrels.  Digest this carefully.
Draw your weapons in a duel, just or unjust, and I promise to have you
shot."
"That appears to be final," remarked the vicomte.  He was chagrined,
but it was not noticeable in his tones.  "What industrious friend has
acquainted you with the state of affairs?"
"I was watching your actions last night," replied the major.
"And you saw the blow Monsieur du Cévennes struck me?" snarled
D'Hérouville.
"When you arrive again in Quebec, Messieurs, you may fight as
frequently as you please; but here I am master.  I am giving you this
warning in a friendly spirit, and I hope you will accept it as such.
Good evening."
"Bah!"  The vicomte slapped his sword angrily; "how many more acts are
there to this comedy?  Eh, well, Chevalier, let us go and play dominoes
with Monsieur Nicot."
"All this is strangely fortunate for you two gentlemen," said
D'Hérouville, as they moved toward the fort.
"Or for you, Monsieur d'Hérouville," the vicomte sent back.
Three days trickled through the waist of the glass of time.  The
afternoon of the fourth day was sunless, and the warning of an autumn
storm spoke from the flying grey clouds and the buoyant wind which blew
steadily from the west.  Madame and her companion sat upon the shore,
attracted by the combing swells as they sifted and shifted the yellow
sand, deadwood, and weed.  Pallid greens and browns flashed hither and
thither over the tops of the whispering rushes; and from their deeps
the blackbird trilled a querulous note.  A flock of crows sped noisily
along the shore, and a brace of loons winged toward the north in long
and graceful loops of speed, and the last yellow butterflies of the
year fluttered about the water's edge.  Far away to the southwest the
moving brown patch was a deer, brought there by his love of salt.  From
behind, from the forest, came the faint song of the ax.  A short
distance from the women Brother Jacques was mending a bark canoe; and
from time to time he looked up from his labor and smiled at them.
The women were no longer in rags.  Atotarho had presented to them
dresses which Huron captives had made for his favorite wife.  Not in
many days had they laughed genuinely and with mirth; but the picture
made for each other's eyes,--in fringed blouse, fringed skirt, fringed
pantaloons,--overcame their fugitive melancholy; and from that hour
they brightened perceptibly.  Trouble never prolongs its acquaintance
with youth, for the heart and shoulders of youth are strong.
Madame watched the quick movements of Brother Jacques's arms.
"How strong this life makes a man!"
"And I should have died but for those strong arms of Brother Jacques.
What would we have done without him?"  Anne shuddered as she recalled
the long nights in the forests and upon the dark waters.
