Little Bilham tossed up his chin. " Of course she's 
difficile -Qx any lines ! What else in the world arc our 
Mamies — the best, the real, the right ones?" 
" I see, I see," our friend repeated, charmed by the 
responsive wisdom he had ended by so richly extracting. 
" Mamie is one of the best, the real and the right." 
" The very thing itself." 
"And what it comes to then," Strether went on, "is that 
poor awful Chad is simply too good for her." 
" Ah, too good was what he was after all to be ; but it 
was she herself, and she herself only, who was to have made 
him so," 
It hung beautifully together, but with still a loose end. 
"Wouldn't he do for her even if he should, after all, 
break ? " 
"With his actual influence ? " Oh, little Bilham had for 
this inquiry the sharpest of all his controls. " How can 
he   do ' — on any terms whatever — when he's flagrantly 
spoiled ?" 
Strether could only meet the question with his passive, 
his receptive pleasure. "Well, thank goodness, you re not! 
You remain for her to save, and I come back, on so 
beautiful and full a demonstration, to my contention of 
just now — that of your showing distinct signs of her 
having already begun." 
The most he could further say to himself — as his young 
friend turned away — was that the charge encountered for 
the moment no renewed denial. Little Bilham, taking his 
course back to the music, only shook his good-natured ears 
an instant, in the manner of a terrier who has got wet ; 
while Strether relapsed into the sense — which had for him 
in these days most of comfort — that he himself was free 
to believe in anything that, from hour to hour, kept him 
going. He had positively motions and flutters of this 
conscious hour-to-hour kind, temporary surrenders to 
irony, to fancy, frequent instinctive snatches at the grow- 
ing rose of observation, constantly stronger for him, as he 
felt, in scent and colour, and in which he could bury his 
nose even to wantonness. This last resource was offered 
him, for that matter, in the very form of his next clear 
perception — the vision of a prompt little meeting, in the 
doorway of the room, between little Bilham and brilliant 
Miss Barrace, who was entering as Bilham withdrew. She   
had apparently put him a question, to which he had replied 
by turning to indicate his late interlocutor ; toward whom, li 
after an interrogation further aided by a resort to the 
optical machinery that seemed, like her other ornaments, ; 
curious and archaic, the genial lady, suggesting more than 
ever, for her fellow-guest, the old French print, the historic 
portrait, directed herself with an intention that Strether 
instantly met. He knew in advance the first note she ii 
would sound, and took in, as she approached, all her need « 
of sounding it. Nothing yet had been so " wonderful " fl 
between them as the present occasion ; and it was her I 
special sense of this quality in occasions that she was  
there, as she was in most places, to feed. That sense had  
already been so well fed by the situation about them that fi 
she had quitted the other room, forsaken the music,   
dropped out of the play, abandoned, in a word, the stage « 
itself, that she might stand a minute behind the scenes ti 
with Strether and so perhaps figure as one of the famous  
augurs replying, behind the oracle, to the wink of the 
other. Seated near him presently where little Bilham had =i 
sat, she replied in truth to many things; beginning as soon  
as he had said to her — what he hoped he said without li 
fatuity — "All you ladies are extraordinarily kind to me." 
She played her long handle, which shifted her observa- ji 
tion ; she saw in an instant all the absences, all the diverted : 
attentions, that left them free. " How can we be anything « 
else? But isn't that exactly your plight? ' We ladies' — « 
oh, we're nice, and you must be having enough of us ! As 1 
one of us, you know, I don't know that I'm crazy about 
us ! But Miss Gostrey, at least, to-night, has left you ; 
alone, hasn't she ? " With which she again looked about ) 
as if Maria might still lurk. 
" Oh, yes," said Strether ; " she's only sitting up for me 
at home." And then as this elicited from his companion " 
her gay " Oh, oh, oh ! " he explained that he meant sitting 1 
up in suspense and prayer. " We thought it on the whole 
better she shouldn't be present ; and either way, of course, 
