admitted— the one all children have to 
learn— that their own way may not be 
the best, even if they can be indulged 
in it. 
HERE’S something to buy sugarplums 
with,” Uncle Mark said, 
with a good-by to his little niece 
Jessie. 
She kissed him and gave him a good, 
hard hug, by way of showing her grati- 
tude. After he had gone, she opened her 
hand and smoothed out the rumpled note. 
It was a dollar. 
Jessie Marsh was used to having con- 
siderable spending - money. Uncles, 
aunts, and cousins kept her pretty well 
supplied. She was one of those bright, 
merry girls who are always smiling and 
happy, and a great favorite with every- 
body— ready to do a favor, hold a skein 
of yarn for grandmother, look np her 
papa's slippers, and run upstairs or 
downstairs for a misplaced or forgotten 
article. Perhaps this was why she re- 
ceived so many gifts of one kind and 
another; for even visitors at the house 
always went away with a pleasant re- 
membrance of cheerful, obliging Jessie. 
Mr. Marsh was in very comfortable 
circumstances, and extremely indulgent 
to his little daughter. She was the only 
girl, and there were four boys in the 
family. If Jessie expressed a wish for a 
book or a toy, he always brought it home 
to her. I am sorry to say that Jessie was 
rather careless and extravagant. To be 
sure she made glad many a child’s heart 
by gifts of her playthings when she was 
done with them, but she tired of them 
very soon and wanted new. Pennies, 
quarters, and even half-dollars, often 
went for some trifle that presently lost 
interest for her. Mrs. Marsh tried to 
check this fault in her daughter, but her 
father generally came to the rescue. 
"Let her take her own pleasure with 
the money, ’ ’ he would say. " I dislike to 
see children mean and parsimonious." 
But Mrs. Marsh took every occasion 
to direct Jessie, although her advice was 
not always followed. 
Jessie was still holding her dollar in 
her hand, as her mother re-entered the 
room. 
"See what Uncle Mark gave me— to 
buy sugar-plums with, he said, ’ ’ and 
a radiant smile illumined Jessie 's 
face. 
‘ ' And only yesterday yon were wishing 
for a dollar,’’ her mother replied. 
The smile faded a little at that. Jessie 
had been listening to a poor woman’s 
story the day before. Mrs. Marsh had 
given her some sewing, as she was very 
anxious to earn enough money to pay her 
rent. Counting up what she was likely 
to get from one and another, left her 
still a dollar or two short. Ordinarily, 
Mrs. Marsh would have overpaid her, hut 
now she had a mind to put Jessie’s gener- 
osity to the test. The little girl had been 
quite thoughtful for some time after Mrs. 
Adams ’s departure, and at last had said : 
"Oh, mammal I wish I had a dollar; 
I should give it to Mrs. Adams. How 
hard it must be to earn money enough 
to take care of herself and those three 
little children!” 
“Yes,’' her mother answered, gravely. 
‘'We ought to be thankful that God has 
