brutal rich to squander in whatever inanity may 
please them! But it never dawns upon you that 
this money is the toil of the human race! Money 
is the representation of all that human toil cre- 
ates — of all value; it is houses that laborers build, 
it is grain that farmers raise, it is books that 
poets \Tite! And see what becomes of it — see! 
sec' Or are you blind or mad, that you zvill not 
see? Have you no more faith in man, no more 
care about the soul? 
You think that I have been made sick by my 
work in that one haunt of vice. But it is not 
only that, it is not only that fever district where 
all the diseases of a city gather. I have been 
all ozer the city, and it is everywhere the same. 
Go to the opera-house any night and you may 
see blasphemous vanity enough to feed the starr- 
ing of this city for a year. Walk up Fifth Ave- 
nue and see them driving; or go to Xeport and 
see them there, why, I read in the papers once 
of a woman who gave a ball — and the little fact 
has stuck in my mind ever since that she wore 
a dress trimmed with lace that cost a thousand 
dollars a meter! I do not speak of the infinite 
%ailgarity of the thing — it is the monstrous crime 
of it that cries to me. These people — why, they 
have society by the throat! 
I bury my face in my pillow and sob : but then 
I look up and pray for faith. I say we are 
only at the beginning of civilization, we can 
see but the first gleams of a social conscience; 
but it will come — it must come! Am I to be- 
lieve that mankind will always submit to toil 
and pant to make lace at a thousand dollars a 
meter to cover the pride-swollen carcase of a 
society dame? 
How is it to be managed? I do not know. 
I am not a political economist — I am a seeker 
after righteousness. But as a poet, and as a clear- 
eyed soul, I stand upon the heights and I cry out 
for it, I demand it. I demand that society shall 
come to its own, I demand that there shall be in- 
telligence in the world! I demand that the toil 
of the millions shall not be for the pride of the 
few! I demand that it shall not be to buy dia- 
monds and dresses and banquets, horses and car- 
riages, palaces and yachts! I demand that it 
shall be for the making of knowledge and power, 
of beauty and light and love! 
Oh, thou black jungle of a world! — What 
know you of knowledge and power, of beauty 
and light and love? What do you dream of these 
things? The end of man as you know it is to fight 
and struggle like a maniac, and grab for his own 
all that he can lay his claws upon. And what is 
your social ideal — but to lavish, each man upon 
himself, all that he can lavish before he dies? And 
whom do you honor save him who succeeds in 
that? And whom do you scorn save him who 
fails? 
Oh thou black jungle of a world! — I cry it 
once again — 
Where savage beasts through forest midnight roam, 
Seeking in sorrow for each other's joy ! 
I sit alone and think of these things, until my 
breath comes hard with rage. I say: " It is these 
that I serve — it is these who own the fruits of my 
toil — it is these for whom I am starved and 
crushed — it is these by whom my God-given 
power is trampled into annihilation! " 
March 4th. 
I gave the place up this morning. I have 
thirty-one dollars. I think such a sum of money 
never made me less happy. 
I have nothing to do but drag myself back to 
my room and wait there until the eighth, to take 
back my manuscript. It will be five weeks that 
he has kept me — I suppose that is not his fault. 
And then I say: " Fool, to torment yourself 
with such hopes! Don't you know that he will 
