as they gazed at their champion's determined face.
Mark was a little slower in stepping up; when he did so the watching
crowd sized him up carefully, and then there was doubt.
"Oh, gee, but this is going to be a fight!" was the verdict of every one
of them.
"Marquis of Queensberry rules," said Fischer, in a low tone. "Both know
them?"
Mark nodded.
"Shake hands!"
Mark put out his, by way of answer, and Williams gripped it right
heartily.
"Ready?"
And then the simple word "Go."
Let us gaze about a moment at the scene. The ring is surrounded by
earthworks, now grass-grown and trodden down, unkept since the
Revolutionary days, when West Point was a Gibraltar. Old cannon,
caissons and wagon wheels are scattered about inside, together with
ramparts and wire chevaux-de-friezes which the cadets are practiced in
constructing. In the southwest corner is a small, clear, smooth-trodden
space, where the two brawny, white-skinned warriors stand. The cadets
are forming a ring about them, for every one is too excited to sit down
and keep quiet. The "outlooks," posted for safety, are neglecting their
duty recklessly for the same reason, and looking in altogether. Every
eye is on the two.
Over in Mark's corner sits Texas, gripping his hands in excitement,
wriggling nervously and muttering to himself. Stanard is beside him with
"Dana's Geology" as a cushion. The Parson is a picture of calm and
scholarly dignity, in direct contrast with our friend Texas, who is on
the verge of one of his wild "fits." "Indian" is the fourth and only
other plebe present, and Indian is horrified, as usual, and mutters
"Bless my soul" at intervals.
On the opposite side of the circle of cadets are Jasper and another
second, both breathlessly watching every move. Nearby stands Cadet
Captain Fischer, calm and cool, critically watching the play.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE AFFAIR AT THE FORT.
The two began cautiously, like a pair of skillful generals sending out a
skirmish line to test the enemy's strength and resource. This was no
such battle as Texas', a wild rush, a few mighty blows, and then
victory. Williams was wary as a cat, sparring lightly, and taking no
risks, and the other saw the plan and its wisdom.
"Playing easy," muttered the referee, noting the half minute on his
watch. "Know their business, it seems."
"Wow!" growled Texas. "What's the good o' this yere baby business? Say,
Parson, ain't they never goin' to hit? Whoop!"
This last exclamation was caused by the real beginning of the battle.
Williams saw an unguarded face, and quick as thought his heavy arm shot
out; the crowd gasped, and Mark saw it. A sudden motion of his head to
one side was enough to send the blow past him harmlessly, and a moment
later the yearling's forward plunge was checked by an echoing crack upon
his ribs. Then for the rest of the round the excited cadets were
treated to an exhibition of sparring such as they had never seen in
their lives. Feinting, dodging and parrying, the springing pair seemed
everywhere at once, and their fists in a thousand places. The crowd was
thrilled; even the imperturbable Fischer was moved to exclamation, and
Texas in half a minute had seen more skill than his whole experience had
shown him in his life.
"Look a thar! Look a thar! He's got him--no--gad! Whoop!"
Texas did as much dancing as the fighters themselves, and more talking
than the whole crowd. Captain Fischer had to stop watching him long
enough to tell him that the camp, with its sleeping "tacs," was only a
few yards away. And then, as Powers subsided, the cadet glanced at his
watch, called "Time!" and the two fighters went to their corners,
panting.
"What did ye stop for?" inquired Texas, while the Parson set diligently
to work at bathing several red spots on his friend's body. "What kind o'
fightin' is this yere? Ain't give up, have you? Say, Mark, now go in
nex' time an' do him. What's the use o' layin' off?"
"A very superior exhibition of--lend me that court-plaster,
please--pugilistic ability," commented the Parson, bustling about like
an old hen.
And then a moment later the referee gave the word and they were at it
again.
This round there was no delay; both went at it savagely, though warily
and skillfully as ever. Blow after blow was planted that seemed fairly
to shake the air, driven by all the power that human muscle could give.
"Won't last long at this rate," said the referee, sagely shaking his
head. "Give 'em another round--gee!"
Fischer's "gee" was echoed by the yearlings with what would have, but
for the nearness of the camp, been a yell of triumph and joy. Williams
