from the overpowering freshness of the Volterra house, 
where everything was modern, and polished, and var- 
nished, and in perfect condition, suggesting that things 
had been just paid for. She had not liked the old life, 
but she liked her present surroundings even less, and 
at times she felt a furious longing to leave them sud- 
denly, without warning ; to go out when no one would 
notice her, and never to come back ; to go she knew 
not where, out into the world, risking she knew not 
what, a high-born, penniless, fair-haired girl not yet 
eighteen. 
What would happen, if she did ? She rarely laughed. 
but she would laugh at that, when she thought of the 
consternation her flight would produce. How puzzled 
the fat Baron would look, how the Baroness's thin mouth 
would be drawn down at the corners ! How the invis- 
ible silk bellows would puff as she ran up and down 
stairs, searching the house for Sabina! 
There was more than one strain of wild blood in the 
delicate girl's veins, and the spring had come suddenly, 
with a bursting out of blossom and life and colour, and 
a twittering of nesting birds in the old gardens, and a 
rush of strange longings in her heart. 
Then Sabina told herself that there was nothing to 
keep her where she was, but her own will, and that no 
one would really care what became of her in the wide 
world ; certainly not her mother, who had never written 
her so much as a line, nor sent her a message, since they 
had parted on the day of the catastrophe ; certainly not 
her brother ; probably not even her sister, whose whole 
being was absorbed in the tyrannical government of 
what she called her soul. Sabina, in her thoughts, 
irreverently compared Clementina's soul to a race-horse, 
and her sister to a jockey, riding it cruelly with whip 
and spur to the goal of salvation, whether it liked it 
or not. 
Sabina rose from her seat by the window, when she 
thought of liberty, and she walked up and down her 
room, driven by something she could not understand, 
and yet withheld by something she understood even 
less. For it was not fear, nor reflection, nor even com- 
mon sense nor the thought of giving pain to any one 
 
that hindered her from leaving the house at such mo- 
ments. It was not even the memory of the one human 
being who had hitherto loved her, and for whom she 
had felt affection and gratitude,— one of the nuns at the 
convent school, a brave, quiet little lady who made her 
believe in good. She meant to do no harm if she were 
free, and the nun would not really blame her, if she 
knew the truth. 
It was not that. It was the secret conviction that 
there was harm in the world from which mere courage 
could not protect her ; it was the sort of instinct that 
warns young animals not to eat plants that are poison- 
ous ; it was the maiden intuition of a strange and 
unknown danger. 
She sat down again disconsolately. It was absurd, 
of course, and she could not run away. Where could 
she go? She had no money, and she would have to 
starve or beg before one day was out. She would be 
homeless, she would be driven to some house of charity, 
for a meal and a place to sleep, or else to sleep out under 
the sky. That would be delightful for once. She had 
always longed to sleep out of doors, to feel the breeze 
playing with her feathery hair in the dark, to watch the 
constellations turning slowly westwards, to listen to the. 
night sounds, to the low rhythmical piping of the tree 
toad, the sorrowful cry of the little southern owl and 
the tolling of the hour in a far-off belfry. 
But it might rain. At the idea, Sabina laughed 
again. It would be very unpleasant to be caught in a 
shower while napping on a bench in a public garden. 
Besides, if the policemen found her there, an extremely 
young lady, extremely well dressed but apparently be- 
longing td no one, they would in all likelihood ask her 
name, and she would haye to tell them who she was ; 
and then she would be brought back to Baron Volterra's 
house, unless they thought it more prudent to take her 
to a lunatic asylum. 
