had been taken to her granddaughter's marriage, lifted 
in and out of a coach, and so bundled up that no one 
saw much of her except two staring black eyes. It was 
supposed Mrs. Morrison would rejoin her daughter, 
but whether granny had more money than any one 
thought, or that the wealthy son-in-law had made pro 
vision for her, no one was quite certain. She repaired 
and renovated her house, built on another room, dis 
tributed the furniture around more comfortably, took 
in an old negro woman, and though she did not enlarge 
the borders of her friendship, she came to look less 
careworn, went to church occasionally, and perhaps 
found a little happiness. At least, she was exempt 
from care. 
We heard that Polly was living in great style and 
had everything heart could wish. 
Dan came back three or four weeks afterward and 
went about his business as if nothing had happened, 
held up his head and was in no wise broken hearted. 
Indeed, I thought him improved. He took a real 
interest in Homer's house, advanced him some money, 
so that he could meet bills promptly, and was pleasant 
and brotherly to Sophie, who had always felt a little 
afraid of him. 
It was a very delightful spring and early summer to 
me. Father was prosperous and jolly, and we were so 
interested in completing the trousseau and house equip 
ment. When one goes out and orders a long list, has 
them sent home and put in their places, one misses the 
delight and interest of real home-making. 
Then the wedding day was set. It would be in the 
church, of course, and that did fret Mrs. Hayne. There 
was no great fuss about mixed marriages then, though 
good Pere Fischer hoped in his pleasant manner that 
sometime Homer would be numbered among those of 
the true faith. 
 
Nanette and I were bridesmaids. I had a sheer 
white muslin frock and a wide white satin sash that 
came down to the very bottom of the skirt. There 
were no picture hats, but we each wore a wreath, and 
Sophie her mother's wedding veil, that then was folded 
up and laid away in a box for Nanette, who was free 
to have lovers now. 
The wedding was at noon, and Mrs. Hayne gave a 
generous dinner, tables being set in both rooms. 
Sophie made a sweet and blushing bride, Homer was 
fine and manly. Dan made the speech of the occasion, 
and everybody drank to the health of the bride 
and groom and wished them children and grand 
children. 
About mid-afternoon the procession started for 
home. Dan took Nanette, Ben and me in his two-seat 
wagon. There was to be an evening company, an 
"infair," as it was called, in the new house. The bed 
stead and bedding had been stored in the shed, the two 
rooms were decorated with vines and flowers and 
hanging candlesticks and lamps, so that in the evening 
the lights would be in no one's way. 
Randolph Street was a lane then with but few 
houses, and out beyond stretched the prairie that was 
to be a compact city long before the century ended. 
"Oh, I do hope you won't be lonesome way out 
here," I said to Sophie. 
"Why, I shall have Homer, you know," opening her 
eyes wide as if she thought my wish inconsequent. 
"But not in the daytime." 
"Then I shall be busy about my work." 
"Why I thought we had done sewing enough to 
last seven years," I said gayly. 
"Well there will be cooking for a hungry man, and 
I don't mean that Homer shall wish for his mother 
when meal time comes. And Mr. Hayne thinks it will 
be a good thing for Homer to bring his shop over here. 
Chicago is building up so fast, and it will have to stretch 
out every way. Then a good deal of the time he will 
be home to dinner. You and Nan and the girls will 
visit me oh no, I shall not be lonesome." 
She was so happy. And though it had not the bright 
est beginning, Mother Hayne came to take great com 
