" They like each other," said Dan. " Trixy 's 
saying good-by. We 're going right away." 
" Are ye out o' quirintine ? " asked Mat- 
thew. 
" There wan't no quirintine," replied Dan. 
" Them city doctors don't know much. 
Cady's Molly, — she 's all right. 'T wan't no 
kind of dipfever, nohow. Come along, 
Trixy." 
Trixy confidingly walked the length of the 
chestnut mare's spinal column, and flew like 
an acrobat to Dan's crooked shoulder. 
 
" I suppose," Dan added, casting a regret- 
ful look around the warm, exquisitely clean 
stable, " we must go up and see Her. She 's 
sent fur us." 
" You 're in luck, gossoon," said Matthew 
gravely ; " there 's them I know would give 
their Derby hats to say as much, or do it, 
either." 
" They ain't crooked, be they ? " asked Dan 
thoughtfully. 
" No," said Matthew promptly. " They 're 
straight — and pretty tall, as a general thing. 
There 's quite a number of 'em." 
"I reckon that 's so," retorted Dan proudly. 
The boy and the poodle made their way 
quietly up the padded stairs to the library 
(Trixy was as silent as Dan) where Miriam and 
her aunt, having never been able to agree 
upon the same morning paper, sat reading two 
rival sheets. 
Dan stood, cap in hand. His eyes sought 
Miss Lauriat's with more of the absolute canine 
than looked from Trixy's when she glanced at 
him. For Trixy was something of an elf, and 
loved moodily, and at times, the lad thought, 
mockingly. She had feminine caprices, and 
 
little pets and pouts. Dan was not always sure 
of her ; hence he adored her. 
For instance, at this moment Trixy hesitated 
a little whether to salute her hostess, then 
unexpectedly walked over to Mrs. Percy B. 
Jeffries, and solemnly sat up before her. 
" Shake hands like a lady," said Dan, in an 
undertone. 
" You mean paws," corrected Aunt Cornelia. 
"No, I don't, marm," persisted Dan. 
" Trixy don't know she 's got paws." 
" Now that," complained Mrs. Jeffries, " is 
just an illustration of what I was saying, 
Miriam, when the boy came in. You can't 
make the higher races out of the lower races. 
I maintain that the Creator knew what He 
was about. When He made paws, He didn't 
mean hands." 
" Oh, Auntie, don't be so literal ! " said 
Miriam, laughing. " Shake hands with Trixy, 
and defer the argument." 
" But I can't see," urged Mrs. Jeffries, " how 
such a high class of physicians — men of posi- 
tion, I 'm sure, Miriam — Galen men, too — 
how they could make a mistake. I always 
thought " — 
 
" Don't think, Auntie dear. I never do. 
Cady's Molly had a simple case of pharyn- 
gitis." 
" That sounds bad enough ! " Mrs. Jeffries 
dropped the dog's paw quickly. " I am sure 
I should have quarantined it. How do you 
know we haven't got it — all of us?" 
Miriam's eyes laughed. 
" Oh, Auntie dear ! Don't you see ? A sore 
throat unadorned is adorned the most." 
The crippled boy stood looking from one 
lady to the other ; his silent face made the 
comments that ignorance and obscurity pass 
