word that I feared the tigers might injure her. The miserable small
boy who took my message informed her that I was afraid she might
injure the tigers, and the unpleasant incident almost cost me my
position.
"I am quite convinced," said I to Professor Lesard, "that Miss Smawl
is perfectly capable of abusing the information she overheard, and of
starting herself to explore a region that, by all the laws of decency,
justice, and prior claim, belongs to me."
"Well," said Lesard, with a peculiar laugh, "it's not certain whether
you can go at all."
"Professor Farrago will authorize me," I said, confidently.
"Professor Farrago has resigned," said Lesard. It was a bolt from a
clear sky.
"Good Heavens!" I blurted out. "What will become of the rest of us,
then?"
"I don't know," he replied. "The trustees are holding a meeting over
in the Administration Building to elect a new president for us. It
depends on the new president what becomes of us."
"Lesard," I said, hoarsely, "you don't suppose that they could
possibly elect Miss Smawl as our president, do you?"
He looked at me askance and bit his cigar.
"I'd be in a nice position, wouldn't I?" said I, anxiously.
"The lady would probably make you walk the plank for that tiger
business," he replied.
"But I didn't do it," I protested, with sickly eagerness. "Besides, I
explained to her--"
He said nothing, and I stared at him, appalled by the possibility of
reporting to Professor Smawl for instructions next morning.
"See here, Lesard," I said, nervously, "I wish you would step over to
the Administration Building and ask the trustees if I may prepare for
this expedition. Will you?"
He glanced at me sympathetically. It was quite natural for me to wish
to secure my position before the new president was elected--especially
as there was a chance of the new president being Miss Smawl.
"You are quite right," he said; "the Graham Glacier would be the
safest place for you if our next president is to be the Lady of the
Tigers." And he started across the park puffing his cigar.
I sat down on the doorstep to wait for his return, not at all charmed
with the prospect. It made me furious, too, to see my ambition nipped
with the frost of a possible veto from Miss Smawl.
"If she is elected," thought I, "there is nothing for me but to
resign--to avoid the inconvenience of being shown the door. Oh, I wish
I had allowed her to hypnotize the tigers!"
Thoughts of crime flitted through my mind. Miss Smawl would not remain
president--or anything else very long--if she persisted in her desire
for the tigers. And then when she called for help I would pretend not
to hear.
Aroused from criminal meditation by the return of Professor Lesard, I
jumped up and peered into his perplexed eyes. "They've elected a
president," he said, "but they won't tell us who the president is
until to-morrow."
"You don't think--" I stammered.
"I don't know. But I know this: the new president sanctions the
expedition to the Graham Glacier, and directs you to choose an
assistant and begin preparations for four people."
Overjoyed, I seized his hand and said, "Hurray!" in a voice weak with
emotion. "The old dragon isn't elected this time," I added,
triumphantly.
"By-the-way," he said, "who was the other dragon with her in the park
this evening?"
I described her in a more modulated voice.
"Whew!" observed Professor Lesard, "that must be her assistant,
Professor Dorothy Van Twiller! She's the prettiest blue-stocking in
town."
With this curious remark my confrère followed me into my room and
wrote down the list of articles I dictated to him. The list included a
complete camping equipment for myself and three other men.
"Am I one of those other men?" inquired Lesard, with an unhappy smile.
Before I could reply my door was shoved open and a figure appeared at
the threshold, cap in hand.
"What do you want?" I asked, sternly; but my heart was beating high
with triumph.
The figure shuffled; then came a subdued voice:
"Mister, I guess I'll go back to the Graham Glacier along with you.
I'm Billy Spike, an' it kinder scares me to go back to them Hudson
Mountains, but somehow, mister, when you choked me and kinder walked
me off on my ear, why, mister, I kinder took to you like."
There was absolute silence for a minute; then he said:
"So if you go, I guess I'll go, too, mister."
"For a thousand dollars?"
