knew that Annandale was guilty. Now nobody was quite so sure.

The Recorder caressed his beard. "I think," he announced, "that I will
give the jury a recess."




CHAPTER IX

THE TWELFTH JUROR


Tumultuously the session was resumed. At the door was a riot. There a
squad of police fought back surging nondescripts clamoring for
admission, fighting for entrance to the continuous show. A woman
fainted. Another had her gown torn off. One man retired with a
blackened eye.

During the recess Orr got for a moment with Sylvia and Mrs. Waldron.
"Aren't you hungry?" he asked.

Sylvia took his hand and pressed it. In her eyes was victory, in her
face delight. "I never knew before how Protean you are. You have won."

Orr tossed his head. "Not by a long shot. Besides, there is the jury.
Eleven look imbecile and the twelfth looks ill. There is no telling at
all what they will do or will not. But aren't you to eat anything?" He
turned to Mrs. Waldron. "Aren't you hungry?"

"Very," said the lady, "but I can't do a thing with Sylvia. I----"

She would have said more, but the jury had filed in. The judge was
entering, preceded by the cry "Hats off!"

Orr slipped back to his corner, to which Annandale, with his matinee
air and the keeper for usher, had already returned. For a moment Orr
bent to him, then to his associates but briefly. Bending again to
Annandale he told him to take the stand.

The move, wholly unexpected, unusual, almost exceptional in murder
cases, created an impression that was excellent, a sense of admiration
for the fearlessness of the defense. From the prosecution came low
growls of content. They were to be fed at last. In anticipation they
licked their chops.

But the excellence of the impression dwindled. In the direct,
Annandale denied, of course, that he had committed the murder, denied
that he had ever contemplated it, swearing that to the best of his
recollection he had made no threat at all.

"To the best of your recollection," Orr repeated after him. "Now
please tell me, had anything occurred that night to impair your memory
in any way?"

"Well--er--yes. Yes. I had been drinking."

"Had you any animosity toward the deceased?"

"Toward Loftus? None whatever. On the contrary, he was my best
friend."

Peacock jumped. "I ask that that be stricken out."

Quietly Orr continued: "Had you known Loftus long?"

"All my life."

"Was he a friend of yours?"

"An intimate friend."

Orr turned to Peacock. "Your witness."

Peacock jumped again. "You say that on the night of the murder you had
been drinking. Were you drunk?"

Paternally the Recorder looked over and down. "The witness need not
answer that unless----"

