seemed like an armed truce. And Laverne realized more thoroughly every
day that there had never been any true and tender love for her in Mrs.
Westbury's heart. She was older now, and could see more clearly, had
more discrimination, yet she did wonder why her father's wife had been
so exigent. She could not understand the vanity, the selfish desire
for the admiration of this young soul. And she also saw that Mrs.
Westbury sought her own advantage in this marriage. To be allied to
the higher orders, to be the mother-in-law to Lord Wrexford, to have
the entrée into the charmed circles. How had she grown so wise!
She thought of her father with infinite pity, that he should have been
wrenched out of the life he enjoyed so much. She felt that he had
never truly loved her, and that she had not succeeded in loving him.
Always her heart was turning back to Uncle Jason. Yes, that was the
sweet, tender, and true life, finer and nobler than this striving and
subterfuge, this greediness for wealth and high places.
Lord Wrexford came one afternoon, quite a custom with him now. Mrs.
Westbury had been sent for to some important meeting. He walked in
with the easy familiarity that characterized him, and passed a few
pleasant conventionalities. How many times she had thought if she
could see him alone, and now that the opportunity had come she
trembled with a certain kind of fear and shame. What could she say to
a man who had not yet asked her to marry him?
He began to perceive that she was unduly excited. The color wavering
over her face and the quivering lips touched him. He was not a
heartless man, and every day he was feeling this was more of a dilemma
for him.
"My child," he began, rather blunderingly, realizing all the years
between them, and then he saw that her eyes were overflowing.
"Lord Wrexford," she tried to steady her voice, but it trembled
noticeably, "I believe I have been offered to you as--as--an
equivalent----"
"No, don't put it that way," he interrupted quickly. "Your father was
very honorable."
"I do not know much about marriage, but it seems as if----"
"As if youth and love should go hand in hand? Middle age and money may
make a dicker. But if there were love, or if the title won you in any
degree," and he knew there were some who would have been won even by
poverty and a title with the background of the Grange.
"I do not love you," she said simply. "It seems ungrateful when you
have been both kind and patient. Indeed, I have been trying----" There
was such a wistful cadence to her tremulous voice that it touched him,
man of the world as he was. The slow tears dropped from her lashes,
but she could not raise her eyes, though there was entreaty in every
line of her slight figure, even in the limp hands that hung by her
side.
"And a love that is forced is no love at all. But you must realize the
sacrifice you will make, and consider. It will be more than giving up
a title. Everything is in your mother's hands----"
"Oh, I have told her that I do not care for the money. I remembered so
little of papa that he seemed an utter stranger to me, and--some one
had loved and adopted me before. She knows I wish to go back home----"
Her voice faltered and broke.
"You are a brave little girl," he exclaimed admiringly. "An honest and
true one, and you deserve to be happy, to love some one who has love
and youth to give in return." Did she know such a one? "I think you
are not taking root here."
"You know mamma is not any real relation," she began as if in apology.
"She has been very kind and indulgent to me. I would like to please
her. But, oh, I would so much rather have been left in San Francisco.
My dear uncle would not have gone away. We should have been poor, for
he had just lost everything in a dreadful fire, but I wouldn't have
minded----"
"My dear child, you shall not be sacrificed." He wanted to take the
drooping figure in his arms, and kiss away the tears that rolled
silently over the softly rounded cheeks. She looked so fragile in her
black frock. If she could be his little sister! But he had nothing to
dower her with, he would even lose the Grange himself. But he said,
"Do not give yourself any further uneasiness, I will see Mrs.
Westbury."
"Oh, thank you a thousand times!" She did not know how adorably her
face lighted up. Yes, if she had loved him it might have done. And if
the race of Wrexford died out with him what matter?
Laverne felt so much more friendly toward him that she could not help
showing it. Mrs. Westbury hailed this with delight.
"Have you asked, and has she accepted?" she inquired one afternoon
when they were alone.
It was a warm day, and she defied custom sufficiently to lay aside
heavy crapes indoors. Her gown was of some thin black stuff, trailing
and cloud-like. Her arms, that were well shaped, showed through in
their whiteness, and she often used them in a caressing sort of
