Before they reached the door Eezanov and Concha 
were alone. 
His hands fell heavily on her shoulders. 
'' Concha,'' he said. "" I shall come back if I 
live. I make no foolish vows, so idle between us. 
There is only one power that can prevent our 
marriage in this church not later than two years 
from to-day. And although I am in the very ful- 
ness of my health and strength, with my work 
but begun, and all my happiness in the future, and 
even to a less sanguine man it would seem that his 
course had many years to run, still have I seen as 
much as any man of the inconsequence of life, of 
the insignificance of the individual, his hopes, ambitions, happiness, and even usefulness, in the 
complicated machinery of natural laws. It may 
be that I shall not come back. But I wish to take 
with me your promise that if I have not returned 
at the end of two years or you have received no 
reason for my detention, you will believe that 
I am dead. There would be but one insupportable 
drop in the bitterness of death, the doubt of your 
faith in my word and my love. Are you too much 
of a woman to curb your imagination in a long 
unbroken silence? " 
" I have learned so much that one lesson more 
is no tax on my faith. And I no longer live in a 
world of little things. I promise you that I shall 
never falter nor doubt.'' 
He bent his head and kissed her for the first 
time without passion, but solemnly, as had their 
nuptials indeed been accomplished, and the greater 
mystery of spiritual union isolated them for a 
moment in that twilight region where the mortal 
part did not enter. 
As they left the church they saw that all the 
Indians of the Mission and neighborhood, in a 
gala of color, had gathered to cheer the Russians 
as they rode away. Concha was to return as 
she had come, beside the carreta of her mother, 
and as Eezanov mounted his horse she stood 
staring with unseeing eyes on the brilliant 
animated scene. Suddenly she heard a suppressed sob, and felt a touch on her skirt. 
She looked round and saw Eosa, kneeling close to 
the church. For a moment she continued to stare, 
hardly comprehending, in the intense concentration of her faculties, that tangible beings, other 
than herself and Eezanov, still moved on the earth. 
Then her mind relaxed. She was normal in a 
normal world once more. She stooped and patted 
the hands clasping her skirts. 
" Poor Eosa! '' she said. " Poor Eosa! '' 
Over the intense green of islands and hills were 
long banners of yellow and purple mist, where the 
wild flowers were lifting their heads. The whole 
quivering bay was as green as the land, but far 
away the mountains of the east were pink. Where 
there was a patch of verdure on the sand hills the 
warm golden red of the poppy flaunted in the sunshine. All nature was in gala attire like the Californians themselves, as the Juno under full sail 
sped through " The Mouth of the Gulf of the Farallones." Fort San Joaquin saluted with seven 
 
guns ; the Juno returned the compliment with nine. 
The Comandante, his family and guests, stood 
on the hill above the fort, cheering, waving sombreros and handkerchiefs. Wind and tide carried 
the ship rapidly out the straits. Eezanov dropped 
the cocked hat he had been waving and raised his 
field-glass. Concha, as ever, stood a little apart. 
As the ship grew smaller and the company turned 
toward the Presidio, she advanced to the edge of 
the bluff. The wind lifted her loosened mantilla, 
billowing it out on one side, and as she stood with 
her hands pressed against her heart, she might, 
save for her empty arms, have been the eidolon of 
the Madonna di San Sisto. In her eyes was the 
same expression of vague arrested horror as she 
looked out on that world of menacing imperfections the blind forces of nature and man had 
created ; her body was instinct with the same nervous leashed impotent energy. 
XXV 
The white rain clouds, rolling as ever like a nervous intruder over the great snow peaks behind 
the steep hills black with forest that rose like a 
wall behind the little settlement of Sitka, parted 
for a moment and the sun, a coy disdainful guest, 
