from a peeler. I don’t want to go to the Island. 
I want to get up to the heaven where Betty ’s 
gone, and where the good Lord takes care of 
little boys like me. I have n’t had a mouthful 
all day ’cept the good smell over there, and the 
man kicked me away. Does it take long to 
freeze?’ 
“‘Why, Jemmy Arno, is it you?’ and I 
dragged him out to the light. Sure enough! 
 
And his teeth were chattering as if they ’d 
been strung on wires. 
“The little kid did n’t know me. He blinked 
out of his great black eyes, and then began to 
whimper. I knew where he had lived, and 
this Betty Arno used to keep a peanut stand. 
“ Is Betty dead?’ says I. 
“‘Yes; and the woman turned me out o’ 
doors, and would n’t let me take the box Betty 
gave me. O, dear! I ’m so cold — so cold.’ 
“I thought of what the man said at the mis- 
sion-school. Maybe this was my Christmas! 
If doing for such a little chap was just the same 
as doing for the great Lord, and if He ’d say 
at the last, ‘Ben Hewes, I saw you that Christ- 
mas Eve, when you was too poor to send gifts 
to anybody, taking that half-starved little 
shaver in out of the cold, and I put it down in 
my ’count, and it ’s just as good as a rich man’s 
deed.’ So says I, ‘Come along. Jemmy. I ’ll 
give you a nice warm corner to sleep in, and a 
mouthful of supper. It ’s Christmas Eve, you 
know. Trot up brisk now.’ 
‘‘The poor little chap was crying and talking 
all in one breath, and wanting to sit down on 
every stoop, but I kept him up. ‘Here we are,* 
says I, opening the door. 
“ ‘O Ben, what has kept you so late?* cries 
Kitty; and then in the next breath, ‘What a 
splendid lot of greens.’ 
“ ‘And something else,* says I. ‘Santa 
Claus.’ 
“ ‘Why, Ben !* says Mammy. ‘Where did 
you pick up this poor thing?* 
“ ‘O don’t send me to the station-house nor 
the Island,* cries he, looking frightened out of 
his great eyes. ‘I never stole anything, nor 
sweared, and I *m so cold. O, is it nice and 
warm in heaven? Betty said it was.* 
“ ‘Come to the fire, poor creetur,* says 
Mammy. 
“I told her ’bout Betty Arno and her peanut- 
stand, and how that I had n’t seen her for as 
much as a month, and Jemmy said she was 
dead. And then how I had found him this bit- 
ter cold night, and I wanted to keep him, just 
as if it had been the great Lord. 
“ *And we ’ll have some Christmas after all,’ 
says Kitty, ‘only not like rich folks.’ 
“Mammy was afraid he was froze, so I 
brought in some snow and rubbed his ears, 
and nose, and his hands. Then Mammy 
washed him and set him by the stove to warm 
and dry, and give him a little broth first. My 
eyes! was n’t the kid hungry! If he ’d staid 
out in the cold all night I guess he ’d found a 
short road to heaven sure. 
“ ‘Maybe ’t would a’ been better,’ said 
Mammy. ‘Poor little lambs! I like to think 
God is glad to have them. But we ’ll do the 
best we can, now. Y ou must run out and buy 
us a little dinner for to-morrow, Ben. A bit 
of beef to stew, I guess, and a few potatoes.’ 
“I went down to the butcher’s. He was hard 
run just then, and asked me to take out a 
basket to a customer, and afterward another. 
I picked out what I wanted and he weighed it. 
‘Thirty-five cents/ says he, ‘but if you ’d like 
to change, Ben, I ’ll let you have this chicken. 
The skin ’s broken and it does n’t look quite so 
