house--the house was a different color!
He came a couple of steps nearer. Yes; it had been gray and now it was
yellow! The trimmings around the windows had been red, and now they were
green! It was all newly painted! How strange it made it seem!
Jurgis went closer yet, but keeping on the other side of the street.
A sudden and horrible spasm of fear had come over him. His knees were
shaking beneath him, and his mind was in a whirl. New paint on the
house, and new weatherboards, where the old had begun to rot off, and
the agent had got after them! New shingles over the hole in the roof,
too, the hole that had for six months been the bane of his soul--he
having no money to have it fixed and no time to fix it himself, and the
rain leaking in, and overflowing the pots and pans he put to catch it,
and flooding the attic and loosening the plaster. And now it was fixed!
And the broken windowpane replaced! And curtains in the windows! New,
white curtains, stiff and shiny!
Then suddenly the front door opened. Jurgis stood, his chest heaving as
he struggled to catch his breath. A boy had come out, a stranger to him;
a big, fat, rosy-cheeked youngster, such as had never been seen in his
home before.
Jurgis stared at the boy, fascinated. He came down the steps whistling,
kicking off the snow. He stopped at the foot, and picked up some, and
then leaned against the railing, making a snowball. A moment later
he looked around and saw Jurgis, and their eyes met; it was a hostile
glance, the boy evidently thinking that the other had suspicions of the
snowball. When Jurgis started slowly across the street toward him, he
gave a quick glance about, meditating retreat, but then he concluded to
stand his ground.
Jurgis took hold of the railing of the steps, for he was a little
unsteady. “What--what are you doing here?” he managed to gasp.
“Go on!” said the boy.
“You--” Jurgis tried again. “What do you want here?”
“Me?” answered the boy, angrily. “I live here.”
“You live here!” Jurgis panted. He turned white and clung more tightly
to the railing. “You live here! Then where’s my family?”
The boy looked surprised. “Your family!” he echoed.
And Jurgis started toward him. “I--this is my house!” he cried.
“Come off!” said the boy; then suddenly the door upstairs opened, and he
called: “Hey, ma! Here’s a fellow says he owns this house.”
A stout Irishwoman came to the top of the steps. “What’s that?” she
demanded.
Jurgis turned toward her. “Where is my family?” he cried, wildly. “I
left them here! This is my home! What are you doing in my home?”
The woman stared at him in frightened wonder, she must have thought
she was dealing with a maniac--Jurgis looked like one. “Your home!” she
echoed.
“My home!” he half shrieked. “I lived here, I tell you.”
“You must be mistaken,” she answered him. “No one ever lived here. This
is a new house. They told us so. They--”
“What have they done with my family?” shouted Jurgis, frantically.
A light had begun to break upon the woman; perhaps she had had doubts of
what “they” had told her. “I don’t know where your family is,” she said.
“I bought the house only three days ago, and there was nobody here, and
they told me it was all new. Do you really mean you had ever rented it?”
“Rented it!” panted Jurgis. “I bought it! I paid for it! I own it! And
they--my God, can’t you tell me where my people went?”
She made him understand at last that she knew nothing. Jurgis’ brain
was so confused that he could not grasp the situation. It was as if his
family had been wiped out of existence; as if they were proving to be
dream people, who never had existed at all. He was quite lost--but then
suddenly he thought of Grandmother Majauszkiene, who lived in the next
block. She would know! He turned and started at a run.
Grandmother Majauszkiene came to the door herself. She cried out when
she saw Jurgis, wild-eyed and shaking. Yes, yes, she could tell him. The
family had moved; they had not been able to pay the rent and they had
been turned out into the snow, and the house had been repainted and sold
again the next week. No, she had not heard how they were, but she could
tell him that they had gone back to Aniele Jukniene, with whom they had
stayed when they first came to the yards. Wouldn’t Jurgis come in and
rest? It was certainly too bad--if only he had not got into jail--
And so Jurgis turned and staggered away. He did not go very far round
the corner he gave out completely, and sat down on the steps of a
saloon, and hid his face in his hands, and shook all over with dry,
racking sobs.
Their home! Their home! They had lost it! Grief, despair, rage,
overwhelmed him--what was any imagination of the thing to this
heartbreaking, crushing reality of it--to the sight of strange people
living in his house, hanging their curtains to his windows, staring at
him with hostile eyes! It was monstrous, it was unthinkable--they could
not do it--it could not be true! Only think what he had suffered for
that house--what miseries they had all suffered for it--the price they
