she was not at all certain. . . . But in the meanwhile 
she was very sorry for herself, and for all those who 
drained the bitter cup that might yet pass from her 
shrinking lips. Who knows ! " Stephen," she said 
under her breath, " I didn't mean to hurt you. . . . 
Don't scowl. Listen. I have already entirely forgotten 
the nature of my offense. Pax, if you please." 
He refused to understand ; and she understood that, 
too; and she gazed critically upon Sylvia Landis as 
a very young mother might inspect a rival infant with 
whom her matchless offspring was coquetting. 
Then, without appearing to, she took Plank away 
from temptation ; so skilfully that nobody except Siward 
understood that the young man had been incontinently 
removed. He, Plank, never doubting that he was a perfectly free agent, decided that the time had arrived for 
triumphant retirement. It had ; but Leila Mortimer, 
not he, had rendered the decision, and so cleverly that it 
appeared even to Plank himself that he had dragged 
her off with him rather masterfully. Clearly he was 
becoming a devil of a fellow ! 
Sylvia turned to Siward, glanced up at him, hesi- 
tated, and began to laugh consciously : 
" What do you think of my latest sentimental ac- 
quisition ? " 
" He'd be an ornament to a stock farm," replied 
Siward, out of humour. 
" How brutal you can be ! " she mused, smiling. 
" Nonsense! He's a plain bounder, isn't he.'' " 
" I don't know. . . . Is he.'' He struck me a trifle 
appealingly — even pathetically ; they usually do, that 
sort. ... As though the trouble they took could ever 
 
be worth the time they lose! . . . There are dozens of 
men I know who are far less presentable than this highly 
coloured and robust young human being; and yet they 
are part of the accomplished scheme of things — like 
degenerate horses, you know — always pathetic to me; 
but they're still horses, for all that. Quid rides? 
Species of the same genus can cross, of course, but I had 
rather be a donkey than a mule. . . . And if I were a 
donkey I'd sing and cavort with my own kind, and let 
horses flourish their own heels inside the accomplished 
scheme of things. . . . Now to have been brutal. But — 
I'm easily coloured by my environment." 
She sat, smiling maliciously down at the water, 
smoothing out the soaked skirt of her swimming suit, 
and swinging her legs reflectively. 
" Are you reconciled.'' " she asked presently. 
"To what?" 
" To leaving Shotover. To-day is our last day, you 
know. To-morrow we all go; and next day these fa- 
miliar walls will ring with other voices, my poor friend : 
" ' Yon rising moon that looks for us again — 
How oft hereafter will she wax and wane; 
How oft hereafter, rising, look for us 
Through this same mansion — and for one in vain! 
" That is I — the one, you know. You may be here 
again ; but I — I shall not be I if I ever come to Shotover 
again." 
Her stockinged heels beat the devil's tattoo against 
the marble sides of the pool. She reached up above her 
head, drawing down a flowering branch of Japanese 
orange, and caressed her delicate nose with the white 
blossoms, dreamily, then, mischievously : " I'm accustom- 
ing myself to this most significant perfume," she said, 
looking at him askance. And she deliberately hummed 
the wedding march, watching the colour rise in his sullen 
face. 
" If you had the courage of a sparrow you'd make 
hfe worth something for us both," he said. 
" I know it ; I haven't ; but I seem to possess the 
remainder of his lordship's traits — inconsequence, self- 
centred selfishness, the instinct for Fifth Avenue nest- 
building — all the feathered vices, all the unlovely per- 
sonality and futility and uselessness of my prototype. 
. . . Only, as you observe, I lack the quality of 
courage." 
" I don't know how much courage it requires to do 
what you're going to do," he said sulkily. 
" Don't you ? Sometimes, when you wear a scowl 
