ago, for the thick envelope had the unmistakable, faded look of a
document long put away with others. He had just said, too, that she
would never need her own money again; but he had also told her that
the matter was very complicated.
As she moved away he rose quickly to open the door. That was one of
those formal little acts of courtesy which he had rarely omitted
since they had been married.
She went back to her own room much more disturbed than when she had
left it ten minutes earlier. Her knowledge of her husband’s mind
and character told her that he would find arguments for putting off
anything like real action until it might be too late to act at all;
and yet her own ultimate advantage was doubtless the very reason
why he had resented being disturbed.
It was not her fault if another image rose before her mental vision
just then; but she drove it away so fiercely that it disappeared at
once.
That afternoon, when they were driving together, they came to no
conclusion. Montalto was afraid of being overheard by the men on
the box, and he talked in French. But he was less at home in that
language than most Romans are, and found it much more easy to say
what he knew how to say, than to express what he really meant.
Maria did not know Spanish, which he now spoke better than Italian,
from having lived in Spain and spoken it with his mother during
so many years. Maria chafed as she felt that precious time was
passing, and that such a wretched obstacle as a servant not quite
certainly within hearing was making it impossible to talk freely.
In the evening he was tired, and at first almost refused to
refer to the subject. He said at last, however, that Schmidt was
evidently in collusion with the South Italian gangs of malefactors,
with the Camorra of Naples and the Mala Vita of Palermo. The letter
showed this plainly enough, he said, and those people were capable
of anything, especially including murder. To try and catch Signor
Carlo Pozzi or Signor Paolo Pizzuti would be folly; no such persons
existed, and if any one representing himself as either at a post
office were actually arrested, it would be impossible to extract
a word from him. Those men would go silently to prison for years,
rather than betray an accomplice and be knived or shot in the back
for it within twenty-four hours. There were many instances of
this, Montalto said, and Schmidt had given another proof of his
intelligence in demanding that the money should be paid through
the Camorra or the Mala Vita. He added petulantly that he wished
Schmidt were with him still, because only Schmidt could be clever
enough to catch himself.
Maria tried to laugh, and this put her husband in a better humour.
He said the simplest thing was to have a circular note from the
Chief of Police sent to the Italian press, informing all the
responsible editors of the dailies that an outrageous plot was on
foot to attack the reputation of a lady of Rome by offering for
publication certain alleged reproductions of letters already in
the possession of her husband, who would bring an action, in the
most public way, against any newspaper that even alluded to them.
Maria answered that such a plan would succeed admirably with the
respectable papers; but that, unfortunately, there were some which
were just the contrary, and whose owners desired nothing better
in the way of an advertisement than to be sued for libel, for
collusion in forgery accessory after the fact, or for any other
scandalous offence, because nothing would delight a certain class
of their readers and increase their circulation so much as to
see the name of the Countess of Montalto or any other Roman lady
dragged through the mud.
This was unfortunately true, for Rome was much disturbed at that
time by a revolutionary element of the most despicable sort,
which was stirring up strife in every way, and was at the bottom
of the frequent strikes, almost every one of which led to some
open disturbance little short of a riot. That was the public that
supported the disreputable papers, Maria said, and it would treble
the circulation of any one of them that published a scandalous
attack on decent people.
Maria knew far more about the condition of Rome and Italy than
Montalto. He had exiled himself from his country for years, and
had taken little interest in what happened there, whereas his wife
had always been on intimate terms with Giuliana Parenzo, whose
husband was now Under Secretary for Foreign Affairs, after having
been connected with the Government ever since he had left the
University of Bologna.
It did not occur to Montalto to smile at the thought of having
spent some time every evening in giving Maria a summary of the news
he gathered chiefly from the Vatican newspapers. On the contrary,
he felt quite sure that he understood the situation much better
than she did, and he suddenly forgot the matter in hand and tried
