"It is dangerous to leave them around."
"I am the only person who knows the combination of the house safe. The
papers can't get out without me."
So the talk ran on for a good hour, during which time Randy heard many
things which appeared to be of value to Mr. Philip Bartlett. Then the
two men arose and went to the smoking room, and that was the last our
hero saw of them until they left the boat, half an hour later.
The talk he had heard set Randy to thinking. Plainly Amos Bangs and his
companion were a pair of rascals and were trying to defraud Mr.
Bartlett out of some if not all of his belongings.
"I'll have to call on Mr. Bartlett and tell him what I have heard,"
Randy told himself.
"See here!" called out Peter Polk, striding up as Randy was going to
the lower deck. "What are you loafing around here for?"
"I am going below now," answered our hero.
"You can't shirk your work that way, Thompson." The purser came closer.
"Listen," he whispered. "After this you keep your nose out of my
business."
"I didn't know I had my nose in your business, Mr. Polk."
"Oh, you can't fool me, Thompson. I know it was you went to Captain
Hadley with the story of how I was treating my relatives."
"You mean the Clares?"
"Of course I do. After this you keep your mouth shut," pursued the
purser. "If you don't--well, you'll wish you had, that's all." And
Peter Polk went away in extremely bad humor.
CHAPTER XXII
MR. BARTLETT MAKES A MOVE
As soon as the boat had tied up at Albany, and his work was at an end,
Randy attired himself in his best and took a street car for the
residence of the Bartletts. It was a humble place on a side street,
quite in contrast to the fine residence the family had occupied in
Riverport.
"Hullo, Randy!" cried Jack, as he came to the door to answer our hero's
ring. "This is a surprise. Walk right in. Did you send word that you
were coming?"
"I did not, Jack. Is your father home?"
"Yes, he is just finishing his supper."
"I want to see him."
"Had your supper?"
"Yes, I got a bite before I left the boat."
"All right--otherwise I know mother will welcome you at our table."
Jack went off to tell his father, and presently Mr. Bartlett walked in.
He looked rather care-worn and tired. Evidently his new situation was a
hard one to fill and did not agree with him.
"How do you do, Randy?" said Mr. Bartlett. "Glad to see you. Jack says
you want to see me."
"I do, Mr. Bartlett. Can I talk to you in private?"
"Certainly. Come into the parlor."
Mr. Bartlett led the way and closed the door. Then both sat down.
"I want to tell you something about Mr. Bangs and a man named Tuller,"
began Randy. "They were on the boat to-day and I overheard some of
their talk."
"Tuller, eh?" said Mr. Bartlett, and his brow darkened.
As well as he could Randy repeated the talk he had heard. Jack's father
listened with keen interest. He was astonished when Randy mentioned the
papers which had been abstracted from his desk.
"So Bangs has them in his safe at home, eh?" he cried. "Well, I am
going to get them, be the cost what it may. They belong to me, and I am
going to take them no matter where I find them."
He was equally astonished to hear that a certain Mr. Robinson was not
acting with Amos Bangs and certain other men, Tuller included.
"They gave me to understand that Robinson was with them," said Philip
Bartlett. "If Robinson will only act with me, perhaps I can do a great
deal."
"Then why don't you write to Mr. Robinson and find out?"
"I will go and see him."
"Oh, then he lives here."
"No, in Springfield. But our works are going to shut down for a few
days, so I will have ample time. Randy, I am very thankful to you for
bringing me this news."
"I hope it does you some good, Mr. Bartlett."
"I think it will. Perhaps I'll only be able to scare Bangs, but that
may make him careful, so I can get something out of my stock in the
iron works company."
"If you ever want me as a witness I will do what I can for you."
"Thank you, my lad; you are kind and I will remember what you say."
After that Mrs. Bartlett and Jack came in and learned something of what
had brought our hero to the house.
"Good for you, Randy!" cried Jack. "Father, if I were you, I'd break
into old Bangs's safe."
