it has always been there, that in the drift of ages it was lost through
disuse and neglect, and that this benefactor has found it and given it
back to men, turning the night of life into day, its terrors into myths,
its lamentations into songs of emancipation and rejoicing.
There we have Mrs. Eddy as her followers see her. She has lifted
them out of grief and care and doubt and fear, and made their lives
beautiful; she found them wandering forlorn in a wintry wilderness, and
has led them to a tropic paradise like that of which the poet sings:
     “O, islands there are on the face of the deep
     Where the leaves never fade and the skies never weep.”
To ask them to examine with a microscope the character of such a
benefactor; to ask them to examine it at all; to ask them to look at a
blemish which another person believes he has found in it--well, in their
place could you do it? Would you do it? Wouldn’t you be ashamed to do
it? If a tramp had rescued your child from fire and death, and saved its
mother’s heart from breaking, could you see his rags? Could you smell
his breath? Mrs. Eddy has done more than that for these people.
They are prejudiced witnesses. To the credit of human nature it is not
possible that they should be otherwise. They sincerely believe that
Mrs. Eddy’s character is pure and perfect and beautiful, and her history
without stain or blot or blemish. But that does not settle it. They
sincerely believe she did not borrow the Great Idea from Quimby, but hit
upon it herself. It may be so, and it could be so. Let it go--there
is no way to settle it. They believe she carried away no Quimby
manuscripts. Let that go, too--there is no way to settle it. They
believe that she, and not another, built the Religion upon the book, and
organized it. I believe it, too.
Finally, they believe that she philosophized Christian Science,
explained it, systematized it, and wrote it all out with her own hand in
the book Science and Health.
I am not able to believe that. Let us draw the line there. The known
and undisputed products of her pen are a formidable witness against
her. They do seem to me to prove, quite clearly and conclusively, that
writing, upon even simple subjects, is a difficult labor for her: that
she has never been able to write anything above third-rate English; that
she is weak in the matter of grammar; that she has but a rude and
dull sense of the values of words; that she so lacks in the matter of
literary precision that she can seldom put a thought into words that
express it lucidly to the reader and leave no doubts in his mind as to
whether he has rightly understood or not; that she cannot even draught a
Preface that a person can fully comprehend, nor one which can by any
art be translated into a fully understandable form; that she can
seldom inject into a Preface even single sentences whose meaning is
uncompromisingly clear--yet Prefaces are her specialty, if she has one.
Mrs. Eddy’s known and undisputed writings are very limited in bulk;
they exhibit no depth, no analytical quality, no thought above school
composition size, and but juvenile ability in handling thoughts of even
that modest magnitude. She has a fine commercial ability, and could
govern a vast railway system in great style; she could draught a set
of rules that Satan himself would say could not be improved on--for
devilish effectiveness--by his staff; but we know, by our excursions
among the Mother-Church’s By-laws, that their English would discredit
the deputy baggage-smasher. I am quite sure that Mrs. Eddy cannot write
well upon any subject, even a commercial one.
In the very first revision of Science and Health (1883), Mrs. Eddy wrote
a Preface which is an unimpeachable witness that the rest of the book
was written by somebody else. I have put it in the Appendix along with a
page or two taken from the body of the book, and will ask the reader to
compare the labored and lumbering and confused gropings of this Preface
with the easy and flowing and direct English of the other exhibit, and
see if he can believe that the one hand and brain produced both.
And let him take the Preface apart, sentence by sentence, and
searchingly examine each sentence word by word, and see if he can find
half a dozen sentences whose meanings he is so sure of that he can
rephrase them--in words of his own--and reproduce what he takes to be
those meanings. Money can be lost on this game. I know, for I am the one
that lost it.
Now let the reader turn to the excerpt which I have made from the
chapter on “Prayer” (last year’s edition of Science and Health), and
compare that wise and sane and elevated and lucid and compact piece of
work with the aforesaid Preface, and with Mrs. Eddy’s poetry concerning
the gymnastic trees, and Minerva’s not yet effete sandals, and the
wreaths imported from Erudition’s bower for the decoration of Plymouth
Rock, and the Plague-spot and Bacilli, and my other exhibits (turn back
to my Chapters I. and II.) from the Autobiography, and finally with
the late Communication concerning me, and see if he thinks anybody’s
affirmation, or anybody’s sworn testimony, or any other testimony of
any imaginable kind would ever be likely to convince him that Mrs. Eddy
wrote that chapter on Prayer.
I do not wish to impose my opinion on any one who will not permit
