decided, the blue-gray eyes alight with animation and expectancy. The
clerical frock was buttoned closely to the throat, giving emphasis to
the splendid breathing powers concealed beneath. The Reverend Richard
Allen looked all things save the mollycoddle, as the flush on Caroline's
cheeks conceded. And as she arose, she vaguely wondered how much he had
heard.
The rector, being above all things a gentleman, did not press his
question. He came forward and shook hands, and then spread his fingers
over the crackling log.
"What do you suppose has happened to me this day?" he began, turning his
back to the blaze and looking first at Mrs. Cathewe because she was his
hostess, and then at Caroline because she was the woman who lived first
in his thoughts.
"You have found a worthy mendicant?" suggested Caroline, taking up the
hand-screen and shading her eyes.
"Cold, cold."
"You have been asked to make an address before some woman's club," Mrs.
Cathewe offered.
"Still cold. No. The Morning Post has asked me, in the interests of
reform, to write up the prize-fight to-morrow night between Sullivan and
McManus, setting forth the contest in all its brutality."
The two women looked at each other and laughed nervously. The same
thought had occurred to each.
"Mr. Allen," said Mrs. Cathewe, deciding immediately to explain the
cause of her merriment, "as you entered you must have overheard us speak
of a Mr. Sullivan. You know how eccentric Mr. Cathewe is. Well, when I
invited you to dine this evening I had no idea that this husband of mine
was going to bring home Mr. Sullivan in order to study him at close
range, as a possible character in a new book he is writing."
The rector stroked his chin. Caroline, observing him shyly, was positive
that the luster in his eyes was due to suppressed laughter.
"That will be quite a diversion," he said, seating himself. What a
charming profile this girl possessed! Heigh-ho! between riches and
poverty the chasm grew wide.
"And we have been amusing ourselves by dissecting Mr. Sullivan," added
the woman with the charming profile. "I suggested that if he wore a
dress suit it would be either too large or too small."
"Mercy!" exclaimed Mrs. Cathewe, rising suddenly as the hall door
slammed, "I believe he has come already. Whatever shall I do, Carol,
whatever shall I do?" in a loud whisper.
The rector got up and smiled at Caroline, who returned the smile. In the
matter of appreciating humor, she and the rector stood upon common
ground.
Presently the novelist and his guest entered. Both he and Mr. Sullivan
appeared to be in the best of spirits, for their mouths were twisted in
grins.
"My dear," began Cathewe, "this is Mr. Sullivan; Mr. Sullivan, Miss
Boderick and the Reverend Richard Allen, of St. Paul's."
"I am delighted," said Mr. Sullivan, bowing.
There was not a wrinkle in Mr. Sullivan's dress suit; there were no
diamond studs in his shirt bosom, no watch-chain; just the rims of his
cuffs appeared, and these were of immaculate linen. His hair was black
and thick and soft as hair always is that is frequently subjected to
soap and water. In fact, there was only one sign which betrayed Mr.
Sullivan's profitable but equivocal business in life, and this was an
ear which somewhat resembled a withered mushroom.
Caroline was disconcerted; she was even embarrassed. This pleasant-faced
gentleman bowing to her was as far removed from her preconceived idea of
a pugilist as the earth is removed from the sun. She did not know--as
the wise writer knows--that it is only pugilists who can not fight who
are all scarred and battered. She saw the rector shake Mr. Sullivan's
hand. From him her gaze roved to Mrs. Cathewe, and the look of
perplexity on that young matron's face caused her to smother the sudden
wild desire to laugh.
"My dear, I shall leave you to entertain Mr. Sullivan while I change my
clothes;" and Cathewe rushed from the room. He was a man who could not
hold in laughter very successfully.
"Come over to the fire and warm yourself," said the rector pleasantly.
The look of entreaty in Mrs. Cathewe's eyes could not possibly be
ignored.
Mr. Sullivan crossed the room, gazing about curiously.
"I haven't th' slightest idea, ma'am," said the famed pugilist,
addressing his hostess, "what your husband's graft is; but I understand
he's a literary fellow that writes books, an' I suppose he knows why he
ast me here t' eat."
Caroline sighed with relief; his voice was very nearly what she expected
it would be.
"An' besides," continued Mr. Sullivan, "I'm kind o' curious myself t'
see you swells get outside your feed. I ain't stuck on these togs,
generally; a man's afraid t' breathe hearty."
