more. She had spent a week with Isabel at Old Inn, and received a
certain measure of confidence. She hoped that Isabel would really make a
fortune, and urged her to follow Gwynne's example and put up a modern
building on her San Francisco property. Money was easy to raise, for
change and improvement possessed San Franciscans like an epidemic, and
few but were not anxious to convert "South of Market Street" into a
great business district. Although she was grateful to the new people,
particularly Ada Hofer, who, to use the lady's own expression "made
things hum," in her heart she disliked the breed, and deeply resented
the fact that the old set, even those by no means impoverished, to-day
formed little more than a background. They were to be seen everywhere,
they were still a power in a way, but they were by no means prosilient.
Therefore, as she sat in the old dark dining-room on Russian Hill and
listened to Isabel's praise of the interest that Hofer and his set took
in the political and artistic regeneration of the city, she was moved to
break out tartly:
"Are you giving them credit for altruism? They have their millions
invested here, naturally they crave a reasonable prospect of retaining
them--also of increasing them by filling Fairmont, and other projected
caravansaries for the rich, with winter tourists from the East; possibly
Europe. They not only fear the corporation cormorants--whom they can
never reach so long as the Board of Supervisors is controlled by the
Boss--the Boss himself and all his devouring horde, but the greatest
menace of all: that San Francisco will in time, and before very long, be
owned body and soul by the labor-unions. Then, even if they managed to
save their wealth, the city would be intolerable for the socially
ambitious or even the merely refined."
"You are unfair," said Gwynne; "for these men all have enough to pull
out and invest elsewhere. They could go to New York and buy a big
position, as so many of their predecessors have done. Or to London. Of
course no man ever lived that was wholly disinterested, unless he was a
fanatic, but it is vastly to the credit of these men that they love
their own city, stand by it--determined to make it livable, not only for
themselves, but for future generations; instead of moving away and
becoming millionaires of leisure."
"Oh yes, I don't deny that they have enthusiasm--the remnant, no doubt,
of what in their European ancestors was temperament. Americans don't
have temperament. Or if we have we are far too self-conscious to show
it. In the East it has been quite eradicated. Out here where gambling is
still in the blood--and that blood is mixed--where the air is full of
electricity, and the very ground under your feet none too certain, we
are a little more primitive; we have an excitability that makes
strangers find us more like the Latin races of Europe than our relatives
beyond the Rockies. And although the set you admire does not drink, nor
live the all-night life, it has its own demands for spice and variety,
and its own ways of gratifying them. Love of change, love of any sort of
a fight, is in the blood of your true Californian--particularly here in
San Francisco, where all the great gambling fevers, from the days of '49
to the wild speculations in Virginia City stocks in '76, have raged up
and out. Your friends are merely playing a big game. Successive defeats,
and the formidable front of the enemy, make it the more stimulating.
They have that fanatical love of San Francisco that every one out here
has who doesn't hate it, and they find it more exciting to stay here and
gamble for big stakes than to watch their wives spend money in New York,
and console them for snubs. Another point--they are far more
enterprising than the rich men's sons that preceded this generation--or
set, rather. They keep on making money, you may have observed. And
fashions change. New York Society is no longer the Mecca of the worldly
San Franciscan, and it has also become the fashion to invest huge
amounts here; in many cases, entire fortunes. These men really could not
pull out without great loss of income, and they all know how safe it is
to leave one's interests in other people's hands. In this town, at
least, no one has ever done that without regretting it."
"If the fashion has changed I dare say it is these men that have changed
it. I always bow to feminine logic, but nothing you have said so far has
changed my attitude. Besides, I admire their taste. This is the only
part of America that has made any appeal to me, and there is no question
that if they force through the Burnham plans, this city, with its
wonderful natural advantages, will be as beautiful as ancient Athens.
Surely you must admit ideality in men that can conceive such an ideal
and cling to it, no matter how forlorn the hope."
"That's just what I object to. The least imaginative of us realizes that
nature gave San Francisco a beautiful face and that man has done all he
could to scar it. But even did these men obtain control--which they
can't short of lynch law--it would take half a century to remove the old
city piecemeal. Do you imagine property-owners are going to change their
natures and sacrifice profitable office buildings and shops for the sake
of widening streets and making boulevards and parks? Do you realize what
it would mean in the way of individual sacrifice to build winding roads
about these hills instead of the improved and perpendicular gullies we
