and in her disconcerted cowardice she dared not do more than plead with
Gerald in secret, until she began to find the emotion consequent upon
such intimacy unwise for them both.
Neergard, too, was becoming a familiar figure in her drawing-room; and,
though at first she detested him, his patience and unfailing good
spirits, and his unconcealed admiration for her softened her manner
toward him to the point of toleration.
And Neergard, from his equivocal footing in the house of Ruthven,
obtained another no less precarious in the house of Fane--all in the
beginning on a purely gaming basis. However, Gerald had already proposed
him for the Stuyvesant and Proscenium clubs; and, furthermore, a stormy
discussion was now in progress among the members of the famous Siowitha
over an amazing proposition from their treasurer, Jack Ruthven.
This proposal was nothing less than to admit Neergard to membership in
that wealthy and exclusive country club, as a choice of the lesser evil;
for it appeared, according to Ruthven, that Neergard, if admitted, was
willing to restore to the club, free of rent, the thousands of acres
vitally necessary to the club's existence as a game preserve, merely
retaining the title to these lands for himself.
Draymore was incensed at the proposal, Harmon, Orchil, and Fane were
disgustedly non-committal, but Phoenix Mottly was perhaps the angriest
man on Long Island.
"In the name of decency, Jack," he said, "what are you dreaming of? Is
it not enough that this man, Neergard, holds us up once? Do I understand
that he has the impudence to do it again with your connivance? Are you
going to let him sandbag us into electing him? Is that the sort of
hold-up you stand for? Well, then, I tell you I'll never vote for him.
I'd rather see these lakes and streams of ours dry up; I'd rather see
the last pheasant snared and the last covey leave for the other end of
the island, than buy off that Dutchman with a certificate of membership
in the Siowitha!"
"In that case," retorted Ruthven, "we'd better wind up our affairs and
make arrangements for an auctioneer."
"All right; wind up and be damned!" said Mottly; "there'll be at least
sufficient self-respect left in the treasury to go round."
Which was all very fine, and Mottly meant it at the time; but, outside
of the asset of self-respect, there was too much money invested in the
lands, plant, and buildings, in the streams, lakes, hatcheries, and
forests of the Siowitha. The enormously wealthy seldom stand long upon
dignity if that dignity is going to be very expensive. Only the poor can
afford disastrous self-respect.
So the chances were that Neergard would become a member--which was why
he had acquired the tract--and the price he would have to pay was not
only in taxes upon the acreage, but, secretly, a solid sum in addition
to little Mr. Ruthven whom he was binding to him by every tie he could
pay for.
Neergard did not regret the expense. He had long since discounted the
cost; and he also continued to lose money at the card-table to those who
could do him the most good.
Away somewhere in the back of his round, squat, busy head he had an
inkling that some day he would even matters with some people. Meanwhile
he was patient, good-humoured, amusing when given a chance, and, as the
few people he knew found out, inventive and resourceful in suggesting
new methods of time-killing to any wealthy and fashionable victim of a
vacant mind.
And as this faculty has always been the real key to the inner Temple of
the Ten Thousand Disenchantments, the entrance of Mr. Neergard appeared
to be only a matter of time and opportunity, and his ultimate welcome at
the naked altar a conclusion foregone.
In the interim, however, he suffered Gerald and little Ruthven to pilot
him; he remained cheerfully oblivious to the snubs and indifference
accorded him by Mrs. Ruthven, Mrs. Fane, and others of their entourage
whom he encountered over the card-tables or at card-suppers. And all the
while he was attending to his business with an energy and activity that
ought to have shamed Gerald, and did, at times, particularly when he
arrived at the office utterly unfit for the work before him.
But Neergard continued astonishingly tolerant and kind, lending him
money, advancing him what he required, taking up or renewing notes for
him, until the boy, heavily in his debt, plunged more heavily still in
sheer desperation, only to flounder the deeper at every struggle to
extricate himself.
Alixe Ruthven suspected something of this, but it was useless as well as
perilous in other ways for her to argue with Gerald, for the boy had
come to a point where even his devotion to her could not stop him. He
must go on. He did not say so to Alixe; he merely laughed, assuring
her that he was all right; that he knew how much he could afford to
lose, and that he would stop when his limit was in sight. Alas, he had
passed his limit long since; and already it was so far behind him that
he dared not look back--dared no longer even look forward.
Meanwhile the Ruthvens were living almost lavishly, and keeping four
