with all the ardour of her young motherliness, quivering at the thought
of hungry or ailing children while her Cicely, leaning a silken head
against her, lifted puzzled eyes to her face.
On the larger problems of the case it was less easy to fix Bessy's
attention; but Amherst was far from being one of the extreme theorists
who reject temporary remedies lest they defer the day of general
renewal, and since he looked on every gain in the material condition of
the mill-hands as a step in their moral growth, he was quite willing to
hold back his fundamental plans while he discussed the establishment of
a nursery, and of a night-school for the boys in the mills.
The third time he called, he found Mr. Langhope and Mr. Halford Gaines
of the company. The President of the Westmore mills was a trim
middle-sized man, whose high pink varnish of good living would have
turned to purple could he have known Mr. Langhope's opinion of his
jewelled shirt-front and the padded shoulders of his evening-coat.
Happily he had no inkling of these views, and was fortified in his
command of the situation by an unimpaired confidence in his own
appearance; while Mr. Langhope, discreetly withdrawn behind a veil of
cigar-smoke, let his silence play like a fine criticism over the various
phases of the discussion.
It was a surprise to Amherst to find himself in Mr. Gaines's presence.
The President, secluded in his high office, seldom visited the mills,
and when there showed no consciousness of any presence lower than
Truscomb's; and Amherst's first thought was that, in the manager's
enforced absence, he was to be called to account by the head of the
firm. But he was affably welcomed by Mr. Gaines, who made it clear that
his ostensible purpose in coming was to hear Amherst's views as to the
proposed night-schools and nursery. These were pointedly alluded to as
Mrs. Westmore's projects, and the young man was made to feel that he was
merely called in as a temporary adviser in Truscomb's absence. This was,
in fact, the position Amherst preferred to take, and he scrupulously
restricted himself to the answering of questions, letting Mrs. Westmore
unfold his plans as though they had been her own. "It is much better,"
he reflected, "that they should all think so, and she too, for Truscomb
will be on his legs again in a day or two, and then my hours will be
numbered."
Meanwhile he was surprised to find Mr. Gaines oddly amenable to the
proposed innovations, which he appeared to regard as new fashions in
mill-management, to be adopted for the same cogent reasons as a new cut
in coat-tails.
"Of course we want to be up-to-date--there's no reason why the Westmore
mills shouldn't do as well by their people as any mills in the country,"
he affirmed, in the tone of the entertainer accustomed to say: "I want
the thing done handsomely." But he seemed even less conscious than Mrs.
Westmore that each particular wrong could be traced back to a radical
vice in the system. He appeared to think that every murmur of assent to
her proposals passed the sponge, once for all, over the difficulty
propounded: as though a problem in algebra should be solved by wiping it
off the blackboard.
"My dear Bessy, we all owe you a debt of gratitude for coming here, and
bringing, so to speak, a fresh eye to bear on the subject. If I've been,
perhaps, a little too exclusively absorbed in making the mills
profitable, my friend Langhope will, I believe, not be the first
to--er--cast a stone at me." Mr. Gaines, who was the soul of delicacy,
stumbled a little over the awkward associations connected with this
figure, but, picking himself up, hastened on to affirm: "And in that
respect, I think we can challenge comparison with any industry in the
state; but I am the first to admit that there may be another side, a
side that it takes a woman--a mother--to see. For instance," he threw in
jocosely, "I flatter myself that I know how to order a good dinner; but
I always leave the flowers to my wife. And if you'll permit me to say
so," he went on, encouraged by the felicity of his image, "I believe it
will produce a most pleasing effect--not only on the operatives
themselves, but on the whole of Hanaford--on our own set of people
especially--to have you come here and interest yourself in
the--er--philanthropic side of the work."
Bessy coloured a little. She blushed easily, and was perhaps not
over-discriminating as to the quality of praise received; but under her
ripple of pleasure a stronger feeling stirred, and she said hastily: "I
am afraid I never should have thought of these things if Mr. Amherst had
not pointed them out to me."
Mr. Gaines met this blandly. "Very gratifying to Mr. Amherst to have you
put it in that way; and I am sure we all appreciate his valuable hints.
Truscomb himself could not have been more helpful, though his larger
experience will no doubt be useful later on, in developing
and--er--modifying your plans."
It was difficult to reconcile this large view of the moral issue with
the existence of abuses which made the management of the Westmore mills
as unpleasantly notorious in one section of the community as it was
agreeably notable in another. But Amherst was impartial enough to see
