 
Then Cara spoke — so gently, so humbly, that 
it was difficult for him to follow the sweet impulse 
of her heart, so long unknown to him — about the 
twice-told love that she had cherished for the man ; 
he who had won her first, and then again ; he to 
whom she brought the love of wife and widow 
too, and laid both with a womanly fervor at his 
sad feet. 
" Oh, you love like a goddess ! " he would have 
cried. " And forgive like a spirit." But the words 
failed upon his lips, and all he could say was 
"Cara! Cara! Cara!" 
Now, while they sat so, in the broadening, 
brightening day, in the silent house, whispering 
and breathing cheek to cheek, the unlocked door 
turned inward softly, and the preacher stood upon 
the threshold. His luminous eyes had their priest's 
and prophet's look. His hands, stretched out be- 
fore him, uttered the benediction of the soul that 
forgets itself in the blessedness of another. 
Cara slipped to her feet, and advanced to meet 
him. Dane followed, not timidly, but with his gray 
head lifted. His marred face was so irradiate that 
it was the high light of the room. 
" Cousin Sterling," said Cara, in a ringing voice, 
" please go and tell Kathleen, — and Nannie. Tell 
everybody, — all the world. Explain it if you can. 
 
But if you can't, it does not matter. I don't mind 
any of those — little things." 
" I can protect you, I think," said Sterling Hart. 
" At any rate, I can try. Have you put all your evi- 
dence before her ? " he demanded, wheeling upon 
the man. 
" Ask her," said Dane. 
But the preacher turned his face away. 
" God hath joined you together," he answered 
brokenly. " Who shall put you asunder? Cousin 
Cara, ... if you are happy ... I shall stand 
between you and all the world." 
He raised himself to his commanding height, 
with his lofty, upward motion of the chin. 
Now while the three stood there, something 
puzzled as to their next word, and not without 
embarrassment, the child waked and crooned in 
a pretty singsong from the room above : — 
"Mum — mumma? Pup — puppa? Mum — 
ma?" Cara started and stirred. As she ran up 
the stairs, the two men heard her calling all the 
way: — 
" Mother is coming to her precious one. Joy ! 
Joy ! " 
The collie heard the foreign word ; he came in 
and seriously scanned the faces of the superior 
beings, who regarded him with unusual respect 
and emotion. In the storming of the human 
 
drama, who had paused to recognize its dumb 
unconscious hero? 
But the dog retreated haughtily from them, and 
went with splendid and confident motions up the 
stairs. Dane had taken a step forward, but fell 
back. 
" After you, Clyde," he said, with his whimsical 
smile. 
The morning moved into the summer day. The 
tide was racing in. The surf leaped through the 
great chasm, and spoke in a tongue that no man 
understood. Only one tried to translate it, and 
he sat alone upon the cliff's edge, and studied — 
after all his experience and his wisdom, his power, 
and purity of heart, and effacement of self — the 
grammar of life. It seemed to him that he had 
gone back to the elements of existence, to the 
difficult, primitive lessons of a man's soul. The 
preacher watched the tide come in, and surge upon 
the old, eternal barriers of the granite ; madly for 
the moment, according to the nature of tides. 
" Presently," he thought, " it will ebb." 
