he disclosed a very white forehead, and short, thick fair hair. There
was no sign of approaching middle age in his face or figure, but
Margaret felt, or guessed, that he was older than he looked.
In her stiffly correct French, Mrs. Rushmore said that she was
enchanted to make his acquaintance, and Margaret murmured sweetly but
unintelligibly.
'The Count speaks English perfectly,' observed Mr. Van Torp.
He ranged himself beside Margaret, leaving the foreigner to Mrs.
Rushmore, much to her gratification.
'We were going to walk,' she said. 'Will you join us?' And she moved
on.
'It is a great pleasure to meet you,' Kralinsky said by way of opening
the conversation. 'I have often heard of you from friends in Paris.
Your little dinners at Versailles are famous all over Europe. I am
sure we have many mutual friends, though you may never have heard my
name.'
Mrs. Rushmore was visibly pleased, and as the way was not very wide,
Margaret and Van Torp dropped behind. They soon heard the other two
enumerating their acquaintances. Kralinsky was surprised at the number
of Mrs. Rushmore's friends, but the Count seemed to know everybody,
from all the Grand Dukes and Archdukes in Russia, Germany, and
Austria, to the author of the latest successful play in Paris, and the
man of science who had discovered how to cure gout by radium.
Kralinsky had done the cure, seen the play, and dined with the
royalties within the last few weeks. Mrs. Rushmore thought him one of
the most charming men she had ever met.
In the rear Mr. Van Torp and the Primadonna were not talking; but he
looked at her, she looked at him, they both looked at Kralinsky's
back, and then they once more looked at each other and nodded; which
meant that Van Torp had recognised the man he had met selling rubies
in New York, and that Margaret understood this.
'I'll tell you something else that's quite funny, if you don't mind
dropping a little further behind,' he said.
Margaret walked still more slowly till a dozen paces separated them
from the other two.
'What is it?' she asked in a low tone.
'I believe he's my old friend from whom I learned to whistle
Parsifal,' answered the American. 'I'm pretty sure of it, in spite
of a good many years and a beard--two things that change a man. See
his walk? See how he turns his toes in? Most cow-boys walk like that.'
'How very odd that you should meet again!' Margaret was surprised, but
not deeply interested by this new development.
'Well,' said Van Torp thoughtfully, 'if I'd known I was going to meet
him somewhere, I'd have said this was as likely a place as any to find
him in, now that I know what it was he whistled. But I admit that the
other matter has more in it. I wonder what would happen if I asked him
about Miss Barrack?'
'Nothing,' Margaret answered confidently. 'Nothing would happen. He
has never heard of her.'
Van Torp's sharp eyes tried in vain to penetrate the veil.
'That's not quite clear,' he observed. 'Or else this isn't my good
day.'
'The girl fooled you,' said Margaret in a low voice. 'Did she mention
his name to you?'
'Well, no----'
'She never saw him in her life, or if she ever did, it was she who
robbed him of rubies; and it was not the other way, as you supposed.
Men are generally inclined to believe what a nice-looking girl tells
them!'
'That's true,' Van Torp admitted. 'But all the same, I don't quite
understand you. There's a meaning in your voice that's not in the
words. Excuse me if I'm not quick enough this morning, please. I'm
doing my best.'
'Your friend Baraka has been arrested and sent to prison in London for
stealing a very valuable ruby from the counter in Pinney's,' Margaret
explained. 'The stone had just been taken there by Monsieur Logotheti
to be cut. The girl must have followed him without his knowing it, and
watched her chance, though how old Pinney can have left such a thing
lying on the counter where any one could take it is simply
incomprehensible. That's what you heard in my voice when I said that
men are credulous.'
Mr. Van Torp thought he had heard even more in her accent when she had
pronounced Logotheti's name. Besides, she generally called him 'Logo,'
as all his friends did. The American said nothing for a moment, but he
glanced repeatedly at the white veil, through which he saw her
handsome features without their expression.
'Well,' he said at last, almost to himself, for he hardly expected her
to understand the language of his surprise, 'that beats the band!'
'It really is rather odd, you know,' responded Margaret, who
understood perfectly. 'If you think I've adorned the truth I'll give
