are in some duty and respect,” commented 
Miss Brooks. “ I dare say Mr. Saybrook 
will tell this story over to our detriment, and 
perhaps denounce college training as leading 
to many evils. But these events occur rarely 
on so extensive a scale,” smiling sadly, “ and 
I hope you will not be a great sufferer.” 
Helen was silent. She was ashamed that 
she could have been so easily deceived. She 
did not realize that an honest, upright, sym- 
pathetic nature could more readily be duped 
by a scheming one, and she was glad she had 
returned Leslie’s money before this came out. 
No one but herself must suffer for her im- 
prudence. 
However, the affair did bring about a check 
in the habit of borrowing among the girls. 
With it all, Helen had never been happier. 
Miss Morse was taking a great interest in 
Shirley, and giving her some good training. 
Her mental horizon was widening; she did 
not love Helen less, but there was not so much 
extravagant worship in it. She found she 
could write on more than one theme, and the 
Miscellany welcomed her warmly. 
“ She has a passion for literature and a 
great love for history, but no head for mathe- 
matics !” declared Miss Van Meter. “She 
must be pushed over in the sophs this year. 
Helen, you and Miss Brooks do all you can 
for her.” 
But a girl who wandered off into the realms 
of fancy in the midst of a problem and listened 
to unseen music was hard to train. 
Helen found her duties as class president 
were rather more arduous than she had an- 
ticipated. There were several important ques- 
tions to decide; there were plans for com- 
mencement. The seniors’ Easter would be 
marked by a grand concert, to which all 
friends were invited, and there was consider- 
able training for that. But Easter fell late 
this year. There was the day of prayer for 
colleges, Washington’s birthday, and the 
spring recess, at which few of the higher class 
girls went away. Study was of great im- 
portance now, and the lovely days of spring 
wooed to out-of-doors pleasures and sports. 
Every walk and nook grew dearer to Helen. 
How could she endure a new home and new 
occupations ! 
The concert was a grand success. There 
was some fine musical talent, both vocal and 
instrumental, and the applause was cheering 
and discriminating. Now attention must be 
turned to the play the seniors were to give, 
 
and to their farewell tea. But then they would 
have their week exempt from duty. 
“ Oh, will you look at this! ” Shirley cried, 
flying into Helen's room with a piece of music 
in her hand. “ Your friend sent it to me, 
Miss Grant. While he was here I put a tune 
to it, just picked it out on the piano, you 
know, and sung it. It was that little ‘ Birds’ 
Lullaby.’ And he just wrote down the notes 
and took the words with him. And some one 
he knew has arranged all the parts and printed 
it. Won't you come and play it? Wasn't it 
lovely of him! A real song; think of it! ” 
Her eyes were rapturous in their delight, 
her pretty lips quivered with the sweetness of 
youth and joyousness. Helen could not resist 
kissing them in their ecstasy. 
“ You are so sweet and good. Father is 
afraid you will think me silly. But some 
things make me so happy. I want to dance 
with the birds. But I've heard a mother bird 
sing just such a song at nightfall. Come!’’ 
She seized Helen’s hand, and they went to 
