doesn't seem to resent it. So I am obliged to. Besides I don't like your
first name."
Mrs. Cardross laughed gently over her embroidery; Malcourt, who was
reading the stock column in the News, turned and looked curiously at
Hamil, then at Shiela. Then catching Mrs. Carrick's eye:
"Portlaw is rather worried over the market," he said. "I think he's
going North in a day or two."
"Why, Louis!" exclaimed Mrs. Cardross; "then you will be going, too, I
suppose."
"His ways are my ways," nodded Malcourt. "I've been here too long
anyway," he added in a lower voice, folding the paper absently across
his knees. He glanced once more at Shiela, but she had returned to her
letter writing.
Everybody spoke of his going in tones of civil regret--everybody except
Shiela, who had not even looked at him. Cecile's observations were
plainly perfunctory, but she made them nevertheless, for she had begun
to take the same feminine interest in Malcourt that everybody was now
taking in view of his very pronounced attentions to Virginia Suydam.
All the world may not love a lover, but all the world watches him. And a
great many pairs of bright eyes and many more pairs of faded ones were
curiously following the manoeuvres of Louis Malcourt and Virginia
Suydam.
Very little of what these two people did escaped the social Argus at
Palm Beach--their promenades on the verandas of the two great hotels,
their appearance on the links and tennis-courts together, their daily
encounter at the bathing-hour, their inevitable meeting and pairing on
lawn, in ballroom, afloat, ashore, wherever young people gathered under
the whip of light social obligations or in pursuit of pleasure.
And they were discussed. She being older than he, and very wealthy, the
veranda discussions were not always amiable; but nobody said anything
very bitter because Virginia was in a position to be socially respected
and the majority of people rather liked Malcourt. Besides there was
just enough whispering concerning his performances at the Club and the
company he kept there to pique the friendly curiosity of a number of
fashionable young matrons who are always prepossessed in favour of a man
at whom convention might possibly one day glance askance.
So everybody at Palm Beach was at least aware of the affair. Hamil had
heard of it from his pretty aunt, and had been thoroughly questioned. It
was very evident that Miss Palliser viewed the proceedings with dismay
for she also consulted Wayward, and finally, during the confidential
retiring-hour, chose the right moment to extract something definite from
Virginia.
But that pale and pretty spinster was too fluently responsive, admitting
that perhaps she had been seeing a little too much of Malcourt,
protesting it to be accidental, agreeing with Constance Palliser that
more discretion should be exercised, and promising it with a short,
flushed laugh.
And the next morning she rode to the Inlet with Malcourt, swam with him
to the raft, and danced with him until dawn at "The Breakers."
       *       *       *       *       *
Mrs. Cardross and Jessie Carrick bent over their embroidery; Shiela
continued her letter writing with Gray's stylographic pen; Hamil, booted
and spurred, both pockets stuffed with plans, paced the terrace waiting
for his horse to be brought around; Malcourt had carried himself and his
newspaper to the farther end of the terrace, and now stood leaning over
the balustrade, an unlighted cigarette between his lips.
"I suppose you'll go to Luckless Lake," observed Hamil, pausing beside
Malcourt in his walk.
"Yes. There's plenty to do. We stripped ten thousand trout in October,
and we're putting in German boar this spring."
"I should think your occupation would be fascinating."
"Yes? It's lonely, too, until Portlaw's camp parties begin. I get an
overdose of nature at times. There's nobody of my own ilk there except
our Yale and Cornell foresters. In winter it's deadly, Hamil, deadly! I
don't shoot, you know; it's deathly enough as it is."
"I don't believe I'd find it so."
"You think not, but you would. That white solitude may be good medicine
for some, but it makes me furious after a while, and I often wish that
the woods and the deer and the fish and I myself and the whole devilish
outfit were under the North Pole and frozen solid! But I can't afford to
pick and choose. If I looked about for something else to do I don't
believe anybody would want me. Portlaw pays me more than I'm worth as a
Harvard post-graduate. And if that is an asset it's my only one."
Hamil, surprised at his bitterness, looked at him with troubled eyes.
Then his eyes wandered to Shiela, who had now taken up her embroidery.
"I can't help it," said Malcourt impatiently; "I like cities and people.
I always liked people. I never had enough of people. I never had any
society as a boy; and, Hamil, you can't imagine how I longed for it. It
would have been well for me to have had it. There was never any in my
own home; there was never anything in my home life but painful memories
