beautiful--then--in its way, as in its season of colour and peace."
"Ah! I knew you would say that." He added in a moment, "You are the
only person that has quoted my lines to me that has not embarrassed me
painfully. For the moment I felt that you had written them, not I!"
"I often used to feel that I had; all, that is----" The magnet of
danger to the curiosity in her feminine soul was irresistible. "All
but your ode to the mate whom you never could find."
And then she turned cold, for she remembered the story of the woman
who had been his ruin. But he did not pale nor shrink; he merely
smiled and his eyes seemed to withdraw still farther away. "Ah! that
woman of whom all poets dream. Perhaps we really find her as we invoke
her for a bit with the pen." Then he broke off abruptly and looked
hard at her, his eyes no longer absent. "You--you----" he began. "Ten
years ago----" And then his face flushed so darkly that Anne laughed
gaily to cover the cold and horror that gripped her once more.
"Ten years ago? I was only twelve! And now--I am made to feel every
day that two-and-twenty is quite old. In three more years I shall be
an orthodox old maid. All the women in Bath House intimate that I am
already beyond the marriageable age."
"The men do not, I fancy!" The poet spoke with the energy of a man
himself. "Besides, I looked--happened to look--through the window of
the saloon one night and saw you talking to no less than four
gallants."
Here she turned away in insufferable confusion, and he, too, seemed to
realise that he had betrayed a deeper interest than he had intended.
With a muttered au revoir he left her, and when she finally turned her
head he was gone. Miss Bargarny was exclaiming:
"Well, dear Lady Hunsdon, he was quite delightful, genteel, altogether
the gentleman. Thank heaven I never heard all those naughty stories,
so I can admire without stint. Did you notice, Mary, how pleased he
was when I recited that couplet?"
"I saw that he was very much embarrassed," replied Lady Mary, who for
an elegiac figure had a surprising reserve of human nature. "It was
too soon to be personal with a poor man who has been out of the world
so long. But I think he enjoyed himself after the first embarrassment
wore off. I feel surer still," with an exalted expression turned
suddenly upon Lord Hunsdon, "that we shall rescue him. We must have
him here often, not lose a day of this precious time. Then we can
leave Nevis without anxiety, or perhaps induce him to go with us." She
reflected that were she mistress of Hunsdon Towers she should be quite
willing to give the famous poet a turret and pass as his mundane
redeemer.
Hunsdon moved toward her as if her enthusiasm were a magnet. "It has
all exceeded my fondest hopes," he exclaimed. "He was quite like his
old self before he left----"
"Thanks to Miss Percy," broke in a stridulous voice. "He was devoured
with ennui, to say nothing of shyness, until he summoned up courage to
talk to her, and then he seemed to me quite like any ordinary young
spark. I don't know that he quite forgot to be a poet," she concluded
with some gallantry, for she had taken a great fancy to Anne and was
determined to marry her brilliantly, "but he certainly ceased for a
few moments to look like a God-forsaken one. What were you talking
about, my dear?"
"Dear Lady Constance--Oh, Nevis, and his poetry, for the most part."
"I should think he would be sick of both subjects. Come now, be frank.
Did not you get on the subject of your pretty self? I'll be bound he
has an eye for a fine girl as well as the best of them. You make Mary
and Lillian look like paper dolls."
"I do protest!" cried Miss Bargarny indignantly. "If he does it is
practically because he is a--lives in the country himself. If he lived
in London among people of the first fashion----"
"He'd admire her all the more. Look at the other beaux. Wait until
Miss Percy is in the high tide of a London season. You forget that if
girls are always on the catch, men are always ready for a change."
Miss Bargarny's black eyes were in flames, but she dared not provoke
that dreaded tongue further. She forced herself to smile as she turned
to Anne, standing abashed during this discussion of herself, and
longing to be alone with her chaotic thoughts. "Confess, dear Miss
Percy, that you did not talk about yourself, but about that most
fascinating of all subjects to man, himself. I believe you have
the true instinct of the coquette, in spite of your great lack of
experience, and that is a coquette's chiefest sugar-plum."
"I believe I did talk about himself--naturally, as I have always been
a great admirer of his work, and the very inexperience you mention
makes me seize upon such subjects as I know anything about."
Lady Mary went forward and put her arm about her new friend's waist.
"Let us take a turn in the orchard before it is time to retire," she
said. "I long to talk to you about our new acquaintance. Try to devise
a plan to bring him here daily," she said over her shoulder to the
complacent hostess; and to Lord Hunsdon, "Will you come for us in a
