incredible--but do you know, I followed that agitation as I don’t
believe any other man in this country followed it--and from first to
last I don’t believe that one single suggestion of that remedy was ever
made in print!”
A startled look had come upon Montague’s face as he listened. “I
don’t believe I ever thought of it myself!” he exclaimed.
And Bates shrugged his shoulders. “You see!” he said. “So it goes.”
CHAPTER XXIII
Montague had taken a couple of days to think over Lucy’s last
request. It was a difficult commission; but he made up his mind at
last that he would make the attempt. He went up to Ryder’s home and
presented his card.
“Mr. Ryder is very much occupied, sir--” began the butler,
apologetically.
“This is important,” said Montague. “Take him the card, please.” He
waited in the palatial entrance-hall, decorated with ceilings which
had been imported intact from old Italian palaces.
At last the butler returned. “Mr. Ryder says will you please see him
upstairs, sir?”
Montague entered the elevator, and was taken to Ryder’s private
apartments. In the midst of the drawing-room was a great library
table, covered with a mass of papers; and in a chair in front of it
sat Ryder.
Montague had never seen such dreadful suffering upon a human
countenance. The exquisite man of fashion had grown old in a week.
“Mr. Ryder,” he began, when they were alone, “I received a letter
from Mrs. Taylor, asking me to come to see you.”
“I know,” said Ryder. “It was like her; and it is very good of you.”
“If there is any way that I can be of assistance,” the other began.
But Ryder shook his head. “No,” he said; “there is nothing.”
“If I could give you my help in straightening out your own
affairs--”
“They are beyond all help,” said Ryder. “I have nothing to begin
on--I have not a dollar in the world.”
“That is hardly possible,” objected Montague.
“It is literally true!” he exclaimed. “I have tried every plan--I
have been over the thing and over it, until I am almost out of my
mind.” And he glanced about him at the confusion of papers, and
leaned his forehead in his hands in despair.
“Perhaps if a fresh mind were to take it up,” suggested Montague.
“It is difficult to see how a man of your resources could be left
without anything--”
“Everything I have is mortgaged,” said the other. “I have been
borrowing money right and left. I was counting on profits--I was
counting on increases in value. And now see--everything is wiped
out! There is not value enough left in anything to cover the loans.”
“But surely, Mr. Ryder, this slump is merely temporary. Values must
be restored--”
“It will be years, it will be years! And in the meantime I shall be
forced to sell. They have wiped me out--they have destroyed me! I
have not even money to live on.”
Montague sat for a few moments in thought. “Mrs. Taylor wrote me
that Waterman--” he began.
“I know, I know!” cried the other. “He had to tell her something, to
get what he wanted.”
Montague said nothing.
“And suppose he does what he promised?” continued the other. “He has
done it before--but am I to be one of Dan Waterman’s lackeys?”
There was a silence. “Like John Lawrence,” continued Ryder, in a low
voice. “Have you heard of Lawrence? He was a banker--one of the
oldest in the city. And Waterman gave him an order, and he defied
him. Then he broke him; took away every dollar he owned. And the man
came to him on his knees. ‘I’ve taught you who is your master,’ said
Waterman. ‘Now here’s your money.’ And now Lawrence fawns on him,
and he’s got rich and fat. But all his bank exists for is to lend
money when Waterman is floating a merger, and call it in when he is
buying.”
Montague could think of nothing to reply to that.
“Mr. Ryder,” he began at last, “I cannot be of much use to you now,
because I haven’t the facts. All I can tell you is that I am at your
disposal. I will give you my best efforts, if you will let me. That
is all I can say.”
And Ryder looked up, the light shining on his white, wan face.
“Thank you, Mr. Montague,” he said. “It is very good of you. It is a
help, at least, to hear a word of sympathy. I--I will let you
know--”
“All right,” said Montague, rising. He put out his hand, and Ryder
took it tremblingly. “Thank you,” he said again.
And the other turned and went out. He went down the great staircase
by himself. At the foot he passed the butler, carrying a tray with
