Where had she left her book? Dame Wilby had told her to take it home and
study. Surely she had brought it--oh, yes! she had put it just inside
the gate under the great clump of ribbon grass. If only Cousin
Elizabeth's sharp eyes had not seen it. But there it was, safe enough.
She was delighted to go to Cousin Chilian's room, though she never
presumed. She seemed to have an innate sort of delicacy that he wondered
at.
The spelling was soon mastered. It was the rather unusual words that
puzzled her. Then they attacked the tables and he practised her in
making figures. Like most children left to themselves, she printed
instead of writing.
"Oh!" she cried with a wistful yet joyous emphasis, "I wish I could come
to school to you. And I'd like to be the only scholar."
"But you ought to be with little girls."
"I don't like them very much."
Then Miss Winn came for her. "You are very good to take so much
trouble," she said.
"Oh, I like you so much, so much!" she exclaimed with her sweet eyes as
well as her lips.
He recalled then the day on board the vessel, when she had besought in
her impetuous fashion that he should kiss her. She had never offered the
caress since. She was not an effusive child.
Her position at school was rather anomalous. A younger woman might have
managed differently. There was a new scholar that rather crowded them on
the bench. And the boy back of her did some sly things that annoyed her.
He gave her hair a twitch now and then. One day he dropped a little toad
on her book, at which she screamed, though an instant after she was not
at all afraid. Of course, he was whipped for that, and for once she did
not feel sorry.
"You're a great ninny to be afraid of a toad not bigger than a button,"
he said scornfully. "I'll get you whipped some day to make up for it,
see if I don't."
Thursday was unfortunate and she was kept in for some rather saucy
replies. When she returned they were in the sitting-room and had been
discussing some household matters. She surveyed them with a courageous
but indignant air.
"I've quit," she exclaimed. "I'm not going there to school any more."
She stood up very straight, her eyes flashing.
"What!" ejaculated Cousin Elizabeth.
"Why, I've quit! She wanted to make me say I was sorry and beg her
pardon, and she threatened to keep me all night, but I knew some of you
would come, at least Rachel."
"And I suppose you were a saucy, naughty girl!"
"What happened?" asked Chilian quietly.
"Why, you see--I went up to her table with the figures I had been making
on my slate. I'd done some of them over three times, for Tommy Marsh
joggled my elbow. Then I went back to my seat. We're crowded now, and I
went to sit down and sat on the floor. I do believe Sadie Green did it
on purpose--moved so there wasn't room enough for me to sit. And Tom
laughed, then all the children laughed, and Dame Wilby said, 'Get up,
Cynthy Leverett,' and I said 'My name isn't Cynthy, if you please, and I
haven't any seat to sit on if I do get up.' And then the children
laughed again, and I don't quite know what did happen, but I was so
angry. Then she said all the children should stay in for laughing. She
called me to the desk and I went. The slate was broken and I laid it on
the table. Then she said wasn't I sorry for being saucy, and I said I
wasn't. It was bad enough to fall on the floor, for I might have hurt
myself. Then she took up her switch, and I said: 'You strike me, if you
dare!' Then she pushed me in a little closet place, and there I staid
until after school was out. Then she said, 'Would I tell Miss Leverett
to come over?' and I said Mr. Leverett was my guardian and I would tell
him, but I wasn't coming to school any more, and that Tommy Marsh
pinched me and pulled my hair, and called me wild Indian. And so--I've
quit. You can't make me go again. I'll run away first and go on some of
the boats."
There was a blaze of scarlet on her cheeks and her eyes flashed fire,
but she stood up straight and defiant, when another child might have
broken down and cried. Chilian Leverett always remembered the picture
she made--small, dark, and spirited.
"No," he exclaimed, "you need not go back." Then he rose and took her
hand that was cold and trembling. "You will not go back. Let us find
Miss Winn----"
"Chilian!" warned Elizabeth.
He led Cynthia from the room, up the stairs. Miss Winn sat there sewing.
She clasped her arms about him, he could fairly feel the throb in them.
"Oh," she cried with a strange sort of sweetness. "I love you. You are
so good to me, and I have told you just the truth."
Then she buried her face on Miss Winn's bosom.
Chilian went downstairs. He laughed, yet he was deeply touched by her
audacity and bravery.
