hands and knees. He had drawn himself up to it from the top of the wall,
which joined the building at the corner of the garden.
'It is easy enough,' Stradella answered. 'And now good-bye. To-morrow
night again, love, an hour before midnight.'
She rose and they joined hands again.
'I ought to tell you not to come,' she said in a weak voice, like a
child's. 'But how can I say it--now--now that----'
If any other word would have followed, it could not. Once more her
closed eyes saw sweet summer lightnings, and the thrill of the flame ran
from her lips through every vital part.
He turned from her at last to unfasten the window, and for a moment she
was too dazed to stop him, though she would have kept him still. Then
she tried to follow him out into the loggia, but he would not let her.
'No, love,' he said, 'your wet shoes would tell tales.'
'But there is danger!' answered Ortensia, holding him by his drenched
sleeve. 'I must know you are safe!'
'When I reach my boat I will whistle softly,' he said.
He was gone in the dark, and she was listening by the open window, her
heart beating so that it seemed as if it must drown any other sound. But
he made no noise as he crept along the ledge to the corner, and then
cautiously let himself down upon the top of the wall, dropping astride
of it then to pull himself along in that position by his hands till he
found the grappling-hook of his rope. The wall rose perpendicularly from
the canal, and he had moored his little skiff to the only ring he could
find at the base of it, some distance from the corner.
Ortensia listened anxiously for the promised signal, and peered into the
darkness, her hand on the window, ready to close it as soon as she knew
he was safe.
But suddenly she heard the sound of oars striking the water, and a
yellow glare rose above the wall from the other side.
'Who goes there?' asked a deep voice.
No one answered, but instantly there was a heavy splash, as of a body
falling into the canal.
Half-an-hour later Ortensia was lying on her back again, staring up at
the rosette in the canopy. But her face was distorted with horror now,
and was whiter than the pillow itself.
In the day-room, by the light of Ortensia's little lamp, Pina was on her
knees, carefully mopping up the water that had run down from Stradella's
clothes, and drying the marble floor.
CHAPTER IV
Soon after sunrise the Senator came and unlocked the doors of Ortensia's
day-room. That had always been his custom, for he kept the key under his
pillow, as has been said, and he would as soon have thought of sending a
servant to liberate the girl and the woman in the morning as of letting
any one but himself lock them in at night.
'The master's eye fattens the horse,' he said to himself, quoting a
Spanish proverb without much regard for metaphors.
It was his wont to open the door, and to look into the large room before
going away, for he was sure that his eye would at once detect the
slightest disarrangement of the furniture, or anything else unusual
which might warrant suspicion.
But this morning he did more: he entered the room, shut the door behind
him and looked about. He went to the window and examined the fastenings
carefully, opened it wide, went out into the loggia and looked down into
the garden. Everything was in order there, not one flower-pot had been
upset by the squall, not a branch of the cypress-tree was broken or even
bent.
Then he came in again and tapped sharply at the door of the
dressing-room where Pina slept. She appeared instantly, already dressed;
but she laid one finger on her lips, to keep him silent, and came out
into the room before she spoke.
She said that Ortensia had been kept awake half the night by the storm,
and was now sound asleep.
'A thief tried to get into the house after midnight,' said Pignaver.
'Did you hear any noise?'
'I should think I did!' cried Pina promptly. 'I was going to tell your
lordship of it. I was up with the young lady, and when the first squall
was over and she was more quiet, I thought I would just come in here to
see if any water had run in under the window as it sometimes does. Just
then I saw a glare of light beyond the garden wall, and I opened the
window at once and heard the Signor of the Night challenging a thief,
and directly afterwards there was a splash in the canal, and then
silence, and the light went away slowly. I hope the man was drowned, my
lord!'
While she was speaking, Pignaver had nodded repeatedly, for her little
story bore the stamp of truth.
'I grieve to say that the villain got away,' he answered. 'At daybreak
an officer from the Signors of the Night was waiting downstairs to
inform me of the attempt. The Signors' boat searched the canal for the
body of the man during more than an hour, but found nothing. He must
