smoking-room, where the stout little Major had gotten a group of young
bloods about him to play "Klondike." This was a game of deadly hazards,
which they played without limit; the players themselves were silent and
impassive, but the spectators who gathered about were tense with
excitement.
In the morning Charlie Carter carried off Alice and Oliver and Betty in
his auto; and Montague spent his time in trying some of Havens's
jumping horses. The Horse Show was to open in New York on Monday, and
there was an atmosphere of suppressed excitement because of this
prospect; Mrs. Caroline Smythe, a charming young widow, strolled about
with him and told him all about this Show, and the people who would
take part in it.
And in the afternoon Major Venable took him for a stroll and showed him
the grounds. He had been told what huge sums had been expended in
laying them out; but after all, the figures were nothing compared with
an actual view. There were hills and slopes, and endless vistas of
green lawns and gardens, dotted with the gleaming white of marble
staircases and fountains and statuary. There was a great Italian walk,
leading by successive esplanades to an electric fountain with a basin
sixty feet across, and a bronze chariot and marble horses. There were
sunken gardens, with a fountain brought from the South of France, and
Greek peristyles, and seats of marble, and vases and other treasures of
art.
And then there were the stables; a huge Renaissance building, with a
perfectly equipped theatre above. There was a model farm and dairy; a
polo-field, and an enclosed riding-ring for the children; and
dog-kennels and pigeon-houses, greenhouses and deer-parks--one was
prepared for bear-pits and a menagerie. Finally, on their way back,
they passed the casino, where musical chimes pealed out the
quarter-hours. Montague stopped and gazed up at the tower from which
the sounds had come.
The more he gazed, the more he found to gaze at The roof of this
building had many gables, in the Queen Anne style; and from the midst
of them shot up the tower, which was octagonal and solid, suggestive of
the Normans. It was decorated with Christmas-wreaths in white stucco,
and a few miscellaneous ornaments like the gilded tassels one sees upon
plush curtains. Overtopping all of this was the dome of a Turkish
mosque. Rising out of the dome was something that looked like a
dove-cot; and out of this rose the slender white steeple of a Methodist
country church. On top of that was a statue of Diana.
"What are you looking at?" asked the Major.
"Nothing," said Montague, as he moved on. "Has there ever been any
insanity in the Havens family?"
"I don't know," replied the other, puzzled. "They say the old man never
could sleep at night, and used to wander about alone in the park. I
suppose he had things on his conscience."
They strolled away; and the Major's flood-gates of gossip were opened.
There was an old merchant in New York, who had been Havens's private
secretary. And Havens was always in terror of assassination, and so
whenever they travelled abroad he and the secretary exchanged places.
"The old man is big and imposing," said the Major, "and it's funny to
hear him tell how he used to receive the visitors and be stared at by
the crowds, while Havens, who was little and insignificant, would
pretend to make himself useful. And then one day a wild-looking
creature came into the Havens office, and began tearing the wrappings
off some package that shone like metal--and quick as a flash he and
Havens flung themselves down on the floor upon their faces. Then, as
nothing happened, they looked up, and saw the puzzled stranger gazing
over the railing at them. He had a patent churn, made of copper, which
he wanted Havens to market for him!"
Montague could have wished that this party might last for a week or
two, instead of only two days. He was interested in the life, and in
those who lived it; all whom he met were people prominent in the social
world, and some in the business world as well, and one could not have
asked a better chance to study them.
Montague was taking his time and feeling his way slowly. But all the
time that he was playing and gossiping he never lost from mind his real
purpose, which was to find a place for himself in the world of affairs;
and he watched for people from whose conversation he could get a view
of this aspect of things. So he was interested when Mrs. Smythe
remarked that among his fellow-guests was Vandam, an official of one of
the great life-insurance companies. "Freddie" Vandam, as the lady
called him, was a man of might in the financial world; and Montague
said to himself that in meeting him he would really be accomplishing
something. Crack shots and polo-players and four-in-hand experts were
all very well, but he had his living to earn, and he feared that the
problem was going to prove complicated.
So he was glad when chance brought him and young Vandam together, and
Siegfried Harvey introduced them. And then Montague got the biggest
shock which New York had given him yet.
