for a lounge (respectfully speaking) between St. Peter’s and the high
precinct you approach by the gate just beyond Villa Medici--counting
nothing else--is a proof that if in Rome you may suffer from ennui, at
least your ennui has a throbbing soul in it. It is something to say for
the Pincio that you don’t always choose St. Peter’s. Sometimes I lose
patience with its parade of eternal idleness, but at others this very
idleness is balm to one’s conscience. Life on just these terms seems so
easy, so monotonously sweet, that you feel it would be unwise, would be
really unsafe, to change. The Roman air is charged with an elixir, the
Roman cup seasoned with some insidious drop, of which the action is
fatally, yet none the less agreeably, “lowering.”
January 26th.--With S. to the Villa Medici--perhaps on the whole
the most enchanting place in Rome. The part of the garden called the
Boschetto has an incredible, impossible charm; an upper terrace, behind
locked gates, covered with a little dusky forest of evergreen oaks.
Such a dim light as of a fabled, haunted place, such a soft suffusion
of tender grey-green tones, such a company of gnarled and twisted little
miniature trunks--dwarfs playing with each other at being giants--and
such a shower of golden sparkles drifting in from the vivid west! At
the end of the wood is a steep, circular mound, up which the short trees
scramble amain, with a long mossy staircase climbing up to a belvedere.
This staircase, rising suddenly out of the leafy dusk to you don’t see
where, is delightfully fantastic. You expect to see an old woman in a
crimson petticoat and with a distaff come hobbling down and turn into
a fairy and offer you three wishes. I should name for my own first wish
that one didn’t have to be a Frenchman to come and live and dream and
work at the Académie de France. Can there be for a while a happier
destiny than that of a young artist conscious of talent and of no errand
but to educate, polish and perfect it, transplanted to these sacred
shades? One has fancied Plato’s Academy--his gleaming colonnades, his
blooming gardens and Athenian sky; but was it as good as this one, where
Monsieur Hebert does the Platonic? The blessing in Rome is not that this
or that or the other isolated object is so very unsurpassable; but that
the general air so contributes to interest, to impressions that are not
as any other impressions anywhere in the world. And from this general
air the Villa Medici has distilled an essence of its own--walled it in
and made it delightfully private. The great façade on the gardens
is like an enormous rococo clock-face all incrusted with images and
arabesques and tablets. What mornings and afternoons one might
spend there, brush in hand, unpreoccupied, untormented, pensioned,
satisfied--either persuading one’s self that one would be “doing
something” in consequence or not caring if one shouldn’t be.
At a later date--middle of March.--A ride with S. W. out of the Porta
Pia to the meadows beyond the Ponte Nomentana--close to the site of
Phaon’s villa where Nero in hiding had himself stabbed. It all spoke as
things here only speak, touching more chords than one can now really
know or say. For these are predestined memories and the stuff that
regrets are made of; the mild divine efflorescence of spring, the
wonderful landscape, the talk suspended for another gallop....
Returning, we dismounted at the gate of the Villa Medici and walked
through the twilight of the vaguely perfumed, bird-haunted alleys to
H.’s studio, hidden in the wood like a cottage in a fairy tale. I spent
there a charming half-hour in the fading light, looking at the pictures
while my companion discoursed of her errand. The studio is small and
more like a little salon; the painting refined, imaginative, somewhat
morbid, full of consummate French ability. A portrait, idealised and
etherealised, but a likeness of Mme. de---(from last year’s Salon)
in white satin, quantities of lace, a coronet, diamonds and pearls; a
striking combination of brilliant silvery tones. A “Femme Sauvage,”
 a naked dusky girl in a wood, with a wonderfully clever pair of shy,
passionate eyes. The author is different enough from any of the numerous
American artists. They may be producers, but he’s a product as well--a
product of influences of a sort of which we have as yet no
general command. One of them is his charmed lapse of life in that
unprofessional-looking little studio, with his enchanted wood on one
side and the plunging wall of Rome on the other.
January 30th.--A drive the other day with a friend to Villa Madama,
on the side of Monte Mario; a place like a page out of one of Browning’s
richest evocations of this clime and civilisation. Wondrous in its
haunting melancholy, it might have inspired half “The Ring and the Book”
 at a stroke. What a grim commentary on history such a scene--what an
irony of the past! The road up to it through the outer enclosure is
almost impassable with mud and stones. At the end, on a terrace, rises
the once elegant Casino, with hardly a whole pane of glass in its
façade, reduced to its sallow stucco and degraded ornaments. The front
away from Rome has in the basement a great loggia, now walled in from
the weather, preceded by a grassy be littered platform with an immense
sweeping view of the Campagna; the sad-looking, more than sad-looking,
evil-looking, Tiber beneath (the colour of gold, the sentimentalists
say, the colour of mustard, the realists); a great vague stretch beyond,
