his feet might have trod, and in the very smoke he 
breathed, I did not once think of him. I thought as 
little of that poor Felicia Hemans, whose poetry filled 
my school-reading years with the roar of the wintry sea 
breaking from the waveless Plymouth Bay on the stern 
and rock-bound coast where the Pilgrim Fathers landed 
on a bowlder measuring eight by ten feet, now fenced 
in against the predatory hammers and chisels of rever- 
ent visitors. I knew that Gladstone was born at Liver- 
pool, but not Mrs. Oliphant, and the only literary shade 
I could summon from a past vague enough to my igno- 
rance was William Roscoe, whose Life of Leo X., in the 
Bohn Library, had been too much for my young zeal 
when my zeal was still young. My other memories of 
Liverpool have been acquired since my visit, and I now 
recur fondly to the picturesque times when King John 
founded a castle there, to the prouder times when Sir 
Francis Bacon represented it in Parliament; or again 
to the brave days when it resisted Prince Rupert for 
three weeks, and the inglorious epoch when the new 
city (it was then only some four or five hundred years 
old) began to flourish on the trade in slaves with the 
colonies of the Spanish Main, and on the conjoint and 
congenial traffic in rum, sugar, and tobacco. 
It will be suspected from these reminiscences that I 
have been studying a page of fine print in Baedeker, 
and I will not deceive the reader. It is true; but it 
is also true that I had some wonder, altogether my own, 
that so great a city should make so small an appeal to 
the imagination. In this it outdoes almost any me- 
tropolis of our own. Even in journalism, an intensely 
modern product, it does not excel; Manchester has its 
able and well-written Guardian, but what has Liver- 
pool ? Glasgow has its Glasgow School of Painting, but 
again what has Liverpool ? It is said that not above 
a million of its people live in it ; all the rest, who can, 
escape to Chester, where they perhaps vainly hope to 
escape the Americans. There, intrenched in charming 
villas behind myrtle hedges, they measurably do so; 
but Americans are very penetrating, and I would not 
be sure that the thickest and highest hedge was in- 
vulnerable to them. As it is, they probably constitute 
the best society of Liverpool, which the natives have 
abandoned to them, though they do not constitute it 
permanently, but consecutively. Every Cunarder, every 
White Star, pours out upon a city abandoned by its own 
good society a flood of cultivated Americans, who eddy 
into its hotels, and then rush out of them by every train 
within twenty-four hours, and often within twenty-five 
minutes. They understand that there are no objects of 
interest in Liverpool ; and they are not met at the Cus- 
toms with invitations to breakfast, luncheon, and dinner 
from the people of rank and fashion with whom they 
have come to associate. These have their stately seats 
in the lovely neighboring country, but they are not at 
the landing-stage, and even the uncultivated American 
cannot stay for the vast bourgeoisie of which Liver- 
pool, like the cities of his own land, is composed. Our 
own cities have a social consciousness, and are each 
sensible of being a centre, with a metropolitan destiny ; 
but the strange thing about Liverpool and the like Eng- 
lish towns is that they are without any social conscious- 
ness. Their meek millions are socially unborn; they 
can come into the world only in London, and in their 
prenatal obscurity they remain folded in a dreamless 
silence, while all the commercial and industrial ener- 
gies rage round them in a gigantic maturity. 
The time was when Liverpool was practically thie sole 
port of entry for our human cargoes, indentured ap- 
prentices of the beautiful, the historical. With the 
almost immediate transference of the original trans- 
atlantic steamship interests from Bristol, Liverpool be- 
came the only place where you could arrive. Amer- 
ican lines, long erased from the seas, and the Inman 
line, the Cunard line, the White Star line, and the 
rest, would land you nowhere else. Then heretical 
steamers began to land you at Glasgow; worse schis- 
matics carried you to Southampton ; there were hetero- 
dox craft that touched at Plymouth, and now great 
swelling agnostics bring you to London itself. Still, 
