"And your neighbour's wife," she added.
"Well, what about myself and my neighbour's wife?"
"I'm not familiar with such matters." Her face did not change, but the
burning anger suddenly welled up in her again. "I don't know anything
about such affairs, but if you think I ought to I might try to learn."
She laughed and leaned back into the depths of her chair. "You and I are
such intimate friends it's a shame I shouldn't understand and sympathise
with what most interests you."
He remained silent, gazing down at his shadow on the grass, hands
clasped loosely between his knees. She strove to study him calmly; her
mind was chaos; only the desire to hurt him persisted, rendered sterile
by the confused tumult of her thoughts.
Presently, looking up:
"Do you doubt that things are not right between--my neighbour's
wife--and me?" he inquired.
"The matter doesn't interest me."
"Doesn't it?"
"No."
"Then I have misunderstood you. What is the matter that does interest
you, Geraldine?"
She made no reply.
He said, carelessly good-humoured: "I like women. It's curious that they
know it instinctively, because when they're bored or lonely they drift
toward me.... Lonely women are always adrift, Geraldine. There seems to
be some current that sets in toward me; it catches them and they drift
in, linger, and drift on. I seem to be the first port they anchor in....
Then a day comes when they are gone--drifting on at hazard through the
years----"
"Wiser for their experience at Port Mallett?"
"Perhaps. But not sadder, I think."
"A woman adrift has no regrets," she said with contempt.
"Wrong. A woman who is in love has none."
"That is what I mean. The hospitality of Port Mallett ought to leave
them with no regrets."
He laughed. "But they are not loved," he said. "They know it. That's why
they drift on."
She turned on him white and tremulous.
"Haven't you even the excuse of caring for her?"
"Who?"
"A neighbour's wife--who comes drifting into your hospitable haven!"
"I don't pretend to love her, if that is what you mean," he said
pleasantly.
"Then you make her believe it--and that's dastardly!"
"Oh, no. Women don't love unless made love to. You've only read that in
books."
She said a little breathlessly: "You are right. I know men and women
only through books. It's time I learned for myself."
CHAPTER VII
TOGETHER
The end of June and of the house party at Roya-Neh was now near at hand,
and both were to close with a moonlight fête and dance in the forest,
invitations having been sent to distant neighbours who had been
entertaining similar gatherings at Iron Hill and Cloudy Mountain--the
Grays, Beekmans, Ellises, and Grandcourts.
Silks and satins, shoe buckles and powdered hair usually mark the high
tide of imaginative originality among this sort of people. So it was to
be the inevitable Louis XVI fête--or as near to it as attenuated,
artistic intelligence could manage, and they altered Duane's very clever
and correct sketches to suit themselves, careless of anachronism, and
sent the dainty water-colour drawings to town in order that those who
sweat and sew in the perfumed ateliers of Fifth Avenue might use them as
models.
"The fun--if there's any in dressing up--ought to lie in making your own
costumes," observed Duane. But nobody displayed any inclination to do
so. And now, on hurry orders, the sewers in the hot Fifth Avenue
ateliers sewed faster. Silken and satin costumes, paste jewelry and
property small-swords were arriving by express; maids flew about the
house at Roya-Neh, trying on, fussing with lace and ribbon, bodice and
flowered pannier, altering, retrimming, adjusting. Their mistresses met
in one another's bedrooms for mysterious confabs over head-dress and
coiffure, lace scarf, and petticoat.
As for the men, they surreptitiously tried on their embroidered coats
and breeches, admired themselves in secrecy, and let it go at that,
returning with embarrassed relief to cards, tennis, and the various
forms of amiable idleness to which they were accustomed. Only Englishmen
can masquerade seriously.
Later, however, the men were compelled to pay some semblance of
attention to the general preparations, assemble their foot-gear,
head-gear, stars, orders, sashes, swords, and try them on for Duane
Mallett--to that young man's unconcealed dissatisfaction.
