that I wouldn’t throw away the chance; so I fell off a point, steadied my
helm, and went for him.  You should have heard me whiz, and seen the
electric fur fly!  In about a minute and a half I was fringed out with an
electrical nimbus that flamed around for miles and miles and lit up all
space like broad day.  The comet was burning blue in the distance, like a
sickly torch, when I first sighted him, but he begun to grow bigger and
bigger as I crept up on him.  I slipped up on him so fast that when I had
gone about 150,000,000 miles I was close enough to be swallowed up in the
phosphorescent glory of his wake, and I couldn’t see anything for the
glare.  Thinks I, it won’t do to run into him, so I shunted to one side
and tore along.  By and by I closed up abreast of his tail.  Do you know
what it was like?  It was like a gnat closing up on the continent of
America.  I forged along.  By and by I had sailed along his coast for a
little upwards of a hundred and fifty million miles, and then I could see
by the shape of him that I hadn’t even got up to his waistband yet.  Why,
Peters,  we  don’t know anything about comets, down here.  If you want to
see comets that  are  comets, you’ve got to go outside of our solar
system—where there’s room for them, you understand.  My friend, I’ve seen
comets out there that couldn’t even lay down inside the  orbits  of our
noblest comets without their tails hanging over.
Well, I boomed along another hundred and fifty million miles, and got up
abreast his shoulder, as you may say.  I was feeling pretty fine, I tell
you; but just then I noticed the officer of the deck come to the side and
hoist his glass in my direction.  Straight off I heard him sing
out—“Below there, ahoy!  Shake her up, shake her up!  Heave on a hundred
million billion tons of brimstone!”
“Ay-ay, sir!”
“Pipe the stabboard watch!  All hands on deck!”
“Ay-ay, sir!”
“Send two hundred thousand million men aloft to shake out royals and
sky-scrapers!”
“Ay-ay, sir!”
“Hand the stuns’ls!  Hang out every rag you’ve got!  Clothe her from stem
to rudder-post!”
“Ay-ay, sir!”
In about a second I begun to see I’d woke up a pretty ugly customer,
Peters.  In less than ten seconds that comet was just a blazing cloud of
red-hot canvas.  It was piled up into the heavens clean out of sight—the
old thing seemed to swell out and occupy all space; the sulphur smoke
from the furnaces—oh, well, nobody can describe the way it rolled and
tumbled up into the skies, and nobody can half describe the way it smelt.
Neither can anybody begin to describe the way that monstrous craft begun
to crash along.  And such another powwow—thousands of bo’s’n’s whistles
screaming at once, and a crew like the populations of a hundred thousand
worlds like ours all swearing at once.  Well, I never heard the like of
it before.
We roared and thundered along side by side, both doing our level best,
because I’d never struck a comet before that could lay over me, and so I
was bound to beat this one or break something.  I judged I had some
reputation in space, and I calculated to keep it.  I noticed I wasn’t
gaining as fast, now, as I was before, but still I was gaining.  There
was a power of excitement on board the comet.  Upwards of a hundred
billion passengers swarmed up from below and rushed to the side and begun
to bet on the race.  Of course this careened her and damaged her speed.
My, but wasn’t the mate mad!  He jumped at that crowd, with his trumpet
in his hand, and sung out—
“Amidships! amidships, you—! {9} or I’ll brain the last idiot of you!”
Well, sir, I gained and gained, little by little, till at last I went
skimming sweetly by the magnificent old conflagration’s nose.  By this
time the captain of the comet had been rousted out, and he stood there in
the red glare for’ard, by the mate, in his shirt-sleeves and slippers,
his hair all rats’ nests and one suspender hanging, and how sick those
two men did look!  I just simply couldn’t help putting my thumb to my
nose as I glided away and singing out:
“Ta-ta! ta-ta!  Any word to send to your family?”
Peters, it was a mistake.  Yes, sir, I’ve often regretted that—it was a
mistake.  You see, the captain had given up the race, but that remark was
too tedious for him—he couldn’t stand it.  He turned to the mate, and
says he—
“Have we got brimstone enough of our own to make the trip?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Sure?”
“Yes, sir—more than enough.”
“How much have we got in cargo for Satan?”
“Eighteen hundred thousand billion quintillions of kazarks.”
“Very well, then, let his boarders freeze till the next comet comes.
Lighten ship!  Lively, now, lively, men!  Heave the whole cargo
overboard!”
Peters, look me in the eye, and be calm.  I found out, over there, that a
kazark is exactly the bulk of a  hundred and sixty-nine worlds like
