
“ Oh, I’ve caught a word or two. But the 
choice is between lying here for years and suf- 
fering, or that. For father’s sake I’m going 
to take that. And I want you to believe that 
from the outset I had nothing against you as 
Miss Grant, but it was the boyish contrariness, 
the love of not giving in, of showing that I 
wasn’t going to be ruled or advised by a 
woman. And yet I did just the same thing to 
a young man over at Ridgewood. I’ve had my 
own way in ’most everything through love, and 
it hasn’t been a good thing — as father and I 
see now. Miss Grant, he’s the most splendid 
father ” 

Dick covered his face a moment with his 
handkerchief. The ready tears flashed to Hel- 
en’s eyes. She reached over and took his hand. 

“ I was in that Hallowe’en mischief. It was 
my plan, and only one boy helped. We did it 
for a scare. I never thought of the log fall- 
ing against any one, but when such a fuss was 


 

made about it we were pretty well scared our- 
selves and tried to throw the escapade on some 
of the mill boys. I don't know how I could 
have been so mean and cruel to a woman, only 
in the grammar school I used to torment Miss 
Parker. But she wasn't young and pretty and 
sweet, and she had Mr. Underwood right back 
of her. I just took a delight in butting up 
against everything and making believe I 
didn’t know things when I did, just to make 
the others laugh. And you remember about 
the excuse I didn’t bring and the wretched ex- 
ercise? Mr. Underwood said then that if I 
went on this way, being such a bad influence, 
I should be expelled. He told father, and 
father said if that occurred he would send me 
to a strict military school. I was having good 
fun at home and being indulged in everything 
and wanted to stay here. So I was more care- 
ful. Only — only — yes, you must hear it all, 
I did get in with some fellows, not in the club 
but outside, and we played cards, betting and 
drinking beer. I wish I could blot all that out. 
I look at that boy and think he ought to have 
been horsewhipped.” 



“ Oh, Dick, you are tired ! Let all the rest 
go. I forgave it — when I looked at you that 
day and was afraid you might be dead. Do 
you think I could have held any sense of 
offense against you ? ” 

There was a silence of several minutes, and 
she could hear the breath that came so irregu- 
larly. 

“ I had been drinking something stronger 
than beer that last afternoon. Oh ! I wish I 
could get out on my knees to you and tell you 
how shameful I thought that wicked thing was! 
I'd made a bet with the boys — why, it seems 
to me now that any tough of them all would 
hardly have done such a dastardly act. If I 
should never come back here except in a coffin, 
you may forgive me out of pure charity then, 
but you can go on holding it against me ” 

“ Oh, Dick, no! no! I told you I forgave it 
long ago. I have had nothing but sincerest 
sympathy for you through all this dreadful 
