Now, as you put it, they are in the hands of 
their lawyers. Then there are, or were, the 
Cottings, the Colvilles, the Methuens, the 
Lennox Joneses. Where are they?" 
"In the same box, I suppose. But what 
of it? What have their various deviltries to 
do with us?" 
"Everything. We might get in the same 
box ourselves." 
"Ce n est pas la mer a boire," Welden 
lapsing into French, as certain New Yorkers 
sometimes will, replied. 
Again the girl assented. "For a man, 
certainly not. But for a woman, it rather 
proclaims the fact that she has put her love 
and life into the hands of an individual who 
has destroyed the one and ruined the other. 
Women endure much, and I could endure 
that on condition, however, that I alone were 
aware of it. But, to have it known, printed, 
discussed; to have my private misfortunes 
public property, no, I would rather " 
The girl hesitated as though at loss for a 
simile. Before she could find one, provided, 
that is, she wanted to, Welden cut in. 
"But, Maud, are you not putting the tilbury before the tandem? That people do 
get divorces is obvious and in the majority 
of cases the reason is obvious also. Men 
here, as a rule, marry too young. They marry because they cannot decently get the girl 
otherwise, and as they afterward discover, 
it is not the girl, but a girl that they have got. 
To me, you are not a girl; you are the 
 
girl, the one girl in the whole wide world." 
Maud looked the matter over as it reached 
her, and indicated the flaw in it with a smile. 
"We are taught that experience teaches, 
and I may suppose that you have had yours, 
many experiences, I dare say. In that case, 
you have had a liberal education, which I 
have lacked. Your experiences have qualified you as an expert, and it is as such that 
you are able to decide that I am the one girl 
in the world for you. That is very gratifying. But what is there to enable me to deter 
mine that you are the one man? You may 
be. Probably you are. But how can I tell? 
How can I?" 
Sagaciously Welden answered: "Try 
me." 
Maud turned away, and with her two 
hands made a pass in the air. It was as 
though in some rite known but to herself, 
she were interrogating the invisible lap of 
the indifferent gods. 
Then, looking suddenly at him, she ex 
claimed: "I have a great mind to." 
In spite of a gesture meant to stay him, 
Welden sprang at the girl, caught her in 
his arms, and pressing his lips to hers-, so hent her with the embrace, that she fell back 
ward on the sofa. 
At once, freeing herself, she pushed him 
away. 
"Oblige me by sitting where you were." 
As she spoke, she went to the mirror, readjusted her hat, patted her frock. These 
operations concluded, she turned again. 
"We may as well say that we are engaged. 
In that manner we can be together whenever 
we like. Come to dinner to-morrow. I will 
speak to my father to-night,you can speak to 
him then." 
She moved back. "Don't kiss me here. 
Don t. Now you must go. I have to dress." 
Welden passed from the library into a 
reception room which adjoined it, and from 
 
there to the marble flagging of the hall. 
Near the entrance stood a man, an old 
family servant who had known Welden 
throughout the year and the day of the siege 
and who now handed him his hat and stick. 
Welden, considering him with laughing 
