substituting millions for thousands in the estimate of the defalcation,
we might date it in this year of our Lord.
                                 “RICHMOND, April 11th, 1839.
                                        “(Saturday night.)
    “MY DEAR WIFE,—The general subject, and, in fact, the only
    one which at present occupies the minds of the citizens
    here, is the late discovery of defalcations of my old friend
    D., first teller of the Bank of Virginia, for the sum, as
    reports say, of nearly, or quite half a million. He has
    absconded, but some individuals here have had part of the
    cash; among the number is the great speculator, W. D. G.,
    who has ruined and also severely injured many persons in
    this place by borrowing, or getting them to endorse for
    him. I never have before witnessed so general an excitement
    here. Mr. G. has been arrested to-day, and taken before the
    mayor. It is now nine o’clock, and the court is still in
    session. It is probable he will be sent to the higher court
    for trial, etc. I expect a good many of our plain country
    folks will be afraid of Bank of Virginia notes when they
    hear of the loss. I hope it will make some of them shell
    out and pay me all that they owe. I should like to find a
    few thousands waiting for me on my return home. I expect
    to-morrow to attend the Sabbath-school at the Second Church,
    conducted by Mr. Reeve. It is said to be the best school in
    the city. Tell Herbert I have bought a book called Cobwebs
    to Catch Flies, and I hope it will be the means of catching
    from him many good lessons. He must learn fast, as I have
    bought for him Sanford and Merton, with plates, and when
    he can read he shall have it for his own. May I not hope for
    a letter from you on Tuesday?—for it seems a long time since
    we parted.”
Mrs. Bass, the meek widow of a Methodist clergyman, succeeded the
eighteen-year-old girl in the conduct of the neighborhood school. It
is doubtful if we learned anything worth relating from her. I am sure
we learned nothing evil. She was very kind, very gentle, very devout;
she wore a widow’s cap and a bombazine gown, and she was the only
woman I ever heard pray until I was over fourteen years of age. There
were a dozen girls in the class, which met in a one-roomed building in
a lot adjoining her garden. We had no public schools at that date in
Virginia. We were all paid pupils, and carefully selected from families
in our own class. Those from Presbyterian families outnumbered the
rest, but no objection was made by our parents to the “methods” of the
Wesleyan relict. The tenets of the two churches were the same in the
main. Discrepancies in the matter of free agency, predestination, and
falling from grace were adjudged of minor importance in the present
case. Mrs. Bass was not likely to trench upon them in the tuition of
pupils of tender age. I more than suspect that there would have been
a strong objection made to intrusting us to a Baptist, who would not
lose an opportunity of inculcating the heresy that “baptize” meant,
always and everywhere in the Bible, immersion. And every school was
opened daily by Bible-reading. To this our black-robed, sweet-faced
instructress joined audible petitions, and in our reading and the
lessons that followed she let slip no chance of working in moral and
religious precepts.
Let one example suffice:
One of our recitations was spelling, with the definitions, from
Walker’s Dictionary. Betty Mosby, a pretty girl with a worldly father
and a compliant mother, had learned to dance, and had actually attended
a kind of “Hunt Ball,” given in the vicinity by her father’s sister.
She had descanted volubly upon the festivities to us in “play-times,”
describing her dress and the number of dances in which she figured with
“grown-up gentlemen,” and the hearts of her listeners burned within us
as we listened and longed.
On this day the word “heaven” fell to me to spell and define. This
done, the “improvement” came in Mrs. Bass’s best class-meeting tone:
“Heaven! I hope and pray you may get there, Virginia! You ought not to
fail of the abundant entrance, for your parents are devout Christians
and set you a good example, but from him to whom much is given shall
much be required. Next! ‘Heavenly!’”
Near the foot of the column stood “Hell.”
Anne Carus rendered it with modest confidence, spelling and defining
in a subdued tone befitting the direful monosyllable. That she was
a minister’s daughter was felt by us all to lend her a purchase
in handling the theme. Mrs. Bass was not to be cheated of her
“application”:
“HELL!” she iterated in accents that conveyed the idea of recoiling
from an abyss. “Ah-h-h! I wonder which of my little scholars will lie
down in everlasting burnings?”
“Mercy! I hope I won’t!” cried Betty Mosby, with a shiver of well-acted
terror.
