to the tale of his adventm-es, he could not keep 
the thought from troubling him, how large a 
part of eighty dollars was six thirty-seven. And 
all in a single day. 

" Come," said the young fellow; and they start- 
ed down the track. The freight was whistling 
for brakes, far up the grade. And Samuel's 
heart thumped with excitement. 

They crouched in the bushes, not far beyond 
the tank. But the train did not stop for water; 
it only slowed down for a curve, and it thimdered 
by at what seemed to Samuel an appalling rate 
of speed. " Jump ! " shouted the other, and 
started to run by the track. He made a leap, and 
caught, and was whirled on, half visible in a cloud 
of dust. 

Samuel's nerve failed him. He waited, while 
car after car went by. But then he caught hold 
of himself. If anyone could do it, so could he. 
For shame. 

He started to nm. There came a box-car, 
empty, with the door open, and he leaped and 
clutched the edge of the door. He was whirled 
from his feet, his arms were nearly jerked out 
of him. He was half blinded by the dust, but he 





hung on desperately, and pvdled himself up. A 
minute more and he lay gasping and trembling 
upon the floor of the car. Jle was on his way to 
the city. 

After a while, Samuel began to think; and 
then scruples troubled him. He was riding free; 
but was he not really stealing? And would his 
father have approved of his doing it? He had 
begun his career by yielding to temptation! And 
this at the suggestion of a young fellow who 
boasted of drinking and thieving! Simply to 
start such questions was enough, with Samuel; 
and he made up his mind that when he reached 
the city the first thing he would do would be to 
visit the ofiice of the railroad, and explain what 
he had done, and pay his fare. 

Perhaps an hour later the train came to a 
stop, and he heard some one walking by the 
track. He hid in a corner, ashamed of being 
there. Some one stopped before the car, and the 
door was rolled shut. Then the footsteps went 
on. There came clankings and jarrings, as of 
cars being shifted, and then these ceased and 
silence fell. 

Samuel waited for perhaps an hour. Then, 
becoming restless, he got up and tried the door. 
It was fast. 

The boy was startled and rather dazed. He 
sat down to think it out. " I suppose I'm locked 





in till we reacH New York," he reflected. But 
then, why didn't they go? 

" Perhaps we're on a siding, waiting for the 
passenger train to pass," was his next thought; 
and he realized regretfully that he would have 
heen on that train. But then, as hour after hour 
passed, and they did not go on, a terrible possi- 
