low chair hemming them with little stitches, — when the 
curtains are done and up, they'll give a tea." 
The two men exchanged a glance of solemn meaning, 
Lovell's all commiseration, knowing what his friend fore- 
saw, and Winterbourne's prophetic of what Lovell, too, 
was in for. 
" They 're going to rope you in, my boy," he announced. 
"They're on your trail." 
Lovell looked nervously about him. 
" What 's the use of talking that way, Winterbourne," 
 
he said, with a false courage. " I don't go to teas. Every- 
body knows I don't go to teas." 
" Man alivre, you 've written poetry." 
'' That was years ago. I can't be hauled up now for that 
old offence." 
" The volume is on tables all over this town. My wife 
has seen it. She saw it in Mrs. Jellyby's sitting-room. Do 
you want me to show you what kind of a woman my wife 
is? She wrote Mrs. Jellyby a note, and it kept Mrs. Jel- 
lyby at home a whole forenoon. What do you think of 
that for a triumph ? I went to see the kids as usual, and 
they were all crying like murder because their mother was 
going to dress them up so my wife could inspect them when 
she called." 
Lovell was not acutely interested in the Ramsays, but 
only in his own prospects of escaping teas for as long as 
he could imagine time to last. 
" I scooped up as many of the kids as I could carry and 
retreated into the orchard with them," Winterbourne 
brooded. '' I wasn't going to have them crammed into 
their best tuckers and used for a show, poor little men and 
women." 
" I don't see what they want of the children," Lovell 
said, in a tone of similar gloom, as if the purposes of 
womankind bent on social schemes were nefarious, to be 
unravelled. They might have been ogres hungry for chil- 
dren. Nor did Winterbourne see. He knew Celia professed 
an interest in the children, and thought it human in her 
and sweet, but it was beyond his guessing that Celia, in 
this campaign for her sister's advancement, eagerly and with 
a pitiful care sought out the means to please. 
" My wife called on Mrs. Jellyby," he continued, unfold- 
ing as if before his own mind also the facts he had not 
 
been able to correlate in the fever of their happening. 
"She said she must do it in the forenoon because Mrs. 
Jellyby would be away every afternoon about her public 
duties. She said she had to call herself because she couldn't 
wait for Mrs. Jellyby to call." 
" Why couldn't she ? " Lovell thought he could have 
waited a long time for that consummation. 
" Because Mrs. Jellyby is a great woman." 
This Winterbourne delivered with the air of making an 
exact quotation and Lovell had nothing to return but 
"Oh ! " Now Winterbourne laid his hand upon the books. 
" Come," said he, " let 's get to work." But they were not 
yet forgetfully absorbed in the flow of sound when Winter- 
bourne looked up again. " Jim," said he, as if he might 
have to quarrel with somebody, "should you say Mrs. 
Jellyby 's a great woman ? " 
Lovell looked at him blankly and shook Hiis head. That 
seemed to be sufficient and they relinquished the subject as 
if it were a heaviness they plumped back into the sea, a 
bad uneatable fish that might be allowed to live because 
nobody could tackle him, and turned to their books. 
An hour or so later there was a step at the door. 
" That 's Dwight," said Winterbourne, stopping in his 
reading. 
" No, it 's not Dwight. He 'd come in." 
The visitor knocked instead, and Lovell went to the 
door. It was Tim Ramsay, looking very lank in a loose 
greatcoat, the collar turned up to his ears and his hands 
buried in the pockets. He wore a queer cap of Tony's be- 
cause his own could not be found, — Tony had explained 
that he had that afternoon been playing Prince Rupert's 
men with it, — and it turned him into a handsome bright- 
eyed wood-creature of an older time than ours, — the 
 
time that could offer a faun or a satyr in the dancing 
