
"But we can’t turn you out of your own place!"

"No; but I’ve got to turn myself out.  If you’ll just let me think——"

"I will—oh, I will, Mr. Edgerton; but please, please let me explain
the dreadful and humiliating conditions first, so that you won’t
consider me absolutely shameless."

"I don’t!"

"You will unless I tell you—unless I find courage to tell you how it is
with my sister and me."

"I’d like to know, but you must not feel obliged to tell me."

"I do feel obliged!  I must!  We’re poor. We’ve spent all our money,
and we can’t go anywhere else very well!"

Edgerton glanced at the luxury in the next room, astonished; then his
gaze reverted to the silk-clad figure before him.

"You don’t understand, of course," she said, flushing.  "How could you
suppose us to be almost penniless living here in such a beautiful place
with all those new trunks and gowns and pretty things!  But that is
exactly why we are doing it!"

She leaned forward in her chair, the tint of excitement in her cheeks.

"After the failure, Silvette and I hadn’t anything very much!—you know
how everything of uncle’s went—"  She stopped abruptly.  "Why—why,
probably everything of yours went, too!  Did it?"

He laughed: "Pretty nearly everything."

"Oh! oh!" she cried; "what a perfectly atrocious complication!
Perhaps—perhaps you haven’t money enough to—to go somewhere else for a
while.  Have you?"

"Well, I’ll fix it somehow."

"Mr. Edgerton!" she said excitedly, "Silvette and I have got to go!"

"No," he said laughing, "you’ve only got to go on with your story, Miss
Tennant.  I am a very interested and sympathetic listener."

"Yes," she said desperately, "I must go on with that, too.  Listen, Mr.
Edgerton; we thought a long while and discussed everything, and we
concluded to stake everything on an idea that came to Silvette.  So we
drew out all the money we had and we paid all our just debts, and we
parted with our chaperone—who was a perfect d-darling—I’ll tell you
about her sometime—and we took Argent, our cat, and came straight to New
York, and we hunted and hunted for an apartment until we found this!
And then—do you know what we did?" she demanded excitedly.

"I couldn’t guess!" said Edgerton, smiling.

"We bought clothes—beautiful clothes! And everything luxurious that we
didn’t have we bought—almost frightened to death while we were doing
it—and then we advertised!"



"Advertised!"

"From here!  Can you ever forgive us?"

"Of course," he said, mystified; "but what did you advertise?"

"Ourselves!"

"What!"

"Certainly; and we’ve had replies, but we haven’t liked the people so
far.  Indeed, we advertised in the most respectable daily, weekly and
monthly papers—"  She sprang to her feet, trotted over to the sofa,
picked up an illustrated periodical devoted to country life, and
searching hastily through the advertising pages, found and read aloud to
him, still standing there, the following advertisement:

