it to him that a white woman lay in yonder tent? His one emotion was of
envy. After this the prisoners became apathetic.

Upon the seventh day, they witnessed the desert's terrifying anger. The
air that had been cool, suddenly grew still and hot; the blue above
began to fade, to assume a dusty, copperish color. The camels grew
restless. Quickly there rose out of the horizon saffron clouds,
approaching with incredible swiftness. Little whirlwinds of sand
appeared here and there, rose and died as if for want of air. Mahomed
veered the caravan toward a kind of bluff composed of sand and
precipitous boulders. All the camels were made to kneel. The boys
muffled up their mouths and noses, and Mahomed gave instructions to his
captives. Fortune buried her head in her coat and nestled down beside
her camel, while George and Ryanne used their handkerchiefs. George left
his camel and sought Fortune's side, found her hand and held it tightly.
He scarcely gave thought to what he did. He vaguely meant to encourage
her; and possibly he did.

The storm broke. The sun became obscured. Pebbles and splinters of rock
sang through the pall of whirling sand. A golden tone enveloped the
little gathering.

Had there been no natural protection, they must have ridden on, blindly
and desperately, for to have remained still in the open would have been
to await their tombs. It spent its fury in half an hour; and the
clearing air became cold again. The caravan proceeded. The hair of every
one was dimly yellow, their faces and their garments.

When camp was made that night it found the captives untalkative. The
girl and the two men sat moodily about the fire. Fatigue had dulled
their bodies and hopelessness their minds. The men were ragged now,
unkempt; a stubble of beard covered their faces, gaunt yet burned.
George had lost his remaining pump, and as his stockings were now full
of holes, he had, in the last flicker of personal pride, wound about
them some cast-off cloths he had found. There was not enough water for
ablutions; there was scarcely enough to assuage thirst.

By and by, Ryanne, without turning his head, spoke to George. "You say
you questioned the courier?"

"Yes."

"He says he showed the note to no one?"

"Yes."

"And so no one will try to find us?

"No."

Ryanne had asked these questions a dozen times and George had always
given the same answers.

Up and away at dawn, for they must reach the well that night. It was a
terrible day for them all. Even the beasts showed signs of distress. And
the worst of it was, Mahomed was not quite sure of his route.
Fortunately, they found the well. They drank like mad people.

Ryanne, who had discovered a pack of cards in his pocket, played
patience upon a spot smoothed level with his hand. He became absorbed in
the game; and the boys gathered round him curiously. Whenever he
succeeded in turning out the fifty-two cards, he would smile and rub his
hands together. The boys at length considered him unbalanced mentally,
and in consequence looked upon him as a near-holy man.

Between Fortune and George, conversation dwindled down to a query and an
answer.

"Can I do anything for you?"

"No, thanks; I am getting along nicely."

To-night she retired early, and George joined Ryanne's audience.

"It averages about nine cards to the play," he commented.

Ryanne turned over an ace. Ten or fifteen minutes went by. In the
several attempts he had failed to score the full complement.

George laughed.
