The concern was lodged in two small rooms in an ob- 
scure office-building. The manager, a Mr. Taylor, 
was a man not particularly prepossessing in appear- 
ance, but he was a person of intelligence, and was evi- 
dently interested in the book. Moreover he had 
promised to read it at once. 
And that same week came the reply a reply which 
set the two almost beside themselves with happiness. 
"I have read your manuscript," wrote Mr. Taylor. 
"And I have no hesitation in pronouncing it a work of 
genius. In fact, I am not sure but what it is the 
greatest piece of literature it has ever been my fortune 
as a publisher to come upon. It is vital, and passion- 
ately sincere, and I will stake my reputation upon the 
prophecy that it will be an instantaneous success. I 
hope that we may become the publishers of it, and will 
be glad if you will come to see me at once and talk 
over terms." 
Thyrsis read this aloud ; and then he caught Corydon 
in his arms, and tears of joy and relief ran down her 
cheeks. 
He went to see the publisher, and for ten or fifteen 
minutes he listened to such a panegyric upon his book 
as made his cheeks burn. Visions of freedom and 
 
triumph rose before him he had come into his own at 
last! And then Mr. Taylor proceeded to outline 
his business proposition and as Thyrsis realized the 
nature of it, it was as if he had been suddenly plunged 
into an Arctic sea. The man wanted him to pay one- 
half the cost of the plates of his book, and in addition 
to guarantee to take one hundred copies at the whole- 
sale price of ninety cents per copy! 
"Is that is that customary in publishing?" asked 
the other. 
"Not always," Mr. Taylor replied; "but it is our 
custom. You see, we are an unusual sort of publishing- 
house. We do not run after the best-sellers and the 
trash we publish real books, books with a mission and 
a message for the world. And we advertise them widely 
we make the world heed them; and so we feel justified 
in asking the author to help us with a part of the ex- 
pense. We pay ten per cent, royalty, of course, and in 
addition the author has the hundred copies of his book, 
which he can sell to friends and others if he wishes." 
"What would it cost for my book?" Thyrsis asked. 
And the man figured it up and told him it could be 
done for about two hundred and fifty dollars. "I'll 
make it two hundred and twenty-five to you," he said 
"just because of my interest in your future." 
But Thyrsis only shook his head sadly. "I wish I 
could do it," he said, "but I simply haven't the money 
that's all." 
And so he took his departure, and carried his manu- 
script to another publisher, and then went home, crushed 
and sick. 
4. BUT the more Thyrsis thought of this plan, 
the more it came to possess him. If he could only get 
that book printed, it could not fail to make its im- 
pression ! He had thought many times in his despera- 
tion of trying to publish it himself ; and if he did that, 
he would have to pay the cost of the plates, of the 
printing and everything; whereas by this method he 
could get it for much less, and would have a hundred 
copies which he could send to critics and men of letters, 
in order to make certain of the book's being read. 
When the manuscript came back from the next pub- 
lisher, with a formal note of rejection, Thyrsis made 
up his mind that he would concentrate his efforts upon 
this plan. So he got down to another pot-boiler. 
An old sea-captain had told him a story of some 
American college boys who had stolen a sacred idol 
in China. Thyrsis saw a plot in that, and the editor 
of the "Treasure Chest" considered it a "bully" idea. 
So he toiled day and night for a couple more weeks, and 
earned another hundred dollars. And then he did some- 
thing he had never done in his life before he went to 
some relatives to beg. He pleaded how hard he had 
worked, and what a chance he had; he would pay back 
the money out of the first royalties from the book 
