company, Grace--it pays the devil with your sense of proportion. If you
make this row when I sell a picture, what will be left to you when I
forge a cheque?”
“If you had arrived at the necessity of forging a cheque,” she answered,
“I should then resign myself to that of your selling a picture.”
“But not short of that!”
“Not short of that. Not one of ours.”
“But I couldn’t,” said his lordship with his best and coldest amusement,
“sell one of somebody else’s!”
She was, however, not disconcerted. “Other people do other things--they
appear to have done them, and to be doing them, all about us. But we
have been so decently different--always and ever. We’ve never done
anything disloyal.”
“‘Disloyal’?”--he was more largely amazed and even interested now.
Lady Grace stuck to her word. “That’s what it seems to me!”
“It seems to you”--and his sarcasm here was easy--“more disloyal to sell
a picture than to buy one? Because we didn’t paint ‘em all ourselves,
you know!”
She threw up impatient hands. “I don’t ask you either to paint or to
buy----!”
“Oh, that’s a mercy!” he interrupted, riding his irony hard; “and
I’m glad to hear you at least let me off such efforts! However, if it
strikes you as gracefully filial to apply to your father’s conduct so
invidious a word,” he went on less scathingly, “you must take
from him, in your turn, his quite other view of what makes
disloyalty--understanding distinctly, by the same token, that he enjoins
on you not to give an odious illustration of it, while he’s away, by
discussing and deploring with any one of your extraordinary
friends any aspect or feature whatever of his walk and conversation.
That--pressed as I am for time,” he went on with a glance at his watch
while she remained silent--“is the main sense of what I have to say to
you; so that I count on your perfect conformity. When you have told me
that I may so count”--and casting about for his hat he espied it and
went to take it up--“I shall more cordially bid you good-bye.”
His daughter looked as if she had been for some time expecting the law
thus imposed upon her--had been seeing where he must come out; but
in spite of this preparation she made him wait for his reply in such
tension as he had himself created. “To Kitty I’ve practically said
nothing--and she herself can tell you why: I’ve in fact scarcely seen
her this fortnight. Putting aside then Amy Sandgate, the only person to
whom I’ve spoken--of your ‘sacrifice,’ as I suppose you’ll let me
call it?--is Mr. Hugh Crimble, whom you talk of as my ‘confederate’ at
Dedborough.”
Lord Theign recovered the name with relief. “Mr. Hugh Crimble--that’s
it!--whom you so amazingly caused to be present, and apparently invited
to be active, at a business that so little concerned him.”
“He certainly took upon himself to be interested, as I had hoped he
would. But it was because I had taken upon my self--”
“To act, yes,” Lord Theign broke in, “with the grossest want of
delicacy! Well, it’s from that exactly that you’ll now forbear;
and ‘interested’ as he may be--for which I’m deucedly obliged to
him!--you’ll not speak to Mr. Crimble again.”
“Never again?”--the girl put it as for full certitude.
“Never of the question that I thus exclude. You may chatter your fill,”
 said his lordship curtly, “about any others.”
“Why, the particular question you forbid,” Grace returned with great
force, but as if saying something very reasonable--“that question is
the question we care about: it’s our very ground of conversation.”
“Then,” her father decreed, “your conversation will please to dispense
with a ground; or you’ll perhaps, better still--if that’s the only
way!--dispense with your conversation.”
Lady Grace took a moment as if to examine this more closely. “You
require of me not to communicate with Mr. Crimble at all?”
“Most assuredly I require it--since it’s to that you insist on
reducing me.” He didn’t look reduced, the master of Dedborough, as he
spoke--which was doubtless precisely because he held his head so high
to affirm what he suffered. “Is it so essential to your comfort,” he
demanded, “to hear him, or to make him, abuse me?”
“‘Abusing’ you, father dear, has nothing whatever to do with it!”--his
daughter had fairly lapsed, with a despairing gesture, to the tenderness
involved in her compassion for his perversity. “We look at the thing in
a much larger way,” she pursued, not heeding that she drew from him
a sound of scorn for her “larger.” “It’s of our Treasure itself we
talk--and of what can be done in such cases; though with a close
application, I admit, to the case that you embody.”
“Ah,” Lord Theign asked as with absurd curiosity, “I embody a case?”
“Wonderfully, father--as you do everything; and it’s the fact of its
being exceptional,” she explained, “that makes it so difficult to deal
with.”
His lordship had a gape for it. “‘To deal with’? You’re undertaking to
