His youthful face fell.
"By gad," he said, "do you think I ought to marry her? How on earth can I
when I'm--I'm dead in love with--somebody myself?"
"You--in love?" she said faintly.
He gazed across the brook at the darkening foliage.
"Oh, yes," he said with a pleasant sort of hopelessness, "but I fancy she
cares for another man."
"W-why do you think so?"
"He comes to see her."
"Is that a reason?"
"She won't talk about him."
"When a woman won't talk about a man is it always because she cares for
him in that way?"
"Isn't it?"
"No."
They had lifted their heads now, facing each other in the violet dusk.
Between them the scent of heliotrope grew sweeter. He said:
"I've been all kinds of a fool. For all I know women have as many rights
on earth as men have. All I wish is that the plucky girl who took that
hedge, banner in hand, were well and happy and married to a really decent
fellow."
"But--she loves you."
"And I"--he looked up, encountering her blue eyes--"am already hopelessly
in love. What shall I do?"
She said under her breath: "God knows. . . . I can not blame you for not
wishing to marry a lame girl----"
"It isn't that!"
"But you wouldn't anyhow----"
"I would if I loved her!"
"You couldn't--love a--a cripple! It would not be love; it would be
pity----"
He said slowly: "I wish that you were that lame girl. Then you'd
understand me."
For a while she sat bolt upright, clasped hands tightening in her lap.
Then, turning slowly toward him, she said:
"I am going to say good-night. . . . And thank you--for Diana's sake. . .
. And I am going to say more--I am going to say good-bye."
"Good-bye! Where are you going?"
"To New York."
"When?"
"Before I see you again."
"There is no train until----"
"I shall drive to Moss Centre."
"Where that--that doctor lives----"
"Yes. I am going to New York with him, Lord Marque."
He stood as though stunned for a moment; then set his teeth, clenched his
hands, and pulled himself together.
"I think I understand," he said quietly. "And--I wish you--happiness."
She stretched out her hand to him above the heliotrope.
"I--wish it--to you----" suddenly her voice broke; again her teeth caught
at her underlip like a child who struggles with emotion. "You--don't
understand," she said. "Wait a little while before you--come to
any--unhappy--conclusions."
After a moment she made a slight effort to disengage her
hand--another--then turned in her chair and dropped her head on the
table, her right hand still remaining in his. Presently he released it;
and she placed both hands on the edge of the table and her forehead upon
them.
"I am coming in," he said.
She straightened up swiftly at his words.
"Please don't!" she said in a startled voice, still tremulous.
But he was gone from the dark window, and, frightened, she bent over,
caught up her walking stick, and took one impulsive step toward the door.
And stood stock still in the middle of the floor as he entered.
His eyes met hers, fell on the supporting cane; and she covered her face
with her left arm, standing there motionless.
"Good God!" he breathed. "You!"
She began to cry like a child.
"I didn't want you to know," she wailed. "Oh, I didn't want you to know.
I thought there was no use--no hope--until yesterday. . . . I--wanted to
go to New York with the doctor and be made all sound and well again
b-before--before I let you love me----"
"Oh, Diana--Diana!" he whispered, with his arms around her. "Oh,
Diana--Diana--my little girl Diana!"
Which was silly enough, she being six feet--almost as tall as he.
"Turn your back," she whispered. "I want to go to my desk--and I can't
bear to have you see me walk."
"You darling----"
"No, no, no! Please let them cure me first. . . . Turn your back."
He kissed her hands, held her at arm's length a second, then turned on
