of Methuselah, six petticoats, ten nightcaps, and 
— what else do old women have, mother? ” 
“ Well, if the dresses will cut over ” began 
Rilla. 
‘‘ They’ve some such fine new things in the store 
— Mr. Beers was down to the city yesterday. Cal- 
icoes with red roses in them, little bits of ones, 
and some blue plaid things ” 
“ Oh, I wish I could have a whole new pretty 
 
dress ! ” exclaimed Goldie. Fd like a red cash- 
mere, it’s so soft and warm. Come, children! 
Twins, you must go to bed before Rhoda falls out 
of her chair and cracks her crown or smashes her 
nose.” 
“ I ain’t sleepy,” protested Rhoda. An’ I 
want a new red frock ” 
“ It won’t do for us all to be in red,” declared 
Goldie. “ Though Mrs. Kane bought a whole bolt 
of that brown and white gingham and had 
her four girls dressed alike, and it washed 
horrid I ” 
“ Faded, you mean,” said her mother. ‘‘ Every- 
thing washes.” 
“ Well, I wish it would wash itself — clothes, I 
mean,” commented Rilla. If we could have a 
washing-machine ! It would be as easy as churn- 
ing.” 
I don’t think churning easy, by a long shot,” 
declared Linn.* “ I churned this morning and I 
thought the butter never would come. Oh, and 
I was to bring home a kettle of buttermilk. I’ll 
run over with it to-morrow morning.” 
Goldie put the twins to bed and lay down beside 
them to tell them a story about a cat that had 
three wonderful babies, and fell asleep herself. 
The others kept on wondering what was in the 
 
big bundle, and made enough out of hopes to 
clothe the family for a full year. 
Linn ran over early with the buttermilk, and 
Mrs. Briggs sent a piece of boiled ham with it. 
He hung around a little, and presently espied Mr. 
Briggs, and they all ran out to welcome a very 
much soiled bedtick bundle tied about with 
clothesline. 
“ ril pay you the railroad charge,” exclaimed 
Mrs. Firth, “ and ” 
You’re welcome to my carting. If I was a 
railroad you’d be welcome to t’other as well. I 
hope it’s something wuth while. Mean that your 
part wa’n’t in money.” 
I’m obliged to you for the good wish as 
well.” 
Oh,” said Chan, with a laugh, if you owned 
a railroad you might give us a ride now and then, 
free gratis for nothing.” 
“ That I would, you better believe.” 
It made quite a break in Mrs. Firth’s five dol- 
lars, and though she smiled she sighed inwardly. 
Then they cut the rope, the knots were too hard 
to untie. There was another wrapping in a coarse 
homespun woolen and tow blanket, and then there, 
fell out a motley collection that tumbled over 
Laurel, who was standing too near, and she gave 
 
out a frightened wail. Goldie rescued her from 
under the avalanche. 
“O dear!” sighed Mrs. Firth, as the children 
pulled out various things. 
See here I ” exclaimed Linn. “ Why won’t 
this make a nice coat for me? Feel how good and 
thick it is. Oh, I’ll try it on.” 
It was a woman’s coat of dark gray. It came 
down to his heels and his arms were lost in the 
sleeves. Chan gave a mirthful shout, then said: 
‘‘ And you can will me yours. Mine can descend 
to Tip.” 
“ Right you are. There’s nothing like having 
some one to take the clothes you outgrow.” 
