come from--Luzon?"
"Yes. He wrote us. Why don't you ask him up for the skating, Jim?"
"What skating?" said Desboro, with a laugh. "It will be a green
Christmas, Daisy--it's going to rain again. Besides," he added, "I
shan't be here much longer."
"Oh, I'm sorry."
He reddened. "You always were the sweetest thing in Westchester. Fancy
your being sorry that I'm going back to town when I've never once ridden
over to see you as long as I've been here!"
She laughed. "We've known each other too long to let such things make
any real difference. But you have been a trifle negligent."
"Daisy, dear, I'm that way in everything. If anybody asked me to name
the one person I would not neglect, I'd name you. But you see what
happens--even to you! I don't know--I don't seem to have any character.
I don't know what's the matter with me----"
"I'm afraid that you have no beliefs, Jim."
"How can I have any when the world is so rotten after nineteen hundred
years of Christianity?"
"I have not found it rotten."
"No, because you live in a clean and wholesome circle."
"Why don't you, too? You can live where you please, can't you?"
He laughed and waved his hand toward the horizon.
"You know what the Desboros have always been. You needn't pretend you
don't. All Westchester has it in for us. But relief is in sight," he
added, with mock seriousness. "I'm the last of 'em, and your children,
Daisy, won't have to endure the morally painful necessity of tolerating
anybody of my name in the county."
She smiled: "Jim, you could be so nice if you only would."
"What! With no beliefs?"
"They're so easily acquired."
"Not in New York town, Daisy."
"Perhaps not among the people you affect. But such people really count
for so little--they are only a small but noisy section of a vast and
quiet and wholesome community. And the noise and cynicism are both based
on idleness, Jim. Nobody who is busy is destitute of beliefs. Nobody who
is responsible can avoid ideals."
"Quite right," he said. "I am idle and irresponsible. But, Daisy, it's
as much part of me as are my legs and arms, and head and body. I am not
stupid; I have plenty of mental resources; I am never bored; I enjoy my
drift through life in an empty tub as much as the man who pulls
furiously through it in a rowboat loaded with ambitions, ballasted with
brightly moral resolves, and buffeted by the cross seas of duty and
conscience. That's rather neat, isn't it?"
"You can't drift safely very long without ballast," said the girl,
smiling.
"Watch me."
She did not answer that she had been watching him for the last few
years, or tell him how it had hurt her to hear his name linked with the
gossip of fashionably vapid doings among idle and vapid people. For his
had been an inheritance of ability and culture, and the leisure to
develop both. Out of idleness and easy virtue had at last emerged three
generations of Desboros full of energy and almost ruthless ability--his
great-grandfather, grandfather and father--but he, the fourth
generation, was throwing back into the melting pot all that his father
and grandfathers had carried from it--even the material part of it. Land
and fortune, were beginning to disappear, together with the sturdy
mental and moral qualities of a race that had almost overcome its
vicious origin under the vicious Stuarts. Only the physical stamina as
yet seemed to remain intact; for Desboro was good to look upon.
"An odd thing happened the other night--or, rather, early in the
morning," she said. "We were awakened by a hammering at the door and a
horn blowing--and guess who it was?"
"Not Gabriel--though you look immortally angelic to-day----"
"Thank you, Jim. No; it was Cary and Elena Clydesdale, saying that their
car had broken down. What a ridiculous hour to be motoring! Elena was
half dead with the cold, too. It seems they'd been to a party somewhere
and were foolish enough to try to motor back to town. They stopped with
us and took the noon train to town. Elena told me to give you her love;
that's what reminded me."
"Give her mine when you see her," he said pleasantly.
       *       *       *       *       *
When he returned to his house he sat down with a notion of trying to
bring order out of the chaos into which his affairs had tumbled. But the
mere sight of his desk, choked with unanswered letters and unpaid bills,
sickened him, and he threw himself on the sofa and picked up his book,
determined to rid himself of Silverwood House and all its curious,
astonishing and costly contents.
"Tell Riley to be on hand Monday," he said to Mrs. Quant that evening.
"I want the cases in the wing rooms and the stuff in the armoury cleaned
up, because I expect a Mr. Nevers to come here and recatalogue the
