anything more than his temporary mistress.
"The damned little idiot," he mused--"cutting away to Reno before I knew
what she was up to--and involving us both in all that talk! What did she
flatter herself I wanted, anyway.... But I ought to have called on her
at once; now it's going to be difficult."
Yet he sullenly welcomed the difficulty--hoped that she'd hold out. That
was what he wanted, the excitement of it to take his mind from
Strelsa--keep him interested and employed until the moment arrived once
more when he might venture to see her again. He was, by habit, a patient
man. Only in the case of Strelsa Leeds had passion ever prematurely
betrayed him; and, pacing his porch there in the darkness, he set his
teeth and wondered at himself and cursed himself, unable to reconcile
what he knew of himself with what he had done to the only woman he had
ever wished to marry as a last resort.
       *       *       *       *       *
For two weeks Sprowl kept to himself. Few men understood better than he
what was the medicinal value of time. Only once had he dared ignore it.
So one evening, late in August, still dressed in knickerbockers and
heather-spats, he walked from his lawn across country to make the first
move in a new game with Mary Ledwith.
Interested, confident, already amused, and in far better spirits than he
had been for many a day, he strode out across the fields, swinging his
walking-stick, his restless eyes seeing everything and looking directly
at nothing.
Which was a mistake on his part for once, because, crossing a pasture
corner, his own bull, advancing silently from a clump of willows, nearly
caught him; but Sprowl went over the fence and, turning, brought down
his heavy stick across the brute's ringed nose; and the animal bellowed
at him and tore up the sod and followed along inside the fence
thundering his baffled fury as long as Sprowl remained in sight.
It was not all bad disposition. Sprowl, who cared nothing for animals,
hated the bull, and, when nothing more attractive offered, was
accustomed to come to the fence, irritate the animal, lure him within
range, and strike him. He had done it many times; and, some day, he
meant to go into the pasture with a rifle, stand the animal's charge,
and shoot him.
It was a calm, primrose-tinted sunset where trees and hills and a
distant spire loomed golden-black against the yellow west. No trees had
yet turned, although, here and there on wooded hills, single discoloured
branches broke the green monotony.
No buckwheat had yet been cut, but above the ruddy fields of stalks the
snow of the blossoms had become tarnished in promise of maturity--the
first premonition of autumn except for a few harvest apples yellow amid
green leaves.
He had started without any definite plan, a confident but patient
opportunist; and as he approached the Ledwith property and finally
sighted the chimneys of the house above the trees, something--some
errant thought seemed to amuse him, for he smiled slightly. His smile
was as rare as his laughter--and as brief; and there remained no trace
of it as he swung up the last hill and stood there gazing ahead.
The sun had set. A delicate purple haze already dimmed distances; and
the twilight which falls more swiftly as summer deepens into autumn was
already stealing into every hollow and ravine, darkening the alders
where the stream stole swampwards. A few laggard crows were still
winging toward the woods; a few flocks of blackbirds passed overhead
almost unseen against the sky. Somewhere some gardener had been burning
leaves and refuse, and the odour made the dusk more autumn-like.
As he crossed the line separating his land from the Ledwith estate he
nodded to the daughter of one of his own gardeners who was passing with
a collie; and then he turned to look again at the child whose slender
grace and freshness interested him.
"Look out for that bull, Europa," he said, staring after her as she
walked on.
She looked back at him, laughingly, and thanked him and went on quite
happily, the collie plodding at her heels. Recently Sprowl had been very
pleasant to her.
When she was out of sight he started forward, climbed the fence into the
road, followed it to the drive-way, and followed that among the elms
and Norway firs to the porch.
It was so dark here among the trees that only the lighted transom guided
him up the steps.
To the maid who came to the door he said coolly: "Say to Mrs. Ledwith
that Mr. Sprowl wishes to see her for a moment on a very important
matter."
"Mrs. Ledwith is not at home, sir."
"What?"
"Mrs. Ledwith is not at home."
"Where is she; out?"
"Y-yes, sir."
"Where?"
