dramatic students before whom the great actor had analyzed his part. The
affair was in fact difficult and complex, and Moffatt saw at once just
where the difficulties lay and how the personal idiosyncrasies of "the
parties" affected them. Such insight fascinated Ralph, and he strayed
off into wondering why it did not qualify every financier to be a
novelist, and what intrinsic barrier divided the two arts.
Both men had strong incentives for hastening the affair; and within a
fortnight after Moffatt's first advance Ralph was able to tell him that
his offer was accepted. Over and above his personal satisfaction he felt
the thrill of the agent whom some powerful negotiator has charged with
a delicate mission: he might have been an eager young Jesuit carrying
compromising papers to his superior. It had been stimulating to work
with Moffatt, and to study at close range the large powerful instrument
of his intelligence.
As he came out of Moffatt's office at the conclusion of this visit
Ralph met Mr. Spragg descending from his eyrie. He stopped short with a
backward glance at Moffatt's door.
"Hallo--what were you doing in there with those cut-throats?"
Ralph judged discretion to be essential. "Oh, just a little business for
the firm."
Mr. Spragg said no more, but resorted to the soothing labial motion of
revolving his phantom toothpick.
"How's Undie getting along?" he merely asked, as he and his son-in-law
descended together in the elevator.
"She doesn't seem to feel much stronger. The doctor wants her to run
over to Europe for a few weeks. She thinks of joining her friends the
Shallums in Paris."
Mr. Spragg was again silent, but he left the building at Ralph's side,
and the two walked along together toward Wall Street.
Presently the older man asked: "How did you get acquainted with
Moffatt?"
"Why, by chance--Undine ran across him somewhere and asked him to dine
the other night."
"Undine asked him to dine?"
"Yes: she told me you used to know him out at Apex."
Mr. Spragg appeared to search his memory for confirmation of the fact.
"I believe he used to be round there at one time. I've never heard any
good of him yet." He paused at a crossing and looked probingly at his
son-in-law. "Is she terribly set on this trip to Europe?"
Ralph smiled. "You know how it is when she takes a fancy to do
anything--"
Mr. Spragg, by a slight lift of his brooding brows, seemed to convey a
deep if unspoken response.
"Well, I'd let her do it this time--I'd let her do it," he said as he
turned down the steps of the Subway.
Ralph was surprised, for he had gathered from some frightened references
of Mrs. Spragg's that Undine's parents had wind of her European plan and
were strongly opposed to it. He concluded that Mr. Spragg had long since
measured the extent of profitable resistance, and knew just when it
became vain to hold out against his daughter or advise others to do so.
Ralph, for his own part, had no inclination to resist. As he left
Moffatt's office his inmost feeling was one of relief. He had reached
the point of recognizing that it was best for both that his wife should
go. When she returned perhaps their lives would readjust themselves--but
for the moment he longed for some kind of benumbing influence, something
that should give relief to the dull daily ache of feeling her so near
and yet so inaccessible. Certainly there were more urgent uses for their
brilliant wind-fall: heavy arrears of household debts had to be met,
and the summer would bring its own burden. But perhaps another stroke of
luck might befall him: he was getting to have the drifting dependence
on "luck" of the man conscious of his inability to direct his life. And
meanwhile it seemed easier to let Undine have what she wanted.
Undine, on the whole, behaved with discretion. She received the good
news languidly and showed no unseemly haste to profit by it. But it was
as hard to hide the light in her eyes as to dissemble the fact that she
had not only thought out every detail of the trip in advance, but had
decided exactly how her husband and son were to be disposed of in her
absence. Her suggestion that Ralph should take Paul to his grandparents,
and that the West End Avenue house should be let for the summer, was too
practical not to be acted on; and Ralph found she had already put her
hand on the Harry Lipscombs, who, after three years of neglect, were to
be dragged back to favour and made to feel, as the first step in their
reinstatement, the necessity of hiring for the summer months a cool airy
house on the West Side. On her return from Europe, Undine explained, she
would of course go straight to Ralph and the boy in the Adirondacks; and
it seemed a foolish extravagance to let the house stand empty when the
Lipscombs were so eager to take it.
As the day of departure approached it became harder for her to temper
her beams; but her pleasure showed itself so amiably that Ralph began
to think she might, after all, miss the boy and himself more than she
