
You can get so close to Mr. Evans,” said 
Chan. He seems to understand boys — children 
— and somehow you feel a little afraid of Mr. 
Burnham — well, not quite that, either — but Mr. 
Evans is like a big brother.” 

Cap put the table in order while they adjourned 
to the library. The twins had been playing out- 
of-doors, and now a small, languid voice piped up, 
I so sleepy, I wis’ I could go to bed.” 

“ And not see mother? ” 

“ Mother’ll stay till to-morrow,” and Laurel 
fixed a cushion for a pillow. 

“ I’m going to stay up,” announced Rhoda. “ I 
want to see mother and father, and maybe they’ll 
bring us something.” 



Oh, Rhoda, you are always thinking of the 
loaves and fishes,” Goldie said reprovingly. 

I don’t want fishes, neither, and Cap can make 
bread. I want something nice.” 

“ I just want them to bring themselves,” de- 
clared Primrose. 

Amaryllis put her little sister to bed. Tip 
crawled up in the corner of the sofa. Chan set- 
tled himself at his beloved piano. He never 
played noisily. 

Linn, would you have gone to the party if 
mother had been home ? ” Rilla asked presently. 

“ Why, yes, I think so. They’ll have a jolly 
time. Oh, Rilla, I’ll be glad when you go to 
school and get to know girls of your own age. 
It’s so different from Denby, ever so much nicer. 
I like Jennie Read, and she’s a good student — full 
of fun, too.” 

“ I’m almost afraid, though the girls are nice in 
Sunday-school.” 

You must not feel that way. Rilla, you have 
improved ever so much, and now you don’t have 
to be mother to us all. It does make a difference 
when you live in a nice house and a pretty town. 
But I don’t want us to be stuck up, as Denby folks 
say.” 

Prim was looking up some big words in the die- 




tionary. Rhoda played a little while, then leaned 
up in the corner and kept staring at various things. 
She wasn’t a bit sleepy, but by and by everything 
seemed to rush downhill, and though she clutched 
at something she toppled over also. 

They kept watching the clock and listening. 
Were moments ever so slow! Oh, there was the 
trot of the horse, and they all rushed out on the 
porch. 

They almost smothered their mother. Oh, 
children, children I ” but the clinging arms and 
fond kisses were delightful when one had been 
without five days. 

Tip roused and began to cry, “ Why didn’t some 
one wake me up ? ” 
