not living with Henriette. You are wander- 
ing round, not knowing what to do with 
yourseK next." 
There was no need for anybody to tell 
George that. "What do you think?" he 
asked abruptly. "Is there any hope for 
me?" 
"I think there is," said the other, who, 
in spite of his resolution, had become a 
sort of ambassador for the unhappy hus- 
band. He had to go to the Loches house 
to attend the child, and so he could not 
help seeing Henriette, and talking to her 
about the child's health and her own 
future. He considered that George had 
had his lesson, and urged upon the young 
wife that he would be wiser in future, and 
safe to trust. 
George had indeed learned much. He 
 
got new lessons every time he went to call 
at the physician's office — 'he could read 
them in the faces of the people he saw there. 
One day when he was alone in the waiting- 
room, the doctor came out of his inner 
office, talking to an elderly gentleman, 
whom George recognized as the father of 
one of his classmates at college. The 
father was a little shopkeeper, and the 
young man remembered how pathetically 
proud he had been of his son. Could it be, 
thought George, that this old man was a 
victim of syphilis? 
But it was the son, and not the father, 
who was the subject of the consultation. 
The old man was speaking in a deeply 
moved voice, and he stood so that George 
could not help hearing what he said. 
'Terhaps you can't understand,'' he said, 
''just what it means to us — the hopes we 
had of that boy! Such a fine fellow he was, 
and a good fellow, too, sir! We were so 
proud of him; we had bled our veins to 
keep him in college — and now just see!" 
'' Don't despair, sir," said the doctor, 
"we'll try to cure him." And he added, 
 
with that same note of sorrow in his voice 
which George had heard, ''Why did you 
wait so long before you brought the boy 
to me?'' 
''How was I to know what he had?'' 
cried the other. ''He didn't dare tell me, 
sir — 'he was afraid of my scolding him. 
And in the meantime the disease was 
running its course. WTien he realized that 
he had it, he went secretly to one of the 
quacks, who robbed him, and didn't cure 
him. You know how it is, sir." 
''Yes, I know," said the doctor. 
"Such things ought not to be permitted," 
cried the old man. "What is our govern- 
ment about that it allows such things to go 
on? Take the conditions there at the college 
where my poor boy was ruined. At the 
very gates of the building these women are 
watching for the lads! Ought they to be 
permitted to debauch young boys only 
fifteen years old? Haven't we got pohce 
enough to prevent a thing like that? Tell 
me, sir!" 
"One would think so," said the doctor, 
patiently. 
 
''But is it that the poHce don't want 
to?'' 
"No doubt they have the same excuse 
as all the rest — 'they don't know. Take 
courage, sir; we have cured worse cases 
than your son's. And some day, perhaps, 
