embarrass me with her sweetly malicious coquetry, ever on the watch to
observe my features redden. I remember she sometimes offered to
exchange kisses with me; but I was a ninny, and a serious and hopeless
one at that, and would have none of her.
I believe we were thinking of the same thing now, and when I caught her
eye the gay malice of it was not to be mistaken.
"Lanette," said I, "take care! I am a soldier since you had your saucy
way with me. You know that the military are not to be dealt with
lightly. And I am grown up in these three years."
"Grown soberer, perhaps. You always did conduct like a pious
Broad-brim, Euan."
"I've a mind to kiss you now," said I, vexed.
"Kiss away, kind sir. You have me in the rear of them. Now's your
opportunity!"
"Doubtless you'd cry out."
"Doubtless I wouldn't."
"Wait for some moonlit evening when we're unobserved----"
"Broad-brim!"
I laughed, and so did she, saying:
"I warrant you that your pretty Lieutenant Boyd had never waited for my
challenge twice!"
"Best look out for Boyd," said I. "He's of your own careless, reckless
kind, Lanette. Sparks fly when flint and steel encounter."
"Cold sparks, friend Broad-brim!"
"Not too cold to set tinder afire."
"Am I then tinder? You should know me better."
"In every one of us," said I, "there is an element which, when it meets
its fellow in another, unites with it, turning instantly to fire and
burning to the very soul."
"How wise have you become in alchemy and metaphysics!" she exclaimed in
mock admiration.
"Oh, I am not wise in anything, and you know it, Lana."
"I don't know it. You've been wise enough to keep clear of me, if that
be truly wisdom. Come, Euan, what do you think? Do you and I contain
these fellow elements, that you seem to dread our mutual conflagration
if you kiss me?"
"You know me better."
"Do I? No, I don't. Young sir, caper not too confidently in your coat
of many colours! If you flout me once too often I may go after you, as
a Mohawk follows a scalp too often flaunted by the head that wears it!"
I tried to sustain her delighted gaze and reddened, and the impudent
little beauty laughed and clung to my arm in a very ecstasy of malice,
made breathless by her own mirth.
"Come, court me prettily, Euan. It is my due after all these grey and
Quaker years when I made eyes at you from the age of twelve, and won
only a scowl or two for my condescension."
But we had reached the river bank, and there the group came once more
together, the ladies curious to see the batteaux arriving, loaded with
valley sheep, we officers pointing out to them the canoes of our corps
of Oneida guides, and Hanierri and the Reverend Mr. Kirkland reading
their Testaments under the shade of the trees, gravely absorbed in God.
"A good man," said I, "and brave. But his honest Stockbridge Indians
know no more of Catharines-town than do the converted Oneidas yonder."
Boyd nodded: "I prophesy they quit us one and all within an
arrow-flight of Wyalusing. Do you take me, Loskiel?"
"No, you are right," I said. "The fear of the Long House chains them,
and their long servitude has worn like fetters to their very bones.
Redcoats they can face, and have done so gallantly. But there is in
them a fear of the Five Nations past all understanding of a white man."
I spoke to a diminished audience, for already Boyd and Lana Helmer had
strolled a little way together, clearly much interested in each other's
conversation. Presently our precious senior Consign sauntered the other
way with pretty Mistress Lansing on his arm. As for me, I was contented
to see them go--had been only waiting for it. And what I had thought I
might venture to say to Lana Helmer by warrant of old acquaintance, I
was now glad that I had not said at all--the years having in no wise
subdued the mischief in her, nor her custom of plaguing me. And how
much she had ever really meant I could not truly guess. No, it had been
anything but wise to speak to her of Lois. But now I meant to mention
Lois to Mrs. Bleecker.
We had seated ourselves on the sun-crisped Indian grass, and for a
while I let her chatter of Guy Park and our pleasant acquaintance
there, and of Albany, too, where we had met sometimes at the Ten
Broecks, the Schuylers, and the Patroons. And all the while I was
debating within my mind how this proud and handsome, newly-married girl
might receive my halting story. For it would not do to conceal anything
vital to the case. Her clear, wise eyes would see instantly through any
evasion, not to say deception--even a harmless deception. No; if she
were to be of any aid in this deeply-perplexing business, I must tell
her the story of Lois--not betraying anything that the girl might
