“You would not wish it to?” he asked.
“When I die, perhaps, and even then only to be continued hereafter.
Heaven would not be heaven without you.”
She spoke slowly, with little pauses, in a manner that differed from
his own mode of speech, which was quick and forceful.
Verplank turned to the letter that had been addressed to him, and which
he still held. Without opening it, he tore it into long, thin strips.
It was, he knew from the imprint, a communication of no importance;
but, at the moment, the action seemed a reply to her remark. It served
to indicate his complete indifference to everything and everyone save
her only. Afterward, with a regret that was to be eternal, she wished
he had done the same with hers.
Yet, pleased at the time, she smiled.
“Gulian, you do love me, but I wonder do you love me as absolutely as I
love you?”
Verplank, with a gesture that was familiar to him, closed and opened a
hand.
“I do not know. But while I think you cannot love me more wholly than I
love you, I do know that to me you are the unique.”
Leilah moved to where he stood.
“Gulian, and you to me. You are the only one.” She moved closer.
Raising her hands, she put them on his shoulders. “Tell me, shall you
be long away?”
“An hour or two. Apropos, would you care to leave before dinner?”
“Yes.”
“We will dine on board, then. Is there anything in particular you would
like?”
“Yes, lilies, plenty of lilies; and pineapples; and the sound of your
voice.”
Lifting her hands from his shoulders to his face, she drew it to her
own. Their lips met longly. With the savour of her about him, Verplank
passed out.
Idly Leilah turned. Before her the sea lay, a desert of blue. Below,
on the beach, it broke with a boom in high white waves which, in
retreating, became faintly mauve. The spectacle charmed her. But other
scenes effaced it; sudden pictures of the Marquesas; the long flight
southward; the brief, bright days; the nights that would be briefer
still. Pleasurably for a while these things detained her. Idly again
she turned.
On the table were the letters. One was from an intimate friend, Violet
Silverstairs, a New York girl who had married an Englishman, and who
since then had resided abroad. The other was--or appeared to be--from
Matlack Ogston.
Matlack Ogston was Leilah’s father. That a father should write to a
daughter is only natural. But that this father should write surprised
her, as already it had surprised Verplank. When he mentioned whom
the letter was from she had thought he must be in error. Now, as she
opened it, she found that he had been. Her father had not written. The
envelope contained a second envelope addressed to another person. This
envelope had formerly been sealed and since been opened. It held three
letters in an unknown hand.
She began at one of them. More exactly, she began, as some women do
begin, at the end. The signature startled. At once, as she turned to
the initial sentences, she experienced the curious and unenviable
sensation of falling from an inordinate height, and it was not with
any idea that the sensation would cease, but rather with the craving to
know, which in certain crises of the emotions becomes more unendurable
than any uncertainty can be, that she read the rest of the first
letter; after it, the second letter, and the third.
Then, as truth stared at her and she at truth, so monstrous was its
aspect that, with one shuddering intake of the breath, life withered
within her, light vanished without.
When ultimately, without knowing who she was; when, conscious only of
an objective self struggling in darkness with the intangible and the
void, when then life and light returned, she was on the floor, the
monster peering at her.
She disowned it, disavowed it. But beside her on the floor the letters
lay. There was its lair. It had sprung from them, and always from them
it would be peering at her, driving her mad with its blighting eyes,
unless----
She got on her hands and knees, and from them to her feet. Her body
ached from the fall, and her head was throbbing. With the idea that
smelling salts, or some cologne water which she had, might help her,
she went and fetched them from an adjoining room. They were not of much
use, she found, though presently she could think more clearly, and in
a little while she was considering the possibility that had loomed.
In certain conditions the soul gets used to monsters. It makes itself
at home with what it must. Her soul, she thought, might also. But even
as she thought it, she knew she never could. She knew that even were
she able to succeed in blinding herself to this thing by day, at night
