watch the sale! Probably for the excitement of hearing an auctioneer
talk in thousands.
He was a little surprised, nevertheless, for she did not look
bookish--nor even intellectual enough to mar her prettiness. Yet,
wherever she went she would look adorable. He understood that, now.
It was a day of alarms for him, of fears, shocks, and frights
innumerable. With terror he heard the auctioneer talking in terms of
thousands; with horror he witnessed the bids on certain books advance by
thousands at a clip. Five thousand, ten thousand, twenty thousand were
bid, seen, raised, called, hiked, until his head spun and despair
seized him.
What did he know about Valdez? Either volume might bring fifty thousand
dollars for all he knew. Had he fifty thousand he felt, somehow, that he
would have bid it to the last penny for the book. And he came to the
conclusion that he was really crazy. Yet there he sat, glued to his
chair, listening, shuddering, teeth alternately chattering or grimly
locked, while the very air seemed to reek of millions, and the incessant
gabble of the auctioneer drove him almost out of his wits.
Nearer and nearer approached the catalogued numbers of the two copies of
Valdez; pale and desperate he sat there, his heart almost suffocating
him as the moment drew near. And now the time had come; now the
celebrated Mr. Heikem began his suave preliminary chatter; now he was
asking confidently for a bid.
A silence ensued--and whether it was the silence of awe at the priceless
treasure or the silence of indifference White did not know. But after
the auctioneer had again asked for a bid he found his voice and offered
ten dollars. His ears were scarlet when he did it.
"Fifteen," said a sweet but tremulous voice not far from White, and he
looked around in astonishment. It was his red-haired vis-a-vis.
"Twenty!" he retorted, still labouring under his astonishment.
"Twenty-five!" came the same sweet voice.
There was a silence. No other voices said anything. Evidently nobody
wanted Valdez except himself and his red-haired neighbour.
"Thirty!" he called out at the psychological moment.
The girl turned in her chair and looked at him. She seemed to be
unusually pale.
"Thirty-five!" she said, still gazing at White in a frightened sort of
way.
"Forty," he said; rose at the same moment and walked over to where the
girl was sitting.
She looked up at him as he bent over her chair; both were very serious.
"You and I are the only two people bidding," he said. "There are two
copies of the book. Don't bid against me and you can buy in the other
one for next to nothing--judging from the course this one is taking."
"Very well," she said quietly.
A moment later the first copy of Valdez was knocked down to James White.
An indifferent audience paid little attention to the transaction.
Two minutes later the second copy fell to Miss Jean Sandys for five
dollars--there being no other bidder.
White had already left the galleries. Lingering at the entrance he saw
Miss Sandys pass him, and he lifted his hat. The slightest inclination
of her pretty head acknowledged it. The next moment they were lost to
each other's view in the crowded street.
Clutching his battered book to his chest, not even daring to drop it
into his overcoat for fear of pickpockets, the young fellow started up
Broadway at a swinging pace which presently brought him to the offices
of the Florida Spanish Grants Company; and here, at his request, he was
ushered into a private room; a map of Seminole County spread on the
highly polished table before him, and a suave gentleman placed at his
disposal.
"Florida," volunteered the suave gentleman, "is the land of perpetual
sunshine--the land of milk and honey, as it were, the land of the
orange----"
"One moment, please," said White.
"Sir?"
They looked at each other for a second or two, then White smiled:
"I don't want dope," he said pleasantly, "I merely want a few facts--if
your company deals in them."
"Florida," began the suave gentleman, watching the effect of his words,
"is the garden of the world." Then he stopped, discouraged, for White
was grinning at him.
"It won't do," said White amiably.
"No?" queried the suave gentleman, the ghost of a grin on his own smooth
countenance.
"No, it won't do. Now, if you will restrain your very natural enthusiasm
and let me ask a few questions----"
"Go ahead," said the suave gentleman, whose name was Munsell. "But I
don't believe we have anything to suit you in Seminole County."
"Oh, I don't know," returned White coolly, "is it all under water?"
"There are a few shell mounds. The highest is nearly ten inches above
