"All this is beside the mark! We have a serious- 
 
emergency to face, and we are not getting any- 
where. As the older of the physicians in charge 
of this case " 
And he went on to give me a lecture on the 
subject of authority. He talked for five min- 
utes, ten minutes — I lost all track of the time. 
I had suddenly begun to picture how I would 
act and what I would say when I went into 
Sylvia's room. What a state must Sylvia be in, 
while we sat out here in the blazing midday sun, 
discussing her right to freedom and knowledge! 
 
 
'I HAVE always been positive," Dr. Gibson 
was saying, "but the present discussion has 
made me more positive than ever. As the older 
of the physicians in charge of this case, I say 
most emphatically that the patient shall not be 
told!" 
I could not stand him any longer. "I am 
going to tell the patient," I said. 
"You shall not tell her!" 
"But how win you prevent me?" 
"You shall not see her!" 
"But she is determined to see me!" 
"She will be told that you are not there." 
"And how long do you imagine that that will 
satisfy her?" 
There was a pause. They looked at van 
Tuiver, expecting him to speak. And then I heard 
once more his cold, deliberate voice. "We have 
done all we can. There can no longer be any 
question as to the course to be taken. Mrs. 
Abbott will not return to my home." 
"What?" I cried. I stared at him, aghast. 
"What do you mean?" 
"I mean what I say — that you will not be 
taken back to the island." 
"But where will I be taken?" 
"You will be taken to the mainland." 
I stared at the others. No one gave a sign. 
At last I exclaimed, "You would dare?" 
 
"You leave us no other alternative," replied 
the master. 
"You — you will practically kidnap me!" My 
voice must have been rather wild at that moment. 
"You left my home of your own free will. 
I think I need hardly poiat out to you that I 
am not compelled to invite you back to it." 
"And what will Sylvia — " I stopped, dismayed 
at the vista the words opened up. 
"My wife," said van Tuiver, "will ultimately 
choose between her husband and her most re- 
markable acquaintance." 
"And you, gentlemen?" I turned to the others. 
"You would give yom- sanction to this outrageous 
action?" 
"As the older of the physicians in charge of 
this case — " began Dr. Gibson. 
I timaed to van Tuiver again. "When your 
wife finds out what you have done to me — what 
will you answer?" 
"We will deal with that situation when we 
come to it." 
"Of course," I said, "you understand that 
sooner or later I shall get word to her!" 
He answered, "We shall assume from now on 
that you are a mad woman, and shall take our 
precautions accordingly." 
Again there was a silence. 
"The launch will return to the mainland," 
said van Tuiver, at last. "It will remain there 
until Mrs. Abbott sees fit to go ashore. May 
I ask if she has sufficient money in her purse 
to take her to New York?" 
 
I coiild not help laughing. The thing was so 
