Ceylon.

Kathlyn called out to the men, but they turned and fled in terror.  To
them Rajah was amuck.  The elephant passed the fire so closely that the
wind of his passing stirred the fire into life again; and this time it
crept toward the highly inflammable grass.  A few hundred yards beyond
Kathlyn turned to see the flames leaping along the grass.  Rajah,
getting a whiff of the acrid smoke, quickened his stride.  The fire
followed with amazing rapidity and stopped only when it reached the bed
of a trickling stream, no doubt a torrent during the big rains.  A
great pall of smoke blotted out everything in the rear; blotted out
hope, for Bruce could never pick up the trail now.

Kathlyn's eyes were feverishly dry and bright.  It was only a matter of
time when the howdah would slip down the brute's side.  She prayed that
she might die instantly.  Strange fancies flitted through her mind,
disordered by all these days of suspense and terror. . . .

And suddenly the jungle came to an end, and a long plowed field opened
into view.  Beyond this field rose a ruined wall, broken by a crumbling
gate, and lounging in the gateway were soldiers.  Near by were two
elephants employed in piling logs.

Rajah, perforce, slackened his gait.  The soldiers became animated.
Immediately the two mahouts charged their brutes toward Rajah, who
stopped.  He had had his sport.  He swayed to and fro.  One of the
mahouts reached forward and clouted Rajah on the knee.  He slowly
kneeled.  The soldiers ran forward to help Kathlyn out of the howdah.
At the sight of her skin their astonishment was great.

She was very weak and faint, and the increasing babel of tongues was
like little triphammers beating upon her aching head.  One of the
soldiers gave her a drink of water.  He held his canteen high, so that
the water trickled into her mouth; no lips but his own must touch the
nozzle, otherwise, being a Brahmin, he would be denied.  Natives
instantly flocked about, jabbering in wonder.  Some of the bolder
touched her bare arms.  The soldiers drove them back angrily.  Through
the press a horseman pushed forward.  The rider stared at the strange
captive, started and uttered an astonished cry.

"The white queen of Allaha, whom mine own eyes saw crowned at the
durbar there!" he murmured.  "By the shroud of the prophet what can
this mean?  Stop!" he called to the soldiers.  Kathlyn looked up dully.
"Convey her to his highness the Kumor!"  The prince should decide what
should be done with her.

The Kumor was big and lazy and sensual.  He gazed upon Kathlyn with
eyes which sparkled evilly, like a cat's.

"Who is this woman?" he demanded.

"Highness, she is the white queen of Allaha, but who may say that she
is here?" with a smile as evil as his master's.

"But how came she here?"

The horseman briefly recounted the events as he had seen them in the
capital of Allaha.

"Who are you, maiden?" the Kumor asked in English, for, like all
potentates, little or great, in India, he spoke English.  It presented
the delectable pastime of conspiring in two languages; for, from Bombay
to Calcutta, from Peshawar to Madras, India seethes, conspires and
takes an occasional pot shot at some poor devil of a commissioner whose
only desire is to have them combine religion and sanitation.

"I am an American.  Please take me to the English commissioner."
Somehow instinct told her that she might not expect succor from this
man with the pearls about his gross neck.

"I regret that his excellency the commissioner has gone to Bombay.
Besides, I do not know that you tell the truth.  Still, I can offer you
what pearls and emeralds you may find to your liking."

"Your Highness, there are those whose coming shortly will cause you
much annoyance if you refuse to give me proper aid.  There is no
possible way for you to cover up my appearance here.  Send me to the
commissioner's bungalow, where I may await the coming of my friends."

"Indeed!"  The Kumor saw here a conflict not altogether to his liking.
