"How short the days are growing! And it gets dark so soon. Girls, we had
better hurry off home."

"Shall I order samples of green, Zaidee?"

"Yes, Aunt Kate, if you please."

It was quite a treat to sit down at the table with a group of girls.
Madame Eustice talked to them in French and Zay surprised her with her
readiness and improved pronunciations.

"And I am quite a proficient in German as far as talking goes, I've
heard so much of it, and it seemed so funny at first. Though a good many
of the servants and waiters speak a little English."

Zay glanced down at the other table. She singled out Miss Nevins who had
quite a fancy hair dressing and a pink bow. But she saw no one she
thought Miss Boyd. Then there was a full hour to the study period.

Lilian and her mother often took this meal which was only a kind of high
tea in their room. Mrs. Boyd could not overcome a half fear of Mrs.
Dane. Then she read to her mother until it was time to go to the study.
Often she left her mother asleep in the big easy chair. Oh, for some one
to listen and to respond! But the practice was good for her if no one
listened.

Zay kept glancing furtively down at the table of the younger class. Yes,
there was Miss Boyd. She went toward a pupil, as a small hand was held
up. There was something interesting in the face, and the young student
would glance up and smile. Was there any resemblance, she wondered? The
hair was darker, but the complexion was certainly fine. Miss Nevins had
a peevish look tonight and said something rather cross. Miss Boyd
preserved her serenity.

Lilian was having quite a delightful new interest in the Trenhams. Her
exercise hour led to a walk down there and an engaging half visionary
talk with Claire who had wonderful adventures with a pretty squirrel who
ran up and down a tree in range with her window. Or it was some belated
bird who had lost his way south and had to hide to keep out of the way
of the hunters.

"Why do they let them go out and kill the poor birdies?" she asked
plaintively. "I should think it would be braver to go to Africa and
shoot lions and tigers and those cruel animals that eat up human beings,
and the dear pretty little squirrels!"

"Why, indeed?" Lilian had often thought of it herself.

Or it would be a story of a fairy who had a long search for a charmed
ring that would bestow a wonderful power over everything in the forest
and give the animals the gift of speech. Claire told one, Lilian must
take the next.

"Edith comes home so tired sometimes. You are always fresh," the child
said.

Then the girl would meet Edith who would turn about and walk with her
and listen to the hopes and ambitions and dreams she could tell to no
one else. So she had a comforting secret life.

Zaidee Crawford made two or three slight advances, but they were
distantly received, and Zay was not used to being rebuffed. She was not
much of an analyst and thought Miss Boyd very cold natured. But now and
then the enthusiasm of the true student broke out in some class
recitation and it transfigured her.

"Our pupil teacher quite distinguished herself today," said Phillipa
Rosewald, "though I must say it was in exceedingly bad taste."

"Why bad taste?" asked Zay. "I thought it fine."

"She might have been a little more modest. You see, my dear child, we
are not preparing for teachers nor to vulgarly distinguish ourselves. I
thought Miss Grayson did not quite like it. Are you really growing fond
of your double? But I can't imagine you standing up in that bold
fashion."

Zay was silent. It always annoyed her to have Miss Boyd called her
double. The figure and manner was so different. Zay was so light and
airy, she seemed rather to skim over space than to walk, and every
