" Awfully sorry! Good luck!" but his articulation was indistinct, and he went off hurriedly, still murmuring. 
Carfax stood in the snow, watching him 
clamber down among the rocks, where an 
alpinist orderly joined them. 
Gary presently appeared at the door of 
the observation station. "Has he gone!" he 
inquired, without interest. 
"Yes," said Carfax. 
"Is he going to do anything for us!" 
"I don't know. . . . No!" 
Gary lingered, kicked at a salamander, 
then turned and went indoors. Carfax sat 
down on a rock and sucked at his empty 
pipe. 
Later the three officers in the observation 
station came out to the door again and 
looked at him, but turned back into the door 
way without saying anything. And after a 
while Carfax, feeling slightly feverish, went 
indoors, too. 
In the square, whitewashed room Gray and 
Flint were playing cut-throat poker; Gary 
was at the telephone, but the messages received or transmitted appeared to be of no 
importance. There had never been any mes 
sage of importance from the Falcon Peak or 
to it. There was likely to be none. 
Ennui, inertia, dry rot and four men, 
sometimes silently, sometimes violently cursing their isolation, but always cursing it 
afraid in their souls lest they fall to cursing 
one another aloud as they had begun to curse 
in their hearts. 
Months ago rain had fallen; now snow 
fell, and vast winds roared around them from 
the Alps. But nothing else ever came to the 
Falcon Peak, except a fierce, red-eyed Ldmmergeyer sheering above the peak on enor 
mous pinions, or a few little migrating birds 
fluttering down, half frozen, from the high 
air lanes. Now and then, also, came to 
them a staff officer from below, British some 
times, sometimes French, who lingered no 
longer than necessary and then went back 
again, down into friendly deeps where were 
trees and fields and familiar things and human companionship, leaving them to their 
hell of silence, of solitude, and of each other. 
The tide of war had riever washed the base 
of their granite cliffs; the highest battle wave 
had thundered against the Vosges beyond 
earshot; not even a deadened echo of war 
penetrated those silent heights; not a Taube 
floated in the zenith. 
In the squatty, whitewashed ruin which once 
had been the eyrie of some petty predatory 
despot, and which now served as an observatory for two idle divisions below in the val 
ley, stood three telescopes. Otherwise the 
furniture consisted of valises, trunks, a table 
and chairs, a few books, several newspapers, 
and some tennis balls lying on the floor. 
Carfax seated himself at one of the tele 
scopes, not looking through it, his heavy eyes 
partly closed, his burnt-out pipe between his 
teeth. 
Gary rose from the telephone and joined 
the card players. They shuffled and dealt 
listlessly, seldom speaking save in monosyllables. 
After a while Carfax went over to the 
card table and the young lieutenant cashed in 
and took his place at the telescope. 
Below in the Alsatian valley spring had 
already started the fruit buds, and a delicate 
green edged the lower snow line. 
The lieutenant spoke of it wistfully; no 
body paid any attention; he rose presently 
and went outdoors to the edge of the precipice not too near, for fear he might be 
tempted to jump out through the sunshine, 
down into that inviting world of promise 
below. 
Far underneath him very far down in the 
valley a cuckoo called. Out of the depths 
floated the elfin halloo, the gaily malicious 
challenge of spring herself, shouted up me 
