She was brought out of her revery by the sight of a man staggering
along the road ahead of her.  Finally he plunged upon his face in the
road.  Like the tender-hearted girl she was, she stopped, dismounted,
and ran to the fallen man to give him aid.  She suddenly found her
wrists clasped in two hands like iron.  The man rose to his feet,
smiling evilly.  She struggled wildly but futilely.
"Better be sensible," he said.  "I am stronger than you are.  And I
don't wish to hurt you.  Walk on ahead of me.  It will be utterly
useless to scream or cry out.  You can see for yourself that we are in
a deserted part of the road.  If you will promise to act sensibly I
shan't lay a hand on you.  Do you see that hut yonder, near the fork in
the road?  We'll stop there.  Now, march!"
She dropped her handkerchief, later her bracelet, and finally her crop,
in hope that these slight clues might bring her help.  She knew that
Jones would hear of the fire, and, finding that she had not returned
with the riding master, would immediately start out in pursuit.  She
was beginning to grow very fond of Jones, who never spoke unless spoken
to, who was always at hand, faithful and loyal.
From afar came the low rumble of a motor.  She wondered if her captor
heard it.  He did, but his ears tricked him into believing that it came
from another direction.  Eventually they arrived at the hut, and
Florence was forced to enter.  The man locked the door and waited
outside for the automobile which he was expecting.  He was rather
dumfounded when he saw that it was coming from the city, not going
toward it.
It was Norton.  The riderless horse told him enough; the handkerchief
and bracelet and crop led him straight for the hut.
The man before the hut realized by this time that he had made a
mistake.  He attempted to re-enter the hut and prepare to defend it
till his companions hove in sight.  But Florence, recognizing Norton,
held the door with all her strength.  The man snarled and turned toward
Norton, only to receive a smashing blow on the jaw.
Norton flung open the door.  "Into the car, Florence!  There's another
car coming up the road.  Hurry!"
It was not a long chase.  The car of the auto bandits, looking like an
ordinary taxicab, was a high-powered machine, and it gained swiftly on
Norton's four-cylinder.  The reporter waited grimly.
"Keep your head down!" he warned Florence.  "I'm going to take a pot at
their tires when they get within range.  If I miss I'm afraid we'll
have trouble.  Under no circumstances attempt to leave this car.  Here
they come!"
He suddenly leaned back and fired.  It was only chance.  The manner in
which the cars were lurching made a poor target for a marksman even of
the first order.  Chance directed Norton's first bullet into the right
forward tire, which exploded.  Going at sixty-odd miles an hour, they
could not stop the car in time to avoid fatality.  The car careened
wildly and plunged down the embankment into the river.
Florence covered her eyes with her hands, and, quite unconscious of
what he was doing, Norton put his arms around her.
CHAPTER VIII
After the affair of the auto bandits--three of whom were killed--a lull
followed.  If you're a sailor you know what kind of a lull I
mean--blue-black clouds down the southwest horizon, the water crinkly,
the booms wabbling.  Suddenly a series of "accidents" began to happen
to Norton.  At first he did not give the matter much thought.  The safe
which fell almost at his feet and crashed through the sidewalk merely
induced him to believe he was lucky.  At another time an automobile
came furiously around a corner while he was crossing the street, and
only amazing agility saved him from bodily hurt.  The car was out of
sight when he thought to recall the number.
Then came the jolt in the subway.  Only a desperate grab by one of the
guards saved him from being crushed to death.  Even then he thought
nothing.  But when a new box of cigarettes arrived and he tried one and
found it strangely perfumed, and, upon further analysis, found it to
contain a Javanese narcotic, a slow but sure death, he became wide
awake enough.  They were after him.  He began to walk carefully, to
keep in public places as often as he possibly could.
He was not really afraid of death, but he did abhor the thought of its
coming up from behind.  Except for the cigarettes they were all
"accidents;" he could not have proved anything before a jury of his
intimate friends.
He never entered an elevator without scrupulous care.  He never passed
under coverings over the sidewalks where construction was going on.
Still, careful as he was, death confronted him once more.  It was his
habit to have his coffee and rolls--he rarely ate anything more for his
breakfast--set down outside his door every morning.  The coffee, being
in a silver thermos bottle, kept its heat for hours.  When he took the
stopper out and poured forth a cup it looked oddly black, discolored.
It is quite probable that had there been no series of "accidents" he
would have drunk a cup--and died in mortal agony.  It contained
