As he stood there, looking down the road, terribly perplexed and filled
with keenest apprehensions concerning his colleague, far away through
the vista of poplars and telephone poles something white glimmered in
the sunlit road.

It was the white cornette of a Sister of Charity; after a few minutes
Halkett recognized the advancing figure and walked forward to meet her.

The color of early morning freshened her youthful cheeks, framed by the
snowy wimple.  She extended a friendly hand to him in salutation, as he
came up and uncovered.

"At such an hour, Monsieur, only birds and Sisters of Charity are
supposed to be on the wing.  Is it curiosity that has awakened you to
see how the sun really looks when it rises?"

But as she spoke she detected the deep anxiety which his smile masked,
and her own face became responsively serious.

"Have you had bad news?" she asked gently.

"Worse—I have had no news at all.  Are you going to the inn?"

"Yes."

"May I help you gather your flowers?" he asked.

"Thank you—if you care to."

They walked on in silence, skirted the garden wall westward, then north
to the bullet-splintered green door.

Immediately she noticed the scars of the fusillade, gazed at them
curiously for a moment, then laid a questioning forefinger across a
bullet hole.

And while she stood so, he told her in a few words what had occurred the
night before—told her everything, including the posting of the notice
ordering a general mobilization.

She listened, her finger still resting over the shot hole, her calm face
raised to his.  And, when he ended:

"Then it is war already," she said quietly.

"War has not been declared....  Yes, it is virtually war.  Why not say
so?"

She nodded; he pushed open the heavy little door, and Sister Eila bent
her white-coiffed head and stepped lightly into the garden.

For a while she moved slowly along the flower-bordered paths, as though
uncertain what to choose from among the perfumed thickets, then, setting
her ozier basket on the edge of the walk, she knelt down before the
white clove pinks; and Halkett dropped on his knees beside her.

They worked there together, exchanging scarcely a word, slowly filling
the basket which lay between them.

Ariadne came up with a cheery mew of greeting, and after marching around
and rubbing herself against Halkett, mounted to his shoulders and
settled down, purring like a teakettle beside his ear.

When the basket was filled, Sister Eila stood up and straightened her
shoulders, and Halkett rose too, the cat still perched on his shoulder.

He lifted the flower-heaped basket and set it in the shade of the arbor;
Sister Eila seated herself and Halkett sat down on the stone steps at
her feet.

After a silence, made resonant with Ariadne’s loudly cadenced purring,
Sister Eila clasped her hands in her lap and looked steadily down at the
heap of flowers in the green ozier basket.

"What is going to happen?" she asked in a low voice.  "If there is to be
a war, it will come here, I suppose."

"I am afraid so."

"Yes; Saïs cannot escape."
