
"About what?"

"About my sleeping against your shoulder?"

"Nothing," he said carelessly.

"Were you quite--indifferent?"

He didn't know how to answer.

"I was not," she said. "I was contented, and I thought continually about
our friendship--except when what I was doing made me uneasy about--what
I was doing.... Isn't it curious that a girl could do a thing like that
and feel comfortable except when she remembered that a girl doesn't
usually do a thing like that?"

He began to laugh, and she laughed, too.

She said: "Always my inclination has been, from a child, to explain
things to myself. But I can't explain you, yet. You are very different,
you know."

"Not a bit----"

"Yes, please. I've found that out.... Tell me, do you really mean to go
today?"

"Yes, Karen, I do."

"Couldn't you stay?"

"I really couldn't."

"Why, please?"

"I must be about my business."

"Enlistment?"

"Yes."

"In the Guides," she said, as though to herself.

He nodded.

"The Guides," she repeated, looking rather vacantly at a sun spot that
waxed and waned on the dry carpet of fir-needles at her feet. "I have
seen them. They are odd, with their furry headgear and their green
jackets and boots and cherry-red breeches.... I have danced with
officers of the Guides in Brussels.... I never thought that my first man
friend would be an officer in the Guides."

"I never thought my best friend among women would be the first woman I
ever robbed," he said rather grimly.

"Oh, but you haven't done it yet! And I don't see how you propose to do
it."

He looked up, forcing a smile:

"Don't you?"

"Not if you are going away. How can you? The only way I can see is for
you to stay at Quellenheim in hopes that I might forget to lock my door
some night. You know," she said, almost wistfully, "I might forget--if
you remained long enough."

He shook his head.

"Then you have given it up?"

"No."

"But I don't see!"

She was so pretty in her perplexity, so utterly without art in her
frankness and curiosity that the impulse to mystify and torment her
possessed him.

