But when he came in a lull of February, and he could walk part of the
way up through the Park on the sunny Saturday afternoon, she said:
"I suppose you've come to pour out some more of your griefs. Well,
pour away! Has the magazine project failed?"
"On the contrary, it has been a succès fou. But I don't feel
altogether easy in my mind about it. The fact is, they seem to print
much more rubbish than I supposed."
"Of course they do; they must; rubbish is the breath in their
nostrils."
She painted away, screwing her eyes almost shut and getting very close
to her picture. He had never thought her so plain; she was letting her
mouth hang open. He wondered why she was so charming; but when she
stepped back rhythmically, tilting her pretty head this way and that,
he saw why: it was her unfailing grace. She suddenly remembered her
mouth and shut it to say, "Well?"
"Well, some people have come back at me. They've said, What a rotten
number this or that was! They were right; and yet there were things in
all those magazines better than anything they had ever printed. What's
to be done about it? I can't ask people to buy truck or read truck
because it comes bound up with essays and stories and poems of the
first quality."
"No. You can't. Why," she asked, drifting up to her picture again,
"don't you tear the bad out, and sell the good?"
Erlcort gave a disdainful sound, such as cannot be spelled in English.
"Do you know how defiantly the bad is bound up with the good in the
magazines? They're wired together, and you could no more tear out the
bad and leave the good than you could part vice from virtue in human
nature."
"I see," Margaret Green said, but she saw no further, and she had to
let him go disconsolate. After waiting a decent time she went to find
him in his critical bookstore. It was late in an afternoon of the days
that were getting longer, and only one electric was lighted in the
rear of the room, where Erlcort sat before the fireless Franklin
stove, so busy at something that he scarcely seemed aware of her.
"What in the world are you doing?" she demanded.
He looked up. "Who? I? Oh, it's you! Why, I'm merely censoring the
truck in the May number of this magazine." He held up a little roller,
as long as the magazine was wide, blacked with printer's ink, which he
had been applying to the open periodical. "I've taken a hint from the
way the Russian censorship blots out seditious literature before it
lets it go to the public."
"And what a mess you're making!"
"Of course it will have to dry before it's put on sale."
"I should think so. Listen to me, Frederick Erlcort: you're going
crazy."
"I've sometimes thought so: crazy with conceit and vanity and
arrogance. Who am I that I should set up for a critical
bookstore-keeper? What is the Republic of Letters, anyway? A vast,
benevolent, generous democracy, where one may have what one likes, or
a cold oligarchy where he is compelled to take what is good for him?
Is it a restricted citizenship, with a minority representation, or is
it universal suffrage?"
"Now," Margaret Green said, "you are talking sense. Why didn't you
think of this in the beginning?"
"Is it a world, a whole earth," he went on, "where the weeds mostly
outflourish the flowers, or is it a wretched little florist's
conservatory where the watering-pot assumes to better the instruction
of the rain which falls upon the just and the unjust? What is all the
worthy family of asses to do if there are no thistles to feed them?
Because the succulent fruits and nourishing cereals are better for the
finer organisms, are the coarser not to have fodder? No; I have made a
mistake. Literature is the whole world; it is the expression of the
gross, the fatuous, and the foolish, and it is the pleasure of the
gross, the fatuous, and the foolish, as well as the expression and the
pleasure of the wise, the fine, the elect. Let the multitude have
their truck, their rubbish, their rot; it may not be the truck, the
rubbish, the rot that it would be to us, or may slowly and by natural
selection become to certain of them. But let there be no artificial
selection, no survival of the fittest by main force--the force of the
spectator, who thinks he knows better than the creator of the ugly and
the beautiful, the fair and foul, the evil and good."
"Oh, now if the Intellectual Club could hear you!" Margaret Green
said, with a long, deep, admiring suspiration. "And what are you
going to do with your critical bookstore?"
"I'm going to sell it. I've had an offer from the author of that
best-seller--I've told you about him. I was just trying to censor that
magazine while I was thinking it over. He's got an idea. He's going to
keep it a critical bookstore, but the criticism is to be made by
universal suffrage and the will of the majority. The latest books will
be put to a vote; and the one getting the greatest number of votes
