“Manners!” he said. “Why, it is merely the truth, and truth is good
manners; manners are a fiction. The castle is done. Do you like it?”
  [Illustration: THE LIGHTNING BLAZED OUT FLASH UPON FLASH
                 AND SET THE CASTLE ON FIRE]
Any one would have been obliged to like it. It was lovely to look
at, it was so shapely and fine, and so cunningly perfect in all
its particulars, even to the little flags waving from the turrets.
Satan said we must put the artillery in place now, and station the
halberdiers and display the cavalry. Our men and horses were a
spectacle to see, they were so little like what they were intended
for; for, of course, we had no art in making such things. Satan said
they were the worst he had seen; and when he touched them and made
them alive, it was just ridiculous the way they acted, on account of
their legs not being of uniform lengths. They reeled and sprawled
around as if they were drunk, and endangered everybody’s lives around
them, and finally fell over and lay helpless and kicking. It made us
all laugh, though it was a shameful thing to see. The guns were charged
with dirt, to fire a salute, but they were so crooked and so badly
made that they all burst when they went off, and killed some of the
gunners and crippled the others. Satan said we would have a storm now,
and an earthquake, if we liked, but we must stand off a piece, out of
danger. We wanted to call the people away, too, but he said never mind
them; they were of no consequence, and we could make more, some time or
other, if we needed them.
A small storm-cloud began to settle down black over the castle, and
the miniature lightning and thunder began to play, and the ground to
quiver, and the wind to pipe and wheeze, and the rain to fall, and all
the people flocked into the castle for shelter. The cloud settled down
blacker and blacker, and one could see the castle only dimly through
it; the lightning blazed out flash upon flash and pierced the castle
and set it on fire, and the flames shone out red and fierce through the
cloud, and the people came flying out, shrieking, but Satan brushed
them back, paying no attention to our begging and crying and imploring;
and in the midst of the howling of the wind and volleying of the
thunder the magazine blew up, the earthquake rent the ground wide, and
the castle’s wreck and ruin tumbled into the chasm, which swallowed it
from sight and closed upon it, with all that innocent life, not one of
the five hundred poor creatures escaping. Our hearts were broken; we
could not keep from crying.
“Don’t cry,” Satan said; “they were of no value.”
“But they are gone to hell!”
“Oh, it is no matter; we can make plenty more.”
It was of no use to try to move him; evidently he was wholly without
feelings, and could not understand. He was full of bubbling spirits,
and as gay as if this were a wedding instead of a fiendish massacre.
And he was bent on making us feel as he did, and of course his magic
accomplished his desire. It was no trouble to him; he did whatever he
pleased with us. In a little while we were dancing on that grave, and
he was playing to us on a strange, sweet instrument which he took out
of his pocket; and the music--but there is no music like that, unless
perhaps in heaven, and that was where he brought it from, he said. It
made one mad, for pleasure; and we could not take our eyes from him,
and the looks that went out of our eyes came from our hearts, and their
dumb speech was worship. He brought the dance from heaven, too, and the
bliss of paradise was in it.
Presently he said he must go away on an errand. But we could not bear
the thought of it, and clung to him, and pleaded with him to stay;
and that pleased him, and he said so, and said he would not go yet,
but would wait a little while and we would sit down and talk a few
minutes longer; and he told us Satan was only his real name, and he
was to be known by it to us alone, but he had chosen another one to be
called by in the presence of others; just a common one, such as people
have--Philip Traum.
It sounded so odd and mean for such a being! But it was his decision,
and we said nothing; his decision was sufficient.
We had seen wonders this day; and my thoughts began to run on the
pleasure it would be to tell them when I got home, but he noticed those
thoughts, and said:
“No, all these matters are a secret among us four. I do not mind your
trying to tell them, if you like, but I will protect your tongues, and
nothing of the secret will escape from them.”
It was a disappointment, but it couldn’t be helped, and it cost us a
sigh or two. We talked pleasantly along, and he was always reading our
thoughts and responding to them, and it seemed to me that this was the
most wonderful of all the things he did, but he interrupted my musings
and said:
“No, it would be wonderful for you, but it is not wonderful for me. I
am not limited like you. I am not subject to human conditions. I can
measure and understand your human weaknesses, for I have studied them;
but I have none of them. My flesh is not real, although it would seem
