of such compassion as Jeff deserved.
XXXV
When the cold weather came and Alston Choate and Weedon Moore became
rival candidates for the mayoralty of Addington, strange things began to
happen. Choate, cursing his lot inwardly, but outwardly deferential to
his mother who had really brought it on him, began to fulfil every last
requirement of the zealous candidate. He even learned to make speeches,
not the lucid exponents of the law that belonged to his court career,
but prompt addresses, apparently unconsidered, at short notice. The one
innovation he drew the line at was the flattering recognition of men he
had never, in the beaten way of life, recognised before. He could not,
he said, kiss babies. But he would tell the town what he thought it
needed, coached, he ironically added when he spoke the expansive truth
at home, by his mother and Jeff. They were ready to bring kindling to
boil the pot, Mrs. Choate in her grand manner of beckoning the ancient
virtues back, Jeff, as Alston told, him, hammer and tongs. Jeff also
began to make speeches, because, at one juncture when Alston gave out
from hoarseness--his mother said it was a psychological hoarseness at a
moment when he realised overwhelmingly how he hated it all--Jeff had
taken his place and "got" the men, labourers all of them, as Alston
never had.
"It's a mistake," said Mrs. Choate afterward when he came to the house
to report, and ask how Alston was, and the three sat eating one of
Mary's quick suppers. "You're really the candidate. Those men know it.
They know it's you behind Alston, and they're going to take him
patiently because you tell them to. But they don't half want him."
Jeff was very fine now in his robustness, fit and strong, no fat on him
and good blood racing well. He was eating bread and butter heartily,
while he waited for Mary to serve him savoury things, and Mrs. Choate
looked discontentedly at Mary bending over his plate, all hospitality,
with the greater solicitude because he was helping Alston out. Mrs.
Choate wished the nugatory Esther were out of the way, and she could
marry Mary off to Jeff. Mary, pale, yet wholesome, fair-haired, with the
definite Choate profile, and dressed in her favourite smoke colour and
pale violet, her mother loved conscientiously, if impatiently. But she
wished Mary, who had not one errant inclination, might come to her some
day and say, "Mother, I am desperately enamoured of an Italian
fruit-seller with Italy in his eyes." Mrs. Choate would have explained
to her, with a masterly common-sense, that such vagrom impulses meant,
followed to conclusions, shipwreck on the rocks of class
misunderstanding; but it would have warmed her heart to Mary to have so
to explain. But here was Mary to whom no eccentricity ever had to be
elucidated. She could not even have imagined a fruit-seller outside his
heaven-decreed occupation of selling fruit. Mrs. Choate smiled a little
to herself, wondering what Mary would say if she could know her mother
was willing to consign the inconvenient Esther to perpetual limbo and
marry her to handsome Jeff. "Mother!" she could imagine her horrified
cry. It would all be in that.
Jeff was more interested in his eating than in answering Mrs. Choate
with more than an encouraging:
"We've got 'em, I think. But I wish," he said, "we had more time to
follow up Weedie. What's he saying to 'em?"
"Ask Madame Beattie," said Alston, with more distaste than he could keep
out of his voice. "I saw her last night on the outskirts of his crowd,
sitting in Denny's hack."
"Speaking?" asked Jeff. "She'd have spoken, if she got half a chance."
Alston laughed quietly.
"Moore got the better of her. He was in his car. All he had to do was to
make off. She made after him, but he's got the whip-hand, with a car."
The next night, doubtless taught the advisability of vying with her
enemy, Madame Beattie, to the disgust of Esther, came down cloaked and
muffled to the chin and took the one automobile to be had for hire in
Addington. She was whirled away, where Esther had no idea. She was
whirled back again at something after ten, hoarse yet immensely tickled.
But Reardon knew what she had done and he telephoned it to Esther. She
was making speeches of her own, stopping at street corners wherever she
could gather a group, but especially running down to the little streets
by the water where the foreign labourers came swarming out and cheered
her.
"It's disgraceful," said Esther, almost crying into the telephone. "What
is she saying to them?"
"Nobody knows, except it's political. We assume that," said Reardon.
"All kinds of lingo. They tell me she knows more languages than a
college professor."
"Find out," Esther besought him. "Ask her. Ask whom you shall vote for.
It'll get her started."
That seemed to Reardon a valuable idea, and he actually did ask her,
lingering before the door one night when she came out to take her car.
He put her into it with a florid courtesy she accepted as her due--it
was the best, she thought, the man had to offer--and then said to her
