not want her, will you, sir?"
Again the shadow of a smile crept over Neeland's face.
"Did she come for--her handkerchief?"
There was a silence; the steward looked steadily at the nurse; the
nurse's dark eyes were fixed on the man lying there before her.
"You shan't be wanting her any more, shall you, sir?" repeated the
steward, not shifting his gaze.
"Yes; I think I shall want her--for a little while."... Neeland slowly
opened his eyes, smiled up at the motionless nurse: "How are you,
Scheherazade?" he said weakly. And, to the steward, with an effort:
"Miss White and I are--old friends.... However--kindly remain
outside--my door.... And throw what remains of my dinner--out of--the
port.... And be ready--at all times--to look after the--gentleman on
crutches.... I'm--fond of him.... Thank you, steward."
                 
Long after the steward had closed the stateroom door, Ilse Dumont
stood beside Neeland's bed without stirring. Once or twice he opened
his eyes and looked at her humorously. After a while he said:
"Please be seated, Scheherazade."
She calmly seated herself on the edge of his couch.
"Horrid soup," he murmured. "You should attend a cooking school, my
dear."
She regarded him absently, as though other matters absorbed her.
"Yes," he repeated, "as a cook you're a failure, Scheherazade. That
broth which you seasoned for me has done funny things to my eyes, too.
But they're recovering. I see much better already. My vision is
becoming sufficiently clear to observe how pretty you are in your
nurse's cap and apron."
A slow colour came into her face and he saw her eyebrows bend inward
as though she were annoyed.
"You are pretty, Scheherazade," he repeated. "You know you are,
don't you? But you're a poor cook and a rotten shot. You can't be
perfection, you know. Cheer up!"
She ignored the suggestion, her dark eyes brooding and remote again;
and he lay watching her with placid interest in which no rancour
remained. He was feeling decidedly better every minute now. He lifted
the automatic pistol and shoved it under his pillow, then cautiously
flexed his fingers, his arms, and finally his knees, with increasing
pleasure and content.
"Such dreadful soup," he said. "But I'm a lot better, thank you. Was
it to have been murder this time, too, Scheherazade? Would the entire
cupful have made a pretty angel of me? Oh, fie! Naughty
Scheherazade!"
She remained mute.
"Didn't you mean manslaughter with intent to exterminate?" he
insisted, watching her.
Perhaps she was thinking of her blond and bearded companion, and the
open port, for she made no reply.
"Why didn't you let him heave me out?" inquired Neeland. "Why did you
object?"
At that she reddened to the roots of her hair, understanding that what
she feared had been true--that Neeland, while physically helpless, had
retained sufficient consciousness to be aware of what was happening to
him and to understand at least a part of the conversation.
"What was the stuff with which you flavoured that soup,
Scheherazade?"
He was merely baiting her; he did not expect any reply; but, to his
surprise, she answered him:
"Threlanium--Speyer's solution is what I used," she said with a sort
of listless effrontery.
"Don't know it. Don't like it, either. Prefer other condiments."
He lifted himself on one elbow, remained propped so, tore open his
wireless telegram, and, after a while, contrived to read it:
                 
"James Neeland,
"S. S. Volhynia.
"Spies aboard. Be careful. If trouble threatens captain has
instructions British Government to protect you and order arrests on
your complaint.
                                                               "Naïa."
                 
With a smile that was almost a grin, Neeland handed the telegram to
Ilse Dumont.
"Scheherazade," he said, "you'll be a good little girl, now, won't
you? Because it would be a shocking thing for you and your friend
across the way to land in England wearing funny bangles on your wrists
and keeping step with each other, wouldn't it?"
She continued to hold the slip of paper and stare at it long after she
had finished reading it and the words became a series of parallel
blurs.
