I am not mistaken — but the little "town" itself was 
very pleasing to the eye, and certainly a haven of 
refuge for soldiers whose bodies and minds needed 
only repose, care, and kind words to send them back 
 
to the Front sounder by far than they had been in 
their unsanitary days before the war. 
Here they are forced to sleep with their windows 
open, to bathe, eat good food, instead of mortifying 
the body for the sake of filling the family stocking; 
and they are doctored intelligently, their teeth filled, 
their tonsils and adenoids taken out, their chronic indigestion cured. Those who survive the war will 
never forget the lesson and will do missionary work 
when they are at home once more. 
All that was dormant in Mile. Javal's fine brain 
seemed to awake under the horrifying stimulus of that 
first visit to the wretches herded like animals outside 
of Paris, where every man thought he was drafted for 
death and did not care whether he was or not ; where, 
in short, morale, so precious an asset to any nation in 
time of war, was practically nil. 
1 The first step was to get a powerful committee together. Mile. Javal, although wealthy, could not carry 
through this gigantic task alone. The moratorium had 
stopped the payment of rents, factories were closed, 
tenants mobilized. Besides, she had already given 
right and left, as everybody else had done who had 
anything to give. It was growing increasingly difficult to raise money. 
But nothing could daunt Mile. Javal. She managed 
to get together with the least possible delay a com- 
mittee of three hundred, and she obtained subscriptions 
in money from one thousand five hundred firms, besides donations of food and clothing from eight 
hundred others, headed by the King of Spain. 
f Her subscription list was opened by President 
Poincare with a gift of one thousand francs; the 
American War Relief Clearing House gave her four 
thousand three hundred francs, Madame Viviani contributed four thousand francs; the Comedie Fran- 
chise one thousand, and Raphael Weill of San Francisco seven thousand seven hundred and fifty; Alex- 
ander Phillips of New York three thousand ; and capitalists, banks, bank clerks, civil servants, colonials, 
school children, contributed sums great and small. 
Concerts were given, bazaars hastily but successfully 
organized, collections taken up. There was no end to 
Mile. Javal's resource, and the result was an almost 
immediate capital of several hundred thousand francs. 
When public interest was fairly roused, les pauvres 
eclopes became one of the abiding concerns of the 
French people, and they have responded as generously 
as they did to the needs of the more picturesque 
refugee or the starving within their gates. 
This great organization, known as "U Assistance 
aux Depots d'ficlopes, Petits Blesses et Petites Malades, et aux Cantonments de Repos," was formally in- 
augurated on November 14, 1914, with Madame Jules 
Ferry as President, and Madame Viviani as Vice- 
President. Mile. Javal shows modestly on the official 
list as Secretaire Generate. 
The Government agreed to put up the baraques, and 
did so with the least possible delay. Mile. Javal and 
 
her Committee furnish the beds (there were seven 
hundred in one of the depots she showed me), support 
the dietary kitchen and the hospital baraques, and supply the bathrooms, libraries, and all the little luxuries. 
The Government supports the central kitchen (grand 
regime), the doctors, and, when necessary, the surgeons. 
VI 
Mile. Javal took me twice through the immense 
establishment on the Champs filysees, where she has 
not only her offices but workrooms and storerooms. 
In one room a number of ladies — in almost all of 
these ceuvres women give their services, remaining all 
day or a part of every day — were doing nothing but 
rolling cigarettes. I looked at them with a good deal 
of interest. They belonged to that class of French 
life I have tried to describe, in which the family is the 
all important unit; where children rarely play with 
other children, sometimes never; where the mother is 
a sovereign who is content to remain within the 
boundaries of her own small domain for months at a 
time, particularly if she lives not in an apartment, 
but in an hotel with a garden behind it. Thousands 
of these exemplary women of the bourgeoisie — hundreds of thousands — care little or nothing for "so- 
ciety." They call at stated intervals, upon which ceremonious occasion they drink coffee and eat pastry; 
