tacit, something that wasn't quite, that wasn't 
verily at all, in their speech. He was neverthe 
less for the present not to review any one of the 
felicities that more and more assured his steps, 
and that still made him, in living them over, catch 
his breath a little, he was not to recur to them 
without a finer and finer joy, without a positive 
pride, in the growth of his wit. It had broken 
out quite brilliantly, this wit, in that production 
of the morocco case, and what had it done less 
with his finding the very lightest terms for put 
ting it, while Molly listened, that if he hadn't 
  
been able to repay in kind the compliment of her 
beautiful offering this was because the kind, the 
article worth her acceptance, was alas not pro 
duced in America ? He was later on to remem 
ber indeed how she had answered with a frankness 
scarce failing of provocation that since he him 
self had been produced the country didn't at 
least lack fine material; with which too she had 
carried it off quite on his own level by making 
the point that the real repair of his neglect would 
be to sit as soon as possible to one of the great 
London hands. There were plenty to choose 
from, he would see, as he would see many other 
things that might be new to him; and wasn't it 
certain moreover that the fancy would then be 
from the moment he humoured it, that is 
not for a trifle to be carried about in a pocket, 
 but for something of a style and size to hang 
  there roundabout them, where it would have for 
V company as many Pendrels as Midmores ? These 
lively impressions were, as we say, inevitably to 
renew their edge, even if the sense of living to 
the increase of danger, or in other words to 
the increase of interest, rather swept away in its 
pulses any occasion to brood. It is nevertheless 
not with his eventual commentary on this course 
that we are concerned, so much as with the fresh 
ness of those first moments. It belonged on the 
spot to still another of them that he found occa 
sion to take her up somehow, in all good faith 
  
and good humour, on that oddity she had ap 
peared to let fall, the matter of Mrs. Midmore's 
being so in fear of her as to have had to make a 
secret of despatching the morocco case. 
"We rather suppose over there, you know," 
he mentioned, "that in England at least the chil 
dren are bred to such submission that the parents 
haven't to conspire for freedom behind their 
backs. And, to tell you all," he further explained, 
"we have thought of your mother as such a very 
high lady that to make our image fit the facts 
we must apparently think of you as a higher." 
"Do you consider," the girl asked at this, "that 
you've met me with such extraordinary signs of 
awe? I won't pretend indeed I'm a bleating 
lamb but you'll see for yourself that, though 
we're remarkably alike, I think, and have both 
plenty of decision, or call it even temper, there's 
between us an affection stronger even than our 
force of will on either side and which has always 
kept difficulties down. She happens to like what 
I like, just as I want to like, being so fond of her, 
what she does though I don't say that if that 
were different there wouldn't be a touch of strife. 
If we've the same spirit therefore we've luckily 
for the most part the same tastes which I dare 
say I wouldn't tell you, however, if I thought 
you'd be afraid of me for 'em. For all my bold 
ness, at the same time, and which I come as hon 
estly by as you will, I'd never look at a man of 
  
whom I shouldn't myself once in a while be afraid. 
Unless you're prepared, sir, properly to make me 
so," she laughed, "we may therefore perhaps have 
gone too far for mamma herself, in this, I think, 
would be as disappointed as I am." 
