 
Ellen looked at him, her brows lowering and the color 
again flushing her cheeks. 
" I won't have anything to do with Grissie," she said. 
" And I don't want to have anything to do with you. I 
saw you both, that night." 
" What night? " asked Ben. She had pricked him, but 
he was on guard. 
" The Academy dance. She ran — and you — " 
" Yes," said Ben gravely. He was not looking at her. 
What a girl she was, he was thinking, what a prim little 
darling prude. "I know what you mean. I'm sorry, 
Ellen. I'm as sorry as I can be. Can't you forget it? " 
" It isn't my business," said Ellen. " But if that's the 
way you feel, you and Grissie — O Ben!" Her face 
changed delightfully into a happy relief and confidence. 
" Why, Ben, I know. You're engaged to Grissie." 
" No, by thunder! I'm not," cried Ben. " And don't 
you think it. The only trouble with me is, I haven't been 
half grown up. But now I see how I seem to other peo- 
ple — now I see how I looked to you — O Ellen, don't 
lay that up against me." He rose and stood before her, 
contrite, pleading and very handsome. "You and I 
could be great pals if we didn't have tp think of silly 
things like that. With some girls you have to. They 
make you. " Ellen, you take your book and come up to 
Hemlock Ridge about five. Father's going to Beckenham. 
And I'll come, too. And we can have an hour on our 
shorthand." 
" Why, yes," said she. It looked suddenly pleasant to 
her. He was only a boy playmate and she could readily 
see how Grissie had shamed him into the game of folly. 
Woman-like, she blamed the woman. " But you come 
over here. We can sit on the back porch. Mother won't 
disturb us." 
 
Ben made a droll face. 
" Can't," said he. " Father'd find it out and then — 
good-by." 
" All right," said Ellen. " PU come." 
It was a recognized fact that the Neale boys hoodwinked 
their father. No one thought the worse of them. They 
had to. Then he went away at once, lest she should re- 
pent, and Ellen sat down to her study rather more light- 
hearted. Ben was a charming playmate. And later 
Ardelia came back from her dusty walk to town. She was 
hot and disheveled, her hat on one side with the haste of 
her going, but she was, Ellen jealously saw, excited and 
happy. She carried a large bundle and threw it on the 
table beside Ellen's books. After she had unpinned her 
hat she began to cut the string with a nervous haste, and 
talked meanwhile, laughing a little as she went on, as if 
she wanted to get her explanation over. Ellen could 
hardly bear the laugh. It was a new one, she thought, 
something like Peleg's. Mother had caught it of him. 
But perhaps Ardelia had had few calls to laughter in these 
last years. 
" I bought a whole cut o' cloth," said she. " 'Twas a 
real bargain. An' some hamburg. I thought we're both 
pretty well out o' clo'es, an' we might's weR. se' down 
this summer an' make us up some." 
Ellen looked at her in her most terrifying fashion, and 
Ardelia wilted under it. "Why don't you tell the 
truth? " Ellen was crying savagely within her own mind. 
"You know and I know what you're making up things 
for." But she only said, in a quietness of scorn that was 
harder for poor Ardelia to bear than the anger of re- 
proach: 
" I don't want any clothes or any hamburg. You can 
have it all." 
It was something before five when Ellen took book and 
pencil and told her mother she was going into the woods. 
Ardelia scarcely heard, she was so busy cutting out on the 
kitchen table, and wondering whether the cloth ought to 
have been shrunk and if she could have the patience to 
crochet an edge. Hamburg was elegant, but it was not 
quite so stylish, if she could judge from the ready-made 
garments she had seen that day. 
"Well, don't go too far," said she absently, without 
looking up. " Hadn't you better wait till after supper? " 
