might have built up. He had grown and grown 
just as she had, certainly; only here he was for 
her clothed in the right interest of it, not bare 
of that grace as he fancied her guessing herself 
in his eyes, and with the conviction sharply thrust 
upon him, beyond any humour he might have 
cultivated, that he was going to be so right fori 
her and so predetermined, whatever he did and 
however he should react there under conditions) 
incalculable, that this would perhaps more over- 
load his consciousness than ease it. It could 
have been further taken for strange, had there 
been somebody so to note it, that even when 
their first vaguenesses dropped what she really 
at once made easiest for him was to tell her that 
the wonderful thing had come to pass, the thing 
she had whisked him over for — he put it to her 
 
that way; that it had taken place in conditions 
too exquisite to be believed, and that under the 
bewilderment produced by these she must re- 
gard him as still staggering. 
"Then it's done, then it's done — as I knew it 
would be if he could but see you." Flushed, but 
with her large fan held up so that scarce more 
than her eyes, their lids drawn together in the 
same nearsighted way he remembered, presented 
themselves over it, she fairly hunched her high 
shoulders higher for emphasis of her success. The 
more it might have embarrassed her to consider 
him without reserve the more she had this relief, 
as he took it, of her natural, her helpful blink- 
ing; so that what it came to really for her general 
advantage was that the fine closing of the eyes, 
the fine thing in her big face, but expressed effec- 
tive scrutiny. Below her in stature — as various 
other men, for that matter, couldn't but be — he 
hardly came higher than her ear; and he for the 
shade of an instant struck himself as a small 
boy, literally not of man's estate, reporting, under 
some research, just to the amplest of mothers. 
He had reported to Mr. Betterman, so far as 
intent candour in him hadn't' found itself dis- 
traught, and for the half hour had somehow af- 
fronted the immeasurable; but that didn't at 
all prevent his now quick sense of his never in 
his life having been so watched and waited upon 
by the uncharted infinite, or so subject to its 
 
operation — since infinities, at the rate he was 
sinking in, could apparently operate, and do it 
too without growing smaller for the purpose. 
He cast about, not at all upright on the small 
pink satin sofa to which he had unconsciously 
dropped; it was for him clearly to grow bigger, 
as everything about expressively smiled, smiled 
absolutely through the shadow cast by doctors 
and nurses again, in suggestion of; which, nat- 
urally, was what one would always want to do — 
but which any failure of, he after certain mo- 
ments perfectly felt, wouldn't convert to the 
least difference for this friend. How could that 
have been more established than by her neglect 
of his having presently said, out of his particular 
need, that he would do anything in reason that 
was asked of him, but that he fairly ached with 
the desire to understand    ? She blinked upon 
his ache to her own sufficiency, no doubt; but 
no further balm dropped upon it for the moment 
than by her appearing to brood with still deeper 
assurance, in her place and her posture, on the 
beauty of the accomplished fact, the fact of her 
performed purpose and her freedom now but to 
take care — yes, herself take care — for what would 
come of it. She might understand that he didn't 
— all the way as yet; but nothing could be more 
in the line of the mild and mighty mother than 
her treating that as a trifle. It attenuated a 
little perhaps, it just let light into the dark warmth 
 
