called a " blanket-stiff," wandering from mine to harvest- 
field and from harvest-field to lumber-camp. Some one 
broached the subject of check-weighmen to him,, and the 
whole table heard his scornful laugh. Let any man ask 
for a check-weighman ! 
" You mean they would fire him ? " asked Hal. - 
" Maybe ! " was the answer. " Maybe they make him 
fire himself." 
" How do you mean ? " 
" They make his life one damn misery till he go." 
So it was with check-weighman — as with scrip, and 
with company stores, and with all the provisions of the 
law to protect the miner against accidents. You might 
 
demand your legal rights, but if you did, it was a matter 
of the boss's temper. He might make your life one damn 
misery till you went of your own accord. Or you might 
get a string of curses and an order, " Down the canyon ! " 
— and likely as not the toe of a boot in your trouser-seat, 
or the muzzle of a revolver under your nose. 
 Such conditions made the coal-district a place 
of despair. Yet there were men who managed to get along 
somehow, and to raise families and keep decent homes. 
If one had the luck to escape accident, if he did not marry 
too young, or did not have too many children ; if he could 
manage to escape the temptations of liquor, to which over- 
work and monotony drove so many ; if, above all, he could 
keep on the right side of his boss — why then he might 
have a home, and even a little money on deposit with the 
company. 
Such a one was Jerry Minetti, who became one of Hal's 
best friends. He was a Milanese, and his name was 
Gerolamo, which had become Jerry in the " melting-pot." 
Se was about twenty-five years of age, and what is un- 
usual with the Italians, was of good stature. Their meet- 
ing took place — as did most of Hal's social experiences — 
on a Sunday. Jerry had just had a sleep and a wash, 
and had put on a pair of new blue overalls, so that he pre- 
sented a cheering aspect in the sunlight. He walked with 
his head up and his shoulders square, and one could see 
that he had few cares in the world. 
But what caught Hal's attention was not so much Jerry 
as what followed at Jerry's heels ; a perfect reproduction 
of him, quarter-size, also with a newly-washed face and a 
pair of new blue overalls. He too had his head up, and 
his shoulders square, and he was an irresistible object, 
throwing out his heels and trying his best to keep step. 
Since the longest strides he could take left him behind, 
 
lie would break into a run, and getting close under his 
father's heels, would begin keeping step once more. 
Hal was going in the same direction, and it affected him 
like the music of a military band ; he too wanted to throw 
his head up and square his shoulders and keep step. And 
then other people, seeing the grin on his face, would turn 
and watch, and grin also. But Jerry walked on gravely, 
unaware of this circus in the rear. 
They went into a house ; and Hal, having nothing to do 
but enjoy life, stood waiting for them to come out. They 
returned in the same procession, only now the man had a 
sack of something on his shoulder, while the little chap had 
a smaller load poised in imitation. So Hal grinned again, 
and when they were opposite him, he said, " Hello." 
" Hello ' said Jerry, and stopped. Then, seeing Hal's 
grin, he grinned back; and Hal looked at the little chap 
and grinned, and the little chap grinned back. Jerry, 
seeing what Hal was grinning at, grinned more than ever ; 
so there stood all three in the middle of the road, grinning 
at one another for no apparent reason. 
" Gee, but that's a great kid ! " said Hal. 
" Gee, you bet ! " said Jerry ; and he set down his sack. 
If some one desired to admire the kid, he was willing to 
stop any length of time. 
" Yours ? " asked Hal. 
" You bet ! " said Jerry, again.  
" Hello, Buster ! " said Hal. ;* 
" Hello yourself ! " said the kid. One could see in a 
moment that he had been in the " melting-pot." 
" What's your name ? " asked Hal. 
" Jerry," was the reply. 
