"Oh, forgive me!"  She sprang up and flung herself on the rug beside his
chair.
"I’m sorry!  I’m selfish.  I’ll do everything dad wished, cheerfully.
You’ll go abroad and educate yourself by travel, and I’ll learn a
profession.  And some day I’ll find out what I really am fitted to do,
and then I’ll go abroad and study, too."
"You’ll be twenty, then, Steve—just the age to know what you really want
to do."
She nodded, listlessly, kneeling there beside his chair, her cheek
resting on her clasped hands, her grey eyes fixed on the dying coals.
After a long silence she said:
"Jim, I really don’t know what I want to do in life.  I am not certain
that I want to do anything."
"What?  Not the stage?"
"No—I’m not honestly sure.  Everything interests me.  I have a craving
to see everything and learn about everything in the world.  I want to
know all there is to know; I’m feverishly curious.  I want to see
everything, experience everything, attempt everything!  It’s silly—it’s
crazy, of course.  But there’s a restless desire for the knowledge of
experience in my heart that I can’t explain.  I love everything—not any
one particular thing above another—but everything.  To be great in any
one thing would not satisfy me—it’s a terrible thing to say, isn’t it,
Jim!—but if I were a great actress I should try to become a great
singer, too; and then a great painter and sculptor and architect——"
"For Heaven’s sake, Steve!"
"I tell you I want to know it all, be it all—see, do, live everything
that is to be seen, done, and lived in the world——!"
She lifted her head and straightened her shoulders, sweeping the tumbled
hair from her brow impatiently: and her brilliant grey eyes met his,
unsmiling.
"Of course," she said, "this is rot I’m talking.  But every hour of my
life I’m going to try to learn something new about the wonderful world I
live in—try something new and wonderful—live every minute to the
full—experience everything....  Do you think I’m a fool, Jim?"
He smiled:
"No, but you make me feel rather unambitious and commonplace, Steve.
After all, I merely wish to write a few good novels.  That would content
me."
"Oh, Jim," she said, "you’ll do it, and I’ll probably amount to nothing.
I’ll just be a crazy creature flying about and poking my nose into
everything, and stirring it up a little and then fluttering on to the
next thing. Like the Bandar-log—that’s what I am—just a monkey,
enchanted and excited by everything inside my cage and determined to
find out what is hidden under every straw."
"Yours is a good mind, Steve," he said, still smiling.
The girl looked up at him wistfully:
"Is it?  I wish I knew.  I’m going to try to find out.  Have I really a
good mind?  Or is it just a restless one?  Anyway, there’s no use my
trying to be an ordinary girl.  I’m either monkey or genius; and I am
convinced that the world was made for me to rummage in."
He laughed.
"Anyway," she said, "I’ve amused you and cheered you up.  Good night,
Jim dear."
                             *CHAPTER XIII*
Stephanie, looking very slim and young in her deep mourning, went back
to college unreconciled and in tears.  Jim drove her to the station.
They stood together in the Pullman vestibule for a few minutes before
the train departed, and she clung to him, both black-gloved hands
holding tightly to his shoulders.
"Everything familiar in life seems to be ending," she said tremulously.
"I’m not very old yet, and I didn’t really wish to begin living
seriously so soon—no matter what nonsense I talked about
self-expression.  All I want now is to get off this train and go back
home with you."
"Poor little Steve," he said under his breath.  "But it’s better for you
to return to college.  The house would be too sad for you.  Go back to
college and study hard and play basket ball and skate——"
"Oh, I will," she said desolately.  "I’ll see the wretched term through.
I was merely telling you what I’d rather do—go home and just live there
all alone with you."
"You’d become tired of it pretty soon, Steve.  Don’t you think so?"
They looked at each other intently for a moment, then an odd expression
came into the girl’s grey eyes:
"It’s you who would tire of it, Jim," she said.  "I’m not old enough to
amuse you yet.  I’m still only a child to you."
"What nonsense——!"
"No.  You’ve been wonderful to me.  But you are older.  I’ve bored you
sometimes."
He protested; but she shook her head.
"A girl knows," she said.  "And a man can’t make a comrade of a girl who
