"The agents of d'Eblis and Ferez discovered me and have given me no
peace. I do not appeal to the police because that would stir up secret
agents of the French Government. But it has come now to a place
where--where I don't know what to do.... And so--being afraid at
last--I am here to--to ask--advice----"
She waited to control her voice, then opened her gold-mesh bag and
drew from it a letter.
"Three weeks ago I received this," she said. "I ignored it. Two weeks
ago, as I opened the door of my room to go out, a shot was fired at
me, and I heard somebody running down stairs.... I was badly scared.
But I went out and did my shopping, and then I went to the writing
room of a hotel and wrote to Garry.... Somebody watching me must have
seen me write it, because an attempt was made to steal the letter. A
man wearing a handkerchief over his face tried to snatch it out of the
hands of Dulcie Soane. But he got only half of the letter.
"And when I got home that same evening I found that my room had been
ransacked.... That was why I did not go to meet you at the Ritz; I was
too upset. Besides, I was busy moving my quarters.... But it was no
use. Last night I was awakened by hearing somebody working at the lock
of my bedroom. And I sat up till morning with a pistol in my hand....
And--I don't think I had better live entirely alone--until it is
safer. Do you, Garry?"
"I should think not!" said Westmore, turning red with anger.
"Did you wish us to see that letter?" asked Barres.
She handed it to him. It was typewritten; and he read it aloud,
leisurely and very distinctly, pausing now and then to give full
weight to some particularly significant and sinister sentence:
  "MADEMOISELLE:
  "For two years and more it has been repeatedly intimated to you
  that your presence in America is not desirable to certain people,
  except under certain conditions, which conditions you refuse to
  consider.
  "You have impudently ignored these intimations.
  "Now, you are beginning to meddle. Therefore, this warning is sent
  to you: Mind your business and cease your meddling!
  "Moreover, you are invited to leave the United States at your
  early convenience.
  "France, England, Russia, and Italy are closed to you. Without
  doubt you understand that. Also, doubtless you have no desire to
  venture into Germany, Austria, Bulgaria, or Turkey. Scandinavia
  remains open to you, and practically no other country except
  Spain, because we do not permit you to go to Mexico or to Central
  or South America. Do you comprehend? We do not permit it.
  "Therefore, hold your tongue and control your furor scribendi
  while in New York. And make arrangements to take the next Danish
  steamer for Christiania.
  "This is a friendly warning. For if you are still here in the
  United States two weeks after you have received this letter, other
  measures will be taken in your regard which will effectually
  dispose of your troublesome presence.
  "The necessity which forces us to radical action in this affair is
  regrettable, but entirely your own fault.
  "You have, from time to time during the last two years, received
  from us overtures of an amicable nature. You have been approached
  with discretion and have been offered every necessary guarantee to
  cover an understanding with us.
  "You have treated our advances with frivolity and contempt. And
  what have you gained by your defiance?
  "Our patience and good nature has reached its limits. We shall ask
  nothing further of you; we deliver you our orders hereafter. And
  our orders are to leave New York immediately.
  "Yet, even now, at the eleventh hour, it may not be too late for
  us to come to some understanding if you change your attitude
  entirely and show a proper willingness to negotiate with us in all
  good faith.
  "But that must be accomplished within the two weeks' grace given
  you before you depart.
  "You know how to proceed. If you try to play us false you had
  better not have been born. If you deal honestly with us your
  troubles are over.
  "This is final.
  "THE WATCHER."
XVI
THE WATCHER
"The Watcher," repeated Barres, studying the typewritten signature for
a moment longer. Then he looked at Westmore: "What do you think of
that, Jim?"
Westmore, naturally short tempered, became very red, got to his feet,
and began striding about the studio as though some sudden blaze of
inward anger were driving him into violent motion.
