followed by several important persons who took front seats. 
The singers stood up, and the leader waved his wand, and forth 
came the Marseillaise: a French revolutionary hymn, sung in 
English by a German organisation there was Internationalism 
for you ! With full realisation of the solemnity of this world- 
crisis, they sang as if they hoped to be heard in Europe. 
And then rose the Chairman Comrade Dr. Service. He was 
a fine, big figure of a man, with grey moustache and beard 
trimmed to a point; his swelling chest was covered by clean 
white linen and tight-fitting broad-cloth, and he made a most 
imposing chairman, reflecting credit on the movement. He 
cleared his throat, and told them that they had come that even- 
ing to listen to one of America's greatest orators, and that there- 
fore he, the Chairman, would not make a speech; after which 
he proceeded to make a speech. He told them what a grave 
hour this was, and how the orator would tell them its meaning; 
after which he proceeded to tell most of the things which the 
orator would tell. This was a weakness of Comrade Dr. Service 
but one hesitated to point it out to him, because of his black 
broad-cloth suit and his imposing appearance, and the money 
he had put up to pay for the hall. 
At last, however, he called on the Liederkranz again, and a 
quartette sang a German song and then an encore. And then 
came Comrade Gerrity, the hustling young insurance-agent who 
was organiser for the local, and whose task it was to make a 
"collection speech." He had humorous ways of extracting 
money "Here I am again!" he began, and everybody smiled, 
knowing his bag of tricks. While he was telling his newest 
funny story, Jimmie was unloading the littlest infant into 
Lizzie's spare arm, and laying the other on the seat with its 
head against her knee, and getting himself out into the aisle, hat 
in hand and ready for business; and as soon as the organiser 
ceased and the Liederkranz resumed, Jimmie set to work gather- 
ing the coin. His territory was the reserved-seat section up in 
front, where sat the two mighty magnates. Jimmie's knees went 
weak, but he did his duty, and was tickled to see each of the 
pair drop a coin into the hat, to be used in overthrowing their 
power in Leesville ! 
IV 
The hats were taken to the box-office and emptied, and the 
collection-takers and the Liederkranz singers resumed their seats. 
An expectant hush fell and then at last there strode out on 
the stage the Candidate. What a storm broke out! Men 
cheered and clapped and shouted. He took his seat modestly;, 
but as the noise continued, he was justified in assuming that it 
was meant for him, and he rose and bowed ; as it still continued. 
he bowed again, and then again. It had been the expectation 
of Comrade Dr. Service to come forward and say that, of course, 
it was not necessary for any one to introduce the speaker of 
the evening; but the audience, as if it had read the worthy 
doctor's intention, kept on applauding, until the Candidate him- 
self advanced, and raised his hand, and began his speech. 
He did not stop for any oratorical preliminaries. This, he 
said and his voice trembled with emotion was the solemnest 
hour that men had ever faced on earth. That day on the bulle- 
tin-board of their local newspaper he had read tidings which 
had moved him as he had never before been moved in his life, 
which had almost deprived him of the power to walk upon a 
stage and address an audience. Perhaps they had not heard 
the news; he told it to them, and there sprang from the audi- 
ence a cry of indignation. 
Yes, they might well protest, said the speaker; nowhere on 
all the bloody pages of history could you find a crime more re- 
volting than this! The masters of Europe had gone mad in 
their lust for power; they had called down the vengeance of 
mankind upon their crowned and coronetted heads. Here to- 
night he would tell them and the speaker's hoarse and raucous 
voice mounted to a shout of rage he would tell them that in 
signing the death-warrant of those heroic martyrs, they had 
sealed the doom of their own order, they had torn out the foun- 
dation-stones from the structure of capitalist society! The 
speaker's voice seemed to lift the audience from its seats, and 
the last words of the sentence were drowned in a tumult of ap- 
plause. 
Silence fell again, and the man went on. He had peculiar 
mannerisms on the platform. His lanky form was never still 
for an instant. He hurried from one end of the stage to the 
other ; he would crouch and bend as if he were going to spring 
upon the audience, a long, skinny finger would be shaken before 
their faces, or pointed as if to drive his words into their hearts. 
