advent with hopeful hunger-stricken eyes.
"If yonder maid with yonder mop can cook, and has the makings of a
civilized meal in this joint of yours, for heaven’s sake tell her to get
on the job," he said.  "What do you usually call her—if not Katie?"
"How do I know?  I’ve never before laid eyes on her."
"You don’t know the name of your own cook?"
"How should I?  Did you think she was part of the estate?  That boche
attorney, Schmitz, at Berne, promised to send up somebody to look after
the place until I made up my mind what I was going to do.  That’s the
lady, I suppose.  And Smith—did you ever see such very red hair on any
human woman?"
I may have spoken louder than I meant to; evidently my voice carried,
for the girl looked over her shabby shoulder and greeted us with a
clear, fresh, unfeigned, untroubled peal of laughter.  I felt myself
growing red.  However, I approached her.  She wore a very dirty
dress—but her face and hands were dirtier.
"Did Schmitz engage you and are you to look out for us?" I inquired in
German.
"If you please," she replied in French, leaning on her mop and surveying
us out of two large gray eyes set symmetrically under the burnished
tangle of her very remarkable hair.
"My child," I said in French, "why are you so dirty?  Have you by chance
been exploring the chimney?"
"I have been cleaning fireplaces and pots and pans, Monsieur.  But I
will make my toilet and put on a fresh apron for luncheon."
"That’s a good girl," I said kindly.  "And hasten, please; my friend,
Mr. Smith, is hungry; and he is not very amiable at such times."
We went into the empty house; she showed us our rooms.
"Luncheon will be served in half an hour, Messieurs," she said in her
cheerful and surprisingly agreeable voice, through which a hidden vein
of laughter seemed to run.
After she had gone Smith came through the connecting door into my room,
drying his sunburned countenance on a towel.
"I didn’t suppose she was so young," he said. "She’s very young, isn’t
she?"
"Do you mean she’s too young to cook decently?"
"No.  I mean—I mean that she just seems rather young.  I merely noticed
it."
"Oh," said I without interest.  But he lingered about, buttoning his
collar.
"You know," he remarked, "she wouldn’t be so bad looking if you’d take
her and scrub her."
"I’ve no intention of doing it," I retorted.
"Of course," he explained, peevishly, "I didn’t mean that you,
personally, should perform ablutions upon her.  I merely meant——"
"Sure," said I frivolously; "take this cake of soap and chase her into
the fountain out there."
"All the same," he added, "if she’d wash her face and fix her hair and
stand up straight she’d have—er—elements."
"Elements of what?" I asked, continuing to unpack my suitcase and
arrange the contents upon my dresser.  Comb and brushes I laid on the
left; other toilet articles upon the right; in the drawers I placed my
underwear and linen and private papers.
Then I took the photograph which I had purchased in Berne and stood it
up against the mirror over my dresser.  Smith came over and looked at it
with more interest than he had usually displayed.
It was the first photograph of any woman I had ever purchased.  Copies
were sold all over Europe. It seemed to be very popular and cost two
francs fifty unframed.  I had resisted it in every shop window between
London and Paris.  I nearly fell for it in Geneva.  I did fall in Berne.
It was called "The Laughing Girl," and I saw it in a shop window the day
of my arrival in Berne.  And I could no more get it out of my mind than
I could forget an unknown charming face in a crowded street that met my
gaze with a shy, faint smile of provocation.  I went back to that shop
and bought the photograph labeled "The Laughing Girl."  It traveled with
me.  It had become as necessary to me as my razor or toothbrush.
As I placed it on the center of my dresser tilted back against the
looking-glass, for the first time since it had been in my possession an
odd and totally new sense of having seen the original of the picture
somewhere—or having seen somebody who resembled it—came into my mind.
"As a matter of fact," remarked Smith, tying his tie before my mirror,
"that red-haired girl of yours downstairs bears a curious resemblance to
your lady-love’s photograph."
"Good Lord!" I exclaimed, intensely annoyed. Because the same
distasteful idea had also occurred to me.
                                  *II*
                              *AL FRESCO*
Our luncheon was a delicious surprise.  It was served to us on a rustic
table and upon a fresh white cloth, out by the fountain.  We had a
fragrant omelette, a cool light wine, some seductive bread and butter, a
