ability to think things over. That is just what Margaret had done. It is
no reflection on you, Mr. Lennox, and I should be very sorry if you
thought so. I am sure Margaret has the highest esteem for you. I know
that I have."
Mrs. Austen, smiling frostily as she lied, thought: Now why doesn't he
take it and go? I hope he won't be tedious.
Lennox too had his thoughts. She is trying to swamp me in words, he told
himself. That angered him and he showed it.
"What are these things? When I last saw Margaret she said nothing about
any things. There was no change in her then. I would stake my life that
she had no idea of breaking our engagement. There must be a reason for
it. What is it?"
Arrogantly Mrs. Austen took it up. "There is no reason for your raising
your voice, at any rate. As for the things, they ought to be obvious. In
addition to habits and customs, very suitable in Wall Street no doubt,
but not otherwise appealing, Margaret has found you a bit rough,
high-tempered, domineering for all I know to the contrary, and----"
That's a damned lie, thought Lennox, who aggressively cut in: "Margaret
never found me anything of the kind. What is more I will thank you to
understand that I will not accept this dismissal--if it be one--from
you."
There is a show of decency that is due to any woman. But the veneer of
civilisation is very thin. From beneath it, the potential troglodyte,
that lurks in us all, is ready enough to erupt. Ready and eager then, he
was visible in Lennox' menacing eyes, manifest in his threatening voice.
Mrs. Austen saw the brute, saw rather that little, if anything,
restrained Lennox from jumping up, banging about, hunting for Margaret's
room, entering there and catechising her violently. Margaret was ill but
never too ill to tell the truth. Once he learned that, there was the fat
in the fire.
She had no time to lose. From the wardrobe of the actress that she was,
she snatched at an oleaginous mask and with the mucilage of it smiled at
him.
"Why, of course not. Not for a moment would I have you accept it from
me. I never dreamed of such a thing. It wouldn't be right. Margaret
shall tell you herself. She would be here now, but the poor child had
such a wretched night. You never had neuralgia, have you? At her age I
was a martyr to it. I remember I took something that ended in 'ine.'
Yesterday I suggested it but the doctor would not hear of it. Said she
needed building up. Spoke of her just as though she were a town out
West; so unsympathetic I thought him, but of course I did not say so. He
might have charged extra and he is expensive enough as it is, and always
so ready to talk about his own affairs, just like my dentist. I told him
once--the dentist I mean--that I really could not afford to pay him
thirty dollars an hour to hear about his wife and I don't think he liked
it. I know I didn't when I got his bill. But where was I? Oh, yes.
To-morrow or the next day, as soon as Margaret is the least bit better,
you will be sure to have a line from her and if you do not, and you care
to, you must certainly look in. For you must always regard us as
friends. Me at any rate. Won't you, Mr. Lennox?"
Moistening her lips, mentally she continued: Yes, count on that. But
inwardly she relaxed. Such danger as there may have been had gone. Under
the dribble of the mucilage the fire in his eyes had flickered and sunk.
He was too glued now for revolt. So she thought, but she did not know
him.
During the sticky flow of her words, he knew she was trying to gammon
him. But he knew quite as well that Margaret would make no such attempt,
and he knew it for no other reason than because he knew she was
incapable of it. Incidentally he determined what he would do. Having
determined it, he stood up.
"Very good. I shall expect to hear from Margaret to-morrow. If I do not
hear I will come, and when I come----"
Lennox paused and compressed his lips. The compression finished the
sentence. If come he did, no power of hers, or of any one else, would
budge him an inch until he saw Margaret and had it out with her.
"Good-evening," he added and Mrs. Austen found herself looking at his
retreating back which, even in retreat, was a menace.
"Merciful fathers!" she exclaimed, and, with that sense of humour which
is the saving grace, the dear woman put her hand to her stays. She was
feeling for her heart. She had none. Or any appetite, she presently told
a servant who came to say that dinner was served.
She misjudged herself. For twenty-five minutes, in an adjoining room,
she ate steadily and uncomplainingly. She had bouillon, skate in black
butter, cutlets in curl-papers, sweetbread and cockscombs, a cold
artichoke, hot almond pudding, an apricot, a bit of roquefort, a pint of
claret, a thimble of bénédictine and not a twinge, none of the
indigestion of square-dealing, none of gastritis of good faith. She was
a well-dressed ambition, intent on her food. No discomfort therefore. On
the contrary. Margaret was in bed--safe there. Fate and the cook were
kind.
