Recklow said calmly: "Our only hope is in this young girl, Tressa Norne,
who is now Mrs. Cleves."
"My conscience!" piped the Secretary of the Navy. "What would happen to
us if these Yezidees should murder her?"
"God knows," replied John Recklow, unsmiling.
"Why not put her aboard our new dreadnought?" suggested the Secretary,
"and keep her cruising until you United States Secret Service fellows
get the rest of these infernal Yezidees and clap 'em into jail?"
"We can do nothing without her," said Recklow sombrely.
There was a painful silence. The President joined his finger tips and
stared palely into space.
"May I not say," he suggested, "that I think it a vital necessity that
these Yezidees be caught and destroyed before they do any damage to the
minds of myself and my cabinet?"
"God grant it, sir," said Recklow grimly.
"Mine," murmured the President, "is a single-track mind. I should be
very much annoyed if anybody tampered with the rails--very much annoyed
indeed, Mr. Recklow."
"They mustn't murder that girl," said the Secretary of the Navy. "Do you
need any Marines, Mr. Recklow? Why not ask your Government for a few?"
Recklow rose: "Mr. President," he said, "I shall not deny that my
Government is very deeply disturbed by this situation. In the beginning,
these eight Assassins, and Sanang, came here for the purpose of
attacking, overpowering, and enslaving the minds of the people of the
United States and of the South American Republics.
"But now, after four of their infamous colleagues have been destroyed,
the ferocious survivors, thoroughly alarmed, have turned their every
energy toward accomplishing the death of Mrs. Cleves! Why, sir, scarcely
a day passes but that some attempt upon her life is made by these
Yezidees.
"Scarcely a day passes that this young girl is not suddenly summoned to
defend her mind as well as her body against the occult attacks of these
Mongol Sorcerers. Yes, sir, Sorcerers!" repeated Recklow, his calm voice
deep with controlled passion, "--whatever your honourable Secretary of
War may think about it!"
His cold, grey eyes measured the President as he stood there.
"Mr. President, I am at my wits' end to protect her from assassination!
Her husband is always with her--Victor Cleves, sir, of our Secret
Service. But wherever he takes her these devils follow and send their
emissaries to watch her, to follow, to attempt her mental destruction or
her physical death.
"There is no end to their stealthy cunning, to their devilish devices,
to their hellish ingenuity!
"And all we can do is to guard her person from the approach of
strangers, and stand ready, physically, to aid her.
"She is our only barrier--your only defence--between civilisation and
horrors worse than Bolshevism.
"I believe, Mr. President, that civilisation in North and South
America--in your own Republic as well as in ours--depends, literally,
upon the safety of Tressa Cleves. For, if the Yezidees kill her, then I
do not see what is to save civilisation from utter disintegration and
total destruction."
There was a silence. Recklow was not certain that the President had been
listening.
His Excellency sat with finger tips joined, gazing pallidly into space;
and Recklow heard him murmuring under his breath and all to himself, as
though to fix the deathless thought forever in his brain:
"May I not say that mine is a single-track mind? May I not say it? May I
not,--may I not,--not, not, not----"
CHAPTER XIII
SA-N'SA
June sunshine poured through the window of his bedroom in the Ritz; and
Cleves had just finished dressing when he heard his wife's voice in the
adjoining sitting-room.
He had not supposed that Tressa was awake. He hastened to tie his tie
and pull on a smoking jacket, listening all the while to his wife's
modulated but gay young voice.
Then he opened the sitting-room door and went in. And found his wife
entirely alone.
She looked up at him, her lips still parted as though checked in what
she had been saying, the smile still visible in her blue eyes.
"Who on earth are you talking to?" he asked, his bewildered glance
sweeping the sunny room again.
She did not reply; her smile faded as a spot of sunlight wanes, veiled
by a cloud--yet a glimmer of it remained in her gaze as he came over to
her.
"I thought they'd brought our breakfast," he said, "--hearing your
voice.... Did you sleep well?"
"Yes, Victor."
He seated himself, and his perplexed scrutiny included her frail morning
