
Ilse came over, shouldering her superb figure through the crowd;
looked at the human shrimp a moment; then her laughter pealed anew.

"That's the man who abused me in Denmark!" she said. "Oh, Palla,
look at him! Do you really believe you could educate a thing like
that!"

The man had wriggled free, and now he turned a flat, whiskered visage
on Palla, menaced her with both soiled fists, inarticulate in his
fury.

But police were everywhere, now, sweeping this miniature riot from the
avenue, hustling the Reds uptown, checking the skylarking soldiery,
sending amused or indignant citizens about their business.

A burly policeman said to Ilse with a grin: "I'll take what's left of
that red flag, Miss;" and the girl handed it to him still laughing.

Soldiers wearing overseas caps cheered her and Palla. Everybody on the
turbulent sidewalk was now laughing.

"D'yeh see that blond nab the red flag outer that big kike's fists?"
shouted one soldier to his sweating bunkie. "Some skirt!"

"God love the Bolsheviki she grabs by the slack o' the pants!" cried a
blue-jacket who had lost his cap. A roar followed.

"Only one flag in this little old town!" yelled a citizen nursing a
cut cheek with reddened handkerchief.

"G'wan, now!" grumbled a policeman, trying to look severe; "it's all
over; they's nothing to see. Av ye got homes----"

"Yip! Where do we go from here?" demanded a marine.

"Home!" repeated the policeman; "--that's the answer. G'wan, now,
peaceable--lave these ladies pass!----"

Ilse and Palla, still walled in by a grinning, admiring soldiery, took
advantage of the opening and fled, followed by cheers as far as
Palla's door.

"Good heavens, Ilse," she exclaimed in fresh dismay, as she began to
realise the rather violent rôles they both had played, "--is that your
idea of education for the masses?"

A servant answered the bell and they entered the house. And presently,
seated on the chaise-longue in Palla's bedroom, Ilse Westgard
alternately gazed upon her ruined white gloves and leaned against the
cane back, weak with laughter.

"How funny! How degrading! But how funny!" she kept repeating. "That
large and enraged Jew with the red flag!--the wretched little
Christian shrimp you carried wriggling away by the collar! Oh, Palla!
Palla! Never shall I forget the expression on your face--like a bored
housewife, who, between thumb and forefinger, carries a dead mouse by
the tail----"

"He was trying to kick you, my dear," explained Palla, beginning to
remove the hairpins from her hair.

Ilse touched her eyes with her handkerchief.

"They might have thrown bombs," she said. "It's all very well to
laugh, darling, but sometimes such affairs are not funny."

Palla, seated at her dresser, shook down a mass of thick, bright-brown
hair, and picked up her comb.

"I am wondering," she said, turning partly toward Ilse, "what Jim
Shotwell would think of me."

"Fighting on the street!"--her laughter rang out uncontrolled. And
Palla, too, was laughing rather uncertainly, for, as her recollection
of the affair became more vivid, her doubts concerning the entire
procedure increased.

"Of course," she said, "that red flag was outrageous, and you were
quite right in destroying it. One could hardly buttonhole such a
