the street with his officers; and so knew that all would go well.
All went well enough, they say. For when again the General rode past the
church, I saw waggons under our escort piled with the muskets of the
Highland Battalion, and others heaped high with broad-swords, pistols,
swivels, and pikes. And on Saturday, the twentieth of January, when our
tour of duty ended, and our squads were dismissed, each to its proper
district, all people knew that Sir John Johnson had given his parole of
honor not to take up arms against America; not to communicate with the
Royalists in Canada; not to oppose the friends of liberty at home; nor
to stir from his Baronial Hall to go to Canada or to the sea, but with
liberty to transact such business as might be necessary in other parts
of this colony.
And I, for one, never doubted that a son of the great Sir William would
keep his word and sacred parole of honour.
CHAPTER IV
TWO COUNTRY MICE
It was late in April, and I had boiled my sap and had done with my sugar
bush for another year. The snow was gone; the Kennyetto roared amber
brilliant through banks of melting ice, and a sweet odour of arbutus
filled all the woods.
Spring was in the land and in my heart, too, and when Nick Stoner
galloped to my door in his new forest dress, very fine, I, nothing
loath, did hasten to dress me in my new doe-skins, not less fine than
Nick's and lately made for me by a tailor-woman in Kingsborough who was
part Oneida and part Dutch.
That day I wore a light, round cap of silver mole fur with my unshorn
hair, all innocent of queue or powder, curling crisp like a woman's. Of
which I was ashamed and eager to visit Toby Tice, our Johnstown barber,
and be trimmed.
My new forest dress, as I say, was of doe-skin--a laced shirt belted in,
shoulder-caped, cut round the neck to leave my throat free, and with
long thrums on sleeve and skirt against need.
Trews shaped to fit my legs close; and thigh moccasins, very deep with
undyed fringe, but ornamented by an infinite pattern of little green
vines, made me brave in my small mirror. And my ankle moccasins were gay
with Oneida devices wrought out of porcupine quills and beads, scarlet,
green, purple, and orange, and laid open at the instep by two beaded
flaps.
I saddled my mare, Kaya, in her stall, which was a log wing to my house,
and presently mounted and rode around to where Nick sat his saddle
a-playing on his fife, which he carried everywhere with him, he loving
music but obliged to make his own.
"Lord Harry!" cried he on seeing me so fine. "If you are not truly a
Viscount then you look one!"
"I would not change my name and health and content," said I, "for a
king's gold crown today." And I clinked the silver coins in my pouch and
laughed. And so we rode away along the Johnstown road.
He also, I think, was dying for a frolic. Young minds in trouble as well
as hard-worked bodies need a holiday now and then. He winked at me and
chinked the shillings in his bullet-pouch.
"We shall see all the sights," quoth he, "and the Kennyetto could not
quench my thirst today, nor our two horses eat as much, nor since time
began could all the lovers in history love as much as could I this April
day.... Were there some pretty wench of my own mind to use me kindly....
Like that one who smiled at us--do you remember?"
"At Christmas?"
"That's the one!" he exclaimed. "Lord! but she was handsome in her
sledge!--and her sister, too, Jack."
"I forget their names," said I.
"Browse," he said, "--Jessica and Betsy. And they live at Pigeon-Wood
near Mayfield."
"Oho!" said I, "you have made their acquaintance!"
He laughed and we galloped on.
Nick sang in his saddle, beating time upon his thigh with his fife:
    "Flammadiddle!
    Paddadiddle!
    Flammadiddle dandy!
    My Love's kisses
    Are sweet as sugar-candy!
    Flammadiddle!
    Paddadiddle!
    Flammadiddle dandy!
    She makes fun o' me
    Because my legs are bandy----"
He checked his gay refrain:
"Speaking of flamms," said he, "my brother John desires to be a drummer
in the Continental Line."
"He is only fourteen," said I, laughing.
"I know. But he is a tall lad and stout enough. What will be your
regiment, Jack?"
