I have read tons about it, and Aileen and I are always 
discussing everything that interests the public. I have 
even read the newspapers for two years." 

"Much better you didn't. There is no reason what- 
ever for a woman in your position knowing anything 
about public affairs. It detracts from your charm." 

"Maybe, but we'll find more charm in Life as we 
grow older." 

His memory ran back along a curved track and returned with something that looked like a bogey. 



 

"May I ask what your program is? Your household 
program? I had got everything down to a fine point. 
... It seems too bad you should bother. ..." 

"Bother? I've been bored to death, and feeling like 
a silly littirf good-for-nothing besides. The trouble is, 
it's too little bother. James and I have had a long talk. 
Housekeeping will be reduced to its elements with him, 
but at least I shall begin to feel really grown up when 
I pore over monthly bills and 'slips' and sign cheques." 

She hesitated. ' ' You mustn 't think for a minute that 
I want to make you feel out of it, Morty. It is only that 
I must. The time has come. ... Of course, you have 
been paying half the bills anyhow. We could simply go 
on along those lines. I will tell you what it all amounts 
to, shortly after the first of the month, and you'll give 
me half." 

IV 

Dwight stared at the end of his cigar. His was not 
an agile brain but in that moment it had an illuminating 
flash. He realized that this sheltered creature, with 
whom her mother had never discussed household economics, and from whom he had purposely kept all knowledge of his business, took for granted that he could pay 
his share of the monthly expenses, merely because all 
the men she knew did twice as much, however they might 
grumble. For the matter of that she never saw Tom 
Abbott that he did not curse the ascending prices, but 
there was no change whatever in his bountiful fashion 
of living. Alexina knew that the times were bad and 
that her husband was having something of a struggle, 
and, as a dutiful wife, was anxious to help him out for 
the present, but it was simply beyond her powers of 
comprehension to grasp the fact that he was in no position to pay half the expenses of their small establishment. 

If he told her . . . tried to make her understand . . . 
even if she did, how would he appear in her eyes ? 

Of all people in the world he wanted to stand high 
with Alexina ... he had never taken more pains to 
bluff the street when things were at their worst than this 



 

girl who was the symbol of all he had aspired to and 
precariously achieved. He had longed for riches, not 
because she craved luxury and pomp, but because she 
would be forced to look up to him with admiration and a 
lively gratitude. He had, in this spirit, given her, in the 
most casual manner, handsome presents, or brilliant little 
dinners at fashionable restaurants, in all of which she 
took a fervent young pleasure. He had dipped into his 
slender capital, but of this she had not even a suspicion 
... he had made some airy remark about celebrating a 
"good deal" ... no wonder ... he had her too well 
bluffed. 

For an instant he contemplated a plain and manly 
statement of fact. But he did not have the courage. 
Anything rather than that she should curl that short 
