buildings. Just why a city should be able to run a library, and should
not be able to run an opera-house, or a newspaper, is something which
has never been made clear to me.
Let us next examine the stages between capitalism and Syndicalism. A
great many large corporations are making experiments in what they call
"shop management," allowing the workers membership in the boards of
directors and a voice in the conditions of their labor. This is
Syndicalism so far as it goes. Likewise it is Syndicalism when the
clothing workers and the clothing manufacturers meet together and agree
to the setting up of a permanent committee to work out a set of rules
for the conduct of the industry, and to fix wages from time to time.
Obviously, these things are capable of indefinite extension, and in
Europe they are being developed far more rapidly. For example, in Italy
the agricultural workers are organized, and are gradually taking
possession of the great estates, which are owned by absentee landlords.
They wage war upon these estates by means of sabotage and strikes, and
then they buy up the estates at bargain prices and develop them by
co-operative labor. This has been going on in Italy for ten years, and
has become the most significant movement in the country. It is a triumph
of pure Syndicalism; and such is the power of pure capitalism in the
United States that the American people have not been allowed to know
anything about this change.
Next, what are the stages between Socialism and Syndicalism? These also
are infinite in number and variety. As a matter of fact, there are very
few Socialists who advocate State Socialism without any admixture of
Syndicalism. The regular formula of the Socialist party is "the social
ownership and democratic control of the instruments and means of
production;" and what the phrase "democratic control" means is simply
that you introduce into your Socialist mixture a certain flavoring of
Syndicalism, greater or less, according to your temperament. In the same
way there are many Syndicalists who are inclined toward Socialism. In
every convention of radical trade unionists, such as, for example, the
I. W. W., you find some who favor political action, and these will have
the same point of view as the more radical members of the Socialist
party, who urge a program of industrial as well as political action.
CHAPTER LXIV
COMMUNISM AND ANARCHISM
     (Considers the idea of goods owned in common, and the idea of a
     society without compulsion, and how these ideas have fared in
     Russia.)
The Russian revolution has familiarized us with the word Communism. In
the beginning of the revolutionary movement Communism denoted what we
now call Socialism; for example, the Communist Manifesto of Marx and
Engels became the platform of the Social-democratic parties. But because
most of these parties supported their governments during the war, the
more radical elements have now rejected the word Socialism, and taken up
the old word Communism. In the Russian revolution the Communists went so
far as to seize all the property of the rich, and so the word Communism
has come to bear something of its early Christian significance.
It is obvious that here, too, it is a question of degree, and Socialism
will shade into Communism by an infinite variety of stages, depending
upon what forms of property it is decided to socialize. The Socialist
formula commonly accepted is that "goods socially used shall be socially
owned, and goods privately used shall be privately owned." If you own a
factory, it will be taken by the state, or by the workers, and made
social property like the postoffice; but no Socialist wants to socialize
your clothing, or your books, any more than he wants to socialize your
toothbrush.
But when you come to apply this formula, you run quickly into
difficulties. Suppose you are a millionaire, and own a palace with one
or two hundred rooms, and a hundred servants. Do you use that socially,
or do you use it privately? And suppose there is a scarcity of houses,
and thousands of children are dying of tuberculosis in crowded tenement
rooms? You own a dozen automobiles, and do you use them all privately? I
point out to you that in time of emergency the capitalist state does not
hesitate over such a problem; it seizes your palace and turns it into a
hospital, it takes all your cars and uses them to carry troops. It
should be obvious that a proletarian state would be tempted by this
precedent.
The Communists also have a formula, which reads: "From each according to
his ability, to each according to his necessity." I do not see how any
sensitive person can deny that this is an extremely fine statement of an
ideal in social life. We take it quite for granted in family life; if
you knew a family in which that rule did not apply, you would consider
it an unloving and uncivilized family. I believe that when once industry
has been socialized, and we have a chance to see what production can
become, we shall find ourselves quickly adopting that family custom as
our law, for all except a few congenital criminals and cheats. We shall
find that we can produce so much wealth that it is not worth while
keeping count of unimportant items. If today you meet someone on the
