only with a drooping gray feather. And her 
figure, 'her face, her profile! The young men 
crowded forward more swiftly than the still 
almost paralyzed women. She was no more 
than twenty. Her skin was as white as the San 
Francisco fogs, her lips were scarlet, her cheeks 
Ipink, hdr hair and eyes a bright golden brown. 
Her features were delicate and regular, the 
mouth not too small, curved and sensitive
her refinement was almost excessive. Oh, 
she was "high-toned,'' no doubt of that! 
 
As she moved forward and stood in front of 
Mrs. McLane, or acknowledged introductions 
to those that stood near, the women gave another gasp, this time of consternation. She wore neither hoop-skirt nor crinoHne. Could it 
be that the most elegant fashion ever invented 
had been discarded by Paris? Or was this 
lovely creatvu^ of surpassing elegance, a law 
unto herself? 
Her skirt was full but straight and did not 
disguise the lines of her graceful figure above 
her small waist it fitted as closely as a riding 
habit. She was even more becomingly dressed 
than any woman in the room. Mrs. Abbott, 
who was given to primitive sounds, snorted. 
Maria Ballinger, whose finely developed figure might as well have been the trunk of a tree, 
sniffed. Her sister Sally almost danced with 
excitement, and even Miss Hathaway straightened her figure. Mrs. Ballinger, who had been 
the belle of Richmond and was still adjudged 
the handsomest woman in San Francisco, lifted 
the eyebrows to which sonnets had been written 
with an air of haughty resignation; but made 
up her mind to abate her scorn of the North 
and order her gowns from New York 
hereafter. 
 
But the San Franciscans on the whole were 
an amiable people and they were sometimes 
conscious of their isolation} in a few moments 
they felt a pleasant titillation of the nerves, 
as if the great world they might never see 
again had sent them one of her most precious 
gifts. 
They all met her in the course of the 
afternoon. She was sweet and gracious, 
but although there was not a hint of embarrassment she made no attempt to' shine, and 
they liked her the better for that. The young 
men soon discovered they could make no impression on this lovely importation, for her eyes 
strayed constantly to her husband; until he 
disappeared in search of cronies, whiskey, and a 
cigar: then she looked depressed for a moment, 
but gave a still closer attention to the women 
about her. 
In love with her husband but a woman-of- 
the-world. Manners as fine as Mrs. McLane's, 
but too aloof and sensitive to care for leader- 
ship. She had made the grand tour in Europe, 
they discovered, and enjoyed a season in Washington. She should continue to live at the 
Occidental Hotel as her husband would be out 
so much at night and she was rather timid. 
And she was bright, unaffected, responsive. 
Could anything be more reassuring? There 
was nothing to be apprehended by the socially 
ambitious, the proud housewives, or those prudent dames whose amours were conducted with 
such secrecy that they might too easily be sup- 
planted by a predatory coquette. The girls 
drew little unconscious sighs of relief. Sally 
Ballinger vowed she would become her intimate friend, Sibyl Geary that she would copy 
her gowns. Mrs. Abbott succumbed. In short 
they all took her to their hearts. She was one 
of them from that time forth and the reign of 
crinoline was over. 
THE TALBOTS remained to supper and 
arrived at the Occidental Hotel at the 
anticipated hour of half past nine. As they entered their suite the bride took her sweeping 
skirts in either hand and executed a pas seul 
down the long parlor. 
"I was a success!" she cried. "You were 
proud of me. I could see it. And even at the 
table, although I talked nearly all the time to 
