only twenty-four hours from God, who healed the sick and quelled
mobs before breakfast. But T-S set his teeth and bore it--hoping
this might be the way to land his contract.
XXX
We turned the corner, and soon I saw what was before us, and almost
cried out with glee. It was really too good to be true! Carpenter,
in the course of his talks with strikers, had learned where their
soup-kitchen was located, the relief-headquarters where their
families were being fed; and he now had the sublime audacity to take
the picture magnate to lunch among them!
The place was an empty warehouse, fitted with long tables, and
benches made of planks that were old and full of splinters. Here in
rows of twenty or thirty were seated men and women and children,
mixed together; before each one a bowl of not very thick soup, and a
hunk of bread, and a tin cup full of hot brown liquid, politely
taken for coffee. It was a meal which would have been spurned by any
of the “studio bums” of T-S’s mob-scenes; but now T-S was going to
be a good sport, and sit on a splintery plank and eat it!
Nor was that all. As we pushed our way into the place, Carpenter
turned to the magnate, and without a trace of embarrassment, said:
“You understand, Mr. T-S, I have no money. But we must pay--”
“Oh, sure!” said T-S, quickly. “I’ll pay!”
“Thank you,” said the other; and he turned to an official of the
union with whom he had got acquainted in the course of the morning.
He introduced us all, not forgetting the secretary, and then said:
“Mr. T-S is the moving picture producer, and wants to have lunch
with you, if you will consent.”
“Oh, sure!” said the official, cordially.
“He will pay for it,” added Carpenter. “He has brought along a
thousand dollars for that purpose.”
T-S started as if some one had struck him; and the official started
too. “WHAT?”
“He will pay a thousand dollars,” declared Carpenter. “It is a fact,
and you may tell the people, if you wish.”
“My Gawd, no!” cried T-S wildly.
But the official did not heed him. He faced the crowd and stretched
out his arms. “Boys! Boys! This is Mr. T-S, the picture producer,
and he’s come to lunch with us, and he’s going to pay a thousand
dollars for it!”
There was a moment of amazed silence, then a roar from the company.
Men leaped to their feet and yelled. And there stood poor T-S-not
enjoying the ovation!
“Give it to them,” whispered Carpenter; and the magnate, thus held
up, took out the roll of bills, and turned it over to the trembling
official, who leaped onto a chair and waved the miracle before the
crowd. “A thousand dollars! A thousand dollars!” He counted it over
before their eyes and called, louder than ever, “A thousand
dollars!”
Carpenter, followed by T-S and the secretary and myself, went down
the line of tables, shaking hands with many on the way, and being
patted on the back by others. Also T-S shook hands, and was patted.
Seats were found for us, and food was brought--double portions of
it, as if to make the plight of the poor magnate even more absurd! I
watched him out of the corner of my eye; he enjoyed that costly meal
just about as much as Carpenter had enjoyed the one at Prince’s last
night!
However, he was game, and spilled no tears into his soup; and
Carpenter ate with honest appetite, having had no breakfast. The
strikers about us ate as if they had missed both breakfast and
supper; they laughed and chatted and made jokes with us--you would
have thought they were celebrating the winning of the strike and the
end of all their troubles. In the midst of the meal I noted two
well-dressed young men by the door, asking questions; I chuckled to
myself, seeing more head-lines--double ones, and extra size:
PROPHET OF GOD VAMPS MOVIE KING MAGNATE OF SCREEN PAYS THOUSAND FOR
LUNCH
But I knew that T-S had never yet paid a thousand dollars without
getting something for it, and I was not surprised when, after he had
gulped down his meal, he turned to his host and, disregarding the
company and the excitement, demanded, “Now, Mr. Carpenter, tell me,
do I git de contract?”
Carpenter had had his jest, and was through with it. He answered,
gravely: “You must understand me, Mr. T-S. You don’t want a contract
with me.”
“I don’t?”
“If I were to sign it, it would not be a week before you would be
sorry, and would be asking me to release you.”
“Vy is dat, Mr. Carpenter?”
“Because I am going to do things which will make me quite useless to
you in a business way.”
