flooded forest.
So far only that one shot had been fired. Both men were still
manoeuvring, always creeping in circles and always lining some great
tree for shelter.
Now, the gathering dusk was making them bolder and swifter; and twice,
already, Clinch caught the shadow of a fading edge of something that
vanished against the shadows too swiftly for a shot.
Now Quintana, keeping a tree in line, brushed with his lithe back a
leafless moose-bush that stood swaying as he avoided it.
Instantly a stealthy hope seized him: he slipped out of his coat, spread
it on the bush, set the naked branches swaying, and darted to his tree.
Waiting, he saw that the grey blot his coat made in the dusk was still
moving a little--just vibrating a little bit in the twilight. He touched
the bush with his rifle barrel, then crouched almost flat.
Suddenly the red crash of a rifle lit up Clinch's visage for a fraction
of a second. And Quintana's bullet smashed Clinch between the eyes.
       
After a long while Quintana ventured to rise and creep forward.
Night, too, came creeping like an assassin amid the ghostly trees.
So twilight died in the stillness of Drowned Valley and the pall of
night lay over all things,--living and dead alike.
EPISODE ELEVEN
THE PLACE OF PINES
I
The last sound that Mike Clinch heard on earth was the detonation of his
own rifle. Probably it was an agreeable sound to him. He lay there with
a pleasant expression on his massive features. His watch had fallen out
of his pocket.
Quintana shined him with an electric torch; picked up the watch. Then,
holding the torch in one hand, he went through the dead man's pockets
very thoroughly.
When Quintana had finished, both trays of the flat morocco case were
full of jewels. And Quintana was full of wonder and suspicion.
Unquietly he looked upon the dead--upon the glittering contents of the
jewel-box,--but always his gaze reverted to the dead. The faintest
shadow of a smile edged Clinch's lips. Quintana's lips grew graver. He
said slowly, like one who does his thinking aloud:
"What is it you have done to me, l'ami Clinch?... Are there truly then
two sets of precious stones?--two Flaming Jewels?--two gems of Erosite
like there never has been in all thees worl' excep' only two more?...
Or is one set false?... Have I here one set of paste facsimiles?... My
frien' Clinch, why do you lie there an' smile at me so ver' funny ...
like you are amuse?... I am wondering what you may have done to me, my
frien' Clinch...."
For a while he remained kneeling beside the dead. Then: "Ah, bah," he
said, pocketing the morocco case and getting to his feet.
He moved a little way toward the open trail, stopped, came back, stood
his rifle against a tree.
For a while he was busy with his sharp Spanish clasp knife, whittling
and fitting together two peeled twigs. A cross was the ultimate result.
Then he placed Clinch's hands palm to palm upon his chest, laid the
cross on his breast, and shined the result with complacency.
Then Quintana took off his hat.
"L'ami Mike," he said, "you were a man!... Adios!"
       
Quintana put on his hat. The path was free. The world lay open before
José Quintana once more;--the world, his hunting ground.
"But," he thought uneasily, "what is it that I bring home this time? How
much is paste? My God, how droll that smile of Clinch.... Which is the
false--his jewels or mine? Dieu que j'étais bête!---- Me who have not
suspec' that there are two trays within my jewel-box!... I
unnerstan'. It is ver' simple. In the top tray the false gems. Ah! Paste
on top to deceive a thief!... Alors.... Then what I have recover of
Clinch is the real!... Nom de Dieu!... How should I know? His smile
is so ver' funny.... I think thees dead man make mock of me--all inside
himse'f----"
So, in darkness, prowling south by west, shining the trail furtively,
and loaded rifle ready, Quintana moved with stealthy, unhurried tread
out of the wilderness that had trapped him and toward the tangled
border of that outer world which led to safe, obscure, uncharted
labyrinths--old-world mazes, immemorial hunting grounds--haunted by
men who prey.
       
The night had turned frosty. Quintana, wet to the knees and very tired,
moved slowly, not daring to leave the trail because of sink-holes.
However, the trail led to Clinch's Dump, and sooner or later he must
leave it.
What he had to have was a fire; he realised that. Somewhere off the
trail, in big timber if possible, he must build a fire and master this
deadly chill that was slowly paralysing all power of movement.
