liked to hear so much. 
Ellen secretly resolved something should bring him ; and 
went on with a purpose she had had for some time in her mind. 
" Wouldn't it be pleasant, while you are lying there and can 
do nothing, — wouldn't you like to have me read something to 
you, Mr. Van Brunt? I should like to, very much." 
"It's just like you," said he gratefully, — "to think of 
that ; but I wouldn't have you be bothered with it." 
" It wouldn't indeed. I should like it very much." 
" W^ell, if you've a mind," said he ; — " I can't say but it 
would be a kind o' comfort to keep that grain out o' my head 
a while. Seems to me I have cut and housed it all three 
times over already. Read just whatever you have a mind 
to. If you was to go over a last year's almanac, it would be 
as good as a fiddle to me." 
" I'll do better for you than that, Mr. Van Brunt," said 
Ellen, laughing in high glee at having gained her point. — 
She had secretly brought her Pilgrim's Progress with her, and 
now with marvelous satisfaction drew it forth. 
" I ha'n't been as much of a reader as I had ought to," 
said Mr. Van Brunt, as she opened the book and turned to 
the first page ; — " but however, I understand my business 
pretty well ; and a man can't be everything to once. Now 
'et's hear what you've got there." 
With a throbbing heart, Ellen began ; and read, notes and 
all, till the sound of tramping hoofs and Alice's voice made 
her break off. It encouraged and delighted her to see that 
Mr. Van Brunt's attention was perfectly fixed. He lay still, 
without moving his eyes from her face, till she stopped ; then 
thanking her he declared that was a "first-rate book," and he 
" should like mainly to hear the hull on it." 
From that time Ellen was diligent in her attendance on 
him. That she might have more time for reading than the 
old plan gave her, she set off by herself alone some time 
before the others, of course riding home with them. It cost 
her a little sometimes, to forego so much of their company ; 
but she never saw the look of grateful pleasure with which 
she was welcomed without ceasing to regret her self-denial. 
How Ellen blessed those notes as she went on with her reading ! They said exactly what she wanted Mr. Van Brunt to 
hear and in the best way, and were too short and simple to 
interrupt the interest of the story. After a while she ventured 
to ask if she might read him a chapter in the Bible. He agreed 
very readily ; owning " he hadn't ought to be so kind without 
reading one as he had been." Ellen then made it a rule 
to herself, without asking any more questions, to end every 
reading with a chapter in the Bible ; and she carefully sought 
out those that might be most likely to take hold of his judgment or feelings. They took hold of her own very deeply, 
by the means ; what was strong, or tender, before, now 
seemed to her too mighty to be withstood ; and Ellen read 
not only with her hps but with her whole heart the precious 
words, longing that they might come with their just effect 
upon Mr. Van Brunt's mind. 
Once as she finished reading the tenth chapter of John, a 
favorite chapter, which between her own feeling of it and her 
strong wish for him had moved her even to tears, she cast a 
glance at his face to see how he took it. His head was a 
little turned to one side, and his eyes closed ; she thought 
he was asleep. Ellen was very much disappointed. She 
sank her head upon her book and prayed that a time might 
come when he would know the worth of those words. The 
touch of his hand startled her. 
" What is the matter ?" said he. " Are you tired ?" 
" No," said Ellen looking hastily up ; — " no ! I'm not 
tired." 
" But what ails you ?" said the astonished Mr. Van Bnint; 
" whathave you been a crying for ? what's the matter?" 
" Oh never mind," said Ellen, brushing her hand over her 
eyes, — " it's no matter." 
"Yes, but I want to know," said Mr. Van Brunt; — 
" you shan't have anything to vex you that I can help ; 
what is it ?" 
" It is nothing, Mr. Van Brunt," said Ellen, bursting into 
tears again, — " only I thought you were asleep — I — I 
thought you didn't care enough about the Bible to keep 
awake — I want so much that you should be a Christian ! 
He half groaned and turned his head away. 
" What makes you wish that so much ?" said he after a 
minute or two. 
" Because I want you to be happy" said Ellen, — " and I 
know you can't without." 
" Well, I am pretty tolerable happy," said he ; — " as happy 
as most folks I guess." 
" But I want you to be happy when you die, too," said 
Ellen ; — " I want to meet you in heaven." 
" I hope I will go there, surely," said he gravely, — " when 
the time comes." 
Ellen was uneasily silent, not knowing what to say. 
" I aint as good as I ought to be," said he presently, 
with a half sigh ; — " I aint good enough to go to heaven — I 
wish I was. Yon are, I do beheve." 
" I ! O no, Mr. Van Brunt, do not say that ; — I am not 
good at all — I am full of wrong things." 
" Well I wish I was full of wrong things too, in the same 
way," said he. 
" But I am," said Ellen, — " whether you will believe it or 
not. Nobody is good, Mr. Van Brunt. But Jesus Christ 
has died for us, — and if we ask him he will forgive us, and 
wash away our sins, and teach us to love him, and make us 
good, and take us to be with him in heaven. I wish you 
would ask him !" she repeated with an earnestness that went 
to his heart. " I don't believe any one can be very happy 
that doesn't love him." 
" Is that what makes you happy ?" said he. 
" I have a great many things to make me happy," said 
Ellen soberly, — " but that is the greatest of all. It always 
makes me happy to think of him, and it makes everything 
else a thousand times pleasanter. I wish you knew how it 
is, Mr. Van Brunt." 
He was silent for a little, and disturbed Ellen thought. 
" Well !" said he at leno-th, — " 'taint the folks that thinks 
themselves the best that is the best always ; — if you aint 
good I should like to know what goodness is. There's 
somebody that thinks you be," said he a minute or two afterwards, as the horses were heard coming to the gate. 
" No, she knows me better than that," said Ellen. 
" It isn't any she that I mean," said ISlr. Van Brunt. — 
" There's somebody else out there, aint there ?" 
" Who ?" said Ellen, — " Mr. John ? — O no indeed he 
don't. It was only this morning he was telling me of something I did that was wrong. — Her eyes watered as she spoke. 
" He must have miglity sharp eyes, then," said Mr. Van 
Brunt, — " for it beats all my powers of seeing things." 
" And so he has," said Ellen, putting on her bonnet, — " he 
always knows what I am thinking of just as well as if I told 
him. Good bye !" 
" Good bye," said he ; — " I ha'n't forgotten what you've 
been saying, and I don't mean to." 
How full of sweet pleasure was the ride home ! 
The " something wrong," of which Ellen had spoken, was 
this. The day before, it happened that Mr. John had broken 
her off from a very engaging book to take her drawing-lesson ; 
and as he stooped down to give a touch or two to the piece 
she was to copy, he said, I don't want you to read any 
more of that Ellie ; it is not a good book for you." Ellen did 
not for a moment question that he was right, nor wish to disobey ; but she had become very much interested, and was a 
good deal annoyed at having such a sudden stop put to her 
pleasure. She said nothing, and went on with her work. In 
a little while Alice asked her to hold a skein of cotton for her 
while she wound it. Ellen was annoyed again at the interruption ; the. harpstrings were jarring yet, and gave fresh 
discord at every touch. She had, however, no mind to let 
her vexation be seen ; she went immediately and held the 
botton, and as soon as it was done sat down again to her 
drawing. Before ten minutes had passed Margery came to 
set the table for dinner; Ellen's papers and desk must 
move. 
" Why it is not dinner-time yet tliis great while, Margery," 
said she ; — " it isn't much after twelve." 
" No, Miss Ellen," said Margery under her breath, for John 
was in one corner of the room reading, — " but by-and-by I'll 
be busy with the chops and frying the salsify, and I couldn't 
leave the kitchen ; — if you'll let me have the table now." 
Ellen said no more, and moved her things to a stand before 
the window ; where she went on with her copying till dinner 
was ready. Whatever the reason was, however, her pencil 
did not work smoothly ; her eye did not see true ; and she 
lacked her usual steady patience. The next morning, after 
an hour and more's work and much painstaking, the drawing 
was finished. Ellen had quite forgotten her yesterday's trouble. But when John came to review her drawing, he found 
several faults with it ; pointed out two or three places in 
which it had suffered from haste and want of care ; and asked 
her how it had happened. Ellen knew it happened yesterday. 
She was vexed ao:ain, thouoh she did her best not to show it ; 
she stood quietly and heard what he had to say. He then 
told her to get ready for her riding lesson. 
" Mayn't I just make this right first?" said Ellen; — "it 
won't take me long." 
" No," said he, — " you have been sitting long enough ; I 
must break you off. The Brownie will be here in ten 
minutes." 
Ellen was impatiently eager to mend the bad places in her 
drawing, and impatiently displeased at being obliged to ride 
first. Slowly and reluctantly she went to get ready ; John 
was already gone ; she would not have moved so leisurely if 
he had been anywhere within seeing distance. As it was, 
she found it convenient to quicken her movements ; and was 
at the door ready as soon as he and the Brownie. She was 
soon thoroughly engaged in the management of herself and 
her horse ; a little smart riding shook all the ill-humor out of 
her, and she was entirely herself again. Atthe.end of fifteen 
or twenty minutes they drew up under the shade of a tree to 
lot the Brownie rest a little. It was a warm day and John 
had taken off his hat and stood resting too, with his arm 
leaning on the neck of the horse. Presently he looked round 
to Ellen, and asked her, with a smile, if she felt right 
again ? 
" Why ?" said Ellen, the crimson of her cheeks mounting 
to her forehead. But her eye sunk immediately at the an- 
swering glance of his. He then in very few words set the 
matter before her, with such a happy mixture of pointedness 
and kindness, that while the reproof, coming from him, went 
to the quick, Ellen yet joined with it no thought of harshness 
or severity. She was completely subdued however ; the rest 
of the riding-lesson had to be given up ; and for an hour 
Ellen's tears could not be stayed. But it was, and John had 
meant it should be, a strong check given to her besetting sin. 
It had a long and lasting effect. 
 
CHAPTER XL, 
Speed, But tell me true, will 't b.e a match ? 
Laun. Ask my dog ; if he say, ay, it will ; if he say, no, it will ; if he shake his tail 
and say nothing, it will. — Two Gentlemen of Verona. 
In due time Mr. Van Brunt was on his legs again, much 
to everybody's joy, and much to the advantage of fields, 
fences, and grain. Sam and Johnny found they must " spring 
to," as their leader said ; and Miss Fortune declared she was 
thankful she could draw a long breath again, for do what she 
would she couldn't be everywhere. Before this John and the 
Black Prince had departed, and Alice and Ellen were left alone 
again. 
" How long will it be, dear Alice," said Ellen, as they stood 
sorrowfully looking down the road by which he had gone, — 
" before he will be through that — before he will be able to 
leave Doncaster ?" 
" Next summer." 
And what will he do then ?" 
" Then he ^vill be ordained." 
" Ordained ? — what is that ?" 
" He will be solemnly set apart for the work of the ministry, and appointed to it by a number of clergymen." 
. " And then will he come and stay at home, Alice ?" 
" I don't know what then, dear Ellen," said Alice, sighing ; — " he may for a little ; but papa wishes very much that 
before he is settled anywhere he should visit England and 
Scotland and see our friends there. Though I hardly think 
John will do it unless he sees some further reason for going. 
If he do not, he will probably soon be called somewhere — 
Mr. Marshman wants him to come to Randolph. I don't 
know how it will be." 
" Well !" said Ellen, with a kind of acquiescing sigh, — " at 
any rate now we must wait until next Christmas." 
The winter passed with little to mark it except the usual 
visits to Ventnor ; which, however, by common consent AHco 
and Ellen had agreed should not be when John was at home. 
At all other times they were much prized and enjoyed. Every 
two or three months Mr. Marshman was sure to come for 
them, or Mr. Howard, or perhaps the carriage only with a 
letter ; and it was bargained for that Mr. Humphreys should 
follow to see them home. It was not always that Ellen 
could go, but the disappointments were seldom ; she too had 
become quite domesticated at Ventnor, and was sincerely 
loved by the whole family. Many as were the times she had 
been there, it had oddly happened that she had never met 
her old friend of the boat again ; but she was very much attached to old Mr. and Mrs. Marshman, and Mrs. Chauncey 
and her daughter ; the latter of whom reckoned all the rest 
of her young friends as nothing compared with Ellen Montgomery. Ellen, in her opinion, did everything better than 
anyone else of her age. 
" She has good teachers," said Mrs. Chauncey. 
" Yes indeed ! I should think she had. Alice, — I should 
think anybody would learn well with her ; — and Mr. John — I 
suppose he's as good, though I don't know so much about 
him ; but he must be a great deal better teacher than Mr. 
Sandford, mamma, for Ellen draws ten times as well as I do !" 
" Perhaps that is your fault and not Mr. Sandford's," said her 
mother, — " though I rather think you overrate the difference." 
" I am sure I take pains enough, if that's all," said the little girl ; — " what more can I do, mamma ? But Ellen is so 
pleasant about it always ; she never seems to think she does 
better than I ; and she is always ready to help me and take 
ever so much time to show me how to do things ; — she is so 
pleasant ; isn't she, mamma ? I know I have heard you say
she is very polite." 
" She is certainly that," said Mrs. Gillespie, — " and there 
is a grace in her politeness that can only proceed from great 
natural delicacy and refinement of character ; — how she can 
have such manners, living and working in the way you say 
she does, I confess is beyond my comprehension." 
" One would not readily forget the notion of good -breeding in 
the society of Alice and John Humphreys,' said Miss Sophia. 
*< And Mr. Humphreys," said Mrs. Chauncey. 
" There is no society about him," said Miss Sophia ; — " he 
don't say two dozen 'svords a day." 
" But she is not with them," said Mrs. Gillespie. 
" She is with them a great deal, aunt Matilda," said Ellen 
Chauncey, — " and they teach her everything, and she does 
learn ! She must be very clever ; don't you think she is, 
mamma? Mamma, she beats me entirely in speaking French, 
and she knows all about English history ; and arithmetic ! — 
and did you ever hear her sing, mamma ? ' 
" I do not beheve she beats you, as you call it, in generous 
estimation of others," said Mrs. Chauncey, smiling, and bendins; forward to kiss her dauohter ; — " but what is the reason 
Ellen is so much better read in history than you ?" 
" I don't know, mamma, unless — I wish I wasn't so fond of 
reading stories." 
" Ellen Montgomery is just as fond of them, I'll warrant," 
said Miss Sophia. 
" Yes, — I know she is fond of them ; but then Alice and 
Mr. John don't let her read them, except nuw and then 
one." 
I fancy she does it though when their backs are turned," 
said Mrs. Gillespie. 
" She ! O, aunt Matilda ! she wouldn't do the least thing 
they don't like for the whole world. I know she never reads 
a story when she is here, unless it is my Sunday books, without 
asking Alice first." 
" She is a most extraordinary child !" said Mrs. Gillespie. 
" She is a good child ! ' said Mrs. Chauncey. 
" Yes, mamma, and that is what I wanted to say ; — I do 
not think Ellen is so pohte because she is so much with Alice 
and Mr. John, but because she is so sweet and good. I don't 
think she could help being pohte. 
" It is not that," said Mrs. Gillespie ; — " mere sweetness 
and goodness would never give so much elegance of manner. 
As far as I have seen, Ellen Montgomery is a perfectly well- 
behaved child." 
" That she is," said Mrs. Chauncey ; — " but neither would 
any cultivation or example be sufficient for it without Ellen's 
thorough good principle and great sweetness of temper." 
"That's exactly what I think, mamma," said Ellen Chauncey. 
Ellen's sweetness of temper was not entirely born with 
her ; it was one of the blessed fruits of religion and discipline. 
Discipline had not done with it yet. When the winter came 
on, and the house-work grew less, and with renewed vigor 
she was bending herself to improvement in all sorts of ways, 
it unluckily came into Miss P'ortune's head that some of 
Ellen's spare time might be turned to account in a new line. 
With this lady, to propose and to do were two things always 
very near together. The very next day Ellen was summoned 
to help her down stairs with the big spinning-wheel. Most 
unsuspiciously, and with her accustomed pleasantness, Ellen 
did it. But when she was sent up again for the rolls of wool ; 
and Miss Fortune after setting up the wheel, put one of them 
into her hand and instructed her how to draw out and twist 
the thread of yarn, she saw all that was coming. She saw it 
with dismay. So much yarn as Miss Fortune might think it 
well she should spin, so much time must be taken daily from 
her beloved reading and writing drawing and studying ; her 
very heart sunk within her. She made no remonstrance, 
unless her disconsolate face miorht be thoucjht one ; she stood 
half a day at the big spinning-wheel, fretting secretly, while 
Miss Fortune went round with an inward chuckle visible in 
her . countenance, that in spite of herself increased Ellen's 
vexation And this was not the annoyance of a day ; she 
must expect it day after day through the whole winter. It 
was a grievous trial. Ellen cried for a great while when she 
got to her own room, and a long hard struggle was necessary 
before she could resolve to do her duty. " To be patient and 
quiet! — and spin nobody knows how much yarn — and my 
poor history and philosophy and drawing and French and 
reading!" — -Ellen cried very heartily. But she knew what 
she ought to do ; she prayed long, humbly, earnestly, that 
" her little rushlight might shine bright ;" — and her aunt had 
no cause to complain of her. Sometimes, if overpressed, Ellen 
would ask Miss P'ortune to let her stop ; saying, as Alice had 
advised her, that she wished to have her do such and such 
things ; Miss Fortune never made any objection ; and the 
hours of spinning that wrought so many knots of yarn for 
her aunt, wrouglit better things yet for the little spinner : 
patience and gentleness grew with the practice of them ; this 
wearisome work was one of the many seemingly untoward 
things which in reality bring out good. The time Ellen did 
secure to herself was held the more precious and used the 
more carefully. After all it was a very profitable and pleasant winter to her. 
John's visit came as usual at the holidays, and was enjoyed 
as usual ; only that every one seemed to Ellen more pleasant 
than the last. The sole other event that broke the quiet 
course of things, (beside the journeys to Ventnor) was the 
death of Mrs. Van Brunt. This happened very unexpectedly 
and after a short illness, not far from the end of January. 
Ellen was very sorry ; both for her own sake and Mr. Van 
Brunt's, who she was sure felt much, though according to 
his general custom he said nothing. Ellen felt for him none 
the less. She little thought what an important bearing this 
event would have upon her own future well-being. 
The winter passed and the spring came. One fine mild 
pleasant afternoon, early in May, Mr. Van Brunt came into 
the kitchen and asked Ellen if she wanted to go with him 
and see the sheep salted. Ellen was seated at the table 
with a large tin p m in her lap, and before her a huge heap 
of white beans wliich she was picking over for the Saturday's 
favorite dish of pork and beans. She looked up at him with 
a hopeless face. 
" I should like to go veiy much indeed, Mr. Van Brunt, 
but you see I can't. All these to do !" 
" Beans, eh ?" said he, putting one or two in his mouth. 
" Where's your aunt ?" 
Ellen pointed to the buttery. He immediately went to the 
door and rapped on it with his knuckles." 
" Here ma'am !" said he, — " can't you let this child go 
with me ? I want her along to help feed the sheep." 
To Ellen's astonishment her aunt called to her through the 
closed door to " go along and leave the beans till she came 
back." Joyfully Ellen obeyed. She turned her back upon the 
beans, careless of the big heap wliich would still be there to pick 
over when she returned ; and ran to get her bonnet. In all 
the time she had been in Thirlwall something had always 
prevented her seeing the slieep fed with salt, and she went 
eagerly out of the door with Mr. Van Brunt to a new pleasure. 
They crossed two or three meadows back of the barn to 
a low rocky hill covered with trees. On the other side of 
this they came to a fine field of spring wheat. F ootsteps 
must not go over the young grain ; Ellen and Mr. Van Brunt 
coasted carefully round by the fence to another piece of rocky 
woodland that lay on the far side of the wheat-field. It was 
a veiy fine afternoon. The grass was green in the meadow ; 
the trees were beginning to show their leaves ; the air was 
soft and spring-like. In great glee Ellen danced along, 
luckily needing no entertainment from Mr, Van Brunt, who 
was devoted to his salt-pan. His natural taciturnity seemed 
greater than ever ; he amused himself all the way over the 
meadow with turaino^ over his salt and tastino- it, till Ellen 
laughingly told him she believed he was as fond of it as the 
sheep were ; and then he took to chucking little bits of it 
right and left, at anything he saw that was big enough to 
serve for a mark. Ellen stopped him again by laughing at 
his wastefulness ; and so they came to the wood. She left 
him then to do as he liked, while she ran hither and thither 
to search for flowers. It was slow getting through the wood. 
He was fain to stop and wait for her. 
" Aren't these lovely ?" said Ellen as she came up with 
her hands full of anemones, — " and look — there's the liverwort. 
I thought it must be out before now — the dear little thing ! — 
but I can't find any blood-root, Mr. Van Brunt." 
" I guess they're gone," said Mr. Van Brunt. 
" I suppose they must," said Ellen. " I am sorry; I like 
them so much. I believe I did get them earlier than this 
two years ago when I used to take so many walks Vr'ith you. 
Only think of my not having been to look for flowers before 
this spring." 
" It hadn't ought to ha' happened so, that's a fact," said 
Mr. Van Brunt. "I don't know how it has." 
" there are my yellow bells !" exclaimed Ellen ; — " O 
you beauties ! Aren't they, Mr. Van Brunt ?" 
" I won't say but what I think an ear of wheat's handsmer," said he with his half smile. 
"Why Mr, Van Brunt! how can you? — but an ear of 
wheat's pretty too. — Mr. Van Brunt, what is that ? Do 
get me some of it, will you, please ? how beautiful ! — 
what is it ?" 
" That's black birch," said he ; — " 'tis kind o' handsome ; 
— stop, ril find you some oak blossoms directly. — There's 
some Solomon's seal — do you want some of that ?" 
Ellen sprang to it with exclamations of joy, and before she 
could rise from her stooping posture discovered some cowslips 
to be scrambled for. Wild columbine, the delicate corydalis, 
and more uvularias, which she called yellow bells, were added to her handful, till it grew a very elegant bunch indeed. 
Mr. Van Brunt looked complacently on, much as Ellen would 
at a kitten running round after its tail. 
"Now I won't keep you any longer, Mr. Van Brunt," 
said she, when her hands were as full as they could hold ; —  
I have kept you a great while ; you are very good to wait 
for me.'' 
They took up their line of march again, and after crossing 
the last piece of rocky woodland came to an open hill-side, 
sloping genftly up, at the foot of which were several large flat 
stones. 
*But where are the sheep, Mr. Van Brunt ?" said Ellen. 
" I guess they aint fur," said he. " You keep quiet, 
cause they don't know you; and they are mighty scary. 
Just stand still there by the fence. — Ca-nan ! ca-nan ! Canan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan, nan !" 
This was the sheep call, and raising bis voice Mr. Van 
Brunt made it sound abroad far over the hills. Again and 
again it sounded ; and then Ellen saw the white nose of a 
sheep at the edge of the woods on the top of the hill On 
the call's sounding again the sheep set forward, and in a lonp 
train they came nmning along a narrow footpath down towards where Mr. Van Brunt was standing with his pan. The 
soft tramp of a multitude of light hoofs in another directioo 
turned Ellen's eyes that way, and there were two more single files of sheep running down the hill from different points 
in the woodland. The pretty things came scampering along 
seeming in a great hurry, till they got very near then the 
whole multitude came to a sudden halt, and looked very wistfully and doubtfully indeed at Mr. Van Brunt and the singe 
little figure standing so still by the fence. They scmf in 
great doubt, every sheep of them, whether Mr. Van Brunt 
were not a traitor, who had put on a friend's voice and lured 
them down there with some dark evil intent, which he 
was going to carry out by means of that same dangerous- 
looking stranger by the fence. Ellen almost expected to see 
them turn about and go as fast as they had come. But Mr. 
Van Brunt gently repeating his call, went quietly up to the 
nearest stone and began to scatter the salt upon it, full in 
their view. Doubt was at an end ; he had hung out the 
white flag ; they flocked down to the stones, no longer at all 
in fear of double-dealing, and crowded to get at the salt ; the 
rocks where it was strewn were covered with more sheep 
than Ellen would have thought it possible could stand upon 
them. They were like pieces of floating ice heaped up with 
snow, or queen-cakes with an immoderately thick frosting. 
It was one scene of pushing and crowding ; those which had 
not had their share of the feast forcing themselves up to get 
at it, and shoving others off in consequence. Ellen was wonderfully pleased. It was a new and pretty sight, the busy 
hustling crowd of gentle creatures ; with the soft noise of 
their tread upon grass and stones, and the eager devouring of 
the salt. She was fixed with pleasure, looking and listening ; 
and did not move till the entertainment was over, and the 
body of the flock were carelessly scattering here and there, 
while a few that had perhaps been disappointed of their 
part still lingered upon the stones in the vain hope of yet 
licking a little saltness from them. 
"Well," said Ellen, "I never knew what salt was worth 
before. How they do love it ! Is it good for them, Mr. Van 
Brunt ?" 
" Good for them ?" said he, — " to be sure it is good for 
them. There aint a critter that walks, as I know, that it aint 
good for, — 'cept chickens, and it's very queer it kills them." 
They turned to go homeward. Ellen had taken the empty 
pan to lay her flowers in, thinking it would be better for them 
than the heat of her hand ; and greatly pleased with what she 
had come to see, and enjoying her walk as much as it was 
possible, she was going home very happy ; yet she could not 
help missing Mr. Van Brunt's old sociableness. He was uncommonly silent, even for him, considering that he and Ellen 
were alone together ; aifd she wondered what had possessed 
him with a desire to cut down all the young saphngs he came 
to that were large enough for walking sticks. He did not 
want to make any use of them, that was certain, for as fast 
as he cut and trimmed out one lie threw it away and cut another. Ellen was glad when they got out into the open fields 
where there were none to be found. 
" It is just about this time a year ago," said she, " that 
aunt Fortune was getting well of her long fit of sickness." 
" Yes !" said Mr. Van Brunt, with a very profound air ; —  
"something is always happening most years." 
pen did not know what to make of this philosophical remark. 
" I am very glad nothing is happening this year," said 
she ; — " I think it is a great deal pleasanter to have things 
go on quietly." 
" something might happen without hindering things 
going on quietly, I s'pose, — miglitn't it ?" 
"I don't know," said Ellen wondeuingly ; — "why Mr. Yan 
Brunt what is going to happen ?" 
" I declare," said he half laughing, — " you're as cute as a 
razor; I didn't say there was anything going to happen, 
did I ?" 
" But is there ?" said Ellen. 
" Ha'n't your aunt said nothing to you about it ?" 
" Whv no," said Ellen, — " she never tells me anything ; 
what is It ?" 
"Why the story is," said Mr. Yan Brunt, — "at least I 
know, for I've understood as much from herself, that — I believe she's going to be married before long." 
" She !" exclaimed Ellen. " Married ! — aunt Fortune !" 
" I believe so," said Mr. Yan Brunt, making a lunge at a 
tuft of tall grass and pulling off two or three spears of it, 
which he carried to his mouth. 
There was a long silence, during which Ellen saw nothing 
m earth, air or sky, and knew no longer whether she was 
passing through woodland or meadow. To frame words into 
another sentence was past her power. They came in sight of 
the barn at length. She would not have much more time. 
" Will it be soon, Mr. Yan Bmnt ?" 
Why pretty soon, as soon as next week, I guess ; so I 
thought it was time you ought to be told. Do you know to 
who?" 
" I don't know,"" said Ellen in a low voice ; — " I couldn't 
help guessing." 
" I reckon you've guessed about right," said he, without 
looking at her. 
There was another silence, during which it seemed to Ellen 
that her thoughts were tumbling head over heels, they were 
in such confusion. 
" The short and the long of it is," said Mr. Van Brunt, as 
they rounded the corner of the barn, — " we have made up 
our minds to draw in the same yoke ; and we're both on us 
pretty go-ahead folks, so I guess we'll contrive to pull the 
cart along. I had just as lieve tell you, Ellen, that all this 
was as good as settled a long spell back, — 'afore ever you came 
to Thirlwall ; but I was never agoing to leave my old mother 
without a home ; so I stuck to her, and would, to the end of 
time, if I had never been married. But now she is gone, and 
there is nothing to keep me to the old place any longer. So 
now you know the hull on it, and I wanted you should." 
With this particularly cool statement of his matrimonial 
views, Mr, Van Brunt turned off into the barn-yard, leaving 
Ellen to go home by herself. She felt as if she were walking on 
air while she crossed the chip-yard, and the very house had a 
seeming of unreality. Mechanically she put her flowers in 
water, and sat down to finish the beans ; but the beans raio-ht 
have been flowers and the flowers beans for all the diff'erence 
Ellen saw in them. Miss Fortune and she shunned each 
other's faces most carefully for a long time ; Ellen felt it 
impossible to meet her eyes ; and it is a matter of great un- 
certainty which in fact did first look at the other. Other than 
this there was no manner of diff'erence in anything without or 
within the house. Mr. Van Brunt's being absolutely speechless was not a very uncommon thing. 
CHAPTER XII. 
Poor little, pretty, fluttering thing, 
Must we no longer live together ? 
And dost thou prune thy trembling wing 
To take thy flight thou knowest not wh...ier 
Prior. 
As soon as she could Ellen carried this wonderful news to 
Alice, and eagerly poured out the whole story, her walk and 
all. She was somewhat disappointed at the calmness of her 
hearer. 
But you don't seem half as surprised as I expected, AHce ; 
I thought you would be so much surprised." 
" I am not surprised at all, Ellie." 
" Not ! — aren't you ! — why did you know anything of this 
before ?" 
" I did not knoic, but I suspected. I thought it was very 
likely. I am very glad it is so." 
" Glad ! are you glad ? I am so sorry ; — why are you 
glad, Alice?" 
" Why are you sorry, Ellie ?" 
" because ! — I don't know — it seems so queer ! — I don't 
like it at all. I am very sorry indeed," 
" For your aunt's sake, or for Mr. Van Brunt's sake?" 
" What do you mean ?" 
" I mean, do you think he or she will be a loser by the 
bargain ?" 
" Why he, to be sure ; I think he will ; I don't think she 
will. I think he is a great deal too good. And besides — I 
wonder if he wants to really ; — it was settled so long ago — 
maybe he has changed his mind since." 
" Have you any reason to think so, Ellie ?" said Alice 
smiling. 
" I don't know — I don" thmk he seemed particulary glad." 
" It will be safest to conclude that Mr. Van Brunt knows 
his own mind, my dear ; and it is certainly pleasantest for us 
to hope so." 
" But then, besides," said Ellen with a face of great perplexity and vexation, — I don't know — it don't seem right ! 
Uow can I ever — must I, do you think I shall have to call 
him anything but Mr. Van Brunt ?" 
Alice could not help smiling again. 
" What is your objection, Ellie ?" 
"Why because I cant! — I couldn't do it, somehow. It 
would seem so strange. Must I, Alice ? — Why in the world 
are you glad, dear Alice ?" 
" It smooths my way for a plan I have had in my head ; 
you will know by-and-by why I am glad, EUie." 
" Well I am glad if you are glad," said Ellen sighing ; — " I 
don't know why I was so sorry, but I couldn't help it ; I 
suppose I sha'n't mind it after a while." 
She sat for a few minutes, musing over the possibility or 
impossibility of ever forming her lips to the words " uncle 
Abraham," "uncle Van Brunt," or barely "uncle ;" her soul 
rebelled against all three. " Yet if he should think me un- 
kind. — then I must, — oh rather fifty times over than that !" 
Looking up, she saw a change in Alice's countenance, and 
tenderly asked, 
" What is the matter, dear Alice ? what are you thinking 
about ?" 
" I am thinking, EUie, how I shall tell you something that 
will give you pain." 
" Pain ! you needn't be afraid of giving me pain," said 
Ellen fondly, throwing her arms around her ; — " tell me, dear 
Alice ; is it something I have done that is wrong ? what 
is it?" 
Alice kissed her, and burst into tears. 
" What is the matter, oh dear Alice !" said Ellen, encircling 
Alice's head with both her arms ; — " Oh don't cry ! do tell 
me what it is !"' 
" It is only sorrow for you, dear Ellie." 
" But why ?" said Ellen in some alarm ; — " why are you 
sorry for me ? I don't care, if it don't trouble you, indeed I 
don't ! Never mind me ; is it something that troubles you, 
dear Alice ?" 
" No — except for the effect it may have on others." 
"Then I can bear it," said Ellen; — "you need not be 
afraid to tell me dear Alice ; — what is it ? don't be sorry for 
me!" 
But the expression of Alice's face was such that she could 
not help being afraid to hear : she anxiously repeated " what 
is it ?" 
Alice fondly smoothed back the hair from her brow, looking 
herself somewhat anxiously and somewhat sadly upon the 
uplifted face. 
" Suppose Ellie," she said at length, — " that you and I 
were taking a journey together — a troublesome dangerous 
journey — and that I had a way of getting at once safe to the 
end of it ; — would you be willing to let me go, and you do 
without me for the rest of the way ?" 
" I would rather you should take me with you," said Ellen, 
in a kind of maze of wonder and fear ; — why where are you 
going, Alice ?" 
" I think I am going home, Ellie, — before you." 
" Home ?" said Ellen. 
" Yes, — home I feel it to be ; it is not a strange land ; 
I thank God it is my home I am going to." 
Ellen sat looking at her, stupified. 
" It is your home too, love, I trust, and believe," said Alice 
tenderly ; — " we shall be together at last. I am not sorry 
for myself ; I only grieve to leave you alone, — and others, — 
but God knows best. We must both look to him." 
" Why Alice," said Ellen starting up suddenly, — what do 
you mean? what do you mean? — I don't understand you — 
what do you mean ?" 
" Do you not understand me, Ellie ?" 
" But Alice ! — but Alice — dear Alice — what makes you 
say so ? is there anything the matter with you ? 
"Do I look well, Ellie?" 
With an eye sharpened to painful keenness, Ellen sought 
in Alice's face for the tokens of what she wished and what 
she feared. It had once or twice lately flitted through her 
mind that Alice was very thin, and seemed to want her old 
strength, whether in riding, or walking, or any other exertion ; 
and it had struck her that the bright spots of color in Alice's 
face were just like what her mother's cheeks used to wear in 
her last illness. These thoughts had just come and gone ; 
but now as she recalled them and was forced to acknowledge 
the justness of them, and her review of Alice's face pressed 
them home anew, — hope for a moment faded. She grew 
white, even to her lips. 
" My poor Ellie ! my poor Ellie !" said Alice, pressing her 
little sister to her bosom, — " it must be ! We must say ' the 
Lord's will be done — we must not forget he does all things 
well." 
But Ellen rallied ; she raised her head again ; she could 
not believe what Alice had told her. To her mind it 
seemed an evil too great to happen ; it could not be ! Alice 
saw this in her look, and again sadly stroked the hair from 
her brow. " It must be, Ellie, she repeated." 
" But have you seen somebody ? — have you asked some- 
body ?" said Ellen ; — " some doctor ?" 
I have seen, and I have asked," said Alice ; — " it was 
not necessary, but I have done both. They think as I do." 
" But these Thirlwall doctors" — 
" Not them ; I did not apply to them. I saw an excel- 
lent physician at Randolph, the last time I went to Ventnor." 
" And he said — " 
" As I have told you." 
Ellen's countenance fell — fell. 
It is easier for me to leave you than for you to be 
left, — I know that, my dear little Ellie ! You have no rea- 
son to be sorry for me — I am sorry for you ; but the hand 
that is taking me away is one that will touch neither of us 
but to do us good ; — I know that too. We must both look 
away to our dear Saviour, and not for a moment doubt his 
love. I do not — you must not. Is it not said that ' he loved 
Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus ? ' " 
Yes," said Ellen, who never stirred her eyes from 
Alice's. 
" And might he not — did it not rest with a word of his lips, 
to keep Lazarus from dying, and save his sisters from all the 
bitter sorrow his death caused them ?" 
Again Ellen said " yes," or her lips seemed to say it. 
" And yet there were reasons, good reasons, why he should 
not, little as poor Martha and Mary could understand it. — 
But had he at all ceased to love them when he bade all that 
trouble come ? Do you remember, Ellie — oh how beautiful 
those words are ! — when at last he arrived near the place, and 
first one sister came to him with the touching reminder that 
he might have saved them from this, and then the other, — 
weeping and faUing at his feet, and repeating,  Lord if thou 
hadst been here I' — when he saw their tears, and more, saw 
the torn hearts that tears could not ease, — he even wept with 
them too! Oh I thank God for those words! He saw rea- 
son to strike, and his hand did not spare ; but his love shed 
tears for them ! and he is just the same now." 
Some drops fell from Alice's eyes, not sorrowful ones ; 
Ellen had hid her face. 
" Let ns never doubt his love, dear Ellie, and surely then 
we can bear whatever that love may bring upon us, I do 
trust it. I do believe it shall be well with them that fear 
God. I believe it will be well for me when I die, — well for 
you my dear, dear Ellie, — well even for my father" — 
She did not finish the sentence, afraid to trust herself. — 
But oh, Eljen knew what it would have been ; and it sud- 
denly startled into life all the load of grief that had been settling heavily on her heart. Her thouglits had not looked 
that way before ; — now when they did, this new vision of 
misery was too much to bear. Quite unable to contain herself, and unwilling to pain Alice more than she could help, 
with a smothered burst of feeling she sprang away, out of 
the door, into the woods, where she would be unseen and 
unheard. 
And there in the first burst of her agony, Ellen almost 
thought she should die. Her grief had not now indeed the 
goading sting of impatience ; she knew the hand that gave 
the blow, and did not raise her own against it ; she believed 
too what Alice had been saying, and the sense of it was, in a 
manner, present with her in her darkest time. But her 
spirit died within her ; she bowed her head as if she were 
never to lift it up again ; and she was ready to say with 
Job, " what good is my life to me ?" 
It was long, very long after, when slowly and mournfully 
she came in again to kiss Alice before going back lo her 
aunt's. She would have done i-. hurriedly and turned away ; 
but Alice held her and looked sadly for a minute into the 
wo-begone little face, then clasped her close and kissed her 
again and again. 
"Oh Alice," sobbed Ellen on her neck, — "aren't you mistaken ? maybe you are mistaken ?" 
" I am not mistaken, my dear Ellie, my own Ellie," said 
Alice's clear sweet voice ; — " not sorry, except for others. I 
will talk with you more about this. You will be sorry for 
me at first, and then, I hope, you will be glad. It is only 
that I am going home a little before you. Remember what 
I was saying to you a while ago. Will you tell Mr. Van 
Brunt I should like to see him for a few minutes some time 
when he has leisure ? — And come to me early to-morrow, 
love." 
Ellen could hardly get home. Her blinded eyes could 
not see where she was stepping ; and again and again her 
fullness of heart got the better of everything else, and unmindful of the growing twilight she sat down on a stone by 
the wayside or flung herself on the ground to let sorrows 
have full sway. In one of these fits of bitter struggling with 
pain, there came on her mind, like a sunbeam across a cloud, 
the thought of Jesus weeping at the grave of Lazarus. It 
came with singular power. Did he love them so well? 
thought Ellen — and is he looking down upon us with the same 
tenderness even now ? — She felt that the sun was shining still, 
though the cloud might be between ; her broken heart crept 
to His feet and laid its burden there, and after a few minutes she rose up and went on her wa}^, keeping that thought 
still close to her heart. The unspeakable tears that were 
shed during those few minutes were that softened out-pouring of the heart that leaves it eased. Very, very sorrowful 
as she was, she went on calmly now and stopped no 
more. 
It was getting dark, and a little way from the gate, on 
the road, she met Mr. Van Brunt. 
" Why I was beginning to get scared about you," said he. 
" I was coming to see where vou was. How come you so 
late ?" 
Ellen made no answer, and as she now came nearer and he 
could see more distinctly, his tone chano-ed. 
"What's the matter ?" said he, — "you ha'n't been well! 
what has happened ? what ails you, Ellen ?" 
In astonishment, and then in alarm, he saw that she was 
unable to speak, and anxiously and kindly begged her to let 
him know what was the matter, and if he could do anything. 
Ellen shook her head. 
" x\int Miss Alice well ?" said he ; — " you ha'n't heerd no 
bad news up there on the hill, have you ?'' 
Ellen was not willing to answer this question with yea or 
nay. She recovered herself enough to give him Alice's message. 
" I'll be sure and go," said he, — " but you ha'n't told me 
j'et what's the matter ! Has anything happened ?" 
" No," said Ellen; — " don't ask me — she'll tell you — don't 
ask me." 
" I guess I'll go up the first thing in the morning then," 
said he, — " before breakfast." 
" No," said Ellen, — " better not — perhaps she wouldn't be 
up so early." 
" After breakfast then, — I'll go up right after breakfast. 
I was agoing with the boys up into that 'ere wheat lot, but 
anyhow I'll do that first. They won't have a chance to do 
much bad or good before I get back to them, I reckon." 
xVs soon as possible she made her escape from Miss 
Fortune's eye and questions of curiosity which she could not 
bear to answer, and got to her own room. There the first 
thing she did was to find the eleventh chapter of John. She 
read it as she never had read it before, — she found in it what 
she had never found before; one of those cordials that none 
but the sorrowing drink. On the love of Christ, as there 
shown, little Ellen's heart fastened ; and with that one 
sweetening thought amid all its deep sadness, her sleep that 
night might have been envied by many a luxurious roller in 
pleasure. 
At Alice's wish she immediately took up her quarters at 
the parsonage, to leave her no more. But she could not see 
much difference in her from what she had been for several 
weeks past ; and with the natural hopefulness of childhood, 
her mind presently almost refused to believe the extremity 
of the evil which had been threatened. Alice herself was 
constantly cheerful, and sought by all means to further 
Ellen's cheerfulness ; though careful at the same time, to 
forbid, as far she could, the rising of the hope she saw Ellen 
was inclined to cherish. 
One evening they were sitting together at the window, 
looking out upon the same old lawn and distant landscape, 
now in all the fresh greenness of the young spring. The 
woods were not yet in full leaf; and the light of the setting 
sun upon the trees bordering the other side of the lawn 
showed them in the most exquisite and varied shades of color. 
Some had the tender green of the new leaf, some were in the 
red or yellow browns of the half-opened bud ; others in 
various stao^es of forwardness mixinfj all the tints between, 
and the evergreens standing dark as ever, setting off the delicate hues of the surrounding foliage. This was all softened 
off in the distance ; the very light of the spring was mild 
and tender compared with that of other seasons ; and the 
air that stole round the corner of the house and came in at 
the open window was laden with aromatic fragrance. Alice 
and Ellen had been for some time silently breathing it and 
gazing thoughtfully on the loveliness that was abroad. 
" I used to think," said Alice, — " that it must be a very 
hard thing to leave such a beautiful world. Did you ever 
think so, Ellie ?" 
" I don't know," said Ellen faintly, — " I don't remember." 
" I used to think so," said Alice. " But I do not now, 
Ellie ; my feeling has changed. — Do you feel so now, Ellie?" 
" Oh why do you talk about it, dear Alice ?" 
" For many reasons^ dear Ellie. Come here and sit in my 
lap again." 
" I am afraid you cannot bear it." 
" Yes I can. Sit here, and let your head rest where it 
used to ;" — and Alice laid her cheek upon Ellen's forehead ; 
— " you are a great comfort to me, dear Ellie." 
" Oh Alice, don't say so — you'll kill me !" exclaimed 
Ellen in great distress. 
" Why should I not say so, love ?" said Alice soothingly. 
" I like to say it, and you will be glad to know it by-and-by. 
You are a great comfort to me." 
" And what have you been to me !" said Ellen, weeping 
bitterly. 
" What I cannot be much longer; and I want to accustom 
you to think of it, and to think of it rightly. I want you to 
know that if I am sorry at all in the thought, it is for the 
sake of others, not myself. Ellie, you yourself will be glad 
for me in a little while ; — you will not wish me back." 
Ellen shook her head. 
" I know you will not — after a while ; — and I shall leave 
you in good hands — I have arranged for that, my dear little 
sister !" 
The sorrowing child neither knew nor cared what she 
meant, but a mute caress answered the spirit of Alice's 
words. 
Look up Ellie, — look out again. Lovely — lovely ! all 
that is, — but I know heaven is a great deal more lovely. 
Feasted as our eyes are with beauty, I believe that eye has 
not seen, nor heart imagined the things that God has pre- 
pared for them that love him. You believe that, Ellie ; you 
must not be so very sorry that I have gone to see it a little 
before you." 
Ellen could say nothing. 
" After all, Ellie, it is not beautiful things nor a beautiful 
world that make people happy — it is loving and being loved ; 
and that is the reason why I am happy in the thought of 
heaven. I shall, if he receives me, I shall be with my 
Saviour ; I shall see him and know him, without any of the 
clouds that come between here. I am often forgetting and 
displeasing him now, — never serving him well nor loving him 
right. I shall be glad to find myself where all that will be 
done with for ever. I shall be like him ! — Why do you cry 
so, Ellie?" said Alice tenderly. 
" I can't help it, Alice." 
" It is only my love for you — and for two more — that 
could make me wish to stay here, — nothing else ; — and I give 
all that up, because I do not know what is best for you or 
myself. And I look to meet you all again before long. Try 
to think of it as I do, Ellie." 
" But what shall I do without you ?" said poor Ellen. 
" I will tell you Ellie. You must come here and take m} 
place, and take care of those I leave behind ; will you? — and 
they will take care of you." 
" But," — said Ellen looking up eagerly, — " aunt Fortune" — 
" I have managed all that. Will you do it, Ellen ? I shall 
feel easy and happy about you, and far easier and happier 
about my father, if I leave you established here, to be to him 
as far as you can, what I have been. Will you promise me, 
Ellie?" 
In words it was not possible ; but what silent kisses, and 
the close pressure of the arms round Alice's neck could say, 
was said. 
" I am satisfied, then,' said Alice presently. " My father 
will be your father — think him so, dear Ellie, — and I know 
John will take care of you. And my place will not be empty. 
I am very, very glad." 
Ellen felt her place surely would be empty, but she could 
not say so. 
" It was for this I was so glad of your aunt's marriage, 
Ellie," Alice soon went on. " I foresaw she might raise some 
difficulties in my way, — hard to remove perhaps ; — but now I 
have seen Mr. Van Brunt, and he has promised me that nothing 
shall hinder your taking up your abode and making your 
home entirely here. Though I believe, Ellie, he would truly 
have loved to have you in his own house " 
I am sure he would," said Ellen, — " but oh how much 
rather "
" He behaved very well about it the other morning, — in a 
very manly, frank, kind way, — showed a good deal of feeling 
I think, too. He gave me to understand that for his own 
sake he should be extremely sorry to let you go ; but he assured me that nothing over which he had any control should 
stand in the way of your good." 
" He is verij kind — he is very good — he is always so," said 
Ellen. " I love Mr. Van Brunt very much. He always was 
as kind to me as he could be." 
They were silent for a few minutes, and Alice was looking 
out of the window again. The sun had set, and the coloring 
of all without was graver. Yet it was but the change from 
one beauty to another. The sweet air seemed still sweeter 
than before the sun went down. 
" You must be happy, dear Ellie, in knowing that I am. I 
am happy now. I enjoy all this, and I love you all, — but I can 
leave it and can leave you, — yes, both, — for I would see 
Jesus! He who has taught me to love him will not forsake 
me now. Goodness and mercy have followed me all the days 
of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord for ever. 
I thank him ! I thank him !" 
Alice's face did not belie her words, though her eyes shone 
through tears. 
Ellie, dear, — you must love him with all your heart, and 
live constantly in his presence, I know if you do he will 
make you happy, in any event. He can always give more 
than he takes away. how good he is ! — and what wretched returns we make him ! — I was miserable when John first 
went away to Doncaster ; I did not know how to bear it. 
But now, Ellie, I think I can see it has done me good, and I 
can even be thankful for it. All things are ours — all things ; 
— the world, and life, and death too." 
" Alice," said Ellen, as well as she could, — you know 
what you were saying to me the other day ?" 
" About what, love ?" 
" That about — you know, — that chapter" — 
" About the death of Lazarus ?" 
" Yes. It has comforted me very much." 
" So it has me, Ellie. It has been exceeding sweet to 
me at different times. Come sing to me, — * How firm a foundation.' " 
From time to time Alice led to this kind of conversation, 
both for Ellen's sake and her own pleasure. Meanwhile she 
made her go on with all her usual studies and duties ; and 
but for these talks Ellen would have scarce known how to 
believe that it could be true which she feared. 
The wedding of Miss Fortune and Mr. Van Brunt was a 
very quiet one. It happened at far too busy a time of year, 
and they were too cool calculators, and looked upon their 
union in much too business-like a point of view, to dream of 
such a wild thing as a wedding-tour, or even resolve upon so 
troublesome a thing as a wedding-party. Miss Fortune 
would not have left her cheese and butter-making to see all 
the New Yorks and Bostons that ever were built ; and she 
would have scorned a trip to Randolph. And Mr. Van 
Brunt would as certainly have wished himself all the while 
back among his furrows and crops. So one day they were 
quietly married at home, the Rev. Mr. Clark having been 
fetched from Thirl wall for the purpose. Mr. Van Brunt 
would have preferred that Mr. Humphreys should perform 
the ceremony ; but Miss Fortune was quite decided in favor 
of the Thirlwall gentleman, and of course he it was. 
The talk ran high all over the country on the subject of 
this marriage, and opinions were greatly divided ; some congratulating Mr. Van Brunt on having made himself one of the 
richest land-holders in town" by the junction of ano- 
ther fat farm to his own ; some pitying him for having got 
more than his match wiihin doors, and " guessing he'd missed his reckoning for once." 
If he has, then," said Sam Larkens, who heard some of 
