" And I you, dear Mrs. Vawse," said Alice kissing her. 
" Here's another friend you must welcome for my sake — little 
Ellen Montgomery." 
" I am very glad to see Miss Ellen," said the old wo- 
man, kissing her also ; and Ellen did not shrink from the 
kiss, so pleasant were the lips that tendered it ; so kind and 
frank the smile, so winning the eye ; so agreeable the whole 
air of the person. She turned from Ellen again to Miss Alice, 
" It's a long while that I have not seen you, dear, — not 
since you went to Mrs. Marshman's. And what a day you 
have chosen to come at last !" 
I can't help that," said Alice, pulling off her bonnet, — 
I couldn't wait any longer. I wanted to see you dolefully, 
Mrs. Vawse." 
" Why my dear ? what's the matter ? I have wanted to 
see you, but not dolefully." 
" That's the very thing Mrs. Vawse ; I wanted to see you 
to get a lesson of quiet contentment." 
" I never thought you wanted such a lesson Miss Alice. 
What's the matter ?" 
" I can't get over John's going away." 
Her lip trembled and her eye was swimming as she said 
so. The old woman passed her hands over the gentle head 
and kissed her brow. 
" So I thought — so I felt, when my mistress died ; and my 
husband ; and my sons, one after the other. But now I 
think I can say with Paul, ' I have learned in whatsoever state 
I am therewith to be content.' I think so ; maybe that I de- 
ceive myself ; but they are all gone, and I am certain that I 
am content now." 
" Then surely I ought to be," said Alice. 
" It is not till one looses one's hold of other things and 
looks to Jesus alone that one finds how much he can do. 
' There is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother but I 
never knew all that meant till I had no other friends to lean 
upon ; — nay, I should not say no other friends ; — but my 
dearest were taken awav, You have your dearest still, Miss 
Alice." 
" Two of them," said Alice faintly ; — " and hardly that 
now." 
e< I have not one," said the old woman, — " I have not one ; 
but my home is in heaven, and my Saviour is there preparing 
a place for me. I know it — I am sure of it — and I can wait 
a little while, and rejoice all the while I am waiting. Dearest 
Miss Alice — none of them that trust in him shall be desolate 
don't you believe that ?" 
" I do surely, Mrs. Vawse," said Alice, wiping away a tear 
or two, " but I forget it sometimes ; or the pressure of present pain is too much for all that faith and hope can do." 
" It hinders faith and hope from acting — that is the trouble. ' They that seek the Lord shall not want any good 
thing.' I know that is true, of my own experience ; so will 
you dear." 
" I know it Mrs. Vawse — I know it all ; but it does me good 
to hear you say it. I thought I should become accustomed 
to John's absence, but I do not at all ; the autumn winds 
all the while seem to sing to me that he is away." 
" My dear love," said the old lady, " it sorrows me much 
to hear you speak so ; I would take away this trial from you 
if I could ; but He knows best. Seek to live nearer to the 
Lord, dear Miss Alice, and he will give you much more than 
he has taken away." 
Alice again brushed away some tears. 
" I felt I must come and see you to-day," said she, " and 
you have comforted me already. The sound of your voice 
always does me good. I catch courage and patience from 
you I believe." 
"  As iron sharpeneth iron, so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.' How did you leave Mr. and Mrs. 
Marshman ? and has Mr. George returned yet ?" 
Drawing their chairs together, a close conversation began. 
Ellen had been painfully interested and surprised by what 
went before, but the low tone of voice now seemed to be not 
meant for her ear, and turning away her attention, she amused 
herself with taking a general survey. 
It was easy to see that Mrs. Vawse lived in this room, and 
probably had no other to live in. Her bed was in one corner ; 
cupboards filled the deep recesses on each side of the chimney, and in the wide fireplace the crane and the hooks and 
trammels hanging upon it showed that the bedroom and sitting-room was the kitchen too. Most of the floor was covered 
with a thick rag carpet ; where the boards could be seen they 
were beautifully clean and white, and everything else in the 
room in this respect matched with the boards. The panes 
of glass in the little windows were clear and bright as panes 
of glass could be made ; the hearth was clean swept up ; the 
cupboard doors were unstained and unsoiled, though fingers 
had worn the paint off ; dust was nowhere. On a little stand 
by the chimney corner lay a large Bible and another book ; 
close beside stood a cushioned arm-chair. Some other apart- 
ment there probably was where wood and stores were kept ; 
nothing was to be seen here that did not agree with a very 
comfortable face of the whole. It looked as if one might be 
happy there ; it looked as if somebody was happy there ; and 
a glance at the old lady of the house would not alter the 
opinion. Many a glance Ellen gave her as she sat talking 
with Alice ; and with every one she felt more and more drawn 
towards her. She was somewhat under the common size and 
rather stout ; her countenance most agreeable ; there was 
sense, character, sweetness in it. Some wrinkles no doubt 
were there too ; lines deep-marked that spoke of sorrows once 
known. Those storms had all passed away ; the last shadow of a cloud had departed ; her evening sun was shining 
clear and bright towards the setting ; and her brow was 
beautifully placid, rot as though it never had been, but as if 
it never could be ruffled again. Respect no one could help 
feeling for her ; and more than respect one felt would grow 
with acquaintance. Her dress was very odd, Ellen thought. 
It was not American, and what it was she did not know, but 
supposed Mrs. Vawse must have a lingering fancy for the 
costume as well as for the roofs of her fatherland. More than 
all her eye turned again and again to the face, which seemed 
to her in its changing expression winning and pleasant exceedingly. The mouth had not forgotten to smile, nor the 
eye to laugh ; and though this was not often seen, the constant play of feature showed a deep and lively sympathy in 
all Alice was saying, and held Ellen's charmed gaze ; and 
when the old lady's looks and words were at length turned 
to herself she blushed to think how long she had been looking steadily at a stranger. 
" Little Miss Ellen, how do you like my house on the rock 
here ?" 
" I don't know ma'am," said Ellen ; " I like it very much, 
only I don't think I should like it so well in winter." 
" I am not certain that I don't like it then best of all. Why 
would you not like it in winter ?" 
" I shouldn't like the cold ma'am, and to be alone." 
" I like to be alone, but cold ? I am in no danger of freezing, Miss Ellen. I make myself very warm — keep good 
fires, — and my house is too strong for the wind to blow it 
away. Don't you want to go out and set my cow ? I have 
one of the best cows that ever you saw; her name is Snow ; 
there is not a black hair upon her; she is all white. Come 
Miss Alice ; Mr. Marshman sent her to me a month ago ; 
she's a great treasure and worth looking at." 
The) r went across the yard to the tiny barn or outhouse, 
where they found Snow nicely cared for. She was in a warm 
stable, a nice bedding of straw upon the floor, and plenty of 
hay laid up for her. Snow deserved it, for she was a beauty 
and a very well-behaved cow, letting Alice and Ellen stroke 
her and pat her and feel of her thick hide, with the most perfect placidity. Mrs. Vawse meanwhile went to the door to 
look out. 
" Nancy ought to be home to milk her," she said ; "I 
must give you supper and send you off. I've no feeling nor 
smell if snow isn't thick in the air somewhere we shall see 
it here soon." 
" I'll milk her," said Alice. 
M I'll milk her !" said Ellen ; " I'll milk her ! Ah do let 
me ; I know how to milk ; Mr. Van Brunt taught me, and I 
have done it several times. May I ? I should like it dearly." 
" You shall do it surely my child," said Mrs. Vawse. 
" Come with me and I'll give you the pail and the milking 
stool." 
When Alice and Ellen came in with the milk they found 
the kettle on, the little table set, and Mrs. Vawse very busy 
at another table. 
" What are you doing Mrs. Vawse, may I ask ?" said 
Alice. 
" I'm just stirring up some Indian meal for you ; I find I 
have not but a crust left." 
" Please to put that away ma'am for another time. Do 
you think I didn't know better than to come up to this mountain-top without bringing along something to live upon while 
I am here ? Here's a basket ma'am, and in it are divers 
things ; I believe Margery and I between us have packed up 
enough for two or three suppers ; to say nothing of Mis? 
Fortune's pie. There it is — sure to be good you know ; and 
here are some of my cakes that you like so much, Mrs. 
Vawse," said Alice as she went on pulling the things out of 
the basket, — " there is a bowl of butter — that's not wanted I 
Bee — and here is a loaf of bread ; and that's all. Ellen, my 
dear, this basket will be lighter to carry down than it was to
bring up." 
" I am glad of it I am sure," said Ellen ; " my arm hasn't, 
done aching yet, though I had it so little while." 
" Ah, I am glad to hear that kettle singing," said then 
hostess. " I can give you good tea, Miss Alice ; you'll think 
so I know, for it's the same Mr. John sent me. It is very
fine tea ; and he sent me a noble supply, like himself,' ' continued Mrs. Vawse, taking some out of her little caddy. " I 
ought not to say I have no friends left ; I cannot eat a meal 
that I am not reminded of two good ones. Mr. John knew 
one of my weak points when he sent me that box of Sou- 
chong." 
The supper was ready, and the little party gathered round 
the table. The tea did credit to the judgment of the giver 
and the skill of the maker, but they were no critics that drank 
it. Alice and Ellen were much too hungry and too happy 
to be particular. Miss Fortune's pumpkin pie was" declared 
to be very fine, and so were Mrs. Vawse's cheese and butter. 
Eating and talking went on with great spirit, their old friend 
seeming scarce less pleased or less lively than themselves. 
Alice proposed the French plan and Mrs. Vawse, entered into 
it very frankly ; it was easy to see that the style of building 
and of dress to which she had been accustomed in early life 
were not the only things remembered kindly for old time's 
sake. It was settled they should meet as frequently as might 
be, either here or at the parsonage, and become good French- 
women with all convenient speed. 
" Will you wish to walk so far to see me again, little Miss 
Ellen ?" 
" Oh yes ma'am !" 
" You won't fear the deep snow, and the wind and cold, 
and the steep hill ?" 
" no ma'am, I won't mind them a bit ; but ma'am, Miss 
Alice told me to ask you why you loved better to live up 
here than down where it is warmer. I shouldn't ask if she 
hadn't said [ might." 
" Ellen has a great fancy for getting at the reason of every- 
thing, Mrs. Vawse," said Alice smiling. 
" You wonder anybody should choose it, don't you Misa 
Ellen?" said the old lady. 
" Yes ma'am, a little." 
" I'll tell you the reason my child. It is for the love of 
my old home and the memory of my young days. Till I was 
as old as you are and a little older I lived among the mountains and upon them ; and after that, for many a year, they 
were just before my eyes every day, stretching away for 
more than one hundred miles, and piled up one above another, 
fifty times as big as any you ever saw ; these are only mole- 
hills to them. I loved them — oh how I love them still ! If 
I have one unsatisfied wish," said the old lady turning to 
Alice, " it is to see my Alps again ; but that will never be. 
Now Miss Ellen, it is not that I fancy when I get to the top 
of this hill that I am among my own mountains, but I can 
breathe better here than down in the plain. I feel more 
free ; and in the village I would not live for gold, unless that 
duty bade me." 
" But all alone so far from everybody," said Ellen. 
" I am never lonely ; and old as I am I don't mind a long 
walk or a rough road any more than your young feet do." 
" But isn't it very cold ?" said Ellen. 
" Yes, it is very cold ; — what of that ? I make a good 
blazing fire, and then I like to hear the wind whistle." 
" Yes, but you wouldn't like to have it whistling inside as 
well as out," said Alice. " I will come and do the listing: 
and caulking for you in a day or two. Oh you have it done 
without me ! I am sorry." 
" No need to be sorry dear — I am glad ; you don't look 
fit for any troublesome jobs." 
" I am fit enough," said Alice. " Don't put up the curtains ; I'll come and do it." 
" You must come with a stronger face then," said her old 
friend ; " have you wearied yourself with walking all this 
way ?" 
" I was a little weary," said Alice, " but your nice tea has 
made me up again." 
" I wish I could keep you all night," said Mrs. Vawse 
looking out, "but your father would be uneasy. I am 
afraid the storm will catch you before you get home ; and 
you aren't fit to breast it. Little Ellen too don't look as if 
she was made of iron. Can't you stay with me ?" 
" I must not — it wouldn't do," said Alice, who was hastily 
putting on her things ; " we'll soon run down the hill. But 
we are leaving you alone ; — where's Nancy ?" 
" She'll not come if there's a promise of a storm," said 
Mrs. Vawse ; "she often stays out a night." 
"And leaves you alone !" 
" I am never alone," said the old lady quietly ; " I have 
nothing to fear ; but I am uneasy about you dear. Mind 
my words ; don't try to go back the way you came ; take 
the other road ; it's easier ; and stop when you get to Mrs. 
Van Brunt's ; Mr. Van Brunt will take you the rest of the 
way in his little wagon." 
" Do you think it is needful ?" said Alice doubtfully. 
"I am sure it is best. Hasten down. Adieu mon en- 
fant." 
They kissed and embraced her and hurried out. 
CHAPTER XIX. 
The clouds hung thick and low ; the wind was less than, 
it had been. They took the path Mrs. Vawse had spoken of ; 
it was broader and easier than the other, winding more gently 
down the mountain ; it was sometimes indeed traveled by 
horses, though far too steep for any kind of carriage. Alice 
and Ellen ran along without giving much heed to anything 
but their footing, — down, down, — running and bounding, 
hand in hand, till want of breath obliged them to slacken 
their pace. 
" Do you think it will snow ? — soon ?" asked Ellen. 
" I think it will snow, — how soon I cannot tell. Have you 
had a pleasant afternoon ?" 
" Oh very !" 
" I always have when I go there. Now Ellen there is an 
example of contentment for you. If ever a woman loved 
husband and children and friends Mrs. Vawse loved hers ; I 
know this from those who knew her long ago ; and now look 
at her. Of them all she has none left but the orphan daughter of her youngest son, and you know a little what sort of a 
child that is." 
" She must be a very bad girl," said Ellen ; " you can't 
think what stories she told me about her grandmother." 
" Poor Nancy !" said Alice. " Mrs. Vawse has no money 
nor property of any kind, except what is in her house ; but 
there is not a more independent woman breathing. She does 
all sorts of things to support herself. Now for instance, 
Ellen, if anybody is sick within ten miles round, the family 
are too happy to get Mrs. Vawse for a nurse. She is an 
admirable one. Then she goes out tailoring at the farmers' 
houses ; she brings home wool and returns it spun into yarn ; 
she brings home yarn and knits it up into stockings and 
socks ; all sorts of odd jobs. I have seen her picking hops ; 
she isn't above doing anything, and yet she never forgets her 
own dignity. I think wherever she goes and whatever she 
is about, she is at all times one of the most truly ladylike 
persons I have ever seen. And everybod}'- respects her ; 
everybody likes to gain her good-will ; she is known all over 
the country ; and all the country are her friends." 
" They pay her for doing these things, don't they ?" 
" Certainly ; not often in money ; more commonly in various kinds of matters that she wants, — flour, and sugar, and 
Indian meal, and pork, and ham, and vegetables, and wool, — 
anything ; it is but a little of each that she wants. She has 
friends that would not permit her to earn another sixpence if 
they could help it, but she likes better to live as she does. 
And she is always as you saw her to-day — cheerful and 
happy, as a little girl." 
Ellen was turning over Alice's last words and thinking that 
little girls were not always the cheerfullest and happiest 
creatures in the world, when Alice suddenly exclaimed, " It 
is snowing ! Come Ellen, we must make haste now !" — and 
set off at a Quickened pace. Quick as they might, they had 
gone not a hundred yards when the whole air was filled with 
the falling flakes, and the wind which had lulled for a little 
now rose with greater violence and swept round the mountain 
furiously. The storm had come in good earnest and promised 
to be no trifling one. Alice and Ellen ran on, holding each 
other's hands and strengthening themselves against the blast, 
but their journey became every moment more difficult. The 
air was dark with the thick-falling snow ; the wind seemed to 
blow in every direction by turns, but chiefly against them, 
blinding their eyes with the snow and making it necessary to 
use no small effort to keep on their way. Ellen hardly knew 
where she went, but allowed herself to be pulled along by 
Alice, or as well pulled her along ; it was hard to say which 
hurried most. In the midst of this dashing on down the hill 
Alice all at once came to a sudden stop. 
"Where's the Captain?" said she. 
" I don't know," said Ellen, — " I haven't thought of him 
since we left Mrs. Vawse's." 
Alice turned her back to the wind and looked up the road 
they had come, — there was nothing but wind and snow there ; 
how furiously it blew ! Alice called, " Pussy ! — " 
"Shall we walk up the road a little way, or shall we stand 
and wait for him here ?" said Ellen, trembling half from 
exertion and half from a vague fear of she knew not what. 
Alice called a^ain ; — no answer, but a wild crust of wind 
and snow that drove past. 
"I can't go on and leave him," said Alice; "he might 
perish in the storm." And she began to walk slowly back, 
calling at intervals, " Pussy ! — kitty ! — pussy !" — and listening 
for an answer that came not. Ellen was very unwilling to 
tarry, and nowise inclined to prolong their journey by going 
backwards. She thought the storm grew darker and wilder 
every moment. 
" Perhaps Captain stayed up at Mrs. Vawse's," she said, 
" and didn't follow us down." 
" No," said Alice, — " I am sure he did. Hark ! — wasn't 
that he?" 
" I don't hear anything," said Ellen, after a pause of 
anxious listening. 
Alice went a few steps further. 
" I hear him !" she said ; — " I hear him ! poor kitty !" — 
and she set off at a quick pace up the hill. Ellen followed, 
but presently a burst of wind and snow brought them both 
to a stand. Alice faltered a little at this, in doubt whether 
to go up or down ; but then to their great joy Captain's far 
off cry was heard, and both Alice and Ellen strained their 
voices to cheer and direct him. In a few minutes he came 
in sight, trotting hurriedly along through the snow, and on 
reaching his mistress he sat down immediately on the ground 
without offering any caress ; a sure sign that he was tired. 
Alice stooped down and took him up in her arms. 
" Poor kitty !" she said, " you've done your part for 
to-day I think ; I'll do the rest. Ellen, dear, it's of no use 
to tire ourselves out at once ; we will go moderately. Keep 
nold of my cloak my child ; it takes both of my arms to hold 
this big cat. Now never mind the snow ; w r e can bear being 
blown about a little ; are you very tired ?'' 
" No," said Ellen, — " not very ; — I am a little tired ; but I 
don't care for that if we can only get home safe." 
" There's no difficulty about that I hope. Nay, there may 
be some difficulty, but we shall get there I think in good 
safety after awhile. I wish we were there now, for your sake 
my child. 'i 
" Oh never mind me," said Ellen gratefully ; " I am sorry 
for you Miss Alice ; you have the hardest time of it with that 
heavy load to carry ; I wish I could help you." 
" Thank you my dear, but nobody could do that ; I doubt 
if Captain would lie in any arms but mine." 
" Let me carry the basket then," said Ellen, — " do, Miss 
Alice." 
" No my dear, it hangs very well on my arm. Take it 
gently ; Mrs. Van Brunt's isn't very far off ; we shall feel the 
wind less when we turn." 
But the road seemed long. The storm did not increase in 
violence, truly there was no need of that, but the looked-for 
turninof was not soon found, and the o-atherin^ darkness 
warned them day was drawing towards a close. As they 
neared the bottom of the hill Alice made a pause. 
" There's a path that turns off from this and makes a 
shorter cut to Mrs. Van Brunt's, but it must be above here ; 
I must have missed it, though I have been on the watch constantly." 
She looked up and down. It would have been a sharp eye 
indeed that had detected any slight opening in the woods on 
either side of the path, which the driving snow-storm blended 
into one continuous wall of trees. They could be seen 
stretching darkly before and behind them ; but more than 
that, — where they stood near together and where scattered 
apart, — was all confusion, through that fast-falling shower of 
flakes. 
" Shall we go back and look for the path ?" said Ellen. 
" I am afraid we shouldn't find it if we did," said Alice ; 
" we should only lose our time and we have none to lose. 
I think we had better go straight forward." 
" Is it much further this way than the other path we have 
missed ?" 
" A good deal — all of half-a-mile. I am sorry ; but 
courage my child ! we shall know better than to go out in 
snowy weather next time, — on long expeditions at least." 
They had to shout to make each other hear, so drove the 
snow and wind through the trees and into their very faces and 
ears. They plodded on. It was plodding; the snow lay 
thick enough now to make their footing uneasy, and grew 
deeper every moment ; their shoes were full ; their feet and 
ankles were wet ; and their steps began to drag heavily over 
the ground. Ellen clung as close to Alice's cloak as their 
hurried traveling would permit ; sometimes one of Alice's 
hands was loosened for a moment to be passed round Ellen's 
shoulders, and a word of courage or comfort in the clear calm 
tone cheered her to renewed exertion. The night fell fast ; 
it was very darkling by the time they reached the bottom of 
the hill, and the road did not yet allow them to turn their 
faces towards Mrs. Van Brunt's. A wearisome piece of 
the way this was, leading them from the place they 
wished to reach. They could not go fast either ; they 
were too weary and the walking too heavy. Captain had the 
best of it ; snug and quiet he lay wrapped in Alice's cloak 
and fast asleep, little wotting how tired his mistress's arms 
were. 
The path at length brought them to the long desired turning ; but it was by this time so dark that the fences on each 
side of the road showed but dimly. They had not spoken 
for a while ; as they turned the corner a sigh of mingled 
weariness and satisfaction escaped from Ellen's lips. It 
reached Alice's ear. 
" What's the matter love ?" said the sweet voice. No 
trace of weariness was allowed to come into it. 
" I am so glad we have got here at last," said Ellen, looking up with another sigh, and removing her hand for an instant from its grasp on the cloak to Alice's arm. 
" My poor child ! I wish I could cany you too. Can you 
hold on a little longer ?" 
" yes, dear Miss Alice ; I can hold on." 
But Ellen's voice was not so well guarded. It was like 
her steps, a little unsteady. She presently spoke again. 
" Miss Alice are you afraid ?" 
" I am afraid of your getting sick my child, and a little 
afraid of it for myself ; — of nothing else. What is there to 
be afraid of?" 
"It is very dark," said Ellen ; " and the storm is so thick, 
— do you think you can find the way ?" 
" I know it perfectly ; it is nothing but to keep straight 
on ; and the fences would prevent us from getting out of the 
road. It is hard walking I know, but we shall get there by- 
and-by ; bear up as well as you can dear. I am sorry I 
can give you no help but words. Don't you think a nice 
bright fire will look comfortable after all this ?" 
" O dear yes !" answered Ellen rather sadly. 
"Are you afraid Ellen?" 
"Tso, Miss Alice — not much — I don't like its being so 
dark, I can't see where I am going." 
" The darkness makes our way longer and more tedious ; it 
will do us no other harm love. I wish I had a hand to give 
you, but this great cat must have both of mine. The darkness and the light are both alike to our Father ; we are in 
his hand ; we are safe enough dear Ellen." 
Ellen's hand left the cloak again for an instant to press 
Alice's arm in answer ; voice failed at the minute. Then 
clinging anew as close to her side as she could get they toiled 
patiently on. The wind had somewhat lessened of its violence, and besides it blew not now in their faces, but against 
their backs, helping them on. Still the snow continued to 
fall very fast, and already lay thick upon the ground ; every 
half hour increased the heaviness and painfulness of their 
march ; and darkness gathered till the very fences could no 
longer be seen. Jt was pitch dark ; to hold the middle of 
the road was impossible ; their only way was to keep along by 
one of the fences ; and for fear of hurting themselves against 
some outstanding post or stone it was necessary to travel 
quite gently. They were indeed in no condition to travel 
otherwise if light had not been wanting. Slowly and patiently, with painful care groping their way, they pushed on through 
the snow and the thick night. Alice could feel the earnestness of Ellen's grasp upon her clothes ; and her close pressing 
up to her made their progress still slower and more difficult 
than it would otherwise have been. 
"Miss Alice," — said Ellen. 
" What, my child ?" 
" I wish you would speak to me once in a while." 
Alice freed one of her hands and took hold of Ellen's. 
"I have been so busy picking my way along, I have 
neglected you, haven't I ?" 
" no, ma'am. But I like to hear the sound of your voice 
sometimes, it makes me feel better." 
" This is an odd kind of traveling, isn't it ?" said Alice 
cheerfully ; — " in .the dark, and feeling our way along ? This 
will be quite an adventure to talk about, won't it?" 
" Quite," said Ellen. 
" It is easier going this way, don't you find it so ? The 
wind helps us forward." 
"It helps me too much," said Ellen ; " I wish it wouldn't 
be quite so very kind. Why, Miss Alice, I have enough to 
do to hold myself together sometimes. It almost makes me 
run, though I am so very tired." 
" Well it is better than having it in our faces at any rate. 
Tired you are, J know, and must be. We shall want to rest 
all day to-morrow, shan't we ?" 
" Oh I don't know !" said Ellen sighing ; " I shall be 
glad when we begin. How long do you think it will be, Miss 
Alice, before we get to Mrs. Van Brunt's ?" 
" My dear child I cannot tell you. I have not the least 
notion whereabouts we are. I can see no way marks, and I 
cannot judge at all of the rate at which we have come. 
" But what if we should have passed it in this darkness ?" 
said Ellen. 
" No, I don't think that," said Alice, though a cold doubt 
struck her mind at Ellen's words ; — " I think we shall 
see the glimmer of Mrs. Van Brunt's friendly candle by- 
and-by." 
But more uneasily and more keenly now she strove to see 
that glimmer through the darkness ; strove till the darkness 
seemed to press painfully upon her eyeballs, and she almost 
doubted her being able to see any light if light there were ; 
it was all blank thick darkness still. She began to question 
anxiously with herself which side of the house was Mrs. Van 
Brunt's ordinary sitting-room ; — whether she should see the 
light from it before or after passing the house ; and now her 
glance was directed often behind her, that they' might be sure 
in any case of not missing their desired haven. In vain she 
looked forward or back ; it was all one ; no cheering glimmer 
of lamp or candle greeted her straining eyes. Hurriedly now 
from time to time the comforting words were spoken to Ellen, 
for to pursue the long stretch of way that led onward from 
Mrs. Van Brunt's to Miss Fortune's would be a very serious 
matter ; Alice wanted comfort herself. 
" Shall we get there soon, do you think, Miss Alice ?" said 
poor Ellen, whose wearied feet carried her painfully over 
the deepening snow. The tone of voice went to Alice's heart. 
" [ don't know, my darling, — I hope so," she anwered, but 
it was spoken rather patiently than cheerfully. " Fear 
nothing, dear Ellen ; remember who has the care of us ; 
darkness and light are both alike to him ; nothing will do us 
any real harm." 
" How tired you must be, dear Miss Alice, carrying pussy !" 
Ellen said with a sigh. 
For the first time Alice echoed the sigh ; but almost imme- 
diately Ellen exclaimed in a totally different tone, " There's a 
light ! — but it isn't a candle — it is moving about ; — what is 
it ? what is it, Miss Alice ?" 
They stopped and looked. A light there certainly was, 
dimly seen, moving at some little distance from the fence on 
the opposite side of the road. All of a sudden it disappeared. 
* What is it?" whispered Ellen fearfully. 
" I don't know, my love, yet ; wait — " 
They waited several minutes. 
" What could it be?" said Ellen. "It was certainly a 
light, — I saw it as plainly as ever I saw anything ; — what 
can it have done with itself — there it is again ! — going the 
other way !" 
Alice waited no longer, but screamed out, " Who's there ?" 
But the light paid no attention to her cry ; it traveled on. 
" Halloo !" called Alice again as loud as she could. 
" Halloo !" answered a rough deep voice. The light suddenly stopped. 
" That's he ! that's he !" exclaimed Ellen in an ecstacy 
and almost dancing, — " I know it, — it's Mr. Van Brunt ! it's 
Mr. Van Brunt ! — oh, Miss Alice ! " 
Struggling between crying and laughing Ellen could not 
stand it, but gave way to a good fit of crying. Alice felt the 
infection, but controlled herself, though her eyes watered as 
her heart sent up its grateful tribute ; as well as she could she 
answered the halloo. 
The light was seen advancing towards them. Presently it 
glimmered faintly behind the fence, showing a bit of the dark 
rails covered with snow, and they could dimly see the figure 
of a man getting over them. He crossed the road to where 
they stood. It was Mr. Van Brunt. 
" I am very glad to see you, Mr. Van Brunt," said Alice's 
sweet voice ; but it trembled a little. 
" Oh, Mr. Van Brunt !" sobbed Ellen. 
That gentleman, at first dumb with astonishment, lifted 
his lantern to survey them, and assure his eyes that his ears 
had not been mistaken. 
" Miss Alice ! — My goodness alive ! — How in the name of 
wonder ! — And my poor little lamb ! — But what on 'arth, 
ma'am ! you must be half dead. Come this way, — just come 
back a little bit, — why, where were you going, ma'am ?" 
" To your house, Mr. Van Brunt ; I have been looking for 
it with no little anxiety, I assure you." 
" Looking for it ! Why how on 'arth ! you wouldn't see 
the biggest house ever was built half a yard off such a plaguy 
night as this." 
" I thought I should see the light from the windows, Mr. 
Van Brunt " 
" The light from the windows ! Bless my soul ! the storm 
rattled so again the windows that mother made me pull the 
great shutters to. I won't have 'em shut again of a stormy 
night, that's a fact ; you'd ha' gone far enough afore you'd 
ha' seen the light through them shutters." 
" Then we had passed the house already, hadn't we ?" 
" Indeed had you, ma'am. I guess you saw my light, 
ha'n't you ?" 
" Yes, and glad enough we were to see it too." 
" I suppose so. It happened so to-night — now that is a 
queer thing — I minded that I hadn't untied my horse ; he's 
a trick of being untied at night and won't sleep well if he 
aint ; and mother wanted me to let him alone 'cause of the 
awful storm, but I couldn't go to my bed in peace, till I had 
seen him to his'n. So that's how my lantern came to be 
going to the barn in such an awk'ard night as this." 
They had reached the little gate, and Mr. Van Brunt with 
some difficulty pulled it open The snow lay thick upon the 
neat brick walk which Ellen had trod the first time with wet 
feet and dripping garments. A few steps further and they 
came to the same door that had opened then so hospitably to 
receive her. As the faint light of the lantern was thrown 
upon the old latch and door posts, Ellen felt at home ; and a 
sense of comfort sank down into her heart which she had not 
known for some time. 
CHAPTER XX. 
 
Mr. Van Brunt flung open the door and the two wet and 
weary travelers stepped after him into the same cheerful 
comfortable looking kitchen that had received Ellen once 
before. Just the same, tidy, clean swept up, a good fire, 
and the same old red-backed chairs standing round on the 
hearth in most cozy fashion. It seemed to Ellen a perfect 
storehouse of comfort ; the very walls had a kind face for 
her. There were no other faces however ; the chairs were all 
empty. Mr. Van Brunt put Alice in one and Ellen in another, and shouted, "Mother! — here!" — muttering that she 
had taken herself off with the light somewhere. Not very 
far ; for in half a minute answering the call Mrs. Van Brunt 
and the light came hurriedly in. 
" What's the matter, 'Brahm ? — who's this ? — why 'taint 
Miss Alice ! My gracious me ! — and all wet ! — oh, dear, 
dear ! poor lamb ! Why Miss Alice, dear, where have you 
been ? — and if that aint my little Ellen ! oh dear ! what a fix 
you are in ; — well darling, I'm glad to see you again a'most 
anyway." 
She crossed over to kiss Ellen as she said this ; but surprise was not more quickly alive than kindness and hospitality. 
She fell to work immediately to remove Alice's wet things, 
and to do whatever their joint prudence and experience might 
suggest to ward, off any ill effects from the fatigue and exposure the wanderers had suffered ; and while she was thus 
employed Mr. Van Brunt busied himself with Ellen, who 
was really in no condition to help herself. It was curious to 
see him carefully taking off Ellen's wet hood (not the blue 
one) and knocking it gently to get rid of the snow ; evidently thinking that ladies' things must have delicate handling. 
He tried the cloak next, but boggled sadly at the fastening of 
that, and at last was fain to call in help. 
" Here Nancy ! — where are you? step here and see if yon 
can undo this here thing, whatever you call it ; I believe my 
fingers are too big for it." 
It was Ellen's former acquaintance who came forward in 
obedience to this call. Ellen had not seen before that she 
was in the room. Nancy grinned a mischievous smile of recognition as she stooped to Ellen's throat and undid the fastening of the cloak, and then shortly enough bade her " get 
up, that she might take it off!" Ellen obeyed, but was very 
glad to sit down again. While Nancy went to the door to 
shake the cloak Mr. Van Brunt was gently pulling off Ellen's 
wet gloves, and on Nancy's return he directed her to take 
off the shoes, which were filled with snow. Nancy sat down 
on the floor before Ellen to obey this order ; and tired and exhausted as she was, Ellen felt the different manner in which 
her hands and feet were waited upon. 
"How did you get into this scrape?" said Nancy ; this 
was none of my doings anyhow. It'll never be dry weather 
Ellen where you are. I won't put on my Sunday-go-to-meeting clothes when I go a walking with you. You had ought 
to ha' been a duck or a goose, or something like that. — What's 
that for, Mr. Van Brunt !" 
This last query, pretty sharply spoken, was in answer to a 
light touch of that gentleman's hand upon Miss Nancy's ear, 
which came rather as a surprise. He deigned no reply. 
" You're a fine gentleman !" said Nancy tartly. 
" Have you done what I gave you to do?" said Mr. Van 
Brunt coolly. 
" Yes — there !" said Nancy, holding up Ellen's bare feet 
on one hand, while the fingers of the other secretly applied 
in ticklish fashion to the soles of them caused Ellen suddenly 
to start and scream. 
" Get up !" said Mr. Van Brunt ; Nancy didn't think best 
to disobey ; — " Mother, ha'n't you got nothing you want Nancy 
to do?" 
"Sally," said Mrs. Van Brunt, "you and Nancy go and 
fetch here a couple of pails of hot water, — right away." 
" Go, and mind what you are about," said Mr. Van Brunt ; 
" and after that keep out of this room and don't whisper again 
till I give you leave. Now Miss Ellen dear, how do you feel ?" 
Ellen said in words that she felt "nicely." But the eyes 
and the smile said a great deal more ; Ellen's heart was running over. 
" Oh she'll feel nicely directly, I'll be bound," said Mrs. 
Van Brunt ; " wait till she gets her feet soaked, and 
then! " 
" I do feel nicely now," said Ellen. And Alice smiled in 
answer to their inquiries, and said if she only knew her 
father was easy there would be nothing wanting to her happiness. 
The bathing of their feet was a great refreshment, and 
their kind hostess had got ready a plentiful supply of hot 
herb tea, with which both Alice and Ellen were well dosed. 
While they sat sipping this, toasting their feet before the fire, 
Mrs. Van Brunt and the girls meanwhile preparing their 
room, Mr. Van Brunt suddenly entered. He was cloaked and 
hatted and had a riding-whip in his hand. 
" Is there any word you'd like to get home Miss Alice ? 
I'm going to ride a good piece that way, and I can stop as 
good as not." 
" To-night, Mr. Van Brunt !" exclaimed Alice in astonishment. 
Mr. Van Brunt's silence seemed to say that to-night was 
the time and no other. 
" But the storm is too bad," urged Alice. " Pray don't go 
till to-morrow." 
" Pray don't, Mr. Van Brunt !" said Ellen. 
" Can't help it — I've got business ; must go. What shall 
I say ma'am ?" 
" I should be very glad," said Alice, " to have my father 
know where I am. Are you going very near the Nose ?" 
" Very near." 
" Then I shall be greatly obliged if you will be so kind as 
to stop and relieve my father's anxiety. But how can you 
go ia such weather ? and so dark as it is." 
" Never fear," said Mr. Van Brunt. " We'll be back in 
half an hour, if 'Brahm and me don't come across a snow- 
drift a leetle too deep. Good night, ma'am." And out he 
went. 
"  Back in half an hour,' " said Alice musing. " Why he 
said he had been to untie his horse for the night ! He must 
be going on our account, I am sure, Ellen !" 
" On your account," said Ellen smiling. "I knew that 
all the time Miss Alice. I don't think he'll stop to relieve 
aunt Fortune's anxiety." 
Alice sprang to call him back ; but Mrs. Van Brunt assured her it was too late, and that she need not be uneasy, 
for her son " didn't mind the storm no more than a weather- 
board." 'Brahm and 'Brahm could go anywhere in any sort 
of a time. " He was a - going without speaking to you, but I 
told him he had better, for maybe you wanted to send some 
word particular. And your room's ready now dear, and 
you'd better go to bed and sleep as long as you can." 
They went thankfully. " Isn't this a pleasant room ?" said 
Ellen, who saw everyfcMgi»in rose-color ; " and a nice bed ? 
But I feel as if I could sleep on the floor to-night. Isn't it 
a'most worth while to have such a time, Miss Alice, for the 
sake of the pleasure afterwards ?" 
" I don't know Ellen," said Alice smiling ; " I won't say 
that ; though it is worth paying a price for to find how 
much kindness there is in some people's hearts. As to sleeping on the floor, I must say I never felt less inclined to it." 
" Well I am tired enough too," said Ellen as they laid 
themselves down. " Two nights with you in a week ! Oh 
those weeks before I saw you, Miss Alice !" 
One earnest kiss for good night ; and Ellen's sigh of 
pleasure on touching the pillow was scarcely breathed when 
sleep deep and sound fell upon her eyelids. 
It was very late next morning when they awoke, having 
slept rather heavily than well. They crawled out of bed 
feeling stiff and sore in every limb ; each confessing to more 
evil effects from their adventure than she had been aware of 
the evening before. All the rubbing and bathing and drinking that Mrs. Van Brunt had administered had been too little 
to undo what wet and cold and fatigue had done. But Mrs. 
Van Brunt had set her breakfast-table with everything her 
house could furnish that was nice ; a bountifully spread 
board it was. Mr. Humphreys was there too ; and no bad 
feelings of two of the party could prevent that from being a 
most cheerful and pleasant meal. Even Mr. Humphreys and 
Mr. Van Brunt, two persons not usually given to many words, 
came out wonderfully on this occasion ; gratitude and pleasure in the one, and generous feeling on the part of the other, 
untied their tongues ; and Ellen looked from one to the other 
in some amazement to see how agreeable they could be. 
Kindness and hospitality always kept Mrs. Van Brunt in full 
flow ; and Alice, whatever she felt, exerted herself and supplied what was wanting* everywhere ; like the transparent 
glazing which painters use to spread over the dead color of 
their pictures ; unknown, it was she gave life and harmony 
to the whole. And Ellen in her enjoyment of everything 
and everybody, forgot or despised aches and pains, and even 
whispered to Alice that coffee was making her well again. 
But happy breakfasts must come to an end, and so did 
this, prolonged though it was. Immediately after, the party 
whom circumstances had gathered for the first and probably 
the last time, scattered again ; but the meeting had left 
pleasant effects on all minds. Mrs. Van Brunt was in general 
delight that she had entertained so many people she thought 
a great deal of, and particularly glad of the chance of showing her kind feelings towards two of the number. Mr. Humphreys remarked upon " that very sensible good-hearted man, 
Mr. Van Brunt, towards whom he felt himself under great 
obligation." Mr. Van Brunt said " the minister warn't such 
a grum man as people called him ;" and moreover said " it 
was a good thing to have an education, and he had a notion 
to read more." As for Alice and Ellen, they went away full 
of kind feeling for every one and much love to each other. 
This was true of them before ; but their late troubles had 
drawn them closer together and given them fresh occasion to 
value their friends. 
Mr. Humphreys had brought the little one-horse sleigh for 
his daughter, and soon after breakfast Ellen saw it drive oft 
with her. Mr. Van Brunt then harnessed his own and carried Ellen home. Ill though she felt, the poor child made an 
effort and spent part of the morning in finishing the long letter to her mother which had been on the stocks since Monday. The effort became painful towards the last ; and the 
aching limbs and trembling hand of whicr. she complained 
were the first beginnings of a serious fit of illness. She went 
to bed that same afternoon and did not leave it again for two 
weeks. Cold had taken violent hold of her system ; fever 
set in and ran high ; and half the time little Ellen's mens were 
roving in delirium. Nothing however could be too much for 
Miss Fortune's energies ; she was as much at home in a sick 
room as in a well one. She flew about with increased agility ; was up stairs and down stairs twenty times in the course 
of the day, and kept all straight everywhere. Ellen's room 
was always the picture of neatness ; the fire, the wood fire, 
was taken care of; Miss Fortune seemed to know by instinct 
when it wanted a fresh supply, and to be on the spot by 
magic to give it. Ellen's medicines were dealt out in proper 
time ; her gruels and drinks perfectly well made and arranged 
with appetizing nicety on a little table by the bedside where 
she could reach them herself; and Miss Fortune was generally at hand when she was wanted. But in spite of all this 
there was something missing in that sick room, — there was a 
great want ; and whenever the delirium was upon her Ellen 
made no secret of it. She was never violent ; but she moaned, sometimes impatiently and sometimes plaintively, for her 
mother. It was a vexation to Miss Fortune to hear her. 
The name of her mother was all the time on her lips ; if by 
chance her aunt's name came in, it was spoken in a way that 
crenerallv sent her bouncing out of the room. 
" Mamma," poor Ellen would say, " just lay your hand on 
my forehead, will you? it's so hot. Oh do, mamma ! — where 
are you ? Do put your hand on my forehead, won't you ? — 
O do speak to me, why don't you, mamma ? why don't 
she come to me !" 
Once when Ellen was uneasily calling in this fashion for 
her mother's hand, Miss Fortune softly laid her own upon the 
child's brow ; but the quick sudden jerk of the head from 
under it told her how well Ellen knew the one from 
the other ; and little as she cared for Ellen it was wormwood 
to her. 
Miss Fortune was not without offers of help during this 
sick time. Mrs. Van Brunt, and afterwards Mrs. Vawse, 
asked leave to come and nurse Ellen; but Miss Fortune 
declared it was more plague than profit to her, and she 
couldn't be bothered with having strangers about. Mrs. Van 
Brunt she suffered, much against her will, to come for a day 
or two : at the end of that Miss Fortune found means to get 
rid of her civilly. Mrs. Yawse she would not allow to stay an 
hour. The old lady got leave however to go up to the sick 
room for a few minutes. Ellen, who was then in a high fever, 
informed her that her mother was down stairs, and her aunt 
Fortune would not let her come up ; she pleaded with tears 
that she might come, and entreated Mrs. Vawse to take her 
aunt away and send her mother. Mrs. Vawse tried to soothe 
her. Miss Fortune grew impatient. 
" What on earth's the use," said she, " of talking to a child 
that's out of her head ? she can't hear reason ; that's the way 
she gets into whenever the fever's on her. I have the plea- 
sure of hearing that sort of thing all the time. Come away, 
Mrs. Vawse, and leave her ; she can't be better any way than 
alone, and I am in the room every other thing ; — she's just as 
well quiet. Nobody knows," said Miss Fortune, on her way 
down the stairs, — "nobody knows the blessing of taking 
care of other people's children that ha'n't tried it. I've tried 
it, to my heart's content." 
Mrs. Vawse sighed, but departed in silence. 
It was not when the fever was on her and delirium high that 
Ellen most felt the want she then so pitifully made known. 
There were other times, — when her head was aching, and weary 
and weak she lay still there, — how she longed then for the 
dear wonted face ; the old quiet smile that carried so much of 
comfort and assurance with it ; the voice that was like heaven's 
music ; the touch of that loved hand to which she had clung 
for so many years ! She could scarcely bear to think of it 
sometimes. In the still wakeful hours of night, when the 
only sound to be heard was the heavy breathing of her aunt 
asleep on the floor by her side, and in the long solitary day, 
when the only variety to be looked for was Miss Fortune's 
flitting in and out, and there came to be a sameness about 
that, — Ellen mourned her loss bitterly. Many and many were 
the silent tears that rolled down and wet her pillow ; many a 
long drawn sigh came from the very bottom of Ellen's heart ; 
she was too weak and subdued now for violent weeping. She 
wondered sadly why Alice did not come to see her ; it was 
another great grief added to the former. She never chose 
however to mention her name to her aunt. She kept her 
wonder and her sorrow to herself, — all the harder to bear for 
that. After two weeks Ellen began to mend, and then she 
became exceeding weary of being alone and shut up to her 
room. It was a pleasure to have her Bible and hymn-book 
lying upon the bed, and a great comfort when she was able 
to look at a few words ; but that was not very often, and 
she longed to see somebody, and hear something besides her 
aunt's dry questions and answers. 
One afternoon Ellen was sitting, alone as usual, bolstered 
up in bed. Her little hymn-book was clasped in her hand ; 
though not equal to reading, she felt the touch of it a solace 
to her. Half dozing, half waking, she had been perfectly 
quiet for some time, when the sudden and not very gentle 
opening of the room door caused her to start and open her 
eyes. They opened wider than usual, for instead of her aunt 
Fortune it was the figure of Miss Nancy Vawse that presented 
itself. She came in briskly, and shutting the door behind her 
advanced to the bedside. 
" Well !" said she, — " there you are ! Why you look smart 
enough. I've come to see you." 
" Have you ?" said Ellen uneasily. 
" Miss Fortune's gone out, and she told me to come and 
take care of you ; so I'm a-going to spend the afternoon." 
" Are you ?" said Ellen again. 
"Yes — aint you glad? I knew you must be lonely, so I 
thought I'd come." 
There was a mischievous twinkle in Nancy's eyes. Ellen 
for once in her life wished for her aunt's presence. 
" What are you doing ?" 
'Nothing," said Ellen. 
" Nothing indeed ! It's a fine thing to lie there and do 
nothing. You won't get well in a hurry, I guess, will you ? 
You look as well as I do this minute. I always knew you 
was a sham." 
" You are very much mistaken," said Ellen indignantly ; — 
" I have been very sick, and I am not at all well yet." 
" Fiddle-de-dee ! it's very nice to think so ; I guess you're 
lazy. How soft and good those pillows do look to be sure. 
Come, Ellen, try getting up a little. I believe you hurt yourself with sleeping ; it'll do you good to be out of bed a while ; 
come ! get up !" 
She pulled Ellen's arm as she spoke. 
" Stop, Nancy, let me alone !" cried Ellen, struggling with 
all her force, — " I mustn't — I can't ! I mustn't get up ; what 
do you mean ? I'm not able to sit up at all ; let me go !" 
She succeeded in freeing herself from Nancy's grasp. 
" Well, you're an obstinate piece," said the other ; " have 
your own way. But mind, I'm left in charge of you ; is it time 
for you to take your physic ?" 
" I am not taking any," said Ellen. 
" What are you taking?" 
" Nothing but gruel and little things." 
" ' Gruel and little things ;' little things means something 
good I s'pose. Well, is it time for you to take some gruel or 
one of the little things ?" 
" No, I "don't want any." 
" that's nothing ; people never know what's good for 
them ; I'm youi .nurse now, and I'm going to give it to you 
when I think you wrmt it. Let me feel your pulse — yes, your 
pulse says gruel is waiting. I shall put some down to warm 
right away.'' 
" I shan't take it," said Ellen. 
" That's a likely story ! You'd better not say so. I rather 
s'pose you will if I give it to you. Look here, Ellen, you'd 
better mind how you behave ; you're going to do just what I 
t*Jl you. I know how to manage you ; if you make any fuss 
I stall just tickle you finely," said Nancy, as she prepared a 
bed of coals, and set the tin cup of gruel on it to get hot, — 
" I'll do it in no time at all, my young lady — so you'd better 
mind." 
Poor Ellen involuntarily curled up her feet under the bed- 
clothes, so as to get them as far as possible out of harm's 
way. She judged the best thing was to keep quiet if she 
could ; so she said nothing. Nancy was in great glee ; with 
something of the same spirit of mischief that a cat shows when 
she has a captured mouse at the end of her paws. While the 
gruel was heating she spun round the room in quest of 
amusement ; and her sudden jerks and flings from one place and 
thing to another had so much of lawlessness that Ellen was 
in perpetual terror as to what she might take it into her head 
to do next. 
" Where does that door lead to ?" 
" I believe that one leads to the garret," said Ellen. 
" You believe so ? why don't you say it does, at once ?" 
" I have not been up to see." 
" You haven't ! you expect me to believe that, I s'pose ? I 
am not quite such a gull as you take me for ? What's up 
there ?" 
" I don't know of course." 
" Of course ! I declare I don't know what you are up to 
exactly ; but if you won't tell me I'll find out for myself pretty 
quick, — that's one thing." 
She flung open the door and ran up ; and Ellen heard her 
feet tramping overhead from one end of the house to the 
other ; and sounds too of pushing and pulling things over the 
floor ; it was plain Nancy was rummaging. 
" Well," said Ellen, as she turned uneasily upon her bed, 
" it's no affair of mine ; I can't help it, whatever she does. 
But oh ! won't aunt Fortune be angry !" 
Nancy presently came down with her frock gathered up 
into a bag before her. 
" What do you think I have got here ?" said she. " I s'pose 
you didn't know there was a basket of fine hickory nuts up 
there in the corner ? Was it you or Miss Fortune that hid 
them away so nicely ? I s'pose she thought nobody would 
ever think of looking behind that great blue chest and under 
the feather bed, but it takes me ! — Miss Fortune was afraid 
of your stealing 'em, I guess, Ellen ?" 
" She needn't have been," said Ellen, indignantly. 
" No, I s'pose you wouldn't take 'em if you saw 'em ; you 
wouldn't eat 'em if they were cracked for you, would you ?" 
She flung some on Ellen's bed as she spoke. Nancy had 
seated herself on the floor, and using for a hammer a piece 
of old iron she had brought down with her from the garret 
she was cracking the nuts on the clean white hearth. 
" Indeed I wouldn't !" said Ellen throwing them back ; 
" and you oughtn't to crack them there Nancy, — you'll make 
a dreadful muss." 
"What do you think I care?" said the other scornfully. 
She leisurely cracked and eat as many as she pleased of the 
nuts, bestowing the rest in the bosom of her frock. Ellen 
watched fearfully for her next move. If she should open the 
little door and get among her books and boxes ! 
Nancy's first care however was the cup of gruel. It was 
found too hot for any mortal lips to bear, so it was set on one 
side to cool. Then taking up her rambling examination of 
the room, she went from window to window. 
" What fine big windows ! one might get in here easy 
enough. I deelare Ellen, some night I'll set the ladder up 
against here, and the first thing you'll see will be me coming 
in. You'll have me to sleep with you before you think." 
" I'll fasten my windows," said Ellen. 
" No you won't. You'll do it a night or two maybe, but 
then you'll forget it I shall find them open when I come. 
O I'll come !" 
" But I could call aunt Fortune," said Ellen. 
" No you couldn't, 'cause if you spoke a word I'd tickle 
you to death ; that's what I'd do. I know how to fix you 
off. And if you did call her I'd just whap out of the window 
and run off with my ladder, and then you'd get a fine combing for disturbing the house. What's in this trunk ?" 
" Only my clothes and things," said Ellen. 
" goody ! that's fine ; now I'll have a look at 'em. That's 
just what I wanted, only I didn't know it. Where's the 
key ? here it is sticking in, — that's good !'' 
" O please don't !" said Ellen, raising herself on her 
