"Are you certain? Go up, Edith, quickly, and see."
The manner of Mr. Ellis was so excited that Edith did not pause to hear
more, but flew up stairs. In a few moments she returned, saying that
her sister was not there, and that, moreover, on looking into her
drawers, she found them nearly empty.
"Then it was her!" exclaimed Mr. Ellis.
"Where is she? Where did you see her?" eagerly asked both mother and
sister, their faces becoming as pale as ashes.
"I saw her in a carriage with a notorious gambler and scoundrel named
Burton. There was a trunk on behind, and they were driving towards the
wharf. It is ten minutes before the boat starts for New York, and I may
save her yet!"
And, with these words, Mr. Ellis turned abruptly away, and hurried from
the house. So paralyzed were both Mrs. Darlington and Edith by this
dreadful announcement, that neither of them had for a time the power of
utterance. Then both, as by a common impulse, arose and went up to the
chamber where Miriam slept. Almost the first thing that met the eyes of
Mrs. Darlington was a letter, partly concealed by a book on the
mantel-piece. It was addressed to her. On breaking the seal, she read--
"MY DEAR, DEAR MOTHER: I shall be away from you only a little while;
and, when I return, I will come with relief for all your present
troubles. Do not blame me, dear mother! What I have done is for your
sake. It almost broke my heart to see you so pressed down and
miserable. And, then, there was no light ahead. Mr. Burton, who has
great wealth, offered me his hand. Only on condition of a handsome
settlement upon you would I accept of it. Forgive me that I have acted
without consultation. I deemed it best. In a little while, I will be
back to throw myself into your arms, and then to lift you out of your
many troubles. How purely and tenderly I love you, mother, dear mother!
I need not say. It is from this love that I am now acting. Take
courage, mother. Be comforted. We shall yet be happy. Farewell, for a
little while. In a few days I will be with you again.
"MIRIAM."
As Mrs. Darlington read the last sentence of this letter, Henry, her
son, who had not been home since he went out at breakfast-time, came
hurriedly into the room, and, in an excited manner, said--
"Mother, I want ten dollars!"
The face of the young man was flushed, and his eyes unsteady. It was
plain, at a glance, that he had been drinking.
Mrs. Darlington looked at him for a moment, and then, before Edith had
seen the contents of Miriam's letter, placed it in his hands.
"What does this mean?" he exclaimed, after running his eyes over it
hurriedly. "Miriam gone off with that Burton!"
The letter dropped upon the floor, and Henry clasped his hands together
with a gesture of pain.
"Who is Mr. Burton? What do you know of him?" asked Edith.
"I know him to be a man of the vilest character, and a gambler into the
bargain! Rich! Gracious heaven!"
And the young man struck his hands against his forehead, and glanced
wildly from his pale-faced mother to his paler sister.
"And you knew the character of this man, Henry!" said Mrs. Darlington.
There was a smiting rebuke in her tone. "You knew him, and did not make
the first effort to protect your young, confiding, devoted sister!
Henry Darlington, the blood of her murdered happiness will never be
washed from the skirts of your garments!"
"Mother! mother!" exclaimed the young man, putting up his hands to
enforce the deprecation in his voice, "do not speak so, or I will go
beside myself! But where is she? When did she go? I will fly in
pursuit. It may not yet be too late."
"Your Uncle Hiram saw her in a carriage with Mr. Burton, on their way,
as he supposed, to the steamboat landing. He has gone to intercept
them, if possible."
Henry drew his watch from his pocket, and, as he glanced at the time,
sank into a chair, murmuring, in a low voice of anguish--
"It is too late!"
CHAPTER IX.
WHEN Mr. Ellis left the house of his sister, he called a carriage that
happened to be going by, and reached the wharf at Walnut street in time
to spring on board of the steamboat just as the plank was drawn in at
the gangway. He then passed along the boat until he came to the ladies'
cabin, which he entered. Almost the first persons he saw were Burton
and his niece. The eyes of Miriam rested upon him at the same moment,
and she drew her veil quickly, hoping that she was not recognised.
Hiram Ellis did not hesitate a moment, but, walking up to where Miriam
sat, stooped to her ear, and said, in a low, anxious voice--
"Miriam, are you married yet?"
Miriam did not reply.
"Speak, child. Are you married?"
"No," came in a half audible murmur.
"Thank God! thank God!" fell in low accents from the lips of Mr. Ellis.
"Who are you, sir?" now spoke up Burton, whom surprise had till now
kept silent. There was a fiery gleam in his eyes.
"The uncle of this dear girl, and one who knows you well," was
answered, in a stern voice. "Knows you to be unworthy to touch even the
hem of her garment."
A dark scowl lowered upon the face of Burton. But Mr. Ellis returned
his looks of anger glance for glance. Miriam was in terror at this
unexpected scene, and trembled like an aspen. Instinctively she shrank
towards her uncle.
Two or three persons, who sat near, were attracted by the excitement
visible in the manner of all three, although they heard nothing that
was said. Burton saw that they were observed, and, bending towards Mr.
Ellis, said--
"This, sir, is no place for a scene. A hundred eyes will soon be upon
us."
"More than one pair of which," replied Mr. Ellis, promptly, "will
recognise in you a noted gambler, who has at least one wife living, if
no more."
As if stung by a serpent, Burton started to his feet and retired from
the cabin.
"Oh, uncle! can what you say of this man be true?" asked Miriam, with a
blanching face.
"Too true, my dear child! too true! He is one of the worst of men.
Thank God that you have escaped the snare of the fowler!"
"Yes, thank God! thank God!" came trembling from the lips of the maiden.
Mr. Ellis then drew his niece to a part of the cabin where they could
converse without being overheard by other passengers on board of the
boat. To his inquiry into the reasons for so rash an act, Miriam gave
her uncle an undisguised account of her mother's distressed condition,
and touchingly portrayed the anguish of mind which had accompanied her
reluctant assent to the offer of Burton.
"And all this great sacrifice was on your mother's account?" said Mr.
Ellis.
"All! all! He agreed to settle upon her the sum of two thousand dollars
a year, if I would become his wife. This would have made the family
comfortable."
"And you most wretched. Better, a thousand times better, have gone down
to your grave, Miriam, than become the wife of that man. But for the
providential circumstance of my seeing you in the carriage with him,
all would have been lost. Surely, you could not have felt for him the
least affection."
"Oh, uncle! you can never know what a fearful trial I have passed
through. Affection! It was, instead, an intense repugnance. But, for my
mother's sake, I was prepared to make any sacrifice consistent with
honour."
"Of all others, my dear child," said Mr. Ellis, with much feeling, "a
sacrifice of this kind is the worst. It is full of evil consequences
that cannot be enumerated, and scarcely imagined. You had no affection
for this man, and yet, in the sight of Heaven, you were going solemnly
to vow that you would love and cherish him through life!"
A shudder ran through the frame of Miriam, which being perceived by Mr.
Ellis, he said--
"Well may you shudder, as you stand looking down the awful abyss into
which you were about plunging. You can see no bottom, and you would
have found none. There is no condition in this life, Miriam, so
intensely wretched as that of a pure-minded, true-hearted woman united
to a man whom she not only cannot love, but from whom every instinct of
her better nature turns with disgust. And this would have been your
condition. Ah me! in what a fearful evil was this error of your mother,
in opening a boarding-house, about involving her child! I begged her
not to do so. I tried to show her the folly of such a step. But she
would not hear me. And now she is in great trouble?"
"Oh yes, uncle. All the money she had when she began is spent; and what
she now receives from boarders but little more than half pays expenses."
"I knew it would be so. But my word was not regarded. Your mother is no
more fitted to keep a boarding-house than a child ten years old. It
takes a woman who has been raised in a different school, who has
different habits, and a different character."
"But what can we do, uncle?" said Miriam.
"What are you willing to do?"
"I am willing to do any thing that is right for me to do."
"All employment, Miriam, are honourable so far as they are useful,"
said Mr. Ellis, seriously, "though false pride tries to make us think
differently. And, strangely enough, this false pride drives too many,
in the choice of employments, to the hardest, least honourable, and
least profitable. Hundreds of women resort to keeping boarders as a
means of supporting their families when they might do it more easily,
with less exposure and greater certainty, in teaching, if qualified,
fine needle-work, or even in the keeping of a store for the sale of
fancy and useful articles. But pursuits of the latter kind they reject
as too far below them, and, in vainly attempting to keep up a certain
appearance, exhaust what little means they have. A breaking up of the
family, and a separation of its members, follow the error in too many
cases."
Miriam listened to this in silence. Her uncle paused.
"What can I do to aid my mother?" the young girl asked.
"Could you not give music lessons?"
"I am too young, I fear, for that. Too little skilled in the principles
of music," replied Miriam.
"If competent, would you object to teach?"
"Oh, no. Most gladly would I enter upon the task, did it promise even a
small return. How happy would it make me if I could lighten, by my own
labour, the burdens that press so heavily upon our mother!"
"And Edith. How does she feel on this subject?"
"As I do. Willing for any thing; ready for any change from our present
condition."
"Take courage, then, my dear child, take courage," said the uncle, in a
cheerful voice. "There is light ahead."
"Oh, how distressed my mother will be when she finds I am gone!" sighed
Miriam, after a brief silence, in which her thoughts reverted to the
fact of her absence from home. "When can we get back again?"
"Not before ten o'clock to-night. We must go on as far as Bristol, and
then return by the evening line from New York."
Another deep sigh heaved the troubled bosom of Miriam, as she uttered,
in a low voice, speaking to herself--
"My poor mother! Her heart will be broken!"
CHAPTER X.
MEANWHILE the hours passed with the mother, sister, and brother in the
most agonizing suspense. Henry, who had been drawn away into evil
company by two young men who boarded in the house, was neglecting his
studies, and pressing on towards speedy ruin. To drinking and
association with the vicious, he now added gaming. Little did his
mother dream of the perilous ways his feet were treading. On this
occasion he had come in, as has been seen, with a demand for ten
dollars. When he left home in the morning, it was in company with the
young man named Barling. Instead of his going to the office where he
was studying, or his companion to his place of business, they went to a
certain public house in Chestnut Street, where they first drank at the
bar.
"Shall we go up into the billiard-room?" said Barling, as they turned
from the white marble counter at which they had been drinking.
"I don't care. Have you time to play a game?" replied Henry.
"Oh, yes. We're not very busy at the store to-day."
So the two young men ascended to the billiard-room, and spent a couple
of hours there. Both played very well, and were pretty equally matched.
From the billiard-room, they proceeded to another part of the house,
more retired, and there, at the suggestion of Barling, tried a game at
cards for a small stake. Young Darlington was loser at first, but,
after a time, regained his losses and made some advance on his
fellow-player. Hours passed in playing and drinking; and finally,
Darlington, whose good fortune did not continue, parted with every
sixpence.
"Lend me a dollar," said he as the last game went against him.
The dollar was lent, and the playing renewed. Thus it went on, hour
after hour, neither of the young men stopping to eat any thing, though
both drank too frequently. At last, Darlington was ten dollars in debt
to Barling, who, on being asked for another loan, declined any further
advances. Stung by the refusal, Henry said to him, rising as he spoke--
"Do you mean by this that you are afraid I will never return the money?"
"Oh, no," replied Barling. "But I don't want to play against you any
longer. Your luck is bad."
"I can beat you," said Darlington.
"You hav'n't done it to-day certainly," answered Barling.
"Will you wait here a quarter of an hour?" asked Henry.
"For what?"
"I want to pay you off and begin again. I am going for some money."
"Yes, I'll wait," replied the young man.
"Very well. I'll be back in a few minutes."
It was for this work and for this purpose that Henry Darlington came to
his mother just at the moment the absence of Miriam and her purpose in
leaving had been discovered. The effect of the painful news on the
young man has already been described. From the time he became aware of
the fact that Miriam had gone away with Burton for the purpose of
becoming his wife, until ten o'clock at night, he was in an agony of
suspense. As the uncle could not be found at the office where he wrote,
nor at the house where he boarded, it was concluded that he had reached
the boat before its departure, and gone on with the fugitives in the
train to New York. Nothing was therefore left for the distressed family
but to await his return.
How anxiously passed the hours! At tea time Edith only made her
appearance. Henry and his mother remained in the chamber of the latter.
As for the young man, he was cast down and distressed beyond measure,
vexing his spirit with self-accusations that were but too well founded.
"Oh, mother!" said he, while they were alone, starting up from where he
had been sitting with his face buried in his hands--"oh, mother! what
evils have come through this opening of our house, for strangers to
enter! Miriam, our sweet, gentle, pure-hearted Miriam, has been lured
away by one of the worst of men; and!"--the young man checked himself a
moment or two, and then continued--"and I have been drawn away from
right paths into those that lead to sure destruction. Mother, I have
been in great danger. Until Barling and Mason came into our family, I
was guiltless of any act that could awaken a blush of shame upon my
cheek. Oh, that I had never met them!"
"Henry! Henry! what do you mean by this?" exclaimed Mrs. Darlington, in
a voice full of anguish.
"I have been standing on the brink of a precipice," replied the young
man with more calmness. "But a hand has suddenly drawn me away, and I
am trembling at the danger I have escaped. Oh, mother, will you not
give up this mode of life? We have none of us been happy. I have never
felt as if I had a home since it began. And you--what a slave have you
been! and how unhappy! Can nothing be done except keeping boarders? Oh,
what would I not give for the dear seclusion of a home where no
stranger's foot could enter!"
"Some other mode of living must be sought, my son," replied Mrs.
Darlington. "Added to all the evils attendant on the present mode, is
that of a positive loss instead of a profit. Several hundred dollars
have been wasted already, and daily am I going in debt."
"Then, mother, let us change at once," replied the young man. "It would
be better to shrink together in a single room than to continue as we
are. I will seek a clerkship in a store and earn what I can to help
support the family."
"I can think of nothing now but Miriam!" said Mrs. Darlington. "Oh, if
she were back again, safe from the toils that have been thrown around
her, I think I would be the most thankful of mortals! Oh, my child! my
child!"
What could Henry say to comfort his mother? Nothing. And he remained
silent.
Long after this, Mrs. Darlington, with Henry and Edith, were sitting
together in painful suspense. No word had been spoken by either for the
space of nearly an hour. The clock struck ten.
"I would give worlds to see my dear, dear child!" murmured Mrs.
Darlington.
Just then a carriage drove up to the door and stopped. Henry sprang
down stairs; but neither Edith nor her mother could move from where
they sat. As the former opened the street door, Miriam stood with her
uncle on the threshold. Henry looked at her earnestly and tenderly for
an instant, and then, staggering back, leaned against the wall for
support.
"Where is your mother?" asked Mr. Ellis.
"In her own room," said Henry, in a voice scarcely audible.
Miriam sprang up the stairs with the fleetness of an antelope, and, in
a few moments, was sobbing on her mother's bosom.
"Miriam! Miriam!" said Mrs. Darlington, in a thrilling voice, "do you
return the same as when you left?"
"Yes, thank God!" came from the maiden's lips.
"Thank God! thank God!" responded the mother, wildly. "Oh, my child,
what a fearful misery you have escaped!"
In a few minutes, the mother and sisters were joined by Henry.
"Where is your uncle?" asked Mrs. Darlington.
"He has gone away; but says that he will see you to-morrow."
Over the remainder of that evening we will here draw a veil.
CHAPTER XI.
ON the next morning, only Mrs. Darlington met her boarders at the
breakfast-table, when she announced to them that she had concluded to
close her present business, and seek some new mode of sustaining her
family; at the same time, desiring each one to find another home as
early as possible.
At the close of the third day after this, Mrs. Darlington sat down to
her evening meal with only her children gathered at the table. A
subdued and tranquil spirit pervaded each bosom, even though a dark
veil was drawn against the future. To a long and troubled excitement
there had succeeded a calm. It was good to be once more alone, and they
felt this. "Through what a scene of trial, disorder, and suffering have
we passed!" said Edith. "It seems as if I had just awakened from a
dream."
"And such a dream!" sighed Miriam.
"Would that it were but a dream!" said Mrs. Darlington. "But, alas! the
wrecks that are around us too surely testify the presence of a
devastating storm."
"The storm has passed away, mother," said Edith; "and we will look for
calmer and brighter skies."
"No bright skies for us, I fear, my children," returned the mother,
with a deeper tinge of sadness in her voice.
"They are bright this hour to what they were a few days since," said
Edith, "and I am sure they will grow brighter. I feel much encouraged.
Where the heart is willing, the way is sure to open. Both Miriam and I
are willing to do all in our power, and I am sure we can do much. We
have ability to teach others; and the exercise of that ability will
bring a sure reward. I like Uncle Hiram's suggestion very much."
"But the humiliation of soliciting scholars," said the mother.
"To do right is not humiliating," quickly replied Edith.
"It is easy to say this, my child; but can you go to Mrs. Lionel, for
instance, with whose family we were so intimate, and solicit her to
send Emma and Cordelia to the school you propose to open, without a
smarting sense of humiliation? I am sure you cannot."
Edith communed with her own thoughts for some moments, and then
answered--
"If I gave way to false pride, mother, this might be so; but I must
overcome what is false and evil. This is as necessary for my happiness
as the external good we seek--nay, far more so. Too many who have moved
in the circle where we have been moving for years strangely enough
connect an idea of degradation with the office of teaching children.
But is there on the earth a higher or more important use than
instructing the mind and training the heart of young immortals? It has
been beautifully and truly said, that 'Earth is the nursery of Heaven.'
The teacher, then, is a worker in God's own garden. Is it not so,
mother?"
"You think wisely, my child. God grant that your true thoughts may
sustain you in the trials to come!" replied Mrs. Darlington.
The door-bell rang as the family were rising from the tea-table. The
visitor was Mr. Ellis. He had come to advise with and assist the
distressed mother and her children; and his words were listened to with
far more deference than was the case a year before. Nine or ten months'
experience in keeping a boarding-house had corrected many of the false
views of Mrs. Darlington, and she was now prepared to make an effort
for her family in a different spirit from that exhibited in the
beginning. The plan proposed by her brother--a matter-of-fact kind of
person--was the taking of a house at a more moderate rent, and opening
a school for young children. Many objections and doubts were urged; but
he overruled them all, and obtained, in the end, the cordial consent of
every member of the family. During the argument which preceded the
final decision of the matter, Mrs. Darlington said--
"Suppose the girls should not be able to get scholars?"
"Let them see to this beforehand."
"Many may promise to send, and afterwards change their minds."
"Let them," replied the brother. "If, at the end of the first, second,
and third years, you have not made your expenses, I will supply the
deficiency."
"You!"
"Yes. The fact is, sister, if you will be guided in some respects by my
judgment, I will stand by you, and see you safely over every
difficulty. Your boarding-house experiment I did not approve. I saw
from the beginning how it would end, and I wished to see the end as
quickly as possible. It has come, and I am glad of it; and, still
further, thankful that the disaster has not been greater. If you only
had now the five or six hundred dollars wasted in a vain experiment
during the past year, how much the sum might do for you! But we will
not sigh over this. As just said, I will stand by you in the new
experiment, and see that you do not fall again into embarrassment."
Henry was present at this interview, but remained silent during the
whole time. Since the day of Miriam's departure with Burton, and safe
return, a great change had taken place in the young man. He was like
one starting up from sleep on the brink of a fearful precipice, and
standing appalled at the danger he had escaped almost by a miracle. The
way in which he had begun to walk he saw to be the way to sure
destruction, and his heart shrunk with shame and trembled with dismay.
"Henry," said the uncle, after an hour's conversation with his sister
and Edith, "I would like to talk with you alone."
Mrs. Darlington and her daughters left the room.
"Henry," said Mr. Ellis, as soon as the rest had withdrawn, "you are
old enough to do something to help on. All the burden ought not to come
on Edith and Miriam."
"Only show me what I can do, uncle, and I am ready to put my hands to
the work," was Henry's prompt reply.
"It will be years before you can expect an income from your profession."
"I know, I know. That is what discourages me."
"I can get you the place of clerk in an insurance office, at a salary
of five hundred dollars a year. Will you accept it?"
"Gladly!" The face of the young man brightened as if the sun had shone
upon it suddenly.
"You will have several hours each day, in which to continue your law
reading, and will get admitted to the bar early enough. Keep your
mother and sisters for two or three years, and then they will be in a
condition to sustain you until you make a practice in your profession."
But to this the mother and sisters, when it was mentioned to them,
objected. They were not willing to have Henry's professional studies
interrupted. That would be a great wrong to him.
"Not a great wrong, but a great good," answered Mr. Ellis. "And I will
make this plain to you. Henry, as I learn from yourself, has made some
dangerous associations; and some important change is needed to help him
break away from them. No sphere of life is so safe for a young man as
that which surrounds profitable industry pursued for an end. Temptation
rarely finds its way within this sphere. Two or three years devoted to
the duties of a clerk, with the end of aiding in the support of his
mother and sisters, will do more to give a right direction to Henry's
character--more to make success in after life certain--than any thing
else possible now to be done. The office in which I can get him the
situation I speak of adjoins the one to which I am attached, and I
will, therefore, have him mostly under my own eye. In this new school,
the ardency of his young feelings will be duly chastened, and his
thoughts turned more into elements of usefulness. In a word, sister, it
will give him self-dependence, and, in the end, make a man of him."
The force of all this, and more by this suggested, was not only seen,
but felt, by Mrs. Darlington; and when she found her son ready to
accept the offer made to him, she withdrew all opposition.
Steps preliminary to the contemplated change were immediately taken.
First of all, Edith waited upon a number of their old friends, who had
young children, and informed them that she was, in connection with her
sister, about opening a school. Some were surprised, some pleased, and
some indifferent at the announcement; but a goodly number expressed
pleasure at the opportunity it afforded them of placing their younger
children under the care of teachers in whose ability and character they
had so much confidence. Thus was the way made plain before them.
CHAPTER XII.
A FEW weeks later, and the contemplated change was made. The family
removed into a moderate-sized house, at a lower rent, and prepared to
test the new mode of obtaining a livelihood. A good portion of their
furniture had been sold, besides three gold watches and some valuable
jewelry belonging to Mrs. Darlington and her two eldest daughters, in
order to make up a sum sufficient to pay off the debt contracted during
the last few months of the boarding-house experiment. The real loss
sustained by the widow in this experiment fell little short of a
thousand dollars.
"How many scholars have you now?" asked Mrs. Darlington of Edith, two
months after the school was opened, as they sat at tea one evening,
each member of the family wearing a cheerful face.
"Twenty," replied Edith. "We received two new ones to-day. Mrs. Wilmot
came and entered two of her children; and she said that Mrs. Armond was
going to send her Florence so soon as her quarter expired in the school
she is now attending."
"How much will you receive from your present number of scholars?"
inquired Henry.
"I made the estimate to-day," returned Edith, "and find that the bills
will come to something like a hundred and twenty-five dollars a
quarter."
"Five hundred dollars a year," said Henry; "and my five hundred added
to that will make a thousand. Can't we live on a thousand dollars,
mother?"
"We may, by the closest economy."
"Our school will increase," remarked Edith; "and every increase will
add to our income. Oh! it looks so much brighter ahead! and we have so
much real comfort in the present! What a scene of trial have we passed
through!"
"How I ever bore up under it is more than I can now tell," said Mrs.
Darlington, with an involuntary shudder. "And the toil, and suffering,
and danger through which we have come! I cannot be sufficiently
thankful that we are safe from the dreadful ordeal, and with so few
marks of the fire upon us."
A silence followed this, in which two hearts, at least, were humbled,
yet thankful, in their self-communion--the hearts of Henry and Miriam.
Through what perilous ways had they come! How near had they been to
shipwreck!
"Poor Mrs. Marion!" said Edith, breaking the silence, at length. "How
often I think of her! And the thought brings a feeling of condemnation.
Was it right for us to thrust her forth as we did?"
"Can she still be in?"
"Oh no, no!" spoke up Henry, interrupting his mother. "I forgot to tell
you that I met her and her husband on the street to-day."
"Are you certain?"
"Oh yes."
"Did you speak to them?"
"No. They saw me, but instantly averted their faces. Mrs. Marion looked
very pale, as if she had been sick."
"Poor woman! She has had heart-sickness enough," said Mrs. Darlington.
"I shall never forgive myself for turning her out of the house. If I
had known where she was going!"
"But we did not know that, mother," said Edith.
"We knew that she had neither friends nor a home," replied the mother.
"Ah me! when our own troubles press heavily upon us, we lose our
sympathy for others!"
"It was not so in this case," remarked Edith. "Deeply did we sympathize
with Mrs. Marion. But we could not bear the weight without going under
ourselves."
"I don't know, I don't know," said Mrs. Darlington, half to herself.
"We might have kept up with her a little longer. But I am glad from my
heart that her husband has come back. If he will be kind to his wife, I
will forgive all his indebtedness to me."
A few weeks subsequent to this time, as Miriam sat reading the morning
paper, she came upon a brief account of the arrest, in New Orleans, of
a "noted gambler," as it said, named Burton, on the charge of bigamy.
The paper dropped to the floor, and Miriam, with clasped hands and eyes
instantly overflowing with tears, looked upward, and murmured her
thanks to Heaven.
"What an escape!" fell tremblingly from her lips, as she arose and went
to her room to hold communion with her own thoughts.
Three years have passed, and what has been the result of the widow's
new experiment? The school prospered from the beginning. The spirit
with which Edith and Miriam went to work made success certain. Parents
who sent their children were so much pleased with the progress they
made, that they spoke of the new school to their friends, and thus gave
it a reputation, that, ere a year had elapsed, crowded the rooms of the
sisters. Mrs. Darlington was a woman who had herself received a
superior education. Seeing that the number of scholars increased
rapidly, and made the pressure on her daughters too great, she gave a
portion of her time each day to the instruction of certain classes, and
soon became much interested in the work. From that time she associated
herself in the school with Edith and Miriam.
Three years, as we said, have passed, and now the profits on the school
are more than sufficient to meet all expenses. Henry has left his
clerkship, and is a member of the bar. Of course he has little or no
practice--only a few months having elapsed since his admission; but his
mother and sisters are fully able to sustain him until he could sustain
himself.
"How much better this is than keeping boarders!" said Edith, as she sat
conversing with her mother and uncle about the prospects of the school.
"And how much more useful and honourable!" remarked Mr. Ellis. "In the
one case, you fed only the body, but now you are dispensing food to the
immortal mind. You are moreover independent in your own house. When the
day's work is done, you come together as one family, and shut out the
intruding world."
"Yes, it is better, far better," replied Mrs. Darlington. "Ah, that
first mistake of mine was a sad one!"
"Yet out of it has come good," said Mr. Ellis. "That painful experience
corrected many false views, and gave to all your characters a new and
higher impulse. It is through disappointment, trial, and suffering,
that we grow wise here; and true wisdom is worth the highest price we
are ever called upon to pay for it."
Yes, it is so. Through fiery trials are we purified. At times, in our
suffering, we feel as if every good thing in us was about being
consumed. But this never happens. No good in our characters is ever
lost in affliction or trouble; and we come out of these states of pain
wiser and better than when we entered them, and more fitted and more
willing to act usefully our part in the world.
PLAIN SEWING; OR, HOW TO ENCOURAGE THE POOR.
"Do you know of any poor body who does plain sewing?" asked Mrs. Lander
of a neighbour upon whom she called for the particular purpose of
making this inquiry. "I have a good deal of work that I want done, and
I always like to give my plain sewing to people that need it."
"I think I know of a person who will suit you," replied Mrs. Brandon,
the lady to whom the application had been made. "She is a poor widow
woman, with four children dependent upon her for support. She sews
neatly. Yesterday she brought me home some little drawers and
night-gowns that were beautifully made. I am sure she will please you,
and I know she deserves encouragement."
"What is her name?"
"Mrs. Walton; and she lives in Larkin's Court."
"Thank you, ma'am. I will send for her this morning. You say she is
very poor?"
"You may judge of that yourself, Mrs. Lander. A woman who has four
children to support by the labour of her own hands cannot be very well
off."
"No--certainly not. Poor creature! I will throw all I can in her way,
if her work should please me."
"I am sure that will be the case, for she sews very neatly."
Mrs. Lander having found out a poor woman who could do plain
sewing--she was always more ready to employ persons in extreme poverty
than those who were in more easy circumstances--immediately sent a
summons for her to attend upon her ladyship. Mrs. Walton's appearance,
when she came, plainly enough told the story of her indigence.
"Mrs. Brandon informs me," said Mrs. Lander, "that you do plain sewing
very well, and that you stand in need of work. I always like to
encourage the industrious poor."
The woman inclined her head, and Mrs. Lander went on.
"Do you make shirts?"
"Yes, ma'am, sometimes."
"Do you consider yourself a good shirt maker?"
"I don't call myself any thing very extra; but people for whom I work
seem generally pleased with what I do."
"I have six shirts cut out for Mr. Lander. How soon can you make them?"
"I couldn't make them all in less than a couple of weeks, as I have
other work that must be done within that time."
"Very well. That will do."
The poor woman took the shirts home, feeling grateful to Mrs. Brandon
for having recommended her, and thankful to get the work. In order to
give satisfaction to both her new customer, and those for whom she
already had work in the house, she divided her time between them,
sewing one day for Mrs. Lander and the next on the work received before
hers came in. At the end of a week, three of the shirts were ready,
and, as she needed very much the money she had earned in making them,
she carried them over to Mrs. Lander on Saturday afternoon.
"I have three of the shirts ready," said she, as she handed to the lady
the bundle she had brought.
"Ah! have you?" remarked Mrs. Lander, as, with a grave face, she opened
the bundle and examined the garments. This examination was continued
with great minuteness, and long enough almost to have counted every
stitch in the garments. She found the shirts exceedingly well made;
much better than she had expected to find them.
"When will you have the others ready?" she asked, as she laid them
aside.
"I will try and bring them in next Saturday."
"Very well."
Then came a deep silence. The poor woman sat with the fingers of both
hands moving together uneasily, and Mrs. Lander looked away out of the
window and appeared to be intent upon something in the street.
"Are these made to please you?" Mrs. Walton ventured to ask.
"They'll do," was the brief answer; and then came the same dead
silence, and the same interest on the part of the lady in something
passing in the street.
Mrs. Walton wanted the money she had earned for making the shirts, and
Mrs. Lander knew it.
But Mrs. Lander never liked to pay out money, if she could help it; and
as doing so always went against the grain, it was her custom to put off
such unpleasant work as long as possible. She liked to encourage the
very poor, because she knew they generally worked cheaper than people
who were in easier circumstances; but the drawback in their case was,
that they always wanted money the moment their work was done.
Badly as she stood in need of the money she had earned, poor Mrs.
Walton felt reluctant to ask for it until the whole number of shirts
she had engaged to make were done; and so, after sitting for a little
while longer, she got up and went away. It happened that she had
expended her last sixpence on that very morning, and nothing was due to
her from any one but Mrs. Lander. Two days at least would elapse before
she would have any other work ready to take home, and what to do in the
mean time she did not know. With her the reward of every day's labour
was needed when the labour was done; but now she was unpaid for full
four days' work, and her debtor was a lady much interested in the
welfare of the poor, who always gave out her plain sewing to those who
were in need of encouragement.
By placing in pawn some few articles of dress, and paying a heavy
interest upon the little sum of money advanced thereon, the poor widow
was able to keep hunger from her door until she could finish some work
she had in hand for a lady more considerate than Mrs. Lander. Then she
applied herself with renewed industry to the three shirts yet to make,
which she finished at the time she promised to have them done. With the
money to be received for these, she was to pay one dollar and a half to
get her clothes from the pawnbroker's shop, buy her little boy a pair
of shoes,--he had been from school a week for want of them,--and get a
supply of food for the many mouths she had to feed.
Mrs. Lander received her with that becoming dignity of manner and
gravity which certain persons always assume when money has to be paid
out. She, as it behooved her to do, thoroughly examined every seam,
line of stitching, and hem upon each of the three shirts, and then,
after slowly laying the garments upon a table sighed, and looked still
graver. Poor Mrs. Walton felt oppressed; she hardly knew why.
"Does the work please you?" she ventured to ask.
"I don't think these are as well made as the others," said Mrs. Lander.
"I thought they were better made," returned the woman.
"Oh, no. The stitching on the bosoms, collars, and wristbands isn't
nearly so well done."
Mrs. Walton knew better than this; but she did not feel in any humour
to contend for the truth. Mrs. Lander took up the shirts again, and
made another examination.
"What is the price of them?" she asked.
"Seventy-five cents."
"Apiece?"
"Yes, ma'am."
"Seventy-five cents apiece!"
"I have never received less than that, and some for whom I sew always
pay me a dollar."
"Seventy five cents! It is an imposition. I know plenty of poor women
who would have been glad of these shirts at half the price--yes, or at
a third of the price either. Seventy-five cents, indeed! Oh, no--I will
never pay a price like that. I can go to any professed shirt-maker in
the city, and get them made for seventy-five cents or a dollar."
"I know you can, ma'am," said Mrs. Walton, stung into self-possession
by this unexpected language. "But why should I receive less if my work
is as well done?"
"A pretty question, indeed!" retorted Mrs. Lander, thrown off her
guard. "A pretty question for you to ask of me! Oh, yes! You can get
such prices if you can, but I never pay them to people like you. When I
pay seventy-five cents or a dollar apiece for shirts, I go to regular
shirt-makers. But this is what we generally get for trying to encourage
the poor. Mrs. Brandon said that you were in needy circumstances, and
that it would be a charity to give you work. But this is the way it
generally turns out."
"What are you willing to pay?" asked the poor woman, choking down her
feelings.
"I have had shirts as well made as these for forty cents many and many
a time. There is a poor woman down in Southwark, who sews beautifully,
who would have caught at the job. She works for the shops, and does not
get over twenty-five cents for fine shirts. But as Mrs. Brandon said
you were suffering for work, I thought I would throw something in your
way. Forty cents is an abundance; but I had made up my mind, under the
circumstances, to make it fifty, and that is all I will give. So here
is your money--three dollars."
And Mrs. Lander took out her purse, and counted out six half dollars
upon the table. Only for a few moments did the poor woman hesitate.
Bread she must have for her children; and if her clothes were not taken
out of pawn on that day, they would be lost. Slowly did she take up the
money while words of stinging rebuke were on her tongue. But she forced
herself to keep silence; and even departed, bearing the wrong that had
been laid upon her without uttering a word.
"Did you get my shoes as you promised, mother?" eagerly inquired her
little boy, as she came in, on returning from the house of Mrs. Lander.
"No, dear," replied the heart-full mother, in a subdued voice. "I
didn't get as much money as I expected."
"When will you buy them, mother?" asked the child as tears filled his
eyes. "I can't go to school in this way." And he looked down at his
bare feet.
"I know you can't, Harry; and I will try and get them for you in a few
days."
The child said no more, but shrunk away with his little heart so full
of disappointment, that he could not keep the tears from gushing over
his face. The mother's heart was quite as full. Little Harry sat down
in a corner to weep in silence, and Mrs. Walton took her sewing into
her hands; but the tears so blinded her eyes, that she could not see
where to direct the needle. Before she had recovered herself, there was
a knock at the door, which was opened immediately afterwards by a lady,
who came into the room where the poor widow sat with her little family
around her.
More than an hour had passed since the unpleasant interview with the
poor widow, and Mrs. Lander had not yet recovered her equanimity of
mind nor lost the feelings of indignation which the attempt to impose
upon her by an exorbitant charge had occasioned, when she was favoured
with a visit from Mrs. Brandon, who said familiarly, and with a smile,
as she entered--
"Ah, how do you do, Mrs. Lander? I have just corrected a mistake you
made a little while ago."
"Indeed! what is that?" asked Mrs. Lander, looking a little surprised.
"You only gave poor Mrs. Walton fifty cents apiece for the half dozen
of shirts she made for you, when the lowest price is seventy-five
cents. I always pay a dollar for Mr. Brandon's. The difference is a
very important one to her--no less than a dollar and a half. I found
her in much trouble about it, and her little boy crying with
disappointment at not getting a pair of shoes his mother had promised
him as soon as she got the money for the shirts. He has been from
school for want of shoes for more than a week. So I took out my purse
and gave Mrs. Walton the dollar and a half to make up the sum she had
earned, and told her I would see you about it. I acted right, did I
not? Of course, it was a mistake on your part?"
Mrs. Lander was never more completely out-generalled in her life. The
lady who had corrected her error was one in whose good opinion she had
every reason for desiring to stand high. She could grind the face of
the poor without pity or shame, but for the world she would not be
thought mean by Mrs. Brandon.
"I am very much obliged to you, indeed," she said with a bland smile.
"It was altogether a mistake on my part, and I blame the woman
exceedingly for not having mentioned it at the time. Heaven knows I am
the last person in the world to grind the faces of the poor! Yes, the
very last person. Here is the money you paid for me, and I must repeat
my thanks for your prompt correction of the error. But I cannot help
feeling vexed at the woman."
"We must make many allowances for the poor, Mrs. Lander. They often
bear a great deal of wrong without a word of complaint. Some people
take advantage of their need, and, because they are poor, make them
work for the merest pittance in the world. I know some persons, and
they well off in the world, who always employ the poorest class of
people, and this under the pretence of favouring them, but, in reality,
that they may get their work done at a cheaper rate than it can be made
by people who expect to derive from their labour a comfortable support."
Mrs. Lander was stung to the quick by these words; but she dared not
show the least sign of feeling.
"Surely no one professing to be a Christian can do so," said she.
"Yes, people professing to be Christians do these things," was replied;
"but of course their profession needs a better practice to prove it of
any worth."
When her visitor retired, after having expressed her opinion on the
subject under consideration still more unequivocally, Mrs. Lander did
not feel very comfortable, nor was her good opinion of herself quite so
firm as it had been earlier in the day. But she took good care, in the
future, not to give any more work to Mrs. Walton, and was exceedingly
particular afterwards, in employing poor people, to know whether they
sewed for Mrs. Brandon. There are a good many people in the world who
encourage the poor on Mrs. Lander's principle.
JESSIE HAMPTON.
"WHAT are you doing here, miss?"
The young girl thus addressed was sitting by a centre-table, upon which
stood a lamp, in a handsomely furnished drawing-room. She laid aside
the book she was reading, and, without making any reply, rose up
quickly and retired. Two or three persons, members of the family, were
present. All observed the effect of Mrs. Freeman's words, yet no one
had heard what was said; nor would they have been aware that more than
a request for some service had been made, but for the lady's remark as
the girl left the room.
"I might as well begin at once, and let Jessie know her place."
"What did you say to her, ma?" asked a young lady who sat swinging
herself in a large rocking-chair.
"I simply asked her what she was doing here."
"What did she answer?"
"Nothing. The way in which I put the question fully explained my
meaning. I am sorry that there should have arisen a necessity for
hurting her feelings; but if the girl doesn't know her place, she must
be told where it is."
"I don't see that she was doing any great harm," remarked an old
gentleman who sat in front of the grate.
"She was not in her place, brother," said Mrs. Freeman, with an air of
dignity. "We employ her as a teacher in the family, not as a companion.
Her own good sense should have taught her this."
"You wouldn't have us make an equal of Jessie Hampton, would you, uncle
Edward?" inquired the young lady who sat in the rocking-chair.
"You cannot make her your equal, Fanny, in point of worldly blessings,
for, in this matter, Providence has dealt more hardly with her than
with you. As to companionship, I do not see that she is less worthy now
than she was a year ago."
"You talk strangely, Edward," said Mrs. Freeman, in a tone of dissent.
"In what way, sister?"
"There has been a very great change in a year. Jessie's family no
longer moves in our circle."
"True; but is Jessie any the less worthy to sit in your parlour than
she was then?"
"I think so, and that must decide the matter," returned Mrs. Freeman,
evincing some temper.
The old gentleman said no more; but Fanny remarked--"I was not in
favour of taking Jessie, for I knew how it would be; but Mrs. Carlton
recommended her so highly, and said so much in her favour, that no room
was left for a refusal. As for Jessie herself, I have no particular
objection to her; but the fact of her having once moved in the circle
we are in is against her; for it leaves room for her to step beyond her
place, as she has already done, and puts upon us the unpleasant
necessity of reminding her of her error."
"It don't seem to me," remarked Mr. Freeman, who had till now said
nothing, "that Miss Hampton was doing any thing worthy of reproof. She
has been well raised, we know; is an educated, refined, and intelligent
girl, and, therefore, has nothing about her to create repugnance or to
make her presence disagreeable. It would be better, perhaps, if we
looked more to what persons are, than to things merely external."
"It is all very well to talk in that way," said Mrs. Freeman. "But Miss
Hampton is governess in our family, and it is only right that she
should hold to us that relation and keep her place. What she has been,
or that she is, beyond the fact of her present position here, is
nothing to us."
Mr. Freeman knew from experience, that no particular good would grow
out of a prolonged argument on this subject, and so said nothing
further, although he could not force from his mind the image of the
young girl as she rose up hastily and left the room, nor help thinking
how sad a change it would be for one of his own children, if reduced
suddenly to her condition.
A good deal more was said by Mrs. Freeman, who did not feel very
comfortable, although she fully justified herself for what she had done.
The young girl, who had been reminded so harshly of the error into
which she had fallen, went quickly up into her cold chamber, and there,
with a burning cheek, sat down to think as calmly as her disturbed
feelings would permit. The weakness of tears she did not indulge;
self-respect, rather than pride, sustained her. Had she acted from the
first impulse, she would have left the house immediately, never again
to re-enter it; but reason soon told her that, however strong her
impulses might be, duties and considerations far beyond mere feeling
must come in to restrain them.
"Whatever I have been," she said to herself, as she sat and reflected,
"I am now simply a governess, and must steadily bear that in mind. In
this house I am to receive no more consideration than a mere stranger.
Have I a right to complain of this? Have I cause to be offended at Mrs.
Freeman for reminding me of the fact? Her reproof was unkindly given;
but false pride has in it no gentleness, no regard for another's
feelings. Ah me! this is one more lesson of the many I have to learn;
but let me bear up with a brave heart. There is one who knows my path,
and who will see that nothing therein need cause my feet to stumble.
From this moment I will think of all here as strangers. I will
faithfully do what I have engaged to do, and expect therefor only the
compensation agreed upon when I came. Have I a right to expect more?"
The bright colour faded gradually from the flushed cheeks of Jessie
Hampton, and with a calm, yet pensive face, she arose and went down
into the room which had been set apart for her use when giving
instruction to the children. It was warmed and lighted, and had in it a
small library. Here she sat alone, reading and thinking, for a couple
of hours, and then retired to her chamber for the night.
As was intimated in the conversation that arose upon her leaving the
drawing-room, Jessie Hampton's circumstances had suffered, in a very
short period, a great change. A year before she was the equal and
companion of Fanny Freeman, and more beloved and respected by those who
knew her than Fanny was or ever could be; but unexpected reverses came.
The relative who had been to her as a father for many years was
suddenly deprived of all his worldly goods, and reduced so low as to be
in want of the comforts of life. So soon as Jessie saw this, she saw
plainly her duty.
"I cannot burden my uncle," said she resolutely to herself. "He has
enough, and more than enough, to bear up under, without the addition of
my weight." Thoughtfully she looked around her; but still in doubt what
to do, she called upon a lady named Mrs. Carlton, who was among the few
whose manner towards her had not changed with altered fortune, and
frankly opened to her what was in her mind.
"What does your uncle say?" inquired Mrs. Carlton. "Does he approve the
step?"
"He knows nothing of my purpose," returned Jessie.
"Then had you not better consult him?"
"He will not hear of it, I am certain; but, for all that, I am resolved
to do as I propose. He has lost his property, and is now in great
trouble. He is, in fact, struggling hard to keep his head above water:
my weight might sink him. But, even if there were no danger of this, so
long as I am able to sustain myself, I will not cling to him while he
is tossed on the waves of adversity."
"I cannot but highly approve your decision," said Mrs. Carlton, her
heart warm with admiration for the right-minded girl. "The fact that
your uncle has been compelled to give up his elegant house, and retire
with you to a boarding-house, shows the extremity to which he has been
reduced. I understand that his fine business is entirely broken up, and
that, burdened with debts, he has commenced the world again, a few
hundred dollars all his capital in trade, resolved, if health and a
sound mind be continued to him, to rise above all his present
difficulties."
"And shall I," replied Jessie, "sit an idle witness of the honourable
struggle, content to burden him with my support? No! Were I of such a
spirit, I would be unworthy the relation I bear him. Much rather would
I aid him, were it in my power, by any sacrifice."
"If I understand you aright," said Mrs. Carlton, after thinking for a.
few moments, "you would prefer a situation as governess in a private
family."
"Yes; that would suit me best."
"How would you like to take charge of Mrs. Freeman's younger children?
She mentioned to me, only yesterday, her wish to obtain a suitable
instructor for them, and said she was willing to pay a liberal salary
to a person who gave entire satisfaction."
Jessie's face became thoughtful.
"Mrs. Freeman is not the most agreeable person to be found, I know,
Jessie," said her friend; "but the step you propose involves sacrifices
from the beginning."
"It does, I know; and I must not forget this. Had I a choice, I
certainly should not select the family of Mrs. Freeman as the one in
which to begin the new life I am about entering upon. She and Fanny are
among the few who have ceased to notice me, except with great coldness,
since my uncle's misfortunes. But I will not think of this. If they
will take me, I will go even into their house, and assume the humble
duties of a governess."
Mrs. Carlton immediately called upon Mrs. Freeman, and mentioned
Jessie. Some objection was made on the score of her being, an old
acquaintance, who would expect more notice than one in her position was
entitled to receive. This, however, was overruled by Mrs. Carlton, and,
after an interview with Jessie, an engagement was entered into for a
year, at a salary of four hundred dollars.
When Jessie mentioned the subject to her uncle, Mr. Hartman, he became
a good deal excited, and said that she should do no such thing. But
Jessie remained firm, and her uncle was at last compelled, though with
great reluctance, to consent to what she proposed, regarding it only as
a temporary measure.
The first day's experience of Jessie under the roof of Mrs. Freeman is
known to the reader. It was a painful experience, but she bore it in
the right spirit. After that, she was careful to confine herself to the
part of the house assigned her as a servant and inferior, and never
ventured upon the least familiarity with any one. Her duty to the
children who were committed to her charge was faithfully performed, and
she received, regularly, her wages, according to contract, and there
the relation between her and this family ceased. Day after day, week
after week, and month after month, did Jessie Hampton, uncheered by an
approving smile or friendly word, discharge her duties. But she had
within, to sustain her, a consciousness that she was doing right, and a
firm trust in an all-wise and merciful Providence.
Mrs. Carlton remained her steady friend, and Jessie spent an evening at
her house almost every week, and frequently met there many of her old
acquaintances. Of her treatment in the house of Mrs. Freeman she never
spoke, and when questioned on the subject avoided giving a direct
answer.
Mr. Hartman's struggle proved to be a hard one. Harassed by claims that
he could not pay off at once, his credit almost entirely gone, and the
capital upon which he was doing business limited to a few hundred
dollars, he found it almost impossible to make any headway. In a year
from the time Jessie had relieved him from the burden of her support,
so far from being encouraged by the result of his efforts, he felt like
abandoning all as hopeless. There are always those who are ready to
give small credits to a man whom they believe to be honest, even though
once unfortunate in business; but for such favours Mr. Hartman could
not have kept up thus far. Now the difficulty was to pay the few notes
given as they matured.
A note of five hundred dollars was to fall due on the next day, and Mr.
Hartman found himself with but a hundred dollars to meet it. The firm
from which he had bought the goods for which the note was given had
trusted him when others refused credit to the amount of a single
dollar, and had it in their power to forward his interests very greatly
if he was punctual in his payments. It was the first bill of goods they
had sold him, and Hartman could not go to them for assistance in
lifting the note, for that would effectually cut off all hope of
further credit. He could not borrow, for there was no one to lend him
money. There was a time when he could have borrowed thousands on his
word; but now he knew that it would be folly to ask for even hundreds.
In a state of deep discouragement, he left his store in the evening and
went home. After tea, while sitting alone, Jessie, who came to see him
often, tapped at his door.
"Are you not well?" she asked, with much concern, as soon as the smile
with which he greeted her faded from his face, and she saw its drooping
expression.
"Yes, dear," he replied, trying to arouse himself and appear cheerful;
but the effort was in vain.
"Indeed, uncle, you are not well," remarked Jessie, breaking in upon a
longer period of silent abstraction into which Mr. Hartman had fallen,
after in vain trying to converse cheerfully with his niece.
"I am well enough in body, Jessie; but my mind is a little anxious just
now," he replied.
"Isn't your business coming out as well as you expected?" inquired the
affectionate girl.
"I am sorry to say that it is not," returned Mr. Hartman. "In fact, I
see but little hope of succeeding. I have no capital, and the little
credit I possess is likely to be destroyed through my inability to
sustain it. I certainly did anticipate a better reward for my efforts,
and am the more disappointed at this result. To think that, for the
want of three or four hundred dollars, the struggle of a whole year
must prove in vain! As yet, even that small sum I cannot command."
The face of Jessie flushed instantly, as her uncle uttered the last two
sentences.
"And will so small an amount as three or four hundred dollars save you
from what you fear?" she asked, in a trembling voice.
"Yes, even so small an amount as that. But the sum might as well be
thousands. I cannot command it."
"You can, uncle!" replied Jessie, with a glow of exultation on her
cheek, and a spirit of joy in her voice. "I have the money. Oh! it is
the happiest hour of my life!"
And sinking forward, she laid her now weeping face upon the breast of
her uncle. Her tears were the out-gushing waters of gladness.
"You have the money, child?" said Mr. Hartman, after the lapse of a
few moments. "Where did you get it?"
"I have had no need to spend my salary."
"Your salary! Have you saved it all?"
