eye when the little soul reveals itself in words sweeter and 
wiser than the ordinary words of children hope not to 
retain that child ; for the seal of Heaven is on it, and the 
light of immortality looks out from its eyes. 
Even so, beloved Eva ! fair star of thy dwelling ! Thou 
art passing away ; but they that love thee dearest know 
it not. 
The colloquy between Tom and Eva was interrupted by a 
hasty call from Miss Ophelia. 
" Eva Eva ! why, child, the dew is falling; you mustn't 
be out there!" 
Eva and Tom hastened in. 
Miss Ophelia was old, and skilled in the tactics of nursing. 
She was from New England, and knew well the first guileful 
footsteps of that soft, insidious disease, which sweeps away so 
many of the fairest and loveliest, and, before one fibre of life 
seems broken, seals them irrevocably for death. 
She had noted the slight, dry cough, the daily brightening cheek; nor could the lustre of the eye and the airy 
buoyancy born of fever deceive her. 
She tried to communicate her fears to St. Clare ; but he 
threw back her suggestions with a restless petulance, unlike 
his usual careless good-humour. 
"Don't be croaking, cousin I hate it! " he would say ; 
" don't you see that the child is only growing ? Children 
always lose strength when they grow fast." 
" But she has that cough ! " 
" Oh, nonsense of that cough it is not anything ! She 
has taken a little cold, perhaps." 
" "Well, that was just the way Eliza Jane was taken, and 
Ellen and Maria Sanders." 
" Oh, stop these hobgoblin nurse-legends ! You old hands 
get so wise, that a child cannot cough or sneeze, but you see 
desperation and ruin at hand. Only take care of the child, 
keep her from the night air, and don't let her play too hard, 
and she'll do well enough." 
So St. Clare said ; but he grew nervous and restless. He 
watched Eva feverishly day by day, as might be told by the 
frequency with which he repeated over that " the child was 
quite well" that there wasn't anything in that cough it 
was only some little stomach affection, such as children often 
had. But he kept by her more than before, took her oftener 
to ride with him, brought home, every few days, some receipt 
or strengthening mixture "not," he said, "that the child 
needed it, but then it would not do her any harm." 
If it must be told, the thing that struck a deeper pang to 
his heart than anything else was the daily increasing maturity of the child's mind and feelings. While still retaining all a child's fanciful graces, yet she often dropped, 
unconsciously, words of such a reach of thought, and strange 
unworldly wisdom, that they seemed to be an inspiration. 
At such times, St. Clare would feel a sudden thrill, and 
clasp her in his arms, as if that fond clasp could save her ; 
and his heart rose up with wild determination to keep her, 
never to let her go. 
The child's whole heart and soul seemed absorbed in 
works of love and kindness. Impulsively generous she bad 
alway been, but there was a touching and womanly thoughtfulness about her now that every one noticed. She still 
loved to play with Topsy and the various coloured children ; 
but she now seemed rather a spectator than an actor of 
their plays, and she would sit for half an hour at a time 
laughing at the odd tricks of Topsy and then a shadow 
would seem to pass across her face, her eyes grew misty, and 
her thoughts were afar. 
"Mamma," she said suddenly, to her mother, one day, 
" why don't we teach our servants to read ? " 
" What a question, child ! People never do." 
" Why don't they ? " said Eva. 
" Because it is no use for them to read. It don't help 
them to work any better, and they are not made for anything 
else." 
"But they ought to read the Bible, mamma, to learn 
God's will." 
" Oh, they can. get that read to them all they need." 
" It seems to me, mamma, the Bible is for every one to 
read themselves. They need it a great many times when 
there is nobody to read it." 
" Eva, you are an odd child," said her mother. 
"Miss Ophelia has taught Topsy to read," continued 
Eva, 
" Yes, and you see how much good it does. Topsy is the 
worst creature I ever saw ! " 
" Here's poor Mammy ! " said Eva. " She loves the Bible 
so much, and wishes so she could read ! And what will she 
do when I can't read to her ? " 
Marie was busy, turning over the contents of a drawer, as 
she answered, 
"Well, of course, by and by, Eva, you will have other 
things to think of, besides reading the Bible round to 
servants. Not but that is very proper ; I've done it myself, 
when I had health. But when you come to be dressing and 
going into company, you won't have time. See here ! " she 
added, " these jewels I'm going to give you when you come 
out. I wore them to my first ball. I can tell you, Eva, 
I made a sensation." 
Eva took the jewel-case, and lifted from it a diamond 
necklace. Her large, thoughtful eyes rested on them, but 
it was plain her thoughts were elsewhere. 
' How sober you look, child ! " said Marie. 
' Are these worth a great deal of money, mamma ? " 
' To be sure they are. Father sent to France for them. 
They are worth a small fortune." 
' I wish I had them," said Eva, "to do what I pleased with! " 
' What would you do with them ? " 
'I'd sell them, and buy a place in the free States, and 
take all our people there, and hire teachers, to teach them to 
read and write." 
Eva was cut short by her mother's laughing. 
" Set up a boarding-school ! Wouldn't you teach them to 
play on the piano, and paint on velvet ? " 
" I'd teach them to read their own Bible, and write their 
own letters, and read letters that are written to them," said 
Eva, steadily. " I know, mamma, it does come very hard on 
them that they can't do these things. Tom feels it Mammy 
does a great many of them do. I think it's wrong." 
"Come, come, Eva; you are only a child! You know 
nothing about these things," said Marie; "besides, your 
talking makes my head ache." 
Marie always had a headache on hand for any conversation 
that did not exactly suit her. Eva stole away ; but after 
that, she assiduously gave Mammy reading lessons. 
CHAPTER XXIII. 
HENRIQUE. 
ABOUT this time, St. Clare's brother Alfred, with his 
eldest son, a boy of twelve, spent a day or two with the 
family at the lake. 
No sight could be more singular and beautiful than that 
of these twin brothers. Nature, instead of instituting 
resemblances between them, had made them opposites on 
every point ; yet a mysterious tie seemed to unite them in 
a closer friendship than ordinary. 
They used to saunter, arm in arm, up and down the alleys 
and walks of the garden Augustine, with his blue eyes and 
golden hair, his ethereally flexible form and vivacious 
features ; and Alfred, dark-eyed, with haughty Roman 
profile, firmly-knit limbs, and decided bearing. They were 
always abusing each other's opinions and practices, and yet 
never a whit the less absorbed in each other's society ; in 
fact, the very contrariety seemed to unite them, like the 
attraction between opposite poles of the magnet. 
Henrique, the eldest son of Alfred, was a noble, dark- 
eyed, princely boy, full of vivacity and spirit ; and, from 
the first moment of introduction, seemed to be perfectly 
fascinated by the spirituelle graces of his cousin Evangeline. 
Eva had a little pet pony, of a snowy whiteness. It was 
easy as a cradle, and as gentle as its little mistress ; and this 
pony was now brought up to the back verandah by Tom, 
while a little mulatto boy of about thirteen led along a small 
black Arabian, which had just been imported, at a great 
expense, for Henrique. 
Henrique had a boy's pride in his new possession ; and 
as he advanced and took the reins out of the hands of 
his little groom, he looked carefully over him, and his brow 
darkened. 
" What's this, Dodo, you little lazy dog ! you haven't 
rubbed my horse down this morning." 
"Yes, mas'r," said Dodo, submissively; "he got that dust 
on his own self." 
" You rascal, shut your mouth !" said Henrique, violently 
raising his riding- whip. " How dare you speak ! " 
The boy was a handsome, bright-eyed mulatto, of just 
Henrique's size, and his curling hair hung round a high, 
bold forehead. He had white blood in his veins, as could 
be seen by the quick flush in his cheek, and the sparkle of 
his eye, as he eagerly tried to speak. 
" Mas'r Henrique !" he began. 
Henrique struck him across the face with his riding-whip, 
and, seizing one of his arms, forced him on to his knees, and 
beat him till he was out of breath. 
" There, you impudent dog ! Now will you learn not to 
answer back when I speak to you ? Take the horse back, 
and clean him properly. I'll teach you your place ! " 
" Young mas'r, ' said Tom, " I 'specs what he was 
to say was, that the horse would roll when he was bringing 
him up from the stable ; he's so full of spirits that's the 
way he got that dirt on him : I looked to his cleaning." 
" You hold your tongue till you're asked to speak !" said 
Henrique, turning on his heel, and walking up the steps to 
speak to Eva, who stood in her riding-dress. 
" Dear cousin, I'm sorry this stupid fellow has kept you 
waiting," he said. " Let's sit down here, on this seat, till 
they come. What's the matter, cousin ? you look sober." 
" How could you be so cruel and wicked to poor Dodo ? " 
said Eva. 
" Cruel wicked ! " said the boy, with unaffected surprise. 
" What do you mean, dear Eva ?" 
" I don't want you to call me dear Eva, when you do so," 
said Eva. 
" Dear cousin, you don't know Dodo ; it's the only way 
to manage him, he's so full of lies and excuses. The only 
way is to put him down at once not let him open his 
mouth ; that's the way papa manages." 
" But Uncle Tom said it was an accident, and he never 
tells what isn't true." 
" He's an uncommon old nigger, then ! " said Henrique. 
" Dodo will lie as fast as he can speak." 
" You frighten him into deceiving, if you treat him so." 
" Why, Eva, you've really taken such a fancy to Dodo, 
that I shall be jealous." 
"But you beat him, and he didn't deserve it." 
" Oh, well, it may go for some time when he does, and 
don't get it. A few cuts never come amiss with Dodo he's 
a regular spirit, I can tell you ; but I won't beat him again 
before you, if it troubles you." 
Eva was not satisfied, but found it in vain to try to make 
her handsome cousin understand her feelings. 
Dodo soon appeared with the horses. 
"Well, Dodo, you've done pretty well this time," said his 
young master, with a more gracious air. " Come, now, and 
hold Miss Eva's horse, while I put her on to the saddle." 
Dodo came and stood by Eva's pony. His face was 
troubled ; his eyes looked as if he had been crying. 
Henrique, who valued himself on his gentlemanly adroit- 
ness in all matters of gallantry, soon had his fair cousin in 
the saddle, and, gathering the reins, placed them in her 
hands. 
But Eva bent to the other side of the horse, where Dodo 
was standing, and said, as he relinquished the reins, " That's 
a good boy, Dodo thank you ! " 
Dodo looked up in amazement into the sweet young face ; 
the blood rushed to his cheeks and the tears to his eyes. 
" Here, Dodo," said his master, imperiously. 
Dodo sprang and held the horse while his master mounted. 
"There's a picayune for you to buy candy with, Dodo," 
said Henrique ; "go get some." 
And Henrique cantered down the walk after Eva. Dodo 
stood looking after the two children. One had given him 
money ; and one had given him what he wanted far more 
a kind word kindly spoken. Dodo had been only a few 
months away from his mother. His master had bought him 
at a slave warehouse, for his handsome face, to be a match 
to the handsome pony ; and he was now getting his breaking 
in, at the hands of his young master. 
The scene of the beating had been witnessed by the two 
brothers St. Clare, from another part of the garden. 
Augustine's cheek flushed; but he only observed, with his 
usual sarcastic carelessness, " I suppose that's what we may 
call republican education, Alfred ? " 
" Henrique is a devil of a fellow, when his blood's up," 
said Alfred, carelessly. 
" I suppose you consider this an instructive practice for 
him," said Augustine, dryly. 
" I couldn't help it if I didn't. Henrique is a regular 
little tempest his mother and I have given him up long 
ago 4 . But, then, that Dodo is a perfect sprite no amount 
of whipping can hurt him." 
" And this by way of teaching Henrique the first verse of 
a republican's catechism, ' All men are born free and 
equal?'" 
" Poh ! " said Alfred, " one of Tom Jefferson's pieces of 
French sentiment and humbug. It's perfectly ridiculous to 
have that going the rounds among us to this day." 
" I think it is," said St. Clare, significantly. 
" Because," said Alfred, " we can see plainly enough that 
all men are not born free, nor born equal ; they are born 
anything else. For my part, I think half this republican 
talk is sheer humbug. It is the educated, the intelligent, 
the wealthy, the refined, who ought to have equal rights, 
and not the canaille." 
"If you can keep the canaille of that opinion," said 
Augustine. " They took their turn once, in France." 
" Of course, they must be kept down, consistently, steadily, 
as I should" said Alfred, setting his foot hard down, as if he 
were standing on somebody. 
"It makes a terrible slip when they get up," said 
Augustine : " in St. Domingo, for instance." 
"Poh!" said Alfred, "we'll take care of that in this 
country. "We must set our face against all this educating, 
elevating talk, that is getting about now ; the lower class 
must not be educated." 
"That is past praying for," said Augustine; "educated 
they will be, and we have only to say how. Our system is 
educating them in barbarism and brutality. "We are breaking 
all humanising ties, and making them brute beasts ; and, if 
they get the upper hand, such we shall find them." 
" They never shall get the upper hand ! " said Alfred. 
" That's right," said St. Clare ; "put on the steam, fasten 
down the escape-valve, and sit on it, and see where you'll 
land." 
" Well," said Alfred, " we will see. I'm not afraid to sit 
on the escape-valve, as long as the boilers are strong, and 
the machinery works well." 
" The nobles in Louis XYI.'s time thought just so ; and 
Austria and Pius IX. think so now : and, some pleasant 
morning, you may all be caught up to meet each other in 
the air, when the boilers burst." 
" Dies declarabit" said Alfred, laughing. 
" I tell you," said Augustine, " if there is anything that 
is revealed with the strength of a divine law in our times, it 
is that the masses are to rise, and the under class become the 
upper one." 
" That's one of your red republican humbugs, Augustine ! 
"Why didn't you ever take to the stump ? You'd make a 
famous stump orator ! Well, I hope I shall be dead before 
this millennium of your greasy masses comes on." 
" Greasy or not greasy, they will govern you, when their 
time comes," said Augustine ; " and they will be just such 
rulers as you make them. The French noblesse chose 
to have the people i sans culottes? and they had ' sans 
culotte ' governors to their hearts' content. The people of 
Hayti" 
" Oh, come, Augustine ! as if we hadn't enough of that 
abominable, contemptible Hayti ! The Haytians were not 
Anglo-Saxons; if they had been, there would have been 
another story. The Anglo-Saxon is the dominant race of the 
world, and is to be so." 
" Well, there is a pretty fair infusion of Anglo-Saxon 
blood among our slaves now," said Augustine. " There are 
plenty among them who have only enough of the African to 
give a sort of tropical warmth and fervour to our calculating 
firmness and foresight. If ever the San Domingo hour 
comes, Anglo-Saxon blood will lead on the day. Sons of 
white fathers, with all our haughty feelings burning in their 
veins, will not always be bought and sold and traded. They 
will rise, and raise with them their mothers' race." 
"Stuff! nonsense!" 
" Well," said Augustine, " there goes an old saying to this 
effect : ' As it was in the days of Noah, so shall it be ; they 
ate, they drank, they planted, they builded, and knew not 
till the flood came and took them.' " 
" On the whole, Augustine, I think your talents might 
do for a circuit rider," said Alfred, laughing. " Never you 
fear for us ! possession is our nine points. We've got the 
power. This subject race," said he, stamping firmly, " is 
down, and shall stay down ! We have energy enough to 
manage our own powder." 
" Sons trained like your Henrique will be grand guardians 
of your powder-magazines," said Augustine ; " so cool and 
self-possessed ! The proverb says, * They that cannot govern 
themselves cannot govern others.' " 
" There is a trouble there," said Alfred thoughtfully ; 
" there's no doubt that our system is a difficult one to train 
children under. It gives too free scope to the passions, 
altogether, which, in our climate, are hot enough. I find 
trouble with Henrique. The boy is generous and warm- 
hearted, but a perfect fire-cracker when excited. I believe 
I shall send him north for his education, where obedience is 
more fashionable, and where he will associate more with 
equals and less with dependants." 
" Since training children is the staple work of the human 
race," said Augustine, "I should think it something of a 
consideration that our system does not work well there." 
"It does not for some things," said Alfred; "for others, 
again, it does. It makes boys manly and courageous ; and 
the very vices of an abject race tend to strengthen in them 
the opposite virtues. I think Henrique, now, has a keener 
sense of the beauty of truth, from seeing lying and deception 
the universal badge of slavery." 
" A Christian-like view of the subject, certainly ! " said 
Augustine. 
" It's true, Christian-like or not ; and is about as Christian- 
like as most other things in the world," said Alfred. 
"That may be," said St. Clare. 
" Well, there's no use in talking, Augustine. I believe 
we've been round and round this old track five hundred 
times, more or less. What do you say to a game of back- 
gammon?" 
The two brothers ran up the verandah steps, and were 
soon seated at a light bamboo stand, with a backgammon- 
board between them. As they were setting their men, 
Alfred said, 
" I tell you, Augustine, if I thought as you do, I should 
do something." 
" I dare say you would you are one of the doing sort ; 
but what ? " 
" Why, elevate your own servants, for  a specimen," said 
Alfred, with a half-scornful smile. 
" You might as well set Mount Etna on them flat, and 
tell them to stand up under it, as tell me to elevate my 
servants under all the superincumbent mass of society upon 
them. One man can do nothing, against the whole action of 
a community. Education, to do anything, must be a state 
education ; or there must be enough agreed in it to make it 
current." 
" You take the first throw," said Alfred ; and the brothers 
were soon lost in the game, and heard no more till the 
scraping of horses' feet was heard under the verandah. 
"There come the children," said Augustine, rising. 
" Look here, Alf ! Did you ever see anything so beautiful?" 
And, in truth, it was a beautiful sight. Henrique, with his 
bold brow, and dark, glossy curls, and glowing cheek, was 
laughing gaily, as he bent towards his fair cousin, as they 
came on. She was dressed in a blue riding-dress, with a cap 
of the same colour. Exercise had given a brilliant hue to 
her cheeks, and heightened the effect of her singularly transparent skin and golden hair. 
" Good heavens ! what perfectly dazzling beauty ! " said 
Alfred. " I tell you, Augustine, won't she make some hearts 
ache, one of these days ! " 
" She will, too truly God knows, I'm afraid so ! " said 
St. Clare, in a tone of sudden bitterness, as he hurried down 
to take her off her horse. 
"Eva, darling! you're not much tired?" he said, as he 
clasped her in his arms. 
"No, papa," said the child ; but her short, hard breathing 
alarmed her father. 
" How could you ride so fast, dear P You know it's bad 
for you." 
" I felt so well, papa, and liked it so much, I forgot." 
St. Clare carried her in his arms into the parlour, and laid 
her on the sofa. 
" Henrique, you must be careful of Eva," said he; "you 
mustn't ride fast with her." 
" I'll take her under my care," said Henrique, seating 
himself by the sofa, and taking Eva's hand. 
Eva soon found herself much better. Her father and uncle 
going to 
you again for ever 
so long ! If I stay with you, I'll try to be good, and not be 
cross to Dodo, and so on. I don't mean to treat Dodo ill; 
but you know I've got such a quick temper. I'm not really 
bad to him, though. I give him a picayune, now and then ; 
and you see he dresses well. I think, on the whole, Dodo's 
pretty well off." 
" Would you think you were well off, if there were not 
one creature in the world near you to love you ? " 
" 1 ? Well, of course not." 
" And you have taken Dodo away from all the friends he 
ever had, and now he lias not a creature to love him : nobody 
can be good that way." 
" Well, I can't help it, as I know of. I can't get his 
mother, and I can't love him myself, nor anybody else, as I 
know of." 
" Why can't you ? " said Eva. 
" Love Dodo ! 'Why, Eva, you wouldn't have me ! I may 
lilce him well enough ; but you don't love your servants." 
"I do, indeed." 
" How odd ! " 
" Don't the Bible say we must love everybody. 
" Oh, the Bible ! To be sure, it says a great many such 
things ; but, then nobody ever thinks of doing them you 
know, Eva, nobody does." 
Eva did not speak ; her eyes were fixed and thoughtful 
for a few moments. 
"At any rate," she said, " dear cousin, do love poor Dodo, 
and be kind to him, for my sake ! " 
" I could love anything for your sake, dear cousin ; for I 
really think you are the loveliest creature that I ever saw ! " 
And Henrique spoke with an earnestness that flushed his 
handsome face. Eva received it with perfect simplicity, 
without even a change of feature ; merely saying, " I'm glad 
you feel so, dear Henrique ! I hope you will remember." 
The dinner-bell put an end to the interview. 
CHAPTEE XXIV. 
PORESHADOWINGS. 
Two days after this, Alfred St. Clare and Augustine 
parted ; and Eva, who had been stimulated by the society of 
her young cousin to exertions beyond her strength, began to 
fail rapidly. St. Clare was at last willing to call in medical 
advice, a thing from which he had always shrunk, because it 
was the admission of an unwelcome truth. But for a day or 
two Eva was so unwell as to be confined to the house, and 
the doctor was called. 
Marie St. Clare had taken no notice of the child's gradually 
decaying health and strength, because she was completely 
absorbed in studying out two or three new forms of disease 
to which she believed she herself was a victim. It was the 
first principle of Marie's belief that nobody ever was or 
could be so great a sufferer as herself; and therefore she 
always repelled quite indignantly any suggestion that any 
one around her could be sick. She was always sure in such 
a case that it was nothing but laziness or want of energy, 
and that if they had had the suffering she had they would 
soon know the difference. 
Miss Ophelia had several times tried to awaken her 
maternal fears about Eva, but to no avail. 
" I don't see as anything ails the child," she would say ; 
" she runs about and plays." 
" But she has a cough." 
" Cough ! you don't need to tell me about a cough. I've 
always been subject to a cough all my days. When I was 
of Eva's age, they thought I was in a consumption. Night 
after night Mammy used to sit up with me. Oh, Eva's 
cough is not anything ! " 
" But she gets weak, and is short-breathed." 
" Law ! I've had that years and years ; it's only a nervous 
affection." 
" But she sweats so, nights ! " 
" Well, I have these ten years. Very often, night after 
night, my clothes will be wringing wet. There won't be a 
dry thread in my night-clothes, and the sheets will be so 
that Mammy has to hang them up to dry ! Eva doesn't 
sweat anything like that ! " 
Miss Ophelia shut her mouth for a season. But now that 
Eva was fairly and visibly prostrated, and a doctor called, 
Marie all on a sudden took a new turn. 
She knew it she said, she always felt it, that she was 
destined to be the most miserable of mothers. Here she 
was, with her wretched health, and her only darling child 
going down to the grave before her eyes ! And Marie routed 
up Mammy nights, and rumpussed and scolded with more 
energy than ever all day, on the strength of this new misery. 
" My dear Marie, don't talk so ! " said St. Clare. " You 
ought not to give up the case so, at once." 
" You have not a mother's feelings, St. Glare ! You never 
could understand me! you don't now." 
" But don't talk so, as if it were a gone case ! " 
" I can't take it as indifferently as you can, St. Clare. If 
you don't feel when your only child is in this alarming state, 
1 do. It's a blow too much for me, with all I was bearing 
before." 
"It's true," said St. Clare, "that Eva is very delicate 
that I always knew ; and that she has grown so rapidly as to 
exhaust her strength ; and that her situation is critical. But 
just now she is only prostrated by the heat of the weather, 
and by the excitement of her cousin's visit, and the exertions 
she made. The physician says there is room for hope." 
" Well, of course, if you can look on the bright side, pray 
do ; it's a mercy if people haven't sensitive feelings in this 
world. I am sure I wish I didn't feel as I do it only makes 
me completely wretched ! I wish I could be as easy as the 
rest of you ! " 
And the " rest of them " had good reason to breathe the 
same prayer, for Marie paraded her new misery as the reason 
and apology for all sorts of inflictions on every one about 
her. Every word that was spoken by anybody, everything 
that was done or was not done everywhere, was only a new 
proof that she was surrounded by hard-hearted, insensible 
beings who were unmindful of her peculiar sorrows. Poor 
Eva heard some of these speeches ; and nearly cried her 
little eyes out in pity for her mamma, and in sorrow that she 
should make her so much distress. 
In a week or two there was a great improvement of symptoms one of those deceitful lulls by which her inexorable 
disease so often beguiles the anxious heart, even on the verge 
of the grave. Eva's step was again in the garden in the 
balconies ; she played and laughed again, and her father, in a 
transport, declared that they should soon have her as hearty 
as anybody. Miss Ophelia and the physician alone felt no 
encouragement from this illusive truce. There was one other 
heart, too, that felt the same certainty, and that was the 
little heart of Eva. What is it that sometimes speaks in the 
soul so calmly, so clearly, that its earthly time is short ? Is 
it the secret instinct of decaying nature, or the soul's impulsive throb, as immortality draws on ? Be it what it may, 
it rested in the heart of Eva, a calm, sweet, prophetic certainty that Heaven was near ; calm as the light of sunset, 
sweet as the bright stillness of autumn : there her little 
heart reposed, only troubled by sorrow for those who loved 
her so dearly. 
For the child, though nursed so tenderly, and though 
life was unfolding before her with every brightness that 
lo*ve and wealth could give, had no regret for herself in 
dying. 
In that Book which she and her simple old friend had 
read so much together, she had seen and taken to her young 
heart the image of One who loved the little child ; and as 
she gazed and mused, he had ceased to be an image and a 
picture of the distant past, and come to be a living, all-surrounding reality. His love enfolded her childish heart with 
more than mortal tenderness ; and it was to Him, she said, 
she was going, and to His home. 
But her heart yearned with sad tenderness for all that she 
was to leave behind her father most ; for Eva, though she 
never distinctly thought so, had an instinctive perception 
that she was more in his heart than any other. She loved 
her mother because she was so loving a creature, and all the 
selfishness that she had seen in her only saddened and perplexed her ; for she had a child's implicit trust that her 
mother could not do wrong. There was something about 
her that Eva never could make out; and she always smoothed 
it over with thinking that, after all, it was mamma, and she 
loved her very dearly indeed. 
She felt, too, for those fond, faithful servants, to whom 
she was as daylight and sunshine. Children do not usually 
generalise ; but Eva was an uncommonly mature child, and 
the things that she had witnessed of the evils of the system 
under which they were living had fallen, one by one, into 
the depths of her thoughtful, pondering heart. She had 
vague longings to do something for them to bless and save 
not only them, but all in their condition longings that 
contrasted sadly with the feebleness of her little frame. 
" Uncle Tom," she said, one day, when she was reading 
to her friend, " I can understand why Jesus wanted to die 
for us." 
"Why, Miss Eva?" 
" Because I've felt so, too." 
" What is it, Miss Eva ? I don't understand." 
" I can't tell you ; but when I saw those poor creatures 
on the boat, you know, when you came up and I, some had 
lost their mothers, and some their husbands, and some 
mothers cried for their little children ; and when I heard 
about poor Prue oh, wasn't that dreadful ? and a great 
many other times I've felt that I would be glad to die, if my 
dying could stop all this misery. I would die for them, 
Tom, if I could," said the child, earnestly, laying her little 
thin hand on bis. 
Tom looked at the child with awe: and when she, hearing 
her father's voice, glided away, he wiped his eyes many times 
as he looked after her. 
" It's jest no use tryin' to keep Miss Eva here," he said 
to Mammy, whom he met a moment after. " She's got the 
Lord's mark in her forehead." 
" Ah, yes, yes ! " said Mammy, raising her hands ; " I've 
allers said so. She wasn't never like a child that's to live 
there was allers something deep in her eyes. I've told 
missis so many the time ; it's a comiii' true we all sees it 
dear, little, blessed lamb ! " 
Eva came tripping up the verandah steps to her father. 
It was late in the afternoon, and the rays of the sun formed 
a kind of glory behind her, as she came forward in her white 
dress, with her golden hair and glowing cheeks, her eyes 
unnaturally bright with the slow fever that burned in her 
veins. 
St. Clare had called her to show a statuette that he had 
been buying for her ; but her appearance, as she came on, 
impressed him suddenly and painfully. There is a kind of 
beauty so intense, yet so fragile, that we cannot bear to look 
at it. Her father folded her suddenly in his arms, and 
almost forgot what he was going to tell her. 
" Eva, dear, you are better now-a-days, are you not ? " 
" Papa," said Eva, with sudden firmness, " I've had things 
I wanted to say to you a great while. I want to say them 
now, before I get weaker." 
St. Clare trembled as Eva seated herself in his lap. She 
laid her head on his bosom and said 
" It's all no use, papa, to keep it to myself any longer. 
The time is coming that I'm going to leave you. I am 
going, and never to come back ! " and Eva sobbed. 
" Oh, now, my dear little Eva ! " said St. Clare, trembling 
as he spoke, but speaking cheerfully, " you've got nervous 
and low-spirited : you must'nt indulge such gloomy thoughts. 
See here, I've bought a statuette for you!" 
" No, papa," said Eva, putting it gently away, " don't 
deceive yourself ! I am not any better I know it perfectly 
well ; and I am going before long. I am not nervous I am 
not low-spirited. If it were not for you, papa, and my friends, 
I should be perfectly happy. I want to go I long to go ! " 
" Why, dear child, what has made your poor little heart 
so sad ? You have had everything to make you happy that 
could be given you ? " 
" I had rather be in heaven, though only, for my friends' 
sake I would be willing to live. There are a great many 
things here that make me sad, that seem dreadful to me. I 
had rather be there; but I don't want to leave you it 
almost breaks my heart ! " 
" What makes you sad, and seems dreadful, Eva ? " 
" Oh, things that are done and done all the time. I feel 
sad for our poor people ; they love me dearly, and they are all 
good and kind to me. I wish, papa, they were all free." 
" Why, Eva, child, don't you think they are well enough 
off now?" 
" Oh, but, papa, if anything should happen to you, what 
would become of them ? There are very few men like you, 
papa. Uncle Alfred isn't like you, and mamma isn't ; and 
then think of poor old Prue's owners ! What horrid things 
people do, and can do ! " And Eva shuddered. 
" My dear child, you are too sensitive. I'm sorry I ever 
let you hear such stories." 
" Oh, that's what troubles me, papa. You want me to 
live so happy, and never to have any pain, never suffer anything, not even hear a sad story, when other poor creatures 
have nothing but pain and sorrow all their lives ; it seems 
selfish. I ought to know such things I ought to feel about 
them. Such things always sunk into my heart, they went 
down deep ; I've thought and thought about them. Papa, 
isn't there any way to have all slaves made free ? " 
" That's a difficult question, dearest. There's no doubt 
that this way is a very bad one, a great many people think 
so ; I do myself. I heartily wish that there were not a 
slave in the land, but then I don't know what is to be done 
about it." 
" Papa, you are such a good man, and so noble, and kind, 
and you always have a way of saying things that is so 
pleasant ; couldn't you go all round and try to persuade 
people to do right ab6ut this ? When I am dead, papa, 
then you will think of me, and do it for my sake. I would 
do it if I could." 
" When you are dead, Eva ! " said St. Clare, passionately. 
" Oh, child, don't talk to me so ! You are all I have on 
earth." 
" Poor old Prue's child was all that she had ; and yet she 
had to hear it crying, and she couldn't help it ! Papa, these 
poor creatures love their children as much as you do me. 
Oh, do something for them ! There's poor Mammy loves her 
children ; I've seen her crying when she talked about them. 
And Tom loves his children ; and it's dreadful, papa, that 
such things are happening all the time ! " 
" There, there, darling," said St. Clare, soothingly ; " only 
don't distress yourself, and don't talk of dying, and I will do 
anything you wish." 
" And promise me, dear father, that Tom shall have his 
freedom as soon as " She stopped, and said in a hesi- 
tating tone " I am gone ! " 
" Yes, dear, I will do anything in the world anything 
you could ask me to." 
" Dear papa," said the child, laying her burning cheek 
against his, " how I wish we could go together." 
" Where, dearest ? " said St. Clare. 
" To our Saviour's home ; it's so sweet and peaceful there 
it is all so loving there ! " The child spoke unconsciously, 
as of a place where she had often been. " Don't you want 
to go, papa ? " she said. 
St. Clare drew her closer to him, but was silent. 
" You will come to me," said the child, speaking in a 
voice of calm certainty, which she often used unconsciously. 
" I shall come after you. I shall not forget you." 
The shadows of the solemn evening closed round them 
deeper and deeper, as St. Clare sat silently holding tue Irttle 
frail form to his bosom. He saw no more the deep eyes, but 
the voice came over him as a spirit voice ; and, as in a sort of 
judgment vision, his whole past life rose in a moment before 
his eyes his mother's prayers and hymns his own early 
yearnings and aspirings for good ; and, between them and 
this hour, years of worldliness and scepticism, and what man 
calls respectable living. We can think much, very much, in 
a moment. St. Clare saw and felt many things, but spoke 
nothing ; and, as it grew darker, he took his child to her 
bed-room, and when she was prepared for rest he sent away 
the attendants, and rocked her in his arms, and sung to her 
till she was asleep. 
CHAPTER XXV. 
THE LITTLE EVANGELIST. 
IT was Sunday afternoon. St. Clare was stretched on a 
bamboo lounge in the verandah, solacing himself with a cigar. 
Marie lay reclined on a sofa, opposite the window opening on 
the verandah, closely secluded, under an awning of transpa- 
rent gauze, from the outrages of the mosquitos, and languidly 
holding in her hand an elegantly bound prayer-book. She 
was holding it because it was Sunday, and she imagined she 
had been reading it though, in fact, she had been only 
taking a succession of short naps, with it open in her hands. 
Miss Ophelia, who, after some rummaging, had hunted up 
a small Methodist meeting within riding distance, had gone 
out, with Tom as driver, to attend it, and Eva had accompanied them. 
" I say, Augustine," said Marie, after dozing a while, 
" I must send to the city after my old Doctor Posey ; I'm 
sure I've got the complaint of the heart." 
" "Well ; why need you send for him ? This doctor that 
attends Eva seems skilful." 
" I would not trust him in a critical case," said Marie, 
" and I think I may say mine is becoming so ! I've been 
thinking of it these two or three nights past ; I have such 
distressing pains, and such strange feelings." 
" Marie, you are blue ; I don't believe it's heart-complaint." 
" I dare say you don't," said Marie ; " I was prepared to 
expect that. You can be alarmed enough if Eva coughs or 
has the least thing the matter with her, but you never think 
of me." 
" If it's particularly agreeable to you to have heart- 
disease, why, I'll try and maintain you have it," said 
St. Clare ; " I didn't know it was." 
" Well, I only hope you won't be sorry for this when it's 
too late ! " said Marie ; " but, believe it or not, my distress 
about Eva, and the exertions I have made with that dear 
child, have developed what I have long suspected." 
What the exertions were which Marie referred to it would 
have been difficult to state. St. Clare quietly made this 
commentary to himself, and went on smoking, like a hard- 
hearted wretch of a man as he was, till a carriage drove up 
before the verandah, and Eva and Miss Ophelia alighted. 
Miss Ophelia marched straight to her own chamber, to 
put away her bonnet and shawl, as was always her manner, 
before she spoke a word on any subject ; while Eva came at 
St. Clare's call, and was sitting on his knee, giving him an 
account of the services they had heard. 
They soon heard loud exclamations from Miss Ophelia's 
room (which, like the one in which they were sitting, 
opened on to the verandah), and violent reproof addressed to 
somebody. 
" What new witchcraft has Tops been brewing ? " asked 
St. Clare. " That commotion is of her raising, I'll be bound ! " 
And, in a moment after, Miss Ophelia, in high indigna- 
tion, came dragging the culprit along. 
" Come out here, now!" she said. " I will tell your 
master." 
" What's the case now? " asked Augustine. 
" The case is, that I cannot be plagued with this child 
any longer ! It's past all bearing ; flesh and blood cannot 
endure it ! Here. I locked her up, and gave her a hymn to 
study ; and what does she do, but spy out where I put my 
key, and has gone to my bureau, and got a bonnet-trimming, 
and cut it all to pieces to make dolls' jackets ! I never saw 
anything like it in my life.' 
" I told you, cousin," said Marie, " that you'd find out 
that these creatures can't be brought up without severity. 
If I had my way, now," she said, looking reproachfully 
at St. Clare, " I'd send that child out, and have her 
thoroughly whipped ; I'd have her whipped till she couldn't 
stand ! " 
" I don't doubt it," said St. Clare. " Tell me of the lovely 
rule of woman ! I never saw above a dozen women that 
wouldn't half kill a horse, or a servant, either, if they had 
their own way with them, let alone a man." 
" There is no use in this shilly-shally way of yours, St. 
Clare ! " said Marie. " Cousin is a woman of sense, and she 
sees it now as plain as I do." 
Miss Ophelia had just the capability of indignation that 
belongs to the thorough-paced housekeeper, and this had been 
pretty actively roused by the artifice and wastefulness of the 
child ; in fact, many of my lady readers must own that they 
should have felt just so in her circumstances ; but Marie's 
words went beyond her, and she felt less heat. 
" I wouldn't have the child treated so for the world," she 
said ; " but I am sure, Augustine, I don't know what to do. 
I've taught and taught, I've talked till I'm tired, I've whipped 
her, I've punished her in every way I can think of; and still 
she's just what she was at first." 
" Come here, Tops, you monkey!" said St. Clare, calling 
the child up to him. 
Topsy came up; her round, hard eyes glittering and 
blinking with a mixture of apprehensiveness and their usual 
odd drollery. 
" What makes you behave so ? " said St. Clare, who could 
not help being amused with the child's expression. 
" 'Spects it's my wicked heart," said Topsy, demurely ; 
" Miss Feely says so." 
" Don't you see how much Miss Ophelia has done for you ? 
She says she has done everything she can think of." 
" Lor, yes, mas'r ! old missus used to say so, too. She 
whipped me a heap harder, and used to pull my har, and knock 
my head agin the door ; but it didn't do me no good ! I 
'spects, if they's to pull every spear o' har out o' my head, it 
wouldn't do no good neither I's so wicked ! Laws ! I's 
nothin' but a nigger, no ways ! " 
" Well, I shall have to give her up," said Miss Ophelia ; 
" I can't have that trouble any longer." 
" Well, I'd just like to ask one question," said St. Clare. 
" What is it ? " 
" Why, if your Gospel is not strong enough to save one 
heathen child, that you can have at home here, all to your- 
self, what's the use of sending one or two poor missionaries 
off with it among thousands of just such ? I suppose this 
child is about a fair sample of what thousands of your 
heathen are." 
Miss Ophelia did not make an immediate answer ; and 
Eva, who had stood a silent spectator of the scene thus far, 
made a silent sign to Topsy to follow her. There was a little 
glass-room at the corner of the verandah, which St. Clare used 
as a sort of reading-room ; and Eva and Topsy disappeared 
into this place. 
" What's Eva going about now ? " said St. Clare ; " I mean 
to see.'* 
And, advancing on tiptoe, he lifted up a curtain that 
covered the glass-door, and looked in. In a moment, laying 
his finger on his lips, he made a silent gesture to Miss 
Ophelia to come and look. There sat the two children on 
the floor, with their side faces towards them Topsy with her 
usual air of careless drollery and unconcern ; but, opposite to 
her, Eva, her whole face fervent with feeling, and tears in 
her large eyes. 
" What does make you so bad, Topsy ? Why won't you 
try and be good ? Don't you love anybody, Topsy ? " 
" Dunno nothing 'bout love ; I loves candy and sich, that's 
all," said Topsy. 
" But you love your father and mother ? " 
" Never had none, ye know. I telled ye that, Miss Eva." 
" Oh, I know," said Eva sadly; "but hadn't you any 
brother or sister, or aunt, or" 
" No, none on 'em never had nothing nor nobody." 
" But, Topsy, if you'd only try to be good, you might " 
" Couldn't never be nothin' but a nigger, if I was ever so 
good," said Topsy. " If I could be skinned, and come white, 
I'd try then." 
" But people can love you, if you are black, Topsy. 
Ophelia would love you if you were good." 
Topsy gave the short, blunt laugh, that was her common 
mode of expressing incredulity. 
" Don't you think so ? " said Eva. 
" No ; she can't bar me, 'cause I'm a nigger ! she'd's 
soon have a toad touch her. There can't nobody love niggers, 
and niggers can't do nothin'. I don't care," said Topsy, 
beginning to whistle. 
" O Topsy, poor child, I love you !" said Eva, with a sudden 
burst of feeling, and laying her little, thin, white hand on 
Topsy's shoulder ; " I love you, because you haven't had any 
father, or mother, or friends because you've been a poor, 
abused child ! I love you, and I want you to be good. I am 
very unwell, Topsy, and I think I shan't live a great while, 
and it really grieves me to have you be so naughty. I wish 
you would try to be good, for my sake ; it's only a little while 
I shall be with you." 
The round, keen eyes of the black child were overcast with 
tears ; large, bright drops rolled heavily down, one by one, 
and fell on the little white hand. Yes, in that moment a ray 
of real belief, a ray of heavenly love, had penetrated the 
darkness of her heathen soul ! She laid her head down 
between her knees, and wept and sobbed ; while the beautiful 
child, bending over her, looked like the picture of some 
bright angel stooping to reclaim a sinner. 
" Poor Topsy ! " said Eva, " don't you know that Jesus 
loves all alike ? He is just as willing to love you as me. He 
loves you just as I do, only more, because he is better. He 
will help you to be good, and you can go to heaven at last, 
and be an angel for ever, just as much as if you were white. 
Only think of it, Topsy, you can be one of those spirits bright 
Uncle Tom sings about." 
" dear Miss Eva ! dear Miss Eva ! " said the child, " I will 
try ! I will try ! I never did care nothin' about it before." 
St. Clare at this instant dropped the curtain. " It puts 
me in mind of mother," he said to Miss Ophelia. " It is true 
what she told me : if we want to give sight to the blind, we 
must be willing to do as Christ did call them to us, and 
put our hands on them" 
" I've always had a prejudice against negroes," said Miss 
Ophelia ; " and it's a fact, I never could bear to have that 
child touch me ; but I didn't think she knew it." 
"Trust any child to find that out," said St. Clare; 
" there's no keeping it from them. But I believe that all the 
trying in the world to benefit a child, and all the substantial 
favours you can do them, will never excite one emotion of 
gratitude while that feeling of repugnance remains in the 
heart ; it's a queer kind of fact, but so it is." 
" I don't know how I can help it," said Miss Ophelia ; 
" they are disagreeable to me this child in particular. How 
can I help feeling so." 
" Eva does, it seems." 
" Well, she's so loving ! After all, though, she's no more 
than Christ-like," said Miss Ophelia ; " I wish I were like 
her. She might teach me a lesson." 
" It wouldn't be the first time a little child had been used 
[ to instruct an old disciple, if it were so," said St. Clare. 
CHAPTEE XXVI. 
DEATH. 
" Weep not for those whom the veil of the tomb, 
In life's early morning, hath hid from our eyes." 
EYA'S bedroom was a spacious apartment, which, like all 
the other rooms in the house, opened on to the broad 
verandah. The room communicated, on one side, with her 
father and mother's apartment; on the other, with that 
appropriated to Miss Ophelia. St. Clare had gratified his 
own eye and taste, in furnishing this room in a style that 
had a peculiar keeping with the character of her for whom 
it was intended. The windows were hung with curtains of 
rose-coloured and white muslin ; the floor was spread with 
a matting which had been ordered in Paris, to a pattern of 
his own device, having round it a border of rose-buds and 
leaves, and a centre-piece with full-blown roses. The bed- 
stead, chairs, and lounges were of bamboo, wrought in 
peculiarly graceful and fanciful patterns. Over the head of 
the bed was an alabaster bracket, on which a beautiful 
sculptured angel stood, with drooping wings, holding out a 
crown of myrtle-leaves. Prom this depended, over the bed, 
light curtains of rose-coloured gauze, striped with silver, 
supplying that protection from mosquitos which is an 
indispensable addition to all sleeping accommodation in 
that climate. The graceful bamboo lounges were amply 
supplied with cushions of rose-coloured damask, while over 
them, depending from the hands of sculptured figures, were 
gauze curtains similar to those of the bed. A light, fanciful 
bamboo table stood in the middle of the room, where a 
Parian vase, wrought in the shape of a white lily, with its 
buds, stood, ever filled with flowers. On this table lay 
Eva's books and little trinkets, with an elegantly-wrought 
alabaster writing-stand, which her father had supplied to 
her when he saw her trying to improve herself in writing. 
There was a fireplace in the room, and on the marble mantel 
above stood a beautifully-wrought statuette of Jesus 
receiving little children, and on either side marble vases, for 
which it was Tom's pride and delight to offer bouquets every 
morning. Two or three exquisite paintings of children, in 
various attitudes, embellished the wall. In short, the eye 
could turn nowhere without meeting images of childhood, 
of beauty, and of peace. Those little eyes never opened, in 
the morning light, without falling on something which 
suggested to the heart soothing and beautiful thoughts. 
The deceitful strength which had buoyed Eva up for a 
little while was fast passing away ; seldom and more seldom 
her light footstep was heard in the verandah, and oftener 
and oftener she was found reclined on a little lounge by the 
open window, her large, deep eyes fixed on the rising and 
falling waters of the lake. 
It was towards the middle of the afternoon, as she was 
so reclining her Bible half-open, her little transparent 
fingers lying listlessly between the leaves suddenly she 
heard her mother's voice, in sharp tones, in the verandah. 
" What now, you baggage ? what new piece of mischief? 
You've been picking the flowers, eh ? " and Eva heard the 
sound of a smart slap. 
" Law, missis ! they's for Miss Eva," she heard a voice 
say, which she knew belonged to Topsy. 
" Miss Eva ! A pretty excuse ! you suppose she wants 
your flowers, you good-for-nothing nigger ! Get along off 
with you ! " 
In a moment, Eva was off from her lounge, and in the 
verandah. 
" Oh, don't, mother ! I should like the flowers ; do give 
them to me ; I want them ! " 
" Why, Eva, your room is full now." 
" I can't have too many," said Eva. " Topsy, do bring 
them here." 
Topsy, who had stood sullenly, holding down her head, 
now came up and offered her flowers. She did it with a 
look of hesitation and bashfulness, quite unlike the eldritch 
boldness and brightness which was usual with her. 
" It's a beautiful bouquet ! " said Eva, looking at it. 
It was rather a singular one a brilliant scarlet geranium, 
and one single white japonica, with its glossy leaves. It 
was tied up with an evident eye to the contrast of colour, 
and the arrangement of every leaf had carefully been 
studied. 
Topsy looked pleased, as Eva said, " Topsy, you arrange 
flowers very prettily. Here," she said, "is this vase, I 
haven't any flowers for. I wish you'd arrange something 
every day for it." 
" Well, that's odd ! " said Marie. " What in the world 
do you want that for ? " 
" Never mind, mamma ; you'd as lief as not Topsy should 
do it had you not ? " 
" Of course, anything you please, dear ! Topsy, you 
hear your young mistress ; see that you mind." 
Topsy made a short curtsey, and looked down ; and, as 
she turned away, Eva saw a tear roll down her dark cheek. 
"You see, mamma, I knew poor Topsy wanted to do 
something for me," said Eva to her mother. 
" Oh, nonsense ! it's only because she likes to do mischief. 
She knows she mustn't pick flowers so she does it ; that's 
all there is to it. But, if you fancy to have her pluck them, 
so be it." 
" Mamma, I think Topsy is different from what she used 
