which they were required to walk, punishment was sure to follow.
A child loves his parent naturally. The latter may be harsh, and
unreasonable; still the child will look up to him in weak
dependence, while love mingles, like golden threads in a dark
fabric, amid the fear and respect with which he regards him. Thus it
was with the children of Andrew Howland. Their mother was a gentle,
retiring woman, with a heart full of the best affections. When the
sunshine fell upon her golden locks in the early days of innocence,
it was in a home where the ringing laugh, the merry shout, and the
wild exuberance of feeling ever bursting from the heart of childhood
were rarely checked; or, if repressed, with a hand that wounded not
in its firm contraction. She had grown up to womanhood amid all that
was gentle, kind and loving. Transplanted, then, like a tender
flower from a sunny border, to the cold and formal home of her
husband, she drooped in the uncongenial soil, down into which her
heart-fibres penetrated in search of nutrition. And yet, while
drooping thus, she tenderly loved her husband, and earnestly sought
to overcome in herself many true impulses of nature to which he gave
the false name of weaknesses. It was less painful thus to repress
them herself, than to have them crushed in the iron hand with which
he was ever ready to grasp them.
Let it not be thought that Andrew Howland was an evil minded man. In
the beginning we have intimated that this was not so. He purposed
wrong to no one. Honest he was in all his dealings with the world;
honest even to the division of a penny. The radical fault of his
character was coldness and intolerance. Toward wrong-doing and
wrong-doers, he had no forbearance whatever; and to him that strayed
from the right path, whether child or man, he meted out, if in his
power, the full measure of consequences. Unfortunately for those who
came within the circle of his authority, his ideas of right and
wrong were based on warped and narrow views, the result of a
defective religious education. He, therefore, often called things
wrong, from prejudice, that were not wrong in themselves; and
sternly reacted upon others, and drove them away from him, when he
might have led and guided them into the paths of virtue.
The first year of Andrew Howland's married life was one of deep
trial to the loving young creature he had taken from her sunny home
to cherish in his bosom--a bosom too cold to warm into vigorous life
new shoots of affection. And yet he loved his wife; loved her
wisely, as he thought, not weakly, nor blindly. He saw her faults,
and, true to his character, laid his hands upon them. Alas! how much
of good was crushed in the rigid pressure!
To Mr. Howland life was indeed a stern reality. Duties and
responsibilities were ever in his thoughts. Pleasure was but another
name for sin, and a weakness of character an evil not to be
tolerated.
Enough, for our present purpose, can be seen of the character of
Andrew Howland in this brief outline. As our story advances, it will
appear in minuter shades, and more varied aspects. Seven years from
the day of his marriage we will introduce him to the reader.
"What shall I do with this boy?" said Mr. Howland. He spoke
sternly, yet in a perplexed voice, while he walked the floor of the
room with a quickness of tread unusual. "If something is not done to
break him into obedience he will be ruined."
"He needs all our forbearance," Mrs. Howland ventured to remark, "as
well as our care and solicitude."
"Forbearance! I have no forbearance toward wrong, Esther. You have
forborne until the child is beyond your control."
"Not entirely," was meekly answered, as the mother's eyes drooped to
the floor.
At this moment a servant, who had been sent for the child, came in
with him. A few doors away lived another child, about the same age,
of whom little Andrew was very fond, and whose companionship he
sought on every occasion. Against the father of this child Mr.
Howland had imbibed a strong prejudice, which was permitted to
extend itself to his family. Rigid and uncompromising in everything,
he had observed that Andrew was frequently in company with the child
of this neighbor, and felt impelled to lay a prohibition on their
intercourse. But Andrew, a light-hearted, high-spirited boy, who
inherited from his father a strong will, was by no means inclined to
yield a ready obedience in this particular. He loved his little
companion, and never was happier than when in her society.
Naturally, therefore, he sought it on every occasion, and when the
positive interdiction of their intercourse came, the child felt that
a duty was imposed upon him that was impossible of fulfillment.
Young as he was, he could endure punishment, but not give up his
little friend. Advantage was therefore taken of every opportunity to
be with her that offered. Punishments of various kinds were
inflicted, but they acted only as temporary restraints.
As to this little girl herself, let it be understood, Mr. Howland
had no personal objection. He had never seen anything that was wrong
in her, and had never heard a word of evil spoken against her. The
simple, yet all-embracing defect that appertained to her was his
dislike of her father; and this dislike had its chief foundation in
a wrong estimate of his character, the result of his own narrow
prejudices. Somewhat hastily, we will admit, did Mr. Howland utter
the word that was to separate the little friends, and the word was
half-repented of as soon as spoken. But once uttered, it was a law
to which he required the most implicit obedience. He thought not of
the wrong the separation might do his child; he thought only of
enforcing obedience--of breaking a stubborn will. Obedience in
children was, in his eyes, everything--and he visited, with the
sternest displeasure, every deviation therefrom. The consequence
was, that his little ones, in their nest at home, rarely saw in the
face of their father a smile of affection; rarely heard his voice in
words of tenderness. Something, in their conduct was ever
displeasing to him, and he attempted its correction by coldness,
repulsion, harsh words, or cruel punishment. He never sought to
lead, but to force them into the right way.
The word of interdiction was uttered, but Andrew could not give up
his sweet little friend; and the word was therefore disregarded.
Stealthily, to avoid punishment, he went to her but watchful eyes
were upon him, and he was soon brought back. Gently and earnestly
his mother would chide his disobedience; harshly his father would
punish it--but all was of no avail.
"Where is Andrew?" asked Mr. Howland, on returning home one evening
from his store, and not seeing the bright little fellow in the room
with his mother. This was on the occasion of his introduction to the
reader.
"I don't know. He was here just now," replied Mrs. Howland.
"I saw him a little while ago playing on the steps with Emily
Winters," said the nurse, who had come recently into the family, and
was not aware of the prohibition that existed in regard to the child
she had mentioned.
"Is it possible!" exclaimed Mr. Howland, angrily. Then he added in
an excited voice, "go and bring him home immediately!"
The nurse left the room and soon returned with the child. In his
face was a look of blended fear, anger and resolution.
"Where have you been, sir?" sternly asked Mr. Howland.
The child made no answer.
"Do you hear me, sir?"
A slight motion of shrinking and alarm might have been seen in the
little fellow as the angry voice of his father fell upon his ears.
But he did not look up or make a reply.
"Will you answer me? Stubborn boy!" exclaimed Mr. Howland, now
catching hold tightly of Andrew's arm.
"Why don't you answer your father, my child?" said the mother, in a
voice that was tender and appealing. The tone reached the boy's
heart, and he lifted his large blue eyes from the floor and fixed
them on his father's threatening countenance.
"Say! Where have you been?" repeated Mr. Howland.
"To see Emily," returned Andrew.
"Haven't I forbidden you to go there?"
The child's eyes sunk again to the floor.
"Say! Haven't I forbidden you to go there?"
But there was no answer.
"Do you hear me?"
"Andrew! Andrew! why don't you answer your father?" came in
distressed and tremulous tones from his mother's lips.
Mr. Howland was about turning to chide sharply his wife for this
interference, when Andrew again raised his eyes and said--
"Yes, sir."
"Then why have you disobeyed me?"
The boy's eyes fell again, and he remained silent.
"I'll break you of this if I break your heart!" said Mr. Howland
severely, and, as he spoke, he almost lifted the child from the
floor with his strong arm as he led him from the room. A groan
issued from the mother's heart and she covered her face and wept.
By the time Mr. Howland reached the chamber above, to which he
repaired with Andrew, the excitement of his anger had subsided; but
not his stern purpose in regard to his child, who had again
disobeyed him. The absolute necessity of obedience in children he
recognized in all its length and breadth. He saw no hope for them in
the future unless obedience were constrained at every cost. Happy
both for them and himself would it have been if he had been wiser in
his modes of securing obedience, and more cautious about exacting
from his children things almost impossible for them to perform.
Without a law there is no sin. Careful, then, should every parent be
how he enacts a law, the very existence of which insures its
violation.
Mr. Howland had sought, by various modes of punishment, other than
chastisement, to enforce obedience in this particular case. Now he
was resolved to try the severer remedy. Andrew had expected nothing
farther than to be shut up, alone, in the room, and to go, perhaps,
supperless to bed, and he was nerved to bear this without a murmur.
But when the rod became suddenly visible, and was lifted above him
in the air, his little heart was filled with terror.
"Oh, father!" he exclaimed, in a voice of fear, while his upturned,
appealing face became ashy pale.
"You have disobeyed me again, my son," said Mr. Howland, coldly and
sternly, "and I must whip you for it. Disobedient children have to
be punished."
"Oh, father! Don't whip me! Don't!" came huskily from the lips of
the terrified child. But even while he thus pleaded, the smarting
strokes began to fall.
"Now, sir!" at length said Mr. Howland, pausing with the rod
uplifted, "will you go into Mr. Winters' again?"
The child hesitated, and down came a blow upon his tender limbs,
followed by the words--
"Say! Will you go in there any more?"
Still there was a reluctance to make this promise, and another and
harder stroke was given. The father was resolved to conquer, and he
did conquer. A promise was extorted from the child's lips, while,
his heart yielded nothing.
"Very well, sir! See that you keep your word," said Mr. Howland, as
he released the writhing sufferer from his firm grasp. "If you
disobey me again in this thing, I will give five times as much."
And he turned from the chamber leaving the wronged and suffering
child alone.
"I've begun now, and I'll go through with it," muttered Mr. Howland,
as he reentered the room where his wife was sitting. "I never saw so
perverse and self-willed a child in my life. If he is not subdued
now, and forced to obey, his ultimate destruction is inevitable."
"His fault was not a very great one," Mrs. Howland ventured to
suggest.
"Do you call disobedience a little fault?" asked Mr. Howland, his
brow contracting as he spoke.
"I did not mean that," quickly answered Mrs. Howland. "I meant his
going in to see Emily Winters. The children are very fond of each
other."
"But I have told him not to go in there, haven't I?"
"Yes."
"Very well. That settles the matter. If he goes, he disobeys me; and
if he disobeys me, he must be punished."
"But, Andrew--"
"It is useless to argue about this with me, Esther. Entirely
useless. In your weakness you would indulge and ruin the boy. But I
know my duty better."
Mrs. Howland sighed deeply and remained silent. Some ten minutes
afterwards, seeing her husband engaged with a book, she arose and
left the room. As soon as she closed the door, every movement was
suddenly quickened, and she sprung up the stairway to the chamber
from which had come down to her the screams of her boy, as he shrunk
under the cruel strokes inflicted by the hand of his father.
Entering, she saw Andrew sitting on the floor, with his arms resting
on a low chair, and his face buried in them. He raised his head
slowly, and turned to see who had come in. The instant he saw that
it was his mother, a flush came into his pale face, and tears dimmed
the light of his beautiful, tender, loving eyes. In another moment
he was sobbing on her bosom.
"Dear Andrew must not be disobedient again," said the mother, so
soon as her child had grown calm, bending close to his cheek as she
spoke, and letting her breath fall warmly over it.
"Emily is a good little girl, and I love her. She ain't bad, mother.
She is better than I am," quickly returned the child, raising
himself up, and lifting his eyes earnestly to his mother's face.
"But your father has forbidden you to go to her house, Andrew."
"Won't he let Emily come to see me?" urged the child.
"No, dear. He wants you to play with some one else."
"But I don't want to play with any one else. Emily is a good girl,
and I like her so much. Indeed she ain't bad, mother. She's good."
"I know, dear," answered the perplexed mother. "I know that Emily is
a good girl. But--"
"Then why won't father let me play with her?" was Andrew's quick
interrogation.
"He doesn't wish you to do so, my child, and you must be an
obedient, good little boy, and then your father will love you."
"He don't love me!" said Andrew in a tone and with an emphasis that
startled his mother.
"Oh yes, he does! He loves you very much. Isn't he your father?"
replied Mrs. Howland in an earnest voice.
"He wouldn't have whipped me so hard if he had loved me! I'm sure he
wouldn't, mother."
And tears gushed from the eyes of the child at the remembrance of
his father's stern face, and the pain he had suffered.
"Andrew musn't speak so of his father," said Mrs. Howland in a
chiding voice. "Andrew was disobedient; that was the reason why his
father punished him. Andrew must be a good boy."
"I ain't bad, mother," sobbed the child. "I'm sure it ain't bad to
play with Emily. She never does anything naughty."
"It is bad if your father forbids your doing so," replied Mrs.
Howland.
"No--it can't be bad to play with Emily," said the little fellow,
speaking half to himself. "She's so good, and I love her."
All in vain proved the mother's effort to make her boy see that it
was wrong to play with Emily. He wanted a reason beyond the
command of his father, and that she was not able to give. The more
she talked with him, the more plainly did she see that rebellion was
in his young heart, and that he would act it out in the face of all
consequences. Deeply saddened was she at this conviction, for she
well knew that obedience to parents is the good ground into which
the seeds of civil and religious obedience in manhood must be sown.
As for herself, Mrs. Howland had no objection to little Emily
Winters as the companion of Andrew. She was, as the boy said, a good
girl, and her influence over him was for good. But the stern
prejudice of Mr. Howland had come in to break up the friendship
formed between the children, and his inflexible will would brook no
opposition. All must bend to him, even at the risk of breaking.
Nearly half an hour did Mrs. Howland pass alone with her boy,
striving to awaken the better impulses of his heart, and as they
became active, seeking to implant in his mind a willingness to deny
himself, in order to obey his father. But the father asked too much.
There was no charge of evil against Emily as a reason for this
interdiction. All the mother could say, was--
"It is your father's wish and command, my child, and you must obey
him."
But this could not satisfy the boy's mind in a case where his
feelings were so deeply interested. At length, Mrs. Howland turned
to leave the room. Andrew followed her to the door, and looking up
with a sad light in his large eyes, murmured--
"I do love you, mother!"
A tear fell upon his face as his mother stooped to kiss him. A
little while after, and he was alone.
"I'm afraid," said Mrs. Howland, joining her husband soon after,
"that we have done wrong in prohibiting all intercourse between
Andrew and little Emily Winters."
"Why so?" was quickly asked, and in no very pleasant tone of voice.
"The children are very much attached to each other."
"That is no reason."
"It would be no reason if there was anything bad about Emily. But
there is not. She is a very good little girl."
"I'm not so sure of that," said Mr. Howland.
"I never saw anything out of the way in her."
"It's more than I can say of her father, then," was replied. "There
lies my chief objection. I want no intercourse between the families,
and do not mean to have any. In this I am entirely in earnest.
Andrew must seek another playfellow."
"I'm afraid we will have a great deal of trouble," sighed Mrs.
Howland.
"I am not, then. Let me know whenever he disobeys in this matter,
and I'll apply the remedy in a way to cure him. His will has to be
broken, and the present occasion is as good as any other for
effecting so all-important an object. The stronger he is tempted to
disobey, the more effectual will be the subjugation of his will,
when the conquest is made."
It was useless for Mrs. Howland to argue with her husband. He never
yielded the smallest assent to any reasons she might bring, nor to
any position she might assume. So, with a pressure on her heart, and
a clear perception in her mind that he was wrong, she heard these
last words in silence.
"Shall I call Andrew down?" asked the mother, as the tea-bell rung,
soon after.
"No," replied Mr. Howland, firmly; "I wish him to understand that I
am in earnest."
"Don't you think he has been punished sufficiently?" said Mrs.
Howland, timidly.
"Of course I do not, or I would remit the penalty of transgression,"
coldly returned her husband. "He's a stubborn, self-willed boy, and
must be made to feel that he has a master."
"Kindness and persuasion often does--"
"I will hear no more of that!" quickly returned Mr. Howland; "and I
wish you, once for all, to understand, Esther, that I will not
consent to an interference on your part with what I believe to be my
duty. Thousands of children have been ruined by this weak kindness
and persuasion, but this shall never be the case with mine."
Mr. Howland did not observe that his wife caught her breath, as he
uttered the first few words of his harsh report. She made no further
answer, but passed on with her husband to the tea-room. But she ate
nothing. Dreamily rested her eyes on vacancy, as she sat at the
table. Her mind took no note of images pictured on the retina, for
her thoughts were in another place, and with her inner vision she
saw the sad form of her wronged and suffering child shrinking in the
lone chamber where he had been banished.
"Shall I take Andrew some supper?" she asked, as she arose, at
length, from the table.
"He can have some bread and water," was coldly and briefly answered.
Will any one blame the mother, that she went beyond this? A few
minutes afterward she entered the room in which Andrew had been
punished, bearing in her hands a small tray, on which was a cup of
milk and water, some toast, and a piece of cake. The twilight had
already fallen, and dusky shadows had gathered so thickly that the
eyes of Mrs. Howland failed to see her child on first entering the
room.
"Andrew!" she called, in a low, tender voice.
But there was no reply.
"Andrew!"
Still all remained silent.
More accustomed to the feeble light that pervaded the chamber, Mrs.
Howland now perceived her boy in a corner, sitting upon the floor,
with his head reclining upon a low ottoman. He was asleep. Placing
the tray she had brought upon a table, Mrs. Howland lifted the child
in her arms, and as she did so, he murmured in a sad voice--
"Don't, papa! oh, don't strike so hard!"
Unable to repress her feelings, the mother's tears gushed over her
cheeks, and her bosom heaved with emotions that spent themselves in
sobs and moans.
For many minutes she sat thus. But the child slept on. Once or twice
she tried to awake him, that he might get the supper she had
brought; but he slept on soundly, and she refrained, unwilling to
call him back to the grief of mind she felt that consciousness would
restore. Undressing him, at length, she laid him in his bed, and
bending over his precious form in the deeper darkness that had now
fallen, lifted her heart, and prayed that God would keep him from
evil. For a long time did she bend thus over her boy, and longer
still would she have remained near him, for her heart was affected
with an unusual tenderness, had not the cries of her younger child
summoned her from the room.
CHAPTER II
THE tears of childhood are soon dried. Grief is but as the summer
rain. On the next morning, little Andrew's voice was heard singing
over the house, as merrily as ever. But the sound did not affect,
pleasantly, the mind of his father. He had not forgotten the scene
of the previous evening, and was far from having forgiven the
disobedience he had punished so severely. Had Andrew come forth from
his chamber silent and with a sober, abashed, and fearful
countenance, as if he still bore the weight of his father's
displeasure, Mr. Howland would have felt that he had made some
progress in the work of breaking the will of his child. But to see
him moving about and singing as gaily as a bird, discouraged him.
"Have I made no impression on the boy?" he asked himself.
"Father!" said Andrew, running up, with a happy smile upon his face,
as these thoughts were passing through the mind of Mr. Howland,
"won't you buy me a pretty book? Oh! I want one--"
"Naughty, disobedient boy!"
These were the words, uttered sternly, and with a forbidding aspect
of countenance, that met this affectionate state of mind, and threw
the child rudely from his father.
Andrew looked frightened for a moment or two, and then shrunk away.
From that time until his father left the house, his voice was still.
During the morning, he amused himself with his playthings and his
little sister, and seemed well contented. But after dinner he became
restless, and often exclaimed--
"Oh! I wish I had somebody to play with!"
At length, after sitting by the window and looking out for a long
time, he turned to his mother, and said--
"Mother, can't I go and see Emily Winters?"
"No, Andrew, of course not," replied Mrs. Howland.
"Why, mother? I like her, and she's good."
"Because your father doesn't wish you go to her house. Didn't he
punish you last evening for going there?"
At this the child grew impatient, and threw himself about with angry
gestures. Then he sat down and cried for a time bitterly, while his
mother strove, but in vain, to soothe him. For hours his
thoughts had been on his little friend, and now he cared for nothing
but to see her. Denied this privilege from mere arbitrary authority,
his mind had become fretted beyond his weak ability to control
himself.
It was, perhaps, an hour after this, that Mrs. Howland missed
Andrew, and fearful that he might have been tempted to disobey the
command laid upon him, raised the window and looked into the street.
Just as she did so, she saw him running back toward his home from
the house of Mr. Winters, on the steps of which sat Emily. Entering
quickly, she heard him close the street-door with a slight jar, as
if he designed making as little noise as possible.
"Where have you been, Andrew?" asked Mrs. Howland as soon as he came
up to her room, which he did soon after.
"Down in the kitchen with Jane," was replied without hesitation.
"Have you been nowhere else?" Mrs. Howland repented having asked
this question the moment it passed her lips, and still more when the
child answered as unhesitatingly as before, "No, ma'am."
Here was falsehood added to disobedience! Poor Mrs. Howland turned
her face away to grieve and ponder. She found herself in a narrow
path, and doubtful as to the steps to be taken. She said nothing
more, for she could not see clearly what it was best for her to say;
and she did nothing, for she could not see what it was best for her
to do. But she resolved to be watchful over her boy, lest he should
again be tempted into disobedience.
The mother's watchfulness, however, availed not. Ere night-fall
Andrew was with his little friend again. Unfortunately for him, the
pleasure he derived from her society caused him to forget the
passing of time, and his stolen delight was, in the end, suddenly
dispelled by the stern voice of his father, who passed the door of
Mr. Winters on his way homeward.
Slowly and in fear did the child obey the angry command to return
home. He knew that he would be punished with great severity, and he
was not mistaken. He was so punished. But did this avail anything?
No! On the next day he asked his mother to let him sit at the front
door.
"I'm afraid you'll go into Mr. Winters," said Mrs. Howland, in
reply.
"Oh, no; indeed I won't, mother," was the ready answer.
"If you disobey me, I can't let you go to the door again."
"Oh, I won't disobey you," replied the child.
"Very well, Andrew, I'll trust you. Now, don't deceive me."
The child promised over and over again, and Mrs. Howland trusted
him. Ten minutes afterward she looked out, but he was nowhere
to be seen. A domestic was sent to the house of Mr. Winters, where
Andrew was found, as happy as a child could be, playing with his
little friend Emily. On being reproved by his mother for this act of
disobedience, he looked earnestly in her face and said--
"You won't tell father, will you? He'll whip me so, and I don't like
to be whipped."
"But why did you go in there?" said Mrs. Howland. "Haven't we
forbidden you? And didn't you promise me that if I'd let you go to
the front door, you would stay there?"
"I couldn't help it, mother," replied Andrew.
"Oh, yes, you could."
"Indeed I couldn't, mother. I saw Emily, and then I couldn't help
it."
There was an expression in the child's voice as he said this, that
thrilled the feelings of his mother. She felt that he spoke only the
simple truth--that he could not help doing as he had done.
"But Andrew must help it," she was constrained to reply. "Mother
can't let him go to the front door again."
"You won't tell father, will you?" urged the child, lifting,
earnestly, his large, bright, innocent eyes to his mother's face.
"Say, you won't tell him?"
Grieved, perplexed, and troubled, Mrs. Howland knew not what to say,
nor how to act.
"Dear mother!" urged the boy, "you won't tell father? Say you
won't?" And tears began to glisten beneath his eyelids.
"Andrew has been disobedient," said the mother, trying to assume an
offended tone. "Will he be so anymore?"
"If you won't tell father, I'll be good."
The mother sighed, and fixed her gaze musingly on the floor. Her
thoughts were still more confused, and her mind in still greater
perplexity. Ah, if she only knew what was right!
"I will not tell your father this time," she at length said, "but
don't ask me, if you are again disobedient."
But of what avail was the child's promises. He had strong feelings,
a strong will, and, though so very young, much endurance. A law, at
variance almost with a law of his nature, had been arbitrarily
enacted, and he could not obey it. As well might his father have
shut him up, hungry, in a room filled with tempting food, and
commanded him not to touch or taste it. Had an allegation of evil
conduct been brought against Emily Winters; had any right reason for
the interdiction been given, then Mr. Howland might have had some
power over the strong will and stronger inclinations of the child.
But into the mind of Andrew, young as he was, came a sense of
injustice and wrong on the part of his father, and there was no
willingness, from filial duty, to yield obedience in a case where
every feeling of his heart was at variance with the command.
The struggle so early commenced between the father and his child,
was an unceasing one. The will of Andrew, which by other treatment
might have been bent to obedience, gained a vigor like the young oak
amid storms, in the strife and reaction of his daily life. Instead
of drawing his child to him, there was ever about Mr. Howland a
sphere of repulsion. Andrew was always doing something to offend his
father; and his father was in consequence always offended. A kind
word from paternal lips rarely touched the ears of the boy, and, but
for the love of his gentle mother, home would have been almost
intolerable. Steadily, against all opposition, chidings, and
punishment, Andrew would seek the company of his little friend Emily
on every convenient occasion. To avoid the consequences he would
practice deception, and utter direct falsehood without compunction
or hesitation. At last, after a struggle of two years, even the
father became wearied and discouraged at the perseverance of his
child; and there came a suggestion to his mind, that probably, to
continue as he had been going on for so long a time, would do more
harm than good. It requires no little self-denial for a man like
Andrew Howland to yield in such a contention, and let the will of
his child remain unbroken. But, after a long debate with himself,
his better conviction triumphed over prejudice and the tenacity of a
mind fixed in its own opinions. He ceased to command obedience in
the case of Emily Winters, and therefore ceased to punish Andrew on
her account. Nevertheless, he rarely saw him in her company that the
displeasure he felt was not manifested by a frown, or some word that
smote painfully upon the ear of his child.
Possessing an active, independent mind, Andrew failed not to excite
the displeasure of his father in many ways. In fact he was always in
disgrace from some cause or other and the subject of angry reproof,
harsh judgment, or direct punishment. Often his conduct needed
reproof and even punishment; but he was the victim of such frequent
wrong judgment and unjust reproof and punishment, that by the time
he was eleven years of age, he looked upon his father more as a
persecuting tyrant than a kind parent, who sincerely desired his
good. An instance of wrong judgment and unjust punishment we will
here give.
As Andrew grew older and formed school boy associations, his
impulsive and rather reckless character brought him frequently into
collision with his companions, and he gained a reputation which was
by no means good. Every now and then some one would complain to Mr.
Howland of his bad conduct, when he, taking all for granted, would,
without investigation, visit the offence with severe punishment.
One day, when in his twelfth year, as Andrew was at play during a
recess in the school hour, a boy larger than himself made an angry
attack upon a lad much below him in size, and was abusing him
severely, when Andrew, acting from a brave and generous impulse, ran
to the rescue of the smaller boy, and, in a sudden onset, freed him
from the hands of his assailant. Maddened at this interference, the
larger boy turned fiercely upon him. But Andrew was active, and kept
out of his way. Still the larger boy pursued him, using all the
while the most violent threats. At length finding that he was likely
to be caught and get roughly handled, Andrew took up a stone, and
drawing back his hand, warned the boy not to approach. He continued
to approach, however, vowing, as he did so, that he would beat the
life half out of him. True to his word, and in self-defence, Andrew
threw the stone, which struck the boy full on the forehead and
knocked him down. For some minutes he lay stunned and half-insensible.
Frightened at the consequences of his act, Andrew sprung to the side
of the fallen lad and tried to raise him up. Failing in this he ran
for the teacher, who was in the school-room. A little cold water
thrown into the boy's face revived him, when he went home to his
parents. The teacher made careful inquiries into the matter, which
satisfied him that Andrew was not very greatly to blame.
A short time after this occurrence, a gentleman entered the store of
Andrew's father, and said, with much excitement of manner,
"Mr. Howland! I've come to make complaint against that boy of
yours."
"Against Andrew?"
"Yes, sir. He's nearly killed my son!"
"Bless me!" exclaimed Mr. Howland, in a distressed voice. "What has
happened? How did he do it?"
"Why, sir! without the slightest provocation, he took up a large
stone and struck my boy with it on the forehead, knocking him down
senseless. I have had to send for the doctor. It may cost him his
life."
"Oh dear! dear! What will become of that boy?" exclaimed Mr.
Howland, wringing his hands, and moving up and down the floor
uneasily. "Knocked him down with a stone, you say?"
"Yes sir And that without any provocation. I can't stand this.
I must, at least, protect the lives of my children. Every week I
have had some complaint against your son; but I didn't wish to
have a difficulty, and so said nothing about it. But this is going a
little too far. He must have a dreadful temper."
"There is something very perverse about him," remarked Mr. Howland,
sadly. "Ah, me! What am I to do?"
"There may have been some slight provocation," said the man, a
little modified by the manner in which his complaint was received,
and departing from his first assertion.
"Nothing to justify an assault like this," replied Mr. Howland with
promptness. "Nothing! Nothing! The boy will be the death of me."
"Caution him, if you please, Mr. Howland, against a repetition of
such dangerous conduct. The result might be deplorable."
"I will do something more than caution him, you may be sure," was
answered, and, as he spoke, the lips of Mr. Howland were drawn
tightly across his teeth.
The man went away, and Mr. Howland dispatched a messenger to the
school for Andrew immediately, and then started for home. He had
been there only a little while, when the boy came in with a
frightened look. To his father's eyes conscious guilt was in his
countenance.
"Go up stairs, sir!" was the stern salutation that met the lad's
ears.
"Father, I--"
"Silence, sir! Don't let me hear a word out of your head!"
The boy shrunk away and went up to his own room in the third story,
whither his angry father immediately followed him.
"Now, sir, take off your jacket!" said Mr. Howland who had a long,
thick rattan in his hand.
"Indeed father," pleaded the child, "I wasn't to blame. Bill
Wilkins--"
"Silence, sir! I want none of your lying excuses! I know you! I've
talked to you often enough about quarreling and throwing stones."
"But, father--"
"Off with your jacket, this instant! Do you hear me?
"Oh, father! Let me speak! I couldn't--"
"Not a word, I say! I know all about it!" silenced the pleading boy.
His case was prejudged, and he was now in the hands of the
executioner. Slowly, and with trembling hands, the poor child
removed his outer garment, his pale face growing paler every moment,
and then submitting himself to the cruel rod that checkered his back
with smarting welts. Under a sense of wrong, his proud spirit
refused to his body a single cry of pain. Manfully he bore his
unjust chastisement, while every stroke obliterated some yet
remaining emotion of respect and love for his father, who, satisfied
at length with strokes and upbraiding, threw the boy from him with
the cutting words--
"I shall yet have to disown you!" and turning away left the
apartment.
CHAPTER III.
WHILE Mr. Howland yet paced the floor in a perturbed state of mind,
after the severe flogging he had given to Andrew, and while he
meditated some further and long-continued punishment for the
offences which had been committed, a servant handed him a note. It
was from Andrew's teacher, and was to this effect--
"From careful inquiry, I am entirely satisfied that your son, when
he threw the stone at William Wilkins, was acting in self-defence,
and, therefore, is blameless. Wilkins is a quarrelsome, overbearing
lad, and was abusing a smaller boy, when your son interfered to
protect the latter. This drew upon him the anger of Wilkins, who
would have beaten him severely if he had not protected himself in
the way he did. Before throwing the stone, I learn that Andrew made
every effort to get away; failing in this, he warned the other not
to come near him. This warning being disregarded, he used the only
means of self-protection left to him. I say this in justice to your
son, and to save him from your displeasure. As for Wilkins, I do not
intend to receive him back into my school."
For a long time Mr. Howland remained seated in the chair he had
taken on receiving the teacher's note. His reflections were far from
being agreeable. He had been both unjust and cruel to his child. But
for him to make an acknowledgment of the fact was out of the
question. This would be too humiliating. This would be a triumph for
the perverse boy, and a weakening of his authority over him. He had
done wrong in not listening to his child's explanation; in not
waiting until he had heard both sides. But, now that the wrong was
done, the fact that he was conscious of having done wrong must not
appear. In various ways he sought to justify his conduct. At length
he said, half aloud--
"No matter. He deserved it for something else, and has received only
his deserts. Let him behave himself properly, and he'll never be the
subject of unjust censure."
It was thus that the cold-hearted father settled, with his own
conscience, this question of wrong toward his child. And yet he was
a man who prayed in his family, and regularly, with pious
observance, attended upon the ordinances of the church. In society
he was esteemed as a just and righteous man; in the church as one
who lived near to heaven. As for himself, he believed that severity
toward his boy, and intolerance of all the weaknesses, errors, and
wayward tendencies of childhood, were absolutely needed for the due
correction of evil impulses. Alas! that he, like too many of his
class, permitted anger toward his children's faults to blind his
better judgment, and to stifle the genuine appeals of nature.
Instead of tenderness, forbearance, and a loving effort to lead them
in right paths, and make those paths pleasant to their feet, he
sternly sought to force them in the way he wished them to go. With
what little success, in the case of Andrew, is already apparent.
Angry at the unjust punishment he had received, the boy remained
alone in his room until summoned to dinner.
"He doesn't want anything to eat," said the servant, returning to
the dining-room where the family were assembled at the table.
"Oh, very well," remarked the father, in a tone of indifference,
"fasting will do him good."
"Go up, Anna," said Mr. Howland to the servant "and tell him that I
want him to come down."
That word would have been effectual, for Andrew loved his mother;
but Mr. Howland remarked instantly:
"No, no! Let him, remain. I never humor states of perverseness. If
he wishes to fast he can be gratified."
Mrs. Howland said no more, but she took only a few mouthfuls of food
while she sat at the table. Her appetite was gone. After dinner she
went up to Andrew's room with a saucer of peaches and cream. The
moment she opened the door the lad sprung toward her, and while
tears gushed from his eyes, he said--
"Indeed, indeed, mother, I was not to blame! Bill Wilkins was going
to beat me--and you know, he's a large boy."
"But you might have killed him, Andrew," replied the mother, with a
gentle gravity that, in love, conveyed reproof. "It is dangerous to
throw stones."
"I had to defend myself, mother. I couldn't let him beat me half to
death. And I told him to keep off or I would strike him with the
stone. I'm sure I wasn't to blame."
"Why, was he going to beat you, Andrew? What did you do to him?"
asked Mrs. Howland.
"I'll tell you, mother," replied the boy. "He was pounding with his
fist a poor little fellow, not half his size, and I couldn't stand
and see it if he was a bigger boy than me. So I took the little
boy's part; and then he turned on me and said he'd beat the life out
of me. I ran from him and tried to get away, but he could run the
fastest, and so I took up a stone and told him to keep off. But he
was mad, and wouldn't keep off. So I struck him with it, and,
mother, I'd do it again to-morrow. No boy shall beat me if I can
defend myself."
"Why didn't you tell your father of this?" asked Mrs. Howland.
"I tried to tell him, but he wouldn't listen to me," said the lad,
with ill-concealed indignation in his voice. "And he never will
listen to me, mother. He believes every word that is said against
me, and flogs me whether I am guilty or not. I'm sure he hates me!"
"Hush! hush my boy! don't say that. Don't speak so of your father."
"Well, I'm sure he don't love me," persisted Andrew.
"Oh, yes, he does love you. He only dislikes what is wrong in you.
My son must try to be a good boy."
"I do try, mother; I try almost every day. But somehow I do wrong
things without thinking. I'm always sorry at first; sorry until
father begins to scold or whip me, and then I don't seem to care
anything about it. Oh, dear! I wish father wasn't always so cross!"
While Andrew thus talked, his tears had ceased to flow; but now they
gushed over his cheeks again, and he leaned his face upon his
mother's bosom. Mrs. Howland drew her arms closely around her
unhappy boy, while her own eyes became wet. For many minutes there
was silence. At last she said, in a kind, earnest voice--
"I've brought you a nice saucer of peaches and cream, Andrew."
"I don't want them, mother," replied the lad.
"You'll be hungry before night, dear. It's nearly school-time now,
and you'll get nothing to eat until you come home again."
"I don't feel at all hungry, mother."
"Just eat them for my sake," urged Mrs. Howland.
Without a word more Andrew took the saucer.
"Ain't they nice?" asked Mrs. Howland, as she saw that her boy
relished the fruit and cream.
"Yes, dear mother! they are very good," replied Andrew; "and you are
good, too. Indeed I love you, mother!"
The last sentence was uttered with visible emotion.
"Then, for my sake, try and do right, Andrew," said Mrs. Howland,
tenderly.
"I will try, mother," returned the boy. "I do try often; but I
forget myself a great many times."
Soon after Andrew started for school. On arriving, his teacher
called him up and said--
"Did your father get my note?"
"I don't know, sir," replied Andrew.
"What did he say to you?"
The boy's eyes sunk to the floor and he remained silent.
"I sent your father a note immediately," said the teacher, "telling
him that you were not to blame."
Andrew looked up quickly into his teacher's face, while a shadow
fell upon his countenance.
"You don't know whether he received it?"
"No sir."
The teacher called up another lad, and inquired if he had delivered
the note given him at the dwelling of Mr. Howland, as directed. The
boy replied that he had done so.
"Very, well. You can take your seat."
Then turning to Andrew, the teacher said--
"Was it about William Wilkins that your father sent for you?"
"Yes, sir."
"You told him how it was?"
The boy was silent.
"He didn't punish you, surely?"
Tears trembled on the closing lashes of the injured child; but he
answered nothing. The teacher saw how it was, and questioned him no
farther. From that time he was kinder toward his wayward and, too
often, offending scholar, and gained a better influence over him.
Not for a moment, during the afternoon, was the thought that his
father knew of his blamelessness absent from Andrew's mind. And,
when he returned home, his heart beat feverishly in anticipation of
the meeting between him and his parent. He felt sure that the
teacher's note had reached his father after the punishment had been
inflicted; and he expected, from an innate sense of right and
justice, that some acknowledgment, grateful to his injured feelings,
of the wrong he had suffered, would be made. There was no thought of
triumph or reaction against his father. He had been wrongly judged,
and cruelly punished; and all he asked for or desired was that his
father should speak kindly to him, and say that he had been blamed
without a cause. How many a dark shadow would such a gleam of
sunshine have dispelled from his heart. But no such gleam of light
awaited his meeting with his father, who did not even raise his eyes
to look at him as he came into his presence.
For awhile Andrew lingered in the room where his father sat reading,
hoping for a word that would indicate a kinder state of feeling
toward him. But no such word was uttered. At length he commenced
playing with a younger brother, who, not being able to make him do
just as he wished, screamed out some complaint against him, when Mr.
Howland looked up, suddenly, with a lowering countenance, and said,
harshly--
"Go out of the room, sir! I never saw such a boy! No one can have
any peace where you are!"
Andrew started, and made an effort to explain and excuse himself,
for he was very anxious not to be misunderstood again just at this
time. But his father exclaimed, more severely than at first.
"Do you hear me, sir! Leave this room instantly!"
The boy went out hopeless. He felt that he was unloved by his
father. Oh! what would he not have given--what sacrifice would he
not have made--to secure a word and a smile of affection from his
stern parent, whom he had known from childhood only as one who
reproved and punished.
CHAPTER IV.
WRONGED and repelled, Andrew left the presence of his father, sad,
hopeless, yet with a sense of indignation in his heart against that
father for the wrong he had suffered at his hands.
"It's no use for me to try to do right," he murmured to himself. "If
I want to be good, they won't let me."
As these thoughts passed through his mind, a feeling of recklessness
came over him, and he said aloud--
"I don't care what I do!"
"Don't you, indeed?"
The voice that uttered this sentence caused him to start. It was the
voice of his father, who had left his room soon after the expulsion
of Andrew, and was at the moment passing near, unobserved by the
boy.
"Don't care what you do, ha!" repeated Mr. Howland, standing in
front of the lad, and looking him sternly in the face. "You've
spoken the truth for once!"
For nearly a minute Mr. Howland stood with contracted brows,
scowling upon the half-frightened child. He then walked away, deeply
troubled and perplexed in his mind.
"What is to become of this boy?" he said to himself. "He really
seems to be one of those whom Satan designs to have, that he might
sift them as wheat. I sadly fear that he is given over to a hard
heart, and a perverse mind--one predestinated, to evil from his
birth. Ah me! Have I not done, and am I not still doing everything
to restrain him and save him! But precept, admonition, and
punishment, all seem, thrown away. Even my daily prayers for him
remain unanswered. They rise no higher than my head. What more can I
do than I am now doing? I have tried in every way to break his
stubborn will, but all is of no avail."
While Mr. Howland mused thus, Andrew, oppressed by the sphere of his
father's house, was passing out at the street door, although
expressly forbidden to go away from home after his return from
school. For some time he stood leaning against the railing, with a
pressure of unhappiness on his heart. While standing thus, a lad who
was passing by said to him--
"Come, Andy! there's a company of soldiers around in the Square.
Hark! Don't you hear the music? Come! I'm going."
This was a strong temptation, for Andrew loved music and was fond of
sight-seeing. It would be useless, he knew, to ask the permission of
his father, who usually said "No," to almost every request for a
little liberty or privilege. Especially at the present moment would
the request of this kind be useless.
"Come, Andy! come!" urged the boy, for Andrew, restraining the first
impulse to bound away at the word soldiers, was debating the
question whether to go or not.
Just then the air thrilled with a wave of music, and Andrew, unable
longer to control himself, sprung away with his companion. For half
an hour he enjoyed the music and military evolutions, and then
returned home.
"Where have you been, sir?" was the sharp question that greeted him
as he came in.
"Around in the Square, to see the soldiers," replied Andrew.
"Who gave you permission to go?"
"No one, sir. I heard the music, and thought I'd just go and look at
them a little while. I've not been doing anything wrong, sir."
"Wrong! Isn't disobedience wrong? Haven't I forbidden you, over and
over again, to leave the house after school without my permission?
Say! You don't care what you do! That's it! Go off up stairs with
you, to your own room, and you'll get nothing but bread and water
until to-morrow morning! I'll teach you to mind what I say!"
The boy went sadly up to his room. It had been a day of severer
trial than usual--of greater wrong and outrage upon him as a child.
For the time his spirit was broken, and he wept bitterly when alone
in his silent chamber, that was to be his prison-house until the
dawn of another day.
"Where is Andrew?" asked Mrs. Howland, as her little family gathered
at the supper table, and she found that one was missing.
"I've sent him up to his room. He can't have anything but bread and
water to-night," replied Mr. Howland, in a grave tone.
"What has the poor child done, now?" inquired the mother, in a
troubled voice.
"He went off to see the soldiers, though he had been expressly
forbidden to leave the house after coming home from school."
"Oh, dear! He's always doing something wrong--what will become of
him?" sighed the mother.
"Heaven only knows! If he escape the gallows in the end, it will be
a mercy. I never saw so young a child with so perverse an
inclination."
"Andrew had no dinner to-day," said Mrs. Howland, after a little
while.
"His own fault," replied the father, "he chose to fast."
"He must be very hungry by this time. Won't you allow him something
more than bread and water?"
"No. If he is hungry, that will taste sweet to him."
Mrs. Howland sighed and remained silent. After supper, she took food
to her boy. A slice of bread and a glass of water were first placed
on a tray, and with these the mother started up stairs. But, ere she
reached the chamber, her heart plead so strongly for the lad, that
she paused, stood musing for a few moments, and then returned to the
dining-room. A few slices of tongue, some biscuit, bread and butter,
and a cup of tea were taken from the table, and with these Mrs.
Howland returned up stairs. Unexpectedly, her husband met her on the
way.
"Who is that for?" he asked, in a voice of surprise, seeing the
articles Mrs. Howland was bearing on the tray.
"It is Andrew's supper," was replied; and as Mrs. Howland said this,
her eyes drooped, abashed beneath the stern and rebuking gaze of her
husband.
"Esther! Is it possible!" exclaimed Mr. Howland. "Didn't I say that
Andrew must have nothing but bread and water for his supper?"
"He has had no dinner," murmured the mother.
"I don't care if he had nothing to eat for a week. I said he should
have only bread and water, and I meant what I said. Esther! I am
surprised at you. Of what avail will be efforts at correction, if
you counteract them in this way?"
Mrs. Howland never contended with her husband. In all expressed
differences of opinion, it was his habit to bear her down with an
imperious will. She was weak, and he was her strong tyrant. Not a
word more did she speak but returned to the dining-room, and
replaced the food she had prepared for Andrew by simple bread and
water.
The feelings of childhood never run for a long time in the same
channel. Very soon after entering his room, Andrew's mind lost its
sad impression, and began to search about for something to satisfy
its restless activity. First he got upon the chairs, and jumped from
one to another. This he continued until his feet passed through the
slender cane-works of one of them. Then he turned somersets on the
bed, until more than a handful of feathers were beaten out and
scattered about the room. Next he climbed up the posts and balanced
himself on the tester, to the no small risk of breaking that slender
frame work, and injuring himself severely by a fall. Soon the
compass of the room became too narrow, and the elevation of the
bed-posts too trifling for his expanding ideas. He went to the
window, and, opening it, looked forth. Here was a new temptation.
The roof of a piazza, built out from a second story, came up to
within a foot of the window-sill. He had often ventured upon this
roof, and he sprung out upon it again without a moment's hesitation
or reflection, and running along, with the lightness of a cat,
gained the roof of the back building, which he ascended to the very
apex, and then placed himself astride thereof. Here he sat for some
minutes looking around him and enjoying the prospect. On the end of
the back building was fastened a strong pole, running up into the
air some ten feet. On the top of this pole was a bird-box, in which
a pair of pigeons had their nest. Two young pigeons had been hatched
out, and now nearly full-fledged and ready to fly, they were
thrusting their glossy heads from the box, and looking about from
their airy height.
A fluttering of wings, as the mother-bird returned with food for her
young ones, attracted the attention of Andrew, and looking up, he
saw the young pigeons. Instantly came a desire to remove them from
their nest. But the way to that nest was too difficult and perilous
for him to think of securing his wish. This was the first
impression. Then he fixed his eye on the nest, and watched the old
bird, as she sat on a ledge that projected from the box, while she
distributed to her younglings the food she had brought. Thus sat the
boy at the moment his mother left the dining-room with the
comfortable supper she had prepared for him, and there she would
have found him in comparative safety, had she not been prevented
from carrying out the kind promptings of her heart.
The longer Andrew gazed at the young birds, the more desirous did he
become to get them in his possession. Over and over again he
measured the height and thickness of the pole with his eyes,
calculating, all the while, his ability to climb it, and the amount
of danger attendant on the adventure.
"I'm sure I could do it," said he, at length rising from the place
where he sat and walking with careful step to the edge of the roof,
at the point above which the pole projected. Grasping the pole
firmly, he first leaned his body over until he could see in a
perpendicular line to the pavement in the yard below, a distance of
more than forty feet. For a moment his head swam, as he looked from
the dizzy height; but he shut his eyes and clung to the pole until
self-possessed again. Then he looked up at the bird-box and reaching
his hands far above his head, grasped the pole firmly and drew his
body a few inches, upward. Clinging tightly with his legs to retain
the slight elevation he had acquired, he moved his hands farther
along the pole, and then drew himself higher up. Thus he progressed
until he had reached a point some five or six feet above the roof,
when his strength became exhausted, and, unable to retain even the
position he had acquired, his body slowly descended the pole,
swinging around to the side opposite the roof. On reaching the
bottom it was as much as he could do to get himself once more in a
position of safety, where he stood for a few moments, until he could
recover himself. He then tried the ascent again. This time he nearly
reached the box, when his strength once more failed him, and he had
to slide down the pole as before. But Andrew was not a lad to give
up easily anything he attempted to do. Difficulties but inspired him
to new efforts, and he once more tried to effect the perilous
ascent, firmly resolved to reach the box at the third trial. In his
eagerness, he became unconscious of all danger, and commenced
clambering up the pole with as much confidence as if it had been
placed on the ground.
Great violence had been done to the feelings of Mrs. Howland by her
husband. His stern rebuke hurt her exceedingly. She did not feel
that she was doing wrong in yielding to the appeals of her heart in
favor of her wayward, ever-offending boy. Her mother's instinct told
her, that he needed kindness, forbearance, and frequent exemption
from punishment; and she felt that it was better for him to have
this, even though in gaining it for him she acted in violation of
her husband's wishes and command--yea, even though her child knew
that such was the case. Sadly was she aware of the fact, that the
father's iron-handed severity had nearly crushed affection out of
the heart of his child; and that all obedience to him was extorted
under fear of punishment. And she well knew that her interference in
his favor, while it could not estrange him from his father more than
he was already estranged, would give her greater influence over him
for good. Such were the conclusions of her mind--not arrived at by
cold ratiocination, but by woman's shorter way of perception. And
she knew that she was right.
Hurt in her own feelings was she, by her husband's harsh, rebuking
words, and sad for the sake of her boy, as she returned to the
dining-room. For some time she remained there, debating with herself
whether she should stealthily convey something more than the bread
and water to Andrew, or take him the meager supply of food his
