"I hope not, ma'am. You see--we've been in the habit of holding our
Sunday night prayer-meetings in the basement-room, under this. We used
to meet there in your mother's time. She had the room fixed on purpose
for us. When it's clear weather, in summer, we meet out-doors;--it's
getting cool now--"
"And you are afraid of disturbing me; is that it?"
"Yes ma'am," said he, relieved.
"You may be quite easy as regards that. Has that room been ceiled yet?"
"No ma'am--'twould have been if--you all had stayed here."
"I am glad that it is not. I can hear your hymns--how I used to love
those old tunes! Have your meeting. I wish I had no other disturbance!"
He had got into the entry, when she recalled him; and with the sad
smile she had worn during their conversation, said, "Uncle Will! if you
think I have not done hankering after forbidden fruit, you may pray,
that I may be cured."
"I will, Mistis! God bless you!"
She had forgotten, and Will did not know, that all the services could
be heard through the floor. The worshippers assembled so quietly, that
she was not aware of this, until Will's tones startled her with the
idea that he was in the room. He commenced the exercises by reading the
fourteenth chapter of John's gospel. "Let not your hearts be troubled;
ye believe in God, believe also in me." He offered neither comment nor
explanation. He was a believer in what he called "the pure Word;"
"if I can't comprehend one part," he was wont to say, "I comfort
myself by thinking that there is so much that is plain even to my weak
understanding." The quavering voice of an aged man led in prayer; and
in spite of its verbiage and incorrect grammar, Ida listened, for it
was sincere. They sang in the sweet voices for which the race is so
remarkable,
  "There is a land of pure delight,"
with a wild, beautiful chorus, repeated each time with more emphasis
and fervor--
  "Oh sing to me of Heaven!
  In Heaven alone, no sin is known,
  And there's no parting there!"
Ida shut her eyes and lay motionless, lest she should lose a note.
Forgetful of her unholy enmity to her God--her distrust of her
kind--borne upon the melody her soul arose to Pisgah's top, and looked
yearningly upon the "sweet fields beyond the swelling flood," heard the
jubilant song of the redeemed--
  "In Heaven alone, no sin is known,
  And there's no parting there!"
A solemn hush followed; and Will said, "Let us pray." His deliberate
accents quickened into animation, with the unfolding of his petitions;
spurning the fetters of his imperfect speech, his thoughts clothed
themselves in the language of the Divine Word; coming to a King, be
adopted unconsciously the vernacular of princes. In speaking of Ida,
his manner was earnestly affectionate. "We beseech Thee, O Father, to
deal gently with thine handmaid, whom thou hast set over us in worldly
things. Thou hast seen fit that she should bear the yoke in her youth,
hast made her to possess wearisome nights, and days of vanity; hast
mingled her bread with tears, and her drink with weeping; Thou hast
taken from her father and mother,--the hope of her soul, and the desire
of her eyes; it is the Lord's doings, and it is marvellous in our eyes
and in hers. Lighten her eyes, Our Father! though weeping has endured
for a night, Thou hast promised that joy shall come in the morning;
tell her, that no affliction for the present seemeth joyous, but
grievous; but that Thou wilt make it work out for her an eternal weight
of glory; that whom Thou lovest Thou chasteneth, and upon Thy Blessed
Son Thou didst lay the afflictions and iniquities of us all. May her
hungry soul run to Him, from the far country in which she has been
living, and may He heal her broken bones, give her the oil of gladness
for mourning--the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness."
The hot, dry channel was broken up, and tears flowed in plenteous
measure. From the softening soul sprang her first real prayer. "Oh! be
my Father and Comforter!"
When Rachel awoke in the morning, she saw that her mistress had
unbarred the shutters of the window by her bed, and was reading. Her
face had a still deeper shade of gloom; but the attached girl drew a
favorable augury from this mark of interest in anything, except her own
thoughts. The book was a mother's gift--a Bible; she had read it with
tolerable regularity for the giver's sake, but she found herself now
lamentably ignorant of its contents. She read of the unapproachable
purity of the Immaculate, of judgment and justice; denunciation of the
wicked, and the "fearful looking for of vengeance" that remained to
rebellious children; in vain she searched it for a message to her--a
promise she could apply. Her alarm augmented, as the fruitlessness of
her endeavors became apparent. The life she had lightly esteemed was
inestimably dear, as she realised what eternity was; and her heart
was still with fear at the thought of the uncertain tenure by which
she held it. In times past she would have blushed at these shakings
of spirit; now she could not banish them. She would not be left alone
an instant; she was afraid to sleep, lest she should not awake in
time. She had said, "what evil have I done?" she saw now that she had
committed evil, and that continually; as she beheld "idolatry, hatred,
variance, emulation, wrath, envyings" in the same enumeration with
monstrous vices--a catalogue which brings to our ears the warring clash
of Pandemonium, rendered more horribly discordant by contrast with the
gentle music of "Love, joy, peace, long-suffering."
In angry despair she threw the volume aside; but tortured conscience
drove her to it again. "I will be a Christian," was her primal
resolve,--as the terrors of the law flamed before her--"I must be!"
and a week of labor and agony ended in a total sinking of hope, and an
exhausted cry, "I cannot!"
It was a calm Sabbath in the Indian Summer, and her chair was wheeled
to the door. The "summer's late, repentant smile" shone fondly upon the
landscape; the russet fields, the dismantled forests, the swift-rolling
river.
She had seen it look just so, often; when the breeze played among the
child's curls, and lent a quicker bound to a light heart--but faded
in body--prematurely old in spirit--she saw no beauty in earth--had
no treasure in heaven. Her Bible was upon her knees; she turned the
pages indolently, and was saying, for the hundredth time, "No hope!"
when a passage appeared to start up from the page. Could it have been
there while she sought it carefully and with tears? "The Lord hath
called thee as a woman, forsaken and grieved in spirit; and as a wife
of youth, when thou wast refused, saith my God. For a small moment
have I forsaken thee, but with great mercies will I gather thee; in a
little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment, but with everlasting
kindness will I have mercy upon thee, saith the Lord, thy Redeemer.
* * * * Oh! thou afflicted, tossed with tempests, and not comforted!
behold, I will lay thy stones with fair colors, and lay thy foundations
with sapphires!"
As Will passed under the window on his way to Church, he was arrested
by an unusual sound. No one was visible, but his heart and eyes ran
over, as he recognised the voice that sang softly--
  "Other refuge have I none,
    Hangs my helpless soul on Thee;
  Leave, oh! leave me not alone,
    Still support and comfort me.
  All my trust on Thee is stayed,
    All my help from Thee I bring;
  Cover my defenceless head
    With the shadow of Thy wing."
CHAPTER XXI.
The trembling which mingled with her transport, was so foreign to Ida's
ardent temperament, that she doubted sometimes, if she had indeed found
peace. But as her filial love and trust strengthened with time, she
rejoiced with more hope. Much of the old leaven was left; her imperious
temper still chafed at restraint, and she was disheartened at the
discovery, that the loveliest of the "Blessed Three" graces was most
difficult to practise. She leaned upon a Saviour's arm, and was willing
to walk in the ways of His appointment, but the weak heart pleaded
that He would not send her back into the world. Sweet Sunnybank, rich
in associations;--with its peaceful duties and holy enjoyments, must
be more favorable to the advancement of her new life;--she hoped
against hope, that she might be permitted to remain. A letter from her
guardian settled the point. With laconic terseness, he declared the
thing "impossible. By her father's will, the estate was hers, when
she was of age; until then, no preparatory step could be taken." Her
scheme had been to invite a sister of Mrs. Grant, an excellent woman,
now dependent upon her brother-in-law, to reside with her, in the
capacity of housekeeper and companion; and leaving the control of her
finances in Mr. Read's hands, to devote herself to the improvement of
her servants and poor neighbors. It was a praiseworthy enterprise, and
it cost her a sharp pang to resign it, and prepare for the return, her
guardian pressed, "as desirable and proper." Her trunks were packed;
and she had come in from a tour of the negro cabins, and a visit to her
mother's grave, to spend the last twilight in the room in which she was
born--in which her mother had died. The November blast howled in the
chimney;--here it was the music of early days;--in Richmond, it would
be so dreary!
She was not gloomy, although the firelight glistened upon cheeks wet
with tears;--she was not going away, as she had come--alone; still she
was sad at quitting her retreat, and in the prospect of the temptations
awaiting her. There would be trials, too--trials of faith and patience
and charity--and trials of feeling--what if she should be found
wanting! But a whisper tranquilised her--"Fear not--I am with thee!"
Mrs. Grant opened the door. She held a lamp whose rays blinded Ida's
tender eyes.
"A gentleman to see you, Miss Ida,--and as there was no fire in the
drawing-room, I've asked him into the dining-room;" announced the dame,
who was remarkable rather for sterling goodness, than for grace and
discretion. The door of communication was wide open, and Ida had no
alternative but to walk directly into the adjoining apartment. Charley
Dana met her, ere she had advanced three steps beyond the doorway. He
was so shocked at her altered appearance that he could not speak at
once, but stood, pressing her hands in his, and gazing into her face
with inexpressible solicitude and tenderness. She must make an exertion.
"This is kind, Charley! Am I to flatter myself that you have turned out
of your way to see me?"
"No. I have looked neither to the right nor to the left. I came by
the most direct route from Richmond. Sit down--you are not able to
stand--and give an account of yourself. What in the name of all that
is ridiculous and outrageous, brought you here alone, and has kept you
here until the middle of the winter?"
"Not so bad as that, Charley! It is only the last month of Autumn. I
came, because I did not want to go North, and was pining for a sight of
the old place; and have been sick ever since. But tell me of yourself.
When did you return, and why have not you written to me?"
"That is what I call 'iced!'" said Charley, with a laugh that sounded
like former times. "Haven't I sent letters to every post-office in the
Union, and not received a line in answer, since you parted company with
Arthur and Carry? I arrived at home, ten days ago. Mr. Read 'presumed'
you were 'yet in the country, and would be back when you were ready:'
John and Jenny were in the dark; had written and inquired to no
purpose: daily dispatches were pouring in from Arthur, certifying that
Carry was nearly deranged with anxiety. Yesterday, I met Mr. Read, who
told me you had been 'indisposed,' but would be down shortly. I asked
your address, and here I am!"
"You could not be more welcome anywhere; but how unaccountable that
your letters miscarried!"
"Easily explained! I stopped down the road, at a house, half-tavern,
half-store, where I espied 'Post Office,' painted upon a shingle,
hung out of a dirty window; and inquired the name of the place.
'Thompsonburg;' said the P.M. 'Burg,' indeed! 'I thought there was an
office in this neighborhood, called 'Oakland;'" said I.
"'Oh! that's discontinued more than a year ago;' answered he. ''Twas at
the Cross-roads below.'"
Simple solution of a mystery which had led her to doubt her best
earthly friends! Charley looked at her intently.
"'Indisposition,' forsooth! Why, I'll be hanged--"
"No you wont, Charley! Don't say so."
"Shot, then! if I am sure that I am not talking to a spirit! You've
been to Death's door. What made you sick?"
"Oh! a variety of causes."
"Which means, it's no business of mine to inquire. All I have to say
is, that your friends would not have treated you, as you have them. If
I had died in Missouri, I would have left 'good-bye,' and a lock of my
hair for you. You might have departed this life twenty times, and we
been none the wiser."
"How quarrelsome you are! I'll never do so again, if you'll forgive me
this once."
"Forgive! I have nothing to forgive--you were privileged to do as you
pleased;--only, if you had said adieu to the land of the living, it
would have been a gratification to us to know it."
Ida laughed out so merrily that Mrs. Grant, who was superintending
the setting of the tea-table, raised her spectacles to look at her,
and smiled gratifiedly. She and her husband sat at the table, and the
guest's "sociable ways" ingratiated him with them, before the meal was
half over. They retired with the waiters, and Charley, dropping his
bantering tone, established himself for a "quiet coze." It was strange
that he should be the first confidant of Ida's change of heart;--he,
whom men styled careless--sometimes "scoffer."
He did not scoff now;--he paid diligent heed to her recital, and when
it was finished--"From my soul, I congratulate you!" he exclaimed.
"Would to Heaven, that I too believed!"
"You may;" said Ida, timidly.
"You do not know the thickness of the crust around my heart, Ida;--the
unbelief, and ingratitude and worldliness. I can battle with men, and
wear a bravado mask; but I do not forget that I have a soul, and that
it must be attended to. Whether I will ever do it, I cannot say. I
think I must be the most hardened of sinners;--Lynn's death would have
subdued a less obdurate heart;--and do you know that, while thoroughly
persuaded that it was a judgment aimed full at me--for he was my
dearest friend, and I felt his loss, most of all who mourned him--I
hated the Power which had dealt the blow, and scorned angrily the
presumption, that I could be forced into measures!"
"You were not more wicked than I was. There is not a truer sentence
in the Bible, than that the 'carnal mind is enmity against God.' Ah!
Charley! if we loved holy things more! It is so mortifying to find our
thoughts straying away from these subjects, when we are most desirous
of contemplating them!"
"That is the fault of Old Adam--the 'body of death,' Paul writes of;"
replied he. "I am not much of a Bible scholar, but it strikes me he
says something in the next verse of a Deliverer, 'who giveth us the
victory.' Why are Christians ever low-spirited, I wonder."
And poor Ida upbraided herself with the same query, many times within
the next few days. She bore the partings and the journey better than
Charley had feared she would. He did his best to save her pain and
fatigue, but he saw, with secret reverence, that she was supported by a
stronger Friend.
"We are almost there!" said he, letting down the carriage-window, upon
the afternoon of their second day's travel.
Ida leaned out, and beheld the spires and roofs of the city. She was
unprepared for the effect the sight had upon her. Recollections of her
years of loneliness; the trials of her home-life; the one friendship of
her school days; a brother's fondness, and his doom; her love and its
blight--rushed upon her with overwhelming force--she fell back upon the
cushions, and wept aloud. She had not entirely recovered her composure,
when they stopped at Mr. Read's door. Josephine hardly knew the wasted
figure, Charley carried, rather than led into the house; and Mr. Read
was, for once, shocked out of his dignity.
"Why! Mr. Dana! Miss Ida! bless my soul and body!" was his
uncharacteristic exclamation.
Charley was in no humour for trifling, or he would have said, "Amen!"
"Miss Ida's indisposition was not so unimportant as you supposed, you
see, sir;" said he sarcastically. "Thanks to the kind attentions of her
country friends, she is now convalescent."
"Hush, Charley! please!" said a distressed whisper from the sofa,
where he had laid her. "Mr. Grant wrote to you, Mr. Read;" said she,
aloud; "but as you were travelling, we doubted whether you received the
letter."
"I did not;" he answered, the flush going off from his brow.
"I was so carefully nursed, I did not require other attention;" she
continued. "I should have regretted it, if your summer's enjoyment had
been interrupted needlessly. Dr. Hall, and Mr. and Mrs. Grant were
untiring in their kindness; and Rachel here, ought to have a diploma to
practice medicine."
It was a maxim with Mr. Read, that for every mischance, blame must rest
somewhere; and Ida, having exculpated him, he could not do less than
return the compliment, by pitching it back upon her.
"I do not presume to lecture you, Miss Ross; but you will admit that
this freak of yours was one of unsurpassed imprudence. You left my roof
under the protection of those, whom I considered fit guardians for a
young lady." Charley made a movement to speak; but Ida's imploring
glance restrained him. "I hear nothing of you for a long time; and you
write, at last, from an uninhabited country-house, begging permission
to take up your abode there. I refuse the preposterous request, and you
are brought home reduced and weakened by a severe illness, of which I
have not been informed. I cannot be responsible for what the world will
say to all this, Miss Ross!"
The rack could not have silenced Charley now. "I will tell you what the
world's opinion is, sir; and hold you responsible for your own words.
'The world' has said, in my hearing, that the guardian, who loses
sight of a ward--a member of his family--for six months, without being
apprised of, or inquiring into her locality and welfare, is unworthy
of his trust. And if I describe his reception of an invalid, who might
have perished through neglect, for all he knew or cared--'the world,'
sir, will declare indignantly, that he is a disgrace to society and
mankind! I have nothing more to say at present. If you take exception
to my liberty of speech, you can call on me, and relieve your mind.
Miss Ida, let me recommend to you to retire; Mr. Read will finish his
lecture to me--good afternoon, Miss Read. Sir, I have the honor to
bid you good-day!"
Josephine burst forth with a torrent of invective: which Ida did not
stay to hear; nor did she see either of them again for two days. She
was not well enough to go below; and they avoided her chamber.
Mrs. Dana called that evening. Ida was preparing for bed; and she
supplanted Rachel as maid and nurse. Her softest, most nimble of hands
undressed the tired, dispirited girl; smoothed the pillows; and gave
her a composing draught; and with her kiss warm upon her lips, her
pitying eyes watching over her, and a prayer of thankfulness at her
heart, Ida fell asleep.
She learned to expect a daily visit from this dear friend; and rarely
looked in vain. At her third coming she brought a note from Charley.
"He was happy to state;" he said; "that the skirmish which had excited
her uneasiness, had arrived at a bloodless issue. Mr. Read and
himself had had an interview; he had apologised for using language
to him, in his own house, which he considered himself justifiable in
employing anywhere else; and Mr. Read excused his harshness to her, by
representing the excitement of surprise and alarm, under which he was
laboring at the time. It was agreed the matter should stop there--that
is;" wrote Charley; "that his bugbear, the world, shall not get hold of
it."
Josephine had received her orders; for she carried her work into Ida's
chamber, that day, and sat one hour, to a minute, never opening her
lips, save in monosyllables to the questions Ida forced herself to ask.
Abandoning seclusion so soon as she had sufficient strength, the latter
joined the family at meals, and remained longer in their society than
she was wont to do formerly; and if her hope of eventually conquering
their dislike did not increase, her meekness and patience did. She
had occasion for it all. Josephine was quick to discover that she was
happier in her affliction and debility, than she was in health and
prosperity; and when the truth came to light, her natural malignity
to the cause, and her hatred of its humble professor triumphed in
the fiendish anticipation of how she could, by deriding one, wound
the other. She would have descried soil upon an angel's robe. Ida
was a young Christian, contending with the manifold disadvantages of
temper, habit and irreligious associates; and her wily assailant was
not passive long for lack of weapons and opportunity for her warfare.
Any symptom of a convalescent's irritability; the utterance of a taste
or opinion, which did not tally with her standard of consistency,
was marked and laid by for use; and no complaisance or concession on
Ida's part, moved her purpose. Mr. Read paid his pew-rent, went to
church once every fine Sunday, and had a pleasant impression that by
so doing, he was "keeping along;" paying interest as it were, upon
the debt, sanguine that when the distant pay-day arrived, he would be
able, by one prodigious effort, to discharge the principal. He "hated
cant, because it was silly and useless" and if he did not chime in his
daughter's slurs upon religion, and the conduct of Christians, he never
rebuked her by word or sign. Watchfully, prayerfully, Ida strove to
keep her feet in the path, and by no misstep or fall, to cast obloquy
upon the name she loved.
Anna Talbot, a friendly, good-natured girl--her brother's superior
in sense and feeling, was a near neighbor; and she ran in directly
after breakfast one morning, full of a ball to which she was invited.
Josephine had a ticket also, and was wishing for her--she must consult
her about her dress.
"Ma has bought me a lovely white silk," said Anna. "I am to wear
sprigged illusion over it--but oh! I was so disappointed! I wanted
silver-sprigged, you know, like that Miss What's-her-name, from
Philadelphia, wore to Mrs. Porter's party--but although I ransacked
every store in the city, I could not find a piece. What will you get,
Josey?"
"I have not quite determined."
"Do let us dress alike! There is another pattern of silk at P----'s."
"Well! I will look at it. What head-dress?" inquired Josephine.
"Oh! that's another novelty! I saw two darling little loves of wreaths
down town--rose-buds and lilies-of-the-valley--pure white. I asked Mrs.
V---- to lay them aside until to-day. I thought of you."
The "darling little loves" were pronounced au fait.
"What ornaments?" said Josephine, who was in her element.
Anna made a gesture of despair. "There's the trouble! I have nothing
but those rubies, and they will not do at all. I dislike to go without
any; but it cannot be helped."
"Pearls would correspond well with your dress," observed Ida.
"Ah, yes! my dear! and if I had a pearl fishery, I would draw upon my
divers forthwith;--unfortunately I have not."
"Are you certain?" returned Ida, smiling. "Imagine me a diver. I have a
neat set, which is at your service, if you will honor me by wearing it."
"Oh! you dearest of girls!" exclaimed Anna. "But you want them
yourself--I beg your pardon--I forgot you were in mourning;--but your
black is not too deep for ornaments."
"But her odor of sanctity is too strong," said Josephine. "She has
renounced the pomps and vanities you and I love, Anna, and 'put on the
ornament of a meek and quiet spirit.' How do you reconcile it with your
conscience, to let your pearls attend a ball, Ida? How much scouring
and praying will cleanse them again for your use?"
"Oh! I will get you or Anna to air them for me, once in a while, and
trust to time to purify them," said Ida, willing to pass it off as a
joke.
"Do you really think it sinful to go to balls?" asked Anna, wonderingly.
"I could not do it innocently," replied Ida.
"Why not? you used to like them as well as the rest of us."
"For pity's sake! no sermonising!" rudely interrupted Josephine. "I
can show you the root of her piety in two words. Don't you remember a
certain gentleman, whose handsome face and saintly smile set off his
religion so well?"
"Oh!" laughed Anna; "but I thought he liked her very well as she was."
"Nothing like making assurance doubly sure!" answered the other. "Pity
he did not return to town this winter. Love's labor is lost."
"Why, Ida! what a flirt you are!" cried Anna. "When everybody says you
are engaged to Mr. Dana!"
"Everybody is wrong, then," said Ida, calmly.
"Everybody is right!" contradicted Josephine. "She reads in her
Bible, that she 'must love all men;' and her being in mourning for
one beau, and dying with love for another, are no impediments to her
engagement with a third. This is Platonism with a vengeance."
"Fie! Josephine!" said Anna, perceiving by Ida's face, that the
pleasantry, as she still thought it, was going too far. "You know, as
well as I do, that Mr. Holmes was only a friend. Mrs. Dana is in black
for him too--it is as reasonable to say that she was in love with him."
"She may have been, for anything I know to the contrary;" retorted
Josephine, growing more and more insolent. "I don't pretend to
understand the morals of 'the clique.'"
"I am going up stairs, Anna," said Ida, "and will send you the pearls.
If they please you, you are welcome to them, whenever you wish them."
Anna pulled her down. "Don't go! I want to talk with you. You must not
regard Josephine's nonsense--it is only a foolish jest."
"One, which must not be repeated!" said Ida. "I may not notice an
insult to myself, but if my friends are slandered, I must defend them."
"Defend them, as long and loud as you choose;" replied Josephine,
retaining her disagreeable smile and tone. "Recriminate too, if you
like. It is but politic in you to fight for your patrons. Aha! that
flash of the eye was Christian-like! Did you never observe, Anna, that
when the 'brethren' are wrought up to the belligerent point, they are
the fiercest of combatants?"
Ida hurried up stairs--threw herself upon the bed, and cried bitterly;
unobservant of Rachel's presence.
"Oh! Father! pity me! I am so weak and wicked!" she prayed.
Rachel went out boiling with rage.
"More of that Evil's work! Hope I may be forgiven for saying sech a
word, but if she didn't come from the bottomless ditch, I should jist
like to be reformed whar she was made! I know mighty well whar she'll
go. I ain't a goin' to stand it! Miss Ida shan't be terrified forever
and ever. I'll speak my mind to Miss Jenny, before I'm a day older;
maybe Mars' John can get her away from this dreadful place. Miss Ida'd
never forgive me; but she needn't know nothin' about my tellin'!"
"Miss Jenny" heard her with indignant astonishment; but giving her no
encouragement to proceed with her tale, or to hope for an amelioration
of her mistress' condition, merely said she was sorry she could
do nothing for her; and advised her to imitate Ida's prudence and
silence; counsel which confirmed Rachel's skepticism in "white folks'
friendship." Ida thought Charley kinder than ever, that evening. If
he had known the severity of her day's discipline, he could not have
been more tender and consolatory. His inattention to Josephine, who
also had visitors, troubled her somewhat; but she had the comforting
reflection that she was not to blame for it. The day of the ball, he
took her and Mrs. Dana to ride. They called at the residence of a
country friend, to whose green-house Charley had the entree; and he
improved his privilege by culling a bouquet of Camelias, tea-roses and
orange blossoms "for the belle of the ball;" he told his hostess. When
they were again in the carriage, he handed them to Ida, with a laugh.
"I have no idea of going to the ball, and you would be the belle, if
you were to attend; so there was no fibbing, was there?" The flowers
were beautiful, and at this season, very rare; and Ida bore them home
carefully, and put them in water in her room. They were sweet company;
she could only watch, and pet, and talk to them the rest of the day.
Mr. Read was uncommonly jocose at supper time.
"Make yourself pretty, Josey," said he, lighting his lamp; "you don't
have me to escort you every evening."
Josephine looked after him with a sneer. "A mighty honor! If he had a
spark of generosity or politeness, he would have bought me a bouquet,
if they do ask such enormous prices. I have a good mind not to go, I
shall feel so mean without one."
Ida said she regretted it; and she did feel for her. She knew, that to
party-goers, these little things are no trifles; she had seen a girl
dull or sulky for an entire evening, because of a deficiency of this
sort.
"I wish I could help her," she was saying to herself, as she returned
to her apartment. The aroma that stole upon her senses said, "you
can." She was no heroine, for she stood over her flowers, and doubted
and pondered for a good half hour, before her wavering mind rested
upon its pivot; and then a tear bedewed a Camelia's spotless bosom, as
she emptied the vase, and saying aloud, "If thine enemy thirst, give
him drink," set about arranging them anew. Her Christmas rose-tree
was hanging with buds, which, on the morrow, would be blossoms, but
she despoiled it of its nodding pearls; and adding geraniums and
citronaloes, completed as tasteful a bouquet, as ever bloomed under the
fingers of a fashionable florist.
She gave it to Josephine, when she came into the parlor to survey her
full-length figure in the tall glass.
"Oh! how lovely!" she exclaimed involuntarily; then recovering herself,
said coldly, "They are pretty;" and returned them.
"They are for you," said Ida.
"Who sent them?"
"They were presented to me; and as their beauty is wasted upon the
'desert air' of my chamber, I shall be obliged to you to display them."
Josephine would have rejected the generous offer, if there had been
the remotest chance of another; but it was late, and she could not go
bouquetless.
"Who gave them to you?" she asked.
Ida paused, then replied, "Mr. Dana."
"He will know them; I had rather go without any."
"No danger of that! he will not be there." Her patience was nearly
spent. Josephine accepted the gift with a very bad grace; she was
awkward and embarrassed, and what appears more improbable, a little
ashamed. Mr. Read was attired with scrupulous neatness and elegance,
and looked ten years younger than he really was. Ida "presumed" to tell
him so, and was recompensed by a bland smile. She had done her duty,
perhaps more, and she did not repent of her self-denial; but something
of the desolate feeling of "lang-syne" fell upon her, as she was left,
sole tenant of the parlor and the house. Weak and weary, she sighed
for human society and affection. It was a darkened hour; clouded by
self-doubtings, mournful memories and forebodings. The piano was open;
she had not touched it since her arrival at home; but she went to it
now; only plaintive tunes came to her fingers; she played fitfully, as
her mood disposed her; the music was the voice of her thoughts; and she
sang to a rambling, irregular measure--
  "I am alone--the last light tread
    And laugh have died upon my ear;
  And I may weep unchecked--nor dread
    The scorn, that forces back the tear.
  I turn to Thee! oh! when the strings,
    The trustful heart has fondly thrown,
  Wound closely round its best-loved things--
    Are, by one stroke, asunder torn,
  And bleeding, crushed, uncared for, lie--
    When Hope's gay smile no joy can throw,
  And the soul breathes but one wish--to die!
    To whom else can the suffering go?
  Thou--Thou dost look within, and read
    How I have sought for love, and found
  Reproach instead--how in its need
    My spirit bowed it to the ground,--
  E'en to the dust--and deemed it nought
    Bore patiently, when pained and wronged
  And smiled on sorrow, if it brought
    The priceless boon for which it longed.
  In vain! in vain! and now I come--
    As to her nest the dove doth flee;
  Give Thou my wandering heart a home--
    And bind its shattered chords to Thee!"
"My poor child! are you then so sad?"
She knew the hand upon her drooping head before he spoke; and with a
prayer for support, that calmed her fluttering heart, arose to greet
him.
"Am I forgiven for my intrusion?" said he, leading her to a chair. "The
front door was ajar, and hearing your music, I entered without ringing."
"Freely pardoned! Have you been in town long?"
"Since five o'clock this afternoon. I am on my way to the south with
Annie. She is ordered to winter in Florida. Go with us--will you not?
Charley supped with us; and Annie proposed this plan on hearing of your
feeble health. She will wait until you are ready if you comply."
"I am very grateful for her kindness; but I cannot avail myself of it."
"Are there any 'propriety scruples?'" inquired he, smiling. "You will
be her companion; and the most fastidious cannot object to the escort
of a brother, and--an engaged man."
She was fortified against even this. Her arch glance hid the heart-pang
faithfully. "Where is she?" she questioned.
"Lelia? at her father's house in S----. Here is her counterfeit." He
unclasped a locket.
"It is like Carry!" said Ida; then she scanned it long and earnestly.
She was very beautiful; with large, blue eyes; and a cherry mouth,
just parted in a smile; and shining hair, folded above the smooth
forehead--fair enough for him! and as she raised her eyes to say
how lovely she was, she beheld herself in the glass opposite--wan,
hollow-eyed and sallow--and felt how presumptuous--how reckless in its
folly, her dream had been! He shut the spring, without looking at it
himself, (it was delicate and considerate to avoid the comparison!) and
making no reply to her praises of his betrothed, began to speak of the
bond of fellowship, formed between themselves, since their parting. She
had been discouraged by her inability to talk of what was ever in her
mind; had distrusted the genuineness of her faith, because her tongue
faltered in telling of the love which had redeemed her. He entered
fully into her feelings; and she surprised herself by the freedom the
consciousness of this afforded her. He told her of his difficulties
and temptations and conflicts, often anticipating what she would have
related of her own experience. So well did his counsels and comfort
meet the inquiries and wants of her spirit, that she debated within
herself whether he were not sent by heaven--a special messenger in her
hour of trial.
"Say on!" said he, encouragingly, as he caught her eye.
"I was about to ask if you believed in what are termed minute or
particular Providences."
"As in my existence! even to the numbering of the hairs of any head.
You have not been troubling your brain with quibblings upon this
subject, I hope?"
"No; but I have heard it disputed by very good people, who confuse me
by their 'free agency,' and 'accountability,' and 'decrees.'"
"Discard theories, and eschew arguments. Let your Bible and your common
sense be your teachers. As a machinist fashions the minutest cog of the
smallest wheel, as carefully as the mighty lever, the main power,--so
the Supreme Governor looks to the balance of the tiniest atom in His
universe."
"Then," said Ida; "I do not commit presumption when I trace my Father's
hand in every-day events; when I lift up my soul in thankfulness for a
pleasant, or ennobling thought, a visit, a gift, an act of friendship,
which has made me better or happier--or say 'Thy will be done?' in the
petty trials, which annoy, rather than afflict us!"
"It is your privilege and duty. The introductory sentence of the Lord's
Prayer is sufficient to inculcate this truth. 'Our Father--' is not a
father's care constant? He says moreover--'we must become as little
children.' Who relies more than a child? 'As thy day is, so shall thy
strength be;--' no matter where, or how we are placed, God will give us
the requisite strength; and as our positions are changing every moment,
does not this say that He will be with us every moment, and order the
success of whatever we attempt, by the amount of strength He imparts?
And again, 'not a sparrow falls to the ground without your Father.'
Nothing which God does is small, and He 'orders all things according
to the counsel of His own will.' Then nothing is insignificant,
because God orders everything. Our actions may appear trivial; but do
they not assume a terrible importance, when we learn that even our
fleeting words are to be the data of our judgment, at the last day? A
few good people doubt the doctrine of 'special Providences;' but is it
not better for us to believe what God says of his character, than to
determine what character he ought to have? If He says He is the God of
'the hairs of our heads--' of 'sparrows' and lilies of the field--all
we have to do, is to take His word for truth, and act accordingly. His
attention to small things is as conclusive a proof of His Divinity, as
to great ones. It has been well said, that 'man cannot comprehend the
Infinitely great, nor the Infinitely small.' But I weary you."
"You do not--I am interested and instructed. I am but a babe in
leading-strings; so weak and ignorant, it terrifies me to think of
the possibility that I will be obliged to take a single step without
holding my Father's hand."
"That is what none of us are called upon to do, Ida. 'I will never
leave thee, nor forsake thee.' 'Even there shall thy hand lead me, and
Thy right hand shall hold me.' We could not stand alone an instant,
were this 'right hand' withdrawn."
"Charley, who strews many pearls among the rubbish he scatters abroad,
once set me to thinking seriously--I hope, not unprofitably, by
wondering why Christians were ever low-spirited," said Ida. "It seems
to me that they would not be, if their confidence in God were implicit
and abiding; but I am often sad--almost desponding."
"To-night, for instance," said Mr. Lacy, cheerfully. "'This kind
goeth not out, but by prayer;' and you must not be cast down, that
you cannot, in a month, overcome a habit of years. Humanly speaking,
you have had much to embitter your lot;--but as we can, in reviewing
our past lives, see many events which, Janus-like, approached us
frowningly, now changed to smiles of blessing, ought we not, with this
attestation of experience to the truth of His promises, to trust Him in
the dark ways we now tread?"
"Poor Lynn!" her full eyes overflowed. "How frequently I am reminded of
his--
  'I am blind! in rough paths groping
  With outstretched hand! and flightless eyes!'"
"Let us hope that the Everlasting arms received him," said Mr. Lacy.
"I feared to speak of him to you, Ida; knowing, as I do, that upon a
heart like yours, such a blow must have left indelible traces. You have
not--you never will forget him, but can you not believe that this, too,
was intended for your good?"
"I do--although at the time, it seemed very hard that from my meagre
list of friends, one so necessary to my happiness, should be stricken.
I may never meet another, who will give me affection so fond, yet so
disinterested."
"Disinterested! that is a term not generally applied to love which
leads to betrothal."
"Mr. Lacy!" ejaculated Ida, astonished. "But no! you knew us too well?
did Lynn never tell you--" she stopped.
"No, I first heard of your engagement from a third person; you
confirmed it, subsequently."
"What do you mean? you are under a strange misapprehension. I never
was betrothed to Lynn; he never thought of me but as a friend."
"Ida!" his tone was stern. "What are you saying? Have you forgotten the
night you left my side for his, upon seeing his dejection--the long
promenade, and his reproaches for what he deemed--wrongfully, as I am
now assured--was coquetry in you? I was told then, what I had heard,
without heeding before, that you were plighted lovers. So confirmed was
I in my disbelief that I would have declared it, in defiance of the
proofs presented to me, had I not overheard by accident a portion of
your conversation. He said--(I remember it well!)--'I have loved you as
man never loved woman before--have believed you pure and high-minded.
If I thought that the despicable coquetry you hint at, had caused you
to insist upon the concealment of our engagement--' I lost the rest.
Is not this enough? must I harrow your feelings by recurring to your
appeal to me to save him from crime and death for your sake;--or to the
awful hour when you were summoned to receive his last sigh? Oh! Ida!
Ida! I have trusted in your truth--do not shake my faith now!"
There was bewilderment, but not falsehood in the eyes that sustained
his rebuking glance. "I have spoken the truth. The sentence which
misled you, was the repetition of a remark made to another;--the
whisper in his dying hour, a message to the same. To me--I repeat--he
was a brother, devoted and true to the last--but nothing more."
His lips were ashy white;--his self-command had utterly deserted him.
"I have been terribly deceived!" he said, rising and pacing the
floor. "Ida!" he resumed, coming back to her side, "we have spoken of
the mysterious dealings of Providence. I did not think my trust would
be tested so soon. You have unwittingly awakened a pain, I thought was
stilled forever, and justice to you, and to myself, requires me to
endure it yet awhile longer. We are friends--we can never be anything
nearer--but if I were the husband, instead of the betrothed of another,
I should feel bound to clear my honor from the aspersion my conduct
has cast upon it. My actions--my language, must have convinced you
that I loved you;--you were ignorant of the mistake into which I had
fallen--what interpretation have you put upon my course, since? You did
not misconstrue my attentions then--tell me--am I a knave--a hypocrite
in your sight?"
"Never!" said she, lifting a face, as pale as his own. "My confidence
in your friendship and integrity has not swerved, and there lives not
one who will pray for your happiness with more sincerity; who is more
thankful for your noble renunciation of personal feeling to advance her
welfare. We are friends! we will forget everything but this."
She was standing before him; and while speaking, laid her hand in his.
He gazed silently into the countenance, so elevated in its look of
heroic self-devotion.
"You have chosen one far more worthy of you than I could ever have
been;--you will be very happy together. I hope to meet her some
day, and love her, as all must love the beautiful and good. There
is a consolation those friends have at parting, whose home is not
here;--that, although we walk in different pathways on earth, they all
lead to our abiding-place--Heaven." With an uncontrollable impulse, he
drew her to him, and pressed his lips to her brow! He was gone! and the
poor human heart bled from the slow torture to which it had been put.
He had not dreamed of it,--had not suspected, when her steady, sweet
tones told him of their separate pathways, that her soul was reaching,
in intense yearnings, towards the lightsome way, where flowers sprang
beneath his steps, and shuddering at the tomb-like chill of that which
echoed her lonely foot-fall. He was gone! and the weeping eyes which
sought Heaven, showed from whence she had derived the supernatural
strength which had borne her through the trying interview;--and with
the cry of unspeakable sorrow that succeeded his departure, arose a
petition for larger supplies. It was granted. She wept still; but not
in wretchedness. Solemn, pure resolutions were growing up beneath the
waves of grief. The destruction of this hope--the dearest in a woman's
heart, was the fall of a proud plant,--the garden's pride--in its
matured beauty. Buds and blooms wilt and perish upon the stalk, but
from the laden seed-vessels are showered far and wide germs that shall
rejoice many hearts with the sweetness and loveliness their parent
garnered for one.
CHAPTER XXII.
It was so cold and damp in the morning, that Rachel, in virtue of her
nursely prerogatives, forbade her mistress' rising before breakfast.
Ida was not averse to keeping her room. She wished to achieve another
victory over herself before meeting Josephine. A suspicion of her
agency in Mr. Lacy's deception ripened, upon reflection, into a
certainty, her love of justice prompted her to banish. But a hundred
incidents occurred to her memory. Especially, she recollected that
Josephine had accosted him, directly after she had taken Lynn's arm
in the Fair-room, that she was still with him at the close of the
evening, and that he had looked sorrowfully--reproachfully at her. She
had no just conception of the girl's total destitution of principle,
nor of her envy of herself; but she knew her to be weak, vain and
spiteful; and against her will, she had to credit a conclusion, she
judged uncharitable. She did not desire to ascertain its truth; it
could make no difference at this late date. Another perplexity assailed
her;--should she tell Josephine of the visit she had had? Should she
hear of it from some other source, or by a direct inquiry of herself,
whether she had spent the evening alone--what conjectures might not be
formed as to the motive of her silence? She was deliberating thus, when
the door flew back, and Josephine walked in. Ida, nervously excitable,
started from her pillow; and clasped her hands in speechless alarm at
the suddenness and disorder of her appearance. She was frightfully
pallid, and her eyes were inflamed with weeping and rage.
Locking the door, she advanced to the foot of the bed, and grasped the
post tightly, as if to brace herself for some desperate act. Ida could
not stir, and the two regarded each other for a moment without a word.
Josephine was torn by some fearful conflict: Ida had never seen her
eyes dimmed by a tear; and when the struggle for language ended in a
tempestuous burst of weeping, the thought flashed over her, that she
was bereft of reason.
"Josephine! what has happened?" she could scarcely utter.
Josephine dashed off the thick-coming drops.
"Happened! yes! it will not matter to you, who can leave this
abominable place in two years--or to-morrow, if you choose to have your
own way. I am to stay, and be pushed about, and lectured and ruled by
a hideous vixen! I could kill her, and him too!"
"Are you raving? Who is it?"
"His wife! the dotard! the foolish old greybeard!"
"Josephine! you cannot mean your father!"
"I do mean him; and he is a doting fool, to be playing the sighing
lover at his age--and to whom? A baby-faced chit, just out of her
teens! a spoiled doll of a thing whose prattle and tricks have addled
his brains--if he ever had any. I won't stay here! I will beg my bread
in the street first!"
"But he is not married yet; you may be mistaken. How did your hear it?"
"From himself, on our way to that detestable ball. I wish he, and she,
and it, were at the bottom of the Dead Sea! He commenced 'Josey, my
dear!'--Oh, the deceitful villain!"
"Josephine!" said Ida, shuddering.
"He is! and I will say it! 'Josey'--said he, simpering and giggling
like a shame-faced school-boy.--'Can you guess why I consented to your
having that dress?"
"Because I liked it--I suppose, sir."
"'No, my dear;--I had my reasons for wishing you to look well to-night.
I expect to meet a friend at the ball, to whom I shall introduce you.'
"Who is it, sir? may I ask?" said I.
"He giggled and winked--oh! so disgustingly! 'Did you imagine that I
was idle all the time I was in the country? You were flirting at the
Springs, and I concluded to try my hand. You have too much care upon
you, for so young a person; what do you say to my engaging a 'help?'
"A housekeeper would be a convenience;" answered I.
"'A ball is a proper place to hunt up housekeepers!' said he, blazing
out. 'No airs, miss! you understand me! I am to be married in a
fortnight, and you may as well take it quietly--or it will be worse for
you.'
"It is too late for him to brow-beat me, and so I said: and that
I would worry his and her life out, as surely as she crossed this
threshold--that he had made himself the laughing-stock of the city--had
been taken in by a designing creature who wanted his money--for he had
lost his good looks and his senses too, it appeared--"
"'If you say another word,' said he, griping my arm--there! you see the
bruise! 'I will put you out of the carriage, and you may die before I
will give you a cent to save you from starvation. You will see this
lady to-night, and if you do not treat her with becoming politeness,
you don't go home with me, nor after me, either!'
"You never saw such a tiger! When we were there, I scowled at every
dried-up old maid, who looked as if she were husband-hunting. I had
picked out one, with a skinny neck and corkscrew curls, when up steps
our youthful lover, with a lady hanging on his arm;--he, all honey and
smiles--she, cool and bold. 'Miss Copeland--let me make you acquainted
with my daughter!' I wanted to strike her in the face, but his eye was
too threatening;--so I choked myself with a pretty speech, and she
bowed condescendingly. I gave her one look, though, when he did not
see--and she glared back at me. I'll warrant there'll be no love lost!"
"But what is she like? She may be an agreeable companion," said Ida.
"Ida Ross! I didn't come to you for canting consolation! I was too full
to keep my fury to myself--and I hate her rather more than I do you.
This is why I have told you about the wretch. 'Companion!' I'll be
company for her! She had better be burned alive, than come here. She
will wish she had been, or my name is not Read!"
"But you can escape by marriage;" suggested Ida, who perceived that the
girl was suffering, and pitied her, while she trembled at her frenzy.
"Say that again, and I will murder you!" retorted Josephine, in the
white heat of concentrated passion. "You will make me remember that our
old scores are not quite settled yet."
"I have no scores against you;" said Ida, firmly. "The past cannot
return--why refer to it?"
Josephine regarded her fixedly. "You are wise!" she said, presently,
breaking into a contemptuous laugh. "To another, you would preach
repentance--you know I never repent!" and with this strange speech, she
quitted her.
Now that he had broken the matter to his daughter, the bridegroom used
the utmost celerity in the despatch of preliminaries. The house was
filled with workmen, upholsterers and cooks, whose din destroyed the
quiet of Ida's chamber, the only one left unaltered. Josephine adhered
to her resolution not to move a finger in the preparations for the
detested intruder's reception. She would not go to the marriage, which
took place at the bride's father's, in the country. Mr. Read did not
insist; he was secretly pleased to be free for this evening--conscious
that he could acquit himself more creditably, if her eyes were not
upon him. The wedding party was to be at his house, the next night but
one. The supper was in the hands of the profession; Mr. Read being
too prudent to risk the probability of a grievous mortification, by
entrusting the most trifling arrangement to his filial mar-plot.
It was dark when the bridal party arrived. The girls were dressed,
and in the drawing-room. Ida's picture of the bride, drawn from
Josephine's representment, was of an overdressed, forward country
girl, who had wheedled and flattered a man of treble her age, into an
offer of his hand and fortune; and she was puzzled by the elaborate
toilette of the step-daughter. If her aim was to outshine the creature
she had described, she had certainly over-estimated the labor its
accomplishment required. She swept into the apartment with a hauteur,
that made her diminutive form appear two inches taller; her jetty
hair, almost an incumbrance from its length and profusion, dressed
partly in ringlets, partly in braids--instead of, as she usually wore
it at parties, and as her father liked to see it--in natural curls
floating upon her shoulders. This style gave her a juvenile air,
pleasing, heretofore--discarded by the full-fledged woman she acted
to-night. Her robe was of white satin; the falling shoulders and proud
swell of the throat exhibited to fine advantage by the low bodice.
Ida was dressed in a silver-grey silk, with a berthe of rich black
lace; the throat-latch and cuffs of black velvet and jet, making her
extreme paleness more striking. Her figure and expression of repose
had its opposite in the impersonation of splendid inquietude, which
trod the rooms impatiently, rustling and gleaming in the blaze of the
chandeliers.
"They have come!" said Ida, with a pitying accent, she could not
repress, as Josephine turned deadly pale at the sound of wheels.
"We must meet them," and she took her hand. Hers was fiercely
thrown off. Repellant, defiant, she disdained support. The bride's
brother and bridemaids had accompanied her; but Ida scarcely remarked
their muffled-up figures, as "Miss Murray--" "Miss Arnold"--were
named. Her eyes and thoughts were for the new Mrs. Read. Josephine's
aversion had hood-winked her. Ida subscribed to her "cool and bold,"
as the solitary clause of the description that had the slightest
resemblance to the reality; and "bold" was too coarse an epithet for
the polished indifference of a woman of the world. She was not more
than three-and-twenty, handsome, even in her travelling apparel--not
"baby-faced"--and went through the introductions with a nonchalant
grace; touching Josephine's cheek with her lips; extending to Ida, the
tips of her fingers,--and bestowing a fashionable nod upon the group
of servants in the hall; then, escorted by her husband, led the way,
up-stairs. Josephine's face was balefully dark, as she resumed her
walk. It was a part of her retribution, although she would not see
it,--that as she had slighted, and thrust aside others, whose rights
were equal with hers,--she was to take a secondary place where she had
ruled so long.
The company were assembled, before the happy pair made their entry.
Charley was with Ida--he was seldom far off--"November and June!"
exclaimed he, aside. "Its enough to cause a man to forswear your sex,
to see such a being a voluntary victim upon the altar of mammon."
Ida caught his arm; and seeing that she was fainting, he seized a
bottle of cologne-water from the mantel, and dashed a handful into her
face, so quickly and dexterously, that his nearest neighbors did not
understand the movement. The powerful perfume recalled her scattering
senses. Charley put her in the corner of a sofa; and placed himself
in front of her, to screen her from observation, until her agitation
should subside. It was quickly over; and only remarking--"You cannot
get through the crowd just yet--sit still!" he continued fanning
her, and chatting, as if her illness were the most natural thing
imaginable,--a matter of no moment. His eyes were as busy as his
tongue; and in their apparently aimless rovings, no group escaped
scrutiny. He was fairly at fault; and opposed as the conclusion was
to the premises he had assumed, was compelled to refer her attack to
physical causes. Once, he fancied he saw an imploring agony in her
eye, which entreated for help or comfort; but while he looked, it
disappeared, leaving a serenity that rebuked his suspicions.
"Who is this Mr. Read is convoying this way?" he inquired. "I ought to
know him."
"He is a stranger to me," replied Ida.
"Miss Ross, Mr. Copeland fears you will not recognise him, without a
second introduction," said the host.
"And Mr. Copeland's fears were not groundless," said that gentleman,
when his brother-in-law was out of hearing. "A less modest individual
than myself might be dubious of the durability of an impression, made
under such circumstances, as our briefest of brief interviews,--when
I could have been, at best, but a fourth-rate attraction. Mr. Dana--I
believe! I need not excuse myself for not observing you before. This
is a brilliant assembly, Miss Ross. I have been rating my excellent
brother-in-law"--there was the least curl of scorn upon his handsome
mouth as he pronounced these words--"for deserting this galaxy of
beauty to seek a mate in our gloomier regions."
"Isolated stars often dispense more light than the millions composing
the galaxy," answered Ida.
"I have thought the same since I reached this corner," he returned,
gallantly. "I parted with a friend of yours, yesterday, who would not
have granted me time to say a word for myself, if I had engaged to
deliver a quarter of the messages he charged me with."
"Ah! who was so unreasonable?"
"Mr. Germaine," he replied, smiling, as the blood rose to her cheek.
"He enacted Telemachus last summer, with a difference in the object of
his search."
"But with a like termination," said Charley, who seemed to understand
the allusion.
"Yes--as it proved; but he did not know it at that time. He called
by to see me on his way home. He was in a deplorable state of mind;
but I am happy to say that the consolations of friendship were not
unavailing. I have succeeded in inoculating him with hopes of more
fortunate chances in future. Yesterday, he was ready to swear with
Barnadine, that he 'would not die that day for any man's persuasion.'"
"Had he been long absent from his own neighborhood?" asked Ida. "Did he
speak of Dr. Carleton's family?"
"Frequently. They are in their usual health, I believe, although
he was not explicit upon this point; all ideas connected with
Poplar-grove having a marked proclivity backward. 'Last summer' was
the starting-point and terminus of his discourse to me. I am going
to say something rude, Miss Ross. Is the lady by the pier-table your
cousin-german?"
"What if she were my sister?"
"I should say, with all frankness, that I could not detect the family
likeness. As she is not related by consanguinity or affinity, we will
hope, benevolently, that her attendant is not constituted like my
sister, who faints at passing a freshly-painted house; and furthermore
award her praise for her liberality. You have heard of the clay that
lived with roses--do you think that gentleman would appreciate the
apologue?"
Ida and Charley laughed, although the remark might have been considered
ill-natured. The pure red and white of the lady's face remained intact,
but the gentleman's coat-sleeve had received a bountiful donation of
flour or chalk from the snowy arm resting upon it.
"Is not that your friend, Miss Read?" pursued Mr. Copeland. "A pretty
casket, but how frail to enshrine the spirit that speaks in those orbs!
There is stirring music there, or I am mistaken. Hear me, Miss Ross,
before you annihilate me by a second look of reproof. We simple yeomen
do not get away from our farms often; and not above once in a lifetime
happen upon such a godsend as this is, for adding to our slender stock
of information. I am a boy of an inquiring mind, and my venerable and
respected father's parting injunction was to keep my eyes and ears
open. You believe every word I am saying--I see it in your countenance.
You do not fear to accept my arm for a promenade? Mr. Dana--au
revoir."
"I am afraid you have chosen an indifferent cicerone," said Ida.
"How unjust! I repel the insinuation, and to prove my innocence, will
not ask a question concerning any one but yourself."
"I will answer those upon any other subject more readily."
"I had not expected to find you one who would shirk inquiry into her
character and actions. Luckily I am not deputed to institute it. You do
not flirt, I understand, Miss Ross?"
"Never. Why the question?"
"It is the principal amusement here, I observe; and that reminded me
of my curiosity to behold you, when I heard that you were, in this
respect, an anomaly in your sex."
"Is your judgment so unsparing?" said Ida. "I know many, whose
sentiments and practices coincide with mine; but before we dispute, let
us have a clear sense of each other's meaning. What is your definition
of flirting?"
"With men, it signifies paying attentions that warrant the expectation
of courtship:--a formal declaration, or expressions which are
tantamount to it, when we have no inclination or intention to
fulfil an engagement of marriage. The man who does this, incurs the
opprobrium of the community, unless the lady is as great an adept in
the art as himself. Then, it is a harmless sham fight; no mischief
done, and nobody to blame. On the other side, the hapless wight,
who is worsted by a coquette, has to bear ridicule, in addition to
his bruises. She may beckon her victim on by smiles and blushes and
half-uttered fondness, actually give him the pledges, and admit him to
the privileges of an accepted lover; and then laugh in the face of the
fond fool, whose peace she has wilfully destroyed;--and this sensible,
charitable world claps its hands, and shouts 'bravo! for a clever
woman!'"
"No woman will acknowledge the truthfulness of this sketch," rejoined
Ida. "I have seen unthinking girls act thus; but we are cognizant of
the crime--not its punishment, which is inevitable and severe."
"They settle down generally, like their neighbors, to a home and a
husband," said Mr. Copeland.
"This is their outward lot; who knows their inner life?"
"The inner life of a woman! who, indeed! what a tissue of
contradictions it must be! Follow my eye, Miss Ross. Do you see that
