social recreation. Frank and Mary Weston took a walk on the beach, and
the rest of the boys and girls climbed over the rocks, amused
themselves in the swing which Uncle Ben had put up, or wandered in the
grove. Boys and girls always enjoy themselves at such seasons, and my
young readers need not be told that they all had a "first-rate time."
I do not mean all; for two members of the Zephyr Club had wandered away
from the rest of the party to the north side of the island. They were
concealed from view by a large rock; but if any one had observed them,
he could not have failed to see that they were exceptions to the general
rule--that they were not happy. The two boys were Charles Hardy and Tim
Bunker. Frank had been pained to notice that an unnatural intimacy had
been growing up between them for several days; and he had already begun
to fear that it was in the heart of Tim to lead his weak-minded
associate astray.
"Now, let's see how much there is in it," said Tim.
"I am afraid to open it," replied Charles, as he glanced nervously over
the rocks.
"Git out!"
"I am doing wrong, Tim; I feel it here." And Charles placed his hand
upon his heart.
"Humph!" sneered Tim. "Give it to me, and I will open it."
"We ought not to open it," replied Charles, putting his hand into his
pocket, and again glancing over the top of the rocks. "Besides, Tim, you
promised to be a good boy when we let you into the club."
"I mean to have a good time. We might have had if you fellows hadn't
given away all that money."
"I didn't do it."
"I know you didn't, but the rest on 'em did; so it's all the same. They
are a set of canting pups, and for my part I'm tired on 'em. Frank
Sedley don't lord it over me much longer, you better believe! And you
are a fool if you let him snub you as he does every day."
"I don't mean to," answered Charles. "I believe the fellows all hate me,
or they would have made me coxswain before this time."
"Of course they would. They hate you, Charley: I heard Frank Sedley say
as much as that the other day."
"He did?"
"Of course he did."
"I wouldn't have thought that of him," said Charles, his eye kindling
with anger.
"Let's have the purse, Charley."
Charles hesitated; but the struggle was soon over in his bosom, and he
took from his pocket a silken purse and handed it to Tim.
"We are doing wrong, Tim," said he, as a twinge of conscience brought to
his mind a realizing sense of his position. "Give me back the purse, and
I will try to find the owner."
"No, you don't!" replied Tim, as he opened one end of the purse and took
therefrom a roll of bank bills, which he proceeded to count.
"Do give it back to me! I am sure the owner has missed it by this time."
"No matter if he has; he won't get it again in a hurry," answered the
Bunker, coolly. "Sixty dollars in bills! Good!"
"Give it to me, or I will go to Captain Sedley and tell him you have
it."
"Will you?"
"I will."
"If you do, I'll smash your head," said Tim, looking fiercely at him.
"Don't be a fool! With this money we can have a first-rate time, and
nobody will be any the wiser for it."
"I am afraid we shall be found out."
Probably Charles was more afraid of that than of the wicked act which he
had permitted himself to think of doing. He had found the purse on the
beach a little while before. When he had told Tim of it, the reckless
fellow, still the same person as before, notwithstanding his promises
and his altered demeanor, had led him over to this retired spot in order
to get possession of the purse.
"Nonsense! Nobody will suspect you," replied Tim, as he poured out the
silver and gold in the other end of the purse.
"I never did such a thing in my life."
"No matter; there must be a beginning to everything."
"What would my mother say?"
"She will say you are a clever fellow if you don't get found out. Eleven
dollars and a quarter in specie! That makes seventy-one
twenty-five--don't it?"
"Yes."
"All right! We will just dig a little hole here, and put the purse into
it," continued Tim, as he scooped out a hole in the sand, and dropped
the ill-gotten treasure into it.
Filling up the hole, he placed a large flat stone upon the spot, which
further secured the purse, and concealed the fact that the sand had been
disturbed.
"I am sure we shall get found out," said Charles, trembling with
apprehension.
"Nonsense! Keep a stiff upper lip; don't stop to think, and all will go
well. But, my hearty, if you peach on me, I give you my word, I will
take your life before you are one month older--do you hear?" And Tim's
fierce looks gave force to his words. "Now, we will go back to the rest
on 'em before they miss us. Mind you don't say anything, nor look
anything."
Charles followed Tim back to the other side of the island, and both of
them joined the sports of the day. The afternoon passed away, and
nothing was said of the purse. The owner had not missed it, and Tim
congratulated himself on the circumstance. Charles tried to be joyous,
and though he did not feel so, he acted it so well that no one suspected
him of harboring so vile a sin within his bosom.
"All aboard!" said Frank, and the band commenced playing "Home, Sweet
Home."
In due time the party were all transported to the shore, and everybody
went home highly delighted with the day's amusements. The Zephyr was
housed, and the crew dismissed, but not a word was said about the purse.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE LIGHTHOUSE.
During the month of May, the members of the two clubs continued to spend
many of their leisure hours on the lake; but my young friends must not
suppose that life was to them a continuous holiday; and, because these
books are devoted chiefly to their doings on the water, that boating was
the only, or the principal business that occupied them. They had their
school duties to perform, their errands to do, wood to split, yards to
sweep; in short, they had to do just like other boys. A portion of
Wednesday and Saturday afternoon, and of their other holidays, was given
to these aquatic sports; so that they were really on the lake but a
small part of the time. Probably, if they had spent all their leisure in
the boats, the exercise would have lost its attractions, besides
interfering very much with their home and school affairs. Pleasures, to
be enjoyed, should be partaken of in moderation. Boys get sick of most
sports in a short time, because they indulge in them too freely.
Nothing specially worthy of note occurred in either club till near the
end of the month of May. The intimacy between Charles Hardy and Tim
Bunker was observed to increase, though no one had any suspicion of the
secret which had cemented the bond of their union.
The lost purse was the property of Mr. Walker. At a subsequent visit to
Rippleton, he had mentioned his loss, but he had no idea where he had
dropped it. Tim congratulated his still unwilling confederate on the
success of his villainy. Mr. Walker did not even know whether he had
lost his money in the town or not; so, of course, he had no suspicion of
them.
"You are a first-rate fellow, Charley, but you are too chickenish by
half," said Tim Bunker.
"I don't feel right about it, and I wish I had given up the purse when I
found it."
"Pooh!"
"I meant to do so."
"I know you did. You were just fool enough to do such a thing. If it
hadn't been for me, you would have done it."
"O, I wish I had!"
"Don't be a fool, Charley."
"I would give the world to feel as I felt before I did this thing."
"Don't think any more about it."
"I can't help thinking. It worries me nights."
"Go to sleep then."
"I can't. What would Frank say if he knew it?"
"Humph! Frank again!"
"They would turn me out of the club."
"You are no worse than any of the rest of them."
"They wouldn't steal," replied Charles, warmly.
"Don't you believe it. If I should tell all I know about some of them,
they wouldn't be safe where they are, let me tell you."
"What do you know, Tim?"
"I don't choose to tell."
Charles found some satisfaction in this indefinite accusation; but it
was not enough to quiet his troubled conscience. Life seemed different
to him since he had stolen the purse--he had not got far enough in
wickedness yet to believe that it was not stolen. He felt guilty, and
his sense of guilt followed him wherever he went. He could not shake it
off. Everybody seemed to look reproachfully at him. He avoided his
companions in the club when not on duty with them. He began to hate
Frank Sedley, though he could not tell the reason. William Bright, who
was now the coxswain, Frank's term having expired, was a very strict
disciplinarian, and the guilty boy had grown very impatient of
restraint. He was surly and ill-natured when the coxswain rebuked him,
even in the kindest tones. Everything went wrong with him, for the worm
was gnawing at his heart.
"Won't you tell me, Tim?" asked he, in reply to Tim's remark.
"Not now, Charley; one of these days you shall know all about it."
"I am afraid we shall both get turned out of the club."
"No we shan't; if we do---- But no matter.'
"What would you do, Tim?"
"Never mind now, Charley. I have a plan in my head. Captain Sedley told
me the other day if I didn't behave better I should be turned out."
"Then you will be."
"I don't care if I am. If they turn me out, they will make a mistake;
that's all."
There was something mysterious in the words of the Bunker which excited
the curiosity of Charles. He could not help wondering what he would do.
Tim had so much resolution he was sure it was not an idle boast.
"I know what I am about," continued Tim, with a wise look.
"Captain Sedley says you still associate with your old companions,"
added Charles.
"What if I do?"
"That would be ground enough for turning you out."
"Would it? They are better fellows than you long faces, and you will say
so when you know them," replied Tim, speaking as though it were a
settled fact that he would know them by and by.
This conversation occurred one Wednesday afternoon, as the two boys were
on their way to the boat-house. On their arrival, Tim was informed by
Captain Sedley, who was apparently there for that purpose, that he was
expelled from the club. It was sudden and unexpected, and had been done
by the director without any action on the part of the club.
"What for?" asked Tim, in surly tones.
"I find that you still associate with your old companions, which is
sufficient proof that you don't mean to reform," answered the director.
"I don't care," growled Tim, as he turned on his heel and walked out of
the hall.
Charles Hardy was then called aside by Captain Sedley, who kindly
pointed out to him the danger he incurred in associating with such a boy
as Tim.
"I would not have kept company with him if he had not been a member of
the club," replied Charles.
"He was admitted to the club on the supposition that he intended to be a
better boy."
"I was opposed to admitting him," answered Charles, rather sulkily.
"I was very willing the boy should have a fair chance to reform; but
when it became apparent that he did not mean to do better, I could no
longer permit him to endanger the moral welfare of the club. We have
been satisfied for some time; and most of the boys, after giving him a
fair trial, avoided him as much as possible when they saw what he meant.
But you have been growing more and more intimate with him every day.
Why, it was only last night that he was seen with some twenty or thirty
of his old companions. They seemed to be in consultation about
something. Perhaps you were with them."
"No, sir; I was not."
"I am glad you were not. I caution you to avoid them."
"I will, sir," replied Charles, meekly; and he meant what he said.
"I am glad to hear you say so: I was afraid you had known too much of
Tim Bunker," said the director, as he walked towards his house.
Charles entered the hall, and took his seat.
"Those in favor of admitting Samuel Preston to the club will signify
it," said William, as soon as he was in his place.
Eleven hands were raised, and the new member, who stood by the window
waiting the result, was declared to be admitted. The constitution was
then read to him, and he signed it; after which the club embarked for an
excursion up to the strait, where they had agreed to meet the Butterfly.
The particular object of this visit was to erect a lighthouse on Curtis
Island, a small, rocky place, separated from the main shore by "Calrow
Strait," which the readers of "The Boat Club" will remember. The
navigation of this portion of the lake was considered very difficult,
especially through the narrow passage, and it was thought to be
absolutely necessary to have a lighthouse, mauger the fact that the
boats always sailed by day. But as neither craft was insured, it was
necessary to use extraordinary precautions!
A working party of half a dozen was detailed from each boat, consisting
of the stoutest boys, who were landed upon the island. Materials were
immediately gathered and the foundation laid. The structure was to be a
simple round tower, as high as the patience of the workmen would permit
them to build it.
In a short time all the rocks on the island had been used up, and the
lighthouse was only two feet high; but this contingency had been
anticipated, and provisions made for supplying more stone. A large rock
was attached to the long painter of the Butterfly, and she was moored at
a safe distance from the island, while her remaining crew were
transferred to the Zephyr.
A rude raft, which had been provided by Tony, was towed to the shore,
where an abundance of rocks were to be had. It was their intention to
load it with "lighthouse material," and tow it to the island. It
required all their skill to accomplish this object, for the raft was a
most ungainly thing to manage. The Zephyr was so long that they could
not row round so as to bring the raft alongside the bank, and when they
attempted to push it in, the paint, and even the planks of the boat,
were endangered.
"Can't get it in--can we?" said Charles Hardy, after several
unsuccessful attempts.
"There is no such word as fail," replied William. "Bring me the long
painter."
The coxswain unfastened the tow line of the raft, and tied the painter
to it.
"Bowman, stand by with the boat-hook, ready to land."
"Ay, ay!"
"Now, pull steady; be careful she does not grind on the rocks; easy,
there. Four of you jump ashore."
The four forward rowers obeyed the command.
"Now pass this line ashore, and let them pull in on the raft," continued
William.
"Hurrah! there she is!" shouted Frank. "That was done handsomely!"
"We could have done it before, if we had only thought of it," replied
William, laughing. "Now put out the fenders, and haul the boat alongside
the raft."
Four more of the boys were sent on shore to help roll down the rocks,
and two were ordered upon the raft to place them. A great deal of hard
work was done in a very short time; but, as it was play, no one minded
it, as probably some of them would if the labor had been for any useful
purpose. In due time the raft was loaded with all it would carry, and
the boys were ordered into the boat again.
The raft proved to be a very obstinate sailer. After a deal of hard
tugging at the oars, they succeeded in getting it under a tolerable
headway; but the tow line was not properly attached, and it "heeled
over" so as to be in danger of "spilling" its load into the lake.
Prudence and good management, however, on the part of the coxswain,
conveyed it in safety to the island, and its freight soon became "part
and parcel" of the lighthouse.
Two or three loads more were brought, after the lesson of experience
obtained in getting the first, with but comparatively little difficulty;
and at six o'clock the tower received its capstone at a height of six
feet from the ground, and twelve from the water.
The lighthouse was then inaugurated by a volley of cheers. A hollow
pumpkin of last year's growth, containing a lighted candle, was placed
upon the apex; and then the boats departed for home. At eight o'clock,
when the darkness had gathered upon the lake, they saw the light from
their homes, and had the satisfaction of knowing that the light-keeper
was watchful of the safety of vessels in those waters.
As Charles Hardy passed through the grove on his way home, after the
club separated, he met Tim Bunker, who was apparently awaiting his
coming.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE CONSPIRACY.
"Well, Charley, my pipe is out," said Tim Bunker, as he joined his late
associate in the club.
"It was rather sudden," replied Charles, disconcerted by the meeting,
for he had actually made up his mind to keep out of Tim's way. "I didn't
expect any such thing."
"I did; I knew old Sedley meant to get rid of me."
Tim always knew everything after it was done. He was a very profound
prophet, but he had sense enough to keep his predictions to himself.
"You did not say so," added Charles, who gave the Bunker credit for all
the sagacity he claimed.
"It was no use; it would only have frightened you, and you are
chickenish enough without any help. But no matter, Charley; for my part,
I am glad he turned me out. He only saved me the trouble of getting out
myself."
"Did you really mean to leave?"
"To be sure I did."
"What for?"
"Because I didn't like the company, to say nothing of being nosed round
by Frank Sedley, Bill Bright, or whoever happened to be coxswain. If
you had been coxswain, Charley, I wouldn't minded it," replied Tim,
adroitly.
"But I wouldn't nose the fellows round," replied Charles, tickled with
Tim's compliment.
"I know you wouldn't; but they wouldn't make you the coxswain. They hate
you too much for that."
"It is strange they haven't elected me," said Charles, musing.
"That's a fact! You know more about a boat than three quarters of them."
"I ought to."
"And you do."
Charles had by this time forgotten the promise he had made to Captain
Sedley--forgotten the good resolution he had made to himself. Tim's
flattery had produced its desired effect, and all the ground which the
Bunker had lost was now regained.
"I am sorry they turned you out, Tim," said he.
"I am glad of it. They will turn you out next, Charley."
"Me!"
"Yes."
"Why should they?"
"Because they don't like you."
"They wouldn't do that."
"Don't you believe it," replied Tim, shaking his head, and putting on a
very wise look. "I'll bet they'll turn you out in less than a month."
"Do you know anything about it?"
"Not much."
They had now reached the end of the grove, and Tim suggested that they
should take seats and "talk over matters." Charles readily assented,
and they seated themselves by the margin of the lake.
"What do you know, Tim?" asked Charles, his curiosity very much excited.
"I only know that they don't like you, and they mean to turn you out."
"I don't believe it."
"Do you mean to tell me I lie?"
"No, no; only I can't think they would turn me out."
"I heard Frank say as much," replied Tim, indifferently.
"Did you."
"To be sure I did."
Charles stopped to think how mean it was of Frank to try to get him out
of the club; how hypocritical he was, to treat him as a friend when he
meant to injure him. It did not occur to him that Tim had told a
falsehood, though it was generally believed that he had as lief tell a
lie as the truth.
"You are a fool if you let them kick you out, as they did me," continued
Tim.
"What can I do?"
"Leave yourself."
"Next week is vacation; and we have laid out some first-rate fun."
"There will be no fun, let me tell you."
"What do you mean, Tim?"
"If you want to be the coxswain of a boat as good as the Zephyr next
week, only say the word," replied Tim, slapping him on the back.
"How can that be?" asked Charles, looking with surprise at his
companion.
"And you shall have as good a crew as the Zephyr; better fellers than
they are, too."
"I don't understand you."
"You shall in due time."
"Tell me what you mean, Tim."
"Will you join us?"
"Tell me about it, first."
"And let you blow the whole thing?"
"I won't say a word."
"Will you promise not to say anything?"
"Yes."
"Will you swear it?"
Tim had read a great many "yellow-covered" books in his time, in which
tall buccaneers with long beards and bloodshot eyes required their
victims to "swear," and he seemed to attach some importance to the
ceremony. Charles "swore," though with considerable reluctance, not to
reveal the secret, when it should be imparted to him.
"You must join our society, now."
"Society?"
"Yes; we meet to-night at eight o'clock, in the woods back of my house."
"What sort of a society is it, Tim?" asked Charles, with a great many
misgivings.
"That you shall learn when we meet. Will you come?"
"My father won't let me go out in the evening."
"Run out, then."
Tim suggested various expedients for deceiving his parents, and finally
Charles promised to attend the meeting.
"You haven't told me the secret yet."
"The society is going to camp on Center Island next week, and we are
going to take the Zephyr and the Butterfly along with us."
"Take them? How are you going to get them?"
"Why, take them, you fool!"
"Do you mean to steal them?"
"Humph! We mean to take them."
"But do you suppose Captain Sedley and George Weston will let you keep
them?"
"They can't help themselves. We shall take the Sylph, and every other
boat on the lake, with us, so that no one can reach us. Do you
understand it?"
"I do; but how long do you mean to stay there?"
"All the week."
"And sleep on the ground?"
"We can have a tent."
"How will you live?"
"We shall carry off enough to eat beforehand." Then you see, we can sail
as much as we please, and have a first-rate time on the island. I shall
be coxswain of one boat, and you shall of the other if you like."
"But we shall have to come home some time."
"In about a week."
"What would my father do to me then?"
"Nothing, if you manage right. If he offers to, just tell him you will
run away and go to sea. He won't do nothing then."
"I don't know about that."
"He won't kill you, anyhow. And you will have a week's fun, such as you
never had before in your life."
"The Zephyrs won't have anything to do with me after that."
"They hate you, Charley, and all they want is to get you out of the
club. You are a fool if you don't leave yourself!"
Charles paused to consider the precious scheme which had thus been
revealed to him. To spend a week on the island, and not only to be his
own master for that time, but command one of the boats, pleased him very
much. It was so romantic, and so grateful to his vanity, that he was
tempted to comply with the offer. But then the scheme was full of peril.
He would "lose caste" with the Zephyrs; though, if Tim's statement was
true, he was already sacrificed. His father would punish him severely;
but perhaps Tim's suggestion would be available, and he knew his mother
would be so glad to see him when he returned, that she would save him
from the effects of his father's anger. His conscience assured him, too,
that it would be wrong for him to engage in such a piece of treachery
towards his friends; but Tim declared they were not his friends--that
they meant to ruin him.
Thus he reasoned over the matter, and thus he got rid of the objections
as fast as they occurred to him. While he was thinking about it, Tim
continued to describe in glowing colors the fun they could have;
occasionally relating some adventure of "Mike Martin," "Dick Turpin," or
other villain, whose lives and exploits were the only literature he ever
read.
But Charles could not fall at once. There were some difficulties which
he could not get over. It was wrong to do as Tim proposed; it was so
written on his soul. The "still small voice" could not be silenced. As
fast as he reconciled one objection, another came up, and something in
his bosom kept saying, "You must not do it."
The more he thought, the more imperative was the command. "Run away as
fast as you can!" said the voice within him. "You are tempted; flee from
the temptation."
"I guess I won't join you, Tim," said he.
"You won't, eh?" replied Tim, with a sneer.
"I think not; I don't believe it is right. But I won't say anything
about it."
"I rather guess you won't. It wouldn't be safe for you to do so."
"I won't, upon my honor, Tim," replied Charles, rising from his seat,
and edging away from his dangerous companion.
"Look here, Charley Hardy; in one word, you've got to join the Rovers."
"The what?"
"That's the name of a society," answered Tim, who had mentioned it
without intending to do so.
It was certainly a piratical appellation, and Charles was not
prepossessed by it in favor of the society. It had a ring of bold and
daring deeds, and his studies had not prepared him to entertain a very
high opinion of Tim's heroes, Dick Turpin and Captain Kidd.
"You can't back out now, Master Hardy," continued Tim.
"I don't want to join you, but I won't say a word."
"Very well, my fine fellow!" and Tim rose and walked away towards home.
Charles did not like this. He was afraid of Tim; afraid that some
terrible thing would happen to him if he did not keep on the right side
of him.
Like thousands of others, he had not the courage to do his duty, and
leave the consequences to take care of themselves. He was more afraid of
the Bunker than of the frowns of an accusing conscience.
"I say, Tim!" he called.
"Well, what you want now?" replied Tim, stopping.
"Suppose I don't join?"
"Then you will be in Rippleton jail before to-morrow night; that's all."
"What for?"
"No matter; if you come to the meeting to-night, all right; if you
don't--Rippleton jail;" and Tim hastened away, heedless of Charles's
calls.
Rippleton jail! What could he mean by that? He felt guilty, and his
heart beat so violently that he could hardly breathe. The stolen purse,
which still lay buried on Center Island, seemed to haunt him, and with
that he immediately connected Tim's dreadful threat. His confederate
meant to charge him with stealing it. It was all very plain, and his
conscience told him how justly he would be accused. He could not go to
jail innocent, as Tony had, and be borne home in triumph from the court
by the boat club.
His frame trembled with emotion; and he knew not what to do. There was a
right way and wrong way for him to proceed--the path of duty and the
path of error.
"I will go to Captain Sedley and tell him all about it," said he to
himself, "and tell him that they mean to steal the boats."
This was the path of duty; but he had not the courage to walk in it. He
would be despised even then, and Tim Bunker would certainly be revenged
if he did.
"I will go;" and he actually walked a short distance towards Captain
Sedley's house; but his courage failed him; he dared not do right, and
that evening he joined the "Rovers."
Poor Charles!
CHAPTER XV.
THE "ROVERS."
After Charles Hardy had joined the "Rovers" band, which was composed of
the original Bunkers, with others whom Tim had collected together, his
conscience proved less troublesome. The first wrong step taken, the
second follows with less compunction, and so on, till the moral sense is
completely blunted.
At the meeting he was informed by Tim that he had been admitted to the
society on account of his knowledge of boats. They could not get along
without such a fellow; and he was accordingly appointed "master of
marine," and second in command to Tim himself. These honors and
compliments reconciled him to the society of the Rovers, and he began to
exhibit his energy of purpose in directing the details of the next
week's operations.
Saturday was appointed as the day for stocking the island with
provisions and other necessaries, ready for the reception of the entire
party on Sunday night. Tim and Charles were to attend to this duty in
person.
"Meet me at eight o'clock in the morning over by Joe Braman's landing,
Charley, and--"
"But school keeps; I can't go till afternoon."
"And then the Zephyrs will see what we are about."
"I can't help it."
"Yes you can; can't you 'hook Jack'?"
"I dare not."
"Humph! You are an idiot! Tell the fellows to-morrow that you are going
over to your uncle's, and they will tell the master."
Charles consented, after some argument.
"I will get Joe's boat, and we can pull off to the island and get the
money."
"Where will you buy the things?"
"We must go down to Rippleton. You must get some, and I will get some.
We will buy them at different stores, so no one will know but what they
are for the folks."
"And the tent?"
"We will get a piece of cotton cloth for that, and some needles and
thread. Leave all that to me. Now, be on hand in season."
"One thing, Tim: I may be seen in Rippleton."
"No matter if you are. Bluff 'em off if they say anything."
The Rovers were to "rendezvous"--Tim had found this word in the
"Adventures of the Bold Buccaneer"--at nine o'clock on Sunday evening at
the wood. The arrangements were all completed, and the band dispersed.
On Saturday Charles was true to his appointment, and met Tim on the
north side of the lake. The money was procured, and the provisions were
safely deposited in the boat. It is true, Charles was so much
embarrassed that he well-nigh betrayed the existence of the plot to the
shopkeepers; and he was very glad when this part of the business was
done.
Then a new difficulty presented itself. Suppose the Zephyrs should
visit Center Island that afternoon and discover the stores! They had not
thought of this before, and the risk was too great to be incurred. They
decided to conceal their stores on the main shore till night, and then
carry them off. A convenient place was found for this purpose, and the
articles were landed.
They then repaired to the island to mature their plans.
"Now, where shall we pitch the tent?" asked Charles, when they landed.
"On the high ground near the beach."
"We have no poles. Here is the May-pole; that will do for one."
"We can't pitch the tent, soldier fashion. We must drive down four
forked stakes; then put poles on the forks, and cover the whole with
cloth."
"But where are the stakes and the poles?"
"We can cut them in the woods. We will get Joe Braman's ax, and do it
this forenoon."
"Suppose they should make a raft, and come off to us?" suggested
Charles.
"We have two fast boats, and can easily keep out of their way," replied
Tim. "If they want to fight we can beat them off."
Charles did not approve of fighting, and thought it would be bad policy.
Tim was tolerably tractable now that he was having his own way, and was
not very strenuous in support of his own pugnacious views. When their
plans were fully digested they left the island to prepare the stakes.
Before noon they separated, and the truant returned home about the usual
time.
That afternoon he joined the Zephyrs in an excursion up the lake, and
another lighthouse was erected in the vicinity of a dangerous reef.
"What shall we do next week?" asked Charles, as they were returning
home.
"We are going up the river," replied Frank. "My father has consented to
it."
"Has he? That will be first rate."
"And so has George Weston."
Charles relapsed into deep thought. He was thinking how much better he
could enjoy himself with good boys than with such fellows as the Rovers;
for, though he was "master of marine" among them, he could not help
acknowledging to himself that they were not pleasant companions. They
used profane and vulgar language; were always disposed to quarrel.
Disputes which were settled peaceably in the clubs were decided by a
fight among the Rovers; and the ambitious "master" had many misgivings
as to his ability to control them. Tim could manage them very well; for,
if one was turbulent, he struck him and knocked him down; and Charles
had not the brute courage to do this.
"What are you thinking about, Charley?" asked Frank, pleasantly.
"Nothing," replied Charles, promptly, as he tried to laugh.
"You act rather queerly this afternoon; just as though you had something
on your mind."
"O, no; nothing of the kind."
"I hope you don't regret the expulsion of Tim Bunker."
"Certainly not."
Charles tried to be gay after that; but he could not. There was a weight
upon his soul which bore him down, and he felt like a criminal in the
presence of his companions. He was glad when the club landed, and the
members separated--glad to get away from them, for their happy, innocent
faces were a constant reproach to him.
Sunday was a day of rest; but every moment of it was burdened with a sin
against God and against himself. Every moment that he delayed to repent
was plunging him deeper and deeper in error and crime. Strangely enough,
the minister preached a sermon about the Prodigal Son; and the vivid
picture he drew of the return of the erring wanderer so deeply affected
the youthful delinquent that he fully resolved to do his duty, and
expose the Rovers' scheme.
The money had been spent in part; but, if they sent him to jail, it
would be better than to continue in wickedness. Then he thought what
Captain Sedley would say to him; that the club would despise him; and
that he would not be permitted to join the sports of the coming week--to
say nothing of being put in prison.
But his duty was plain, and he had resolved to do it. He had decided to
suffer the penalty of his transgression, whatever it might be, and get
back again into the right path as soon as he could.
Happy would it have been for him had he done so. On his way home from
church he unfortunately met Tim Bunker, who had evidently placed himself
in his way to confirm his fidelity to the Rovers.
Tim saw that he was meditating something dangerous to the success of his
scheme. Charles was cold and distant. He appeared to have lost his
enthusiasm.
"If you play us false, it will be all up with you," said Tim, in a low,
determined tone. "I can prove that you stole the purse. That's all."
It was enough to overthrow all Charles's good resolution. His fickle
mind, his shallow principle, gave way. Stifling his convictions of duty,
and silencing the "still small voice," he went home: and there was no
joy in heaven over the returning prodigal.
"Charles," said his father, sternly, as he entered the house, "you were
not at school yesterday!"
"I got late, and did not like to go," whined he.
"Where were you?"
"Down at the village."
"Go to your room, and don't leave it without permission."
Charles obeyed. The consequences of his error were already beginning to
overtake him. His father joined him soon after, and talked to him very
severely. He was really alarmed, for Captain Sedley had given him a hint
concerning his son's intimacy with Tim Bunker.
Charles was not permitted to leave his room that afternoon, and his
supper was sent up to him; but his mother brought it, and consoled him
in his troubles--promising to prevent his father from punishing him any
more.
"Now, go to bed, Charley; never do so again, and it will be all right
to-morrow," said the weak mother, as she took her leave.
But Charles did not go to bed. The family retired early; and, taking his
great-coat on his arm, he stole noiselessly out of the house. At nine
o'clock he was at the rendezvous of the Rovers.
It was not deemed prudent to put their plans in execution till a later
hour; and the band dispersed, with instructions to meet again in an hour
at Flat Rock, where the boats would be in readiness to take them off to
the island.
Tim and Charles, with four others, immediately repaired to the place
where Joe Braman's boat, which had been hired for the enterprise, was
concealed. Seating themselves in it, they waited till the hour had
expired, and then, with muffled oars, pulled up to the Butterfly's
house.
The doors which opened out upon the lake were not fastened, and an
entrance was readily effected. The boat was loosed, pushed out into the
lake without noise, and towed down to the Zephyr's house. But here the
doors were found to be fastened; and one of the boys had to enter by a
window, and draw the bolt. The boat was then secured without difficulty.
"Now, Charley, you get into the Zephyr with two fellows, and tow the
Sylph off," said Tim, in a whisper.
"Shan't I get my crew first?"
"Just as you like."
Charles and his two companions got into the Zephyr and worked her down
to the rock, where he received his crew. It was found then that some of
the Rovers had not yet made their appearance, so that there were only
ten boys to each boat.
Although the success of the criminal undertaking required the utmost
caution, Charles found his command were disposed to be very boisterous,
and all his efforts would hardly keep them quiet. After some trouble he
got away from the shore; but his crew, from the want of discipline,
were utterly incapable of pulling in concert. They had not taken three
strokes before they were all in confusion--tumbling off the thwarts,
knocking each other in the back, and each swearing at and abusing his
companions.
"Hold your jaw, there!" called Tim Bunker, in a low tone, from the
Butterfly.
"Cease rowing!" said Charles.
But they would not "cease rowing," and the prospect was that a general
fight would soon ensue in spite of all the coxswain's efforts to restore
order. At last Tim came alongside, and rapping two or three of the
turbulent Rovers over the head with a boathook, he succeeded in quieting
them.
After several attempts Charles got them so they could pull without
knocking each other out of the boat; but he was heartily disgusted with
his crew, and would gladly have escaped from them, even if Rippleton
Jail had yawned to receive him. After half a dozen trials he placed the
Zephyr alongside the Sylph, let go her moorings, and took her in tow.
The Rovers then pulled for the island; but the passage thither was long
and difficult.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE CAMP ON THE ISLAND.
As the crew of the Zephyr tugged at their oars, their imperfect
discipline imposing double labor upon them, Charles had an opportunity
to consider his position. The bright color of romance which his fancy
had given to the enterprise was gone. The night air was cold and damp,
and his companions in error were repulsive to him. There was no pleasure
in commanding such a motley crew of ill-natured and quarrelsome bullies,
and if it had been possible, he would have fled from them. Who plunges
into vice may find himself in a snare from which he cannot escape though
he would.
At last they reached the island, and the Sylph was anchored near the
shore. There was a great deal of hard work to be done; but each of the
Rovers seemed to expect the others would do it.
"Now, Charley, everything is right so far," said Tim Bunker, whose party
had just drawn Joe Braman's boat upon the beach.
"Everything is wrong," Charles wanted to say; but Tim was too powerful
to be lightly offended.
"I can do nothing with such a crew as that," whined he. "They won't
mind, and every fellow wants his own way."
"Hit 'em if they don't mind," replied Tim.
"I think we had better spend an hour in drilling them. We can't handle
the boat as it is."
"We must get the tents up before we do anything else. You go after the
stakes and poles and I will get the provisions."
Before the crews returned to the boats, Tim made a little speech to them
upon the necessity of order; promising, if any boy did not obey, he
would thrash him "within an inch of his life."
"Now tumble into the boats, and, Charley, if any feller don't do what
you tell him, let me know it, and I will lick him for you."
"All aboard!" said Charles.
"Where are we going now?" asked one of his crew.
"No matter; all you have got to do is to obey orders," replied Charles,
sharply.
"Say that again!" said the fellow, with an oath, as he doubled up his
fist, and menaced the unfortunate coxswain with a thrashing.
"Hallo, Tim!" shouted Charles, who dared not venture to carry out the
Bunker's summary policy.
"What's the row?" said Tim, as he hastened to the spot.
"I can't do anything with this crew; here is a fellow shaking his fist
in my face."
"Let him be civil then," added the refractory Rover.
"It was you, was it, Barney?" said Tim, as he stepped into the boat.
"I'll bet it was," replied the fellow, standing upon the defensive.
"Take that, then," continued the "chief," as he brought his fist down
upon the rebel with such force that he tumbled over the side of the boat
into the water. "You want to get up a mutiny--don't you?"
The fellow scrambled ashore, wet through and shivering with cold.
"You'll catch it for that, Tim Bunker!" growled Barney.
"I'll teach you to mind. Now, Charley, put off, and don't be so stiff
with them yet. They are not such chicken-hearted pups as the Zephyrs, I
can tell you;" and Tim stepped ashore.
"Take your oars; if you only do as I tell you, we shall get along very
well," said Charles. "We can't do anything unless you mind."
He then showed them how to get their oars out, and how to start
together; but they did not feel interest enough in the process to pay
much attention to what he said, and several ineffectual attempts were
made before they got a fair start.
"Hallo! Ain't you going to take me?" shouted Barney, from the shore, as
they were leaving.
"Will you obey orders?"
"Yes; but I won't be kicked."
"Nobody wants to kick you," replied Charles, who, deeming that the rebel
had made a satisfactory concession, put back after him.
"This ducking will be the death of me," said Barney, as he got into the
boat.
"A little hard pulling will warm you, and when we get back, we shall
make a fire on the island," answered Charles, in a conciliatory tone,
"Now, ready--pull!"
The Rovers worked better now, and the Zephyr moved with tolerable
rapidity towards the shore; but it was very dark under the shadow of the
trees, and Charles could not readily find the place where the materials
for the tent had been concealed. Each of the crew thought he knew more
about the business than the coxswain; and in the scrape the Zephyr was
run aground, heeled over on one side, and filled half full of water.
It required some time to bail her out; but it was accomplished at last,
the stakes and poles put on board, and they rowed off to the island
again. Tim had arrived before him, and had landed the stores.
"Where are the matches, Tim?" asked Charles.
"What are you going to do?"
"Make a fire."
"What for?"
"Some of us are wet, and we can't see to put up the tents without it."
"But a fire will betray us."
"What matter? We are safe from pursuit."
"Go it, then," replied Tim, as he handed Charles a bunch of matches.
The fire was kindled, and it cast a cheerful light over the scene of
their operations.
"Now, Rovers, form a ring round the fire," said Tim, "and we will fix
things for the future."
The boys obeyed this order, though Barney, in consideration of his
uncomfortable condition, was permitted to lie down before the fire and
dry his clothes.
"I am the chief of the band; I suppose that is understood," continued
Tim.
"Yes," they all replied.
"And that Charley Hardy is second in command. He can handle a boat, and
the rest of you can't."
"I don't know about that," interposed one of them. "He upset the boat on
the beach."
"That was because the crew did not obey orders," replied Charles.
"He is second in command," replied Tim. "Do you agree to that?"
"Yes," answered several, who were willing to follow the lead of the
chief.
"Very well; I shall command one party and Charley the other; each in his
own boat and on the island. Now we will divide each party into two
squads, or watches."
"What for?" asked Barney.
"To keep watch, and do any duty that may be wanted of them."
Tim had got this idea of an organization from his piratical literature.
Indeed, the plan of encamping upon the island was an humble imitation of
a party of buccaneers who had fortified one of the smallest of the
islands in the West Indies. The whole scheme was one of the natural
consequences of reading bad books, in which the most dissolute,
depraved, and wicked men are made to appear as heroes, whose lives and
characters are worthy of emulation.
Such books fill boys' heads with absurd, not to say wicked ideas. I have
observed their influence in the course of ten years' experience with
boys; and when I see one who has named his sled "Blackbeard," "Black
Cruiser," "Red Rover," or any such names, I am sure he has been reading
about the pirates, and has got a taste for their wild and daring
exploits--for their deeds of blood and rapine. One of the truant
officers of Boston, whose duty it is to hunt up runaway boys, related to
me a remarkable instance of the influence of improper books. A few years
ago, two truant boys were missed by their parents. They did not return
to their homes at night, and it was discovered that one of them had
stolen a large sum of money from his father. A careful search was
instituted, and the young reprobates were traced to a town about ten
miles from the city, where they were found encamped in the woods. They
had purchased several pistols with their money, and confessed their
intention of becoming highwaymen! It was ascertained that they had been
reading the adventures of Dick Turpin, and other noted highwaymen, which
had given them this singular and dangerous taste for a life in violation
of the laws of God and man. My young readers will see where Tim got his
ideas, and I hope they will shun books which narrate the exploits of
pirates and robbers.
Two officers were chosen in each band to command the squads. Tim was
shrewd enough to know that the more offices he created, the more friends
he would insure--members who would stand by him in trial and difficulty.
In Charles's band, one of these offices was given to the turbulent
Barney; his fidelity was thus secured, and past differences reconciled.
"Now, Charley, my crew shall put up one tent, and yours the other."
"Very well," replied Charles, who derived a certain feeling of security
from the organization which had just been completed, and he began to
feel more at home.
The stakes were driven down, and the poles placed upon the forks; but
sewing the cloth together for the covering was found to be so tedious a
job that it was abandoned. The strips were drawn over the frame of the
tent, and fastened by driving pins through it into the ground. Then it
was found that there was only cloth enough to cover one tent. Tim's
calculations had been defective.
"Here's a pretty fix," said Tim.
"I have it," replied Charles. "Come with me, Barney, and we will have
the best tent of the two."
Charles led the way to the Sylph, and getting on board of her by the aid
of one of the boats, they proceeded to unbend her sails.
"Bravo! Charley," said Barney. "That's a good idea; but why can't some
of us sleep in this bit of a cuddy house?"
"So we can. Here is Uncle Ben's boat cloak, which will make a first-rate
bed. Don't say a word about it, though, and you and I can have it all to
ourselves."
The sails were carried ashore, and were ample covering for the tent. Dry
leaves, which covered the ground, were then gathered up and put inside
for their bed.
"Now, Tim, they are finished, and for one, I begin to feel sleepy," said
Charles.
"We can't all sleep, you know," added the prudent chief.
"Why not?"
"We must set a watch."
"I am too sleepy to watch," said Charles, with a long gape. "The clock
has just struck one."
"You needn't watch, you are the second in command."
"I see," replied Charles, standing upon his dignity.
"There are four watches, and each must do duty two hours a night. Who
shall keep the first watch?"
"I will," said Barney.
"Good! You must keep the fire going, and have an eye to both sides of
the island."
"Ay, ay."
"And you must go down to the boats every time the clock strikes, to see
if they are all right. If they should get adrift, you know, our game
would be up."
"I'll see to it."
"At three o'clock, you must call the watch that is to relieve you."
"Who will that be?"
"I," volunteered the three other officers of the watches, in concert.
"Ben, you shall relieve him. If anything happens, call me."
Tim and his followers then retired to their tent, and buried themselves
in the leaves. Charles ordered those of his band who were not on duty to
"turn in;" saying that he wanted to warm his feet. The Rovers were so
fatigued by their unusual labors that they soon fell asleep, and Charles
then repaired to the little cabin of the Sylph. Arranging the cloak for
his bed, he wrapped himself up in his great-coat and lay down.
Fatigued as he was, he could not go to sleep. The novelty of his
situation, and the guilt, now that the excitement was over, which
oppressed his conscience, banished that rest his exhausted frame
required. He heard the village clock strike two and three; and then he
rose, unable to endure the reproaches of his own heart.
"What a fool I am!" he exclaimed to himself; and a flood of tears came
to his relief. "To desert my warm bed, my happy home, the friendship of
my club, for such a set of fellows as this! O, how I wish I had not
come!"
Leaving the cabin, he seated himself in the stern sheets of the boat.
The bright stars had disappeared, and the sky was veiled in deep black
clouds. The wind blew very fresh from the north-east, and he was certain
that a severe storm was approaching. He wept bitterly when he thought of
the gloomy prospect.
He had repented his folly, and would have given the world to get away
from the island. Ah, a lucky thought! He could escape! The Rovers were
all asleep; the fresh breeze would soon drive the Sylph to the land, and
he could return home, and perhaps not be missed. It was an easy thing;
and without further reflection, he unfastened the cable, and dropped it
overboard.
The Sylph immediately commenced drifting away from the island. Taking
the helm, he put her before the wind, and was gratified to observe that
she made very good headway.
The clock struck four, and he heard the footsteps of the watch upon the
shore.
"Boat adrift!" shouted Ben, who was the officer of the watch.
The words were repeated several times, and in a few moments he heard
Tim's voice summoning his crew. Then the Butterfly dashed down upon
him, and his hopes died within him. But he had the presence of mind to
crawl back again to the cabin; and when Tim came onboard, he had the
appearance of being sound asleep, so that the chief did not suspect his
treachery.
CHAPTER XVII.
THE ESCAPE.
Monday was a cold, dreary, disagreeable day. The wind continued
northeast; a fine, drizzly rain was falling, and a thick fog had settled
over the lake, which effectually concealed the camp of the Rovers from
the main shore.
An excursion had been planned for the day by the two boat clubs; but the
weather was so unpropitious that it was abandoned. About nine o'clock,
however, the members of the clubs began to assemble at their halls in
search of such recreation as could be found indoors.
Frank opened the Zephyr's boat-house as usual, and great was his dismay
when he discovered that the boat was not in its berth. Calling Uncle Ben
from the stable, he announced to him the astounding intelligence that
the Zephyr had been stolen!
"What does it mean, Uncle Ben?" he asked, in deep anxiety.
"I can't tell you, Frank; only, as you say, it has been stolen. It
couldn't have broken adrift."
"Of course not; and one of the windows is open."
"That accounts for it," replied Uncle Ben, as he walked down the
boat-house and looked out upon the lake. "I will take the Sylph and
hunt it up."
"Let me go with you, Uncle Ben."
"My eyes! but the Sylph is gone too!" exclaimed the veteran, as he
perceived the moorings afloat where she usually lay.
"Strange, isn't it?"
Uncle Ben scratched his head, and did not know what to make of it.
"Here comes Tony, running with all his might," continued Frank. "What's
the matter, Tony?"
"Somebody has stolen the Butterfly!" gasped Tony, out of breath."
"And the Zephyr and the Sylph!"
Several of the members of the club now arrived, and the matter was
thoroughly discussed.
"Who do you suppose stole them!" said Frank.
"Who? why, Tim Bunker of course," replied Fred.
"But he must have had some help."
"Perhaps not; he has done it to be revenged, because your father turned
him out of the club."
"Very likely."
"May be he'll smash them up," suggested William Bright.
"Have you seen anything of Charles this morning?" asked Mr. Hardy,
entering the boat-house at this moment.
"No, sir."
"He did not sleep at home last night."
The Zephyrs looked at each other with astonishment, and most of them,
probably, connected him with the disappearance of the boats. His
intimacy with Tim Bunker created a great many painful misgivings,
especially when Mr. Hardy told them that his son had played truant on
Saturday; and one of the boys had heard of his being seen with Tim on
that day. Various other facts were elicited, which threw additional
light upon the loss of the boats. Mr. Hardy was in great distress. It
was clear that his son had wandered farther from the path of truth than
he had ever suspected.
Frank had gone up to the house to inform his father of the loss of the
boats, and Captain Sedley soon joined the party. He sympathized deeply
with Mr. Hardy, and was satisfied that his son could not be far off. It
was impossible to search the lake, as there were no boats for the
purpose.
As nothing could be done at present on the lake, Captain Sedley ordered
his horse, with the intention of driving round it in search of the
fugitive and of the boats. Mr. Hardy was invited to go with him.
On their arrival at Rippleton they found that Tim Bunker was missing, as
well as a great many other boys. They continued to examine the shores of
the lake till they reached Joe Braman's house, on the north side.
Captain Sedley inquired for his boat; and Joe, after trying to evade the
truth, confessed that he had let it to Tim for a week, but did not know
where he had gone with it. They were sure then that the boys were
engaged in some mad enterprise: and at about eleven o'clock the two
gentlemen reached home, without having obtained any intelligence of
Charles.
"Have you discovered anything, Ben?" asked Captain Sedley.
"Yes, sir; I heard voices in the direction of Center Island."
"They are there, then," replied Captain Sedley, as he repaired to the
boat-house.
About one o'clock the fog lifted, and revealed to the astonished party
the camp of the Rovers. A large fire burned near the two tents, around
which the boys were gathered, for the weather was so inclement as to
render Tim's enterprise anything but romantic.
The Sylph, the two club boats, and Joe Braman's "gondola" lay near the
shore, apparently uninjured.
"This is a mad frolic," said Captain Sedley; "but we may be thankful it
