and courteous in all their dealings with the heathen, still went not a
step with them in conformity to any of their customs.
In time, though the family we speak of never broke off from the
Christian church, yet if you had been in it, you might have heard much
warm and earnest conversation about things that took place at the baths,
or in feasts to various divinities; but if any one spoke of Jesus, there
was immediately a cold silence, a decorous, chilling, respectful pause,
after which the conversation, with a bound, flew back into the old
channel again.
       
It was now night; and the house of Onesiphorus the Elder was blazing
with torches, alive with music, and all the hurry and stir of a
sumptuous banquet. All the wealth and fashion of Laodicea were there,
Christian and heathen; and all that the classic voluptuousness of
Oriental Greece could give to shed enchantment over the scene was there.
In ancient times the festivals of Christians in Laodicea had been
regulated in the spirit of the command of Jesus, as recorded by Luke,
whose classical Greek had made his the established version in Asia
Minor. "And thou, when thou makest a feast, call not thy friends and thy
kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbors, lest they also bid thee, and a
recompense be made thee. But when thou makest a feast, call the poor,
and the maimed, and the lame, and the blind, and thou shalt be blessed;
for they cannot recompense thee, but thou shalt be recompensed at the
resurrection of the just."
That very day, before the entertainment, had this passage been quoted in
the ears of the family by Cleon, the youngest son, who, different from
all his family, had cherished in his bosom the simplicity of the old
belief.
"How ridiculous! how absurd!" had been the reply of the more thoughtless
members of the family, when Cleon cited the above passage as in point to
the evening's entertainment. The dark-eyed mother looked reproof on the
levity of the younger children, and decorously applauded the passage,
which she said had no application to the matter in hand.
"But, mother, even if the passage be not literally taken, it must mean
something. What did the Lord Jesus intend by it? If we Christians may
make entertainments with all the parade and expense of our heathen
neighbors, and thus spend the money that might be devoted to charity,
what does this passage mean?"
"Your father gives in charity as handsomely as any Christian in
Laodicea," said his mother warmly.
"Nay, mother, that may be; but I bethink me now of two or three times
when means have been wanting for the relieving of the poor, and the
ransoming of captives, and the support of apostles, when we have said
that we could give no more."
"My son," said his mother, "you do not understand the ways of the
world."
"Nay, how should he?" said Thalia, "shut up day and night with that old
papyrus of St. Luke and Paul's Epistles. One may have too much of a good
thing."
"But does not the holy Paul say, 'Be not conformed to this world'?"
"Certainly," said the elder; "that means that we should be baptized, and
not worship in the heathen temples."
"My dear son," said his mother, "you intend well, doubtless; but you
have not sufficient knowledge of life to estimate our relations to
society. Entertainments of this sort are absolutely necessary to sustain
our position in the world. If we accept, we must return them."
But not to dwell on this conversation, let us suppose ourselves in the
rooms now glittering with lights, and gay with every costly luxury of
wealth and taste. Here were statues to Diana and Apollo, and to the
household Juno--not meant for worship--of course not--but simply to
conform to the general usages of good society; and so far had this
complaisance been carried, that the shrine of a peerless Venus was
adorned with garlands and votive offerings, and an exquisitely wrought
silver censer diffused its perfume on the marble altar in front. This
complaisance on the part of some of the younger members of the family
drew from the elder a gentle remonstrance, as having an unseemly
appearance for those bearing the Christian name; but they readily
answered, "Has not Paul said, 'We know that an idol is nothing'? Where
is the harm of an elegant statue, considered merely as a consummate work
of art? As for the flowers, are they not simply the most appropriate
ornament? And where is the harm of burning exquisite perfume? And is it
worse to burn it in one place than another?"
"Upon my sword," said one of the heathen guests, as he wandered through
the gay scene, "how liberal and accommodating these Christians are
becoming! Except in a few small matters in the temple, they seem to be
with us entirely."
"Ah," said another, "it was not so years back. Nothing was heard among
them, then, but prayers, and alms, and visits to the poor and sick; and
when they met together in their feasts, there was so much of their talk
of Christ, and such singing of hymns and prayer, that one of us found
himself quite out of place."
"Yes," said an old man present, "in those days I quite bethought me of
being some day a Christian; but look you, they are grown so near like us
now, it is scarce worth one's while to change. A little matter of
ceremony in the temple, and offering incense to Jesus, instead of
Jupiter, when all else is the same, can make small odds in a man."
But now, the ancient legend goes on to say, that in the midst of that
gay and brilliant evening, a stranger of remarkable appearance and
manners was noticed among the throng. None knew him, or whence he came.
He mingled not in the mirth, and seemed to recognize no one present,
though he regarded all that was passing with a peculiar air of still and
earnest attention; and wherever he moved, his calm, penetrating gaze
seemed to diffuse a singular uneasiness about him. Now his eye was fixed
with a quiet scrutiny on the idolatrous statues, with their votive
adornments--now it followed earnestly the young forms that were
wreathing in the graceful waves of the dance; and then he turned towards
the tables, loaded with every luxury and sparkling with wines, where the
devotion to Bacchus became more than poetic fiction; and as he gazed, a
high, indignant sorrow seemed to overshadow the calmness of his majestic
face. When, in thoughtless merriment, some of the gay company sought to
address him, they found themselves shrinking involuntarily from the
soft, piercing eye, and trembling at the low, sweet tones in which he
replied. What he spoke was brief; but there was a gravity and tender
wisdom in it that strangely contrasted with the frivolous scene, and
awakened unwonted ideas of heavenly purity even in thoughtless and
dissipated minds.
The only one of the company who seemed to seek his society was the
youngest, the fair little child Isa. She seemed as strangely attracted
towards him as others were repelled; and when, unsolicited, in the frank
confidence of childhood she pressed to his side, and placed her little
hand in his, the look of radiant compassion and tenderness which beamed
down from those eyes was indeed glorious to behold. Yet here and there,
as he glided among the crowd, he spoke in the ear of some Christian
words which, though soft and low, seemed to have a mysterious and
startling power; for one after another, pensive, abashed, and
confounded, they drew aside from the gay scene, and seemed lost in
thought. That stranger--who was he? Who? The inquiry passed from mouth
to mouth, and one and another, who had listened to his low, earnest
tones, looked on each other with a troubled air. Ere long he had glided
hither and thither in the crowd; he had spoken in the ear of every
Christian--and suddenly again he was gone, and they saw him no more.
Each had felt the heart thrill within--each spirit had vibrated as if
the finger of its Creator had touched it, and shrunk conscious as if an
omniscient eye were upon it. Each heart was stirred from its depths.
Vain sophistries, worldly maxims, making the false look true, all
appeared to rise and clear away like a mist; and at once each one seemed
to see, as God sees, the true state of the inner world, the true motive
and reason of action, and in the instinctive pause that passed through
the company, the banquet was broken up and deserted.
"And what if their God were present?" said one of the heathen members of
the company, next day. "Why did they all look so blank? A most favorable
omen, we should call it, to have one's patron divinity at a feast."
"Besides," said another, "these Christians hold that their God is always
every where present; so, at most, they have but had their eyes opened to
see Him who is always there!"
       
What is practically the meaning of the precept, "Be not conformed to the
world?" In its every-day results, it presents many problems difficult of
solution. There are so many shades and blendings of situation and
circumstances, so many things, innocent and graceful in themselves,
which, like flowers and incense on a heathen altar, become unchristian
only through position and circumstances, that the most honest and
well-intentioned are often perplexed.
That we must conform in some things, is conceded; yet the whole tenor of
the New Testament shows that this conformity must have its limits--that
Christians are to be transformed, so as to exhibit to the world a
higher and more complete style of life, and thus "prove what is the
good, and acceptable, and perfect will of God."
But in many particulars as to style of living and modes of social
intercourse, there can be no definite rules laid down, and no Christian
can venture to judge another by his standard.
One Christian condemns dress adornment, and the whole application of
taste to the usages of life, as a sinful waste of time and money.
Another, perceiving in every work of God a love and appreciation of the
beautiful, believes that there is a sphere in which he is pleased to see
the same trait in his children, if the indulgence do not become
excessive, and thus interfere with higher duties.
One condemns all time and expense laid out in social visiting as so much
waste. Another remembers that Jesus, when just entering on the most vast
and absorbing work, turned aside to attend a wedding feast, and wrought
his first miracle to enhance its social enjoyment. Again, there are
others who, because some indulgence of taste and some exercise for the
social powers are admissible, go all lengths in extravagance, and in
company, dress, and the externals of life.
In the same manner, with regard to style of life and social
entertainment--most of the items which go to constitute what is called
style of living, or the style of particular parties, may be in
themselves innocent, and yet they may be so interwoven and combined with
evils, that the whole effect shall be felt to be decidedly unchristian,
both by Christians and the world. How, then, shall the well-disposed
person know where to stop, and how to strike the just medium?
We know of but one safe rule: read the life of Jesus with
attention--study it--inquire earnestly with yourself, "What sort of a
person, in thought, in feeling, in action, was my Savior?"--live in
constant sympathy and communion with him--and there will be within a
kind of instinctive rule by which to try all things. A young man, who
was to be exposed to the temptations of one of the most dissipated
European capitals, carried with him his father's picture, and hung it in
his apartment. Before going out to any of the numerous resorts of the
city, he was accustomed to contemplate this picture, and say to himself,
"Would my father wish to see me in the place to which I am going?" and
thus was he saved from many a temptation. In like manner the Christian,
who has always by his side the beautiful ideal of his Savior, finds it a
holy charm, by which he is gently restrained from all that is unsuitable
to his profession. He has but to inquire of any scene or employment,
"Should I be well pleased to meet my Savior there? Would the trains of
thought I should there fall into, the state of mind that would there be
induced, be such as would harmonize with an interview with him?" Thus
protected and defended, social enjoyment might be like that of Mary and
John, and the disciples, when, under the mild, approving eye of the Son
of God, they shared the festivities of Cana.
LITTLE FRED, THE CANAL BOY.
PART I.
In the outskirts of the little town of Toledo, in Ohio, might be seen a
small, one-story cottage, whose external architecture no way
distinguished it from dozens of other residences of the poor, by which
it was surrounded. But over this dwelling, a presiding air of sanctity
and neatness, of quiet and repose, marked it out as different from every
other.
The little patch before the door, instead of being a loafing ground for
swine, and a receptacle of litter and filth, was trimly set with
flowers, weeded, watered, and fenced with dainty care. The scarlet
bignonia clambered over the mouldering logs of the sides, shrouding
their roughness in its gorgeous mantle of green and crimson, and the
good old-fashioned morning glory, laced across the window, unfolded,
every day, tints whose beauty, though cheap and common, the finest
French milliner might in vain seek to rival.
When, in travelling the western country, you meet such a dwelling, do
you not instinctively know what you shall see inside of it? Do you not
seem to see the trimly-sanded floor, the well-kept furniture, the snowy
muslin curtain? Are you not sure that on a neat stand you shall see, as
on an altar, the dear old family Bible, brought, like the ancient ark of
the covenant, into the far wilderness, and ever overshadowed, as a
bright cloud, with remembered prayers and counsels of father and mother,
in a far off New England home?
And in this cottage there was such a Bible, brought from the wild hills
of New Hampshire, and its middle page recorded the marriage of James
Sandford to Mary Irving; and alas! after it another record, traced in a
trembling hand--the death of James Sandford, at Toledo. And this fair,
thin woman, in the black dress, with soft brown hair parted over a pale
forehead, with calm, patient blue eyes, and fading cheek, is the once
energetic, buoyant, light-hearted New Hampshire girl, who has brought
with her the strongest religious faith, the active practical knowledge,
the skilful, well-trained hand and clear head, with which cold New
England portions her daughters. She had left all, and come to the
western wilds with no other capital than her husband's manly heart and
active brain--he young, strong, full of hope, prompt, energetic, and
skilled to acquire--she careful, prudent, steady, no less skilled to
save; and between the two no better firm for acquisition and prospective
success could be desired. Every body prophesied that James Sandford
would succeed, and Mary heard these praises with a quiet exultation. But
alas! that whole capital of hers--that one strong, young heart, that
ready, helpful hand--two weeks of the country's fever sufficed to lay
them cold and low forever.
And Mary yet lived, with her babe in her arms, and one bright little boy
by her side; and this boy is our little brown-eyed Fred--the hero of our
story. But few years had rolled over his curly head, when he first
looked, weeping and wondering, on the face of death. Ah, one look on
that awful face adds years at once to the age of the heart; and little
Fred felt manly thoughts aroused in him by the cold stillness of his
father, and the deep, calm anguish of his mother.
"O mamma, don't cry so, don't," said the little fellow. "I am alive, and
I can take care of you. Dear mamma, I pray for you every day." And Mary
was comforted even in her tears and thought, as she looked into those
clear, loving brown eyes, that her little intercessor would not plead in
vain; for saith Jesus, "Their angels do always behold the face of my
Father which is in heaven."
In a few days she learned to look her sorrows calmly in the face, like a
brave, true woman, as she was. She was a widow, and out of the sudden
wreck of her husband's plans but a pittance remained to her, and she
cast about, with busy hand and head, for some means to eke it out. She
took in sewing--she took in washing and ironing; and happy did the young
exquisite deem himself, whose shirts came with such faultless plaits,
such snowy freshness, from the slender hands of Mary. With that
matchless gift which old Yankee housewives call faculty, Mary kept
together all the ends of her ravelled skein of life, and began to make
them wind smoothly. Her baby was the neatest of all babies, as it was
assuredly the prettiest, and her little Fred the handiest and most
universal genius of all boys. It was Fred that could wring out all the
stockings, and hang out all the small clothes, that tended the baby by
night and by day, that made her a wagon out of an old soap box, in which
he drew her in triumph; and at their meals he stood reverently in his
father's place, and with folded hands repeated, "Bless the Lord, O my
soul, and forget not all his mercies;" and his mother's heart responded
amen to the simple prayer. Then he learned, with manifold puffing and
much haggling, to saw wood quite decently, and to swing an axe almost as
big as himself in wood splitting; and he ran of errands, and did
business with an air of bustling importance that was edifying to see; he
knew the prices of lard, butter, and dried apples, as well as any man
about, and, as the store-keeper approvingly told him, was a smart chap
at a bargain. Fred grew three inches higher the moment he heard it.
In the evenings after the baby was asleep, Fred sat by his mother with
slate and book, deep in the mysteries of reading, writing, and
ciphering; and then the mother and son talked over their little plans,
and hallowed their nightly rest by prayer; and when, before retiring,
his mother knelt with him by his little bed and prayed, the child often
sobbed with a strange emotion, for which he could give no reason.
Something there is in the voice of real prayer that thrills a child's
heart, even before he understands it; the holy tones are a kind of
heavenly music, and far off in distant years, the callous and worldly
man, often thrills to his heart's core, when some turn of life recalls
to him his mother's prayer.
So passed the first years of the life of Fred. Meanwhile his little
sister had come to toddle about the cottage floor, full of insatiable
and immeasurable schemes of mischief. It was she that upset the clothes
basket, and pulled over the molasses pitcher on to her own astonished
head, and with incredible labor upset every pail of water that by
momentary thoughtlessness was put within reach. It was she that was
found stuffing poor, solemn old pussy head first into the water jar,
that wiped up the floor with her mother's freshly-ironed clothes, and
jabbered meanwhile, in most unexampled Babylonish dialect, her own
vindications and explanations of these misdemeanors. Every day her
mother declared that she must begin to get that child into some kind of
order; but still the merry little curly pate contemned law and order,
and laughed at all ideas of retributive justice, and Fred and his mother
laughed and deplored, in the same invariable succession, the various
direful results of her activity and enterprise.
But still, as Mary toiled on, heavy cares weighed down her heart. Her
boy grew larger and larger, and her own health grew feebler in
proportion as it needed to be stronger. Sometimes a whole week at a time
found her scarce able to crawl from her bed, shaking with ague, or
burning with fever; and when there is little or nothing with which to
replace them, how fast food seems to be consumed, and clothing to be
worn out! And so at length it came to pass that, notwithstanding the
labors of the most tireless of needles, and the cutting, clipping, and
contriving of the most ingenious of hands, the poor mother was forced to
own to herself that her darlings looked really shabby, and kind
neighbors one by one hinted and said that she must do something with her
boy--that he was old enough to earn his own living; and the same idea
occurred to the spirited little fellow himself.
He had often been along by the side of the canal, and admired the
horses; for between a horse and Fred there was a perfect magnetic
sympathy, and no lot in life looked to him so bright and desirable as to
be able to sit on a horse and drive all day long; and when Captain W.,
pleased with the boy's bright face and prompt motions, sought to enlist
him as one of his drivers, he found a delighted listener. "If he could
only persuade mother, there was nothing like it." For many nights after
the matter was proposed, Mary only cried; and all Fred's eloquence, and
his brave promises of never doing any thing wrong, and being the best of
all supposable boys, were insufficient to console her.
Every time she looked at the neat, pure little bed, beside her own, that
bed hallowed by so many prayers, and saw her boy, with his glowing
cheeks and long and dark lashes, sleeping so innocently and trustfully,
her heart died within her, as she thought of a dirty berth on the canal
boat, and rough boatmen, swearing, chewing tobacco, and drinking; and
should she take her darling from her bosom and throw him out among
these? Ah, happy mother! look at your little son of ten years, and ask
yourself, if you were obliged to do this, should you not tremble! Give
God thanks, therefore, you can hold your child to your heart till he is
old enough to breast the dark wave of life. The poor must throw them in,
to sink or swim, as happens. Not for ease--not for freedom from
care--not for commodious house and fine furniture, and all that
competence gives, should you thank God so much as for this, that you are
able to shelter, guide, restrain, and educate the helpless years of your
children.
Mary yielded at last to that master who can subdue all wills--necessity.
Sorrowfully, yet with hope in God, she made up the little package for
her boy, and communicated to him with renewed minuteness her parting
counsels and instructions. Fred was bright and full of hope. He was sure
of the great point about which his mother's anxiety clustered--he should
be a good boy, he knew he should; he never should swear; he never should
touch a drop of spirits, no matter who asked him--that he was sure of.
Then he liked horses so much: he should ride all day and never get
tired, and he would come back and bring her some money; and so the boy
and his mother parted.
Physical want or hardship is not the great thing which a mother need
dread for her child in our country. There is scarce any situation in
America where a child would not receive, as a matter of course, good
food and shelter; nor is he often overworked. In these respects a
general spirit of good nature is perceptible among employers, so that
our Fred meets none of the harrowing adventures of an Oliver Twist in
his new situation.
To be sure he soon found it was not as good fun to ride a horse hour
after hour, and day after day, as it was to prance and caper about for
the first few minutes. At first his back ached, and his little hands
grew stiff, and he wished his turn were out, hours before the time; but
time mended all this. He grew healthy and strong, and though
occasionally kicked and tumbled about rather unceremoniously by the
rough men among whom he had been cast, yet, as they said, "he was a chap
that always came down on his feet, throw him which way you would;" and
for this reason he was rather a favorite among them. The fat, black
cook, who piqued himself particularly on making corn cake and singing
Methodist hymns in a style of unsurpassed excellence, took Fred into
particular favor, and being equally at home in kitchen and camp meeting
lore, not only put by for him various dainty scraps and fragments, but
also undertook to further his moral education by occasional luminous
exhortations and expositions of Scripture, which somewhat puzzled poor
Fred, and greatly amused the deck hands.
Often, after driving all day, Fred sat on deck beside his fat friend,
while the boat glided on through miles and miles of solemn, unbroken old
woods, and heard him sing about "de New Jerusalem," about "good old
Moses, and Paul, and Silas," with a kind of dreamy, wild pleasure. To be
sure it was not like his mother's singing; but then it had a sort of
good sound, although he never could very precisely make out the meaning.
As to being a good boy, Fred, to do him justice, certainly tried to very
considerable purpose. He did not swear as yet, although he heard so much
of it daily that it seemed the most natural thing in the world; and
although one and another of the hands often offered him tempting
portions of their potations, as they said, "to make a man of him," yet
Fred faithfully kept his little temperance pledge to his mother. Many a
weary hour, as he rode, and rode, and rode through hundreds of miles of
unvarying forest, he strengthened his good resolutions by thoughts of
home and its scenes.
There sat his mother; there stood his own little bed; there his baby
sister, toddling about in her night gown; and he repeated the prayers
and sung the hymns his mother taught him, and thus the good seed still
grew within him. In fact, with no very distinguished adventures, Fred
achieved the journey to Cincinnati and back, and proud of his laurels,
and with his wages in his pocket, found himself again at the familiar
door.
Poor Fred! a sad surprise awaited him. The elfin shadow that was once
ever flitting about the dwelling was gone; the little pattering
footsteps, the tireless, busy fingers, all gone! and his mother, paler,
sicker, sadder than before, clasped him to her bosom, and called him her
only comfort. Fred had brought a pocket full of sugar plums, and the
brightest of yellow oranges to his little pet; alas! how mournfully he
regarded them now!
How little do we realize, when we hear that such and such a poor woman
has lost her baby, how much is implied to her in the loss! She is poor;
she must work hard; the child was a great addition to her cares; and
even pitying neighbors say, "It was better for her, poor thing! and for
the child too." But perhaps this very child was the only flower of a
life else wholly barren and desolate. There is often, even in the
humblest and most uncultured nature, an undefined longing and pining for
the beautiful. It expresses itself sometimes in the love of birds and of
flowers, and one sees the rosebush or the canary bird in a dwelling from
which is banished every trace of luxury. But the little child, with its
sweet, spiritual eyes, its thousand bird-like tones, its prattling,
endearing ways, its guileless, loving heart, is a full and perfect
answer to the most ardent craving of the soul. It is a whole little Eden
of itself; and the poor woman whose whole life else is one dreary waste
of toil, clasps her babe to her bosom, and feels proud, and rich, and
happy. Truly said the Son of God, "Of such are the kingdom of heaven."
Poor Mary! how glad she was to see her boy again--most of all, that they
could talk together of their lost one! How they discoursed for hours
about her! How they cried together over the little faded bonnet, that
once could scarce be kept for a moment on the busy, curly head! How they
treasured, as relics, the small finger marks on the doors, and
consecrated with sacred care even the traces of her merry mischief about
the cottage, and never tired of telling over to each other, with smiles
and tears, the record of the past gleesome pranks!
But the fact was, that Mary herself was fast wearing away. She had borne
up bravely against life; but she had but a gentle nature, and gradually
she sank from day to day. Fred was her patient, unwearied nurse, and
neighbors--never wanting in such kindnesses as they can
understand--supplied her few wants. The child never wanted for food, and
the mantle shelf was filled with infallible specifics, each one of which
was able, according to the showing, to insure perfect recovery in every
case whatever; and yet, strange to tell, she still declined. At last,
one still autumn morning, Fred awoke, and started at the icy coldness of
the hand clasped in his own. He looked in his mother's face; it was
sweet and calm as that of a sleeping infant, but he knew in his heart
that she was dead.
PART II.
Months afterwards, a cold December day found Fred turned loose in the
streets of Cincinnati. Since his mother's death he had driven on the
canal boat; but now the boat was to lie by for winter, and the hands of
course turned loose to find employment till spring. Fred was told that
he must look up a place; every body was busy about their own affairs,
and he must shift for himself; and so with half his wages in his pocket,
and promises for the rest, he started to seek his fortune.
It was a cold, cheerless, gray-eyed day, with an air that pinched
fingers and toes, and seemed to penetrate one's clothes like snow
water--such a day as it needs the brightest fire and the happiest heart
to get along at all with; and, unluckily, Fred had neither. Christmas
was approaching, and all the shops had put on their holiday dresses; the
confectioners' windows were glittering with sparkling pyramids of candy,
with frosted cake, and unfading fruits and flowers of the very best of
sugar. There, too, was Santa Claus, large as life, with queer, wrinkled
visage, and back bowed with the weight of all desirable knickknacks,
going down chimney, in sight of all the children of Cincinnati, who
gathered around the shop with constantly-renewed acclamations. On all
sides might be seen the little people, thronging, gazing, chattering,
while anxious papas and mammas in the shops were gravely discussing tin
trumpets, dolls, spades, wheelbarrows, and toy wagons.
Fred never had heard of the man who said, "How sad a thing it is to look
into happiness through another man's eyes!" but he felt something very
like it as he moved through the gay and bustling streets, where every
body seemed to be finding what they wanted but himself.
He had determined to keep up a stout heart; but in spite of himself, all
this bustling show and merriment made him feel sadder and sadder, and
lonelier and lonelier. He knocked and rang at door after door, but
nobody wanted a boy: nobody ever does want a boy when a boy is wanting a
place. He got tired of ringing door bells, and tried some of the shops.
No, they didn't want him. One said if he was bigger he might do; another
wanted to know if he could keep accounts; one thought that the man
around the corner wanted a boy, and when Fred got there he had just
engaged one. Weary, disappointed, and discouraged, he sat down by the
iron railing that fenced a showy house, and thought what he should do.
It was almost five in the afternoon: cold, dismal, leaden-gray was the
sky--the darkness already coming on. Fred sat listlessly watching the
great snow feathers, as they slowly sailed down from the sky. Now he
heard gay laughs, as groups of merry children passed; and then he
started, as he saw some woman in a black bonnet, and thought she looked
like his mother. But all passed, and nobody looked at him, nobody wanted
him, nobody noticed him.
Just then a patter of little feet was heard behind him on the
flagstones, and a soft, baby voice said, "How do 'oo do?" Fred turned in
amazement; and there stood a plump, rosy little creature of about two
years, with dimpled cheek, ruby lips, and long, fair hair curling about
her sweet face. She was dressed in a blue pelisse, trimmed with swan's
down, and her complexion was so exquisitely fair, her eyes so clear and
sweet, that Fred felt almost as if it were an angel. The little thing
toddled up to him, and holding up before him a new wax doll, all
splendid in silk and lace, seemed quite disposed to make his
acquaintance. Fred thought of his lost sister, and his eyes filled up
with tears. The little one put up one dimpled hand to wipe them away,
while with the other holding up before him the wax doll, she said,
coaxingly, "No no ky."
Just then the house door opened, and a lady, richly dressed, darted out,
exclaiming, "Why, Mary, you little rogue, how came you out here?" Then
stopping short, and looking narrowly on Fred, she said, somewhat
sharply, "Whose boy are you? and how came you here?"
"I'm nobody's boy," said Fred, getting up, with a bitter choking in his
throat; "my mother's dead; I only sat down here to rest me for a while."
"Well, run away from here," said the lady; but the little girl pressed
before her mother, and jabbering very earnestly in unimaginable English,
seemed determined to give Fred her wax doll, in which, she evidently
thought, resided every possible consolation.
The lady felt in her pocket and found a quarter, which she threw towards
Fred. "There, my boy, that will get you lodging and supper, and
to-morrow you can find some place to work, I dare say;" and she hurried
in with the little girl, and shut the door.
It was not money that Fred wanted just then, and he picked up the
quarter with a heavy heart. The sky looked darker, and the street
drearier, and the cold wind froze the tear on his cheeks as he walked
listlessly down the street in the dismal twilight.
"I can go back to the canal boat, and find the cook," he thought to
himself. "He told me I might sleep with him to-night if I couldn't find
a place;" and he quickened his steps with this determination. Just as he
was passing a brightly-lighted coffee house, familiar voices hailed him,
and Fred stopped; he would be glad even to see a dog he had ever met
before, and of course he was glad when two boys, old canal boat
acquaintances, hailed him, and invited him into the coffee house. The
blazing fire was a brave light on that dismal night, and the faces of
the two boys were full of glee, and they began rallying Fred on his
doleful appearance, and insisting on it that he should take something
warm with them.
Fred hesitated a moment; but he was tired and desperate, and the
steaming, well-sweetened beverage was too tempting. "Who cares for me?"
thought he, "and why should I care?" and down went the first spirituous
liquor the boy had ever tasted; and in a few moments, he felt a
wonderful change. He was no longer a timid, cold, disheartened,
heart-sick boy, but felt somehow so brave, so full of hope and courage,
that he began to swagger, to laugh very loud, and to boast in such high
terms of the money in his pocket, and of his future intentions and
prospects, that the two boys winked significantly at each other. They
proposed, after sitting a while, to walk out and see the shop windows.
All three of the boys had taken enough to put them to extra merriment;
but Fred, who was entirely unused to the stimulant, was quite beside
himself. If they sung, he shouted; if they laughed, he screamed; and he
thought within himself he never had heard and thought so many witty
things as on that very evening. At last they fell in with quite a press
of boys, who were crowding round a confectionery window, and, as usual
in such cases, there began an elbowing and scuffling contest for places,
in which Fred was quite conspicuous. At last a big boy presumed on his
superior size to edge in front of our hero, and cut off his prospect;
and Fred, without more ado, sent him smashing through the shop window.
There was a general scrabble, every one ran for himself, and Fred, never
having been used to the business, was not very skilful in escaping, and
of course was caught, and committed to an officer, who, with small
ceremony, carried him off and locked him up in the watch house, from
which he was the next morning taken before the mayor, and after
examination sent to jail.
This sobered Fred. He came to himself as out of a dream, and he was
overwhelmed with an agony of shame and self-reproach. He had broken his
promise to his dead mother--he had been drinking! and his heart failed
him when he thought of the horrors that his mother had always associated
with that word. And then he was in jail--that place that his mother had
always represented as an almost impossible horror, the climax of shame
and disgrace. The next night the poor boy stretched himself on his hard,
lonely bed, and laid under his head his little bundle, containing his
few clothes and his mother's Bible, and then sobbed himself to sleep.
Cold and gray dawned the following morning on little Fred, as he slowly
and heavily awoke, and with a bitter chill of despair recalled the
events of the last two nights, and looked up at the iron-grated window,
and round on the cheerless walls; and, as if in bitter contrast, arose
before him an image of his lost home--the neat, quiet room, the white
curtains and snowy floor, his mother's bed, with his own little cot
beside it, and his mother's mild blue eyes, as they looked upon him only
six months ago. Mechanically he untied the check handkerchief which
contained his few clothes, and worldly possessions, and relics of home.
There was the small, clean-printed Bible his mother had given him with
so many tears on their first parting; there was a lock of her soft brown
hair; there, too, were a pair of little worn shoes and stockings, a
baby's rattle, and a curl of golden hair, which he had laid up in memory
of his lost little pet. Fred laid his head down over all these, his
forlorn treasures, and sobbed as if his heart would break.
After a while the jailer came in, and really seemed affected by the
distress of the child, and said what he could to console him; and in the
course of the day, as the boy "seemed to be so lonesome like," he
introduced another boy into the room as company for him. This was a
cruel mercy; for while the child was alone with himself and the memories
of the past, he was, if sad, at least safe, and in a few hours after
this new introduction he was neither. His new companion was a tall boy
of fourteen, with small, cunning, gray eyes, to which a slight cast gave
an additional expression of shrewdness and drollery. He was a young
gentleman of great natural talent,--in a certain line,--with very
precocious attainments in all that kind of information which a boy gains
by running at large for several years in a city's streets without any
thing particular to do, or any body in particular to obey--any
conscience, any principle, any fear either of God or man. We should not
say that he had never seen the inside of a church, for he had been, for
various purposes, into every one of the city, and to every camp meeting
for miles around; and so much had he profited by these exercises, that
he could mimic to perfection every minister who had any perceptible
peculiarity, could caricature every species of psalm-singing, and give
ludicrous imitations of every form of worship. Then he was au fait in
all coffee house lore, and knew the names and qualities of every kind of
beverage therein compounded; and as to smoking and chewing, the first
elements of which he mastered when he was about six years old, he was
now a connoisseur in the higher branches. He had been in jail dozens
of times--rather liked the fun; had served one term on the
chain-gang--not so bad either--shouldn't mind another--learned a good
many prime things there.
At first Fred seemed inclined to shrink from his new associate. An
instinctive feeling, like the warning of an invisible angel, seemed to
whisper, "Beware!" But he was alone, with a heart full of bitter
thoughts, and the sight of a fellow-face was some comfort. Then his
companion was so dashing, so funny, so free and easy, and seemed to make
such a comfortable matter of being in jail, that Fred's heart, naturally
buoyant, began to come up again in his breast. Dick Jones soon drew out
of him his simple history as to how he came there, and finding that he
was a raw hand, seemed to feel bound to patronize and take him under his
wing. He laughed quite heartily at Fred's story, and soon succeeded in
getting him to laugh at it too.
How strange!--the very scenes that in the morning he looked at only with
bitter anguish and remorse, this noon he was laughing at as good
jokes--so much for the influence of good society! An instinctive
feeling, soon after Dick Jones came in, led Fred to push his little
bundle into the farthest corner, under the bed, far out of sight or
inquiry; and the same reason led him to suppress all mention of his
mother, and all the sacred part of his former life. He did this more
studiously, because, having once accidentally remarked how his mother
used to forbid him certain things, the well-educated Dick broke out,--
"Well, for my part, I could whip my mother when I wa'n't higher than
that!" with a significant gesture.
"Whip your mother!" exclaimed Fred, with a face full of horror.
"To be sure, greenie! Why not? Precious fun it was in those times. I
used to slip in and steal the old woman's whiskey and sugar when she was
just too far over to walk a crack--she'd throw the tongs at me, and I'd
throw the shovel at her, and so it went square and square."
Goethe says somewhere, "Miserable is that man whose mother has not
made all other mothers venerable." Our new acquaintance bade fair to
come under this category.
Fred's education, under this talented instructor, made progress. He sat
hours and hours laughing at his stories--sometimes obscene, sometimes
profane, but always so full of life, drollery, and mimicry that a more
steady head than Fred's was needed to withstand the contagion. Dick had
been to the theatre--knew it all like a book, and would take Fred there
as soon as they got out; then he had a first-rate pack of cards, and he
could teach Fred to play; and the gay tempters were soon spread out on
their bed, and Fred and his instructor sat hour after hour absorbed in
what to him was a new world of interest. He soon learned, could play for
small stakes, and felt in himself the first glimmering of that fire
which, when fully kindled, many waters cannot quench, nor floods drown!
Dick was, as we said, precocious. He had the cool eye and steady hand of
an experienced gamester, and in a few days he won, of course, all Fred's
little earnings. But then he was quite liberal and free with his money.
He added to their prison fare such various improvements as his abundance
of money enabled him to buy. He had brought with him the foundation of
good cheer in a capacious bottle which emerged the first night from his
pocket, for he said he never went to jail without his provision; then
hot water, and sugar, and lemons, and peppermint drops were all
forthcoming for money, and Fred learned once and again, and again, the
fatal secret of hushing conscience, and memory, and bitter despair in
delirious happiness, and as Dick said, was "getting to be a right jolly
'un that would make something yet."
And was it all gone, all washed away by this sudden wave of evil?--every
trace of prayer, and hope, and sacred memory in this poor child's heart?
No, not all; for many a night, when his tempter slept by his side, the
child lived over the past; again he kneeled in prayer, and felt his
mother's guardian hand on his head, and he wept tears of bitter remorse,
and wondered at the dread change that had come over him. Then he
dreamed, and he saw his mother and sister walking in white, fair as
angels, and would go to them; but between him and them was a great gulf
fixed, which widened and widened, and grew darker and darker, till he
could see them no more, and he awoke in utter misery and despair.
Again and again he resolved, in the darkness of the night, that
to-morrow he would not drink, and he would not speak a wicked word, and
he would not play cards, nor laugh at Dick's bad stories. Ah, how many
such midnight resolves have evil angels sneered at and good ones sighed
over! for with daylight back comes the old temptation, and with it the
old mind; and with daylight came back the inexorable prison walls which
held Fred and his successful tempter together.
At last he gave himself up. No, he could not be good with Dick--there
was no use in trying!--and he made no more midnight resolves, and drank
more freely of the dreadful remedy for unquiet thoughts.
And now is Fred growing in truth a wicked boy. In a little while more
and he shall be such a one as you will on no account take under your
roof, lest he corrupt your own children; and yet, father, mother, look
at your son of twelve years, your bright, darling boy, and think of him
shut up for a month with such a companion, in such a cell, and ask
yourselves if he would be any better.
And was there no eye, heavenly or earthly, to look after this lost one?
Was there no eye which could see through all the traces of sin, the yet
lingering drops of that baptism and early prayer and watchfulness which
consecrated it? Yes; He whose mercy extends to the third and fourth
generations of those who love him, sent a friend to our poor boy in his
last distress.
It is one of the most refined and characteristic modifications of
Christianity, that those who are themselves sheltered, guarded, fenced
by good education, knowledge, and competence, appoint and sustain a
pastor and guardian in our large cities to be the shepherd of the
wandering and lost, and of them who, in the Scripture phrase, "have none
to help." Justly is he called the "City Missionary," for what is more
truly missionary ground? In the hospital, among the old, the sick, the
friendless, the forlorn--in the prison, among the hardened, the
blaspheming--among the discouraged and despairing, still holding with
unsteady hand on to some forlorn fragment of virtue and self-respect,
goes this missionary to stir the dying embers of good, to warn, entreat,
implore, to adjure by sacred recollections of father, mother, and home,
the fallen wanderers to return. He finds friends, and places, and
employment for some, and by timely aid and encouragement saves many a
one from destruction.
In this friendly shape appeared a man of prayer to visit the cell in
which Fred was confined. Dick listened to his instructions with cool
complacency, rolling his tobacco from side to side in his mouth, and
meditating on him as a subject for some future histrionic exercise of
his talent.
But his voice was as welcome to poor Fred as daylight in a dungeon. All
the smothered remorse and despair of his heart burst forth in bitter
confessions, as, with many tears, he poured forth his story to the
friendly man. It needs not to prolong our story, for now the day has
dawned and the hour of release is come.
It is not needful to carry our readers through all the steps by which
Fred was transferred, first to the fireside of the friendly missionary,
and afterwards to the guardian care of a good old couple who resided on
a thriving farm not far from Cincinnati. Set free from evil influences,
the first carefully planted and watered seeds of good began to grow
again, and he became as a son to the kind family who had adopted him.
THE CANAL BOAT.
Of all the ways of travelling which obtain among our locomotive nation,
this said vehicle, the canal boat, is the most absolutely prosaic and
inglorious. There is something picturesque, nay, almost sublime, in the
lordly march of your well-built, high-bred steamboat. Go, take your
stand on some overhanging bluff, where the blue Ohio winds its thread of
silver, or the sturdy Mississippi tears its path through unbroken
forests, and it will do your heart good to see the gallant boat walking
the waters with unbroken and powerful tread; and, like some fabled
monster of the wave, breathing fire, and making the shores resound with
its deep respirations. Then there is something mysterious, even awful,
in the power of steam. See it curling up against a blue sky, some rosy
morning--graceful, floating, intangible, and to all appearance the
softest and gentlest of all spiritual things; and then think that it is
this fairy spirit that keeps all the world alive and hot with motion;
think how excellent a servant it is, doing all sorts of gigantic works,
like the genii of old; and yet, if you let slip the talisman only for a
moment, what terrible advantage it will take of you! and you will
confess that steam has some claims both to the beautiful and the
terrible. For our own part, when we are down among the machinery of a
steamboat in full play, we conduct ourself very reverently, for we
consider it as a very serious neighborhood; and every time the steam
whizzes with such red-hot determination from the escape valve, we start
as if some of the spirits were after us. But in a canal boat there is no
power, no mystery, no danger; one cannot blow up, one cannot be drowned,
unless by some special effort: one sees clearly all there is in the
case--a horse, a rope, and a muddy strip of water--and that is all.
Did you ever try it, reader? If not, take an imaginary trip with us,
just for experiment. "There's the boat!" exclaims a passenger in the
omnibus, as we are rolling down from the Pittsburg Mansion House to the
canal. "Where?" exclaim a dozen of voices, and forthwith a dozen heads
go out of the window. "Why, down there, under that bridge; don't you see
those lights?" "What! that little thing?" exclaims an inexperienced
traveller; "dear me! we can't half of us get into it!" "We! indeed,"
says some old hand in the business; "I think you'll find it will hold us
and a dozen more loads like us." "Impossible!" say some. "You'll see,"
say the initiated; and, as soon as you get out, you do see, and hear
too, what seems like a general breaking loose from the Tower of Babel,
amid a perfect hail storm of trunks, boxes, valises, carpet bags, and
every describable and indescribable form of what a westerner calls
"plunder."
"That's my trunk!" barks out a big, round man. "That's my bandbox!"
screams a heart-stricken old lady, in terror for her immaculate Sunday
caps. "Where's my little red box? I had two carpet bags and a--My trunk
had a scarle--Halloo! where are you going with that portmanteau?
Husband! husband! do see after the large basket and the little hair
trunk--O, and the baby's little chair!" "Go below--go below, for mercy's
sake, my dear; I'll see to the baggage." At last, the feminine part of
creation, perceiving that, in this particular instance, they gain
nothing by public speaking, are content to be led quietly under hatches;
and amusing is the look of dismay which each new comer gives to the
confined quarters that present themselves. Those who were so ignorant of
the power of compression as to suppose the boat scarce large enough to
contain them and theirs, find, with dismay, a respectable colony of old
ladies, babies, mothers, big baskets, and carpet bags already
established. "Mercy on us!" says one, after surveying the little room,
about ten feet long and six high, "where are we all to sleep to-night?"
"O me! what a sight of children!" says a young lady, in a despairing
tone. "Poh!" says an initiated traveller; "children! scarce any here;
let's see: one; the woman in the corner, two; that child with the bread
and butter, three; and then there's that other woman with two. Really,
it's quite moderate for a canal boat. However, we can't tell till they
have all come."
"All! for mercy's sake, you don't say there are any more coming!"
exclaim two or three in a breath; "they can't come; there is not
room!"
Notwithstanding the impressive utterance of this sentence, the contrary
is immediately demonstrated by the appearance of a very corpulent,
elderly lady, with three well-grown daughters, who come down looking
about them most complacently, entirely regardless of the unchristian
looks of the company. What a mercy it is that fat people are always good
natured!
After this follows an indiscriminate raining down of all shapes, sizes,
sexes, and ages--men, women, children, babies, and nurses. The state of
feeling becomes perfectly desperate. Darkness gathers on all faces. "We
shall be smothered! we shall be crowded to death! we can't stay here!"
are heard faintly from one and another; and yet, though the boat grows
no wider, the walls no higher, they do live, and do stay there, in spite
of repeated protestations to the contrary. Truly, as Sam Slick says,
"there's a sight of wear in human natur'."
But, meanwhile, the children grow sleepy, and divers interesting little
duets and trios arise from one part or another of the cabin.
"Hush, Johnny! be a good boy," says a pale, nursing mamma, to a great,
bristling, white-headed phenomenon, who is kicking very much at large in
her lap.
"I won't be a good boy, neither," responds Johnny, with interesting
explicitness; "I want to go to bed, and so-o-o-o!" and Johnny makes up a
mouth as big as a teacup, and roars with good courage, and his mamma
asks him "if he ever saw pa do so," and tells him that "he is mamma's
dear, good little boy, and must not make a noise," with various
observations of the kind, which are so strikingly efficacious in such
cases. Meanwhile, the domestic concert in other quarters proceeds with
vigor. "Mamma, I'm tired!" bawls a child. "Where's the baby's night
gown?" calls a nurse. "Do take Peter up in your lap, and keep him
still." "Pray get out some biscuits to stop their mouths." Meanwhile,
sundry babies strike in "con spirito," as the music books have it, and
execute various flourishes; the disconsolate mothers sigh, and look as
if all was over with them; and the young ladies appear extremely
disgusted, and wonder "what business women have to be travelling round
with babies."
To these troubles succeeds the turning-out scene, when the whole caravan
is ejected into the gentlemen's cabin, that the beds may be made. The
red curtains are put down, and in solemn silence all, the last
mysterious preparations begin. At length it is announced that all is
ready. Forthwith the whole company rush back, and find the walls
embellished by a series of little shelves, about a foot wide, each
furnished with a mattress and bedding, and hooked to the ceiling by a
very suspiciously slender cord. Direful are the ruminations and
exclamations of inexperienced travellers, particularly young ones, as
they eye these very equivocal accommodations. "What, sleep up there! I
won't sleep on one of those top shelves, I know. The cords will
certainly break." The chambermaid here takes up the conversation, and
solemnly assures them that such an accident is not to be thought of at
all; that it is a natural impossibility--a thing that could not happen
without an actual miracle; and since it becomes increasingly evident
that thirty ladies cannot all sleep on the lowest shelf, there is some
effort made to exercise faith in this doctrine; nevertheless, all look
on their neighbors with fear and trembling; and when the stout lady
talks of taking a shelf, she is most urgently pressed to change places
with her alarmed neighbor below. Points of location being after a while
adjusted, comes the last struggle. Every body wants to take off a
bonnet, or look for a shawl, to find a cloak, or get a carpet bag, and
all set about it with such zeal that nothing can be done. "Ma'am, you're
on my foot!" says one. "Will you please to move, ma'am?" says somebody,
who is gasping and struggling behind you. "Move!" you echo. "Indeed, I
should be very glad to, but I don't see much prospect of it."
"Chambermaid!" calls a lady, who is struggling among a heap of carpet
bags and children at one end of the cabin. "Ma'am!" echoes the poor
chambermaid, who is wedged fast, in a similar situation, at the other.
"Where's my cloak, chambermaid?" "I'd find it, ma'am, if I could move."
"Chambermaid, my basket!" "Chambermaid, my parasol!" "Chambermaid, my
carpet bag!" "Mamma, they push me so!" "Hush, child; crawl under there,
and lie still till I can undress you." At last, however, the various
distresses are over, the babies sink to sleep, and even that
much-enduring being, the chambermaid, seeks out some corner for repose.
Tired and drowsy, you are just sinking into a doze, when bang! goes the
boat against the sides of a lock; ropes scrape, men run and shout, and
up fly the heads of all the top shelfites, who are generally the more
juvenile and airy part of the company.
"What's that! what's that!" flies from mouth to mouth; and forthwith
they proceed to awaken their respective relations. "Mother! Aunt Hannah!
do wake up; what is this awful noise?" "O, only a lock!" "Pray be
still," groan out the sleepy members from below.
"A lock!" exclaim the vivacious creatures, ever on the alert for
information; "and what is a lock, pray?"
"Don't you know what a lock is, you silly creatures? Do lie down and go
to sleep."
"But say, there ain't any danger in a lock, is there?" respond the
querists. "Danger!" exclaims a deaf old lady, poking up her head;
"what's the matter? There hain't nothin' burst, has there?" "No, no,
no!" exclaim the provoked and despairing opposition party, who find that
there is no such thing as going to sleep till they have made the old
lady below and the young ladies above understand exactly the philosophy
of a lock. After a while the conversation again subsides; again all is
still; you hear only the trampling of horses and the rippling of the
rope in the water, and sleep again is stealing over you. You doze, you
dream, and all of a sudden you are started by a cry, "Chambermaid! wake
up the lady that wants to be set ashore." Up jumps chambermaid, and up
jump the lady and two children, and forthwith form a committee of
inquiry as to ways and means. "Where's my bonnet?" says the lady, half
awake, and fumbling among the various articles of that name. "I thought
I hung it up behind the door." "Can't you find it?" says poor
chambermaid, yawning and rubbing her eyes. "O, yes, here it is," says
the lady; and then the cloak, the shawl, the gloves, the shoes, receive
each a separate discussion. At last all seems ready, and they begin to
move off, when, lo! Peter's cap is missing. "Now, where can it be?"
soliloquizes the lady. "I put it right here by the table leg; maybe it
got into some of the berths." At this suggestion, the chambermaid takes
the candle, and goes round deliberately to every berth, poking the light
directly in the face of every sleeper. "Here it is," she exclaims,
pulling at something black under one pillow. "No, indeed, those are my
shoes," says the vexed sleeper. "Maybe it's here," she resumes, darting
upon something dark in another berth. "No, that's my bag," responds the
occupant. The chambermaid then proceeds to turn over all the children on
the floor, to see if it is not under them. In the course of which
process they are most agreeably waked up and enlivened; and when every
body is broad awake, and most uncharitably wishing the cap, and Peter
too, at the bottom of the canal, the good lady exclaims, "Well, if this
isn't lucky; here I had it safe in my basket all the time!" And she
departs amid the--what shall I say?--execrations?--of the whole company,
ladies though they be.
Well, after this follows a hushing up and wiping up among the juvenile
population, and a series of remarks commences from the various shelves,
of a very edifying and instructive tendency. One says that the woman did
not seem to know where any thing was; another says that she has waked
them all up; a third adds that she has waked up all the children, too;
and the elderly ladies make moral reflections on the importance of
putting your things where you can find them--being always ready; which
observations, being delivered in an exceedingly doleful and drowsy tone,
form a sort of sub-bass to the lively chattering of the upper shelfites,
who declare that they feel quite wide awake,--that they don't think they
shall go to sleep again to-night,--and discourse over every thing in
creation, until you heartily wish you were enough related to them to
give them a scolding.
At last, however, voice after voice drops off; you fall into a most
refreshing slumber; it seems to you that you sleep about a quarter of an
hour, when the chambermaid pulls you by the sleeve. "Will you please to
get up, ma'am? We want to make the beds." You start and stare. Sure
enough, the night is gone. So much for sleeping on board canal boats.
Let us not enumerate the manifold perplexities of the morning toilet in
a place where every lady realizes most forcibly the condition of the old
woman who lived under a broom: "All she wanted was elbow room." Let us
not tell how one glass is made to answer for thirty fair faces, one ewer
and vase for thirty lavations; and--tell it not in Gath!--one towel for
a company! Let us not intimate how ladies' shoes have, in a night,
clandestinely slid into the gentlemen's cabin, and gentlemen's boots
elbowed, or, rather, toed their way among ladies' gear, nor recite the
exclamations after runaway property that are heard. "I can't find
nothin' of Johnny's shoe!" "Here's a shoe in the water pitcher--is this
it?" "My side combs are gone!" exclaims a nymph with dishevelled curls.
"Massy! do look at my bonnet!" exclaims an old lady, elevating an
article crushed into as many angles as there are pieces in a minced pie.
"I never did sleep so much together in my life," echoes a poor little
French lady, whom despair has driven into talking English.
But our shortening paper warns us not to prolong our catalogue of
distresses beyond reasonable bounds, and therefore we will close with
advising all our friends, who intend to try this way of travelling for
pleasure, to take a good stock both of patience and clean towels with
them, for we think that they will find abundant need for both.
FEELING.
There is one way of studying human nature, which surveys mankind only as
a set of instruments for the accomplishment of personal plans. There is
another, which regards them simply as a gallery of pictures, to be
admired or laughed at as the caricature or the beau ideal
predominates. A third way regards them as human beings, having hearts
that can suffer and enjoy, that can be improved or be ruined; as those
who are linked to us by mysterious reciprocal influences, by the common
dangers of a present existence, and the uncertainties of a future one;
as presenting, wherever we meet them, claims on our sympathy and
assistance.
Those who adopt the last method are interested in human beings, not so
much by present attractions as by their capabilities as intelligent,
immortal beings; by a high belief of what every mind may attain in an
immortal existence; by anxieties for its temptations and dangers, and
often by the perception of errors and faults which threaten its ruin.
The first two modes are adopted by the great mass of society; the last
is the office of those few scattered stars in the sky of life, who look
down on its dark selfishness to remind us that there is a world of light
and love.
To this class did He belong, whose rising and setting on earth were
for "the healing of the nations;" and to this class has belonged many a
pure and devoted spirit, like him shining to cheer, like him fading away
into the heavens. To this class many a one wishes to belong, who has
an eye to distinguish the divinity of virtue, without the resolution to
attain it; who, while they sweep along with the selfish current of
society, still regret that society is not different--that they
themselves are not different. If this train of thought has no very
particular application to what follows, it was nevertheless suggested by
it, and of its relevancy others must judge.
Look into this school room. It is a warm, sleepy afternoon in July;
there is scarcely air enough to stir the leaves of the tall buttonwood
tree before the door, or to lift the loose leaves of the copy book in
the window; the sun has been diligently shining into those curtainless
west windows ever since three o'clock, upon those blotted and mangled
desks, and those decrepit and tottering benches, and that great arm
chair, the high place of authority.
You can faintly hear, about the door, the "craw, craw," of some
neighboring chickens, which have stepped around to consider the dinner
baskets, and pick up the crumbs of the noon's repast. For a marvel, the
busy school is still, because, in truth, it is too warm to stir. You
will find nothing to disturb your meditation on character, for you
cannot hear the beat of those little hearts, nor the bustle of all those
busy thoughts.
Now look around. Who of these is the most interesting? Is it that tall,
slender, hazel-eyed boy, with a glance like a falcon, whose elbows rest
on his book as he gazes out on the great buttonwood tree, and is
calculating how he shall fix his squirrel trap when school is out? Or is
it that curly-headed little rogue, who is shaking with repressed
laughter at seeing a chicken roll over in a dinner basket? Or is it that
arch boy with black eyelashes, and deep, mischievous dimple in his
cheeks, who is slyly fixing a fish hook to the skirts of the master's
coat, yet looking as abstracted as Archimedes whenever the good man
turns his head that way? No; these are intelligent, bright, beautiful,
but it is not these.
Perhaps, then, it is that sleepy little girl, with golden curls, and a
mouth like a half-blown rosebud. See, the small brass thimble has fallen
to the floor, her patchwork drops from her lap, her blue eyes close like
two sleepy violets, her little head is nodding, and she sinks on her
sister's shoulder: surely it is she. No, it is not.
But look in that corner. Do you see that boy with such a gloomy
countenance--so vacant, yet so ill natured? He is doing nothing, and he
very seldom does any thing. He is surly and gloomy in his looks and
actions. He never showed any more aptitude for saying or doing a pretty
thing than his straight white hair does for curling. He is regularly
blamed and punished every day, and the more he is blamed and punished,
the worse he grows. None of the boys and girls in school will play with
him; or, if they do, they will be sorry for it. And every day the master
assures him that "he does not know what to do with him," and that he
"makes him more trouble than any boy in school," with similar judicious
