him and Annie good by. 
The little maiden had read "The Wayfarer" more 
than half through, and was very enthusiastic in her 
expression of the pleasure she derived from it. She 
promised to send it over to his house when she had 
 
finished it, and hoped he would bring his stock to 
Riverdale, so that she might again replenish her 
library. Bobby thought of something just then, and 
the thought brought forth a harvest on the following 
Saturclav, when he returned. 
When he had shaken hands with the squire and 
was about to depart, he received a piece of news 
which gave him food for an hour's serious reflection. 
" Did you hear about Tom Spicer ? " asked Squire 
Lee. 
" No, sir ; what about him ? ' 
" Broken his arm." 
" Broken his arm ! Gracious ! How did it hap- 
pen? " exclaimed Bobby, the more astonished because 
he had been thinking of Tom since he had left home. 
" He was out in the woods yesterday, where boys 
should not be on Sundays, and, in climbing a tree 
after a bird's nest, he fell to the ground." 
" I am sorry for him," replied Bobby, musing. 
" So am I ; but if he had been at home, or at 
church, where he should have been, it would not 
have happened. If I had any boys, I would lock 
them up in their chambers if I could not keep them 
at home Sundays." 
 
" Poor Tom ! " mused Bobby, recalling the conver- 
sation he had had with him on Saturday, and then 
wishing that he had been a little more pliant with him. 
" It is too bad ; but I must say I am more sorry 
for his poor mother than I am for him," added the 
squire. " However, I hope it will do him good, and 
be a lesson he will remember as long as he lives." 
Bobby bade the squire and Annie adieu again, and 
resumed his journey towards the railroad station. 
His thoughts were busy with Tom Spicer's case. 
The reason why he had not joined him, as he ex- 
pected and feared he would, was now apparent. 
He pitied him, for he realized that he must endure a 
great deal of pain before he could again go out ; but 
he finally dismissed the matter with the squire's sage 
reflection, that he hoped the calamity would be a 
good lesson to him. 
The young merchant did not walk to Boston this 
time, for he had come to the conclusion that, in 
the six hours it would take him to travel to the city 
on foot, the profit on the books he could sell would 
be more than enough to pay his fare, to say nothing 
of the fatigue and the expense of shoe leather. 
Before noon he was at B again, as busy as 
ever in driving his business. The experience of the 
former week was of great value to him. He visited 
people belonging to all spheres in society, and, though 
he was occasionally repulsed or treated with incivility, 
he was not conscious in a single instance of offending 
any person's sense of propriety. 
He was not as fortunate as during the previous 
week, and it was Saturday noon before he had sold 
out the sixty books he carried with him. The net 
profit for this week was fourteen dollars, with which 
he was abundantly pleased. 
Mr. Bayard again commended him in the warmest 
terms for his zeal and promptness. Mr. Timmins was 
even more civil than the last time, and when Bobby 
asked the price of Moore's Poems, he actually offered 
to sell it to him for thirty-three per cent, less than 
the retail price. The little merchant was on the point 
of purchasing it, when Mr. Bayard inquired what he 
wanted. 
"I am going to buy this book," replied Bobby. 
"Moore's Poems: " 
"Yes, sir." 
 
Mr. Bayard took from a glass case an elegantly 
bound copy of the same work morocco, full gilt 
and handed it to our hero. 
" I shall make you a present of this. Are you an 
admirer of Moore ? ' 
" No, sir ; not exactly that is, I don't know 
much about it ; but Annie Lee does, and I want to 
get the book for her." 
Bobby's cheeks reddened as he turned the leaves 
of the beautiful volume, putting his head down to the 
page to hide his confusion. 
" Annie Lee ? " said Mr. Bayard with a quizzing 
smile. " I see how it is. Rather young, Bobby." 
" Her father has been very good to me and to my 
mother ; and so has Annie, for that matter. Squire 
Lee would be a great deal more pleased if I should 
make Annie a present than if I made him one. I 
feel grateful to him, and I want to let it out some 
how." 
" That's right, Bobby ; always remember your 
friends. Timmins, wrap up this book." 
Bobby protested with all his might ; but the bookseller
insisted that he should give Annie this beautiful 
edition, and he was obliged to yield the point. 
That evening he was at the little black house again, 
and his mother examined his ledger with a great deal 
of pride and satisfaction. That evening, too, another 
ten dollars was indorsed on the note, and Annie re- 
ceived that elegant copy of Moore's Poems. 
 
CHAPTER XIV. 
IN WHICH BOBBY'S AIR CASTLE is UPSET, AND 
TOM! SPICER TAKES TO THE WOODS. 
DURING the next four weeks Bobby visited various 
places in the vicinity of Boston ; and at the end of 
that time, he had paid the whole of the debt he owed 
Squire Lee. He had the note in his memorandum 
book, and the fact that he had achieved his first great 
purpose afforded him much satisfaction. Now he 
owed no man any thing, and he felt as though he 
could hold up his head among the best people in the 
world. 
The little black house was paid for, and Bobby was 
proud that his own exertions had released his mother 
from her obligation to her hard creditor. Mr. Hard- 
hand couM no longer insult and abuse her. 
The apparent results which Bobby had accom- 
plished, however, were as nothing compared with 
the real results. He had developed those energies 
of character which were to make him, not only a 
great business man, but a useful member of society. 
Besides, there was a moral grandeur in his humble 
achievements which was more worthy of consideration 
than the mere worldly success he had obtained. Mo- 
tives determine the character of deeds. That a boy 
of thirteen should display so much enterprise and 
energy was a great thing ; but that it should be dis- 
played from pure, unselfish devotion to his mother 
was a vastly greater thing. Many great achievements 
are morally insignificant, while many of which the 
world never hears mark the true hero. 
Our hero was not satisfied with what he had done, 
and far from relinquishing his interesting and profit- 
able employment, his ambition suggested new and 
wider fields of success. As one ideal, brilliant and 
glorious in its time, was reached, another more bril- 
liant and more glorious presented itself, and demanded 
to be achieved. The little black house began to appear 
rusty and inconvenient; a coat of white paint.would 
marvellously improve its appearance ; a set of nice 
Paris-green blinds would make a palace of it ; and a 
 
neat fence around it would positively transform the 
place into a paradise. Yet Bobby was audacious 
enough to think of these things, and even to promise 
himself that they should be obtained. 
In conversation with Mr. Bayard a few days be- 
fore, that gentleman had suggested a new field of 
labor ; and it had been arranged that Bobby should 
visit the State of Maine the following week. On the 
banks of the Kennebec were many wealthy and im- 
portant towns, where the intelligence of the people 
created a demand for books. This time the little 
merchant was to take two hundred books, and be 
absent until they were all sold. 
On Monday morning he started bright and early 
for the railroad station. As usual, he called upon 
Squire Lee, and informed Annie that he should proba- 
bly be absent three or four weeks. She hoped no 
accident would happen to him, and that his journey 
would be crowned with success. Without being 
sentimental, she was a little sad, for Bobby was a 
great friend of hers. That elegant copy of Moore's 
Poems had been gratefully received, and she was so 
fond of the bard's beautiful and touching melodies, 
that she could never read any of them without think- 
ing of the brave little fellow who had given her the 
volume ; which no one will consider very remarkable, 
even in a little miss of twelve. 
After he had bidden her and her father adieu, 
he resumed his journey. Of course he was thinking 
with all his might ; but no one need suppose he was 
wondering how wide the Kennebec River was, or how 
many books he should sell in the towns upon its 
banks. Nothing of the kind ; though it is enough 
even for the inquisitive to know that he was thinking 
of something, and that his thoughts were very inter- 
esting, not to say romantic. 
" Hallo, Bob ! " shouted some one from the road 
side.
Bobby was provoked ; for it is sometimes very un- 
comfortable to have a pleasant train of thought inter- 
rupted. The imagination is buoyant, ethereal, and 
elevates poor mortals up to the stars sometimes. It 
was so with Bobby. He was building up some kind 
of an air castle, and had got up in the clouds amidst 
the fog and moonshine, and that aggravating voice 
brought him down, slap, upon terra firma. 
 
He looked up and saw Tom Spicer seated upon the 
fence. In his hand he held a bundle, and had evi- 
dently been waiting some time for Bobby's coming. 
He had recovered from the illness caused by his 
broken arm, and people said it had been a good les- 
son for him, as the squire hoped it would be. Bobby 
had called upon him two or three times during his 
confinement to the house ; and Tom, either truly re- 
pentant for his past errors, or lacking the opportunity 
at that time to manifest his evil propensities, had 
stoutly protested that he had " turned over a new leaf," 
and meant to keep out of the woods on Sunday, stop 
lying and swearing, and become a good boy. 
Bobby commended his good resolutions, and told 
him ty3 would never want friends while he was true to 
himself. The right side, he declared, was always the 
best side. He quoted several instances of men, whose 
lives he had read in his Sunday school books, to show 
how happy a good man may be in prison, or when all 
the world seemed to forsake him. 
Tom assured him that he meant to reform and be 
a good boy ; and Bobby told him that when any one 
meant to turn over a new leaf, it was " now or never." 
 
If he put it off, he would only grow worse, and the 
longer the good work was delayed, the more difficult 
it would be to do it. Tom agreed to all this, and was 
sure he had reformed. 
For these reasons Bobby had come to regard Tom 
with a feeling of deep interest. He_ considered him 
as, in some measure, his disciple, and he felt a per- 
sonal responsibility in encouraging him to persevere 
in his good work. Nevertheless Bobby was not ex- 
actly pleased to have his fine air castle upset, and to 
be tipped out of the clouds upon the cold, uncompro- 
mising earth again ; so the first greeting he gave Tom 
was not as cordial as it might have been. 
" Hallo, Tom ! " he replied, rather coolly. 
" Been waiting for you this half hour." 
" Have you ? ' 
'' Yes ; ain't you rather late ? ' 
" No ; I have plenty of time, though none to spare," 
answered Bobby ; and this was a hint that he must 
not detain him too long. 
" Come along then." 
" Where are you going, Tom ? " asked Bobby, a little 
surprised at these words. 
 
"To Boston." 
"Are you ? ' 
"I am; that's a fact. You know I spoke to you 
about going into the book business." 
" Not lately!' 
" But I have been thinking about it all the time." 
" What do your father and mother say ? ' 
"" O, they are all right." 
" Have you asked them : " 
" Certainly I have ; they are willing I should go 
with you." 
" Why didn't you speak of it then ? ' 
" I thought I wouldn't say any thing till the time 
came. You know you fought shy when I spoke about 
it before." 
And Bobby, notwithstanding the interest he felt 
in his companion, was a little disposed to " fight shy ' 
now. Tom had reformed, or had pretended to do so ; 
but he was still a raw recruit, and our hero was some- 
what fearful that he would run at the first fire. 
To the good and true man life is a constant battle. 
Temptation assails him at almost every point ; perils 
and snares beset him at every step of his mortal pil- 
grimage, so that every day he is called upon to gird 
on his armor and fight the good fight. 
Bobby was no poet ; but he had a good idea of this 
every- day strife with the foes of error and sin that 
crossed his path. It was a practical conception, but 
it was truly expressed under the similitude of a battle. 
There was to be resistance, and he could comprehend 
that, for his bump of combativeness took cognizance 
of the suggestion. He was to fight; and that was 
an idea that stood him in better stead than a whole 
library of ethical subtilties. 
Judging Tom by his own standard, he was afraid 
he would run that he wouldn't "stand fire." He 
had not been drilled. Heretofore, when temptation 
beset him, he had yielded without even a struggle, 
and fled from the field without firing a gun. To go 
out into the great world was a trying event for the raw 
recruit. He lacked, too, that prestige of success 
which is worth more than numbers on the field of 
battle. 
Tom had chosen for himself, and he could not send 
him back. He had taken up the line of march, let it 
lead him where it might. 
 
" March on ! in legions death and sin 
Impatient wait thy conquering hand; 
The foe without, the foe within 
Thy youthful arm must both withstand." 
Bobby had great hopes of him. He felt that he 
could not well get rid of him, and he saw that it was 
policy for him to make the best of it. 
" Well, Tom, where are you going ? ' asked Bobby, 
after he had made up his mind not to object to the 
companionship of the other. 
" I don't know. You have been a good friend to 
me lately, and I had an idea that you would give me 
a lift in this business." 
" I should be very willing to do so ; but what can 
I do for you ? ' 
" Just show me how the business is done ; that's 
all I want." 
" Your father and mother were willing you should 
come were they not ? ' 
Bobby had some doubts about this point, and with 
good reason too. He had called at Tom's house, the 
day before, and they had gone to church together ; 
but neither he nor his parents had said a word about 
his going to Boston. 
 
" When did they agree to it ? ' 
" Last night," replied Tom, after a moment's hesi- 
tation. 
" All right then ; but I cannot promise you that 
Mr. Bayard will let you have the books." 
" I can fix that, I reckon," replied Tom, confi- 
dently. 
" I will speak a good word for you, at any rate." 
" That's right, Bob." 
" I am going down into the State of Maine this 
time, and shall be gone three or four weeks." 
" So much the better ; I always wanted to go down 
that way." 
Tom asked a great many questions about the busi- 
ness and the method of travelling, which Bobby's 
superior intelligence and more extensive experience 
enabled him to answer to the entire satisfaction of 
the other. 
When they were within half a mile of the railroad 
station, they heard a carriage driven at a rapid rate 
approaching them from the direction of Riverdale. 
Tom seemed to be uneasy, and cast frequent glances 
behind him. In a moment the vehicle was within a 
 
short distance of them, and he stopped short in the 
road to scrutinize the persons in it. 
" By jolly ! " exclaimed Tom ; "my father ! ' 
"What of it?" asked Bobby, surprised by the 
strange behavior of his companion. 
Tom did not wait to reply, but springing over the 
fence, fled like a deer towards some woods a short dis- 
tance from the road. 
Was it possible ? Tom had run away from home. 
His father had not consented to his going to Boston, 
and Bobby was mortified to find that his hopeful dis- 
ciple had been lying to him ever since they left River- 
dab. But he was glad the cheat had been exposed. 
" That was Tom with you wasn't it ? " asked Mr. 
Spicer, as he stopped the foaming horse. 
" Yes, sir ; but he told me you had consented that 
he should go with me," replied Bobby, a little dis- 
turbed by the angry glance of Mr. Spicer's fiery eyes. 
" He lied ! the young villain ! He will catch it for 
this." 
" I would not have let him come with me only for 
that. I asked him twice over if you were willing, 
and he said you were." 
" You ought to have known better than to believe 
him," interposed the man who was with Mr. Spicer. 
Bobby had some reason for believing him. The 
fact that Tom had reformed ought to have entitled him 
to some consideration, and our hero gave him the full 
benefit of the declaration. To have explained this 
would have taken more time than he could spare ; be- 
sides, it was u a great moral question," whose impor- 
tance Mr. Spicer and his companion would not be 
likely to apprehend ; so he made a short story of it, 
and resumed his walk, thankful that he had got rid 
of Tom. 
Mr. Spicer and his friend, after fastening the horse 
to the fence, went to the woods in search of Tom. 
Bobby reached the station just in time to take the 
cars, and in a moment was on his way to the city. 
 
CHAPTER XV. 
IN "WHICH BOBBY GETS INTO A SCRAPE, AND TOM 
SPICER TURNS UP AGAIN. 
BOBBY had a poorer opinion of human nature than 
ever before. It seemed almost incredible to him that 
words so fairly spoken as those of Tom Spicer could 
be false. He had just risen from a sick bed, where 
he had had an opportunity for long and serious reflec- 
tion. Tom had promised fairly, and Bobby had every 
reason to suppose he intended to be a good boy. 
But his promises had been lies. He had never in- 
tended to reform, at least not since he had got off 
his bed of pain. He was mortified and disheartened 
at the failure of this attempt to restore him to him- 
self. 
Like a great many older and wiser persons than 
himself, he was prone to judge the whole human 
family by a single individual. He did not come to 
believe that every man was a rascal, but, in more gen- 
eral terms, that there is a great deal more rascality 
in this world than one would be willing to believe. 
With this sage reflection, he dismissed Tom from 
his mind, which very naturally turned again to the 
air castle which had been so ruthlessly upset. Then 
his opinion of "the rest of mankind" was reversed ; 
and he reflected that if the world were only peopled 
by angels like Annie Lee, what a pleasant place it 
would be to live in. She could not tell a lie, she 
could not use bad language, she could not steal, or 
do any thing else that was bad ; and the prospect 
was decidedly pleasant. It was very agreeable to 
turn from Tom to Annie, and in a moment his air 
castle was built again, and throned on clouds of gold 
and purple. I do not know what impossible things 
he imagined, or how far up in the clouds he would 
have gone, if the arrival of the train at the city had 
not interrupted his thoughts, and pitched him down 
upon the earth again. 
Bobby was not one of that impracticable class of 
persons who do nothing but dream ; for he felt that 
he had a mission to perform which dreaming could 
 
not accomplish. However pleasant it may be to 
think of the great and brilliant things which one trill 
do, to one of Bobby's practical character it was even 
more pleasant to perform them. TVe all dream great 
things, imagine great things ; but he who stops there 
does not amount to much, and the world can well 
spars him, for he is nothing but a drone in the hive. 
Bobby's fine imaginings were pretty sure to bring out 
a " now or never," which was the pledge of action, 
and the work was as good as done when he had 
said it. 
Therefore, when the train arrived, Bobby did not 
stop to dream any longer. He forgot his beautiful 
air castle, and even let Annie Lee slip from his mind 
for the time being. Those towns upon the Kennebec, 
the two hundred books he was to sell, loomed up be- 
fore him, for it was with them he had to do. 
Grasping the little valise he carried with him, he 
was hastening out of the station house when a hand 
was placed upon his shoulder. 
" Got off slick didn't I ? " said Tom Spicer, pla- 
cing himself by Bobby's side. 
" You here, Tom ! ' exclaimed our hero, gazing 
with astonishment at his late companion. 
 
It was not an agreeable encounter, and from the 
bottom of his heart Bobby wished him any where but 
where he was. He foresaw that he could not easily 
get rid of him. 
" I am here," replied Tom. " I ran through the 
woods to the depot, and got aboard the cars just as 
they were starting. The old man couldn't come it 
over me quite so slick as that." 
"But you ran away from home." 
Well, what of it ? " 
"A good deal, I should say." 
" If you had been in my place, you would havp 
done the same." 
" I don't know about that ; obedience to parents 
is one of our first duties." 
" I know that ; and if I had had any sort of fair 
play, I wouldn't have run away." 
" What do you mean by that ? ' asked Bobby, 
somewhat surprised, though he had a faint idea of the 
meaning of the other. 
" I will tell you all about it by and by. I give 
you my word andionor that I will make every thing 
satisfactory to you." 
 
." 
" But you lied to me on the road this morning.' 
Tom winced ; under ordinary circumstances he 
would have resented such a remark by " clearing 
away " for a fight. But he had a purpose to accom- 
plish, and he knew the character of him with whom 
he had to deal. 
" I am sorry I did, now," answered Tom, with 
every manifestation of penitence for his fault. " I 
didn't want to lie to you ; and it went against my 
conscience to do so. But I was afraid, if I told you 
my father refused, up and down, to let me go, that 
you wouldn't be willing I should come with you." 
" I shall not be any more willing now I know all 
about it," added Bobby, in an uncompromising tone. 
" Wait till you have heard my story, and then you 
won't blame me." 
" Of course you can go where you please ; it is 
none of my business ; but let me tell you, Tom, in 
the beginning, that I won't go with a fellow who has 
run away from his father and mother." 
" Pooh ! What's the use of talking in that way ? " 
Tom was evidently disconcerted by this decided 
stand of his companion. He knew that his bump of 
firmness was well developed, and whatever he said 
he meant. 
" You had better return home, Tom. Boys that 
run away from home don't often amount to much. 
Take my advice, and go home," added Bobby. 
" To such a home as mine ! " said Tom, gloomily. 
" If I had such a home as yours, I would not have 
left it." 
Bobby got a further idea from this remark of the 
true state of the case, and the consideration moved 
him. Tom's father was a notoriously intemperate 
man, and the boy had nothing to hope for from his 
precept or his example. He was the child of a 
drunkard, and as much to be pitied as blamed for his 
vices. His home was not pleasant. He who presided
over it, and who should have made a paradise 
of it, was its evil genius, a demon of wiekedness, who 
blasted its flowers as fast as they bloomed. 
Tom had seemed truly penitent both during his 
illness and since his recovery. His one great desire 
now was to get away from home, for home to him 
was a place of torment. Bobby suspected all this, 
and in his great heart he pitied his companion. He 
did not know what to do. 
 
.- 
I am sorry for you, Tom," said he, after he had 
considered the matter in this new light; "but I 
don't see what I can do for you. I doubt whether it 
would be right for me to help you run away from 
your parents." 
" I don't want you to help me run away. I have 
done that already." 
" But, if I let you go with me, it will be just 
the same thing. Besides, since you told me those 
lies this morning, I haven't much confidence in 
you." 
" I couldn't help that." 
" Yes, you could. Couldn't help lying ? ' : 
" What could I do ? You would have gone right 
back and told my father." 
" Well, we will go up to Mr. Bayard's store, and 
then we will see what can be done." 
" I couldn't stay at home, sure," continued Tom, 
as they walked along together. " My father even 
talked of binding me out to a trade." 
" Did he ? " 
Bobby stopped short in the street ; for it was evi- 
dent that, as this would remove him from his unhappy 
 
home, and thus effect all he professed to desire, he 
had some other purpose in view. 
" What are you stopping for, Bob ? " 
" I think you better go back, Tom." 
" Not I ; I won't do that, whatever happens." 
" If your father will put you to a trade, what more 
do you want ? ' 
" I won't go to a trade, any how." 
Bobby said no more, but determined to consult 
with Mr. Bayard about the matter ; and Tom was 
soon too busily engaged in observing the strange 
sights and sounds of the city to think of any thing 
else. 
When they reached the store, Bobby went into 
Mr. Bayard's private office and told him all about the 
affair. The bookseller decided that Tom had run 
away more to avoid being bound to a trade than be- 
cause his home was unpleasant ; and this decision 
seemed to Bobby all the more just because he knew 
that Tom's mother, though a drunkard's wife, was a 
very good woman. Mr. Bayard further decided that 
Bobby ought not to permit the runaway to be the 
companion of his journey. He also considered it his 
 
duty to write to Mr. Spicer, informing him of his son's 
arrival in the city, and clearing Bobby from any agen- 
cy in his escape. 
While Mr. Bayard was writing the letter, Bobby 
went out to give Tom the result of the consultation. 
The runaway received it with a great show of 'emo- 
tion, and begged and pleaded to have the decision 
reversed. But Bobby, though he would gladly have 
done any thing for him which was consistent with his 
duty, was firm as a rock, and positively refused to 
have any thing to do with him until he obtained his 
father's consent ; or, if there was any such trouble as 
he asserted, his mother's consent. 
Tom left the store, apparently " more in sorrow 
than in anger." His bullying nature seemed to be 
cast out, and Bobby could not but feel sorry for him. 
Duty was imperative, as it always is, and it must be 
done " now or never." 
During the day the little merchant attended to the 
packing of his stock, and to such other preparations as 
were required for his journey. He must take the 
steamer that evening for Bath, and when the time for 
his departure arrived, he was attended to the wharf 
 
by Mr. Bayard and Ellen, with whom he had passed 
the afternoon. The bookseller assisted him in pro- 
curing his ticket and berth, and gave him such in- 
structions as his inexperience demanded. 
The last bell rang, the fasts were cast off, and the 
great wheels of the steamer began to turn. Our hero, 
who had never been on the water in a steamboat, or 
indeed any thing bigger than a punt on the river at 
home, was much interested and excited by his novel 
position. He seated himself on the promenade deck, 
and watched with wonder the boiling, surging waters 
astern of the steamer. 
How powerful is man, the author of that mighty 
machine that bore him so swiftly over the deep blue 
waters ! Bobby was a little philosopher, as we have 
before had occasion to remark, and he was decidedly 
of the opinion that the steamboat was a great institu- 
tion. When he had in some measure conquered his 
amazement, and the first ideas of sublimity which the 
steamer and the sea were calculated to excite in a 
poetical imagination, he walked forward to take a 
closer survey of the machinery. After all, there was 
something rather comical in the affair. The steam 
hissed and sputtered, and the great walking beam 
kept flying up and down ; and the sum total of Bob- 
by's philosophy was, that it was fanny these things 
should make the boat go so like a race horse over the 
water. 
Then he took a look into the pilot house, and it 
seemed more funny that turning that big wheel should 
steer the boat. But the wind blew rather fresh at 
the forward part of the boat, and as Bobby's philoso- 
phy was not proof against it, he returned to the 
promenade deck, which was sheltered from the sever- 
ity of the blast. He had got reconciled to the whole 
thing, and ceased to bother his head about the big 
wheel, the sputtering steam, and the walking beam ; 
so he seated himself, and began to wonder what all 
the people in Riverdale were about. 
" All them as hasn't paid their fare, please walk up 
to the cap'n's office and s-e-t-t-l-e ! ' shouted a col- 
ored boy, presenting himself just then, and furiously 
ringing a large hand bell. 
I have just settled," said Bobby, alluding to his 
comfortable seat. 
But the allusion was so indefinite to the colored 
boy that he thought himself insulted. He did not 
appear to be a very amiable boy, for his fist was 
doubled up, and with sundry big oaths, he threatened 
to annihilate the little merchant for his insolence. 
" I didn't say any thing that need offend you," re- 
plied Bobby. " I meant nothing." 
" You lie ! You did ! " 
He was on the point of administering a blow with 
his fist, when a third party appeared on the ground, 
and without waiting to hear the merits of the case, 
struck the negro a blow which had nearly floored 
him. 
Some of the passengers now interfered, and the 
colored boy was prevented from executing vengeance 
on the assailant. 
" Strike that fellow and you strike me ! " said he 
who had struck the blow. 
" Tom Spicer ! ' exclaimed Bobby, astonished and 
chagrined at the presence of the runaway. 
CHAPTER XVI. 
IN WHICH BOBBY FINDS 4 IT IS AN ILL WIND 
THAT BLOWS NO ONE ANY GOOD." 
A GENTLEMAN, who was sitting near Bobby when 
he made the remark which the colored boy had mis- 
understood, interfered to free him from blame, and 
probably all unpleasant feelings might have been 
saved, if Tom's zeal had been properly directed. As 
it was, the waiter retired with his bell, vowing ven- 
geance upon his assailant. 
" How came you here, Tom ? " asked Bobby, when 
the excitement had subsided. 
" You don't get rid of me so easily," replied Tom, 
laughing.' 
Bobby called to mind the old adage that " a bad 
penny is sure to return ; " and, if it had not been a 
very uncivil remark, he would have said it. 
" I didn't expect to see you again at present," he 
observed, hardly knowing what to say or do. 
" I suppose not ; but as I didn't mean you should 
expect me, I kept out of sight. Only for that darkey, 
you wouldn't have found me out so soon. I like you, 
Bob, in spite of all you have done to get rid of me, 
and I wasn't a going to let the darkey thrash you." 
You only made matters worse." 
That is all the thanks I get for hitting him for 
you." 
" I am sorry you hit him ; at the same time I sup- 
pose you meant to do me a service, and I thank you, 
not for the blow you struck the black boy, but for 
your good intentions." 
" That sounds better. I meant well, Bob." 
" I dare say you did. But how came you here ? ' 
" Why, you see, I was bound to go with you any 
how, or at least to keep within hail of you. You 
told me, you know, that you were going in the steam- 
boat ; and after I left the shop, what should I see 
but a big picture of a steamboat on a wall. It 
said ' Bath, Gardiner, and Hallowell,' on the bill ; and 
I knew that was where you meant to go. So this 
afternoon I hunts round and finds the steamboat. I 
thought I never should have found it ; but here I am." 
 
" What are you going to do ? ' 
" Going into the book business," replied Tom, with 
a smile. 
" Where are your books ? ' 
" Down stairs, in the cellar of the steamboat, or 
whatever you call it." 
" Where did you get them ? ' 
" Bought 'em, of course." 
"Did you? Where?" 
"Well, I don't remember the name of the street 
now. I could go right there if I was in the city, 
though." 
" Would they trust you ? ' 
Tom hesitated. The lies he had told that morning 
had done him no good had rather injured his cause ; 
and, though he had no principle that forbade lying, 
he questioned its policy in the present instance. 
" I paid part down, and they trusted me part." 
" How many books you got? ' 
" Twenty dollars worth. I paid eight dollars 
down." 
"You did ? Where did you get the eight dol- 
lars?" 
 
Bobby remembered the money Tom's father had 
lost several weeks before, and immediately connected 
that circumstance with his present ability to pay so 
large a sum. 
Tom hesitated again, but he was never at a loss for 
an answer. 
" My mother gave it to me." 
"Your mother? ' 
" Yes, sir ," replied Tom, boldly, and in that pe- 
culiarly bluff manner which is almost always good 
evidence that the boy is lying. 
" But YOU ran away from home.' 
" That's so ; but my mother knew I was coming." 
"Did she?" 
" To be sure she did." 
" You didn't say so before." 
" I can't tell all I know in a minute." 
" If I thought your mother consented to your com- 
ing, I wouldn't say another word." 
" Well, she did ; you may bet your life on that." 
" And your mother gave you ten dollars ? ' : 
" Who said she gave me ten dollars ? " asked Tom, 
a little sharply. 
 
That was just the sum his father had lost, and 
Bobby had unwittingly hinted his suspicion. 
" You must have had as much as that if you paid 
eight on your books. Your fare to Boston and your 
steamboat fare must be two dollars more." 
" I know that ; but look here, Bob ; ' and Tom 
took from his pocket five half dollars and exhibited 
them to his companion. u She gave me thirteen 
dollars." 
Notwithstanding this argument, Bobby felt almost 
sure that the lost ten dollars was a part of his capital. 
" I will tell you my story now, Bob, if you like. 
You condemned me without a hearing, as Jim Guthrie 
said when they sent him to the House of Correction 
for getting drunk." 
" Go ahead." 
The substance of Tom's story was, that his father 
drank so hard, and was such a tyrant in the house, 
that he could endure it no longer. His father and 
mother did not agree, as any one might have sus- 
pected. His mother, encouraged by the success of 
Bobby, thought that Tom might do something of thv 
kind, and she had provided him the money to buy his 
stock of books. 
Bobby had not much confidence in this story. He 
had been deceived once ; besides, it was not con- 
sistent with his previous narrative, and he had not be- 
fore hinted that he had obtained his mother's consent. 
But Tom was eloquent, and protested that he had 
reformed, and meant to do well. He declared, by all 
that was good and great, Bobby should never have 
reason to be ashamed of him. 
Our little merchant was troubled. He could not 
now get rid of Tom without actually quarrelling with 
him, or running away from him. He did not wish to 
do the former, and it was not an easy matter to do 
the latter. Besides, there was hope that the runaway 
would do well; and if he did, when he carried the 
profits of his trade home, his father would forgive 
him. One thing was certain; if he returned to 
Riverdale he would be what he had been before. 
For these reasons Bobby finally, but very reluc- 
tantly, consented that Tom should remain with him, 
resolving, however, that, if he did not behave himself, 
he would leave him at once. 
Before morning he had another reason. When the 
steamer got out into the open bay, Bobby was sea- 
 
sick. He retired to his berth with a dreadful head- 
ache ; as he described it afterwards, it seemed just as 
though that great walking beam was smashing up 
and down right in the midst of his brains. He had 
never felt so ill before in his life, and was very sure, 
in his inexperience, that something worse than mere 
seasickness ailed him. 
He told Tom, who was not in the least affected, 
how he felt ; whereupon the runaway blustered 
round, got the steward and the captain into the 
cabin, and was very sure that Bobby would die be- 
fore morning, if we may judge by the fuss he made. 
The captain was angry at being called from the 
pilot house for nothing, and threatened to throw Tom 
overboard if he didn't stop his noise. The steward, 
however, was a kind-hearted man, and assured Bobby 
that passengers were often a great deal sicker than 
he was ; but he promised to do something for his re- 
lief, and Tom went with him to his state room for 
the desired remedy. 
The potion was nothing more nor less than a 
table spoonful of brandy, which Bobby, who had 
conscientious scruples about drinking ardent spa-its, 
at first refused to take. Then Tom argued the 
point, and the sick boy yielded. The dose made 
him sicker yet, and nature came to his relief, and in 
a little while he felt better. 
Tom behaved like a good nurse ; he staid by his 
friend till he went to sleep, and then " turned in " 
upon a settee beneath his berth. The boat pitched 
and tumbled about so in the heavy sea that Bobby 
did not sleep long, and when he woke he found Tom 
ready to assist him. But our hero felt better, and 
entreated Tom to go to sleep again. He made the 
best of his unpleasant situation. Sleep was not to 
be wooed, and he tried to pass away the dreary hours 
in thinking of Biverdale and,- the dear ones there. 
His mother was asleep, and Annie was asleep ; and 
that was about all the excitement he could get up 
even on the home question. He could not build 
castles in the air, fqr seasickness and castle building 
do not agree. The gold and purple clouds would be 
black in spite of him, and the aerial structure he es- 
sayed to build would pitch and tumble about, for all 
the world, just like a steamboat in a heavy sea. As 
often as he got fairly into it, he was violently rolled 
 
out, and in a twinkling found himself in his narrow 
berth, awfully seasick. 
He went to sleep again at last, and the long night 
passed away. When he woke in the morning, he felt 
tolerably well, and was thankful that he had got out 
of that scrape. But before he could dress himself, he 
heard a terrible racket on deck. The steam whistle 
was shrieking, the bell was banging, and he heard 
the hoarse bellowing of the captain. It was certain 
that something had happened, or was about to hap- 
pen. 
Then the boat stopped, rolling heavily in the sea. 
Tom was not there ; he had gone on deck. Bobby 
was beginning to consider what a dreadful thing a 
wreck was, when Tom appeared. 
"What's the matter?' asked Bobby, with some 
appearance of alarm. 
" Fog," replied Tom. " It is so thick you can cut 
it with a hatchet." 
" Is that all ? " 
" That's enough." 
" Where are we ? ' : 
" That is just what the pilot would like to know 
They can't see ahead a bit, and don't know 
we are.' 
Bobby went on deck. The ocean rolled beneath 
them, but there was nothing but fog to be seen above 
and around them. The lead was heaved every few 
moments, and the steamer crept slowly along till it 
was found the water shoaled rapidly, when the cap- 
tain ordered the men to let go the anchor. 
There they were ; the fog was as obstinate as a 
mule, and would not " lift." Hour after hour they 
waited, for the captain was a prudent man, and would 
not risk the life of those 011 board to save a few 
hours' time. After breakfast, the passengers began 
to display their uneasiness, and some of them called 
the captain very hard names, because he would not 
go on. Almost every body grumbled, and made them- 
selves miserable. 
" Nothing to do and nothing to read," growled a 
nicely-dressed gentleman, as he yawned and stretched 
himself to manifest his sensation of ennui. 
" Nothing to read, eh ? " thought Bobby. " We 
will soon supply that want." 
Calling Tom, they went down to the main deck, 
where the baggage had been placed. 
Now's our time," said he, as he proceeded to un- 
lock one of the trunks that contained his books. 
"now'or never." 
" I am with you," replied Tom, catching the idea. 
The books of the latter were in a box, and he was 
obliged to get a hammer to open it ; but with Bobby's 
assistance he soon got at them. 
" Buy ' The Wayfarer,' : ' said Bobby, when he re- 
turned to the saloon, and placed a volume in the 
hands of the yawning gentleman. " Best book of the 
season ; only one dollar." 
" That I will, and glad of the chance," replied the 
gentleman. " I would give five dollars for any thing, 
if it were only the ' Comic Almanac.' 
Others were of the same mind. There was no 
present prospect that the fog would lift, and before 
dinner time our merchant had sold fifty copies of 
" The Wayfarer." Tom, whose books were of an in- 
ferior description, and who was inexperienced as a 
salesman, disposed of twenty, which was more than 
half of his stock. The fog was a godsend to both 
of them, and they reaped a rich harvest from the oc- 
casion, for almost all the passengers seemed willing 
to spend their money freely for the means of occupy- 
ing the heavy hours, and driving away that dreadful 
ennui which reigns supreme in a fog-bound steamer. 
About the middle- of the afternoon, the fog blew 
over, and the boat proceeded on her voyage, and be- 
fore sunset our young merchants were safely landed 
at Bath. 
 
CHAPTER XVII. 
IN WHICH TOM HAS A GOOD TIME, AXD BOBBY MEETS 
WITH A TERRIBLE MISFORTUNE. 
BATH afforded our young merchants an excellent 
market for their wares, and they remained there the 
rest of the week. They then proceeded to Bruns- 
wick, where their success was equally flattering. 
Thus far Tom had done very well, though Bobby 
had frequent occasion to remind him of the pledges he 
had given to conduct himself in a proper manner. He 
would swear now and then, from the force of habit ; 
but invariably, when Bobby checked him, he promised 
to do better. 
At Brunswick Tom sold the last of his books, and 
was in possession of about thirty dollars, twelve of 
which he owed the publisher who had furnished his 
stock. This money seemed to burn in his pocket. 
He had the means of having a good time, and it went 
hard with him to plod along as Bobby did, careful to 
save every penny he could. 
" Come, Bob, let's get a horse and chaise and have 
a ride what do you say ? " proposed Tom, on the 
day he finished selling his books. 
" I can't spare the time or the money," replied 
Bobby, decidedly. 
" What is the use of having money if we can't 
spend it ? It is a first rate day, and we should have 
a good time." 
" I can't afford it. I have a great many books to 
sell." 
" About a hundred ; you can sell them fast enough." 
" I don't spend my money foolishly." 
" It wouldn't be foolishly. I have sold out, and I 
am bound to have a little fun now." 
" You never will succeed if you do business in that 
way." 
Why not?" 
You will spend your money as fast as you get it." 
" Pooh ! we can get a horse and chaise for the after- 
noon for two dollars. That is not much." 
" Considerable, I should say. But if you begin, 
.. 
.. 
 
there is no knowing where to leave off. I make it a 
rule not to spend a single cent foolishly, and if I 
don't begin, I shall never do it." 
" I don't mean to spend all I get ; only a little now 
and then," persisted Tom. 
" Don't spend the first dollar for nonsense, and 
then you won't spend the second. Besides, when I 
have any money to spare, I mean to buy books with 
it for my library." 
" Humbug ! Your library ! ' 
" Yes, my library ; I mean to have a library one 
of these davs." 
tt 
" I don't want any library, and I mean to spend 
some of my money in having a good time ; and if you 
won't go with me, I shall go alone that's all." 
" You can do as you please, of course ; but I ad- 
vise you to keep your money. You will want it to 
buy another stock of books." 
" I shall have enough for that. What do you say ? 
will you go with me or not ? ' 
" No, I will not." 
" Enough said ; then I shall go alone, or get some 
fellow to go with me." 
 
" Consider well before you go," pleaded Bobby, 
wlio had sense enough to see that Tom's proposed 
"good time " would put back, if not entirely prevent, 
the reform he was working out. 
He then proceeded to reason with him in a very 
earnest and feeling manner, telling him he would not 
only spend all his money, but completely unfit himself 
for business. What he proposed to do was nothing 
