remark.
“Certainly I would.”
“You are really in earnest?”
“Undoubtedly. Go and select a public square from any of my
unappropriated land on the west side of the city, and I will pass you
the title as a free gift to-morrow, and feel pleasure in doing so.”
“That is public spirit,” said the councilman.
“Call it what you will. I am pleased in making the offer.”
Now, let it not be supposed that Mr. Jones was shrewdly calculating the
advantage which would result to him from having a park at the west side
of the city. No such thought had yet entered his mind. He spoke from the
impulse of a generous feeling.
Time passed on, and the session day of the council came round--a day to
which Smith had looked forward with no ordinary feelings of interest,
that were touched at times by the coldness of doubt, and the agitation
of uncertainty. Several times he had more than half repented of his
refusal to accept the liberal offer of five thousand dollars, and of
having fixed so positively upon six thousand as the “lowest figure.”
The morning of the day passed, and Smith began to grow uneasy. He did
not venture to seek for information as to the doings of the council,
for that would be to expose the anxiety he felt in the result of their
deliberations. Slowly the afternoon wore away, and it so happened that
Smith did not meet any one of the councilmen; nor did he even know
whether the council was still in session or not. As to making allusion
to the subject of his anxious interest to any one, that was carefully
avoided; for he knew that his exorbitant demand was the town talk--and
he wished to affect the most perfect indifference on the subject.
The day closed, and not a whisper about the town lot had come to the
ears of Mr. Smith. What could it mean? Had his offer to sell at six
thousand been rejected? The very thought caused his heart to grow heavy
in his bosom. Six, seven, eight o’clock came, and still it was all dark
with Mr. Smith. He could bear the suspense no longer, and so determined
to call upon his neighbour Wilson, who was a member of the council, and
learn from him what had been done.
So he called on Mr. Wilson.
“Ah, friend Smith,” said the latter; “how are you this evening?”
“Well, I thank you,” returned Smith, feeling a certain oppression of the
chest. “How are you?”
“Oh, very well.”
Here there was a pause. After which Smith said, “About that ground of
mine. What did you do?”
“Nothing,” replied Wilson, coldly.
“Nothing, did you say?” Smith’s voice was a little husky.
“No. You declined our offer; or, rather, the high price fixed by
yourself upon the land.”
“You refused to buy it at five thousand, when it was offered,” said
Smith.
“I know we did, because your demand was exorbitant.”
“Oh, no, not at all,” returned Smith quickly.
“In that we only differ,” said Wilson. “However, the council has decided
not to pay you the price you ask.”
“Unanimously?”
“There was not a dissenting voice.”
Smith began to feel more and more uncomfortable.
“I might take something less,” he ventured to say, in a low, hesitating
voice.
“It is too late now,” was Mr. Wilson’s prompt reply.
“Too late! How so?”
“We have procured a lot.”
“Mr. Wilson!” Poor Smith started to his feet in chagrin and
astonishment.
“Yes; we have taken one of Jones’s lots on the west side of the city. A
beautiful ten acre lot.”
“You have!” Smith was actually pale.
“We have; and the title deeds are now being made out.”
It was some time before Smith had sufficiently recovered from the
stunning effect of this unlooked-for intelligence, to make the inquiry,
“And pray how much did Jones ask for his ten acre lot.”
“He presented it to the city as a gift,” replied the councilman.
“A gift! What folly!”
“No, not folly--but true worldly wisdom; though I believe Jones did not
think of advantage to himself when he generously made the offer. He is
worth twenty thousand dollars more to-day than he was yesterday, in the
simple advanced value of his land for building lots. And I know of no
man in this town whose good fortune affects me with more pleasure.”
Smith stole back to his home with a mountain of disappointment on his
heart. In his cupidity he had entirely overreached himself, and he saw
that the consequences were to react upon all his future prosperity. The
public square at the west end of the town would draw improvements in
that direction, all the while increasing the wealth of Mr. Jones, while
lots at the north end would remain at present prices, or, it might be,
take a downward range.
And so it proved. In ten years, Jones was the richest man in the town,
while half of Smith’s property had been sold for taxes. The five acre
lot passed from his hands, under the hammer, in the foreclosure of a
mortgage, for one thousand dollars!
Thus it is that inordinate selfishness and cupidity overreach
themselves; while the liberal man deviseth liberal things, and is
sustained thereby.
THE SUNBEAM AND THE RAINDROP.
   A SUNBEAM and a raindrop met together in the sky
   One afternoon in sunny June, when earth was parched and dry;
   Each quarrelled for the precedence [‘twas so the story ran),
   And the golden sunbeam, warmly, the quarrel thus began:--
   “What were the earth without me? I come with beauty bright,
   She smiles to hail my presence, and rejoices in my light;
   I deck the hill and valley with many a lovely hue,
   I give the rose its blushes, and the violet its blue.
   “I steal within the window, and through the cottage door,
   And my presence like a blessing gilds with smiles the broad earth o’er;
   The brooks and streams flow dancing and sparkling in my ray,
   And the merry, happy children in the golden sunshine play.”
   Then the tearful raindrop answered--“Give praise where praise is due,
   The earth indeed were lonely without a smile from you;
   But without my visits, also, its beauty would decay,
   The flowers droop and wither, and the streamlets dry away.
   “I give the flowers their freshness, and you their colours gay,
   My jewels would not sparkle, without your sunny ray.
   Since each upon the other so closely must depend,
   Let us seek the earth together, and our common blessings blend.”
   The raindrops, and the sunbeams, came laughing down to earth,
   And it woke once more to beauty, and to myriad tones of mirth;
   The river and the streamlet went dancing on their way,
   And the raindrops brightly sparkled in the sunbeam’s golden ray.
   The drooping flowers looked brighter, there was fragrance in the air,
   The earth seemed new created, there was gladness everywhere;
   And above the dark clouds, gleaming on the clear blue arch of Heaven,
   The Rainbow, in its beauty, like a smile of love was given.
   ‘Twas a sweet and simple lesson, which the story told, I thought,
   Not alone and single-handed our kindliest deeds are wrought;
   Like the sunbeam and the raindrop, work together, while we may,
   And the bow of Heaven’s own promise shall smile upon our way.
A PLEA FOR SOFT WORDS.
STRANGE and subtle are the influences which affect the spirit and touch
the heart. Are there bodiless creatures around us, moulding our thoughts
into darkness or brightness, as they will? Whence, otherwise, come the
shadow and the sunshine, for which we can discern no mortal agency?
Oftener, As we grow older, come the shadows; less frequently the
sunshine. Ere I took up my pen, I was sitting with a pleasant company of
friends, listening to music, and speaking, with the rest, light words.
Suddenly, I knew not why, my heart was wrapt away in an atmosphere of
sorrow. A sense of weakness and unworthiness weighed me down, and I felt
the moisture gather to my eyes and my lips tremble, though they kept the
smile.
All my past life rose up before me, and all my short-comings--all, my
mistakes, and all my wilful wickedness, seemed pleading trumpet-tongued
against me.
I saw her before me whose feet trod with mine the green holts and
meadows, when the childish thought strayed not beyond the near or the
possible. I saw her through the long blue distances, clothed in the
white beauty of an angel; but, alas! she drew her golden hair across
her face to veil from her vision the sin-darkened creature whose eyes
dropped heavily to the hem of her robe!
O pure and beautiful one, taken to peace ere the weak temptation had
lifted itself up beyond thy stature, and compelled thee to listen, to
oppose thy weakness to its strength, and to fall--sometimes, at least,
let thy face shine on me from between the clouds. Fresh from the springs
of Paradise, shake from thy wings the dew against my forehead. We two
were coming up together through the sweet land of poesy and dreams,
where the senses believe what the heart hopes; our hands were full of
green boughs, and our laps of cowslips and violets, white and purple.
We were talking of that more beautiful world into which childhood was
opening out, when that spectre met us, feared and dreaded alike by the
strong man and the little child, and one was taken, and the other left.
One was caught away sinless to the bosom of the Good Shepherd, and one
was left to weep pitiless tears, to eat the bread of toil, and to think
the bitter thoughts of misery,--left “to clasp a phantom and to find it
air.” For often has the adversary pressed me sore, and out of my arms
has slid ever that which my soul pronounced good: slid out of my arms
and coiled about my feet like a serpent, dragging me back and holding me
down from all that is high and great.
Pity me, dear one, if thy sweet sympathies can come out of the glory, if
the lovelight of thy beautiful life can press through the cloud and the
evil, and fold me again as a garment; pity and plead for me with the
maiden mother whose arms in human sorrow and human love cradled our
blessed Redeemer.
She hath known our mortal pain and passion--our more than mortal
triumph--she hath heard the “blessed art thou among women.” My
unavailing prayers goldenly syllabled by her whose name sounds from the
manger through all the world, may find acceptance with Him who, though
our sins be as scarlet, can wash them white as wool.
Our hearts grew together as one, and along the headlands and the valleys
one shadow went before us, and one shadow followed us, till the grave
gaped hungry and terrible, and I was alone. Faltering in fear, but
lingering in love, I knelt by the deathbed--it was the middle night, and
the first moans of the autumn came down from the hills, for the frost
specks glinted on her golden robes, and the wind blew chill in her
bosom. Heaven was full of stars, and the half-moon scattered abroad her
beauty like a silver rain. Many have been the middle nights since then,
for years lie between me and that fearfulest of all watches; but a
shadow, a sound, or a thought, turns the key of the dim chamber, and the
scene is reproduced.
I see the long locks on the pillow, the smile on the ashen lips, the
thin, cold fingers faintly pressing my own, and hear the broken voice
saying, “I am going now. I am not afraid. Why weep ye? Though I were to
live the full time allotted to man, I should not be more ready, nor more
willing than now.” But over this there comes a shudder and a groan that
all the mirthfulness of the careless was impotent to drown.
Three days previous to the death-night, three days previous to the
transit of the soul from the clayey tabernacle to the house not; made
with hands--from dishonour to glory--let me turn theme over as so many
leaves.
The first of the November mornings, but the summer had tarried late, and
the wood to the south of our homestead lifted itself like a painted wall
against the sky--the squirrel was leaping nimbly and chattering gayly
among the fiery tops of the oaks or the dun foliage of the hickory, that
shot up its shelving trunk and spread its forked branches far over the
smooth, moss-spotted boles of the beeches, and the limber boughs of the
elms. Lithe and blithe he was, for his harvest was come.
From the cracked beech-burs was dropping the sweet, angular fruit,
and down from the hickory boughs with every gust fell a shower of
nuts--shelling clean and silvery from their thick black hulls.
Now and then, across the stubble-field, with long cars erect, leaped the
gray hare, but for the most part he kept close in his burrow, for rude
huntsmen were on the hills with their dogs, and only when the sharp
report of a rifle rung through the forest, or the hungry yelping of some
trailing hound startled his harmless slumber, might you see at the mouth
of his burrow the quivering lip and great timid eyes.
Along the margin of the creek, shrunken now away from the blue and gray
and yellowish stones that made its cool pavement, and projected in thick
layers from the shelving banks, the white columns of gigantic sycamores
leaped earthward, their bases driven, as it seemed, deep into the
ground--all their convolutions of roots buried out, of view. Dropping
into the stagnant waters below, came one by one the broad, rose-tinted
leaves, breaking the shadows of the silver limbs.
Ruffling and widening to the edges of the pools went the circles, as the
pale, yellow walnuts plashed into their midst; for here, too, grew the
parent trees, their black bark cut and jagged and broken into rough
diamond work.
That beautiful season was come when
“Rustic girls in hoods Go gleaning through the woods.”
Two days after this, we said, my dear mate and I, we shall have a
holiday, and from sunrise till sunset, with our laps full of ripe nuts
and orchard fruits, we shall make pleasant pastime.
Rosalie, for so I may call her, was older than I, with a face of beauty
and a spirit that never flagged. But to-day there was heaviness in her
eyes, and a flushing in her cheek that was deeper than had been there
before.
Still she spoke gayly, and smiled the old smile, for the gaunt form of
sickness had never been among us children, and we knew not how his touch
made the head sick and the heart faint.
The day looked forward to so anxiously dawned at last; but in the dim
chamber of Rosalie the light fell sad. I must go alone.
We had always been together before, at work and in play, asleep and
awake, and I lingered long ere I would be persuaded to leave her; but
when she smiled and said the fresh-gathered nuts and shining apples
would make her glad, I wiped her forehead, and turning quickly away that
she might not see my tears, was speedily wading through winrows of dead
leaves.
The sensations of that day I shall never forget; a vague and trembling
fear of some coming evil, I knew not what, made me often start as the
shadows drifted past me, or a bough crackled beneath my feet.
From the low, shrubby hawthorns, I gathered the small red apples, and
from beneath the maples, picked by their slim golden stems the notched
and gorgeous leaves. The wind fingered playfully my hair, and clouds of
birds went whirring through the tree-tops; but no sight nor sound could
divide my thoughts from her whose voice had so often filled with music
these solitary places.
I remember when first the fear distinctly defined itself. I was seated
on a mossy log, counting the treasures which I had been gathering, when
the clatter of hoof-strokes on the clayey and hard-beaten road arrested
my attention, and, looking up--for the wood thinned off in the direction
of the highway, and left it distinctly in view--I saw Doctor H----,
the physician, in attendance upon my sick companion. The visit was an
unseasonable one. She, whom I loved so, might never come with me to the
woods any more.
Where the hill sloped to the roadside, and the trees, as I said, were
but few, was the village graveyard. No friend of mine, no one whom I had
ever known or loved, was buried there--yet with a child’s instinctive
dread of death, I had ever passed its shaggy solitude (for shrubs and
trees grew there wild and unattended) with a hurried step and averted
face.
Now, for the first time in my life, I walked voluntarily thitherward,
and climbing on a log by the fence-side, gazed long and earnestly
within. I stood beneath a tall locust-tree, and the small, round leaves;
yellow now as the long cloud-bar across the sunset, kept dropping, and
dropping at my feet, till all the faded grass was covered up. There
the mattock had never been struck; but in fancy I saw the small Heaves
falling and drifting about a new and smooth-shaped mound--and,
choking with the turbulent outcry in my heart, I glided stealthily
homeward--alas! to find the boding shape I had seen through mists and,
shadows awfully palpable. I did not ask about Rosalie. I was afraid; but
with my rural gleanings in my lap, opened the door of her chamber. The
physician had preceded me but a moment, and, standing by the bedside,
was turning toward the lessening light the little wasted hand, the
one on which I had noticed in the morning a small purple spot.
“Mortification!” he said, abruptly, and moved away, as though his work
were done.
There was a groan expressive of the sudden and terrible consciousness
which had in it the agony of agonies--the giving up of all. The gift
I had brought fell from my relaxed grasp, and, hiding my face in the
pillow, I gave way to the passionate sorrow of an undisciplined nature.
When at last I looked up, there was a smile on her lips that no faintest
moan ever displaced again.
A good man and a skilful physician was Dr. H----, but his infirmity was
a love of strong drink; and, therefore, was it that he softened not the
terrible blow which must soon have fallen. I link with his memory no
reproaches now, for all this is away down in the past; and that foe that
sooner or later biteth like a serpent, soon did his work; but then my
breaking heart judged him, hardly. Often yet, for in all that is saddest
memory is faithfulest, I wake suddenly out of sleep, and live over that
first and bitterest sorrow of my life; and there is no house of gladness
in the world that with a whisper will not echo the moan of lips pale
with the kisses of death.
Sometimes, when life is gayest about me, an unseen hand leads me apart,
and opening the door of that still chambers I go in--the yellow leaves
are at my feet again, and that white band between me and the light.
I see the blue flames quivering and curling close and the smouldering
embers on the hearth. I hear soft footsteps and sobbing voices and see
the clasped hands and placid smile of her who, alone among us all, was
untroubled; and over the darkness and the pain I hear voice, saying,
“She is not dead, but sleepeth.” Would, dear reader, that you might
remember, and I too all ways, the importance of soft and careful words.
One harsh or even thoughtlessly chosen epithet, may bear with it a
weight which shall weigh down some heart through all life. There are
for us all nights of sorrow, in which we feel their value. Help us, our
Father, to remember it!
MR. QUERY’S INVESTIGATION.
“HE is a good man, suppose, and an excellent doctor,” said Mrs. Salina
Simmons, with a dubious shake of her head but----”
“But what, Mrs. Simmons?”
“They say he drinks!”
“No, impossible!” exclaimed Mr. Josiah Query, with emphasis.
“Impossible? I hope so,” said Mrs. Simmons. “And--mind you, I don’t say
he drinks, but that such is the report. And I have it upon tolerably
good authority, too, Mr. Query.”
“What authority?”
“Oh, I couldn’t tell that: for you know I never like to make mischief. I
can only say that the report is--he drinks.”
Mr. Josiah Query scratched his head.
“Can it be that Dr. Harvey drinks?” he murmured. “I thought him pure Son
of Temperance. And his my family physician, too! I must look into this
matter forthwith. Mrs. Simmons, you still decline slating who is your
authority for this report?”
Mrs. Simmons was firm; her companion could gain no satisfaction. She
soon compelled him to promise that he would not mention her name, if he
spoke of the affair elsewhere, repeating her remark that she never liked
to make mischief.
Dr. Harvey was a physician residing in a small village, where he shared
the profits of practice with another doctor, named Jones. Dr. Harvey was
generally liked and among his friends was Mr. Josiah Query, whom Mrs.
Simmons shocked with the bit of gossip respecting the doctor’s habits
of intemperance. Mr. Query was a good-hearted man, and he deemed it his
duty to inquire into the nature of the report, and learn if it had
any foundation in truth. Accordingly, he went to Mr. Green, who also
employed the doctor in his family.
“Mr. Green,” said he, “have you heard anything about this report of Dr.
Harvey’s intemperance?”
“Dr. Harvey’s intemperance?” cried Mr. Green, astonished.
“Yes--a flying report.”
“No, I’m sure I haven’t.”
“Of course, then, you don’t know whether it is true or not?”
“What?”
“That he drinks.”
“I never heard of it before. Dr. Harvey is my family physician, and I
certainly would not employ a man addicted to the use of ardent spirits.”
“Nor I,” said Mr. Query “and for this reason, and for the doctor’s sake,
too, I want to know the truth of the matter. I don’t really credit it
myself; but I thought it would do no harm to inquire.”
Mr. Query next applied to Squire Worthy for information.
“Dear me!” exclaimed the squire, who was a nervous man; “does Dr. Harvey
drink?”
“Such is the rumour; how true it is, I can’t say.”
“And what if he should give one of my family a dose of arsenic instead
of the tincture of rhubarb, some time, when he is intoxicated? My mind
is made up now. I shall send for Dr. Jones in future.”
“But, dear sir,” remonstrated Mr. Query. “I don’t say the report is
true.”
“Oh, no; you wouldn’t wish to commit yourself. You like to know the safe
side, and so do I. I shall employ Dr. Jones.”
Mr. Query turned sorrowfully away.
“Squire Worthy must have bad suspicions of the doctor’s intemperance
before I came to him,” thought he; “I really begin to fear that there is
some foundation for the report. I’ll go to Mrs. Mason; she will know.”
Mr. Query found Mrs. Mason ready to listen to and believe any scandal.
She gave her head a significant toss, as if she knew more about the
report than she chose to confess.
Mr. Query begged of her to explain herself.
“Oh, I sha’n’t say anything,” exclaimed Mrs. Mason; “I’ve no ill will
against Dr. Harvey, and I’d rather cut off my right hand than injure
him.”
“But is the report true?”
“True, Mr. Query? Do you suppose I ever saw Dr. Harvey drunk? Then how
can you expect me to know? Oh, I don’t wish to say anything against the
man, and I won’t.”
After visiting Mrs. Mason, Mr. Query went to half a dozen others to
learn the truth respecting Dr. Harvey’s habits. Nobody would confess
that they knew anything, about his drinking; but Mr. Smith “was not as
much surprised as others might be;” Mr. Brown “was sorry if the report
was true,” adding, that the best of men had their faults. Miss Single
had frequently remarked the doctor’s florid complexion, and wondered if
his colour was natural; Mr. Clark remembered that the doctor appeared
unusually gay, on the occasion of his last visit to his family; Mrs.
Rogers declared that, when she came to reflect, she believed she had
once or twice smelt the man’s breath; and Mr. Impulse had often seen him
riding at an extraordinary rate for a sober Gentleman. Still Mr. Query
was unable to ascertain any definite facts respecting the unfavourable
report.
Meanwhile, with his usual industry, Dr. Harvey went about his business,
little suspecting the scandalous gossip that was circulating to his
discredit. But he soon perceived he was very coldly received by some
of his old friends, and that others employed Dr. Jones. Nobody sent for
him, and he might have begun to think that the health of the town was
entirely re-established, had he not observed that his rival appeared
driven with business, and that he rode night and day.
One evening Dr. Harvey sat in his office, wondering what could have
occasioned the sudden and surprising change in his affairs, when,
contrary to his expectations, he received a call to visit a sick child
of one of his old friends, who had lately employed his rival. After
some hesitation, and a struggle between pride and a sense of duty,
he resolved to respond to the call, and at the same time learn, if
possible, why he had been preferred to Dr. Jones, and why Dr. Jones had
on other occasions been preferred to him.
“The truth is, Dr. Harvey,” said Mr. Miles, “we thought the child
dangerously ill, and as Dr. Jones could not come immediately, we
concluded to send for you.”
“I admire your frankness,” responded Dr. Harvey, smiling; “and shall
admire it still more, if you will inform me why you have lately
preferred Dr. Jones to me. Formerly I had the honour of enjoying your
friendship and esteem, and you have frequently told me yourself, that
you would trust no other physician.”
“Well,” replied Mr. Miles, “I am a plain man, and never hesitate to tell
people what they wish to know. I sent for Dr. Jones instead of you, I
confess not that I doubted your skill--”
“What then?”
“It is a delicate subject, but I will, nevertheless, speak out. Although
I had the utmost confidence in your skill and faithfulness--I--you know,
I--in short, I don’t like to trust a physician who drinks.”
“Sir!” cried the astonished doctor.
“Yes--drinks,” pursued Mr. Miles. “It is plain language, but I am a
plain man. I heard of your intemperance, and thought it unsafe--that is,
dangerous--to employ you.”
“My intemperance!” ejaculated Dr. Harvey.
“Yes, sir! and I am sorry to know it. But the fact that you sometimes
drink a trifle too much is now a well known fact, and is generally
talked of in the village.”
“Mr. Miles,” cried the indignant doctor, “this is scandalous--it is
false! Who is your authority for this report?”
“Oh, I have heard it from several mouths but I can’t say exactly who is
responsible for the rumour.”
And Mr. Miles went on to mention several names, as connected with the
rumour, and among which was that of Mr. Query.
The indignant doctor immediately set out on a pilgrimage of
investigation, going from one house to another, in search of the author
of the scandal.
Nobody, however, could state where it originated, but it was universally
admitted that the man from whose lips it was first heard, was Mr. Query.
Accordingly Dr. Harvey hastened to Mr. Query’s house, and demanded of
that gentleman what he meant by circulating such scandal.
“My dear doctor,” cried Mr. Query, his face beaming with conscious
innocence, “I haven’t been guilty of any mis-statement about you, I
can take my oath. I heard that there was a report of your drinking,
and all I did was to tell people I didn’t believe it, nor know anything
about it, and to inquire were it originated. Oh, I assure you, doctor, I
haven’t slandered you in any manner.”
“You are a poor fool!” exclaimed Dr. Harvey, perplexed and angry. “If
you had gone about town telling everybody that you saw me drunk, daily,
you couldn’t have slandered me more effectually than you have.”
“Oh, I beg your pardon,” cried Mr. Query, very sad; “but I thought I was
doing you a service!”
“Save me from my friends!” exclaimed the doctor, bitterly. “An enemy
could not have done me as much injury as you have done. But I now insist
on knowing who first mentioned the report to you.”
“Oh, I am not at liberty to say that.”
“Then I shall hold you responsible for the scandal--for the base lies
you have circulated. But if you are really an honest man, and my friend,
you will not hesitate to tell me where this report originated.”
After some reflection, Mr. Query, who stood in mortal fear of the
indignant doctor, resolved to reveal the secret, and mentioned the name
of his informant, Mrs. Simmons. As Dr. Harvey had not heard her spoken
of before, as connected with the report of his intemperance, he knew
very well that Mr. Query’s “friendly investigations” had been the sole
cause of his loss of practice. However, to go to the roots of this Upas
tree of scandal, he resolved to pay an immediate visit to Mrs. Simmons.
This lady could deny nothing; but she declared that she had not given
the rumour as a fact, and that she had never spoken of it except to Mr.
Query. Anxious to throw the responsibility of the slander upon others,
she eagerly confessed that, on a certain occasion upon entering a room
in which were Mrs. Guild and Mrs. Harmless, she overheard one of these
ladies remark that “Dr. Harvey drank more than ever,” and the other
reply, that “she had heard him say he could not break himself, although
he knew his health suffered in consequence.”
Thus set upon the right track, Dr. Harvey visited Mrs. Guild and Mrs.
Harmless without delay.
“Mercy on us!” exclaimed those ladies, when questioned respecting the
matter, “we perfectly remember talking about your drinking coffee,
and making such remarks as you have heard through Mrs. Simmons. But with
regard to your drinking liquor, we never heard the report until a week
ago, and never believed it at all.”
As what these ladies had said of his coffee-drinking propensities was
perfectly true, Dr. Harvey readily acquitted them of any designs against
his character for sobriety, and well satisfied with having at last
discovered the origin of the rumour, returned to the friendly Mr. Query.
The humiliation of this gentleman was so deep, that Dr. Harvey
avoided reproaches, and confined himself to a simple narrative of his
discoveries.
“I see, it is all my fault,” said Mr. Query. “And I will do anything
to remedy it. I never could believe you drank--and now I’ll go and tell
everybody that the report was false.”
“Oh! bless you,” cried the doctor, “I wouldn’t have you do so for the
world. All I ask of you, is to say nothing whatever on the subject, and
if you ever again hear a report of the kind, don’t make it a subject of
friendly investigation.”
Mr. Query promised; and, after the truth was known, and, Dr. Harvey
had regained the good-will of the community, together with his share of
medical practice, he never had reason again to exclaim--“Save me from
my friends!” And Mr. Query was in future exceedingly careful how he
attempted to make friendly investigations.
ROOM IN THE WORLD.
     THERE is room in the world for the wealthy and great,
     For princes to reign in magnificent state;
     For the courtier to bend, for the noble to sue,
     If the hearts of all these are but honest and true.
     And there’s room in the world for the lowly and meek,
     For the hard horny hand, and the toil-furrow’d cheek;
     For the scholar to think, for the merchant to trade,
     So these are found upright and just in their grade.
     But room there is none for the wicked; and nought
     For the souls that with teeming corruption are fraught.
     The world would be small, were its oceans all land,
     To harbour and feed such a pestilent band.
     Root out from among ye, by teaching the mind,
     By training the heart, this chief curse of mankind!
     ‘Tis a duty you owe to the forthcoming race--
     Confess it in time, and discharge it with grace!
WORDS.
“THE foolish thing!” said my Aunt Rachel, speaking warmly, “to get hurt
at a mere word. It’s a little hard that people can’t open their lips but
somebody is offended.”
“Words are things!” said I, smiling.
“Very light things! A person must be tender indeed, that is hurt by a
word.”
“The very lightest thing may hurt, if it falls on a tender place.”
“I don’t like people who have these tender places,” said Aunt Rachel. “I
never get hurt at what is said to me. No--never! To be ever picking
and mincing, and chopping off your words--to be afraid to say this or
that--for fear somebody will be offended! I can’t abide it.”
“People who have these tender places can’t help it, I suppose. This
being so, ought we not to regard their weakness?” said I. “Pain,
either of body or mind, is hard to bear, and we should not inflict it
causelessly.”
“People who are so wonderfully sensitive,” replied Aunt Rachel, growing
warmer, “ought to shut themselves up at home, and not come among
sensible, good-tempered persons. As far as I am concerned, I can tell
them, one and all, that I am not going to pick out every hard word from
a sentence as carefully as I would seeds from a raisin. Let them crack
them with their teeth, if they are afraid to swallow them whole.”
Now, for all that Aunt Rachel went on after this strain, she was a kind,
good soul, in the main, and, I could see, was sorry for having hurt the
feelings of Mary Lane. But she didn’t like to acknowledge that she was
in the wrong; that would detract too much from the self-complacency with
which she regarded herself. Knowing her character very well, I thought
it best not to continue the little argument about the importance of
words, and so changed the subject. But, every now and then, Aunt Rachel
would return to it, each time softening a little towards Mary. At last
she said,
“I’m sure it was a little thing. A very little thing. She might have
known that nothing unkind was intended on my part.”
“There are some subjects, aunt,” I replied, “to which we cannot bear the
slightest allusion. And a sudden reference to them is very apt to throw
us off of our guard. What you said to Mary has, in all probability
touched some weakness of character, or probed some wound that time
has not been able to heal. I have always thought her a sensible,
good-natured girl.”
“And so have I. But I really cannot think that she has showed her good
sense or good nature in the present case. It is a very bad failing this,
of being over sensitive; and exceedingly annoying to one’s friends.”
“It is, I know; but still, all of, us have a weak point, and to her that
is assailed, we are very apt to betray our feelings.”
“Well, I say now, as I have always said--I don’t like to have anything
to do with people who have these weak points. This being hurt by a word,
as if words were blows, is something that does not come within the range
of my sympathies.”
“And yet, aunt,” said I, “all have weak points. Even you are not
entirely free from them.”
“Me!” Aunt Rachel bridled.
“Yes; and if even as light a thing as a word were to fall upon them, you
would suffer pain.”
“Pray, sir,” said Aunt Rachel, with much dignity of manner; she
was chafed by my words, light as they were, “inform me where these
weaknesses, of which you are pleased to speak, lie.”
“Oh, no; you must excuse me. That would be very much out of place. But I
only stated a general fact that appertains to all of us.”
Aunt Rachel looked very grave. I had laid the weight of words upon a
weakness of her character, and it had given her pain. That weakness was
a peculiarly good opinion of herself. I had made no allegation against
her; and there was none in my mind. My words simply expressed the
general truth that we all have weaknesses, and included her in their
application. But she imagined that I referred to some particular defect
or fault, and mail-proof as she was against words, they had wounded her.
For a day or two Aunt Rachel remained more sober than was her wont.
I knew the cause, but did not attempt to remove from her mind any
impression my words had made. One day, about a week after, I said to
her,
“Aunt Rachel, I saw Mary Lane’s mother this morning.”
“Ah?” The old lady looked up at me inquiringly.
“I don’t wonder your words hurt the poor girl,” I added.
“Why? What did I say?” quickly asked Aunt Rachel.
“You said that she was a jilt.”
“But I was only jest, and she knew it. I did not really mean anything.
I’m surprised that Mary should be so foolish.”
“You will not be surprised when you know all,” was my answer.
“All? What all? I’m sure I wasn’t in earnest. I didn’t mean to hurt the
poor girl’s feelings.” My aunt looked very much troubled.
“No one blames you, Aunt Rachel,” said I. “Mary knows you didn’t intend
wounding her.”
“But why should she take a little word go much to heart? It must have
had more truth in it than I supposed.”
“Did you know that Mary refused an offer of marriage from Walter Green
last week?”
“Why no! It can’t be possible! Refused Walter Green?”
“They’ve been intimate for a long time.”
“I know.”
“She certainly encouraged him.”
“I think it more than probable.”
“Is it possible, then, that she did really jilt the young man?”
 exclaimed Aunt Rachel.
“This has been said of her,” I replied. “But so far as I can learn, she
was really attached to him, and suffered great pain in rejecting his
offer. Wisely she regarded marriage as the most important event of
her life, and refused to make so solemn a contract with one in whose
principles she had not the fullest confidence.”
“But she ought not to have encouraged Walter, if she did not intend
marrying him,” said Aunt Rachel, with some warmth.
“She encouraged him so long as she thought well of him. A closer view
revealed points of character hidden by distance. When she saw these
her feelings were already deeply involved. But, like a true woman, she
turned from the proffered hand, even though while in doing so her heart
palpitated with pain. There is nothing false about Mary Lane. She could
no more trifle with a lover than she could commit a crime. Think, then,
how almost impossible it would be for her to hear herself called, under
existing circumstances, even in sport, a jilt, without being hurt. Words
sometimes have power to hurt more than blows. Do you not see this, now,
Aunt Rachel?”
“Oh, yes, yes. I see it; and I saw it before,” said the old lady. “And
in future I will be more careful of my words. It is pretty late in life
to learn this lesson--but we are never too late to learn. Poor Mary! It
grieves me to think that I should have hurt her so much.”
Yes, words often have in them a smarting force, and we cannot be too
guarded how we use them. “Think twice before you speak once,” is a trite
but wise saying. We teach it to our children very carefully, but are too
apt to forget that it has not lost its application to ourselves.
THE THANKLESS OFFICE.
“AN object of real charity,” said Andrew Lyon to his wife, as a poor
woman withdrew from the room in which they were seated.
“If ever there was a worthy object she is one,” returned Mrs. Lyon. “A
widow, with health so feeble that even ordinary exertion is too much for
her; yet obliged to support, with the labour of her own hands, not only
herself, but three young children. I do not wonder that she is behind
with her rent.”
“Nor I,” said Mr. Lyon, in a voice of sympathy. “How much, did she say,
was due to her landlord?”
“Ten dollars.”
“She will not be able to pay it.”
“I fear not. How can she? I give her all my extra sewing, and have
obtained work for her from several ladies; but with her best efforts she
can barely obtain food and decent clothing for herself and babes.”
“Does it not seem hard,” remarked Mr. Lyon, “that one like Mrs. Arnold,
who is so earnest in her efforts to take care of herself and family,
should not receive a helping hand from some one of the many who could
help her without feeling the effort? If I didn’t find it so hard to make
both ends meet, I would pay off her arrears of rent for her, and feel
happy in so doing.”
“Ah!” exclaimed the kind-hearted wife, “how much I wish that we were
able to do this! But we are not.”
“I’ll tell you what we can do,” said Mr. Lyon, in a cheerful voice;
“or rather what I can do. It will be a very light matter for say ten
persons to give a dollar apiece, in order to relieve Mrs. Arnold from
her present trouble. There are plenty who would cheerfully contribute,
for this good purpose; all that is wanted is some one to take upon
himself the business of making the collections. That task shall be
mine.”
“How glad I am, James, to hear you say so!” smilingly replied Mrs. Lyon.
“Oh, what a relief it will be to poor Mrs. Arnold. It will make her
heart as light as a feather. That rent has troubled her sadly. Old
Links, her landlord, has been worrying her about it a good deal, and,
only a week ago, threatened to put her things in the street, if she
didn’t pay up.”
“I should have thought of this before,” remarked Andrew Lyon. “There
are hundreds of people who are willing enough to give if they were only
certain in regard to the object. Here is one worthy enough in every way.
Be it my business to present her claims to benevolent consideration. Let
me see. To whom shall I go? There are Jones, and Green, and Tompkins. I
can get a dollar from each of them. That will be three dollars,--and one
from myself, will make four. Who else is there? Oh, Malcolm! I’m sure of
a dollar from him; and also from Smith, Todd, and Perry.”
Confident in the success of his benevolent scheme, Mr. Lyon started
forth, early on the very next day, for the purpose of obtaining, by
subscription, the poor widow’s rent. The first person he called on was
Malcolm.
“Ah, friend Lyon!” said Malcolm, smiling blandly, “Good morning! What
can I do for you, to-day?”
“Nothing for me, but something for a poor widow, who is behind with her
rent,” replied Andrew Lyon. “I want just one dollar from you, and as
much more from some eight or nine as benevolent as yourself.”
At the word poor widow the countenance of Malcolm fell, and when his
visiter ceased, he replied, in a changed and husky voice, clearing his
throat two or three times as he spoke.
“Are you sure she is deserving, Mr. Lyon?” The man’s manner had become
exceedingly grave.
“None more so,” was the prompt answer. “She is in poor health, and has
three children to support with the product of her needle. If any one
needs assistance, it is Mrs. Arnold.”
“Oh! Ah! The widow of Jacob Arnold?”
“The same,” replied Andrew Lyon.
Malcolm’s face did not brighten with a feeling of heart-warm
benevolence. But he turned slowly away, and opening his money-drawer,
very slowly toyed with his fingers amid its contents. At length
he took therefrom a dollar bill, and said, as he presented it to
Lyon,--signing involuntarily as he did so,--
“I suppose I must do my part. But we are called upon so often.”
The ardour of Andrew Lyon’s benevolent feelings suddenly cooled at this
unexpected reception. He had entered upon his work under the glow of a
pure enthusiasm; anticipating a hearty response the moment his errand
was made known.
“I thank you in the widow’s name,” said he, as he took the dollar.
When he turned from Mr. Malcolm’s store, it was with a pressure on his
feelings, as if he had asked the coldly-given favour for himself.
It was not without an effort that Lyon compelled himself to call upon
Mr. Green, considered the “next best man” on his list. But he entered
his place of business with far less confidence than he had felt when
calling upon Malcolm. His story told, Green, without a word or smile,
drew two half dollars from his pocket and presented them.
“Thank you,” said Lyon.
“Welcome,” returned Green.
Oppressed with a feeling of embarrassment, Lyon stood for a few moments.
Then bowing, he said,
“Good morning.”
“Good morning,” was coldly and formally responded.
And thus the alms-seeker and alms-giver parted.
“Better be at his shop, attending to his work,” muttered Green to
himself, as his visiter retired. “Men ain’t very apt to get along too
well in the world who spend their time in begging for every object of
charity that happens to turn up. And there are plenty of such, dear
knows. He’s got a dollar out of me; may it do him, or the poor widow he
talked so glibly about, much good.”
Cold water had been poured upon the feelings of Andrew Lyon. He had
raised two dollars for the poor widow, but, at what a sacrifice for
one so sensitive as himself! Instead of keeping on in his work of
benevolence, he went to his shop, and entered upon the day’s employment.
How disappointed he felt;--and this disappointment was mingled with a
certain sense of humiliation, as if he had been asking alms for himself.
“Catch me at this work again!” he said half aloud, as his thoughts dwelt
upon what had so recently occurred. “But this is not right,” he added,
quickly. “It is a weakness in me to feel so. Poor Mrs. Arnold must
be relieved; and it is my duty to see that she gets relief. I had no
thought of a reception like this. People can talk of benevolence; but
putting the hand in the pocket is another affair altogether. I never
dreamed that such men as Malcolm and Green could be insensible to an
appeal like the one I made.”
“I’ve got two dollars towards paying Mrs. Arnold’s rent,” he said to
himself, in a more cheerful tone, some time afterwards; “and it will go
hard if I don’t raise the whole amount for her. All are not like Green
and Malcolm. Jones is a kind-hearted man, and will instantly respond to
the call of humanity. I’ll go and see him.”
So, off Andrew Lyon started to see this individual.
“I’ve come begging, Mr. Jones,” said he, on meeting him. And he spoke in
a frank, pleasant manner,
“Then you’ve come to the wrong shop; that’s all I have to say,” was the
blunt answer.
“Don’t say that, Mr. Jones. Hear my story first.”
“I do say it, and I’m in earnest,” returned Jones. “I feel as poor as
Job’s turkey to-day.”
“I only want a dollar to help a poor widow pay her rent,” said Lyon.
“Oh, hang all the poor widows! If that’s your game, you’ll get nothing
here. I’ve got my hands full to pay my own rent. A nice time I’d have in
handing out a dollar to every poor widow in town to help pay her rent!
No, no, my friend, you can’t get anything here.”
“Just as you feel about it,” said Andrew Lyon. “There’s no compulsion in
the matter.”
“No, I presume not,” was rather coldly replied.
Lyon returned to his shop, still more disheartened than before. He had
undertaken a thankless office.
Nearly two hours elapsed before his resolution to persevere in the good
work he had begun came back with sufficient force to prompt to another
effort. Then he dropped in upon his neighbour Tompkins, to whom he made
known his errand.
“Why, yes, I suppose I must do something in a case like this,” said
Tompkins, with the tone and air of a man who was cornered. “But there
are so many calls for charity, that we are naturally enough led to hold
on pretty tightly to our purse strings. Poor woman! I feel sorry for
her. How much do you want?”
“I am trying to get ten persons, including myself, to give a dollar
each.”
“Well, here’s my dollar.” And Tompkins forced a smile to his face as
he handed over his contribution,--but the smile did not conceal an
expression which said very plainly--
“I hope you will not trouble me again in this way.”
“You may be sure I will not,” muttered Lyon, as he went away. He fully
understood the meaning of the expression.
Only one more application did the kind-hearted man make. It was
successful; but there was something in the manner of the individual who
gave his dollar, that Lyon felt as a rebuke.
“And so poor Mrs. Arnold did not get the whole of her arrears of rent
paid off,” says some one who has felt an interest in her favour.
Oh, yes she did. Mr. Lyon begged five dollars, and added five more from
his own slender purse. But, he cannot be induced again to undertake
the thankless office of seeking relief from the benevolent for a fellow
creature in need. He has learned that a great many who refuse alms on
the plea that the object presented is not worthy, are but little more
inclined to charitable deeds, when on this point there is no question.
How many who read this can sympathize with Andrew Lyon! Few men who have
hearts to feel for others but have been impelled, at some time in their
lives, to seek aid for a fellow creature in need. That their office
was a thankless one, they have too soon become aware. Even those who
responded to their call most liberally, in too many instances gave in a
way that left an unpleasant impression behind. How quickly has the first
glow of generous feeling, that sought to extend itself to others, that
they might share the pleasure of humanity, been chilled; and, instead of
finding the task an easy one, it has proved to be hard, and, too often,
humiliating! Alas that this should be! That men should shut their hearts
so instinctively at the voice of charity!
We have not written this to discourage active efforts in the benevolent;
but to hold up a mirror in which another class may see themselves.
At best, the office of him who seeks of his fellow men aid for the
suffering and indigent, is an unpleasant one. It is all sacrifice on
his part, and the least that can be done is to honour his disinterested
regard for others in distress, and treat him with delicacy and
consideration.
LOVE.
     OH! if there is one law above the rest,
     Written in Wisdom--if there is a word
     That I would trace as with a pen of fire
     Upon the unsullied temper of a child--
     If there is anything that keeps the mind
     Open to angel visits, and repels
     The ministry of ill--‘tis Human Love!
     God has made nothing worthy of contempt;
     The smallest pebble in the well of Truth
     Has its peculiar meanings, and will stand
     When man’s best monuments wear fast away.
     The law of Heaven is Love--and though its name
     Has been usurped by passion, and profaned
     To its unholy uses through all time,
     Still, the external principle is pure;
     And in these deep affections that we feel
     Omnipotent within us, can we see
     The lavish measure in which love is given.
     And in the yearning tenderness of a child
     For every bird that sings above its head,
     And every creature feeding on the hills,
     And every tree and flower, and running brook,
     We see how everything was made to love,
     And how they err, who, in a world like this,
     Find anything to hate but human pride.
“EVERY LITTLE HELPS.”
     WHAT if a drop of rain should plead--
       “So small a drop as I
     Can ne’er refresh the thirsty mead;
       I’ll tarry in the sky?”
     What, if the shining beam of noon
       Should in its fountain stay;
     Because its feeble light alone
       Cannot create a day?
     Does not each rain-drop help to form
       The cool refreshing shower?
     And every ray of light, to warm
       And beautify the flower?
LITTLE THINGS.
     SCORN not the slightest word or deed,
       Nor deem it void of power;
     There’s fruit in each wind-wafted seed,
       Waiting its natal hour.
     A whispered word may touch the heart,
       And call it back to life;
     A look of love bid sin depart,
       And still unholy strife.
     No act falls fruitless; none can tell
       How vast its power may be,
     Nor what results enfolded dwell
       Within it silently.
     Work and despair not; give thy mite,
       Nor care how small it be;
     God is with all that serve the right,
       The holy, true, and free!
CARELESS WORDS.
FIVE years ago, this fair November day,--five years? it seems but
yesterday, so fresh is that scene in my memory; and, I doubt not, were
the period ten times multiplied, it would be as vivid still to us--the
surviving actors in that drama! The touch of time, which blunts the
piercing thorn, as well as steals from the rose its lovely tints, is
powerless here, unless to give darker shades to that picture engraven on
our souls; and tears--ah, they only make it more imperishable!
We do not speak of her now; her name has not passed our lips in each
other’s presence, since we followed her--grief-stricken mourners-to the
grave, to which--alas, alas! but why should not the truth be spoken?
the grave to which our careless words consigned her. But on every
anniversary of that day we can never forget, uninvited by me, and
without any previous arrangement between themselves, those two friends
have come to my house, and together we have sat, almost silently, save
when Ada’s sweet voice has poured forth a low, plaintive strain to the
mournful chords Mary has made the harp to breathe. Four years ago, that
cousin came too; and since then, though he has been thousands of miles
distant from us, when, that anniversary has returned, he has written to
me: he cannot look into my face when that letter is penned; he but looks
into his own heart, and he cannot withhold the words of remorse and
agony.
Ada and Mary have sat with me to-day, and we knew that Rowland, in
thought, was here too; ah, if we could have known another had been among
us,--if we could have felt that an eye was upon us, which will never
more dim with tears, a heart was near us which carelessness can never
wound again;--could we have known she had been here--that pure,
bright angel, with the smile of forgiveness and love on that beautiful
face--the dark veil of sorrow might have been lifted from our souls! but
we saw only with mortal vision; our faith was feeble, and we have only
drawn that sombre mantle more and more closely about us. The forgiveness
we have so many tim es prayed for, we have not yet dared to receive,
though we know it is our own.
That November day was just what this has been fair, mild, and sweet; and
how much did that dear one enjoy it! The earth was dry, and as we looked
from the window we saw no verdure but a small line of green on the south
side of the garden enclosure, and around the trunk of the old pear-tree,
and here and there a little oasis from which the strong wind of the
previous day, had lifted the thick covering of dry leaves, and one or
two shrubs, whose foliage feared not the cold breath of winter. The
gaudy hues, too, which nature had lately worn, were all faded; there was
a pale, yellow-leafed vine clambering over the verdureless lilac, and
far down in the garden might be seen a shrub covered with bright scarlet
berries. But the warm south wind was sweet and fragrant, as if it
had strayed through bowers of roses and eglantines. Deep-leaden and
snow-white clouds blended together, floated lazily through the sky, and
the sun coquetted all day with the earth, though his glance was not, for
once, more than half averted, while his smile was bright and loving, as
it bad been months before, when her face was fair and blooming.
But how sadly has this day passed, and how unlike is this calm, sweet
evening to the one which closed that November day! Nature is the same.
The moonbeams look as bright and silvery through the brown, naked arms
of the tall oaks, and the dark evergreen forest lifts up its head to the
sky, striving, but in vain, to shut out the soft light from the little
stream, whose murmurings, seem more sad and complaining than at another
season of the year, perhaps because it feels how soon the icy bands of
winter will stay its free course, and hush its low whisperings. The soft
breeze sighs as sadly through the vines which still wreath themselves
around the window; though seemingly conscious they have ceased to adorn
it, they are striving to loosen their hold, and bow themselves to the
earth; and the chirping of a cricket in the chimney is as sad and
mournful as it was then. But the low moan of the sufferer, the but
half-smothered, agonized sobs of those fair girls, the deep groan
which all my proud cousin’s firmness could not hush, and the words of
reproach, which, though I was so guilty myself, and though I saw them so
repentant, I could not withhold, are all stilled now.
Ada and Mary have just left me, and I am sitting alone in my apartment.
Not a sound reaches me but the whisperings of the wind, the murmuring of
the stream, and the chirping of that solitary cricket. The family know
my heart is heavy to-night, and the voices are hushed, and the footsteps
fall lightly. Lily, dear Lily, art thou near me?
Five years and some months ago--it was in early June--there came to our
home from far away in the sunny South, a fair young creature, a relative
of ours, though we had never seen her before. She had been motherless
rather less than a year, but her father had already found another
partner, and feeling that she would not so soon see the place of
the dearly-loved parent filled by a stranger, she had obtained his
permission to spend a few months with those who could sympathize with
her in her griefs.
Lily White! She was rightly named; I have never seen such a fair,
delicate face and figure, nor watched the revealings of a nature so pure
and gentle as was hers. She would have been too fair and delicate to
be beautiful, but for the brilliancy of those deep blue eyes, the dark
shade of that glossy hair, and the litheness of that fragile form;
but when months had passed away, and, though the brow was still marble
white, and the lip colourless, the cheek wore that deep rose tint, how
surpassingly beautiful she was! We did not dream what had planted that
rose-tint there--we thought her to be throwing off the grief which
alone, we believed, had paled her cheek; and we did not observe that
her form was becoming more delicate, and that her step was losing its
lightness and elasticity. We loved the sweet Lily dearly at first sight,
and she had been with us but a short time before we began to wonder how
our home had ever seemed perfect to us previous to her coming. And our
affection was returned by the dear girl. We knew how much she loved
us, when, as the warm season had passed, and her father sent for her to
return home, we saw the expression of deep sorrow in every feature, and
the silent entreaty that we would persuade him to allow her to remain
with us still.
She did not thank me when a letter reached me from her father, in reply
to one which, unknown to her, I had sent him, saying, if I thought
Lily’s health would not be injured by a winter’s residence in our cold
climate, he would comply with my urgent request, and allow her to remain
with us until the following spring--the dear girl could not speak. She
came to me almost totteringly, and wound her arms about my neck, resting
her head on mine, and tears from those sweet eyes fell fast over my
face; and all the remainder of that afternoon she lay on her couch. Oh,
why did I not think wherefore she was so much overcome?
Ada L----and Mary R----, two friends whom I had loved from childhood,
I had selected as companions for our dear Lily on her arrival among us,
and the young ladies, from their first introduction to her, had vied
with me in my endeavours to dispel the gloom from that fair face, and to
make her happy; and they shared, almost equally with her relatives, dear
Lily’s affections.
Ada--she is changed now--was a gay, brilliant, daring girl; Mary, witty
and playful, though frank and warm-hearted; but it made me love them
more than ever. The gaiety and audacity of the one was forgotten in the
presence of the thoughtful, timid Lily: and the other checked the merry
jest which trembled on her lips, and sobered that roguish eye beside the
earnest, sensitive girl; so that, though we were together almost daily,
dear Lily did not understand the character of the young ladies.
The warm season had passed away, and October brought an addition to our
household--Cousin Rowland--as handsome, kind-hearted, and good-natured
a fellow as ever lived, but a little cowardly, if the dread of the
raillery of a beautiful woman may be called cowardice.
Cousin Rowland and dear Lily were mutually pleased with each other, it
was very evident to me, though Ada and Mary failed to see it; for, in
the presence of the young ladies, Rowland did not show her those little
delicate attentions which, alone with me, who was very unobservant, he
took no pains to conceal; and Lily did not hide from me her blushing
face--her eyes only thanked me for the expression which met her gaze.
That November day--I dread to approach it! Lily and I were sitting
beside each other, looking down the street, and watching the return of
the carriage which Rowland had gone out with to bring Ada and Mary to
our house; or, rather, Lily was looking for its coming--my eyes were
resting on her face. It had never looked so beautiful to me before. Her
