favorable circumstances than before. This time he 
was himself commander of the expedition, and was to 
suffer for no one's bad generalship but his own. Be- 
sides, the experience he had obtained was almost a 
guarantee of success. It had taught him the neces- 
sity of care and prudence. 
The moral lesson he had learned was of infinitely 
more value than even the lesson of policy. For the 
urst time in his life he was conscious of a deep and 
earnest desire to be a good boy, and to become a true 
man. As he walked along, he thought more of being 
a good man than of being a rich man. It was very 
natural for him to do so, under the circumstances, for  
he had come very near being punished as an incendi- 
ary. The consequences of doing wrong were just 
then strongly impressed upon his mind, and he al- 
most shuddered to think he had consented to remain 
with Ben Smart after he knew that he burned the 
Darn. Ah, it was an exceedingly fortunate thing for  
him that he had got rid of Ben as he did. 
For two hours he walked as fast as he could, paus- 
ing now and then to listen for the sound of any ap- 
proaching vehicle. Possibly Jacob might have gone 
to his room, or attic, to see if he was safe, and hia 
escape had been discovered. He could not be too 
wary, and every sound that reached his waiting ear 
caused his heart to jump with anxiety. 
He heard a clock strike eleven. It was not the 
Redfield clock, and it was evident that he was ap- 
proaching Rockville, a factory village, eight miles 
from his native place. But his legs were failing him. 
He was exhausted by the labors and the excitement 
oJ the day and night, and his strength would hardly 
hold out till he should get beyond the village. 
Seating himself on a rock by the side of the road, 
he decided to hold a council of war, to determine 
what should be done. If he went forward, his 
strength might fail him at the time when a vigorous 
effort should be required of him. Somebody's dog 
might bark, and b ing the " Philistines upon him." 
He might meet some late walker, who would detain 
him. It was hardly safe for him to go through the 
Tillage by night or day, after the search which bad 
been made for Ben Smart. People would be on the 
lookout, and it would be no hard matter to mistake 
him for <he other fugitive. 
On the other hand, he did not like to pause so neai 
Itedfield. He had scarcely entered upon the consid- 
eration of this side of the question, before his quick 
ear detected the sound of rattling wheels in the direc- 
tion from which he had come. His heart beat vio- 
lently. It was Squire Walker and Jacob Wire, ha 
was sure, in pursuit of him ; but his courage did not 
fail him. 
Leaping over the stone wall by the side of the 
road, he secured the only retreat which the vicinity 
afforded, and waited, with his heart in his throat, for  
the coming of the pursuers, as he had assured him- 
self they were. The present seemed to be his only 
chance of escape,, and if he failed now, he might 
soon have another opportunity to " try again." 
The vehicle was approaching at a furious pace, and
as the noise grew more distinct, his heart leapt  the 
more violently. He thought he recognized the sounc 
'"* Squire Walker's wagon. There was not mucb 
-*ie for his fancy to conjure up strange things, for  
the carriage soon reached the place where he was 
concealed. . 
" Ur-r — woo ! " said a big bull-dog, placing his 
ugly nose against the wall, behind which Harry was 
lying. 
" Whoa ! " added a voice, which the trembling 
fugitive recognized as that of George Leman. 
" The dog has scented him," said another — that 
of Jacob Wire. 
Harry's heart sunk within him, and he felt as faint 
as though every drop of blood had been drawn from 
his veins. 
" I knew the dog would fetch him," said George 
Leman, as he leaped from the wagon, followed by 
Jacob Wire. " At him, Tiger ! " 
In obedience to this command, Tiger drew back a 
few steps, and then leaped upon the top of the wall. 
The prospect of being torn in pieces by the bull-dog 
was not pleasant to Harry, and with a powerful effort 
he summoned his sinking energies for the struggle 
before him. Grasping two large stones, he stood 
erect as the dog leaped on the wall. Inspired by the
imminence of his peril, he hurled one of the stonei 
at Tiger, the instant he showed his ugly visage above 
the fence. The missile took effect upon the animal, 
and he was evidently much astonished at this unusual 
mode of warfare. Tiger was vanquished, and fell 
back from the wall, howling with rage and pain. 
" Thunder ! He has killed my dog ! " exclaimed 
Leman, as he jumped over the wall. 
Harry did not wait any longer, but took to his 
heels, followed by both his pursuers, though not by 
the dog, which was hors de combat. Our hero was 
in a " light place," but with a heroism worthy the 
days of chivalry, he resolved not to be captured. 
He had not run far, however, before he realized 
that George Leman was more than a match for hirr , 
especially in his present worn-out condition. He was 
almost upon him, when Harry executed a counter 
movement, which was intended to " outflank " his 
adversary Dodging round a large rock in the field, 
he redoubled his efforts, running now towards the 
road where the horse was standing. Leman was a 
little confused by this sudden action, and for an in- 
giant lost ground. 
Harry reached the road and leaped the wall at a
single hound: it was a miracle that, in the darhncs* 
he had not dashed his brains out upon the rocks, iii 
the reckless leap. The horse was startled by thfi 
noisj, and his snort suggested a brilliant idea to 
Harry. 
" Go 'long ! " he shouted ; and the horse staited 
towards Kockville at a round pace. 
Harry jumped into the wagon over the hind board, 
and grasping the reins, put the high-mettled animal 
to the top of his speed. 
" Go 'long ! " hallooed Harry, mad with excite- 
ment. 
The horse manifested no feeling of partiality to- 
ward either of the parties, and seemed as willing to 
do his best for Harry as for his master. 
" Stop ! Stoj) ! " shouted George Leman, astound- 
ed at the new phase which the chase had assumed. 
" Stop ! and I will let you go." 
That was quite reasonable. It was natural that he 
should prefer to let the fugitive escape, to the alternative
of losing his horse. George Leman was no'ed 
for three things in Redfield ; his boat, his ugly dog, 
and his f:\st horse ; and Harry, after stesiing the boal 
and killing the dog, was in a fair way to depihs him 
of his horse, upon which he set a high value. The 
boy seemed like his evil genius, and no doubt he wa* 
.ngry with himself for letting so mean a man as Jacob 
Wire persuade him to hunt down such small game. 
Harry did not deem it prudent to stop, and in a 
few moments had left his pursuers out of sight. 
Then he began to breathe freer. He had played a 
desperate game, and won the victory ; yet he did not 
feel like indulging in a triumph. The battle had 
been a bitter necessity, and he even regretted the 
fate of poor Tiger, whose ribs he had stove in with 
a rock. 
He passed through Rockville. All was still, save 
the roaring of the waters at the dam, and no one 
challenged him. 
" I am safe, at any rate," said he to himself, when 
he had passed the village. " What will be the next 
scrape, I wonder ? Confound it ! They will hare 
me up for stealing a horse next. But I didn't steal 
nim. George Leman is a good fellow, and only for 
the fun of the thing, he wouldn't have come out on 
such a chase. I wouldn't steal any body's horse 
Whoa ! " 
 
Harry hauled up by the road side, and fastened the 
Horse to the fence. 
" There, George, you can have your horse again ; 
but I will just put the blanket over him, for he is all 
of a reeking sweat. It will just show George, when 
he comes up, that I don't mean him any harm. I 
hope his dog wasn't killed." 
Taking the blanket which lay in the bottom of the 
wagon, (for George Leman was very careful of his 
horse, and though it was October, always covered 
him when he let him stand out at night,) he spread 
it over him. 
" Now, for Number One again," muttered Harry. 
" I must take to the woods, though I doubt if George 
will follow me any farther." 
So saying, he got over the fence, and made hi? way 
across the fields to the woods, whirh were but a ibcii 
d usance from the road 
CHAPTER VIII. 
IK WHICH HARRY KILLS A BIG SNAKE. AND MAKES 
A NEW FRIEND. 
Harry was not entirely satisfied with what ha 
lad done. He regretted the necessity which had 
compelled him to take George Leman's horse. It 
looked too much like stealing ; and his awakened 
moral sense repelled the idea of such a crime. But 
they could not accuse him of stealing the horse ; for  
Lis last act would repudiate the idea. 
His great resolution to become a good and true 
man was by no means forgotten. It is true, at the 
very outset of the new life he had marked out for 
himself, he had U < n obliged to behave like a young 
ruffian,  be resti'-ul to his exacting guardians. It 
vis rathe' i. bai tq- nning ; but he had taken what 
hvd appeiui to him fc only course. 
To run away ? On the solution of this problem depended the moral charactei 
of the subsequent acts. If it was light for him to 
run away, why, of course it was right for him to reaia* 
those who attempted to restore him to Jacob Wire. 
Harry made up his mind that it was right for Lira 
to run away, under the circumstances. His new 
master had been charged to break him doAvn — even 
to starve him down. Jacob's reputation as a mean 
and hard man was well merited ; and it was his duty 
to leave without stopping to say good by. 
I do not think that Harry was wholly in the right, 
though I dare say all my young readers will sympa- 
thize with the stout hearted little hero. So far, Jacob 
Wire had done him no harm. He had suffered no 
hardship at his hands. All his misery was in the 
future ; and if he had staid, perhaps his master might 
have done well by him, though it is not probable. 
Still I think Harry was in some sense justifiable. 
To remain in such a place was to cramp his soul, as 
well as pinch his body — to be unhappy, if not posi- 
tively miserable. He might have tried the place, 
and when he found it could not be endured, fled 
from it. 
It must be remembered tbat Harry was a pj.upet 
and an orphan. He had not had the benefit of 
paiental instruction. It was not from the home of 
these whom God had appointed to be his guardians 
and protectors that he had fled; it was from one who 
regarded him, not as a rational being, possessed of 
an immortal soul — one for whose moral, mental, 
and spiritual welfare he was accountable before God, 
— that he had run away, but from one who consid- 
ered him as a mere machine, from which it was his 
only interest to get as much work at as little cost 
as possible. He fled from a taskmaster, not from 
one who was in any just sense a guardian. 
Harry did not reason out all this ; he only felt it. 
What was Jacob Wire to him ? What was even 
Squire Walker to him ? What did they care about 
his true welfare ? Nothing. Harry so understood 
it, and acted accordingly. 
The future was full of trials and difficulties. But 
his heart was stout ; and the events of the last chap- 
ter inspired him with confidence in his own abilities, 
He entered the dark woods, and paused to rest himself. What should he do next ? 
While he was discussing this question in his cwn 
tnind, he heard the sound of voices on the road, which 
was not more than fifty rods distant. It was George 
Leman and Jacob Wire. In a few minutes he heard 
the sound of wagon wheels ; and soon had the sat- 
isfaction of knowing that his pursuers had abandoned 
the chase, and were returning home. 
The little fugitive was very tired and very sleepy. 
It was not possible for him to continue his journey, 
and he looked about him for a place in which to 
lodge. The night was chilly and damp ; and as he 
sat upon the rock, he shivered with cold. It would 
be impossible to sleep on the wet ground ; and if he 
could, it might cost him his life. It was a pine for- 
est ; and there were no leaves on the ground, so that 
he could not make such a bed as that in which he 
nad slept the previous night. 
He was so cold that he was obliged to move about 
to get warm. It occurred to him that he might get 
into some barn in the vicinity, and nestle comforta- 
bly in the hay ; but the risk of being discovered waa . 
too great, and he directed his steps towarde the 
depths of the forest. 
After walking some distance, he came to an opea 
place in the woods. The character of the growth 
had changed, and the ground was covered with young 
maples, walnuts, and oaks. The wood had been 
recently cut off over a large area, but there were no 
leaves of which he could make a bed. 
Fortune favored him, however; for, after advancing 
half way across the open space, he reach- :d one of 
those cabins erected for the use of men employed to 
watch coal pits. It was made of board slabs, and 
covered over with sods. Near it was the circular 
space on which the coal pit had burned. 
At the time of which I write, charcoal wis carried 
to Boston from many towns within thirty miles of 
the city. Perhaps my young readers may never have 
seen a coal pit. The wood is set up on the ends of 
the sticks, till a circular pile from ten to twenty feet 
in diameter is formed, and two tiers in height. ItH 
shape is that of a cone, or sugar loaf. It is then 
covered with turf and soil. Fire is communicated 
to the wood, so that it shall smoulder, or burn slow- 
ly, without blazing. Just enough air is admitted to 
the pit to keep the fire alive. If the air were freeij 
tdnr'ttcd, the pile would burn to ashes. Sometimes 
the outer covering of dirt and sods falls in, as the 
wood shrinks, permitting the air to rush in and fan 
the fire to a blaze. "When this occurs, the apeiture 
must be closed, or the wood would be consumed ; 
and it is necessary to watch it day and night. The 
rabin had been built for the comfort of the men who 
did this duty. 
Harry's heart was filled with gratitude when he 
discovered the rude nut. If it had been a palace, it 
could not have been a more welcome retreat. It 
Is true the stormy wind had broken down the door, 
and the place was no better than a squirrel hole ; yet 
it suggested a thousand brilliant ideas of comfort, 
and luxury even, to our worn-out and hunted fd 
gitive. 
He entered the cabin. The floor was covered 
with straw, which completed his ideal of a luxurious 
abode. Raising up the door, which had fallen to the 
ground, he placed it before the aperture — thu- ex- 
cluding the cold air from his chamber. 
" I'm a lucky fellow," exclaimed Harry, a° he 
threw himself on (he straw. "This place will be a 
palace beside Jacob Wire's house. And I :an etaj 
here a month, if I like." 
Nestling closely under the side of the hu', he 
pulled the straw over him, and soon began to feel 
perfectly at home. Only one consideration troubled 
him. The commissary department of the establish- 
ment could not be relied on. There were no puik 
and potatoes in the house, no well-filled grain chest, 
no groceries, not even a rill of pure water at hand. 
This was an unpromising state of things ; and he 
began to see that there would be no fun in living in 
the woods, where the butcher and the baker would 
not be likely to visit him. 
Various means of supplying the deficiency sug- 
gested themselves. There were rabbits, partridges, 
and quails in the woods ; he might set a snare, and 
catch some of them. But he had no fire to cook 
them ; and Dr. Kane had not then demonstrated the 
healthy and appetizing qualities of raw meat. The 
orchards in the neighborhood were accessible ; but 
prudence seemed to raise an impassable barrier be- 
tween him and them. 
"While he was thus considering these matters, he 
dropped asleep, and forgot all about his stomach 
He was completely exhausted ; and no doubt the 
owls and bats were astonished as they listened to 
the sonorous sounds that came from the deserted 
cabin. 
Long and deep was his sleep. The birds sang 
their matin songs on the tree tops ; but he heard 
them not. The sun rose, and penetrated the chinks 
of the hut ; but the little wanderer still slumbered. 
The Rockville clock struck nine ; and he heard it 
not. 
I think it was Harry's grumbling stomach that 
finaUy wak^d him; and it was no wonder that neg- 
lected organ grew impatient under the injury put 
upon it, for Harry had eaten little or. nothing since 
his dinner at the poorhouse on the preceding day. 
Jumping out of the heap cf straw in which he had 
" cuddled " all night scarcely svithout moving, he left 
{he hut to reconnoitre his position. So far as security 
was concerned, it seemed to be a perfectly safe place. 
He could see nothing of the village jf Rockville, 
though, beyond the open space, he saw the top ot a 
chimney ; but it was at least half a mile distant 
Just then he did not feel much interested in th? 
scenery and natural advantages of the position. His
stomach was imperative, and he was faint from th ? 
want of food. There was nothing in the woods t"> 
eat. Berry time was past; and the prospect of sup- 
plying his wants was very discouraging. Leaving 
the cabin, he walked towards the distant chimney 
that peered above the tree tops. It belonged tt 
a house that " was set on a hill, and could not be 
hid." 
Alter going a little way, he came to a cart path, 
which led towards the house. This he followed, 
descending a hill into a swamp, which was covered 
over with alders and birches. At the foot of the 
declivity he heard the rippling of waters ; but the 
bushes concealed the stream from his view. 
He had descended nearly to the foot of the hill 
when the sound of footsteps reached his ears. His 
heart beat quick with apprehension, and he paused 
to listen. The step was soft and light ; it was not a 
man's, and bin courage rose. Pat, pat, pat, went tha 
steps on the leafy ground, so gently that his fears 
were conquered ; for th° person could be only a 
thild. 
Suddenly a piercing shriek saluted his ears 
a thing had occurred to alarm the owner of 
the fairy feet which made the soft pat, pat, on the 
gl nd Another shriek, and Harry bounded down 
tb roa I like an antelope, heedless of the remon- 
strances of his grumbling stomach. 
"Mercy! help!" shouted a voice, which Harry 
perceived was that of a little girl. 
In a moment more, he discovered the young lady 
running with all her might towards him. 
" Save vie ! " gasped the girl. 
" What ii the matter ? " 
But Harry had scarcely asked the question before 
ne saw whit had alarmed her. Under other circum- 
stance;, he would have quailed himself; for, as he 
apjKe, a gteat black snake raised his head two or 
three fret from the ground directly in front of him. 
He was at ugly-looking monster, and evidently in- 
tended to i\?rck him. All the chivalry of Harry's 
nature was ciWed up to meet the emergency of the 
occasion. Scmci; \ Ht f lo stick that lay in the path, 
he struck Btuury vigi uvjj blows at the reptile 
which, however, jin'^x". ^ vndy to madden, without
disabling, him. Several times he elevated his head 
from the ground to strike at his assailant : but the 
little knight was an old hand with snakes, and \ig" 
orousiv repelled his assaults. At last, he struck a 
blow which laid out his snakeship ; and the field was 
won, when Harry had smashed his head with a large 
rock. The reptile was about four feet and a halJ 
long, and as big round as a small boy's wrist. 
" There, miss, he won't hurt you now," said 
Harry, panting with his exertions. 
" Won't he ? Are you sure he is dead ? " 
" Very sure." 
The little girl ventured to approach the dead body 
of the snake, and satisfied herself that he could no' 
barm her. 
" What an ugly snake ! I was crossing the brook 
at the foot of the hill, when he sprang out from 
beneath my feet, and chased me. I never was so 
frightened in all my life," said the little miss. 
" I don't wonder," replied Harry. 
" I am very much obliged to you. What is your 
Dame  " asked she, with chiMish simplicity. 
Harry did not like to answer that question, and 
aaade no reply. 
M Do you live in Rockville ? " she continued. 
" No ; I used to live in Redfield." 
" Where do you live now ? " 
' I don't live any where." 
Ihe little girl wanted to laugh then, it seemed 
mch a funny answer. 
" Don'* you ? Who is your father ? " 
" I have no father." 
" Who is your mother, then ? " 
" I have no mother." 
" Poor buy ! Then you are an orphan." 
" I suppose so. But, little girl, I don't want you 
to tell any one that you have seen me. You won't 
— will you r " 
" Not father and mother: " asked the maiden, with 
a stare of astonishment. 
" If you please, don't. I am a poor boy, and have 
run away from a hard master." 
; ' I won't tell any body." 
' And I am very hungry." 
" Poor boy ! How lucky that I have lota of 
goodies in my ba«k:t ! " exclaimed she. " You shalj 
eat all you can " 
" ] haven't eat any thing since yesterday noon," 
replied Harry, as he took a handful of doughnut* 
ihe handed him. 
" Sit down on this rock, and do eat all you want. 
I never knew what it was to be very hungry." 
Harry seated himself, and proceeded to devour the 
food the sympathizing little maiden had given him, 
while she looked on with astonishment and deligl t 
as he voraciously consumed cake after cake, without 
seeming to produce any effect upon the " abhorred 
v&ctima/' 
CHAPTER T X 
IH WHICH HARRY BREAKFASTS ON DOUGHNUTS, 
AND FINDS THAT ANGELS DO NOT ALWAYS HAVB 
WINGS. 
Harry was very hungry, and the little girl thought 
he would never have eaten enough. Since he had 
t~ld her he had run away, she was deer 'y interested 
in him, and had a hundred questions to :i&k ; but she 
did not wish to bother him while he was eating, he 
was so deeply absorbed in the occupation. 
" What a blessed thing doughnuts are ! " laughed 
she, as Harry levelled on the sixth cake. " I never 
thought much of them before, but I never shall see a 
doughnut again without thinking of you." 
Our hero was perfectly willing to believe that 
doughnuts were a very beneficent inst^cion ; but 
just then he ^as too busily occupied to *)* aeutime^ 
tal over them. 
" What is your name, little girl ? " asked Harry 
is he crammed half of the cake into his mouth. 
" I have a great mind not to tell you, because 
you wouldn't tell me what yours is," replied she, 
roguishly. 
" You see how it is with me. I have run away 
from — well, from somewhere." 
" And you are afraid I will tell ? I won't thougn. 
But, as you killed the snake, I shall tell you, Mv 
name is Julia Bryant." 
" Mine is Harry West," replied he, unable to resist 
the little lady's argument. " You must not tell any 
one about me for three days, for then I shall be out 
of the way." 
" Where are you going, Harry ? " 
" To Boston." 
" Are you ? They say that none but bad boys run 
away. I hope yo" a r e ro f ? had K oy." And Julia 
glanced earnestly at the fugitive. 
" J don't think I am." 
" I don't think you are, cither." 
It was a hearty endorsement, and Harry's heart 
urarmed as she spoke The little maiden was not 
Biore than nine or ten years old, but she seemed to 
have some skill in reading faces ; at least, Harrj 
thought she had. "Whatever might he said of him- 
self, he was sure she was a good girl. In short, 
though Harry had never read a novel in his life, she 
was a little angel, even if she had no wings. He 
even went so far as to believe she was a little angel, 
commissioned by that mysterious something, which 
wiser and more devout persons would have called 
 special providence, to relieve his wants with the 
contents of her basket, and gladden his heart by the 
sunshine of her sweet smile. There is something in 
goodness which always finds its way to the face. It 
makes little girls look prettier than silks, and laces, 
and ribbons, and embroidery. Julia Biyant was pret- 
ty, very pretty. Harry thought so ; but very likely it 
was the doughnuts and her kind words which consti- 
tuted her beauty. 
" I am pretty sure I am not a bad boy," continued 
(lurry ; " but I will tell you my story, and you shah 
tudge for yourself." 
" You will tell me all of it — won't you ? M 
- To be sure I will," replied Harry, a little tartly 
tor he misapprehended Julia's meaning. 
He thought she was afraid he would not tell hi. 
wrong acts ; whereas her deep interest in him ren* 
iered her anxious to have the whole, even to t\x< 
smallest particulars. 
" I shall be so delighted ! I do so love to hear a 
good story ! " exclaimed Julia. 
" You shall have it all ; but where were you go- 
ing ? It will take me a good while." 
" I was going to carry these doughnuts to Mrs. 
Lane. She is a poor widow, who lives over on the 
back lane. She has five children, and has very hard 
work to get along. I carry something to her every 
»veek." 
" Then you are a little angel ! " added Harry, who 
could understand and appreciate kindness to the poor. 
' Not exactly an angel, though Mrs. Lane says I 
am," replied Julia, with a blush. 
" Aunty Gray, over to the poorhouse, used to call 
ever) bo ly an angel that brought her any thing good. 
 I'm sure you must be one." 
" Never mind what I am now. I am dying to heal 
your story," interposed Julia, as she seated herself on 
another rock, near that occupied by Harry. 
" Here goes, then ; " and Harry proceeded with his 
tale, commencing back beyond his remembrance Avitk 
the traditionary history which had been communicat- 
ed to him by Mr. Nason and the paupers. 
When he came to the period of authentic history 
or that which was stored up in his memory, he grew 
eloquent, and the narrative glowed with the living 
fire of the hero. Julia was quite as much interested 
as Desdemona in the story of the swarthy Moor. 
His " round, unvarnished tale," adorned only with 
the flowers of youthful simplicity, enchained her at- 
tention, and she " loved him for the dangers he had 
passed ; " loved him, not as Desdemona loved, but aa 
a child loves. She was sure now that he was not a 
bad boy ; that even a good boy might do such a thing 
as run away from cruel and exacting guardians. 
' What a strange story, Harry ! How near you 
came to being drowned in the river ! I wonder the 
man had not killed you ! And then they wanted to 
send you to prison, for setting the barn afire ' " cx- 
tlaimel Julia, when he had finished the story. 
" I came pretty near it ; that's a fact ! " replied 
Harry, warming under the approbation of his parting for. 
" And you killed the big dog ? " 
" I don't know ; I hope I didn't." 
" But you didn't steal the horse ? " 
" I didn't mean to steal him." 
" No one could call that stealing. But what are 
you going to do next, Harry ? " 
" I am going to Boston." 
" What will you do, when you get there ? " 
" I can go to work." 
" You are not big enough to work much." 
" I can do a good deal." 
For some time longer they discussed Harry's story, 
and Julia regretted the necessity of leaving him to do 
her errand at Mrs. Lane's. She promised to see him 
when she returned, and Harry walked down to tho 
brook to get a drink, while she continued on her way. 
Our hero was deeply interested in the little girl 
like the " great guns " in the novels, he was sure she 
was no ordinary character. He was fully satisfied in 
relation to the providential nature of their meeting 
Bhe had been sent by that incomprehensible some* 
thing to furnish him with food, and he trembled when 
he thought what might have happened if she had not 
come. 
" I can't be a very bad boy," thought he, " or she 
would not have liked me. Mr. Xason used to say he 
could tell an ugly horse by the looks of his eye ; and 
the schoolmaster last winter picked out all the bad 
boys at a glance. I can't be a very bad boy, or she 
would have found me out. I know I am not a bad 
boy. I feel right, and try to do right." 
Harry's imagination invested Julia Bryant with a 
thousand poetical excellences. That she felt an in- 
terest in him — one so good as she — was enough to 
lonfirm all the noble resolutions he had made, and 
give him strength to keep them ; and as he seated 
himself by the brook, he thought over his faults, and 
renewed his determination to uproot them from hia 
character. His meeting with the " little angel," aa 
he chose to regard her, was an oasis in the desert — 
a place where his moral nature could drink the pure 
waters of life. 
No one had ever before seemed to c=»re much 
whether he was a good boy or a bad boy. The min« 
later used now and then to give him a dry lecture  
but he did not seem to feel any real interest in him 
He was a minister, and of course he must preach ; not 
that he cared whether a pauper boy was a saint  a 
sinner, but only to do the work he was hired to lo, 
and earn his money. 
Julia did not preach. Her sweet face was the 
" beauty of holiness." She hoped he was not a bad 
boy. She liked a good boy ; and this was incentive 
enough to incur a lifetime of trial and self-sacrifice. 
Harry was an orphan. To have one feel an interest 
in his moral welfare, to have one wish him to be a 
good boy, had not grown stale by long continuance. 
He had known no anxious mother, who wished him 
to be good, who would weep when he did wrong. 
The sympathy of the little angel touched a sensitive 
choid in his heart and soul, and he felt that he should 
go forward in the great pilgrimage of life with a new 
desire to be true to himself, and true to her whc had 
inspired his reverence 
Even a child cannot be good without having it felt 
by others. " She hoped he was not a bad boy," were 
the words of the little angel ; and before she returned 
from her errand of mercy, he had repeated them to 
himself a hundred times. They were a talisman to, 
him, and he was sure he should never be a bad boy 
In the face of such a wish. 
He wandered about the woods for two or three 
hours, impatient for the re'.urn of the little rural god- 
dess who had taken possession of his thoughts, and 
filled his soul with admiration. She came at last, 
and glad was the welcome which he gave her. 
" I have been thinking of you ever since I left 
you," said Julia, as she approached the place where 
he had been waiting her return. 
Harry thought this was a remarkable coincidence 
He had been thinking of her also. 
" I hope you didn't think of me as a bad boy," 
replied he, giving expression to that which was up- 
permost in his mind. 
" I am sure I didn't. I am sure you must be a 
good boy." 
' I am glad you think so; and that will help m« 
 a good boy." 
" Will it ? " 
" I never had any one to care whether I was good 
or Lad. If you do, you will be the first one." 
The little girl looked sad. She had a father and 
mother who loved her, and prayed for her every day 
It seemed hard that poor Harry should nave no 
mother to love him as her mother loved her ; to 
watch over him day and night, to take care of him 
when he was sick, and, above all, to teach him to be 
good. She pitied the lonely orphan, and would glad- 
ly have taken him to her happy home, and shared 
with him all she had, even the love of her mother. 
" Poor boy ! " she sighed. " But I have been 
thinking of something," she added, in more sprightly 
tones. 
" What, Julia ? " 
" If you would only let me tell my father that you 
are here " 
" Not for the world ! " cried Harry. 
" O, I won't say a word, unless you give me leave; 
out my father is rich.  He owns a great factory and 
a great farm. He has lots of men to work for him : 
and my father is a very good man, too. People will 
do  he wants them to do, ai d if you will let me 
tell him your story, he will go over to Red field and 
make them let you stay at our house. You shall ba 
oi' hi other then, and we can do lots of things together. Do let me tell him." 
" I don't think it would be safe. I know Squire 
Walker wouldn't let me go to any place where they 
would use me well." 
" What a horrible man he must be ! " 
" No ; I think I will go on to Boston." 
" You will have a very hard time of it." 
"No matter for that." 
" They may catch you." 
" If they do, I shall try again." 
" If they do catch you, will you let my fathei 
know it? He will be your friend, for my friends aie 
his friends." 
' I will, I should be very glad to have such i 
fiieml." 
" There is our dinner bell !" said Julia, as Harry 
heard the distant sound. " I must go home, liow 
I wish you were going with me ! " 
" I wish I was. I may never see you again," &dd» 
ed Harry, sadly 
 
" O, you must see me again ! "When you get big 
you must come to Kockville." 
" You will not wish to see the little poorhouse 
boy, then." 
" Won't I ? I shall always be glad to see the boy 
that killed that snake ! But I shall come up after 
linner, and bring you something to eat. Do let me 
tell mother you are here." 
" I would rather you wouldn't." 
" Suppose she asks me what I am going to do wi\h 
the dinner I shall bring you ? I can't tell a lie." 
" Don't bring any, then. I would rather not have 
any dinner than have you tell a lie." 
Harry would not always have been so nice about 
a lie ; but for the little angel to tell a falsehood, why, 
it seemed like mud on a white counterpane. 
" I won't tell a lie, but you shall have your dinner. 
I suppose I must go now." 
Hany watched the retreating form of his kind 
friend, till she disappeared beyond the curve of tte 
pa til, and his blessing went with her. 
CHAPTER X. 
in WHICH HARRY FARES SUMPTUOUSLY, AND 
TAKES LEAVE OF THE LITTLE ANGEL. 
When Harry could no longer see the little angel, 
lie fixed his eyes upon the ground, and continued to 
think of her. It is not every day that a pauper boy 
Bees an angel, or even one whom the enthusiasm of 
the imagination invests with angelic purity and an- 
gelic affections. 
In the records of individual experience, as well as 
in the history of the world, there are certain points 
nf time which are rendered memorable by important 
events. By referring to a chronological table, the 
young reader will see the great events which have 
nraiked the progress of civilized nations from the 
lowest depths of barbarism up to their present en- 
lightened state. Every individual, if he had the 
requisite wisdom, could make up a list of epochs in 
ais own experience. Perhaps he v/ouH dtt&ch to<j 
little importance to some things, too much to others ; 
for wo cannot always clearly perceive the influences 
which assist in forming the character. Some trivial 
event, far back in the past, which inspired him with 
new reverence for truth and goodness, may be fur- 
gotten. The memory may not now cherish the look, 
the smile of approbation, which strengthened the 
heart, when it was struggling against the foe without 
or the foe within ; but its influence was none the 
less potent. " It is the last pound which breaks tie 
camel's back ; " and that look, that smile, may have 
closed the door of the heart against a whole legion 
of evil spirits, and thus turned a life of woe and bit- 
terness into a life of sunshine and happiness. 
There are hundreds of epochs in the experience 
of every person, boy or man — events which raised 
him up or let him down in the scale of moral exist- 
ence. Harry West had now reached one of these 
epochs in his pilgrimage. 
To meet a little girl in the woods, to kill a black 
snake, and thus relieve her from a terrible fright, to 
lag the least, was not a great ever.t, as events  
reckoned in the world ; yet it was destined to exert 
a powerful influence upon his future career. It was 
not the magnitude of the deed performed, or the 
chivalrous spirit which called it forth, that made this 
a memorable event to Harry ; it was the angel visit 
— the kindling influence of a pure heart that passed 
from her to him. But I suppose the impatient 
reader will not thank me for moralizing over two 
whole pages, and I leave the further application of 
the moral to the discretion of my young friends. 
Harry felt strangely — more strangely than he had 
ever felt before. As he walked back to the cabin, 
every thing seemed to have assumed a new appear- 
ance. Somehow the trees did not look as they used 
to look. He saw through a different medium. His 
being seemed to have undergone a change. He 
could not account for it ; perhaps he did not try. 
He entered the cabin ; and, without dropping the 
train of thought which Julia's presence suggested, he 
busied himself in making the place more comfortable. 
He shook up the straw, and made his bed, stuffed 
dried glass into the chinks and crannies in the roof
fastened the dor up with some buch withes, and 
replaced some of the stones of the chimney 'which 
had fallen down. This work occupied him for nearly 
two hours, though, so busy were his thoughts, they 
earned not more than half an hour. 
He had scarcely finished making these necessary 
repairs before he heard the light step of her who fed 
him, as Elijah was fed by the ravens, for it seemed 
ake a providential supply. She saw him at the door 
of the cabin ; and she no longer dallied with a walk, 
but ran with all her might. 
" O Harry, I am so glad! " she cried, out of breath, 
as she handed him a little basket, whose contents 
were carefully covered with a piece of brown paper. 
" Glad of what, Julia ? " asked Harry, smiling 
from sympathy with her. 
" I have heard all about it ; and I am so glad you 
are a good boy ! " exclaimed she, panting like a 
pretty fawn which has gambolled its breath away, 
" About what ? " 
" Father has seen and talked with — who was 
he?" 
Harry laughed. How could he tell whom hei 
father hal seen and talked with? He was not a 
Viagician. 
" The man that owned the dog, and the horse, and 
the boat." 
" ! George Leman," replied Harry, now deeply 
interested in the little maiden's story. " Where 
did he see him ? " 
" Over at the store. But I have brought you 
some dinner ; and while you are eating it, I will tell 
you all about it. Come, there is a nice big rock — - 
that shall be your table." 
Julia, full of excitement, seized the basket, and 
ran to the rock, a little way from the cabin. Pulling 
off half a dozen great oak leaves from a shrub, she 
placed them on the rock. 
" Here is a piece of meat, Harry, on this plate," 
she continued, putting it on an oak leaf; " here is a 
piece of pie ; here is some bread and butter ; here is 
cheese ; and here is a piece of cold apple pudding. 
There ! I forgot the sauce." 
" Never mind the sauce," said Harry ; and ha 
roald hardly keep from bursting into tears, as he 
saw how good the little angel was. 
lc seemed as though she could not have been more 
tn angel, if she had had a pair of wings. The r* 
riiant face was there ; the pure and loving heart wat 
there ; all was there but the wings, and he could 
easily imagine them. 
And what a dinner ! Roast beef, pudding, pie ! 
He was not much accustomed to such luxuries ; but 
just then he did not appreciate the sumptuousness 
of the feast, for it was eclipsed by the higher consid- 
eration of the devotion of the giver. 
" Come, eat, Harry ! I am so glad ! " added Julia. 
" So am I. If you feed me as high as this, I 
shall want to stay here a good while." 
" I hope you will." 
" Only to-day ; to-morrow I must be moving to- 
wards Boston." 
" I was hoping you would stay here a good long 
while. I shall be so pleased to bring you your break- 
fast, and dinner, and supper every day ! " 
" Your father would not like it." 
" I don't know why he shouldn't. You are 
not very hungry ; you don't eat as you did this 
morning." 
"I ate so much then. T^ll me, now, what your 
father said, Julia." 
"He siw George Leman ; ind he told him how 
you tied his horse to the fence, and how careful you 
were to put the blanket on him, so that he shouldn't 
ealrli rnl<i after his hard run. That was very kind 
of you, Harry, when you knew they were after you. 
Father said almost any one would have run the horse 
till he dropped down. That one thing showed that 
fon were not a bad boy." 
" I wouldn't have injured George Leman for any 
thing," added Harry. " He's a good fellow, and 
never did me any harm." 
" He said, when he found his horse, he was so 
glad he wouldn't have chased you any farther for all 
the world. He told father what ilr. Xason said 
about you — that you were a good boy, had good 
feelings, and were willing to work. He didn't blame 
you for not wanting to go to Jacob Wire's — wasn't 
that the man ? " 
" Yes." 
" And he didn't blame you for running away. 
Nobody believes that you set the barn afire ; and, 
Harry, they have caught the other boy — Ben Smart, 
wasn't it ? " 
" Yes, that was his name " 
" They caught him in the woods, over the other 
Bide of the river." 
" I)id you find out whether the dog was killed?" 
nskei Harry. 
" Mr. Leman said he thought he would get ove. 
it ; and he has got his boat again." 
" I am glad of that ; and if any body ever catches 
me with such a fellow as Ben Smart again, they'll 
know it." 
" You can't think how I wanted to tell father 
where you were, when he spoke so well of you. Ho 
even said he hoped you would get off, and that you 
must be in the woods around here somewhere. You 
will let me tell him now — won't you, Harry ? " 
f I think not." 
" Why not, Harry ? " 
" He may hope I will get off, and still not be will- 
ing to help me off." 
Juli i looked very much disappointed ; for she had 
depended upon surprising her father with fhe story 
of the snake, and the little fugitive in the woods. 
" He will be very good to you," pleaded she. 
" I dare say he would ; but he may think it his 
duty to send me back to Redfield; ani Squire Walk* 
er would certainly make me go to Jacob Wire's." 
" But you won't go yet." 
" To-morrow, Julia." 
M I'm afraid you will never get to Boston." 
" O, yes, I shall. I don't think it is safe for me 
to stay here much longer." 
" Why not ? Hardly any one ever goes through 
the woods here at this time of year but myself." 
" Didn't your mother want to know what you 
were going to do with the dinner you brought me ? " 
" No, I went to the store room, and got it. She 
didn't see me ; but I don't like to do any thing un- 
known to her." 
" You mustn't do it again." 
" You must have something to eat." 
'* You have brought enough to last me while I
itop here. To-morrow morning I must start ; so I 
suppose I shall not see you again. But I shall never 
forget you," said Harry, locking as sad as he felt. 
" Xo, you mustn't go off without any breakfast. 
Promise me you will not go till I have brought yon 
some." 
Harry assured Julia he had enough, and ried Ifi 
persuade her not to bring him any more food ; bu« 
Julia was resolute, and he was obliged to promise 
Having finished his dinner, she gathered up the rem- 
nants of the feast, and put them in the cabin for hia 
supper. She was afraid to remain any longer, lest 
she might be missed at home ; and Harry gallantly 
escorted her beyond the brook on her return home. 
He busied himself during the greater part of the 
afternoon in gathering dry grass and dead leaves for 
the improvement of his bed in the cabin. About an 
hour before sundown, he was surprised to receive 
another visit from Julia Bryant. She had her little 
basket in one hand, and in the other she carried a 
little package. 
" I didn't expect to see you again," said Harry, as 
she approached. 
" I don't know as you will like what I have done," 
shfi began, timidly ; " but I did it for the best." 
" I shall like any thing that you have done," an- 
swered Harry, promptly, " even if you should send 
mo back to lledfield." 
" I wouldn't do such a mean thing as that ; but I
have told somebody that you are here." 
" Huve you ? " asked Harry, not a little alarmed. 
" You will forgive me if I have done wrong —  
won t you: 
Harry looked at her. He mistook her anxious 
appearance for sorrow at what she had done. He 
could not give her pain ; so he told her that, what- 
ever she had done, she was forgiven. 
" But vchom have you told." 
" John Lane." 
"Who is he?" 
" Mrs. Lane's oldest son. He drives the baggage 
«iigon that goes to Boston every week. He prom- 
ted not to lisp a word to a single soul, and that he 
^ould be your friend for my sake." 
" Why did you tell him?" 
" Well, you see, I was afraid you would never get 
to Boston; and I thought what a nice thing it would 
be if you could only ride all the way there with John 
Lane. John likes me because I carry things to hia 
mother, and I am sure he won't tell." 
" How good you are, Julia!" exclaimed lL.rry, 
" may forget every body else in the wjrld; bat I 
shall never forgot you." 
£
A tear moistened his eye, as he uttered his enthu- 
iiastic declaration. 
'* The worst of it is, John starts at two o'clock— 
right in the middle of the night." 
" So much the better," replied Harr) r , wiping iviay 
the tear. 
" You will take the wagon on the turnpike, whew 
the cart path comes out. P-ii you won't- wake up." 
" Yes, I shall." 
" I am sorry to have yo^ go ; for I like you, 
Harry. You will be a very good boy, when you gel 
to Boston ; for they say the city is a wicked place." 
" I will try." 
" There are a great many temptations there, peopl* 
say." 
" I shall try to be as good as you are," replied 
Harry, who could imagine nothing better. " If I 
fail once, I shall try again." 
" Here, Harry, I have brought you a good book — - 
the best of all books. I have written your name 
and mine in it ; and I hope you will keep it and read 
