"You don't say so."

"Yes, I do, Tommy; so please don't say a word about it to anybody but
your mother, and ask her not to mention it."

"Not a word, Katy, mother won't say a word either."

"And sometime I'll tell you all about it. Thank you for what's in the
basket, Tommy."

Without waiting for anything more, the noble, generous boy leaped down
the stairs and passed out at the front door.

"What have you got there, Katy?" asked Mrs. Redburn, as she entered the
room with the basket in her hand.

"Something Mrs. Howard sent us," she replied, as she opened the basket,
and took out a plate of butter and half a dozen hot biscuit, which she
carried to the bedside for her mother's inspection.

"What have you done, my child?" exclaimed the poor woman, a flush
gathering on her pale cheek. "Have you told the neighbors that we have
nothing to eat?"

"I couldn't help telling Tommy when I asked for the flounders
yesterday; he told his mother, but no one else knows it."

"I had rather starve than beg, Katy; but I cannot compel you to do so."

"I will not beg."

"Then let us send those cakes back."

"No, mother; we must not be so proud as that. I think that God sent us
this food through Mrs. Howard, and it would be wicked to reject His
bounty."

"Do as you please, Katy."

"Some time we shall be able to pay her; and that will make it all
right."

Mrs. Redburn could not taste the biscuit, but Katy ate heartily. Her
pride was not inflated by the remembrance of brighter days. All she had
was inherited from her mother.

After breakfast she put on her bonnet and left the house, assuring her
mother she should be back by twelve o'clock. She would not tell her
where she was going, but evaded her questions, and got away as soon as
she could.

As she passed down Washington Street, she stopped before the store of
Sands & Co., for she wanted to see Master Simon Sneed. She did not like
to enter the store; so she waited on the sidewalk for half an hour,
hoping he would come out. As he did not appear, her impatience would
not permit her to lose any more time, and she timidly opened the door,
and inquired of the first salesman she saw if Mister Sneed was in.

"Mister Sneed!" laughed the clerk. "Here, Simon, is one of your
friends. Wait upon her."

Simon, with a flushed cheek, came to the door. He was horrified at the
insinuation of the salesman and wished Katy had been on the other side
of the ocean before she had come there to scandalize him by claiming
his acquaintance.

"What do you want now?" he demanded, rather rudely. "Is it not enough
that I am willing to help you, without your coming here to bring me
into contempt with my associates?"

"I didn't think there was any harm in it. I waited outside for half an
hour, and you didn't come out."

"I can't leave the affairs of this firm to attend to every little----"
and Master Simon's naturally good heart prevented him from uttering the
unkind words that had been on his tongue. "I suppose you come to know
about the watch. I haven't had time to call upon the mayor yet, but I
will do so at dinner time."

"I only wanted to ask you if you know where Mrs. Gordon lives," replied
Katy, very sad at the thought of the mischief she had done.

"She lives in Temple Street, over back of the State House. What do you
want of her?"

"I want to see her. Do you suppose you can get that watch back?"

"I'm certain I can. When my friend the mayor hears my story, you may
depend upon it he will get the watch, or upset all the pawn-brokers'
shops in the city."

"Are you acquainted with the mayor?" asked Katy, timidly, for, since
the adventure of the previous day, she had entertained some slight
doubts in regard to the transcendent abilities of Master Simon Sneed.

"Certainly I am. It was only last week that I had a long and extremely
interesting conversation with his honor on the sidewalk here before the
store."

Katy was satisfied, though Simon did not offer to introduce her to his
distinguished friend. How could she help being satisfied in the face of
such astounding evidence? And Simon's declaration was true, for
whatever faults he had, he never made up a story out of whole cloth. It
was undeniably true that he had conversed with the mayor for ten full
minutes, at the time and place represented. Simon had been sent out to
hold his honor's horse, while a lady with him did some shopping; but
his honor preferred to hold his own horse, and amused himself for the
time in listening to the big talk of the nice young man.

After receiving more explicit directions in regard to the residence of
Mrs. Gordon, Katy took her leave of Simon. Next door to Sands & Co.'s
was the store of a celebrated confectioner. In the window, with sundry
sugar temples, cob houses of braided candy and stacks of cake, was a
great heap of molasses candy; and as Katy paused for an instant to gaze
at the profusion of sweet things, a great thought struck through her
brain.

"Mother used to make molasses candy for me, and I know just how it is
done," said she to herself. "What is the reason I can't make candy and
sell it?"

She walked on towards School Street, up which she had been directed to
turn, full of this idea. She would become a little candy merchant. She
felt sure she could find purchasers enough, if her merchandise only
looked clean and good. It was a great deal better than begging, and she
thought her mother would consent to her making and selling the candy.
What a glorious idea! If she could only make money enough to support
her mother and herself, how happy she should be!

Full of enthusiasm at the idea of accomplishing such a vast project,
she scarcely heeded the crowds of people that thronged the street and
rudely jostled her. If she saw them at all, it was only to regard them
as so many purchasers of molasses candy. With her brain almost reeling
with the immensity and magnificence of her scheme, she reached Temple
Street. After a little search, she found the number of Mrs. Gordon's
residence on a splendid house, whose grandness quite abashed her. But
her courage revived as she thought of the purpose that had brought her
there, and she boldly rang the bell. The door was opened by a servant
man in a white jacket, of whom she inquired if Mrs. Gordon was at home.

"Mrs. Gordon is at home, but we don't trouble her at the call of a
beggar," replied the well-fed servant as he glanced at the homely
apparel of Katy.

"I am not a beggar," she replied, with spirit, her cheek reddening with
indignation at the charge.

"You can't see her; so go about your business."

"Who is it Michael?" said a gentle voice within.

"Only a beggar, Miss Grace; she wants to see Mrs. Gordon," replied the
man; and then a beautiful young lady came to look at her.

"I am not a beggar, ma'am; indeed I am not. I want to see Mrs. Gordon
very much. Please to let me speak to her."

The sweet, pleading tones of the child produced their impression on the
beautiful lady, and she bade her come in. Katy entered, and Michael
told her to stand in the entry while Miss Grace went up-stairs to call
Mrs. Gordon.



CHAPTER V.

KATY VISITS MRS. GORDON, AND GETS RID OF DR. FLYNCH.

Katy gazed with wonder and admiration at the rich furniture of the
house, and thought that perhaps her grandfather lived in as good style
as Mrs. Gordon, and that she might some day go to Liverpool and be an
inmate of just such a palace. The door of the sitting-room was open,
and she had an opportunity to look at all the fine things it contained.
She had never seen anything so luxurious before, and I must say that
she regretted the poverty of her lot, which deprived her mother and
herself of them.

All round the room hung pictures in costly frames. Some of them were
portraits; and one which hung over the mantelpiece directly before her,
soon attracted her attention, and made her forget the soft divans, the
beautiful carpet, and the rich draperies of the windows. It was the
portrait of a lady, and her expression was very like that of her
mother--so like that she could almost believe the picture had been
painted for her mother. Yet that could not be, for the lady was young,
and plump, and rosy, and wore rich laces, and a costly dress. She
seemed to look down upon her from the golden frame with a smile of
satisfaction. There was something roguish in her eye, as though she was
on the point of bursting into a laugh at some mischief she had
perpetrated. O, no! that could not be her mother; she had never seen
her look like that. But there was something that seemed very much like
her; and the more she looked at it, the more the picture fascinated
her. She tried to look at something else, but the lady appeared to have
fixed her gaze upon her, and, whichever way she turned, those laughing
eyes followed her, and brought back her attention to the canvas again.

In vain she attempted to fasten her mind upon some of the other
portraits. There was an elderly gentleman, with a full red face; but
the jealous lady would not let her look at him. She turned round and
looked out the windows at the side of the door; but the spell of the
lady was upon her, and she could not resist the charm. The more she
studied the portrait, the more convinced she became that it looked like
her mother, though there was something about it which was as unlike her
as anything could be. "What makes you keep looking at me?" said Katy to
herself, or rather to the lady on the canvas. "You needn't watch me so
closely; I shall not steal anything."

The lady, however, insisted on watching her, and kept her roguish
glance fixed upon her with a steadiness that began to make her feel
nervous and uneasy; and she was greatly relieved when she heard
footsteps on the stairs.

"Mrs. Gordon will be down in a moment," said Miss Grace, in kind tones.
"Won't you come into this room and sit down?"

Katy thanked her, and Grace led her to a small chair directly under the
mischievous-looking lady in the frame; and she felt a kind of
satisfaction in being placed out of her sight. But it seemed, even
then, as she cast a furtive glance upward, that those roguish eyes were
trying to peer over the picture frame, and get a look at her.

"Well, little girl, what do you wish with me?" said Mrs. Gordon, a
benevolent looking lady, apparently of more than forty years of age,
who now entered the room.

The expression of her countenance was very pleasant, and though there
were a few wrinkles on her brow and she wore a lace cap, Katy came to
the conclusion that the portrait had been taken for her. She wondered
if such a dignified lady could ever have been so roguish as the picture
indicated.

"Please, ma'am," stammered she, rising from her chair, "I come to see
you about the house we live in."

"What is your name, child?"

"Katy Redburn, ma'am."

"In what house do you live in?"

"In one of yours in Colvin Court. Mother is a poor woman, and has been
sick so much this summer that she can't pay the rent."

"I am very sorry for you, my child, but I refer you to my agent, Dr.
Flynch. I do not like to meddle with these things, as I have given him
the whole care of my houses. You will find him a very good man, and one
who will be willing to consider your case. He will extend to you all
the lenity your case requires."

"We have told Dr. Flynch all about it, ma'am and he says if the rent is
not paid by one o'clock to-day, he shall turn us out of the house."

"Indeed!" exclaimed Mrs. Gordon; and Grace actually jumped out of her
chair with astonishment and indignation.

"Yes, ma'am; that's just what he said," added Katy, satisfied with the
impression she had produced.

"Is your mother ill now?" asked Mrs. Gordon.

"Yes ma'am; she has not been off her bed for twelve weeks."

"What does Dr. Flynch say, my child?"

"He says my mother deceived him; that she told him a falsehood; and
that she had money, when she didn't have a cent."

"It is too bad, mother!" exclaimed Grace.

"Hush, Grace; probably Dr. Flynch knows best, for he certainly would
not turn a poor sick woman out of doors because she did not pay the
rent. There may be, as he says, some deception about it, which he can
penetrate and we cannot."

"There is no deception about it, ma'am," pleaded Katy, much disturbed
by this sudden damper upon her hopes. "She has not got a single cent.
She wouldn't tell a lie, and I wouldn't either."

There was something in the eloquence and earnestness of the child that
deeply impressed the mind of the lady, and she could hardly resist the
conclusion that her agent had, in this instance, made a mistake. But
she had great confidence in Dr. Flynch, and she was very unwilling to
believe that he could be so harsh and cruel as the little girl
represented. She had heard of the tricks of the vicious poor, and while
she was disposed to be very tender of a needy tenant, she must be just
to her agent.

"It is now half-past ten," continued Mrs. Gordon.

"You shall remain here, my child, and I will send Michael down to
Colvin Court to inquire into the situation of your mother. He must be
impartial for he knows nothing about the case."

"Thank you, ma'am," said Katy, with a promptness which assured Grace,
if not her mother, that the little girl was honest.

Mrs. Gordon rang the bell, and when Michael answered the summons, she
attended him to the street door, where she instructed him to call upon
Mrs. Redburn, and also to inquire of the grocer at the corner, and of
her neighbors, what sort of a person she was. The lady returned to the
sitting-room when he had gone, and asked Katy a great many questions
about herself and her mother, and thus nearly an hour was consumed, at
the end of which time Michael returned. Katy had answered all the
lady's questions fairly, though without betraying her family history,
which her mother had cautioned her to keep to herself, that she was
prepared to receive a favorable report from her man.

"Well, Michael, did you find the woman at home?" asked Mrs. Gordon, as
the man presented himself.

"Indeed, I deed, marm."

"What was she doing?"

"She was fast in bed, and told me she hadn't been out of it for twelve
weeks come Saturday."

"What does the grocer say?"

"He says she is a very good woman, but poor and proud. She always paid
him every cent she owed him, and he'd trust her for half he has in his
shop."

"That will do, Michael; you may go;" and the man retired with a
respectful bow.

Katy's face wore a smile of triumph, as Michael was dismissed. Her
mother's truthfulness had been vindicated, and it was the proudest
moment she had known for many a day.

"How long has your mother lived in my house?" asked Mrs. Gordon.

"About three years, ma'am; and she always paid her rent till this
month," replied Katy.

"If she had not, Dr. Flynch would have turned her into the street,"
added Grace; and it was evident the beautiful young lady had no special
regard for that worthy gentleman.

"We have tried hard enough to pay the rent this month," continued Katy;
and she proceeded to tell the story of the silver watch, that had
belonged to her father.

"This is dreadful, mother; let us do something about it," said Grace.
"What a wretch the broker must have been!"

"We will endeavor to get the watch back for her," replied Mrs. Gordon,
as she seated herself at a table and wrote a few lines on a piece of
paper. "Here, my child, is a receipt for your month's rent. When Dr.
Flynch comes for the money, you show him this, and he will be
satisfied;" and she handed her the receipt.

Katy took it, and thanked the good lady, assuring her that her mother
would certainly pay the money as soon as she got well.

"My mother is poor and proud, just as the grocer said, and she don't
ask any one to give her anything. I am going to earn some money myself,
and I hope I shall be able to pay the next month's rent," added Katy,
as she moved towards the door.

"But the watch, mother?" interposed Grace.

"If the little girl will come here this afternoon or to-morrow morning,
we will take her to the mayor who will have the case attended to."

"I will come any time, ma'am."

"The mayor is my friend, and I will call at his house with you this
afternoon at three o'clock."

Katy could not but think the mayor had a great many friends, for there
was Master Simon Sneed, and Mrs. Gordon, and she knew not how many
more. She thanked the lady very warmly for her kindness, and promising
to come at the time stated, she took her leave.

She was followed to the door by Grace, who detained her there.

"Katy, I am sure you are a very good little girl, and here is a dollar
for you. It will buy something good for your mother."

"I thank you very much, Miss Gordon. I am poor, but proud, like my
mother," replied she, as a flush of shame mantled her cheek.

"What a foolish little girl!" laughed Grace. "Take it; you will oblige
me very much by taking it."

"No, ma'am, I can't; my mother wouldn't own me if I should take money
as a gift."

"But you must take it, Katy; I shall be angry if you don't."

The little girl looked up into her pretty eyes beaming with pity and
love; and she could hardly resist the temptation to oblige her by
accepting the gift; but since she had heard the story of her mother's
life, she understood why she was so much prouder than other poor
people; and as she thought of her grandfather in his fine house in the
great city of Liverpool, she felt a little of the same spirit--she too
was poor and proud. Besides, as Grace jingled the two half dollars
together, there was a harmony in the sound that suggested a great heap
of good things for her mother. And there was another powerful
consideration that weighed with great force upon her mind. One of those
half dollars would be a sufficient capital upon which to commence her
candy speculation. It would buy ever so much molasses of the very best
quality. As she thought of this, she was disposed, at least, to
compromise with Miss Grace.

"I cannot accept the money as a gift, but you may lend it to me, if you
please," said Katy, after she had reflected a moment.

"Just as you like," laughed Grace; "but I shall not feel bad if you
never pay me."

"I shall certainly pay it again," persisted the embryo candy merchant.
"I would not take it if I thought I could not."

"Very well; but you must know I think you are a very singular little
girl."

"I am poor and proud; that's all."

Katy took the loan, and with her fancy fired with brilliant
expectations in regard to the candy operation, ran home to her mother
as fast as her feet would carry her. Mrs. Redburn was much displeased
with her at first for what she had done. Her pride revolted at the
thought of begging a favor; but Katy explained the matter so well that
she was satisfied, though nothing was said about the loan she had
obtained.

Punctually at the appointed hour came Dr. Flynch for the rent.

"Have you got the money?" he demanded in his usual bland tones, though
Katy thought she could see a wicked purpose in his little gray eye.

"No, sir; but----"

"That's all I desire to know, Mrs. Redburn," interrupted the agent.
"You must leave the house."

"But, sir, I have something that will do as well as the money," added
the sick woman.

"Have you, indeed?" sneered Dr. Flynch "I think not."

"Will you read that, sir?" said Katy, handing him Mrs. Gordon's receipt.

The agent took the paper, and as he read, the wonted serenity of his
brow was displaced by a dark scowl. His threats had been disregarded,
and he had been reported to his employer.

"So you have been fawning and cringing upon Mrs. Gordon," growled he.
"Probably you have told her more lies than you dared tell me."

"I told her nothing but the truth, and she sent her man down here to
find out all about us, said Katy, smartly.

"Very well; this paper will only delay the matter for a few days; when
I have exposed you to her, she will acquiesce in my views;" and Dr.
Flynch threw down the receipt and left the house.

"We are well rid of him, at any rate," said Katy.

"Now I will get you some dinner, for I must be at Mrs. Gordon's at
three o'clock; and I want to tell you about my plan too, mother."

The active little girl made a cup of tea for her mother, and the dinner
was soon dispatched.



CHAPTER VI.

KATY PREPARES A STOCK OF MERCHANDISE.

Katy had not time then to tell her mother about the candy speculation
she had in view, and she was obliged to wait till her return from
Temple Street. Promptly at the hour, she presented herself at Mrs.
Gordon's, and they went to the house of the mayor; but that
distinguished gentleman was not at home, and the lady promised to go
again with her the next day.

As she walked home, she thought of what she should say to her mother in
favor of the candy project, for she felt sure her mother's pride would
throw many obstacles in her path. The best argument she could think of
was, that the business would be an honest calling and though she was
too proud to beg, she was not too proud to work, or to take a very
humble position among the people around her. She did not look upon the
act of selling candy to the passers-by in the streets as degrading in
itself, and therein she differed very widely from her mother, who had
been brought up in ease and affluence. Before she got home she had made
up her mind what she should say, and how she should defend her plan
from the assaults of pride.

"Now, mother, you shall hear my plan," she continued, after she had
announced the ill success of her visit to the mayor's house. "I am
going into business, and I expect to make a great deal of money."

"Are you, indeed?" replied Mrs. Redburn, smiling at the enthusiasm of
her daughter.

"I am; and you must not be angry with me, or object very much to my
plan."

"Well, what is your plan?"

"I am going to sell candy," said Katy, pausing to notice the effect of
this startling declaration. "You know what nice molasses candy you used
to make for me. Mrs. Sneed and Mrs. Colvin said a great many times that
it was a good deal better than they could buy at the shops."

"But, child, I am not able to make candy now. I cannot get off my bed."

"I will make it; you shall lay there and tell me how. I am sure I can
make it."

"It is very hard work to pull it."

"I won't mind that."

"Suppose you can make it, how will you sell it?" asked Mrs. Redburn,
casting an anxious glance at the enthusiastic little girl.

"O, I shall take a box, and offer it to the folks that pass along the
streets."

"Are you crazy, Katy?" exclaimed the mother, raising her head on the
bed. "Do you think I could permit you to do such a thing?"

"Why not, mother?"

"What a life for a child to lead! Do you think I could let you wander
about the streets exposed to the insults and rude jests of the vicious
and thoughtless? You do not understand what you propose."

"I think I do, mother. I don't see any harm in selling candy to those
who are willing to buy."

"Perhaps there is no harm in the mere act of selling candy; but what a
life for you to lead! It makes me shudder to think of it."

"It is your pride, mother."

"I am thankful I have: some pride left, Katy."

"But mother, we can't be poor and proud. We haven't got any money to
proud with."

"I am proud, I know; I wish I could banish it," replied Mrs. Redburn,
with a deep sigh.

"Let me try the plan, mother, and if I can't get along with it, I will
give it up."

"It will subject you to a great many trials and temptations."

"I can manage them, mother."

"Can you submit to the insults of evil-minded persons?"

"Yes, mother; no decent person would insult me and I don't care for
others. I can pity them, and run away from them. I am not afraid of
anything. Do let me try."

Mrs. Redburn saw that Katy was too earnest to be thwarted; that,
impelled by a noble purpose, she had set her heart upon making the
attempt, and she did not like to disappoint her. It is true, she keenly
felt the degradation of such a life, and even feared that Katy might be
led astray while pursuing such an occupation; but she gave a reluctant
consent, trusting that one or two experiments would disgust her with
the business.

Katy clapped her hands with joy as her mother's scruples gave way, and
she found herself at liberty to carry her plan into execution. It
seemed to her as though she had crossed the threshold of fortune and
had actually entered the great temple. She had an opportunity to
accomplish a great work, and her enthusiasm would not permit her to
doubt in regard to her final success.

"I must begin now, mother, and make all the candy this afternoon, so
that I can commence selling it early to-morrow morning. I will go to
the grocery now and get the molasses."

"Poor child; you have nothing to get it with. We have no money; you did
not think of that."

"Yes, I did, and I have the money to buy the molasses. I borrowed it,"
replied Katy, evincing some confusion.

"You borrowed it? Pray who would lend you money?"

"Miss Grace Gordon."

"Did you borrow it, Katy?" asked Mrs. Redburn, casting a reproachful
glance at her.

"Yes, mother, I did. I would not accept money now, after what you have
said to me. Miss Grace wanted to give it to me; but I told her I could
not take it. She laughed at me, and I said I was poor and proud. She
would make me take it, and said so much, that, at last, I told her if
she would lend it to me, I would take it."

"It was the same as a gift," said Mrs. Redburn, blushing with shame at
the thought of accepting alms.

"No, it wasn't; she may think it was, but I mean to pay her, and I
shall pay her; I know I shall."

"If you can," sighed the proud mother.

"I shall be able to pay her soon, for I mean to sell lots of candy."

"You may be disappointed."

"No: I am sure I shall sell a good deal; I mean to make people buy. I
shall talk up smart to them just as the shopkeepers do; I am going to
tell them what candy it is, and that their little sons and daughters
will like it very much."

"You are beside yourself, Katy. It pains me to hear you talk so. It is
sad to think a child of mine should relish such an employment as that
in which you are going to engage."

"Do you remember the book my Sunday-school teacher gave me last New
Year's day, mother? It was all about false pride; I want you to read
it, mother. We can't afford to be so proud."

"Go and get your molasses. Katy," replied Mrs. Redburn, who could not
but acknowledge the truth of her daughter's remarks.

She had read the book alluded to, and was not willing to confront the
arguments it had put in the mouth of her child. She was conscious that
her pride, which made a humble occupation repulsive to her, was a false
pride. If it could have been carried on in private, it would not have
seemed so galling. For years she had been a recluse from society,
mingling only with her humble neighbors, and with them no more than her
circumstances required. She had labored in solitude, and shunned
observation as much as possible, by carrying her work back and forth in
the evening. Years of hard toil had not familiarized her with the
circumstances of her lot. She tried to be humble and submissive, but
the memory of her early days could not be driven away.

Katy returned in a few minutes with the jug of molasses. She bustled
round and made up a good fire, got the kettle on, and everything in
readiness for the work. Her mother gave her directions how to proceed;
but Katy could impart to her none of her own enthusiasm.

When the molasses had been cooked enough, she was ready to commence the
pulling, which was the most difficult part in the manufacture of her
merchandise. Then she found that her trials had indeed commenced. At
first the sticky mass, in spite of the butter and the flour with which
she had plentifully daubed her hands, was as obstinate as a mule. It
would not work one way or another; now it melted down, and stuck to her
fingers, and then it became as solid as a rock. She fretted some at
these crosses, and as her spirits sank, her mother's rose, for she
thought Katy's resolution would not hold out long enough for her to
complete the experiment. But she underrated the energy of the devoted
girl, who, in the face of every discouragement, stuck to the candy with
as much zeal as the candy stuck to her.

As is almost always the case with those who persevere to the end, Katy
soon won a partial triumph, which gladdened her heart, and gave her
courage to continue her trying labors. She had worked a portion of the
mass into candy--clear, light-colored, inviting candy. Columbus felt no
prouder of his achievement when he had crossed the Atlantic, or,
Napoleon when he had crossed the Alps. She danced for joy as she gazed
upon the clear, straight sticks of candy, as they were arranged in the
pan. It was a great conquest for her; but at what a sacrifice it had
been won! Her little hands, unused to such hard work, were blistered in
a dozen places, and smarted as though they had been scalded with
boiling water. She showed them to her mother, who begged her not to do
any more; but she had too much enthusiasm to be deterred by the smart
of her wounds, and resolutely resumed her labor.

She had scarcely commenced upon the  second mass before she was
interrupted by the entrance of Mrs. Howard, her friend Tommy's mother.

"Why, what are you doing, child?" asked the good woman. "I thought you
were all sick, and here you are making candy, as merry as on a feast
day."

"I am making it to sell, Mrs. Howard," replied Katy, proudly.

"Bless me! but you're a queer child! Do you think folks will buy it of
you?"

"I know they will;" and Katy detailed her plan to the interested
neighbor, declaring she was sure she could support her mother and
herself by making and selling candy. "But it is very hard work," she
added; "see how I've blistered my hands."

"Poor child! it's enough to kill you!" exclaimed Mrs. Howard, as she
glanced at the great blisters on Katy's hands.

"I have been trying to make her give up the idea, but she has more
courage than I ever gave her credit for," remarked Mrs. Redburn.

"It's a shame for you to hurt your hands in this manner; but I dare say
that they will soon get hard, like mine, with the labor," replied Mrs.
Howard, as she threw off her hood and rolled up her sleeves. "Here,
child, let me help you."

"You are very kind, ma'am; and I hope I shall be able to do something
for you some time."

"Never you mind that; you are a nice girl, and it does my heart good to
see you trying to help your mother," added the kind woman, as she
detached a large mass of candy, and commenced pulling it with a vigor
that astonished the weak-handed little girl. "You're a jewel and a
blessing, and you're worth a dozen of the fine ladies that are too
proud to lift a finger to keep their bodies from starving. Ah, it's a
dreadful misfortune to be proud."

"To be poor and proud," said Mrs. Redburn.

"You are right, ma'am; and I am glad to see you have none of it here;
for some of your neighbors used to say you were too proud to speak to
them."

Mrs. Redburn made no reply, and permitted her kind neighbor, whose
tongue scarcely ceased to swing for a moment, to continue her remarks
without opposition. She and Katy worked with all their might till the
candy was ready for market, and when the poor invalid poured out her
thanks, she ran off and left them.

The exultation with which Katy regarded her plentiful stock of
merchandise almost caused her to forget her smarting hands; and when
she could no longer keep her eyes open, she went to sleep to dream of
great operations in molasses candy on change next day.



CHAPTER VII.

KATY MAKES A LARGE SALE.

Katy rose the next morning bright and early, and her heart was full of
hope. She felt that she had a great work to perform, and she was going
forth to do it, resolved that no obstacle should turn her back. Her
mother had told her that she would be laughed at, and made fun of; that
thoughtless people would look down upon her with contempt, and that
wicked ones would insult her. She was, therefore, prepared for all
these trials, but she had braced herself up to meet them with courage
and fortitude.

Her mother was sick, and they were actually in a suffering condition.
What right had she to be proud in her poverty? She felt able to support
her mother, and she could find no excuse, if she wished to do so, for
not supporting her. It was her duty, therefore, to sell candy if she
could get money by it; and thus consideration strengthened her heart.

Katy had been to the public school and to the Sunday school until her
mother was taken sick; and though she was only eleven years old, she
had a very good idea of her moral and religious duties. "Honor thy
father and thy mother," the commandment says; and she could think of no
better way to obey the divine precept than to support her mother when
there was no one else upon whom she could rely. Little by little their
earthly possessions had passed away. Mrs. Redburn had never learned how
to save money; and when the day of adversity came, her funds were soon
exhausted. She had no friends to whom she dared reveal her poverty, and
when want came to the door, she was too proud to beg. Hoping for better
days, she had sold most of her best dresses, and those of Katy. The
small sums raised by these sacrifices were soon used up; and when the
daughter could no longer make a decent appearance, she was required to
show herself much more than ever before. Katy did not repine at this,
though her mother did, for their pride, as my young friends have
discovered, was of very different kinds.

Katy did wish she had a little better dress, and a little better bonnet
for her first attempt in the mercantile calling; but there was no help
for it. She had mended her clothes as well as she could, and as they
were clean, she was pretty well satisfied with her personal appearance.
Besides, people would not be half so apt to buy her candy if she were
well dressed, as if she were rather plainly clothed. In short, it was
all for the best.

After breakfast she prepared herself for the duties of the day. Her
heart beat violently with anxiety and expectation, and while she was
placing the candy on the tray, which she had previously covered with
white paper to render her wares the more inviting, her mother gave her
a long lecture on the trials and difficulties in her path, and the
proper way to encounter them.

"Now, my dear child," said Mrs. Redburn, in conclusion "if any evil
person insults you, do not resent it, but run away as fast as you can."

"Shan't I say anything, mother?"

"Not a word."

"But if some naughty boy or girl, no bigger than I am myself, should be
saucy to me, I think I can give them as good as they send."

"Don't do it, Katy."

"They have no business to insult me."

"That is very true; but when you use bad or violent language to them,
you go down to their level."

"But if they begin it?"

"No matter, Katy; if they are unkind and wicked, it is no reason that
you should be unkind and wicked. If you leave them without resenting
their insults, the chances are that they will be ashamed of themselves
before you get out of sight. You need not be low and vile because
others are."

"I guess you are right, mother."

"You know what the Bible says: 'If thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he
thirst, give him drink, for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire
on his head.'"

"I won't say a word, mother, whatever they say to me. I'll be as meek
as Moses."

"I hope you will not be gone long," added Mrs. Redburn.

"I have thirty sticks of candy here. I don't think it will take me long
to sell the whole of them. I shall be back by dinner time whether I
sell them or not for you know I must go to Mrs. Gordon again to-day.
Now, good-by, mother, and don't you worry about me, for I will do
everything just as though you were looking at me."

Katy closed the door behind her, and did not see the great tears that
slid down her mother's pale cheek as she departed. It was well she did
not, for it would have made her heart very sad to know all the sorrow
and anxiety that distressed her mother as she saw her going out into
the crowded streets of a great city, to expose herself to a thousand
temptations. She wept long and bitterly in the solitude of her chamber,
and perhaps her wounded pride caused many of her tears to flow. But
better thoughts came at last, and she took up the Bible which lay on
the bed, and read a few passages. Then she prayed to God that he would
be with Katy in the midst of the crowd, and guide her safely through
the perils and temptations that would assail her. She tried to banish
her foolish pride, when she considered her circumstances, she could
almost believe it was a wicked pride; but when she endeavored to be
reconciled to her lot, the thought of her father's fine house, and the
servants that used to wait upon her, came up, and the struggle in her
heart was very severe. In spite of all she had said to Katy about the
disgrace of selling candy in the streets, she could not but be thankful
that the poor girl had none of her foolish pride. She read in the New
Testament about the lowly life which Jesus and the apostles led, and
then asked herself what right she had to be proud. And thus she
struggled through the long hours she remained alone--trying to be
humble, trying to be good and true. Those who labor and struggle as
hard as she did are always the better for it, even though they do not
achieve a perfect triumph over the passions that torment them.

Katy blushed when she met the keeper of the grocery at the corner of
the court, for in spite of all her fine talk about false pride, she had
not entirely banished it from her heart. Some queer ideas came into her
head as she thought what she was doing. What would her grandfather, the
rich Liverpool merchant, say, should he meet her then? Of course he
would not know her; he would be ashamed of her. But she did not permit
such reflections as these to influence her; and as soon as she was
conscious of the nature of her thoughts she banished them.

"I'm going to support my mother, and I have no right to be proud. If I
meet my grandfather, I should like to sell him twenty sticks of candy."

"Hallo, Katy! What are you going to do?" said a voice behind, which she
recognized as that of her friend Tommy Howard.

"I'm going to sell this candy," replied Katy.

"You're a spunky one; mother told me all about it. I should like two
sticks," said Tommy, as he offered her the money.

"Take two, Tommy, and as many more as you like."

"Two is all I want;" and he placed the two cents on the tray.

"No, Tommy, I won't take your money," replied Katy, with a blush, for
she felt ashamed to take his money.

"That's no way to trade," laughed Tommy. "You won't make much, it you
do so. Keep the money and I will keep the candy."

"I can't keep it, Tommy."

"You must; if you don't take the money, I won't take the candy."

"I owe you two cents, Tommy. I will pay you now."

"No, you don't!"

"Please to take them; I shall feel very bad, if you don't."

Tommy Howard looked her in the eye a moment; he saw a tear there. Her
pride was wounded, and he took the two cents from the tray, for he did
not wish to give her pain.

"Now, we are square, Tommy," said Katy, as her face brightened up again.

"Yes, we are, but I don't like it pretty well. One of these days, when
you get out of this scrape, I will let you give me as much candy as you
have a mind to."

This was very obliging of Tommy; and when Katy understood his motive,
she was sorry she had not permitted him to pay for the candy, for she
saw that he did not feel just right about the transaction. It was not
exactly mercantile, but then the heart comes before commerce. As she
walked along, she could not help thinking that her natural generosity
might seriously interfere with the profits of her enterprise. She had a
great many friends; and it became a knotty question for her to decide
whether, if she met any of her school companions, she should give each
of them a stick of candy. She would like to do so very much indeed; but
it was certain she could not afford to pursue such a liberal policy. It
was a hard question, and, hoping she should not meet any of her
schoolmates, she determined to refer it to her mother for settlement.

When she got into Washington Street, she felt that the time for action
had come. Now was the time to sell candy; and yet she did not feel like
asking folks to buy her wares. The night before, as she lay thinking
about her business, it had all seemed very easy to her; but now it was
quite a different thing. No one seemed to take any notice of her, or to
feel the least interest in the great mission she had undertaken. But
Katy was aware that it requires some effort in these days to sell
goods, and she must work; she must ask people to buy her candy.

There was a nice-looking gentleman, with a good-natured face, coming
down the street, and she resolved to make a beginning with him. He
couldn't say much more than no to her, and she placed herself in a
position to accost him. But when he came near enough, her courage all
oozed out, and she let him pass without speaking to him.

"What a fool I am!" exclaimed she to herself when he had passed. "I
shall never do anything in this way. There comes another gentleman who
looks as though he had a sweet tooth; at any rate, he seems as
good-natured as a pound of sugar. I will certainly try him."

Her heart pounded against her ribs as though it had been worked by a
forty-horse engine--poor girl. It was a great undertaking to her; quite
as great as taking a six-story granite warehouse, piling it full of
merchandise from cellar to attic, and announcing himself as ready for
business, to a child of a larger growth. Everything seemed to hang on
the issues of that tremendous moment.

"Buy some candy?" said she, in tremulous tones, her great, swelling
heart almost choking her utterance.

"No, child. I don't want any," replied the gentleman, kindly, as he
glanced at the tray on which the candy had been so invitingly spread.

"It is very nice," stammered Katy; "and perhaps your children at home
would like some, if you do not."

Bravo, Katy! That was very well done, though the gentleman was an old
bachelor, and could not appreciate the full force of your argument.

"Are you sure it is very nice?" asked the gentleman, with a benevolent
smile, when he had laughed heartily at Katy's jumping conclusion.

"I know it is," replied the little candy merchant, very positively.

"Then you may give me six sticks;" and he threw a fourpence on her tray.

Six sticks! Katy was astonished at the magnitude of her first
commercial transaction. Visions of wealth, a fine house, and silk
dresses for her mother and herself, danced through her excited brain,
and she thought that her grandfather, the great Liverpool merchant,
would not have been ashamed of her if he had been present to witness
that magnificent operation.

"Have you any paper to wrap it up in?" asked the gentleman.

Here was an emergency for which Katy had not provided. Her grandest
expectations had not extended beyond the sale of one stick at a time,
and she was not prepared for such a rush of trade. However, she tore
off a piece from one of the white sheets at the bottom of the tray,
wrapped up the six sticks as nicely as she could, and handed them to
the gentleman, who then left her to find another customer.

Katy, elated by her first success, ran home as fast as she could to
procure some more white paper, of which she had a dozen sheets that had
been given her by a friend. It was in the back room, so that she did
not disturb her mother, choosing to astonish her with the whole story
of her success at noon.



CHAPTER VIII.

KATY SELLS OUT AND VISITS THE MAYOR.

Katy reached Washington Street once more. She had lost all her
timidity, and would not have feared to accost the governor, if she had
met him, and request him to purchase a cent's worth of molasses candy.

"Buy some candy?" said she to the first person who passed near her.

"No!" was the prompt and emphatic answer of the gentleman addressed.

"It is very nice," suggested Katy.

"Get out of my may," growled the gentleman, and the little candy
merchant deemed it prudent to heed the command.

She was nettled by this rude reception, and would have been disposed to
resent it, if there had been any way for her to do so. She had not yet
learned to bear up against the misfortunes of trade, and her eye
