Mr. Smith, who was too much in the habit of inviting people home to
take a "family dinner" with him on the spur of the moment, has never
committed that error since. His mortification was too severe to be
easily forgotten.
CHAPTER VIII.
WHO IS KRISS KRINGLE?
IT was the day before Christmas--always a day of restless, hopeful
excitement among the children; and my thoughts were busy, as is
usual at this season, with little plans for increasing the gladness
of my happy household. The name of the good genius who presides over
toys and sugar plums was often on my lips, but oftener on the lips
of the children.
"Who is Kriss Kringle, mamma?" asked a pair of rosy lips, close to
my ear, as I stood at the kitchen table, rolling out and cutting
cakes.
I turned at the question, and met the earnest gaze of a couple of
bright eyes, the roguish owner of which had climbed into a chair for
the purpose of taking note of my doings.
I kissed the sweet lips, but did not answer.
"Say, mamma? Who is Kriss Kringle?" persevered the little one.
"Why, don't you know?" said I, smiling.
"No, mamma. Who is he?"
"Why, he is--he is--Kriss Kringle."
"Oh, mamma! Say, won't you tell me?"
"Ask papa when he comes home," I returned, evasively.
I never like deceiving children in any thing. And yet, Christmas
after Christmas, I have imposed on them the pleasant fiction of
Kriss Kringle, without suffering very severe pangs of conscience.
Dear little creatures! how fully they believed, at first, the story;
how soberly and confidingly they hung their stockings in the chimney
corner; with what faith and joy did they receive their many gifts on
the never-to-be-forgotten Christmas morning!
Yes, it is a pleasant fiction; and if there be in it a leaven of
wrong, it is indeed a small portion.
"But why won't you tell me, mamma?" persisted my little
interrogator. "Don't you know Kriss Kringle?"
"I never saw him, dear," said I.
"Has papa seen him?"
"Ask him when he comes home."
"I wish Krissy would bring me, Oh, such an elegant carriage and four
horses, with a driver that could get down and go up again."
"If I see him, I'll tell him to bring you just such a nice
carriage."
"And will he do it, mamma?" The dear child clapped his hands
together with delight.
"I guess so."
"I wish I could see him," he said, more soberly and thoughtfully.
And then, as if some new impression had crossed his mind, he
hastened down from the chair, and went gliding from the room.
Half an hour afterwards, as I came into the nursery, I saw my three
"olive branches," clustered together in a corner, holding grave
counsel on some subject of importance; at least to themselves. They
became silent at my presence; but soon began to talk aloud. I
listened to a few words, but perceived nothing of particular
concern; then turned my thoughts away.
"Who is Kriss Kringle, papa?" I heard my cherry-lipped boy asking of
Mr. Smith, soon after he came home in the evening.
The answer I did not hear. Enough that the enquirer did not appear
satisfied therewith.
At tea-time, the children were not in very good appetite, though in
fine spirits.
As soon as the evening meal was over, Mr. Smith went out to buy
presents for our little ones, while I took upon myself the task of
getting them off early to bed.
A Christmas tree had been obtained during the day, and it stood in
one of the parlors, on a table. Into this parlor the good genius was
to descend during the night, and hang on the branches of the tree,
or leave upon the table, his gifts for the children. This was our
arrangement. The little ones expressed some doubts as to whether
Kriss Kringle would come to this particular room; and little "cherry
lips" couldn't just see how the genius was going to get down the
chimney, when the fire-place was closed up.
"Never mind, love; Kriss will find his way here," was my answer to
all objections.
"But how do you know, mother? Have you sent him word?"
"Oh, I know."
Thus I put aside their enquiries, and hurried them off to bed.
"Now go to sleep right quickly," said I, after they were snugly
under their warm blankets and comforts; "and to-morrow morning be up
bright and early."
And so I left them to their peaceful slumbers.
An hour it was, or more, ere Mr. Smith returned, with his pockets
well laden. I was in the parlor, where we had placed the Christmas
tree, engaged in decorating it with rosettes, sugar toys, and the
like. At this work I had been some fifteen or twenty minutes, and
had, I will own, become a little nervous. My domestic had gone out,
and I was alone in the house. Once or twice, as I sat in the silent
room, I imagined that I heard a movement in the one adjoining. And
several times I was sure that my ear detected something like the
smothered breathing of a man.
"All imagination," said I to myself. But again and again the same
sounds stirred upon the silent air.
"Could there be a robber concealed in the next room?"
The thought made me shudder. I was afraid to move from where I sat.
What a relief when I heard my husband's key in the door, followed by
the sound of his well known tread in the passage! My fears vanished
in a moment.
As Mr. Smith stood near me, in the act of unloading his pockets, he
bent close to my ear and whispered:
"Will is under the table. I caught a glance of his bright eyes,
just now."
"What!"
"It's true. And the other little rogues are in the next room,
peeping through the door, at this very moment."
I was silent with surprise.
"They're determined to know who Kriss Kringle is," added my husband;
then speaking aloud, he said:
"Come, dear, I want to show you something up in the dining-room."
I understood Mr. Smith, and arose up instantly, not so much as
glancing towards the partly opened folding door.
We were hardly in the dining room before we heard the light
pattering of feet, and low, smothered tittering on the stairway.
Then all was still, and we descended to the parlors again, quite as
much pleased with what had occurred as the little rogues were
themselves.
"I declare! Really, I thought them all sound asleep an hour ago,"
said I, on resuming my work of decorating the Christmas tree, "Who
could have believed them cunning enough for this? It's all Will's
doings. He'll get through the world."
"Aye will he," returned Mr. Smith. "Oh if you could have seen his
face as I saw it, just peering from under the table cloth, his eyes
as bright as stars, and full of merriment and delight."
"Bless his heart! He's a dear little fellow!"
How could I help saying this?
"And the others! You lost half the pleasure of the whole affair by
not seeing them."
"We shall have a frolic with the rogues to-morrow morning. I can see
the triumph on Will's face. I understand now what all their
whisperings meant this afternoon. They were concocting this plan. I
couldn't have believed it of them?"
"Children are curious bodies," said Mr. Smith.
"I thought I heard some one in the next room," I remarked, "while
you were out, and became really nervous for a while. I heard the
breathing of some one near me, also; but tried to argue myself into
the belief that it was only imagination."
Thus we conned over the little incident, while we arranged the
children's toys.
"I know who Kriss Kringle is! I know!" was the triumphant
affirmation of one and another of the children, as we gathered at
the breakfast table next morning.
"Do you, indeed?" said I, trying to look grave.
"Yes; it is papa."
"Papa, Kriss Kringle! How can that be?"
"Oh, we know! We found out!"
"Indeed!"
And we, made, of course, a great wonder of this assertion. The merry
elves! What a happy Christmas it was for them. Ever since, they have
dated from the time when they found out who Kriss Kringle was. It is
all to no purpose that we pleasantly suggest the possibility of
their having dreamed of what they allege to have occurred under
their actual vision; they have recorded it in their memories, and
refer to it as a veritable fact.
Dear children! How little they really ask of us, to make them happy.
Did we give them but a twentieth part of the time we devote to
business, care, and pleasure, how greatly would we promote their
good, and increase the measure of their enjoyment. Not alone at
Christmas time, but all the year should we remember and care for
their pleasures; for, the state of innocent pleasure, in children,
is one in which good affections are implanted, and these take root
and grow, and produce fruit in after life.
CHAPTER IX.
NOT AT HOME.
NEVER but once did I venture upon the utterance of that little white
lie, "Not at home," and then I was well punished for my weakness and
folly. It occurred at a time when there were in my family two new
inmates: a niece from New York, and a raw Irish girl that I had
taken a few days before, on trial.
My niece, Agnes, was a young lady in her nineteenth year, the
daughter of my brother. I had not seen her before since her
school-girl days; and knew little of her character. Her mother I had
always esteemed as a right-thinking, true-hearted woman. I was much
pleased to have a visit from Agnes, and felt drawn toward her more
and more every day. There was something pure and good about her.
"Now, Aggy, dear," said I to her, one morning after breakfast, as we
took our work and retired from the dining-room to one of the
parlors, where I was occasionally in the habit of sitting,--"we must
sew for dear life until dinner time, so as to finish these two
frocks for the children to wear this evening. It isn't right, I
know, to impose on you in this way. But you sew so quick and neatly;
and then it will help me through, and leave me free to visit Girard
College with you this afternoon."
"Don't speak of it, aunt," returned Agnes.--"I'm never happier than
when employed. And, besides, it's only fair that I should sew for
you in the morning, if you are to go pleasuring with me in the
afternoon."
Lightly the hours flew by, passed in cheerful conversation. I found
that the mind of my niece had been highly cultivated; that her
tastes were refined, and her moral sense acute. To say that I was
pleased with her, would but half express what I felt.
There was to be a juvenile party at the house of one of our
acquaintances that evening, to which the children were invited; and
we were at work in preparing dresses and other matters suitable for
them to appear in.
Twelve o'clock came very quickly--too quickly for me, in fact; for I
had not accomplished near so much as I had hoped to do. It would
require the most diligent application, through every moment of time
that intervened until the dinner hour, for us to get through with
what we were doing, so as to have the afternoon to ourselves for the
intended excursion.
As the clock rung out the hour of noon, I exclaimed:
"Is it possible! I had no idea that it was so late. How slowly I do
seem to get along!"
Just at this moment the bell rung.
"Bless me! I hope we are not to have visitors this morning," said I,
as I let my hands fall in my lap. I thought hurriedly for a moment,
and then remarked, in a decided way:
"Of course we cannot see any one. We are engaged."
By this time I heard the footsteps of Mary on her way from the
kitchen, and I very naturally passed quickly to the parlor door to
intercept and give her my instructions.
"Say that I'm engaged," was on my tongue. But, somehow or other, I
had not the courage to give these words utterance. The visitor might
be a person to whom such an excuse for not appearing would seem
unkind, or be an offence. In this uncertain state, my mind fell into
confusion. Mary was before me, and awaiting the direction she saw
that I was about giving.
"Say that I'm not at home, if any one asks to see me," came in a
sudden impulse from my lips.
And then my cheeks flushed to think that I had instructed my servant
to give utterance to a falsehood.
"Yes, mim," answered the girl, glancing into my face with a knowing
leer, that produced an instant sense of humiliation; and away she
went to do my bidding.
I did not glance towards Agnes, as I returned to my seat and took up
my work. I had not the courage to do this. That I had lowered myself
in her estimation, I felt certain. I heard the street door open, and
bent, involuntarily, in a listening attitude. The voice of a lady
uttered my name.
"She's not at home, mim," came distinctly on my ears, causing the
flush on my cheeks to become still deeper.
A murmur of voices followed. Then I heard the closing of the
vestibule door, and Mary returning to the back parlor where we were
sitting.
"Who was it, Mary?" I enquired, as the girl entered.
"Mrs.--Mrs.--Now what was it? Sure, and I've forgotten their names
intirely."
But, lack of memory did not long keep me in ignorance as to who were
my visitors, for, as ill luck would have it, they had bethought
themselves of some message they wished to leave, and, re-opening the
vestibule door, left a-jar by Mary, followed her along the passage
to the room they saw her enter. As they pushed open the door of the
parlor, Mary heard them, and, turning quickly, exclaimed, in
consternation--
"Och, murther!"
A moment she stood, confronting, in no very graceful attitude, a
couple of ladies, and then escaped to the kitchen.
Here was a scene of embarrassment. Not among all my acquaintances
were there, perhaps, two persons, whom I would have least desired to
witness in me such a fault as the one of which I had been guilty.
For a little while, I knew not what to say. I sat, overcome with
mortification. At length, I arose, and said with an effort,
"Walk in, ladies! How are you this morning? I'm pleased to see you.
Take chairs. My niece, Mrs. Williams, and Mrs. Glenn. I hope you
will excuse us. We were--"
"Oh, no apologies, Mrs. Smith," returned one of the ladies, with a
quiet smile, and an air of self-possession. "Pardon this intrusion.
We understood the servant that you were not at home."
"Engaged, she meant," said I, a deeper crimson suffusing my face.
"The fact is, we are working for dear life, to get the children
ready for a party to-night, and wished to be excused from seeing any
one."
"Certainly--all right," returned Mrs. Williams, "I merely came in to
say to your domestic (I had forgotten it at the door) that my sister
expected to leave for her home in New York in a day or two, and
would call here with me, to-morrow afternoon."
"I shall be very happy to see her," said I,--"very happy. Do come in
and sit down for a little while. If I had only known it was you."
Now that last sentence, spoken in embarrassment and mental
confusion, was only making matters worse. It placed me in a false
and despicable light before my visitors; for in it was the savor of
hypocrisy, which is foreign to my nature.
"No, thank you," replied my visitors. "Good morning!"
And they retired, leaving me so overcome with shame, mortification,
confusion, and distress, that I burst into tears.
"To think that I should have done such a thing!" was my first
remark, so soon as I had a little recovered my self-possession; and
I looked up, half timidly, into the face of my niece. I shall not
soon forget the expression of surprise and pain that was in her fair
young countenance. I had uttered a falsehood in her presence, and
thus done violence to the good opinion she had formed of me. The
beautiful ideal of her aunt, which had filled her mind, was blurred
over; and her heart was sad in consequence.
"Dear Aggy!" said I, throwing my work upon the floor, and bending
earnestly towards her.--"Don't think too meanly of me for this
little circumstance. I never was guilty of that thing before--never!
And well have I been punished for my thoughtless folly I spoke from
impulse, and not reflection, when I told Mary to say that I was not
at home, and repented of what I had done almost as soon as the words
passed my lips."
Agnes looked at me for some moments, until her eyes filled with
tears. Then she said in a low, sweet, earnest voice:
"Mother always says, if she cannot see any one who calls, that she
is engaged."
"And so do I, dear," I returned. "This is my first offence against
truth, and you may be sure that it will be the last."
And it was my last.
When next I met Mrs. Williams and Mrs. Glenn, there was, in both of
them, a reserve not seen before. I felt this change keenly. I had
wronged myself in their good opinion; and could not venture upon an
explanation of my conduct; for that, I felt, might only make matters
worse.
How often, since, has my cheek burned, as a vivid recollection came
up before my mind of what occurred on that morning! I can never
forget it.
CHAPTER X.
SHIRT BUTTONS.
IN a previous chapter, I gave the reader one of the Experiences of
my sister's husband, Mr. John Jones. I now give another.
There was a time in my married life, (thus Mr. Jones writes, in one
of his "Confessions,") when I was less annoyed if my bosom or
wristband happened to be minus a button, than I am at present. But
continual dropping will wear away a stone, and the ever recurring
buttonless collar or wristband will wear out a man's patience, be he
naturally as enduring as the Man Of Uz.
I don't mean by this, that Mrs. Jones is a neglectful woman. Oh, no!
don't let that be imagined for a moment. Mrs. Jones is a woman who
has an eye for shirt buttons, and when that is said, a volume is
told in a few words.
But I don't care how careful a wife is, nor how good an eye she may
have for shirt buttons, there will come a time, when, from some
cause or other, she will momentarily abate her vigilance, and that
will be the very time when Betty's washing-board, or Nancy's
sad-iron, has been at work upon the buttons.
For a year or two after our marriage, I used to express impatience,
whenever, in putting on a clean shirt, I found a button gone. Mrs.
Jones, bore this for a while without exhibiting much feeling. But it
fretted her more than she permitted any one to see. At length, the
constant recurrence of the evil--I didn't know as much then as I do
now--annoyed me so that I passed from ejaculatory expressions of
impatience into more decided and emphatic disapprobation, and to
"Psha!" and "there it is again!" and the like were added:
"I declare, Mrs. Jones, this is too bad!" or
"I've given up hoping for a shirt with a full complement of
buttons--" or
"If you can't sew the buttons on my shirt, Mrs. Jones, I will hire
some one to do it."
This last expression of displeasure I never ventured upon but once.
I have always felt ashamed of it since, whenever a recollection of
my unreasonableness and impatience in the early times of the shirt
button trouble has crossed my mind. My wife took it so much to
heart, and so earnestly avowed her constant solicitude in regard to
the shirt buttons, that I resolved from that time, to bear the evil
like a man, and instead of grumbling or complaining, make known the
fact of a deficiency whenever it occurred, as a good joke. And so
for a year or so it used to be when the buttons were missing:
"Buttons again, Mrs. Jones;" or
"D'ye see that?" or
"Here's the old story"--
Always said laughingly, and varied as to the mood or fertility of
fancy. But on so grave a subject as shirt buttons, Mrs. Jones had no
heart for a joke. The fact that her vigilance had proved all in
vain, and that, spite of constant care, a shirt had found its way
into my drawer, lacking its full complement of buttons, was
something too serious for a smile or a jest, and my words, no matter
how lightly spoken, would be felt as a reproof. Any allusion,
therefore, to shirt buttons, was sure to produce a cloud upon the
otherwise calm brow of Mrs. Jones. It was a sore subject, and could
not be touched even by the light end of a feather without producing
pain.
What was I to do? Put off with the lack of a shirt button
uncomplainingly? Pin my collar, if the little circular piece of bone
or ivory were gone, and not hint at the omission? Yes; I resolved
not to say a word more about shirt buttons, but to bear the evil,
whenever it occurred, with the patience of a martyr. Many days had
not passed after this resolution was taken, before, on changing my
linen one morning, I found that there was a button less than the
usual number on the bosom of my shirt. Mrs. Jones had been up on the
evening before, half an hour after I was in bed, looking over my
shirts, to see if every thing was in order. But even her sharp eyes
had failed to discover the place left vacant by a deserting member
of the shirt button fraternity. I knew she had done her best, and I
pitied, rather than blamed her, for I was sensible that a knowledge
of the fact which had just come to light would trouble her a
thousand times more than it did me.
The breakfast hour passed without a discovery by Mrs. Jones of the
fact that there was a button off of the bosom of my shirt. But, when
I came in at dinner time, her first words, looking at me, were:
"Why, Mr. Jones, there's a button off your bosom."
"I know," said I, indifferently. "It was off when I put the shirt on
this morning. But it makes no difference--you can sew it on when the
shirt next comes from the wash."
I was really sincere in what I said, and took some merit to myself
for being as composed as I was on so agitating subject. Judge of my
surprise, then, to hear Mrs. Jones exclaim, with a flushed face,
"Indeed, Mr. Jones, this is too much! no difference, indeed? A nice
opinion people must have had of your wife, to see you going about
with your bosom all gaping open in that style?"
"Nobody noticed it," said I in reply. "Don't you see that the edges
lie perfectly smooth together, as much so as if held by a button?"
But it was no use to say anything; Mrs. Jones was hurt at my not
speaking of the button.
"I'm sure," she said, "that I am always ready to do anything for
you. I never complain about sewing on your buttons."
"Nonsense, Mrs. Jones! don't take it so much to heart," I replied;
"here, get your needle and thread, and you can have it all right in
a minute. It's but a trifle--I'm sure I havn't thought about it
since I put on the shirt this morning."
But all would not do--Mrs. Jones' grief was too real; and when I,
losing to some extent, my patience, said fretfully, "I wish somebody
would invent a shirt without buttons," she sighed deeply, and in a
little while I saw her handkerchief go quietly to her eyes. Again
and again I tried the say-nothing plane; but it worked worse, if any
thing, than the other; for Mrs. Jones was sure to find out the
truth, and then she would be dreadfully hurt about my omission to
speak.
And so the years have passed. Sometimes I fret a little when I find
a shirt button off; sometimes I ask mildly to have the omission
supplied when I discover its existence; sometimes I jest about it,
and sometimes I bear the evil in silence. But the effects produced
upon Mrs. Jones are about the same. Her equanimity of mind is
disturbed, and she will look unhappy for hours. Never but once have
I complained without a cause. But that one instance gave Mrs. Jones
a triumph which has done much to sustain her in all her subsequent
trials.
We had some friends staying with us, and among the various matters
of discussion that came up during the social evenings we spent
together, shirt buttons were, on one occasion, conspicuous. To
record all that was said about them would fill pages, and I will
not, therefore, attempt even a brief record of all the allegations
brought against the useful little shirt button. The final decision
was, that it must be the Apple of Discord in disguise.
"A button off, as usual!" I muttered to myself the next morning, as
I put on a clean shirt. Mrs. Jones had risen half an hour before me,
and was down stairs giving some directions about breakfast, so that
I could not ask to have it sewed on.
And after leaving my room, I thought it as well not to say any thing
about it. In due time we gathered with our friends around the
breakfast table. A sight of them reminded me of the conversation the
previous evening, and I felt an irresistible desire to allude to the
missing shirt button as quite an apropos and amusing incident. So,
speaking from the impulse of the moment, I said, glancing first at
Mrs. Jones, then around the table, and then pointing down at my
bosom, "The old story of shirt buttons again!"
Instantly the color mounted to the cheeks and brow of Mrs. Jones;
then the color as quickly melted away, and a look of triumph passed
over her face. She pushed back her chair quickly, and rising up,
came round to where I sat, took hold of the button I had failed to
see, and holding it between her fingers, said, "Oh, yes, this is
the old story, Mr. Jones!"
I drew down my chin so as to get a low angle of vision, and sure
enough, the button was there. A burst of laughter went around the
table, in which Mrs. Jones most heartily joined; and I laughed, too,
as glad as she was, that the joke was all on her side. I have never,
you may be sure, heard the last of this; but it was a lucky
incident, for it has given Mrs. Jones something to fall back upon,
and have her jest occasionally, whenever I happen to discover that a
button is among the missing, and that she can, even at times, find
it in her heart to jest on such a subject, is, I can assure you, a
great gain. So much for shirt buttons. I could say a great deal
more, for the subject is inexhaustible. But I will forbear.
CHAPTER XI.
PAVEMENT WASHING IN WINTER.
TWO weeks of spring-like weather in mid-winter, and then the
thermometer went hurrying down towards zero with alarming rapidity.
Evening closed in with a temperature so mild that fires were
permitted to expire in the ashes; and morning broke with a cold
nor-wester, whistling through every crack and cranny, in a tone that
made you shrink and shiver.
"Winter at last," said I, creeping forth from my warm bed, with a
very natural feeling of reluctance.
"Time," was the half asleep and half awake response of Mr. Smith, as
he drew the clothes about his shoulders, and turned himself over for
the enjoyment of his usual half hour morning nap.
It was Saturday--that busiest day in the seven; at least for
housekeepers--and as late as half past seven o'clock, yet the house
felt as cold as a barn. I stepped to the register to ascertain if
the fire had been made in the heater. Against my hand came a
pressure of air--cold air.
"Too bad!" I murmured fretfully, "that girl has never touched the
fire."
So I gave the bell a pretty vigorous jerk. In a few minutes up came
Nancy, the cook, in answer to my summons.
"Why hasn't Biddy made the fire in the heater?" I asked.
"She has made it, mum."
"There isn't a particle of heat coming up."
"I heard her at work down there. I guess she's made it up, but it
hasn't began to burn good yet."
"Tell her that I want her."
"She's washing the pavement, mum."
"Washing the pavement!"
"Yes, mum."
"What possessed her to wash the pavement on a day like this?"
"It's the right day, mum. It's Saturday."
"Saturday! Don't she know that the water will freeze almost as soon
as it touches the ground? Go and tell her to come in this minute,
and not throw another drop on the pavement."
Nancy withdrew, and I kept on speaking to myself--
"I never saw such creatures. No consideration in them! Washing the
pavement on a morning like this! Little do they care who falls on
the ice; or who has a broken arm, or a broken leg."
Just as I had said this, I heard a crash, and an exclamation
without, and hurrying to the window looked forth. Biddy's work was
done, and well done, for the pavement was one sheet of ice, as hard
and smooth as glass, and as slippery as oil. Prostrate thereon was a
grocer's boy, and just beyond the curb stone, in the gutter, lay the
fragments of a jug of molasses.
Stepping back quickly to where the bell rope hung against the wall,
I gave it a most determined jerk. Scarcely had I done this, ere the
door of the adjoining room, which was used as a nursery, opened, and
Biddy appeared therein.
"Why, Biddy!" I exclaimed, "what possessed you to throw water on the
pavement this morning?"
"Faix! And how was I to get it clane, mim, widout wather?" coolly
returned Biddy.
"Clean!"
"Yes, mim, clane."
"There was no crying necessity to have it clean to-day. Didn't you
see--"
"It's Sathurday, mim," interrupted Biddy, in a voice that showed the
argument in her mind to be unanswerable. "We always wash the
pavement on Sathurday."
"But it doesn't do to wash the pavement," I returned, now trying to
put a little reason into her head, "when it is so cold that water
will freeze as soon as it touches the ground. The bricks become as
slippery as glass, and people can't walk on them without falling."
"Och! And what hev we till do wid the paple. Lot 'em look 'till
their steps."
"But, Biddy, that won't do. People don't expect to find pavements
like glass; and they slip, often, while unaware of danger. Just at
this moment a poor lad fell, and broke his jug all to pieces."
"Did he! And less the pity for him. Why did'nt he walk along like an
orderly, dacent body? Why didn't he look 'till his steps?"
"Biddy," said I, seeing that it was useless to hold an argument with
her,--"Do you go this minute and throw ashes all over the pavement."
"Ashes on the clane pavement! Mrs. Smith!"
"Yes, Biddy; and do it at once. There! Somebody else has fallen."
I sprung to the window in time to see a woman on the pavement, and
the contents of her basket of marketing scattered all around her.
"Go this minute and throw ashes over the pavement!" I called to
Biddy in a voice of command.
The girl left the room with evident reluctance. The idea of
scattering ashes over her clean pavement, was, to her, no very
pleasant one.
It seemed to me, as I sat looking down from my windows upon the
slippery flags, and noted the difficulty which pedestrians had to
cross them safely, that Biddy would never appear with her pan of
ashes.
"Why don't the girl do as I directed?" had just passed, in an
impatient tone, from my lips, when two well dressed men came in
view, one at each extremity of the sheet of ice. They were
approaching, and stepped with evident unconsciousness of danger,
upon the treacherous surface. I had a kind of presentiment that one
or both would fall, and my instinct was not at fault. Suddenly the
heels of one flew up, and he struck the pavement with a concussion
that sprung his hat from his head, and sent it some feet in the air.
In his efforts to recover himself, his legs became entangled in
those of the other, and over he went, backwards, his head striking
the ground with a terrible shock.
I started from the window, feeling, for an instant, faint and sick.
In a few moments I returned, and looked out again. Both the fallen
ones had regained their feet, and passed out of sight, and Biddy,
who had witnessed the last scene in this half comic, half tragic
performance, was giving the pavement a plentiful coating of ashes
and cinders.
I may be permitted to remark, that I trust other housekeepers, whose
pavements are washed on cold mornings--and their name, I had almost
said, is legion--are as innocent as I was in the above case, and
that the wrong to pedestrians lies at the door of thoughtless
servants. But is it not our duty to see the wrong has no further
repetition?
It has been remarked that the residence of a truly humane man may be
known by the ashes before his door on a slippery morning. If this be
so, what are we to think of those who coolly supply a sheet of ice
to the side walk?
CHAPTER XII.
REGARD FOR THE POOR.
WE sometimes get, by chance, as it were, glimpses of life altogether
new, yet full of instruction. I once had such a glimpse, and, at the
time, put it upon record as a lesson for myself as well as others.
Its introduction into this series of "Confessions" will be quite in
place.
"How many children have you?" I asked of a poor woman, one day, who,
with her tray of fish on her head, stopped at my door with the hope
of finding a customer.
"Four," she replied.
"All young?"
"Yes ma'am. The oldest is but seven years of age."
"Have you a husband?" I enquired.
The woman replied in a changed voice:
"Yes, ma'am. But he isn't much help to me. Like a great many other
men, he drinks too much. If it wasn't for that, you wouldn't find me
crying fish about the streets in the spring, and berries through the
summer, to get bread for my children. He could support us all
comfortably, if he was only sober; for he has a good trade, and is a
good workman. He used to earn ten and sometimes twelve dollars a
week."
"How much do you make towards supporting your family?" I asked.
"Nearly all they get to live on, and that isn't much," she said
bitterly. "My husband sometimes pays the rent, and sometimes he
doesn't even do that. I have made as high as four dollars in a week,
but oftener two or three is the most I get."
"How in the world can you support yourself, husband, and four
children on three dollars a week?"
"I have to do it," was her simple reply. "There are women who would
be glad to get three dollars a week, and think themselves well off."
"But how do you live on so small a sum?"
"We have to deny ourselves almost every little comfort, and confine
ourselves down to the mere necessaries of life. After those who can
afford to pay good prices for their marketing have been supplied, we
come in for a part of what remains. I often get meat enough for a
few cents to last me for several days. And its the same way with
vegetables. After the markets are over, the butchers and country
people, whom we know, let us have lots of things for almost nothing,
sooner than take them home. In this way we make our slender means go
a great deal farther than they would if we had to pay the highest
market price for every thing. But, it often happens that what we
gain here is lost in the eagerness we feel to sell whatever we have,
especially when, from having walked and cried for a long time, we
become much fatigued. Almost every one complains that we ask too
much for our things, if we happen to be one or two cents above what
somebody has paid in market, where there are almost as many
different prices as there are persons who sell. And in consequence,
almost every one tries to beat us down.
"It often happens that, after I have walked for hours and sold but
very little, I have parted with my whole stock at cost to some two
or three ladies, who would not have bought from me at all if they
hadn't known that they were making good bargains out of me; and this
because I could not bear up any longer. I think it very hard,
sometimes, when ladies, who have every thing in plenty, take off
nearly all my profits, after I have toiled through the hot sun for
hours, or shivered in the cold of winter. It is no doubt right
enough for every one to be prudent, and buy things as low as
possible; but it has never seemed to me as quite just for a rich
lady to beat down a poor fish-woman, or strawberry-woman, a cent or
two on a bunch or basket, when that very cent made, perhaps,
one-third, or one-half of her profits.
"It was only yesterday that I stopped at a house to sell a bunch of
fish. The lady took a fancy to a nice bunch of small rock, for which
I asked her twenty cents. They had cost me just sixteen cents.
'Won't you take three fips?' she asked. 'That leaves me too small a
profit, madam,' I replied. 'You want too much profit,' she returned;
'I saw just such a bunch of fish in market yesterday for three
fips.' 'Yes, but remember,' I replied, 'that here are the fish at
your door. You neither have to send for them nor to bring them home
yourself.' 'Oh, as to that,' she answered, 'I have a waiter whose
business it is to carry the marketing. It is all the same to me. So,
if you expect to sell me your things, you must do it at the market
prices. I will give you three fips for that bunch of fish, and no
more.' I had walked a great deal, and sold but little. I was tired,
and half sick with a dreadful headache. It was time for me to think
about getting home. So I said, 'Well, ma'am, I suppose you must take
them, but it leaves me only a mere trifle for my profit.' A servant
standing by took the fish, and the lady handed me a quarter, and
held out her hand for the change. I first put into it a five cent
piece. She continued holding it out, until I searched about in ny
pocket for a penny. This I next placed in her hand. 'So you've
cheated me out of a cent at last,' she said, half laughing and half
in earnest; 'you are a sad rogue.' A little boy was standing by.
'Here, Charley,' she said to him, 'is a penny I have just saved. You
can buy a candy with it.'
"As I turned away from the door of the large, beautiful house in
which that lady lived, I felt something rising in my throat and
choking me; I had bitter thoughts of all my kind.
"Happily, where I next stopped, I met with one more considerate. She
bought two bunches of my fish at my own price--spoke very kindly, to
me, and even went so far, seeing that I looked jaded out, to tell me
to go down into her kitchen and rest myself for a little while.
"Leaving my tub of fish in her yard, I accepted the kind offer. It
so happened that the cook was making tea for some one in the house
who was sick. The lady asked me if I would not like to have a cup. I
said yes; for my head was aching badly, and I felt faint; and
besides, I had not tasted a cup of tea for several days. She poured
it out with her own hands, and with her own hands brought it to me.
I think I never tasted such a cup of tea in my life. It was like
cordial. God bless her!--When I again went out upon the street my
headache was gone, and I felt as fresh as ever I did in my life.
Before I stopped at this kind lady's house, I was so worn down and
out of heart, that I determined to go home, even though not more
than half my fish were sold. But now I went on cheerful and with
confidence. In an hour my tray was empty, and my fish sold at fair
prices.
"You do not know, madam," continued the woman, "how much good a few
kindly spoken words, that cost nothing, or a little generous regard
for us, does our often discouraged hearts. But these we too rarely
meet. Much oftener we are talked to harshly about our exorbitant
prices--called a cheating set--or some such name that does not sound
very pleasant to our ears. That there are many among us who have no
honesty, nor, indeed, any care about what is right, is too true. But
all are not so. To judge us all, then, by the worst of our class, is
not right. It would not be well for the world if all were thus
judged."
CHAPTER XIII.
SOMETHING MORE ABOUT COOKS.
FOR sometime I had a treasure of a cook; a fine Bucks county girl,
whose strongest recommendation in my eyes, when I engaged her, was
that she had never been out of sight of land. But she left my house
for a "better place," as she said. I might have bribed her to
remain, by an offer of higher wages; but, experience had
demonstrated to my satisfaction, that this kind of bribery never
turns out well. Your servant, in most instances, soon becomes your
mistress--or, at least, makes bold efforts to assume that position.
So, I let my Bucks county girl go to her "better place." As to how
or why it was to be a better place, I did not make enquiry. That was
her business. She was a free agent, and I did not attempt to
influence her. In fact, being of rather an independent turn of mind
myself, I sympathize with others in their independence, and rarely
seek to interfere with a declared course of action.
My new cook, unfortunately, had been out of sight of land, and that
for weeks together. She was fresh from the Emerald Island. When she
presented herself I saw in her but small promise. Having learned on
enquiry that her name was Alice Mahoney, I said:
"How long have you been in this country, Alice?"
There was a moment or two of hesitation. Then she answered:
"Sax months, mum."
I learned afterwards that she had arrived only three days before.
"Can you cook?" I enquired.
"Och, yis! Ony thing, from a rib of bafe down till a parate."
"You're sure of that, Alice?"
"Och! sure, mum."
"Can you give me a reference?"
"I've got a character from Mrs. Jordan, where I lived in New York.
I've only been here a few days. Biddy Jones knows me."
And she produced a written testification of ability, signed "Mary
Jones, No.--William street, New York." There was a suspicious look
about this "character;" but of course I had no means of deciding
whether it were a true or false document.
After some debate with myself, I finally decided to give Alice a
trial.
It so happened that on the very day she came, an old lady friend of
my mother's, accompanied by her two daughters, both married and
housekeepers, called to spend the afternoon and take tea. As they
lived at some distance, I had tea quite early, not waiting for Mr.
Smith, whose business kept him away pretty late.
During the afternoon, my "butter man" came. Occasionally he brings
some very nice country sausages, and I always make it a point to
secure a few pounds when he does so. He had some on this occasion.
"Alice," said I, as I entered the kitchen about four o'clock, "I
want you to hurry and get tea ready as quickly as you can."
"Yes, mum," was the ready reply.
"And Alice," I added, "we'll have some of these sausages with the
tea. They are very fine ones--better than we usually get. Be sure to
cook them very nice."
"Yes, mum," promptly answered the girl, looking quite intelligent.
A few more directions as to what we were to have were given, and
then I went up to sit with my company.
It was not my intention to leave all to the doubtful skill of my new
cook, but, either the time passed very rapidly, or she was more
prompt and active than is usual among cooks, for the tea bell rung
before I was in expectation of hearing it.
"Ah," said I, "there is our tea bell," and I arose, adding, "will
you walk into the dining-room, ladies?"
The words were no sooner uttered than a doubt as to all being as I
could wish crossed my mind; and I regretted that I had not first
repaired to the dining-room alone. But, as it was too late now, or,
rather, I did not happen to have sufficient presence of mind to
recall my invitation to the ladies to walk in to tea, until I had
preceded them a few minutes.
Well, we were presently seated at the tea table. My practised eye
instantly saw that the cloth was laid crookedly, and that the dishes
were placed in a slovenly manner.
I couldn't help a passing apology, on the ground of a new domestic,
and then proceeded to the business of pouring out the tea. The cups
were handed around, and I soon noticed that my guests were sipping
from their spoons in a very unsatisfactory manner. I was in the act
of filling my own cup from the tea urn, when I missed the plate of
sausages, about which I had boasted to my lady friends as something
a little better than were usually to be obtained. So I rung the
table bell. Alice presently made her appearance.
"Alice," said I, "where are the sausages I told you to cook? You
surely hav'nt forgotten them?"
"Och, no indade, mum. They're there."
"Where? I don't see them."
And my eyes ran around the table.
"They're wid the ta mum, sure!"
"With the tea?"
"Sure, mum, they're wid the ta. Ye towld me yees wanted the sausages
wid the ta; and sure they're there. I biled 'em well."
A light now flashed over my mind. Throwing up the lid of the tea
urn, I thrust in a fork, which immediately came in contact with a
hard substance. I drew it forth, and exhibited a single link of a
well "biled" sausage.
Let me draw a veil over what followed.
CHAPTER XIV.
NOT A RAG ON THEIR BACKS.
THERE are, among the many things which Mr. Smith, like other men,
will not understand, frequent difficulties about the children's
clothing. He seems to think that frocks and trowsers grow
spontaneously; or that the dry goods, once bought and brought into
the house, will resolve into the shapes desired, and fit themselves
to the children's backs, like Cindarella's suit in the nursery tale.
Now, I never did claim to be a sprite; and I am not sure that the
experience of all housekeepers will bear me out in the opinion that
the longer a woman is married, the less she becomes like a fairy.
Stitch! stitch! stitch! Hood's Song of the Shirt, which every body
has heard and admired, is certainly most eloquent and pathetic upon
the sufferings and difficulties of sewing girls. "Much yet remains
unsung," particularly in regard to the ceaseless labors of women who
are as rich as Cornelia in muslin-rending, habit-cloth-destroying,
children's-plaid-rubbing--jewels! I am sure that the Roman matron
never went shopping. I am sure that she did not undertake to keep
her own children's clothing in repair; for if she had, she could not
have been ready, at a moment's warning, to put forward her
troublesome charge as specimen jewels. Do all I can, my little
comforts never are "fit to be seen!"
Many is the weary evening that I have been occupied, past the noon
of night, in repairing the wear and tear of habiliments--abridging
the volume of the elder children's clothes into narrow dimensions
for the next, or compiling a suit for one, out of the fringed
raiment of two or three. Honest was the pride with which I have
surveyed these industrious efforts, and sincere the thought that I
had really accomplished something. Depositing the various articles
where the wearers elect would find them, I have retired to rest;
almost angry with Mr. Smith, who was asleep hours before me--asleep
as unconcernedly as if an indestructible substance fabric had been
invented for children's clothing.
Well, after such a night's work, imagine me waking, with a
complacent and happy sensation that, my work having been done on
the day before, the morning is open for new employment. Down stairs
I come, full of the thoughts of the confusion I shall heap on Mr.
Smith's head. He, observe, told me, as he left me to retire, that I
had much better go to bed, for all my work would amount to nothing
but loss of necessary rest. I am ready to show him triumphant
evidence to the contrary, in the clothes, as good as new, in which
his children are habited. Before I can speak, I discern a lurking
smile in his face. My boy Will stands in a sheepish posture, with
his back as close to the jam, as if he were a polypus growing there,
and his life depended upon the adhesion.
My eldest girl--another of the laboriously fitted out of the night
before, has a marvellous affection for the little stool, and the
skirt of her frock seems drawn about her feet in a most unbecoming
manner.
But the third, an inveterate little romp, unconscious of shame, is
curveting about in the most abandoned manner, utterly indifferent to
the fact she has--not, indeed, "a rag to her back"--for she is all
rags! One hour's play before my descent has utterly abolished all
traces of my industry, so far as she is concerned.
I expostulate--at first more in sorrow than in anger--but as Mr.
Smith's face expands into a broad laugh, it becomes more anger than
sorrow. The child on the stool looks as if she would laugh, if she
dared. Lifting her up suddenly, I discover that the whole front
breadth of her frock is burned--past redemption.
I say nothing--what can I say? I have not words equal to the
emergency. And the boy--boys are such copies of their fathers! He
actually forgets all embarrassment, and breaks out into a hearty
laugh. I jerk him forward.
Horror on horrors! The unveiling of the Bavarian statue, of which I
read an account in the newspapers the other day, is nothing to it.
The jamb, it appears, has supported something besides the mantle
shelf; for when I draw the young Smith forward, deprived of the
friendly aid of the wall, his teguments drop to the floor, and he
stands unveiled! One fell swoop at rude play has destroyed all my
little innumerable stitches; and I am just where I was before I
threaded a needle the night before!
Now I appeal to any body--any woman with the least experience, if
this is not all too bad! And yet my husband insists that I have no
need to be continually worrying myself with the needle. It is true
that each of the children has four or five changes of clothes, which
they might wear--but what is the use of their having things to "put
right on--and tear right out!" I like to be prudent and saving. It
was only the other day that Mr. Smith came in early, and found me
busy; and commenced a regular oration. He said that every child in
the house has a better wardrobe than he; and so he went on, and
counted all off to me. He says--and men think they know so
much--that if children have clothes they should wear them; and when
they are worn out, provide more, and not try to keep as many
half-worn suits in repair, as there are new suits in a queen's
wardrobe. But he likes, as well as any man, to see his children look
neat, whatever he may say. And yet he pretends that children should
have clothes so made that they can convert themselves into horses,
and treat each other to rides without rending to pieces! And he
protests that it is all nonsense to undertake to keep children
dressed in the fashion! Truly I am tempted to say to the men as Job
did to his friends: "No doubt but ye are the people, and wisdom
shall die with you!"
Such plagues as they are sometimes! But I could not help laughing
after all, when, as I said before, he was lecturing me. The table
was covered with work, done and in progress. He went on till out of
breath. I answered:
"Now you know the children have not a rag to their backs!"
"I should think not," he said, drily, as he looked about him. "The
other morning finished up the rags on hand--but you are doing your
best, with flimsy finery, to get up a new assortment."
"Now, that is unkind in you, Mr. Smith," said I, feeling hurt, and
looking and speaking as I felt. "Really unkind in you. I'm sure it's
no pleasure for me to work, work, work, from morning till night,
until I'm worn down and good for nothing. I wish my children to look
decent at least; and to do this at as small cost to you as possible.
You can't change me with wasting your property, at least."
"There, there, dear! That will do. Say no more about it," returned
Mr. Smith, in a soothing voice. "I didn't mean to be unkind. Still,
I do think that you are a little over-particular about the
children's clothes, as I have said before--over-particular in the
matter of having things just so. Better, a great deal, I think,
spare a few hours from extra work given to the clothing designed
for their bodies, to that which is to array and beautify their
minds."
"Now, Mr. Smith!" I exclaimed, and then bending my face into my
hands, gave way to involuntary tears.
That he should have said this!
CHAPTER XV.
CURIOSITY.
THE curiosity of our sex is proverbial. Proverbs are generally based
upon experience, and this one, I am ready to admit, is not without a
good foundation to rest upon.
Our sex are curious; at least I am, and we are very apt to judge
others by ourselves. I believe that I have never broken the seal nor
peeped into a letter bearing the name of some other lady; but, then,
I will own to having, on more occasions than one, felt an
exceedingly strong desire to know the contents of certain epistles
in the hands of certain of my friends.
The same feeling I have over and over again observed in my
domestics, and, for this reason, have always been careful how I let
my letters lie temptingly about. One chamber maid in my service,
seemed to have a passion for reading other people's letters. More
than once had I caught her rummaging in my drawers, or with
some of my old letters in her hands; and I could not help remarking
that most of the letters left at the door by the penny post, had, if
they passed to me through her, a crumpled appearance. I suspected
the cause of this, but did not detect my lady, until she had been
some months in my family.
One morning, after breakfast was over, and the children off to
school, I drew on a cap, and went down to sweep out and dust the
parlors. I had not been at work long, when I heard the bell ring.
Presently Mary came tripping down stairs. As she opened the street
door, I heard her say:
"Ah! another letter? Who is it for? Me?"
"No, it is for Mrs. Smith," was answered, in the rougher voice of
the Despatch Post-man.
"Oh." There was a perceptible disappointment in Mary's tone. "What's
the postage?" she asked.
"Paid," said the man.
The door closed, and I heard the feet of Mary slowly moving along
the passage. Then the murmur of her voice reached my ears. Presently
I heard her say:
"I wonder who it is from? Mrs. Smith gets a great many letters. No
envelope, thank goodness! but a plain, good old fashioned letter. I
must see who it is from."
By this time Mary had stepped within the back parlor. I stood, hid
from her view, by one of the folding doors, which was closed, but
within a few feet of her.
"From Mrs. Jackson! Hum--m. I wonder what she's got to say?
Something about me, I'll bet a dollar."
There was a very apparent change in the thermometer of Mary's
feelings at this last thought, as was evident from the tone of her
voice.
"Lace collars--stockings--pocket han--. I can't make out that word,
but it is handkerchiefs, of course," thus Mary read and talked to
herself. "Breastpin--this is too mean! It's not true, neither. I'm a
great mind to burn the letter. Mrs. Smith would never be the wiser.
I won't give it to her now, at any rate. I'll put it in my pocket,
and just think about it."
The next sound that came to my ears was the pattering of Mary's feet
as she went hurrying up the stairs.
In a few minutes I followed. In one of my chambers I found Mary, and
said to her:
"Didn't the carrier leave me a letter just now?"
The girl hesitated a moment, and then answered:
"Oh, yes, ma'am. I have it here in my pocket."
And she drew forth the letter, crumbled, as was usually the case
with all that passed through her hands.
I took it, with some gravity of manner; for I felt, naturally
enough, indignant. Mary flushed a little under the steady eye that I
fixed upon her.
The letter, or note, was from my friend, Mrs. Jackman, and read as
follows:
"MY DEAR MRS. SMITH.--Do call in and see me some time to-day. I have
bought some of the cheapest laces, stockings, and cambric pocket
handkerchiefs that ever were seen. There are more left; and at a
great bargain. You must have some. And, by the way, bring with you
that sweet breastpin I saw you wear at Mrs. May's last Thursday
evening. I want to examine it closely. I must have one just like it.
Do come round to-day; I've lots of things to say to you.
Yours, &c."
"Nothing so dreadful in all that," I said to myself, as I re-folded
the letter. "My curious lady's conscience must be a little active!
Let's see what is to come of this."
It is hardly in the nature of woman to look very lovingly upon the
servant whom she has discovered peeping into her letters. At least,
it was not in my nature. I, therefore, treated Mary with becoming
gravity, whenever we happened to meet. She, under the circumstances,
was ill at ease; and rather shunned contact with me. The morning
passed away, and the afternoon waned until towards five o'clock,
when the accumulating pressure on Mary's feelings became so great
that she was compelled to seek relief.
I was alone, sewing, when my chamber maid entered my room. The
corners of her lips inclined considerably downward.
"Can I speak a word with you, Mrs. Smith?" said she.
"Certainly, Mary," I replied. "What do you wish to say?"
Mary cleared her throat once or twice--looked very much
embarrassed, and at length stammered out.
"You received a letter from Mrs. Jackson this morning?"
"No." I shook my head as I uttered this little monosyllable.
A flush of surprise went over the girl's face.
"Wasn't the letter I gave you from Mrs. Jackson?" she asked.
"No; it was from Mrs. Jackman."
Mary caught her breath, and stammered out, in her confusion:
"Oh, my! I thought it was from Mrs. Jackson. I was sure of it."
"What right had you to think any thing about it?" I asked, with
marked severity.
Mary's face was, by this time crimsoned.
I looked at her for some moments, and then, taking from my drawer
Mrs. Jackman's note, handed it to her, and said:
"There's the letter you were so curious about this morning. Read
it."
Mary's eyes soon took in the contents. The moment she was satisfied,
she uttered a short "Oh!" strongly expressive of mental relief, and
handed me back the letter.
"I thought it was from Mrs. Jackson," said the still embarrassed
girl, looking confused and distressed.
"You can now retire," said I, "and when another letter is left at my
