to strike her, for she made a vigorous effort to appear composed; and
facing Mrs. Scudder, with an air of dignified suavity, inquired if it
would not be best to put Jim Marvyn in the oven now, while Candace was
getting the pies ready, meaning of course a large turkey which was to
be the first in an indefinite series to be baked that morning; and
discovering, by Mrs. Scudder’s dazed expression and a vigorous pinch
from Candace, that somehow she had not improved matters, she rubbed
her spectacles in a diagonal manner across her eyes and stood glaring
through them, with a helpless expression, which in a less judicious
person might have suggested the idea of a state of slight intoxication.
But the exigencies of an immediate temporal dispensation put an end to
Miss Prissy’s unwonted vagaries, and she was soon to be seen flying
round like a meteor, dusting, shaking curtains, counting napkins,
wiping and sorting china, all with such rapidity as to give rise to the
idea that she actually existed in forty places at once.
Candace, whom the limits of her corporeal frame restricted to an
altogether different style of locomotion, often rolled the whites of
her eyes after her, and gave vent to her views of her proceedings in
sententious expressions.
‘Do you know why dat ar never was married?’ she said to Mary, as
she stood looking after her. Miss Prissy had made one of those rapid
transits through the apartment.
‘No,’ answered Mary, innocently; ‘why was not she?’
‘Because never was a man could run fast enough to catch her,’ said
Candace; and then her portly person shook with the impulse of her own
wit.
By two o’clock a goodly company began to assemble. Mrs. Deacon Twitchel
arrived, soft, pillowy, and plaintive as ever, accompanied by Cerinthy
Ann, a comely damsel, tall and trim, with a bright black eye and a most
vigorous and determined style of movement.
Good Mrs. Jones, broad, expansive, and solid, having vegetated
tranquilly on in the cabbage garden of the virtues since three years
ago when she graced our tea-party, was now as well preserved as ever,
and brought some fresh butter, a tin pail of cream, and a loaf of cake
made on a new Philadelphia receipt. The tall, spare, angular figure of
Mrs. Simeon Brown only was wanting; but she patronized Mrs. Scudder
no more, and tossed her head with a becoming pride when her name was
mentioned.
The quilt-pattern was gloriously drawn in oak-leaves, done in indigo;
and soon all the company, young and old, were passing busy fingers over
it; and conversation went on briskly.
Madame de Frontignac, we must not forget to say, had entered with
hearty abandon into the spirit of the day. She had dressed the tall
china vases on the mantelpieces; and, departing from the usual rule
of an equal mixture of roses and asparagus bushes, had constructed
two quaint and graceful bouquets, where garden flowers were mingled
with drooping grasses and trailing wild vines, forming a graceful
combination, which excited the surprise of all who saw it.
‘It’s the very first time in my life that I ever saw grass put into a
flower-pot,’ said Miss Prissy; ‘but I must say it looks as handsome
as a pictur’. Mary, I must say,’ she added in an aside, ‘I think that
Madame de Frongenac is the sweetest dressing and appearing creature I
ever saw: she don’t dress up nor put on airs, but she seems to see in
a minute how things ought to go; and if it’s only a bit of grass, or
leaf, or wild vine, that she puts in her hair, why it seems to come
just right. I should like to make her a dress, for I know she would
understand my fit; do speak to her, Mary, in case she should want a
dress fitted here, to let me try it.’
At the quilting, Madame de Frontignac would have her seat, and soon
won the respect of the party by the dexterity with which she used her
needle; though, when it was whispered that she learned to quilt among
the nuns, some of the elderly ladies exhibited a slight uneasiness, as
being rather doubtful whether they might not be encouraging papistical
opinions by allowing her an equal share in the work of getting up their
minister’s bed-quilt; but the younger part of the company were quite
captivated by her foreign air, and the pretty manner in which she
lisped her English; and Cerinthy Ann even went so far as to horrify
her mother, by saying that she wished she’d been educated in a convent
herself,—a declaration which arose less from native depravity, than
from a certain vigorous disposition, which often shows itself in young
people, to shock the current opinions of their elders and betters. Of
course the conversation took a general turn, somewhat in unison with
the spirit of the occasion; and whenever it flagged, some allusion to a
forthcoming wedding, or some sly hint to the future young Madam of the
parish, was sufficient to awake the dormant animation of the company.
Cerinthy Ann contrived to produce an agreeable electric shock, by
declaring that for her part she never could see into it, how any girl
could marry a minister—that she should as soon think of setting up
housekeeping in a meeting-house.
‘O, Cerinthy Ann!’ exclaimed her mother, ‘how can you go on so?’
‘It’s a fact,’ said the adventurous damsel; ‘now other men let you have
some peace, but a minister’s always round under your feet.’
‘So you think the less you see of a husband the better?’ said one of
the ladies.
‘Just my views,’ said Cerinthy, giving a decided snip to her thread
with her scissors; ‘I like the Nantucketers that go off on four years’
voyages, and leave their wives a clear field. If ever I get married I’m
going up to have one of those fellows.’
It is to be remarked, in passing, that Miss Cerinthy Ann was at this
very time receiving surreptitious visits from a consumptive-looking,
conscientious, young theological candidate who came occasionally to
preach in the vicinity, and put up at the house of the Deacon, her
father. This good young man, being violently attacked on the doctrine
of election by Miss Cerinthy, had been drawn on to illustrate it
in a most practical manner, to her comprehension; and it was the
consciousness of the weak and tottering state of the internal garrison,
that added vigour to the young lady’s tones. As Mary had been the
chosen confidant of the progress of this affair, she was quietly amused
at the demonstration.
‘You’d better take care, Cerinthy Ann,’ said her mother; ‘they say that
“those who sing before breakfast, will cry before night.” Girls talk
about getting married,’ she said, relapsing into a gentle didactic
melancholy, ‘without realizing its awful responsibilities.’
‘Oh! as to that,’ said Cerinthy, ‘I’ve been practising on my pudding
now these six years, and I shouldn’t be afraid to throw one up chimney
with any girl.’ This speech was founded on a tradition, current in
those times, ‘that no young lady was fit to be married till she could
construct a boiled Indian-pudding, of such durability, that it could
be thrown up chimney and come down on the ground, outside, without
breaking;’ and the consequence of Cerinthy Ann’s sally was a general
laugh.
‘Girls a’n’t what they used to be in my day,’ sententiously remarked an
elderly lady. ‘I remember my mother told me when she was thirteen she
could knit a long cotton stocking in a day.’
‘I haven’t much faith in these stories of old times; have you, girls?’
said Cerinthy, appealing to the younger members at the frame.
‘At any rate,’ said Mrs. Twitchel, ‘our minister’s wife will be a
pattern; I don’t know anybody as goes beyond her either in spinning or
fine stitching.’
Mary sat as placid and disengaged as the new moon, and listened to the
chatter of old and young, with the easy quietness of a young heart that
has early outlived life, and looks on everything in the world from some
gentle, restful eminence far on towards a better home. She smiled at
everybody’s word, had a quick eye for everybody’s wants, and was ready
with thimble, scissors, or thread, whenever any one needed them; but
once when there was a pause in the conversation, she and Mrs. Marvyn
were both discovered to be stolen away. They were seated on the bed in
Mary’s little room, with their arms around each other, communing in low
and gentle tones. ‘Mary, my dear child,’ said her friend, ‘this event
is very pleasant to me, because it places you permanently near me. I
did not know but eventually this sweet face might lead to my losing
you, who are in some respects the dearest friend I have.’
‘You might be sure,’ said Mary, ‘I never would have married, except
that my mother’s happiness and the happiness of so good a friend seem
to depend on it. When we renounce self in anything, we have reason to
hope God’s blessing; and so I feel assured of a peaceful life in the
course I have taken. You will always be as a mother to me,’ she added,
laying her head on her friend’s shoulder.
‘Yes,’ said Mrs. Marvyn; ‘and I must not let myself think a moment how
dear it might have been to have you more my own. If you feel really,
truly happy, if you can enter on this life without any misgivings—’
‘I can,’ said Mary, firmly.
At this instant, very strangely, the string which confined a wreath
of sea-shells around her glass, having been long undermined by moths,
suddenly broke and fell down, scattering the shells upon the floor.
Both women started, for the string of shells had been placed there by
James; and though neither were superstitious, this was one of those odd
coincidences that make hearts throb.
‘Dear boy,’ said Mary, gathering the shells up tenderly; ‘wherever he
is, I shall never cease to love him; it makes me feel sad to see this
come down; but it is only an accident; nothing of him will ever fail
out of my heart.’
Mrs. Marvyn clasped Mary closer to her, with tears in her eyes.
‘I’ll tell you what, Mary; it must have been the moths did that,’
said Miss Prissy, who had been standing, unobserved, at the door for
a moment back; ‘moths will eat away strings just so. Last week Mrs.
Vernon’s great family picture fell down because the moths eat through
the cord; people ought to use twine or cotton string always. But I
came to tell you that the supper is all set, and the Doctor out of his
study, and all the people are wondering where you are.’
Mary and Mrs. Marvyn gave a hasty glance at themselves in the glass,
to be assured of their good keeping, and went into the great kitchen,
where a long table stood exhibiting all that plenitude of provision
which the immortal description of Washington Irving has saved us the
trouble of representing in detail.
The husbands, brothers, and lovers had come in, and the scene was
redolent of gaiety. When Mary made her appearance, there was a moment’s
pause, till she was conducted to the side of the Doctor; when, raising
his hand, he invoked a grace upon the loaded board.
Unrestrained gaieties followed. Groups of young men and maidens chatted
together, and all the gallantries of the times were enacted. Serious
matrons commented on the cake, and told each other high and particular
secrets in the culinary art, which they drew from remote family
archives. One might have learned in that instructive assembly how best
to keep moths out of blankets, how to make fritters of Indian corn
undistinguishable from oysters: how to bring up babies by hand, and how
to mend a cracked teapot, and how to take out grease from a brocade,
and how to reconcile absolute decrees with free will, and how to make
five yards of cloth answer the purpose of six, and how to put down the
democratic party. All were busy, earnest, and certain, just as a swarm
of men and women, old and young, are in 1859.
Miss Prissy was in her glory; every bow of her best cap was alive with
excitement, and she presented to the eyes of astonished Newport gentry
an animated receipt-book. Some of the information she communicated,
indeed, was so valuable and important, that she could not trust the air
with it, but whispered the most important portions in a confidential
tone. Among the crowd Cerinthy Ann’s theological admirer was observed
in deeply reflective attitude; and that high-spirited young lady added
further to his convictions of the total depravity of the species, by
vexing and discomposing him in those thousand ways in which a lively,
ill-conditioned young woman will put to rout a serious, well-disposed
young man, comforting herself with the reflection that by-and-by she
would repent of all her sins in a lump together.
Vain, transitory splendours! Even this evening, so glorious, so
heart-cheering, so fruitful in instruction and amusement, could not
last for ever. Gradually the company broke up; the matrons mounted
soberly on horseback behind their spouses; and Cerinthy consoled her
clerical friend by giving him an opportunity to read her a lecture on
the way home, if he found the courage to do so.
Mr. and Mrs. Marvyn and Candace wound their way soberly homeward; the
Doctor returned to his study for nightly devotions; and before long,
sleep settled down on the brown cottage.
‘I’ll tell you what, Cato,’ said Candace, before composing herself to
sleep, ‘I can’t feel it in my bones dat dis yer wedding is going to
come off yet.’
CHAPTER XXXI.
A DAY or two after, Madame de Frontignac and Mary went out to gather
shells and seaweed on the beach. It was four o’clock; and the afternoon
sun was hanging in the sultry sky of July with a hot and vaporous
stillness. The whole air was full of blue haze, that softened the
outlines of objects without hiding them. The sea lay like so much
glass; every ship and boat was double; every line, and rope, and spar
had its counterpart; and it seemed hard to say which was the most
real, the under or the upper world. Madame de Frontignac and Mary had
brought along a little basket, which they were filling with shells
and sea-mosses. The former was in high spirits. She ran, and shouted,
and exclaimed, and wondered at each new marvel thrown out upon the
shore, with the abandon of a little child. Mary could not but wonder
whether this indeed were she whose strong words had pierced and wrung
her sympathies the other night, and whether a deep life-wound could lie
bleeding under those brilliant eyes and that infantine exuberance of
gaiety; yet surely all that which seemed so strong, so true, so real,
could not be gone so soon,—and it could not be so soon consoled. Mary
wondered at her, as the Anglo-Saxon constitution, with its strong, firm
intensity, its singleness of nature, wonders at the mobile, many-sided
existence of warmer races, whose versatility of emotion on the surface
is not incompatible with the most intense sameness lower down.
Mary’s was one of those indulgent and tolerant natures which seem to
form the most favourable base for the play of other minds, rather than
to be itself salient,—and something about her tender calmness always
seemed to provoke the spirit of frolic in her friend. She would laugh
at her, kiss her, gambol round her, dress her hair with fantastic
coiffures, and call her all sorts of fanciful and poetic names in
French or English, while Mary surveyed her with a pleased and innocent
surprise, as a revelation of character altogether new and different
from anything to which she had been hitherto accustomed. She was to her
a living pantomime, and brought into her unembellished life the charms
of opera, and theatre, and romance.
After wearying themselves with their researches, they climbed round a
point of rock that stretched some way out into the sea, and attained to
a little kind of grotto, where the high cliffs shut out the rays of the
sun. They sat down to rest upon the rocks. A fresh breeze of declining
day was springing up, and bringing the rising tide landward,—each
several line of waves with their white crest coming up and breaking
gracefully on the hard, sparkling sand-beach at their feet.
Mary’s eyes fixed themselves, as they were apt to do, in a mournful
reverie, on the infinite expanse of waters, which was now broken and
chopped into thousand incoming waves by the fresh afternoon breeze.
Madame de Frontignac noticed the expression, and began to play with her
as if she had been a child. She pulled the comb from her hair, and let
down its long silky waves upon her shoulders.
‘Now,’ said she, ‘let us make a Miranda of thee. This is our cave.
I will be Prince Ferdinand. Burr told me all about that,—he reads
beautifully, and explained it all to me. What a lovely story that
is;—you must be so happy who know how to read Shakspeare without
learning. Tenez! I will put this shell on your forehead,—it has a
hole here, and I will pass this gold chain through—now! What a pity
this seaweed will not be pretty out of water; it has no effect; but
there is some green that will do,—let me fasten it so. Now, fair
Miranda, look at thyself.’
Where is the girl so angelic as not to feel a slight curiosity to know
how she shall look in a new and strange costume? Mary bent over the
rock where a little pool of water lay in a brown hollow above the
fluctuations of the tide, dark and still, like a mirror,—and saw a fair
face, with a white shell above the forehead, and drooping wreaths of
green seaweed in the silken hair; and a faint blush and smile rose on
the cheek, giving the last finish to the picture.
‘How do you find yourself?’ said Madame; ‘confess now that I have a
true talent in coiffure. Now I will be Ferdinand.’ She turned quickly,
and her eye was caught by something that Mary did not see; she only saw
the smile fade suddenly from Madame de Frontignac’s cheek, and her lips
grow deadly white, while her heart beat so that Mary could notice its
flutterings under her black silk bodice.
‘Will the sea-nymphs punish the rash presumption of a mortal who
intrudes?’ said Colonel Burr, stepping before them with a grace as
invincible and assured as if he had never had any past history with
either.
Mary started with a guilty blush, like a child detected in an unseemly
frolic, and put her hand to her head to take off the unwonted
adornments.
‘Let me protest, in the name of the graces,’ said Burr, who by that
time stood with easy calmness at her side; and as he spoke he stayed
her hand with that gentle air of authority which made it the natural
impulse of most people to obey him. ‘It would be treason against the
picturesque,’ he added, ‘to spoil that toilet so charmingly uniting the
wearer to the scene.’
Mary was taken by surprise, and discomposed, as every one is who
finds one’s self masquerading in attire foreign to their usual habits
and character; and therefore, when she would persist in taking it to
pieces, Burr found sufficient to alleviate the embarrassment of Madame
de Frontignac’s utter silence in a playful run of protestations and
compliments.
‘I think, Mary,’ said Madame de Frontignac, ‘that we had better be
returning to the house.’
This was said in the haughtiest and coolest tone imaginable, looking at
the place where Burr stood, as if there were nothing there but empty
air. Mary rose to go; Madame de Frontignac offered her arm.
‘Permit me to remark, ladies,’ said Burr, with the quiet suavity which
never forsook him, ‘that your very agreeable occupations have caused
time to pass more rapidly than you are aware. I think you will find
that the tide has risen so as to intercept the path by which you came
here. You will hardly be able to get around the point of rocks without
some assistance.’
Mary looked a few paces ahead, and saw, a little before them, a fresh
afternoon breeze driving the rising tide high on to the side of the
rocks, at whose foot their course had lain. The nook in which they had
been sporting formed a part of a shelving ledge which inclined over
their heads, and which it was just barely possible could be climbed by
a strong and agile person, but which would be wholly inaccessible to a
frail, unaided woman.
‘There is no time to be lost,’ said Burr, coolly, measuring the
possibilities with that keen eye that was never discomposed by any
exigency. ‘I am at your service, ladies; I can either carry you in my
arms around this point, or assist you up these rocks.’ He paused and
waited for their answer.
Madame de Frontignac stood pale, cold, and silent, hearing only the
wild beating of her heart.
‘I think,’ said Mary, ‘that we should try the rocks.’
‘Very well,’ said Burr; and placing his gloved hand on a fragment of
rock, somewhat above their heads, he swung himself on to it with an
easy agility; from this he stretched himself down as far as possible
towards them, and extending his hand, directed Mary, who stood
foremost, to set her foot on a slight projection, and give him both
her hands; she did so, and he seemed to draw her up as easily as if
she had been a feather. He placed her by him on a shelf of rock, and
turned again to Madame de Frontignac: she folded her arms and turned
resolutely away towards the sea.
Just at that moment a coming wave broke at her feet.
‘There is no time to be lost,’ said Burr; ‘there’s a tremendous wave
coming in, and the next wave may carry you out.’
‘Tant mieux,’ she responded, without turning her head.
‘Oh, Verginie! Verginie!’ exclaimed Mary,—kneeling and stretching her
arms over the rock; but another voice called Verginie, in a tone which
went to her heart. She turned and saw those dark eyes full of tears.
‘Oh, come,’ he said, with that voice which she could never resist.
She put her cold, trembling hands into his, and he drew her up and
placed her safely beside Mary. A few moments of difficult climbing
followed, in which his arm was thrown now around one and then around
the other, and they felt themselves carried with a force, as if the
slight and graceful form were strung with steel.
Placed in safety on the top of the bank, there was a natural gush of
grateful feeling towards their deliverer. The severest resentment, the
coolest moral disapprobation, are necessarily somewhat softened when
the object of them has just laid one under a personal obligation.
Burr did not seem disposed to press his advantage, and treated the
incident as the most matter-of-course affair in the world. He offered
an arm to each lady, with the air of a well-bred gentleman, who offers
a necessary support; and each took it, because neither wished, under
the circumstances, to refuse.
He walked along leisurely homeward, talking in that easy, quiet,
natural way in which he excelled, addressing no very particular remark
to either one, and at the door of the cottage took his leave, saying,
as he bowed, that he hoped neither of them would feel any inconvenience
from their exertions, and that he should do himself the pleasure to
call soon, and inquire after their health.
Madame de Frontignac made no reply; but curtsied with a stately grace,
turned and went into her little room, whither Mary, after a few
minutes, followed her.
She found her thrown upon the bed, her face buried in the pillow, her
breast heaving as if she were sobbing; but when at Mary’s entrance she
raised her head, her eyes were bright and dry.
‘It is just as I told you, Mary,—that man holds me. I love him yet, in
spite of myself. It is in vain to be angry. What is the use of striking
your right hand with your left? When we love one more than ourselves,
we only hurt ourselves with our anger.’
‘But,’ said Mary, ‘love is founded on respect and esteem; and when that
is gone——’
‘Why, then,’ said Madame, ‘we are very sorry; but we love yet; do we
stop loving ourselves when we have lost our own self-respect? No! it is
so disagreeable to see, we shut our eyes and ask to have the bandage
put on,—you know that, poor little heart; you can think how it would
have been with you, if you had found that he was not what you thought.’
The word struck home to Mary’s consciousness, but she sat down and took
her friend in her arms with an air, self-controlled, serious, rational.
‘I see and feel it all, dear Verginie, but I must stand firm for you.
You are in the waves, and I on the shore. If you are so weak at heart,
you must not see this man any more.’
‘But he will call.’
‘I will see him for you.’
‘What will you tell him, my heart,—tell him that I am ill, perhaps?’
‘No; I will tell him the truth,—that you do not wish to see him.’
‘That is hard,—he will wonder.’
‘I think not,’ said Mary, resolutely; ‘and furthermore I shall say to
him that, while Madame de Frontignac is at the cottage, it will not be
agreeable for us to receive calls from him.’
‘Mary, ma chère, you astonish me!’
‘My dear friend,’ said Mary, ‘it is the only way. This man,—this cruel,
wicked, deceitful man,—must not be allowed to trifle with you in this
way. I will protect you.’ And she rose up with flashing eye and glowing
cheek, looking as her father looked when he protested against the
slave-trade.
‘Thou art my Saint Catherine,’ said Verginie, rising up, excited by
Mary’s enthusiasm, ‘and hast the sword as well as the palm; but, dear
saint, don’t think so very, very badly of him,—he has a noble nature;
he has the angel in him.’
‘The greater his sin,’ said Mary; ‘he sins against light and love.’
‘But I think his heart is touched,—I think he is sorry. Oh, Mary, if
you had only seen how he looked at me, when he put out his hands on the
rocks,—there were tears in his eyes.’
‘Well there might be,’ said Mary; ‘I do not think he is quite a fiend;
no one could look at those cheeks, dear Verginie, and not feel sad,
that saw you a few months ago.’
‘Am I so changed?’ she said, rising and looking at herself in the
mirror. ‘Sure enough, my neck used to be quite round,—now you can see
those two little bones, like rocks at low tide. Poor Verginie! her
summer is gone, and the leaves are falling; poor little cat;’—and
Verginie stroked her own chestnut head, as if she had been pitying
another, and began humming a little Norman air, with a refrain that
sounded like the murmur of a brook over the stones.
The more Mary was touched by these little poetic ways, which ran just
on an even line between the gay and the pathetic, the more indignant
she grew with the man that had brought all this sorrow. She felt a
saintly vindictiveness, and a determination to place herself as an
adamantine shield between him and her friend. There is no courage and
no anger like that of a gentle woman when once fully roused; if ever
you have occasion to meet it, you will certainly remember the hour.
CHAPTER XXXII.
MARY revolved the affairs of her friend in her mind during the night.
The intensity of the mental crisis through which she herself had just
passed, had developed her in many inward respects, so that she looked
upon life no longer as a timid girl, but as a strong, experienced
woman. She had thought, and suffered, and held converse with eternal
realities, until thousands of mere earthly hesitations and timidities,
that often restrain a young and untried nature, had entirely lost
their hold upon her. Besides, Mary had at heart the Puritan seed of
heroism,—never absent from the souls of true New England women. Her
essentially Hebrew education, trained in daily converse with the
words of prophets and seers, and with the modes of thought of a grave
and heroic people, predisposed her to a kind of exaltation which,
in times of great trial, might rise to the heights of the religious
sublime, in which the impulse of self-devotion and protection took
a form essentially commanding. The very intensity of the repression
under which her faculties developed seemed as it were to produce a
surplus of hidden strength, which came out in exigencies. Her reading,
though restricted to few volumes, had been of the kind that vitalized
and stimulated a poetic nature, and laid up in its chambers vigorous
words and trenchant phrases, for the use of an excited feeling—so that
eloquence came to her as a native gift. She realized, in short, in her
higher hours, the last touch with which Milton finishes his portrait of
an ideal woman:—
    ‘Greatness of mind and nobleness, their seat
     Build in her loftiest, and create an awe
     About her as a guard angelic placed.’
The next morning, Colonel Burr called at the cottage. Mary was spinning
in the garret, and Madame de Frontignac was reeling yarn, when Mrs.
Scudder brought this announcement.
‘Mother,’ said Mary, ‘I wish to see Mr. Burr alone; Madame de
Frontignac will not go down.’
Mrs. Scudder looked surprised, but asked no questions. When she was
gone down, Mary stood a moment reflecting; Madame de Frontignac looked
eager and agitated. ‘Remember and notice all he says, and just how he
looks, Mary, so as to tell me; and be sure and say that “I thank him
for his kindness yesterday;” we must own he appeared very well there;
did he not?’
‘Certainly,’ said Mary; ‘but no man could have done less.’
‘Ah! but Mary, not every man could have done it as he did; now don’t
be too hard on him, Mary; I have said dreadful things to him; I am
afraid I have been too severe. After all, these distinguished men are
so tempted; we don’t know how much they are tempted; and who can wonder
that they are a little spoiled; so, my angel, you must be merciful.’
‘Merciful!’ said Mary, kissing the pale cheek and feeling the cold
little hands that trembled in hers.
‘So you will go down in your little spinning toilette, ma mie; I
fancy you look as Joan of Arc did when she was keeping her sheep at
Doremi. Go, and God bless thee!’ and Madame de Frontignac pushed her
playfully forward.
Mary entered the room where Burr was seated, and wished him good
morning, in a serious and placid manner, in which there was not the
slightest trace of embarrassment or discomposure.
‘Shall I have the pleasure of seeing your fair companion this morning?’
said Burr, after some moments of indifferent conversation.
‘No, sir; Madame de Frontignac desires me to excuse her to you.’
‘Is she ill?’ said Burr, with a look of concern.
‘No, Mr. Burr, she prefers not to see you.’ Burr gave a start of
well-bred surprise; and Mary added:—
‘Madame de Frontignac has made me familiar with the history of your
acquaintance with her; and you will therefore understand what I mean,
Mr. Burr, when I say that, during the time of her stay with us, we
would prefer not to receive calls from you.’
‘Your language, Miss Scudder, has certainly the merit of explicitness.’
‘I intend it shall have, sir,’ said Mary, tranquilly; ‘half the misery
of the world comes of want of courage to speak and to hear the truth
plainly, and in a spirit of love.’
‘I am gratified that you insert the last clause, Miss Scudder; I might
not otherwise recognize the gentle being whom I have always regarded
as the impersonation of all that is softest in woman. I have not the
honour of understanding in the least the reason of this apparently
capricious sentence, but I bow to it in submission.’
‘Mr. Burr,’ said Mary, walking up to him, and looking him full in the
eyes with an energy that for the moment bore down his practised air
of easy superiority, ‘I wish to speak to you for a moment, as one
immortal soul should to another, without any of those false glosses
and deceits which men call ceremony and good manners. You have done a
very great injury to a lovely lady, whose weakness ought to have been
sacred in your eyes. Precisely, because you are what you are,—strong,
keen, penetrating, able to control and govern all who come near you;
because you have the power to make yourself agreeable, interesting,
fascinating, and to win esteem and love,—just for that reason you ought
to hold yourself the guardian of every woman, and treat her as you
would wish any man to treat your own daughter. I leave it to your own
conscience whether this is the manner in which you have treated Madame
de Frontignac.’
‘Upon my word, Miss Scudder,’ began Burr, ‘I cannot imagine what
representations our mutual friend may have been making. I assure you,
our intercourse has been as irreproachable as the most scrupulous could
desire.’
‘Irreproachable! innocent! Mr. Burr, you know that you have taken
the very life out of her; you men can have everything, ambition,
wealth, power; a thousand ways are open to you; and women have nothing
but their hearts, and when that is gone, all is gone. Mr. Burr, you
remember the rich man that had flocks and herds, but nothing would do
for him but he must have the one little ewe lamb which was all his poor
neighbour had. Thou art the man! You have stolen all the love she has
to give, all that she had to make a happy home; and you can never give
her anything in return without endangering her purity and her soul,
and you knew you could not. I know you men think this is a light
matter; but it is death to us; what will this woman’s life be? one long
struggle to forget; and when you have forgotten her, and are going
on gay and happy, when you have thrown her very name away as a faded
flower, she will be praying, hoping, fearing for you; though all men
deny you, yet will not she. Yes, Mr. Burr, if ever your popularity and
prosperity should leave you, and those who now flatter should despise
and curse you, she will always be interceding with her own heart and
with God for you, and making a thousand excuses when she cannot deny;
and if you die, as I fear you have lived, unreconciled to the God of
your fathers, it will be in her heart to offer up her very soul for
you, and to pray that God will impute all your sins to her, and give
you heaven. Oh, I know this because I have felt it in my own heart!’
and Mary threw herself passionately down into a chair, and broke into
an agony of uncontrolled sobbing.
Burr turned away, and stood looking through the window; tears were
dropping silently, unchecked by the cold, hard pride which was the evil
demon of his life.
It is due to our human nature to believe that no man could ever have
been so passionately and enduringly loved and revered by both men and
women as he was, without a beautiful and lovable nature; no man ever
demonstrated more forcibly the truth, that it is not a man’s natural
constitution, but the use he makes of it which stamps him as good or
evil.
The diviner part of him was weeping, and the cold, proud, demon was
struggling to regain his lost ascendency. Every sob of the fair,
inspired child who had been speaking to him seemed to shake his
heart; he felt as if he could have fallen on his knees to her; and
yet that stoical habit, which was the boast of his life, which was
the highest wisdom he taught to his only and beautiful daughter, was
slowly stealing back round his heart, and he pressed his lips together,
resolved that no word should escape till he had fully mastered himself.
In a few moments Mary rose with renewed calmness and dignity, and
approaching him, said, ‘Before I wish you a good morning, Mr. Burr,
I must ask pardon for the liberty I have taken in speaking so very
plainly.’
‘There is no pardon needed, my dear child,’ said Burr, turning and
speaking very gently, and with a face expressive of a softened concern;
‘if you have told me harsh truths, it was with gentle intentions; I
only hope that I may prove, at least by the future, that I am not
altogether so bad as you imagine. As to the friend whose name has been
passed between us, no man can go beyond me in a sense of her real
nobleness; I am sensible how little I can ever deserve the sentiment
with which she honours me. I am ready, in my future course, to obey any
commands that you and she may think proper to lay upon me.’
‘The only kindness you can now do her,’ said Mary, ‘is to leave her. It
is impossible that you can be merely friends,—it is impossible, without
violating the holiest bonds, that you can be more. The injury done is
irreparable, but you can avoid adding another and greater one to it.’
Burr looked thoughtful.
‘May I say one thing more?’ said Mary, the colour rising in her cheeks.
Burr looked at her with that smile that always drew out the confidence
of every heart.
‘Mr. Burr,’ she said, ‘you will pardon me, but I cannot help saying
this: You have, I am told, wholly renounced the Christian faith of your
fathers, and build your whole life on quite another foundation. I
cannot help feeling that this is a great and terrible mistake. I cannot
help wishing that you would examine and reconsider.’
‘My dear child, I am extremely grateful to you for your remark, and
appreciate fully the purity of the source from which it springs.
Unfortunately, our intellectual beliefs are not subject to the control
of our will. I have examined, and the examination has, I regret to say,
not had the effect you would desire.’
Mary looked at him wistfully; he smiled and bowed, all himself again;
and stopping at the door, he said, with a proud humility, ‘Do me the
favour to present my devoted regard to your friend; believe me, that
hereafter you shall have less reason to complain of me.’ He bowed and
was gone.
An eye-witness of the scene has related that when Burr resigned his
seat as president of his country’s senate, he was an object of peculiar
political bitterness and obloquy. Almost all who listened to him had
made up their minds that he was an utterly faithless, unprincipled man;
and yet, such was his singular and peculiar personal power, that his
short farewell address melted the whole assembly into tears; and his
most embittered adversaries were charmed into a momentary enthusiasm of
admiration.
It must not be wondered at, therefore, if our simple-hearted, loving
Mary strangely found all her indignation against him gone, and herself
little disposed to criticise the impassioned tenderness with which
Madame de Frontignac still regarded him.
We have one thing more that we cannot avoid saying of two men so
singularly in juxtaposition, as Aaron Burr and Dr. Hopkins.
Both had a perfect logic of life, and guided themselves with an
inflexible rigidity by it. Burr assumed individual pleasure to be
the great object of human existence; and Dr. Hopkins placed it in a
life altogether beyond self. Burr rejected all sacrifice, Hopkins
considered sacrifice as the foundation of all existence. To live as far
as possible without a disagreeable sensation was an object which Burr
proposed to himself as the summum bonum, for which he drilled down
and subjugated a nature of singular richness. Hopkins, on the other
hand, smoothed the asperities of a temperament naturally violent and
fiery by a rigid discipline, which guided it entirely above the plane
of self-indulgence; and, in the pursuance of their great end, the one
watched against his better nature as the other did against his worse.
It is but fair, then, to take their lives as the practical workings of
their respective ethical creeds.
CHAPTER XXXIII.
‘Enfin, chère Sibylle,’ said Madame de Frontignac when Mary came out
of the room with her cheeks glowing and her eyes flashing with a still
unsubdued light. ‘Te voilà encore! What did he say, mimi? did he
ask for me?’
‘Yes,’ said Mary, ‘he asked for you.’
‘What did you tell him?’
‘I told him that you wished me to excuse you.’
‘How did he look then? Did he look surprised?’
‘A good deal so, I thought,’ said Mary.
‘Allons, mimi, tell me all you said and all he said.’
‘Oh,’ said Mary, ‘I am the worst person in the world; in fact, I cannot
remember anything that I have said; but I told him that he must leave
you and never see you any more.’
‘Oh, mimi! never!’
Madame de Frontignac sat down on the side of the bed with such a look
of utter despair as went to Mary’s heart.
‘You know that that is best, Verginie, do you not?’
‘Oh! yes, I know it; but it is like death to me! Ah, well, what shall
Verginie do now?’
‘You have your husband,’ said Mary.
‘I do not love him,’ said Madame de Frontignac.
‘Yes; but he is a good and honourable man, and you should love him.’
‘Love is not in our power,’ said Madame de Frontignac.
‘Not every kind of love,’ said Mary, ‘but some kinds. If you have
an indulgent friend who protects you, and cares for you, you can be
grateful to him; you can try to make him happy, and in time you may
come to love him very much. He is a thousand times nobler man, if what
you say is true, than the one who has injured you so.’
‘Oh, Mary,’ said Madame de Frontignac, ‘there are some cases where we
find it too easy to love our enemies.’
‘More than that,’ said Mary; ‘I believe that if you were to go on
patiently in the way of duty, and pray daily to God, that at last He
will take out of your heart this painful love, and give you a true and
healthy one. As you say, such feelings are very sweet and noble; but
they are not the only ones we have to live by. We can find happiness in
duty, in self-sacrifice, in calm, sincere, honest friendship. That is
what you can feel for your husband.’
‘Your words cool me,’ said Madame de Frontignac. ‘Thou art a sweet
snow-maiden, and my heart is hot and tired. I like to feel thee in my
arms,’ she said, putting her arms around Mary, and resting her head
upon her shoulder. ‘Talk to me so every day, and read me good, cool
verses out of that beautiful book, and perhaps by-and-by I shall grow
still and quiet like you.’
Thus Mary soothed her friend; but every few days this soothing had to
be done over, as long as Burr remained in Newport. When he was finally
gone, she grew more calm. The simple, homely ways of the cottage, the
healthful routine of daily domestic toils, into which she delighted to
enter, brought refreshment to her spirits. That fine tact and exquisite
social sympathy which distinguishes the French above other nations,
caused her at once to enter into the spirit of the life in which she
moved; so that she no longer shocked any one’s religious feelings by
acts forbidden to the Puritan idea of the sabbath, or failed in any of
the exterior proprieties of religious life.
She also read and studied with avidity the English Bible, which came to
her with the novelty of a wholly new book, and in a new language; nor
was she without a certain artistic valuation of the austere precision
and gravity of the religious life by which she was surrounded.
‘It is sublime, but a little “glaciale,” like the Alps,’ she sometimes
said to Mary and Mrs. Marvyn, when speaking of it; ‘but then,’ she
added, playfully, ‘there are the flowers—les roses des Alpes; and the
air is very strengthening, and it is near to heaven—il faut avouer.’
We have shown how she appeared to the eye of New England life; it may
not be uninteresting to give a letter to one of her friends, which
showed how the same appeared to her.
It was not a friend with whom she felt on such terms that her intimacy
with Burr would furnish any allusions to her correspondence.
‘You behold me, my charming Gabrielle, quite pastoral; recruiting from
the dissipations of my Philadelphia life in a lovely, quiet cottage,
with most worthy, excellent people, whom I have learnt to love very
much. They are good and true, as pious as the saints themselves,
although they do not belong to the true Church, a thing which I am
sorry for; but then let us hope that if the world is wide, heaven is
wider, and that all worthy and religious people will find room at last.
This is Verginie’s own little pet private heresy, and when I tell it to
the Abbé, he only smiles; and so I think, somehow, that it is not so
very bad as it might be.
‘We have had a very gay life in Philadelphia, and now I am growing
tired of the world, and think I shall retire to my cheese, like La
Fontaine’s rat. These people in the country here in America have a
character quite their own; very different from the life of cities,
where one sees, for the most part, only a continuation of the forms of
good society which exist in the old world.
‘In the country these people seem simple, grave, severe; always
industrious; cold and reserved in their manners towards each other,
but with great warmth of heart. They are all obedient to the word of
their priest, whom they call a minister, and who lives among them
just like any other man, and marries and has children. Everything
in their worship is plain and austere. Their churches are perfectly
desolate; they have no chants, no pictures, no carvings; only a most
disconsolate, bare building, where they meet together and sing one or
two hymns, and the minister makes one or two prayers all out of his
own thoughts; and then gives them a long, long discourse about things
which I cannot understand English enough to comprehend.
‘There is a very beautiful, charming young girl here, the daughter of
my hostess, who is as lovely and as saintly as St. Catharine, and has
such a genius for religion that if she had been in our Church she would
certainly have made a saint. Her mother is a respectable and worthy
matron, and the good priest lives in the family. I think he is a man of
very sublime religion, as much above this world as a great mountain;
but he has the true sense of liberty and fraternity, for he has dared
to oppose with all his might this detestable and cruel trade in poor
negroes; which makes us, who are so proud of the example of America in
asserting the rights of man, so ashamed for her inconsistencies.
‘Well, now, there is a little romance getting up in the cottage;
for the good priest has fixed his eyes on the pretty saint, and has
discovered, what he must be blind not to see, that she is very lovely.
And so, as he can marry, he wants to make her his wife; and her mamma,
who adores him as if he were God, is quite set upon it. The sweet
Marie, however, has had a lover of her own in her little heart, a
beautiful young man who went to sea, as heroes always do, to seek
his fortune. And the cruel sea has drowned him, and the poor little
saint has wept and prayed her very life out on his grave; till she is
so thin, and sweet, and mournful, that it makes one’s heart ache to
see her smile. In our Church, Gabrielle, she would have gone into a
convent; but she makes a vocation of her daily life, and goes round
the house so sweetly, doing all the little work that is to be done,
as sacredly as the nuns pray at the altar. For you must know, here in
New England the people for the most part keep no servants, but perform
all the household work themselves, with no end of spinning and sewing
besides. It is the true Arcadia, where you find refined and cultivated
natures busying themselves with the simplest toils. For these people
are well-read and well-bred, and truly ladies in all things. And so,
my little Marie and I, we feed the hens and chickens together, and we
search for eggs in the hay in the barn; and they have taught me to
spin at their great wheel, and a little one, too, which makes a noise
like the humming of a bee. But where am I? Oh, I was telling about
the romance. Well, so the good priest has proposed for my Marie, and
the dear soul has accepted him, as the nun accepts the veil; for she
only loves him filially and religiously. And now they are going on, in
their way, with preparations for the wedding. They had what they call
“a quilting” here the other night, to prepare the bride’s quilt, and
all the friends in the neighbourhood came—it was very amusing to see.
The morals of this people are so austere that young men and girls are
allowed the greatest freedom. They associate and talk freely together,
and the young men walk home alone with the girls after evening parties.
And most generally the young people, I am told, arrange their marriages
among themselves before the consent of the parents is asked. This is
very strange to us. I must not weary you, however, with the details.
I watch my little romance daily, and will let you hear further as it
progresses.
‘With a thousand kisses, I am ever your loving
                                                ‘VERGINIE.’
CHAPTER XXXIV.
MEANWHILE wedding proceedings were going on at the cottage with that
consistent vigour with which Yankee people always drive operations
when they know precisely what they are about. The wedding-day was
definitively fixed for the 1st of August, and every one of the two
weeks between had its particular significance and value precisely
marked out and arranged in Mrs. Katy Scudder’s comprehensive and
systematic schemes. It was settled that the newly-wedded pair
were, for a while at least, to reside at the cottage. It might
have been imagined, therefore, that no great external changes
were in contemplation; but it is astonishing to see the amount of
grave discussion, the amount of consulting, advising, and running
abstractedly to and fro, which can be made to result out of an
apparently slight change in the relative position of two people in the
same house.
Dr. Hopkins really opened his eyes with calm amazement—good modest
soul! he had never imagined himself the hero of so much preparation.
He heard his name constantly from morning to night occurring in busy
consultations that seemed to be going on between Miss Prissy, and
Mrs. Deacon Twitchel, and Mrs. Scudder, and Mrs. Jones, and quietly
wondered what they could have so much more than usual to say about
him. For a while it seemed to him that the whole house was about to
be torn to pieces. He was even requested to step out of his study one
day, into which immediately entered, in his absence, two of the most
vigorous women of the parish, who proceeded to uttermost measures,
first pitching everything into pie, so that the Doctor, who returned
disconsolately to look for a book, at once gave up himself and his
system of divinity as entirely lost, until assured by one of the ladies
in a condescending manner that he knew nothing about the matter, and
that if he would return after half a day he would find everything
right again: a declaration in which he tried to have unlimited faith,
and where he found the advantage of a mind accustomed to believe in
mysteries. And it is to be remarked, that on his return he actually
found his table in most perfect order, with not a single one of his
papers missing; in fact, to his ignorant eye, the room looked exactly
as it did before; and when Miss Prissy eloquently demonstrated to him
that every inch of that paint had been scrubbed, and the windows taken
out and washed inside and out, and rinsed through three waters, and
that the curtains had been taken down and washed and put through a blue
water, and starched and ironed, and put up again, he only innocently
wondered in his ignorance what there was in a man’s being married that
made all these ceremonies necessary; but the Doctor was a wise man, and
in cases of difficulty kept his mind much to himself, and therefore
he only informed those energetic practitioners that ‘he was extremely
obliged to them,’ accepting the matter by simple faith, an example
which we recommend to all good men in similar circumstances.
The house throughout was subjected to similar renovations. Everything
in every chest, or trunk, or box, was vigorously pulled out and hung
out on lines in the clothes-yard to air, for when once the spirit of
enterprise has fairly possessed a group of women, it assumes the form
of a ‘prophetic fury,’ and carries them beyond themselves. Let not any
ignorant mortal of the masculine gender, at such hours, rashly dare to
question the promptings of the genius that inspires them! Spite of all
the treatises that have lately appeared to demonstrate that there is
no particular inherent diversity between men and women, we hold to the
opinion that one thorough season of house-cleansing is sufficient to
demonstrate the existence of awful and mysterious differences between
the sexes, and of subtle and reserved forces in the female line,
before which the lords of creation can only veil their faces with a
discreet reverence as our Doctor has done.
In fact, his whole deportment on the occasion was characterized by
humility so edifying as really to touch the hearts of the whole synod
of matrons; and Miss Prissy rewarded him by declaring impressively
her opinion that he was worthy to have a voice in the choosing the
wedding-dress, and she actually swooped him up, just in a very critical
part of a distinction between natural and moral ability, and conveyed
him bodily (as fairy sprites know how to convey the most ponderous
of mortals) into the best room, where three specimens of brocade lay
spread out upon a table for inspection.
Mary stood by the side of the table, her pretty head bent reflectively
downward, her cheek just resting upon the tip of one of her fingers,
as she stood looking thoughtfully through the brocades at something
deeper that seemed to lie under them; and when the Doctor was required
to give judgment on the articles, it was observed by the matrons
that his large blue eyes were resting upon Mary with an expression
that almost glorified his face; and it was not until his elbow was
repeatedly shaken by Miss Prissy that he gave a sudden start and
fixed his attention as was requested upon the silks. It had been one
of Miss Prissy’s favourite theories, that ‘that dear blessed man
had taste enough if he would only give his mind to things;’ and in
fact the Doctor rather verified the remark on the present occasion,
for he looked very conscientiously and soberly at the silks, and
even handled them cautiously and respectfully with his fingers, and
listened with grave attention to all that Miss Prissy told him of
their price and properties, and then laid his finger down on one whose
snow-white ground was embellished with a pattern representing lilies
of the valley on a background of green leaves. ‘This is the one,’ he
said, with an air of decision, and then he looked at Mary and smiled,
and a murmur of universal approbation broke out. A chorus of loud
acclamations, in which Miss Prissy’s voice took the lead, conveyed to
the innocent-minded Doctor the idea that in some mysterious way he had
distinguished himself in the eyes of his feminine friends, whereat
he retired to his study, slightly marvelling, but on the whole well
pleased, as men generally are when they do better than they expect; and
Miss Prissy, turning out all profaner persons from the apartment, held
a solemn consultation, to which only Mary, Mrs. Scudder, and Madame de
Frontignac were admitted; for it is to be observed that the latter had
risen daily and hourly in Miss Prissy’s esteem since her entrance into
the cottage, and she declared that if she only would give her a few
hints, she didn’t believe but that she could make that dress look just
like a Paris one, and rather intimated that in such a case she might
almost be ready to resign all mortal ambitions.
The afternoon of this day, just at that cool hour when the clock ticks
so quietly in a New England kitchen, and everything is so clean and
put away that there seems to be nothing to do in the house, Mary sat
quietly down in her room to hem a ruffle. Everybody had gone out of
the house on various errands. The Doctor, with implicit faith, had
surrendered himself to Mrs. Scudder and Miss Prissy, to be conveyed up
to Newport, and attend to various appointments in relation to his outer
man, which he was informed would be indispensable in the forthcoming
solemnities.
Madame de Frontignac had also gone to spend the day with some of her
Newport friends; and Mary, quite well pleased with the placid and
orderly stillness which reigned through the house, sat pleasantly
murmuring a little tune to her sewing, when suddenly the trip of a
merry, brisk foot was heard in the kitchen, and Miss Cerinthy Ann
Twitchel made her appearance at the door, her healthy, glowing cheek
wearing a still brighter colour, from the exercise of a three-mile walk
in a July day.
‘Why, Cerinthy,’ said Mary, ‘how glad I am to see you!’
‘Well!’ said Cerinthy; ‘I have been meaning to come down all this week,
but there is so much to do in haying-time; but to-day I told mother
I must come. I brought these down,’ she said, unfolding a dozen of
snowy damask napkins, ‘that I spun myself, and was thinking of you
almost all the while I spun them; so I suppose they ain’t quite so
wicked as they might be.’
We will remark here that Cerinthy Ann, in virtue of having a high stock
of animal spirits, and great fulness of physical vigour, had very
small proclivities towards the unseen and spiritual; but still always
indulged a secret resentment at being classed as a sinner above many
others, who as church-members made such professions, and were, as she
remarked, ‘not a bit better than she was.’
She always, however, had cherished an unbounded veneration for Mary,
and had made her the confidante of most of her important secrets; and
it soon became very evident that she had come with one on her mind now.
‘Don’t you want to come and sit out in the lot?’ she said to her, after
sitting awhile, twirling her bonnet-strings with the air of one who has
something to say and does not know exactly how to begin upon it.
Mary cheerfully gathered up her thread, scissors, and ruffling, and
the two stepped over the window-sill, and soon found themselves seated
cozily under the boughs of a large apple-tree, whose descending
branches, meeting the tops of the high grass all around, formed a
perfect seclusion, as private as heart could desire.
They sat down, pushing away a place in the grass; and Cerinthy Ann
took off her bonnet, and threw it among the clover, exhibiting to
view her glossy black hair, always trimly arranged in shining braids,
except where some curls fell over the rich, high colour of her cheeks.
Something appeared to discompose her this afternoon; there were those
evident signs of a consultation impending, which to an experienced eye
are as unmistakeable as the coming up of a shower in summer.
Cerinthy began by passionately demolishing several heads of clover,
remarking as she did so that ‘she didn’t see, for her part, how Mary
could keep so calm when things were coming so near;’ and as Mary
answered to this only with a quiet smile, she broke out again:—
‘I don’t see, for my part, how a young girl could marry a minister
anyhow; but then I think you are just cut out for it. But what would
anybody say if I should do such a thing?’
‘I don’t know,’ said Mary, innocently.
‘Well, I suppose everybody would hold up their hands; and yet if I do
say it myself,’ she added, colouring, ‘there are not many girls who
could make a better minister’s wife than I could if I had a mind to
try.’
‘That I am sure of,’ said Mary, warmly.
‘I guess you are the only one that ever thought so,’ said Cerinthy,
giving an impatient toss; ‘there’s father all the while mourning over
me, and mother too, and yet I don’t see but that I do pretty much all
that is done in the house. And they say I am a great comfort in a
temporal point of view; but oh! the groanings and the sighings that
there are over me!
‘I don’t think it is pleasant to think that your best friends are
thinking such awful things about you when you are working your fingers
off to help them; it is kind o’ discouraging, but I don’t know what to
do about it;’ and for a few moments Cerinthy sat demolishing buttercups
and throwing them up in the air, till her shiny black head was covered
with golden flakes, while her cheek grew redder with something that she
was going to say next.
‘Now, Mary, there is that creature; well—you know—he won’t take “no”
for an answer. What shall I do?’
‘Suppose then you try “yes,”’ said Mary, rather archly.
‘Oh, pshaw, Mary Scudder! You know better than that now. I look like
it, don’t I?’
‘Why, yes,’ said Mary, looking at Cerinthy deliberately, ‘on the whole
I think you do.’
‘Well, one thing I must say,’ said Cerinthy, ‘I can’t see what he
finds in me. I think he is a thousand times too good for me. Why,
you have no idea, Mary, how I have plagued him. I believe that man
really is a Christian,’ she added, while something like a penitent
tear actually glistened in those sharp, saucy, black eyes; ‘besides,’
she added, ‘I have told him everything I could think of to discourage
him. I told him that I had a bad temper, and didn’t believe the
doctrines, and couldn’t promise that I ever should. And after all,
that creature keeps right on, and I don’t know what to tell him.’
‘Well,’ said Mary, mildly; ‘do you think you really love him?’
‘Love him,’ said Cerinthy, giving a great flounce, ‘to be sure I
don’t—catch me loving any man. I told him last night I didn’t, but
it didn’t do a bit of good. I used to think that man was bashful,
but I declare I have altered my mind. He will talk and talk, ’till I
don’t know what to do. I tell you, Mary, he talks beautifully too,
sometimes.’ Here Cerinthy turned quickly away, and began reaching
passionately after clover heads. After a few moments she resumed.
‘The fact is, Mary, that man needs somebody to take care of him,
for he never thinks of himself. They say he has got the consumption,
but he hasn’t any more than I have. It is just the way he neglects
himself!—preaching, talking, and visiting—nobody to take care of him,
and see to his clothes, and nurse him up when he gets a little hoarse
and run down. Well, I suppose if I am unregenerate, I do know how to
keep things in order; and if I should keep such a man’s soul in his
body, I suppose I should be doing some good in the world; because if a
minister don’t live, of course he can’t convert anybody. Just think
of his saying that I could be a comfort to him! I told him that it
was perfectly ridiculous, “and besides,” says I, “what will everybody
think?” I thought that I had really talked him out of the notion of it
last night; but there he was in again this morning; and told me he had
derived great encouragement from what I said. Well, the poor man really
is lonesome, his mother’s dead, and he hasn’t any sisters. I asked him
why he didn’t go and take Miss Olladine Hocum. Everybody says she would
make a first-rate minister’s wife.’
‘Well; and what did he say to that?’ said Mary.
‘Well, something really silly about my looks,’ said Cerinthy, looking
down.
Mary looked up and remarked the shining black hair, the long dark
lashes, lying down over the glowing cheek, where two arch dimples were
nestling, and said quietly, ‘Probably he is a man of taste, Cerinthy.
I advise you to leave the matter entirely to his judgment.’
‘You don’t really, Mary,’ said the damsel, looking up; ‘don’t you think
it would injure him if I should?’
‘I think not materially,’ said Mary.
‘Well,’ said Cerinthy, rising, ‘the men will be coming home from
mowing before I get home, and want their supper. Mother has one of her
headaches on this afternoon, so I can’t stop any longer: there isn’t a
soul in the house knows where anything is when I am gone. If I should
ever take it into my head to go off, I don’t know what would become of
father and mother. I was telling mother the other day that I thought
unregenerate folks were of some use in this world any way.’
‘Does your mother know anything about it?’ said Mary.
‘Oh, as to mother, I believe she has been hoping and praying about it
these three months. She thinks that I am such a desperate case, it is
the only way I am to be brought in, as she calls it. That’s what set me
against him at first; but the fact is, if girls will let a man argue
with them, he always contrives to get the best of it. I am provoked
about it too; but dear me! he is so meek there is no use of getting
provoked at him. Well, I guess I will go home and think about it.’
As she turned to go she looked really pretty. Her long lashes were
wet with a twinkling moisture, like meadow-grass after a shower; and
there was a softened, child-like expression stealing over the careless
gaiety of her face. Mary put her arms round her with a gentle caressing
