they're ripe anywhere else. Who is 'Mintie'? and who stays with her
while you're after blackberries?"
"Mintie's sissy. There aint nobody stayin' with her--she's stayin'
along o' mother--when she's up."
"Where is she?--I mean where does she live--and you, and Mintie. Where
is your house?"
"Round there--'Taint fur. What you got?"
Faith set down her cup and looked at Mr. Linden.
"What is the matter with your mother?"
"She's sick."
"Well if I give you a basket, and this lady puts some dinner in it for
your mother and Mintie and you, do you think you can carry it home?"
"Is your sister sick too?" said Faith.
"She's got the fever nagur."
"Endecott," said Faith softly,--"shall we go and see them?"
"Yes, of course. What's your name, child?"
"My name's Bob Tuck."
Mr. Linden looked at him.
"How comes it that you and Dromy are no more alike?" he said.
"Mother says Dromy aint like nothin' I be."
"Well Bob Tuck," said Mr. Linden smiling, "have you got a broom at
home?"
"There's two old ones."
"Then if you will go home and sweep the floor as well as you can, with
the two old brooms, and set the table, I'll bring this lady to see you
and we'll carry the basket--(which means, Princess, that I
will!)--and you can let the blackberries hang on till they get ripe. Do
you understand?"
"If I'll sweep the floor, you'll fetch the basket?" said Bob.
"Yes. And you can wash your hands nicely and be ready to help me take
the things out of it."
Bob started. "How soon 'll you come?"
"As soon as I finish my dinner."
"How good it is I brought the whole pie!" said Faith, as she poured the
delayed coffee upon the cream and sugar. "And there's your shad,
Endecott! unless you prefer to take that home, and we'll send something
else.--Now you see what you picked up sticks for?"
"I see--" Mr. Linden said, looking at her. "And you see, Princess, what
royalty is apt to meet if it will go wandering round the world."
"What?"
"Bob Tuck!--"
"Well--it's a good thing for Bob Tuck to meet with royalty,"--said
Faith, looking at the pie Mr. Linden was cutting.
"Princess," said Mr. Linden, "have you any 'Queen Anne' in your basket?"
Faith looked, her merry, puzzled, grave look of inquiry,--and then
there was nothing for it but a ringing laugh again.
"I would rather have that at a venture, if I were the sick one," said
Mr. Linden. "But the specific most prized by that class of the
population who have 'fever nagur', is called in their vernacular 'Queen
Anne'--anglice, quinine. Faith, you have no idea how those buttercups
are beautified!"
"Flowers always are, that you handle," said Faith.
"You see how appropriate they are to my Sunbeam--for
   'The buttercup catches the sun in his chalice'."
"What is a chalice?"
"A sort of cup--a church service cup, generally. Did you admire so much
the head of clover I gave you once down at the shore?"
Faith gave him a curious glance of recollection; but though there was a
half smile on her face too, she remained silent.
"Well, little bird?" he said smiling. "Of what is that look compounded?"
"Various things, I suppose. Let me have your cup, Endecott?"
"Do you know," he said, "that for a scholar, you
are--remarkably--unready to answer questions?"
"I didn't know it."
"Are you not aware of any class of recollective remarks or inquiries
which now and then break forth, and which you invariably smother with a
thick blanket of silence?"
There was another quick glance and smile, and then Faith said as she
handed him his cup,--
"What do you want to know, Endecott?"
"I want to know where there was ever just such another princess. And by
the way, speaking of the shore--I have something that belongs to her."
"To me?"
"Oui, mademoiselle."
"May I know what?"
"You may, yet not just now. You may guess what it is."
But Faith gave up guessing in despair at one of Mr. Linden's puzzles.
The basket was repacked when the lunch was done; and they set out on
their walk. The way, following Bob's direction, led along the bank
under the trees, turning a little before the Mong was reached. The
house was soon found; standing alone, in an enclosed garden ground
where no spade had been struck that season; and at the end of a farm
road that shewed no marks of travel.
Bob had not only swept the room, but his tidings had roused apparently
his sister to prepare herself also; for Mintie met them as they came
in. She was a handsome girl, with a feverish colour in her cheeks that
made her appearance only more striking. There was pride and poverty
here, clearly. Faith's simple words neither assumed the one nor
attacked the other. The girl looked curiously at her and at the other
visiter.
"Who be you?"
"We do not live in this neighbourhood," said Faith. "We came up to
Kildeer river to-day, and met your little brother down by the shore."
"What did he say to you?"
"He told us you were sick and in want of help."
Another look laid the girl's jealousy asleep. She told her story--her
father had died six months ago; she and her mother and brother lived
there alone. It was an "unlikely place to get to," and no neighbours
very near. Her mother had been sick abed for a number of weeks; and she
had had all to do, and now for a week past had been unable to do
anything, go to Pettibaug or anywhere else, to get what they wanted.
And so they "had got out of 'most everything." Dromy Tuck, Mr. Linden's
scholar, lived at Farmer Davids' in the capacity of farm-boy; Mrs.
Davids being a far-off connexion.
So much was all pride permitted to be told. Without much questioning,
her visiters contrived to find out what they could do for her. Faith
put the coffee-pot on the fire, declaring that it would do Mintie good
like medicine; and served it to her when it was hot, with some bread
and chicken, as if it had been indeed medicine and Faith a doctor. Then
while Bob and she were dining, Faith went in to see the sick woman.
She was much more communicative, and half avowed that she believed
what she wanted now was "nourishing things"--"but with me lyin' here on
my back," she said, "'taint so easy to find 'em." Faith gave her a cup
of coffee too and some bread; she had hardly drunk any herself at
lunch; and leaving her patient much inspirited, came back to Mr. Linden
in the other room. Apparently his words and deeds had been acceptable
too,--Bob's face was shining, not only with dinner but with the
previous cold water applications which Mr. Linden had insisted on, and
Mintie's mind was evidently at work upon various things. The basket was
soon emptied of all but its dishes, and the prince and princess went on
their way down the hill.
"Faith," said Mr. Linden, "shall we go and sit in the boat for half an
hour, considering various things, and then have our wild flower hunt?
Or would you prefer that first?"
"O no! I would rather have the half hour in the boat."
It was good time yet in the afternoon, and though the little boat now
lay partly shadowed by the hill, it was none the worse resting place
for that. Again Faith was seated there in all the style that shawls and
cushions furnished, and just tired enough to feel luxurious in the soft
atmosphere. Mr. Linden arranged and established her to his liking; then
he took out of his pocket a letter.
It was one which had been opened and read; but as he unfolded it, there
appeared another--unopened, unread; its dainty seal unbroken, and on
the back in fair tracery, the words, "Miss Faith Derrick." As Faith
read them and saw the hand, her eye glanced first up at Mr. Linden with
its mute burden of surprise, and then the roses bloomed out over her
cheeks and even threw their flush upon her brow. Her eye was cast down
now and fixed on the unopened letter, with the softest fall of its
eyelid.
"Shall I read you a part of mine first?"
"If you please. I wish you would."
"Only a little bit," he said smiling--thinking perhaps that she did not
know to what she gave her assent so readily,--"you shall read the whole
of it another time." The "little bit" began rather abruptly.
"'I have written to your darling, Endy--Not much, tell her; because
what I have in my heart for her cannot be told. I know how precious any
one must be whom you love so much. But make her love me a little before
she reads my letter--and don't let her call me anything but Pet--and
then I shall feel as if I had a sister already. And so I have, as you
say. What a glad word!--I could cry again with the very writing of it.
'Endy--I did cry a little over your letter, but only for joy: if it had
been for sorrow I should have cried long ago; for I knew well enough
what was coming. Only I want more than ever to be at home,--and to see
you, and to see Faith--don't let her think I am like you!
'My letter wouldn't hold much, as I told you. But I give you any number
of (unspeakable!) messages for her, John Endy. I suppose you will take
charge of them? I may feel sure they have all reached their
destination?'"
Long before the reading was finished, Faith's head had sunk--almost to
the cushions beside her. The reader's voice and intonation had given
every word a sort of ring in her heart, though the tone was low. One
hand came round her when she put her head down, taking possession of
her hand which lay so still, with the unopened letter in its clasp. But
now she was gently raised up.
"Precious child," Mr. Linden said, "what are you drooping your head
for?"
"For the same reason she had, I suppose,--" said Faith half laughing,
though witnesses of another kind were in her eyes.
"Who are you talking about?"
"Your sister."
"Why don't you begin to practise your lesson?"
Perhaps Faith thought that she was. She looked at nothing but her
letter.
"Will you wait for your messages till we get home?--this place not
being absolute seclusion."
"Shall I read this now?" said Faith rather hastily.
"I should think there would be no danger in that."
With somewhat unsteady fingers, that yet tried to be quiet, Faith broke
the seal; and masking her glowing face with one hand, she bent over the
letter to read it.
"My very dear, and most unknown, and most well-known little sister! I
have had a picture sent me of you--as you appeared one night, when you
sat for your portrait, hearing Portia; and with it a notice of several
events which occurred just before that time. And both picture and
events have gone down into my heart, and abide there. Endecott says you
are a Sunbeam--and I feel as if a little of the light had come over the
water to me,--ever since his letter came I have been in a state of
absolute reflection!
"I thought my love would not be the first to 'find out the way'--even
then when I wrote it! Faith--do you know that there is nobody in the
world just like him? because if you do not--you will find it out!--I
mean! like Endecott--not like Love. My dear, I beg pardon for my
pronoun! But just how I have loved you all these months, for making
him so happy, I cannot tell you.
"And I cannot write to-day--about anything,--my thoughts are in too
uneven a flow to find their way to the end of my pen, and take all
possible flights instead. Dear Faith, you must wait for a letter till
the next steamer. And you cannot miss it--nor anything else, with
Endecott there,--it seems to me that to be even in the same country
with him is happiness.
"You must love me too, Faith, and not think me a stranger,--and let me
be your (because I am Endy's)
"PET."
Faith took a great deal more time than was necessary for the reading of
this letter. Very much indeed she would have liked to do as her
correspondent confessed she had done, and cry--but there was no sign of
such an inclination. She only sat perfectly moveless, bending over her
letter. At last suddenly looked up and gave it to Mr. Linden.
"Well?" he said with a smile at her as he took it.
"You'll see--" she said, a little breathlessly. And still holding her
hand fast, Mr. Linden read the letter, quicker than she had done, and
without comment--unless when his look shewed that it touched him.
"You will love her, Faith!" he said as he folded the letter up
again,--"in spite of all your inclinations to the contrary!"
"Do you think that is in the future tense? But I am afraid," added
Faith,--"she thinks too much of me now."
"She does not think as much of you as I do," Mr. Linden said, with a
look and smile that covered all the ground of present or future fear.
"And after all it is a danger which you will share with me. It is one
of Pet's loveable feelings to think too much of some people whom she
loves just enough."
Humility is not a fearful thing. Whatever had been in Faith's speech,
her look, bright, wistful, and happy, had no fear, truly bumble though
it was. "There is no danger of my loving this letter too much"--she
said as she carefully restored it to its envelope; said with a secret
utterance of great gratification.
The promised half hour was much more than up, and the broadening shadow
on Kildeer river said that the time which could be given to wild
flowers was fast running away. Perhaps, too, Mr. Linden thought Faith
had mused and been excited enough, for he made a move. Everything in
the boat was put up in close order, and then the two went ashore again,
flower basket in hand.
The long shadows heightened the beauty of the woods now, falling soft
and brown upon the yet browner carpet of dry leaves, and the young
leaves and buds overhead shewed every tint, from yellow to green. Under
the trees were various low shrubs in flower,--shad-blossom, with its
fleecy stems, and azalia in rosy pink; and the real wild flowers--the
dainty things as wild in growth as in name, were sprinkled everywhere.
Wind flowers and columbine; orchis sweet as any hyacinth; tall
Solomon's seal; spotless bloodroot; and violets--white, yellow, and
purple. The dogwood stretched its white arms athwart hemlock and
service; the creeping partridge berry carried its perfumed white stars
over rocks and moss in the deep shade below. Yellow bellwort hung its
fair flowers on every ridge; where the ground grew wet were dog's-tooth
violet and chick wintergreen. There the red maples stood, with bunches
of crimson keys,--at the edge of the higher ground their humbler
growing sister the striped bark, waved her green tresses. There seemed
to be no end to the flowers--nor to the variety--nor to the pleasure of
picking.
"Faith--" said Mr. Linden.
Faith looked up from a bunch of Sanguinaria beside which she was
crouching.
"I find so much Mignonette!--do you?"
Faith's eye flashed, and taking one of those little white stars she
threw it towards Mr. Linden. It went in a graceful parabolic curve and
fell harmlessly, like her courage, at his feet.
"What has become of the princess?"
"You ought rather to ask after the prince!" said Mr. Linden, picking up
the Sanguinaria with great devotion. "Is this the Star of the Order of
Merit?"
"I am not Queen Flora. I don't know."
"As what then was it bestowed?"
"It might be Mignonette's shield, which she used as a weapon because
she hadn't any other! Endy, look at those green Maple flowers! You can
reach them."
He gathered some of the hanging clusters, and then came and sat down
where she was at work and began to put them into her basket, arranging
and dressing the other flowers the while dextrously.
"Do you know, my little Sunbeam," he said, "that your namesakes are
retreating?"
"I know it, Endy," she said hastening her last gatherings--"and I am
ready."
They began their homeward way to the boat, wandering a little still,
for flowers, and stopping to pick them, so that the sun was quite low
before Kildeer river was reached. There Mr. Linden stood a moment
looking about.
"Do you see the place where we sat, Faith?" he said,--"over on the
other bank?"
She looked, and looked at him and smiled--very different from her look
then! A glance comprehensive and satisfactory enough without words, so
without any more words they went on their way along the shore of the
river. As they neared their boat, the rays of the setting sun were
darted into Kildeer river and gilded the embayed little vessel and all
the surrounding shores. Rocks and trees and bits of land glowed or
glistened in splendour wherever a point or a spray could catch the sun;
the water in both rivers shone with a long strip of gold. They had had
nothing so brilliant all day.
In the full glow and brightness Faith sat down in the boat with her
flowers near her, and Mr. Linden loosened the sail. How pretty the bank
looked as they were leaving it! the ashes of their fire on the rock,
and the places where they had sat or wandered, and talked--such happy
words!
"I shall always love Kildeer river," said Faith with little long
breath, "because I read my letter here."
"And so shall I," said Mr. Linden,--"but my love for it dates back to
the first piece of reading I ever did in its company." He looked back
for a minute or two--at the one shore and the other--the sunlight, the
trees, the flowery hillside, and it was well then that his face was not
seen by Faith--there fell on it such a shadow of pain. But he presently
turned to her again with just the former look.
"Now," he said, "do you think you can steer home in the twilight?"
"I don't know. Can I? I can follow directions."
"And I can give them."
And with that arrangement they ran out from the clean woody shores of
Kildeer river, and set their sail for Pattaquasset. How fair, at that
point of weather and day! a little quieter than the morning spring-tide
of everything, but what was less gay was more peaceful; and against a
soft south wind the little boat began to beat her way down, favoured
however by the tide. These tacks made Mr. Linden's counsels more
especially needed, but the short swift runs back and forth across the
river were even more inspiriting than a steady run before the wind, and
the constant attention which helm and sail required made talk and
action lively enough.
"This is good, Endecott!" said Faith as the little boat came about for
the fifth or sixth time.
"Faith," he said, smiling at her, "you look just as fresh as a
rose!--the day does not seem to have tired you one bit."
"Tired!" she said,--"yes, I am a little bit tired--or hungry--but was
there ever such a day as we have had?--since the first of January!"
"My dear little Mignonette!" Mr. Linden said--but if it was a "message"
Faith had then, it came from somewhere nearer than across the water.
"If you are tired, dear child, give up the rudder to me, and lay down
your head and rest. Do you see after what a sleep-inviting fashion the
lights are twinkling all down the shore?"
"I'm not sleepy a bit;" said Faith,--"nor tired, except just enough;
and I like this small portion of power you have put in my hands. How
beautiful those lights look!--and the lights overhead, Endy. How
beautiful every thing is!"--
"Yes," said Mr. Linden, "when there is light within.--
   'He that hath light within his own clear breast,
   May sit i' the centre and enjoy bright day.'"
"That's beautiful!" said Faith after a pause.
And now the brush and stir of "coming about" again claimed their
attention, and in a minute more they were stretching away on a new
tack, with another set of constellations opposite to them in the sky.
The breeze was fresh, though as mild as May; the boat made good speed;
and in spite of beating down the river the mouth of the Mong was neared
fast. Pattaquasset lights, a little cluster of them, appeared
unmistakably; for down by the point there was a little knot of houses,
variously concerned in trade or fisheries. Mr. Linden had to put his
hand upon the tiller sometimes then, till they got in. Mr. Skip and
Jerry were in waiting; had been, "a sight o' half hours," the former
stated. Baskets and shad and passengers were transferred to the wagon,
and within a moderate time thereafter welcomed (the latter) by Mrs.
Derrick and supper--wherein, after a little delay therefor, the shad
played a conspicuous and most satisfactory part.
Now there are no shad like the shad that come out of the Mong.
CHAPTER XVI.
So passed the days. Not indeed all at Kildeer river, but all in sweet,
peaceful, bright occupations, whether of work or play. The trustees had
received their notice, with much dismay; a little alleviated by the
fact that Mr. Linden was willing to stay at his post for a few weeks
after the end of the year.
It was almost a wonder, as the weeks went on, that Mr. Linden kept down
the shadows as well as he did,--to leave Faith in the morning, and go
to his devoted set of scholars--every one of whom had some particular
as well as general hold on him and love for him; and then to get away
by the hardest from their words and looks of sorrow and regret, and
come back to the presence of her brave little face--Mr. Linden was
between two fires. And they wrought a sort of deepening of everything
about him which was lovely or loveable--which did not make it easier
for Pattaquasset to let him go.
As far as anybody could be a help to him, Faith was one. In a
gentleness of spirit that was of no kin to weakness, she took to her
heart the good that she had, and was quite as much of a sunbeam as
ever. How it would be when Mr. Linden was gone, Faith did not know; but
she did know that that was one of to-morrow's cares, with which she had
no business to-day. If the thought ever came up in its strength, strong
enough to bring down her heart and head,--if there were times when
Faith shewed herself to herself--the revelation was made to no other
person. And therefore it is probable that it was a view she did not
often indulge in.
Dr. Harrison was not much at Pattaquasset these days He found it
convenient to be away.
Dr. Harrison was a man who did not like to throw away his ammunition.
He by no means absented himself because of any failing in his fancy for
somebody in Pattaquasset; the working of cause and effect was on a
precisely opposite principle. The truth was, the fancy had grown to a
strength that would not well bear the doubtful kind of intercourse
which had been kept up between the parties; yet doubtful it remained,
and must remain for the present. With Mr. Linden there in the family;
with the familiar habits that naturally grow up between hostess and
guest, friend and friend, fellow inmates of the same house--it was very
difficult for the doctor to judge whether those habits had any other
and deeper groundwork. It was impossible, with his scanty and limited
chances of observation. At the same time there was too great a
possibility--his jealousy called it more,--for him to be willing to
take any forward and undoubtful steps himself. He did not find sea-room
to put in his oar. In this state of things, all that his pride and his
prudence would suffer him to do, was to wait--wait till either by Mr.
Linden's stay or departure the truth might be made known. But to abide
in Pattaquasset and watch patiently the signs of things, was more than
Dr. Harrison's feeling,--for it was far more than fancy,--could bear.
Just now, in despair or disgust, he had taken a longer enterprise than
usual; and was very far indeed from Pattaquasset when the news of Mr.
Linden's going set all the country in a flame. So, greatly to Faith's
satisfaction, he could not for some time be there to add any flame of
his own.
The morning readings with Mr. Linden were great and chief treasures to
her all these days. She was always ready for him before six o'clock.
Not now in a firelit room, with curtains drawn against the cold; but in
the early freshness of the spring and summer mornings, with windows
open and sweet air coming in. Duly Faith noted every "ladder of
verses"--till her Bible grew to be well dotted with marks of red ink.
They looked lovely to her eyes. So they might; for they were records of
many very deep and sweet draughts from that well of water which the
word is to them that love it; draughts deeper and sweeter than Faith
could have drawn by herself--or she thought so. No quarter of an hour
in the day Faith loved so well. It was often more.
One morning the "ladder" began with the silver trumpets made for the
service of God in the hands of the priests of Israel. Faith, looking
quietly out of the window, went roving in thought over the times and
occasions Mr. Linden read of, when their triumphal blast had proclaimed
the name and the glory of God in the ears of the thousands of Israel;
times of rejoicing, of hope, of promise and of victory. Scenes of glory
in the old Jewish history floated before her--with the sublime faith of
the actors in them, and the magnificent emblematic language in which
they read the truth. Faith only came fairly back to New England and
Pattaquasset at David's declaration--
"Blessed are the people that know the joyful sound; they shall walk, O
Lord, in the light of thy countenance."
The words thrilled her. She thought of the many who had never heard the
sound at all; and entered into Isaiah's foresight of a day when "the
great trumpet shall be blown, and they shall come that were ready to
perish in the land of Assyria, and the outcasts in the land of Egypt."--
"How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth
good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good;
that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth!"
Then came Isaiah's own blast of the trumpet, and then the sweet
enlargements and proclamations of the gospel, and the Lord's own
invitation to all who are "weary and heavy laden." But also--
"How shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? and how
shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? and how shall
they hear without a preacher? and how shall they preach, except they be
sent? as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of them that preach
the gospel of peace, and bring glad tidings of good things!"--
"And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say,
Come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him
take the water of life freely."
Faith sat by the open window, no sound abroad but the stir in the
leaves and the low music of birds. The very still peace without, rather
seemed to heighten and swell the moving of thoughts within, which
surged like the sea. Mr. Linden stopped reading and was silent; and so
was she, with nothing of all this appearing otherwise than in the
fixed, abstracted look which went out into Pattaquasset but also went
far beyond. And when she spoke, it was earnestly and with the same
clear quiet.
"Endy--I am glad to have you go, for the reason you are going for. I
wouldn't have you be anything else than what you mean to be,--not for
the pleasure of having you here."
Her voice did not tremble, though indeed it told of feelings that were
less assured.
"Dear Faith!" Mr. Linden said, with a bright flash of pleasure at her
words, which changed even while he spoke, "you do not know what a
comfort it is to me to feel that! And do you realize, little Sunbeam,
what joy it is, that however far apart we can still work together--in
the same cause, for the same master? The work which I take upon me by
name, belongs as really to you,--for the call should be given by every
one that heareth to every one that is athirst."
"I know--" she said quietly. "How grand those words are you have been
reading!"
"Faith," Mr. Linden said presently, "have you any special attachment to
this particular little Bible?"
"I have my red notes in it," she said with a bright smile.
"I am not quite satisfied with the paper and type, for your eyes--by
firelight and twilight. Shall I break up any train of old association
if I send you another?"
She gave him a look of what Dr. Harrison might have called "compound
interest"; but assured him at the same time with sedate earnestness
that the one she had would do very well.
This was but a day or two before Mr. Linden's leaving Pattaquasset. He
had paid his many farewell visits before the last week came, and before
that, too, had given up his weekday scholars,--those last days were all
given to Faith. Given to her in every possible way--out of doors and
within; in that fair summer weather the open air was the best of all
places for talking, and the least liable to intrusion. It was a great
relief to get away from village sights and sounds to the still woods,
or the fresh shore,--it was a great help towards cheerfulness. And the
help was needed. Wherever Mr. Linden went, among people, he met nothing
but sorrow for his going away,--wherever he went, to house or woods, he
carried the deep-hidden double sorrow in his heart, which no one
guessed of all who so loudly bewailed his departure. Faith herself
perhaps hardly realized what his part of that sorrow was; but he knew
hers, and bore it--as one bears the trials of the dearest friend one
has on earth.
He was to go very early in the morning, but when the late evening talk
had impinged upon the night as much as it could be allowed to do, he
gave Faith the unexpected promise of coming down to read with her just
as usual next day.
It was very, very early this time, in the summer twilight dawn, when
the kildeers were in their full burst of matins, and all the other
birds coming in one by one. Faith did not say many words, but she was
as quiet as the hour. Then she went to the breakfast-room to arrange
and hasten matters there; and Mr. Linden followed, and stood watching
her--she did not know how,--she only knew how he talked.
But he took her into the sitting-room the moment breakfast was over and
stood by her, giving her the mute caresses he could not put in words.
And for words there was little time. The morning light came up and up
into the sky, the candles burned dim, as they stood there; and then he
bade her "'be perfect, be of good comfort,'" and so went away.
CHAPTER XVII.
When Mr. Linden was out of sight from the porch, Faith went to the
deserted room.
It was in the latter end of summer. The windows were open, and the
summer wind blowing the muslin curtains flutteringly in. The maple
shaded Faith's old reading window, the leaves not changing yet; one
cupboard door a little open, shewed the treasures of books within. The
chintz couch stood empty, so it always stood when Faith saw it, except
only in those days of Mr. Linden's confinement with his wound. But now
her mind leaped back to that time; and the couch and the table and the
books, the very windows and fireplace, looked deserted. The red maple
leaves floating in--the dancing flames in the chimney--her lessons by
the side of that couch--her first exercise, which she had been sent to
do at that table;--all that and everything beside seemed to make its
passage through Faith's mind in tumultuous procession. She sat down on
the couch and leaned her head on the back of it; but only a few nervous
tears came, and oppressed sobbing breaths took the place of them. For a
little while then Faith fell on her knees, and if she could not speak
connectedly, nor think connectedly, she yet poured out her heart in the
only safe channel; and grew quiet and self-possessed. After an hour she
left the couch and turned to go down and join her mother.
Passing the table on her way out, with a glance which had been called
off by other things as she came in, Faith's eye was caught and stayed.
There was no exercise left there for her, but the very gold pen with
which she had written that first one--and which she had used so many
times since, lay there; and by the pen a letter. The blood rushed to
Faith's heart as if Mr. Linden had come back again, or rather as if he
had not taken quite all of himself away. In a flood of gladness and
thankfulness and sorrow, Faith took up the letter and standing there by
the table read it.
MY OWN LITTLE PRECIOUS MIGNONETTE,
I have a love for this sheet of paper, because it will be in your hands
when I cannot touch them nor see them,--how often they have ministered
to me just where I am writing this! just where you will find it. I know
you will find it, Faith--I know where you will go as soon as I am out
of sight,--but dear child, do not let any sight or association in this
room make you anything but glad: they are all very dear to me. That
first day when you came in here to see me--and all the days that
followed,--and all the sweet knowledge I gained of my little
Mignonette, while she was learning other things. Faith, I can even
forgive Dr. Harrison his questions that day, for the delight it was to
me to shield you. Dear child, you must let me do that now whenever I
can,--it is one of the griefs of this separation that I cannot do it
all the time.
I must go back to our Bible verses!--Do you remember that first
'ladder' we went up together? 'The Lord God is a sun and a shield; the
Lord will give grace and glory.'--In that sunlight I shall think of you
as abiding,--I will remember that you are covered by that shield. I
know that the Lord will keep all that I have committed to him!
Now darling, if I could leave you 'messages,' I would; but they must
wait till I come and deliver them myself. Take, in the mean while, all
possible love and trust; and all comfort from the cause of my absence,
from our mutual work, from my expected coming home now and then--from
the diamonds on your finger and what they betoken! The diamonds stay
with you, Faith, but their light goes with me.
My child, I have too much to say to write any longer!--I shall be drawn
on too far and too long,--it is not far from daybreak now. Take the
best possible care of your self, and 'be strong and of a good courage,'
and 'the Lord that made heaven and earth, bless thee out of Zion'!
Precious child, you do not know how deeply I am
Always your own--
ENDECOTT."
The first lines of the letter wrung some tears from Faith's eyes, but
afterwards the effect of the whole was to shake her. She sat down on
the couch with the letter fast in her hand, and hid her head; yet no
weeping, only convulsive breaths and a straitened breast. Faith was
wonderful glad of that letter! but the meeting of two tides is just
hard to bear; and it wakened everything as well as gladness. However,
in its time, that struggle was over too; and she went down to Mrs.
Derrick looking much like her wonted self.
She went about so, all the day; nervously busy, though never more
orderly about her business. In the kitchen and dairy and storeroom, and
with her mother, Faith seemed as usual, with a very little of grave
thoughtfulness or remembrance thrown over her natural pleasantness;
only she gave books a wide berth, and took care to see no face that
came to the house. One would have thought her--perhaps Mrs. Derrick
even did--quietly composed and patiently submitting to trial, as if Mr.
Linden had been already weeks away. Perhaps Faith herself thought so. A
little thing shewed how much this quiet was worth.
The day had been gone through; the tea was over, as it might, with the
two alone; and mother and daughter had gone into the other room. Faith
lit the lamp, and then began a sentence to her mother about laying the
Bible in its place for prayer--when she stopped short. For a moment she
stood still with the revulsion; then she fell on her knees and hid her
face in Mrs. Derrick's lap, and the tears that had kept back so long
came in a stormy flood; clearing the sky which had not been clear
before. She was quiet really after that; she had no more fear of her
books; and the first thing Faith did was to take pen and paper and pour
out an answer to her morning's letter; an answer in which she gave Mr.
Linden the history of her whole day, with very little reservation.
Her mother watched her,--sat and looked at her as she wrote, with eyes
very glistening and tremulous in their fond admiration. Indeed that had
been their character all day, though Mrs. Derrick had followed Faith in
her busy work, with no attempt to check her, with no allusion to what
they both thought of uninterruptedly. Now, however, that Faith's tears
had made their own way, her mother's heart was easier; and she watched
the pretty writer by the lamp with all sorts of sweet and tender
thoughts.
A day or two passed, in great quiet and tender ministering to each
other of the mother and daughter. Faith had taken deep hold of her
studies again and every minute of the day was filled up as busily as
ever. So the sitting-room wore in all things minus one its wonted
aspect, when, the third evening, it received Dr. Harrison.
He came in looking remarkably well, in his light dainty summer dress,
and with that gentle carelessness of movement and manner that suited
the relaxing persuasions of a hot summer day. He came in, too, a little
like a person who through long absences has forgotten how wonted he
used to be in a certain place or how fond he was of what he found
there. Nothing further from the truth!
He accosted both ladies after his usual gay fashion, and talked for a
while about nothings and as if he cared about nothing. He could make
nothing of Faith, except perhaps that she was a trifle shy of him. That
did not mean evil necessarily; it was natural enough. He wouldn't
disturb her shyness!
"I have a sympathetic feeling for you, Mrs. Derrick," he remarked. "I
miss Mr. Linden so much in Pattaquasset, I can't think how you must do
in the house."
"No, doctor, you can't," was Mrs. Derrick's quiet rejoinder.
"How do you?"
"Why I can't tell you, either," said Mrs. Derrick.
"Mrs. Derrick," said the doctor, "I shouldn't like to be a lawyer and
have to examine you as a witness. Unless it wasn't August!"
"Well I suppose we should agree upon that, doctor," said Mrs. Derrick.
"I don't know what August has to do with it."
"My dear madam, it would be too much trouble!--Apparently it isn't
August everywhere!"--A very peremptory rap at the front door came in
the train of footsteps that were loud and brisk as by authority, and
that had quite survived the enervating effects referred to by the
doctor.
"Miss Faith," said Cindy appearing at the parlour door, "here's a man's
got something--and he won't give it to me without I'll take oath I'm
you--which of course I dursn't. I'm free to confess, I can't even get
sight of it. Shall I fetch him in--thing and all?"
Faith went to the door. It was nobody more terrific than an
express-man, who seemed to recognize "Miss Faith Derrick" by instinct,
for he asked no questions--only put a package into her hands, and then
gave her his book to sign. Faith signed her name, eagerly, and then ran
up stairs with her treasure and a beating heart, and struck a light.
There was no need to ask where it came from--the address was plain
enough; nor much need to ask what it was--she knew that it must be her
Bible. Yet that only heightened the pleasure and interest, as she took
off one wrapping paper after another, till its own beautiful morocco
covers appeared. Within was the perfection of type and paper, with here
and there a fine coloured map; in size and shape just that medium which
seems to combine the excellencies of all the rest. There was no letter
in the package, but a slip of paper with a new "ladder of verses"
marked the place where they began; and on the fly leaf, below the
inscription, was written the first verse of the ninety-first psalm.
This was the leading reference on the slip of paper.
Has any one--with any heart--ever received such a package? To such a
one there is no need to tell the glow of pleasure, the rush of
affection and joy, which filled Faith's heart and her face; to anybody
else it's no use. She had to exercise some care to prevent certain
witnesses of the eyes from staining the morocco or spotting the leaves.
The paper of references she left, to be enjoyed more leisurely another
time; and went on turning over the pages, catching glimpses of the
loved words that she had never seen so fairly presented to the eye
before; when after a good deal of this sort of delectation, through
half of which she was writing a letter to Mr. Linden, Faith suddenly
recollected Dr. Harrison! Softly the paper wrappers enfolded her
treasure, and then Faith went down stairs with the high colour of
pleasure in her cheeks. The doctor took several observations.
He had not been profiting by any opportunity to "examine" Mrs. Derrick.
On the contrary, he had talked about everything else, somewhat August
fashion, in manner, but yet so cleverly that even Mrs. Derrick
confessed afterwards she had been entertained. Now, on Faith's
reappearance, he went on with his subject until he came to a natural
pause in the conversation; which he changed by remarking, in a simple
tone of interest,
"I haven't learned yet satisfactorily what took Mr. Linden away?"
"His own business," said Mrs. Derrick. "You must have heard what he is
about now, doctor?"
"I have heard--but one hears everything. It is true then?"
"O yes, it's true," said Mrs. Derrick with an even play of her
knitting-needles.
"But then follows another very natural question," said the
doctor.--"Why did he come here at all?"
"I dare say he'd tell you if he was here--as I wish he was," said Mrs.
Derrick,--"Mr. Linden always seemed to have good reasons for what he
did."
"I think that too," said the doctor. "I am not quite so sure of his
telling them to me. But Pattaquasset has reason to be very sorry he is
gone away! What sort of a preacher will he make, Mrs. Derrick?"
"He's a good one now--" said Mrs. Derrick with a smile that was even a
little moved. "Don't you think so, doctor?"
"How dare you ask me that, Mrs. Derrick?" said the doctor with slow
funny utterance. "But I will confess this,--I would rather have him
preach to me than you."
"What sort of a bad reason have you got for that?" she said, looking at
him.
"Miss Faith," said the doctor with the mock air of being in a
dilemma,--"you are good at definitions, if I remember--what is the
proper character of a bad reason!"
Faith looked up--he had never seen her look prettier, with a little
hidden laughter both on and under her face and that colour she had
brought down stairs with her. But her answer was demure enough.
"I suppose, sir, one that ought not to be a reason at all,--or one that
is not reason enough."
"Do you consider it a bad reason for my not liking Mrs. Derrick's
preaching, that I am afraid of her?"
"I shouldn't think it was reason enough," said Faith.
"Do you like preaching from people that you are afraid of?"
"Yes. At least I think I should. I don't know that I ever really was
afraid of anybody."
These words, or the manner which went with them, quite obliterated the
idea of Mrs. Derrick from the doctor's head. But his manner did not
change. He only addressed his talk to Faith and altered the character
of it. Nothing could be more cool and disembarrassed. He had chosen his
tactics.
They were made to regulate likewise the length of his visit, though the
short summer evening had near run its course before he (in
parliamentary phrase) "was on his legs" not to speak but to go. Then
strolling on to the front door, he there met Reuben Taylor; flush in
the doorway. The boy stept back into the hall to let him cone out;
whence, as the doctor saw through the open window,--he went at once to
Faith's side. But either accidentally or of design, Reuben stood so
directly before her, that Dr. Harrison could see neither face--indeed
could scarce see her at all. The little business transaction that went
on then--the letter which Reuben took from his pocket and then again
from its outer enveloppe,--the simple respect and pleasure with which
he gave it to Faith--though colouring a little too,--all this was
invisible, except to Mrs. Derrick. Faith's face would have told the
doctor the whole. The pretty colour--the dropped eyes--and the
undertone of her grateful, "I am very much obliged to you, Reuben!"
Reuben made no verbal answer, and staid not a minute longer, but the
pleasure of his new trust was wonderful!
CHAPTER XVIII.
Faith did not have as uninterrupted a time for studies as she had
counted upon for the next few months. In the first place, letters took
a great many hours. In the second place, her studies were pretty
frequently broken up of an evening by Dr. Harrison.
He certainly came often; whether it was because of the strength of
attraction in that particular house, or the failure of any attraction
beside in all the coasts of Pattaquasset, was a problem which remained
unsolved by anything in the doctor's manner. His manner was like what
it had been the evening just recounted. He amused himself, after his
nonchalant fashion, and amused his hearers; he did not in the mean time
call upon them for any help at all. He discerned easily that Faith had
a little shyness about her; that might mean one thing or it might mean
another; and Dr. Harrison was far too wise to risk the one thing by
endeavouring to find out whether it was the other. The doctor was no
fisher had no favour for the sport; but if he had been, he might have
thought that now he was going to give his fish a very long line indeed,
and let it play to any extent of shyness or wilfulness; his hand on the
reel all the time.
The talk that would do for Miss Essie would not please Faith. The
doctor knew that long ago. He drew upon his better stores. His
knowledge of the earth we live on; his familiarity with nature's and
art's wonders; history and philosophy; literature and science; and a
knowledge of the world which he used as a little piquant spice to
flavour all the rest of his knowledge. Thrown in justly, with a nice
hand, so as not to offend, it did rather serve to provoke a delicate
palate; while it unmistakably gratified his own. It was the salt to the
doctor's dish.
But everything wants breaking up with variety, and variety itself may
come to be monotonous. He asked Faith one evening if she knew anything
of chymistry; and proceeded upon her reply to give her sundry bits of
detail and some further insight into the meaning and bearing of the
science. It was not August then, but it might have been, for the
leisurely manner in which the doctor "unwound his skein" of talk, as if
he were talking to himself or for himself; and yet he was, and he
knew it, filling Faith's ears with delight. He took up the same subject
afterwards from time to time; beginning from any trifle of suggestion,
he would go off into an exquisite chymical discussion, illustrated and
pointed and ornamented, as no lecturer but one loving both his subject
and his object could ever make it. After a while the doctor began to
come with bits of metal and phials of acids, and delight Faith and
astonish Mrs. Derrick by turning her sitting-room into an impromptu
laboratory. Such fumes! such gaseous odours! such ominous "reports",
were never known in and about Mrs. Derrick's quiet household; nor were
her basins and tumblers ever put to such strange, and in her view
hideous, uses. But Dr. Harrison rather seemed to enjoy what appeared at
first sight inconveniences; triumphed over the imperfections of tools
and instruments, and wrought wonders over which Faith bent with greater
raptures than if the marvels of Aladdin's lamp had been shewn before
her. The doctor began by slow degrees; he let all this grow up of
itself; he asked only for a tumbler the first time. And insensibly they
went on, from one thing to another; till instead of a tumbler, the
doctor would sometimes be surrounded with a most extraordinary retinue
and train of diversified crockery and china. An empty butter-tub came
to do duty for a water-bath; bottles and jars and cups and glasses, of
various shapes and dimensions, attended or waited upon the doctor's
operations; and with a slight apology and assurance to Mrs. Derrick he
on more than one or two occasions appropriated the clock-shade for his
use and behoof as a receiver. Then siphons began to come in the
doctor's pocket; and glass tubes, bent and straight, open and sealed,
in the doctor's hand; and one of his evenings came to be "better than a
play." A most beautiful and exquisite play to Faith. Yet Dr. Harrison
never forgot his tactics; never let his fish feel the line; and to
Faith's joyous "How shall I ever thank you, Dr. Harrison!"--would reply
by a dry request that she would induce Mrs. Derrick to have muffins for
tea some evening and let him come.
And what did Dr. Harrison gain by all this? He did gain some hours of
pleasure--that would have been very exquisite pleasure, but for the
doubt that haunted him, and respecting which he could get no data of
decision. The shyness and reserve did pass away from Faith; she met him
and talked with him as a pleasant intimate friend whose company she
enjoyed and who had a sort of right to hers; the right of friendship
and kindliness. But then he never did anything to try her shyness or to
call up her reserve. He never asked anything of her that she could
refuse. He never advanced a step where it could with decency be
repressed. He knew it. But he bided his time. He did not know what
thorough and full accounts of all his evenings went--through the
post-office.
He knew, and it rather annoyed him, that Reuben Taylor was very freely
admitted and very intimately regarded in the house. There was perhaps
no very good reason why this should have annoyed the doctor. Yet
somehow he always rather identified Reuben Taylor with another of his
friends. He found out, too, that Reuben much preferred the times when
he, the doctor, was not there; for after once or twice coming in upon
sulphuric acid and clock shades (from which he retreated faster than if
it had all been gun-powder) Reuben changed his hour; and the doctor had
the satisfaction of wishing him good evening in the porch--or of
passing him on the sidewalk--or of hearing the swing of the little gate
and Reuben's quick bound up the steps when his own feet were well out
in the common ground of the road.
Mrs. Derrick expressed unequivocally (to Faith, not the doctor) her
dislike of all chymical "smells" whatever, and her abhorrence of all
"reports" but those which went off after the doctor's departure; the
preparation of which Mrs. Derrick beheld with a sort of vindictive
satisfaction. Mr. Linden enjoyed his letters unqualifiedly, sometimes
wrote chymical answers--now and then forestalling the doctor, but
rarely saying much about him. Faith was in little danger of annoyance
from anything with her mother sitting by, and for the rest Dr. Harrison
was at his own risk. Letters were too precious--every inch of them--to
be much taken up with discussing him. Other things were of more
interest,--sometimes discussion, sometimes information, oftenest of
all, talk; and now and then came with the letter some book to give
Faith a new bit of reading. Above all, the letters told her--in a sort
of indefinable, unconscious way, how much, how much her presence was
missed and longed for; it seemed to her as if where one letter laid it
down the next took it up--not in word but in atmosphere, and carried it
further. In that one respect (though Faith never found it out) the
chymical accounts gave pain.
Faith in her letters never spoke directly of this element of his; but
she made many a gentle effort to meet it and soothe what could be
soothed. To this end partly were her very full accounts of all the
course of her quiet life. As fearlessly and simply as possible Faith
talked, to him; quite willing to be found wrong and to be told so,
wherever wrong was. It was rather by the fulness of what she gave him,
than by any declaration of want on her own part, that Mr. Linden could
tell from her letters how much she felt or missed in his absence. She
rarely put any of that into words, and if it got in atmospherically it
was by the subtlest of entrances. When she spoke it at all, it was
generally a very frank and simple expression of strong truth.
Of out-door work, during all this time, she had a variety. For some
time after Mr. Linden's going away, neither Mrs. Stoutenburgh nor the
Squire had been near the house; but then they began to amuse themselves
with taking her to drive, and whenever Faith could and would go she was
sure of a pleasant hour or two out in the brisk autumn air, and with no
danger of even hearing Mr. Linden's name mentioned. The silence indeed
proved rather too much, but it was better than speech. Then she and
Reuben had many excursions, short and long. Sometimes the flowers or
eggs or tracts were sent by him alone, but often Faith chose to go too;
and he was her ever ready, respectful, and efficient escort,--respect
it was truly, of the deepest and most affectionate kind. And thus--on
foot or with Jerry--the two went their rounds; but at such houses Faith
must both hear and speak of Mr. Linden--there was always some question
to answer, some story to hear.
It happened, among Dr. Harrison's other pleasures, that he several
times met them on these expeditions; generally when he was driving,
sometimes when they were too; but one late November afternoon--not late
in the month but late in the day, fortune favoured him. Strolling along
for an unwonted walk, the doctor beheld from a little hill Faith and
Reuben in the valley below,--saw them go up to the door of a cottage,
saw Faith go in, and Reuben sit down in the porch and take out his
book. It was a fair picture,--the brown woodland, the soft sunlight,
the little dark cottage, the pretty youthful figures with their quick
steps and natural gestures, and the evening hue and tone of everything.
But the doctor did not admire it--and went down the hill without even
taking off his hat to the chickadees that bobbed their black caps at
him from both sides of the road. By the porch the doctor suddenly
slackened his pace, looked within, nodded to Reuben, and came to a halt.
"Have I accidentally found out where you live, Reuben?"
"I live down by the shore, sir," said Reuben standing up.
"I thought--" said the doctor, "I had got an impression that you were
not a thorough-going Pattaquasseter--but you looked so much at home
there.--Where do you live? whereabouts, I mean; for the shore
stretches a long way."
Reuben gave the vernacular name of the little rocky coast point which
was his home, but the point itself was too much out of the doctor's
'beat' to have the name familiar.
"How far off is that?"
"About four miles from here, sir."
"May I ask what you are studying so diligently four miles from home at
this hour?"
Reuben coloured a good deal, but with not more than a moment's
reluctance held out his book for the doctor's inspection. It was a
Bible. The doctor's face changed, ever so little; but with what
feeling, or combination of feelings, it would have taken a much wiser
reader of men and faces than Reuben to tell. It was only a moment, and
then he stood with the book in his hand gravely turning it over, but
with his usual face.
"I once had the pleasure of asking you questions on some other
matters," he remarked,--"and I remember you answered well. Can you pass
as good an examination in this?"
"As to the words, sir? or the thoughts?--I don't quite know," said
Reuben modestly.
"Words are the signs of thoughts, you know."
"Yes, sir--but nobody can know all the Bible thoughts--though some
people have learned all the Bible words."
The doctor gave a little sort of commenting nod, rather approving than
otherwise. "You are safe here," he paid as he handed the book back to
Reuben; "for in this study I couldn't examine you. What are you
pursuing the study for?--may I ask?"
"If you don't know!" was in the boy's full gaze for a moment. But he
looked down again, answering steadily--"'Thy word have I hid in my
heart, that I might not sin against thee!'--I love it, Dr.
Harrison--and it shews me the way to serve God."
"Well," said the doctor rather kindly--"if I hadn't interrupted you,
how much more study would you have accomplished before you thought it
time to set oft for that four miles' walk home--to that unpronounceable
place?"
"I don't know, sir--I am not obliged to be there by any particular time
of night."
"No, I know you are not. But--excuse my curiosity!--are you so fond of
the Bible that you stop on the way home to read it as you go along? or
are you waiting for somebody?"
The words brought the colour back with a different tinge, but Reuben
simply answered,  "No, sir--I did not stop here to read. I am waiting."
"For Miss Derrick, are you not?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then I dare say Miss Derrick will release you for this time, and allow
me to attend her home, whither I am going myself."
"I must wait till she comes out, sir," Reuben said, with the respectful
intractability which the doctor remembered.
"Of course!" he said. "Did you ever take lessons of anybody but Mr.
Linden?--" But at this point the house door opened and Faith came out.
"Miss Faith," said the doctor, after his greeting which was thoroughly
in character, "if you will tell your escort here--who I am sure is a
staunch one--that you need him no longer, he will feel free to begin
his long walk to the shore,--and I shall have the rare pleasure and
honour of going home with you."
Faith turned frankly. "Do you want to go home, Reuben?"
"No, Miss Faith"--was the equally frank, low-spoken answer,--"not
unless you want me to go." Reuben could but speak the truth--and he did
try to speak it with as little offence as possible; though with an
instinctive feeling that the time "when truth will be truth and not
treason," had not yet arrived. "I mean, that I want to do just what you
wish," he added looking up at her.
"I don't want you to go, then," said Faith laughing, "for I mean that
you shall come home to tea with me. Dr. Harrison, I will invite you
too," she said turning her bright face towards him. "I believe--there
are muffins to-night."
"Miss Faith,"--said the doctor,--"you are an angel!"
"What is the connexion between that and muffins?" said Faith merrily,
for Reuben was at her side and she felt free.
"You mistake the connexion," said the doctor gravely. "Angels are
supposed to be impartial in their attentions to the human race, and not
swayed by such curious--and of course arrogant--considerations as move
the lower herd of mortals. To an immaterial creature, how can the
height of a door be material!"
"But I think you are mistaken," said Faith gently. "I don't believe any
creatures mind more what they find inside the door."
"What did you find inside that door?" said the doctor.
Faith hesitated. "Do you know to-morrow is Thanksgiving day, Dr.
Harrison?"
"I am not quite sure that I ought to say I know it--though my father
did read the proclamation. I suppose I know it now."
"I found inside of that door some people who could not make pumpkin
pies--and Reuben and I have been carrying them one of mother's."
"What a day they will have of it!" said the doctor,--"if Mrs. Derrick's
pies are made in the same place as her muffins. But can you find
nothing better to do than running round the country to supply the
people that haven't pies?"
"Not many things pleasanter,"--said Faith looking at him.
"I see I was right," said he smiling. "I have no doubt angels do that
sort of thing. But it is a sort of pleasure of which I have no
knowledge. All my life I have pleased only myself. Yet one would wish
to have some share in it, too. I can't make pies! And if I could, I
shouldn't know in the least where to bestow them. Do you think you
could take this now," said he producing a gold eagle, "and turn it into
pumpkins or anything else that you think will make people happy--and
see that they get to the right places?--for me?"
"Do you mean it seriously, Dr. Harrison?"
"If you will have the condescension!"
"Oh thank you!" said Faith flushing with joy,--"oh thank you! I am very
glad of this, and so will many others be. Dr. Harrison, I wish you
could know the pleasure this will give!--the good it will do."
"I don't think a ten-dollar piece ever gave me so much pleasure,"
said he looking a little moved. "About the good I don't know; that's
not so easy."
Faith left that point for him to consider, though with many a wish in
her own heart. But the walk home brightened into a very pleasant one
after that.
CHAPTER XIX.
The soft grey clouds which had hung about the setting sun only waited
his departure to double their folds and spread them all over the sky.
Then the wind rose, sweeping gustily through the bare branches, and
heavy drops of rain fell scatteringly on the dead leaves. But when wind
and rain had taken a little more counsel together, they joined forces
in a wild stormy concert which swept on with increasing tumult. It did
not disturb Faith and her mother, at their quiet work and reading,--it
did not deter Cindy from going over night to spend Thanksgiving day
with her friends,--but it was a wild storm nevertheless; and while the
hours of the night rolled on over the sleepers in Mrs. Derrick's house,
still wind and rain kept up their carousal, nor thought of being quiet
even when the morning broke.
"But rather, giving of thanks."--That was the motto of the day--the one
answer to the many vexed questions of life and care. Care was pressing,
