first called in to visit the family as a physician, was now but a
little way removed from insanity. She was haunted by many strange
hallucinations; and the old servant above alluded to, informed me, that
she was required to sleep in the room with her mistress, as she never
would be alone after dark. Often, through the night, she would start up
in terror, her diseased imagination building up terrible phantoms in the
land of dreams, alarming the house with her cries.
I rarely visited her that I did not see new evidences of waning reason.
In the beginning I was fearful that she might do some violence to
herself or her servants, but her insanity began to assume a less
excitable form; and at last she sank into a condition of torpor, both of
mind and body, from which I saw little prospect of her ever rising.
“It is well,” I said to myself. “Life had better wane slowly away than
to go out in lurid gleams like the flashes of a dying volcano.”
CHAPTER V.
And now, reader, after this long digression, you can understand my
surprise at seeing broad gleams of light reaching out into the darkness
from the windows of that north-west chamber, as I breasted the storm
on my way to visit the sick child of Mary Jones. No wonder that I stood
still and looked up at those windows, though the rain beat into my face,
half blinding me. The shutters were thrown open, and the curtains drawn
partly aside. I plainly saw shadows on the ceiling and walls as of
persons moving about the room. Did my eyes deceive me? Was not that the
figure of a young girl that stood for a moment at the window trying to
pierce with her eyes the thick veil of night? I was still in doubt when
the figure turned away, and only gave me a shadow on the wall.
I lingered in front of the old house for some minutes, but gaining no
intelligence of what was passing within, I kept on my way to the
humbler dwelling of Mary Jones. I found her child quite ill, and needing
attention. After doing what, in my judgment, the case required, I turned
my steps towards the house of Mrs. Wallingford to look into the case
of her son Henry, who, according to her account, was in a very unhappy
condition.
I went a little out of my way so as to go past the Allen House again.
As I approached, my eyes were directed to the chamber windows at the
north-west corner, and while yet some distance away, as the old elms
tossed their great limbs about in struggling with the storm, I saw
glancing out between them the same cheery light that met my astonished
gaze a little while before. As then, I saw shadows moving on the walls,
and once the same slender, graceful figure--evidently that of a young
girl--came to the window and tried to look out into the deep darkness.
As there was nothing to be gained by standing there in the drenching
storm, I moved onward, taking the way to Mrs. Wallingford’s dwelling. I
had scarcely touched the knocker when the door was opened, and by Mrs.
Wallingford herself.
“Oh, Doctor, I’m so glad you’ve come!” she said in a low, troubled
voice.
I stepped in out of the rain, gave her my dripping umbrella, and laid
off my overcoat.
“How is Henry now?” I asked.
She put her finger to her lip, and said, in a whisper,
“Just the same, Doctor--just the same. Listen! Don’t you hear him
walking the floor overhead? I’ve tried to get him to take a cup of tea,
but he won’t touch any thing. All I can get out of him is--‘Mother--dear
mother--leave me to myself. I shall come right again. Only leave me to
myself now.’ But, how can I let him go on in this way? Oh, Doctor, I
am almost beside myself! What can it all mean? Something dreadful has
happened.”
I sat listening and reflecting for something like ten minutes. Steadily,
from one side the room overhead to the other, went the noise of feet;
now slowly, now with a quicker motion: and now with a sudden tramp, that
sent the listener’s blood with a start along its courses.
“Won’t you see him, doctor?”
I did not answer at once, for I was in the dark as to what was best to
be done. If I had known the origin of his trouble, I could have acted
understandingly. As it was, any intrusion upon the young man might do
harm rather than good.
“He has asked to be let alone,” I replied, “and it may be best to let
him alone. He says that he will come out right. Give him a little more
time. Wait, at least, until to-morrow. Then, if there is no change, I
will see him.”
Still the mother urged. At last I said--
“Go to your son. Suggest to him a visit from me, and mark the effect.”
I listened as she went up stairs. On entering his room, I noticed that
he ceased walking. Soon came to my ears the murmur of voices, which rose
to a sudden loudness on his part, and I distinctly heard the words:
“Mother! you will drive me mad! If you talk of that, I will go from the
house. I must be left alone!”
Then all was silent. Soon Mrs. Wallingford came down. She looked even
more distressed than when she left the room.
“I’m afraid it might do harm,” she said doubtingly.
“So am I. It will, I am sure, be best to let him have his way for the
present. Something has disturbed him fearfully; but he is struggling
hard for the mastery over himself, and you may be sure, madam, that he
will gain it. Your son is a young man of no light stamp of character;
and he will come out of this ordeal, as gold from the crucible.”
“You think so, Doctor?”
She looked at me with a hopeful light in her troubled countenance.
“I do, verily. So let your heart dwell in peace.”
I was anxious to get back to my good Constance, and so, after a few more
encouraging words for Mrs. Wallingford, I tried the storm again, and
went through its shivering gusts, to my own home. There had been
no calls in my absence, and so the prospect looked fair for a quiet
evening--just what I wanted; for the strange condition of Henry
Wallingford, and the singular circumstance connected with the old Allen
House, were things to be conned over with that second self, towards whom
all thought turned and all interest converged as to a centre.
After exchanging wet outer garments and boots, for dressing gown and
slippers; and darkness and storm for a pleasant fireside; my thoughts
turned to the north-west chamber of the Allen House, and I said--
“I have seen something to-night that puzzled me.”
“What is that?” inquired my wife, turning her mild eyes upon me.
“You know the room in which old Captain Allen died?”
“Yes.”
“The chamber on the north-west corner, which, as far as we know, has
been shut up ever since?”
“Yes, I remember your suspicion as to foul play on the part of Mrs.
Allen, who, it is believed, has never visited the apartment since the
Captain’s death.”
“Well, you will be surprised to hear that the shutters are unclosed, and
lights burning in that chamber.”
“Now!”
“Yes--or at least half an hour ago.”
“That is remarkable.”
My wife looked puzzled.
“And more remarkable still--I saw shadows moving on the walls, as of two
or three persons in the room.”
“Something unusual has happened,” said my wife.
“Perhaps Mrs. Allen is dead.”
This thought had not occurred to me. I turned it over for a few moments,
and then remarked,
“Hardly probable--for, in that case, I would have been summoned. No; it
strikes me that some strangers are in the house; for I am certain that
I saw a young girl come to the window and press her face close up to one
of the panes, as if trying to penetrate the darkness.
“Singular!” said my wife, as if speaking to herself. “Now, that
explains, in part, something that I couldn’t just make out yesterday. I
was late in getting home from Aunt Elder’s you know. Well, as I came in
view of that old house, I thought I saw a girl standing by the gate.
An appearance so unusual, caused me to strain my eyes to make out the
figure, but the twilight had fallen too deeply. While I still looked,
the form disappeared; but, through an opening in the shrubbery, I caught
another glimpse of it, as it vanished in the portico. I was going to
speak of the incident, but other matters pushed it, till now, from my
thoughts when you were at home.”
“Then my eyes did not deceive me,” said I; “your story corroborates
mine. There is a young lady in the Allen House. But who is she? That is
the question.”
As we could not get beyond this question, we left the riddle for time
to solve, and turned next to the singular state of mind into which young
Henry Wallingford had fallen.
“Well,” said my wife, speaking with some emphasis, after I had told her
of the case, “I never imagined that he cared so much for the girl!”
“What girl?” I inquired.
“Why, Delia Floyd--the silly fool! if I must speak so strongly.”
“Then he is really in love with Squire Floyd’s daughter?”
“It looks like it, if he’s taking on as his mother says,” answered my
wife, with considerable feeling. “And Delia will rue the day she turned
from as true a man as Henry Wallingford.”
“Bless me, Constance! you’ve got deeper into this matter, than either
his mother or me. Who has been initiating you into the love secrets of
S----?”
“This affair,” returned my wife, “has not passed into town talk, and
will, I trust, be kept sacred by those who know the facts. I learned
them from Mrs. Dean, the sister of Mrs. Floyd. The case stands thus:
Henry is peculiar, shy, reserved, and rather silent. He goes but little
into company, and has not the taking way with girls that renders
some young men so popular. But his qualities are all of the sterling
kind--such as wear well, and grow brighter with usage. For more than a
year past, he has shown a decided preference for Delia Floyd, and she
has encouraged his attentions. Indeed, so far as I can learn from Mrs.
Dean, the heart of her niece was deeply interested. But a lover of
higher pretensions came, dazzling her mind with a more brilliant
future.”
“Who?” I inquired.
“That dashing young fellow from New York, Judge Bigelow’s nephew.”
“Not Ralph Dewey?”
“Yes.”
“Foolish girl, to throw away a man for such an effigy! It will be a
dark day that sees her wedded to him. But I will not believe in the
possibility of such an event.”
“Well, to go on with my story,” resumed Constance. “Last evening,
seeing, I suppose, that a dangerous rival was intruding, Henry made suit
for the hand of Delia, and was rejected.”
“I understand the case better now,” said I, speaking from a professional
point of view.
“Poor young man! I did not suppose it was in him to love any woman after
that fashion,” remarked Constance.
“Your men of reserved exterior have often great depths of feeling,” I
remarked. “Usually women are not drawn towards them; because they are
attracted most readily by what meets the eye. If they would look deeper,
they would commit fewer mistakes, like that which Delia Floyd has just
committed.”
CHAPTER VI.
Delia Floyd was a girl of more than ordinary attractions, and it is
not surprising that young Wallingford was drawn, fascinated, within the
charmed circle of her influence. She was, by no means, the weak, vain,
beautiful young woman, that the brief allusion I have made to her might
naturally lead the reader to infer. I had possessed good opportunities
for observing her, for our families were intimate, and she was
frequently at our house. Her father had given her a good education--not
showy; but of the solid kind. She was fond of books, and better read, I
think, in the literature of the day, than any other young lady in S----.
Her conversational powers were of a high order. Good sense, I had always
given her credit for possessing; and I believed her capable of reading
character correctly. She was the last one I should have regarded as
being in danger of losing a heart to Ralph Dewey.
In person, Delia was rather below than above the middle stature. Her
hair was of a dark brown, and so were her eyes--the latter large and
liquid. Her complexion was fresh, almost ruddy, and her countenance
animated, and quick to register every play of feeling.
In manner, she was exceedingly agreeable, and had the happy art of
putting even strangers at ease. It was no matter of wonder to me, as
I said before, that Henry Wallingford should fall in love with Delia
Floyd. But I did wonder, most profoundly, when I became fully assured,
that she had, for a mere flash man, such as Ralph Dewey seemed to me,
turned herself away from Henry Wallingford.
But women are enigmas to most of us--I don’t include you, dear
Constance!--and every now and then puzzle us by acts so strangely out
of keeping with all that we had predicated of them, as to leave
no explanation within our reach, save that of evil fascination, or
temporary loss of reason. We see their feet often turning aside
into ways that we know lead to wretchedness, and onward they move
persistently, heeding neither the voice of love, warning, nor reproach.
They hope all things, believe all things, trust all things, and make
shipwreck on the breakers that all eyes but their own see leaping and
foaming in their course. Yes, woman is truly an enigma!
Squire Floyd was a plain, upright man, in moderately good circumstances.
He owned a water power on the stream that ran near our town, and had
built himself a cotton mill, which was yielding him a good annual
income. But he was far from being rich, and had the good sense not to
assume a style of living beyond his means.
Henry Wallingford was the son of an old friend of Squire Floyd’s.
The elder Mr. Wallingford was not a man of the Squire’s caution and
prudence. He was always making mistakes in matters of business, and
never succeeded well in any thing. He died when his son was about
eighteen years of age. Henry was at that time studying law with Judge
Bigelow. As, in the settlement of his father’s estate, it was found to
be wholly insolvent, Henry, unwilling to be dependent on his mother, who
had a small income in her own right, gave notice to the Judge that he
was about to leave his office. Now, the Judge was a man of penetration,
and had already discovered in the quiet, reserved young man, just the
qualities needed to give success in the practice of law. He
looked calmly at his student for some moments after receiving this
announcement, conning over his face, which by no means gave indications
of a happy state of mind.
“You think you can find a better preceptor?” said the Judge, at last, in
his calm way.
“No, sir! no!” answered Henry, quickly. “Not in all this town, nor out
of it, either. It is not that, Judge Bigelow.”
“Then you don’t fancy the law?”
“On the contrary, there is no other calling in life that presents to my
mind any thing attractive,” replied Henry, in a tone of despondency that
did not escape the Judge.
“Well, if that is the case, why not keep on? You are getting along
bravely.”
“I must support myself, sir--must do something besides sitting here and
reading law books.”
“Ah, yes, I see.” The Judge spoke to himself, as if light had broken
into his mind. “Well, Henry,” he added, looking at the young man, “what
do you propose doing?”
“I have hands and health,” was the reply.
“Something more than hands and health are required in this world. What
can you do?”
“I can work on a farm, if nothing better offers. Or, may be, I can get a
place in some store.”
“There’s good stuff in the lad,” said Judge Bigelow to himself. Then
speaking aloud--
“I’ll think this matter over for you, Henry. Let it rest for a day or
two. The law is your proper calling, and you must not give it up, if you
can be sustained in it.”
On that very day, Judge Bigelow saw Squire Floyd, and talked the matter
over with him. They had but one sentiment in the matter, and that was
favorable to Henry’s remaining where he was.
“Can he be of any service to you, in your office, Judge--such as copying
deeds and papers, hunting up cases, and the like?” asked the Squire.
“Yes, he can be of service to me in that way; and is of service now.”
“You can afford to pay him something?” suggested Squire Floyd.
“It is usual,” replied the Judge, “to get this kind of service in return
for instruction and office privileges.”
“I know; but this case is peculiar. The death of Henry’s father has left
him without a support, and he is too independent to burden his mother.
Unless he can earn something, therefore, he must abandon the law.”
“I understand that, Squire, and have already decided to compensate him,”
 said the Judge. “But what I can offer will not be enough.”
“How much can you offer?”
“Not over a hundred dollars for the first year.”
“Call it two hundred, Judge,” was the ready answer.
The two men looked for a moment into each other’s faces.
“His father and I were friends from boyhood,” said Squire Floyd. “He was
a warm-hearted man; but always making mistakes. He would have ruined
me two or three times over, if I had been weak enough to enter into
his plans, or to yield to his importunities in the way of risks and
securities. It often went hard for me to refuse him; but duty to those
dependent on me was stronger than friendship. But I can spare a hundred
dollars for his son, and will do it cheerfully. Only, I must not be
known in the matter; for it would lay on Henry’s mind a weight of
obligation, not pleasant for one of his sensitive disposition to bear.”
“I see, Squire,” answered Judge Bigelow to this; “but then it won’t
place me in the right position. I shall receive credit for your
benevolence.”
“Don’t trouble yourself on that score,” answered the Squire, laughing.
“It may be that I shall want some law business done--though heaven
forbid! In that case, I will call on you, and you can let Henry do the
work. Thus the equilibrium of benefits will be restored. Let the salary
be two hundred.”
And so this matter being settled, Henry Wallingford remained in the
office of Judge Bigelow. The fact of being salaried by the Judge,
stimulated him to new efforts, and made him forward to relieve his kind
preceptor of all duties within the range of his ability. There
came, during the next year, an unusually large amount of office
practice--preparing deeds, making searches, and drawing up papers of
various kinds. In doing this work, Henry was rapid and reliable. So,
when Squire Floyd tendered his proportion of the young man’s salary to
his neighbor, the Judge declined receiving it. The Squire urged; but the
Judge said--
“No; Henry has earned his salary, and I must pay it, in simple justice.
I did not think there was so much in him. Business has increased, and
without so valuable an assistant, I could not get along.”
So the way had opened before Henry Wallingford, and he was on the road
to a successful manhood. At the time of his introduction to the reader,
he was in his twenty-third year. On attaining his majority, he had
become so indispensable to Judge Bigelow, who had the largest practice
in the county, that no course was left for him but to offer the young
man a share in his business. It was accepted; and the name of Henry
Wallingford was thenceforth displayed in gilt letters, in the office
window of his preceptor.
From that time, his mind never rested with anything like care or anxiety
on the future. His daily life consisted in an almost absorbed devotion
to his professional duties, which grew steadily on his hands. His
affection was in them, and so the balance of his mind was fully
sustained. Ah, if we could all thus rest, without anxiety, on the
right performance of our allotted work! If we would be content to
wait patiently for that success which comes as the orderly result of
well-doing in our business, trades, or professions, what a different
adjustment would there be in our social condition and relations! There
would not be all around us so many eager, care-worn faces--so many
heads bowed with anxious thought--so many shoulders bent with burdens,
destined, sooner or later, to prove too great for the strength which now
sustains them. But how few, like Henry Wallingford, enter with anything
like pleasure into their work! It is, in most cases, held as drudgery,
and regarded only as the means to cherished ends in life wholly removed
from the calling itself. Impatience comes as a natural result. The hand
reaches forth to pluck the growing fruit ere it is half ripened. No
wonder that its taste is bitter to so many thousands. No wonder that
true success comes to so small a number--that to so many life proves but
a miserable failure.
CHAPTER VII.
The morning which broke after that night of storm was serene and
beautiful. The air had a crystal clearness, and as you looked away up
into the cloudless azure, it seemed as if the eye could penetrate to an
immeasurable distance. The act of breathing was a luxury. You drew in
draught after draught of the rich air, feeling, with every inhalation,
that a new vitality was absorbed through the lungs, giving to the heart
a nobler beat, and to the brain a fresh activity. With what a different
feeling did I take up my round of duties for the day! Yesterday I went
creeping forth like a reluctant school boy; to-day, with an uplifted
countenance and a willing step.
Having a few near calls to make, I did not order my horse, as both
health and inclination were better served by walking. Soon after
breakfast I started out, and was going in the direction of Judge
Bigelow’s office, when, hearing a step behind me that had in it
a familiar sound, I turned to find myself face to face with Henry
Wallingford! He could hardly have failed to see the look of surprise in
my face.
“Good morning, Henry,” I said, giving him my hand, and trying to
speak with that cheerful interest in the young man which I had always
endeavored to show.
He smiled in his usual quiet way as he took my hand and said in return,
“Good-morning, Doctor.”
“You were not out, I believe, yesterday,” I remarked, as we moved on
together.
“I didn’t feel very well,” he answered, in a voice pitched to a lower
key than usual; “and, the day being a stormy one, I shut myself up at
home.”
“Ah,” said I, in a cheerful way, “you lawyers have the advantage of us
knights of the pill box and lancet. Rain or shine, sick or well, we must
travel round our parish.”
“All have their share of the good as well as the evil things of life,”
 he replied, a little soberly. “Doctors and lawyers included.”
I did not observe any marked change in the young man, except that he
was paler, and had a different look out of his eyes from any that I had
hitherto noticed; a more matured look, which not only indicated deeper
feeling, but gave signs of will and endurance. I carried that new
expression away with me as we parted at the door of his office, and
studied it as a new revelation of the man. It was very certain that
profounder depths had been opened in his nature--opened to his own
consciousness--than had ever seen the light before. That he was more
a man than he had ever been, and more worthy to be mated with a true
woman. Up to this time I had thought of him more as a boy than as a man,
for the years had glided by so quietly that bore him onward with the
rest, that he had not arisen in my thought to the full mental stature
which the word manhood includes.
“Ah,” said I, as I walked on, “what a mistake in Delia Floyd! She is
just as capable of high development as a woman as he is as a man.
How admirably would they have mated. In him, self-reliance, reason,
judgment, and deep feeling would have found in her all the qualities
they seek--taste, perception, tenderness and love. They would have grown
upwards into higher ideas of life, not downwards into sensualism and
mere worldliness, like the many. Alas! This mistake on her part may
ruin them both; for a man of deep, reserved feelings, who suffers a
disappointment in love, is often warped in his appreciation of the sex,
and grows one-sided in his character as he advances through the cycles
of life.”
I had parted from Henry only a few minutes when I met his rival, Ralph
Dewey. Let me describe him. In person he was taller than Wallingford,
and had the easy, confident manner of one who had seen the world, as we
say. His face was called handsome; but it was not a manly face--manly in
that best sense which includes character and thought. The chin and mouth
were feeble, and the forehead narrow, throwing the small orbs close
together. But he had a fresh complexion, dark, sprightly eyes, and
a winning smile. His voice was not very good, having in it a kind of
unpleasant rattle; but he managed it rather skillfully in conversation,
and you soon, ceased to notice the peculiarity.
Ralph lived in New York, where he had recently been advanced to the
position of fourth partner in a dry goods jobbing house, with a small
percentage on the net profits. Judging from the air with which he spoke
of his firm’s operations, and his relation to the business, you might
have inferred that he was senior instead of junior partner, and that the
whole weight of the concern rested on his shoulders.
Judge Bigelow, a solid man, and from professional habit skilled in
reading character, was, singularly enough, quite carried away with his
smart nephew, and really believed his report of himself. Prospectively,
he saw him a merchant prince, surrounded by palatial splendors.
Our acquaintance was as yet but slight, so we only nodded in passing.
As we were in the neighborhood of Squire Floyd’s pleasant cottage, I was
naturally curious, under the circumstances, to see whether the young
man was going to make a visit at so early an hour; and I managed to keep
long enough in sight to have this matter determined. Ralph called at the
Squire’s, and I saw him admitted. So I shook my head disapprovingly, and
kept on my way.
Not until late in the afternoon did I find occasion to go into that part
of the town where the old Allen house was located, though the image
of its gleaming north-west windows was frequently in my thought. The
surprise occasioned by that incident was in no way lessened on seeing a
carriage drive in through the gateway, and two ladies alight therefrom
and enter the house. Both were in mourning. I did not see their faces;
but, judging from the dress and figure of each, it was evident that one
was past the meridian of life, and the other young. Still more to my
surprise, the carriage was not built after our New England fashion, but
looked heavy, and of a somewhat ancient date. It was large and high,
with a single seat for the driver perched away up in the air, and a
footman’s stand and hangings behind. There was, moreover, a footman in
attendance, who sprung to his place after the ladies had alighted, and
rode off to the stables.
“Am I dreaming?” said I to myself, as I kept on my way, after
witnessing this new incident in the series of strange events that were
half-bewildering me. But it was in vain that I rubbed my eyes; I could
not wake up to a different reality.
It was late when I got home from my round of calls, and found tea
awaiting my arrival.
“Any one been here?” I asked--my usual question.
“No one.’ The answer pleased me for I had many things on my mind, and
I wished to have a good long evening with my wife. Baby Mary and Louis
were asleep: but we had the sweet, gentle face of Agnes, our first born,
to brighten the meal-time. After she was in dream-land, guarded by
the loving angels who watch with children in sleep, and Constance
was through with her household cares for the evening, I came into the
sitting-room from my office, and taking the large rocking-chair, leaned
my head back, mind and body enjoying a sense of rest and comfort.
“You are not the only one,” said my wife, looking up from the basket of
work through which she had been searching for some article, “who noticed
lights in the Allen House last evening.”
“Who else saw them?” I asked.
“Mrs. Dean says she heard two or three people say that the house was lit
up all over--a perfect illumination.”
“Stories lose nothing in being re-told. The illumination was confined to
the room in which Captain Allen died. I am witness to that. But I have
something more for your ears. This afternoon, as I rode past, I saw an
old-fashioned English coach, with a liveried driver and footman, turn
into the gate. From this two ladies alighted and went into the house;
when the coach was driven to the stables. Now, what do you think of
that?”
“We are to have a romance enacted in our very midst, it would seem,”
 replied my wife, in her unimpassioned way. “Other eyes have seen this
also, and the strange fact is buzzing through the town. I was only
waiting until we were alone to tell you that these two ladies whom you
saw, arrived at the Allen House in their carriage near about daylight,
on the day before yesterday. But no one knows who they are, or from
whence they came. It is said that they made themselves as completely at
home as if they were in their own house; selected the north-west chamber
as their sleeping apartment; and ordered the old servants about with an
air of authority that subdued them to obedience.”
“But what of Mrs. Allen?” I asked, in astonishment at all this.
“The stories about her reception of the strangers do not agree.
According to one, the old lady was all resistance and indignation at
this intrusion; according to another, she gave way, passively, as if she
were no longer sole mistress of the house.”
Constance ceased speaking, for there came the usual interruption to our
evening tete-a-tete--the ringing of my office bell.
“You are wanted up at the Allen House, Doctor, said my boy, coming in
from the office a few moments afterwards.
“Who is sick?” I asked.
“The old lady.”
“Any thing serious?”
“I don’t know, sir. But I should think there was from the way old Aunty
looked. She says, come up as quickly as you can.”
“Is she in the office?”
“No, sir. She just said that, and then went out in a hurry.”
“The plot thickens,” said I, looking at Constance.
“Poor old lady!” There was a shade of pity in her tones.
“You have not seen her for many years?”
“No.”
“Poor old witch of Endor! were better said.”
“Oh!” answered my wife, smiling, “you know that the painter’s idea of
this celebrated individual has been reversed by some, who affirm that
she was young and handsome instead of old and ugly like modern witches.”
“I don’t know how that may be, but if you could see Mrs. Allen, you
would say that ‘hag’ were a better term for her than woman. If the good
grow beautiful as they grow old, the loving spirit shining like a lamp
through the wasted and failing walls of flesh, so do the evil grow ugly
and repulsive. Ah, Constance, the lesson is for all of us. If we live
true lives, our countenances will grow radiant from within, as we
advance in years; if selfish, worldly, discontented lives, they will
grow cold, hard, and repulsive.”
I drew on my boots and coat, and started on my visit to the Allen House.
The night was in perfect contrast with the previous one. There was no
moon, but every star shone with its highest brilliancy, while the galaxy
threw its white scarf gracefully across the sky, veiling millions of
suns in their own excessive brightness. I paused several times in my
walk, as broader expanses opened between the great elms that gave to
our town a sylvan beauty, and repeated, with a rapt feeling of awe and
admiration, the opening stanza of a familiar hymn:--
“The spacious firmament on high, With all the blue ethereal sky, And
spangled heavens, a shining frame, Their great Original proclaim.”
How the beauty and grandeur of nature move the heart, as if it
recognized something of its own in every changing aspect. The sun and
moon and stars--the grand old mountains lifting themselves upwards
into serene heights--the limitless expanse of ocean, girdling the whole
earth--rivers, valleys, and plains--trees, flowers, the infinite forms
of life--to all the soul gives some response, as if they were akin.
I half forgot my interest in old Mrs. Allen, as my heart beat responsive
to the pulsings of nature, and my thoughts flew upwards and away as on
the wings of eagles. But my faithful feet had borne me steadily onwards,
and I was at the gate opening to the grounds of the Allen House, before
I was conscious of having passed over half the distance that lay
between that and my home. I looked up, and saw a light in the north-west
chamber, but the curtains were down.
On entering the house, I was shown by the servant who admitted me, into
the small office or reception room opening from the hall. I had scarcely
seated myself, when a tall woman, dressed in black, came in, and said,
with a graceful, but rather stately manner--
“The Doctor, I believe?”
How familiar the voice sounded! And yet I did not recognise it as
the voice of any one whom I had known, but rather as a voice heard in
dreams. Nor was the calm, dignified countenance on which my eyes rested,
strange in every lineament. The lady was, to all appearance, somewhere
in the neighborhood of sixty, and, for an elderly lady, handsome. I
thought of my remark to Constance about the beauty and deformity of age,
and said to myself, “Here is one who has not lived in vain.”
I arose as she spoke, and answered in the affirmative.
“You have come too late,” she said, with a touch of feeling in her
voice.
“Not dead?” I ejaculated.
“Yes, dead. Will you walk up stairs and see her?”
I followed in silence, ascending to the chamber which had been occupied
by Mrs. Allen since the old Captain’s death. It was true as she had
said; a ghastly corpse was before me. I use the word ghastly, for it
fully expresses the ugliness of that lifeless face, withered, marred,
almost shorn of every true aspect of humanity. I laid my hand upon
her--the skin was cold. I felt for her pulse, but there was no sign of
motion in the arteries.
“It is over,” I said, lifting myself from my brief examination, “and
may God have mercy upon her soul!” The last part of the sentence was
involuntary.
“Amen!”
I felt that this response was no idle ejaculation.
“How was she affected?” I asked. “Has she been sick for any time? Or did
life go out suddenly?”
“It went out suddenly,” replied the lady--“as suddenly as a lamp in the
wind.”
“Was she excited from any cause?”
“She has been in an excited state ever since our arrival, although every
thing that lay in our power has been done to quiet her mind and give it
confidence and repose.”
She spoke calmly, as one, who held a controlling position there, and of
right. I looked into her serene face, almost classic in its outlines,
with an expression of blended inquiry and surprise, that it was evident
did not escape her observation, although she offered no explanation in
regard to herself.
I turned again to the corpse, and examined it with some care. There was
nothing in its appearance that gave me any clue to the cause which had
produced this sudden extinguishment of life.
“In what way was she excited?” I asked, looking at the stranger as I
stepped back from the couch on which the dead body was lying.
She returned my steady gaze, without answering, for some moments.
Either my tone or manner affected her unpleasantly, for I saw her brows
contract slightly, her full lips close upon themselves, and her eyes
acquire an intenser look.
“You have been her physician, I believe?” There was no sign of feeling
in the steady voice which made the inquiry.
“Yes.”
“I need not, in that case, describe to you her unhappy state of
mind. I need not tell you that an evil will had the mastery over her
understanding, and that, in the fierce struggle of evil passion with
evil passion, mind and body had lost their right adjustment.”
“I know all this,” said I. “Still, madam, in view of my professional
duty, I must repeat my question, and urge upon you the propriety of an
undisguised answer. In what way was she excited? and what was the cause
leading to an excitement which has ended thus fatally?”
“I am not in the habit of putting on disguises,” she answered, with a
quiet dignity that really looked beautiful.
“I pray you, madam, not to misunderstand me,” said I. “As a physician,
I must report the cause of all deaths in the range of my practice. If I
were not to do so in this case, a permit for burial would not be issued
until a regular inquest was held by the Coroner.”
“Ah, I see,” she replied, yet with an air of indecision. “You are
perfectly right, Doctor, and we must answer to your satisfaction. But
let us retire from this chamber.”
She led the way down stairs. As we passed the memorable north-west room,
she pushed the door open, and said,
“Blanche, dear, I wish to see you. Come down to the parlor.”
I heard faintly the answer, in a very musical voice. We had scarcely
entered the parlor, when the lady said--
“My daughter, Doctor.”
A vision of beauty and innocence met my gaze. A young girl, not over
seventeen, tall like her mother, very fair, with a face just subdued
into something of womanly seriousness, stood in the door, as I turned at
mention of her presence.
A single lamp gave its feeble light to the room, only half subduing the
shadows that went creeping into corners and recesses. Something of a
weird aspect was on every thing; and I could not but gaze at the
two strangers in that strange place to them, under such peculiar
circumstances, and wonder to see them so calm, dignified, and
self-possessed. We sat down by the table on which the lamp was standing,
the elder of the two opposite, and the younger a little turned away, so
that her features were nearly concealed.
“Blanche,” said the former, “the Doctor wishes to know the particular
incidents connected with the death of Mrs. Allen.”
I thought there was an uneasy movement on the part of the girl. She did
not reply. There was a pause.
“The facts are simply these, Doctor,” and the mother looked me steadily
in the face, which stood out clear, as the lamp shone full on every
feature. “From the moment of our arrival, Mrs. Allen has seemed like one
possessed of an evil Spirit. How she conducted herself before, is
known to me only as reported by the servants. From the little they have
communicated, I infer that for some time past she has not been ii her
right mind. How is it? You must know as to her sanity or insanity.”
“She has not, in my opinion, been a truly sane woman for years,” was my
answer.
“As I just said,” she continued, “she has seemed like one possessed of
an evil spirit. In no way could we soften or conciliate her. Her conduct
resembled more nearly that of some fierce wild beast whose den was
invaded, than that of a human being. She would hold no friendly
intercourse with us, and if we met at any time, or in any part of the
house, she would fix her keen black eyes upon us, with an expression
that sent a shudder to the heart. My daughter scarcely dared venture
from her room. She so dreaded to meet her. Twice, as she flew past me,
in her restless wanderings over the house, muttering to herself, I heard
her say, as she struck her clenched hand in the air, ‘I can do it again,
and I will!’”
A cold chill crept over me, for I remembered the death of Captain Allen;
and this was like a confirmation of what I had feared as to foul play.
“There is no trusting one wholly or even partially insane. So we were
always on our guard. Not once, but many times during the few nights
we have spent here, have we heard the door of our chamber tried after
midnight. It was plain to us that it was not safe to live in this way,
and so we had come to the reluctant conclusion that personal restraint
must be secured. The question as to how this could best be done we had
not yet decided, when death unraveled the difficulty.”
The speaker ceased at this part of her narrative, and lifting from
the table a small bell, rung it. A maid entered. I had never seen her
before.
“Tell Jackson that I want him.”
The girl curtsied respectfully, and withdrew.
Nothing more was said, until a man, whom I recognized at a glance to be
a regularly trained English servant, presented himself.
“Jackson,” said the lady, “I wish you to relate exactly, what occurred
just previously to, and at the time of Mrs. Allen’s death.”
The man looked bewildered for a moment or two; but soon recovering
himself, answered without hesitation.
“Hit ‘appened just in this way, ma’am. I was a comin’ hup stairs, when
I met the hold lady a tearin’ down like a mad cat. She looked kind o’
awful. I never saw anybody out of an ‘ospital look that way in all my
life before. She ‘eld an hiron poker in ‘er ‘and. As my young lady--”
 and he looked towards Blanche--“was in the ‘all, I didn’t think it safe
for ‘er if I let the hold woman go down. So I just stood in ‘er way, and
put my harms across the stairs so”--stretching his arms out. “My! but
‘ow she did fire up! She stood almost a minute, and then sprung on me as
if she was a tiger. But I was the strongest, and ‘olding ‘er in my harms
like as I would a mad kitten, I carried ‘er hup to ‘er room, put ‘er
hin, and shut the door. My young lady saw it hall, for she followed
right hup after me.”
He looked towards Blanche.
“Just as it occurred,” she said, in a low, sweet fluttering voice.
“I heard the strife,” said her mother, “and ran up to see what was the
matter. I reached the door of Mrs. Allen’s room just as Jackson thrust
her in. He did not use any more violence than was needed in a case of
such sudden emergency. He is strong, and held her so tightly that she
could not even struggle. One wild, fierce scream rent the air, as
he shut the door, and then all was silent as death. I went in to her
instantly. She was on the floor in a convulsion. You were sent for
immediately; but it was too late for human intervention. Jackson, you
can go.”
The man bowed with an air of deferential respect, and retired.
“Now, sir,” she added, turning to me, “you have the facts as they
occurred. I have no wish to give them publicity, for they are family
matters, and these are always in their degree, sacred. If, however, you
think it your duty as a physician, to make the matter one of official
investigation, I can have nothing to say.”
I thought for some minutes before answering. The story, as related by
the servant, I fully credited.
“Let me see the body again,” said I, coming at length to a conclusion.
We went up stairs, all three together; but only two of us entered the
chamber of death. As we neared the door, Blanche caught at her mother’s
arm, and I heard her say, in a whisper:
“Dear mamma! spare me that sight again. It is too horrible!”
“The presence of your daughter is not needed,” said I, interposing. “Let
her retire to her own room.”
“Thank you!” There was a grateful expression in her voice, as she
uttered these brief words, and then went back, while we passed in to the
apartment where the dead woman was still lying.
As I looked upon her face again, it seemed even more ghastly than
before; and I could hardly repress a shudder. My companion held a
lamp; while I made as careful an examination as was possible under the
circumstances. I did not expect to find any marks of violence, though
I searched for them about her head, neck, and chest. But, under the
circumstances, I felt it to be my duty to know, from actual search, that
no such signs existed. In every aspect presented by the corpse, there
was a corroboration of the story related by the serving man. It was
plain, that in a fit of half insane, uncontrollable passion, the nice
adjustment of physical forces had been lost.
“I am fully satisfied, madam,” said I, at length, turning from my
unpleasant task.
She let her calm, earnest eyes dwell on mine for a few moments, and then
answered, with a softened tone, in which there was just a perceptible
thrill of feeling--
“If I were a believer in omens, I should take this sad incident,
following so quickly on our removal to a new country and a new home, as
foreshadowing evil to me or mine. But I do not so read external events.”
“Between a life like hers, and a life like yours, madam, there can be
no possible nearness; nor any relation between your spiritual affinities
and hers. The antipodes are not farther apart,” said I, in return;
“therefore, nothing that has befallen her can be ominous as to you.”
“I trust not,” she gravely answered, as we left the room together.
To my inquiry if I could serve her in any way, in the present matter,
she simply requested me to send a respectable undertaker, who would
perform what was fitting in the last rites due to the dead.
I promised, and retired.
CHAPTER VIII.
The appearance, manner, and bearing of the two strangers impressed
me strongly. The elder had evidently moved in refined and cultivated
society all her life. There was about her the air of “a lady, born and
bred”--dignified, calm, easy, and courteous. The daughter was a lovely
blossom on this stately stem--delicate, beautiful, sweet with the odors
of innocence. I see her now as I saw her on that first night of our
meeting--to my eyes a new born vision of loveliness.
I found Constance awaiting, with curious interest, my return. I was
going right into the heart of this new wonder, and could not fail
to bring back some revelation that would satisfy, in a measure, the
excitement of mind produced by so singular an intrusion of strangers
upon our quiet town. I answered her first look of inquiry by the
words:--
“It is over. Another book of life is sealed up here to be opened in
eternity.”
“Dead! Not dead?”
“Yes, Constance, Mrs. Allen is dead. Her spirit had passed away before
my arrival.”
“How did she die?--from what cause?”
“From what I can learn she died in a fit of passion.” I then related all
that I had seen and heard.
“But who can they be?” This query came as a natural sequence. “What
right have they in the Allen House?”
“Whoever they may be,” I replied, “they act, or, at least, the elder
of the two ladies acts as if her right there was not even open to a
question. And, perhaps, it is not.”
“But what can they be to the Allens?”
“I will give you,” said I, “the benefit of my guessing on the subject.
You recollect the story told about Captain Allen’s mother; how she went
off a great many years ago with a stranger--an Englishman.”
Constance remembered all about this family history, for it was the
romance of our town.
“My conclusion is that this lady is the sister of Captain Allen--the
child that his mother took with her when she fled from her husband’s
house. I am strengthened in this belief from the first impression of her
voice, as if the tones had in them something familiar.”
We talked this matter over, looking at it in every way, until we
satisfied ourselves that my conjectures must be true. The quiet manner
in which they had intruded themselves, and taken possession of the
house--unheralded as far as we knew--could not but present itself to our
minds as a matter of special wonder. The more we conned it over the more
we were puzzled. Before coming home I had called at an undertaker’s, and
notified him that his services were wanted at the Allen House. Early on
the next day I took the liberty of calling there myself. I sent up my
name, and awaited, with some interest, my reception. The visit might be
regarded as an intrusion, and I was prepared to receive a message from
the lady asking to be excused. Not so, however. I had been seated only
a few moments, when I heard the rustle of her garments on the stairs. My
first glance at her face assured me that I was no unwelcome visitor.
“Thank you, Doctor,” she said, as she extended her hand, “for this early
call. Our meeting last night for the first time can hardly be called a
pleasant one--or the associations connected with it such as either of us
might wish to recall.”
“Our control over events is so slight,” I made answer as I resumed my
seat, “that we should separate unpleasant feelings as far as possible
from any memories connected with them.”
A faint, sad smile just lightened up her placid face as she said, in
reply to the remark.
“Ah, Doctor, that may not be. Lives are too intimately blended here for
any one to suffer or do wrong without leaving a burden of sadness on
other memories.”
“True; but the burden will be light or heavy according to our strength.”
She looked at me without replying, for the remark was so palpable, that
it seemed to involve nothing beyond a literal fact.
“Or rather,” I said, “the burden will be heavy or light according to our
state or quality.”
There was a sign of awakening interest in her countenance as if my
remark had touched some hidden spring of thought.
“If we are right with ourselves,” I went on, “the disturbance produced
by others’ misconduct will not reach very far down. The pressure of
sadness may lie upon us for a season; but cannot long remain; for the
pure heart will lift itself into serene atmospheres.”
“But, who is right with himself?” she said. “Whose heart is pure enough
to dwell in these serene atmospheres? Not mine, alas!”
I looked into the suddenly illuminated face as she put these questions,
in surprise at the quick change which had passed over it. But the
tone in which she uttered the closing sentence was touched with tender
sadness.
“Rather let me say,” I made answer, “in the degree that we are right
with ourselves. None attain unto perfection here.”
“Yet,” said the lady, with a sweet calmness of manner that made her
look beautiful, “is it not pleasant to imagine a state of perfection--or
rather a state in which evil is quiescent, and the heart active with all
good and loving impulses? How full of inspiration is such an ideal of
life! But the way by which we must go, if we would rise into this state,
is one of difficulty and perpetual warfare. The enemies of our peace are
numbered by myriads; and they seek with deadly hatred to do us harm.”
“And yet are powerless,” said I, “if we keep the outworks of our lives
in order.”
“Yes,” she answered, “it is the very ultimate or last things of our
lives where the power of repulsion resides. We can, in temptation, be it
ever so strong, refuse to act in the wrong direction--refuse to do an
evil thing, because it is sinful. And this is our bulwark; this is our
tower of safety; for it is only in wrong doing that our enemies gain
the victory over us. They may assault us never so fiercely--may dazzle
our eyes with the glitter of this world’s most alluring things--may
stir the latent envy, malice, pride, or dishonesty, that lurks in every
heart; but if we stand still, hold back our hands and stay our feet--if
we give our resolute ‘No’ to all enticements, and keep our actions
free from evil, all hell cannot prevail against us. God will take care
of the interior of our lives, and make them pure and heavenly, if we
resist evil in the exterior. But, pardon me; I did not mean to read you
a homily.”
She smiled with a grave sort of smile, and then sat silent.
“I like your way of talking,” said I. There was something about the lady
that put me at ease with her, and I said this without reserve, as if
I were speaking to a friend. “It looks to higher things in life than
people usually regard as worthy of our chief consideration. To most of
us, the outer world offers the highest attractions; only the few turn
inwardly to the more beautiful world of mind.”
“Outward things fade--change--die; only spiritual things dwell in
unfading beauty. We are in a world of mere effects as to our bodies;
but the soul lives in the world of causes. Do we not spend a vain
and unprofitable life, then, if we go on building, day after day, our
tabernacle on the ever-shifting sands of time, instead of upon the
immovable Rock of Ages? But who is guiltless of this folly? Not I! not
I!”
Again that calm, earnest voice fell to a lower key, and was veiled by a
tender sadness.
“It is something gained,” she added, with returning firmness of tone,
“if, even after the sharp lessons of many years, we get glimpses of
Truth, and are willing to follow, though it be at a far distance, the
light she holds aloft. Yes, it is something gained--something gained!”
She spoke the last words as if merely thinking aloud, and not addressing
an auditor.
“Can I aid you in anything, madam?” said I, breaking in upon a state
of reverie into which her mind seemed to be falling. “The circumstances
under which you find yourself are peculiar--I refer to the death of Mrs.
Allen, following so quickly on your arrival among strangers--and you
may stand in need of friendly service from one who knows the people and
their ways. If so, do not hesitate to command me.”
“I thank you sincerely,” she answered, unbending still more from
her almost stately manner. “Friendly consideration I shall need, of
course--as who does not in this world? And I repeat my thanks, that
you have so kindly and so promptly anticipated my needs So far as the
remains of my unhappy kinswoman are concerned, I have referred all to
the undertaker. He will carry out my wishes. To-morrow the interment
will take place. On the day following, if it it is altogether agreeable
to yourself, I would esteem a call as a particular favor.”
I arose, as she concluded the last sentence, saying as I did so,
“I will be sure to call, madam; and render any service in my power. You
may regard me as a friend.”
“Already you have extorted my confidence,” she answered, faintly
smiling.
I bowed low, and was retiring when she said--
“A moment, Doctor!”
I turned toward her again.
“Doctor, it may be well for you to see my daughter.”
“Is she indisposed?” I asked.
“Not exactly that. But the excitement and alarm of the last two or three
days have been, I fear, rather too much for her nerves. I say alarm, for
the poor girl was really frightened at Mrs. Allen’s wild conduct--and no
wonder. Death following in so sad a way, shocked her painfully. She did
not sleep well last night; and this morning she looks pale and drooping.
In all probability, quiet of mind and body will soon adjust the balance
of health; still, it may be safest for you to see her.”
“A mere temporary disturbance, no doubt, which, as you suggest, quiet of
mind and body will, in all probability, overcome. Yet it will do no harm
for me to see her; and may save trouble.”
“Excuse me a moment,” she said, and left the room. In a little while she
returned, and asked me to accompany her up stairs.
I found the daughter in a black and gray silk wrapper, seated on a
lounge. She arose as I entered, a slight flush coming into her face,
which subsided in a few moments, leaving it quite pale, and weary
looking. After we were all seated, I took her hand, which was hot in the
palm, but cold at the extremities. Her pulse was feeble, disturbed, and
quick.
“How is your head?” I asked.
“It feels a little strangely,” she replied, moving it two or three
times, as if to get some well defined sensation.
“Any pain?”
“Yes; a dull kind of pain over my left eye, that seems to go deep into
my head.”
“What general bodily sensation have you? Any that you can speak of
definitely?”
“None, except a sense of oppression and heaviness. When I raise my arm,
it seems to fall like lead; if I move about, I am weary, and wish to be
at rest.”
“Rest is, by all means, the most desirable condition for you now,”
 said I. Then addressing her mother, I added--“I think your daughter had
better lie down. Let her room be shaded and kept quiet. She needs rest
and sleep. Sleep is one of nature’s great restorers.”
“Will you make no prescription, Doctor?” the mother asked.
I reflected on the symptoms exhibited, for a few moments, and then said,
“Nothing beyond repose, now. I trust that nature, as the pressure is
removed, will work all right again.”
“You will call in again to-day.”
“Yes; towards evening I will see your daughter, when I hope to find her
improved in every way.”
I spoke with a cheerfulness of manner that did not altogether express
my feelings in the case; for, there were some indications, not yet clear
enough for a diagnosis, that awakened slight concern. As I did not wish
to go wrong in my first prescription, I deemed it better to wait a few
hours, and see how nature would succeed in her efforts to repel the
enemy. So I went away, with a promise to call again early in the
afternoon.
CHAPTER IX.
It was between four and five o’clock in the afternoon, when I called
again at the Allen House. An old colored servant, who had been in the
family ever since my remembrance--she went by the name of “Aunty”--was
standing by the gate as I alighted from my chaise.
“‘Deed, massa, Ise glad you come,” said she in a troubled way.
“Why so, Aunty? No body very sick, I hope.”
“‘Deed, an dar is den; else old Aunty don’t know nothin’.”
“Who?”
“Why dat blessed young lady what drapped in among us, as if she’d come
right down from Heaven. I was jest a gwine to run down an’ ax you to
come and see her right away.”
I did not linger to talk with “Aunty,” but went forward to the house.
The mother of Blanche met me at the door. She looked very anxious.
“How is your daughter now?” I asked.
“Not so well as when you saw her this morning,” she answered. Her voice
trembled.
“I would have called earlier, but have been visiting a patient several
miles away.”
“She has been lying in a kind of stupor ever since you were here. What
can it mean, Doctor?”
The mother looked intently in my face, and paused for an answer, with
her lips apart. But I knew as little as she what it meant. Ah! how often
do anxious friends question us, and hearken eagerly for our replies,
when the signs of disease are yet too indefinite for any clear
diagnosis!
“I can tell better after seeing your daughter,” said I. And we went up
to the sick girl’s chamber; that north-west room, at the window of which
I had first seen the fair stranger, as I stood wondering in storm and
darkness. I found her lying in apparent sleep, and breathing heavily.
Her face was flushed; and I noticed the peculiar odor that usually
accompanies an eruptive fever.
“How do you feel now?” I asked.
She had opened her eyes as I took her hand. She did not answer, but
looked at me in a half bewildered way. Her skin was hot and the pulse
small, but tense and corded.
“Does your head ache?”
I wished to arouse her to external consciousness.
“Oh, it’s you, Doctor.”
She recognized me and smiled faintly.
“How are you now?” I inquired.
“Not so well, I think, Doctor,” she answered. “My head aches worse than
it did; and I feel sick all over. I don’t know what can ail me.”
“Have you any uneasiness, or sense of oppression in the stomach?” I
inquired.
“Oh, yes, Doctor.” She laid her hand upon her chest; and drew in a long
breath, as if trying to get relief.
“Have you felt as well as usual for a week, or ten days past?” I
inquired.
“No, Doctor.” It was the mother who answered my question. “And in order
that you may understand the case clearly, let me say, that it is only a
week since we arrived from England. We came over in a steamer, and were
fifteen days in making the trip. From Boston, we came here in our own
carriage. Before leaving home, Blanche went around to see a number of
poor cottagers in our neighbourhood, and there was sickness at several
of the places where she called. In one cottage, particularly, was a case
of low fever. I was troubled when I learned that she had been there, but
still hoped that her excellent state of health would repel anything
like contagion. During the first part of our voyage, she suffered
considerably from sea-sickness; but got along very well after that. If
it hadn’t been for the unhappy scenes of the last few days, with their
painfully exciting consummation, I think she would have thrown off,
wholly, any lurking tendency to disease.”
I turned my face partly aside, so that its expression could not be seen.
The facts stated, and the symptoms as now presented, left me in little
doubt as to the nature of the malady against which I had to contend.
Even while her mother talked, my patient fell away into the stupor from
which I had aroused her.
My treatment of the case coincided with the practice of men eminent in
the school of medicine to which I then belonged. I am not a disciple
of that school now, having found a system of exacter science, and one
compassing more certain results with smaller risk and less waste of
physical energy.
In order to remove the uneasiness of which my patient complained, I gave
