do so." 
" But he never had a thought that you could 
earn money enough to support the whole of us. 
You are a. good boy, Paul, but you must not try 
to do too much." 
 
" If we can live on five dollars a week, I am 
almost sure I can earn that." 
" That is a good deal for a boy like you." 
'' I can do it, I know." 
" Captain Littleton said he would find a place 
for you." 
" I shall be very much obliged to him, and 
will take any place I can get ; but I am certain 
before long that I can make five dollars a 
week." 
" Don't think of such a thing. There are a 
great many men who get no more than that. 
You must work your way up, little by little, 
Paul, and one of these days you will obtain a 
good situation." 
" That's just what I mean to do. Little by 
little - that's my motto ; and if I can only get 
hold any where, you may leave the rest to me." 
" You are a good boy, Paul, and you will suc- 
ceed by and by," said Mrs. Duncan, -proudly. "I 
expect to get some work myself next week, and 
I have no doubt we shall do very well." 
'' What work, mother ? " asked Paul, a shadow 
of dissatisfaction passing over his face. 
" Captain Littleton thought he could get me a 
chance to make bags for the flour mills." 
" I don't mean to have you take in work, 
mother. You have enough to do to take care of 
the house and the children." 
"I can- do a good deal besides. Sarah can 
help a great deal about the house, and with what 
we can all do, we shall get along very well in- 
deed. We ought to be very thankful for all the 
blessings that surround us." 
'' We are enough sight better off than I thought," 
replied Paul; "but I don't want to have you 
make a slave of yourself. You used to ' work 
hard enough ; and now, if you are going to take in 
work, you will wear yourself out in a few years." 
" I guess not, Paul. There is somebody knock- 
ing at the door ; go and see who it is." 
Paul went to the door, and the visitor proved 
to be Captain Littleton. 
"I was looking for you, Paul," said he. "I'm 
 
going to give a dinner party to-morrow, and I 
want a mess of perch, fresh from the rocks, by 
twelve o'clock. I want you should go down and 
catch them for me. You always have good luck 
at fishing. Will you do this for me, Paul ? " 
"Yes, sir; certainly I will." 
" I will speak to your mother about it." 
Paul conducted Captain Littleton into the little 
parlor, and called his mother. She was willing 
that he should go, and glad to have him do 
something in return for the gentleman's repeated 
acts of kindness. 
" I will give you twenty cents a dozen for 
them, Paul, and I want at least five dozen," con- 
tinued the captain. 
" He will not charge any thing, sir," added 
Mrs. Duncan." 
'' Not a cent, sir, " repeated Paul. 
" It's a fair trade, young man, and I won't take 
them unless I pay for them." 
" I don't want any pay from you, sir." 
" But I choose to pay you, and you must take 
 
your orders from me in this instance. Have you 
any clams for bait ? " 
" No, sir. I will get some to-niglit." 
" Very well ; you may go and get them now, 
and I will talk to your mother about business." 
Paul took his hat and went down to the 
beach. Embarking in the old boat, he sailed 
over to Tenean, where plenty of clams were to 
be had, and a bucket full was soon procured. 
Like a prudent fisherman, he made all his ar- 
rangements for the next day. First he repaired 
the worn-out sail, then made a new sprit, and 
refitted the tiller to the rudder head. When 
every thing was in ship-shape order about the 
boat, he took out his perch lines, ganged on a new 
hook, and rigged an extra sinker for use in case 
of accident. 
"Going a fishing, Paul?" said John Duncan, 
his brother, a lad of ten, who joined him when 
he had nearly completed his preparations. 
"I'm going down in the morning to get a 
mess of perch for Captain Littleton," 
 
" Let me go with you, Paul ? " 
" You inust go to school." 
" It don't keep." 
" Ask mother, then ; if she is willing, I am." 
" Have you got a line for me ? " 
"Yes." 
John Duncan, for his years, was almost as 
much of a sailor and fisherman as Paul. Both 
of them took to the water like ducks, and seemed 
to understand all about a boat as if by instinct. 
The prospect of a day down below fired the im- 
agination of the " young salt," and he ran up 
the bluff with all his might to obtain the desired 
permission. 
" May I go a-fishing with Paul to-morrow, 
mother?" shouted he, as he rushed into the par- 
lor, without noticing the presence of Captain Lit- 
tleton. 
" We will see about that by and by. Take off 
your cap." 
" How do you do, John ? " said Captain Lit- 
tleton. 
 
" Pretty well," replied John, whose head keeled 
over on the port side, as he discovered the visitor, 
and three fingers found their way into his mouth. 
'' You want to go a-fishing, do you ? " 
"Yes, sir." 
." Do you think it is safe to let him go ? '' 
asked Mrs, Duncan. 
" I ain't afraid, mother," interrupted the young 
hopeful. 
" I know . you are not, and that's one reason 
why I don't like to trust you in the boat." 
"Your boys take to the water in a natural 
way ; and when boys have a decided taste of that 
kind, it isn't of much use to thwart them." 
"I know it isn't; but John has worried my life 
out since he was four years old, for he is always 
in the water." 
" I should use proper precaution with him ; but 
Paul is so good a boatman that I should not be 
afraid to trust him in his care." 
" You may go, John," added Mrs. Duncan. 
'" I have almost made up my mind to let him 
 
live in the water ; but I can't help going to the 
window when he is out on the beach, at least 
twenty times a day, to see if he isn't in trouble." 
"To 'return to Paul," said Captain Littleton, 
resuming the remarks which the entrance of John 
had interrupted. " I have the refusal of a place 
in a lawyer's office, where the salary is two 
dollars and a half a week. It is small pay, but 
it is better than nothing." 
"He expects more than that. It would have 
astonished you to hear him talk a little while 
ago. He is going to assume the whole bur- 
den of supporting the family, and is not willing 
that I should do any thing." 
" He is a smart boy, and ought to have a good 
place." 
" He says he means to make five dollars a 
week ; but that is mere boy-talk." 
" I like his spirit, but he will hardly be expected 
to earn five dollars a week at present. I hope I 
shall be able to find him a better place than the 
ono I spoke of." 
 
'' You are very good, sir ; I shall never be able 
to repay you for your kindness." 
" Dpn't .mention it, ma'am. I am very glad to 
do any thing I can for you. You have made up 
your mind then to purchase the house ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" I think that's the best thing you can do un- 
der the circumstances. The property is rising in 
value, and in a few years, if you should want to 
sell, it would bring two thousand dollars. I will 
see Freeman as I return, and the papers shall be 
made out immediately." 
"Thank you, sir." 
Captain Littleton took his leave, and Mrs. Dun- 
can was very grateful to him for the friendly in- 
terest he manifested in her affairs. When Paul 
returned to the house, his mother informed him 
that her friend had found a place for him; but 
the young aspirant had got an idea, and made up 
his mind to decline the situation. 
6« 
 
CHAPTER V. 
PAUL COOKS HIS OWJST BREAKFAST, AND GOES 
A FISHING. 
About six miles east of Bayville was a rocky 
island, around which perch were abundant. Paul 
had often been there with his father, and was fa- 
miliar with the locality. He knew just where to 
moor his boat to have good luck in fishing, and 
was acquainted with all the channels, currents, 
and bars in the bay. He was not only a skilful 
seaman, but a good pilot, and felt as much at 
home on the bay as in the streets of Bayville. 
It would be low tide in the bay at seven 
o'clock, and Paul made his calculations accord- 
ingly. The best time to fish was on the " young 
flood," or soon after the tide had turnea to come 
in ; and, if the wind should happen to be light or 
contrary, it would take him a long time to run 
 
down to Rock Island, as the place was called ; 
therefore he must go down with the tide. To 
accomplish his purpose it was necessary they; he 
should start by five o'clock in the morning, which 
was an hour before his usual breakfast time. 
He did not sleep very well that night, for the 
great idea to which we have alluded was, creating an 
immense commotion in his mind. He had reasoned 
out the certainty of his being able to support the 
family, and he felt as proud of his great resolu- 
tion as though he had achieved its full fruits. 
When, at last, he dropped asleep, it was only to 
dream of great speculations, and of the satisfac- 
tion he should have in giving his mother money 
enough on Saturday night to pay all the expenses 
of the family for a week. 
He woke very early in the morning, and as he 
jumped out of bed he heard the clock on the 
Town Hall strike four. He did not mean to dis- 
turb his mother, and therefore cautioned John 
not to make any noise. He was not like some 
boys, who growl and grumble at their mothers if 
tlieir meals are not ready when they want them. 
Stealing softly down stairs, he went to the back 
kitcUen, and made a fire in the stove. 
" Now, John, you go down to the boat, and 
bale her out," said he to his brother, as the lat- 
ter joined him. 
" Are you going without any breakfast ? " asked 
John. 
" No ; breakfast will be ready by the time you 
have baled out the boat." 
" You haven't called mother yet ? " 
" I don't mean to do so." 
" Where will you get your breakfast, then ? " 
''I will get it myself." 
"You don't know how to cook," replied John, 
incredulously. 
" You see if I don't ; now go ahead, and 
don't make a noise, or you will wake mother." 
Paul then went down cellar, and brought up a 
few potatoes, which he washed and put into the 
kettle. A piece of pork and a slice of veal were 
deposited in the frying pan, ready to be cooked 
 
at the proper time. The coffee, not omitting the 
important bit of fish skin, was put in the coffee- 
pot, and. operations in that quarter were suspend- 
ed till the water in the tea-kettle should boil. 
Though our hero had never actually performed 
these manoeuvres with his own hands, he had 
seen them executed so many times that he was 
perfectly familiar with the routine. 
Every thing upon the stove was doing very 
well, and he pulled out the table, which he pro- 
ceeded to cover with the proper articles for the 
morning meal. Each article was carefully dis- 
posed in its proper place, for Paul had already 
learned that food tastes better in the midst of 
order and neatness, than when taken in dirt and 
confusion. It is true, -he made some mistakes for 
the want of experience, and was frequently obliged 
to stop and think what articles were required ; 
but when the table was set, he was satisfied with 
its cheerful and neat appearance. By this time 
the tea-kettle was spouting out long jets of 
steam, and the lid was rattling under the influence 
 
of the commotion beneath it. Paul poured a lit- 
tle of the boiling water into the coffee-pot, and 
then came an appalling difficulty — he did not 
know how much to put in, and was not sure that 
he had taken the proper quantity of coffee. At a 
venture he filled the pot half full, and then pro- 
ceeded to cook the meat. After the coffee had 
boiled ten or fifteen minutes, he tested its strength, 
and added more water. He was delighted with 
his success, and when John returned from the 
beach, he was putting the breakfast upon the 
table. 
" Breakfast is ready," said Paul. 
" Did you cook it, though ? " 
'' I did; I told you I could." 
" I'll give up now. Why don't you hire out 
for a cook ? " 
" Perhaps I shall, one of these days." 
" Wouldn't mother's eyes stick out if she should 
happen in about this time ! " 
" I guess not much." 
But they did, for just as the boys were seating 
 
themselves at the table, Mrs. Duncan entgred the 
room. 
'' Why, boys ! what have you been doing ? " 
exclaimed she, astonished at the regularity with 
which every thing seemed to be proceeding in hei 
absence. 
" Only getting something to eat before we go," 
replied Paul. 
" Why didn't you call me ? " 
'' I thought I wouldn't get you up so  early; 
besides, I could get breakfast just as well my- 
self." 
" I declare you are a good cook, Paul, Your 
potatoes and meat look as nice as can be. How is 
your coffee ? Did you put a piece of fish-skin in 
the pot?" 
" Yes, ma'am." 
' '' Did you put any salt on the meat ? " 
" I did ; come, mother, sit down and eat your 
breakfast." 
Mrs. Duncan accepted this polite invitation, and 
seating herself in her accustomed place, began to 
pour oift the coffee. It was clear, and of the right 
strength, and she liberally praised Paul for his 
culinary skill, and declared that her son was a 
jewel about the house. The breakfast seemed 
even better than usual that morning, and our hero 
was as proud as though he had built a meeting 
house. 
'' Come, John, we must bear a hand ; there isn't 
a breath of wind, and it will take us some time 
to make Rock Island," said Paul, as he rose from 
the table. " Have you filled the jug with water ? " 
"No, but I will." 
" Here is some gingerbread and cheese for 
luncheon," added Mrs. Duncan, as she handed 
Paul a basket she had filled for their use. " Now, 
be very careful, and don't run any risk. Look 
out for squalls, and don't carry sail too long." 
" I'll be very careful, mother. You may trust 
me to go round the world," replied Paul. 
" But I wish you had a better boat." 
" She'll do very well, mother, though I hope to 
have a better one some time or other." 
The jug was filled at the pump, and with their 
provisions and water the boys set off with light 
hearts for the work of the day. 
Paul felt the responsibility of the trust which 
Captain Littleton had imposed upon him. He was 
going to make some money by the operation, and 
upon this day's success depended the hopes which 
he had been cherishing in regard to his new 
scheme. 
There are always some drawbacks to disturb the 
best-laid plans, and when Paul reached the bluff, 
he discovered the boat adrift at some distance 
from the shore. 
" You are a careless fellow, John," he cried. 
" You didn't make fast the boat." 
" That's too bad, Paul ; I didn't mean to do 
that," replied John, vexed at the accident. 
" I don't suppose you did ; but you are care- 
less." 
" I thought I made her fast. What shall we 
do, Paul ? I would rather given any thing than 
had this happen." 
 
" So would I ; but there is no use of crying 
about it. There isn't a skiff within half a mile 
of here." 
"I'll tell you what I'll do, Paul," said John, 
putting down tfte jug and throwing off his jacket. 
" I'll swim out to her and scull her in." 
Paul made no objection to this plan, and in half 
a minute more, John had stripped and was swim- 
ming with all his might after the boat, which was 
perhaps fifty rods from the shore. He was a 
vigorous swimmer, as self-possessed in the water 
as on the land, and his brother had no fears in 
regard to his safety, or his ability to reach the 
boat. 
It did not take the little fellow long to catch the 
boat, and the accident did not make more than 
half an hour's delay. The stores were taken on 
board, and before John had time to dress himself, 
the boat was under sail, and working slowly down 
the bay. A light breeze from the west had sprung 
up, and a gentle ripple at the bow assured- the 
young fishermen that every thing was progressing 
in a satisfactory manner. 
 
" I should' like to be a fisherman, Paul," said 
John, who sat on the bottom of the boat opening 
clams for bait. 
'' Perhaps you may be one of these days," re- 
plied Paul, moodily. " I think I shall do some- 
thing in that line right off," 
" You, Paul ? " 
" Yes, but don't you say a word about it to any 
body, above all, not to mother. I have been think- 
ing about it all night." 
" What do you mean, Paul ? " 
The ambitious youth had a great idea in his 
mind, which was struggling to be actualized. More 
than twenty times since the preceding evening had 
the words of Captain Littleton crossed his imagina- 
tion, and kindled up a great blaze of possibilities 
and probabilities. "I will give you, twenty cents 
a dozen for them," the captain had said. If he 
would buy perch, others would buy them. He 
had a boat, and there would not be many days 
when he could not catch as many as five or six 
dozen. Even at a shilling a dozen he could make 
a dollar a day. 
 
This was his scheme — to supply Bayville with 
fresh fish. He had as good a chance to sell them 
as the men who went through the place blowing 
their tin horns. He should have an advantage over 
them, for his iish were certain to be fresh, and he 
was sure the people would be willing to patronize 
him. The plan promised exceedingly well, and 
he wished to talk it over with some one, though he 
was not quite ready to have it made public. It 
was true, John was only ten years old, and didn't 
know much; but he wanted to talk with some- 
body about it, and so he concluded to take his 
brother into his confidence. 
" What do I mean, John ? " said he. "Why can't 
I catch perch every day, and sell them in town ? " 
" Sure enough, why can't you ? " replied John, 
delighted wifeh the idea, and perliaps bringing some 
selfish motives to bear upon it. 
" We can haul 'em in as fast as we can throw 
over the line of the rocks, and there are rich folks 
enough in Bayville to buy them." 
" It's a first-rate idea," exclaimed John, with en- 
 
thusiasm. " You might go down farther, and catch 
cod and haddock." 
'' I would if I had a good boat." 
" Father used to go out after cod and haddock 
in this boat." 
" I know, but she is getting rather shaky." 
The great idea was discussed in all its bearings 
till they reached Rock Island, when Paul carefully 
selected his position, and let go the anchor. The 
hooks were baited and. the lines thrown over, and 
never before had Paul taken his fishing apparatus 
when so much seemed to depend upon the success 
of his efforts. His heart beat as the sinker touched 
the bottom, and he pulled it up the proper distance. 
All his fortunes for the future appeared to hang 
upon the result. 
" Hurrah ! I've got one ! " shouted John, as with 
childish eagerness he pulled in his line. 
It was a sculpin ! 
Was this a type of his own success ? Was he 
to watch his chance on the great sea of life, and 
finally, after all his anxious watching and toil, was 
he to pull in only a sculpin ? These were painful 
thoughts to Paul, and his heart almost sunk within 
him, as he considered the possible failure of his 
favorite scheme. If he failed in this, he must 
accept the paltry two dollars and a half a week, 
and let his mother drudge like a slave. He could 
not tolerate the thought of failure, and 
A bite ! 
Paul did not whistle till he got out of the woods, 
and announced his success to John by slapping 
a monster perch upon the bottom of the boat. 
If that was a type of his success he was satis- 
fied. Before he had time to follow out the reflec- 
tions suggested by the event, John hauled in the 
mate to the big fish, and another had taken hold 
of his own hook. 
By ten o'clock there were six dozen perch in 
the basket, besides three handsome tautog and 
half a dozen sea flounders. The young fisher- 
man was satisfied, hauled up killock, and made 
sail for home. His heart was as light as the upper 
air, and he was confident of the success of his grand 
scheme. 
PAUL MAKES A GOOD SPECULATION. 
" Now, Jolin, you must steer, while I skin the 
perch," said Paul, as he resigned the helm to 
his brother. 
" That I will," replied he,, with alacrity, for he 
did not often get a chance to handle the boat, 
and was fond of the amusement. 
'' But you must be careful, and keep your eyes 
open, for we have no time to spare," added the 
youthful skipper. 
" Do you think I don't know how to steer a 
boat ? " asked John, hurt by the insinuation. 
" You know how well enough, if you will pay 
attention to it, and not be fooling with her." 
" I'll keep her right." 
Paul took from under the thwart an old shoe- 
knife which had been ground down to one third 
 
of its original width. It had been well sharpened 
for this important occasion, but he had provided 
an old whetstone as a further precaution against a 
dull blade. To skin a perch neatly and expe- 
ditiously is a nice operation ; but Paul had had 
sufficient practice in the art to render him a skil- 
ful hand. Seating himself on the lee rail, he 
commenced work in earnest, occasionally glancing 
up to see that the boat was doing her best in 
the way of sailing. 
" How much will you make, Paul, if you sell 
all your fish ? " asked John. 
" The perch will bring a dollar and twenty 
cents, if I get twenty cents a dozen for them." 
" The tautog are worth something." 
" They are worth a quarter apiece." 
" You have done a good day's work then ? " 
"If I sell the fish, I shall," answered Paul, 
with a smile of satisfaction. " Come, John, the 
sail is shaking, and you have lost the wind," he 
added, as his brother carelessly luffed her up. 
''I was adding up the perch and the tautog." 
 
" You must mind the boat ; you must stop 
talking, if you can't do your duty without.' 
John promised to be more careful, and Paul 
had no further occasion to complain of his inat- 
tention. The younger fisherman was a good boy, 
but he had not yet been trained to that steadi- 
ness of purpose which is necessary to success. 
He was only ten years old, and it was not to 
be expected that he should fully appreciate the 
earnestness of his brother's purpose, though he 
was beginning to realize that close attention was 
necessary in order to accomplish great deeds. He 
was fond of trying experiments, just for the fun 
of the thing ; and when he had been permitted 
to take th-e helm on other occasions, he wanted 
to do something besides keep her in a direct 
course — to see how close she would lie to the 
wind without letting the sail shake, to run down 
a floating mass of seaweed, or chase a stick of 
wood ; but on this . trip, he was guilty of no 
greater indiscretion than carelessness. 
Long before the boat reached Bayville, Paul 
had skinned and strung the fish ; and their ap- 
pearance on the line was creditable to his skill. 
Leaving John to secure the boat, he took the fish 
and hastened up to the house of Captain Little- 
ton. He found that gentleman in his garden 
with his guests. 
" Well, Paul, what luck ? " asked he, as the 
young fisherman came in sight. 
" First-rate, sir." 
" How many have you got ? " 
"Six dozen." 
" Just the number I want. Carry them into 
the kitchen, Paul. I declare, you have dressed 
them very nicely." 
" I tried to have them right, sir, and I am 
glad they suit you," replied" Paul, modestly, as 
he waiked towards the rear of the house. 
"Stop, Paul; what have you got there?" said 
Captain Littleton. 
" Tautog, sir ; and if you will permit me, I 
will leave them in the kitchen with the perch." 
" You are a lucky fisherman, Paul ; those are 
 
handsome fish, and if you will leave tliem, I will 
make it all right when you come out. That is a 
luxury I did not expect." 
Paul was delighted by the commendation of his 
friend, and the splendid scheme of his future op- 
erations increased in importance with every word 
that was uttered. With a light heart he ran 
into the kitchen with his stock, and then returned 
to Captain Littleton. 
" Here is two dollars, Paul," said he, handing 
him a bill. 
"That is too much, sir," stammered Paul, over- 
whelmed at the idea of having made two dollars 
in one day. 
"It is right, my boy ; take it. You mustn't 
be bashful if you are going to fight your way 
through the world." 
" You are very kind, sir, but this is more than 
the fish come to," answered Paul, taking the 
bill. 
" No, it isn't ; the perch come to a dollar 
and twenty cents, the tautog to seventy-five, 
which make a dollar and ninety-five cents. So 
we will call it square, and I am very much obliged 
to you besides." 
'' I didn't mean to charge you any thing for 
the tautog, sir." 
" Look here, Paul ; when you get rich I will 
accept your gifts; but now, my boy, I will take 
the will for the deed, and I feel just as grateful 
to you as though you had presented me a ser- 
vice of plate. You have done well, and I am 
glad of it." 
'' Thank you, sir ; I am very much obliged to 
you for this, and for all you have done for my 
mother," replied Paul, as he put the bank bill in 
his pocket. 
" By the way, how about that place in the 
lawyer's office, Paul?" said Captain Littleton, as 
the young fisherman turned to go home. 
" If you please, sir, I had rather not take the 
place." 
"You are going to do better, then ? " 
"Yes, sir, I think I can. I am very much 
obliged to you for the trouble you have ta- 
ken." 
'' Not at all, my boy ; I didn't think the situa- 
tion would be large enough to suit your ambition. 
What are you going to do, Paul ? " 
"I am going to catch fish, and sell them in 
town, sir," replied Paul, boldly, though he could 
hardly keep down the emotions that swelled in 
his bosom. 
" Good, my boy ! I like an enterprising spirit, 
and I dare say you will do very well. You may 
put me down for two dozen perch every Satur- 
day." 
"Thank you, sir." 
" I will speak to my neighbors, and I have no 
doubt you will find a market for all the fish you 
can catch." 
" You are very kind." 
"What does your mother say about the plan?" 
" I haven't told her yet. It is a new idea. I 
am afraid she will not like it very well." 
" She will not object very strongly." 
 
'' If you would speak to her about it, if you 
please, sir ; she will think every thing of what 
you say." 
" I will, Paul. When you catch any more tau- 
tog, be sure and bring them to me." 
" I certainly will, Captain Littleton," answered 
Paul, as he bounded towards home, his heart filled 
with gratitude to his friend, and with hope for 
the success of his darling scheme. 
Half a dozen times on the way, he put his 
hand into his pocket to feel of the old black wallet, 
that contained the proceeds of his first day's work. 
He had never done a job before which produced 
more than half a dollar, and the immense sum in. 
his pocket seemed enough to make or break an 
ordinary bank. Such a run of luck v»'as almost 
incredible. Wouldn't his mother be astonished 
when he handed her that two dollar bill ! 
He had some misgivings in regard to his moth- 
er's consent ; for like all good mothers, who love 
their sons, she did not like to have him exposed 
to danger. But that two dollar bill, and the 
 
brilliant promise of success which the future held 
out to him, would be strong arguments in favor 
of the scheme, and he hoped to triumph over 
every objection she could present. 
Before he reached the cottage, Paul contrived to 
subdue some of his enthusiasm, and walked into 
the kitchen, where his mother was getting dinner, 
as coolly and indifferently as though nothing ex- 
traordinary had happened. It was hard work for 
him to keep down the excitement that was raging 
within, but he had determined not to make a fool 
of himself. 
" Well, Paul, have you had a good time," said 
Mrs. Duncan, as he entered the room. 
" First-rate, mother," he replied ; though he 
was not exactly pleased to find that she regarded 
the trip to Rock Island in the light of a pleasure 
excursion. 
" Did you get as many fish as Captain Little- 
ton wanted ? " 
" Yes, more too ; I left six dozen perch and 
three handsome tautog in his kitchen just now.'' 
 
"You were lucky." 
'' I am good for as many as that every day. 
Look here, mother ; " and he pulled out his wal- 
let, and took therefrom the two dollar bill. 
"What do you think of that?" 
" Did he give you all that ? " 
"He did." 
"He is very liberal." 
"That he is; but the fish came to about that; 
the tautog are worth a quarter apiece." 
" You have done bravely, my boy. If you 
could make half as much money as that every 
day we should have all we want, and more too." 
" I can, mother ; and I mean to do so," replied 
Paul, thinking this a good opportunity to an- 
nounce his magmnt intentions. 
" You mustn't be too confident, Paul." 
" I know I can." 
" And, pray, what do you mean to do?" in- 
quired Mrs. Duncan, with- an incredulous smile. 
" I am going into the fishing business, mother." 
"Into what?" 
 
" Into the fishing business." 
"What in the world do you mean by that?" 
"I mean just what I say, mother?" 
'' Is the boy crazy ! " demanded Mrs. Duncan, 
suspending her culinary operations, and looking 
with interest into the animated face of her son. 
'' I am as regular as I ever was in my life. 
I've thought it all over, and spoken to Captain 
Littleton besides ; and he says go ahead," replied 
Paul, making an early use of the captain's en- 
couraging words. 
" But I don't understand what you mean ? Go- 
ing into the fishing business ? " 
" Yes, ma'am ; we've got a boat, and I mean 
to go down to Rock Island every day, Sundays 
excepted, and catch perch. I mean to sell them 
here in Bayville, and Captain Littleton told me 
to put him down for two dozen every Saturday. 
That's the idea, mother." 
"But, Paul " 
" If I can get a shilling a dozen for them, I 
can make a dollar a day as easy as you can turn 
 
your hand over," added Paul, who was not dis- 
posed to let his mother speak upon impulse. 
."You would have to be on the water every- 
day." 
" What of that, mother ? The water is a good 
thing to be on, and just as safe as the land, if 
you are only a mind to think so." 
" Rather dangerous, I'm afraid." 
" O, no, mother; it's only a notion some folks 
have, that the water isn't safe." 
" Hundreds of people are drowned every year." 
''And hundreds smashed up and killed on the 
railroads. Why, Captain Mitchell don't think it 
is safe to go about much on the land. He only 
feels secure when he is in his old whale boat. 
He won't get into a chaise or a wagon — don't 
think it is safe to ride in them ; but he knocks 
about the bay in all sorts of weather. Please 
don't object to it, mother, for I've set my heart 
upon the business, and I'm satisfied I shall do 
well," said Paul, with kindling enthusiasm. 
"Well, if you are set upon it, I don't want to 
say too much against it," replied Mrs. Duncan, 
doubtfully. 
" Captain Littleton will speak to you about it, 
and he understands these things." 
" I know he does ; but after all, I would rather 
have you safe on land." 
" I shall be safe enough, mother ; and I shall 
be able to take care of the family without your 
making bags." 
"You are a good boy, Paul," added his mother, 
turning from him to wipe away the tears that 
moistened her eyes, for in the loneliness of her 
widowhood she realized what it was to have such 
a noble and devoted son. 
Paul was delighted to think he had so easily 
smoothed over matters with her. He had expect- 
ed to have a hard beat to windward in reconciling 
her to his plan, but she had proved much more 
reasonable than he anticipated. He attributed his 
ready victory in a great measure to the influence 
of Captain Littleton's name, and he was confident 
he would remove any remaining doubts she might 
harbor. 
 
After dinner Paul went up to his room, and 
taking from his drawer a little o.cccunt book, 
which had long been waiting to be used, he en- 
tered the amount of the day's sales upon the first 
page. 
" Little by little," said he, as he returned the 
book to the drawer, " and one of these days I 
shall be rich." 
This was a very comforting reflection, and not- 
withstanding the possible slip between the cup 
and the lip, he enjoyed the full benefit of it. 
CHAPTER VII. 
PAUL GOES INTO BUSINESS ON HIS OWN AC- 
COUNT.  
Before night, all the arrangements for the next 
day's trip were completed, and Paul retired at an 
early hour, so as to be up in season in the morning. 
The excitement which his great project created in 
his mind, however, would not let him sleep till he 
was actually exhausted with thinking. He did 
not wake till five o'clock in the morning, which 
made him so ashamed of himself, that he could 
hardly conceal his vexation, especially as he found 
his mother was up, and his breakfast was nearly 
ready, when he went down stairs. But on reflection 
he found he was early enough, for it would be low 
tide nearly an hour later than on the preceding day. 
While he was eating his breakfast, his brother 
John came down. It was an unusually early hour 
 
for him to rise, and it was evident from the haste 
with which he completed his toilet, after he found 
Paul had not gone, that he had an idea of his own, 
as well as his brother. 
" Mayn't I go with you, Paul ? " asked he, 
" You must go to school." 
" Mayn't I stay away from school to-day, moth- 
er ? " added he, turning quickly to Mrs. Duncan. 
" I'd rather you wouldn't, John." 
" Why not, mother ? " whined he. 
'' I don't want you to stay out of school a single 
day, when it can be prevented." 
" I should think I might go with Paul. I can 
catch as many fish as he' can." 
"Paul is older than you. are, and he always 
kept close to his school till he left." 
" I want to do something towards supporting 
the family, as well as he." 
Mrs. Duncan laughed, and so did Paul; for how- 
ever ambitious the young gentleman might have 
been to bear his full share of the burden of the 
family, it was too evident that his taste for boating 
 
and fishing was the dominant motive for absenting 
himself from school. 
" Let me go with you, Paul." 
" Mother says you must go to school, and I 
think you had better be there." 
" Who will steer the boat while you skin the 
fish ? " demanded John, who had a proper idea of 
the value of his services, and was not at all pleased 
at the thought of having them undervalued. 
'' I shall try to get along some way without you. 
I should like to have you go, first rate, John ; but 
I don't think you ought to stay out of school. 
You will have a vacation next week, and you may 
go every day then, if you want to." 
" You ought to take me with you, Paul," con- 
tinued John, resorting to the persuasive, now that 
the argumentative had failed. 
" I tell you I should like to have you go with 
me, if it were not for your school." 
John exhausted his store of arguments and per- 
suasions without efi'ect, and then fled to his room 
to cry over his defeat. Paul sympathized with 
 
his brother in his disappointment, but as the 
head of the family, he could not, on principle, 
yield the point. Taking his jug of water and his 
lunch, he left the house and hastened to the beach. 
The wind was light, as on the preceding day, and 
it took him nearly two hours to run down to Rock 
Island, for the old boat was a very heavy sailer 
even under the most favorable circumstances. 
Paul did not feel quite so nervous as on the 
day before, for he was so confident of success that 
he did not feel uneasy even when he did not get 
a bite for quarter of an hour. The perch were ac- 
commodating in the main, and did not disappoint 
him, for at twelve o'clock — as he judged it to be 
by the height of the tide — he had seven dozen 
in the boat, and they were still biting as greedily 
as when he first commenced. He had two lines 
on board, and he tried the experiment of using 
them both at the same time, though without much 
success ; for perch are fastidious, and require a great 
deal of attention. While he was pulling in a fish 
upon one line, the §ly rogues in the brine stole his 
 
bait from the otlier, and he came to the conclusion 
it was not best to have too many irons in the 
fire at once. 
Paul did not like to abandon the field while 
it was yielding such a rich harvest ; but he was 
a prudent fisherman, and not disposed to run any 
risks. The tide would turn in less than two hours, 
and he knew it would be impossible to run up to 
Bayville against both wind and tide. The old 
boat was not equal to any such emergency, and he 
reluctantly wound up his line and made sail for 
home. 
The seven dozen perch were to be cleaned, and 
when he got fairly under way he missed John, 
for it was difficult for him to skin fish and work 
the boat at the same time. Seating himself in 
the stern, he passed his arm round the tiller, — 
for there was no comb to keep it in place, — and 
commenced his labors. He soon found that he was 
working at a great disadvantage, and he exerted his 
ingenuity to devise a plan for overcoming the diffi- 
culty. Taking a small line, he made the middle of it 
fast to the end of the tiller ; then passing it round 
the cleets, he tied the ends together. This apparatus 
kept the tiller in its place, and he could change 
it to any required position by pulling the line. 
Resuming his labors upon the fish, he found his 
plan worked very well, and the perch were in 
readiness for market when he reached the shore. 
After securing the boat, he hastened with the 
fish to the cottage, where his dinner was waiting 
for him. His mother congratulated him upon his 
success, and told him that Captain Littleton had 
been to see her during his absence, and that she 
was entirely reconciled to his new occupation. 
The most difficult part of the business, in Paul's 
estimation, was yet to come — that of selling the 
fish. As he left the house with his precious load 
of merchandise, he could not help feeling that the 
grand scheme was still an experiment, for it had 
not been demonstrated that Bayville would buy six 
or eight dozen of perch every day. It was a large 
place, containing about six thousand inhabitants ; 
and as he walked along, he brought his mathemat- 
ical knowledge into use in an attempt to convince 
himself that the market was large enough to keep 
him busy during the season. At the least calcu- 
lation there were six hundred families in the town, 
and probably a thousand. If each family would 
buy a mess of perch once in ten days, it would 
make six hundred dozen in that time, or sixty 
dozen a day ; but, to make allowance for over- 
estimates, he was willing to reduce the total one 
half, and call it thirty dozen a day. The fisher- 
man would supply a large portion of the demand, 
but he concluded that he should have no difficulty 
in selling all the perch he could catch. 
Passing the house of Captain Littleton, the next 
was that of Major Nettle, and he resolved to make 
his first attempt to sell. The gentleman was not 
at home, and the servants didn't know any thing 
about it ; and he was just leaving when Thomas 
Nettle accosted him. 
" What have you got, Paul ? " 
'' Perch ; do your folks want to buy any ? " 
" Yes, I guess they do. Where did you catch 
them ? " 
 
'' Down at Rock Island ; I am going down every 
day." 
" Are you, though ? I should like to go with 
you some time." 
" I shall be glad to have you. I have gone 
into this business." 
'' What for ? " 
" Since my father died, I have to do something 
to help my mother," replied Paul, not caring 
to announce to his friend the whole of his stu- 
pendous plan. 
" Do you expect to do any thing at this busi- 
ness ? " 
" Certainly I do ; I made two dollars at it yes- 
terday," 
" Did you though ? " 
" Do your folks want any perch to-day ? " 
" I guess they do ; how much a dozen ? " 
" Seventeen cents," replied Paul, who had de- 
cided to be moderate in his prices. 
" I will speak to my mother." 
Thomas returned in a short time, and took two 
dozen of the fish, and paid the money for them. 
Overjoyed at this success, he proceeded to the 
next house ; hut though he was eloquent in regard 
to the freshness and fineness of his wares, he could 
not make a trade. He met with no better success 
at the next three or four places at which he called, 
and he began to feel a little discouraged. But the 
next house in his way was a large, genteel board- 
ing house, and he had the satisfaction of selling 
four dozen at the price he had before fixed, though 
he had almost made up his mind to let them go 
at ninepence. The gentleman who kept the house 
was pleased to get the perch, and wanted the 
young fisherman to bring him some three times 
a week for the present, for his boarders were very 
fond of them. 
Paul could scarcely contain himself for the joy 
he felt, as he glanced at the only remaining dozen 
of his stock, and at the very next house he dis- 
posed of them. With a dollar and nineteen cents 
in his pocket, he walked towards home, proud as 
a lord of his success. The result of this day's 
 
work afforded him far more satisfaction than that 
of the preceding day, though the proceeds were 
considerably less ; for he was conscious of the in- 
fluence of Captain Littleton's generosity in the 
transaction. But the second day's triumph was 
achieved by his own unaided labor and skill. 
What he had done this day was a fair specimen 
of what he might hope to do in the future. 
"Sold out so soon, Paul?" said his mother, as 
he entered the kitchen. 
" Yes ; I had good luck. They took four doz- 
en at the boarding house. I think if I had had 
twenty dozen I could have sold them all. There 
is a great deal of difference between perch just 
out of the water, fresh and good, and perch which 
have been dragged about in a fish cart, under a 
