come down and see to you and my box together. I wish you were going
with me, mother."
And Faith leaned her head on her hand.
"Don't you want to go, pretty child?" said Mrs. Derrick fondly.
"No, mother--but I couldn't help it. I found I should have to go sooner
or later."
"I'd go with you in a minute," said her mother, "if it wasn't for Mr.
Linden. I don't care a pin whether they want me or not, Faith, if you
do. And I dare say some of the boys will be here"--Mrs. Derrick looked
perplexed, as at the feeling of some unknown possibility. "Shall I,
pretty child?" she said with an anxious face,--"what are you thinking
of, child?"
Faith came behind her and put both arms round her and kissed first one
side of her face and then the other.
"Mother!" she said with those silvery tones,--"I don't want anything! I
suppose I shall like to see the microscope--but I'd rather stay at home
and learn my lessons. Don't look so!"--Which with another kiss upon
her lips, finished off Mrs. Derrick's anxiety.
The ironing and the 'something for tea' Faith despatched with extra
diligence and speed, and then dressed herself for the evening. It was
not much extra dressing; only a dark stuff dress a little finer than
ordinary; the white ruffle round the neck and wrists was the same. And
then, giving a few minutes to the seeking of some added help to
quietness, for Faith's mind had been strangely disturbed, she went
again to Mr. Linden's room. A gentle vision she was, if ever one was
seen, when she entered it.
"You say I mustn't thank you, Mr. Linden," she said giving him back his
sister's letter;--"but--will you thank her for me?"
"I don't think she deserves many thanks," he said with a smile, "but I
will tell her."
The course of study that afternoon was peculiar, and eminently a
talk. Mr. Linden called for none of the usual books at first, but
began by giving Faith a very particular account of the whole process of
circulation; thence diverging right and left, in the most erratic
manner as it seemed to her,--passing from the bright crystal points in
chymistry to the blue mould on a piece of bread, and then explaining to
her the peculiar mechanism of a fly's eye. Two or three times he sent
her to the cupboard for some book to shew her an illustration of the
subject, but if there was any connecting link that she could see
between one and another, it was simply the wonderful minute perfection
of the world. And she needed none--for the different things were
touched upon so clearly and yet with such a happy absence of needless
details, that they stood forth in full relief, and set off each other.
The daylight was already failing, and the red firelight was playing
hide and seek with the shadows in Mr. Linden's room, before he gave her
a chance to think what time it was. When she saw it, Faith started up.
"I told mother I would come and see her before I went!"--she said,
drawing a long breath like a person in an atmosphere he can't get
enough of. Then with a little change of tone, after standing a minute
looking at the fire, she went on.--"All I can do, is to drive the
nails into that wood-box--but I'll do it before to-morrow." She held
out her hand as she spoke.
"No you must not," Mr. Linden said, as he took the hand. "To-night you
will be out, and you must not give me a late breakfast, Miss
Faith!--therefore you must go to bed as soon as you come home, and
leave the box to me."
Faith ran away and did not go to her hammering just then. She brought a
low bench to her mother's feet, sat down there; and taking Mrs.
Derrick's hands from whatever they were about, wrapped both arms round
herself, laying her head on her mother's lap.
"Mother," she said caressingly,--"I couldn't come down before. I was so
busy and so interested, I didn't in the least know what time it was;
and I hadn't a chance to think."
"I'm sure I'm glad, pretty child," said her mother, bending down to
kiss her. "I think sometimes you think too much. But you look just like
a baby, for all that. I'm sure I shall always love Mr. Linden for
pleasing you so much," said Mrs. Derrick stroking Faith's hair, "even
though he does please himself too."
Faith secured that hand again and held them both wrapped round her; but
further words for a moment spoke not.
"I shall come home as early as I can," she said;--"mother, time enough
to do everything for breakfast."
"You sha'n't do a thing, child," said her mother. "You may come home as
early as you like, but I'm going to keep you out of the works. I feel
so grand when you're up stairs studying--you can't think! You wouldn't
know me, Faith."
Faith laughed, the laugh that was music to Mrs. Derrick's ears, and
indeed would have been to any, and held the hands closer.
"I feel a little grand too,"--she said,--"sometimes in a way--"
This did not seem to be one of the times, or else feeling grand had a
soporific effect; for Faith's eyelids presently drooped, and when Dr.
Harrison came to the house and for some time before, she was fast
asleep on her mother's lap.
"Psyche!"--exclaimed Dr. Harrison as he discerned by the firelight the
state of the case. Mrs. Derrick gave him a little reproving glance for
speaking so loud, but other reply made none, save a low-spoken polite
offer of a chair.
"Thank you--I am going up to see Mr. Linden. Miss Derrick was so good
as to promise she would go with me to see my sister this evening. In
these circumstances,"--said Dr. Harrison in his softest voice--"do you
think it would be presumption to wake her up?"
"Well go up, then," said Mrs. Derrick, "and I'll wake her up before you
come down."
Which arrangement took effect; and in a very few minutes thereafter,
Dr. Harrison's horse making much better speed than old Crab could do
now, Faith was deposited safely at Judge Harrison's door. There she was
received with open arms and great exultation by Miss Sophy and with
great cordiality and pleasure by the Judge; and with a certain more
uncertain amount of both by Mrs. Somers, whom Faith found there, the
only addition to the family party; while the doctor stood complacently
on the rug, in silence surveying everybody, like a man who has gained
his point.
"Well Julius," said Mrs. Somers, "how's Mr. Linden to-night? did you
see him?"
"Yes ma'am--I saw him."
"Well how is he?" repeated Mrs. Somers.
"He is--very happily situated," said the doctor. "I should like to be
in his place."
"What do you go there twice a day for? Do you think him worse? You
began with going once," said Mrs. Somers.
"Always begin gently," said Dr. Harrison. "You get on faster."
"How soon do you expect to take up your abode there altogether, at that
rate?"
"At what rate, aunt Ellen? You are too fast for me."
"Nonsense!" said Mrs. Somers, "do you suppose I want to be told what
you go there for?--what I do want to know, is whether he's like to
get well, and how soon."
"He will be conquering Pattaquasset in a few weeks," said the doctor.
"I wonder whether he'll conquer Phil Davids," said Mrs. Somers. "I
should like to see that done. Julius, did you ever find out anything
about the man that fired the shot?"
"Really, aunt Ellen, I am not a detective"--said the doctor carelessly,
looking at Faith, who kept as quiet as a dormouse. "If it had been my
business I suppose I should have found out."
"I think I heard you opine that Mr. Linden knew"--said Mrs. Somers.
"And I think somebody ought to find out--unless you want the thing done
over again. Don't you think so, Judge Harrison?"
"Well my dear," said the Judge, "I understand Mr. Linden to have been
actuated by a very benevolent motive--I understand his feelings. He
wouldn't run the risk of accusing a man unjustly--I can't blame him.
It's right, I think, though it's provoking. What do you think, Miss
Faith?"
Faith lifted her eyes, but perhaps the doctor saw in her changing cheek
some token of the pain he had stirred in the morning. He prevented her
reply.
"Ladies don't think about these things, my dear sir!--Aunt Ellen is so
sharp she gets ahead of her sex. Let me have the honour of suggesting a
pleasanter subject of meditation. I have seen to-night, aunt Ellen, the
most exquisite and valuable jewelry I have ever seen in my life!"
"Here in Pattaquasset!" said his sister.
"In Pattaquasset--or perhaps in the world."
"Don't excite yourself, Sophy," said Mrs. Somers,--"let's hear what
they were, first."
Faith, like everybody else, looked for the doctor's answer, though she
hardly knew what she was looking at.
"A lady, aunt Ellen," the doctor went on, glancing at her,--"had made a
necklace of her mother's arms,--and a cross, more precious than
diamonds, of her mother's hands; and clasping this cross to her breast,
adorned with this most exquisite and rare adornment, had--gone to
sleep!"
"And for once," said Mrs. Somers, "you preferred the wearer to the
jewels and--went into a trance! I can imagine you!"
"I? not I!"--said the doctor--"I went up stairs. But you have no idea
of the effect."
Faith had been experiencing some of the scattering fire of society,
which hits no one knows where and no one knows when. First the name of
Phil Davids had ploughed up the ground at her right; then the question
about the man who had fired the shot had ploughed up the ground at her
left; and shaken first by one and then by the other she had welcomed
the doctor's change of subject and now was smiling as pleased as
anybody.
"I didn't suppose the trance was a long one," said Mrs. Somers, with a
little raising of her eyebrows. "Faith, my dear, what have you done to
that little Seacomb child? I can't get over my astonishment at his
transformation."
"I am afraid there isn't much transformation yet," Faith said. "He
listens very quietly and behaves well in school--but I don't know how
he is at home."
"You are not a school teacher too?" said the doctor.
"It isn't a bad trade," said Faith, though her cheeks had answered for
her another way.
"Not a bad trade--certainly--but one may have too many trades. Aunt
Ellen--I had the honour--do you believe it? of giving Miss Derrick
lessons this morning."
"I think she was very good to permit it," said Mrs. Somers composedly.
"She was very good"--said the doctor demurely. "I am afraid that is her
character generally!"
He was called off by his father, and Miss Harrison seized Faith and
planted her between herself and Mrs. Somers on the sofa.
"Don't mind his nonsense, Faith! Julius never can talk like anybody
else. Why haven't you been here this age?"
"I've been busy, Sophy."
"Why wouldn't you go to ride with us? Julius wouldn't go after what you
said. Why wouldn't you?"
"It was Sunday, Sophy."
"Well--what if it was?"
"Sunday isn't my day--I can't use it for my own work."
"But taking a little ride isn't work?"
Faith hesitated.
"Isn't it work to the horses, Sophy? And if it is only pleasure--Sunday
has its own pleasures, dear Sophy,--I can't have both."
"Why can't you?"
"Because,--if I take these, God will not give me those," Faith said
very gravely.
"But Faith!"--said Miss Harrison looking disturbed,--"you didn't use to
be so religious?"
Faith's face flushed a little and was touchingly humble as she said,
"No--I didn't."
"What's changed you so?"
"It isn't a bad change, dear Sophy!"
"I don't believe anything's bad about you," said Miss Harrison kissing
her,--"but don't change too far, dear; don't forget your old friends."
"I want them to change too," said Faith looking at her winningly.
"That's right Faith, stand by your colours!" said Mrs. Somers, with a
tone and manner that came quite from the other side of her character.
"Sophy--your mother wouldn't know her child, to hear you ask such
questions."
Miss Harrison looked troubled, and left the room. Dr. Harrison
immediately took her place, and almost as immediately tea came in.
That is to say, tea and chocolate were handed round, together with a
sufficient abundance and variety of delicate substantials to suit the
air and the style of a country town. Judge Harrison's was the only
house in Pattaquasset where tea was served in this way,--except perhaps
the De Staff's; though there was this difference to be observed,--the
De Staffs never had tea carried round unless when they had company; at
the Harrisons' it was never carried round unless they were alone.
Dr. Harrison attended politely to his aunt, but he was eyes and hands
for Faith; finding at the same time very agreeable occupation for her
ears. If people could be content with being agreeable! But in the midst
of cold tongue and chocolate the doctor broke out again.
"After all," said he,--"what about that piece of curious information,
Miss Derrick? You know I was balked this morning and led a Will o' the
wisp chase after the Idea! Is Mr. Linden in the habit of spoiling
people's fun in that manner?"
Faith said simply she did not know. She did not, but in private she
thought it likely enough.
"Well, about the question," said the doctor helping her to something at
the same time,--"what was the truth of it, Miss Derrick? You see I am
interested. Was our little informant correct?"
Now Faith had no mind, even in the dark, or about anything, to set her
'yes' against Mr. Linden's 'no.' Besides, she knew that the doctor had
heard no names, and what ever might be the extent of Mr. Linden's
knowledge, he knew nothing. And she was very willing to take the
shelter of the shield which had been thrown round her. The deep, deep
dye of her cheeks she could not help; but she answered with tolerable
quietness, behind that shield,
"I hoped you had got enough of the subject this morning."
The doctor had enough of it now! He changed his ground with all speed,
and for the rest of the evening Dr. Harrison shewed himself at his best.
So soon as the removal of tea things gave him a clear field, he brought
out his microscope; and from that instant Faith almost forgot and
forgave him everything. She forgot everything present--the Judge,
Sophy, and Mrs. Somers; and came to the table so soon as the bright
brass of the little machine caught her eye. The machine alone was a
wonder and beauty; it seemed to Faith like an elegant little brass gun
mounted on the most complicate and exquisite of gun carriages--with its
multiplication of wheels and screws and pins, by which its adjustment
might be regulated to a hair; with its beautiful workmanship and high
finish, and its most marvellous and admirable purpose and adaptation.
Dr. Harrison had never adjusted his microscope with more satisfaction,
perhaps, than with those childish womanly eyes looking on; and neither
he nor many other people ever performed better the subsequent office
of exhibiting it. He troubled Faith now with nothing; his very manner
was changed; and with kindness and sense most delicate, most
thoughtful, most graceful always, gave her all he could give her.
He was a trifle surprised to find that the amount of that was not more.
There was no lack indeed; he could talk and she could listen
indefinitely--and did;--nevertheless he found some of his channels of
communication stopped off. At the first thing he shewed her, Faith
looked for an instant and then withdrawing her eye from the microscope
and facing him with cheeks absolutely paled with excitement and
feeling, exclaimed rapturously,
"Oh!--are those the chalk shells?"
The doctor hadn't counted upon her knowing anything of chalk shells
"Aunt Ellen--" said he, as he looked to shift or adjust something--"do
you think Miss Derrick has ever lived upon anything worse than roses?"
"Upon something stronger, I fancy," said Mrs. Somers, a little
surprised in her turn, but well pleased too, for Faith had come nearer
her heart that evening than ever before, and the voyage of discovery
was pleasant.
"I should certainly think I was in Persia!" said the doctor,--"only the
bulbul knows nothing of scientific discoveries, I fancy."
But Faith was in no danger of hearing, or caring, if she had
understood; she had gone back to the chalk shells, and back still
further, from them, into the world of those perfections which God had
made for himself. A new world, now for the first time actually seen
by her, and for a moment she almost lost her standing in this. Mrs.
Somers watched her, smiling and curious.
She drew back presently with a long breath, to give the other ladies a
chance; but Miss Harrison had looked all she cared to look, and Mrs.
Somers was not new to the thing. They took a view occasionally, one for
form, the other for real interest; but for the most part Faith found
the exhibition was for her and she and the doctor might have it all
their own way. A long way they made of it; for the doctor found a good
deal of talking to do, and Faith was most ready to hear. He talked well
and gave her a great deal of what she liked, with a renewal every now
and then of his first surprise; for in the midst of some elaborate
explanation he was launching into for her benefit, most innocently and
simply Faith would bring him up with a gentle "Yes, I know,"--not
spoken with the faintest arrogance of knowledge, but merely to prevent
him going into needless detail; and herself too rapt in the delight of
the subject that occupied her to have any heed of the effect of her
words.
"I have kept the best for the last," said the doctor, when this
exhibition had lasted a much longer time than Faith was aware of;--"I
thought you would like to see the circulation;--and I have sent all
over town for a frog--found one at last, by great happiness."
"All over town!" said Mrs. Somers,--"do try out of town next time, and
save yourself trouble."
"Have you got to kill the frog, Julius?" said Miss Harrison with a
disturbed face.
"I hope not!" said the doctor gravely. "That would rather interfere
with our purposes than otherwise, Sophy.--Aunt Ellen, I never learned
the real extent of 'town' yet--when I was a boy it seemed to me to have
no limits;--and now it seems to me to have no centre. Tell James to
bring in that frog, Sophy."
Miss Harrison retreated from the frog; but the doctor assured Faith
that he was in very tolerable circumstances, shut up in a little bag;
and that he was only going to be requested to exhibit a small portion
of the skin of his toe, and to hold himself still for that purpose;
which benevolent action the doctor would help him to perform by putting
him in a slight degree of confinement. The holding still was however
apparently beyond the frog's benevolent powers, and it was some little
time before the doctor could persuade him to it. Then Faith saw what
she had never seen nor fully imagined before.
"O Sophy!--O Mrs. Somers!"--she exclaimed,--"look at this!"
She stood back with a face of delighted wonder Miss Harrison looked an
instant.
"It is curious--" she said. "What are those little things, Julius?"
"You have heard of the 'circulating medium,'" said the doctor. "That is
it."
Faith evidently had never heard of the 'medium' referred to. Turning to
her, the doctor began a clear full account of the philosophy of what
she saw going on in the frog's foot. But there she met him again.
"Yes, I know, Dr. Harrison,"--she said with the simple tone of perfect
intelligence. The doctor bit his lip, while Faith stooped over the
microscope and read, and read, what was to be seen there.
"Faith," whispered Sophy, "it's cruel of me--but I am afraid your
mother will be anxious, and Julius will never let you know--"
"What time is it?" said Faith starting up.
"About--half an hour--after eight--" said the doctor.
"After ten, Faith."
Not another look did Faith give, but for her bonnet, and went home as
fast as the doctor would walk with her.
Whether Mrs. Derrick was anxious or no, she did not say, but glad she
certainly was to see Faith back.
"Well child," she said, undoing the wrappers from Faith's head and
neck, "I hope you've had a grand time?"
"Yes mother, very--only I didn't mean to stay so late. I meant to be
home in good time. I have seen everything, mother!"
"Everything!" said her mother,--"I guess at that rate I might say I'd
been everywhere."
"Where have you been, mother? anywhere?"
"I've been out to tea!" said her mother, with the manner of one who has
a remarkable secret on hand.
"You have! Where, mother?"
"Guess"--said Mrs. Derrick smiling at her. "I went up stairs to tea,
Faith!--what do you think of that? What'll you expect to hear of my
doing next?"
"Oh mother!" said Faith laughing,--"I am glad! That was the best thing
you could have done."
"It wasn't my doing, though," said Mrs. Derrick. "But when I went up
with Mr. Linden's tea, he asked me if you had gone, and I said yes, and
he said since there was nobody better worth seeing down stairs he
wished I'd come and drink tea with him. So I went, child, and it was
real pleasant too. And I don't know how it was, but I staid there all
the evening,--only I wouldn't let him talk to me, and he just went to
sleep as if I hadn't been there. I think he was very tired, Faith. So
then I felt very comfortable," added Mrs. Derrick smiling, "and I sat
there and watched him till Reuben came a little while ago."
"Was he tired!" said Faith, the light in her face changing. "He had
been talking to me all the afternoon!--Mother, half the pleasure I had
to-night he gave me, for he was all the afternoon preparing me for it."
She stood looking at the fire reproachfully.
"Why child," said her mother, "I suppose his arm pains him a good
deal--and that tires one, you know. He didn't talk to you a bit more
than he wanted to, I'll warrant. Why he even talked to me all
tea-time!" said Mrs. Derrick, as if she felt quite proud in consequence.
"Well mother, we must go to bed now, for I must be up very early to
finish that box."
CHAPTER XXIV.
Very early it was, when Faith's hammer was at work again on the brown
moreen, and short interruption did she give herself from anything that
could be spared, till the box was done. It suited her well when it was
done. The cover was stuffed, old-fashioned brown binding was lapped
over the edges and seams, and fastened off with rows of brass-headed
nails; which made it altogether an odd, handsome, antiquated-looking
piece of furniture. With this, when her morning work was done and her
exercise prepared, Faith went up to Mr. Linden's room; to see it
brought in and placed properly.
"I shall have to put a stop to this state of things!" he said,--"that
blue ribband will work me mischief yet. Miss Faith, how can you take
advantage of my disabled condition?"
"Are you better this morning, Mr. Linden?"
"The time has not quite come yet for me to be much better. But Miss
Faith, if I had known that you would wake yourself up early this
morning, what do you think I should have done?"
"I can't think, Mr. Linden," she said looking merry.
"I should have invited you and Mrs Derrick up here to breakfast!--which
I only did not do, because I could not take the extra trouble upon
myself, and because I knew you ought to sleep, till this time."
Faith shook her head a little, perhaps sorry to have missed the
breakfast; then went off and brushed away the dust and chips left round
the wood-box. Then came and sat down.
"I saw almost everything, last night, Mr. Linden!"
"Well before you go off to last night--will you come to-morrow morning?
Now what did you see?"
The bright smile and flush and sparkle answered the invitation; and
perhaps Faith thought no other answer was needed; for she gave no other.
"I know now," she said after an instant, "what you were doing all
yesterday afternoon, Mr. Linden!"
"I know what you were, Miss Faith."
She smiled innocently and went on,
"All that just fitted me, as you meant it should, to take the good of
the evening--and I had a great deal," she said gravely. "I saw almost
everything you spoke of--and other things. I saw the chalk shells, Mr.
Linden!--and the circulation in a frog's foot; and different prepared
pieces of skin; and the moth's plumage! and the silver scale-armour of
the Lepisma, as Dr. Harrison called it; and more."
"And with very great delight--as I knew you would. I am very glad!"
"Yes," said Faith--"I know a little better now how to understand some
things you said the other day. I am very glad I went--only for one
thing.--"
"What was that?"
"Dr. Harrison asked such a strange thing of me as we were walking
home--at least it seems to me strange."
"May my judgment be brought to bear upon it?" Mr. Linden said after a
moment's silence.
"Yes indeed," said Faith; "that was what I was going to ask. He wants
me to go with him to see a woman, who is dying, he says, and
miserable,--and he wants me to talk to her. He says he does not know
how." And half modestly, half timidly, she added, "Is not that going
out of my way?"
A quick, peculiar smile on Mr. Linden's face, was succeeded by a very
deep gravity,--once or twice the lips parted, impulsively--then took
their former firm set; and shading his eyes with his hand he looked
into the fire in profound silence.
Very soberly, but in as absolute repose of face, Faith now and then
looked at him, and meanwhile waited for his thoughts to come to an end.
"Dr. Harrison said," she remarked after a little while, "that you once
told him he had but half learned his profession."
"What did you say, Miss Faith? I mean, not to that, but to the
question?"
"I didn't know what to say!--I didn't want to go at all--I don't know
whether that was wrong or right; but at last I said I would go. Do you
think I was right, Mr. Linden?"
"Did you promise to go with him?"
"I didn't know any other way to go," said Faith. "I don't know where
the woman lives, and he said I couldn't find it; and old Crab has a
lame foot. Dr. Harrison asked me to go with him. I don't think I should
have minded going alone."
"Neither should I mind having you," said Mr. Linden, with a look more
doubtful and anxious than Faith had often seen him wear, though it was
not bent upon her.
"Do you think I said wrong then, Mr. Linden? I did not like to go--but
I thought perhaps I ought."
"I don't think you did wrong," was the somewhat definite answer. "I
wish I had been alongside of you when the request was made."
A wish which he had not been the first to know. Faith was silent.
"You made a fair promise?" he said--"and feel bound by it?"
"I said I would go,"--she said looking at him with her fair, grave
face. "If you thought it was wrong, or that I was putting myself out of
my way, I would not, Mr. Linden. He asked if he might come for me at
two o'clock, and I said yes."
"Miss Faith--you must not make such a promise again!"
She looked at him enquiringly, very soberly, and then her eyes went to
the fire and mused there. Mr. Linden was looking at her then, though
with eyes still shielded. Once indeed the hand came with a soft touch
upon her hair, drawing it back where it had fallen a little; but the
motion was quickly checked. She started, looked round with a little
frank smile and colour, and instantly went back to her musing.
"I'm afraid I must let you go--" Mr. Linden said presently, smiling a
little too, as if it were no use to be grave any longer. "I'm afraid I
have no right to hinder you. If I had, I would. Some other time I will
tell you part of the wherefore, but the less I say to you before you
go, the better. About that,--" he added in his usual manner,--"I think
we might write another exercise."
She started up, but paused.
"Mr. Linden,"--she said timidly, "Dr. Harrison said he would not be
here this morning. Would you like to have me first--it would be only
pleasure to me, if you are not afraid,--do what he does for you?"
He answered at first rather quick, as if he knew what sort of pleasure
it was.
"O no!--I can wait,--it cannot signify very much." And then with as
quick a recognition of the real pleasure it would be, after all, Mr.
Linden compounded matters.
"I am afraid. Miss Faith!--I am naturally timid."
"What does that mean?" said she coming before him and looking with an
inquisitive smile. "I don't know, Mr. Linden!"
"Do you expect me to explain such a humiliating confession?"
"No, certainly.--I thought, perhaps, you wouldn't keep to it, after
all."
"I am a little afraid for you. What do you suppose I shall do this
afternoon while you are gone?"
"I don't know--" she said, looking a little wistfully.
"I shall lie here and study that wood-box. You see I carry out my
principles, Miss Faith--I have not thanked you for it."
"I don't think you'll study it very long," said Faith,--"there isn't
much in it."
"Somebody has said," replied Mr. Linden, "that 'in every subject there
is inexhaustible meaning,--the eye sees in it what the eye brings means
of seeing.' You must not limit my power of eyesight."
"If you wouldn't limit my power of something else?"--she said with
gentle persistency.
He looked up at her.
"I will not, Miss Faith--then will you please perform your kind office
at once? It will be a great comfort to me, and I shall be the better
able to do something for you afterwards." And the manner almost made
Faith feel as if the proposition had come from her at first.
She went about it, not this first time without some trembling of heart,
but with also a spirit that rose above and quite kept down that. She
knew exactly and intelligently what was to be done; it was only the
hands that were unwonted, and therefore she feared unskilful. But there
are things that some women have by nature, and a skilful hand is one of
them; and it was Faith's. Her womanly love and care were enough for all
the rest; she made no mistakes, nor delays; and her soft fingers
inflicted no pain that it was in the power of fingers to spare. A
little longer than the doctor she was perhaps about it; not much, and
not more awkward; and that is saying enough.
So soon as that was done, Faith went for her exercise, and sat down as
yesterday to write it.
He too went on with the exercise; but watching her, lest relief might
be wanted in another quarter. There was nothing of that, though. Quiet
and very great satisfaction, was the result of the matter in Faith's
mind; at least it was all she permitted to be seen; and now she gave
herself happily to the connexion of her nouns and adjectives, and to
watching against the 'german' or 'sophisticated' letters in her
handwriting. The exercise indeed was fast taking a very compound
character; so much so, that Faith might well begin to suspect there had
been a two-fold reason for proposing it. But Mr. Linden had a peculiar
way of teaching--especially of teaching her; and made her almost forget
in the pleasure of learning, the fact that she had need to learn. And
as for his memory on the subject, or his perception of how it might
touch her,--they were out of sight: she might have been a little child
there at his side, for the grave simplicity and frankness of his
instructions. And so exercise and reading and philosophy followed on in
a quiet train, and the surface of the earth revealed new wonders, and
the little French book was closed at the end of a pretty chapter.
"Whenever I get about my duties again, Miss Faith," Mr. Linden said, "I
shall make one very stringent rule for our future intercourse."
"What's that, Mr. Linden?" she said, with the face of quick deep
pleasure she always wore when about any of her studies with him.
"From the time when I come home to dinner till I go off again, I will
neither speak nor be spoken to, Miss Faith, except in French. That is,
you may speak--but I shall not answer."
Faith started a little, looked puzzled, and looked terrified,--as much
as she ever did; but rather closed with looking as if it was
impossible.
"I should make the rule at once," said Mr. Linden smiling, "but I
foresee that you would absent yourself entirely. Now when I am down
stairs you will have to see me--whether you want to or not."
"But I don't know one word!" said Faith breathlessly. "I am afraid I
shall not say, or hear, much, Mr. Linden."
"O you shall hear a great deal--I will take that upon myself."
Faith shook her head, gave the fire a final mending, and ran off; for
it was again an hour past the mid-day. Mr. Linden's dinner came up, and
was hardly removed before Dr. Harrison followed.
"Well, Linden!" he said coming jauntily in,--"I hope you haven't missed
me this morning."
"Not in the least."
"I am glad of that. How do you do? I will try and put you in condition
not to miss me this evening--though it is benevolent!"--added the
doctor, pulling off his left glove. "It is a great secret--to make
oneself missed!"
"It is a secret your gloves will hardly find out, by my fire," said Mr.
Linden. "How well you look, doctor!--not a bit like Nought and All."
"No,"--said the doctor,--"I believe I disclaimed that particular sphere
of existence yesterday. One had need be One and Somewhat in this
wind--if one will keep a place in a wagon, or elsewhere! But fire
mustn't tempt me, Linden. I'll see to you and be off, and decide what
I'll be afterwards."
"You may be off without preamble."
"Do you mean to dismiss me?" exclaimed the doctor raising his eyebrows.
"Have I said that you must accept my poor services?"
"Why no!" said Mr. Linden,--"doubly no! I am most happy to see you,
doctor."
"The happiness will be mutual when I have the felicity of understanding
you," said the doctor, settling himself in an attitude. Mr. Linden
surveyed him from head to foot.
"I perceive indeed that you are One and Somewhat!" he said,--"you still
need 'the four azure chains.' Do you need explanations too?"
"If you'll be so good!" said the doctor. "Or--ha! you don't mean
that, do you?"
"My arm has been dressed," said Mr. Linden quietly.
"Never trust a woman!" said the doctor wheeling round. "I thought she
had got enough of that yesterday. Did she do it well?"
"Excellently well."
"Your face says so as well as your tongue," said the doctor, with an
odd manner of despair. "I have lost--not my occupation, for I never had
any!--but I have lost my power over you; and she has got it!--I don't
know how to whistle, or I suppose I could take comfort in that."
Mr. Linden did not whistle, nor laugh, nor speak,--all that could be
said of him was that he lay there very quiet, with his eyes open,
looking remarkably well.
"Let a woman alone for doing what she has a mind to!" the doctor went
on, in his usual manner now, putting on his gloves. "I tell you what,
Linden--they're the hardest creatures to manage there are;--boys are
nothing to them! Well, good morning!"
"Good morning,"--said Mr. Linden. "I hope you will be able to manage
the wind."
The Dr. Harrison who had been up stairs was not at all the Dr. Harrison
that met Faith in the hall and escorted her to the carriage. Grave,
gentle, graceful, but especially grave, for some reason or other, he
was; and not the less for that agreeable, she thought. Faith was in a
sober mood herself; for she was about an undertaking she did not much
like; and which Mr. Linden had liked even less. Faith pondered, as they
drove swiftly along, what the particular objections had been which he
had not chosen to tell her; and now and then thought a little uneasily
of the coming interview with the doctor's patient, with Dr. Harrison
himself for auditor and spectator. She did not like it; but she had
honestly done what she thought right, and Mr. Linden had said she was
not wrong. And she was bound on the expedition, which she could not get
rid of; so though these considerations did float over and over her mind
they did not shake what was nevertheless a very happy peacefulness.
Faith was glad the doctor was pretty well engaged with his horses; and
let her own musings run upon the pleasant things of the morning, and of
yesterday, with glances at the delightful new world of work and
knowledge into which she had entered, or was entering; and happy
resting down on the foundation for all joy so lately known to her.
Whirled along on smooth going wheels, in that bright brisk day, little
interrupted with talk, these thoughts and meditations took fair little
flying passages through her head; chasing and succeeding each other,
put in and put out by the lights and shadows, the hills and fields, sky
and trees and wind-clouds, as the case might be, and mixing up with
them all.
Dr. Harrison had come for her this time in an easy pleasant-going
curricle, drawn by beautiful animals, and who felt beautifully in that
gay wind. They looked so, certainly, every motion from ears to tail
telling of life and the enjoyment of it.
"You are not afraid of anything, I know," said Dr. Harrison, one time
when he had been obliged to hold them in with a good deal of
decision;--"or I would have brought the old family trotter for you."
"What makes you think so, Dr. Harrison?"
"I have had proof of it," said he looking at her. Faith shook her head
a little, and could have told him several things; but did not.
"You are not afraid of these fellows?"
She said no.
"There is no pleasure in handling what gives you no trouble;--don't you
think so?"
Faith sought for illustrations of the subject in her own experience;
did not find them.
"Now look at those fellows," the doctor went on. "They are fit to fly
out of their skins; but a little bit of steel in their mouths--and a
good rein--and a strong hand at the end of it--and they are mine, and
not their own," said he, giving them a powerful check at the same time
which brought them on their haunches;--"and they know it. Now isn't
there some pleasure in this?"
"It is rather a man's pleasure," said Faith;--"isn't it?"
"Do you think so?" said the doctor. "Ah, you know better. Do you mean
to say," he added softly, "that a woman doesn't know the pleasure of
power?"
"I don't think I do," said Faith meeting his eyes with a smile. He
smiled too, a different smile from what was usual with him.
The drive was long--much longer than Faith had counted upon, although
they went so fast. "Down by the river"--the doctor had said; but it
appeared not yet what part of the river he was aiming for. Still it was
beautiful; the broken country, open and free, with the cloud shadows
and the brilliant sunlight driving across it, and grey sharp rocks
everywhere breaking it, and tufts and reaches of brown or sear woodland
diversifying it, was not easy to weary of. Nor did Faith weary. The
doctor's words had sent her off on a long journey of thought, while she
travelled over all that open, sunlight and shadow, country. Starting
from the words, "Behold we put bits in the horses' mouths, that they
may obey us";--she had gone on to moral government and suasion; the
means and the forces of both, not failing to illustrate largely here
from personal experience; and on and up to the one great and strong
hand that holds the reins of all, and makes even sunlight and shade,
rock and hill, do his work and his bidding.
But now in all that broad picture of life and life work, appeared a
little dark spot; which, small as it was, formed for the moment the
vanishing point, where every line of beauty and sunlight met and ended.
For with that strange recognizing of unknown things, Faith saw before
her the house where the dying woman lay,--and knew it for that, before
the doctor spoke. A plain, brown, unpainted house; straight and square,
with no break of piazza or window blinds; tapestried on the front with
frost-bitten gourd vines, the yellow and green fruit yet unscathed. The
usual little gate and dooryard common to such country houses; the usual
remains of autumn flowers therein; the usual want of trees. Yet by the
universal law of indemnification, the house was more picturesque than
painting and architecture could have made it. Neighbours it had none,
for contrast; but a low woody point of land stretched off behind it,
reaching out even into the Mong. And the Mong itself--with its cool
sharp glitter in the stirring wind, and the swash of its blue waves at
the very foot of the little paling about the house; its white-sailed
craft, its white-winged sea gulls;--
   "Our lives are rivers, gliding free
   To that unfathomed, boundless sea,
   The silent grave!
   Thither all earthly pomp and boast
   Roll, to be swallowed up and lost
   In one dark wave.
   'Thither the mighty torrents stray,
   Thither the brook pursues its way,
   And tinkling rill.
   There all are equal. Side by side
   The poor man and the son of pride
   Lie calm and still."
Of the two that now entered that little dooryard, one felt all this and
one did not. The one who had felt "the power of an endless life,"
perceived the narrow bounds of this,--to the one who had nothing
beyond, its domain was vast. And as is often the case, the man went
first and the angel followed.
The doctor stepped up to the bedside and made some general enquiries.
But it did not appear that there was much he could do.
"Mrs. Custers," said he presently, "you know I promised I would bring,
if I could, a lady to see you. Here she is--Miss Derrick."
Faith came to the side of the bed. Little her quiet face shewed how she
was trembling. In her soft sweet way she asked the sick woman how she
did. And Mrs. Custers turned her head a little, and gazed up into the
blooming face with strange, eager, feverish eyes--eyes that thirsted,
but with no bodily thirst. Then she closed them again and turned her
face away, but said nothing.
"Have you been sick long?" asked Faith.
She did not answer, then; though as if the tones of Faith's voice were
making their way, there came presently a slight quiver of the face, and
a bright drop or two that the closed eyelids could not quite keep back.
But she was at that point of time where the fear of man has lost its
power,--where the doctor loses his supremacy and visiters their
interest: where men and things are pushed like shadows into the
background, and the mind can see no object save "the great white
throne." This was what the silence expressed,--it was not dislike, nor
churlishness; but those surface questions failed to reach her where she
stood. The next gentle and tender "What is the matter?"--was so spoken
that it found her even there. Her eyes came back to Faith's face with
the sort of look they had given before. And then she spoke.
"Where would you be going if you were lying where I be?"
Faith heeded not the doctor then, nor anything else in the world. She
waited an instant; she had drawn herself up on hearing the question;
then leaning forward again she said slowly, tenderly,
"I should be going--to be happy with my divine Redeemer. Are not you?"
"What makes you think you would?"
"Because I have his word for it," said Faith. "He says that whoever
believes in him shall not perish, and that every one that loves him
shall be with him where he is;--I believe in him and love him with my
whole heart; and I know he is true. He will not cast me away." Slowly,
clearly, the words were spoken; so that they might every one enter and
be received by the ears that heard.
The woman looked at her,--scanned her, examined her,--looked down
towards the foot of the bed at the doctor--then back at Faith.
"Do you believe all that?" she said.
"I know it!"--said Faith, with a tiny bit of joy-speaking smile.
Again that intent look.
"Well he don't," she said with a motion towards the doctor. "Which of
ye am I to believe?"
"Don't believe either of us!" said Faith quickly, her look rather
brightening than otherwise, though the play of her lips took a
complicate character.--"Believe God! Don't you know his words?"
"I s'pose I do--some of 'em. I can't believe anything with him down
there lookin' at me!" she said impetuously. "He said he didn't
believe--and I keep thinkin' of that."
"Will you believe him, rather than God?--rather than the Lord Jesus,
who came and gave his very life for us, to bring us to heaven. Do you
think he would tell us anything but truth after that? His words
are, 'He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live.'"
"Well I'm most dead--" said the woman in a sort of cold, hopeless tone.
"Let Jesus make you live!" said Faith, in a voice as warm and loving.
"The doctor said he couldn't," she answered in the same tone as
before. "He believes that, anyhow."
Faith answered,
"'My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And I
give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall
any man pluck them out of my hand.'"
That same little quiver passed over the face, but it changed into an
irrepressible shudder.
"Sit down here on the bed," she said, looking up at Faith, "and put
your face so I can't see his'n--and then you may talk."
And with that fair head for a screen, as if it really warded off some
evil influence, Mrs. Custers lay and listened quietly for a while; but
then her hands were clasped over her face, and she broke into a low
sobbing fit--as if mind and body were pouring out their griefs
together. Not loud, not hysterical; but weary, subdued, overpowering;
until the utter exhaustion brought sleep.
Faith got off the bed then,--looked at her, looked at the doctor,--and
then by an irrepressible feeling, sunk on her knees. Leave her, go
out of the house with him, she could not, until she had put the cause
of them all into the hand she knew her friend and wished theirs. A
few moments' motionless hiding of her face, during which, as indeed
during the whole conversation, Dr. Harrison was nearly motionless too,
and used his eyes silently; and Faith rose from her knees. She gave
another look at the poor weary face that lay there, and then led the
way out of the house. The doctor followed her, having perhaps got more
than enough of the result of his ride. But as he was unfastening his
horses, or rather after he had done it and was waiting to hand her in,
Faith addressed him.
"Dr. Harrison, on whose errand do you go telling that woman that God's
word is not true?"
She spoke gently, yet as the doctor faced her he saw that her soft eye
could be steady as an eagle's. He did not answer.
"Not for God's service," she went on answering herself,--"nor for
yours. See to it!"
She turned and let him put her into the carriage and they set off
again. But the drive homewards promised to be as silent as the drive
out had been. The doctor was grave after another fashion now, with a
further-down gravity, and scarce looked at anything but his horses;
except when a glance or a hand came to see if Faith was well wrapped up
from the wind, or to make her so. And either action was done not with
his accustomed grace merely, but with even a more delicate tender care
of her than ordinary. Faith was in little danger of cold for some time.
Grief and loving sorrow were stirred and stirring too deeply for
thought or feeling of anything else; only that beneath and with them
her heart was singing, singing, in notes that seemed to reach her from
the very harps of heaven,--
   "I thank Thee, uncreated Sun,
   That thy bright beams on me have shined!"
As they went on, however, and mile after mile was passed over again,
and the afternoon waned, the wind clouds seemed thicker and the wind
more keen; Faith felt it and began to think of home The horses felt it
too, and perhaps also thought of home, for they travelled well.
"What are you meditating, Miss Derrick?" the doctor said at length,
almost the first word he had spoken.
"I was thinking, just at that minute, sir, of the use of beauty in the
world."
"The use of beauty!" said the doctor, looking at her; he would have
been astonished, if the uppermost feeling had not been of relief. "What
is its use? To make the world civilized and habitable, isn't it?"
"No--" said Faith,--"I should think it was meant to make us good. Look
at the horses, Dr. Harrison!"
The carriage had turned an angle of the road, which brought the wind
pretty strongly in their faces. The horses seemed to take it as
doubtful fun, or else to be inclined to make too much fun of it. They
were all alive with spirit, rather excited than allayed by their miles
of quick travelling. The doctor tried to quiet them by rein and voice
both.
"They get a little too much oats for the work they do," said he. "I
must take them out oftener. Take care of this wind, Miss Derrick; I
haven't a hand to help you. What's that?--"
'That' was a bunch of weeds thrown into the road just before the
horses' heads, from over the fence; and was just enough to give them
the start which they were ready for. They set off instantly at full
run. The road was good and clear; the carriage was light; the wind was
inspiriting, the oats suggestive of mischief. The doctor's boasted rein
and hand with all the aid of steel bits, were powerless to stop them.
In vain he coaxed and called to them; their speed increased every
minute; they had made up their minds to be frightened, and plunged
along accordingly. The doctor spoke once or twice to Faith, encouraging
or advising her; she did not speak nor stir.
They were just hearing the brow of a hill, when an unlucky boy in the
road, thinking to stay their progress, stepped before them and waved
his hat over his head. Faith heard an execration from the doctor, then
his shout to her, "Don't stir, Miss Derrick!"--and then she hardly knew
anything else. The horses plunged madly down the hill, leaped carriage
and all across a fence at the bottom of it, where the road turned,
overthrew themselves and landed the doctor and Faith on different sides
of the carriage, in a meadow.
The doctor picked himself up again, entirely unhurt, and going round to
Faith lifted her head from the ground. But she was stunned by the fall,
and for a few minutes remained senseless.
In these circumstances, no house being near, the doctor naturally
shouted to a cap or hat which he saw passing along the road. Which cap
also it happened belonged to Sam Stoutenburgh, who was on an errand
into the country for his father.
If ever Dr. Harrison was unceremoniously put aside, it was then. Sam
had come rather leisurely at first--then with a sort of flying bound
which cleared the fence like a thistle down, he bore down upon the
doctor, and taking up Faith as easily as if she had been a kitten,
absolutely ran with her to a spring which welled up through the long
meadow grass a few yards off. There the doctor found him applying the
cold water with both gentleness and skill, for Sam Stoutenburgh had a
mother, and her fingers had been so employed about his own head many a
time.
"You're a handy fellow!" said the doctor with a mixture of expressions,
as he joined his efforts to Sam's.--"That will do it!"--
For Faith opened her eyes. The first word was "Mother!"--then she sat
up and looked round, and then covered her face.
"Are you hurt?" said Dr. Harrison after an instant.
"No sir, I think not--I believe not."
"Can you stand up?"
With the help of his hand she could do it easily. She stood silent,
supported by him, looking on the prostrate horses and shattered
curricle; then turned her grave eyes on the doctor.
"Don't stand too long, Miss Faith!" said Sam earnestly, with trembling
lips too, for the manhood in him had not got very far. "Are you sure
you're not hurt?"
"Sam!" said Faith giving her hand to him.--"I didn't know it was you
who was helping me."
"I only wish I'd been here for you to fall upon!" said Sam, with a
queer mingling of grief and pleasure. "Seems as if folks couldn't
always be in just the right place."
"I am not hurt," she said with a little shudder.
"Now, how are you going to do to get home?" said the doctor looking
much concerned. "Shall I--"
"I will walk home," she said interrupting him.
"You are not able! We are three miles, at least, from Mrs. Derrick's
house. You could not bear it."
"I can walk three miles," she said with a faint, fair smile. "I will go
home with Sam, and you can take care of the horses."
"That would be a tolerably backhanded arrangement!" said the
doctor.--"Young man, will you bring these horses into town for
me--after I get them on their legs--to Judge Harrison's, or
anywhere?--I must take care of this lady and see her safe."
"Yes--I'll bring 'em into town," said Sam, "but Miss Faith's to be seen
to first--if they don't get on their legs all night! That'll be a
work of time, I take it. Miss Faith--could you walk just a little
way?--there's a house there, and maybe a wagon."
"You don't understand me," said the doctor. "I asked if you would do me
the favour to bring my horses into town. I will take care of the
lady."
Sam considered a minute--not the doctor but things.
"Miss Faith," he said, "I can run faster than you can walk, beyond all
calculation. If you'll keep warm here, I'll run till I find a
wagon--for if you don't ride and tell the story some one else
will,--and then there's two people will be worse hurt than you are.
You'd get home quickest so." Faith was about to speak but the doctor
prevented her.
"Then you refuse to take care of my horses?" he said. "I told you I
would take care of the lady."
"Bother the horses!" said Sam impatiently,--"who's to think about
horses with Miss Faith here frightened to death? I'm ready to drive 'em
all over creation, when I get ready, Dr. Harrison!"
Faith in her turn interposed.
"I would rather walk than wait, Dr. Harrison. If Sam knows some house
near by, I would rather walk so far with him than wait for him to go
and come again. We could send some one to help you then. Sam, you'll
help Dr. Harrison get the horses up."
So much Sam was willing to do, and the doctor with such grace as he
might, accepted; that is, with no grace at all. The horses with some
trouble and difficulty were raised to their feet, and found whole. The
carriage was broken too much to be even drawn into town. Faith then set
out with her escort.
"How far is your house, Sam?"
But Sam shook his head at that--the nearest one of any sort was a poor
sort of a place, where they sometimes had a wagon standing and
sometimes didn't. "But we can try, Miss Faith," he said in conclusion.
Sam's arm was a strong one, and certainly if he could have induced his
companion to lean her whole weight on it his satisfaction would have
increased in proportion; as it was he gave her good help. And thus they
had walked on, in the fading afternoon light, more than what to Faith
was "just a little way," when the first house came in sight.
Fortunately the wagon was at home; and before it stood an old horse
that one of the men said "he should like to see run!"--but for once
such deficiency was the best recommendation. Another man set off on
foot to find and help Dr. Harrison, and the owner of the slow horse
gave the reins to Sam. The wagon was not on springs, and the buffalo
skin was old, and the horse was slow!--beyond a question; but still it
was easier than walking, and even quicker. Sam Stoutenburgh did his
best to make Faith comfortable--levying upon various articles for that
purpose, and drove along with a pleasure which after all can never be
unmixed in this world! Even Sam felt that, for his long-drawn "Oh Miss
Faith!"--said much, and carried Faith's thoughts (she hardly knew why)
to more than one person at home.
"Sam," said Faith, "I don't want to say anything about this to-night."
"Well, ma'am--I won't say a word, if I can help it. Do you mean to
anybody, Miss Faith?"
"Not to anybody. I mean, not to any one at home."
"I won't if I can help it," Sam repeated. "But it's my night to stay
with Mr. Linden."
"Is it?--Well--what if it is?"
"I don't know--" said Sam dubiously,--"he has a funny way of reading
people's faces."
"But what is going to be in yours, Sam?"
"I don't know that, neither," said Sam. "But the fact is, Miss Faith,
he always does find out things--and if it's anything he's got to do
with you may just as good tell him at once as to fuss round."
A pretty significant piece of information! Upon which Faith mused.
It was not so late when they reached Mrs. Derrick's door, that the good
lady's anxiety had got fairly under way. At that moment indeed, she had
quitted the front of the house, and gone to hurry Cindy and the
teakettle; so that Faith was in the house and her escort dismissed,
before Mrs. Derrick appeared.
"Why pretty child!" she said--"here you are! I was very near getting
worried. And I went up and asked Mr. Linden what time it was, lest the
clock shouldn't be right; but he seemed to think it wasn't worth while
to fret about you yet. You're tired to death!" she added, looking at
Faith. "You're as pale as anything, child!"
"Yes mother--I'm very tired."
And very glad to get home, she would have said, but her lips failed it.
"Well do sit down, child," said her mother, "and I'll take your things
up stairs. Tea's all ready--that'll do you good, and then you shall go
right to bed."
But that did not seem what Faith was ready to do; instead of that, she
preferred to sit down by her mother, and wrap her arms round her again
and lay her head in her mother's lap. Even then she did not sleep,
though she was by no means inclined to talk and answered Mrs. Derrick's
fond or anxious words with very few in return, low and quiet, or with
quiet caresses. And when her mother was silent, to let her sleep, Faith
was silent too.
They had sat so motionless for awhile, when Faith changed her posture.
She got up, sat down on a chair by her mother's side, laid her head in
her neck and wrapped arms round her in turn.
"Mother--" she said most caressingly,--"when will you begin to follow
Christ with me?--I want that, I want that!"--
CHAPTER XXV.
While Dr. Harrison was sleeping off the effects of his exertions,
mental and physical, of the preceding day; and his horses in their
stable realized that the reaping of wild oats has its own fatigues;
Mrs. Derrick was stirring about with even unwonted activity, preparing
for that unwonted breakfast up stairs. An anxious look or two at
Faith's sleeping face had assured her mother that the fatigue there had
been nothing very serious; and Mrs. Derrick went down with a glad heart
to her preparations. There Faith joined her after awhile, and as
breakfast time approached, Mrs. Derrick suggested that Faith should go
up and see that the table was all right, and receive the breakfast
which she herself would send up. Cindy was already there, passing back
and forth, and the door stood open to facilitate her operations.
If Faith had felt curious as to the success of Sam Stoutenburgh's
efforts at concealment, her curiosity was at once relieved. The room as
she saw it through the half-open door was bright with firelight and
sunshine; the spoons and cups on the little table shone cheerily in the
glow; and all things were in their accustomed pretty order and
disorder. But the couch was empty, and Mr. Linden stood by the
mantelpiece, leaning one arm there, his face bent down and covered with
his hand.
Faith had no need to knock--the door being open and Cindy in full
possession; but as her light step came near the fire he turned suddenly
and held out his hand to her without a word. Then gently pushing her
back to the corner of the couch, Mr. Linden bade her "sit down and be
quiet--" and he himself took a chair at her side. She could hardly tell
how he looked--the face was so different from any she had ever seen him
wear.
For a minute she obeyed orders; then she said, though with an eye that
