those who have done their duty for two or three years must go into the
shade. If you will agree to step one side, we will promise to let you
alone. Will you do it?"
"I will not."
"Mind what you do, for if the 'Regulators' make war upon you, they will
drive you out."
"The what?"
"The Regulators. They are a secret society for certain purposes. It is
a powerful organization, Grant, I can tell you. If you will do the
right thing, we will take you in."
"No you won't. I'm not to be taken in by any such bait," replied
Richard, who was disposed to laugh at the ridiculous association that
had taken upon itself the duty of regulating the affairs of the
Tunbrook Institute.
"You may sneer as much as you please. Every fellow in the school knows
there is such a society, but no one but members can tell who belong to
it. We mean to have fair play in this institution, and we have never
yet failed in getting it."
"Come, Kennedy, you will talk all night," said Dobbin. "You can't do
any thing with him."
"Well, Grant, you may leave, compromise, or take the consequences.
Which will you do?"
"I will not leave; and I certainly will not compromise on the terms
named. I mean to behave myself like a man, while I am here. If any one
is a better fellow than I am, I will step one side for him, as I must.
If any fellow gets above me in the class, I will not complain, or
attempt to pull him down. If the fellows think I am fit to be a
sergeant, or a captain, or a corporal, I shall abide their decision. I
won't pull any fellow down, or be pulled down myself. I think the
Regulators are a mean, dirty, cowardly set of bullies, who mean to
build themselves up by pulling others down. Let every fellow be judged
by his own merits. That's my opinion. Now you can do what you please."
And they did do what they pleased, though it was evident the Regulators
were not accustomed to deal with so stubborn a subject. At the word
from Kennedy, who seemed to be the chief of the society, the whole band
fell upon Richard with sticks which they had cut in the woods, and gave
him a most unmerciful beating. The prisoner bore it with silent
disdain. He felt that the cause in which he was engaged was a good one,
and he did not flinch from the penalty of fidelity.
At the word from the chief, they suspended the flagellation, and
Kennedy again attempted to bring him to terms by argument, but it was
in vain.
"Very well," said he, evidently disappointed at the ill success of the
reasoning process. "This is only the first installment of what is your
due. When any thing goes wrong with you, when you get into a scrape,
when you find the ushers and the colonel down upon you, just understand
that the Regulators are round. You have fifty enemies now, instead of
one, as you had two hours ago."
"That's all, Kennedy; don't say any more," interposed Dobbin,
impatiently. "Let's take him back now. He will find out the rest of it
fast enough."
If Richard could have heard the conversation among the Regulators
before they waited upon him, he might have been flattered by the
complimentary manner in which his name was handled. His talents and his
muscle, no less than his growing popularity, were appreciated by the
band, and it was more desirable to win him than it was to drive him
out. They knew what a valuable acquisition he would be to their number.
But he must stand one side, and wait for his turn before he aspired to
become a leader.
The Regulators, using the utmost caution, unloosed the prisoner, and
marched him back to the camp. When they reached the line, they threw
him upon the ground. While one of the largest of them, having all the
advantage, held him there, the others disappeared in the darkness. The
fellow that held him then removed the strap from the arms of the
captive, and bounded away as fast as his legs would carry him.
Richard jumped up as quick as he could and gave chase. But the
Regulator had the start of him, and the pursuit was useless. The victim
returned to his beat, felt round upon the ground till he found his gun,
picked it up, and resumed his solitary walk. He was a little confused
by the events which had transpired, and he was forced to acknowledge
that the Regulators had managed their business with consummate address
and skill. He hardly knew what to make of the affair. He knew that he
had been whipped; this fact was still patent to his consciousness in
the tingling sensation that played over his legs.
The whole thing seemed very much like an illusion. It was almost too
strange and ridiculous to be credited, and he could not help
considering whether he had not actually been walking in his sleep this
time. The Regulators appeared, to his sober senses, to be the most
absurd institution ever invented by the mischievous brain of a boy. Yet
he could not disbelieve the evidence of his senses, and especially of
his smarting legs, and he was compelled to admit that the society
actually existed; though there was a remote possibility that the whole
affair was a practical joke, devised by Nevers and his clique.
We have before intimated, in the course of this story, that Richard
Grant was an "old head." He had a very tolerable conception of the
principles of strategy; therefore he did not do as most boys would have
done--make a tremendous row over the occurrences of the night. He
decided that it would be politic for him to keep both eyes and both
ears open, while he kept his mouth closed. By this course he hoped to
obtain a clew to the mystery, and thus eventually to make the daylight
shine in upon the dark proceedings of the Regulators.
"Where have you been this hour?" demanded the sentinel, whose beat was
next to his own, when they met.
"I haven't been far off," replied Richard; "that is, not more than half
a mile off," he added, in a tone so low that his companion could not
hear him.
"I understand. You have been taking a nap."
"'Pon my word, I haven't."
"But you have; I haven't seen you before for an hour."
"I haven't been asleep."
"Honor bright, Grant, haven't you?" asked his companion, good
naturedly.
"No, I haven't."
"Where were you when the grand rounds were made?"
"I was close by."
"Of course you were, or you would have been missed," added his
neighbor, as he turned on his heel and made off.
Richard thought he was very easily satisfied, and he wondered if he
wasn't a member of the secret band of Regulators. Our sentinel marched
to the other end of his beat. His neighbor on this side had missed him,
but he was as easily satisfied as the other had been, and Richard
wondered whether he was not a Regulator.
While he was musing upon the extraordinary events of the night, the
relief came round, and he was marched to the guard tent, where, for
four hours, he had an opportunity to dream of the Regulators, and their
secret management of the affairs of the Tunbrook Institute.
CHAPTER XVI.
RICHARD BECOMES FIRST SERGEANT OF COMPANY D.
The next morning Richard was discharged from guard duty, and returned
to the battalion. From the moment he opened his eyes he carefully
observed the actions of his companions, and even studied the glances
which were bestowed upon him. All his watching seemed to be in vain,
for he could not obtain a particle of information that would aid him in
solving the mystery of the Regulators.
Among the boys there were several with whom he had become quite
intimate, particularly Bailey, who occupied the next bed to his in
Barrack B. So eager was he to fathom the mystery, that he was tempted
to make some inquiries of them; but they might themselves be members of
the Regulators. Even Bailey might belong to the potent organization,
and he did not care to expose himself in the slightest degree to their
jeers or their malice. Though, as he had been informed, there were
fifty boys who had become his enemies, and who were pledged to annoy
him to the utmost of their ability, every one seemed to be his friend.
Hardly had he been discharged from guard duty before his arrest was
ordered, and he found himself accused of sleeping at his post. He was
conducted to the tent of Colonel Brockridge, where the charge was
distinctly recited to him.
"What do you say to this charge, Grant? Are you guilty or not guilty?"
demanded the principal.
"Who are my accusers, sir?" asked Richard, thinking only of the task he
had laid upon himself of discovering the Regulators.
"That does not answer my question, Grant. I asked you whether you were
guilty or not guilty," added the colonel, sternly.
"Not guilty, sir!" replied Richard, promptly and firmly.
"Then you wish to have the charge proved?"
"I do, sir."
"That is rather inconvenient," said the colonel, biting his lip. "If
you are guilty, I should prefer to have you say so."
"I am not guilty, sir."
Colonel Brockridge had had too much experience with boys to neglect the
looks and actions of the accused while he questioned him, for the
expression often reveals more than the words. Richard's communication,
on this occasion, was "yea, yea; nay, nay." He had the look of one who
speaks the truth, and the principal was duly impressed by the
appearance and manner of the prisoner.
"You speak very decidedly," added the colonel. "Were you at your post
at half past nine o'clock?"
"I was not, sir."
"Where were you?"
Richard hesitated; there were several teachers and several company
officers present. He did not like to tell the story before them, and he
did not think it would be prudent to do so. Probably some of the
Regulators were within hearing, and he preferred to unearth them in
some other way.
"Your answer, Grant," said the principal.
"Without intending any disrespect to you, sir, I would rather not
answer," replied Richard, glancing at the officers present.
A slight curl on the lip of a cadet by the name of Redman attracted his
attention. It was a kind of suppressed sneer, which Richard interpreted
that he dared not expose the doings of the secret society. His answer
had been a virtual admission of the charge, and the case seemed to have
gone against him. Richard concluded that the boy who could rejoice at
that moment must be a Regulator.
"The penalty of sleeping at your post and deserting it would be the
same; and as you admit the charge in substance, it will not be
necessary to proceed any further," said Colonel Brockridge.
Richard was tempted to make a full explanation of the events of the
night, but he had some doubts whether he would be believed if he did
so. Besides, he was curious to know what the Regulators would do. The
penalty for the offence with which he was charged could not be very
heavy, and he determined to submit to it, for the purpose of exposing
the Regulators at some future time.
The principal then gave him a lecture on the impropriety of deserting
his post, when placed on guard, explaining the consequences that might
result from such unfaithfulness in time of war. Richard listened
patiently to the reproof, and was sentenced to be confined in the guard
tent for twenty-four hours.
Richard possessed his soul in patience, and slept off a good portion of
his imprisonment. He devoted all his wakeful hours to a consideration
of the doings of the Regulators, and in devising plans for
"ventilating" their secret proceedings.
When he was relieved from arrest, and permitted to join his comrades,
he kept a close watch upon Redman, and also upon the two privates who
had been next to him in the line on guard. They must have been his
accusers, and he was satisfied that they belonged to the obnoxious
association. Nevers, no doubt, was also a member, and he believed him
to be the "Dobbin" of the party that had whipped him. Here were four
whom he suspected, and during the week the battalion remained in camp,
their words and their actions were carefully scanned; but they were too
adroit to expose themselves, though Richard's close scrutiny was not
entirely fruitless.
Our soldier entered heartily into the spirit of the occasion, and
performed his duty with the utmost fidelity. Though he was made the
victim of various petty tricks, such as smearing the stock of his
musket with grease, cutting the straps of his knapsack, and hiding his
blanket, he bore all these things with politic patience, and treated
his comrades with the most scrupulous fairness. He was the champion of
the weak, and, being the conqueror of Nevers, no one ventured to carry
their opposition to his will beyond a few respectful words. He would
not let a small boy be insulted or bullied; and a frown from him was
generally a sufficient protection. He was foremost in all the sports of
the boys, and every day increased his popularity.
If the Regulators said or did any thing to his injury, they did it very
slyly, for Richard could not discover that there was any one who was
not his friend. On the last day of the encampment, the election of
officers was to take place, and during the week, of course there was a
great deal of electioneering done for various candidates.
On the day before the election, a petition was circulated among the
boys, requesting the principal to reinstate Nevers in the office from
which he had been degraded. There were about fifty names on the paper
when Bailey brought it to Richard. It was not very favorably received
by the boys generally. Nobody could tell when or where the fifty names
had been obtained; no one had seen the signers place their autographs
upon the document. Richard heard Bailey and a dozen others refuse to
sign it, and some of them even proposed to get up a remonstrance.
"I am going to sign the petition," said Richard, to the astonishment of
his companions.
"You, Grant?" exclaimed a dozen boys, in the same breath.
"I am; just to show the fellows that I bear him no ill will," replied
Richard. "Nevers was degraded for that affair with me; and, as I licked
him, I think I can afford to do the handsome thing."
"Then he will be elected captain of Company D," said Bailey.
"I don't know about that," added Richard. "I am willing to see him
restored to the place he was in before I came, but I shall not give him
my vote for captain, or any thing else."
The victim of the Regulators took out his pencil and wrote his name
upon the petition. Though he fully believed that Nevers was the
"Dobbin" of the party that had assaulted him, he could not prove it and
he was disposed to give him a fair chance, so that neither he nor his
friends should have any good ground for complaint. His example was
followed by all the boys present, and from that moment the number of
names on the paper increased very rapidly.
At dress parade, Colonel Brockridge, to whom the petition had been
presented early in the afternoon, called Nevers forward, and after a
few remarks, restored him to his former position as first sergeant of
Company D, observing at the same time that the name of Richard Grant on
the paper had had more influence upon his mind than that of all the
others. It was a magnanimous act, which he heartily approved.
"Three cheers for Nevers!" shouted some friend of the first sergeant,
when the company broke ranks.
They were given, but it was only a partial demonstration, evidently
confined to about a dozen of the company.
"Three cheers for Grant!" said Bailey, when those for the first
sergeant had been given.
The call was promptly responded to, and though the cheers seemed to
proceed from the entire company, there were probably about a dozen who
did not join.
"Tiger!" added Bailey, with an earnestness that assured Richard he was
not a member of the Regulators.
The "tiger" was added, together with a volley of applause by clapping
the hands. Richard's position in Company D was not to be doubted, and
the Regulators present must have felt that their influence was not very
powerful.
On the following day they had a further proof of the popularity of
Richard, and if they had not been very stupid, they might have seen
that he had more influence than the whole band of Regulators put
together. On the first ballot in Company D, the first lieutenant was
elected captain; the second sergeant was elected first lieutenant. The
second lieutenant was believed to be a strong friend of Nevers, and no
promotion was awarded to him.
Richard Grant was elected second sergeant, and when the vote was
declared, the result was greeted with a round of hearty applause. The
other places were all filled, as the inclination of the majority
dictated, subject only to the healthy rules of the Institute. If there
had been no limit to the choice of the boys, we have no doubt their
favorite would have been elected captain.
The face of Nevers was as dark as a thunder cloud after the election.
The remark of Richard that he would not vote for him had been
circulated through the company, and had been influential in defeating
the aspirations of the first sergeant. Nevers knew very well that he
owed his defeat and his restoration to his rival, whom he hated with
ten fold greater vigor than before--hated him for what he had done, and
hated him for what he had left undone.
Of course, Richard felt very good-natured, and snapped his fingers at
the Regulators. He sat upon a stool alone after supper, thinking of his
good fortune, and congratulating himself upon the skill with which he
had conquered his enemies. He was satisfied that in being true to
himself he had won the respect and confidence of his companions. The
good resolutions he had successfully carried out had rendered him
worthy of the favor bestowed upon him. In conquering himself he had
conquered others.
While Richard sat on the stool thinking of the pleasant events of the
day, and perhaps wondering how long it would be before he became the
major of the battalion, his vanquished rival sauntered up to him, his
face still looking dark and malignant.
"You have beaten me again, Grant," said he, sourly, "but your day will
come soon."
"Eh, Dobbin?" replied Richard, with a good-natured smile, as he glanced
at his fellow-sergeant.
"What's that?" growled Nevers. "What do you mean by calling me Dobbin?"
Richard was satisfied from the appearance of Nevers, that the name was
not wholly unfamiliar to his ears. It was the first time he had ever
ventured to hint at the proceedings of his first night in camp; and it
was the first time that his rival had ever dared to speak to him in a
surly tone.
"If you don't understand it, no matter," added Richard, with a merry
twinkle of the eye.
"If you call me by that, or any other improper name, you shall suffer
for it."
"How many of you will it take to punish me for it, eh, Dobbin?"
"Dobbin again?"
"Do you know a fellow by the name of Kennedy?" added Richard. "If you
don't, I'll introduce you some day."
Nevers concluded that Richard was a tough customer, and he made no
further allusion to any suffering in store for his defiant rival. But
Richard's taunt about Kennedy, and his promises to introduce him, were
not pleasant to the bully, and he walked away. He feared that the
victim had been making dangerous discoveries.
On the following morning the battalion took up the line of march for
the Institute, and arrived without incident or accident; and that night
the boys exchanged the hard ground for the iron bedsteads in the
barracks.
CHAPTER XVII.
RICHARD GIVES THE TUNBROOKERS A LESSON IN BOATING.
Among the favorite recreations of the cadets of the Tunbrook Military
Institute was that of boating. The beautiful lake afforded them
abundant space for sailing and rowing, and quite a number of them were
proficient oarsmen and excellent navigators.
On the Saturday afternoon following the return from the camp, Colonel
Brockridge proposed to exercise the boys in the boats. This
announcement was received with hearty applause by the cadets, and they
gathered round the principal to learn the order of exercises upon the
lake.
"Well, boys, suppose we appoint a couple of coxswains and have a race."
"Hurrah!" shouted the boys. "A race! A race!"
"You like the plan, I see. Who shall be your leaders?" added the
colonel.
The boys made no reply, but looked curiously at each other, as though
they were not competent, to settle the question.
"Nevers for one," said Redman.
"Very well; Nevers, we all know, is a good boatman, and has always won
the races. Who shall be the other?"
No reply was made, and the principal waited some time for a suggestion.
"Grant has had considerable experience with boats, his father informed
me," continued Colonel Brockridge.
"Grant! Grant!" shouted the boys.
"Grant shall be coxswain of the other boat, then. What do you say,
Grant?"
"I am very willing, sir, if the fellows desire it," replied Richard,
modestly.
"Very well. The race shall come off at four o'clock. Each leader shall
have two hours to train his crew. The course shall be round Green
Island and home, making a pull of about three miles. You shall draw
lots for the choice of boats, though I don't think there is a particle
of difference between them."
The choice was between the Alice and the Emma, as the two club boats
had been named. Nevers drew the first choice, and selected the Alice,
and of course Richard was obliged to be satisfied with the Emma.
"The coxswains shall select their own crews. Now, draw for the first
choice."
Nevers drew the prize this time also, and named Redman as his stroke
oarsman. Richard took Bailey for the same station, and they continued
to select alternately till each had taken his twelve oarsmen. The
coxswain of the Alice had a decided advantage over his rival, for he
had a complete knowledge of the capacity of each boy, and had before
taken part in several races on the lake. Richard was aided in choosing
by his friends whom he had selected, and when they stepped into the
boat, he was well satisfied with his crew.
"We shall get beaten," said Bailey, in a low tone, as they shoved off
the Emma.
"What makes you think so, Bailey?" demanded Richard, with a smile.
"Nevers is a great boatman. He knows all about a boat, and when he was
in command he always won the race."
"Don't you croak, Bailey," laughed Richard. "I have seen a boat before
to-day, and I tell you we shall not get beaten."
The coxswain spoke in a loud tone, so that all his crew could hear him,
for he knew that the first requisite of success was confidence.
"I hope so," said Bailey. "I would rather any other fellow in the
school should beat you than Nevers. It will be a feather in his cap."
"Don't croak, Bailey. Just believe that we shall beat, and we shall."
"I hope we shall. Nevers first got ahead of all the fellows in boating.
His success elected him to his first office in the company, and if he
beats you in this race, he will be captain at the next election. The
boys will all stand by the fellow that beats in any thing."
"There, Bailey, if you say another word, I shall wish I had chosen some
other fellow. You will defeat us if you keep on croaking," added the
coxswain, earnestly.
"I'm not croaking. I only want you to understand what you have got to
do; and I will do all I can to help you win the race. What are you
going up here for?" demanded Bailey, as the boat's bow was pointed down
the river, which was the outlet of the lake.
"You ask too many questions, Bailey. If you will leave this thing to
me, I will agree to whip Nevers all to pieces," said Richard, who did
not like the discipline on board the Emma.
"All right, Grant. Let him alone, Bailey," said one of the boys in the
middle of the boat.
"Where's the other boat?" asked Richard. "I see her; she has gone up
the lake. That's just what I wanted her to do. I have a little business
to do here before we go into the race."
He ordered the crew to cease rowing, and, to the surprise of his
companions, ran the boat up to the shore. As he had intimated to them
that questions were not agreeable to him, they asked none, and waited
patiently till his movements should explain themselves.
"Now, Bailey, will you go up to the store-house, and bring down some
black lead, and the brushes they use to clean the stoves. Don't let any
body see you, and don't say a word to any one."
Bailey did not very clearly understand what this request had to do with
winning the race, but he ran off with all haste to execute the mission
intrusted to him. While he was gone, Richard improved the opportunity
to develop his system of rowing to his companions. He had attended a
great many boat races on the Hudson, had belonged to a boat club in
Whitestone, and had clear ideas upon all matters connected with the
business of boating.
On the return of the messenger, the articles he had brought were thrown
into the stern sheets, and the boat shoved off. Again, to the surprise
of the crew, Richard took them down the river, half a mile, till they
came to a sandy shore, where he grounded the Emma.
"Now, tumble out, fellows," said Richard, "and take your oars with
you."
The boys wondered more than before at the singular proceedings of the
coxswain, and Bailey so far overcame his respect for discipline again,
as to suggest that they should have no time to practise with the oars,
if they spent the precious moments in this stupid manner.
"Shut up, Bailey; I have more to lose in this race than you have," said
Richard, rather curtly. "If the fellows don't believe in me for this
business, I am willing to step one side, and let any other one take
hold who thinks he can do it better than I can."
"Go ahead, Grant!" shouted the crew. "We are all satisfied, and so is
Bailey."
"I won't speak another word, Grant," said Bailey. "I only wish I had as
much confidence as you have."
"Bear a hand lively, my lads," added Richard, as he seized the painter
of the boat; "I want to get her out of the water."
The boys took hold with a will, and the Emma was soon placed high and
dry upon the beach. She was then turned over.
"There, fellows," said Richard, as he pointed to the foul bottom of the
boat, "do you expect to win a race with the craft in that condition? In
fifteen minutes we will have her in the water again, as clean as a
lady's parlor."
By direction of the coxswain, the crew fell to scrubbing the bottom of
the boat with an earnestness and zeal which soon removed every trace of
moss and grass. She was then permitted to dry for a short time, and the
bright October sun soon completed their work. The bottom was then
covered over with black lead, and rubbed with the brushes till it shone
like a newly-polished stove. The boys used their muscle upon the
brushes, being relieved every minute by fresh hands.
"Now, my lads, we are in condition to win the race. Shove her off,"
said Richard, whose energy inspired the whole party with resolution and
confidence.
The Emma was afloat again; the boys took their places, though not till
Richard had rearranged them by their weight, so that the boat was in
perfect trim when she started. For an hour and a half Richard trained
them in rowing, till the stroke exactly suited him, and they fully
understood all his signs and signals.
"Now, fellows, mind your eyes, and we are sure to win," said the
wide-awake coxswain, as the gun fired that was to call them to the
stake boat. "I never saw a better set of rowers in my life, and I am as
well satisfied with you as though we had been pulling together for a
year."
"Bully for you, Grant," said one of the boys at the bow.
The Emma pulled leisurely up to the large sail boat, on board of which
were the colonel, the assistant teachers, and as many of the boys as
she would comfortably accommodate.
"Are you all ready?" shouted the colonel, as the Alice and the Emma
took their stations.
"All ready, sir," replied Richard, cheerfully.
"All ready, sir," added Nevers, confidently.
Both parties were impatient for the contest to begin, and both were
almost certain of winning the victory. Even the boats seemed to share
in the spirit of their crews, and anxious to have the fetters removed
that they might bound away upon the errand of conquest. Each had
appropriate flags at the bow and stern, and one with a taste for boats
would have been delighted by the appearance of the trim craft.
"Ready for the signal!" shouted the colonel again.
"Down with that flag in the bow, Carter," said Richard to the bowman,
as he took down the color in the stern.
"What's that for?" asked one of the crew of the Emma.
"They hold the wind, and keep us back a little. We will be on the safe
side. Now, ready, fellows, and mind what I have said to you. Don't look
at the other boat till you can see her over our stern."
Nevers disdained to follow the example of his rival in removing his
flags, saying that he could beat him with his colors flying. Nevers
prided himself upon his skill in handling a boat, and he felt that the
opportunity had come which would enable him to triumph over the hated
usurper, as he considered Richard. He knew how much glory and honor
would be awarded to the conqueror in this race, and that if he could
beat his rival, scores of those fair-weather friends, who always attach
themselves to a rising man, would leave him.
The signal gun was on shore, and at a gesture from the colonel, it was
discharged. The report seemed to unloose the bonds which chained the
boats to their stations, and they bounded away. The crew of the Alice
bent to their oars with the most tremendous energy, while that of the
Emma seemed to be inspired by the cool and steady nerve of her
coxswain. They had been fully and thoroughly instructed in their duty.
The crowd of boys on the shore were silent and breathless with the
interest they felt in the exciting race; and when, before the boats had
gone a quarter of a mile, they discovered the Alice more than half a
length ahead of her companion, the jaws of Richard's friends dropped,
and their faces were as long as though a ten pound weight had been
fastened to the chin of each, while a smile of triumphant satisfaction
lighted up the faces of Nevers's well-wishers.
"Nevers has it!" exclaimed one of his intimates, as, when she rounded
Green Island, the Alice was found to be more than a length ahead of the
Emma.
"Not yet," said one of the other clique. "Let Dick Grant alone. He
knows what he is about. He don't half try yet."
The crew of the Emma could not yet see the Alice over the stern of the
boat, and we doubt not they shared the anxiety and despondency of their
friends on shore. But no sooner had the boats rounded the island, and
commenced on the home stretch, than Richard's vibrating body began
gradually to move more rapidly, and just in proportion as he increased
the movement, the Emma lessened the distance between herself and the
Alice.
"Steady, fellows; don't get excited. Dip a little deeper," said
Richard, in a quiet, cool tone. "We are doing splendidly, and you shall
see the Alice over the stern in about three minutes."
Nevers, as in the fight with his rival, began to be very much excited
when he saw that he was losing ground. He spoke quick and earnest words
to the crew of his boat, who had been doing their utmost from the
beginning, urging them to increase their exertions. Richard had not
permitted his crew to do their best at first, but had kept in their
muscles a reserve of strength for the final emergency. The party in the
Alice had no such reserve power, and their efforts to increase the
speed of the boat were put forth at the expense of a proper attention
to skill and precision.
The boats were now side by side, and they continued in this relative
position until they were within half a mile of the stake boat. The race
had become intensely exciting, and again the two cliques on shore were
breathless and silent with interest. Neither party had any thing to
indicate the success of its favorite.
Even yet Richard had not put his crew to their utmost. But the decisive
moment had arrived, and his body began to sway backward and forward
with increasing rapidity, and a quarter of a mile more gave him half a
boat-length's advantage over his rival.
"Steady, fellows; keep cool," said he, in a loud whisper. "Don't miss a
stroke, and make every one tell all it will. Now you see her over the
stern--but pull steady."
The Emma was a length ahead of the Alice when Richard finished these
remarks. The boats were within an eighth of a mile of the end of the
course, and the murmuring applause of the Grant party on shore began to
reach the ears of the contestants.
"Pull! Pull!" shouted Nevers, filled with rage and vexation. "Pull with
all your might, fellows. We can beat him yet, if you only stick to it."
He increased the rapidity of his motions, but his crew were unable to
keep up with him. Their stroke was unsteady; some of them forgot to
feather their oars, and some scarcely dipped the blades in the water.
"Steady!" said Richard, with more energy. "Mind your stroke. Keep both
eyes on me. Here we are!" shouted he, jumping up from his seat in the
stern, and giving the order to cease rowing.
The Emma flew by the stake boat two and a half lengths ahead of the
Alice, and a stunning roar of cheers from the shore and the sail boat
saluted the victors.
"Grant forever! Three cheers for Grant!" shouted Bailey, as the crew of
the Emma rose and made the welkin ring with their huzzas.
CHAPTER XVIII.
RICHARD WINS ANOTHER RACE, AND TUNBROOK IS MUTINOUS.
It was a proud moment for Richard Grant when he rose from the stern
sheets of the Emma, and found the Alice was two or three lengths
behind, and when he heard the shouts of his friends rend the air. It
was victory--another triumph over the Regulators, who had threatened to
make Tunbrook too hot to hold him. They did not get ahead very fast,
and he felt that his conquest over them was complete.
The hour of prosperity, of triumph, is the most dangerous period in the
experience of a young man. He is on the top of the wave, and he sees
not the dark abyss that yawns on either side of him. Truly we need
adversity to keep us from forgetting God and duty; to keep us from
forgetting that truth and justice are more mighty than mere success.
But when Richard came to Tunbrook, he came with a solemn resolution to
forsake the error of his ways, and find happiness in the path of
rectitude. Whatever success had attended him, he attributed to the
influence of this good resolution. He had manfully resisted temptation;
he had cured himself of several bad habits, and he had made good
progress in the conquest of himself. He had often felt an inclination
to resent with hard words and heavy blows the sneers of the Nevers
faction, but he had controlled himself; and each victory of principle
over inclination had made him stronger in his purpose to do right.
Bertha's answer to his letter, in which he had informed her of his
election to the post of sergeant, cautioned him against being too much
elated by his good fortune. She hoped his promotion would not make him
think too much of himself. When he realized that he had won a new
victory, when he heard the boys shouting his name, the words of his
sister came to his mind, and he determined to bear his honors meekly,
and to feel kindly towards Nevers and his friends.
As they pulled to the stake boat, Richard cautioned his crew not to
"crow" over the fellows in the other boat, for it was a friendly
contest, and he did not wish to see any ill feeling on either side. The
Alice was already alongside the sail boat. Nevers was in no enviable
frame of mind; he looked dark and sour, and Richard only bestowed one
glance upon him, lest his looks should be misconstrued.
"Grant, you have won the race," said Colonel Brockridge, as the Emma
came up. "I had no idea of such a result."
"Three cheers for Grant!" shouted an enthusiastic boy in the sail boat.
"No," added the principal, as he glanced at the crest-fallen coxswain
of the Alice, and saw that he was taking his defeat very hardly. "You
have cheered enough. We don't want any unkind feelings to grow out of
this affair. Nevers, you have been beaten, but----"
"I shouldn't have been, if I had had fair play," growled Nevers, whose
anger was manifest in his tones.
"Has there been any foul play?" demanded the colonel.
"Yes, sir, there has," replied Nevers, sharply.
"What was it?"
"The fellows in the Emma took her out of the water, cleaned her, and
covered her bottom with black lead."
"I don't see any unfair play in that. You had the right to use your
time for preparation as you wished," said the principal.
"He couldn't have beaten if his boat hadn't been in better condition,"
added Nevers.
"It is a good driver that keeps his horse in good condition. I think it
is rulable for each crew to prepare their boat as they think best."
"Well, he beat us by a trick. What did they go down the river for to
haul up their boat?"
"That is their business. I see you are not satisfied, Nevers."
"No, sir, I am not. I like to have fair play in these things."
"So do I," said the colonel, with a quiet smile, "and I think you had
better try this thing over again. Now, suppose you exchange boats, and
pull round once more, that we may see how much good the black lead did.
What do you say, Grant?"
"I am willing, sir," replied Richard.
"We are all fagged out, now, sir," interposed Nevers.
"I proposed this method to remove your objections to the race, Nevers.
You might have cleaned your boat, if you had been so disposed."
"I didn't think of it," snarled Nevers.
"If a general should get beaten because he did not think to bring up
his ammunition, or by neglecting any precaution, his want of
forethought would hardly be deemed a sufficient excuse. I should like
to have you exchange boats for a short pull, if you don't go round the
island."
"We are tired out, sir."
"The other crew have pulled the same distance you have," added the
principal.
"Try it, Nevers, try it," whispered Redman. "We shall be laughed at for
a month, if we don't. We will whip them this time."
"I am willing to try it, sir," said Nevers, though his words belied his
feelings.
Both crews were somewhat rested from the fatigue of the race, and they
exchanged places in the two boats, taking the positions assigned to
them.
"We shall get beat this time, sure," said Bailey.
"No, we won't," replied Richard.
"Well, if you say so, then we shall not. It would be the greatest thing
that ever was, if we should whip them again. It will show that black
lead isn't a great institution, after all."
"No, it won't. Those fellows don't pull worth a cent. If they can't do
better than they did before, we shall whip them all to pieces. Now,
mind what I told you; don't hurry, and keep cool."
The signal was given, and the two boats dashed off. The race was very
nearly a repetition of the first one. Richard kept a sufficient
quantity of muscle in reserve for the last half mile of the race, and
came in about a boat length ahead of the Emma. The one and a half
length's difference in the two races seemed precisely to indicate the
amount of virtue in black lead.
Again the thundering cheers of the Grant party reverberated over the
lake and through the grove. Nevers was astonished, as well as angry,
and his face was darker than ever.
"Are you satisfied now, Nevers?" asked the colonel, when the Alice and
the Emma came alongside the stake boat.
"Yes, sir," replied he, desperately; "but I don't understand it."
"I do," said the principal. "The other crew pull better than yours. I
never saw better pulling in my life than those fellows showed us. I
hope there is no hard feeling between you."
"No, sir," replied Nevers; but his looks and his tones belied his
words.
"He will pull us all down at this rate," muttered Redman, as the Emma
left the stake boat.
"Something must be done," added Nevers. "He has got half the fellows on
his side now."
"What shall we do?" asked Redman, who seemed to regard it as a hopeless
case.
"We'll fix him yet."
Some earnest conversation followed these remarks. It was carried on in
whispers, and entirely suspended when the Alice approached. The boats
were secured, and both crews landed.
"Grant, you have beaten me fairly, and there is my hand," said Nevers,
when the two coxswains met on shore.
Richard was utterly confounded by this show of good will on the part of
his rival. He took the proffered hand, and gave it a hearty pressure.
"Thank you, Nevers; it is very kind of you to treat me in this handsome
manner. I'm sure I don't feel any ill will toward you," replied
Richard.
"We will be friends, Grant, and perhaps you will tell me how this thing
was done?"
"With the greatest pleasure."
"You have some secret in rowing."
"I will tell you all I know about it, any time you please," said
Richard, frankly.
"Thank you; you are the first fellow that ever beat me rowing, and I
honor you for it, but I don't understand it. Shall we be friends now,
Grant?"
"With all my heart."
Richard could not have been more astonished if the sky had fallen, than
he was when his great enemy approached him with words of kindness and
conciliation. He could scarcely believe his senses; but there was
Nevers by his side, as good-natured as though he had won the race; and
more than this, the rival crews were suddenly on the most excellent
terms, and were fraternizing like brothers. Nevers had evidently given
up the point, and intended to withdraw all opposition to the
advancement of Richard.
Nevers and his friends seemed to be sincere, and the hatchet appeared
to have been actually buried. Richard was so well treated by them, that
he came to the conclusion that the Regulators had been dissolved, or at
least that they had turned their attention to some more promising field
of labor.
On the first of November, when the boys assembled for morning prayers,
the principal announced a new regulation, requiring every member of the
Institute to be in-doors during the off time, from seven till nine in
the evening. Before, they had been permitted to go where they pleased
during these hours, as long as they did not leave the estate. But some
of the boys had been seen in the village of Tunbrook after eight in the
evening; and all efforts to discover who they were had been unavailing.
The prohibition had been made to correct this evil.
When the new regulation was announced, there was a general murmur of
disapprobation among the students, for some of their best sport had
been enjoyed out of doors, after dark. No one ventured to remonstrate,
but the order was exceedingly unpopular.
"I won't stand it," said one and another, during the first recreation
hour in the afternoon. "It's too bad; it will spoil all our fun."
"The fellows are all agreed on this point," said Redman.
"I am willing to observe all reasonable regulations, but we might as
well go into a monastery as submit to this thing," added Nevers. "What
do you say, Grant?"
"I don't like it. We intended to have a first-rate game of foot ball
these moonlight evenings."
"There isn't a fellow in the school that likes it," said Redman.
"That's so," replied Bailey. "I don't see the use of the rule either."
"Nor I."
"Some of the fellows have been down to Tunbrook almost every night."
"What's that to us, as long as we didn't go?" said Bailey. "The
innocent ought not to be punished with the guilty."
"The colonel couldn't find out who they were," said Redman, with a kind
of chuckle. "No fellow would 'blow' on the others."
"It is easy enough to talk," said Bailey, "but what are you going to
do?"
"Do? Why, resist it, of course," replied Redman. "I am ready to do so,
for one. Let us all stay out to-night till nine o'clock."
"Agreed," added some of the larger boys.
"We shall get punished if we do," suggested Bailey.
"No matter. They will have to punish the whole crowd. The guard house
won't hold us all," replied Redman.
"Let us have a plan about it. We will get up a regular mutiny," said
Nevers. "If we can get a hundred fellows to go with us, we shall make
the old man cave in."
"Good, Nevers! Let all the fellows that will join meet under the big
oak by the river, at five o'clock, or as soon as we get out of school.
Let each fellow talk it round in a quiet way, but don't let the
teachers hear a word."
"Will you be there, Grant?" asked Nevers.
"I don't know. I will see."
"Don't know?" said Nevers. "Don't you see all the fellows are in for
it?"
"I will think of it," replied Richard, as he walked away.
CHAPTER XIX.
RICHARD IS DETERMINED, AND SOME ALLUSION IS MADE TO "WATERMELONS."
There had been a time when Richard Grant would have desired no better
fun than to engage in such a mutiny as that proposed by Nevers and
Redman; and he was not yet so far removed from his evil propensities as
to be able to decline the proposition. The boys of the Institute
believed they had a real grievance, for it seemed harsh and needless to
deprive them of some of their best hours for amusement. It looked just
as though the principal was angry because he could not ascertain who
had broken the rules of the school, and spitefully intended to punish
the innocent with the guilty.
Probably none of them intended to carry their opposition any farther
than to express their disapprobation of the new regulation. The colonel
was a universal favorite, and they had full confidence in his judgment
and his justice. Perhaps the desire to have a little fun and excitement
was the strongest motive that actuated them.
During the afternoon, the plan to redress their grievance was whispered
among the boys. "All the fellows were going to join the mutiny" was the
strongest inducement that could be used to obtain the consent of the
timid ones; and if "all were going to join," it would require a great
deal of moral courage to stand aloof from the scheme.
Richard was sorely perplexed. With the others, he felt that the new
regulation was arbitrary and unnecessary; and such a scrape as the boys
proposed was exactly in accordance with his antecedents. He wanted to
join for the fun of the thing, and because the rest of the boys were
going to do so. He did not like to be singular. Besides, he might
injure his popularity, and lose some of the influence he possessed, if
he refused to join.
The temptation was so strong that he could not at first resist it; and
though he did not positively promise to meet the others under the big
oak, he gave them some encouragement that he would do so. The little
time he had to think of the matter during the study and recreation
hours did not enable him to arrive at a conclusion; and at five
o'clock, when school was dismissed, he was still halting between two
opinions.
When he left the school room, he fixed his mind upon the question, and
began to discuss it in the most vigorous manner. He knew that any
resistance to the authorities of the school was wrong. Colonel
Brockridge had made the rule, and it was his duty to observe it. What
would Bertha say, after he had given her such a glowing account of his
success in overcoming temptation, when she was informed that he had
joined a mutiny?
"I'll keep my resolution!" said he, stamping his foot upon the ground
to emphasize his determination. "I'll stand out against the whole of
them."
Half past five came, and nearly every boy in the school had gone to the
appointed place. Richard sat on the bench at the foot of the flagstaff
on the parade ground, thinking whether his duty required him to do any
thing more than simply refuse to join the mutiny. Somehow, it entered
into his head that it was his duty to prevent the rebellion if he
could. It even occurred to him that he ought to inform Colonel
Brockridge of the intention of the students, and thus place himself on
the side of law and order; but he rejected this suggestion, it was so
utterly repugnant to his nature. He could not "tell tales out of
school." If any body's life, property, or happiness had been at stake,
he might have felt differently. Richard was a novice in advocating the
claims of law and order, of truth and justice; and he was more easily
satisfied than some would have been in a similar situation.
"While he was debating this matter with himself, Nevers, Bailey, and
Redman approached, and interrupted his meditations. They appeared to be
a committee appointed to wait upon him, and ascertain his views upon
the momentous question.
"You didn't come down," said Nevers.
"No; I have concluded not to join in the scrape," replied Richard,
gravely.
"Why not?"
"Because I don't think it is right; and I think if we speak to the
colonel about the matter, he will make it all right."
"I tell you, Grant, he has no right to make such a regulation," added
Nevers, with energy; "and I, for one, am not going to beg him not to do
that which he has no right to do."
"Come, Grant, you are almost the only fellow in the school who won't
join the mutiny," said Redman.
"The fellows are all in for it, and you had better come," added Bailey.
"No; I won't join," replied Richard, decidedly.
"Come down to the grove, whether you join or not," suggested Nevers.
"I am willing to go down to the grove, but I shall not go in for this
scrape."
"Come along, then."
The boys walked over to the grove, the committee using all their
eloquence and logic to induce Richard to change his mind; but thus far
he remained firm and loyal to his good resolution. His arrival at the
grove created a sensation, for it seemed to be evidence that he was to
form one of the party.
The position of Richard Grant on the present occasion was so novel that
he could hardly believe in his own identity. Like the old woman with
the little pig, it did not seem to be he that was refusing an
invitation to join in a scrape so harmless as the one proposed; and he
almost needed an introduction to himself.
But Richard was himself, truly himself--himself in the highest and
noblest sense. His determination to keep his resolution seemed to
create around him an atmosphere of purity, and the more he breathed it,
the firmer and the stronger he became. The boys exhorted him singly, in
couples, and by squads, to join the foolish enterprise, but without
effect.
"Better come with us, Grant," said Nevers. "We have got a first-rate
plan, and we shall have a tip-top time."
"I have fully made up my mind not to go," replied Richard.
"I shall not go, if Grant doesn't," added Bailey.
"Nor I," said another.
"Back out--will you?" sneered Nevers, his face darkening with an
expression of anger.
"I said I would join if Grant did," replied Bailey, stung by the
reproach.
Most of the boys were silent for a time, for the decided and unexpected
stand taken by Richard, the favorite of the school, altered the
complexion of the whole affair. This silence was succeeded by a more
unequivocal demonstration. One after another followed the example of
Bailey, and deserted the bad cause, till Richard found himself no
longer alone, but supported by at least thirty of the best fellows in
the Institute; and then they began to come over in squads.
"You are the meanest set of cowards I ever saw in my life," exclaimed
Nevers, bitterly, when the enterprise appeared to be fully nipped in
the bud.
"Grant is right," several of the boys replied.
"Grant!" sneered Nevers, angrily. "He wasn't always so nice as he is
now."
"That's so," said Redman, as he placed himself by the side of the
bully. "We know a thing or two about Grant, before he became pious."
"What do you mean by pious?" demanded Richard, stepping up to the
speaker; and as he did so, his fists were involuntarily clinched.
"Watermelons!" replied Redman, vindictively.
"Watermelons!" added Nevers.
"Watermelons!" responded a dozen or more of the large boys, who had
gathered around Redman.
"Do you walk in your sleep any now, Grant?" said Redman, with a mocking
laugh. "You wasn't pious then."
Richard was so mortified and confused by these taunts that he wished
the earth might open and hide him from the exulting gaze of his
assailants. His blood boiled with shame and indignation, and more than
ever before he realized that "the way of the transgressor is hard." His
first impulse was to rush upon his dastardly foes, and crush them
beneath the weight of his strong arm.
Most of the boys looked at each other with astonishment, wondering what
could be meant by "watermelons," and walking in his sleep. It was
evident to Richard that only a few of his companions understood the
reflections cast upon him. There he stood, trembling, as it were, in
the balance, and ready to be carried up or down by this new and most
terrible trial--up into a higher sphere of virtue, or down into a
deeper degradation than any he had yet fathomed.
"I will be true to myself!" said he to himself, after he had stood
silent for a moment, blushing with shame, and assailed by the foe
without and the foe within.
His clinched fist unclosed, the muscles relaxed, and though his face
was still red, a smile of triumph played upon his lips.
"Will you go, Watermelons?" sneered Redman.
"I will not," replied Richard.
"Shut up, Redman," interposed Nevers, who entirely mistook the singular
change which had come over Richard's countenance. "Come, Grant, you and
I will talk it over alone;" and he took his arm, and led him away from
the crowd.
"You see we know all about these things," continued Nevers, "but we
don't want to be hard upon you. Only about a dozen of us know any thing
about those scrapes."
"Who told you about them?" asked Richard.
"That's nothing to the purpose. You are a good fellow, Grant, and I
advise you to join us; if you do, not a fellow shall ever say a word
about watermelons or sleep-walking."
"I will not join you, whatever you say and whatever you do."
"Then you won't hear any thing but watermelons while you stay here. I
called you out as a friend, and I think you had better go with us."
"I will not."
"Then we will tell all the fellows."
"I will save you the trouble by telling them myself."
"Come, Grant."
"I will not."
"Go it, then, Watermelons!" said Nevers, as he ran back to the others,
and told them of the result of the interview.
Richard wondered who could have informed them of his scrapes, but he
could form no idea. Lest our readers should be equally in the dark, we
will tell them, confidentially, that Sandy Brimblecom had done the
mischief. A cousin of his, on his way to Tunbrook, had stopped a day in
Whitestone. This relative was, unfortunately, one of the Nevers'
faction, and the information he brought was carefully preserved for an
emergency.
"All who join, come under the big tree!" shouted Redman. "If you walk
in your sleep, Grant, perhaps you will pay us a visit."
"Asleep or awake," replied Richard, calmly, but forcibly, "I shall know
enough to keep out of bad company."
"Do you mean me by that?" demanded Redman, rushing up to Richard, and
shaking his fist in his face.
"I do."
"Then take that;" and Redman struck Richard in the face.
The latter did take that, but the next instant his assailant lay upon
the ground, where Richard with a single blow had thrown him.
"None of that, Redman," interposed Nevers. "The colonel will be down
upon us."
"Let's lick him," said another.
"I am ready," coolly replied Richard, throwing off his coat.
But prudence carried the day, and the mutineers retired to the big oak.
Only about fifty, or one fourth of the students, responded to the call
of Redman, and the rest retired from the ground.
"What did they mean by 'watermelons'?" asked Bailey, as they walked up
to the Institute.
"I'll tell you all about it;" replied Richard. "I got into some scrapes
before I came here;" and he told his companions the whole story. "But,
fellows, I have turned over a new leaf."
"Good!" said Bailey. "I am glad you told us; and I'm sure no decent
fellow in the Institute will ever fling it at you."
Richard felt better when he had told the whole truth. He confided in
his friends, and feared not his enemies. When they reached the parade
ground they saw that the mutineers had taken possession of every one of
the boats, and were sailing up the lake towards Green Island. They
dared not return to the Institute, fearing that their plan might be
discovered.
Richard was informed that arrangements had been made before he joined
them; that they intended to take all the boats, so that the instructors
could not reach them, and encamp on the island.
When the rolls were called, the absence of about fifty of the boys was
discovered by the teachers. The truth came out, and the sharp eye of
Colonel Brockridge seemed to glow with unwonted lustre.
CHAPTER XX.
RICHARD VISITS GREEN ISLAND, AND THE REGULATORS CONSIDER THEIR PLANS.
The evening exercises proceeded as usual, no allusion whatever being
made to the absence of the mutineers, after the facts had been
revealed. But no one supposed that the energetic principal would drop
the matter where it then stood.
Richard had been "putting that and that together" since the events
which had transpired in the grove, till he was pretty well satisfied
that the mutineers now upon Green Island were the Regulators. The
evidences which led him to this conclusion had been carefully collected
from the time he had been whipped by them in the woods near the camp.
Though Nevers had appeared to be very friendly since the race, his
conduct had not been above suspicion.
During the evening the boys had a great deal to say about the mutiny,
and some of them even regretted that they had not joined, especially as
the colonel did not seem to care much about the affair. About eight
o'clock in the evening, Richard was sent for by the principal.
"Grant," said Colonel Brockridge, as Richard entered the office, "I
have heard all about your conduct, and I wish to express to you my
approbation. You have, indeed, turned over a new leaf, as you told the
boys, and I congratulate you upon your success in keeping your good
resolution. I have just written a letter to your father, which you may
read."
The principal handed him the letter, and with a glow of pride and
satisfaction, Richard read the high commendation which was bestowed
upon him. There was no allusion to the affair of the day, and the
praise covered his general conduct since he had been at Tunbrook.
"I learn that you have been true to yourself, and true to the rules of
the Institute, under peculiar trials. I sympathize with you. But you
have won the respect and regard of all the good boys. You can afford to
be disliked by the others."
"I have tried to do my duty, sir," replied Richard, blushing at the
praise bestowed upon him.
"You have done well. I know how fond you are of exciting adventure, and
I wonder that you had the strength to resist this temptation."
"I am surprised myself," added Richard.
"If I except the fight, which was greatly palliated by the
circumstances, and the sleeping on guard when we were in camp, your
conduct has been entirely unexceptionable since you came to the
