lip a strange glitter in her eye " see you not to what 
woeful disorders these untrained desires, this unsophisticated 
following out of unregulated affections would give rise ? It 
would sap the foundations of caste ; level all wholesome distinctions of society; consign the accomplished daughters of 
palatial halls hoary with a semi-decade of years to one- 
story cottages and a maid-of-all work; doom nice young 
men to the drudgery of business for the remainder of their 
wretched lives, to maintain wives whose dowries would not 
keep their lily-handed lords in French kids for a year ; cover 
managing mammas with ignominy, and hasten ambitious papas to their costly vaults in as Dickens has it some gen 
teel place of interment. Come what may of blasted hopes 
and wrecked hearts, the decencies of life must be observed. 
Every heart has its nerve genuine, sensitive, sometimes 
vulgarly tenacious of life but there are corrosives that will 
eat it out ; fine, deadly wires, that can probe and torture 
and extract it. And when the troublesome thing is finally 
gotten rid of, there is an end to all obstacles t judicious 
courtships and eligible alliances !" She laughed scornfully, 
and Philip recoiled, without knowing why he did so, as he 
heard her. 
" That is ill very well, when the nature of the contract is 
understood on both sides," he said, gloomily. " I doubt, 
however, whether the beautiful economy of your system 
 
will be appreciated by those whose living hearts are bound 
to the bloodless plaster-casts you describe." 
"These accidents will occur in spite of caution on the 
part of the best managers of suitable marriages. By far 
the larger proportion of the shocks inflicted upon polite circles arise from this very cause. Pygmalion grows weary 
of wooing his statue, and wants sympathy in his disappointment and loneliness." 
The dance was ended. The fantastic variations of the 
waltz were exchanged for a noble march pealing through 
the heated rooms like a rush of the healthful sea-breeze. 
The spark died in Sarah's eye. Her voice took its habit 
ual pitch. 
" I have permitted myself to become excited, and, I am 
afraid, have said many things that I had no right to think 
much less to utter. If my freedom has displeased you, I am 
sorry." 
" The error if error there were was mine," rejoined 
Philip. " I led the conversation into the channel ; you, after awhile, followed. I believe there is no danger of our 
misunderstanding each other." 
" Darby and Joan ! good children in the corner !" cried 
Lucy, flushed with exercise and radiant with good humor, 
as she promenaded past them leaning on the arm of a young 
West Pointer, a native Southerner and an acquaintance of 
Philip s. If his wife must flirt and frolic, he was watchful 
that she did not compromise him by association with doubtful characters. On several occasions, the advances of gay 
gentlemen, whose toilets were more nearly irreproachable 
than their reputations, had been checked by his cool and 
significant resumption of the husband's post beside the 
belle, and, if need existed, by the prompt withdrawal of 
the unwilling lady from the scene. The cadet laughed, and, 
convinced that she had said a witty thing, Lucy swam by. 
 
" The common sense of our tropes, rodomontades, and allegories is this !" said Philip, biting his lip, and speaking in 
a hard tone. " The only safe ground in marriage is mutual, 
permanent affection. You meant to convey the idea that if 
each of these dressy matrons, humming around our ears, 
had a sincere, abiding love for her husband and each of 
these gallant Benedicts the right kind of regard for his 
wedded Beatrice, the vocation of us corner censors would 
be gone?" 
" Well said, Mr. Interpreter !" she responded, in affected 
jest. 
" This point settled, will you take my arm for a turn 
through the room before the next set is formed ? They are 
talking of quadrilles. I shall claim your promise if a set is 
made up, unless you are not courageous enough to brave the 
public sneer by dancing with your brother. Come, Jeannie, 
and walk with us." 
Two sets of quadrilles were arranged at different ends of 
the saloon. Philip led Sarah through one, with Lucy 
who considered it a capital joke and her partner vis-d-vis 
to them, Jeannie, meanwhile, remaining by her mother. 
The summer nights were short ; and, when the dance was 
over, Sarah intimated to her younger sister the propriety 
of retiring. Mrs. Hunt's head ached, and she esteemed the 
sacrifice comparatively light, therefore, that she, too, had to 
leave the revels and accompany the child to her chamber. 
Sarah's apartments were on the same floor, several doors 
further on. Having said " Good-night " to the others, she 
and Philip walked slowly along the piazza, light as day in 
the moonbeams, until they reached her outer room, the 
parlor. 
" I hope you will experience no ill effects from your dissipation," said Philip, in playful irony. " In a lady of your staid habits, this disposition to gayety is alarming. Abso- 
 
lately eleven o'clock ! What will Hammond say when he 
hears the story ? Good-night ! Don't let your conscience 
keep you awake !" 
Sarah opened the door softly, that she might not startle 
the baby-sleeper in the inner room. The lamp was shining 
brightly, and by it sat her husband ! 
 
CHAPTER XVI. 
LEWIS had entered his wife's room within fifteen minutes 
after she left it. He looked so ill and weary that the 
girl, Mary, gave a stifled scream of fright and surprise. 
" Are you sick, sir ?" she asked hastily, as he threw off 
his hat, and wiped his pale forehead. " Shall I tell Mrs. 
Hammond that you are here ? She went down to the ball 
room awhile ago." 
" What did you say ? No !" replied he, shortly. 
His frown, rather than his tone, silenced her. He had 
picked up the envelope Philip had dropped on the table, 
and his face darkened still more. Too proud to question a 
servant of her mistress actions and associates, he believed 
that he had gathered from this mute witness all that was 
needful to know. As a privileged habitue of the cosy boudoir he had been at such pains to procure and make fit for 
his wife's occupancy, another had sat here and read his 
evening mail, while awaiting her leisure ; careless of appearances, since the deceived one would not be there to 
notice them, had tossed this note down with as much free 
dom as he would have done in his own apartment. 
Through the open windows poured the distant strains of 
the band ; and, seized by a sudden thought, he caught up 
his hat and strode out, along piazzas and through halls, to 
the entrance-door of the ball saloon. As Sarah's ill-fortune 
ordained it, the piercing glance that ran over and beyond 
the crowd of spectators and dancers detected her at the instant of Philip's taking his lowly seat at her side. Jeannie's 
pink attire was concealed by the drapery of a lady, whose 
place in the set then forming was directly in front of her. 
Lewis saw but the two, virtually tete-d-tete ; and, as he ob 
tained fleeting glimpses of them through the shifting throng, 
marked Philip's energetic, yet confidential discourse, and 
the intentness with which she listened, until, warmed or excited by his theme, Sarah lifted her downcast eyes and 
spoke, with what feeling and effect her auditor's varying 
expression showed. 
The gazer stood there like a statue, unheeding the surprised and questioning looks cast by passers-by upon his 
travelling-dress, streaked with dust his sad and settled 
visage, so unbefitting the scene within while Philip made 
the tour of the room, with Sarah upon his arm, until they 
took their stations for the dance ; he, courteous and attentive she, smiling and happy, more beautiful in her hus 
band's eyes than her blonde sister opposite ; and he could 
stay no longer. If Mary had thought him sick and cross 
at his former entrance, she considered him savage now, for 
one who was ordinarily a kind and gentle master. 
" You can go to your room !" he ordered, not advised. 
" I will sit up for Mrs. Hammond !" 
" I have slept in the nursery, sir, while you were away." 
" That cannot be to-night. I will find you some other 
place." 
He had no intention that the anticipated conversation 
with his wife should be overheard. 
" I can stay with a friend of mine, sir, only a few doors 
off." 
"Very well!" 
Quickly and quietly the nurse arranged the night-lamp 
and the child's food, that her mistress might have no trouble 
during her absence, and went out. 
 
Baby Belle slumbered on, happily wandering through the 
guileless mazes of baby dream-land ; one little arm, bared 
from the sleeve of her gown, thrown above her head the 
hand of the other cradling her cheek. The father ventured 
to press a light kiss upon the red lips. In his desolation, 
he craved this trifling solace. The child's face was contorted by an expression of discomfort, and, still dreaming, 
she murmured, in her inarticulate language, some pettish 
expression of disgust. 
" My very child shrinks from me ! It is in the blood !" 
said the unhappy man, drawing back from the crib. 
If his resolution had waned at sight of the sleeper, it was 
fixed again when he returned to his chair in the outer room. 
He raised his head from his folded arms when he heard 
Philip and Sarah approaching, but did not otherwise alter 
his position. The low tone of their parting words one 
soon learned by the sojourners in hotels and watering-places, 
where thin partitions and ventilators abound was, to him, 
the cautiously repressed voice of affectionate good-nights. 
But one clause was distinct " What will Hammond say, 
when he hears the story ?" They jested thus of him, then. 
One of them, at least, should learn ere long what he would 
say. 
" Lewis ! you here !" 
Sarah changed color with amazement and vague alarm 
emotion that paralyzed her momentarily. Then, as she discerned the tokens of disorder in his dress and countenance, 
she hurried forward. 
"What has brought you so unexpectedly? Are you 
sick ? Has any thing happened ?" 
He did not rise ; and, resting her hand on his shoulder, 
she stooped for a kiss. But his stern gaze never moved 
from hers anxious and inquiring and his lips were like 
stone. 
 
" Lewis, speak to me ! If you have dreadful news to 
tell me, for pity's sake, do not keep me in suspense !" 
" I have nothing to say that will be new to you," he said, 
without relaxing his hard, cold manner, " and not a great 
deal that ought to have been kept back from me when I 
wished to marry you, believing that you had a heart to 
give me with your hand." 
As if struck in the face, Sarah sank back into a chair, 
speechless and trembling. 
" Yes ! had you been sincere with me then, grieved and 
disappointed as I would have felt, I would have respected 
you the more, and loved you none the less for the dis 
closure. But when, after a year and a half of married life, 
I learn that the woman I have loved and trusted with my 
whole soul from whom I have never concealed a thought 
that it could interest her to know has all the while been 
playing a false part vowing at the altar to love me and 
me alone, when she secretly idolized another ; bearing my 
name, living beneath my roof, sleeping in my bosom yet 
thinking of, and caring for him, treasuring his keepsakes as 
the most precious of her possessions is it strange that, 
when the tongue of a vulgar gossip proclaims my shame in 
my hearing, and other evidence proves what I thought was 
his vile slander to be true as gospel is it strange, I say, 
that I am incensed at the deception practised upon me at 
the infamous outrage of my dearest hopes my most holy 
feelings?" 
She threw herself at his feet, clasped his knees, and implored him, chokingly, to " forgive" her. " Oh ! if you 
knew what I have suffered !" 
"What you have suffered!" He folded his arms and 
looked sorrowfully down at her crouching figure. " Yes ! 
you were not by nature coarse and unfeeling ! The violence 
you have committed upon your heart and every principle of 
 
delicacy and truth must have cost you pain. Then you 
loved him !" 
" Once ! a long while ago !" said Sarah, hiding her face 
in her hands. 
"Take care!" There was no softness now in his tone. 
" Remember that I have seen you together day by day, and 
that glances and actions, unnoticed at the time in my stupid 
blindness, recur to me now with terrible meaning. For 
once, speak the true voice of feeling, and own what I know 
already, that all the love you ever had to give belongs still 
to your sister's husband !" 
"I will speak the truth!" Sarah arose and stood before 
him face livid and eyes burning. " I did love this man ! 
I married you, partly to please my parents, partly because 
I found out that by some means my secret had fallen into 
unscrupulous hands, and I was mad with dread of its exposure ! It seemed to me that no worse shame could come 
upon me than to have it trumpeted abroad that I had 
bestowed my love unsought, and was ready to die because 
it was slighted. I have learned since that it is far, far worse 
to live a lie to despise myself! Oh! that I had died 
then !" She battled with the emotion that threatened to 
overwhelm her, and went on. " Once bound to you, it has 
been my hourly endeavor to feel and act as became the 
faithful wife of a kind, noble man. If, sometimes, I have erred in thought if my feelings have failed me in the mo 
ment of trial yet, in word and deed, in look and gesture, I 
have been true to you. No one have I deceived more 
thoroughly than Philip Benson. He never suspected my 
unfortunate partiality for himself ; he believes me still, what 
I would give worlds to become in truth, your loyal, loving 
wife ! It is well that you know the truth at last. I do not 
ask you how you have obtained the outlines of a disgraceful story, that I have tried a thousand times to tell you, but 
 
was prevented by the fear of losing your favor forever. 
This is my poor defence not against your charges, but in 
palliation of the sin of which they justly accuse me. I can 
say nothing more. Do with me as you will !" 
"It is but just to myself that you should hear the cir 
cumstances which accidentally revealed this matter to me." 
He narrated the scene at the restaurant, and the discovery 
of the evening. He evinced neither relenting nor sympathy 
in the recital. Her confession had extinguished the last ray 
of hope, cherished, though unacknowledged by himself, 
that she might extenuate her error or give a more favorable 
construction to the evidence against her. It was not singular that, in the reaction of disappointment, he was ready to 
believe that he had not heard all ; to imagine that he could 
perceive throughout her statement a disposition to screen 
Philip, that was, in itself, a proof of disingenuousness, if 
not deliberate falsehood. She denied that he had ever been 
aware of her attachment or had reciprocated it. What 
meant then those words " hopes in time to have a nearer 
claim ?" what those impassioned verses ? what the linking 
of their initials within the shell ? the motto on the wooden 
tablet? While these subtle queries were insinuated into 
his soul by some mocking spirit, he concluded the history 
of the discovery of the casket. 
" I have never opened it since the night before I was 
married," said Sarah, with no haste of self-justification. 
" I put it into the drawer the day after we went to our 
house. It has not been unlocked from that day to this." 
" Why keep it at all, unless as a memento of one still dear 
to you?" 
"I felt as if I had buried it. I said to myself: If the 
time ever comes when I can disinter these relics and show 
them to my husband, without a pang or fear, as mementoes 
of a dead and almost forgotten folly, he shall destroy them, 
and I shall have gained a victory that will insure my life 
long happiness. r 
" And that tune has never arrived." 
She would have spoken, but her tongue proved traitorous. 
She crimsoned and was silent. 
Lewis smiled drearily. " You see that I know you better than you do yourself. It is well, as you have said, that 
I know all at last. I pity you ! If I could, I would release 
you from your bondage. As it is, I will do all that I can 
for this end." 
" Never !" cried Sarah, shuddering. " Have you forgot 
ten our child ?" 
" I have not !" His voice shook for a second. " She is 
all that unites us now. For the sake of her future her 
good name an open separation ought to be avoided, if 
possible, if it be inevitable, your conduct must not be the 
ostensible cause. To quiet malicious tongues, you must 
remain here awhile longer under your mother's care. To 
accomplish the same end, I must appear once more in public, 
and on apparently friendly terms with your brother-in-law. 
When your mother returns to the city, you had best go, 
too, and to your own house. Your brother Kobert is now 
sixteen years old steady and manly enough to act as your 
protector. Invite him to stay with you, and also Jeannie, 
if you find it lonely." 
" What are you saying ? Where will you be that you 
speak of my choosing another protector ?" 
" A very incompetent one I have proved myself to be !" 
he returned, with the same sad smile. " I have not been 
able to shield you from invidious reports; still less to 
save you from yourself. I sail for Europe day after to 
morrow." 
" Lewis, you will not ! If you ever loved me, do not 
desert me and our child now ! I will submit to any punishment but this !" . She clung anew to his knees as she 
poured out her prayer. 
"Not a month ago she had turned pale with fright at 
the suggestion of this voyage. It was sheer acting then ! 
why not now ? 
" Objections are useless !" he said. " My arrangements 
are made. I have passed my word." 
" But you will not leave me in anger ! Say that you will 
forgive me ! that you will return soon, and this miserable 
night be forgotten !" 
" Shall I tell you when I will return ?" He raised her 
head, and looked straight into her eyes. " When you write 
to me, and tell me that you have destroyed the love-tokens 
in that box ; when you bid me come back for your sake 
not for our child's ! Until then, I shall believe that my 
presence would be irksome to you. It is necessary for our 
house to have a resident partner in England. It is my expectation to fill that place for some time to come ; it shall 
be for you to say how long." 
Bowed as Sarah's spirit was beneath the burst of the 
long-dreaded storm and her accusing conscience, her 
womanly pride revolted at this speech. She had humbled 
herself in the dust at the feet of a man whom she did not 
love ; had borne meekly his reproaches ; submitted dumbly 
to the degrading suspicions that far transcended her actual 
sin : but as the idea of her suing servilely for the love she 
had never yet valued ; of him, indifferent and independent, 
awaiting afar off for her petition hers, whom he had 
abandoned to the scornful sneers of the keen-witted hyenas 
of society ; to the cross-examination of her distrustful relatives ; the stings of remorse ; left in one word to herself 
as this picture grew up clearly before her mind, the tide of 
feeling turned. 
" You reject my prayers and despise my tears !" she said, 
 
proudly. " You refuse to accept of my humiliation. Yet you 
do not doubt me, as you would have me believe that you 
do ! Else you would not dare to trust me the keeper of 
your honor and your child's fair name out of your sight ! 
I throw back the charge in your teeth, and tell you that 
your conduct gives it the lie ! I have asked you shame 
on me that I did ! to continue to me the shelter of your 
name and presence ; to shield me, a helpless woman, more 
unhappy than guilty, from the ban of the world ; and you 
deny me every thing but a contemptible shadow of're 
spectability, which the veriest fool can penetrate. I would 
not have you suppose that your generous confidence in my 
integrity" she brought out the words with scathing con 
tempt " will deter me from sinking to the level you are 
pleased to assign me. If the native dignity of my woman 
hood, the principles I inherit from my father, my love for 
my innocent babe do not hold me back from ruin, be as 
sured that the hope of winning your approval will not. To 
you I make no pledges of reformation ; I offer but one 
promise. If you choose to remain abroad until I, in spirit, 
kiss your feet, and pray you to receive a love such as most 
men are glad to win by assiduity of attention, and every 
pleasing art which you would force into being by wilful 
and revengeful absence you will never see your native 
land again until the grass grows upon my grave !" 
She paused for breath, and continued more slowly. 
" While your child lives, and I remain her guardian, I will 
use your means for her maintenance will reside in your 
house. If she dies, or you take her from me, I will not 
owe you my support for a single day more !" 
Lewis grew pallid to his lips ; but he, too, was proud, 
and his stubborn will was called into bold exercise. 
" Very well ! It is in your choice to accede to my propositions, or not. A share in all that I have is yours; not 
 
only during the child's life, but as long as you live. Before 
I leave America, I shall deposit for you in your father's 
bank a sum which, I hope, you will find sufficient to maintain you in comfort. Your father will be my executor in 
this matter. I shall not confide to him the peculiar circum 
stances of my departure, leaving you at liberty to act in 
this respect, as in every thing else, according to the dictates 
of your will and pleasure. At the end of a certain term of 
years specified by law, you can, if you wish, procure a 
divorce, on the ground of my wilful and continued desertion 
of you ; in which case, the provision for your support will 
remain unchanged. As to the child the mother's is the 
strongest claim. I shall never take her from you. Do not 
let me keep you up longer. It is late !" 
With a silent inclination of the head, she withdrew, and 
he cast himself upon the sofa, there to lie during the few 
hours of the night that were yet unspent. 
He had arisen, and was standing at the window when 
Sarah entered in the morning. But for the dark shadows 
under the eyes, and the tight-drawn look about the mouth, 
she appeared as usual ; and her " Good-morning," if cold, 
was yet polite. 
" I imagine," she said, as the gong clashed out its second 
call, "that you wish me to accompany you to breakfast, 
and to preserve my ordinary manner towards you when 
others are by. Am I right ?" 
" You are. This is all I ask. The effort will not be a 
tedious one. I leave here at noon." 
Arm in arm they directed their steps towards the great 
dining-hall to the view of the spectator as comfortable 
and happy a pair as any that pursued that route on that 
summer morning. Together they sat down at table, and 
Mr. Hammond ordered "his lady s" breakfast with his 
own. Mrs. Hunt bustled in shortly after they were seated, 
 
full of wonderment at having heard from Sarah's maid of 
her master's unexpected arrival; while Jeannie gave his 
hand a squeeze as hearty as was the welcome in her smiling 
face. The Bensons were always late. So much the better. 
There were more people present to observe the cordial 
meeting between the brothers-in-law, made the more conspicuous by Philip's surprise. The genuineness of his good 
spirits, his easy, unembarrassed manner, was the best veil 
that could have been devised for Sarah's constraint and 
Lewis's counterfeit composure. 
It did not escape Philip's eye that Sarah ate nothing, and 
spoke only to avoid the appearance of singularity ; and he 
believed that he had discovered the origin of her trouble 
when Lewis communicated his purpose of foreign travel. 
When the burst of surprise subsided, the latter tried suc 
cessfully to represent his plan as a business necessity. 
Lucy, who never saw an inch beyond her nose morally and 
mentally speaking except when her intuitions were 
quickened by self-love, was the questioner most to be 
dreaded. 
"Why don't you go with him?" she inquired of her 
sister. " He should not stir one step without me, if I were 
in your place. Only think ! you might spend six months 
in Paris !" 
" How would Baby Belle relish a sea voyage !" returned 
Sarah. 
" Nonsense ! How supremely silly ! One would supposp 
that she was the only member of the family whose comfort 
was to be consulted. Rather than expose her to the possi 
bility of inconvenience, you will deprive yourself of profit 
and pleasure, and be separated from your husband for nobody 
knows how long. This shows how much these model married people really care for one another. When put to the 
test they are no better than we poor sinners, whom everybody calls flirts. Phil, are those muffins warm ? This one 
of mine has grown cold while I was talking." 
" How are the horses, Benson ?" inquired Lewis. " Have 
they been exercised regularly ?" 
" Yes, and are in capital order. You could have left us 
no more acceptable reminder of yourself than those same 
fine bays." 
"If you have no other engagement, suppose we have 
them up before the light carriage after breakfast, and take 
a short drive." 
"Agreed, with all my heart! unless Mrs. Hammond 
quarrels with me for robbing her of a portion of your last 
morning with her." 
" She will forgive you !" Lewis rejoined, to spare her the 
effort of reply. 
From her window Sarah saw them whirl off along the 
beach in sight of the hundreds of spectators on the sands 
and about the hotels, and recognized the ingenuity of this 
scheme for proclaiming the amicable feeling between the 
two. 
"But one more scene, and the hateful mockery is over !" 
thought the wife, as she heard her husband's step outside 
the door on his return. 
She snatched a paper from the table, and seemed absorbed 
in its contents, not looking up at his entrance. Lewis made 
several turns through the room, sighed heavily, and once 
paused, as if about to address her, but changed his mind. 
Then sounded from without the fresh, gurgling laugh of 
a child, and the nurse came in with the baby rosy and 
bright from her morning walk on the shore. She almost 
sprang from Mary's hold at sight of her father, and dismissing the woman with a word, he took his darling into 
his arms, and sat down behind his wife. Inflexibly sullen, 
Sarah tried not to listen, as she would not see them ; but 
 
she heard every sound : the child's soft coo of satisfaction 
as she nestled in the father's bosom ; the many kisses he imprinted upon her pure face and mouth with what agony Sarah 
well knew the irregular respiration, sometimes repressed, 
until its breaking forth was like sobs; and the proud, 
miserable heart confessed reluctantly that, in one respect, 
his share of their divided lot was heavier than hers. She 
was not to witness his final resignation of his idol. Under 
color of summoning Mary, he carried the infant from the 
room, and came back without her. 
" It is time for me to go now, Sarah !" 
His voice was calm, and its firmness destroyed what 
slender encouragement she might have drawn from the 
scene with his child, to hope for some modification of his 
resolution. 
" Will you write to me, at regular intervals, to give me 
news of Belle ?" 
" Certainly, if such is your wish." 
" And yourself? you will be careful of your health, will 
you not ? And, if I can ever serve you in any way, you 
will let me know ?" 
" It is not likely that you can ; thank you." 
There was a silence of some moments. Sarah stood 
playing with the tassel of her morning robe, pale and composed. 
" Sarah !" Lewis took her hand. " We have both been 
hasty, both violent ! Unfeeling as you think me, and as I 
may have seemed in this affair, believe me that it almost 
kills me to part from you so coldly. It is not like me to 
retract a determination, but if you will say now what you 
did last night Do not go ! I will stay, and be as good a 
husband to you as I can. Shall we not forgive, and try to 
forget ?" 
The demon of resentful pride was not so easily exorcised. 
 
At a breath of repentance a suggestion of compromise, 
the fell legion rallied an impregnable phalanx. She was 
frozen, relentless ; her eyes, black and haughty, met his 
with an answer her tongue could not have framed in words. 
" I have nothing to say !" 
" Nothing ! The ocean must then separate us for 
years it may be forever !" 
" It was your choice. I will not reverse it." 
" Not if you knew that if you let me go I would never 
return ?" 
"Not if I knew that you would never return !" 
Without another word, without a farewell look, or the 
hand-grasp mere strangers exchange, he left her there the 
stony monument of her ill- directed life and affections ; 
the victim of a worldly mother and a backbiting tongue ! 
CHAPTER XVII. 
" How gay Mrs. Hammond has grown lately !" said Mrs. 
Greyling, the fashionable critic of the House drawing- 
room. " Do you see that she is actually waltzing to-night ? 
She moves well, too ! That pearl-colored moire antique is 
handsome, and must have cost every cent of nine dollars a 
yard. She is partial to heavy silks, it seems. It gives an 
air of sameness to her dress ; otherwise she shows very tolerable taste." 
" I have heard it said that she was a regular dowdy before 
she was married," observed Mrs. Parton, who was also on 
the " committee of censure" a self-appointed organization, 
which found ample employment in this crowded nest of 
pleasure-seekers. " Her husband is perpetually making her 
presents, and she dresses to please him." 
" Humph ! I distrust these pattern couples ! My husband 
doesn't approve of my doing this won't hear of my acting 
so ! are phrases easily learned, and sound so fine that one 
soon falls into the habit of using them. What a flirt Mrs. 
Benson is! That is the fifth young man she has danced 
with this evening. I pity her husband and baby !" 
" He does not look inconsolable ! I tell you what my no 
tion is : he may love his wife of course he does but he 
admires her sister more. See how he watches her ! Mrs. 
Tomes, told me that she was standing near him the first time 
Mrs. Hammond waltzed, and that he seemed real worried. 
When the set was through, she came to look for a seat, and 
 
he got one for her. As she took it, he said something to 
her which Mrs. Tomes could not hear, but she laughed out 
in his face as saucy as could be, and said : Oh, I am learning 
when I am in Rome to do as Romans do ! Doesn't my elder 
sister set me the example ?* " 
" He could say nothing then," said Mrs. Greyling. " Those 
girls played their cards well. The Hunts have very little, 
if any thing, besides the father's salary, and the family was 
very obscure." 
Mrs. Greyling's paternal progenitor was an opulent soap 
boiler, who was not ashamed, during her childhood, to drive 
an unsavory cart from one kitchen door to another. But he 
counted his thousands now by the hundred, and his children 
ranked, as a consequence, among the " upper ten." 
She continued her charitable remarks : " Somehow the old 
lady contrived to keep up the appearance of wealth, and 
married both daughters off before their second season. Mr. 
Benson is reputed to be rich ; but for that matter these 
Southern planters are all said to be rolling in gold. Mr. 
Hammond is certainly making money. Mr. Greyling says 
he is a splendid business man." 
"He sailed for Europe a week ago, you know." 
" Yes ; and since then madame has been the belle of the 
ball. The old story c When the cat is away, the mice will 
play. " 
" Sarah," said Philip, an hour later, " will you walk on 
the balcony with me ? You are heated, and the air is balmy 
as Georgian breezes. It will do you good." 
" Are you going to scold me ?" she asked, archly, before 
she would take his arm. 
"No. I have no right to do it if I had the disposition." 
There was no moon ; but the sky was strewed thickly 
with stars, and the white foam of the surf caught and held 
tremulously the sparkles from the bright watchers above. 
Philip did not appear disposed to converse, and Sarah 
waited for him. to begin. Meanwhile, they strolled on and 
on, until the murmur of the ocean was louder than the 
music of the saloon band. The sea moaned to the stars, as 
it had done to the sunless July heavens on that day so 
memorable in the history of one of the pair the day of 
shipwreck stories and a real shipwreck none the less 
disastrous, that the treasures and their loss were hidden 
from all but the bereaved one. 
To many it is appointed to lead two lives : to think and 
feel as well as to act a double part ; to separate, as inexorably 
as human will can decree, past hopes and joys past sorrows, 
and, if practicable, past memories from the thoughts and 
emotions of the to-day in which they exist. Thousands 
keep up the barrier until death ends the need of watchfulness 
and labor ; the coffin-lid covers the faithful mask that has 
smiled so patiently and so long above an aching heart. 
Yet dammed up passion is a dangerous thing. If hearts 
were so constituted that they could be drained like pestilential marshes, the flood conducted off in harmless and straight 
channels, then, indeed, might hypocrisy rejoice, and sleek 
decorum sit down at ease. As it is, genteel propriety and 
refined reticence are perpetully endangered by the unfore 
seen swell of some intermittent spring, or the thawing of 
some ice-bound stream, that is liable to overleap or tear 
away the dike ingulfing in an instant the elaborate struc 
tures years of toil have cheaply purchased. 
Such was the moment when, withdrawing her hand from 
Philip's arm, Sarah struck suddenly fiercely upon her 
breast, and cried : " Oh ! why cannot I die and end this misery!" 
" Sarah !" 
" I say I can bear it no longer ! Others do not suffer thus ! 
 
[f they do, they die, or lose their reason. I will not endure 
it, I tell you !" 
" Sister !" 
" Do not call me by that name, Philip Benson ! You 
know better !" 
She leaned forward on the balcony railing, her eyes fixed 
on the sea. Her deep, hurried breathing was like the pant 
some worried animal, gathering strength, and, with it, 
sourage for renewed conflict. To her last words the mysterious plaint of the sea lent meaning. Philip, too, remem 
bered that barren shore, the tumbling breakers, the solitary 
sea-bird's labored flight landward. Was this his work ? It 
was but a flicker of truth dashed out the next second by a 
blow of indignant will. 
" You may forbid me to address you by this title, Sarah ; 
but you cannot hinder me from sympathizing in your sorrow, 
and trying to befriend you. If my companionship is unwel 
come, allow me to conduct you to your room. I cannot 
leave you alone here, where there is continual passing." 
" You are right. Regard for appearances is the one thing 
needful," she said, mockingly. " I must be a dull scholar, 
if I have not learned that. I am sane again now fit to as 
sociate with other sane people. If you please, we will go to 
the ball-room instead of up-stairs. I am not a candidate for 
solitary confinement yet !" 
" Mrs. Hammond, I heard a gentleman inquiring anxious 
ly for you just now!" called out a lady, in passing. "He 
said that you promised to dance with him." 
" I did. Thank you for reminding me. A little faster, 
my good brother !" 
She hurried him into the saloon, where they were met 
immediately by her would-be partner. Philip, bewildered 
and uneasy, watched her motions through the evolutions of 
the dance. She talked rapidly and animatedly, keeping her 
 
cavalier in a broad smile, and confirming her lately won 
reputation of a wit. Her eyes shone ; her color was high ; she 
was " really handsome" as the " censure committee" had 
occasion to remember at a later day, when it was spoken of 
in a very different tone from that employed by a member of 
the distinguished sisterhood in addressing Mrs. Hunt on this 
night. 
"You are a fortunate mother, my dear madam, to have 
two such brilliant daughters. They eclipse the girls entirely." 
" I have nothing to complain of in my children, ma 'am. 
I done I did my best by them, and they have repaid me a 
thousandfold." 
" Now, I am ready !" said Sarah to her brother-in-law. 
" I release you, Mr. Burley !" waving her hand to her late 
attendant as a princess might to a courtier. 
Vexed and disturbed by her unsettled manner and queer 
freaks, Philip gave her his arm, and conducted her through 
the throng. 
" Lewis has had fair winds, and must now be nearing the 
end of his voyage," he remarked, as they sauntered along 
the piazza. 
" Ah ! he is on the sea to-night ! How strange ! I had 
not thought of that !" 
" I see nothing wonderful in the idea, as he has not had 
time to cross the Atlantic since he left these shores," returned Philip, dryly. " The oddest thing I can think of at present is yourself, Sarah !" 
" I am aware of that, Philip. Do not speak harshly to 
me ! You may be sorry for it some day." 
They were at her door. Her softened manner moved him, 
and as she offered her hand, he took it with fraternal warmth. 
" Forgive me, if I was rough ! I have not understood 
you this evening." 
 
" It is not likely that you ever will. Time was but it is 
folly to allude to that now ! Think of me as kindly as you 
can will you ? You have wounded me sometimes, but 
never knowingly. I cannot say that of many others with 
whom I have had dealings. Good-night." 
The little parlor was still. Mrs. flammond never kept 
her maid up to assist in her disrobing, if she intended remaining out until a late hour. Nurse and child were quiet 
in the adjacent nursery. Closing the door of communication, 
Sarah stripped her hair and arms of their ornaments ; took 
off her diamond pin, then her rings, and laid them away in 
her jewelry case ; divested herself of her rich dress, and drew 
from her wardrobe a plain, dark wrapper, which she put on. 
Next she sat down at her writing-desk, selected a sheet of 
paper, and wrote a single line when a thought struck her, 
and she stopped. A momentary irresolution ended in her 
tearing off a strip containing what she had penned, and 
holding it in the flame of the lamp until it was consumed. 
" Best not ! best not !" she muttered. " Doubt may bring 
comfort to the one or two who will need it. Let them 
doubt ! Save appearances if you can, my poor mother 
would say." A smile of unutterable scorn glimmered over 
her face. She pushed away the desk and walked to the 
window. 
From the distant ball-room the throbbing waves of music 
still rolled past on the summer air, and blent with them 
was the solemn undertone of the surf. Did men call its 
mighty voice a monotone ? To her it was eloquent of many 
and awful things not frightful. What was there of terror 
in thoughts of rest, endless sleep, rocked for ages by the 
rising and falling tide, hushed into dreamless repose by the 
music of the billows ? No more of a vain and wearisome 
life ; no more baffled aspirations and crushed affections ; no 
more disheartening attempts to find and reach the right 
 
to follow in the steep, rugged path of duty, and shun the 
easy, alluring way to which heart and memory were ever 
pointing ; no more of stern rebuke and sneering taunt ; no 
more galled pride and outraged womanhood ; no more 
lying gayety, smiles, and repartee, when the spirit was 
writhing in impotent agony, longing to shriek out its intensity of woe ! Only sleep, rest, peace ! 
" Sleep ! rest ! peace !" She gasped the words feverishly, 
as they seemed to come to her on the breeze. Might she 
not seek these now ! now ! Not yet ! The grounds, the 
beach were still populous with groups of strollers. She 
would be seen perhaps recognized probably frustrated 
in her purpose. Leaning her head against the casement, 
she sat there an hour not debating, still less wavering in 
her resolve, only waiting until flight would be safe and 
thinking ! thinking ! thinking ! until her brain whirled. 
A thwarted, warped, disjointed existence had hers been 
from its beginning. Denied food suitable for her mental 
and spiritual need ; denied sympathy, air, and expression of 
suffering ; under the slow torture of this starvation, every 
avenue to goodness and liberty hedged up, and, for the 
future, temptation, repudiation, loneliness, perhaps a sullied 
name who could dispute her right to try release by one 
brief pang she alone could feel ? Who would miss her ? 
Not the world that flattered her wealth and wit, her laces, 
silks, and diamonds ; not the mother and sister who wor 
shipped the gilded Juggernaut " Society ;" not he who was 
that night sleeping soundly on the same sea that would em 
bosom her in her sweeter, deeper slumber. Shocked he 
might be at an event so unexpected and uncommon. His 
next sensation would be a relief at his deliverance from a 
burden, at his freedom to come and go as he liked no 
longer banished by her obstinacy and his own. He had 
loved her as most other men do their wives a bond 
 
too weak to bear a heavy blow at their self-love. She had 
sinned beyond forgiveness in his eyes. 
Of Philip she thought with a mingling of tenderness and 
resentment. His unthinking gallantry had been the root 
of her sorest trouble ; but it was unthinking, not wilful 
wrong. Nor^ was she the only sufferer. His heart was 
well-nigh as hungry as hers. Within the past week, she had 
seen this more clearly than ever before, and he had felt it ! 
Lucy's narrow mind, her insipidity, her inordinate vanity, 
her selfish idolatry of pleasures that wearied him ; her dis 
relish for intellectual and domestic enjoyments, displayed in 
its most objectionable form, in her indifference to his company, and her neglect of her child these were working out 
their legitimate result in his alienation from her, and attraction towards the once slighted sister, whose large heart and 
mental gifts he now valued at their true worth. To repel 
him, as much as to drown her cares, Sarah had plunged 
into the vortex she had heretofore avoided. She had heard 
that there was temporary solace in this species of dissipation. The cup was, for her, sparkleless and bitter, from 
surface to dregs. 
She was saving him with herself by this final step ! He 
would realize this truth, in the throe that would shake his 
soul when he found that she was gone ; perhaps, even in 
that anguished hour, would bless her for having showed to 
him, while she drove him back from, the abyss they were 
together approaching. It was no idle vaunt she had made 
to Lewis, that the principles inherited from her father would 
save her from overt sin. Thus, thus would she flee the 
temptation, when the heart had left the will to battle 
unaided. 
Her father ! the gray old man who was toiling through 
this summer's hea,t, in his deserted home, as he had through 
so many summers gone ! he who had never given her an 
 
impatient or angry word whose pride and joy she still 
was ! The stroke would be severe upon him. Yet he 
would not refuse comfort. There were still left to him his 
boys fine, manly fellows ; Jeannie and his baby grandchild 
his lost daughter's gift. Tears rushed into the hot, wild 
eyes with this last image, but she would not let them flow. 
"Is it not better that I should leave her now, when the 
parting will give her no pain, when one little week will 
blot out my memory entirely from her mind, than to wait 
until she can recollect and miss me ?" 
The music had ceased. The revellers had dropped away 
faster than they had collected, when once the movement 
was made to retire. The murmur of the deep was the 
only sound abroad ; the stars were the only sentinels. 
Sarah arose, threw a shawl over her head, and cautiously unlocked the door. A strong rush of air blew it from her hold, 
and as she caught it, to draw it after her, she trod upon 
some object lying on the floor. Mechanically she stooped 
to pick it up. It was an infant's shoe, a dainty little gaiter, 
that peeped, during the day, from beneath Baby Belle's 
white skirt. To Sarah's touch it seemed that the lining 
still retained the warmth of the child's foot. 
Never, oh, never, was the patter of those baby feet to 
make glad music for the mother's ear ! Others must guide 
and sustain her trial steps ; others smooth her daily path ; 
others direct the inexperience of the girl in the perilous 
passes where that mother had fallen and perished ! 
" Oh, may I not bless her before I leave her forever ?" 
she cried to stern Resolution. And Conscience rejoined, 
with meaning severity : " Is it you who would breathe a 
blessing above her purity ?" 
" Suffer me, then, to take the farewell look I dared not 
grant myself before !" 
And while Resolution faltered at the impassioned appeal, 
she opened the nursery door and stole to the side of the 
crib. The night-lamp shed a feeble halo over the table 
whereon it stood. The rest o f the room was in darkness. 
Mary's light bedstead was close to the crib. Was hers 
that hard, short breathing, that sent a start and chill 
through the hearer ? A touch to the lamp threw a blaze 
of light over nurse and child. A sharp cry rang through 
the chamber. 
" Mary ! Mary ! get up !" 
The girl sprang to the floor before she comprehended the 
meaning of the alarm. Mrs. Hammond had sunk into a 
chair beside the crib, from which she had snatched her 
infant. Baby Belle's head was strained back; her hands 
clenched; her limbs stiffened in a deathlike spasm. The 
eyes were rolled out of sight under the lids ; and the four 
little teeth her " most precious pearls," the fond mother 
had called them were hard-locked within the purple lips. 
Terrified as she was, Mary had the presence of mind to 
run for assistance. Mrs. Hunt and a physician were soon 
on the spot, and every appliance of the healing art that 
promised relief to the sufferer was used, but with partial 
effect. Sarah saw nothing but the child ; heard nothing 
but the doctor's calm orders. 
" You do not try to help her !" she said, impatiently, as 
a convulsion, more fearful than any that had preceded it, 
seized the delicate frame. 
" I could not do more, were it my own child, madam !" 
He was an elderly man, whose charity for fashionable 
mothers was very scant, and, having seen Mrs. Hammond 
in the ball-room the evening before, he was not prepared 
for the solicitude she manifested. 
"You had better let the nurse take her !" he said, more 
gently, as Sarah, with difficulty, held down the struggling 
hands that might do hurt to the head and face. 
 
" No ! I will have no one touch her but myself !" 
The morning broke, the day heightened into noon, and 
the paroxysms only abated in violence as the babe's 
strength declined. Steadfast to her word, the mother had 
not once resigned her. She had herself immersed her in 
the warm baths, applied the poultices, and administered the 
medicines prescribed. Mrs, Hunt was compassionate and 
active ; Mary sorrowful, and prompt with whatever service 
she could perform ; Lucy frightened and idle. 
Philip, who had often been in the outer room to make 
inquiries and offer aid, if any were required of him, was 
told, just before sunset, that he could go into the 
chamber. Mrs. Hunt invited him, and the information she 
added gave to his countenance a look of heartfelt sadness 
as he followed her. Sarah sat in the middle of the room, 
so altered that he could scarcely credit the fact of her identity with the being he had parted from the previous night. 
Her eyes were sunken, her features sharpened, and her 
complexion had the dead, grayish hue of an old woman's : 
In her arms lay the babe, and, as she crouched over it, her 
mien of defiant protection suggested to him the idea of a 
savage animal guarding her young. He could not say 
whether or not she was aware of his presence, until he knelt 
by the dying child and called it by name. 
"Baby Belle, do you know Uncle Philip?" 
The dark eyes, soft still through the gathering film, 
moved slightly, and Sarah said 
" Speak to her again !" 
" Will Baby Belle come to uncle?" 
This time there was no sign of consciousness. The wee 
hands clasped in the mother's grew colder and colder, and 
the breath fluttered slowly through the parted lips. The 
end was near, and Philip's pitying accent expressed his 
sense of this. 
" Give her to me, dear Sarah ! It is not right for you to 
keep her longer." 
"She is mine I" 
The glare that came to her eye with the three words 
revealed a desperation that would have done battle with 
the King of Terrors, had he appeared in visible shape to 
claim his victim. 
More faintly, slowly, trembled the life over the sweet 
mouth, and the hands, like waxen shapes, lay pulseless in the 
mother's clasp ; while through the silent room flowed the 
dirge of the sea. Shaken by the freshening breeze of evening, the shutters of the western window swung ajar, letting 
in a golden ray upon mother and child, and along that path 
of light the untarnished soul of Baby Belle was borne by its 
waiting angel home ! 
 
CHAPTER XVIII. 
AUNT SAEAH sat in the wide porch at the back of her house, 
knitting in hand. It was a still, but not oppressive August 
afternoon. There was not a ruffle on the bright surface of 
the river, and the long meadow grass was as smoothly spread 
out in the yellow sunshine. From the poultry-yard on the left 
arose a pleasant murmur, and now and then a stray hen tip 
toed around the end of the house, singing idly as she rambled. 
Charley lay on the green mound his old reading-room 
with a book before him, and to him Aunt Sarah's motherly 
eyes turned most frequently. Those kindly orbs were dimmer 
than they were two summers ago, and the gentle face was a 
thought more pensive. A glance into the sitting-room window, from where she sat, would have showed one Uncle Na 
than's empty arm-chair in the chimney corner, and above it 
were suspended his cane and broad-brimmed hat, just as he 
had put them off when he took his departure for a country 
where neither shelter nor staff is needed. Aunt Sarah's cap 
had a widow's border now ; and in her faithful heart there 
was a sadder void than the death of her children had created loving parent though she was and yet more plentiful 
springs of sympathy for others bereaved and suffering. 
Her rocking-chair was set near the entrance of the hall 
that bisected the dwelling ; and the front and back doors 
being open, she had a fair view of the public road, whenever 
she chose to look up the lane. The Shrewsbury stage met 
the boat at four o'clock, or soon after; and hearing a rumbling 
 
along the highway, which she knew presaged its transit 
through this end of the village, the old lady leaned forward to 
catch a glimpse of the trunks upon the roof ; this being all 
she could distinguish with certainty above the fence. 
" Why, it is stopping here !" she ejaculated, getting up to 
obtain a better look. " Who upon earth can it be ?" 
The coach rolled on, and the passenger for the farm-house 
came through the gate and down the lane. She was dressed 
in black, wore a crape veil, and carried a small hand-trunk. 
With hospitable instinct, Aunt Sarah advanced to the front 
porch to meet her, still entirely in the dark as to who it 
could be." 
"She has a different look from any of the neighbors ; and 
there's nobody in York that would be likely to come to see 
me, except Betsey's people, and it can't be either of her girls!" 
At this stage of her cogitations, the visitant reached the 
step on which the hostess stood, and put away the long veil 
from a face so worn and seamed with grief, so hollow-eyed 
and old, that the good aunt screamed outright in her distressed 
astonishment 
" Sarah, dear child ! can this be you ?" 
" What I am now, Aunt Sarah. May I come in and stay 
with you a little while ?" 
" Stay with me, poor darling ! As long as you like, and 
welcome ! Come right in; you don't look fit to stand!" 
She was not ; for, now that the necessity for exertion was 
removed, she was faint and trembling. Aunt Sarah helped 
her up-stairs to the room she had occupied at her former visit, 
undressed her, and put her to bed. Sarah submitted like a 
child, too much exhausted to resist bemg made an invalid of, 
or to offer any explanation of her singular apparition. She 
had not slept an hour at a time for many nights ; yet when 
she had drunk a cup of tea, and tried to eat a bit of toast her 
aunt prepared and brought up to her, she fell into a profound 
 
slumber, which lasted until long after sunrise on the following morning. Unclosing her eyes then, they rested upon the 
dear face, shaded by the widow's cap, that watched at her 
bedside. A shadowy phantom of a smile flitted over her 
features at the recognition. 
" It was not a dream, then ?" she said, languidly. " But 
I have dreamed of you often, of late every night in which I 
have had any sleep. Aunt Sarah, I must tell you why I came 
to you !" 
" Not now, dear," Aunt Sarah hastened to say, seeing the 
wild stare and the cloud return to her countenance. "Wait 
until you are stronger. I will bring up your breakfast, and 
when you have eaten it, you may try to dress, if you like. 
There will be time enough for your story, by and by. Charley is in a great fidget to see you." 
Sarah submitted to the delay ; but it was plain that she 
was not satisfied with it, and that her mind would be easier 
when once the tale was told. Aunt Sarah hindered her no 
longer a time than sufficed for her to take the much needed 
refreshment, to bathe and dress, and to see and exchange a 
few sentences with Charley, who supported her down to the 
sitting-room. There, resting among the pillows of the 
lounge, Aunt Sarah beside her, with the ubiquitous knitting-work in hand, lest too close observation should con 
fuse her niece, the stricken one unfolded the whole of her 
sad history. 
No more affecting proof could have been given of her 
prostrated mind and will than this unreserved recital. The 
secret she had sold conscience and liberty to preserve, she 
communicated now without a blush. Here where she 
had formed the intimacy that had shadowed so darkly her 
after days-^she detailed every step of the wrong course to 
which this weakness was a key ; went over all the stormy 
parting with her husband ; her conviction of the mutual 
 
peril she and Philip were tempting in their daily com 
munion ; her resolve of self-destruction, as circumstantially 
as if she were relating the biography of another. 
Aunt Sarah, horrified and pitiful by turns, struggled with 
