turned and said, laughing--
"Sylvia, I saw Searle to-day,--one of the fellows whom we met on the
river last summer,--and he began to tell me something about André and
the splendid cousin, who is married and gone abroad it seems. I did not
hear much, for Jessie was waiting; but you remember the handsome Cubans
we saw at Christmas, don't you?"
"Yes, I remember."
"Well, I thought you'd like to know that the lad had gone home to
Cleopatra's wedding, so you cannot have him to dance at yours. Have you
forgotten how you waltzed that night?"
"No, I've not forgotten."
Mark went off to consult Prue, and Jessie began to display her purchases
before eyes that only saw a blur of shapes and colors, and expatiate
upon their beauties to ears that only heard the words--"The splendid
cousin is married and gone abroad."
"I should enjoy these pretty things a thousand times more if you would
please us all by being married when we are," sighed Jessie, looking at
her pearls.
"I will."
"What, really? Sylvia, you are a perfect darling! Mark! Prue! she says
she will!"
Away flew Jessie to proclaim the glad tidings, and Sylvia, with a
curious expression of relief, regret, and resolve, repeated to herself
that decided--
"I will."
Every one took care that Miss Caprice should not have time to change her
mind. The whole house was soon in a bustle, for Prue ruled supreme. Mr.
Yule fled from the din of women's tongues, the bridegrooms were kept on
a very short allowance of bride, and Sylvia and Jessie were almost
invisible, for milliners and mantua-makers swarmed about them till they
felt like animated pin-cushions. The last evening came at length, and
Sylvia was just planning an escape into the garden when Prue, whose
tongue wagged as rapidly as her hands worked, exclaimed--
"How can you stand staring out of window when there is so much to do?
Here are all these trunks to pack, Maria in her bed with every tooth in
a frightful state of inflammation, and that capable Jane What's-her-name
gone off while I was putting a chamomile poultice on her face. If you
are tired sit down and try on all your shoes, for though Mr. Peggit has
your measure, those absurd clerks seem to think it a compliment to send
children's sizes to grown women. I'm sure my rubbers were a perfect
insult."
Sylvia sat down, tugged on one boot and fell into a reverie with the
other in her hand, while Prue clacked on like a wordmill in full
operation.
"How I'm ever to get all these gowns into that trunk passes my
comprehension. There's a tray for each, of course; but a ball dress is
such a fractious thing. I could shake that Antoinette Roche for
disappointing you at the last minute; and what you are to do for a maid,
I don't know. You'll have so much dressing to do you will be quite worn
out; and I want you to look your best on all occasions, for you will
meet everybody. This collar won't wear well; Clara hasn't a particle of
judgment, though her taste is sweet. These hose, now, are a good, firm
article; I chose them myself. Do be sure you get all your things from
the wash. At those great hotels there's a deal of pilfering, and you are
so careless."
Here Sylvia came out of her reverie with a sigh that was almost a groan.
"Don't they fit? I knew they wouldn't!" said Prue, with an air of
triumph.
"The boots suit me, but the hotels do not; and if it was not ungrateful,
after all your trouble, I should like to make a bonfire of this roomful
of haberdashery, and walk quietly away to my new home by the light of
it."
As if the bare idea of such an awful proceeding robbed her of all
strength, Miss Yule sat suddenly down in the trunk by which she was
standing. Fortunately it was nearly full, but her appearance was
decidedly ludicrous as she sat with the collar in one uplifted hand, the
hose in the other, and the ball dress laid over her lap like a fainting
lady; while she said, with imploring solemnity, which changed abruptly
from the pathetic to the comic at the end of her speech--
"Sylvia, if I ever cherished a wish in this world of disappointment, it
is that your wedding shall have nothing peculiar about it, because every
friend and relation you've got expects it. Do let me have the comfort of
knowing that every one was surprised and pleased; for if the expression
was elegant (which it isn't, and only suggested by my trials with those
dressmakers), I should say I was on pins and needles till it's all over.
Bless me! and so I am, for here are three on the floor and one in my
shoe." Prue paused to extract the appropriate figure of speech which she
had chosen, and Sylvia said--
"If we have everything else as you wish it, would you mind if we didn't
go the journey?"
"Of course I should. Every one goes a wedding trip, it's part of the
ceremony; and if two carriages and two bridal pairs don't leave here
to-morrow, I shall feel as if all my trouble had been thrown away."
"I'll go, Prue, I'll go; and you shall be satisfied. But I thought we
might go from here in style, and then slip off on some quieter trip. I
am so tired I dread the idea of frolicking for a whole month, as Mark
and Jessie mean to do."
It was Prue's turn to groan now, and she did so dismally. But Sylvia had
never asked a favor in vain, and this was not the moment to refuse to
her anything, so worldly pride yielded to sisterly affection, and Prue
said with resignation, as she fell to work more vigorously than ever,
because she had wasted five good minutes--
"Do as you like, dear, you shall not be crossed on your last day at
home. Ask Geoffrey, and if you are happy I'm satisfied."
Before Sylvia could thank her sister there came a tap and a voice
asking--
"Might I come in?"
"If you can get in," answered Prue, as, reversing her plan in her hurry,
she whisked the collar into a piecebag and the hose into a bandbox.
Moor paused on the threshold in a masculine maze, that one small person
could need so much drapery.
"May I borrow Sylvia for a little while? A breath of air will do her
good, and I want her bright and blooming for to-morrow, else young Mrs.
Yule will outshine young Mrs. Moor."
"What a thoughtful creature you are, Geoffrey. Take her and welcome,
only pray put on a shawl, Sylvia, and don't stay out late, for a bride
with a cold in her head is the saddest of spectacles."
Glad to be released Sylvia went away, and, dropping the shawl as soon as
she was out of Prue's sight, paced up and down the garden walks upon her
lover's arm. Having heard her wish and given a hearty assent Moor
asked--
"Where shall we go? Tell me what you would like best and you shall have
it. You will not let me give you many gifts, but this pleasure you will
accept from me I know."
"You give me yourself, that is more than I deserve. But I should like to
have you take me to the place you like best. Don't tell me beforehand,
let it be a surprise."
"I will, it is already settled, and I know you will like it. Is there no
other wish to be granted, no doubt to be set at rest, or regret withheld
that I should know? Tell me, Sylvia, for if ever there should be
confidence between us it is now."
As he spoke the desire to tell him of her love for Adam rose within her,
but with the desire came a thought that modified the form in which
impulse prompted her to make confession. Moor was both sensitive and
proud, would not the knowledge of the fact mar for him the friendship
that was so much to both? From Warwick he would never learn it, from her
he should have only a half confidence, and so love both friend and wife
with an untroubled heart. Few of us can always control the rebellious
nature that so often betrays and then reproaches, few always weigh the
moment and the act that bans or blesses it, and where is the life that
has not known some turning-point when a fugitive emotion has decided
great issues for good or ill? Such an emotion came to Sylvia then, and
another temptation, wearing the guise of generosity, urged her to
another false step, for when the first is taken a second inevitably
follows.
"I have no wish, no regret, nothing but the old doubt of my unstable
self, and the fear that I may fail to make you happy. But I should like
to tell you something. I don't know that you will care for it, or that
there is any need to tell it, but when you said there should be
confidence between us, I felt that I wanted you to know that I had loved
some one before I loved you."
He did not see her face, he only heard her quiet voice. He had no
thought of Adam, whom she had known so short a time, who was already
bound; he only fancied that she spoke of some young lover who had
touched her heart, and while he smiled at the nice sense of honor that
prompted the innocent confession, he said, with no coldness, no
curiosity in voice or face--
"No need to tell it, dear. I have no jealousy of any one who has gone
before me. Rest assured of this, for if I could not share so large a
heart with one who will never claim my share I should not deserve it."
"That is so like you! Now I am quite at ease."
He looked down at her as she went beside him, thinking that of all the
brides he had ever seen his own looked least like one.
"I always thought that you would make a very ardent lover, Sylvia. That
you would be excited, gay, and brilliant at a time like this. But you
are so quiet, so absorbed, and so unlike your former self that I begin
to think I do not know you yet."
"You will in time. I am passionate and restless by nature, but I am also
very sensitive to all influences, personal or otherwise, and were you
different from your tranquil, sunshiny self, I too should change. I am
quiet because I seem in a pleasant state, half-waking, half dreaming,
from which I never wish to wake. I am tired of the past, contented with
the present, and to you I leave the future."
"It shall be a happy one if I can make it so, and to-morrow you will
give me the dear right to try."
"Yes," she said, and thinking of the solemn promises to be then made,
she added, thoughtfully, "I think I love, I know I honor, I will try to
obey. Can I do more?"
[Illustration]
Well for them both if they could have known that friendship is love's
twin, and the gentle sisters are too often mistaken for each other.
That Sylvia was innocently deceiving both her lover and herself, by
wrapping her friendship in the garb her lost love had worn, forgetting
that the wanderer might return and claim its own, leaving the other to
suffer for the borrowed warmth. They did not know it, and walked
tranquilly together in the summer night, planning the new life as they
went, and when they parted Moor pointed to a young moon hanging in the
sky.
"See, Sylvia, our honeymoon has risen."
"May it be a happy one!"
"It will be, and when the anniversary of this glad night comes round it
shall be shining still. God bless my little wife."
CHAPTER XII.
WEDDING.
Sylvia was awakened on her wedding morning by a curious choking sound,
and starting up found Prue crying over her as if her heart were broken.
"What has happened? Is Geoffrey ill? Is all the silver stolen? Can't the
Bishop come?" she asked, wondering what calamity could move her sister
to tears at such a busy time.
Prue took Sylvia in her arms, and rocking to and fro as if she were
still a baby, poured forth a stream of words and tears together.
"Nothing has happened; I came to call you, and broke down because it was
the last time I should do it. I've been awake all night, thinking of you
and all you've been to me since I took you in my arms nineteen years
ago, and said you should be mine. My little Sylvia, I've been neglectful
of so many things, and now I see them all; I've fretted you with my
ways, and haven't been patient enough with yours; I've been selfish even
about your wedding, and it won't be as you like it; you'll reproach me
in your heart, and I shall hate myself for it when you are gone never to
be my care and comfort any more. And--oh, my dear, my dear, what shall I
do without you?"
This unexpected demonstration from her prosaic sister touched Sylvia
more than the most sentimental lamentations from another. It brought to
mind all the past devotion, the future solitude of Prue's life, and she
clung about her neck tearless but very tender.
"I never shall reproach you, never cease to love and thank you for all
you've been to me, my dear old girl. You mustn't grieve over me, or
think I shall forget you, for you never shall be forsaken; and very soon
I shall be back, almost as much your Sylvia as ever. Mark will live on
one side, I shall live on the other, and we'll be merry and cosy
together. And who knows but when we are both out of your way you will
learn to think of yourself and marry also."
At this Prue began to laugh hysterically, and exclaimed, with more than
her usual incoherency--
"I must tell you, it was so very odd! I didn't mean to do so, because
you children would tease me; but now I will to make you laugh, for it's
a bad omen to cry over a bride, they say. My dear, that gouty Mr.
MacGregor, when I went in with some of my nice broth last week (Hugh
slops so, and he's such a fidget, I took it myself), after he had eaten
every drop before my eyes, wiped his mouth and asked me to marry him."
"And you would not, Prue?"
"Bless me, child, how could I? I must take care of my poor dear father,
and he isn't pleasant in the least, you know, but would wear my life out
in a week. I really pitied him, however, when I refused him, with a
napkin round his neck, and he tapped his waistcoat with a spoon so
comically, when he offered me his heart, as if it were something good to
eat."
"How very funny! What made him do it, Prue?"
"He said he'd watched the preparations from his window, and got so
interested in weddings that he wanted one himself, and felt drawn to me
I was so sympathetic. That means a good nurse and cook, my dear. I
understand these invalid gentlemen, and will be a slave to no man so fat
and fussy as Mr. Mac, as my brother calls him. It's not respectful, but
I like to refresh myself by saying it just now."
"Never mind the old soul, Prue, but go and have your breakfast
comfortably, for there's much to be done, and no one is to dress me but
your own dear self."
At this Prue relapsed into the pathetic again, and cried over her sister
as if, despite the omen, brides were plants that needed much watering.
The appearance of the afflicted Maria, with her face still partially
eclipsed by the chamomile comforter, and an announcement that the
waiters had come and were "ordering round dreadful," caused Prue to
pocket her handkerchief and descend to turn the tables in every sense of
the word.
The prospect of the wedding breakfast made the usual meal a mere
mockery. Every one was in a driving hurry, every one was very much
excited, and nobody but Prue and the colored gentlemen brought anything
to pass. Sylvia went from room to room bidding them good-by as the child
who had played there so long. But each looked unfamiliar in its state
and festival array, and the old house seemed to have forgotten her
already. She spent an hour with her father, paid Mark a little call in
the studio where he was bidding adieu to the joys of bachelorhood, and
preparing himself for the jars of matrimony by a composing smoke, and
then Prue claimed her.
The agonies she suffered during that long toilet are beyond the powers
of language to portray, for Prue surpassed herself and was the very
essence of fussiness. But Sylvia bore it patiently as a last sacrifice,
because her sister was very tender-hearted still, and laughed and cried
over her work till all was done, when she surveyed the effect with
pensive satisfaction.
"You are very sweet, my dear, and so delightfully calm, you really do
surprise me. I always thought you'd have hysterics on your wedding-day,
and got my vinaigrette all ready. Keep your hands just as they are,
with the handkerchief and bouquet, it looks very easy and rich. Dear me,
what a spectacle I've made of myself! But I shall cry no more, not even
during the ceremony as many do. Such displays of feeling are in very bad
taste, and I shall be firm, perfectly firm, so if you hear any one sniff
you'll know it isn't me. Now I must go and scramble on my dress; first,
let me arrange you smoothly in a chair. There, my precious, now think of
soothing things, and don't stir till Geoffrey comes for you."
Too tired to care what happened just then, Sylvia sat as she was placed,
feeling like a fashion-plate of a bride, and wishing she could go to
sleep. Presently the sound of steps as fleet as Mark's but lighter,
waked her up, and forgetting orders, she rustled to the door with an
expression which fashion-plates have not yet attained.
"Good morning, little bride."
"Good morning, bonny bridegroom."
Then they looked at one another, and both smiled. But they seemed to
have changed characters, for Moor's usually tranquil face was full of
pale excitement; Sylvia's usually vivacious one, full of quietude, and
her eyes wore the unquestioning content of a child who accepts some
friendly hand, sure that it will lead it right.
"Prue desires me to take you out into the upper hall, and when Mr. Deane
beckons, we are to go down at once. The rooms are full, and Jessie is
ready. Shall we go?"
"One moment: Geoffrey, are you quite happy now?"
"Supremely happy!"
"Then it shall be the first duty of my life to keep you so," and with a
gesture soft yet solemn, Sylvia laid her hand in his, as if endowing him
with both gift and giver. He held it fast and never let it go until it
was his own.
In the upper hall they found Mark hovering about Jessie like an agitated
bee, about a very full-blown flower, and Clara Deane flapping him away,
lest he should damage the effect of this beautiful white rose. For ten
minutes, ages they seemed, the five stood together listening to the stir
below, looking at one another, till they were tired of the sight and
scent of orange blossoms, and wishing that the whole affair was safely
over. But the instant a portentous "Hem!" was heard, and a white glove
seen to beckon from the stair foot, every one fell into a flutter. Moor
turned paler still, and Sylvia felt his heart beat hard against her
hand. She herself was seized with a momentary desire to run away and
say "No" again; Mark looked as if nerving himself for immediate
execution, and Jessie feebly whispered--
"Oh, Clara, I'm going to faint!"
"Good heavens, what shall I do with her? Mark, support her! My darling
girl, smell this and bear up. For mercy sake do something, Sylvia, and
don't stand there looking as if you'd been married every day for a
year."
In his excitement, Mark gave his bride a little shake. Its effect was
marvellous. She rallied instantly, with a reproachful glance at her
crumpled veil and a decided--
"Come quick, I can go now."
Down they went, through a wilderness of summer silks, black coats, and
bridal gloves. How they reached their places none of them ever knew;
Mark said afterward, that the instinct of self preservation led him to
the only means of extrication that circumstances allowed. The moment the
Bishop opened his book, Prue took out her handkerchief and cried
steadily through the entire ceremony, for dear as were the proprieties,
the "children" were dearer still.
At Sylvia's desire, Mark was married first, and as she stood listening
to the sonorous roll of the service falling from the Bishop's lips, she
tried to feel devout and solemn, but failed to do so. She tried to keep
her thoughts from wandering, but continually found herself wondering if
that sob came from Prue, if her father felt it very much, and when it
would be done. She tried to keep her eyes fixed timidly upon the carpet
as she had been told to do, but they would rise and glance about against
her will.
One of these derelictions from the path of duty, nearly produced a
catastrophe. Little Tilly, the gardener's pretty child, had strayed in
from among the servants peeping at a long window in the rear, and
established herself near the wedding group, looking like a small ballet
girl in her full white frock and wreath pushed rakishly askew on her
curly pate. As she stood regarding the scene with dignified amazement,
her eye met Sylvia's. In spite of the unusual costume, the baby knew her
playmate, and running to her, thrust her head under the veil with a
delighted "Peep a bo!" Horror seized Jessie, Mark was on the brink of a
laugh, and Moor looked like one fallen from the clouds. But Sylvia drew
the little marplot close to her with a warning word, and there she
stayed, quietly amusing herself with "pooring" the silvery dress,
smelling the flowers and staring at the Bishop.
After this, all prospered. The gloves came smoothly off, the rings went
smoothly on; no one cried but Prue, no one laughed but Tilly; the brides
were admired, the grooms envied; the service pronounced impressive, and
when it ended, a tumult of congratulations arose.
Sylvia always had a very confused idea of what happened during the next
hour. She remembered being kissed till her cheeks burned, and shaken
hands with till her fingers tingled; bowing in answer to toasts, and
forgetting to reply when addressed by the new name; trying to eat and
drink, and discovering that everything tasted of wedding cake; finding
herself up stairs hurrying on her travelling dress, then down stairs
saying good by; and when her father embraced her last of all, suddenly
realizing with a pang, that she was married and going away, never to be
little Sylvia any more.
Prue was gratified to her heart's content, for, when the two bridal
carriages had vanished with handkerchiefs flying from their windows, in
answer to the white whirlwind on the lawn, Mrs. Grundy, with an
approving smile on her aristocratic countenance, pronounced this the
most charming affair of the season.
CHAPTER XIII.
SYLVIA'S HONEYMOON.
It began with a pleasant journey. Day after day they loitered along
country roads that led them through many scenes of summer beauty;
pausing at old-fashioned inns and wayside farmhouses, or gipsying at
noon in some green nook where their four-footed comrades dined off their
tablecloth while they made merry over the less simple fare their last
hostess had provided for them. When the scenery was uninteresting, as
was sometimes the case, for Nature will not disturb her domestic
arrangements for any bridal pair, one or the other read aloud, or both
sang, while conversation was a never-failing pastime and silence had
charms which they could enjoy. Sometimes they walked a mile or two, ran
down a hillside, rustled through a grain field, strolled into an
orchard, or feasted from fruitful hedges by the way, as care-free as the
squirrels on the wall, or the jolly brown bees lunching at the sign of
"The Clover-top." They made friends with sheep in meadows, cows at the
brook, travellers morose or bland, farmers full of a sturdy sense that
made their chat as wholesome as the mould they delved in; school
children barefooted and blithe, and specimens of womankind, from the
buxom housewife who took them under her motherly wing at once, to the
sour, snuffy, shoe-binding spinster with "No Admittance" written all
over her face.
To Moor the world was glorified with the purple light which seldom
touches it but once for any of us; the journey was a wedding march, made
beautiful by summer, victorious by joy; his young wife the queen of
women, and himself an equal of the gods because no longer conscious of a
want. Sylvia could not be otherwise than happy, for finding unbounded
liberty and love her portion, she had nothing to regret, and regarded
marriage as an agreeable process which had simply changed her name and
given her protector, friend, and lover all in one. She was therefore her
sweetest and sincerest self, miraculously docile, and charmingly gay;
interested in all she saw, and quite overflowing with delight when the
last days of the week betrayed the secret that her destination was the
mountains.
Loving the sea so well, her few flights from home had given her only
marine experiences, and the flavor of entire novelty was added to the
feast her husband had provided for her. It came to her not only when she
could enjoy it most, but when she needed it most, soothing the unquiet,
stimulating the nobler elements which ruled her life by turns and
fitting her for what lay before her. Choosing the quietest roads, Moor
showed her the wonders of a region whose wild grandeur and beauty make
its memory a life-long satisfaction. Day after day they followed
mountain paths, studying the changes of an ever-varying landscape,
watching the flush of dawn redden the granite fronts of these Titans
scarred with centuries of storm, the lustre of noon brood over them
until they smiled, the evening purple wrap them in its splendor, or
moonlight touch them with its magic; till Sylvia, always looking up at
that which filled her heart with reverence and awe, was led to look
beyond, and through the medium of the friend beside her learned that
human love brings us nearer to the Divine, and is the surest means to
that great end.
The last week of the honeymoon came all too soon, for then they had
promised to return. The crowning glory of the range was left until the
last, and after a day of memorable delights Sylvia sat in the sunset
feasting her eyes upon the wonders of a scene which is indescribable,
for words have limits and that is apparently illimitable. Presently Moor
came to her asking--
"Will you join a party to the great ice palace, and see three acres of
snow in August, worn by a waterfall into a cathedral, as white if not as
durable as any marble?"
"I sit so comfortably here I think I had rather not. But you must go
because you like such wonders, and I shall rest till you come back."
"Then I shall take myself off and leave you to muse over the pleasures
of the day, which for a few hours has made you one of the most eminent
women this side the Rocky Mountains. There is a bugle at the house here
with which to make the echoes, I shall take it with me, and from time to
time send up a sweet reminder that you are not to stray away and lose
yourself."
Sylvia sat for half an hour, then wearied by the immensity of the wide
landscape she tried to rest her mind by examining the beauties close at
hand. Strolling down the path the sight-seers had taken, she found
herself in a rocky basin, scooped in the mountain side like a cup for a
little pool, so clear and bright it looked a diamond set in jet. A
fringe of scanty herbage had collected about its brim, russet mosses,
purple heath, and delicate white flowers, like a band of tiny hill
people keeping their revels by some fairy well. The spot attracted her,
and remembering that she was not to stray away, she sat down beside the
path to wait for her husband's return.
In the act of bending over the pool to sprinkle the thirsty little
company about it, her hand was arrested by the tramp of approaching
feet, and looking up to discover who was the disturber of her retreat,
she saw a man pausing at the top of the path opposite to that by which
she had come. He seemed scrutinizing the solitary occupant of the dell
before descending; but as she turned her face to him he flung away
knapsack, hat, and staff, and then with a great start she saw no
stranger, but Adam Warwick. Coming down to her so joyfully, so
impetuously, she had only time to recognise him, and cry out, when she
was swept up in an embrace as tender as irresistible, and lay there
conscious of nothing, but that happiness like some strong swift angel
had wrapt her away into the promised land so long believed in, hungered
for, and despaired of, as forever lost. Soon she heard his voice,
breathless, eager, but so fond it seemed another voice than his.
"My darling! did you think I should never come?"
"I thought you had forgotten me, I knew you were married. Adam, put me
down."
But he only held her closer, and laughed such a happy laugh that Sylvia
felt the truth before he uttered it.
"How could I marry, loving you? How could I forget you even if I had
never come to tell you this? Sylvia, I know much that has passed.
Geoffrey's failure gave me courage to hope for success, and that the
mute betrothal made with a look so long ago had been to you all it has
been to me."
"Adam, you are both right and wrong,--you do not know all,--let me tell
you,"--began Sylvia, as these proofs of ignorance brought her to herself
with a shock of recollection and dismay. But Warwick was as absolute in
his happiness as he had been in his self-denial, and took possession of
her mentally as well as physically with a despotism too welcome and
entire to be at once resisted.
"You shall tell me nothing till I have shown the cause of my
hard-seeming silence. I must throw off that burden first, then I will
listen to you until morning if you will. I have earned this moment by a
year of effort, let me keep you here and enjoy it without alloy."
The old charm had lost none of its power, for absence seemed to have
gifted it with redoubled potency, the confirmation of that early hope to
grace it with redoubled warmth. Sylvia let him keep her, feeling that he
had earned that small reward for a year's endeavor, resolving to grant
all now left her to bestow, a few moments more of blissful ignorance,
then to show him his loss and comfort him, sure that her husband would
find no disloyalty in a compassion scarcely less deep and self-forgetful
than his own would have been had he shared their secret. Only pausing to
place himself upon the seat she had left, Warwick put off her hat, and
turning her face to his regarded it with such unfeigned and entire
content her wavering purpose was fixed by a single look. Then as he
began to tell the story of the past she forgot everything but the rapid
words she listened to, the countenance she watched, so beautifully
changed and softened, it seemed as if she had never seen the man before,
or saw him now as we sometimes see familiar figures glorified in dreams.
In the fewest, kindest words Warwick told her of Ottila, the promise and
the parting; then, as if the dearer theme deserved less brevity, he
lingered on it as one lingers at a friend's door, enjoying in
anticipation the welcome he is sure awaits him.
"The night we walked together by the river--such a wilful yet winning
comrade as I had that day, and how I enjoyed it all!--that night I
suspected that Geoffrey loved you, Sylvia, and was glad to think it. A
month later I was sure of it, and found in that knowledge the great
hardship of my life, because I loved you myself. Audacious thing! how
dared you steal into my heart and take possession when I had turned my
last guest out and barred the door? I thought I had done with the
sentiment that had so nearly wrecked me once, but see how blind I
was--the false love only made me readier for the true. You never seemed
a child to me, Sylvia, because you have an old soul in a young body, and
your father's trials and temptations live again in you. This first
attracted me. I liked to watch, to question, to study the human enigma
to which I had found a clue from its maker's lips. I liked your candor
and simplicity, your courage and caprice. Even your faults found favor
in my eyes; for pride, will, impetuosity were old friends of mine, and I
liked to see them working in another shape. At first you were a
curiosity, then an amusement, then a necessity. I wanted you, not
occasionally, but constantly. You put salt and savor into life for me;
for whether you spoke or were silent, were sweet or sour, friendly or
cold, I was satisfied to feel your nearness, and always took away an
inward content which nothing else could give me. This affection was so
unlike the other that I deceived myself for a time--not long. I soon
knew what had befallen me, soon felt that this sentiment was good to
feel, because I forgot my turbulent and worser self and felt the nobler
regenerated by the innocent companionship you gave me. I wanted you, but
it was not the touch of hands or lips, the soft encounter of eyes, the
tones of tenderness, I wanted most. It was that something beyond my
reach, vital and vestal, invisible, yet irresistible; that something, be
it heart, soul, or mind, which drew me to you by an attraction genial
and genuine as itself. My Sylvia, that was love, and when it came to me
I took it in, sure that whether its fruition was granted or denied I
should be a manlier man for having harbored it even for an hour. Why
turn your face away? Well, hide it if you will, but lean here as you did
once so long ago."
She let him lay it on his shoulder, still feeling that Moor was one to
look below the surface of these things and own that she did well in
giving so pure a love a happy moment before its death, as she would have
cherished Warwick had he laid dying.
"On that September evening, as I sat alone, I had been thinking of what
might be and what must be. Had decided that I would go away for
Geoffrey's sake. He was fitter than I to have you, being so gentle, and
in all ways ready to possess a wife. I was so rough, such a vagrant, so
full of my own purposes and plans, how could I dare to take into my
keeping such a tender little creature as yourself? I thought you did not
care for me; I knew any knowledge of my love would only mar his own; so
it was best to go at once and leave him to the happiness he so well
deserved. Just then you came to me, as if the wind had blown my desire
to my arms. Such a loving touch that was! it nearly melted my resolve,
it seemed hard not to take the one thing I wanted, when it came to me so
opportunely. I yearned to break that idle promise, made when I was vain
in my own conceit, and justly punished for its folly; but you said keep
it, and I did. You could not understand my trouble, and when I sat
before you so still, perhaps looking grim and cold, you did not know how
I was wrestling with my unruly self. I am not truly generous, for the
relinquishment of any cherished object always costs a battle, and I too
often find I am worsted. For the first time I dared not meet your eyes
till you dived into mine with that expression wistful and guileless,
which has often made me feel as if we stood divested of our bodies, soul
to soul.
"Tongue I could control, heart I could not. Up it sprung stronger than
will, swifter than thought, and answered you. Sylvia, had there been one
ray of self-consciousness in those steady eyes of yours, one atom of
maiden shame, or fear, or trouble, I should have claimed you as my own.
There was not; and though you let me read your face like an open book,
you never dreamed what eloquence was in it. Innocent heart, that loved
and had not learned to know it. I saw this instantly, saw that a few
more such encounters would show it to you likewise, and felt more
strongly than before that if ever the just deed to you, the generous one
to Geoffrey were done, it should be then. For that was the one moment
when your half-awakened heart could fall painlessly asleep again, if I
did not disturb it, and dream on till Geoffrey woke it, to find a
gentler master than I could be to it."
"It could not, Adam; you had wholly roused it, and it cried for you so
long, so bitterly, oh, why did you not come to answer it before?"
"How could I till the year was over? Was I not obeying you in keeping
that accursed promise? God knows I have made many blunders, but I think
the most senseless was that promise; the most short-sighted, that
belief. What right had I to fetter my tongue, or try to govern love?
Shall I ever learn to do my own work aright, and not meddle with the
Lord's? Sylvia, take this presumptuous and domineering devil out of me
in time, lest I blunder as blindly after you are mine as I have before.
Now let me finish before Mark comes to find us. I went away, you know,
singing the farewell I dared not speak, and for nine months kept myself
sane and steady with whatever my hands found to do. If ever work of mine
is blessed it will be that, for into it I put the best endeavor of my
life. Though I had renounced you, I kept my love; let it burn day and
night, fed it with labor and with prayer, trusting that this selfish
heart of mine might be recast and made a fitter receptacle for an
enduring treasure. In May, far at the West, I met a woman who knew
Geoffrey; had seen him lately, and learned that he had lost you. She was
his cousin, I his friend, and through our mutual interest in him this
confidence naturally came about. When she told me this hope blazed up,
and all manner of wild fancies haunted me. Love is arrogant, and I
nourished a belief that even I might succeed where Geoffrey failed. You
were so young, you were not likely to be easily won by any other, if
such a man had asked in vain, and a conviction gradually took possession
of me that you had understood, had loved, and were yet waiting for
me. A month seemed an eternity to wait, but I left myself no moment for
despair, and soon turned my face to Cuba, finding renewed hope on the
way. Gabriel went with me, told me how Ottila had searched for me, and
failing to find me had gone back to make ready for my coming. How she
had tried to be all I desired, and how unworthy I was of her. This was
well, but the mention of your name was better, and much close
questioning gave me the scene which he remembered, because Ottila had
chidden him sharply for his disclosures to yourself. Knowing you so
well, I gathered much from trifles which were nothing in Gabriel's eyes.
I felt that regard for me, if nothing warmer, had prompted your interest
in them; and out of the facts given me by Faith and Gabriel I built
myself a home, which I have inhabited as a guest till now, when I know
myself its master, and welcome its dear mistress, so my darling."
He bent to give her tender greeting, but Sylvia arrested him.
"Not yet, Adam! not yet! Go on, before it is too late to tell me as you
wish."
He thought it was some maidenly scruple, and though he smiled at it he
respected it, for this same coyness in the midst of all her whims had
always been one of her attractions in his eye.
"Shy thing! I will tame you yet, and draw you to me as confidingly as I
drew the bird to hop into my hand and eat. You must not fear me, Sylvia,
else I shall grow tyrannical; for I hate fear, and like to trample on
whatever dares not fill its place bravely, sure that it will receive its
due as trustfully as these little mosses sit among the clouds and find a
spring to feed them even in the rock. Now I will make a speedy end of
this, pleasant as it is to sit here feeling myself no longer a solitary
waif. I shall spare you the stormy scenes I passed through with Ottila,
because I do not care to think of my Cleopatra while I hold 'my fine
spirit Ariel' in my arms. She had done her best, but had I been still
heart-free I never could have married her. She is one of those tameless
natures which only God can govern; I dared not, even when I thought I
loved her, for much as I love power I love truth more. I told her this,
heard prayers, reproaches, threats, and denunciations; tried to leave
her kindly, and then was ready for my fate with you. But I was not to
have my will so easily. I had fallen into the net, and was not to leave
it till the scourging had been given. So like that other wandering
Christian, I cried out, submitted, and was the meeker for it. I had to
wait a little before the ship sailed; I would not stay at El Labarinto,
Gabriel's home, for Ottila was there; and though the fever raged at
Havana, I felt secure in my hitherto unbroken health. I returned there,
and paid the penalty; for weeks of suffering taught me that I could not
trifle with this body of mine, sturdy as it seemed."
"Oh, Adam, who took care of you? Where did you lie and suffer all that
time?"
"Never fret yourself concerning that; I was not neglected. A sister of
the 'Sacred Heart' took excellent care of me, and a hospital is as good
as a palace when one neither knows nor cares where he is. It went hardly
with me, I believe; but being resolved to live, I fought it through.
Death looked at me, had compassion, and passed by. There is a Haytien
proverb which must comfort you if I am a gaunt ghost of my former self:
'A lean freeman is better than a fat slave.' There comes the first smile
I have seen; but my next bit of news will bring a frown, I think. When I
was well enough to creep out, I learned that Ottila was married. You
heard the rumor, doubtless, but not the name, for Gabriel's and mine
were curiously blended in many minds by the suddenness of my
disappearance and his appearance as the bridegroom. It was like
her,--she had prepared for me as if sure I was to fill the place I had
left, hoping that this confidence of hers would have its due effect upon
me. It did try me sorely, but an experience once over is as if it had
never been, as far as regret or indecision is concerned; therefore
wedding gowns and imperious women failed to move me. To be left a
groomless bride stung that fiery pride of hers more than many an actual
shame or sin would have done. People would pity her, would see her loss,
deride her wilful folly. Gabriel loved her as she desired to be loved,
blindly and passionately; few knew of our later bond, many of our
betrothal, why not let the world believe me the rejected party come back
for a last appeal? I had avoided all whom I once knew, for I loathed the
place; no one had discovered me at the hospital, she thought me gone,
she boldly took the step, married the poor boy, left Cuba before I was
myself again, and won herself an empty victory which I never shall
disturb."
"How strange! Yet I can believe it of her, she looked a woman who would
dare do anything. Then you came back, Adam, to find me? What led you
here, hoping so much and knowing so little?"
"Did you ever know me do anything in the accustomed way? Do I not always
aim straight at the thing I want and pursue it by the shortest road? It
fails often, and I go back to the slower surer way; but my own is always
tried first, as involuntarily as I hurled myself down that slope, as if
storming a fort instead of meeting my sweetheart. That is a pretty old
word beloved of better men than I, so let me use it once. Among the
first persons I met on landing was a friend of your father's; he was
just driving away in hot haste, but catching a glimpse of the familiar
face, I bethought me that it was the season for summer travel, you might
be away, and no one else would satisfy me; he might know, and time be
saved. I asked one question, 'Where are the Yules?' He answered, as he
vanished, 'The young people are all at the mountains.' That was enough,
and congratulating myself on the forethought which would save me some
hundred miles of needless delay, away I went, and for days have been
searching for you every where on that side of these hills which I know
so well. But no Yules had passed, and feeling sure you were on this side
I came, not around, but straight over, for this seemed a royal road to
my love, and here I found her waiting for me by the way. Now Sylvia, are
your doubts all answered, your fears all laid, your heart at rest on
mine?"
As the time drew nearer Sylvia's task daunted her. Warwick was so
confident, so glad and tender over her, it seemed like pronouncing the
death doom to say those hard words, "It is too late." While she
struggled to find some expression that should tell all kindly yet
entirely, Adam, seeming to read some hint of her trouble, asked, with
that gentleness which now overlaid his former abruptness, and was the
more alluring for the contrast--
"Have I been too arrogant a lover? too sure of happiness, too blind to
my small deserts? Sylvia, have I misunderstood the greeting you have
given me?"
"Yes, Adam, utterly."
He knit his brows, his eye grew anxious, his content seemed rudely
broken, but still hopefully he said--
"You mean that absence has changed you, that you do not love me as you
did, and pity made you kind? Well, I receive the disappointment, but I
do not relinquish my desire. What has been may be; let me try again to
earn you; teach me to be humble, patient, all that I should be to make
myself more dear to you. Something disturbs you, be frank with me; I
have shown you all my heart, what have you to show me in return?"
"Only this."
She freed herself entirely from his hold and held up her hand before
him. He did not see the ring; he thought she gave him all he asked, and
with a glow of gratitude extended both his own to take it. Then she saw
that delay was worse than weak, and though she trembled she spoke out
bravely ending his suspense at once.
"Adam, I do not love you as I did, nor can I wish or try to bring it
back, because--I am married."
He sprung up as if shot through the heart, nor could a veritable bullet
from her hand have daunted him with a more intense dismay than those
three words. An instant's incredulity, then conviction came to him, and
he met it like a man, for though his face whitened and his eye burned
with an expression that wrung her heart, he demanded steadily,--
"To whom?"
This was the hardest question of all, for well she knew the name would
wound the deeper for its dearness, and while it lingered pitifully upon
her lips its owner answered for himself. Clear and sweet came up the
music of the horn, bringing them a familiar air they all loved, and had
often sung together. Warwick knew it instantly, felt the hard truth but
rebelled against it, and put out his arm as if to ward it off as he
exclaimed, with real anguish in countenance and voice--
"Oh, Sylvia! it is not Geoffrey?"
"Yes."
Then, as if all strength had gone out of her, she dropped down upon the
mossy margin of the spring and covered up her face, feeling that the
first sharpness of a pain like this was not for human eyes to witness.
How many minutes passed she could not tell, the stillness of the spot
remained unbroken by any sound but the whisper of the wind, and in this
silence Sylvia found time to marvel at the calmness which came to her.
Self had been forgotten in surprise and sympathy, and still her one
thought was how to comfort Warwick. She had expected some outburst of
feeling, some gust of anger or despair, but neither sigh nor sob,
reproach nor regret reached her, and soon she stole an anxious glance to
see how it went with him. He was standing where she left him, both hands
locked together till they were white with the passionate pressure. His
eyes fixed on some distant object with a regard as imploring as
unseeing, and through those windows of the soul he looked out darkly,
not despairingly; but as if sure that somewhere there was help for him,
and he waited for it with a stern patience more terrible to watch than
the most tempestuous grief. Sylvia could not bear it, and remembering
that her confession had not yet been made, seized that instant for the
purpose, prompted by an instinct which assured her that the knowledge of
her pain would help him to bear his own.
She told him all, and ended saying--
"Now, Adam, come to me and let me try to comfort you."
Sylvia was right; for through the sorrowful bewilderment that brought a
brief eclipse of hope and courage, sympathy reached him like a friendly
hand to uphold him till he found the light again. While speaking, she
had seen the immobility that frightened her break up, and Warwick's
whole face flush and quiver with the rush of emotions controllable no
longer. But the demonstration which followed was one she had never
thought to see from him, for when she stretched her hands to him with
that tender invitation, she saw the deep eyes fill and overflow. Then he
threw himself down before her, and for the first time in her short life
showed her that sad type of human suffering, a man weeping like a woman.
Warwick was one of those whose passions, as his virtues, were in unison
with the powerful body they inhabited, and in such a crisis as the
present but one of two reliefs were possible to him; either wrathful
denunciation, expostulation and despair, or the abandon of a child.
Against the former he had been struggling dumbly till Sylvia's words had
turned the tide, and too entirely natural to feel a touch of shame at
that which is not a weakness but a strength, too wise to reject so safe
an outlet for so dangerous a grief, he yielded to it, letting the
merciful magic of tears quench the fire, wash the first bitterness away,
and leave reproaches only writ in water. It was better so, and Sylvia
acknowledged it within herself as she sat mute and motionless, softly
touching the brown hair scattered on the moss, her poor consolation
silenced by the pathos of the sight, while through it all rose and fell
the fitful echo of the horn, in very truth "a sweet reminder not to
stray away and lose herself." An hour ago it would have been a welcome
sound, for peak after peak gave back the strain, and airy voices
whispered it until the faintest murmur died. But now she let it soar and
sigh half heard, for audible to her alone still came its sad
accompaniment of bitter human tears. To Warwick it was far more; for
music, the comforter, laid her balm on his sore heart as no mortal pity
could have done, and wrought the miracle which changed the friend who
seemed to have robbed him of his love to an unconscious Orpheus, who
subdued the savage and harmonized the man. Soon he was himself again,
for to those who harbor the strong virtues with patient zeal, no lasting
ill can come, no affliction can wholly crush, no temptation wholly
vanquish. He rose with eyes the clearer for their stormy rain, twice a
man for having dared to be a child again. Humbler and happier for the
knowledge that neither vain resentment nor unjust accusation had
defrauded of its dignity, the heavy hour that left him desolate but not
degraded.
"I am comforted, Sylvia, rest assured of that. And now there is little
more to say, but one thing to do. I shall not see your husband yet, and
leave you to tell him what seems best, for, with the instinct of an
animal, I always go away to outlive my hurts alone. But remember that I
acquit you of blame, and believe that I will yet be happy in your
happiness. I know if Geoffrey were here, he would let me do this,
because he has suffered as I suffer now."
Bending, he gathered her to an embrace as different from that other as
despair is from delight, and while he held her there, crowding into one
short minute, all the pain and passion of a year, she heard a low, but
exceeding bitter cry--"Oh, my Sylvia! it is hard to give you up." Then
with a solemn satisfaction, which assured her as it did himself, he
spoke out clear and loud--
"Thank God for the merciful Hereafter, in which we may retrieve the
blunders we make here."
With that he left her, never turning till the burden so joyfully cast
down had been resumed. Then, staff and hat in hand, he paused on the
margin of that granite cup, to him a cup of sorrow, and looked into its
depths again. Clouds were trooping eastward, but in that pause the sun
glanced full on Warwick's figure, lifting his powerful head into a flood
of light, as he waved his hand to Sylvia with a gesture of courage and
good cheer. The look, the act, the memories they brought her, made her
heart ache with a sharper pang than pity, and filled her eyes with tears
of impotent regret, as she turned her head as if to chide the blithe
clamor of the horn. When she looked again, the figure and the sunshine
were both gone, leaving her alone and in the shadow.
CHAPTER XIV.
A FIRESIDE FETE.
"No cousin Faith to-night. The rain has prevented her from taking this
boat, and she is not likely to come later as she comes alone," said
Moor, returning from a fruitless drive to meet his expected guest one
October evening.
"It always rains when I want anything very much. I seem to have a great
deal of bad weather in my life," answered Sylvia, despondingly.
"Never mind the rain; let us make sunshine for ourselves, and forget it
as children do."
"I wish I was a child again, they are always happy."
"Let us play at being children, then. Let us sit down upon the rug,
parch corn, crack nuts, roast apples, and be merry in spite of wind or
weather."
Sylvia's face brightened, for the fancy pleased her, and she wanted
something new and pleasant to divert her thoughts from herself. Glancing
at her dress, which was unusually matronly in honor of the occasion, she
said smiling--
"I don't look much like a child, but I should like to try and feel like
one again if I can."
"Let us both look and feel so as much as possible. You like
masquerading; go make a little girl of yourself, while I turn boy, and
prepare for our merry making."
No lad could have spoken with a blither face, for Moor had preserved
much of the boy in spite of his thirty years. His cheerfulness was so
infectious, that Sylvia already began to forget her gloom, and hurried
away to do her part. Putting on a short, girlish gown, kept for
scrambles among the rocks, she improvised a pinafore, and braided her
long hair a la Morlena Kenwigs, with butterfly bows at the ends. When
she went down, she found her husband in garden jacket, collar turned
over a ribbon, hair in a curly tumble, and jackknife in hand, seated on
the rug before a roaring fire, and a semicircle of apples, whittling and
whistling like a very boy. They examined one another with mirthful
commendations, and Moor began his part by saying--
"Isn't this jolly? Now come and cuddle down here beside me, and see
which will keep it up the longest."
"What would Prue say? and who would recognize the elegant Mr. Moor in
this big boy? Putting dignity and broadcloth aside makes you look about
eighteen, and very charming I find you," said Sylvia, looking about
twelve herself, and also very charming.
"Here is a wooden fork for you to tend the roast with, while I see to
the corn laws and prepare a vegetable snowstorm. What will you have,
little girl, you look as if you wanted something?"
"I was only thinking that I should have a doll to match your knife. I
feel as if I should enjoy trotting a staring fright on my knee, and
singing Hush-a-by. But I fancy even your magic cannot produce such a
thing,--can it, my lad?"
"In exactly five minutes a lovely doll will appear, though such a thing
has not been seen in my bachelor establishment for years."
With which mysterious announcement Moor ran off, blundering over the
ottomans and slamming the doors as a true boy should. Sylvia pricked
chestnuts, and began to forget her bosom trouble as she wondered what
would appear with the impatient curiosity appropriate to the character
she had assumed. Presently her husband reappeared with much breeziness
of aspect, rain drops in his hair, and a squirming bundle in his arms.
Triumphantly unfolding many wraps, he displayed little Tilly in her
night-gown.
"There is sorcery for you, and a doll worth having; being one of the
sort that can shut its eyes; it was going to bed, but its mamma relented
and lends it to us for the night. I told Mrs. Dodd you wanted her, and
couldn't wait, so she sent her clothes; but the room is so warm let the
dear play in her pretty bed-gown."
Sylvia received her lovely plaything with enthusiasm, and Tilly felt
herself suddenly transported to a baby's Paradise, where beds were
unknown and fruit and freedom were her welcome portion. Merrily popped
the corn, nimbly danced the nuts upon the shovel, lustily remonstrated
the rosy martyrs on the hearth, and cheerfully the minutes slipped away.
Sylvia sung every jubilant air she knew, Moor whistled astonishing
accompaniments, and Tilly danced over the carpet with nut-shells on her
toes, and tried to fill her little gown with "pitty flowers" from its
garlands and bouquets. Without the wind lamented, the sky wept, and the
sea thundered on the shore; but within, youth, innocence, and love held
their blithe revel undisturbed.
"How are the spirits now?" asked one playmate of the other.
"Quite merry, thank you; and I should think I was little Sylvia again
but for the sight of this."
She held up the hand that wore a single ornament; but the hand had grown
so slender since it was first put on, that the ring would have fallen
had she not caught it at her finger-tip. There was nothing of the boy in
her companion's face, as he said, with an anxious look--
"If you go on thinning so fast I shall begin to fear that the little
wife is not happy with her old husband. Is she, dear?"
"She would be a most ungrateful woman if she were not. I always get thin
as winter comes on, but I'm so careless I'll find a guard for my ring
to-morrow."
"No need to wait till then; wear this to please me, and let Marion's
cipher signify that you are mine."
With a gravity that touched her more than the bestowal of so dear a
relic, Moor unslung a signet ring from his watchguard, and with some
difficulty pressed it to its place on Sylvia's finger, a most effectual
keeper for that other ring whose tenure seemed so slight. She shrunk a
little and glanced up at him, because his touch was more firm than
tender, and his face wore a masterful expression seldom seen there; for
instinct, subtler than perception, prompted both act and aspect. Then
her eye fell and fixed upon the dark stone with the single letter
engraved upon its tiny oval, and to her it took a double significance as
her husband held it there, claiming her again, with that emphatic
"Mine." She did not speak, but something in her manner caused the fold
between his brows to smooth itself away as he regarded the small hand
lying passively in his, and said, half playfully, half earnestly--
"Forgive me if I hurt you, but you know my wooing is not over yet; and
till you love me with a perfect love I cannot feel that my wife is
wholly mine."
"I am so young, you know; when I am a woman grown I can give you a
woman's love; now it is a girl's, you say. Wait for me, Geoffrey, a
little longer, for indeed I do my best to be all you would have me."
Something brought tears into her eyes and made her lips tremble, but in
a breath the smile came back, and she added gayly--
"How can I help being grave sometimes, and getting thin, with so many
housekeeping cares upon my shoulders, and such an exacting, tyrannical
husband to wear upon my nerves. Don't I look like the most miserable of
wives?"
She did not certainly as she shook the popper laughingly, and looked
over her shoulder at him, with the bloom of fire-light on her cheeks,
its cheerfulness in her eyes.
"Keep that expression for every day wear, and I am satisfied. I want no
tame Griselda, but the little girl who once said she was always happy
with me. Assure me of that, and, having won my Leah, I can work and wait
still longer for my Rachel. Bless the baby! what has she done to herself
now?"
Tilly had retired behind the sofa, after she had swarmed over every
chair and couch, examined everything within her reach, on étagère and
table, embraced the Hebe in the corner, played a fantasia on the piano,
and choked herself with the stopper of the odor bottle. A doleful wail
betrayed her hiding place, and she now emerged with a pair of
nutcrackers, ditto of pinched fingers, and an expression of great mental
and bodily distress. Her woes vanished instantaneously, however, when
the feast was announced, and she performed an unsteady pas seul about
the banquet, varied by skirmishes with her long night-gown and darts at
any unguarded viand that tempted her.
No ordinary table service would suit the holders of this fireside
fête. The corn was heaped in a bronze urn, the nuts in a graceful
basket, the apples lay on a plate of curiously ancient china, and the
water turned to wine through the medium of a purple flagon of Bohemian
glass. The refection was spread upon the rug as on a flowery table, and
all the lustres were lighted, filling the room with a festal glow. Prue
would have held up her hands in dismay, like the benighted piece of
excellence she was, but Mark would have enjoyed the picturesque group
and sketched a mate to the Golden Wedding. For Moor, armed with the
wooden fork, did the honors; Sylvia, leaning on her arm, dropped corn
after corn into a baby mouth that bird-like always gaped for more; and
Tilly lay luxuriously between them, warming her little feet as she ate
and babbled to the flames.
The clock was on the stroke of eight, the revel at its height, when the
door opened and a servant announced--
"Miss Dane and Mr. Warwick."
An impressive pause followed, broken by a crow from Tilly, who seized
this propitious moment to bury one hand in the nuts and with the other
capture the big red apple which had been denied her. The sound seemed to
dissipate the blank surprise that had fallen on all parties, and brought
both host and hostess to their feet, the former exclaiming, heartily--
"Welcome, friends, to a modern saturnalia and the bosom of the Happy
Family!"
"I fear you did not expect me so late," said Miss Dane. "I was detained
at the time fixed upon and gave it up, but Mr. Warwick came, and we set
off together. Pray don't disturb yourselves, but let us enjoy the game
with you."
"You and Adam are guests who never come too early or too late. We are
playing children to-night, so just put yourselves back a dozen years and
let us all be merry together. Sylvia, this our cousin, Faith here is
your new kinswoman. Please love one another as little people are
commanded to do."
A short stir ensued while hands were shaken, wraps put off, and some
degree of order restored to the room, then they all sat down and began
to talk. With well bred oblivion of the short gown and long braids of
her bashful-looking hostess, Miss Dane suggested and discussed various
subjects of mutual interest, while Sylvia tried to keep her eyes from
wandering to the mirror opposite, which reflected the figures of her
husband and his friend.
Warwick sat erect in the easy-chair, for he never lounged; and Moor,
still supporting his character, was perched upon the arm, talking with
boyish vivacity. Every sense being unwontedly alert, Sylvia found
herself listening to both guests at once, and bearing her own part in
one conversation so well that occasional lapses were only attributed to
natural embarrassment. What she and Miss Dane said she never remembered;
what the other pair talked of she never forgot. The first words she
caught were her husband's.
"You see I have begun to live for myself, Adam."
"I also see that it agrees with you excellently."
"Better than with you, for you are not looking like your old self,
though June made you happy, I hope?"
"If freedom is happiness it did."
"Are you still alone?"
"More so than ever."
Sylvia lost the next words, for a look showed her Moor's hand on Adam's
shoulder, and that for the first time within her memory Warwick did not
meet his friend's glance with one as open, but bent his eyes upon the
ground, while his hand went to and fro across his lips as if to steady
them. It was a gesture she remembered well, for though self-control
could keep the eye clear, the voice firm, that half-hidden mouth of his
