resolved to take her away from temptation before worse came of it.
“I didn’t tell her my plan; but I resigned my place, spent a week or
more finding and fixing a little home for her out in the wholesome
country, where she’d be safe from theatres and disreputable friends,
and maybe learn to love me better when she saw how much she was to
me. It was coming summer, and I made things look as home-like and as
pretty as I could. She liked flowers, and I fixed a garden for her;
she was fond of pets, and I got her a bird, a kitten, and a dog to
play with her; she fancied gay colors and tasty little matters, so I
filled her rooms with all the handsome things I could afford, and
when it was done, I was as pleased as any boy, thinking what happy
times we’d have together and how pleased she’d be. Boys, when I went
to tell her and to take her to her little home, she was gone.”
“Who with?”
“With those cursed friends of hers; a party of them left the city
just then; she was wild to go; she had money now, and all her good
looks back again. They teased and tempted her; I wasn’t there to
keep her, and she went, leaving a line behind to tell me that she
loved the old life more than the new; that my house was a prison,
and she hoped I’d let her go in peace. That almost killed me; but I
managed to bear it, for I knew most of the fault was mine; but it
was awful bitter to think I hadn’t saved her, after all.”
“Oh, Thorn! what did you do?”
“Went straight after her; found her dancing in Philadelphia, with
paint on her cheeks, trinkets on her neck and arms, looking prettier
than ever; but the innocent eyes were gone, and I couldn’t see my
little girl in the bold, handsome woman twirling there before the
footlights. She saw me, looked scared at first, then smiled, and
danced on with her eyes upon me, as if she said,--
“‘See! I’m happy now; go away and let me be.’
“I couldn’t stand that, and got out somehow. People thought me mad,
or drunk; I didn’t care, I only wanted to see her once in quiet and
try to get her home. I couldn’t do it then nor afterwards by fair
means, and I wouldn’t try force. I wrote to her, promised to forgive
her, begged her to come back, or let me keep her honestly somewhere
away from me. But she never answered, never came, and I have never
tried again.”
“She wasn’t worthy of you, Thorn; you jest forgit her.”
“I wish I could! I wish I could!” in his voice quivered an almost
passionate regret, and a great sob heaved his chest, as he turned
his face away to hide the love and longing, still so tender and so
strong.
“Don’t say that, Dick; such fidelity should make us charitable for
its own sake. There is always time for penitence, always a certainty
of pardon. Take heart, Thorn, you may not wait in vain, and she may
yet return to you.”
“I know she will! I’ve dreamed of it, I’ve prayed for it; every
battle I come out of safe makes me surer that I was kept for that,
and when I’ve borne enough to atone for my part of the fault, I’ll
be repaid for all my patience, all my pain, by finding her again.
She knows how well I love her still, and if there comes a time when
she is sick and poor and all alone again, then she’ll remember her
old John, then she’ll come home and let me take her in.”
Hope shone in Thorn’s melancholy eyes, and long-suffering
all-forgiving love beautified the rough, brown face, as he folded
his arms and bent his gray head on his breast, as if the wanderer
were already come.
The emotion which Dick scorned to show on his own account was freely
manifested for another, as he sniffed audibly, and, boy-like, drew
his sleeve across his eyes. But Phil, with the delicate perception
of a finer nature, felt that the truest kindness he could show his
friend was to distract his thoughts from himself, to spare him any
comments, and lessen the embarrassment which would surely follow
such unwonted confidence.
“Now I’ll relieve Flint, and he will give you a laugh. Come on Hiram
and tell us about your Beulah.”
The gentleman addressed had performed his duty, by sitting on a
fence and “righting up” his pockets, to beguile the tedium of his
exile. Before his multitudinous possessions could be restored to
their native sphere, Thorn was himself again, and on his feet.
“Stay where you are Phil; I like to tramp, it seems like old times,
and I know you’re tired. Just forget all this I’ve been saying, and
go on as before. Thank you, boys! thank you!” and with a grasp of
the two hands extended to him, he strode away along the path already
worn by his own restless feet.
“It’s done him good, and I’m glad of that; but I’d like to see the
little baggage that bewitched the poor old boy, wouldn’t you, Phil?”
“Hush! here’s Flint.”
“What’s up naow? want me tew address the meetin’, hey? I’m willin’,
only the laugh’s ruther ag’inst me, ef I tell that story; expect
yeu’ll like it all the better fer that.” Flint coiled up his long
limbs, put his hands in his pockets, chewed meditatively for a
moment, and then began with his slowest drawl--
“Waal, sir, it’s pretty nigh ten year ago, I was damster daown tew
Oldtaown, clos’t tew Banggore. My folks lived tew Bethel; there was
only the old man, and Aunt Siloam, keepin’ house fer him, seein’ as
I was the only chick he hed. I hedn’t heared from ‘em fer a long
spell, when there come a letter sayin’ the old man was breakin’ up.
He’d said it every spring fer a number er years, and I didn’t mind
it no more’n the breakin’ up er the river; not so much jest then;
fer the gret spring drive was comin’ on, and my hands was tew full
to quit work all tew oncet. I sent word I’d be ‘long fore a gret
while, and bymeby I went. I ought tew hev gone at fust; but they’d
sung aout ‘Wolf!’ so often I wasn’t scared; an’ sure ‘nuff the wolf
did come at last. Father hed been dead an’ berried a week when I got
there, and aunt was so mad she wouldn’t write, nor scurcely speak
tew me fer a consider’ble spell. I didn’t blame her a mite, and felt
jest the wust kind; so I give in every way, and fetched her raound.
Yeou see I hed a cousin who’d kind er took my place tew hum while I
was off, an’ the old man hed left him a good slice er his money, an’
me the farm, hopin’ to keep me there. He’d never liked the lumberin’
bizness, an’ hankered arfter me a sight, I faound. Waal, seein’ haow
‘twas, I tried tew please him, late as it was; but ef there was
ennything I did spleen ag’inst, it was farmin, ‘specially arfter the
smart times I’d ben hevin, up Oldtaown way. Yeou don’t know nothin’
abaout it; but ef yeou want tew see high dewin’s, jest hitch onto a
timber-drive an’ go it daown along them lakes and rivers, say from
Kaumchenungamooth tew Punnobscot Bay. Guess yeou’d see a thing or
tew, an’ find livin’ on a log come as handy as ef yeou was born a
turtle.
“Waal, I stood it one summer; but it was the longest kind of a job.
Come fall I turned contrary, darned the farm, and vaowed I’d go back
tew loggin’. Aunt hed got fond er me by that time, and felt dreadful
bad abaout my leavin’ on her. Cousin Siah, as we called Josiah,
didn’t cotton tew the old woman, though he did tew her cash; but we
hitched along fust-rate. She was ‘tached tew the place, hated tew
hev it let or sold, thought I’d go to everlastin’ rewin ef I took
tew lumberin’ ag’in, an’ hevin’ a tidy little sum er money all her
own, she took a notion tew buy me off. ‘Hiram,’ sez she, ‘ef yeou’ll
stay tew hum, merry some smart gal, an’ kerry on the farm, I’ll
leave yeou the hull er my fortin. Ef yeou don’t, I’ll leave every
cent on’t tew Siah, though he ain’t done as waal by me as yeou hev.
Come,’ sez she, ‘I’m breakin’ up like brother; I shan’t wurry any
one a gret while, and ‘fore spring I dessay you’ll hev cause tew
rejice that yeou done as Aunt Si counselled yeou.’
“Now, that idee kinder took me, seein’ I hedn’t no overpaourin’ love
fer cousin; but I brewdid over it a spell ‘fore I ‘greed. Fin’lly, I
said I’d dew it, as it warn’t a hard nor a bad trade; and begun to
look raound fer Mis Flint, Jr. Aunt was dreadf’l pleased; but ‘mazin
pertickler as tew who was goan tew stan’ in her shoes, when she was
fetched up ag’inst the etarnal boom. There was a sight er lovely
women-folks raound taown; but aunt she set her foot daown that Mis
Flint must be smart, pious, an’ good-natered; harnsome she didn’t
say nothin’ abaout, bein’ the humliest woman in the State er Maine.
I hed my own calk’lations on that pint, an’ went sparkin’ two or
three er the pootiest gals, all that winter. I warn’t in no hurry,
fer merryin’ is an awful resky bizness; an’ I warn’t goan to be took
in by nobuddy. Some haouw I couldn’t make up my mind which I’d hev,
and kept dodgin’, all ready to slew raound, an’ hitch on tew ary one
that seemed likeliest. ‘Long in March, aunt, she ketched cold, took
tew her bed, got wuss, an’ told me tew hurry up, fer nary red should
I hev, ef I warn’t safely merried ‘fore she stepped out. I thought
that was ruther craoudin’ a feller; but I see she was goan sure, an’
I’d got intew a way er considerin’ the cash mine, so that it come
hard to hear abaout givin’ on’t up. Off I went that evenin’ an’
asked Almiry Nash ef she’d hev me. No, she wouldn’t; I’d
shilly-shallyed so long, she’d got tired er waitin’ and took tew
keepin’ company with a doctor daown tew Bang-gore, where she’d ben
visitin’ a spell. I didn’t find that as hard a rub to swaller, as
I’d a thought I would, though Almiry was the richest, pootiest, and
good-naterest of the lot. Aunt larfed waal, an’ told me tew try
agin; so a couple er nights arfter, I spruced up, an’ went over to
Car’line Miles’s; she was as smart as old cheese, an’ waal off intew
the barg’in. I was just as sure she’d hev me, as I be that I’m
gittin’ the rewmatiz a settin’ in this ma’sh. But that minx, Almiry,
hed ben and let on abaout her own sarsy way er servin’ on me, an’
Car’line jest up an’ said she warn’t goan to hev annybuddy’s
leavin’s; so daown I come ag’in.
“Things was gettin’ desper’t by that time; for aunt was failin’
rapid, an’ the story hed leaked aout some way, so the hull taown was
gigglin’ over it. I thought I’d better quit them parts; but aunt she
showed me her will all done complete, ‘sceptin’ the fust name er the
legatee. ‘There,’ sez she, ‘it all depends on yeou, whether that
place is took by Hiram or Josiah. It’s easy done, an’ so it’s goan
tew stan’ till the last minnit.’ That riled me consid’able, an’ I
streaked off tew May Jane Simlin’s. She want very waal off, nor
extra harnsome, but she was pious the wust kind, an’ dreadf’l clever
to them she fancied. But I was daown on my luck agin; fer at the
fust word I spoke of merryin’, she showed me the door, an’ give me
to understan’ that she couldn’t think er hevin’ a man that warn’t a
church-member, that hadn’t experienced religion, or even ben struck
with conviction, an’ all the rest on’t. Ef anny one hed a wanted tew
hev seen a walkin’ hornet’s nest, they could hev done it cheap that
night, as I went hum. I jest stramed intew the kitchen, chucked my
hat intew one corner, my coat intew ‘nother, kicked the cat, cussed
the fire, drawed up a chair, and set scaoulin’ like sixty, bein’ tew
mad for talkin’. The young woman that was nussin’ aunt,--Bewlah
Blish, by name,--was a cookin’ grewel on the coals, and ‘peared tew
understan’ the mess I was in; but she didn’t say nothin’, only
blowed up the fire, fetched me a mug er cider, an’ went raound so
kinder quiet, and sympathizin’, that I faound the wrinkles in my
temper gettin’ smoothed aout ‘mazin’ quick; an’ ‘fore long I made a
clean breast er the hull thing. Bewlah larfed, but I didn’t mind her
doin’ on’t, for she sez, sez she, real sort o’ cunnin’,--
“‘Poor Hiram! they didn’t use yeou waal. Yeou ought to hev tried
some er the poor an’ humly girls; they’d a’ been glad an’ grateful
fer such a sweetheart as yeou be.’
“I was good-natered agin by that time, an’ I sez, larfin’ along with
her, ‘Waal I’ve got three mittens, but I guess I might’s waal hev
‘nother, and that will make two pair complete. Say, Bewlah, will
yeou hev me?’
“‘Yes, I will,’ sez she.
“‘Reelly?’ sez I.
“‘Solemn trew,’ sez she.
“Ef she’d up an’ slapped me in the face, I shouldn’t hev ben more
throwed aback, fer I never mistrusted she cared two chips for me. I
jest set an’ gawped; fer she was solemn trew, I see that with half
an eye, an’ it kinder took my breath away. Bewlah drawed the grewel
off the fire, wiped her hands, an’ stood lookin’ at me a minnet,
then she sez, slow an’ quiet, but tremblin’ a little, as women hev a
way er doin’, when they’ve consid’able steam aboard,--
“‘Hiram, other folks think lumberin’ has spilt yeou; I don’t; they
call yeou rough an’ rewd; I know you’ve got a real kind heart fer
them as knows haow tew find it. Them girls give yeou up so easy,
‘cause they never loved yeou, an’ yeou give them up ‘cause yeou only
thought abaout their looks an’ money. I’m humly, an’ I’m poor; but
I’ve loved yeou ever sence we went a-nuttin’ years ago, an’ yeou
shook daown fer me, kerried my bag, and kissed me tew the gate, when
all the others shunned me, ‘cause my father drank an’ I was shably
dressed, ugly, an’ shy. Yeou asked me in sport, I answered in
airnest; but I don’t expect nothin’ unless yeou mean as I mean. Like
me, Hiram, or leave me, it won’t make no odds in my lovin’ er yeou,
nor helpin’ er yeou, ef I kin.’
“‘Tain’t easy tew say haouw I felt, while she was goin’ on that way;
but my idees was tumblin’ raound inside er me, as ef half a dozen
dams was broke loose all tew oncet. One thing was ruther stiddier ‘n
the rest, an’ that was that I liked Bewlah morn’n I knew. I begun
tew see what kep me loopin’ tew hum so much, sence aunt was took
daown; why I want in no hurry tew git them other gals, an’ haow I
come tew pocket my mittens so easy arfter the fust rile was over.
Bewlah was humly, poor in flesh, dreadful freckled, hed red hair,
black eyes, an’ a gret mold side er her nose. But I’d got wonted tew
her; she knowed my ways, was a fust rate housekeeper, real
good-tempered, and pious without flingin’ on’t in yer face. She was
a lonely creeter,--her folks bein’ all dead but one sister, who
didn’t use her waal, an’ somehow I kinder yearned over her, as they
say in Scripter. For all I set an’ gawped, I was coming raound fast,
though I felt as I used tew, when I was goin’ to shoot the rapids,
kinder breathless an’ oncertin, whether Id come aout right side up
or not. Queer, warn’t it?”
“Love, Flint; that was a sure symptom of it.”
“Waal, guess ‘twas; anyway I jumped up all er a sudden, ketched
Bewlah raound the neck, give her a hearty kiss, and sung aout, ‘I’ll
dew it sure’s my name’s Hi Flint!’ The words was scurcely aout er my
maouth, ‘fore daown come Dr. Parr. He’d ben up tew see aunt, an’
said she wouldn’t last the night threw, prob’ly. That give me a
scarer the wust kind; an’ when I told doctor haow things was, he
sez, kinder jokin’,--
“‘Better git merried right away, then. Parson Dill is tew come an’
see the old lady, an’ he’ll dew both jobs tew oncet.’
“‘Will yeou, Bewlah?’ sez I.
“‘Yes, Hiram, to ‘blige yeou,’ sez she.
“With that, I put it fer the parson and the license; got ‘em both,
an’ was back in less’n half an haour, most tuckered aout with the
flurry er the hull concern. Quick as I’d been, Bewlah hed faound
time tew whip on her best gaoun, fix up her hair, and put a couple
er white chrissanthymums intew her hank’chif pin. Fer the fust time
in her life, she looked harnsome,--leastways I thought so,--with a
pretty color in her cheeks, somethin’ brighter’n a larf shinin’ in
her eyes, an’ her lips smilin’ an’ tremblin’, as she come to me an’
whispered so’s’t none er the rest could hear,--
“‘Hiram, don’t yeou dew it, ef yeou’d ruther not. I’ve stood it a
gret while alone, an’ I guess I can ag’in.’
“Never yeou mind what I said or done abaout that; but we was married
ten minutes arfter, ‘fore the kitchen fire, with Dr. Parr an’ oaur
hired man, fer witnesses; an’ then we all went up tew aunt. She was
goan fast, but she understood what I told her, hed strength tew fill
up the hole in the will, an’ to say, a-kissin’ Bewlah, ‘Yeou’ll be a
good wife, an’ naouw yeou ain’t a poor one.’
“I couldn’t help givin’ a peek tew the will, and there I see not
Hiram Flint, nor Josiah Flint, but Bewlah Flint, wrote every which
way, but as plain as the nose on yer face. ‘It won’t make no odds
dear,’ whispered my wife, peekin’ over my shoulder. ‘Guess it
won’t!’ sez I, aout laoud; ‘I’m glad on’t, and it ain’t a cent
more’n yeou derserve.’
“That pleased aunt. ‘Riz me, Hiram,’ sez she; an’ when I’d got her
easy, she put her old arms raound my neck, an’ tried to say, ‘God
bless you, dear--,’ but died a doin’ of it; an’ I ain’t ashamed tew
say I boo-hooed real hearty, when I laid her daown, fer she was
dreadf’l good tew me, an’ I don’t forgit her in a hurry.”
“How’s Bewlah?” asked Dick, after the little tribute of respect all
paid to Aunt Siloam’s memory, by a momentary silence.
“Fust-rate! that harum scarum venter er mine was the best I ever
made. She’s done waal by me, hes Bewlah; ben a grand good
haousekeeper, kin kerry on the farm better’n me, any time, an’ is as
dutif’l an’ lovin’ a wife as,--waal as annything that is extra
dutif’l and lovin’.”
“Got any boys to brag of?”
“We don’t think much o’ boys daown aour way; they’re ‘mazin resky
stock to fetch up,--alluz breakin’ baounds, gittin’ intew the
paound, and wurry your life aout somehaow ‘nother. Gals naow doos
waal; I got six o’ the likeliest the is goin’, every one on ‘em is
the very moral of Bewlah,--red hair, black eyes, quiet ways, an’ a
mold side the nose. Baby’s ain’t growed yet; but I expect tew see it
in a consid’able state o’ forrardness, when I git hum, an’ wouldn’t
miss it fer the world.”
The droll expressions of Flint’s face, and the satisfied twang of
his last words, were irresistable. Dick and Phil went off into a
shout of laughter; and even Thorn’s grave lips relapsed into a smile
at the vision of six little Flints with their six little moles. As
if the act were an established ceremony, the “paternal head”
 produced his pocket-book, selected a worn, black and white paper,
which he spread in his broad palm, and displayed with the air of a
connoisseur.
“There, thets Bewlah! we call it a cuttin’; but the proper name’s a
silly-hoot I b’leeve. I’ve got a harnsome big degarrytype tew hum
but the heft on’t makes it bad tew kerry raound, so I took this. I
don’t tote it abaout inside my shirt as some dew,--it aint my way;
but I keep it in my puss long with my other valleu’bles, and guess I
set as much stoxe by it as ef it was all painted up, and done off to
keell.”
The “silly-hoot” was examined with interest, and carefully stowed
away again in the old brown wallet which was settled in its place
with a satisfied slap, then Flint said briskly,--
“Naouw, Phil, yeou close this interestin’ and instructive meeting;
and be spry, fer time’s most up.”
“I haven’t much to tell, but must begin with a confession which I
have often longed but never dared to make before, because I am a
coward.”
“Sho! who’s goan to b’leeve that o’ a man who fit like a wild cat,
wuz offered fer permotion on the field, and wuz reported tew
headquarters arfter his fust scrimmage. Try ag’in, Phil.”
“Physical courage is as plentiful as brass buttons, nowadays, but
moral courage is a rarer virtue; and I’m lacking in it, as I’ll
prove. You think me a Virginian; I’m an Alabamian by birth, and was
a reb three months ago.”
This confession startled his hearers, as he knew it would, for he
had kept his secret well. Thorn laid his hand involuntarily upon his
rifle, Dick drew off a little, and Flint illustrated one of his own
expressions, for he “gawped.” Phil laughed that musical laugh of
his, and looked up at them with his dark face waking into sudden
life as he went on:--
“There’s no treason in the camp, for I’m as fierce a Federalist as
any of you now, and you may thank a woman for it. When Lee made his
raid into Pennsylvania, I was a lieutenant in the--well, never mind
what regiment, it hasn’t signalized itself since, and I’d rather not
hit my old neighbors when they are down. In one of the skirmishes
during our retreat, I got a wound and was left for dead. A kind old
Quaker found and took me home; but though I was too weak to talk, I
had my senses by that time, and knew what went on about me.
Everything was in confusion, even in that well-ordered place; no
surgeon could be got at first, and a flock of frightened women
thee’d and thou’d one another over me, but hadn’t wit enough to see
that I was bleeding to death. Among the faces that danced before my
dizzy eyes was one that seemed familiar, probably because no cap
surrounded it. I was glad to have it bending over me, to hear a
steady voice say, ‘Give me a bandage, quick!’ and when none was
instantly forthcoming to me, the young lady stripped up a little
white apron she wore, and stanched the wound in my shoulder. I was
not as badly hurt as I supposed, but so worn-out, and faint from
loss of blood, they believed me to be dying, and so did I, when the
old man took off his hat and said,--
“‘Friend, if thee has anything to say, thee had better say it, for
thee probably has not long to live.’
“I thought of my little sister, far away in Alabama, fancied she
came to me, and muttered, ‘Amy, kiss me, good-by.’ The women sobbed
at that; but the girl bent her sweet compassionate face to mine, and
kissed me on the forehead. That was my wife.”
“So you seceded from Secession right away, to pay for that
lip-service, hey?”
“No, Thorn, not right away,--to my shame be it spoken. I’ll tell you
how it came about. Margaret was not old Bent’s daughter, but a
Virginia girl on a visit, and a long one it proved, for she couldn’t
go till things were quieter. While she waited, she helped take care
of me; for the good souls petted me like a baby when they found that
a Rebel could be a gentleman. I held my tongue, and behaved my best
to prove my gratitude, you know. Of course, I loved Margaret very
soon. How could I help it? She was the sweetest woman I had ever
seen, tender, frank, and spirited; all I had ever dreamed of and
longed for. I did not speak of this, nor hope for a return, because
I knew she was a hearty Unionist, and thought she only tended me
from pity. But suddenly she decided to go home, and when I ventured
to wish she would stay longer, she would not listen, and said, ‘I
must not stay; I should have gone before.’”
“The words were nothing, but as she uttered them the color came up
beautifully over all her face, and her eyes filled as they looked
away from mine. Then I knew that she loved me, and my secret broke
out half against my will. Margaret was forced to listen, for I would
not let her go, but she seemed to harden herself against me, growing
colder, stiller, statelier, as I went on, and when I said in my
desperate way,--
“‘You should love me, for we are bid to love our enemies,’ she
flashed an indignant look at me and said,--
“‘I will not love what I cannot respect! Come to me a loyal man, and
see what answer I shall give you.’
“Then she went away. It was the wisest thing she could have done,
for absence did more to change me than an ocean of tears, a year of
exhortations. Lying there, I missed her every hour of the day,
recalled every gentle act, kind word, and fair example she had given
me. I contrasted my own belief with hers, and found a new
significance in the words honesty and honor, and, remembering her
fidelity to principle, was ashamed of my own treason to God and to
herself. Education, prejudice, and interest, are difficult things to
overcome, and that was the hottest fight I ever passed through,
for, as I tell you, I was a coward. But love and loyalty won the
day, and, asking no quarter, the Rebel surrendered.”
“Phil Beaufort, you’re a brick!” cried Dick, with a sounding slap on
his comrade’s shoulder.
“A brand snatched from the burnin’. Hallelujah!” chanted Flint,
seesawing with excitement.
“Then you went to find your wife? How? Where?” asked Thorn,
forgetting vigilance in interest.
“Friend Bent hated war so heartily that he would have nothing to do
with paroles, exchanges, or any martial process whatever, but bade
me go when and where I liked, remembering to do by others as I had
been done by. Before I was well enough to go, however, I managed, by
means of Copperhead influence and returned prisoners, to send a
letter to my father and receive an answer. You can imagine what both
contained; and so I found myself penniless, but not poor, an
outcast, but not alone. Old Bent treated me like a prodigal son, and
put money in my purse; his pretty daughters loved me for Margaret’s
sake, and gave me a patriotic salute all round when I left them, the
humblest, happiest man in Pennsylvania. Margaret once said to me
that this was the time for deeds, not words; that no man should
stand idle, but serve the good cause with head, heart, and hand, no
matter in what rank; for in her eyes a private fighting for liberty
was nobler than a dozen generals defending slavery. I remembered
that, and, not having influential friends to get me a commission,
enlisted in one of her own Virginia regiments, knowing that no act
of mine would prove my sincerity like that. You should have seen her
face when I walked in upon her, as she sat alone, busied with the
army work, as I’d so often seen her sitting by my bed; it showed me
all she had been suffering in silence, all I should have lost had I
chosen darkness instead of light. She hoped and feared so much she
could not speak, neither could I, but dropped my cloak, and showed
her that, through love of her, I had become a soldier of the Flag.
How I love the coarse blue uniform! for when she saw it, she came to
me without a word and kept her promise in a month.”
“Thunder! what a harnsome woman!” exclaimed Flint, as Phil, opening
the golden case that held his talisman, showed them the beautiful,
beloved face of which he spoke.
“Yes! and a right noble woman too. I don’t deserve her, but I will.
We parted on our wedding-day, for orders to be off came suddenly,
and she would not let me go until I had given her my name to keep.
We were married in the morning, and at noon I had to go. Other women
wept as we marched through the town, but my brave Margaret kept her
tears till we were gone, smiling, and waving her hand to me,--the
hand that wore the wedding-ring,--till I was out of sight. That
image of her is before me day and night, and day and night her last
words are ringing in my ears,--
“‘I give you freely, do your best. Better a true man’s widow than a
traitor’s wife.’
“Boys, I’ve only stood on the right side for a month; I’ve only
fought one battle, earned one honor; but I believe these poor
achievements are an earnest of the long atonement I desire to make
for five and twenty years of blind transgression. You say I fight
well. Have I not cause to dare much?--for in owning many slaves, I
too became a slave; in helping to make many freemen, I liberate
myself. You wonder why I refused promotion. Have I any right to it
yet? Are there not men who never sinned as I have done, and beside
whose sacrifices mine look pitifully small? You tell me I have no
ambition. I have the highest, for I desire to become God’s noblest
work,--an honest man,--living, to make Margaret happy, in a love
that every hour grows worthier of her own,--dying, to make death
proud to take me.”
Phil had risen while he spoke, as if the enthusiasm of his mood
lifted him into the truer manhood he aspired to attain. Straight and
strong he stood up in the moonlight, his voice deepened by unwonted
energy, his eye clear and steadfast, his whole face ennobled by the
regenerating power of this late loyalty to country, wife, and self,
and bright against the dark blue of his jacket shone the pictured
face, the only medal he was proud to wear.
Ah, brave, brief moment, cancelling years of wrong! Ah, fair and
fatal decoration, serving as a mark for a hidden foe! The sharp
crack of a rifle broke the stillness of the night, and with those
hopeful words upon his lips, the young man sealed his purpose with
his life.
THE KING OF CLUBS AND THE QUEEN OF HEARTS.
A STORY FOR YOUNG AMERICA.
FIVE and twenty ladies, all in a row, sat on one side of the hall,
looking very much as if they felt like the little old woman who fell
asleep on the king’s highway and awoke with abbreviated drapery, for
they were all arrayed in gray tunics and Turkish continuations,
profusely adorned with many-colored trimmings. Five and twenty
gentleman, all in a row, sat on the opposite side of the hall,
looking somewhat subdued, as men are apt to do when they fancy they
are in danger of making fools of themselves. They, also, were en
costume, for all the dark ones had grown piratical in red shirts,
the light ones nautical in blue; and a few boldly appeared in white,
making up in starch and studs what they lost in color, while all
were more or less Byronic as to collar.
On the platform appeared a pile of dumb-bells, a regiment of clubs,
and a pyramid of bean-bags, and stirring nervously among them a
foreign-looking gentleman, the new leader of a class lately formed
by Dr. Thor Turner, whose mission it was to strengthen the world’s
spine, and convert it to a belief in air and exercise, by setting it
to balancing its poles and spinning merrily, while enjoying the
“Sun-cure” on a large scale. His advent formed an epoch in the
history of the town; for it was a quiet old village, guiltless of
bustle, fashion, or parade, where each man stood for what he was;
and, being a sagacious set, every one’s true value was pretty
accurately known. It was a neighborly town, with gossip enough to
stir the social atmosphere with small gusts of interest or wonder,
yet do no harm. A sensible, free-and-easy town, for the wisest man
in it wore the worst boots, and no one thought the less of his
understanding; the belle of the village went shopping with a big
sun-bonnet and tin pail, and no one found her beauty lessened;
oddities of all sorts ambled peacefully about on their various
hobbies, and no one suggested the expediency of a trip on the wooden
horse upon which the chivalrous South is always eager to mount an
irrepressible abolitionist. Restless people were soothed by the
lullaby the river sang in its slow journey to the sea, old people
found here a pleasant place to make ready to die in, young people to
survey the world from, before taking their first flight, and
strangers looked back upon it, as a quiet nook full of ancient
legends and modern lights, which would keep its memory green when
many a gayer spot was quite forgotten. Anything based upon common
sense found favor with the inhabitants, and Dr. Turner’s theories,
being eminently so, were accepted at once and energetically carried
out. A sort of heathen revival took place, for even the ministers
and deacons turned Musclemen; old ladies tossed bean-bags till their
caps were awry, and winter roses blossomed on their cheeks;
school-children proved the worth of the old proverb, “An ounce of
prevention is worth a pound of cure,” by getting their backs ready
before the burdens came; pale girls grew blithe and strong swinging
their dumb namesakes; and jolly lads marched to and fro embracing
clubs as if longevity were corked up in those wooden bottles, and
they all took “modest quenchers” by the way.
August Bopp, the new leader of the class, was a German possessing
but a small stock of English, though a fine gynmast; and, being also
a bashful man, the appointed moment had no sooner arrived than he
found his carefully prepared sentences slipping away from his memory
as the ice appears to do from under unhappy souls first mounted upon
skates. An awful silence reigned; Mr. Bopp glanced nervously over
his shoulder at the staring rows, more appalling in their stillness
than if they had risen up and hooted at him, then piling up the bags
for the seventh time, he gave himself a mental shake, and, with a
crimson visage, was about to launch his first “Ladees und
gentlemen,” when the door opened, and a small, merry-faced figure
appeared, looking quite at ease in the novel dress, as, with a
comprehensive nod, it marched straight across the hall to its place
among the weaker vessels.
A general glance of approbation followed from the gentlemen’s side,
a welcoming murmur ran along the ladies’, and the fifty pairs of
eyes changed their focus for a moment. Taking advantage of which,
Mr. Bopp righted himself, and burst out with a decided,--
“Ladees und gentlemen: the time have arrived that we shall begin.
Will the gentlemen serve the ladees to a wand, each one, then spread
theirselves about the hall, and follow the motions I will make as I
shall count.”
Five minutes of chaos, then all fell into order, and nothing was
heard but the leader’s voice and the stir of many bodies moving
simultaneously. An uninitiated observer would have thought himself
in Bedlam; for as the evening wore on, the laws of society seemed
given to the winds, and humanity gone mad. Bags flew in all
directions, clubs hurtled through the air, and dumb-bells played a
castinet accompaniment to peals of laughter that made better music
than any band. Old and young gave themselves up to the universal
merriment, and, setting dignity aside, played like happy-hearted
children for an hour. Stout Dr. Quackenboss gasped twice round the
hall on one toe; stately Mrs. Primmins ran like a girl of fifteen to
get her pins home before her competitor; Tommy Inches, four feet
three, trotted away with Deacon Stone on his shoulder, while Mr.
Steepleton and Miss Maypole hopped together like a pair of lively
young ostriches, and Ned Amandine, the village beau, blew arrows
through a pop-gun, like a modern Cupid in pegtops instead of
pinions.
The sprightly young lady whose entrance had been so opportune seemed
a universal favorite, and was overwhelmed with invitations to “bag,”
 “hop,” and “blow” from the gentlemen who hovered about her,
cheerfully distorting themselves to the verge of dislocation in
order to win a glance of approbation from the merry black eyes which
were the tapers where all these muscular moths singed their wings.
Mr. Bopp had never seen such a little piece of earnestness before,
and began to think the young lady must be training for a boat-race
or the ring. Her dumb-bells flew about till a pair of white arms
looked like the sails of a windmill; she hit out from the shoulder
with a vigor that would have done execution had there been anything
but empty air to “punish;” and the “one, two, three!” of the Zouave
movement went off with a snap; while the color deepened from pink to
scarlet in her cheeks, the black braids tumbled down upon her
shoulders, and the clasp of her belt flew asunder; but her eye
seldom left the leader’s face, and she followed every motion with an
agility and precision quite inspiring. Mr. Bopp’s courage rose as he
watched her, and a burning desire to excel took possession of him,
till he felt as if his muscles were made of India-rubber, and his
nerves of iron. He went into his work heart and soul, shaking a
brown mane out of his eyes, issuing commands like general at the
head of his troops, and keeping both interest and fun in full blast
till people laughed who had not laughed heartily for years; lungs
got their fill for once, unsuspected muscles were suddenly
developed, and, when the clock struck ten, all were bubbling over
with that innocent jollity which makes youth worth possessing, and
its memory the sunshine of old age.
The last exercise was drawing to a close, and a large ring of
respectable members of society were violently sitting down and
rising up in a manner which would have scandalized Miss Wilhelmina
Carolina Amelia S. Keggs to the last degree, when Mr. Bopp was seen
to grow very pale, and drop in a manner which it was evident his
pupils were not expected to follow.
At this unexpected performance, the gentlemen took advantage of
their newly-acquired agility to fly over all obstacles and swarm on
to the platform, while the ladies successfully lessened their
unusual bloom by staring wildly at one another and suggesting awful
impossibilities. The bustle subsided, as suddenly as it arose; and
Mr. Bopp, rather damp about the head and dizzy about the eye, but
quite composed, appeared, saying, with the broken English and
appealing manner which caused all the ladies to pronounce him “a
dear” on the spot,--
“I hope you will excoose me for making this lesson to be more short
than it should; but I have exercise nine hours this day, and being
just got well from a illness, I have not recover the strength I have
lost. Next week I shall be able to take time by the hair, so that I
will not have so much engagements in one day. I thank you for your
kindness, and say good-efening.”
After a round of applause, as a last vent for their spirits, the
class dispersed, and Mr. Bopp was wrestling with a vicious pin as he
put on his collar (“a sure sign he has no ma to see to his buttons,
poor lamb!” thought Mrs. Fairbairn, watching him from afar); when
the sprightly young lady, accompanied by a lad the masculine image
of herself, appeared upon the platform, saying, with an aspect as
cordial as her words,--
“Good-evening, Professor. Allow me to introduce my brother and
myself, Dick and Dolly Ward, and ask you in my mother’s name, to
come home with us; for the tavern is not a cosy place, and after all
this exertion you should be made comfortable. Please come, for Dr.
Turner always stayed with us, and we promised to do the honors of
the town to any gentleman he might send to supply his place.”
“Of course we did; and mother is probably freezing her blessed nose
off watching for us; so don’t disappoint her, Bopp. It’s all
settled, the sleigh’s at the door, and here’s your coat; so, come
on!”
Dick was a fine sample of young America in its best aspect, and
would have said “How are you?” to Louis Napoleon if he had been at
hand, and have done it so heartily that the great Frenchman would
have found it hard to resist giving as frank an answer. Therefore no
wonder that Mr. Bopp surrendered at once; for the young gentleman
took possession of him bodily, and shook him into his coat with an
amiable impetuosity which developed a sudden rent in the well-worn
sleeve thereof, and caused an expression of dismay, to dawn upon the
owner’s countenance.
“Beg pardon; never mind; mother’ll sew you up in two seconds, and
your overcoat will hide the damage. Where is it? I’ll get it, and
then we’ll be off.”
Mr. Bopp colored distressfully, looked up, looked down, and then
straight into the lad’s face, saying simply,--
“Thank you; I haf no coat but one.”
Dick opened his eyes, and was about opening his mouth also, for the
exit of some blunderingly good-natured reply, when a warning poke
from his sister restrained him, while Dolly, with the innocent
hypocrisy which is as natural to some women as the art of tying
bows, said, as she led the way out,--
“You see the worth of gymnastics, Dick, in this delightful
indifference to cold. I sincerely hope we may reach a like enviable
state of health, and look upon great-coats as effeminate, and
mufflers a weakness of the flesh. Do you think we shall, Mr. Bopp?”
He shook his head with a perceptible shiver as the keen north wind
smote him in the face, but answered, with a look half merry, half
sad,--
“It is not choice, but what you call necessitee, with me; and I
truly hope you may never haf to exercise to keep life in you when
you haf sold your coat to pay a doctor’s bill, or teach the art of
laughing while your heart is heavy as one stone. You would not like
that, I think, yet it is good, too; for small things make much
happiness for me, and a kind word is often better than a rix
dollar.”
There was something in the young man’s tone and manner which touched
and won his hearers at once. Dolly secretly resolved to put an extra
blanket on his bed, and shower kind words upon him, while Dick
tucked him up in buffalo robes where he sat helplessly beaming down
upon the red hood at his side.
A roaring fire shone out hospitably as they came, and glorified the
pleasant room, dancing on ancient furniture and pictured walls till
the jolly old portraits seemed to wink a visible welcome. A
cheery-faced little woman, like an elder Dolly, in a widow’s cap,
stood on the threshold, with a friendly greeting for the stranger,
which warmed him as no fine could have done.
If August Bopp had been an Englishman, he would have felt much, but
said less on that account; if he had been an American, he would have
tried to conceal his poverty, and impress the family with his past
grandeur, present importance, or future prospects; being a German,
he showed exactly what he was, with the childlike frankness of his
race. Having had no dinner, he ate heartily of what was offered him;
being cold, he basked in the generous warmth; being homesick and
solitary, he enjoyed the genial influences that surrounded him, and
told his story, sure of sympathy; for even in prosaic Yankeedom he
had found it, as travellers find Alpine flowers among the snow.
It was a simple story of a laborious boyhood, being early left an
orphan, with a little sister dependent on him, till an opening in
America tempted him to leave her and come to try and earn a home for
her and for himself. Sickness, misfortune, and disappointment had
been his companions for a year; but he still worked, still hoped,
and waited for the happy hour when little Ulla should come to him
across the sea. This was all; yet as he told it, with the magical
accompaniments of gesture, look, and tone, it seemed full of pathos
and romance to his listeners, whose faces proved their interest more
flatteringly than their words.
Mrs. Ward mended the torn coat with motherly zeal, and gave it many
of those timely stitches which thrifty women love to sew. The twins
devoted themselves to their guest, each in a characteristic manner.
Dick, as host, offered every article of refreshment the house
afforded, goaded the fire to a perpetual roar, and discussed
gymnastics, with bursts of boyish admiration for the grace and skill
of his new leader, whom he christened King of Clubs on the spot.
Dolly made the stranger one of them at once by talking bad German,
as an offset to his bad English, called him Professor in spite of
all denials, and unconsciously symbolized his future bondage by
giving him a tangled skein to hold for the furtherance of her
mother’s somewhat lengthened job.
The Cupid of the present day was undoubtedly “raised” in
Connecticut; for the ingenuity and shrewdness of that small
personage could have sprung from no other soil. In former times his
stratagems were of the romantic order. Colin bleated forth his
passion in rhyme, and cast sheep’s eyes from among his flock, while
Phyllis coquetted with her crook and stuck posies in his hat; royal
Ferdinand and Miranda played at chess; Ivanhoe upset his fellow-men
like ninepins for love of lackadaisical Rowena; and “sweet Moll”
 turned the pages while her lover, Milton, sang. But in our day the
jolly little god, though still a heathen in the severe simplicity of
his attire, has become modernized in his arts, and invented
huskings, apple-bees, sleigh-rides, “drop-ins,” gymnastics, and,
among his finer snares, the putting on of skates, drawing of
patterns, and holding skeins,--the last-named having superior
advantages over the others, as all will testify who have enjoyed one
of those hand-to-hand skirmishes.
August Bopp was three and twenty, imaginative, grateful, and
heart-whole; therefore, when he found himself sitting opposite a
blooming little damsel, with a head, bound by a pretty red snood,
bent down before him, and very close to his own a pair of
distracting hands, every finger of which had a hit to make, and made
it, it is not to be denied that he felt himself entering upon a new
and very agreeable experience. Where could he look but in the face
opposite, sometimes so girlishly merry and sometimes so beautifully
shy? It was a winning face, full of smooth curves, fresh colors, and
sunshiny twinkles,--a face every one liked, for it was as changeful
as an April day, and always pleasant, whether mischievous, mournful,
or demure.
Like one watching a new picture, Mr. Bopp inspected every feature of
the countenance so near his own; and, as his admiration “grew by
what it fed on,” he fell into a chronic state of stammer and blush;
for the frank eyes were very kind, the smooth cheeks reflected a
pretty shade of his own crimson, and the smiling lips seemed
constantly suggesting, with mute eloquence, that they were made for
kissing, while the expressive hands picked at the knots till the
Professor felt like a very resigned fly in the web of a most
enticing young spider.
If the King of Clubs saw a comely face, the Queen of Hearts saw what
observing girls call a “good face;” and with a womanly respect for
strength, the manliest attribute of man, she admired the broad
shoulders and six feet one of her new master. This face was not
handsome, for, true to his fatherland, the Professor had an eminent
nose, a blonde beard, and a crop of “bonny brown hair” long enough
to have been gathered into a ribbon, as in the days of Schiller and
Jean Paul; but Dolly liked it, for its strength was tempered with
gentleness; patience and courage gave it dignity, and the glance
that met her own was both keen and kind.
The silk was wound at last, the coat repaired. Dick with difficulty
concealed the growing stiffness of his shoulders, while Dolly turned
up the lamp, which bluntly hinted bedtime, and Mrs. Ward
successfully devoured six gapes behind her hand, but was detected in
the seventh by Mr. Bopp, who glanced at the clock, stopped in the
middle of a sentence, and, with a hurried “goot-night,” made for the
door without the least idea whither he was going. Piloted by Dick,
he was installed in the “best chamber,” where his waking dreams were
enlivened by a great fire, and his sleeping ones by an endless
succession of skeins, each rapturously concluded in the style of Sam
Weller when folding carpets with the pretty maid.
“I tell you, Dolly, it won’t do, and I’m not going to have it.”
“Oh, indeed; and how will you help it, you absurd boy?”
“Why, if you don’t stop it, I’ll just say to Bopp,--‘Look here, my
dear fellow; this sister of mine is a capital girl, but she will
flirt and’”--
“And it’s a family failing, Dick,” cut in Dolly.
“Not a bit of it. I shall say, ‘Take care of your heart, Bopp, for
she has a bad habit of playing battle-door and shuttle-cock with
these articles; and, though it may be very good fun for a time, it
makes them ache when they get a last knock and are left to lie in a
corner.’”
“What eloquence! But you’d never dare to try it on Mr. Bopp; and I
shouldn’t like to predict what would happen to you if you did.”
“If you say ‘dare,’ I’ll do it the first minute I see him. As for
consequences, I don’t care that for ‘em;” and Dick snapped his
fingers with an aspect of much disdain. But something in his
sister’s face suggested the wisdom of moderation, and moved him to
say, less like a lord of creation, and more like a brother who
privately adored his sister, but of course was not going to
acknowledge such a weakness,--
“Well, but soberly, now, I wish you wouldn’t plague Bopp; for it’s
evident to me that he is hit; and from the way you’ve gone on these
two months, what else was to be expected? Now, as the head of the
family,--you needn’t laugh, for I am,--I think I ought to interfere;
and so I put it to you,--do you like him, and will you have him? or
are you merely amusing yourself, as you have done ever since you
were out of pinafores? If you like him, all serene. I’d rather have
him for a brother than any one I know, for he’s a regular trump
though he is poor; but if you don’t, I won’t have the dear old
fellow floored just because you like to see it done.”
It may here be remarked that Dolly quite glowed to hear her brother
praise Mr. Bopp, and that she indorsed every word with mental
additions of double warmth; but Dick had begun all wrong, and,
manlike, demanded her confidence before she had made up her mind to
own she had any to bestow; therefore nothing came of it but vexation
of spirit; for it is a well-known fact that, on some subjects, if
boys will tease, girls will fib, and both maintain that it is right.
So Dolly whetted her feminine weapon, and assumed a lofty
superiority.
“Dear me! what a sudden spasm of virtue; and why, if it is such a
sin, has not the ‘head of the house’ taken his sister to task
before, instead of indulging in a like degeneracy, and causing
several interesting persons to tear their hair, and bewail his
forgetfulness, when they ought to have blessed their stars he was
out of the way?”
Dick snowballed a dozing crow and looked nettled; for he had
attained that age when “Tom Brown at Oxford” was the book of books,
the twelfth chapter being the favorite, and five young ladies having
already been endowed with the significant heliotrope flower; all of
which facts Dolly had skilfully brought to mind, as a return-shot
for his somewhat personal remarks.
“Bah! they were only girls, and it don’t amount to anything among us
young folks; but Bopp is a grown man, and you ought to respect him
too much to play such pranks with him. Besides, he’s a German, and
more tender-hearted than we rough Yankees, as any one can see by the
way he acts when you snub him. He is proud, too, for all his
meekness, and waits till he’s sure you like him before he says
anything; and he’ll need the patience of a family of Jobs at the
rate you’re going on,--a honey-pot one day and a pickle-jar the
next. Do make up your mind, and say yes or no, right off, Dolly.”
“Would you have me meet him at the door with a meek courtesy, and
say, ‘Oh, if you please, I’m ready to say Yes, thank you, if you’ll
be good enough to say, Will you’?”
“Don’t be a goose, child; you know I mean nothing of the kind; only
you girls never will do anything straight ahead if you can dodge and
fuss and make a mess of it. Just tell me one thing: Do you, or don’t
you, like old Bopp?”
“What an elegant way to put it! Of course I like him well enough as
a leader; he is clever, and sort of cunning, and I enjoy his funny
ways; but what in the world should I do with a great yellow-haired
laddie who could put me in his pocket, and yet is so meek that I
should never find the heart to henpeck him? You are welcome to him;
and since you love him so much, there’s no need of my troubling
myself on his account; for with you for a friend, he can have no
earthly wish ungratified.”
“Don’t try to be cutting, Dolly, because you look homely when you
do, and it’s a woman’s business to be pretty, always. All I’ve got
to say is, you will be in a nice state of mind if you damage Bopp;
for every one likes him, and will be down upon you for a heartless
little wretch; and I shan’t blame them, I promise you.”
“I wish the town wouldn’t put its fingers in other people’s pies,
and you may tell it so, with my compliments; and all I have to say
is, that you men have more liberty than you know what to do with,
and we women haven’t enough; so it’s perfectly fair that we should
show you the worth of the thing by taking it away now and then. I
shall do exactly as I please; dance, walk, ride, and flirt, whenever
and with whomever I see fit; and the whole town, with Mr. Dick Ward
at their head, can’t stop me if I choose to go on. Now, then, what
next?” After which declaration of independence, Dolly folded her
arms, wheeled about and faced her brother, a spirited statuette of
Self Will, in a red hood and mittens.
Dick sternly asked,--
“Is that your firm decision, ma’am?”
“Yes.”
“And you will not give up your nonsense?”
“No.”
“You are quite sure you don’t care for Bopp?”
“I could slap him with all my heart.”
“Very good. I shall see that you don’t get a chance.”
“I wouldn’t try a skirmish, for you’ll get beaten, Dick.”
“We’ll prove that, ma’am.”
“We will, sir.”
And the belligerents loftily paced up the lawn, with their purpose
so well expressed by outward signs, that Mrs. Ward knew, by the cock
of Dick’s hat and the decided tap of Dolly’s heels, that a storm was
brewing, before they entered the door.
This fraternal conversation took place some two months from the
evening of Mr. Bopp’s advent, as the twins were strolling home from
school, which school must be briefly alluded to in order to explain
the foregoing remarks. It was an excellent institution in all
respects; for its presiding genius stood high in the townfolks’
esteem, and might have served as an example to Dr. Watts’ “busy
bee,” in the zeal with which he improved his “shining hours,” and
laid up honey against the winter, which many hoped would be long in
coming. All manner of aids were provided for sprouting souls and
bodies, diversions innumerable, and society, some members of which
might have polished off Alcibiades a la Socrates, or entertained
Plato with “æsthetic tea.” But, sad to relate, in spite of all these
blessings, the students who resorted to this academy possessed an
Adam-and-Eve-like proclivity for exactly what they hadn’t got and
didn’t need; and, not contented with the pleasures provided, must
needs play truant with that young scamp Eros, and turn the ancient
town topsy-turvy with modern innovations, till scandalized spinsters
predicted that the very babies would catch the fever, refuse their
panada in jealous gloom, send billet-doux in their rattles, elope in
wicker-carriages, and set up housekeeping in dolls’ houses, after
the latest fashion.
Certain inflammable Southerners introduced the new game, and left
such romantic legends of their loves behind them that their
successors were fired with an ambition to do the like, and excel in
all things, from cricket to captivation.
This state of things is not to be wondered at; for America, being
renowned as a “fast” nation, has become a sort of hotbed, and seems
to force humanity into early bloom. Therefore, past generations must
not groan over the sprightly present, but sit in the chimney-corner
and see boys and girls play the game which is too apt to end in a
checkmate for one of the players. To many of the lookers-on, the new
order of things was as good as a puppet-show; for, with the
enthusiasm of youth, the actors performed their parts heartily,
forgetting the audience in their own earnestness. Bless us! what
revolutions went on under the round jackets, and what love-tokens
lay in the pockets thereof. What plots and counterplots occupied the
heads that wore the innocent-looking snoods, and what captives were
taken in the many-colored nets that would come off and have to be
taken care of. What romances blossomed like dandelions along the
road to school, and what tales the river might have told if any one
could have learned its musical speech. How certain gates were
glorified by daily lingerings thereat, and what tender memories hung
about dingy desks, old pens, and books illustrated with all manner
of symbolical designs.
Let those laugh who will; older and wiser men and women might have
taken lessons of these budding heroes and heroines; for here all was
honest, sincere, and fresh; the old world had not taught them
falsehood, self-interest, or mean ambitions. When they lost or won,
they frankly grieved or rejoiced, and wore no masks except in play,
and then got them off as soon as possible. If blue-eyed Lizzie
frowned, or went home with Joe, Ned, with a wisdom older lovers
would do well to imitate, went in for another game of foot-ball,
gave the rejected apple to little Sally, and whistled “Glory
Hallelujah,” instead of “Annie Laurie,” which was better than
blowing a rival’s brains out, or glowering at womankind forever
after. Or, when Tom put on Clara’s skates three successive days, and
danced with her three successive evenings, leaving Kitty to freeze
her feet in the one instance and fold her hands in the other, she
just had a “good cry,” gave her mother an extra kiss, and waited
till the recreant Tom returned to his allegiance, finding his little
friend a sweetheart in nature as in name.
Dick and Dolly were foremost in the ranks, and expert in all the new
amusements. Dick worshipped at many shrines, but most faithfully at
that of a meek divinity, who returned charming answers to the ardent
epistles which he left in her father’s garden wall, where, Pyramus
and Thisbe-like, they often chatted through a chink; and Dolly was
seldom seen without a staff of aids who would have “fought, bled,
and died” for her as cheerfully as the Little Corporal’s Old Guard,
though she paid them only in words; for her Waterloo had not yet
come.
With the charming, perversity of her sex in such matters, no sooner
had Dolly declared that she didn’t like Mr. Bopp, than she began to
discover that she did; and so far from desiring “to slap him,” a
tendency to regard him with peculiar good-will and tenderness
developed itself, much to her own surprise; for with all her
coquetry and seeming coldness, Dolly had a right womanly heart of
her own, though she had never acknowledged the fact till August Bopp
looked at her with so much love and longing in his honest eyes. Then
she found a little fear mingling with her regard, felt a strong
desire to be respected by him, discovered a certain something which
she called conscience, restraining a reckless use of her power, and,
soon after her lofty denial to Dick, was forced to own that Mr. Bopp
had become her master in the finer species of gymnastics that came
in with Adam and Eve, and have kept all creation turning somersets
ever since. Of course these discoveries were unconfessed, even to
that best bosom friend which any of us can have; yet her mother
suspected them, and, with much anxiety, saw all, yet held her peace,
knowing that her little daughter would, sooner or later, give her a
fuller confidence than could be demanded; and remembering the
happiest moments of her own happy past, when an older Dick wooed
another Dolly, she left that flower, which never can be forced, to
open at its own sweet will.
Meanwhile, Mr. Bopp, though carrying his heart upon his sleeve,
believed his secret buried in the deepest gloom, and enjoyed all the
delightful miseries lovers insist upon making for themselves. When
Dolly was quiet and absent, he became pensive, the lesson dragged,
and people fancied they were getting tired of the humbug; when Dolly
was blithe and bland, he grew radiant, exercised within an inch of
his life as a vent for his emotions, and people went home declaring
gymnastics to be the crowning triumph of the age; and when Dolly was
capricious, Mr. Bopp, became a bewildered weathercock, changing as
the wind changed, and dire was the confusion occasioned thereby.
Like the sage fowl in the story, Dick said nothing, but “kept up a
terrible thinking,” and, not having had experience enough to know
that when a woman says No she is very apt to mean Yes, he took Dolly
at her word. Believing it to be his duty to warn “Old Bopp,” he
resolved to do it like a Roman brother, regardless of his own
feelings or his sister’s wrath, quite unconscious that the motive
power in the affair was a boyish love of ruling the young person who
ruled every one else.
Matters stood thus, when the town was electrified by a general
invitation to the annual jubilee at Jollyboys Hall, which this
spring flowered into a masquerade, and filled the souls of old and
young with visions of splendor, frolic, and fun. Being an amiable
old town, it gave itself up, like a kind grandma, to the wishes of
its children, let them put its knitting away, disturb its naps, keep
its hands busy with vanities of the flesh, and its mind in a state
of chaos for three mortal weeks. Young ladies were obscured by
tarletan fogs, behind which they concocted angels’ wings, newspaper
gowns, Minnehaha’s wampum, and Cinderella’s slippers. Inspired but
incapable boys undertook designs that would have daunted a costumer
of the first water, fell into sloughs of despond, and, emerging,
settled down from peers and paladins into jovial tars, friar
waterproofs, and officers in miscellaneous uniforms. Fathers laughed
or grumbled at the whole thing and advanced pecuniary loans with
good or ill grace, as the case might be; but the mothers, whose
interest in their children’s pleasure is a sort of evergreen that no
snows of time can kill, sewed spangles by the bushel, made
wildernesses of tissue-paper blossom as the rose, kept tempers
sweet, stomachs full, and domestic machinery working smoothly
through it all, by that maternal magic which makes them the human
providences of this naughty world.
“What shall I go as?” was the universal cry. Garrets were taken by
storm, cherished relics were teased out of old ladies’ lavendered
chests (happy she who saw them again!), hats were made into boots,
gowns into doublets, cloaks into hose, Sunday bonnets despoiled of
their plumage, silken cauliflowers sown broadcast over the land, and
cocked-up caps erected in every style of architecture, while “Tag,
Rag, and Bobtail” drove a smashing business, and everybody knew what
everybody else was going to be, and solemnly vowed they
didn’t--which transparent falsehood was the best joke of the whole.
Dolly allowed her mates to believe she was to be the Queen of
Hearts, but privately laid hold of certain brocades worn by a trim
grandmother half a century ago, and one evening burst upon her
brother in a charming “Little Bo-Peep” costume, which, for the
benefit of future distressed damsels, may be described as a “white
silk skirt, scarlet overdress neatly bundled up behind,” as ancient
