you know this world would come to an end, June?"
"Yes, Miss Daisy--"
"When will it be, June?"
"I don't know, Miss Daisy."
"There won't be anybody alive that is alive now, will there?"
Again unwillingly the answer came: "Yes, ma'am. Miss Daisy, hadn't you
better--"
"How do you know, June?"
"I have heard so--it's in the Bible--it will be when the Lord comes."
"Do you like to think of it, June?"
The child's searching eyes were upon her. The woman half laughed, half
answered, and turning aside, broke down and burst into tears.
"What's the matter, June?" said Daisy, coming nearer and speaking
awedly; for it was startling to see that stony face give way to anything
but its habitual formal smile. But the woman recovered herself almost
immediately, and answered as usual: "It's nothing, Miss Daisy." She
always spoke as if everything about her was "nothing" to everybody else.
"But, June," said Daisy tenderly, "why do you feel bad about it?"
"I shouldn't, I s'pose," said the woman desperately, answering because
she was obliged to answer; "I hain't no right to feel so--if I felt
ready."
"How can one be ready, June? that is what I want to know. Aren't you
ready?"
"Do, don't, Miss Daisy!--the Lord have mercy upon us!" said June under
her breath, wrought up to great excitement, and unable to bear the look
of the child's soft grey eyes. "Why don't ye ask your papa about them
things? he can tell ye."
Alas, Daisy's lips were sealed. Not to father or mother would she apply
with any second question on this subject. And now she must not ask Mr.
Dinwiddie. She went to bed, turning the matter all over and over in her
little head.
CHAPTER II.
For some days after this time, Mrs. Randolph fancied that her little
daughter was less lively than usual; she "moped," her mother said. Daisy
was not moping, but it was true she had been little seen or heard; and
then it was generally sitting with a book in the Belvidere or on a bank
under a rose-bush, or going out or coming in with a book under her arm.
Mrs. Randolph did not know that this book was almost always the Bible,
and Daisy had taken a little pains that she should not know, guessing
somehow that it would not be good for her studies. But her mother
thought Daisy was drooping; and Daisy had been a delicate child, and the
doctor had told them to turn her out in the country and "let her run;"
therefore it was that she was hardly ever checked in any fancy that came
into her head. But therefore it was partly, too, that Mrs. Randolph
tried to put books and thinking as far from her as she could.
"Daisy," she said one morning at the breakfast-table, "would you like to
go with June and carry some nice things down to Mrs. Parsons?"
"How, mamma?"
"How what? Do speak distinctly."
"How shall I go, I mean?"
"You may have the carriage. I cannot go, this morning or this
afternoon."
"O papa, mayn't I take Loupe and drive there myself?"
If Daisy had put the question at the other end of the table, there would
have been an end of the business, as she knew. As it was, her father's
"yes" got out just before her mother's "no."
"Yes she may," said Mr. Randolph--"no harm. John, tell Sam that he is to
take the black pony and go with the pony-chaise whenever Miss Daisy
drives. Daisy, see that he goes with you."
"Well," said Mrs. Randolph, "you may do as you like, but I think it is a
very unsafe proceeding. What's Sam?--he's a boy."
"Safe enough," said Mr. Randolph. "I can trust all three of the party;
Daisy, Loupe, and Sam. They all know their business, and they will all
do it."
"Well!--I think it is very unsafe," repeated Mrs. Randolph.
"Mamma," said Daisy, when she had allowed a moment to pass--"what shall
I take to Mrs. Parsons."
"You must go and see Joanna about that. You may make up whatever you
think will please her or do her good. Joanna will tell you."
And Mrs. Randolph had the satisfaction of seeing that Daisy's eyes were
lively enough for the rest of breakfast-time, and her colour perceptibly
raised. No sooner was breakfast over than she flew to the consultation
in the housekeeper's room.
Joanna was the housekeeper, and Mrs. Randolph's right hand; a jewel of
skill and efficiency; and as fully satisfied with her post and power in
the world, at the head of Mr. Randolph's household, as any throned
emperor or diademed queen; furthermore, devoted to her employers as
though their concerns had been, what indeed she reckoned them, her own.
"Mrs. Randolph didn't say anything to me about it," said this piece of
capability,--"but I suppose it isn't hard to manage. Who is Mrs.
Parsons? that's the first thing."
"She's a very poor old woman, Joanna; and she is obliged to keep her bed
always; there is something the matter with her. She lives with a
daughter of hers who takes care of her, I believe; but they haven't much
to live upon, and the daughter isn't smart. Mrs. Parsons hasn't anything
fit for her to eat, unless somebody sends it to her."
"What's the matter with her? ain't she going to get well?"
"No, never--she will always be obliged to lie on her bed as long as she
lives; and so, you see, Joanna, she hasn't appetite for coarse things."
"Humph!" said Joanna. "Custards won't give it to her. What does the
daughter live upon?"
"She does washing for people; but of course that don't give her much.
They are very poor, I know."
"Well, what would you like to take her, Miss Daisy?"
"Mother said you'd know."
"Well, I'll tell you what I think--sweetmeats ain't good for such
folks. You wait till afternoon, and you shall have a pail of nice broth
and a bowl of arrowroot with wine and sugar in it; that'll hearten her
up. Will that do?"
"But I should like to take something to the other poor woman, too."
"How are you going?"
"In my pony-chaise--I can take anything."
Joanna muttered an ejaculation. "Well then, Miss Daisy, a basket of cold
meat wouldn't come amiss, I suppose."
"And some bread, Joanna?"
"The chaise won't hold so much."
"It has got to hold the basket," said Daisy in much glee, "and the bread
can go in. And, Joanna, I'll have it ready at half-past four o'clock."
There was no air of moping about Daisy, when, at half-past four she set
off from the house in her pony-chaise, laden with pail and basket and
all she had bargained for. A happier child was seldom seen. Sam, a
capable black boy, was behind her on a pony not too large to shame her
own diminutive equipage; and Loupe, a good-sized Shetland pony, was very
able for more than his little mistress was going to ask of him. Her
father looked on, pleased, to see her departure; and when she had
gathered up her reins, leaned over her and gave her with his kiss a
little gold piece to go with the pail and basket. It crowned Daisy's
satisfaction; with a quiet glad look and word of thanks to her father,
she drove off.
The pony waddled along nicely, but as his legs were none of the longest,
their rate of travelling was not precisely of the quickest. Daisy was
not impatient. The afternoon was splendid, the dust had been laid by
late rains, and Daisy looked at her pail and basket with great
contentment. Before she had gone a quarter of a mile from home, she met
her little friend of the wintergreens. Nora sprang across the road to
the chaise.
"O Daisy, where are you going?"
"I am going to carry some things for mamma, to a house."
"All alone?"
"No, Sam is there to take care of me."
Nora looked back at the black pony, and then at Daisy. "Isn't it nice!"
she said, with a sort of half-regretful admiration.
"It's as nice as a fairy tale," said Daisy. "I'm just as good as a
princess, you know, Nora. Don't you want to go, too? Do come."
"No, I musn't--there are people coming to tea. Mrs. Linwood, and Charles
and Jane--I wish I could go! How far is it, Daisy?"
"About five miles. Down beyond Crum Elbow, a good nice way; but I shan't
go through Crum Elbow."
"It's so splendid!" sighed Nora. "Well, good-bye. I can't go."
On went the pony. The roads were good and pleasant, leading through
farm, fields and here and there a bit of wood, but not much. It was
mostly open country, cultivated by farmers; and the grain fields not yet
ripe, and the grass fields not yet mown, looked rich and fair and soft
in bright colours to Daisy's eyes, as the afternoon sun shone across
them and tree shadows lay long over the ground. For trees there were, a
great many, growing singly about the fields and fences, and some of
them, very large and fine. Daisy was not so busy with her driving but
that she could use her eyes about other things. Now and then she met a
farm wagon, or a labourer going along the road. The men looked at her
curiously and pleasantly, as if they thought it a pretty sight; but once
Daisy, passing a couple of men together, overheard one say to the other:
"It's Randolph's folks--they stick themselves up considerable--"
The tone of the voice was gruff and coarse, and Daisy marvelled much in
her little mind what had displeased the man in her or in "Randolph's
folks." She determined to ask her father. "Stick ourselves up?" said
Daisy thoughtfully--"we never do!"
So she touched the pony, who was falling into a very leisurely way of
trotting, and in good time came to Mrs. Parsons' door.
Daisy went in. The daughter was busy at some ironing in the outer room;
she was a dull, lack-lustre creature, and though she comprehended the
gifts that had been brought her, seemed hardly to have life enough to
thank the donor. That wasn't quite like a fairy tale, Daisy thought.
No doubt this poor woman must have things to eat, but there was not much
fun in bringing them to her. Daisy was inclined to wonder how she had
ever come to marry anybody with so lively a name as Lark. But before she
got away, Mrs. Lark asked Daisy to go in and see her mother, and Daisy,
not knowing how to refuse, went in as requested.
What a change! Another poor room to be sure, very poor it looked to
Daisy; with its strip of rag carpet on the floor, its rush-bottomed
chairs, and paper window-shades; and on the bed lay the bed-ridden
woman. But with such a nice pleasant face; eyes so lively and quiet,
smile so contented, brow so calm, Daisy wondered if it could be she that
must lie there always and never go about again as long as she lived. It
had been a matter of dread to her to see anything so disagreeable; and
now it was not disagreeable. Daisy was fascinated. Mrs. Lark had
withdrawn.
"Is your mother with you, dear?"
"No ma'am, I came alone. Mamma told me to ask Mrs. Parsons if there is
anything she would like to have, that mamma could do for her."
"Yes; if you would come in and see me sometimes," said the old lady, "I
should like it very much."
"Me?" said Daisy.
"Yes. I don't see young faces very often. They don't care to come to see
an old woman."
"I should like to come," said Daisy, "very much, if I could do anything;
but I must go now, because it will be late. Good-bye, ma'am."
Daisy's little courtesy it was pleasant to see, and it was so pleasant
altogether that Mrs. Parsons had it over and over in her thoughts that
day and the next.
"It's as nice as a fairy tale," Daisy repeated to herself, as she took
her seat in the chaise again and shook up her reins. It was better than
a fairy tale really, for the sunshine coming between the trees from the
sinking sun, made all the world look so beautiful that Daisy thought no
words could tell it. It was splendid to drive through that sunlight. In
a minute or two more she had pulled up her reins short, and almost
before she knew why she had done it or whom she had seen, Mr. Dinwiddie
stood at her side. Here he was. She must not go where ha was; she had
not; he had come to her. Daisy was very glad. But she looked up in his
face now without speaking.
"Ha! my stray lamb," said he, "whither are you running?"
"Home, sir," said Daisy meekly.
"Do you know you have run away from me?"
"Yes, Mr. Dinwiddie."
"How came that?"
"It was unavoidable, sir," said Daisy, in her slow, old-fashioned way.
But the bright eye of the young man saw that her eye fell and her face
clouded over; it was not a slight nor a chance hindrance that had been
in her way, he was sure.
"Then you don't mean to come to me any more?"
It was a dreadful question, but Mr. Dinwiddie's way of speaking was so
clear and quick and business-like, and he seemed to know so well what he
was talking about, that the answer was forced from Daisy. She looked up
and said, "No, sir." He watched the soft thoughtful face that was raised
towards him.
"Then if this is the last time we are to talk about it, Daisy, shall I
look for you among those that will 'shine as the sun' in the Lord's
kingdom?"
"O sir,--Mr. Dinwiddie,"--said Daisy, dropping her reins and rising up,
"that is what I want to know about. Please tell me!"
"Tell you what?" said Mr. Dinwiddie, gathering up the reins.
"Tell me how to do, sir, please."
"What have you done, Daisy?"
"Nothing, sir--only reading the Bible."
"And you do not find it there?"
"I find a great deal, sir; but I don't quite understand--I don't know
how to be a Christian."
Daisy thought it might be her last chance; she was desperate, and spoke
out.
"Do you love the Lord Jesus, Daisy?"
"I don't know, Mr. Dinwiddie."
"You know how he loves you? You know what he has done for you?"
"Yes--I know--"
"He died to save you from death and sin. He will do it if you trust him.
Now what he wants is that you should love him and trust him. 'Let the
little children come to me,' he said a great while ago, and says now.
Daisy, the good Lord wants you to give him your heart."
"But suppose, Mr. Dinwiddie--"
"Yes. What?"
"Suppose I can't. I don't know how."
"Do you want to do it?"
"Yes, sir. Indeed I do."
"Very well; the Lord knows just what your difficulty is; you must apply
to him."
"Apply to him?" said Daisy.
"Ask him."
"How, sir?"
"Pray to him. Tell the Lord your trouble, and ask him to make it all
right for you. Did you never pray to him?"
"No, sir--not ever."
"My lamb," said Mr. Dinwiddie, "he will hear you, if you never prayed to
him before. I will shew you the word of his promise." And he opened a
pocket-Bible and found the place of these words which he gave Daisy to
read. "'I will put a new spirit within you; and I will take the stony
heart out of their flesh, and will give them an heart of flesh; that
they may walk in my statutes, and keep mine ordinances, and do them: and
they shall be my people, and I will be their God.' Now is that what you
want, Daisy?"
"Yes, sir; only I don't know how."
"Never mind; the Lord knows. He will make it all right, if only you are
willing to give yourself to be his little servant."
"I will give him all I have got, sir," said Daisy, looking up.
"Very well; then I will shew you one thing more--it is a word of the
Lord Jesus. See--'If ye love me, keep my commandments.' Now I want you
to keep those two words, and you can't remember where to find them
again--I must let you take this book with you." And Mr. Dinwiddie folded
down leaves in the two places.
"But Mr. Dinwiddie,"--said Daisy softly--"I don't know when I can get it
back to you again, sir."
"Never mind--keep it, and when you don't want it, give it to some poor
person that does. And remember, little one, that the good Lord expects
his servants to tell him their troubles and to pray to him every day."
"Thank you, sir!" was Daisy's deep ejaculation.
"Don't thank me. Now will your pony get you home before dark?"
"O yes, Mr. Dinwiddie! Loupe is lazy, but he can go, and I will make
him."
The chaise went off at a swift rate accordingly, after another soft
grateful look from its little driver. Mr. Dinwiddie stood looking after
it. Of a certain woman, of Thyatira it is written that "the Lord opened
her heart, that she attended to the things which were spoken." Surely,
the gentleman thought, the same had been true of his late little charge.
He went thoughtfully home. While Daisy, not speculating at all, in her
simplicity sat thinking that she was the Lord's servant; and rejoiced
over and over again that she had for her own and might keep the book of
her Lord's commandments. There were such things as Bibles in the house,
certainly, but Daisy had never had one of her own. That in which she had
read the other night and which she had used to study her lessons for Mr.
Dinwiddie, was one belonging to her brother, which he was obliged to use
at school. Doubtless Daisy could also have had one for the asking; she
knew that; but it might have been some time first; and she had a certain
doubt in her little mind that the less she said upon the subject the
better. She resolved her treasure should be a secret one. It was right
for her to have a Bible; she would not run the risk of disagreeable
comments or commands by in any way putting it forward. Meanwhile she had
become the Lord's servant! A very poor little beginning of a servant she
thought herself; nevertheless in telling Mr. Dinwiddie what she had, it
seemed to Daisy that she had spoken aloud her oath of allegiance; and a
growing joy in the transaction and a growing love to the great Saviour
who was willing to let her be his servant, filled her little heart. She
just knew that the ride home was lovely, but Daisy's mind was travelling
a yet more sunshiny road. She was intelligent in what she had done. One
by one Mr. Dinwiddie's lessons had fallen on a willing and open ear. She
knew herself to be a sinner and lost; she believed that the Lord Jesus
would save her by his death; and it seemed to her the most natural and
reasonable and pleasant thing in the world, that the life for which his
blood had been shed, should be given to him. "If ye love me, keep my
commandments." "I wonder," thought Daisy, "what they are."
CHAPTER III.
"What sort of an expedition did you have, Daisy?" her father asked at
breakfast next morning. Company the evening before had prevented any
talk about it.
"O very good, papa! It was as good as a fairy tale."
"Was it?" said Mr. Randolph. "I wonder what pitch of excellence that is.
I don't remember ever finding a fairy tale very good to me."
"Did you ever read any, papa?"
"I don't know! Were you not tired with your long drive?"
"O no, papa!"
"Would you like to go again?"
"Yes papa, very much."
"You may go as often as you like--only always let Sam be along."
"Did you find out what Mrs. Parsons wants?" said Mrs. Randolph.
"No, mamma--she did not look as if she wanted anything, except to see
me. And yet she is very poor, mamma."
At this speech Mr. Randolph burst into a round laugh, and even Mrs.
Randolph seemed amused.
"Did she look as if she wanted to see you, Daisy?"
"Papa, I think she did," said Daisy colouring; "she said so at any rate;
but I could not find out what else she would like."
"Daisy, I think she shewed very good taste," said Mr. Randolph, drawing
his little daughter into his arms; "but it would be safe to take
something else with you when you go."
"Your birthday is next week, Daisy," said her mother; "and your aunt
Gary and your cousins will be here. What would you like to have, to
celebrate the day?"
"I don't know, mamma," said Daisy, returning her father's kisses.
"You may have what you please, if you will think and tell me."
"Mamma, may I talk to Nora Dinwiddie about it?"
"Nonsense! What for?"
"Only to consult, mamma."
"Consult Ransom. He would be a much better help to you."
Daisy looked sober and said nothing.
"Why not?" said Mr. Randolph. "Why not consult your brother?"
"Papa," said Daisy slowly, "Ransom and I do not understand each other."
"Don't you," said her father laughing; "what is the cause of that,
Daisy?"
Daisy was not very willing to answer, but being pressed by both father
and mother she at length spoke. "I think, papa, it is because he
understands so many other things."
Mr. Randolph was excessively amused. "Ransom!"--he called out to the
hall.
"Please, papa, don't!" said Daisy.
"Ransom!--come here.--What is this? your sister says you do not
understand her."
"Well, papa," said Ransom, an exceedingly handsome and bright-looking
boy and a great pet of his mother,--"there are things that are not deep
enough to be understood."
Daisy's lips opened eagerly and then closed again.
"Girls always use magnifying glasses where themselves are concerned!"
went on Ransom, whose dignity seemed to be excited.
"Hush, hush!" said his father,--"take yourself off, if you cannot
maintain civility. And your mother does not like fishing-tackle at the
breakfast-table--go! I believe," he said as Ransom bounded away, "I
believe conceit is the normal condition of boyhood."
"I am sure," said Mrs. Randolph, "girls have enough of it--and women
too."
"I suppose it would be rash to deny that," said Mr. Randolph. "Daisy, I
think I understand you. I do not require so much depth as is necessary
for Ransom's understanding to swim in."
"If you do not deny it, it would be well not to forget it," said Mrs.
Randolph; while Daisy still in her father's arms was softly returning
his caresses.
"What shall we do on your birthday, Daisy?" said her father without
seeming to heed this remark.
"Papa, I will think about it. Mamma, do you like I should talk to Nora
about it?"
"By all means!" said Mr. Randolph; "send for her and hold a grand
council. Your mother can have no objection."
Daisy did not feel quite so sure of that; but at any rate she made none,
and a messenger was sent to ask Nora to come that afternoon. All the
morning Daisy was engaged with her mother, going to make a visit to some
friends that lived a long way off. It was not till the afternoon was
growing cool and pleasant that she was released from dinner and dressing
and free to go with her Bible to her favourite reading place;--or rather
one of her favourites; a garden seat under a thick oak. The oak stood
alone on a knoll looking over a beautiful spread of grassy sward that
sloped and rolled away to a distant edge of thicket. Other noble trees
dotted the ground here and there; some fine cattle shewed their red and
white heads, standing or lying about in the shade. Above the distant
thicket, far, far away, rose the heads of great blue mountains. The
grass had just been mown, in part; and a very sweet smell from the hay
floated about under the trees around the house. Daisy's tree however was
at some distance from the house. In the absolute sweet quiet, Daisy and
her Bible took possession of the place. The Bible had grown a wonderful
book to her now. It was the book of the commandments of the Great King
whose servant she felt herself. Now every word would tell her of
something she must do, or not do; all sweet to Daisy; for she felt she
loved the King, and his commandments were good to her. This time she got
very much interested in the twenty-fifth chapter of Matthew, in the
parable of the talents. But she wished she could have had Mr. Dinwiddie
to tell her a little better exactly what it meant. Some of its meaning
she understood; and remembering Mr. Dinwiddie's words, she prayed with
clasped hands and a very earnest little heart, that the Lord would "make
her know what all her talents were and help her to make good use of
them." Then Daisy went on studying.
In the midst of her studies, a light step bounded down through the
shrubbery from the house, and Daisy had hardly raised her head when Nora
was at her side. There was room for her on the seat, and after a glad
greeting the children sat down together, to talk much joyful talk and
tell childish news, in the course of which Daisy's perplexities came
out, for which she had wanted Nora's counsel. She explained that she
could have precisely what she chose, in the way of merry-making for her
birthday. Daisy spoke about it seriously, as a weighty and important
matter; and so Nora took it up, with a face of great eagerness.
"You can have just what you like, Daisy?" Daisy nodded. "O what have
you thought of, Daisy?"
"What would be nicest, Nora?"
"I'll tell you what I should have--I should have a party."
"A party!"
"Yes, that is what I should have."
"I never thought of that. Who would you ask, Nora? I thought of a
pic-nic; and of a great journey to Schroeder's Mountain;--that would be
nice;--to spend the whole day, you know."
"Yes, that would be nice: but I should have a party. O there are plenty
to have. There is Kitty Marsden."
"I don't know Kitty Marsden, much"--said Daisy.
"And Ella Stanfield."
"I like Ella Stanfield"--said Daisy sedately.
"And there are the Fishes."
"I don't like Mrs. Fish's children very well;--when Alexander and Ransom
get together, they make--a great deal of disturbance!"
"O we needn't mind their disturbance," said Nora; and she went on
discussing the plan and the advantages of the party. Suddenly Daisy
broke in with a new subject. "Nora, you know the story of the servants
with the talents, in the New Testament?"
"Yes--" said Nora with open eyes; "I know."
"Do you know what it means?--the talents, I mean; of course I know what
the rest means; but do you know what the talents are? Is it just
money?--because then you and I have very little indeed; and all the
servants had something."
"Why Daisy, what made you think of that just now? we were talking about
the party."
"I have been thinking of it all the while," said Daisy. "I was reading
it--do you know what it means, Nora?"
"But we were talking about the party!" said Nora.
"Yes, but I want to understand this; and then we will go on about the
party. If you know what it means."
"I have heard Duke explain it," said Nora, unwillingly coming to the
graver subject.
"Well, what does he say it is? the talents, you know."
"Duke says it is everything anybody has. Not money, everything--Now
don't you think we can make up a nice party?"
"Everything, Nora? Just wait a little--I want to know about this. What
do you mean by 'everything'?"
"Are you studying for Sunday-school, Daisy? that isn't the lesson."
"No," said Daisy sorrowfully; "if I was, I could ask Mr. Dinwiddie.
That's why I want you to help me, Nora; so think and tell me what he
said."
"Well, that," said Nora, "he said that; he said the talents meant
everything God has given people to work with for him."
"What could they work with besides money?" said Daisy.
"Why everything, Duke says; all they've got; their tongues and their
hands and their feet, and all they know, and all their love for people;
and even the way we do things, our studies and all, Marmaduke says. What
do you want to know for, Daisy?"
"I was thinking about it," answered Daisy evasively. "Wait a minute,
Nora,--I want to write it down, for fear I should forget something."
"What are you going to do?" exclaimed Nora. "Are you going to teach a
class yourself?"
Daisy did not answer, while she was writing down with a pencil what Nora
had said and making her repeat it for that purpose. When she had done
she looked a little dubiously off towards the woods, while Nora was
surprised and disappointed into silence.
"I think perhaps I ought to tell you----" was Daisy's slow conclusion.
"I want to know what this means, that I may do it, Nora."
"Do it?"
"Yes," said Daisy turning her quiet eyes full upon her companion--"I
want to try to please God. I love the Lord Jesus."
Nora was very much confounded, and looked at Daisy as if a gap in the
ground had suddenly separated them.
"So," Daisy went on, "as I have talents to use, I want to know what they
are, for fear I shouldn't use them all. I don't understand it yet, but I
will think about it. Now we will go on about the party if you like."
"But Daisy----" said Nora.
"What?"
"Are you in earnest?"
"Certainly I am in earnest," said Daisy gravely. "What makes you ask me?
Don't you think your brother is in earnest?"
"Marmaduke! oh yes,--but--you never told me of it before."
"I didn't know it till yesterday," said Daisy simply, "that I loved the
Lord Jesus; but I know I do now, and I am very glad; and I am going to
be his servant."
Her little face was very sweet and quiet as she looked at her little
neighbour and said these words; but Nora was utterly confounded, and so
nearly dismayed that she was silent; and it was not till several
invitations in Daisy's usual manner had urged her, that she was able to
get upon the subject of the party again and to discuss it with any
spirit. The discussion then did not come to any determination. Daisy was
at least lukewarm in her fancy for that mode of spending her birthday;
and separate plans of pic-nics and expeditions of pleasure were taken up
and handled, sure to be thrown aside by Nora for the greater promise and
splendour of the home entertainment. They broke up at last without
deciding upon anything, except that Nora should come again to talk about
it, and should at all events have and give her share in whatever the
plan for the day might be.
Perhaps Daisy watched her opportunity, perhaps it came; but at all
events she seized the first chance that she saw to speak with her father
in private. He was sauntering out the next morning after breakfast.
Daisy joined him, and they strolled along through the grounds, giving
here and there directions to the gardener, till they came near one of
the pleasant rustic seats, under the shade of a group of larches.
"Papa, suppose we sit down here for a moment and let us look about us."
"Well, Daisy,"--said her father, who knew by experience what was likely
to follow.
"Papa," said Daisy as they sat down, "I want to ask you about
something."
"What is it?"
"When I was in the chaise, driving Loupe the other day, papa, I heard
something that I could not understand."
"Did you?"
"It was two men that passed me on the road; I heard one say to the other
as I went by, that it was your carriage, and then he said that
'Randolph's folks were a good deal stuck up;'--what did he mean,
papa?"
"Nothing of any consequence, Daisy."
"But why did he say it, papa?"
"Why do you want to know?"
"I did not understand it nor like it, papa; I wanted to know what he
meant."
"It is hardly worth talking about, Daisy. It is the way those who have
not enough in the world are very apt to talk of others who are better
off than themselves."
"Why, papa?"
"They were poor men, I suppose, weren't they?"
"Yes papa--working men."
"That class of people, my dear, are very apt to have a grudge against
the rich."
"For what, papa?"
"For being able to live better than they do."
"Why papa! do poor people generally feel so?"
"Very often, I think. They do not generally speak it out aloud."
"Then papa," said Daisy speaking slowly, "how do you know? What makes
you think they feel so?"
Her father smiled at her eagerness and gravity. "I see it, Daisy, when
they do not speak it. They shew it in various ways. Besides, I know
their habit of talking among themselves."
"But papa, that is very bad."
"What?"
"That poor people should feel so. I am sure rich people are their best
friends."
Her father stroked her head fondly, and looked amused.
"They don't believe that, Daisy."
"But why don't they believe it, papa?" said Daisy growing more and
more surprised.
"I suppose," said Mr. Randolph rising, "they would be better satisfied
if I gave them my horses and went afoot."
A speech which Daisy pondered and pondered and could make nothing of.
They walked on, Mr. Randolph making observations and giving orders now
and then to workmen. Here a man was mowing under the shrubbery; there
the gardener was setting out pots of greenhouse flowers; in another
place there were holes digging for trees to be planted. Daisy went
musing on while her father gave his orders, and when they were again
safe out of hearing she spoke. "Papa, do you suppose Michael and Andrew
and John, and all your own people, feel so about you?"
"I think it is likely, Daisy. I can't hope to escape better than my
neighbours."
"But, papa, they don't look so, nor act so?"
"Not before me. They do not wish to lose their places."
"Papa,--couldn't something be done to make them feel better?"
"Why Daisy," said her father laughing, "are you going to turn
reformer?"
"I don't know what that is, papa."
"A thankless office, my dear. If you could make all the world wise, it
would do, but fools are always angry with you for trying it."
The conversation ended and left Daisy greatly mystified. Her father's
people not liking him?--the poor having ill will against the rich, and a
grudge against their pleasant things?--it was very melancholy! Daisy
thought about it a great deal that day; and had a very great talk on the
subject with Nora, who without a quarter of the interest had much more
knowledge about it than Daisy. She had been with her brother sometimes
to the houses of poor children, and she gave Daisy a high-coloured
picture of the ways of living in such houses and the absence of many
things by Daisy and herself thought the necessaries of life. Daisy heard
her with a lengthening face, and almost thought there was some excuse
for the state of feeling her father had explained in the morning. The
question however was too long a one for Daisy; but she arrived at one
conclusion, which was announced the next morning at the breakfast-table.
Mrs. Randolph had called upon her to say what was determined upon for
the birthday.
"Papa," said Daisy, "will there be a great plenty of strawberries next
week?"
"Yes, I believe so. Logan says the vines are very full. What then?"
"Papa, you gave me my choice of what I would have for Wednesday."
"Yes. Is it my strawberry patch?"
"Not for myself, papa. I want you to have a great table set out of doors
somewhere, and give a feast to all your work people."
"Daisy!" exclaimed Mrs. Randolph. "I never heard anything so ridiculous
in all my life!"
Daisy waited with downcast eyes for her father to speak. He was not in a
hurry.
"Would that give you pleasure, Daisy?"
"Yes, papa."
"Did Nora Dinwiddie put that scheme in your head?" asked Mrs. Randolph.
"She didn't like it at all, mamma. I put it into her head."
"Where did you get it?"
Daisy looked troubled and puzzled, and did not answer till her father
said "Speak." Then nestling up to him with her head on his breast, a
favourite position, she said, "I got it from different sources, I think,
papa."
"Let us hear, for instance."
"I think, partly from the Bible, papa--and partly from what we were
talking of yesterday."
"I wish you would shew me where you found it in the Bible. I don't
remember a strawberry feast there."
"Do you mean it in earnest, papa?"
"Yes."
Daisy walked off for a Bible--not her own--and after some trouble found
a place which she shewed her father; and he read aloud, "When thou
makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends nor thy brethren,
neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbours; lest they also bid thee
again, and a recompense be made thee. But when thou makest a feast, call
the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind; and thou shalt be blessed;
for they cannot recompense thee; for thou shalt be recompensed at the
resurrection of the just." Mr. Randolph closed the book and laid it on
the table, and drew his little daughter again within his arms.
"That child is in a way to get ruined!" said Mrs. Randolph
energetically.
"But Daisy, our work people are not lame or blind--how will they do?"
said her father.
"They are poor, papa. I would like to have the others too, but we can't
have everybody."
Mr. Randolph kissed the little mouth that was lifted so near his own,
and went on.
"Do you think then it is wrong to have our friends and neighbours? Shall
we write to your aunt and cousins, and Gary McFarlane and Capt.
Drummond, to stay away?"
"No, papa," said Daisy smiling, and her smile was very sweet,--"you know
I don't mean that. I would like to have them all; but I would like the
feast made for the other people."
"You will let the rest of us have some strawberries?"
"If there are enough, papa. For that day, I would like the other people
to have them."
Mr. Randolph seemed to find something as sweet as strawberries in
Daisy's lips.
"It is the very most absurd plan I ever heard of!" repeated her mother.
"I am not sure that it is not a very good thing," remarked Mr. Randolph.
"Is it expected that on that day we are to do without servants in the
house, and wait upon ourselves? or are we expected to wait upon the
party!"
"O mamma," said Daisy, "it isn't the servants--it's only the out-of-door
people."
"How many will there be, Daisy?" said her father; "have you numbered
them up?"
"Not yet, papa. There is Logan, and Michael, and Mr. Stilton, and the
two under-gardeners----"
"And four hay-makers."
"Hay-makers, papa?"
"Yes--there will be four of them in the fields next week. And there is
the herdsman and boy."
"And there is old Patrick at the gate. That is all, papa."
"And are the ladies of all these families to be invited?"
"Papa! What do you think?"
"I have no doubt there will be strawberries enough."
"But I am afraid there would be too many children. Logan has six, and
Michael has four, and I believe the herdsman has some; and there are
four at the Lodge. And Mr. Stilton has two."
"What shall we do with them, Daisy?"
"Papa, we can't have them. I should like to have the men and their wives
come, I think, and send some strawberries home to the children. Wouldn't
that do best?"
"Admirably. And you can drive over to Crum Elbow and purchase some
suitable baskets. Take the chaise and Sam. I expect you to arrange
everything. If you want help, come and consult me."
"If mamma will tell Joanna--?" said Daisy looking somewhat doubtfully
towards the other end of the table.
"I have nothing to do with it," said Mrs. Randolph. "I have no knowledge
how to order such parties. You and Joanna may do what you please."
Daisy's eye went to her father.
"That will do, Daisy," said he. "You and Joanna can manage it. You may
have carte-blanche."
The earliest minute that she knew Joanna could attend to her, found
Daisy in the housekeeper's room. Joanna was a tall, rather hard-featured
woman, with skill and capacity in every line of her face however, and
almost in every fold of her gown. She heard with a good deal of
astonishment the project unfolded to her, and to Daisy's great delight
gave it her unqualified approbation.
"It's a first-rate plan," said Joanna. "Now I like that. The men won't
forget it. Where are you going to have the table set, Miss Daisy?"
"I don't know yet, Joanna. In some pretty, shady place, under the
trees."
"Out of doors, eh!" said Joanna. "Well, I suppose that'll be as good a
way as any. Now what are you going to have, Miss Daisy? what do you want
of me?"
"Mamma and papa said I was to arrange it with you."
Joanna sat down and folded her arms to consider the matter.
"How many will there be?"
"I counted," said Daisy. "There will be about seventeen, with their
wives, you know."
"Seventeen, wives and all?" said Joanna. "You'll have to get the
carpenter or Mr. Stilton to make you a table."
"Yes, that's easy," said Daisy; "but Joanna, what shall we have on it?
There will want to be a good deal, for seventeen people; and I want it
handsome, you know."
"Of course," said Joanna, looking as if she were casting up the
Multiplication Table--"it'll have to be that, whatever else it is. Miss
Daisy, suppose you let me manage it--and I'll see and have it all right.
If you will give orders about the strawberries, and have the table
made."
"I shall dress the table with flowers, Joanna."
"Yes--well--" said Joanna,--"I don't know anything about flowers; but
I'll have the cake ready, and everything else."
"And tea and coffee, Joanna?"
"Why I never thought of that!--yes, to be sure, they'll want something
to drink--who will pour it out, Miss Daisy?"
"I don't know. Won't you, Joanna?"
"Well--I don't know--" said the housekeeper, as if she were afraid of
being taken on too fast by her little counsellor--"I don't know as
there's anything to hinder, as it's your birthday, Miss Daisy."
Away went Daisy delighted, having secured just what she wanted. The rest
was easy. And Daisy certainly thought it was as promising an
entertainment as she could have devised. It gave her a good deal of
business. The table, and the place for the table, had to be settled with
Mr. Stilton, and the invitations given, and many particulars settled;
but to settle them was extremely pleasant, and Daisy found that every
face of those concerned in the invitations wore a most golden glow of
satisfaction when the thing was understood. Daisy was very happy. She
hoped, besides the pleasantness of the matter, it would surely incline
the hearts of her father's workpeople to think kindly of him.
CHAPTER IV.
It happened that one cause and another hindered Daisy from going to Crum
Elbow to fetch the strawberry-baskets, until the very Tuesday afternoon
before the birthday. Then everything was right; the pony chaise before
the door, Sam in waiting, and Daisy just pulling her gloves on, when
Ransom rushed up. He was flushed and hurried.
"Who's going out with Loupe?"
"I am, Ransom."
"You can't go, Daisy--I'm going myself."
"You cannot, Ransom. I am going on business. Papa said I was to go."
"He couldn't have said it! for he said I might have the chaise this
afternoon and that Loupe wanted exercise. So! I am going to give him
some. He wouldn't get it with you."
"Ransom," said Daisy trembling, "I have got business at Crum Elbow, and
I must go, and you must not."
"Fiddlesticks!" said Ransom, snapping his fingers at her. "Business! I
guess you have. Girls have a great deal of business! Here Sam--ride
round mighty quick to Mr. Rush's and tell Hamilton to meet me at the
cross road."
And without another word to Daisy, Ransom sprang into the chaise,
cracked his whip over Loupe's head and started him off in a very
ungraceful but very eager waddling gallop. Daisy was left with one glove
on and with a spirit thoroughly disordered. A passionate child she was
not, in outward manner at least; but her feelings once roused were by no
means easy to bring down again. She was exceedingly offended, very much
disturbed at missing her errand, very sore at Ransom's ill-bred
treatment of her. Nobody was near; her father and mother both gone out;
and Daisy sat upon the porch with all sorts of resentful thoughts and
words boiling up in her mind. She did not believe half of what her
brother had said; was sure her father had given no order interfering
with her proceedings; and she determined to wait upon the porch till he
came home and so she would have a good opportunity of letting him know
the right and the wrong of the case. Ransom deserved it, as she truly
said to herself. And then Daisy sorrowed over her lost expedition, and
her missing strawberry baskets. What should she do? for the next morning
would find work enough of its own at home, and nobody else could choose
the baskets to please her. Ransom deserved--!
In the midst of the angry thoughts that were breaking one over the other
in Daisy's mind, there suddenly came up the remembrance of some words
she had read that day or the day before. "Lord, how oft shall my
brother sin against me and I forgive him? till seven times? Jesus saith
unto him, I say not unto thee, until seven times, but until seventy
times seven." This brought Daisy up short; her head which had been
leaning on her hands suddenly straightened itself up. What did those
words mean? There could be no doubt, for with the question came the
words in the Lord's Prayer which she knew well, but had never felt till
then. Forgive Ransom out and out?--say nothing about it?--not tell her
father, nor make her grievance at all known to Ransom's
discomfiture?--Daisy did not want to yield. He deserved to be reproved
and ashamed and made to do better. It was the first time that a real
conflict had come up in her mind between wrong and right; and now that
she clearly saw what was right, to her surprise she did not want to do
it! Daisy saw both facts. There was a power in her heart that said, No,
I will not forgive, to the command from a greater power that bade her do
it. Poor Daisy! it was her first view of her enemy; the first trial that
gave her any notion of the fighting that might be necessary to overcome
him. Daisy found she could not overcome him. She was fain to go, where
she had just begun to learn she might go, "to the Strong for strength."
She ran away from the porch to her room, and kneeled down and prayed
that the King would give her help to keep his commandments. She was
ashamed of herself now; but so obstinate was her feeling of displeasure
against her brother, that even after she thought she had forgiven him
Daisy would not go downstairs again nor meet him nor her father, for
fear she should speak words that she ought not, or fail of a perfectly
gentle and kind manner.
But what to do about her baskets? A bright and most business-like
thought suddenly came into her head. The breakfast hour was always late;
by being a little earlier than usual she could have plenty of time to go
to Crum Elbow and return before the family were assembled. Splendid!
Daisy went down the back stairs and gave her orders in such a way that
they should not reach Ransom's ear. If not put on the alert he was sure
to be down to breakfast last of anybody. So Daisy went to bed and to
sleep with her mind at rest.
It was so pleasant when she came out at half past six the next morning,
that Daisy almost thought it was the prettiest time of all. The morning
air smelt so fresh, with the scent of the trees and flowers coming
through the dew; and the light was so cool and clear, not like the hot
glow of later hours, that Daisy felt like dancing for very gladness.
Then it was such a stroke of business to go to Crum Elbow before
breakfast!
The pony and the chaise came up presently, and Sam and the black pony,
all right, and every one of them looking more brisk and fresh than
usual. And off they went; under the boughs of the dew-bright trees,
where the birds seemed to be as glad as Daisy, to judge by the songs
they were singing; and by and by out from the beautiful grounds of
Melbourne, into the road. It was pleasanter there, Daisy thought, than
she had ever seen it. The fields looked more gay in that clear early
light, and the dust was kept down by the freshness in the air. It was
delightful; and Loupe never went better. Daisy was a very good little
driver, and now the pony seemed to understand the feeling in her fingers
and waddled along at a goodly rate.
Crum Elbow was not a great many miles off, and in due time they reached
it. But Daisy found that other people kept earlier hours than her father
and mother at Melbourne. She saw the farmers were getting to work as she
went on; and in the houses of the village there were signs that
everybody was fully astir to the business of the day. It was a
scattering village; the houses and the churches stood and called to each
other across great spaces of fields and fences between; but just where
the crossing of two roads made a business point, there was a little more
compactness. There was the baker's, and the post-office, and two stores
and various other houses, and a blacksmith's shop. Up to the corner
where the principal store stood, came the pony and his mistress, and
forthwith out came Mr. Lamb the storekeeper, to see what the little pony
chaise wanted to take home; but Daisy must see for herself, and she got
out and went into the store.
"Baskets," said Mr. Lamb. "What sort of baskets?"
"Baskets to hold strawberries--little baskets," said Daisy.
"Ah! strawberry baskets. That, ma'am, is the article."
Was it? Daisy did not think so. The storekeeper had shewed her the kind
of baskets commonly used to hold strawberries for the market; containing
about half a pint. She remarked they were not large enough.
"No, ma'am? They are the kind generally used--regular strawberry
baskets--we have sold 'em nearly all out, but we've got a few left."
"They are not large enough, nor pretty enough," repeated Daisy.
"They'll look pretty when they get the strawberries in them," said the
storekeeper with a knowing look at her. "But here's a kind, ma'am, are a
little neater--may be you would like these--What do you want, child?"
There had come into the store just after Daisy a little poor-looking
child, who had stood near, watching what was going on. Daisy turned to
look at her as Mr. Lamb's question was thrown at her over the counter,
in a tone very different from his words to herself. She saw a pale,
freckled, pensive-faced little girl, in very slim clothing, her dress
short and ragged, and feet bare. The child had been looking at her and
her baskets, but now suddenly looked away to the shopkeeper.
"Please, sir, I want--"
"There! stop," said Mr. Lamb; "don't you see I'm busy. I can't attend to
you just now; you must wait.--Are these baskets better, ma'am?" he said
coming back to Daisy and a smooth voice.
Daisy felt troubled, but she tried to attend to her business. She asked
the price of the baskets.
"Those first I shewed you, ma'am, are three pence apiece--these are
sixpence. This is quite a tasty basket," said Mr. Lamb, balancing one on
his forefinger. "Being open, you see, it shews the fruit through. I
think these might answer your purpose."
"What are those?" said Daisy pointing to another kind.
"Those, ma'am, are not strawberry baskets."
"But please let me see one.--What is the price?"
"These fancy baskets, ma'am, you know, are another figure. These are not
intended for fruit. These are eighteen pence apiece, ma'am."
Daisy turned the baskets and the price over. They were very neat! they
would hold as many berries as the sixpenny ones, and look pretty too, as
for a festival they should. The sixpenny ones were barely neat--they had
no gala look about them at all. While Daisy's eye went from one to the
other, it glanced upon the figure of the poor, patient, little waiting
girl who stood watching her. "If you please, Mr. Lamb," she said, "will
you hear what this little girl has to say?--while I look at these."
"What do you want, child?"
The answer came very low, but though Daisy did not want to listen she
could not help hearing.
"Mother wants a pound of ham, sir."
"Have you brought the money for the flour?"
"No, sir--mother'll send it."
"We don't cut our hams any more," said the storekeeper. "Can't sell any
less than a whole one--and that's always cash. There! go child--I can't
cut one for you."
Daisy looked after the little ragged frock as it went out of the door.
The extreme mystery of some people being rich and some people poor,
struck her anew, and perhaps something in her look as it came back to
the storekeeper made him say,
"They're very poor folks, Miss Randolph--the mother's sickly, and I
should only lose my money. They came and got some flour of me yesterday
without paying for it--and it's necessary to put a stop to that kind of
thing at once. Don't you think that basket'll suit, ma'am?"
Baskets? and what meant those words which had been over and over in
Daisy's mind for the few days past?--"Whatsoever ye would that men
should do to you, do ye even so to them." Her mind was in great
confusion.
"How much does a ham cost, Mr. Lamb?"
"Sixteen pence a pound, ma'am," said the storekeeper rather drily, for
he did not know but Daisy was thinking a reproof to him.
"But how many pounds are there in a ham?"
"Just as it happens, ma'am--sometimes twenty, and from there down to
ten."
"Then how much does a whole ham cost?" said Daisy, whose arithmetic was
not ready.
"A ham of fifteen pounds, ma'am, would be about two dollars and forty
cents."
Daisy stood looking at the baskets, and thinking how much money she
would have over if she took the sixpenny ones. She wanted twenty
baskets; she found that the difference of price between the plain and
the pretty would leave her twenty shillings in hand. Just enough!
thought Daisy,--and yet, how could she go to a strange house and offer
to give them a ham? She thought she could not. If she had known the
people; but as it was--Daisy bought the pretty baskets and set off
homewards.
"Whatsoever ye would that others should do to you, do ye even so to
them"--Daisy could see nothing along the road but those words. "That is
my King's command to me--and those poor people have got no breakfast. If
I was in that little girl's place, I would like to have it given to
me. But those other baskets--would they do?--I could make them do
somehow--Nora and I could dress them up with greens and flowers!"--
The pony chaise stopped. Sam came up alongside.
"Sam, take those baskets back to the store. I am going back there."
Round came the chaise, and in five minutes more they were at the Crum
Elbow corner again, for Daisy's heartburning had not let her go far. Mr.
Lamb was exceedingly mystified, as it was very unusual for young ladies
like this one to come buying whole hams and riding off with them.
However he made no objections to the exchange, being a gainer by ten
cents; for Daisy had asked for a ham of fifteen pounds. Then Daisy
enquired the way to the girl's house, and her name, and set off in a new
direction. It was not far; a plain little brown house, with a brown gate
a few yards from the door. Daisy got out of the chaise and opened the
gate, and there stood still and prayed a little prayer that God would
help her not to feel foolish or afraid when she was trying to do right.
Then she went up to the door and knocked. Somebody said in a very
uninviting tone of voice, "Come in!"
It was hard for Daisy; she had expected that somebody would open the
door, but now she must go in and face all that was there. However, in
she went. There was a poor room to be sure, with not much in it. A woman
was taking some hot bread, just baked, out of a little cooking stove.
Daisy saw the little girl standing by; it was the right place.
"Well!" said the woman looking up at Daisy from her stove oven--"what is
it?" She looked pale and unhappy, and her words were impatient. Daisy
was half afraid.
"I am Daisy Randolph"--she began gently.
"Go on," said the woman, as Daisy hesitated.
"I was in Mr. Lamb's store just now, when your little girl came to buy
some ham."
"Well!--what then?"
"Mr. Lamb said he would not cut any, and she was obliged to go without
it."
"Well, what have you to do with all that?"
"I was sorry she was disappointed," said Daisy more steadily; "and as
Mr. Lamb would not cut one for her I have brought a whole one--if you
will please accept it. It is at the gate, because the boy could not
leave the horses."
The woman set her bread on the floor, left the oven door open, and rose
to her feet.
"What did you tell her, Hephzibah?" she said in a threatening voice.
"I didn't tell her nothing," said the girl hurriedly--"I never spoke to
her."
"How did she know what you came for?"
"I was so near," said Daisy bravely, though she was afraid, "that I
couldn't help hearing."
"Well what business was it of yourn?" said the woman turning upon her.
"If we are poor, we don't throw it in anybody's face; and if you are
rich, you may give charity to those that ask it. We never asked none
of you--and don't want it."
"I am not rich," said Daisy gently, though she coloured and her eyes
were full of tears;--"I did not mean to offend you; but I thought you
wanted the ham, and I had money enough to get it. I am very sorry you
won't have it."
"Did Mr. Lamb tell you we were beggars?"
"No, not at all."
"Then what put into your head to come bringing a ham here? who told you
to do it?"
"Nobody told me," said Daisy. "Yes there did, though. The Lord Jesus
Christ told me to do it, ma'am."
"What do you mean?" said the woman, suddenly sobering as if she was
struck.
"That's all, ma'am," said Daisy. "He had given me the money to buy the
ham, and I heard that your little girl wanted it. And I remembered his
commandment, to do to others what I would like they should do to me--I
didn't mean to offend you."
"Well I ain't offended," said the woman. "I s'pose you didn't mean no
harm; but we have some feelings as well as other folks. Folks may work,
and yet have feelings. And if I could work, things would be well enough;
but I've been sick, miss, and I can't always get work that I would like
to do--and when I can get it, I can't always do it," she added with a
sigh.
Daisy wanted to go, but pity held her fast. That poor, pale, ragged
child, standing motionless opposite her! Daisy didn't venture to look
much, but she saw her all the same.
"Please keep the ham this time!" she broke out bravely--"I won't bring
another one!"
"Did nobody send you?" said the woman eyeing her keenly.
"No," said Daisy, "except the Lord Jesus--he sent me."
"You're a kind little soul!" said the woman, "and as good a Christian as
most of 'em I guess. But I won't do that. I'd die first!--unless you'll
let me do some work for you and make it up so." There was relenting in
the tone of these last words.
"O that will do," said Daisy gladly. "Then will you let your little girl
come out and get the ham? because the boy cannot leave the horses. Good
bye, Mrs. Harbonner."
