was no shelter for them. They had neither blankets nor great coats, yet
this did not seem to disturb them. Our soldier boy threw himself upon the
ground, but the nap he had taken under the side of the log set his eyes
wide open for a time. He could only think of home, his mother and sisters,
and John, by this time snugly coiled away in the bed where he had been
wont to dream of the glories of war. He had cast his fears to the winds
when he found that his captors did not intend to butcher him, and he could
not help thinking that his situation might have been worse.
Those with whom he had spoken told him they had eaten nothing since
morning; and in this respect he was far better off than his companions
were. The only thing that troubled him was the thought of the anguish
which his mother must suffer, when she heard of the battle. When the
regiment should be gathered together again, he would be reported as
"missing," and this would be a terrible word to her, for it meant killed,
wounded, or a prisoner. If he could only assure her that he still lived
and was uninjured, he would have been happy--happy in spite of the
drenching rain--happy in spite of the prospective dungeon, and the
hardships to which he might be subjected. He felt that he had faithfully
performed his duty. When he began to be drowsy, he settled himself in the
most comfortable place he could find on the ground, and thanked God that
he had been spared his life through the perils of that awful day, and more
fervently that he had been enabled to do his duty like a good soldier; and
then, with the Giver of all Good, the Fountain of all Mercy, in his heart,
he fell asleep.
He slept several hours, and waked up to find himself as thoroughly soaked
as though he had just come out of the river. There was no help for it, and
it was no use to grumble. After walking to and fro for half an hour, he
lay down again, and, between sleeping and waking, finished the night;
uncomfortably, it is true, and yet without any positive suffering. There
were hundreds, if not thousands, who were enduring the agony of fearful
wounds through that long night; who were lying alone and uncared for where
they had fallen in the deadly strife; who were dying every hour, away from
their homes and friends, and with no kind hand to minister to their
necessities, with no sweet voice of a loved one to smooth their passage
down to the dark, cold grave.
Tom thought of these, for he had seen them in his path, and he felt that
he had no cause to complain--that he ought to be cheerful and happy. At
the dawn of the day he and his fellow-prisoners were marched to Sudley
Church, where they were to be confined until they could be sent to
Richmond. Here Tom found a captain belonging to his regiment; but neither
could give any information to the other in regard to their friends.
"I shall not stay here long," said the captain, in a whisper, when they
had become better acquainted. "I intend to leave to-night."
"Can't I go with you?" asked Tom.
"You can go, but we had better not go together."
Tom thought for a while, and determined upon an attempt to escape. During
the day, he carefully examined the premises, and decided upon his mode of
operations.
CHAPTER XVI.
A PERPLEXING QUESTION.
Tom Somers, who had had some experience, in a small way, in the kind of
business now before him, was filled with hope when he had adopted his
plan. He was a resolute and energetic young man, and to resolve upon any
thing was almost equivalent to doing it. There were a great many
difficulties in the way of success, it is true; but, nothing daunted by
these, he determined to persevere. The church in which the prisoners were
confined was carefully guarded on the exterior, and the sentinels carried
loaded muskets in their hands--so that the affair before him was more
hazardous and trying than that of escaping from the attic chamber of
Squire Pemberton's house in Pinchbrook.
If he succeeded in making his way out of the church and eluding the guard
which surrounded it, even then his trials would only have commenced; for
there were many miles of hostile country between him and Washington,
whither he supposed the Federal army had been driven. The captain who
intended to escape at the same time gave him some information which would
be of service to him in finding his way to the Potomac. He charged him
particularly to follow the railroad, which would conduct him to
Alexandria, in the vicinity of which he would probably find the regiment.
At dark the prisoners disposed of themselves as well as they could for the
night. Tom saw the captain go through all the forms of preparing for a
comfortable lodging, and he did the same himself. For hours he lay
ruminating upon his purpose. When it was midnight, he thought it was time
for him to commence the enterprise. He worked himself along on the floor
till he reached the principal entrance. The door was open, as it had been
all day, to enable the guards to obtain an occasional view of the
prisoners.
The sentinels were evidently in no condition to discharge their duties
with fidelity, for they had been marching and fighting for two or three
days, and were nearly exhausted. Leaning against the door, Tom discovered
a musket, which the careless guard had left there. On the floor in the
entry lay two rebel soldiers. They had stretched themselves across the
threshold of the door, so that no one could pass in or out of the church
without stepping over them.
Tom carefully rose from his recumbent posture, and took possession of the
musket. Then, with the utmost prudence, he stepped over the bodies of the
sleeping soldiers; but with all his circumspection, he could not prevent
one of his shoes from squeaking a little, and it required only a particle
of noise to rouse the guard.
"Who goes there?" demanded one of them, springing to his feet.
"Is this the way you do your duty?" replied Tom, as sternly as though he
had been a brigadier general.
"Who are you?" said the soldier, apparently impressed by the words and the
tones of him who reproved his neglect.
"Who am I, you sleepy scum! I'll let you know who I am in about ten
minutes," added Tom, as he passed out at the front door of the church.
"Give me back my gun--won't you?" pleaded the confused sentinel.
"I'll give it back to you at the court-martial which will sit on your case
to-morrow."
"Who goes there?" challenged one of the sentinels on the outside.
"Who goes there!" added Tom, in a sneering tone. "Have you waked up? Where
were you five minutes ago, when I passed this post? There won't be a
prisoner left here by morning. The long roll wouldn't wake up such a
stupid set of fellows."
"Stop, sir!" said the astonished sentinel. "You can't pass this line."
"Can't I, you stupid fool? I have passed it while you were asleep."
"I haven't been asleep."
"Where have you been, then?" demanded Tom with terrible energy.
"Been here, sir."
"I'll court-martial the whole of you!"
"Stop, sir, or I'll fire at you!" added the soldier, as Tom moved on.
"Fire at me! Fire, if you dare, and I'll rid the army of one unfaithful
man on the spot!" said the soldier boy, as he raised the musket to his
shoulder.
"Don't fire, you fool!" interposed one of the men whom Tom had roused from
his slumbers in the entry. "Don't you see he is an officer?"
"I'll teach you how to perform your duty!" added Tom, as he walked away.
The soldier, governed by the advice of his companion, offered no further
objection to the departure of Tom; and he moved off as coolly as though he
had just been regularly relieved from guard duty. He had walked but a
short distance before he discovered the camp of a regiment or brigade,
which, of course, it was necessary for him to avoid. Leaving the road, he
jumped over the fence into a field--his first object being to place a
respectful distance between himself and the enemy.
The scene through which he had just passed, though he had preserved the
appearance of coolness and self-possession, had been exceedingly trying to
his nerves; and when the moment of pressing danger had passed, he found
his heart up in his throat, and his strength almost wasted by the
excitement. He felt as one feels when he has just escaped a peril which
menaced him with instant death. It was singular that the soldier had not
fired, but the fact that he did not convinced Tom that there is an amazing
power in impudence.
For half an hour, he pursued his way with haste and diligence, but without
knowing where he was going--whether he was moving toward Richmond or
Washington. As the musket which he had taken from the church was not only
an encumbrance, but might betray him, he threw it away, though, thinking
some means of defence might be useful, he retained the bayonet, and thrust
it in his belt. Thus relieved of his burden, he walked till he came to a
road. As there was no appearance of an enemy in any direction, he followed
this road for some time, and finally it brought him to the object of his
search--the railroad.
But then came up the most perplexing question he had yet been called upon
to decide. To that railroad, as to all others, there were, unfortunately,
two ends--one of which lay within the Federal lines, and the other within
the rebel lines. If Tom had been an astronomer, which he was not, the
night was too cloudy to enable him to consult the stars; besides, some
railroads are so abominably crooked that the heavenly orbs would hardly
have been safe pilots. He did not know which was north, nor which was
south, and to go the wrong way would be to jump out of the frying pan into
the fire.
Tom sat down by the side of the road, and tried to settle the difficult
question; but the more he thought, the more perplexed he became--which
shows the folly of attempting to reason when there are no premises to
reason from. He was, no doubt, an excellent logician; but bricks cannot be
made without straw.
"Which way shall I go?" said Tom to himself, as he stood up and peered
first one way and then the other through the gloom of the night.
But he could not see Washington in one direction, nor Richmond in the
other, and he had not a single landmark to guide him in coming to a
decision.
"I'll toss up!" exclaimed he, desperately, as he took off his cap and
threw it up into the air. "Right side up, this way--wrong side, that way;
and may the fates or the angels turn it in the proper way."
He stooped down to pick up the cap, and ascertain which way it had come
down. It came down right side up, and Tom immediately started off in the
direction indicated. Although he had no confidence in the arbitrament of
the cap, he felt relieved to find the question disposed of even in this
doubtful manner.
He kept both eyes wide open as he advanced, for if he had taken the wrong
way a few miles of travel would bring him to the main camp of the rebels
in the vicinity of Manassas Junction. He pursued his lonely journey for
some time without impediment, and without discovering any camp, either
large or small. He gathered new confidence as he proceeded. After he had
walked two or three hours upon the railroad, he thought it was about time
for Fairfax station to heave in sight, if he had chosen the right way--or
for the rebel camps to appear if he had chosen the wrong way. With the
first place he was familiar, as his regiment had encamped a short distance
from it.
He was sorely perplexed by the non-appearance of either of these expected
points. The country began to look wilder and less familiar as he
proceeded. The region before him looked rugged and mountainous, and the
dark outlines of several lofty peaks touched the sky in front of him. But
with the feeling that every step he advanced placed a wider space between
him and his captors at Sudley church, he continued on his way till the
gray streaks of daylight appeared behind him.
This phenomenon promised to afford him a gleam of intelligence upon which
to found a correct solution of his course. Tom knew that, in the ordinary
course of events, the sun ought to rise in the east and set in the west.
If he was going to the north, the sun would rise on his right hand--if to
the south, on his left hand. The streaks of light grew more and more
distinct, and the clouds having rolled away, he satisfied himself where
the sun would appear. Contrary to both wings of his theory, the place was
neither on his right nor his left, for it was exactly behind him. But his
position might be upon a bend of the railroad whose direction did not
correspond with the general course of the road. For half an hour longer,
therefore, he pursued his way, carefully noting every curve, until he was
fully convinced that his course was nearer west than north. The sun rose
precisely as had been laid down in the programme, and precisely where he
expected it would rise.
It was clear enough that he was not moving to the south; and, satisfied
that he was in no danger of stumbling upon Richmond, his courage
increased, and he plodded on till he discovered a small village--or what
would be called such in Virginia--though it contained only a few houses.
As he still wore the uniform of the United States army, he did not deem it
prudent to pass through this village; besides, he was terribly perplexed
to know what station it could be, and what had become of Fairfax. Though
he must have passed through the country before, it did not look natural to
him.
Leaving the railroad, he took to the fields, intending to pass round the
village, or conceal himself in the woods till he could go through it in
safety. After walking diligently for so many hours, Tom was reminded that
he had a stomach. His rations on the preceding day had not been very
bountiful, and he was positively hungry. The organ which had reminded him
of its existence was beginning to be imperative in its demands, and a new
problem was presented for solution--one which had not before received the
attention which it deserved.
In the fields and forest he found a few berries; but all he could find
made but a slight impression upon the neglected organ. If Tom was a
philosopher, in his humble way, he was reasonable enough to admit that a
man could not live without eating. At this point, therefore, the question
of rations became a serious and solemn problem; and the longer it remained
unsolved the more difficult and harassing it became.
After he had rested all the forenoon in a secluded spot, without
interruption from man or beast, he decided to settle this question of
rations once for all. If impudence had enabled him to pass a line of rebel
sentries, it ought to furnish him with a dinner. Leaving his hiding place,
he walked till he discovered a small house, at which he determined to
apply for something to eat.
CHAPTER XVII.
DINNER AND DANGER.
The house at which Tom applied for food evidently did not belong to one of
the "first families," or, if it did, the owner's fortunes had become sadly
dilapidated. It was built of rough boards, with a huge stone chimney,
which was erected on the outside of the structure. The humblest fisherman
in Pinchbrook Harbor would have thought himself poorly accommodated in
such a rough and rickety mansion.
If Tom's case had not been growing desperate, he would not have run the
risk of showing himself to any person on the "sacred soil" who was "to the
manor born;" but his stomach was becoming more and more imperative in its
demands, and he knocked at the front door with many misgivings, especially
as his exchequer contained less than a dollar of clear cash.
The inmates were either very deaf or very much indisposed to see visitors;
and Tom, after he had knocked three times, began to think he had not run
any great risk in coming to this house. As nobody replied to his summons,
he took the liberty to open the door and enter. The establishment was even
more primitive in its interior than its exterior, and the soldier boy
could not help contrasting it with the neat houses of the poor in his
native town.
The front door opened into a large room without the formality of an entry
or hall. In one corner of the apartment stood a bed. At one side was a
large fireplace, in which half a dozen sticks of green wood were hissing
and sizzling in a vain attempt to make the contents of an iron pot, which
hung over them, reach the boiling point. No person was to be seen or heard
on the premises, though the fire and the pot were suggestive of humanity
at no great distance from the spot.
A door on the back side of the room was open, and Tom looked out in search
of the occupants of the house. In the garden he discovered the whole
family, consisting of a man and his wife, a girl of twelve, and a boy of
ten. The man was digging in the garden, and the rest of the troupe seemed
to be superintending the operation. The head of the family was altogether
the most interesting person to Tom, for he must either shake hands or
fight with him. He did not look like a giant in intellect, and he
certainly was not a giant in stature. With the bayonet still in his belt,
Tom was not afraid of him.
"How are you, people?" said Tom, as he walked towards the family, who with
one accord suspended all operations, and gave their whole attention to the
stranger.
"How are ye, yourself?" replied the man, rather gruffly.
"Do you keep a hotel?" demanded Tom, who concealed the anxiety of his
heart under a broad grin.
"I reckon I don't. What do you want here?"
"I want something to eat," replied Tom, proceeding to business with
commendable straight-forwardness.
"We hain't got nothin' here," said the man, sourly. "That ain't what ye
come fur, nuther."
"Must have something to eat. I'm not very particular, but I must have
something."
"You can't hev it 'bout yere, no how. That ain't what ye come fur,
nuther."
"If you know what I came for better than I do, suppose you tell me what it
is," added Tom, who was a little mystified by the manner of the man.
"You air one of them soger fellers, and you want me to 'list; but I tell
yer, ye can't do nothin' of the sort. I'll be dog derned if I'll go."
"I don't want you to go," protested Tom. "I'm half starved and all I want
is something to eat."
"Yer don't reelly mean so."
"Yes, I do."
"Where d'yer come from?"
"From down below here. Have you seen any soldiers pass through this
place?"
"I reckon I hev; but they hain't seen me; and I reckon they won't see me
very soon;" and the man chuckled at his own cleverness in keeping clear of
recruiting officers.
"I don't want you, and if you will give me something to eat, you will get
rid of me very quick."
"Betsey, you kin feed the feller, if yer like, and I'll go over and see
whar the hogs is."
The man dropped his shovel, and began to move off towards the woods,
probably to see whether Tom would attempt to detain him. At the same time
"Betsey" led the way into the house, and the visitor paid no further
attention to the master.
"We hain't got much to eat in the house," said the woman, as they entered
the room. "There's some biled pork and pertaters in the pot, and we've got
some bread, sech as 'tis."
"It will do me very well. I'm hungry, and can eat any thing," replied Tom.
The woman placed a tin plate on the table, and dished up the contents of
the kettle on the fire. She added some cold hoe cake to the dinner, and
Tom thought it was a feast fit for a king. He took a seat at the table,
and made himself entirely at home. The food was coarse, but it was good,
and the hungry soldier boy did ample justice to the viands. The boy and
girl who had followed him into the house, stood, one on each side of him,
watching him in speechless astonishment.
"Where did yer come from?" asked the woman, when Tom had about half
finished his dinner.
"From down below," replied Tom, rather indefinitely.
"Don't b'long in these yere parts, I reckon?"
"No, marm."
"Where are ye gwine?"
"Going to join my regiment."
"Where is yer rigiment?"
"That's more than I know, marm."
"How long yer been travelling?" persisted the woman, who was perhaps
afraid that the guest would eat up the whole of the family's dinner, if
she did not make some kind of a feint to attract his attention.
"Only a few days, marm."
"Kin yer till me what all thet noise was about day 'fore yesterday?"
"Yes, marm; it was a big battle."
"Gracious me! Yer don't say so! Whar was it?"
"Down below Centreville."
"Which beat?"
"The Confederates drove the Yankees off the field," answered Tom,
suspending business long enough to glance at the woman, and see how the
intelligence was received.
"Yer don't! Then they won't want my old man."
Tom was unable to determine whether his hostess was Union or "Secesh" from
her words or her looks. He could not inform her whether they would want
her old man or not. When he had eaten all he could, he proposed like an
honest youth to pay for what he had eaten; but Betsey had the true idea of
southern hospitality, and refused to receive money for the food eaten
beneath her roof. She had a loaf of coarse bread, however, in which she
permitted Tom to invest the sum of six cents.
"I am very much obliged to you, marm; and I shall be glad to do as much
for you, any time," said Tom, as he went towards the front door.
As he was about to open it, his ears were startled by an imperative knock
on the outside. He stepped back to one of the two windows on the front of
the house, where he discovered an officer and two "grayback" soldiers. The
ghost of his grandmother would not have been half so appalling a sight,
and he retreated to the back door with a very undignified haste.
"Gracious me!" exclaimed the lady of the house. "Who kin thet be?"
"An officer and two soldiers," replied Tom, hastily.
"Then they are arter my old man!" said she, dropping into the only chair
the room contained.
"Don't say I'm here, marm, and I'll help your husband, if they catch him.
Tell them he has gone off to be absent a week."
"He'd be absent more'n thet if he knowed them fellers was arter him."
The woman moved towards the front door, and Tom through the back door; but
as he was about to pass into the garden, he caught a glimpse of one of the
graybacks in the rear of the house. For a moment his case seemed to be
hopeless; but he retreated into the room again, just as the woman opened
the front door to admit the officer. He could not escape from the house,
and his only resource was to secure a hiding place within its walls. There
were only two which seemed to be available; one of these was the bed, and
the other the chimney. If any search was made, of course the soldiers
would explore the bed first; and the chimney seemed the most practicable.
There was no time for consideration, for the woman had already opened the
door, and was answering the questions of the Confederate officer; so Tom
sprang into the fireplace, and, by the aid of the projecting stones,
climbed up to a secure position. The chimney was large enough to
accommodate half a dozen boys of Tom's size. The fire had gone out, and
though the stones were rather warm in the fireplace, he was not
uncomfortable.
The fears of the lady of the house proved to be well grounded this time,
for the party had actually come in search of her "old man;" and what was
more, the officer announced his intention not to leave without him.
"He's gone away fur a week, and he won't be hum before the fust of August,
no how," said the woman resolutely, and adopting Tom's suggestion to the
letter.
"All nonsense, woman! He is about here, somewhere, and we will find him."
"You may, if you kin."
The officer then went out at the back door, as Tom judged by his
footsteps, and the woman asked one of the children what had become of the
other soldier man. The boy said he was up chimney. She then told them not
to tell the officer where he was.
"What shell I do?" said she, placing herself before the fireplace.
"Don't be alarmed. He will keep out of their way," replied Tom.
"But the officer man said he was gwine to stay 'bout yere till he gits
hum," moaned the poor woman.
"He will not do any such thing. Your husband has the woods before him, and
he won't let them catch him."
"Deary me! I'm 'feared they will."
"Where are they now?"
"They're gone out to look for him."
The officer and his men returned in a few moments, having satisfied
themselves that the proprietor of the place was not on the premises.
"Now we'll search the house," said the officer; and Tom heard them walking
about in the room.
Of course the militia man could not be found, and the officer used some
very unbecoming language to express his disapprobation of the skulker, as
he called him.
"Woman, if you don't tell me where your husband is, I'll have you
arrested," said he, angrily.
"I don't know myself. He's gone off over the mountains to git some things.
Thet's all I know about it, and if yer want to arrest me, yer kin."
But the officer concluded that she would be a poor substitute for an able
bodied man, and he compromised the matter by leaving one of the privates,
instructing him not to let the woman or the children leave the house, and
to remain till the skulker returned.
This was not very pleasant information for Tom who perceived that he was
likely to be shut up in the chimney for the rest of the day, and perhaps
be smoked or roasted out at supper time. Climbing up to the top of his
prison house, he looked over, and saw the officer and one private
disappear in the woods which lay between the house and the railroad.
Looking over the other way, he saw the coveted recruit approaching the
house from beyond the garden.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE REBEL SOLDIER.
Tom Somers was not very well satisfied with his situation, for the soldier
who had been left in possession of the house was armed with a musket, and
the prospect of escaping before night was not very flattering. The
patriarch of the family, who had such a horror of recruiting officers, was
approaching, and in a few moments there would be an exciting scene in the
vicinity.
Independent of his promise made to the woman to help her husband, if she
would not betray him, Tom deemed it his duty to prevent the so-called
Confederate States of America from obtaining even a single additional
recruit for the armies of rebellion and treason. Without having any
personal feeling in the matter, therefore, he was disposed to do all he
could to assist his host in "avoiding the draft." What would have been
treason in New England was loyalty in Virginia.
The unfortunate subject of the Virginia militia law was unconsciously
approaching the trap which had been set for him. He had, no doubt, come to
the conclusion, by this time, that the hungry soldier boy was not a
recruiting officer, or even the corporal of a guard sent to apprehend him,
and he was returning with confidence to partake of his noonday meal. Tom,
from his perch at the top of the chimney, watched him as he ambled along
over the rough path with his eyes fixed upon the ground. There was
something rather exciting in the situation of affairs, and he soon found
himself deeply interested in the issue.
The unhappy citizen owing service to the Confederate States climbed over
the zigzag fence that enclosed his garden, and continued to approach the
rude dwelling which the law had defined to be his castle. Tom did not dare
to speak in tones loud enough to be heard by the innocent victim of the
officer's conspiracy, for they would have betrayed his presence to the
enemy. Sitting upon the top stones of the chimney, he gesticulated
violently, hoping to attract his attention; but the man did not look up,
and consequently could not see the signals.
He had approached within ten rods of the back door of the house, when Tom,
fearing his footsteps might attract the attention of the soldier, ventured
to give a low whistle. As this was not heeded, he repeated the signal when
the man was within two or three rods of the house; but even this was not
noticed, and throwing his head forward, so that the sound of his voice
should not descend the chimney, he spoke.
"Halloo!" said he.
The man suddenly stopped, and looked up. Tom made signals with his hands
for him to leave; but this mute language appeared not to be intelligible
to him.
"Consarn yer picter, what are yer doin' up thar?" said the proprietor of
the castle, in tones which seemed to Tom as loud as the roar of the cannon
at Bull Run.
"Hush! Hush!" replied Tom, gesticulating with all his might, and using all
his ingenuity to invent signs that would convey to the militiaman the idea
that he was in imminent danger.
"You be scotched!" snarled the man. "What are yer doin'? What ails yer?"
"They are after you!" added Tom, in a hoarse whisper.
The fellow most provokingly refused to hear him, and Tom thought his skull
was amazingly thick, and his perceptions amazingly blunt.
"Now you come down from thar," said he, as he picked up a couple of
stones. "You act like a monkey, and I s'pose yer be one. Now make tracks
down that chimley."
But instead of doing this, Tom retreated into his shell, as a snail does
when the moment of peril arrives. The soldier in the house was not deaf;
and if he had been, he could hardly have helped hearing the stentorian
tones of his victim. Instead of going out the back door, like a sensible
man, he passed out at the front door, and in a moment more Tom heard his
voice just beneath him.
"Halt!" shouted the soldier, as he brought his musket to his shoulder.
"Your name is Joe Burnap."
"That's my name, but I don't want nothin' o' you," replied the embarrassed
militiaman, as he dropped the stones with which he had intended to assault
Tom's citadel.
"I want something of you," replied the soldier. "You must go with me.
Advance, and give yourself up."
"What fur?" asked poor Joe.
"We want you for the army. You are an enrolled militiaman. You must go
with me."
"Ill be dog derned if I do," answered Joe Burnap, desperately.
"If you attempt to run away, I'll shoot you. You shall go with me, dead or
alive, and hang me if I care much which."
Joe evidently did care. He did not want to go with the soldier; his
southern blood had not been fired by the wrongs of his country; and he was
equally averse to being shot in cold blood by this minion of the
Confederacy. His position was exceedingly embarrassing, for he could
neither run, fight, nor compromise. While matters were in this interesting
and critical condition, Tom ventured to raise his head over the top of the
chimney to obtain a better view of the belligerents. Joe stood where he
had last seen him, and the soldier was standing within three feet of the
foot of the chimney.
"What ye going to do, Joe Burnap?" demanded the latter, after waiting a
reasonable time for the other to make up his mind.
"What am I gwine to do?" repeated Joe, vacantly, as he glanced to the
right and the left, apparently in the hope of obtaining some suggestion
that would enable him to decide the momentous question.
"You needn't look round, Joe; you've got to come or be shot. Just take
your choice between the two, and don't waste my time."
"I s'pose I can't help myself," replied Joe. "I'll tell ye what I'll do. I
want to fix up things about hum a little, and I'll jine ye down to the Gap
to-morrow."
"No you don't, Joe Burnap!" said the soldier, shaking his head.
"Then I'll jine ye to-night," suggested the strategist.
"My orders are not to return without you, and I shall obey them."
Mrs. Burnap, who had followed the soldier out of the house, stood behind
him wringing her hands in an agony of grief. She protested with all a
woman's eloquence against the proceedings of the soldier; but her tears
and her homely rhetoric were equally unavailing. While the parties were
confronting each other, the soldier dropped his piece, and listened to the
arguments of Joe and his wife. When he turned for a moment to listen to
the appeals of the woman, her husband improved the opportunity to commence
a retreat. He moved off steadily for a few paces, when the enemy
discovered the retrograde march, and again brought the gun to his
shoulder.
"None of that, Joe," said the soldier, sternly. "Now march back again, or
I'll shoot you;" and Tom heard the click of the hammer as he cocked the
piece. "I've fooled long enough with you, and we'll end this business
here. Come here, at once, or I'll put a bullet through your head."
"Don't shoot! Don't shoot! For mercy's sake don't shoot," cried Mrs.
Burnap.
"I'll give him one minute to obey the order; if he don't do it then, I'll
fire. That's all I've got to say."
Tom saw by the soldier's manner that he intended to execute his threat. He
saw him brace up his nerves, and otherwise prepare himself for the bloody
deed. But Tom did not think that Joe had the stubbornness or the courage,
whichever it might be called, to run the risk of dodging the bullet. He
foresaw, too, that, if Joe gave himself up, his hiding place would be
exposed, and the soldier would have two prisoners to conduct back to his
officer, instead of one. It was therefore high time for him to do
something for his own protection, if not for that of his host.
The necessity of defending himself, or of doing something to cover his
retreat in an emergency, had been anticipated by Tom, and he had made such
preparations as the circumstances would admit. His first suggestion was to
dart his bayonet down at the rebel soldier, as he had seen the fishermen
of Pinchbrook harpoon a horse mackerel; but the chances of hitting the
mark were too uncertain to permit him to risk the loss of his only weapon,
and he rejected the plan. He adopted the method, however, in a modified,
form, deciding to use the material of which the chimney was constructed,
instead of the bayonet. The stones being laid in clay instead of mortar,
were easily detached from the structure, and he had one in his hands ready
for operations.
"Come here, Joe Burnap, or you are a dead man," repeated the soldier, who
evidently had some scruples about depriving the infant Confederacy of an
able-bodied recruit.
Tom Somers, being unembarrassed by any such scruples, lifted himself up
from his hiding place, and hurled the stone upon the soldier, fully
expecting to hit him on the head, and dash out his brains. The best laid
calculations often miscarry, and Tom's did in part, for the missile,
instead of striking the soldier upon the head, hit him on the right arm.
The musket was discharged, either by the blow or by the act of its owner,
and fell out of his hands upon the ground.
Now, a stone as big as a man's head, does not fall from the height of
fifteen feet upon any vulnerable part of the human frame without
inflicting some injury; and in strict conformity with this doctrine of
probabilities, the stone which Tom hurled down upon the rebel, and which
struck him upon the right arm, entirely disabled that useful member. The
hero of this achievement was satisfied with the result, though it had not
realized his anticipations. Concluding that the time had arrived for an
effective charge, he leaped out of the chimney upon the roof of the house,
descended to the eaves, and then jumped down upon the ground.
The soldier, in panic and pain, had not yet recovered from the surprise
occasioned by this sudden and unexpected onslaught. Tom rushed up to him,
and secured the musket before he had time to regain his self-possession.
"Who are you?" demanded the soldier, holding up the injured arm with his
left hand.
"Your most obedient servant," replied Tom, facetiously, as he placed
himself in the attitude of "charge bayonets." "Have you any dangerous
weapons about your person?"
"Yes, I have," replied the soldier, resolutely, as he retreated a few
steps, and attempted to thrust his left hand into the breast pocket of his
coat.
"Hands down!" exclaimed Tom, pricking his arm with the bayonet attached to
the musket. "Here, Joe Burnap!"
"What d' yer want?" replied the proprietor of the house, who was as
completely "demoralized" by the scene as the rebel soldier himself.
"Put your hand into this man's pocket, and take out his pistol. If he
resists, I'll punch him with this," added Tom, demonstrating the movement
by a few vigorous thrusts with the bayonet.
With some hesitation Joe took a revolver from the pocket of the soldier,
and handed it to Tom.
"Examine all his pockets. Take out everything he has in them," added Tom,
cocking the revolver, and pointing it at the head of the prisoner.
Joe took from the pockets of the rebel a quantity of pistol cartridges, a
knife, some letters, and a wallet.
"Who's this fur?" asked Joe, as he proceeded to open the wallet, and take
therefrom a roll of Confederate "shin-plasters."
"Give it back to him."
"But this is money."
"Money!" sneered Tom. "A northern beggar wouldn't thank you for all he
could carry of it. Give it back to him, and every thing else except the
cartridges."
Joe reluctantly restored the wallet, the letters, and the knife, to the
pockets from which he had taken them. Tom then directed him to secure the
cartridge box of the soldier.
"You are my prisoner," said Tom; "but I believe in treating prisoners
well. You may go into the house, and if your arm is much hurt, Mrs. Burnap
may do what she can to help you."
The prisoner sullenly attended the woman into the house, and Tom followed
as far as the front door.
"Now, what am I gwine to do?" said Joe. "You've got me into a right smart
scrape."
"I thought I had got you out of one," replied Tom. "Do you intend to
remain here?"
"Sartin not, now. I must clear."
"So must I; and we have no time to spare. Get what you can to eat, and
come along."
In ten minutes more, Tom and Joe Burnap were travelling towards the
mountains.
CHAPTER XIX.
THROUGH THE GAP.
Joe Burnap was perfectly familiar with the country, and Tom readily
accepted him as a guide; and, as they had a common object in view, neither
had good cause for mistrusting the other. They walked, without stopping to
rest, till the sun set behind the mountains towards which they were
travelling.
"I reckon we needn't hurry now," said Joe, as he seated himself on a rock.
"I don't think there is any danger of their catching us," replied Tom, as
he seated himself beside his fellow-traveller. "Can you tell me where we
are?"
"I reckon I can. There ain't a foot of land in these yere parts that I
hain't had my foot on. I've toted plunder of all sorts through these woods
more'n ten thousand times."
"Well, where are we?" asked Tom, whose doubts in regard to the locality
had not yet been solved.
In the pressure of more exciting matters, he had not attempted to explain
why he did not come to Fairfax station while following the railroad.
"If we keep on a little while longer, I reckon we shall come to
Thoroughfare Gap," answered Joe.
"But where do you live? What town is your house in?" asked Tom, who had
never heard of Thoroughfare Gap before.
"Haymarket is the nearest town to my house."
"What railroad is that over there?" asked Tom, who was no nearer the
solution of the question than he had been in the beginning.
"That's the Manassas Gap Railroad, I reckon," replied Joe, who seemed to
be astonished at the ignorance of his companion.
"Just so," added Tom, who now, for the first time, comprehended where he
was.
When he left Sudley church, he walked at random till he came to the
railroad; but he had struck the Manassas Gap Railroad instead of the main
line, and it had led him away from the great body of the rebels, though it
also conducted him away from Washington, where he desired to go. He was
perplexed at the discovery, and at once began to debate the question
whether it was advisable for him to proceed any farther in this direction.
"I suppose you are a Union man--ain't you?" said Tom, after he had
considered his situation for some time.
Instead of answering this question, Joe Burnap raised his eyes from the
ground, and fixed his gaze intently upon Tom. He stared at him for a
moment in doubt and silence, and then resumed his former attitude.
"You don't want to fight for the south," added Tom; "so I suppose you
don't believe in the Southern Confederacy."
"I don't want to fight for nuther of 'em," replied Joe, after a moment of
further consideration. "If they'll only let me alone, I don't keer which
beats."
His position was certainly an independent one, and he appeared to be
entirely impartial. The newspapers on either side would not have disturbed
him. Patriotism--love of country--had not found a resting place in his
soul. Tom had not, from the beginning, entertained a very high respect for
the man; but now he despised him, and thought that a rebel was a gentleman
compared with such a character. How a man could live in the United States,
and not feel an interest in the stirring events which were transpiring
around him, was beyond his comprehension. In one word, he so thoroughly
despised Joe Burnap, that he resolved, at the first convenient
opportunity, to get rid of him, for he did not feel safe in the company of
such a person.
"Now which side do you fight fur?" asked Joe, after a long period of
silence.
"For the Union side," replied Tom, promptly.
"What are yer doin' here, then?"
"I was in the battle below, and was taken prisoner, got away, and I want
to get to Washington."
"I reckon this ain't the way to git thar," added Joe.
"I doubt whether I can get there any other way."
Just then, Tom would have given all the money he had in the world, and all
that the government owed him, for a good map of Virginia--or even for a
knowledge of geography which would have enabled him to find his way by the
safest route to Washington. But he had been a diligent scholar in school,
and had faithfully improved the limited opportunities which had been
afforded him. His mind could recall the map of Virginia which he had
studied in school, but the picture was too faint to be of much practical
benefit to him.
He had treasured up some information, derived from the newspapers, in
regard to the Manassas Gap Railroad. He knew that it passed through the
Blue Ridge, at the western base of which flowed the Shenandoah River: this
emptied into the Potomac, which would certainly conduct him to Washington.
In following these two rivers, he should have to describe nearly a circle,
which was not an encouraging fact to a boy on foot, with no resources, and
in an enemy's country.
If he returned by the way he came, the country was filled with rebel
soldiers, and he could hardly expect to pass through their lines without
being captured. Difficult and dangerous as the route by the Shenandoah
appeared, he decided to adopt it.
Joe Burnap proposed that they should have supper and opened the bag which
he had filled with such eatables as he could hastily procure on leaving
home. They ate a hearty meal, and then resumed their walk for another
hour.
"I reckon we'd better stop here," said Joe. "The Gap's only half a mile
from here, and it's too arly in the night to go through thar yet. Thar's
too many soldiers goin' that way."
"What time will you go through?" asked Tom.
"Not afore midnight."
"Then I'll turn in and take a nap. I didn't sleep any last night."
"I'm agreed," replied Joe, who seemed to be indifferent to every thing
while he could keep out of the rebel army.
Tom coiled up his body in the softest place he could find, and went to
sleep. Exhausted by fatigue and the want of rest, he did not wake for many
hours. He came to his senses with a start, and jumped upon his feet. For a
moment, he could not think where he was; but then came the recollection
that he was in the country of his enemies--a wanderer and a fugitive.
He looked about him in search of his travelling companion; but the fact
that he could not see him in the night was no argument that he was not
near him. He supposed Joe had chosen a place to sleep in the vicinity, and
thinking he might not wake in season to pass through the Gap before
daylight, he commenced a search for him. He beat about the place for half
an hour, calling his companion by name; but he could not see him, and no
sound responded to the call but the echoes of his own voice.
The independent Virginia farmer had anticipated Tom's intention to part
company with him, and, by this time, perhaps, had passed through the Gap.
The soldier boy was not quite ready to dispense with the services of his
guide, inasmuch as he did not even know where the Gap was, or in what
direction he must travel to reach it. While he was debating his prospects,
an enterprising rooster, in the distance, sounded his morning call. This
assured him that he must be near some travelled road, and, taking the
direction from the fowl, he resumed his journey.
A short walk brought him out of the woods, and, in the gray light of the
dawn, he discovered a house. As he did not care to make any new
acquaintances, he avoided the house, and continued his travels till he
arrived at a road. As it was too early in the morning for people to be
stirring, he ventured to follow the highway, and soon perceived an opening
in the mountains, which he doubted not was the Gap.
At sunrise he arrived at another house, which suddenly came into view as
he rounded a bend in the road. Near it were several negroes engaged in
various occupations. As he passed the house, the negroes all suspended
operations, and stared at him till he was out of sight. He soon reached
the Gap; but he had advanced only a short distance before he discovered a
battery of light artillery stationed on a kind of bluff, and whose guns
commanded the approaches in every direction.
Deeming it prudent to reconnoitre before he proceeded any farther, he also
ascertained that the Gap was picketed by rebel infantry. Of course it was
impossible to pass through under these circumstances, and he again took to
the woods. The scanty supply of food which he had purchased from Mrs.
Burnap was now produced, and he made an economical breakfast. Finding a
secluded place, he stretched himself upon the ground, and went to sleep.
Though he slept till the sun had passed the meridian, the day was a very
long one.
When it was fairly dark, he resolved to attempt the passage of the Gap,
for he was so tired of inaction that peril and hardship seemed preferable
to doing nothing. Returning to the road, he pursued his way with due
diligence through the narrowing defile of the mountains, till he suddenly
came upon a sentinel, who challenged him. Before he started from his
hiding place, Tom had carefully loaded the revolver which he had taken
from the rebel soldier; and, as he walked along, he carried the weapon in
his hand, ready for any emergency that might require its use.
The guard questioned him, and Tom replied that he had fought in the battle
down below, and had a furlough to go home and see his father, who was very
sick.
"Where's your furlough?" demanded the soldier.
"In my pocket."
"Let me see it."
"Here it is," replied Tom, producing an old letter which he happened to
have in his pocket.
The sentinel took the paper, unfolded it, and turned it over two or three
times. It was too dark for him to read it if he had been able to do so,
for all the rebel soldiers are not gifted in this way.
"I reckon this won't do," he added, after patiently considering the
matter. "Just you tote this paper up to the corporal thar, and if he says
it's all right, you kin go on."
"But I can't stop to do all that. Here's my pass, and I want to go on. My
father may die before I get home."
"What regiment do you b'long to?" asked the guard, who evidently did not
wish to disoblige a fellow-soldier unnecessarily.
"The Second Virginia," replied Tom, at a venture.
"Where does your father live?" continued the sentinel.
"Just beyond the Gap, if he's living at all."
"What town?"
Tom was nonplussed, for he did not know the name of a single place on the
route before him; and, of course, he did not dare to answer the question.
"About five or six miles from here," he answered.
"Is it Salem or White Plains?" demanded the soldier, whose cunning was
inferior to his honesty.
"White Plains," added Tom, promptly accepting the suggestion.
"What's the matter with your father?"
"I don't know; he was taken suddenly."
"Pears like your uniform ain't exactly our sort," added the soldier.
"Mine was all used up, and I got one on the battle-field."
"I wouldn't do that. It's mean to rob a dead man of his clothes."
"Couldn't help it--I was almost naked," replied Tom, who perfectly agreed
with the rebel on this point.
"You kin go on, Old Virginny," said the soldier, whose kindly sympathy for
Tom and his sick father was highly commendable.
The soldier boy thanked the sentinel for his permission, of which he
immediately availed himself. Tom did not yet realize the force of the
maxim that "all is fair in war," and his conscience gave a momentary
twinge as he thought of the deception he had practised upon the honest and
kind-hearted rebel. He was very thankful that he had not been compelled to
put a bullet through his head; but perhaps he was more thankful that the
man had not been obliged to do him a similar favor.
The fugitive walked, with an occasional rest, till daylight the next
morning. He went through three or four small villages. After passing
through the Gap, he had taken the railroad, as less likely to lead him
through the more thickly settled parts of the country. Before him the
mountains of the Blue Ridge rose like an impassable wall, and when the day
dawned he was approaching Manassas Gap. He had walked twenty-five miles
during the night, and prudence, as well as fatigue, required him to seek a
place of rest.
CHAPTER XX.
DOWN THE SHENANDOAH.
In that wild mountain region, Tom had no difficulty in finding a secluded
spot, where there was no probability that he would be molested. He had
been in a state of constant excitement during the night, for the country
was full of soldiers. The mountaineers of Virginia were rushing to the
standard of rebellion. They were a wild, rude set of men, and they made
the night hideous with their debauchery. Tom succeeded in keeping out of
the way of the straggling parties which were roaming here and there; but
he was filled with dread and anxiety lest he should, at the next moment,
stumble upon a camp, or a squad of these marauders.
The nook in the mountains which he had chosen as his resting place was a
cleft in the rocks, concealed by the overhanging branches of trees. Here
he made his bed, as the sun rose, and, worn out with fatigue and anxiety,
he dropped asleep.
When he awoke, the sun was near the meridian. He rose and walked out a
short distance from his lodging place, and listened for any sounds which
might indicate the presence of an enemy. All was still; silence deep and
profound reigned through the solitudes of the mountains. Tom returned to
his place of concealment, and after eating the remainder of the food he
had brought with him, he stretched himself upon the ground, and went to
sleep again. He had nothing else to do, and he needed all the rest he
could obtain. It was fortunate for him that he had self-possession enough
to sleep--to banish his nervous doubts and fears, and thus secure the
repose which was indispensable to the success of his arduous enterprise.
It was after sundown when he finished his second nap. He had slept nearly
all day,--at least ten hours,--and he was entirely refreshed and restored.
He was rather stiff in some of his limbs when he got up; but he knew this
would wear off after a little exercise. He had no supper with which to
brace himself for the night's work; so he took a drink from the mountain
stream, and made his way back to the railroad. But it was too early then
to commence the passage of the Gap, and he sat for a couple of hours by
the side of the road, before he ventured to resume his journey.
While he was passing through the narrow gorge in the mountains, he met
several persons, on foot and on horseback; but as he was armed with a
pistol, he did not turn out for them; but when a party of soldiers
approached, he sought a hiding place by the side of the road until they
were out of hearing. When he had passed through the Gap, he came to a road
crossing the track, and after debating the question thoroughly, he decided
to abandon the railroad, and pursued his course by the common highway
towards the North.
Continuing his journey diligently for a time longer, he came to another
road, branching off to the left from the one he had chosen, which required
further consideration. But his conclusion was satisfactory, and he
continued on the same road, which soon brought him to a more thickly
settled country than that through which he had been travelling.
By this time Tom's stomach began to be rebellious again, and the question
of rations began to assume a serious aspect. He was not suffering for
food, but it was so much more comfortable to travel upon a full stomach
than an empty one, that he could not pass a dwelling house without
thinking of the contents of the cellar and closets. It was perfectly
proper to forage on the enemy; but he could not eat raw chicken and geese,
or the problem of rations would have been effectually settled by a
demonstration on the hen-coops of the Shenandoah valley.
He came to a halt before a large mansion, which had the appearance of
belonging to a wealthy person. Its larder and kitchen cupboards, he
doubted not, were plentifully supplied with the luxuries of the season;
and Tom thought he might as well obtain his provisions now, as wait till
he was driven to desperation by hunger. He entered the front gate of the
great house, and stepped upon the veranda in front of it. The windows
reached down to the floor. He tried one of them, and found that it was not
fastened. He carefully raised the sash and entered.
Tom was determined to put himself upon his impudence on the present
occasion; but he satisfied himself that his revolver was in condition for
instant use before he proceeded any farther. Passing from the front room
to an apartment in the rear, he found a lamp and matches, and concluded
that he would have some light on the subject, which was duly obtained.
Leaving this room, he entered another, which proved to be the kitchen. A
patient search revealed to him the lurking place of a cold roast chicken,
some fried bacon, bread, and crackers.
Placing these things on the table, he seated himself to partake of the
feast which the forethought of the occupants had provided for him. Tom
began to be entirely at home, for having thrown himself on his impudence
now; he did not permit any doubts or fears to disturb him; but the handle
of his pistol protruded from between the buttons of his coat. He ate till
he had satisfied himself, when he happened to think that the coffee pot he
had seen in the closet might contain some cold coffee; and he brought it
out. He was not disappointed, and even found sugar and milk. He poured out
a bowl of the beverage, and, having prepared it to his taste, was about to
conclude the feast in this genteel style, when he heard footsteps in the
adjoining entry.
Tom determined not to be cheated out of his coffee, and instead of putting
himself in a flurry, he took the bowl in one hand and the pistol in the
other. The door opened, and a negro timidly entered the room.
"Well, sar!" said the servant, as he edged along the side of the room.
"Hem! Well, sar!"
Tom took no notice of him, but continued to drink his coffee as coolly as
though he had been in his mother's cottage at Pinchbrook.
"Hem! Well, sar!" repeated the negro, who evidently wished to have the
interloper take some notice of him.
But the soldier boy refused to descend from his dignity or his impudence.
He finished the bowl of coffee as deliberately as though the darkey had
been somewhere else.
"Well, sar! Who's you, sar?"
"Eh, Blackee?"
"Who's you, sar?"
"Good chicken! Good bread! Good bacon!" added Tom. "Are the folks at home,
Blackee?"
"No, sar; nobody but de women folks, sar. Who's you, sar?"
"It don't make much difference who I am. Where's your master?"
"Gone to Richmond, sar. He's member ob Congress."
"Then he's in poor business, Blackee," said Tom, as he took out his
handkerchief, and proceeded to transfer the remnants of his supper to its
capacious folds.
"Better luff dem tings alone, sar."
But Tom refused to "luff dem alone," and when he had placed them on the
handkerchief, he made a bundle of them.
"Golly, sar! I'll tell my missus what's gwine on down here," added the
servant, as he moved towards the door.
"See here, Blackee," interposed Tom, pointing his pistol at the negro; "if
you move, I'll put one of these balls through your skull."
"De Lud sabe us, massa! Don't shoot dis nigger, massa."
"Hold your tongue then, and mind what I say."
"Yes, massa," whined the darkey, in the most abject tones.
"Now come with me, Blackee, and if you open your mouth, one of these pills
shall go down your throat."
Tom flourished his pistol before the negro, and led the way to the window
by which he had entered the house. Passing out upon the veranda, he
cautiously conducted the terrified servant to the road; and when they had
gone a short distance, he halted.
"Now, Blackee, what town is this?" demanded Tom.
"Leeds Manor, sar," replied the trembling negro.
"How far is it to the Shenandoah River?"
"Only two or tree miles, massa. Now let dis chile go home again."
"Not yet."
"Hab mercy on dis nigger dis time, and sabe him."
"I won't hurt you, if you behave yourself."
Tom questioned him for some time in regard to the river, and the towns
upon its banks; and when he had obtained all the information in regard to
the valley which the servant possessed, he resumed his journey, driving
the negro before him.
"Spare dis chile, massa, for de sake ob de wife and chil'n," pleaded the
unwilling guide.
"I tell you I won't hurt you if you behave yourself," replied Tom. "You'll
have the whole place down upon me in half an hour, if I let you go now."
"No, massa; dis nigger won't say one word 'bout you, nor de tings you took
from de house--not one word, massa. Spare dis chile, and luff him go
home."
But Tom compelled him to walk before him till they came to the river. The
place was called Seaburn's Ford.
"Now, Blackee, if anybody wants me, tell them I've gone to Winchester,"
said Tom, when he had ordered his escort to halt.
"No, massa, I won't say one word," replied the servant.
"If you do, I'll shoot you the very next time I see you--depend upon that.
You can go now."
The negro was not slow to avail himself of this privilege, and ran off,
evidently expecting a bullet from the revolver would overtake him before
he had gone far, for he glanced fearfully over his shoulder, begging his
captor not to shoot him.
Tom stood upon the bank of the Shenandoah. The negro had told him that he
was about thirty miles from Harper's Ferry, which he knew was in
possession of General Patterson's forces. Attached to a tree on the shore
was a small flat-bottomed boat, which attracted the attention of the
soldier boy. Tom was accustomed to boats, and the sight of this one
suggested a change of programme, for it would be much easier to float down
the stream, than to walk the thirty miles. This was a point which needed
no argument; and unfastening the painter of the boat, he jumped in, and
pushed off. Seating himself in the stern, with the paddle in his hand, he
kept her head with the current, and swept down the rapid stream like a
dreamy youth just starting upon the voyage of life.
Like the pilgrim on the sea of time, Tom was not familiar with the
navigation of the Shenandoah, and he had neither chart nor compass to
assist him. The current was very swift, and once in a while the bateau
bumped upon a concealed rock, or bar of sand. Fortunately no serious
accident occurred to him, though he found that the labor of managing the
boat was scarcely less than that of walking.
There was one consolation about it; he was in no danger of missing the
road, and he was not bothered by Confederate soldiers or inquisitive
civilians. His light bark rushed on its way down the stream, without
attracting the notice of any of the inhabitants, if any were abroad at
that unseemly hour of the night. The difficulties of the navigation were
overcome with more or less labor, and when the day dawned, Tom made up his
mind that he had done a good night's work; and choosing a secluded nook by
the side of the river, he hauled up his boat, intending to wait for the
return of darkness.
The place he had chosen appeared to be far from any habitation, and he ate
his breakfast in a very hopeful frame of mind. Though he was not very
tired or very sleepy, yet for the want of something better to do, he felt
compelled to go to sleep, hoping, as on the previous day, to dispose of
the weary hours in this agreeable manner. His pastime, however, was soon
interrupted by loud shouts and the tramp of men, not far from the spot
where he lay. A hurried examination of the surroundings assured him that
he had chosen a resting place near one of the fords of the river, over
which a rebel regiment was then passing.
CHAPTER XXI.
THE PROBLEM OF RATIONS.
The ford over which the rebel regiment was passing was only a few rods
distant from the place where Tom had concealed himself and his boat. When
he discovered the soldiers, he was thrilled with terror; and, fully
believing that his hour had come, he dropped upon the ground, to wait, in
trembling anxiety, the passage of the troops. It was a regiment of
