unusual luxury; for by extending their hunting-grounds in various
directions, they added very much to the variety of their larder.

The small stores, such as butter, salt, sugar, coffee, and tea, were
exhausted in the fall, though they had been very carefully expended.
They had been so long accustomed to their luxurious living, that the
want of these articles was felt as a very great hardship. Their nice
ducks and geese were absolutely loathsome without salt, and Dan came to
the conclusion that salt was a necessity, and that it must be procured
at any risk. About twenty miles from the camp there was a village where
groceries could be obtained; and after a great deal of consideration it
was decided to undertake a journey for this purpose. They had been five
months in the swamp without seeing any human being, though Dan and Quin,
in one of their hunting trips, had heard voices on the lake. They felt
entirely secure in the camp, and Lily was not afraid to remain with Cyd
while Dan and Quin went after the needed supplies.

It was resolved that Dan should pass himself off as a white boy, who,
with a party of hunters, had encamped in the woods. He therefore dressed
himself for the part he was to play, and embarked in the bateau with
Quin, who was to act as his servant. With the utmost care they pursued
their journey, and, without any incident or accident, came in sight of
the village where they were to purchase the stores. But Dan did not
think it prudent to visit the place in broad daylight; so they concealed
themselves in the swamp, and slept by turns till nearly daylight the
next morning.

This seemed to be the most favorable time to visit the store; and they
entered the village, which was called so by courtesy, for it had only
six houses. Putting on the bold, swaggering air of a young southerner,
Dan entered the place, followed by his servant. With all the bluster
necessary to keep up his character, he roused the shopkeeper, and
ordered, rather than requested, him to open his store. Fortunately trade
was not so lively in the place as to render the merchant independent of
his business, and he gladly opened his establishment even at that
unseemly hour. He asked a great many questions, which Dan answered very
readily. The purchases were all made, and Dan's funds, though they
amounted to nearly thirty dollars, were almost exhausted. When the
stores had been gathered together, a new and appalling difficulty
presented itself. Dan had not intended to purchase a quarter part of the
supplies which were now piled in the middle of the store. It was five
miles to the lake, and no two men in the universe could have carried
them that distance.

The matter was one of so much importance, and the articles obtained with
so much greater facility than he expected, that he had been tempted to
procure this large stock. But the pile was so large that he began to
repent of the act, and to wish that half his money was in his pocket
again. To remedy the difficulty he began to bluster, and told the
storekeeper that he must get a team and tote the goods down to the lake
for him.

The man objected; but he at last consented to procure his neighbor's
mule team and help them out. For this service Dan paid him two dollars
more, which entirely collapsed his exchequer. The stores were safely
deposited in the bateau, and the man drove off, apparently as well
satisfied with his morning's work as the other party to the transaction.

As soon as he was out of sight and hearing, Quin could contain himself
no longer, and vented his satisfaction at the success of the enterprise
in the most violent and extraordinary manner. He laughed till his eyes
were filled with tears, and had nearly upset the overloaded boat by his
extravagant demonstrations.

"What's the matter, Quin?" demanded Dan, astonished at the conduct of
his usually prudent and sedate companion.

"Bress de Lo'd, we's got all de tings," exclaimed Quin.

"Don't crow till you get out of the woods."

"Dar's de hard bread, and de salt, and de butter--golly, Massa Dan, you
done do dat ting bery fine."

"Wait till we get back to the camp before you say any thing. We are not
out of danger yet."

"But we's got de tings, Dan--de coffee, de sugar, and de salt."

"Take your oar now, and when we get back we'll have a jolly time."

"Bress de Lo'd, yes, Dan," said the delighted Quin, as he grasped the
oar.

Prosperity makes men careless and reckless. The bateau was so crowded
with stores that the rowers had but little space to use the oars. Their
progress was necessarily very slow. They wanted to get back to the camp
before night, and instead of keeping under the lee of the land, where
the boat would not be likely to attract attention, they proceeded by the
shortest route. When they reached the upper end of the lake, and were
within five miles of the camp, they were startled to see a boat put out
from one of the small islands, and pull towards them.

"De Lo'd sabe us!" exclaimed Quin, as he discovered the boat, which
contained two white men.

"Take no notice of them, and don't speak a word," said Dan, in a low
tone.

"De Lo'd hab us in his holy keeping!" ejaculated Quin, reverently, as he
raised his eyes towards heaven.

"Do you know them?" asked Dan.

"One of dem's Massa Longworth; don't know de oder," replied Quin, his
teeth chattering as though he had been suddenly seized with the ague.

"Who is he?"

"De oberseer on de plantation next to ole massa's."

The overloaded bateau rendered an escape by fast rowing impossible, and
the fugitives continued to pull steadily, as before. Dan had his gun in
a position where he could use it when occasion required. The two men
pulled up to within a short distance of the bateau, and rested on their
oars.

"Where ye gwine with all that stuff?" demanded Longworth.

"We belong to a party of gunners up here," replied Dan, boldly; for he
was determined to make the most of the circumstances.

"Where be they?"

"Up to Chicot--about ten miles from here."

"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Longworth, glancing at his companion. "That's a
good story, but it won't go down."

"You open your mouth wide enough to take any thing down," answered Dan,
smartly.

"Can't swallow that story, no how," said the overseer. "But who's that
boy with you?"

"None of your business. I don't make stories for you to laugh at."

"Yes, you do, my boy. But you needn't row any furder. We want ye both."

"You can't have us."

"We'll see about that," added the man, as he raised his fowling piece.

"No use,--'tain't loaded," snarled the other man in the boat.

"Mine is," replied Dan, elevating the piece.

Longworth cursed his companion for the revelation he had made, and
proceeded to load the gun. In the mean time Dan dropped his piece, and
began to pull again.

"Stop, now. I don't want to destroy val'able property with this yere
iron, but I must if you don't stop," continued the overseer, as he
finished loading his gun.

"Perhaps I can destroy as much valuable property as you can," said Dan,
as he took his fowling piece again.

"You must come with me. I know that nigger in the boat with you, and I
reckon you belong to Colonel Raybone."

"I, you villain! How dare you insult me? I am a free white man."

"Perhaps you be, but you've been advertised enough to let any man in
these yere parts know you. That nigger belongs to my neighbor. If you've
a mind to come in quietly, I'll see you let off without any whippin."

"I have no mind to come in, either quietly or otherwise," replied Dan.

"Then the wust's your own;" and Longworth fired.

The ball whistled within a few feet of Dan's head; but, unterrified by
the peril, he raised his gun and fired.

"I'm hit!" groaned Longworth, as he sank down into the boat.

The other man in the boat with Longworth took the gun, loaded it, and
fired. At that moment Dan had stooped down to pick up his shot-pouch,
and Quin being the more prominent party in the bateau, the other man
fired at him.

"De Lo'd sabe me!" groaned Quin, as he placed both hands on his chest.

Dan was ready to fire again; but, to his astonishment, he saw the man
who had shot his companion seize the oars and pull away from the spot as
fast as he could.

It was evident that the fate of his companion had appalled him; and
seeing Dan nearly ready to discharge his gun again, he hastened to widen
the distance between them. He rowed with the desperation of a doomed
man. As the boat receded, Longworth raised himself up, as if to assure
the fugitives that he was not dead.

Dan pointed the gun at the retreating boat for some time, and then
fired, but not with the intention of hitting his savage foes. They were
slave-drivers, but he did not wish to kill them.

The boat shortly disappeared, and Dan turned his attention to his
wounded companion. The ball had passed through his lungs, and had
penetrated a vital organ. Deeply affected by the event, he did what he
could to stanch the blood; but poor Quin was past the aid of any
surgery, and breathed his last a few minutes later.

Fearful that other pursuers might soon appear, Dan worked the boat up
the bayou as rapidly as he could alone; but it was late at night when he
reached the camp. Then he wept; then the tears of Lily mingled with his
own over the corpse of the honest and faithful Quin, whose spirit had
soared aloft, where the black man is as free as his white oppressor.




CHAPTER XIX.

LILY ON THE WATCH.


The death of poor Quin filled his companions with sorrow and dismay.
There was weeping all night long on board of the Isabel. He had been a
true and faithful friend to each individual of the party, and they were
all sincerely and devotedly attached to him. With this sad bereavement
came the sense of personal peril, for those who had slain their
associate would not be content till they had driven his companions from
their covert, and shed their blood or again reduced them to slavery.

Lily was disposed to abandon all her hopes in despair, and Cyd trembled
with fear as he thought of what the next day or the next week might
bring forth. But the energy and firmness of Dan soon quieted their
fears, and restored, in some measure, the confidence which had before
prevailed in the camp.

"We have defeated the slave-hunters twice, and we can do it again," said
he, as he rose from his seat at the cabin table, around which, as Dan
ate his supper, the party had considered their sad and perilous
condition.

"It's terrible to think of poor Quin," said Lily. "He was so good and
kind."

"And we have one arm less to assist in our defence. Don't cry any more,
Lily. I'm afraid we haven't seen the worst of it yet."

"Can't we do something? Can't we get away from this place?" asked Lily.

"That is impossible. The water is too low to float the Isabel down to
the lake, even if she were ready to go. It will take several days to rig
her, and put her in order for our voyage."

"What will become of us?"

"I don't know. I hope for the best. Don't cry, Lily. I am not afraid of
any thing. If we are resolute, we can defend ourselves if the
slave-hunters should find us, which I don't think they can."

"It's awful to think of fighting and being shot," murmured Lily, as she
cast a tender glance at Dan.

"I thought of all these things before we started, and I will not shrink
from them now. But come, Cyd; we must go to work and unload the bateau."

The stores, which had been procured at such a terrible sacrifice, were
taken on board the Isabel, while the body of poor Quin was laid upon the
trunk cabin, and covered up with a blanket. As they lifted the lifeless
form from the bateau, Dan could not but recall the extravagant joy of
the deceased when the stores were safely embarked. The scene which
followed was a sad commentary on the hopes which the honest fellow had
cherished only a few hours before.

It was necessary that the corpse should be buried that night, for the
weather was warm, and none knew what were to be the events of the coming
day. A suitable spot was selected on one of the adjacent islands, where
Cyd and Dan dug a shallow grave. The remains of poor Quin, wrapped in
the blanket, were then conveyed in the bateau to the spot, and deposited
in their final resting-place. By the dim light of the lantern, Dan read
a chapter from his Testament, and then all of them knelt around the
grave. No audible prayers were repeated, but the hearts of these
sincere mourners were filled with the spirit of prayer; and He who wants
no vain words to praise Him, accepted the solemn but silent service.

The grave was filled, and the fugitives used all their ingenuity to
conceal the broken ground, that it might not betray them to the ruthless
slave-hunters, who might soon visit the spot. With sad hearts they
returned to the camp. Dan was nearly exhausted by the fatigue and
anxiety of the last two days; but he could not sleep while there was any
thing to be done to prepare for the expected visit of the slave-hunters.
His first care was to put all the arms and ammunition in readiness. He
then showed Lily how to load a gun, that she might assist them in the
defence.

On the islands they had collected a great quantity of logs, to serve
them for fuel during the winter. These were carried upon the deck of the
Isabel, and so arranged as to form a kind of breastwork, to shield the
boys from the bullets of the enemy. By noon on the following day, every
thing that could be thought of to conceal or defend the camp had been
done. They were ready for the slave-hunters then, and if Quin had only
been with them, they would have felt confident of the result of an
attack.

In the afternoon Dan was so worn out that he could endure no more, and
at Lily's urgent request he went below, and was soon asleep. Cyd was
fully alive to the necessities of the occasion. He kept his eyes and
ears wide open, but he neither saw nor heard any thing that indicated
the approach of an enemy. Lily, though very much alarmed, was as
resolute as her companions; for she knew and felt what slavery would be
if its shackles were again fastened upon her. She was a gentle, timid,
shrinking girl; but she was determined to die rather than be restored to
the tyranny of her capricious mistress, and the more terrible fate which
would eventually overtake her.

The long, gloomy night that followed passed away, the anxious watchers
still keeping vigil by turns upon the deck of the Isabel. The next day,
while Lily was keeping watch, both Dan and Cyd being asleep in the
cabin, she heard the dip of oars in the bayou. Her heart beat a furious
tattoo against her ribs, and she almost sank with horror, as she
listened to the sounds which indicated the approach of the dreaded
enemy. It was her duty to call Dan; but she seemed to be riveted to her
seat. The sounds came nearer and nearer, and soon she could hear the
voices of the slave-hunters. She could distinguish the curses that fell
from their lips as they advanced, and she was faint and sick with
apprehension.

The Isabel was moored at some distance from the bayou, which led to the
lake; but through the dense foliage which shrouded the boat, she could
discover the slave-hunters. They were now not forty rods distant, and
the slightest sound might betray their hiding-place. With quivering lips
and trembling limbs, she peered through the bushes to ascertain whether
the boat turned up the channel which led to the camp. It was a moment of
terrible suspense; a moment fraught with the issues of freedom or
slavery--life or death.

Why did she not call her companions, who were sleeping peacefully in the
cabin, while she was torn and distracted by these agonizing fears? She
dared not do so, lest one of them should speak and betray them all. Cyd
was impetuous, and a word from him might render futile the labors and
the perils of months.

Hardly daring to breathe lest it should undo them, she watched the
progress of the boat. The slave-hunters paused at the mouth of the
channel, consulted for a few moments, and then the bow of the boat was
turned towards the camp. With a gasp of horror, Lily crouched down upon
the floor of the standing room, and crept towards the cabin door. A
torrent of despair seemed to be turned loose upon her soul. She grasped
the side of the cabin door, when suddenly all her strength forsook her,
and she sank senseless upon the floor. The terrible agony of that
tremendous moment was more than she could endure, and she fainted.

The frail and delicate watcher had failed in the important duty she had
assumed at the very instant when her warning notes were most needed, and
the fugitives were then apparently at the mercy of the slave-hunters.
Dan slept, Cyd slept; both wearied out with watching and hard work, all
unconscious that their gentle, willing sentinel had failed them, and
that the fiends they dreaded were within pistol shot of their retreat.
They slept, and were silent. Lily, senseless upon the floor of the
standing room, pale and motionless as a marble statue chiselled in the
form of angelic beauty, was silent as the grave. Not a breath of air
stirred the forest leaves, not a ripple agitated the waters. It was
perfect stillness in the camp. There was no sound to disturb the solemn
quiet of that temple of nature, save the ribald speech of the
slave-hunters, mingled with fiendish curses.

There was none to keep watch and ward in the camp of the fugitives--none
but He who watches over the innocent when they sleep and when they wake.
He was there keeping ceaseless vigil by the senseless maiden, and over
the sleeping boys. "He doeth all things well;" and the very silence that
reigned in the camp saved the fugitives from the keen scrutiny of the
enemy.

The hunters remained in the vicinity for a few moments, and finding no
clew to the fugitives, turned their boat, and went back to the bayou.
They proceeded up the stream a few miles farther, and then, abandoning
the search in this direction, returned to the lake.

Still Dan slept, and Cyd slept, and Lily still lay silent in marble
stillness upon the floor at the door of the cabin.




CHAPTER XX.

PREPARING FOR THE VOYAGE.


The deep silence which pervaded the camp was first broken by Dan. He
woke slowly from his profound slumbers, looked about him for a moment,
then glanced at Cyd, who, contrary to his usual custom, did not snore.
Every thing was still; his ear was not saluted with the sharp crack of a
slave-hunter's rifle, and no curses disturbed the solemn silence of the
place. Every thing seemed to be secure, and he wondered that the enemy
had not yet appeared.

He was tempted to turn over and go to sleep, for he still felt very
weary, and his repose had not restored his wonted vigor. But he
concluded to go on deck, as every prudent skipper should, before he
finished his nap. Rising leisurely from his bunk, he made his way to the
standing room where he was almost paralyzed at the discovery of Lily
lying apparently dead upon the floor.

Dan was prompt and decided in action; and taking the insensible girl in
his arms, he placed her upon the cushioned seat. Tremulous with emotion,
he bent over her to ascertain whether his worst fears were to be
realized. Her heart beat; there was life, and there was hope.

"Cyd! Cyd!" shouted he, in tones which would have roused a sleepier boy
than his fellow-fugitive, and which, had it been heard a quarter of an
hour sooner, would have brought the slave-hunters upon them.

Cyd leaped from his couch as the imperative tones of Dan reached his
ears, fully believing that the enemy, for whom they had been so
patiently preparing, was upon them. Seizing a gun which lay upon the
table, he rushed aft, ready to do his share in the impending battle.

"Wha--wha--whar's de nigger-hunters?" demanded he, furiously.

"They are not here; there is no danger," replied Dan, calmly, as he
continued to rub the temples of Lily.

"Possifus! Wha--wha--what's de matter wid Missy Lily?" cried he, as soon
as he saw the insensible form of the maiden.

"Bring me a pitcher of water, Cyd."

"Is she dead?" gasped the poor fellow, as he obtained a better view of
the pale face of Lily.

"No, no; bring me the water--quick."

Cyd obeyed the order, and Dan sprinkled her face with the contents of
the pitcher. He then left her for a moment to procure some lavender in
her cabin. Though not a very skilful nurse, he had seen a lady faint,
and knew what to do upon such an emergency. He applied the lavender and
the cold water so vigorously, and yet so tenderly, that Lily soon began
to show signs of returning consciousness.

"What's de matter wid her?" demanded Cyd for the tenth time, for Dan was
too busy to waste time in answering idle questions.

"She is better," mused Dan, as he pushed back the curls that had strayed
forward upon the patient's face.

"Hossifus! Dis chile knows what ails Missy Lily," continued Cyd, opening
his mouth to the utmost of its tension, and exhibiting all its wealth
of ivory.

"What's the matter with you, Cyd? Shut your mouth, and behave like a
decent man," added Dan, rebuking the levity of his companion.

"Gossifus! Dis chile knows all about dat; been dar hisself," chuckled
Cyd. "Dis chile neber tink Missy Lily drink too much whiskey."

"Silence! you rascal! How dare you think such a thing!" replied Dan,
sternly; for he was vexed enough to pitch Cyd overboard for indulging in
such a suspicion.

"Mossifus! Dat's jus de way dis chile was."

"Silence! She has fainted. She is better now. See! She is opening her
eyes."

Dan continued to bathe the temples of Lily with lavender till her
consciousness returned, and the terrible incident which had preceded her
fainting was present to her mind. Suddenly, as Dan left her for a
moment, she sprang upon her feet, and rushed to the place where she had
stood gazing at the approaching boat.

"Where are they?" gasped she.

"Lie down again, Lily. You are too weak to stand," interposed Dan, as he
put his arms around her waist to support her.

"Where are they? O, we are all lost!" exclaimed she.

"What do you mean by lost?"

"Where are they?"

"Who, Lily? What is the matter with you?"

"Haven't you seen them, Dan?"

"Seen whom?"

"The slave-hunters!" gasped Lily.

"I haven't seen any one," replied Dan, calmly; for he began to fear that
the mind of his fair charge was affected.

"They are here--close by us, Dan. We shall all be taken."

"There is no danger, Lily. We are perfectly safe. Be calm, my dear. You
have been dreaming."

"No, I have not been dreaming. I haven't even been asleep. It was all
real; but I have been a faithless sentinel."

"Now you are better, Lily, tell me all about it," continued Dan, seating
her upon the cushions.

Lily related the incident which had transpired while her companions were
asleep below; but Dan could hardly believe so strange a story, and
insisted that she must have dropped asleep and dreamed it.

"I know I was not asleep."

"Why didn't you call me?"

"I was afraid that some noise might attract the attention of the
slave-hunters, and I deferred it till I was sure they would discover us.
Then I was creeping on the floor, so that they should not see me, to the
cabin, when I fainted."

"Hossifus!" gasped Cyd, appalled at the narrow escape of the party.

"Don't you believe me, Dan? I am very sure I was not asleep," added
Lily, earnestly.

Dan was compelled to believe the story, and he shuddered as he thought
of the peril that had menaced them while they were all so helpless.
Though he concluded that it was not safe to trust Lily on the watch, he
did not utter a word of reproof to her for not calling him sooner.

"You think I did wrong, Dan, not to call you. I know you do, though you
will not blame me."

"I can't help thinking what might have happened if the slave-hunters had
found us while we were all asleep," replied Dan, seriously. "But I will
not blame you, Lily."

"The slave-hunters did not find us. I think it was all for the best,
Dan, that I fainted."

"Indeed?"

"If I had waked you and Cyd, you might have made a noise that would have
exposed us," answered Lily, very solemnly. "I think it was the good God
that took my strength away in order to preserve us all."

"It may be; but I had rather be awake when there is any danger."

"If you had been awake, you might have been shot; and then what would
have become of us?"

Lily was fully satisfied that her fainting was a special providence,
which had saved them all from capture or death. Dan was not so clear
upon this point, and resolved never to sleep again when there was a
possibility of an attack.

For several weeks after these exciting incidents, all the fugitives
confined themselves to the Isabel and the islands on either side of
her. Indeed, between Dan and Cyd, it was about enough for them to do the
necessary work, and keep "watch and watch" during the day and night. As
nothing more was seen or heard of the slave-hunters, they concluded that
the search had been abandoned, and they soon ceased to dread their
approach. Dan ventured to hunt again, and every thing went off as
before, though all the party missed Quin very much.

The autumn passed away; the winter came, and then the spring. If our
space would permit us to record the daily life of the young fugitives
while they remained in the swamp, it would, no doubt, be interesting to
our readers; and for their sake, no less than for our own, we regret
that our limits do not admit of this lengthened narrative. They had many
trials from cold and storms, from high water in the bayous and low water
in the casks, from alligators and buzzards; but they lived through it
all. Lily was sick a fortnight, and Dan a week; their fuel gave out in
the coldest of the weather; and an alligator bit off the heel of Cyd's
boots; and a hundred other events occurred which would bear an extended
recital; but we turn from them, with regret, to the closing events in
the career of the young fugitives.

With the high water in April, Dan and Cyd went to work, in the most
vigorous manner, to prepare the Isabel for the uncertain sea voyage
which was before her. After a month of hard labor she was rigged, the
sails bent, her water casks filled, a supply of fuel put in the fore
hold, and the remaining stores conveniently stowed for the cruise.

On the fifteenth of May every thing was in readiness; the obstructions
in the channel were removed; and at sunset, with a smashing breeze, the
Isabel hauled out of the channel, and commenced her voyage.




CHAPTER XXI.

DOWN THE LAKE.


At the period of which we write, the railroad through the Teche country
had not been constructed, and the population was very sparsely scattered
over this region. Most of the available land, however, was occupied;
but, of course, none of the little villages which spring up around
railroad stations, and which, in the course of years, grow into large
towns and cities, had yet appeared.

With many doubts and fears in regard to the future, the young fugitives
commenced the voyage to the Gulf. It was seventy miles from the camp,
and it was absolutely necessary that the trip should be performed by
night, for the lake, at the season of high water, was navigable for
small steamers, which, with other craft, occasionally passed over its
turbid tide. In the passage down, they were liable to meet some of
these boats; and though the search for the runaways had long since
ceased, the Isabel might be recognized, and the mystery of her singular
disappearance explained.

Dan was determined to be very cautious, and to expose his party to no
risks which could possibly be avoided. The voyage was perilous enough at
best, and he was not disposed to trifle with the good fortune which had
thus far attended the expedition. He knew nothing of the navigation of
the lake, or of the Atchafalaya River, through which he must pass to the
Gulf of Mexico. He was therefore exposed to many perils. The boat might
get aground at a perilous point, which might expose them to an
examination from some inquisitive slaveholder. He might be stopped by a
steamer, or overhauled by a boat, and the fugitives taken into custody
because they could not give a good account of themselves.

Then, if he succeeded in reaching the Gulf, he knew that a day's sail at
the most would take him out of sight of land; and he had nothing but a
small compass and a map of the coast of Texas and Louisiana to guide
him. He had no expectation of being able to reach the free North in the
Isabel. He depended upon being picked up by some vessel bound to New
York or Philadelphia; and he had read the newspapers and listened to the
conversation of his master and his guests enough to know that
shipmasters were very cautious about carrying slaves to the North. But
he had made his plans, and hoped he should be able to overcome even this
most formidable difficulty.

To contend against all these adverse circumstances, he had a good boat,
though she was not fully adapted to a sea voyage. With her light draught
she had but a slight hold on the water; yet Dan was an excellent
boatman, and trusted in his skill to overcome the deficiencies of his
vessel. The Isabel was well provisioned for at least a month; and if the
weather was even tolerably favorable, he felt confident that he should
be able to contend successfully against the elements. At any rate he
feared the ocean, storm, and distance less than the insatiate
slave-hunters of the South.

With these difficulties before them, the young fugitives started upon
their uncertain voyage. It was a bright, pleasant evening, with a lively
breeze from the westward. The long confinement of the camp in the swamp
made the changing prospect exceedingly exhilarating. They had
encountered perils before, and the experience of the past prepared them
for the trials of the future. They had a head wind down the bayou which
led to the lake, and it required two hours of hard work for the two boys
to work the Isabel down to the open water; but when this labor was
accomplished, the foresail, mainsail, and jib were hoisted, and they had
a fair wind down the lake.

"Now, Lily, our voyage is commenced," said Dan, as he seated himself at
the helm.

"Yes; and I am so glad to get out of that dismal swamp!" replied she,
with a smile which spoke the joy of her heart.

"Perhaps you will wish yourself back again before many days, and perhaps
before many hours."

"Do you think there is much danger, Dan?"

"We may not meet with a single difficulty, and we may be in danger all
the time. I cannot tell. I hope for the best, but I am ready for the
worst."

"Any thing is better than slavery, Dan."

"Even death itself, Lily," replied Dan, solemnly.

"But there will be no people out on the lake in the night--will there?"

"There may be; but we may not find a good place to conceal ourselves
during the day. We may be discovered, for there are more people at the
lower end of the lake than in the part where we have been."

"We will pray to God, Dan, every day, and He will protect us, as He has
before," added Lily, confidingly.

"And while we do that, we must be very careful. There is one thing I
have been dreading ever since we began to prepare for this cruise."

"What is that, Dan?"

"You know Mr. Lascelles?"

"Yes; he spends a week at Redlawn every year, and master used to stay a
week at his plantation."

"He lives down this way somewhere--I don't exactly know where. The
Isabel, I think, came down here one year; if so, I am afraid they will
know the boat."

"Possifus!" exclaimed Cyd, who had been silently listening to this
conversation. "Dey'll ketch us, for shore."

"I'm not afraid of being caught; but Colonel Raybone almost always
visits Mr. Lascelles in the month of May. Suppose he should be there,
and we should happen to go near his plantation?"

"Hossifus!" groaned Cyd. "Massa Raybone down dar! Dis chile gubs it all
up den."

"Don't give up yet, Cyd," laughed Dan.

"Mossifus! If dis nigger see ole massa, he done sink into de ground,
like a catfish in de mud."

"You haven't seen him yet, Cyd; and what is more, I don't believe you
will see him."

"I hope not," added Lily, with a shudder.

"If we do, it will not alter any thing."

"What would you do, Dan?"

"I will never become a slave again. We have guns and powder, bullets and
shot."

"Would you kill him?"

"No man shall stand between me and freedom. I would shoot him or any
other man, if it were necessary to secure our safety."

"Gossifus! Shoot Massa Raybone!" exclaimed Cyd.

"I hope we shall not be obliged to fire upon any man; but I shall do so,
and you must do the same, Cyd, if we are in danger of being captured."

"Do any ting you say, Dan," replied Cyd whose mind readily settled upon
any policy adopted by his leader.

"Now, Lily, you had better turn in, as Midshipman Raybone used to say.
You must sleep while you can, for you may have no rest again for several
days."

"I'm not sleepy; but you are going to have a very hard time. When we get
out to sea we shall have to run all the time--shall we not?"

"Yes--night and day."

"Then when will you sleep?"

"Cyd and I must sleep by turns. We shall get along very well if the
weather is only good."

About eleven o'clock both Lily and Cyd retired to their berths, leaving
Dan alone on deck. The wind held fair till about three o'clock in the
morning, at which time the Isabel was within ten miles of the outlet of
the lake. It was too dark for the careful skipper to discover the nature
of the shore, and he was waiting for a little daylight to enable him to
find a suitable place to lie up during the next day. The boat was fully
three miles from either shore, when the wind suddenly died out. Directly
ahead, there were several small islands, but they were farther off than
the main shore.

The first of the skipper's trials seemed to have overtaken him; but he
did not permit himself to despair. He hoped, when the sun rose, a breeze
would come, and enable him to find some hiding-place for the day. There
was nothing to do but watch and wait, and Dan reclined upon the
cushioned seat to meditate upon the uncertainties before them.

There was not a breath of air upon the lake, and the sails hung
motionless in their places. Lily and Cyd still slept, and Dan did not
call them; for he was willing to spare them even an hour's useless
anxiety. The moments hung heavily upon the impatient skipper; but at
last the daylight came, and he had a chance to study the situation. On
the shore at his left there was a sugar plantation, the mansion of which
was built within a short distance of the water; for here, as in the
vicinity of Redlawn, the highest land was nearest to the streams. But
the estate was three miles distant, and he hoped that the Isabel would
not attract the attention of the people on the place.

The sun rose, but no wind came to gladden the heart of the impatient and
anxious skipper. The active life of the plantation had commenced. He
could see the smoke curling up from the chimneys of the cook-house near
the mansion; and in different parts of the lake he counted three boats
moving about near the shore. These signs produced an intense uneasiness
in his mind, which was not lessened by the appearance of Lily, who came
upon deck about this time.

While he was explaining to her the nature of their unpleasant position,
the smoke of a little steamer was seen beyond the islands. She soon came
in sight, and was headed directly towards the spot where the Isabel lay
becalmed. Dan and his fair companion were appalled by this new danger;
for a suspicion in the mind of any person on board the steamer could
hardly fail of being fatal to them. But Dan was soon prepared to make
the best of the circumstances.

"Cyd, Cyd!" called he, as he rushed into the cabin.

"Wha--wha--what's de matter?" stammered Cyd, springing to his feet.

"Go on deck at once," replied Dan, as he slung the powder-horn and
shot-pouch over his shoulders, and took one of the fowling pieces.

Cyd was on deck before him, and discovered the nature of the danger
which menaced them. The bateau, which had been placed upon deck, was
launched, and Cyd was directed to get into it with the oars, and pull
off a few rods from the Isabel.

"Now, Lily, you must go to your cabin, close the door, and on no account
show yourself while the steamer is in sight," said Dan.

"But what are you going to do, Dan?" asked she, with an expression of
the deepest concern. "Are you going to shoot any one?"

"No, dear," replied Dan, with a smile at her fears; "I am going to
pretend to be a sportsman. As we can't get out of the way of the
steamer, I intend to be as bold and impudent as I can. There, go to your
cabin now, and we will hope for the best."

Lily retired to the cabin, closed the door after her, and threw herself
on her knees to pray for the safety of herself and her friends during
the impending peril. In the mean time, Dan walked up and down the deck,
with the gun in his hand, apparently looking in all directions for game.
Just as the steamboat came within hailing distance of the Isabel, a
couple of brant fortunately flew over, and Dan fired. His practice in
the swamp had made him a very good marksman, and he was so lucky as to
bring down one of the birds. Cyd, as before instructed, pulled with all
his might to the spot where the game had fallen.

"Possifus!" shouted he; "massa fotch dat bird down, for shore!"

When he uttered this exclamation the bateau was within a few yards of
the steamer, and the few passengers on board of her, anxious to see the
sport, hastened to the boiler deck, and thus obtained a full view of the
Isabel, as she rounded in under her stern, on her way to the plantation,
where she evidently intended to make a landing.

"Any news below?" shouted Dan, hailing the steamer as she approached.

"By Heaven! that's my boat and my boy!" exclaimed a gentleman on the
boiler deck, as the steamer glanced by the Isabel. "Stop the boat! Stop
her!"

It was Colonel Raybone!




CHAPTER XXII.

THE ISABEL RUNS THE GANTLET.


Dan heard the words of the gentleman on the boiler deck of the Terre
Bonne,--for that was the name of the steamer,--and at once recognized
his master. The worst fear that he had entertained was fully realized.
That unfortunate calm had betrayed him into the hands of his enemy. But
he was fully determined to carry out his resolution, and fight for life
and liberty, even if he had to contend against the whole force of the
steamer.

It appeared that the request, or rather the command, of Colonel Raybone
to stop the boat was not immediately complied with; for she continued on
her course for several minutes before her wheels ceased to revolve, and
when she did stop she was fully a quarter of a mile from the Isabel. By
this time Cyd returned with the bird which the sportsman had killed,
and Dan announced the appalling fact that Colonel Raybone was on board
of the steamer, and had recognized him and the boat.

"Possifus!" exclaimed Cyd, leaping upon the deck of the Isabel.
"Wha--wha--what we gwine to do?"

"Take this gun, and do as I do," replied Dan, as he went into the cabin
after the rifle.

"Gwine to shoot him!" groaned Cyd. "Hossifus! gwine to shoot ole Massa
Raybone!"

"Do you want to go back to Redlawn with him, Cyd?" demanded Dan, with
compressed lips.

"Don't want to go back, for shore. Gossifus! Dis chile's a free man
now."

"Then use your gun when I tell you."

"Cyd do dat, for sartin," replied he, examining the lock of the fowling
piece. "Mossifus! Dis nigger shoot de whole crowd if you says so, Dan."

"Don't fire till I tell you, and take good aim," added the skipper, as
he finished loading the rifle.

"What's the matter, Dan?" asked Lily, opening the cabin door a little
way, for she had heard the stirring words of her friends on deck.

Dan told her, in as few words as possible, what had happened, and the
poor girl nearly fainted when she heard the name of her master.

"Then we are lost!" added she, in tones tremulous with emotion.

"Not yet, Lily. Be of good courage, and don't show yourself on deck."

The affrighted maiden threw herself upon her knees by her cot, and
prayed fervently that God would interpose his strong arm to save them
from the fate which now seemed to be inevitable. While she prayed, Dan
and Cyd worked, and made such preparations for the pending encounter as
their limited means would allow. There was only a small number of
passengers on board of the steamer, and the resolute captain of the
Isabel hoped that a few shots would intimidate them, and prevent Colonel
Raybone from rushing upon certain death.

But the planter of Redlawn was as resolute as his runaway chattel, and a
battery of artillery would not have deprived him of the satisfaction of
pouncing upon the fugitives. Though no fear could deter the master from
attempting to recover what he regarded as his own by the law of God and
man, it was otherwise with the captain of the Terre Bonne; for he
declared that he was in a tremendous hurry to make his trip, having been
detained over night at the foot of the lake. He sympathized with Colonel
Raybone in his desire to recover his slaves; but he positively refused
to put the boat about and capture the runaways.

It is not improbable that the captain of the steamer saw the guns and
the preparations made to receive a boarding party, and possibly he
reasoned in his own mind that a chance shot was as likely to kill him as
any other man on board; at any rate, he was as resolute in his refusal
as any of the resolute parties we have already mentioned.

Dan could hardly believe his senses when he saw the Terre Bonne standing
out towards the landing-place before the plantation. When her wheels
started again, he nerved himself for the encounter; for he supposed she
would come about, and bear down upon him. It was incredible that Colonel
Raybone should give up the chase without an effort to capture them; and
he knew his master too well to think, after more consideration, that he
would abandon his slaves without an energetic effort to recover them.

The steamer went in to the landing-place, leaving Dan to wonder and
rejoice at the happy turn which had taken place in the affairs of his
party. He informed Lily of the altered state of things on deck, and the
devout girl was happy in the reflection that her prayers had been so
promptly answered.

"But we haven't seen the end of it yet, Lily. O, no," added Dan,
"Colonel Raybone will never give us up. He would spend more money than
we are all worth for the pleasure of flogging me for running away; but
he shall never have that satisfaction. I had rather die here like a man
than to be scourged to death at the Dead Oak."

"Can't we get away? Is there no chance to escape?" asked Lily, whose
beating heart was full of mortal terrors.

"Gossifus! Wha--wha--what's de reason we can't take de bateau and row
ober to de shore, and take to de woods?" suggested Cyd.

"Well, what then?" demanded Dan, calmly.

"Why, den run like a possum up a gum tree."

"With bloodhounds and slave-hunters on your track. No, Cyd; we should
certainly be taken if we did that."

"What shall we do, Dan?" murmured Lily. "We shall certainly be taken if
we stay here."

"No; we have beaten off the slave-hunters twice, and we can do it again.
They will come in small boats, and I will shoot them down, one at a
time, if they persist," answered Dan, bringing down the butt of the
rifle upon the floor of the standing room to emphasize his words.

"But you may be shot, yourself, Dan," said Lily, with a visible shudder.

"No; I will conceal myself behind the bulwarks when they come within
range of my rifle."

"But can't we get away? Can't we escape without shooting any of them?"
pleaded the poor girl, with a natural horror of bloodshed.

"We cannot unless we have wind."

"Gossifus! Dar dey come!" exclaimed Cyd, pointing to two boats pulling
out from the landing-place of the plantation.

"Heaven protect and defend us!" cried Lily. "I will pray for wind; I
will pray with all my soul for a breeze, Dan, and our Father in heaven,
who has so often heard my prayers will hear me again."

"Stop a minute, Missy Lily; stop a minute," interposed Cyd, gazing
earnestly down the lake; "needn't pray no more, Missy Lily; dare's a
breeze coming up from de souf-east. Hossifus! de breeze am comin like a
possum down a cotton tree! Possifus! Hossifus! Gossifus! De breeze am
coming!" shouted Cyd, as he danced round the deck like a madman.
"Needn't pray no more, Missy Lily. De breeze am come."

"Then I will thank God for sending it," replied the poor girl, a smile
of joy playing radiantly upon her fair face.

If Dan was not so extravagant as his companion on deck, he was not less
rejoiced, especially as the wind from this quarter promised to be a
strong one. The bateau was hastily hoisted upon the deck of the Isabel,
and the sails trimmed to catch the first breath of the coming breeze.

"Mossifus! Dat breeze wuth a hun'd tousand million dollars!" shouted
Cyd, as the first puff of the welcome wind swelled the sails of the
Isabel.

"It may be worth more than that," replied Dan calmly. "It may be life
and liberty to us."

The breeze had come, and plenty of it; but for the course the skipper
wished to lay, it was dead ahead; yet it mattered little where it
carried them, if it only enabled them to escape from the terrible man
