"I'm so grateful to you!" exclaimed Mollie, when all her trials seemed
to have ended.
"O, never mind me."
"Where do you live?"
"Nowhere."
"Have you no home?"
"No."
"Where do you stay?"
"Anywhere."
"Where were you going to sleep to-night?"
"Anywhere I could."
"Then you can sleep here."
Noddy was entirely willing, and one of the eight berths in the cabin was
appropriated by the mate to his use.
CHAPTER XI.
THE SCHOONER ROEBUCK.
"What is your name?" asked Mollie, when the arrangements for the night
were completed.
"Noddy Newman."
"Noddy? What a queer name! That isn't your real name--is it?"
"Yes, I never knew any other."
Mollie was certainly a very pleasing young lady, and Noddy had become
quite interested in her, as we always are in those to whom we are so
fortunate as to render needed assistance. She had a pretty face, and her
curly hair might have challenged the envy of many a fair damsel who was
wicked enough to cherish such a feeling. There was nothing rough or
coarse about her, and one would hardly have expected to find so
lady-like a person in such a situation in life.
We make this statement in apology for the interest which Noddy took in
the little maiden. The service he had rendered her was quite sufficient
to create a kindly feeling towards her; and then she was so pretty, so
modest, and so gentle, that his sympathy grew into admiration before she
went to her little state-room. Mollie asked him a great many questions
about his past life, and Noddy told her all he knew about himself--about
Bertha, Fanny, and others at Woodville. He did not tell her about the
affair of the boat-house, though he determined to do so at some future
time, if he had the opportunity.
In return for all this information, Mollie told him that the schooner in
which they then were was called the Roebuck; that she belonged to her
father, and that they were bound to the Sandwich Islands, where the
vessel was to run as a packet between certain islands, whose names she
had forgotten. Captain McClintock belonged in the State of Maine, where
Mollie's mother had died two years before. Her father had some property,
and learning that there was a good chance to improve his fortunes at the
Sandwich Islands, he had built the Roebuck for this purpose.
As these distant islands were to be his future home, he was to take his
only child with him, and he had fitted up a state-room in the cabin,
next to his own for her special use. Mollie told Noddy how much pleased
she was with all the arrangements, and how happy she had been on the
passage to Boston, where the Roebuck was to pick up an assorted cargo
for the port of her destination. Then she wept when she thought of the
terrible scenes through which she had just passed in the streets. She
said her father did not often drink too much; that he was the very best
father in the whole world; and she hoped he never would get intoxicated
again as long as he lived.
Noddy hoped so too; and when the little maiden had finished her story,
he thought she was almost equal to Miss Bertha; and he could not think
of such a thing as parting with her in the morning, again to buffet the
waves of disappointment on shore.
"Does your father want a boy on board of the vessel?" asked he.
"I don't know. Do you want to go with us?" said Mollie, with a smile
which spoke the pleasure the thought afforded her.
"I should like to go with you first-rate," replied Noddy. "I want to do
something, and earn some money for myself. I want to work."
"Then you shall go with us!" exclaimed Mollie. "Out where we are going
is a nice place to get rich. My father is going to get rich out there,
and then we are coming home again."
Poor child! She knew not what the future had in store for them.
The bells of the city rang for nine o'clock, and Mollie said she went to
bed at this time.
"Can you read, Noddy?" asked she.
"Yes, some."
"I always read my Testament before I go to bed; I promised my mother,
years ago, that I would; and I like to do it, too. I suppose you read
your Testament every night--don't you?"
"Sometimes; that is, I did once," replied Noddy, in some confusion, for
he could not help recalling the teachings of Bertha on this subject.
"Well, we will read it together. You would like to--wouldn't you?"
"Yes; I don't care if I do."
There was a want of enthusiasm on his part which was rather painful to
the little maiden; but she got the Testament, and when she had read a
few verses aloud, she passed the book to Noddy, who stumbled through his
portion, and she then finished the chapter. She bade him good night, and
retired to her state-room, leaving her new-made friend to meditate upon
the singular events of the evening.
He did not meditate a great while--he never did. His thoughts were
disposed to stray from one subject to another; and from the little
maiden, he found himself wondering whether Mr. Grant had finished
searching for him in Albany, and whether Miss Fanny had "let the cat out
of the bag" yet. Noddy was too tired and sleepy to think a great while
about anything; and he turned into his berth, and went to sleep.
Early in the morning Noddy was on his feet. He went on deck, and found
that the Roebuck was a beautiful vessel, almost handsome enough to be a
gentleman's yacht. He went upon the wharf, where he could obtain a fair
view of her bow, and he was sure she would make good time with a fair
breeze. When he had satisfied himself with the examination, he was more
than ever inclined to go out in her.
When he went down into the cabin again, Mollie was there, setting the
table for breakfast. She looked as fair and as fresh as a country
maiden. She gave him a very friendly greeting.
"Do you do these things, Mollie?" asked he.
"O, yes; I always work, and do what I can. I like to do something."
"How old are you, Mollie?"
"Eleven last May."
"But you can't do this work when you are out at sea."
"O, yes, I can."
"You will be seasick."
"I never was sick, and I have been to sea a great deal with my father."
"How is the captain this morning?"
"I don't know; I haven't seen him yet," replied she, looking very sad,
as she thought of her kind father's infirmity.
Captain McClintock soon came out of his state-room. He looked pale and
haggard, and seemed to be thoroughly ashamed of himself for what he had
done the evening before, as he ought to have been. Mollie sprang to him,
as he stepped out of his room, and kissed him as lovingly as though he
had never done a wrong thing in his life. He glanced at Noddy, as he
entered the main cabin, and with a look of astonishment, as though his
connection with the events of the previous evening were a blank to him.
The captain did not say a word to Noddy, which made the boy feel as
though he was an intruder in the cabin; and when he had the opportunity,
he went on deck, leaving Mollie to say whatever the circumstances
required in explanation of his presence.
"I will never do it again, Mollie," said the fond father, as he kissed
his daughter. "I am very sorry, and you must forgive me, my child."
He was a penitent man, and felt how great was the wrong he had done the
poor child. He had taken her out to walk, and to see the sights of the
city, and had become intoxicated. He remembered the whole scene, when
the boys had chased him; and to Mollie, whom he loved with all his
heart, he was willing to own his fault, and to make her happy by
promising never to do the wrong again.
Mollie then told him about her conversation with Noddy, and of the boy's
desire to go to sea with them. Captain McClintock remembered in part
what the boy had done for them; and Mollie supplied what he had not
seen, or had forgotten.
"Why, yes; we want a cabin-boy. I should have shipped one at home, if I
could have found the right one," replied the captain. "You say he is a
good boy?"
"I know he is. He wants to work."
"Does he know anything about a vessel? I want one who can go aloft, and
shake out the top-gallant sail."
"He is used to boats and the water."
"Well, we will see what he is good for, after breakfast."
"I hope you will take him, for we have become fast friends."
"If he is good for anything, I will, Mollie. Call him down. Here comes
the doctor with the grub."
The "doctor" was the black cook of the Roebuck, who was now descending
the companion-way with the morning meal. Noddy was called, and Captain
McClintock spoke very kindly to him. He inquired particularly into his
knowledge of vessels, and wanted to know whether he would be afraid to
go aloft. Noddy smiled, and thought he should not be afraid. He ate his
breakfast with a boy's appetite, and then the captain took him on deck.
"Do you see that fore-top-gallant yard?" asked the captain.
"Yes, sir, I see it," replied Noddy, who had been thoroughly instructed
in these matters by the old man-of-war's-man of Woodville, though he had
no practical experience in seamanship, even on as large a scale as a
topsail schooner, which was the rig of the Roebuck.
"Well, my boy, that's a pretty high place. Should you dare to go up
there?"
"I think I should," answered Noddy.
"Let me see you do it."
"Now?"
"Yes. I want to see what you are good for. If we can't make a sailor of
you, it won't be worth while to take you out to the Pacific. Let me see
how long it will take you to run up to that fore-top-gallant yard."
Noddy started. Captain McClintock was evidently satisfied that it would
make the boy dizzy; and that, perhaps, if he had to do this kind of
work, he would not care to make a voyage. Mollie stood by her father's
side, deeply interested in the experiment, and fearful that her heroic
friend would fail to meet her father's expectations, thus depriving her
of a pleasant companion on her long voyage.
The candidate for a position on the Roebuck skipped lightly forward to
the fore-shrouds of the vessel, ran up, as chipper as a monkey, to the
mast head, then up the fore-topmast rigging to the yard. Planting his
feet in the foot-ropes, he danced out to the port yard-arm. At this
point he astonished the spectators below by performing certain feats
which he had seen at the Great Olympian Circus. Descending from the
yard, he grasped the main-topmast stay, and ran over upon it to the
main-topmast, and then made his way to the deck by the main-topmast
back-stay.
"You'll do, my boy!" said the captain, emphatically. "You will make a
smart sailor."
"Am I to go with you, sir?" asked Noddy.
"Yes, if you like."
"What will you give me?"
This was a more difficult question; but the captain finally agreed to
give him eight dollars a month, and to advance money enough to buy him
an outfit. Mollie actually danced about the deck with joy when the terms
were arranged, and it was certain that Noddy was to go on the voyage.
The boy's work had been carefully stated by the captain. He was to take
care of the cabin, wait upon the captain and his daughter at table, and
do duty forward when required. He was to have a berth in the cabin, and
was not to be in either watch, unless the vessel became short-handed.
"Now we shall be happy!" exclaimed Mollie, who had already formed many
plans for the long and lonely cruise.
"I think we shall. Do you know when we sail, Mollie?"
"Perhaps to-day; perhaps not till to-morrow."
"I want to write a letter to Miss Bertha before we go."
"That's right, Noddy; never forget your friends. I will give you pen,
ink, and paper, by and by."
In the forenoon Captain McClintock took the young sailor ashore, and
purchased for him a supply of clothing. Noddy always dressed like a
sailor at Woodville. This was Ben's idea, and it was quite proper, as
his work was in the boats. His new garments were not strange to him,
therefore, though they were much coarser than those he wore.
After dinner the captain went on shore alone to do his business, and
Noddy wrote his letter. About five o'clock he returned, and poor Mollie
was dreadfully grieved to find that he was partially intoxicated. He
immediately gave the order to get under way, and went down into the
cabin, leaving the mate to haul the vessel out of the dock.
Noddy made himself as useful as possible, and in a short time the
Roebuck was clear of the wharf. The captain came on deck again, when
the jib was hoisted, and the sails began to draw. The voyage had
actually commenced, and Noddy did not believe that Mr. Grant and the
constables would be able to catch him.
CHAPTER XII.
THE DRUNKEN CAPTAIN.
"Lay aloft, and help shake out the fore-topsail," said the captain to
Noddy, who was standing by the wheel-man, watching the movements of the
vessel. "Be lively! What are you staring at?"
The captain's tones were stern and ugly. He had evidently taken another
glass of gin since he came on board. He was sufficiently intoxicated to
be unreasonable, though he could walk straight, and understood perfectly
what he was about. Noddy did not like the harsh tones in which the order
was given, and he did not move as lively as he would have done if the
words had been spoken pleasantly. He had not yet learned the duty of
prompt obedience, be the tones what they may.
He went aloft, and helped the men who were at work on the topsail. As
soon as the sheets were hauled home, the captain hailed him from the
deck, and ordered him to shake out the fore-top-gallant sail. Noddy had
moved so leisurely before, that the command came spiced with a volley of
oaths; and the cabin-boy began to feel that he was getting something
more than he had bargained for. He shook out the sail, and when the yard
had been raised to its proper position, he went on deck again.
The Roebuck was dashing briskly along with a fresh southerly breeze; and
if Noddy had not been troubled with a suspicion that something was
wrong, he would have enjoyed the scene exceedingly. He had begun to fear
that Captain McClintock was a tyrant, and that he was doomed to undergo
many hardships before he saw his native land again.
"Don't be troubled, Noddy," said Mollie, in a low tone, as she placed
herself by his side at the lee rail. "My father isn't cross very often."
"I don't like to be spoken to in that way," replied he, trying to banish
a certain ill feeling which was struggling for expression in his words
and manner.
"You mustn't mind that, Noddy. That's the way all sea captains speak."
"Is it?"
"It is indeed, Noddy. You must get used to it as quick as you can."
"I'll try," answered the cabin-boy; but he did not feel much like
trying; on the contrary, he was more disposed to manifest his
opposition, even at the risk of a "row," or even with the certain
prospect of being worsted in the end.
Mollie, hoping that he would try, went aft again. She knew what her
father was when partially intoxicated, and she feared that one who was
high-spirited enough to face a dozen boys of his own size and weight, as
Noddy had done in the street, would not endure the harsh usage of one
made unreasonable by drinking. Some men are very cross and ugly when
they are partially intoxicated, and very silly and good-natured when
they are entirely steeped in the drunkard's cup. Such was Captain
McClintock. If he continued his potations up to a certain point, he
would pass from the crooked, cross-grained phase to that of the jolly,
stupid, noisy debauchee. Entirely sober, he was entirely reasonable.
"Here, youngster!" called the captain, as he stepped forward to the
waist, where Noddy was looking over the rail.
"Sir," replied Noddy rather stiffly, and without turning his head.
"Do you hear?" yelled the captain, filled with passion at the contempt
with which he was treated by the boy.
"I hear," said Noddy, turning round as slowly as though he had a year in
which to complete his revolution.
"Swab up that deck there; and if you don't move a little livelier than
you have yet, I'll try a rope's end to your legs."
"No, you won't!" retorted Noddy, sharply, for he could endure a whipping
as easily as he could a threat.
"Won't I?" cried the captain, as he seized a piece of rope from one of
the belaying pins. "We'll see."
He sprang upon the high-spirited boy, and began to beat him in the most
unmerciful manner. Noddy attempted to get away from him, but the captain
had grasped him by the collar, and held on with an iron grip.
"Let me alone!" roared Noddy. "I'll knock your brains out if you don't
let me alone!"
"We'll see!" gasped Captain McClintock, furious with passion and with
gin.
Unfortunately for him, he did see when it was too late; for Noddy had
laid hold of a wooden belaying pin, and aimed a blow with it at the
head of his merciless persecutor. He did not hit him on the head, but
the blow fell heavily on his shoulder, causing him to release his hold
of the boy. Noddy, puffing like a grampus from the violence of the
struggle, rushed forward to the forecastle.
The captain ordered the sailors to stop him; but either because they
were not smart enough, or because they had no relish for the business,
they failed to catch him, and the culprit ran out on the bowsprit. The
angry man followed him as far as the bowsprit bitts, but prudence
forbade his going any farther.
"Come here, you young rascal!" shouted the captain.
"I won't," replied Noddy, as he perched himself on the bight of the
jib-stay.
"Come here, I say!"
"I'll go overboard before I go any nearer to you. I'm not going to be
pounded for nothing."
"You'll obey orders aboard this vessel," replied the captain, whose
passion was somewhat moderated by the delay which kept him from his
victim.
"I'm ready to obey orders, and always have been," answered Noddy, who
had by this time begun to think of the consequences of his resistance.
"Will you swab up the deck, as I told you?"
"I will, sir; but I won't be whipped by no drunken man.
"Drunken man!" repeated the captain. "You shall be whipped for that, you
impudent young villain!"
The captain mounted the heel of the bowsprit, and was making his way up
to the point occupied by the refractory cabin-boy, when Mollie reached
the forecastle, and grasped her father in her little arms.
"Don't, father, don't!" pleaded she.
"Go away, Mollie," said he, sternly. "He is impudent and mutinous, and
shall be brought to his senses."
"Stop, father, do stop!" cried Mollie, piteously.
He might as well stop, for by this time Noddy had mounted the jib-stay,
and was halfway up to the mast head.
"He called me a drunken man, Mollie, and he shall suffer for it!"
replied Captain McClintock, in tones so savage that the poor girl's
blood was almost frozen by them.
"Stop, father!" said she, earnestly, as he turned to move aft again.
"Go away, child."
"He spoke the truth," replied she, in a low tone, as her eyes filled
with tears, and she sobbed bitterly.
"The truth, Mollie!" exclaimed her father, as though the words from that
beloved child had paralyzed him.
"Yes, father, you have been drinking again. You promised me last
night--you know what you promised me," said she, her utterance broken by
the violence of her emotions.
He looked at her in silence for an instant; but his breast heaved under
the strong feelings which agitated him. That glance seemed to overcome
him; he dropped the rope's end, and, rushing aft, disappeared down the
companion-way. Mollie followed him into the cabin, where she found him
with his head bent down upon the table, weeping like an infant.
Noddy leisurely descended from his perch at the mast head, from which he
had witnessed this scene without hearing what was said; indeed, none of
the crew had heard Mollie's bitter words, for she had spoken them in an
impressive whisper.
"Well, youngster, you have got yourself into hot water," said the mate,
when the boy reached the deck.
"I couldn't help it," replied Noddy, who had begun to look doubtfully at
the future.
"Couldn't help it, you young monkey!"
Noddy was disposed at first to resent this highly improper language; but
one scrap at a time was quite enough, and he wisely concluded not to
notice the offensive remark.
"I'm not used to having any man speak to me in that kind of a way,"
added Noddy, rather tamely.
"You are not in a drawing-room! Do you think the cap'n is going to take
his hat off to the cabin-boy?" replied the mate, indignantly.
"I don't ask him to take his hat off to me. He spoke to me as if I was a
dog."
"That's the way officers do speak to men, whether it is the right way or
not; and if you can't stand it, you've no business here."
"I didn't know they spoke in that way."
"It's the fashion; and when man or boy insults an officer as you did
the captain, he always knocks him down; and serves him right too."
Noddy regarded the mate as a very reasonable man, though he swore
abominably, and did not speak in the gentlest tones to the men. He
concluded, therefore, that he had made a blunder, and he desired to get
out of the scrape as fast as he could. The mate explained to him sundry
things, in the discipline of a ship, which he had not before understood.
He said that when sailors came on board of a vessel they expected more
or less harsh words, and that it was highly impudent, to say the least,
for a man to retort, or even to be sulky.
"Captain McClintock is better than half of them," he added; "and if the
men do their duty, they can get along very well with him."
"But he was drunk," said Noddy.
"That's none of your business. If he was, it was so much the more stupid
in you to attempt to kick up a row with him."
Noddy began to be of the same opinion himself; and an incipient
resolution to be more careful in future was flitting through his mind,
when he was summoned to the cabin by Mollie. He went below; the captain
was not there--he had retired to his state-room; and his daughter sat
upon the locker, weeping bitterly.
"How happy I expected to be! How unhappy I am!" sobbed she. "Noddy you
have made me feel very bad."
"I couldn't help it; I didn't mean to make you feel bad," protested
Noddy.
"My poor father!" she exclaimed, as she thought again that the blame was
not the boy's alone.
"I am very sorry for what I did. I never went to sea before, and I
didn't know the fashions. Where Is your father? Could I see him?"
"Not now; he has gone to his state-room. He will be better by and by."
"I want to see him when he comes out. I will try and make it right with
him, for I know I was to blame," said Noddy, whose ideas were rapidly
enlarging.
"I am glad to hear you say so, Noddy," added Mollie, looking up into his
face with such a sad expression that he would have done anything to
comfort her. "Now go on deck; but promise me that you will not be
impudent to my father, whatever happens."
"I will not, Mollie."
Noddy went on deck. The Roebuck had passed out of the harbor. She was
close-hauled, and headed to the southeast. She was pitching
considerably, which was a strange motion to the cabin-boy, whose
nautical experience had been confined to the Hudson River. But there was
something exhilarating in the scene, and if Noddy's mind had been easy,
he would have been delighted with the situation. The mate asked him some
questions about the captain, which led to a further discussion of the
matter of discipline on board a vessel.
"I want to do well, Mr. Watts," said Noddy. "My best friend gave me the
motto, 'Work and Win;' and I want to do the very best I know how."
"I don't think you have begun very well. If you are impudent to your
officers, I can assure you that you will work a great deal and win very
little. Neither boy nor man can have all his own way in the world; and
on board ship you will have to submit to a great many little things that
don't suit you. The sooner you learn to do so with a good grace, the
sooner you will be comfortable and contented."
"Thank you, Mr. Watts, for your good advice, and I will try to follow
it."
"That's right," replied the mate, satisfied that Noddy was not a very
bad boy, after all.
Noddy was fully determined to be a good boy, to obey the officers
promptly, and not to be impudent, even if they abused him. Captain
McClintock did not come on deck, or into the cabin, again that night. He
had probably drank until he was completely overcome, and the vessel was
left to the care of Mr. Watts, who was fortunately a good seaman and a
skilful navigator. Noddy performed his duties, both on deck and in the
cabin, with a zeal and fidelity which won the praise of the mate.
"Captain McClintock," said Noddy, when the master of the vessel came on
deck in the morning.
"Well, what do you want, youngster?" replied the captain, in gruff and
forbidding tones.
"I was wrong yesterday; I am very sorry for it, and I hope you will
forgive me this time."
"It is no light thing to be saucy to the captain."
"I will never do so again," added Noddy.
"We'll see; if you behave well, I'll pass it by, and say nothing more
about it."
"Thank you, sir."
The captain did not speak as though he meant what he said. It was
evident from his conduct during the forenoon, that he had not
forgotten, if he had forgiven, Noddy's impudent speech. He addressed him
rather harshly, and appeared not to like his presence.
In the forenoon the vessel passed Highland Light, and before night Noddy
saw the last of the land. There was a heavy blow in the afternoon, and
the Roebuck pitched terribly in the great seas. The cabin-boy began to
experience some new and singular sensations, and at eight bells in the
evening he was so seasick that he could not hold up his head.
CHAPTER XIII.
THE SHARK.
For two days Noddy suffered severely from seasickness, and Mollie was
full of tenderness and sympathy. Captain McClintock still mocked the
poor child's hopes, and still broke the promises which should have been
sacred, for he was intoxicated each day. On the second, while Noddy was
lying in his berth, the captain, rendered brutal by the last dram he had
taken, came out of his state-room, and halted near the sick boy.
"What are you in there for, you young sculpin?" said he. "Why are you
not on deck, attending to your duty?"
"I am sick, sir," replied Noddy, faintly.
"Sick! We don't want any skulking of that sort on board this vessel. You
want to shirk your duty. Turn out lively, and go on deck."
"But he is sick, father," said Mollie.
"Go away, Mollie. You will spoil the boy. Come, tumble out, youngster,
or I shall bring down the rope's end," replied the captain.
The daughter pleaded for her patient; but the father was ugly and
unreasonable, and persisted in his purpose. Noddy did not feel able to
move. He was completely prostrated by the violence of his disagreeable
malady; and five minutes before, he would not have considered it
possible for him to get out of his berth. He must do so now or be
whipped; for there was no more reason in the captain than there was in
the main-mast of the schooner. He was not able to make any resistance,
if he had been so disposed.
It was very hard to be obliged to go on deck when he was sick,
especially as there was no need of his services there. He raised his
head, and sat upright in the berth. The movement seemed completely to
overturn his stomach again. But what a chance this was, thought he, to
show poor Mollie that he was in earnest, and to convince her that he had
really reformed his manners. With a desperate struggle he leaped out of
his berth, and put on his jacket. The Roebuck was still pitching
heavily, and it was almost impossible for him to keep on his feet. He
had hardly tasted food for two days, and was very weak from the effects
of his sickness.
He crawled on deck as well as he was able, followed by Captain
McClintock, who regarded him with a look of malignant triumph. Poor
Noddy felt like a martyr; but for Mollie's sake, he was determined to
bear his sufferings with patience and resignation, and to obey the
captain, even if he told him to jump overboard. He did what was almost
as bad as this, for he ordered the sick boy to swab up the deck--an
entirely useless operation, for the spray was breaking over the bow of
the Roebuck, and the water was rushing in torrents out of the lee
scuppers. But Noddy, true to his resolution, obeyed the order, and
dragged his weary body forward to perform his useless task. For half an
hour he labored against nature and the elements, and of course
accomplished nothing. It was all "work" and no "win."
A boy who had the resolution and courage to face a dozen angry fellows
as large as himself, certainly ought not to lack the power to overcome
the single foe that beset him from within. Noddy was strong enough for
the occasion, even in his present weakly condition. It was hard work,
but the victory he won was a satisfactory reward.
The captain's vision was rather imperfect in his present state, and he
took it into his head that the foretop-gallant sail was straining the
topmast. Mr. Watts respectfully assured him the topmast was strong
enough to stand the strain; but the master was set in his own opinion.
Apparently his view was adopted for the occasion, for he ordered Noddy
to go aloft and furl the sail. Mollie protested when she heard this
order, for she was afraid Noddy was so weak that he would fall from the
yard. The cabin-boy, strong in the victory he had just won, did not even
remonstrate against the order; but, with all the vigor he could command,
he went up the fore-rigging. He was surprised to find how much strength
an earnest spirit lent to his weak body.
The pitching of the Roebuck rendered the execution of the order very
difficult to one unaccustomed to the violent motion of a vessel in a
heavy sea; but in spite of all the trials which lay in his path, he
furled the sail. When he came down to the deck, the captain had gone
below again, and the weary boy was permitted to rest from his severe
labors. Instead of being overcome by them, he actually felt better than
when he had left his berth. The fresh air, and the conquest of the will
over the feeble body, had almost wrought a miracle in his physical
frame. The mate told him that what he had done was the best thing in the
world for seasickness; in fact, earnest exertion was the only remedy for
the troublesome complaint.
At supper-time Noddy took some tea and ate a couple of ship biscuits
with a good relish. He began to feel like a new person, and even to be
much obliged to the captain for subjecting him to the tribulations which
had wrought his cure. The next morning he ate a hearty breakfast, and
went to his work with the feeling that "oft from apparent ills our
blessings rise."
The captain kept sober during the next five days, owing, it was believed
by Noddy, to the influence of his daughter, who had the courage to speak
the truth to him. Shortly after the departure of the Roebuck, it had
been ascertained that, from some impurity in the casks, the water on
board was not fit for use; and the captain decided to put into Barbadoes
and procure a fresh supply. When the schooner took a pilot, on the
twelfth day out, it was found that the yellow fever was making terrible
ravages in the island; but the water was so bad on board that the
captain decided to go into port and remain long enough to procure new
casks and a supply of water. If he had been entirely sober, he would
undoubtedly have turned his bow at once from the infected island.
The Roebuck came to anchor, and the captain, regardless of his own
safety, went on shore to transact the business. The casks were
purchased, but it was impossible to get them on board before the next
morning, and the vessel was compelled to remain at anchor over night.
The weather was excessively hot in the afternoon, but towards night a
cool breeze came in from the sea, which was very refreshing; and Noddy
and Mollie were on deck, enjoying its invigorating breath. The boat in
which the captain had just returned lay at the accommodation ladder. The
confinement of twelve days on board the vessel had been rather irksome,
and both of the young people would have been delighted to take a run on
shore; but the terrible sickness there rendered such a luxury
impossible. They observed with interest everything that could be seen
from the deck, especially the verdure-crowned hills, and the valleys
green with the rich vegetation of the country.
If they could not go on shore, they could at least move about a little
in the boat, which would be some relief from the monotony of their
confined home. They got into the boat with a warning from Mr. Watts not
to go far from the schooner, and not to approach any other vessel, which
might have the yellow fever on board. Noddy sculled about on the smooth
water for a time, till it was nearly dark, and Mollie thought it was
time to return on board. As she spoke, she went forward and stood up in
the bow of the boat, ready to step upon the accommodation ladder.
"Noddy, do you see these great fishes in the water?" asked she.
"Yes, I see them."
"Do you know what they are?" continued she, as she turned to receive the
answer.
She was accustomed to boats, and her familiarity with them made her as
fearless as her companion.
"I never saw any like them before," replied Noddy, still sculling the
boat towards the Roebuck.
"What do you think they are?" added she, with one of those smiles which
children wear when they are conscious of being wiser than their
companions.
"I haven't any idea what they are; but they look ugly enough to be
snakes."
"I've seen lots of them before, and I know what they are. I like you
very well, Noddy; and I ask you, as a particular favor, not to fall
overboard," said she, with a smile, at what she regarded as a very
pretty joke.
"What are they, Mollie?"
"They are sharks, Noddy."
"Sharks!" exclaimed the boy, who had heard Ben tell awful stories about
the voracity of these terrible creatures.
"Yes, they are sharks, and big ones, too."
"Sit down, Mollie. I don't like to see you stand up there. You might
fall overboard," said Noddy, who actually shuddered as he recalled the
fearful stories he had heard about these savage fish.
"I'm not afraid. I'm just as safe here as I should be on board the
Roebuck. I've seen sharks before, and got used to them. I like to watch
them."
At that moment the boat struck upon something in the water, which might
have been a log, or one of the ravenous monsters, whose back fins could
be seen above the water, as they lay in wait for their prey. It was some
heavy body, and it instantly checked the progress of the boat, and the
sudden stoppage precipitated the poor girl over the bow into the sea.
Noddy's blood seemed to freeze in his veins as he realized the horrible
situation of Mollie in the water, surrounded by sharks. He expected to
see her fair form severed in twain by the fierce creatures. He could
swim like a duck, and his first impulse was to leap overboard, and save
the poor girl or perish with her in the attempt.
A shout from the schooner laden with the agony of mortal anguish saluted
his ears as Mollie struck the water. It was the voice of Captain
McClintock, who had come on deck, and had witnessed the fearful
catastrophe. The voice went to Noddy's soul. He saw the slight form of
Mollie as she rose to the surface, and began to struggle towards the
boat. The cabin-boy sculled with all his might for an instant, which
brought the boat up to the spot; but he was horrified to see that she
was followed by a monstrous shark. Noddy seized the boat-hook, and
sprang forward just as the greedy fish was turning over upon his side,
with open mouth, to snap up his prey.
Noddy, aware that the decisive moment for action had come, and feeling,
as by instinct, that a miscalculation on his part would be fatal to poor
Mollie, poised his weapon, and made a vigorous lunge at the savage fish.
By accident, rather than by design, the boat-hook struck the shark in
the eye; and with a fearful struggle he disappeared beneath the
surface. Grasping the extended arm of Mollie, he dragged her into the
boat before another of the monsters could attack her.
"O, Noddy!" gasped she, as she sank down upon the bottom of the boat,
overcome by terror, rather than by her exertions,--for she had been
scarcely a moment in the water.
"You are safe now, Mollie. Don't be afraid," said Noddy, in soothing
tones, though his own utterance was choked by the fearful emotions he
had endured.
"Our Father, who art in heaven, I thank thee that thou hast preserved my
life, and saved me from the terrible shark," said Mollie, as she clasped
her hands and looked up to the sky.
It was a prayer from the heart, and the good Father seemed to be nearer
to Noddy than ever before. He felt that some other hand than his own had
directed the weapon which had vanquished the shark.
"O, Noddy, you have saved me," cried Mollie, as she rose from her knees,
upon which she had thrown herself before she uttered her simple but
devout prayer.
"I am so glad you are safe, Mollie! But was it me that saved you?" asked
Noddy, as he pointed up to the sky, with a sincere feeling that he had
had very little to do with her preservation, though he was so deeply
impressed by the event that he could not utter the sacred name of the
Power which in that awful moment seemed to surround him, and to be in
his very heart.
"It was God who preserved me," said she, looking reverently upward
again; "but he did it through you; and I may thank you, too, for what
you have done. O, Noddy, you have been my best earthly friend; for what
would my poor father have done if the shark had killed me?"
Noddy sculled towards the Roebuck, for he knew that Captain McClintock
was anxiously awaiting their return. When the boat touched the
accommodation ladder, the anxious father sprang on board, not knowing
even then that his daughter was entirely safe. He had seen Noddy draw
her into the boat, but he feared she had lost a leg or an arm, for he
was aware that the harbor swarmed with the largest and fiercest of the
merciless "sea-pirates."
"My poor child!" exclaimed he, as he clasped her in his arms, dreading
even then to know the worst.
"Dear father!" replied she.
"Are you hurt?"
"Not at all."
"Were there any sharks out there?"
"I guess there were!" replied she, significantly.
"One of them had just heeled over to snap at her," added Noddy. "I never
was so frightened in my life."
"Good Heaven!" gasped the captain.
"I gave myself up for lost," said Mollie, shuddering, as she recalled
that fearful moment.
"Well, what prevented him from taking hold of you?" asked Captain
McClintock, who had not been near enough to discern precisely what had
taken place in the boat.
"Noddy saved me, father. He jammed the boat-hook right into the shark's
head. In another instant the creature would have had me in his mouth. O,
father, it was such an awful death to think of--to be bitten by a
shark!"
"Horrible!" groaned the father. "Noddy, your hand! You and I shall be
friends to the last day of my life."
"Thank you, sir," replied the heroic boy, as he took the proffered hand.
"I did the best I could; but I was so scared! I was afraid the shark
would catch her in spite of me."
"God bless you, Noddy! But come on board, and we will talk it over."
Captain McClintock handed Mollie, still dripping with water, to Mr.
Watts, who had been an interested spectator of the touching scene in the
boat; and she was borne to the cabin amid the congratulations of the
crew, with whom she was a great favorite.
CHAPTER XIV.
THE YELLOW FEVER.
Mollie went to her state-room, and changed her clothes; and she did not
come out till she had kneeled down and poured forth another prayer of
thanksgiving for her safety from the horrible monster that would have
devoured her. Her father kissed her again, as she returned to the cabin.
He was as grateful as she was, and he took no pains to conceal the
emotions which agitated him.
"Now tell me all about it, Mollie," said he. "How happened you to fall
overboard?"
"I was careless, father. Noddy was persuading me to sit down at the
moment when I went overboard," replied she.
"I was afraid of the sharks as soon as I knew what they were; and I was
thinking what an awful thing it would be if she should fall overboard,"
added Noddy.
"If I had minded you, Noddy, I shouldn't have been in danger."
The story was told by the two little adventurers, each correcting or
helping out the other, till the whole truth was obtained. It was evident
to the captain and the mate, that Noddy had behaved with vigor and
decision, and that, if he had been less prompt and energetic, poor
Mollie must have become the victim of the ravenous shark.
"You have saved her life, Noddy; that's plain enough," said Captain
McClintock, as he rose and went to his state-room.
"You were smart, my boy, and you deserve a great deal of credit," added
Mr. Watts.
"I don't mind that; I was too glad to get her out of the water to think
of anything else."
"Well, Noddy, you did good work that time, and you have won a great deal
of honor by it."
"You shall win something better than that, Noddy," said the captain, as
he returned to the cabin with a little bag in his hand. "Here are ten
gold pieces, my boy--one hundred dollars."
He handed Noddy the bright coins; but the little hero's face flushed,
and he looked as discontented as though he had been robbed of the honor
of his exploit.
"You shall win a hundred dollars by the operation," continued the
captain.
"Thank you, sir, but I don't want any money for that," replied Noddy,
whose pride revolted at the idea, however tempting the money looked to
him.
"Take it, Noddy. You have done a good piece of work, and you ought to
win something for it," added the captain.
"I don't want to win any money for a job like that, Captain McClintock.
I am already well paid for what I have done. I can't take any money for
it. I feel too good already; and I am afraid if I take your gold I
should spoil it all."
"You are as proud as a lord, Noddy."
"I'm sure, if we had lost Miss Mollie, I should have missed her as much
as anybody, except her father. I shouldn't feel right to be paid for
doing such a thing as knocking a shark in the head. I hated the monster
bad enough to kill him, if he hadn't been going to do any mischief."
"Then you won't take this money, Noddy?" continued the captain.
"I'd rather not, sir. I shouldn't feel right if I did."
"And I shouldn't feel right if you didn't. You don't quite understand
the case, Noddy."
"I think I do, sir."
"No, you don't. Let me tell you about it. You have done something which
fills me with gratitude to you. I want to do something to express that
gratitude. I don't know that I can do it in any other way just now than
by making you a little present. I don't mean to pay you."
"It looks like that."
"No it don't look a bit like it. Do you think I value my daughter's life
at no more than a hundred dollars?"
"I know you do, captain."
"If I expected to pay you for what you have done, I should give you
every dollar I have in the world, and every dollar which my property
would bring if it were sold; and then I should feel that you had not
half got your due."
"I don't care about any money, sir," persisted Noddy.
"Let me make you a present, then. It would make me feel better to do
something for you."
"I'm sure I would do anything to accommodate you."
"Then take the money."
Noddy took it very reluctantly, and felt just as though he was stealing
it. Mr. Watts joined with the captain in arguing the matter, and he
finally felt a little better satisfied about it. When he realized that
he was the honest possessor of so large a sum, he felt like a rich man,
and could not help thinking of the pleasure it would afford him to pour
all these gold coins into Bertha's lap, and tell how he had won them.
Mollie had something to say about the matter, and of course she took her
father's side of the question; and the captain concluded the debate by
assuring Noddy, if his daughter had to die, he would give more than a
hundred dollars to save her from the maw of a shark, that she might die
less horribly by drowning. On the whole, the cabin-boy was pretty well
satisfied that he had won the money honestly, and he carefully bestowed
it with his clothing in his berth.
Early in the morning Mr. Watts went on shore with a boat's crew, to
commence bringing off the water casks. It required the whole forenoon to
remove the old casks, and stow the new ones in the hold. About eleven
o'clock the mate complained of a chilly sensation, and a pain in his
back, which was followed up by a severe headache. He was soon compelled
to leave his work, and take to his berth in the cabin. The next boat
from the shore brought off a surgeon, who promptly pronounced the
disease the yellow fever.
Before the Roebuck could get off, two of the sailors were attacked by
the terrible malady. The only safety for the rest was in immediate
flight; and the schooner got under way, and stood out to sea. The doctor
had left ample directions for the treatment of the disease, but the
medicines appeared to do no good. Mr. Watts was delirious before night.
The two men in the forecastle were no better, and the prospect on board
the vessel was as gloomy as it could be.
Mollie stood by the sufferer in the cabin, in spite of the protest of
her father. She knew what the fever was; but she seemed to be endued
with a courage which was more than human. She nursed the sick man
tenderly, and her simple prayer for his recovery ascended every hour
during the long night. One of the men forward died before morning, and
was committed to the deep by his terrified messmates, without even a
form of prayer over his plague-stricken remains.
Towards night, on the second day out of Barbadoes, Mr. Watts breathed
his last. By the light of the lanterns, his cold form was placed on a
plank extended over the rail. Mollie would not permit him to be buried
in his watery grave without a prayer, and Captain McClintock read one.
Many tears were shed over him, as his body slid off into the sea. Noddy
and Mollie wept bitterly, for they felt that they had lost a good
friend.
There was only one more patient on board, and he seemed to be improving;
but before the morning sun rose, red and glaring on the silent ocean,
there were three more. Captain McClintock was one of them. There was
none to take care of him but Mollie and Noddy; and both of them,
regardless of the demands of their own bodies, kept vigil by his couch.
More faithful nurses a sick man never had. They applied the remedies
which had been used before.
On the following day two more of the crew were committed to their ocean
graves, and despair reigned throughout the vessel. The captain grew
worse every hour, and poor Mollie was often compelled to leave the
bedside that he might not see her weeping over him. He soon became
delirious, and did not even know her.
"O, Noddy," exclaimed she, when she fully realized the situation of her
father, "I shall soon be alone."
"Don't give up, Mollie," replied the cabin-boy sadly.
"I have prayed till I fear my prayers are no longer heard," sobbed she.
"Yes, they are, Mollie. Don't stop praying," said Noddy, who knew that
the poor girl had derived a great deal of hope and comfort from her
prayers.
He had seen her kneel down when she was almost overcome by the horrors
which surrounded them, and rise as calm and hopeful as though she had
received a message direct from on high. Perhaps he had no real faith in
her prayers, but he saw what strength she derived from them. Certainly
they had not warded off the pestilence, which was still seeking new
victims on board. But they were the life of Mollie's struggling
existence; and it was with the utmost sincerity that he had counselled
her to continue them.
"My father will die!" groaned the poor girl. "Nothing can save him now."
"No, he won't die. He isn't very bad yet, Mollie."
"O, yes, he is. He does not speak to me; he does not know me."
"He is doing very well, Mollie. Don't give it up yet."
"I feel that he will soon leave me."
"No, he won't, Mollie. I know he will get well," said Noddy, with the
most determined emphasis.
"How do you know?"
"I feel that he will. He isn't half so bad as Mr. Watts was. Cheer up,
and he will be all right in a few days."
"But think how terrible it would be for my poor father to die, away here
in the middle of the ocean," continued Mollie, weeping most bitterly, as
she thought of the future.
"But he will not die; I am just as sure that he will get well, as I am
that I am alive now."
Noddy had no reason whatever for this strong assertion, and he made it
only to comfort his friend. It was not made in vain, for the afflicted
daughter was willing to cling to any hope, however slight, and the
confident words of the boy made an impression upon her. The morrow came,
and the captain was decidedly better; but from the forecastle came the
gloomy report that two more of the men had been struck down by the
disease.
There were but three seamen left who were able to do duty, and Mr.
Lincoln, the second mate, was nearly exhausted by watching and anxiety.
Fortunately, the weather had been fine, and the Roebuck had been under
all sail, with a fair wind. Noddy had obtained a little sleep during the
second night of the captain's illness, and he went on deck to report to
the mate for duty. He was competent to steer the vessel in a light
breeze, and he was permitted to relieve the man at the wheel.
He stood his trick of two hours, and then went below, to ascertain the
condition of the captain. As he descended the ladder, he discovered the
form of Mollie extended on one of the lockers. Her face was flushed, and
she was breathing heavily. Noddy was appalled at this sight, for he knew
too well what these indications meant.
"What is the matter, Mollie?" asked he, hardly able to speak the words
from the violence of his emotion.
"It is my turn now, Noddy," replied she, in faint tones. "Who will pray
for me?"
"I will, Mollie; but what ails you?"
"I am burning up with heat, and perishing with cold. My back feels as if
it was broken, and the pain darts up through my neck into my head. I
know very well what it means. You will take care of my poor
father--won't you, Noddy?"
"To be sure I will. You must turn in, Mollie, and let me take care of
you, too," said he, trying to be as calm as the terrible situation
required of him.
He assisted the stricken maiden to her state-room, and placed her in her
berth. Taking from the medicine chest the now familiar remedy, he gave
her the potion, and tenderly ministered to all her wants. She was very
sick, for she had struggled with the destroying malady for hours before
she yielded to its insidious advances.
"Thank you, Noddy. I feel better now, and I shall soon be happy. Go now
and see to my father; don't let him want for anything."
"I will not, Mollie; I will take first-rate care of him," answered
Noddy, as he smoothed down the clothing around her neck.
"My father is the captain of the ship, you know," added she, with a
smile. "He is a great man; bigger than any shark you ever saw."
Her mind had begun to wander already; and her patient nurse could hardly
keep down his tears, as he gazed at her flushed cheeks, and smoothed
down the curls upon her neck. She was beautiful to him--too beautiful to
die there in mid ocean, with none but rude men to shed great tears over
her silent form. How he wished that Bertha was there, to watch over that
frail little form, and ward off the grim tyrant that was struggling to
possess it! She would not fear the pangs of the pestilence; she would be
an angel in the little state-room, and bring down peace and hope, if not
life, to the lovely sufferer.
Noddy felt as he had never felt before, not even when the dread monster
of the deep had almost snapped up the slight form before him. All the
good lessons he had ever learned in his life came to him with a force
they had never possessed in the sunny hour of prosperity. He wanted to
pray. He felt the need of a strength not his own. Mollie could not pray
now. Her mind was darkened by the shadows of disease. He went out into
the cabin. It looked as cheerless, and cold, and gloomy, as the inside
of a tomb. But God was there; and though Noddy could not speak the
words of his prayer, his heart breathed a spirit which the infinite
Father could understand. He prayed, as he had promised the sick girl he
would, and the strength which prayer had given to her was given to him.
"Here is work for me," said he, as he approached the door of the
captain's state-room. "But I am able to do it. I will never give up this
work."
He did not know what he was to win by this work of love, amid trials and
tribulation. He had struggled with the disposition to despond; he had
worked like a hero to keep his spirits up; and that which he was called
upon to do with his hands was small and trivial compared with that which
was done by his mind and heart. He had conquered fear and despair.
Thus prepared to battle with the giant ills which surrounded him, he
entered Captain McClintock's room.
CHAPTER XV.
THE DEMON OF THE CUP.
"Is that you, Noddy?" asked the captain, faintly.
"Yes, sir. How do you feel, captain?"
"I think I'm a little better. I wish you would ask Mollie to come in; I
want to see her."
"Does your head ache now, sir?" asked Noddy, who did not like to tell
him that his daughter had just been taken with the fever.
"Not so bad as it did. Just speak to Mollie."
"I think you are ever so much better, sir. You will be out in a day or
two."
"Do you think so, Noddy?"
"Yes, sir; I'm certain you will," answered the boy, who knew that faith
was life in the present instance.
"I'm glad you think so. I certainly feel a great deal better," replied
the captain, as though he was already cheered by the inspiration of
hope.
"You must be careful, and keep still; and you will be all right in a
week, at the most."
"I hope so; for I couldn't help thinking, when I was taken down, what a
bitter thing it would be to poor Mollie if I should die so far from home
and friends."
"You have got over the worst of it now, captain."
"Is Mollie out in the cabin?" asked the sufferer, persistently returning
to the subject near his heart.
"No, sir; she is not, just now."
"Has she gone on deck?"
"No, sir."
"Where is she, Noddy?" demanded he, earnestly, as he attempted to raise
himself up in his cot.
"Don't stir, captain; it will make you worse, if you do."
"Tell me where Mollie is at once, or I shall jump out of my berth. Is
she--is she--"
"She is in her room, captain. Don't be worried about her," replied
Noddy, who was afraid that the truth would have a bad effect upon the
devoted father. "She laid down a little while ago."
"Is she dead?" gasped the captain, with a mighty effort to utter the
appalling word.
"O, no, sir! She was taken sick a little while ago."
"O, mercy!" groaned the sick man. "I know it all now."
"It's no use to deny it, sir. She has got the fever."
"And I lay here helpless!"
"She said she felt a little better when I came out. I gave her the
medicine, and did everything for her."
"I must go to her."
"You will worry her to death, if you do, captain. She is more troubled
about you than she is about herself. If you lay still, so I can report
that you are doing well, it will be the best thing in the world for her.
It will do her more good than the medicine."
"Tell her I am well, Noddy!"
"It won't do to tell her too much; she won't believe anything, if I do,"
said Noddy, sorely troubled about the moral management of the cases.
"Tell her I am well, Noddy; and I will go and sit by her," replied the
sufferer, who was no more able to get out of his bed than he was to cure
the fearful disease.
"I can't do anything, captain, if you don't keep still in your bed. She
is a little out just now; but I think she will do very well, if you only
let her alone."
Captain McClintock was in an agony of suspense; but Noddy succeeded in
consoling him so that he promised to remain quietly in his bed. As
physician and nurse, as well as friend and comforter, the cabin-boy
found his hands full; but he had a heart big enough for the occasion;
and all day and all night he went from one patient to another,
ministering to their wants with as much skill and judgment as though he
had been trained in a sick room.
Mollie grow worse as the hours wore heavily away; but this was to be
expected, and the patient nurse was not discouraged by the progressive
indications of the disease. Towards morning the captain went to sleep;
but it required all the faithful boy's energies to keep Mollie in her
bed, as she raved with the heated brain of the malady.
In the morning one of the seamen was reported out of danger, and the
others in a hopeful condition. Noddy was completely exhausted by his
labors and his solicitude. Mr. Lincoln saw that he could endure no more;
and as he had obtained a few hours' sleep on deck during the night, he
insisted that the weary boy should have some rest, while he took care of
the sick. Noddy crawled into his berth, and not even his anxiety for
poor Mollie could keep him awake any longer. He slept heavily, and the
considerate mate did not wake him till dinner-time, when he sprang from
his berth and hastened to the couch of the sick girl.
Another day passed, and Mollie began to exhibit some hopeful symptoms.
Her father was still improving. The patients in the forecastle were also
getting better. Noddy felt that no more of the Roebuck's people were to
be cast into the sea. Hope gave him new life. He was rested and
refreshed by the bright prospect quite as much as by the sleep which the
kindness of Mr. Lincoln enabled him to obtain.
The schooner still sped on her course with favoring breezes; while
Noddy, patient and hopeful, performed the various duties which the fell
disease imposed upon him. He had not regarded the danger of taking the
fever himself. He had no thought now for any one but poor Mollie, who
was daily improving. One by one the crew, who had been stricken down
with the malady, returned to the deck; but it was a long time before
they were able to do their full measure of duty. In a week after Mollie
was taken sick, her father was able to sit a portion of the day by her
side; and a few days later, she was able to sit up for a few moments.
The terrible scourge had wasted itself; but the chief mate and three of
the crew had fallen victims to the sad visitation. Yellow fever patients
convalesce very slowly; and it was a fortnight before Captain McClintock
was able to go on deck; but at the same time, Mollie, weak and
attenuated by her sufferings, was helped up the ladder by her devoted
friend and nurse. The cloud had passed away from the vessel, and
everybody on board was as happy as though disease and death had never
invaded those wooden walls. But the happiness was toned to the
circumstances. Hearts had been purified by suffering. Neither the
officers nor the men swore; they spoke to each other in gentle tones, as
though the tribulations through which they had passed had softened their
hearts, and bound them together in a holier than earthly affection.
