in his eyes, as he turned to Lydia. 
Poor woman ! She was not strong enough for open 
contention with a nature like this man's. She would 
have gone against his will, and braved the after conse 
quences, if she could have been free of present obstruc 
tion ; but, face to face with his iron resolution, she found 
herself like a reed in the wind. 
"Cruel of heart! " Lydia moaned out the words in 
 
a bitter wail, as, covering her face with her hands, she 
sunk upon the stairs. 
Adam walked two or three times the full length of 
the hall, in unusual disturbance of manner ; then stop 
ping before his wife, he said, " Lydia ! " 
But she gave no response. 
" Lydia ! Do you hear me ? " 
She crouched on the stairs, her face hidden in her 
hands, still and statue-like. 
" Lydia, I say ! " He stamped his foot in out-leaping 
passion ; but she stirred not, spoke not. A shade of 
concern swept over his face, as he stood looking at. her 
motionless figure. 
" Come, come child ! this is weak folly get up ! " 
He had stepped across the hall, and laid a hand upon 
her arm. A great change was apparent in his voice ; 
it was soft with persuasion. But there came no re 
sponse. The arm was nerveless, and offered no resist- 
tance. 
" Lydia ! " Something like alarm was now manifest. 
He lifted her face ; it was white ! and the dark fringe 
of her lashes lay as still as if penciled above her 
cheeks. 
" Good heavens ! - Lydia ! Child ! Lydia ! What 
ails you ? Are you sick ? " 
As he tried to raise her up, the nerveless form slid 
from his arms, and he caught it back with an eager 
grasp, just preventing its heavy fall upon the passage 
floor. Lifting the fragile body how light it was ! 
he bore it to a chamber above. Cold water dashed in 
the face ; friction of the hands, feet and limbs ; with 
 
other rapidly succeeding means of restoration, gave mo 
tion in time to the impeded life-circle, and the pulses be 
gan again their feeble beat. 
" Poor Lena ! " Her heart was still with her old 
friend. They were the first words that parted her pale 
lips, in returning cousciousness. 
Poor Lydia, rather ! If Lena had come into a pit 
eous strait, how much more piteous the strait of Lydia ! 
It was, in the one case, but as the falling of a summer 
storm, or the closing of a summer day ; the storm 
would pass and leave the sky clearer than before the 
night give place to morning. But, for Lydia, the sky 
was leaden with perpetual clouds and unceasing rain : 
for Lydia, it was Arctic night and winter ! The sun 
of earthly love went down long ago, never to bless her 
eyes in reappearing. Her path was in darkness, and 
she must grope on painfully to the end. 
CHAPTER XII. 
N his way, in custody of an officer, to 
the magistrate's, Doctor Hofland ran 
over, in his mind, a number of persons 
to whom, in his trouble, he might ven 
ture to apply for bail. At first thought, 
he felt the assurance of a troop of friends. 
But, doubts obtruded as to one, and 
pride shrunk from the humiliation of 
an application to another ; so, that by 
the time he was at the office, he was in a state of pain 
ful confusion of mind. 
" Will you give bail ? " asked the magistrate, after 
rendering a judgment ; for the account had been sworn 
to, and the Doctor, besides, acknowledged its correct 
ness. 
" Of course I will ; but such matters are difficult to 
arrange at night. In the morning, I will bring my se 
curity." 
" It must be had to-night, sir." The officer spoke to 
the magistrate. " My instructions are positive." 
" Who gave them ? " The Doctor turned sharply 
upon the officer. 
" The plaintiff gave them, and we have no discre 
tion." 
 
" The Doctor is an honorable man, Thomas," said the 
magistrate, interposing. 
" I don't doubt that, sir. But I'm a sworn officer, 
and have no discretion. I must hold his body until the 
money or the security comes." 
" I'm sorry, Doctor. You will have to produce your 
bail to-night," said the magistrate. 
" But, how am I to do that ? You held me in custody. I cannot go for a friend.' 
" Perhaps I can get you a messenger. Harland," the 
magistrate spoke to a constable, who sat listening with 
an air of indifference. 
The man got up, and came forward. 
" Will you take word for Doctor Hofland ? " 
" If he pays me, I will," was bluntly replied. 
" Of course I'll pay you," said the Doctor, with hard 
ly concealed impatience. " How much do you want ? " 
" I'll go for a dollar." 
Doctor Hofland drew out his purse. " There," and a 
silver dollar passed to the constable's outstretched hand. 
Now came pause, debate, and hesitation, on the Doc 
tor's part. To whom should he apply ? He had many 
acquaintances, and many friends. A dozen men, whom 
he felt sure would spring to his relief, the instant they 
knew of his condition, were thought of ; but, in narrow 
ing down the application for security to one after anoth 
er of these, certain considerations were presented that 
made his thoughts turn back, in sickening reluctance up 
on himself. Oh, the bitter humiliation of that hour ! 
Its painful memories went with him to his grave. At 
last, a selection was made, and a brief note penned hur- 
 
riedly. It was addressed to a young man of no means, 
but kind hearted, and an attached friend. He called on 
him, because he could rely on his friendship and discre 
tion. 
Help as well as secresy were needed. To have the 
thing bruited over the town would be discreditable, and 
touch his professional standing. 
For over an hour Doctor Hofland waited, in the 
keenest suspense, the return of his messenger. At the 
expiration of this time, he came back alone. 
" Did you see the Doctor ? " was asked in an anxious 
voice. 
" No, sir. He wasn't at home ; and they didn't know 
when he'd be in. 
" Did you leave my note ? " 
The letter was handed to the disappointed prisoner 
who, crumpling it in his hand, walked the office floor for 
some time in an^agitated manner. Then sitting down, 
he addressed another friend, in trying to communicate 
with whom, a second half hour was lost. This applica 
tion gave no better result ; the friend was absent, and 
not expected to return until a late hour. 
It was now past nine o'clock, and the officer who had 
the doctor in charge began to exhibit impatience, and 
to mutter half incoherent sentences, enough of which 
' O 
reached the ears of Doctor Hofland, to sting his pride 
and manliness into an agony -of pain. The prospect of 
having to spend a night in jail looked threatening. 
The gloomy prison stood a mile away from the office 
in which he was held, and the constable plainly intima 
ted that he could wait no longer, at so late an hour, on 
the uncertain issue of bail. 
 
" I cannot go to prison ! " the Doctor exclaimed, in 
excitement. " I have scores of friends, who, if they 
only knew of this extremity, would hurry to my relief. 
I am well known to you, sir," addressing the magistrate. 
" There is no risk, as you can assure the officer, in giv 
ing me until to-morrow morning to get security. I 
pledge him my 'honor, to have a bondsman or the mon 
ey for which I have been sued, in the office by nine 
o'clock. This taking a man at fault, in this way, is not 
fair and right." 
The magistrate turned to the officer and added a 
CJ 
word in favor of the Doctor, but that official's counte 
nance was hard as iron, and resolute. 
" I have no discretion," was his unyielding answer. 
" The money or bail must come. My instructions are 
explicit. 
" I will make one more effort," said the Doctor, 
forced into calmness ; and he sat down and wrote to his 
old friend, Adam Guy. It cost him a hard struggle to 
do so ; but pride, and an almost unconquerable reluc 
tance to expose himself in this direction, had to be over 
come. He did not doubt for an instant the result, if 
the merchant should be found at home, and the proba 
bilities were in favor of that. The risk was small, and 
Guy could not, in very shame, refuse help in such an 
extremity. A hurried note to Mrs. Hofland was penned 
at the same time, that she might be forewarned, in case 
the dreaded imprisonment should result. 
Suspense had now become almost unendurable. The 
Doctor walked the office floor, with the restless, short, 
quick turns of a caged animal, unceasingly, until his 
messenger came back. 
 
" Did you see him ? " The officer had come in alone. 
Doctor Hofland's face was working all over. 
" Yes." 
" What did he say ? " 
" No, point blank ! " 
" Adam Guy said no ! " Surprise and incredulity- 
were in his voice. 
"He did." 
" You gave him my letter ? " 
" Yes, sir, and his answer was, ' I don't know any 
thing about it.' Then I said, ' will you not go his 
bail ? ' and I thought he'd have taken my head off." 
" What were his precise words ? " asked the Doctor, 
now speaking calmly. 
" His precise words were, ' That is what I never do. 
Good evening ! ' And then he turned from me as if I 
were a dog." 
'' Did you deliver the letter I gave you for Mrs. 
Hofland ? " asked the Doctor, his voice faltering a 
little. 
" I did." 
" Nothing more can be done to-night. I am ready 
to go with you." The Doctor spoke firmly as he 
looked towards the officer who had him in charge. 
" It's a cruel outrage," he added, " and one of which 
Henry Warfield will repent." 
" It would have been better," remarked the magis 
trate, " if you had sent notes to several of your friends 
at once. Ere this time, one or more of them would 
have arrived. Before going with the officer, I would 
suggest your writing to one or two gentlemen of your 
 
<' 
acquaintance, in order that you may be relieved in the 
morning. Harland will see that the notes are delivered 
to-night." 
" You left the second letter ? " Doctor Hofland turned 
to the constable, named Harland. 
" Yes." 
" That will do. If the friend to whom it was sent 
had been at home, I would not be here now. He 
will make all right at the earliest possible time to 
morrow morning." 
" He may be here yet,'' said the magistrate, who 
was reluctant to see the Doctor so needlessly committed 
to prison. He drew out his watch, and the officer who 
made the arrest did the same. The latter shook his 
head, saying 
" It's a quarter to ten now. I can wait no longer. 
The jail doesn't stand next door. Come, sir." 
Dropping his head upon his bosom, the unhappy 
prisoner moved toward the door, and passed out silently. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
Y day dawn Mrs. Hofland is up and 
waiting expectantly. As footfalls be 
gin to sound along the pavement, she 
listens for the well known tread of her 
husband's feet, but listens in vain. 
One after another, the passers come 
and go ; the number steadily increasing 
as the day opens brighter and broader. 
Breakfast has been ready for half an 
hour, but the Doctor is away still. What can it 
mean? Lena's overstrained feelings are getting the 
mastery. The wearying doubts that have perplexed 
her through the night, have changed to cloudy fears. 
Some evil must have befallen her husband ! 
It is nine o'clock, and still no word, no appearance. 
Office patients have arrived and departed ; some still 
linger, on the assurance that the Doctor is expected to 
come in every moment. Half past nine. Poor Lena ! 
suspense has become agony. Ten o'clock. The two 
elder children have gone to school, and she is sitting 
with the baby on her lap, when the door opens, and the 
face of her husband looks in. No wonder she starts 
and cries out in mingled gladness and pain gladness 
that her husband has returned ; pain in beholding the 
 
change wrought on him since his sudden departure last 
evening. His unshaven face is pale and exhausted ; 
his hair in disorder ; his eyes sad and troubled ; his 
garments soiled. 
" Oh my husband ! Where have you been ? What 
ails you ? What has happened ? '"' 
These sentences leap from Lena's lips, as she lays her 
babe down hurriedly, and starts forward to meet her 
husband. He catches both her hands, grasping them 
with a close, nervous grip ; and, as he holds them, says 
in a voice that chokes the words, spite of all efforts to 
speak evenly 
" I've been in jail, Lena ! " 
"Edward! No no!" 
" Yes, Lena." The voice is steady now manhood, 
in a strong, quick struggle, has triumphed. 
"In jail!" 
" Yes, darling, in jail for debt. It was an outrage." 
" For debt ! What debt ? " Tears are running over 
her face. 
" A debt of some ninety dollars to Henry Warfield. 
He took a mean and cruel advantage. It was after 
night when the officer arrested me, and I found it im 
possible to arrange security at so late an hour." 
Mrs. Hofland laid her face upon her husband's breast, 
and sobbed violently. 
" Oh, my husband ! My precious husband ! That 
you should have been so disgraced ! In jail ! I cannot 
bear this!" 
The Doctor drew his arm around Lena, and as they 
passed up to their chamber, he sa'id 
" The lesson may have been needed, dear. I had 
time to think last night." 
" Needed ? Oh, Edward ! " 
" It is wrong to be in debt wrong for us, I mean," 
said the Doctor, as he sat down, on passing into the 
chamber ; "we should not have lived beyond our in 
come." 
" Deeper shadows fell over the face of Mrs. Hof- 
land. A pang of self-reproach shot through her heart. 
"It is no fault of yours; I only am to blame," contin 
ued the Doctor, who saw into her thoughts. " I have 
not been a wise and prudent man have not restrict 
ed want to means ; and here is the result. How blind 
how foolish how criminal I have been ! " 
" Don't, don't, Edward ! I cannot bear to hear you 
say this now," said Lena. 
" It is wisest to look truth in the face," was answered. 
" She has been sitting beside me all night, stern of 
aspect, and I have grown familiar enough with her pres 
ence to endure it for awhile longer. She turned the 
leaves of my book of life backwards, and showed me a 
record, the reading of which made my cheek red with 
shame and humiliation. Ah, my wife ! there is another 
law for a man's government in this world, than the law 
of mere desire. Covetousness is idolatry ! " 
Mrs. Hofland gazed, in questioning surprise, at her 
husband. He went on. 
" With me, taste and desire have too often ruled in 
stead of prudence ; and now, with costly pictures and the 
like, filling our rooms, I am in debt and at the mercy of 
eager creditors. This is wrong all wrong, Lena. Let 
 
us begin again even at the very beginning. This 
day, I am at least three thousand dollars in debt ; and 
to-night, if a creditor chose, he may send me again to 
prison." 
Mrs. Hofland shuddered, and her pale face grew paler. 
" Oh, Edward ! Don't say that," she sobbed, tears 
flowing anew. 
" It is the simple, hard truth of the case, dear; and 
there is no use in disguise," said the Doctor. " The 
more steadily we look it in the face, the better shall we 
be able to comprehend our exact position, and the more 
certainly devise our way of escape." 
" Do you see a way of escape ? " asked Mrs. Hofland. 
" Yes." 
" In what direction ? " 
" The way will be rough, dear." 
" No matter. If your feet are strong enough, mine 
shall not falter. Point out the way, dear husband ! 
Or, turn into it, and you shall find me a brave and 
cheerful walker by your side." 
" I said, we must begin again even at the very be 
ginning, Lena." 
" We cannot do that. The past is past. But, wo 
may change our course." 
" We may begin a new order of things." 
"Yes." 
" And that is what I mean. But, before this is 
fairly possible, some steps must be retraced. As I sat 
waiting on the slow moving hours, last night, and 
watching for the day-dawn, I went over all our affairs, 
and got at the exact result. It stands thus. The cost 
 
of pictures, statuettes, bronze figures, rare and elegant 
books, coins, medals, minerals, and other things not ab 
solutely required for household comfort, has reached the 
sum of twenty-five hundred dollars. I propose to sell 
these by auction. If they bring fifteen hundred dol 
lars only, that will lift half the burden of our debt at 
once. I feel assured, if the thing is rightly managed, 
of realizing nearly their cost. I shall arrange in this 
way ; Have them removed to a room, engaged for 
the purpose, and minutely catalogued and described. 
Auctioneers understand the management of such mat 
ters. Through advertisements and the distribution of 
catalogues among the right persons, a company may be 
assembled that will bid up most of the articles to their 
cost value. In that case we would be almost freed from 
debt in an hour. But, this is anticipating too much." 
" To sell at auction will certainly involve a heavy 
sacrifice," said Lena, her countenance not fully respond 
ing to the hopeful light which had begun to glow-in 
that of her husband. 
" We must expect such a result, and so prepare for 
disappointment," replied the Doctor. 
" A disappointment that will still leave on us the 
burden of debt." 
" But a lighter burden." 
" The smallest burden will be as a mountain hereaf 
ter," said Lena, despondingly. 
^ My thought went further," remarked the Doctor, 
looking steadily at his wife. 
" How inuch further ? Did it reach to the entire 
extinguishment of this debt ? " She bent eagerly to 
wards him. " Nothing less than that, Edward." 
 
" It did, Lena." 
" Then say on." 
" The rent of this house is four hundred and fifty 
dollars a year." 
" Yes.'"' 
" Too much for us to pay, under present circumstan 
ces." 
" I have always thought the rent too high," said Le 
na. 
" We have been no happier here than we were in that 
cosy nest at first called home." 
" Not so happy, I have sometimes thought," replied 
Lena. " There has been more care for appearances, 
here ; more looking out upon the world ; more con 
sciousness of being under the eye of society and these 
things take away the mind's tranquillity." 
" That dear little house is for rent again. I saw the 
bill up yesterday." 
" Then we will go back to it again. Two hundred 
and fifty dollars saved in our expenses will, of itself, ex 
tinguish a thousand dollars of debt in four years, if no 
quicker means can be found. But, the change to that 
house will help more than the saving in rent. Two 
servants are absolutely necessary in this one ; in that I 
can do with a single servant. This will make a differ 
ence of at least a hundred and fifty dollars more in our 
expenses." 
" But, the house will afford no office," said the Doc 
tor. " I've thought it over, but can't settle this point." 
" The parlor must serve for an office," was answer 
ed. 
 
" Then we shall have no parlor no room in which 
to receive our friends." 
Mrs. Hofland was thinking rapidly. Where there is 
a will there is a way, and she found the adage true. 
" We can take the room over the parlor," she replied. 
" There are two rooms, beside this one, on the second 
floor, and these will give the chambers we need for our 
selves and the children." 
" There will be no spare room for a friend," objected 
the Doctor. 
" A sofa bed in the parlor can be used on an emergen 
cy. But, at present, Edward, only the question of right 
and duty is before us, and we must settle that, irrespec 
tive of other considerations." 
" We have twice the quantity of furniture that will 
be needed," said the Doctor. 
" The rest can be sold," was Lena's prompt answer. 
" A few hundred dollars more will be gained in this way, 
and debt still further diminished. Out of debt, out of 
danger, dear husband ! Let us act promptly. I shall 
never have one hour of undisturbed peace, while a dollar 
of debt remains." 
" Nor I ; and as peace of mind is, beyond all mere 
external things, most to be desired, we will seek it in the 
directest way. Ah, to think what this burden of debt has 
cost me ! What hours of discouragement what pain 
ful humiliations what a stinging sense of wrong 
what fears and tremors. It has robbed me of fredom 
and manliness. I have felt myself, all the while, in the 
power of others. It has been the death's head at my 
feast, Lena." 
" But shall be no longer, Edward ! Sell everything. 
I would rather have uncarpeted floors, and the humblest 
and homeliest things around me, than to see your honor 
touched or your peace invaded." 
CHAPTER XIV. 
IKE a true woman, as she was, Lena 
did not falter. She was stronger in 
this thing than her husband. The ar 
dor of his purpose cooled, as the ex 
citement of feeling occasioned by that 
night's imprisonment died away, and he 
began to look more soberly at the 
changes proposed. Professional and 
social pride arose as hindrances. It is 
easier to go up than to go down. The more Doctor 
Hofland dwelt on the issues he had looked so bravely in 
the face at first, the more did he shrink from encounter 
ing them. There was, in this receding from the social 
position he had assumed, an acknowledgment that he had 
overstepped his means, and been forced back into 
obscurity. Then taste and love of art, clung to the 
beautiful objects with which he had surrounded himself. 
How could he part from these ? His rare books and 
coins, his cabinet of minerals, his objects in natural 
history the accumulation of years ; must these go 
also ? He could not look this sacrifice bravely and stead 
ily in the face, and said " It must not be ! " 
But, Lena did not turn back. That one night of 
absence from her husband, and the shock that followed 
 
when the truth it involved broke painfully on her excited 
nind, was a trumpet-tongued argument perpetually 
lounding in her ears. To have the husband she so 
|ionored and loved, suffer this cruel humiliation, had 
Idwarfed to insignificance ail things else. She would 
never rest, until he stood beyond the power of any man 
to lay so much as a finger upon him. Debt must be extin- 
uished, at any and every sacrifice, even to the last 
rthing and that in the shortest possible time. 
On the evening that closed this day, the Doctor and 
s wife sat alone in consultation. 
I went past the old house this afternoon," said the 
ctor. 
,' Is the bill up ? " There was anxiety in the voice 
of iLena. A fear lest the house had been taken, crossed 
herWind. 
"fifes." 
" Did you see the landlord ? " 
" to." 
" Wiy not ? Some one else may secure it." 
" Tfte house looked very small, Lena." And the 
Doctorsighed faintly, as he let his eyes wander around 
the roon in which they were sitting, and from thence 
into the ie adjoining. 
" It was large enough to hold us once, Edward, and 
is large emugh to do it again;" said Lena, firmly. 
" We hare more in the family, now," rejoined the 
doctor. 
"We are Vi debt," said Lena, with an emphasis that 
put nerve intAthe Doctor's failing heart. " That argu 
ment overrides  all others. This morning, we decided 
 
our course of action ; and now, let there be no falter 
ing. You said that we must enter a new way ; and I 
answered yea, and amen ! My steps shall not linger, 
Edward. You pictured it as a hard and difficult way. 
I see it as plain and easy. That in which we now 
tread, is hard and difficult. Every step is among hin 
drances and entanglements. Already there has beer 
stumbling and falling wounds and bruises pains 
and humiliations. We must return, and get upon i 
smoother, an easier, and a safer road." 
" You are a brave, true woman, Lena," said her hus 
band, as warmth came back into his face. " But this 
going down so far must be prevented if possible. I 
have been looking over my bills, and find nearly tvo 
thousand dollars uncollected, on my books. One thou 
sand of this ought to be realized within three months. 
I will see my collector, and confer with him in regard 
to an earnest pressure for settlements. A number of 
accounts against persons really able, but indifferent as 
to payment, could be sued out. A thousand dollars 
within three months would more than satisfy ill de 
mands against me likely to become troublesoma. My 
practice is steadily increasing, as you know, and may 
yield enough beyond our expenses to liquidate every 
thing in a year or two." 
" A year or two ! Oh Edward ! A year or two of 
debt and danger ! No no ; not a morth, say I ! 
We thought it out all rightly this morning. Let us be 
just to others, and just to ourselves. Mate out an in 
ventory at once, including every article not absolutely 
needed, and sell to the best advantage. If you can 
 
collect a thousand dollars in three months, so much the 
better ; but don't sue anybody people may appear 
less able than they are forgive, but don't sue. ' I 
wouldn't have you gain a dollar through constraint of 
any one. Sickness often impoverishes the means, while 
it adds to the expenses. Let us command our own re 
sources, and limit our own wants. This is the right 
way, husband ; and the right way is always the safest 
and the best way." 
And so Lena brought him back to his first best reso 
lution. On the next day, the little house, with its sweet 
garden in front, was secured. Rose-bushes, which they 
had planted, climbed now to the upper windows, hang 
ing green wreaths, flower-starred, above and around 
them. A pair of dwarf evergreens, also planted by 
them, nearly ten years before, stood just within, and on 
each side of the gate, their graceful top branches bow 
ing in the summer airs a seeming conscious welcome. 
Running back from these, and grown wonderfully, like 
children seen after the absence of a few years, stood on 
each side of the walk leading to the house, a bank of 
dark green box. Standard roses, and fragrant honey 
suckle, towered above less ambitious plants and flowers, 
filling the air with sweetness. 
" How familiar and' home-like," said Lena, as she 
passed through the white gate with her husband, to look 
at the house, preparatory to deciding on a removal. 
" Here is the very Champney I planted with my own 
hands ! See how it has grown. And there is the 
white jessamine I left with its slender arms not six feet 
high, hanging now its graceful drapery around the up- 
 
per windows. What a dear, sweet little spot it is, Ed 
ward. We shall be happy here again." 
The Doctor unlocked the door, and they went in. 
" The rooms are very small," he said, with a sigh, after 
pushing open the window shutters. 
" They are large enough for love and duty," answer 
ed Lena, with a smile. " Better be straitened as to 
the body, than the mind. These smaller rooms shall 
be as wide palaces for our freer souls. Ah, husband, 
dear ! it is from within that our truest pleasures 
come. If right with ourselves and the world, we may 
be happy in the humblest cottage. But if not, no 
princely mansion can give peace to our souls." 
They went from room to room, with old emotions 
coming back into their hearts, and filling them with ten 
derness. In this chamber, a babe was born ; in that 
one, a babe took its departure for Heaven. Ah, the 
blessedness and the pain ! The joy of birth, and the 
pangs of bereavement. Softened and sanctified by time 
and discipline, the joy and the sorrow were felt again. 
It went hard with the Doctor to consent at the final 
moment of decision. Pride and principle came into 
strong conflict, and but for the unwavering spirit of his 
wife, he would have receded. But, once fully compre 
hending their situation the Doctor had until now 
concealed from her the extent of his embarrassments 
all hesitation, and looking to the right or the left, 
were gone. Back, back, quickly, from a position of 
danger ! So her heart and her thought said ; and as 
she felt and thought, so was she prepared to act. 
Notwithstanding many suggested changes in the pro- 
 
gramme at first presented by Dr. Hofland, and then ap 
proved by himself and his wife, that programme, thanks 
to Lena's firmness, was strictly carried out ; and when 
they were fairly domiciled in their humbler home, it 
would have been a hard and selfish creditor indeed, who 
complained of superfluity. Not a picture nor a book, 
outside of the Doctor's medical library, that was of val 
ue, nor anything merely ornamental, or that could be 
spared in housekeeping, was removed to the new abode. 
All were sold : and with what result ? Let us see. 
CHAPTER XV. 
T was just one week after Doctor Hol 
land and his wife had taken their step 
downward, as to external things, but up 
ward, as to the internal. They were 
alone, sitting in the plain little room on 
the second floor, which they now called 
their parlor. The mental discipline, hu 
miliations and anxieties through which 
they had passed, left on each the sober 
hues of thought. But, there was nothing of unhappi- 
ness nothing of complaint visible on their countenan 
ces. 
" I received an account of sales, to-day," said the 
Doctor, as he laid a folded paper on the table. 
" Did you ? " Expectation lit up the countenance 
of Mrs. Hofland expectation, in which suspense, and 
a shade of anxiety, were visible. 
" Yes, and the result is better than I had any good 
reason to anticipate." 
" Oh Edward! What a relief! " Tears glistened 
in Lena's eyes. 
The Doctor opened the paper, and running down his 
eyes to the last footing of a series of long columns of fig 
ures, said 
 
" The sum realized is twenty-seven hundred and 
eighty-one dollars ; within two hundred dollars of all I 
owe." 
" My dear husband ! I am happier this hour than 
I have been for years ! " Drops of gladness fell over 
Lena's cheeks. " Thank God for showing us the right 
path, and for giving us courage to walk in it ! " 
" Thank God, I say, for so brave, so true, so self- 
denying a wife ! " responded the Doctor, as he caught 
Lena's hand and pressed it against his heart, where her 
head was lying a moment afterwards. " I was not 
strong enough, standing alone, for this," he added. " If 
you had faltered, our feet would still be in difficult ways 
our sky clouded our hearts in trouble. But now, 
there is no longer any fear. The way is plain before 
us. The sky is sunny. I can lift a brave head I 
can look every man I meet steadily in the face. Oh, 
freedom ! freedom ! It is worth any struggle any 
sacrifice. What joy is there in a large house ; in pic 
tures ; in costly furniture ; in the possession of rare 
books, the leaves of which are not turned once in a 
year ; in gloss and ornament, if a nightmare of debt 
lies ever on the constricted bosom ? How blind, how 
weak, how irrational I have been ? I wonder and am 
ashamed of myself." 
" The lesson is for all time," said Mrs. Hofland, smil 
ing through tears of gladness, that still trembled in her 
eyes. " We shall not make this error again." 
"Never again, Lena!" answered her husband. 
" What with one hand we take from the world, shall 
be paid for by the other. If our means are small, we 
 
will restrict our wants. Debt shall be an unknown ele 
ment in our home economy. As for things of taste 
and ornament now departed they will be restored 
in time, and speak to our souls a higher and truer lan 
guage than before. This discipline and self-denial, if 
rightly borne, will open our minds more interiorly, and 
give them a truer knowledge of the use that lies in 
the beautiful. Hitherto, a covetous desire to possess 
has depraved, with me, all love of art ; and so robbed 
me of the higher delights it might have given. I see 
this clearly, and must strive against and overcome that 
evil in the mind which has been pronounced idolatry." 
" And so," said Lena, " we are not really going 
down, but ascending in life. This change of position, 
is not a fall, but a rise. If we see in a clearer atmos 
phere, and have a more extended vision, we must be at 
a higher elevation than before." 
" We are, Lena. Our embarrassing relations with 
the world were as clogs, holding us down. The soul 
sat, groveling, among the meaner things of life ; its vi 
sion clouded, its strength impaired. Thought dwelt 
more in the outward than the inward in customs, 
usages, appearances, opinions and the like. But, in 
acting as we have done, from a principle of right and 
justice, we have emancipated ourselves. The thought 
of how this and that will appear, is removed, and ques- 
^tions of right or wrong must now determinate our ac 
tions. This is freedom ; this is growth ; this is the 
soul's true order of existence." 
So they talked concerning their newly assumed rela 
tion to the world ; and while they thus talked, this new 
 
relation formed the theme of remark in another house 
hold. Let us pass to that of Adam Guy, the merchant. 
".Our fast friends have gone over the precipice, as I 
predicted long ago." There was a gleam of satisfac 
tion in Adam's cold eyes as he thus spoke to his wife. 
" To whom do you refer ? " asked Mrs. Guy, rousing 
herself from a state of moody discontent in which she 
had been sitting for some time. 
" Doctor Hofland and his wife." There was as 
much pleasure in his voice as in his eyes. 
" What of them ? " Mrs. Guy was all interest now. 
" The Doctor had a night's experience in jail a week 
or two ago." 
" More the shame for you ! " was answered caustical 
ly. " I never could have believed that of Adam 
Guy." 
" Believed what ? " 
" That you would have abandoned an old friend in 
such an extremity. Ninety dollars ! It will be remem 
bered against you ! " 
" Indeed ! " Spoken contemptuouslv. And by 
whom?" 
" People lay up these things." 
" People ! Pah ! What do I care for people, 
one half of whom I can buy and sell ? " And Guy 
snapped his fingers scornfully. 
" What were you going to say about the Hoflands?" 
asked Lydia, a feeling of disgust hindering any further 
remark in the direction her husband's thoughts were 
moving. 
" I said, they had gone over the precipice at last ; 
 
and no one cares, I reckon. People of their style don't 
make many substantial friends." 
" Why don't they ? " 
" Fast living and fast friendship are imcompatible 
things. Your eternal borrower wears out his welcome. 
You sit uneasily beside a friend whose thought is on 
your purse, rather than on the theme in which he 
affects an interest. I know. Rut the Doctor has 
found his level at last, and I'm glad of it." 
" What has happened to him ? " 
" You remember that little bird box in which thej 
first lived ? " 
"Yes." 
" His sign is on the door again." 
"Doctor Hofland's?" 
" Doctor Holland's. I passed there to-day, and 
read it with my own eyes. People who stand too high, 
are apt to fall. I saw, long ago, what the end would 
be. That night in jail did the work for him, I've no 
doubt. Creditors are a scary kind of people ; when 
one of their number pounces down on a poor unfortu 
nate, they are apt to follow on swift wings, so as to be 
in at the death. They've made short work with the 
Doctor; that's plain. Ha! ha! How it must have 
surprised him ! Well. Let every tub stand on its own 
bottom, I say. Doctor Hofland has no more right to 
live off of other people, than your common pickpocket." 
" Don't, don't, Adam ! I can't bear to hear you 
talk so about the Doctor. He may have been imprudent ; 
but to compare him with a common pickpocket, is an 
outrage." 
 
" There's no difference." Guy spoke in a kind of 
savage ill-nature. " The Doctor's better education in- 
creases his responsibility. Men of his class are the re 
spectable pickpockets of society ; and what is more in 
regard to them, their victims are often so tied hand and 
foot by friendship, consanguinities, social relations, or 
sympathies, that resistance is impossible. Your footpad 
or burglar may be shot down ; but these decent-faced 
robbers hold you gently by the hand, and pour honeyed 
words into your ears, while they rifle your purse. You 
understand it all, but can make no resistance. I'm 
always pleased when society spots them, writing rogue 
on their backs. It has done so in Holland's case, and 
I am glad of it." 
Mrs. Guy did not answer, but turned herself part 
ly away from her husband, bending close down over 
some needlework on which she was employed. 
" I don't want you to go there," said Guy, who, 
after finishing his conclusive declaration against his old 
friend, waited to hear what answer his wife would make. 
He knew that she had still a warm side towards Lena 
and her husband though, through his management, 
social intercourse had long ago ceased and uttered 
his sweeping condemnations more for the sake of annoy 
ing her than anything else. He saw from her manner 
that he had made no impression whatever against her 
-friends, and that grief at their misfortune was the only 
sentiment stirring in her heart. Remembering how, on 
learning the danger which threatened the Doctor a 
week or two before, she had yielded to the impulse, 
that, but for his interference, would have borne her 
 
with swift feet as a comforter to Lena, he had uttered 
the brief interdiction at the commencement of this par 
agraph. 
" Go where ? " asked Mrs. Guy. Her thin, pale lips, 
closed tightly as the words left them. Her eyes were 
steady her brows knit. 
-" To Dr. Hofland's." The answer was emphatic. 
Adam saw down into his wife's thoughts. He was 
quick-sighted in all that came in opposition to his will or 
wishes. 
" If you choose to desert a friend in misfortune, I 
shall not." Mrs. Guy's utterance was slow, and her 
tones resolute. " I am going to call on Lena." 
" Indeed you are not." There was a quick, short 
rattle in the voice of Adam Guy. 
" We will bandy no words, Adam. You heard what 
I said." Mrs. Guy's tone was unfaltering. 
" I command you not to go ! " Passion swept him 
away into a brutal violence of manner. 
" And I shall disobey your command, because you have 
no right to lay it on me." Mrs. Guy's color mounted, 
and her eyes flashed. He had struck the smarting spur 
too deeply. 
" You are my wife, madam ! " 
" Not your slave, sir ! " 
They glared at each other for a few moments, in angry 
defiance. 
" Go at your peril," said Guy, in a husky, threatening 
voice. 
" At a thousand perils, I will go ! " The poor, weak 
frame of Mrs. Guy was beginning to tremble under the 
 
pressure of excitement ; but her spirit was strong. 
Contempt of her husband's mean, cruel, selfish spirit, 
more of which was apparent to her in his sentences than 
any reader can perceive, made her spurn his unwarrant 
able interdiction, as though it were a child's command. 
" Content- yourself with deserting a friend in trouble ; 
but don't ask me to do the same." 
" Silence ! I wont have such language." The foot 
of Adam Guy struck the floor with a quick jar. 
" As you please," was answered, and Lydia, who had 
turned towards her husband, turned herself away again, 
and bent down once more over her needlework ; but her 
hands trembled so that she could not make the stitches, 
and so she let them fall idly in her lap. 
, Money is a great power. Out in the world, and 
among men, its selfish possessor feels himself to be a little 
emperor in his sphere. He says to this man, " Go," and 
he goeth ; and to that man, " Come," and he cometh ; 
and few there be who set themselves in opposition to his 
will. He feels that money has invested him with 
personal consequence, and that from this comes obedience 
and complaisance ; while the truth is, men flow in with 
his conceits, his plans, his arbitrary will, even, in the, hope 
of advantage. The man himself is nothing. Abstract 
the money, and he will be of little more account than a 
sucked orange. It is at home that these mere 
money-men find the current of their lives obstructed 
here, that baffling winds flutter among the sails of their 
goodly ships, and bear them back from promised havens. 
Women and children are not so easily managed ; partic 
ularly when the rich father and husband, not only with- 
holds too much, but exacts too much. He is dealing 
outside of his dwelling, with material interests ; inside, 
with human souls. Love of gain, of power, of place 
all these are potent ministers on the outside ; but, on 
the inside, " I wont," and " I will," clamor against him 
with an undying persistence. He is not wise enough to 
govern these home elements, and so sets them at defiance. 
Unceasing war is the consequence war kept up to the 
very last. The children gird on their armor, and learn 
to handle sword and spear even from the beginning. As 
they grow older, they gain skill and strength, and the 
time comes, always, sure as fate, when the battle turns 
in their favor. But alas ! what wreck, what ruin, what 
desolation, mark the way, and the final victory is but a 
final disaster to all ! 
Great as Mr. Guy found the power of money on the 
outside, inside of his home, the daily conviction grew 
upon him that he was losing power. His will, 'yielded 
to in the beginning, was. often now disputed, the ground 
being maintained on the part of his wife, with a per 
sistence and success that made him feel bitter against 
her. In the present contest, he was in opposition to the 
stronger elements. The misfortunes had come upon 
Lena's old friend, and this so quickened the sentiment of 
love, that her husband's opposition only fanned it into a 
blaze. She must see Lena, and the hand of Adam Guy 
was not strong enough to hold her back. If she sat 
witli fingers too weak to carry the needle silent, 
shrinking, and trembling in nervous exhaustion her 
will did not give way for an instant. Her heart was 
drawing her towards Lena with the old strong impulses, 
 
and she meant to go as she had said. Comprehending 
the height and depth, the length and breadth of con 
sequences, Adam Guy had power to visit on her head, she 
was ready in this cause to brave them. Many feelings 
that once writhed in anguish when his foot trampled on 
them ruthlessly, now gave no response. Th'ey were 
dead to him. The bond which united them was ex 
ternal only. Internally, there was repulsion instead of 
attraction, and aversion instead of love. 
No further word passed between Lydia and her 
husband during the evening. Gruy sat for most of the 
time with brows drawn down, and mouth shut tightly, 
musing, scheming, pondering, and miserable as he almost 
always felt when at home for only at home did he find his 
will thwarted, and his commands set at naught. Lydia 
passed the hours as she usually passed them, with busy 
hands, and oppressed feelings. All the outreaching im 
pulses and wants of her woman's nature, had been 
crushed back, and lay bruised t broken, and helpless, 
against her heart, that ached, and ached, with a dull, 
deep, unmitigated pain. Poor wife ! The pleasant 
children which had been born to hope, in the far away 
years when life and love threw hues of rosy promise on 
the future, had long ago passed through fire to the golden 
moloch set up by her husband, and were dead ! Mourn 
ing them, her spirit refused to be comforted, but sat, 
tear-eyed and white-faced, in Rachel-like sorrow. Alas, 
poor wife ! Time can never restore these lost ones. 
They have faded from the earth, and will return no 
more. 
CHAPTER XVI. 
 
ON the day afterwards, Mrs. Guy called, 
as she had purposed, to see her old 
friend. It was a long time since they 
had met face to face ; and over two 
years since their last exchange of 
formal visits. Her heart was now full 
of sympathy, pity, and tender interest. 
The misfortune of Lena had awakened 
old feelings that came back upon her 
like a flood. When she reached the pleasant little house, 
standing modestly back from the street, in which, years 
gone by, she had passed many sweet hours with this dear 
friend, it looked so poor and small in contrast with her 
own spacious and elegant home, that she could not repress 
a sigh for Lena, as she entered through the gate and 
moved down the box-bordered walk leading to the door . 
Her hand trembled as she raised it to the bell and gave 
a timid ring. 
" Is Mrs. Hofland at home ? " 
"Yes, ma'am," answered the tidily dressed servant, 
who admitted her to the Doctor's office. 
" Walk up stairs." 
" Mrs. Guy hesitated." 
" Walk up to the parlor, if you please, ma'am." And 
the girl conducted Mrs. Guy along the narrow passage 
and stairway to the front room in the second story. 
" What name shall I say, ma'am ? " The servant's 
manner was cheerful and intelligent. Mrs. Guy handed 
her a card, and she retired. Nearly five minutes passed 
before Lena made her appearance, and in that time, Mrs. 
Guy had opportunity to note each article in the room. 
How mean and meagre every thing looked. The carpet 
was faded and threadbare, and the scant furniture plain 
and out of fashion. Only two small pictures hung on 
the walls, and they were portraits. A pair of china 
match boxes, and a small gilt candelabra, composed the 
mantel ornaments. A pair of painted shades, considera 
bly worn, tempered the light at the windows. How 
painfully all this contrasted itself in the mind of Mrs. 
Guy, with the attractive surroundings which, on her last 
visit, made so pleasant the home of Lena. She remem 
bered the choice books and pictures ; the statuettes and 
objects of taste, innumerable, with which her husband 
had made beautiful their dwelling. Ah, how sad a fall 
had come ! 
In the midst of her reverie, Mrs. Guy heard the foot 
steps of her friend, and rose to meet her. In the 
moments of intervening suspense, her heart almost stood 
still. She had pictured a pale, sad, wasted, and des 
pondent countenance ; an almost hopeless being with 
whom she could weep, but offer few words of comfort. 
The door opened. Was that bright Face, over which 
smiles were sporting with each other ; those eyes, 
brimming with a loving welcome ; the face and eyes of 
Lena Hofland? Yes, even so. 
 
" Why, Lydia ! This is indeed a pleasure ! " and she 
came forward quickly, grasping the hand of her old 
friend, and kissing her with a heart- warmth that made 
the sluggish blood leap in new impulses along her 
veins. 
" Dear Lena ! " said Mrs. Guy, as they sat down, 
side by side, holding tightly each other's hands, " I 
cannot tell you how deeply this misfortune has touched 
me. I only heard of it last night, and it put sleep far 
from me." 
" What misfortune, dear ? " The sober hue that fell 
