them?" 
 
"Either, just as I can; but I am going through, 
somehow or other." 
"It can't be done ! Thuncleration ! you'll bring clown 
the whole rebel army upon us ! You don't think of 
going over there with only twenty men ! " 
"I do, uncle. I'm going over on that hill yonder, and 
I'm coming back again before night." 
Hapgood tapped his forehead significantly with his 
finger to indicate that the young lieutenant had lost his 
senses. 
"I was ordered to do it, and I am going to do it, uncle. 
You can set your mind at rest on that point." 
" It can't be did ! " said the old man positively. " I 
don't keer who told you to do it : it can't be did with 
less'n twenty thousand men. You will sacrifice yourself 
and all the rest of us." 
" You may return to the camp, if you wish." 
"Tom Somers, Lieutenant Somers," said the old 
man, much hurt by the words of the young officer, "you 
know I'm not afraid of any thing ; and I didn't expect 
you'd say that to me." 
" Excuse me, uncle : I didn't meanit. Now, hear me 
a moment." 
In a low tone, Lieutenant Somers told the sergeant the 
nature of his mission, and what depended upon its 
prompt and successful execution. 
" He ought to have sent a division to do such a job," 
 
muttered the old man, taking off his cap, and scratching 
his bald head. " Howsomever, I'm ready to follow you 
wherever you choose to go." 
"Forward, then," replied Somers ; and they advanced 
cautiously through the woods till they came to a kind 
of bog-hole, beyond which they discovered the rebel 
pickets. 
The party lay down on the ground, and crawled on the 
edge of the bog, till they obtained a fair view of the 
rebels. 
"Now, uncle, the time has come, and my plan is 
formed," said Somers in a whisper. " When they dis- 
cover you, retreat with the men as fast as you can. Fire 
on the rebels ; but don't pay any attention to me." 
" Where are you going?" demanded the old man. 
" When you retire, I am going to roll into that grass. 
They will follow you ; and, as soon as they have passed 
me, I shall move forward." 
" I won't do any thing of the sort. Thunderation ! you 
are goiu' to run right into the arms of the rebels." 
" Obey my orders ! That's all you have to do. I can 
take care of myself." 
"Excuse me, Tom Lieutenant Somers." 
" I know all about it, uncle. You do what I tell you, 
and you shall have all the particulars to-night, when I 
return." 
" Return ! You will be in Libby, if you are not shot, 
by dark." 
 
" If I am, leave that to me," replied Somers, as he 
rolled over into the long grass of the bog, and entirely 
concealed himself from the view of his own men. "Now 
fire one or two shots into the rebel picket, and then 
retire." 
Hapgood reluctantly obeyed the order ; though he felt 
as though he was signing the death-warrant of his young 
friend by doing so. The bullets began to fly ; but the 
sergeant took care to keep his men out of sight as they 
retreated. The enemy followed ; for they always chase 
a retiring foe, and run from an advancing one. They 
reached the bog in which Somers was concealed, where 
one of the three fell before a ball which the lieutenant 
was sure had been directed by the practised eye of the 
veteran sergeant. The other two swore at the calamity, 
and vowed vengeance on the Yankee who had done the 
deed. 
Hapgood continued to retire, and led his foe to the 
very verge of the woods. In the mean time, the lieuten- 
ant emerged from his hiding-place. The first object that 
attracted his attention was the ghastly face of the dead 
rebel. The sight of him was not pleasant, but it 
was suggestive ; and, without the loss of a moment, he 
dragged the body into the grass, and hastily removed the 
uniform from it. It was a loathsome task ; but the 
necessity of the moment seemed to justify the act. Taking 
off ids own uniform, he put on that of the dead rebel, 
 
who was fortunately about his own size. Rolling up his 
own clothing in as small a bundle as possible, he con- 
cealed it in the bog, at -some distance from the place 
where the picket had fallen. Dragging the coipse to a 
quagmire, he sunk it beneath the muddy waters, and it 
passed from his view. After taking the precaution to 
straighten up the long grass, which might have betrayed 
his movements, lie advanced towards the rebel lines. 
Lieutenant Somers felt that he was now actually em- 
barked in liis perilous venture. He was within the 
enemy's line, and in disguise. If discovered, he would 
be liable to the penalty of being a spy. But, inasmuch 
as he did not intend to be discovered, he did not think 
it necessary to expend his nervous energy in a discus- 
sion of this question. Success was a duty to him ; and 
he spent no time in considering the dark side of the 
picture. 
He was excited, and he knew that he was excited. 
He knew that coolness and impudence were the essential 
elements of success in such an adventure ; and, when he 
had followed the woods nearly to the top of the hill, he 
sat down to recover his self-possession, and compose his 
nerves to their natural quietude. It was not a very easy 
matter. He had already arranged his plan of future 
operations, and he diligently set about the business of 
making his appearance correspond with his circum- 
stances. 
He felt that he was hardly dirty enough to be a rebel : 
so he rubbed his face, neck, and hands with some dark- 
colored earth, ripped his pants aiid coat in sundry places, 
and otherwise disfigured his comely person, till Miss 
Lilian Ashford would not have known him, or, if she had 
known him, would have been ashamed to acknowledge 
his acquaintance. Having completed this work to his 
entire satisfaction, he rose, and resumed his march to- 
wards the rebel line. He had advanced but a few paces 
before he felt something in the breast-pocket of his coat, 
which excited his curiosity. It was a diary which the 
dead soldier had kept from the time he entered the 
army. 
Such a work would have been deeply interesting to 
the lieutenant at any time, but especially at the present, 
when he was sadly in want of the information which 
would enable him to personate the difficult part he had 
chosen to perform. Seating himself on the ground again, 
he was soon absorbed in the contents of the note-book. 
The owner's name was Owen Raynes ; and from the diary 
Somers learned that he had been a clerk in Richmond 
when the war broke out ; and that his father resided on 
the Williamsburg Road, near Seven Pines, where the 
battle had been fought. Somers was alarmed at this in- 
formation ; for the young man must be well known in the 
neighborhood. Of course he could not assume the name 
and character of Owen Raynes. 
 
Though the time was precious, he continued to read 
the diary till he came to an entry which excited his 
deep interest: "Poor Allan Garland was captured to-day 
by the Yankees ; and I suppose they will torture and 
starve the poor fellow, as they have the rest of our boys 
who have fallen into their hands. We shall never. meet 
again. He was a good fellow. He was on a scout." 
Somers was deeply concerned about poor Allan Gar- 
land, who had fallen into the hands of the terrible 
Yankees, to be tortured and starved ; and he turned back 
to the beginning of the diary to obtain further particulars 
in regard to this interesting person. Fortunately for his- 
tory, and particularly for Lieutenant Somers, Owen 
Raynes had given a tolerably full account of his friend. 
They had been to school together in Union, Alabama, 
where Owen had an uncle, and where Allan resided. 
They were fast friends : and both agreed to enlist as vol- 
unteers in the Fourth Alabama, Colonel Bush Jones ; for 
their schoolmates were mostly in this regiment. 
When the regiment arrived at Richmond, Owen had 
not time to visit his father ; for the troops were instantly 
ordered to Manassas, and he enrolled himself without 
discovering that his friend was not in the ranks. He 
was too sick to come with his comrades ; " wrote letter 
to Allan " was a frequent entry in the diary, until June 
18, 1862, when this record appears: "Allan joined the 
regiment to-day ; has been sick about a year ; is very 
well now ; he is a handsome fellow. Sue shall be his 
wife, if I can bring it about ; they have kept up a 
correspondence for three years ; she never saw him, 
but she will like him." 
"All right!'" exclaimed Somers, as he closed the 
book, and put it in his pocket. " I am Allan Garland. 
Don't think I shall marry Sue, though, whoever she may 
be. I wonder if Lilian Ashford would object. I don't 
know as she would. Never mind : I am a soldier of the 
Fourth Alabama, Colonel Jones, just now. How are 
you, Allan Garland ? ' 
He walked along towards the rebel lines, feeling in his 
pockets for further reA~elations. An old letter from Allan 
Garland rewarded his search. He spoke tenderly of Sue, 
who was Oven's sister. 
" Sue wouldn't think I'm very handsome just noAV," 
saM Somers, glancing at his dirty hands, and imagining 
if dirty face, as he continued to advance. 
 
CHAPTER X. 
ALLAN GARLAND AND FRIENDS. 
LLAN GARLAND, nee Somers, advanced con- 
fidently towards the rebel line. As he was to 
perform the leading part in the exciting drama 
about to be acted, he conducted himself with the 
utmost caution. Every thing depended upon the amount 
of impudence he could bring to bear upon the case before 
him, and the skill with which he personated the part he 
had chosen. He knew of nothing, short of falling on the 
Fourth Alabama, which could disconcert him. Even 
if he did, there were only a few who knew the captured 
scout ; and his chances were fair, even if the worst should 
befall him. 
" Stand ! " said a rebel sentinel on the breastwork of 
the line. " Who goes there?' 
" Friend," replied Somers confidently. 
" What's your name ? " 
"Allan Garland. Can you tell me where the Fourth 
Alabama is ? 
"About four miles from here. Do you belong to the 
Fourth Alabama ? " 
 
""Well, I did before I was captured: I don't know 
where I belong now." 
""Where d'ye come from?" 
"Just got away from the Yankees. They gobbled me 
up about three weeks ago." 
"Bully for you! Come in: you can report to the 
officer of the day." 
Somers was entirely willing, and hastened in the direc- 
tion indicated by the sentinel ; and was soon ushered into 
the presence of Major Platner, brigade-officer of the day. 
He was a very pompous little man, and Somers saw his 
weakness as soon as he spoke. "With a most profound 
bow, he answered the questions of the major, using the 
utmost deference in his tone and manner. 
" How dare you present yourself before an officer of 
the day with such a dirty face?" demanded Major 
Platner. 
" I hope your honor will pardon me ; but I have just 
escaped from the Yankees, and have not had time to 
wash my face. If you please, sir, I will go and do it 
now. I thought I ought to come to you without any 
delay." 
" You did right, young man," replied the major with 
a consequential flourish of the hand. " You were out 
scouting when you were taken?" 
" Yes, sir." 
Major Platner then proceeded to ask a great many 
 
questions in regard to the force and position of the 
Yankees ; all of which Somers answered entirely in the 
interest of the Union party. He was very careful not to 
give a particle of information that could be useful to the 
rebels ; at the same time avoiding any gross exaggera- 
tions which would throw discredit" on his story 
"You seem to be a very intelligent and patriotic young 
man," added the officer. " I have heard some inquiries 
for a person of your description to-day." 
" I have always endeavored to do my duty to my 
country," answered Somers, trying to blush under the 
compliment of the patronizing little major ; "and I kept 
my eyes wide open while I was in the Yankee 
camps." 
"I see you did. Your information is very definite, 
and, I doubt not, very reliable." 
" My only desire has been to serve my country, sir," 
added Somers very modestly. 
" Well, go and wash your face, so that we can see 
what color you are, and I will report your name to the 
general, who was inquiring for a useful person like your- 
self. I trust that you will have discretion enough not to 
mention any thing that has passed between us." 
" Certainly not, sir. I judge, from what you have 
said, that my poor services may be required for some 
special service." 
" That is the idea which I intended to convey. In a 
word, the commander of this division wants information. 
You have just come from the Yankee lines, and you 
know where to look for the intelligence that will be of 
the most value to us." 
" I think I do, sir." 
" The fact that you have just made your way through 
the Yankee lines shows that you possess the necessary 
address." 
" I thank you for your good opinion ; and I assure you, 
sir, that I should be very glad to serve my country in any 
capacity in which she may require my humble labors." 
Very well, young man." 
A plan occurs to me now, by which I could easily 
enter the Yankee lines." 
"Indeed! What is that?" 
"When I ran through the enemy's pickets, they fired 
upon me, and one of them chased me. I brought him 
down with my pistol," replied Somers, producing the 
weapon, which he had taken the precaution to bring with 
him. u I know just where that Yankee lies now ; I could 
borrow his uniform, and go in among the enemy without 
suspicion." 
" Very well arranged, young man." 
The major then directed an orderly to attend to the 
wants of the fugitive, and gave the latter orders to report 
to him within two hours. Somers washed his face, and 
partook of some cold bacon and corn bread, which constituted 
the staple of the rebel rations. He then told the 
orderly that he wanted to look round a little, and find 
his regiment, if he could ; but was informed that the 
camp regulations did not permit any strolling about the 
camps. He suggested that the officer of the day would 
give him a pass, and he returned to the major to beg this 
favor. It was readily granted ; and the time for him to 
report was extended to four hours, as his regiment was 
situated at some distance from the brigade camp, though 
it belonged to the same division 
Thus provided, Somers commenced his tour of obser- 
vation. Of course, he had no intention of visiting the 
Fourth Alabama ; for that would have been putting his 
head into the lion's mouth. We need only say, that he 
used his time to the best advantage for the country in 
whose service he had enlisted. He noted the brigades, 
regiments, and batteries of artillery, which he saw in his 
walk ; and arranged a little scheme in his mind, by which 
he could remember the number of each. 
In the course of his perambulations, he reached the 
AVilliamsburg Road, and was on the point of extending 
his observations in the direction of the railroad, when he 
was stopped by a sentinel. He produced his pass, which 
the rebel soldier could not read ; and he was conducted to 
the sergeant of the guard, who was listening to a conver- 
sation between a captain and an old man who appeared 
to be a farmer. They were bargaining about 
forage which the captain wanted, and which the farmer 
was not disposed to sell. 
" What have you there?" demanded the officer, as the 
sentinel brought in the doubtful case. 
" Man with a pass." 
" Your pass is good up to the Williamsburg Road, and 
ao farther," said the sergeant when he had read the 
document. 
"I didn't know where the lines were," replied Somers, 
returning the pass to his pocket. 
"Where are you going?" asked the officer, apparently 
not satisfied with the appearance of the " man with a 
pass." 
" Looking for my regiment, sir," replied Somers, giving 
the military salute ; which excess of politeness, however, 
was lost on the matter-of-fact captain. 
"What regiment?" 
" The Fourth Alabama." 
" The Fourth Alabama ! What are you doing over 
here, then?" 
" I am a stranger in these parts ; and I don't know 
where to look. I have just escaped from the Yankees, 
and don't know much about this part of the country." 
" What is your name?" 
"Allan Garland, sir." 
" What ! "' exclaimed the old farmer, suddenly be- 
coming interested in the conversation. 
 
" In my opinion, you are a deserter," added the officer 
in a crabbed tone. " I advise you to arrest him, sergeant, 
That pass is good for nothing on this road." 
" No, captain ; he is not a deserter," interposed the 
farmer with energy. " I know him well ; and he is as 
true and patriotic a young man as there is in the 
Southern Confederacy." 
Somers looked at the farmer with astonishment. He 
did not remember to have seen him before ; and he could 
uot account for the interest he manifested in his case 
" What do you know of him, Mr. Raynes?" 
Mr. Raynes ! That explained the matter ; and Somers 
could not help shuddering in the presence of the man 
whose son he had buried in the soft mud of the bog. 
" He is my son's friend," replied the farmer. " Both 
of them belong to the Fourth Alabama." 
" That may be, Mr. Raynes ; but do you suppose a 
man looking for the Fourth Alabama would be wander- 
ing about here ? " 
" He is a stranger in Virginia. He came on from 
Alabama only a few weeks since, and was captured 
while out on a scouting expedition. I assure you, cap- 
tain, it is all right : I will youch for him." 
"Very well, Mr. Raynes ! If the sergeant is willing 
to take your word for it, I have nothing further to say. 
Indeed, it is no business of mine ; but our soldiers are 
allowed to walk over to . the enemy, or back into the 
 
woods, without let or hinderance. It's a disgrace to the 
service. Major Platner gives this man a pass to go all 
over the country. Do as you please, sergeant." 
" I mean to," replied the sergeant in an under-tone ; 
for he was not pleased at this interference on the part of 
a commissary of subsistence, who had nothing whatevei 
to do with the affair. "I am satisfied," he added aloud. 
" Allan, I am very glad to see you ; and I thank God 
that you have been enabled to escape from the Yankees. 
Have you seen Owen since you got back ? ' : 
kSjmers trembled at the question ; and, while he did not 
clary to tell the old man the truth, the thought of telling 
him a falsehood was utterly repulsive to his nature. It 
was easy enough to deceive the enemy in war, his duty 
called upon him to do this ; but to deceive an old, fond 
father, in regard to a true and devoted son, seemed terri- 
ble to him. 
" He was out on picket when I came through," he re- 
plied after some hesitation. 
" Then you did not meet him. He will be delighted to 
see you again ; for really the boy is as fond of you as he 
is of his sister." 
Somers found himself unable to answer to the warm 
congratulations of the old man, or to enter into the spirit 
of the conversation. The staring, death-sealed eyes of 
Owen Raynes haunted him ; and, when he attempted to 
reciprocate the friendly sentiments of the doting father, 
his heart seemed to rise up in his throat, and choke his 
utterance. The only consolation he could derive from 
the remembrance of the scene in the woods was in the 
fact that he had not taken the life of Oweii Raynes him- 
self. He wore his clothes, and had his diary and letters 
in his pocket. 
" You are very sad, Allan ! I should think you would 
be happy to escape from the Yankees. They would have 
starved you to death in time." 
" I think not, sir ! They are not so cruel as that," 
added Somers, who desired to remove such a reproach 
from the mind of the old man. 
" Perhaps they would not willingly starve their prison- 
ers ; but I don't see how they could avoid it. They say 
that the people of the North are suffering terribly for the 
want of food. In New York, the laboring classes have at- 
tacked the banks and the flour-stores, urged on by hunger. 
There will be terrible times in the North before many 
months have gone by. I pity the people there, though it 
is their own fault. I hope God will be merciful to them, 
and spare them from some -of the consequences of their 
own folly. I am thankful that you have escaped from 
them." 
" I don't think they are quite so badly off as you say," 
answered Somers, provoked by this view of the condition 
and resources of the North. " I have talked with a 
great many Yankee soldiers, and they say that plenty 
abounds in all the Northern States." 
" They would tell you so. They are deceived by their 
officers." 
" That's the way it is done," added the rebel sergeant, 
who had been listening to the conversation. 
" But I saw what rations these soldiers have. They 
live like lords." 
" That's the very thing which will starve all the people 
in the North. Their big armies will eat them out of 
house and home in a few mouths, Allan." 
" I think not, Mr. Eaynes." 
"A gentleman from New York, who got through the 
lines last week, says the grass is a foot high in some of 
the streets of New York. The people can't find any 
thing to do, and are cursing their rulers for plunging 
them into this horrid war." 
" I think the gentleman from New York lied," re- 
plied Somers with a smile. " I saw the New- York 
papers every day while I was in the Yankee lines ; and 
they are full of advertisements, which look like business. 
Why, in one paper I saw four columns of ' Wants,' in 
which people advertised for farm-laborers, house-servants, 
clerks, and sailors." 
"Ah! Allan, those papers are printed to sell in th& 
Yankee army. I'm sure, I hope they are not so badly 
oif as has been represented. I should not want my worst 
enemy to suffer what they are called upon to endure. It 
is all their own fault ; but I hope God will be merciful 
to them." 
 
li l think you needn't feel bad about them." added 
Somers, amused, but indignant at the pitiful stories 
which were circulated in the South to keep up the 
courage of the people. 
"Let that pass, then. Really, Allan, I am very glad 
to see you. You must go to the house with me. Sue 
will be delighted to meet you. She talks about you a 
great deal ; and I can insure you a warm welcome/' 
" I think I cannot stop to call now ; but I will try to 
come over in a few days," replied Somers, embarrassed 
beyond measure at the idea of facing Sue and the rest 
of the family. 
; - Xot stop ! " exclaimed Mr. Raynes, holding up his 
hands with surprise. 
Xot now, sir : I am in no condition to appear before 
ladies," he added, extending his arms so as to display his 
tattered garments to the fullest advantage. "You know 
a young man is rather particular about his appearance 
when he is going into the company of ladies, and especi- 
ally into the presence of some ladies. The fact is, I tore 
my uniform all to pieces after I passed through the 
Yankee lines." 
" Xever mind your uniform, my boy. It looks as 
though it had seen service ; and that is the best recom- 
mendation a young man can have to the girls in these 
times. You must go, Allan." 
" Indeed, sir, I hope you will excuse me for a fe\v 
days," pleaded Somers. 
" Come. Allan ! this is not kind of you. Sue has been 
dying to see you for & year. She was terribly dis- 
appointed when you did not come up -with your regi- 
ment, and again when she heard you had joined without 
calling upon us. If it had been Owen, she could not 
have felt worse when you were captured. Now you 
want to disappoint her again," 
" You need not mention that you have seen me, Mr. 
Rayiies," suggested Somers. 
" Not tell her that you have escaped, when she is fret- 
ting about you every day of her life ! That would be 
too bad." 
" You can tell her as much as you please without in- 
forming her that you have seen me." 
" I could not tell a lie, Allan. It would choke me/' 
said the old man solemnly, " You must go with me.' 
" Let me get another uniform, and it would surprise 
her when I come." 
" No more words, young man. You must go. It is 
only a short distance," replied Mr. Raynes passing his 
arm through that of Somers, and walking towards his 
house. " It will be the happiest day for Sue which she 
has seen for a year." 
" Happier for her than it will be for me," thought 
Somers, who was disposed to break away from the old 
man, and make his escape. 
By this time, Sue had become an awful bugbear to the 
poor fellow. In these days of photographs, it was more 
than probable that she had a picture of the original Allan 
Garland, and the cheat would be discovered the moment 
he showed his face. He was deliberating a plan for 
breaking away from his persistent friend, when a young 
lady of eighteen stepped out from the bushes by the 
roadside, <md hailed the old man. 
 
CHAPTER XI. 
THE VIRGINIA MAIDEN. 
have you been, father?" said the 
young lady iu a very sweet and gentle tone, 
which, however, sounded like the knell of 
doom to poor Somers. " I have been waiting 
for you half an hour." 
But then, perceiving a stranger with her father, she 
drew back, abashed at her own forwardness. 
" Come here, Sue," said the old man. " Come here : 
I want to see you." 
She advanced timidly from the bushes where she had 
been partially concealed from the gaze of the passers-by. 
She was certainly a very pleasant and comely-looking 
maiden ; but, if she had been the " Witch of Endor," 
she could not have been any more disagreeable to 
Somers. He was as fond of adventure as any young 
man : and if he could have forgotten that poor Owen 
Raynes, the son and the brother, was at that moment 
lying in the mud of the swamp ; his manly form no 
more to gladden the hearts of those who stood before 
him ; his voice hushed in death, no more to utter the 
Accents of affection to the devoted father and his loving 
sister, if he could have forgotten his relations with the 
dead Owen, he might even have enjoyed the exciting 
situation in which he was placed. 
Sue, with a blushing face and half -averted gaze, 
stepped out into the road, and stole a few timid glances 
at the young lieutenant. It was quite evident that she 
did not have a suspicion of the identity of the young 
soldier before her. Her father appeared to have a vein 
of romance in his character, and was disposed to torture 
her for a time with the torments of suspense, before he de- 
clared to her the astounding truth, that the young soldier 
was her well-known but hitherto unseen friend from 
Alabama, the bosom companion of her brother Owen, 
and, if every thing worked as the loving conspirators in- 
tended, the future husband of the affectionate maiden 
She did not like to ask who the stranger was ; and 
she thought it was very provoking of her father not to 
tell her, when she was so fearfully embarrassed by her 
position. She continued to blush ; and Somers felt so 
awkward, that he couldn't help joining her in this inter- 
esting display of roses on the cheeks. 
"Don't you know him, Sue?" demanded the farmer, 
when he had tantalized her as long as the circumstances 
would warranto 
" Why, of course I don't, father I " stammered the Vir 
ginia maiden 
 
" Look in liis face, and see if you can't tell," persisted 
Mr. Raynes. 
" How absurd, father ! " 
" Absurd, child? Not at all absurd! Haven't you 
his picture in the house? and, if I mistake not, you have 
looked at it as many as three times a day for the last 
year." 
" Now, father, you are too bad ! I haven't done any 
thing of the sort," protested Sue, pouting and twisting 
her shoulders as any country girl, who had not been 
trained in a satinwood seminary, would have done under 
such trying circumstances. "You don't mean to say that 
is Allan Garland ?" added she, her pretty face lighting up 
with an expression of intense satisfaction. 
"But I do, Sue," replied Mr. Raynes with emphasis. 
" Why, Allan ! I am so glad to see you ! I was 
afraid I should never see you ! " exclaimed Sue, rushing 
up to the young man, and extending both her hands, 
which he felt compelled to accept. 
He was fearful that she would kiss him ; and, though 
he would have been under obligations to submit to the 
infliction, he was not sure that the operation would not 
cause him to faint. Fortunately for him, Sue was 
reasonable in her behavior ; and he escaped cheaper than 
he expected, when he beheld the impetuous charge which 
the maiden made upon him. If he had really been Allan 
Garland, his reception would have been entirely proper, 
and highly creditable to the affectional nature of -the 
Virginia damsel. He was not the young gentleman from 
Alabama ; and he felt as though he had been flanked on 
both sides, with no chance to beat off the enemy in front, 
or to run away in the rear. He was only a short dis- 
tance from a line of rebel sentinels, and he did not 
consider it prudent to escape by taking to his legs. He 
did not wear his fighting socks at this time, and felt that 
it would be no disgrace to run away from such an enemy 
as that which confronted him. 
" I am very glad to see you, Allan," repeated Sue, as 
the wretched youm? man did not venture to use his 
tongue. 
"Thank you, thank you, Miss Raynes ! " said he at 
last, when silence seemed even more dangerous than 
speech. 
"Miss Raynes! Dear me, Allan, how very formal 
and precise you are ! You called me Sue in your 
letters." 
"Did I? Well I didn't know it," replied Somers 
with a stroke of candor not to be expected under the 
circumstances. 
" Certainly you did. I don't think you ever mentioned 
such a person as Miss Raynes." 
" I am confident I didn't," added he with another 
touch of candor. " But I will always call you Sue here- 
after, when I have occasion to speak to you." 
 
" Thank you, .Allan ! You begin to sound a little lika 
yourself." 
Somers was very glad to hear it, but wished he had 
been five miles off, even if it had been in the very jaws 
of the Fourth Alabama. 
"You don't look a bit like your photograph," coii- 
ti uued Sue, gazing with admiration at the face of the 
young man ; for which those who ever saw Lieutenant 
Somers will cheerfully pardon her. 
"Do you think so?" 
" I'm sure you don't." 
" That's very strange : everybody, who has seen my 
photograph, says it looks exactly like me." 
"I don't think so." 
" I gave one to a young lady of my acquaintance, who 
said it was perfect. 
" Indeed ! Who was she? " 
" She is a young lady whom I have met only two or 
three times." 
" What is her name ? " 
" Lilian Ashford." ~ ; 
" What a pretty name ! " said Sue, endeavoring to be 
magnanimous : though it was evident that she was 
troubled by the honest avowal of the young soldier. 
"Where does she live?" 
" She is at the North now," answered Somers, who 
could not bear to tell a lie when there was no need of 
such a sacrifice. 
 
He was becoming very uneasy under this rigid cate- 
chising, and hoped she would not ask any more questions 
about Lilian Ashford. He had mentioned her name with 
the hope that it might produce a coldness on her part 
which would afford him some advantage. She did not, 
however, seem to be annihilated by the prospect of 'a 
rival, and was proceeding to interrogate him still further 
in regard to the lady, with whom he was apparently inti- 
mate enough to present her his photograph ; when Mr, 
Raynes reminded her that they were standing in the road, 
and had better go into the house. 
" Now, Mr. Raynes, as I have seen Sue, and Sue has 
seen me, I think I had better hasten to my regiment," 
suggested Somers. 
" Not yet, Allan," replied the old man. 
" Do you wish to run away, and leave me so soon, you 
monster?" added Sue. "I tell you, sir, I shall not let 
you go yet." 
" But, Sue ! you forget that I have just returned from 
the Yankees. I was furnished with a pass, to enable me 
to find my regiment." 
" You shall find it in good time." 
" Come to the house, Allan : we will not detain you 
long," added Mr. Raynes. 
" You must and shall come ! " protested Sue, taking 
him by the arm, and absolutely compelling him to go, or 
be guilty of the most unpardonable rudeness to the fair 
Virginia damsel. 
" I should be very glad to go with you, Sue, if my 
duty did not call me elsewhere. I am to be sent off on 
very important service." 
" Again ? so soon ? " 
" This very day. T may never see you again." 
" And you would coolly run away and leave me with" 
out even going into the house ! ' 
" But my duty, Sue ! " 
" You will be in time for your duty." 
" I may be arrested as a deserter." 
" Nonsense ! You have a pass in your pocket.''
"In spite of the pass, if your father had not happened 
to see me, I should have been arrested, and might have 
spent a day or two in the guard-house before the case 
could have been explained." 
" No more argument, Allan," said the persevering 
girl. " Here is the house : you shall go in and look at 
mother, if you don't stop but a minute. Besides, I want 
to see your photograph while you are present ; for I am 
sure you don't look any more like the picture than the 
picture does like you." 
"Probably not," replied Somers, as the resolute maiden 
dragged him into the house ; where, without stopping to 
breathe, she presented him to her mother, with the 
astounding declaration, that he was Allan Garland." 
Mrs. Raynes gave him a cordial Virginia welcome ; 
and, while he was endeavoring to make himself as agree- 
 
able as possible to the old lady, Sue rushed up stairs to 
procure the faithless photograph. She returned ia a mo- 
ment with the picture in her hand, and proceeded at once 
to institute a comparison between the shadow and the 
substance. 
" Now, stand up here, sir, and let me see," said she, 
as she playfully whisked him round and scrutinized his 
features. u I told you it did not look like you ; and I am 
very sure now that it does not." 
" Let me see," added Somers, extending his hand for 
the picture. 
" Will you promise to give it back to me?' ! 
" Certainly I will ! You don't imagine I would be so 
mean as to confiscate it." 
" I should not care much if you did, now that I have 
found out it does not look any more like you than it does 
like me," she answered, handing him the photograph. 
" Where did you get this picture, Sue?' 
" Where did I get it? Well, that is cool ! Didn't you 
send it to me yourself? " And Sue began to exhibit some 
symptoms of amazement. 
" I am very sure I never sent you this picture," added 
Somers gravely. 
"You did not?" 
"Never." 
"Why, Allan Garland!" 
" This is not my picture." 
 
" I shouldn't think it was." 
Thereupon Mr. Raynes began to laugh in the mosi 
immoderate manner ; opening his mouth wide enough to 
take in a very small load of hay, and shaking his sides 
in the most extraordinary style. 
"What are you laughing at, pa?" demanded Sue, 
blushing up to the eyes, as though she already felt the 
force of some keenly satirical remark which was strug' 
gling for expression in the mouth of the farmer. 
" To think you have been looking at that picture 
three times a day for a year, studying, gazing at it ; 
kissing it, for aught I know ; and then to find out that it 
is not Allan after all ! " roared the Virginia farmer be- 
tween the outbreaks of his mirth. " I haven't done any 
thing but groan since the war began, and it does me good 
to laugh. I haven't had a jolly time before since the 
battle of Bull Run, as the Yankees call it." 
" You are the most absurd pa in Virginia. I didn't 
look at it three times a day ; I never studied it ; and I'm 
sure I never kissed it. No wonder Allan wants to get 
away, when he finds what an absurd girl you make me 
out to be. You think I'm a fool, don't you, Allan?" 
"" I do not, by any means. I'm sure, if I had your 
picture, I shouldn't have been ashamed to look at it 
three times a day," replied Somers, gallantly coming to 
the rescue of the maiden. " But, really, my Virginia 
patriarch," he added, using an expression which he 
had found in the correspondence in his pocket "I 
must tear myself away." 
You seem to be glad enough to go," pouted Sue. 
Sorry to go, but compelled by the duty I owe my 
country to leave you." 
" When will you come again ? ' 
" Of course, that question I cannot answer. I may 
never see you again. This is a terrible war, and we 
cannot tell what a day may bring forth," replied Somers 
solemnly ; and the thought was all the more solemn when 
he thought of the cold corpse of the son and brother con- 
cealed in the mire of the swamp. 
He had seen the old man laugh as none but a happy 
man can ; and he could not help feeling what a terrible 
revulsion a few words from him might cause. He had 
watched the playful manner of Sue, and had joined in 
the gay raillery of the moment. A word from him w r ould 
crush her spirit, and bow that loving mother to the 
ground. The scene had not been one of his own 
choosing ; and he would gladly escape the necessity of 
dissembling before those affectionate hearts. 
"We are on the eve of a terrible battle," added the old 
man very gravely, "Hundreds of our poor boys went 
down yesterday, never to rise again. We tremble when 
we think of you in the field. I may never see my son 
again ; for the issue of the war may depend on the 
battles of the next few days." 
" What do you mean?" 
Mr. Raynes seemed to know more than he had dared 
to speak ; and Somers was full of interest. 
" The Yankees, who expect to go into Richmond, will 
be driven down the Peninsula, where they came up, like 
dying sheep, within a week. I have heard a few words, 
which satisfies me that great events are coming." 
Though it was not supposahle that the people in the 
vicinity of Richmond knew the plans of General Lee, 
from what he had seen, and from what he had heard from 
men in power, he had formed a very correct idea of the 
intended operations of the rebel chief; and. he stated his 
views very clearly to Somers. While he was listening to 
the old man's theory, Mrs. Raynes had spread her table, 
and placed upon it such food as was available for a hasty 
lunch. She insisted that he should partake ; and, while 
he enjoyed the welcome refreshment, Mr. Raynes told 
him everything about the movements of the Confederate 
army in the vicinity, with full particulars of the battle 
of the preceding day. While the scout was thus answer- 
ing the ends of his mission, he was in no hurry to 
depart. 
General McClellan's "change of base" was not sus- 
pected by the rebels at this time. It was their purpose 
to flank the Union army on the right and left, and destroy 
it effectually. The dispositions had been made for this 
purpose ; and, as Mr. Raynes was a man of influence and 
 
intelligence, his information was as reliable as could be 
deduced from the preliminary movements of the rebel 
army. He was confident of success. The execution of 
the plan had already been commenced, and the right of 
the Union line was in the act of falling back. 
He expatiated upon the perils of the campaign, and 
the terrible fighting which was to be expected ; and mani- 
fested the utmost solicitude for the safety of his son, and 
hardly less for his guest. 
Somers prolonged his repast, that the old man might 
leave nothing unsaid that would be important for the 
Union generals to know. Sue occasionally joined in the 
conversation ; but she was quite serious now, as she con- 
templated the perils to which her brother and her friend 
from Alabama must be subjected. 
" Do you know where General Jackson is now?" 
asked Somers. 
" I don't know exactly where he is ; but I know what 
part he has to play in the great drama. The last we 
heard of him was, that he was watching McDowell, near 
Fredericksburg. If McDowell keeps quiet, Jackson will 
rush down on the left flank of the Yankees, and cut off 
their retreat." 
Are you sure ? " 
I am very sure. I can tell you why." 
Before he had time to tell him why, a knock at the 
door disturbed the conference ; and a young man, in 0- 
tattered rebel uniform, was ushered into the room. 
CHAPTER XII. 
THE DIGNIFIED YOUNG REBEL. 
S LIEUTENANT SOMERS, who had been very 
nervous and uneasy before, was exceedingly an- 
noyed by the appearance of another actor on the 
stage. He had become in some slight degree 
familiarized with the awkwardness of his situation ; for 
the fact, that no suspicion had yet been cast upon his 
identity, was encouraging, and he began to have some 
confidence in his position, open as it was to an assault 
from any direction. The advent of the tattered stranger 
was a new cause for alarm, and he at once became very 
anxious to beat a retreat. 
There is no night without some ray of lignt to gladden 
it. His first impression was that the visitor belonged to 
the Fourth Alabama, and would readily recognize him as 
an impostor ; but he was in a measure relieved to find 
that none of the family gave the soldier more than a 
friendly greeting, which proved him to be a stranger to 
them as well as to himself. Yet he might belong to the 
Fourth Alabama ; and then it occurred to him that tha 
 
man had come to inform Mr. Raynes of the death of his 
son while n picket duty. 
In the brief period which elapsed between the advent 
of the stranger, and the statement of the object of his 
visit, Somers was disturbed by a dozen fearful theories ; 
all of which seemed to end in a rebel prison at Rich- 
mond, and even in a rebel gallows, the fate of the spy. 
The minutes were fearfully long ; and, before the mo- 
mentous question of the object of the stranger's visit 
could be introduced, he decided to make an abrupt 
retreat. 
" Well, Mr. Raynes," said he, approaching the old 
man as he put on his cap, " I have already run a great 
risk in stopping here so long ; and, with many thanks to 
you for your kindness and for your generous hospitality, 
I must take my departure." 
" I suppose we cannot keep you any longer, Allan ; 
but you must promise to call again at the first convenient 
opportunity." 
" I promise you that I will the first time I can safely 
do so," responded Somers warmly, and with the fullest 
intention of redeeming his promise. " Good-by, sir !" 
" Good-by, my dear boy ! May you be spared in the 
hour when the strong men bite the dust ! ' : said Mr 
Raynes solemnly, as he gave his hand to Somers. 
" Good-by, Sue ! " added the young lieutenant, taking 
the hand of the Virginia damsel. 
 
"Adieu, my brave soldier-boy ! " she replied. 
"You are a soldier, I see," said the stranger, as 
Somers approached him ou his way out of the house. 
"Yes, sir," answered the latter nervously; for he 
would gladly have escaped any communication with the 
new-comer. 
"What regiment do you belong to?" persisted the 
dilapidated soldier. 
What business was that to him? Why should he 
trouble himself about other people's affairs? It sounded 
like a very impertinent question to the excited lieutenant, 
and he was tempted to inform the busy-body that it was 
none of his business ; but, as he had already earned a 
good character for civility with -the interesting family in 
whose presence he still stood, his bump of approbation 
would not permit him to forfeit their esteem by so incon- 
siderate a reply. 
" Good-by, all ! " said he with energy, turning away 
from the rebel soldier, and moving towards the door. 
"What regiment did you say you belonged to?" 
demanded the persistent rebel. 
" I didn't say," replied Somers, not in the most gentle 
tones. 
" Will you oblige me by telling me to what regiment 
you belong? " added the rebel. 
" I think I will not," continued Somers, more and 
more displeased with the persistence of the other. " I 
came very near being arrested as a deserter just now, 
though I have a pass in my pocket ; and I don't care 
about exposing myself to any further annoyance by my 
own indiscretion." 
"I assure you I am a friend, and I would not betray 
you if I knew you were a deserter," said the stranger in 
very civil tones. 
Thus appealed to, and perceiving that he was not 
gaining in the estimation of Mr. Eaynes by his reticence, 
he decided that he could not make the matter much 
worse by answering the question. 
"To the Fourth Alabama," he replied desperately: 
" but you must excuse me ; for I am in a tremendous 
hurry." 
" The Fourth Alabama ! I thought so," exclaimed 
the stranger with a pleasant smile, as though the in- 
formation was particularly agreeable to him. " I belong 
to the Fourth Alabama myself." 
"Do you, indeed?" added Somers with the most in- 
tense disquiet, wishing all the time that the soldier had 
been in Alabama, or anywhere but in the house of Mr. 
Raynes. 
" Can you tell me where the regiment is?' 
" I cannot. I have been looking for it myself for the 
last two hours. As I can be of no assistance to you, 
you will excuse me ifI leave you." 
Not" so fast, comrade : I will go with you. I have 
some directions which I think svill enable us to find the 
regiment ; and, if you please, I will bear you company." 
Somers did not please ; but lie could hardly refuse the 
offer without exciting the suspicion of the family, which 
he felt might be fatal to him. It would be better to 
depart with the member of the Fourth Alabama, and part 
company with him by force or stratagem when they had 
left the hDiise. 
" I won't keep you waiting but a minute. I called here 
to see my friends ; but none of them seem to know me. 
You are Mr. Raynes, I presume?" continued the soldier, 
addressing the old man. 
" I am ; but I don't remember to have ever seen you 
before," replied the farmer. 
" You never did, sir ; Hut I will venture to say that 
my name is well known in this house," added the soldier 
with a mysterious smile, which caused Somers to dread 
some new development that would compromise him. 
" Ah ! " said Mr. Raynes, ever ready to welcome any 
one who had the slightest claim upon his hospitality. 
" I am well acquainted with your son Owen: I -sup- 
pose I shall not be disputed here, when I say that he is 
the best fellow in the world. Don't you know me now?" 
demanded the tantalizing rebel, who appeared to be very 
anxious to have his identity made out in the natural way. 
and without any troublesome explanations. 
" Really, I do not," answered Mr. Raynes, much per 
by the confident manner of the visitor. 
 
"This is Sue, I suppose?" pursued the soldier, ad- 
vancing to the maiden, and extending his dirty hand ; 
which, however, was not much dirtier than that which 
she had so eagerly grasped before. "Don't you know 
who I am, Sue ? " 
" I do not, sir," she replied rather coldly. 
" When I tell you that I belong to the Fourth Ala- 
bama, don't you know me ? " 
" I do not, sir." 
"And when I tell you that I am the intimate friend 
of your brother Owen?" 
Allan Garland stood by the door ; and, of course, it 
was not he : therefore she could not, by any possibility, 
conceive who he was ; and she said so, in terms as ex- 
plicit as the occasion required. 
" I live in Union, Alabama, when I am at home. Don't 
