"Why, yes. When you went off I kept thinking everybody was dead and
buried, all that morning, and it was real horrid—Oh, you don't know!"
"Gypsy," said Mrs. Breynton, a while after supper, when Winnie had gone
to bed, and Tom and his father were casting accounts by the fire, "I
want to see you a few minutes." Gypsy, wondering, followed her into the
parlor. Mrs. Breynton shut the door, and they sat down together on the
sofa.
"I want to have a talk with you, Gypsy, about something that we'd better
talk over alone."
"Yes'm," said Gypsy, quite bewildered by her mother's grave manner, and
thinking up all the wrong things she had done for a week. Whether it was
the time she got so provoked at Patty for having dinner late, or scolded
Winnie for trying to paint with the starch (and if ever any child
deserved it, he did), or got kept after school for whispering, or
brought down the nice company quince marmalade to eat with the blanc
mange, or whether——
"You haven't asked about your cousin, Joy," said her mother,
interrupting her thinking.
"Oh!—how is she?" said Gypsy, looking somewhat ashamed.
"I am sorry for the child," said Mrs. Breynton, musingly.
"What's going to become of her? Who's going to take care of her?"
"That is just what I came in here to talk about."
"Why, I don't see what I have to do with it!" said Gypsy, astonished.
"Her father thinks of going abroad, and so there would be no one to
leave her with. He finds himself quite worn out by your aunt's sickness,
the care and anxiety and trouble. His business also requires some member
of the firm to go to France this fall, and he has almost decided to go.
The only thing that makes him hesitate is Joy."
"I see what you mean now, mother—I see it in your eyes. You want Joy
to come here." Gypsy spoke in a slow, uncomfortable way, as if she were
trying very hard not to believe her own words.
"Yes," said Mrs. Breynton, "that is it."
Gypsy's bright face fell. "Well?" she said, at last.
"I told your uncle," said her mother, "that I could not decide on the
spot, but would let him know next week. The question of Joy's coming
here will affect you more than any member of the family, and I thought
it only fair to you that we should talk it over frankly before it is
settled."
Gypsy had a vague notion that all mothers would not have been so
thoughtful, but she said nothing.
"I do not wish," proceeded Mrs. Breynton, "to make any arrangement in
which you cannot be happy; but I have great faith in your kind heart,
Gypsy."
"I don't like Joy," said Gypsy, bluntly.
"I know that, and I am sorry it is so," said her mother. "I understand
just what Joy is. But it is not all her fault. She has not been trained
just as you have, Gypsy. She was never taught and helped to be a
generous gentle child, as you have been taught and helped. Your uncle
and aunt felt differently about these things; but it is no matter about
that now—you will understand it better when you are older. It is
enough for you to know that Joy has great excuse for her faults. Even if
they were twice as great as they are, one wouldn't think much about them
now; the poor child is in great trouble, lonely and frightened and
motherless. Think, if God took away your mother, Gypsy."
"But Joy didn't care much about her mother," said honest Gypsy. "She
used to scold her, Joy told me so herself. Besides, I heard her, ever so
many times."
"Peace be with the dead, Gypsy; let all that go. She was all the mother
Joy had, and if you had seen what I saw a night or two before I came
away, you wouldn't say she didn't love her."
"What was it?" asked Gypsy.
"Your auntie was lying all alone, upstairs. I went in softly, to do one
or two little things about the room, thinking no one was there.
"One faint gaslight was burning, and in the dimness I saw that the sheet
was turned down from the face, and a poor little quivering figure was
crouched beside it on the bed. It was Joy. She was sobbing as if her
heart would break, and such sobs—it would have made you cry to hear
them, Gypsy. She didn't hear me come in, and she began to talk to the
dead face as if it could hear her. Do you want to know what she said?"
Gypsy was looking very hard the other way. She nodded, but did not
speak, gulping down something in her throat.
"This was what she said—softly, in Joy's frightened way, you know:
'You're all I had anyway,' said she. 'All the other girls have got
mothers, and now I won't ever have any, any more. I did used to bother
you and be cross about my practising, and not do as you told me, and I
wish I hadn't, and—
"Oh—hum, look here—mother," interrupted Gypsy, jumping up and
winking very fast, "isn't there a train up from Boston early Monday
morning? She might come in that, you know."
Mrs. Breynton smiled.
"Then she may come, may she?"
"I rather think she may," said Gypsy, with an emphasis. "I'll write her
a letter and tell her so."
"That will be a good plan, Gypsy. But you are quite sure? I don't want
you to decide this matter in too much of a hurry."
"She'll sleep in the front room, of course?" suggested Gypsy.
"No; if she comes, she must sleep with you. With our family and only one
servant, I could hardly keep up the extra work that would cause for six
months or a year."
"Six months or a year! In my room!"
Gypsy walked back and forth across the room two or three times, her
merry forehead all wrinkled into a knot.
"Well," at last, "I've said it, and I'll stick to it, and I'll try to
make her have a good time, anyway."
"Come here, Gypsy."
Gypsy came, and one of those rare, soft kisses—very different from the
ordinary, everyday kisses—that her mother gave her when she hadn't
just the words to say how pleased she was, fell on her forehead, and
smoothed out the knot before you could say "Jack Robinson."
That very afternoon Gypsy wrote her note to Joy:
    "Dear Joy:
    "I'm real sorry your mother died. You'd better come right up here
    next week, and we'll go chestnutting over by Mr. Jonathan Jones's. I
    tell you it's splendid climbing up. If you're very careful, you
    needn't tear your dress very badly. Then there's the raft, and you
    might play baseball, too. I'll teach you.
    "You see if you don't have a nice time. I can't think of anything
    more to say.
    "Your affectionate cousin,
    "Gypsy."
CHAPTER III
ONE EVENING
So it was settled, and Joy came. There was no especial day appointed for
the journey. Her father was to come up with her as soon as he had
arranged his affairs so that he could do so, and then to go directly
back to Boston and sail at once.
Gypsy found plenty to do, in getting ready for her cousin. This having a
roommate for the first time in her life was by no means an unimportant
event to her. Her room had always been her own especial private
property. Here in a quiet nook on the broad window-sill she had curled
herself up for hours with her new story-books; here she had locked
herself in to learn her lessons, and keep her doll's dressmaking out of
Winnie's way; here she had gone away alone to have all her "good cries;"
here she sometimes spent a part of her Sabbath evenings with her most
earnest and sober thoughts.
Here was the mantel-shelf, covered with her little knick-knacks that no
one was ever allowed to touch but herself—pictures framed in pine
cones, boxes of shell-work, baskets of wafer-work, cologne-bottles,
watchcases, ivy-shoots and minerals, on which the dust accumulated at
its own sweet will, and the characteristic variety and arrangement
whereof none ever disputed with her. What if Joy should bring a trunkful
of ornaments?
There in the wardrobe were her treasures covering six shelves—her
kites and balls of twine, fishlines and doll's bonnets, scraps of gay
silk and jackknives, old compositions and portfolios, colored paper and
dried moss, pieces of chalk and horse-chestnuts, broken jewelry and
marbles. It was a curious collection. One would suppose it to be a sort
of co-partnership between the property of a boy and girl, in which the
boy decidedly predominated.
Into this wardrobe Gypsy looked regretfully. Three of those
shelves—those precious shelves—must be Joy's now. And what should
be done with the things?
Then there were the bureau drawers. What sorcerer's charms, to say
nothing of the somewhat unwilling fingers of a not very enthusiastic
little girl, could cram the contents of four (and those so full that
they were overflowing through the cracks) into two?
Moreover, as any one acquainted with certain chapters in Gypsy's past
history will remember, her premises were not always celebrated for the
utmost tidiness. And here was Joy, used to her elegant carpets and
marble-covered bureaus, and gas-fixtures and Cochituate, with servants
to pick up her things for her ever since she was a baby! How shocked she
would be at the dust, and the ubiquitous slippers, and the slips and
shreds on the carpet; and how should she have the least idea what it was
to have to do things yourself?
However, Gypsy put a brave face on it, and emptied the bureau drawers,
and squeezed away the treasures into three shelves, and did her best to
make the room look pleasant and inviting to the little stranger. In
fact, before she was through with the work she became really very much
interested in it. She had put a clean white quilt upon the bed, and
looped up the curtain with a handsome crimson ribbon, taken from the
stock in the wardrobe. She had swept and dusted every corner and
crevice; she had displayed all her ornaments to the best advantage, and
put fresh cologne in the bottles. She had even brought from some
sanctum, where it was folded away in the dark, a very choice silk flag
about four inches long, that she had made when the war began, and was
keeping very tenderly to wear when Richmond was taken, and pinned it up
over her looking-glass.
On the table, too, stood her Parian vase filled with golden and
blood-red maple-leaves, and the flaming berries of the burning-bush.
Very prettily the room looked, when everything was finished, and Gypsy
was quite proud of it.
Joy came Thursday night. They were all in the parlor when the coach
stopped, and Gypsy ran out to meet her.
A pale, sickly, tired-looking child, draped from head to foot in black,
came up the steps clinging to her father's hand, and fretting over
something or other about the baggage.
Gypsy was springing forward to meet her, but stopped short. The last
time she had seen Joy, she was in gay Stuart-plaid silk and corals. She
had forgotten all about the mourning. How thin and tall it made Joy
look!
Gypsy remembered herself in a minute and threw her arms warmly around
Joy's neck. But Joy did not return the embrace, and gave her only one
cold kiss. She had inferred from Gypsy's momentary hesitation that she
was not glad to see her.
Gypsy, on her part, thought Joy was proud and disagreeable. Thus the two
girls misunderstood each other at the very beginning.
"I'm real glad to see you," said Gypsy.
"I thought we never should get here!" said Joy, petulantly. "The cars
were so dusty, and your coach jolts terribly. I shouldn't think the town
would use such an old thing."
Gypsy's face fell, and her welcome grew faint.
Joy had but little to say at supper. She sat by her father and ate her
muffins like a very hungry, tired child—like a very cross child, Gypsy
thought. Joy's face was always pale and fretful; in the bright lamplight
now, after the exhaustion of the long journey, it had a pinched,
unpleasant look.
"Hem," coughed Tom, over his teacup. Gypsy looked up and their eyes met.
That look said unutterable things.
If it had not been for Mrs. Breynton, that supper would have been a
dismal affair. But she had such a cozy, comfortable way about her, that
nobody could help being cozy and comfortable if they tried hard for it.
After a while, when Mr. Breynton and his brother had gone away into the
library for a talk by themselves, and Joy began to feel somewhat rested,
she brightened up wonderfully, and became really quite entertaining in
her account of her journey. She thought Vermont looked cold and stupid,
however, and didn't remember having noticed much about the mountains,
for which Gypsy thought she should never forgive her.
But there was at least one thing Gypsy found out that evening to like
about Joy. She loved her father dearly. One could not help noticing how
restless she was while he was out of the room, and how she watched the
door for him to come back; how, when he did come, she stole away from
her aunt and sat down by him, slipping her hand softly into his. As he
had been all her life the most indulgent and patient of fathers, and was
going, early to-morrow morning, thousands of miles away from her into
thousands of unknown dangers, it was no wonder.
While it was still quite early, Joy proposed going to bed. She was
tired, and besides, she wanted to unpack a few of her things. So Gypsy
lighted the lamp and went up with her.
"So I am to sleep with you," said Joy, as they opened the door, in by no
means the happiest of tones, though they were polite enough.
"Yes. Mother thought it was better. See, isn't my room pretty?" said
Gypsy, eagerly, thinking how pleased Joy would be with the little
welcome of its fresh adornments.
"Oh, is this it?"
Gypsy stopped short, the hot color rushing all over her face.
"Of course, it isn't like yours. We can't afford marble bureaus and
Brussels carpets, but I thought you'd like the maple-leaves, and I
brought out the flag on purpose because you were coming."
"Flag! Where? Oh, yes. I have one ten times as big as that at home,"
said Joy, and then she too stopped short, for she saw the expression of
Gypsy's face. Astonished and puzzled, wondering what she had done, Joy
turned away to unpack, when her eye fell on the vase with its gorgeous
leaves and berries, and she cried out in real delight: "O—oh, how
pretty! Why, we don't have anything like this in Boston."
But Gypsy was only half comforted.
Joy unlocked her trunk then, and for a few minutes they chatted merrily
over the unpacking. Where is the girl that doesn't like to look at
pretty clothes? and where is the girl that doesn't like to show them if
they happen to be her own? Joy's linen was all of the prettiest pattern,
with wonderful trimmings and embroideries such as Gypsy had seldom seen:
her collars and undersleeves were of the latest fashion, and fluted with
choice laces; her tiny slippers were tufted with velvet bows, and of her
nets and hair-ribbons there was no end. Gypsy looked on without a single
pang of envy, contrasting them with her own plain, neat things, of
course, but glad, in Gypsy's own generous fashion, that Joy had them.
"I had pretty enough things when you were in Boston," said Joy,
unfolding her heavy black dresses with their plain folds of bombazine
and crape. "Now I can't wear anything but this ugly black. Then there
are all my corals and malachites just good for nothing. Madame St.
Denis—she's the dressmaker—said I couldn't wear a single thing but
jet, and jet makes me look dreadfully brown."
Gypsy hung up the dress that was in her hand and walked over to the
window. She felt very much as if somebody had been drawing a file across
her front teeth.
She could not have explained what was the matter. Somehow she seemed to
see a quick picture of her own mother dying and dead, and herself in the
sad, dark dresses. And how Joy could speak so—how she could!
"Oh—only two bureau drawers! Why didn't you give me the two upper
ones?" said Joy, presently, when she was ready to put away her collars
and boxes.
"Because my things were in there," said Gypsy.
"But your things were in the lower ones just as much."
"I like the upper drawers best," said Gypsy, shortly.
"So do I," retorted Joy.
The hot color rushed over Gypsy's face for the second time, but now it
was a somewhat angry color.
"It wasn't very pleasant to have to give up any, and there are all those
wardrobe shelves I had to take my things off from too, and I don't think
you've any right to make a fuss."
"That's polite!" said Joy, with a laugh. Gypsy knew it wasn't, but for
that very reason she wouldn't say so.
One more subject of dispute came up almost before this was forgotten.
When they were all ready to go to bed, Joy wanted the front side.
"But that's where I always sleep," said Gypsy.
"There isn't any air over the back side and I can't breathe," said Joy.
"Neither can I," said Gypsy.
"I never can get to sleep if I don't have the place I'm used to," said
Joy.
"You can just as well as I can," said Gypsy. "Besides, it's my bed."
This last argument appeared to be unanswerable, and Gypsy had it her
way.
She thought it over before she went to sleep, which was not very soon;
for Joy was restless, and tossed on her pillow, and talked in her
dreams. Of course the front side and the upper drawers belonged to
her—yes, of course. She had only taken her rights. She would be
obliged to anybody to show her where she was to blame.
Joy went to sleep without any thoughts, and therein lay just the
difference.
CHAPTER IV
CHESTNUTS
Something woke Gypsy very early the next morning. She started up, and
saw Joy standing by the bed, in the faint, gray light, all dressed and
shivering with the cold.
"Well, I never!" said Gypsy.
"What's the matter?"
"What on earth have you got your dress on in the middle of the night
for?"
"It isn't night; it's morning."
"Morning! it isn't any such a thing."
"'Tis, too. I heard the clock strike five ever so long ago."
Gypsy had fallen back on the pillow, almost asleep again. She roused
herself with a little jump.
"See here!"
"Ow! how you frightened me," said Joy, with another jump.
"Did I? Oh, well"—silence. "I don't see"—another silence—"what you
wear my rubber—rubber boots for."
"Your rubber boots! Gypsy Breynton, you're sound asleep."
"Asleep!" said Gypsy, sitting up with a jerk, and rubbing both fists
into her eyes. "I'm just as wide awake as you are. Oh, why, you're
dressed!"
"Just found that out?" Joy broke into a laugh, and Gypsy, now quite
awake, joined in it merrily. For the first time a vague notion came to
her that she was rather glad Joy came. It might be some fun, after all,
to have somebody round all the time to—in that untranslatable girls'
phrase—"carry on with."
"But I don't see what's up," said Gypsy, winking and blinking like an
owl to keep her eyes open.
"Why, I was afraid father'd get off before I was awake, so I was
determined he shouldn't. I guess I kept waking up pretty much all night
to see if it wasn't time."
"I wish he didn't have to go," said Gypsy. She felt sorry for Joy just
then, seeing this best side of her that she liked. For about a minute
she wished she had let her have the upper drawer.
Joy's father started by a very early train, and it was still hardly
light when he sat down to his hurried breakfast, with Joy close by him,
that pale, pinched look on her face, and so utterly silent that Gypsy
was astonished. She would have thought she cared nothing about her
father's going, if she had not seen her standing in the gray light
upstairs.
"Joyce, my child, you haven't eaten a mouthful," said her father.
"I can't."
"Come, dear, do, just a little, to please father."
Joy put a spoonful of tea to her lips, and put it down. Presently there
was a great rumbling of wheels outside, and the coachman rang the
door-bell.
"Well, Joy."
Joy stood up, but did not speak. Her father, holding her close in his
arms, drew her out with him into the entry. Mrs. Breynton turned away;
so did Gypsy and the rest. In a minute they heard Joy go into the parlor
and shut the door, and then her father called out to them with his
cheerful good-byes, and then he was in the coach, and the door was shut.
Gypsy stole into the parlor. Joy was standing there alone by the window.
"Why don't you cry?" said Gypsy; "I would."
"I don't want to," said Joy, moving away. Her sorrow at parting with her
father made her fretful that morning. This was Joy's way. She had
inherited her mother's fashion of taking trouble. Gypsy did not
understand it, and her sympathy cooled a little. Still she really wanted
to do something to make her happy, and so she set about it in the only
ways she knew.
"See here, Joy," she called, merrily, after breakfast, "let's come out
and have a good time. I have lots and lots to show you out in the barn
and round. Then there is all Yorkbury besides, and the mountains.
Which'll you do first, see the chickens or walk out on the ridge-pole?"
"On the what?"
"On the ridge-pole; that's the top of the roof, you know, over the
kitchen. Tom and I go out there ever so much."
"Oh, I'd rather see the chickens. I should think you'd kill yourself
walking on roofs. Wait till I get my gloves."
"Oh, you don't want gloves in Yorkbury," said Gypsy, with a very
superior air. "That's nothing but a Boston fashion. Slip on your hat and
sack in a jiff, and come along."
"I shall tan my hands," said Joy, reluctantly, as they went out.
"Besides, I don't know what a jiff is."
"A jiff is—why, it's short for jiffy, I suppose."
"But what's a jiffy?" persisted Joy.
"Couldn't tell you," said Gypsy, with a bubbling laugh; "I guess it's
something that's in a terrible hurry. Tom says it ever so much."
"I shouldn't think your mother would let you use boys' talk," said Joy.
Gypsy sometimes stood in need of some such hint as this, but she did not
relish it from Joy. By way of reply she climbed up the post of the
clothesline.
Joy thought the chickens were pretty, but they had such long legs, and
such a silly way of squealing when you took them up, as if you were
going to murder them. Besides she was afraid she should step on them. So
they went into the barn, and Gypsy exhibited Billy and Bess and Clover
with the talent of a Barnum and the pride of a queen. Billy was the old
horse who had pulled the family to church through the sand every Sunday
since the children were babies, and Bess and Clover were white-starred,
gentle-eyed cows, who let Gypsy pull their horns and tickle them with
hay, and make pencil-marks on their white foreheads to her heart's
content, and looked at Joy's strange face with great musing beautiful
brown eyes. But Joy was afraid they would hook her, and she didn't like
to be in a barn.
"What! not tumble on the hay!" cried Gypsy, half way up the ladder into
the loft. "Just see what a quantity there is of it. Did you ever know
such a quantity? Father lets me jump on it 'cause I don't hurt the
hay—very much."
No. Joy couldn't possibly climb up the ladder. Well, Gypsy would help
her then. By a little maneuvering she persuaded Joy to step up three
rounds, and she herself stood behind her and began to walk up. Joy
screamed and stood still.
"Go ahead—you can't stop now. I'll keep hold of you," said Gypsy,
choking with laughter, and walking on. There was nothing for Joy to do
but climb, unless she chose to be walked over, so up they went, she
screaming and Gypsy pushing all the way.
"Now all you have to do is just to get up on the beams and jump off,"
said Gypsy, up there, and peering down from among the cobwebs, and
flying through the air, almost before the words were off from her lips.
But Joy wouldn't hear of getting into such a dusty place. She took two
or three dainty little rolls on the hay, but the dried clover got into
her hair and mouth and eyes, and she was perfectly sure there was a
spider down her neck; so Gypsy was glad at last to get her safely down
the ladder and out doors.
After that they tried the raft. Gypsy's raft was on a swamp below the
orchard, and it was one of her favorite amusements to push herself about
over the shallow water. But Joy was afraid of wetting her feet, or
getting drowned, or something—she didn't exactly know what, so they
gave that up.
Then Gypsy proposed a game of marbles on the garden path. She played a
great deal with Tom, and played well. But Joy was shocked at the idea.
That was a boy's play!
"What will you do, then?" said Gypsy, a little crossly. Joy replied in
the tone of a martyr, that she was sure she did not know. Gypsy coughed,
and walked up and down on the garden fence in significant silence.
Joy was not to go to school till Monday. Meantime she amused herself at
home with her aunt, and Gypsy went as usual without her.
Saturday afternoon was the perfect pattern of an autumn afternoon. A
creamy haze softened the sharp outline of the mountains, and lay
cloudlike on the fields. The sunlight fell through it like sifted gold,
the sky hung motionless and blue—that glowless, deepening blue that
always made Gypsy feel, she said, "as if she must drink it right
up"—and away over miles of field and mountain slope the maples
crimsoned and flamed.
Gypsy came home at noon with her hat hanging down her neck, her cheeks
on fire, and panting like the old lady who died for want of breath;
rushing up the steps, tearing open the door, and slamming into the
parlor.
"Look here!—everybody—where are you? What do you think? Joy! Mother!
There's going to be a great chestnutting."
"A what?" asked Joy, dropping her embroidery.
"A chestnutting, up at Mr. Jonathan Jones's trees, this afternoon at two
o'clock. Did you ever hear anything so perfectly mag?"—mag being
"Gypsy" for magnificent.
"Who are to make the party?" asked her mother.
"Oh, I and Sarah Rowe and Delia Guest and—and Sarah Rowe and I," said
Gypsy, talking very fast.
"And Joy," said Mrs. Breynton, gently.
"Joy, of course. That's what I came in to say."
"Oh, I don't care to go if you don't want me," said Joy, with a slighted
look.
"But I do want you. Who said I didn't?"
"Well," said Joy, somewhat mollified, "I'll go if there aren't any
spiders."
The two girls equipped themselves with tin pails, thick boots and a
lunch-basket, and started off in high spirits at precisely half-past
one. Joy had a remarkably vague idea of what she was going to do, but
she felt unusually good-natured, as who could help feeling, with such a
sunlight as that and such distant glories of the maple-trees, and such
shadows melting on the mountains!
"I want to go chestnotting, too-o-o!" called Winnie, disconsolate, in
the doorway.
"No, Winnie, you couldn't, possibly," said Gypsy, pleasantly, sorry to
disappoint him; but she was quite too well acquainted with Winnie to
undertake a nutting party in his company.
"Oh, yes, do let's take him; he's so cunning," said Joy. Joy was totally
unused to children, having never had brothers and sisters of her own,
and since she had been there, Winnie had not happened to develop in any
of his characteristic methods. Moreover, he had speedily discovered that
Joy laughed at everything he said; even his most ordinary efforts in the
line of wit; and that she gave him lumps of sugar when she thought of
it; and therefore he had been on his best behavior whenever she was
about.
"He's so terribly cunning," repeated Joy; "I guess he won't do any
hurt."
"I won't do any hurt," put in Winnie; "I'm real cunnin', Gypsy."
"You may do as you like, of course," said Gypsy. "I know he will make
trouble and spoil all the party, and the girls would scold me 'cause I
brought him. I've tried it times enough. If you're a mind to take care
of him, I suppose you can; but you see if you don't repent your
bargain."
Gypsy was perfectly right; she was not apt to be selfish in her
treatment of Winnie. Such a tramp as this was not at all suited to his
capacities of feet or temper, and if his mother had been there she would
have managed to make him happy in staying home. But Winnie had received
quite too much encouragement; he had no thought of giving up his bargain
now.
"Gypsy Breynton, you just needn't talk. I'm goin' chestnotting. I'm five
years old. I'm goin' with cousin Joy, and I'll eat just as many
chestnots as you or anybody else, now!"
Gypsy had not the slightest doubt of that, and the three started off
together.
They met Sarah Rowe and Delia on the way, and Gypsy introduced them.
"This is my cousin Joy, and this is Sarah. That one in the shaker bonnet
is Delia Guest. Oh, I forgot. Joy's last name is Breynton, and Sarah is
Sarah Rowe."
Joy bowed in her prim, cityish way, and Sarah and Delia were so much
astonished thereat that they forgot to bow at all, and Delia stared
rudely at her black dress. There was an awkward silence.
"Why don't you talk, somebody?" broke out Gypsy, getting desperate.
"Anybody'd think we were three mummies in a museum."
"I don't think you're very perlite," put in Winnie, with a virtuous
frown; "if you don't let me be a dummy, too, I'll tell mother, and that
would make four."
This broke the ice, and Sarah and Delia began to talk very fast about
Monday's grammar lesson, and Miss Cardrew, and how Agnes Gaylord put a
green snake in Phœbe Hunt's lunch-basket, and had to stay after school
for it, and how it was confidently reported in mysterious whispers, at
recess, that George Castles told Mr. Guernsey he was a regular old fogy,
and Mr. Guernsey had sent home a letter to his father—not Mr.
Guernsey's father, but George's; he had now, true's you live.
Now, to Joy, of course, none of this was very interesting, for she had
not been into the schoolroom yet, and didn't know George Castles and
Agnes Gaylord from Adam; and somehow or other it never occurred to Gypsy
to introduce some subject in which they could all take part; and so
somehow it came about that Joy fell behind with Winnie, and the three
girls went on together all the way to Mr. Jones's grove.
"Isn't it splendid?" called Gypsy, turning around. "I'm having a real
nice time."
"Ye—es," said Joy, dolefully; "I guess I shall like it better when we
get to the chestnuts."
Nothing particular happened on the way, except that when they were
crossing Mr. Jonathan's plowed field, Winnie stuck in the mud tight, and
when he was pulled out he left his shoes behind him; that he repeated
this pleasing little incident six consecutive times within five minutes,
varying it by lifting up his voice to weep, in Winnie's own accomplished
style; and that Joy ended by carrying him in her arms the whole way.
Be it here recorded that Joy's ideal of "cherubic childhood," Winnie
standing as representative cherub, underwent then and there several
modifications.
"Here we are!" cried Gypsy at last, clearing a low fence with a bound.
"Just see the leaves and the sky. Isn't it just—oh!"
It was, indeed "just," and there it stopped; there didn't seem to be any
more words to say about it. The chestnut-trees were clustered on a
small, rocky knoll, their golden-brown leaves fluttering in the
sunlight, their great, rich, bursting green burs bending down the boughs
and dropping to the ground. Around them and among them a belt of maples
stood up like blazing torches sharp against the sky—yellow, scarlet,
russet, maroon, and crimson veined with blood, all netted and laced
together, and floating down upon the wind like shattered jewels. Beyond,
the purple mountains, and the creamy haze, and the silent sky.
It was a sight to make younger and older than these four girls stand
still with deepening eyes. For about a half minute nobody spoke, and I
venture to say the four different kinds of thoughts they had just then
would make a pretty bit of a poem.
Whatever they were, a fearfully unromantic and utterly indescribable
howl from Winnie put an unceremonious end to them.
"O-oh! ugh! ah! Gypsy! Joy! I've got catched onto my buttons. My head's
tippin' over the wrong way. Boo-hoo-hoo! Gypsy!"
The girls turned, and stood transfixed, and screamed till they lost
their breath, and laughed till they cried.
Winnie, not being of a sentimental turn of mind, had regarded unmoved
the flaming glories of the maple-leaves, and being influenced by the
more earthly attractions of the chestnuts, had conceived the idea of
seizing advantage of the girls' unpractical rapture to be the first on
the field, and take entire and lawful possession thereof. Therefore had
he made all manner of haste to crawl through the fence, and there had he
stuck fast between two bars, balanced like a see-saw, his head going up
and his feet going down, his feet going up and his head going down.
Gypsy pulled him out as well as she could between her spasms of
laughter.
"I don't see anythin' to laugh at," said Winnie, severely. "If you don't
stop laughin' I'll go way off into the woods and be a Injun and never
come home any more, and build me a house with a chimney to it, 'n' have
baked beans for supper 'n' lots of chestnots, and a gun and a pistol,
and I won't give you any! Goin' to stop laughin'?"
It did not take long to pick up the nuts that the wind and the frost had
already strewn upon the ground, and everybody enjoyed it but Joy. She
pricked her unaccustomed fingers on the sharp burs, and didn't like the
nuts when she had tasted of them.
"They're not the kind of chestnuts we have in Boston," she said; "ours
are soft like potatoes."
"Oh dear, oh dear, she thought they grew boiled!" and there was a
great laugh. Joy colored, and did not relish it very much. Gypsy was too
busy pulling off her burs to notice this. Presently the ground was quite
cleared.
"Now we must climb," said Gypsy. Gypsy was always the leader in their
plays; always made all their plans. Sarah Rowe was her particular
friend, and thought everything Gypsy did about right, and seldom opposed
her. Delia never opposed anybody.
"Oh, I don't know how to climb," said Joy, shrinking and shocked.
"But I'll show you. This isn't anything; these branches are just as
low as they can be. Here, I'll go first and help you, and Sarah can come
next."
So up went Gypsy, nimble as a squirrel, over the low-hanging boughs that
swayed with her weight.
"Come, Joy! I can't wait."
Joy trembled and screamed, and came. She crawled a little ways up the
lowest of the branches, and stopped, frightened by the motion.
"Catch hold of the upper bough and stand up; then you can walk it,"
called Gypsy, half out of sight now among the thick leaves.
Joy did as she was told—her feet slipped, the lower branch swung away
from under her, and there she hung by both hands in mid-air. She was not
more than four feet from the ground, and could have jumped down without
the slightest difficulty, but that she was altogether too frightened to
do. So she swung back and forth like a lantern, screaming as loud as she
could scream.
Gypsy was peculiarly sensitive to anything funny, and she quite forgot
that Joy was really frightened; indeed, used as she was to the science
of tree-climbing all her life, that a girl could hang within four feet
of the ground, and not know enough to jump, seemed to her perfectly
incomprehensible.
"Jump, Joy, jump!" she called, between her shouts of laughter.
"No, no, don't, you might break your arm," cried Delia Guest, who hadn't
the slightest scruple about telling a falsehood if she were going to
have something to laugh at by the means. Poor Joy was between Scylla and
Charybdis. (If you don't know what that means, go and ask your big
brothers; make them leave their chess and their newspapers on the spot,
and read you what Mr. Virgil has to say about it.) If she hung on she
would wrench her arms; if she jumped, she should break them. She hung,
screaming, as long as she could, and dropped when she could hang no
longer, looking about in an astonishment that was irresistibly funny, at
finding herself alive and unhurt on the soft moss.
The girls were still laughing too hard to talk. Joy stood up with a very
red face and began to walk slowly away without a word.
"Where are you goin?" called Gypsy from the branches.
"Home," said Joy.
"Oh, don't; come, we won't laugh any mote. Come back, and you needn't
climb. You can stay underneath and pick up while we throw down."
"No; I've had enough of it. I don't like chestnutting, and I don't like
to be laughed at, either. I shan't stay any longer."
"I'm real sorry," said Gypsy. "I couldn't help laughing at you, you did
look so terribly funny. Oh, dear, you ought to have seen yourself! I
wish you wouldn't go. If you do, you can find the way alone, I suppose."
"I suppose so," said Joy, doubtfully.
"Well, you'd better take Winnie; you know you brought him, and I can't
keep him here. It would spoil everything. Why, where is the child?"
He was nowhere to be seen.
"Winnie! Win—nie!"
There was a great splash somewhere, and a curious bubbling sound, but
where it came from nobody could tell. All at once Delia broke into
something between a laugh and a scream.
"O—oh, I see! Look there—down in that ditch beyond the
elder-bushes—quick!"
Rising up into the air out of the muddy ground, without any visible
support whatever, were a pair of feet—Winnie's feet, unmistakably,
because of their copper toes and tagless shoestrings—and kicking
frantically back and forth. "Only that and nothing more."
"Why, where's the—rest of him?" said Joy, blankly. At this instant
Gypsy darted past her with a sudden movement, flew down the knoll, and
began to pull at the mysterious feet as if for dear life.
"Why, what is she doing?" cried all the girls in a breath. As they
spoke, up came Winnie entire into the air, head down, dripping,
drenched, black with mud, gasping, nearly drowned.
Gypsy shook him and pounded him on the back till his breath came, and
when she found there was no harm done, she set him down on a stone,
wiped the mud off from his face, and threw herself down on the grass as
if she couldn't stand up another minute.
"Crying? Why, no; she's laughing. Did you ever?"
And down ran the girls to see what was the matter. At the foot of the
knoll was a ditch of black mud. In the middle of this ditch was a round
hole two feet deep, which had been dug at some time to collect water for
the cattle pasturing in the field to drink. Into this hole, Winnie, in
the course of some scientific investigations as to the depth of the
water, had fallen, unfortunately, the wrong end foremost, and there he
certainly would have drowned if Gypsy had not seen him just when she
did.
But he was not drowned; on the contrary, except for the mud, "as good as
new;" and what might have been a tragedy, and a very sad one, had
become, as Gypsy said, "too funny for anything." Winnie, however,
"didn't see it," and began to cry lustily to go home.
"It's fortunate you were just going," said Gypsy. "I'll just fill my
pail, and then I'll come along and very likely overtake you."
Probably Joy didn't fancy this arrangement any too well, but she
remembered that it was her own plan to take the child; therefore she
said nothing, and she and Winnie started off forlornly enough.
About five o'clock Gypsy walked slowly up the yard with her pail full of
nuts, her hat in her hand, and a gay wreath of maple-leaves on her head.
With her bright cheeks and twinkling eyes, and the broad leaves casting
their gorgeous shadows of crimson and gold upon her forehead, she made a
pretty picture—almost too pretty to scold.
Tom met her at the door. Tom was very proud of Gypsy, and you could see
in his eyes just then what he thought of her.
"What a little——" he began, all ready for a frolic, and stopped, and
grew suddenly grave.
"Where are Joy and Winnie?"
"Haven't they come?"
"No."
CHAPTER V
GYPSY MAKES A DISCOVERY
Gypsy turned very pale.
"Where are they?" persisted Tom. And just then her mother came out from
the parlor.
"Why, Gypsy, where are the children?"
"I'm afraid Joy didn't know the way," said Gypsy, slowly.
"Did you let her come home alone?"
"Yes'm. She was tired of the chestnuts, and Winnie fell into the ditch.
Oh, mother!"
Mrs. Breynton did not say one word. She began to put on her things very
fast, and Tom hurried up to the store for his father. They hunted
everywhere, through the fields and in the village; they inquired of
every shop-keeper and every passer, but no one had seen a girl in black,
with a little boy. There were plenty of girls, and an abundance of
little boys to be found at a great variety of places, but most of the
girls wore green-checked dresses, and the boys were in ragged jackets.
Gypsy retraced every step of the way carefully from the roadside to the
chestnut-trees. Mr. Jonathan Jones, delighted that he had actually
caught somebody on his plowed land, came running down with a terrible
scolding on his lips. But when he saw Gypsy's utterly wretched face and
heard her story, he helped her instead to search the chestnut grove and
the surrounding fields all over. But there was not a flutter of Joy's
black dress, not an echo of Winnie's cry. The sunset was fading fast in
the west, long shadows were slanting down the valley, and the blaze of
the maples was growing faint. On the mountains it was quite blotted out
by the gathering darkness.
"What shall I do?" cried Gypsy, thinking, with a great sinking at her
heart, how cold the nights were now, and how early it grew quite dark.
"Hev you been 'long that ere cross-road 't opens aout through the woods
onto the three-mile square?" asked Mr. Jonathan. "I've been a thinkin'
on't as heow the young uns might ha took that ere ef they was flustered
beout knowin' the way neow mos' likely."
"Oh, what a splendid, good man you are!" said Gypsy, jumping up and
down, and clapping her hands with delight. "Nobody thought of that, and
I'll never run over your plowed-up land again as long as ever I live,
and I'm going right to tell father, and you see if I do!"
Her father wondered that they had not thought of it, and old Billy was
harnessed in a hurry, and they started for the three-mile cross-roads.
Gypsy went with them. Nobody spoke to her except to ask questions now
and then as to the precise direction the children took, and the time
they started for home. Gypsy leaned back in the carriage, peering out
into the gloom on either side, calling Joy's name now and then, or
Winnie's, and busy with her own wretched thoughts. Whatever they were,
she did not very soon forget them.
It was very dark now, and very cold; the crisp frost glistened on the
grass, and an ugly-looking red moon peered over the mountain. It seemed
to Gypsy like a great, glaring eye, that was singling her out and
following her, and asking, "Where are Joy and Winnie?" over and over.
"Gypsy Breynton, Gypsy Breynton, where are Joy and Winnie?" She turned
around with her back to it, so as not to see it.
Once they passed an old woman on the road hobbling along with a stick.
Mr. Breynton reined up and asked if she had seen anything of two
children.
"Haow?" said the old woman.
"Have you seen anything of two children along here?"
"Chilblains? No, I don't have none this time o' year, an' I don't know
what business it is o' yourn, nuther."
"Children!" shouted Mr. Breynton; "two children, a boy and a girl."
"Speak a little louder, can't you? I'm deaf," said the old woman.
"Have you—seen anything—of—two—children—a little boy, and a
girl in black?"
"Chickens? black chickens?" said the old woman, with an angry shake of
the head; "no, I hain't got no chickens for yer. My pullet's white, and
I set a heap on't an' wouldn't sell it to nobody as come askin' oncivil
questions of a lone, lorn widdy. Besides, the cat eat it up las' week,
feathers 'n' all."
Mr. Breynton concluded there was not much information to be had in that
quarter, and drove on.
A little way farther they came across a small boy turning somersets in
the ditch. Mr. Breynton stopped again and repeated his questions.
"How many of 'em?" asked the boy, with a thoughtful look.
"Two, a boy and a girl."
"Two?"
"Yes."
"A boy and a girl?"
"Yes."
"You said one was a boy and t'other was a girl?" repeated the small boy,
looking very bright.
"Yes. The boy was quite small, and the girl wore a black dress. They're
lost, and we're trying to find them."
"Be you, now, really!" said the small boy, apparently struck with sudden
and overwhelming admiration. "That is terribly good in you. Seems to me
now I reckon I see two young uns 'long here somewhars, didn't I? Le' me
see."
"Oh, where, where?" cried Gypsy. "Oh, I'm so glad! Did the little boy
have on a plaid jacket and brown coat?"
"Waal, now, seems as ef 'twas somethin' like that."
"And the girl wore a hat and a long veil?" pursued Gypsy, eagerly.
"Was she about the height of this girl here, and whereabouts did you see
her?" asked Tom.
"Waal, couldn't tell exactly; somewhars between here an' the village, I
reckon. Seems to me she did have a veil or suthin'."
"And she was real pale?" cried Gypsy, "and the boy was dreadfully
muddy?"
"Couldn't say as to that"—the small boy began to hesitate and look
very wise—"don't seem to remember the mud, and on the whole, I ain't
partiklar sure 'bout the veil. Oh, come to think on't, it wasn't a gal;
it was a deaf old woman, an' there warn't no boy noways."
Well was it for the small boy that, as the carriage rattled on, he took
good care to be out of the reach of Tom's whip-lash.
It grew darker and colder, and the red moon rode on silently in the sky.
They had come now to the opening of the cross-road, but there were no
signs of the children—only the still road and the shadows under the
trees.
"Hark! what's that?" said Mr. Breynton, suddenly. He stopped the
carriage, and they all listened. A faint, sobbing sound broke the
silence. Gypsy leaned over the side of the carriage, peering in among
the trees where the shadow was blackest.
"Father, may I get out a minute?"
She sprang over the wheel, ran into the cross-road, into a clump of
bushes, pushed them aside, screamed for joy.
"Here they are, here they are—quick, quick! Oh, Winnie Breynton, do
just wake up and let me look at you! Oh, Joy, I am so glad!"
And there on the ground, true enough, sat Joy, exhausted and frightened
and sobbing, with Winnie sound asleep in her lap.
"I didn't know the way, and Winnie kept telling me wrong, and, oh, I was
so tired, and I sat down to rest, and it is so dark, and—and oh, I
thought nobody'd ever come!"
And poor Joy sprang into her uncle's arms, and cried as hard as she
could cry.
Joy was thoroughly tired and chilled; it seemed that she had had to
carry Winnie in her arms a large part of the way, and the child was by
no means a light weight. Evidently, Master Winnie had taken matters
pretty comfortably throughout, having had, Joy said, the utmost
confidence in his own piloting, declaring "it was just the next house,
right around the corner, Joy; how stupid in her not to know! he knew all
the whole of it just as well as anything," and was none the worse for
the adventure. Gypsy tried to wake him up, but he doubled up both fists
in his dream, and greeted her with the characteristic reply, "Naughty!"
and that was all that was to be had from him. So he was rolled up warmly
on the carriage floor; they drove home as fast as Billy would go, and
the two children, after a hot supper and a great many kisses, were put
snugly to bed.
After Joy was asleep, Mrs. Breynton said she would like to see Gypsy a
few moments downstairs.
"Yes'm," said Gypsy, and came slowly down. They sat down in the
dining-room alone. Mrs. Breynton drew up her rocking-chair by the fire,
and Gypsy took the cricket.
There was a silence. Gypsy had an uncomfortable feeling that her mother
was waiting for her to speak first. She kicked off her slipper, and put
it on; she rattled the tongs, and pounded the hearth with the poker; she
smoothed her hair out of her eyes, and folded up her handkerchief six
times; she looked up sideways at her mother; then she began to cough. At
last she broke out—
"I suppose you want me to say I'm sorry. Well, I am. But I don't see why
I'm to blame, I'm sure."
"I haven't said you were to blame," said her mother, quietly. "You know
I have had no time yet to hear what happened this afternoon, and I
thought you would like to tell me."
"Well," said Gypsy, "I'd just as lief;" and Gypsy looked a little, a
very little, as if she hadn't just as lief at all. "You see, 'in the
first place and commencing,' as Winnie says, Joy wanted to take him.
Now, she doesn't know anything about that child, not a thing, and if
she'd taken him to places as much as I have, and had to lug him home
screaming all the way, I guess she would have stopped wanting to, pretty
quick, and I always take Winnie when I can, you know now, mother; and
then Joy wouldn't talk going over, either."
"Whom did she walk with?" interrupted Mrs. Breynton.
"Why, with Winnie, I believe. Of course she might have come on with
Sarah and Delia and me if she'd wanted to, but—I don't know——"
"Very well," said Mrs. Breynton, "go on."
"Then, you see, Joy didn't like chestnuts, and couldn't climb, and—oh,
Winnie kept losing his shoes, and got stuck in the fence, and you never
saw anything so funny! And then Joy couldn't climb, and she just hung
there swinging; and now, mother, I couldn't help laughing to save me, it
was so exactly like a great pendulum with hoops on. Well, Joy was mad
'cause we laughed and all, and so she said she'd go home. Then—let me
see—oh, it was after that, Winnie tumbled into the ditch, splash in!
with his feet up in the air, and I thought I should go off to see
him."
"But what about Joy?"
"Oh, well, Joy took Winnie—he was so funny and muddy, you don't
know—'cause she brought him, you know, and so they came home, and I
thought she knew the way as much as could be, and I guess that's all."
"Well," said her mother, after a pause, "what do you think about it?"
"About what?"
"Do you think you have done just right, Gypsy?"
"I don't see why not," said Gypsy, uneasily. "It was perfectly fair Joy
should take Winnie, and of course I wasn't bound to give up my nutting
party and come home, just for her."
"I'm not speaking of what is fair, Gypsy. Strictly speaking, Joy had
her rights, and you had yours, and the arrangement might have been
called fair enough. But what do you think honestly, Gypsy—were you a
little selfish?"
Gypsy opened her eyes wide. Honestly she might have said she didn't
know. She was by nature a generous child, and the charge of selfishness
was seldom brought against her. Plenty of faults she had, but they were
faults of quick temper and carelessness. Of deliberate selfishness it
had scarcely ever occurred to her that anybody could think her capable.
So she echoed—
"Selfish!" in simple surprise.
"Just look at it," said her mother, gently; "Joy was your visitor, a
stranger, feeling awkward and unhappy, most probably, with the girls
whom you knew so well, and not knowing anything about the matters which
you talked over. You might, might you not, have by a little effort made
her soon feel at home and happy? Instead of that, you went off with the
girls, and let her fall behind, with nobody but Winnie to talk to."
Gypsy's face turned to a sudden crimson.
"Then, a nutting party was a new thing to Joy, and with the care of
Winnie and all, it is no wonder she did not find it very pleasant, and
she had never climbed a tree in her life. This was her first Saturday
afternoon in Yorkbury, and she was, no doubt, feeling lonely and
homesick, and it made her none the happier to be laughed at for not
doing something she had not the slightest idea how to do. Was it quite
generous to let her start off alone, over a strange road, with the care
of a crying——"
"And muddy," put in Gypsy, with twinkling eyes, "from head to foot,
black as a shoe."
"And muddy child?" finished Mrs. Breynton, smiling in spite of herself.
"But Joy wanted to take him, and I told her so. It was her own bargain."
"I know that. But we are not speaking of bargains, Gypsy; we are
speaking of what is kind and generous. Now, how does it strike you?"
"It strikes me," said Gypsy, in her honest way, after a moment's
pause—"it strikes me that I'm a horrid selfish old thing, and I've
lived twelve years and just found it out; there now!"
Just as Gypsy was going to bed she turned around with the lamp in her
hand, her great eyes dreaming away in the brownest of brown studies.
"Mother, is it selfish to have upper drawers, and front sides, and
things?"
"What are you talking about, Gypsy?"
"Why, don't my upper drawers, and the front side of the bed, and all
that, belong to me, and must I give them up to Joy?"
"It is not necessary," said her mother, laughing. But Gypsy fancied
there was a slight emphasis on the last word.
Joy was sound asleep, and dreaming that Winnie was a rattlesnake and
Gypsy a prairie-dog, when somebody gave her a little pinch and woke her
up.
"Oh—why—what's the matter?" said Joy.
"Look here, you might just as well have the upper bureau drawers, you
know, and I don't care anything about the front side of the bed.
Besides, I wish I hadn't let you come home alone this afternoon."
"Well, you are the funniest!" said Joy.
CHAPTER VI
WHO PUT IT IN?
On Monday Joy went to school. Gypsy had been somewhat astonished, a
little hurt, and a little angry, at hearing her say, one day, that she
"didn't think it was a fit place for her to go—a high school where all
the poor people went."
But, fit or not, it was the only school to be had, and Joy must go.
Perhaps, on some accounts, Mrs. Breynton would have preferred sending
the children to a private school; but the only one in town, and the one
which Gypsy had attended until this term, was broken up by the marriage
of the teacher, so she had no choice in the matter. The boys at the high
school were, some of them, rude, but the girls for the most part were
quiet, well-behaved, and lady-like, and the instruction was undoubtedly
vastly superior to that of a smaller school. As Gypsy said, "you had to
put into it and study like everything, or else she gave you a horrid old
black mark, and then you felt nice when it was read aloud at
examination, didn't you?"
"I wouldn't care," said Joy.
"Why, Joyce Miranda Breynton!" said Gypsy. But Joy declared she
wouldn't, and it was very soon evident that she didn't. She had not the
slightest fancy for her studies; neither had Gypsy, for that matter; but
Gypsy had been brought up to believe it was a disgrace to get bad marks.
Joy had not. She hurried through her lessons in the quickest possible
fashion, anyhow, so as to get through, and out to play; and limped
through her recitations as well as she could. Once Gypsy saw—and she
was thoroughly shocked to see—Joy peep into the leaves of her grammar
when Miss Cardrew's eyes were turned the other way.
Altogether, matters did not go on very comfortably. Joy's faults were
for the most part those from which Gypsy was entirely free, and to which
she had a special and inborn aversion. On the other hand, many of
Gypsy's failings were not natural to Joy. Gypsy was always forgetting
things she ought to remember. Joy seldom did. Gypsy was thoughtless,
impulsive, always into mischief, out of it, sorry for it, and in again.
Joy did wrong deliberately, as she did everything else, and did not
become penitent in a hurry. Gypsy's temper was like a flash of
lightning, hot and fierce and melting right away in the softest of
summer rains. When Joy was angry she sulked. Joy was precise and neat
about everything. Gypsy was not. Then Joy kept still, and Gypsy talked;
Joy told parts of stories, Gypsy told the whole; Joy had some foolish
notions about money and dresses and jewelry, on which Gypsy looked with
the most supreme contempt—not on the dresses, but the notions.
Therefore there was plenty of material for rubs and jars, and of all sad
things to creep into a happy house, these rubs and jars are the saddest.
One day both the girls woke full of mischief. It was a bracing November
day, cool as an ice-cream and clear as a whistle. The air sparkled like
a fountain of golden sands, and was as full of oxygen as it could hold;
and oxygen, you must know, is at the bottom of a great deal of the
happiness and misery, goodness and badness, of this world.
"I tell you if I don't feel like cutting up!" said Gypsy, on the way
to school. Gypsy didn't look unlike "cutting up" either, walking along
there with her satchel swung over her left shoulder, her turban set all
askew on her bright, black hair, her cheeks flushed from the jumping of
fences and running of races that had been going on since she left the
house, and that saucy twinkle in her eyes. Joy was always somewhat more
demure, but she looked, too, that morning, as if she were quite as ready
to have a good time as any other girl.
"Do you know," said Gypsy, confidentially, as they went up the
schoolhouse steps, "I feel precisely as if I should make Miss Cardrew a
great deal of trouble to-day; don't you?"
"What does she do to you if you do?"
"Oh, sometimes she keeps you after school, and then again she tells Mr.
Guernsey, and then there are the bad marks. Miss Melville—she's my old
teacher that married Mr. Hallam, she was just silly enough!—well, she
used to just look at you, and never open her lips, and I guess you
wished you hadn't pretty quick."
It was very early yet, but quite a crowd was gathered in the
schoolhouse, as was the fashion on cool mornings. The boys were stamping
noisily over the desks, and grouped about the stove in No. 1. No. 1. was
the large room where the whole school gathered for prayer. A few of the
girls were there—girls who laughed rudely and talked loudly, none of
them Gypsy's friends. Tom never liked to have Gypsy linger about in No.
1, before or after school hours; he said it was not the place for her,
and Tom was there that morning, knotting his handsome brows up into a
very decided frown, when he saw her in the doorway, with Joy peeping
over her shoulder. So Gypsy—somewhat reluctantly, it must be
confessed, for the boys seemed to be having a good time, and with boys'
good times she had a most unconquerable sympathy—went up with Joy into
Miss Cardrew's recitation room. Nobody was there. A great, empty
schoolroom, with its rows of silent seats and closed desks, with power
to roam whithersoever you will, and do whatsoever you choose, is a great
temptation. The girls ran over the desks, and looked into the desks,
jumped over the settees, and knocked down the settees, put out the fire
and built it up again, from the pure luxury of doing what they wanted
to, in a place where they usually had to do what they didn't want to.
They sat in Miss Cardrew's chair, and peeped into her desk; they ate
apples and snapped peanut shells on the very platform where sat the
spectacled and ogre-eyed committee on examination days; they drew all
manner of pictures of funny old women without any head, and old men
without any feet, on the awful blackboard, and played "tag" round the
globes. Then they stopped for want of breath.
"I wish there were something to do," sighed Gypsy; "something real
splendid and funny."
"I knew a girl once, and she drew a picture of the teacher on the board
in green chalk," suggested Joy; "only she lost her recess for a whole
week after it."
"That wouldn't do. Besides, pictures are too common; everybody does
those. Boys put pins in the seats, and cut off the legs of the teacher's
chair, and all that. I don't know as I care to tumble Miss Cardrew
over—wouldn't she look funny, though!—'cause mother wouldn't like
it. Couldn't we make the stove smoke, or put pepper in the desks,
