It was the morning after Charlie had disappeared. 
He had been absent twenty-four hours, and his mother 
had lieard nothing of him. She was in a terrible state 
of apprehension and anxiety, for few boys were more 
regular than he in repairing home as soon as his daily 
duties were over. 
Mrs. Codman had sat np late into the night, hoping 
against her fears that he would return. At length, 
exhausted by her vigils, she sank upon the bed, but not 
to sleep. In the morning she rose, unrefreshed, to pre  
pare her solitary meal. But it was in vain. Sorrow 
and anxiety had taken away her appetite, and she was 
unable to eat anything. 
Soon afterwards a knock was heard at the door. She 
hastened to open it, hoping to hear some tidings of her 
lost boy. What was her disappointment to meet the 
bent form and«wrkikled face of Peter Manson, her land- 
lord. 
The old man gave her a stealthy glance. 
"Why did I not know her before?" he thought. 
'' She is not so very much changed. But I —  ha, ha ! 
she don't know who I am." 
Mrs. Codman went. to a drawer in her bureau, and 
took there&om six dollars. 
"This is the amount of your rent, I believe, ' she 
said. 
The old man greedily closed his fingers upon the 
money, and then, after intimating that it was very 
 
small, avowed his determiBatlon to raise. the rent to 
two dollars per week. 
The iniser watched with gleeful exultation the look 
of dismay which came over the face of his tenant. 
Two dollars a week was not only beyond Mrs. Cod- 
man's means, but was, at that time, an exorbitant rent 
for the rooms which she occupied. She would scarcely 
have been justified in paying it while she had Charlie's 
earnings as well as her own to depend on. Yet there 
seemed now an ijpperative necessity for remaining where 
she was, for a time at least. It was possible that Charlie would come back, and if she should remove, where 
would he find her? Of course, he would come back! 
The thought that there was even a possibility of her 
son being lost to her was so full of shuddering terror, 
that Mrs. Codman would not for a moment indulge it. 
Life without Charlie would be so Ml of sadness, that 
she could not believe him lost. 
She resolved to make an effort to arouse the old man's 
compassion. She did not dream of the spite and hatred 
which he felt towards her. There ate none whom the 
wicked hate so heartily as those whom they have 
injured. That is something beyond forgiveness. 
Mrs. Codman .knew that Peter Manson was avari- 
cious, and to this she attributed the increase in the 
rent. She had no suspicion that he had a particular 
object in distressing her. 
"Surely, Mr, Manson," she remonstrated, "you do' 
not think these rooms worth two dollars sc week. It is 
all we are able to do to raise the rent we now pay." 
" Humph ! " muttered Peter, avoiding the eye of his 
tenant, "they are worth all I can get for them." 
 
 
" Have you raised the rent on the other rooms in this 
house ? " 
" No, but I— I shall soon." 
" Then I tremble for your tenants. Mr. Manson, if 
you were poor yourself, perhaps you would have a heart 
to sympathize with and pity the poor." 
" If I were poor ! " exclaimed the old man, betrayed 
into his customary whine ; " I am poor ; indeed, I am 
v y poor." 
" You ! " repeated Mrs. Codman, incredulously. 
"Why, you must receive a thousand dollars a year 
from this building." 
"Yet I —  I am poor," persisted Peter. "I am only 
an agent. I— I do not own this building ; at least — I 
mean —  there are heavy incumbrances on it. I have to 
pay away nearly every dollar I receive." 
" Can you let me remain a month longer for the same 
r nt as heretofore?" asked Mrs. Codman, anxiously. 
".I—I couldn't do it," said Peter, hastily. "Either 
you must pay two 4pllars a week, or move out." 
Mrs. Codman hesitated. 
She went to her bureau, and found that she had between five and six dollars remaining in her purse. This 
would enable her, in addition to what she could earn by 
sewing, to get along for a month. 
" Very well, sir," said she, " I must stay a month 
longer, at any rate. I must for my boy's sake." 
" Have you a son? " asked Peter, desirous of learning 
from the mother's lips that the blow had struck home. 
" Yes ; you have probably seen him here sometimes." 
" I haven't noticed him." 
"I am feeling very anxious about him. Yesterday 
 
morning he went out on an errand for some one who 
had engaged him, and he hasn't been back since. I am 
afraid something must have happened to him," and the 
mother's eyes filled with tears. 
" Perhaps he has fallen off from one of the wharves, 
and got drowned," suggested Peter, with a savage delight 
in the pain he was inflicting. 
" You don't think it possible ! " exclaimed Mrs. Cod- 
man, starting to her feet, and looking in the old man's 
face with a glance of agonized entreaty, as if he could 
change by his words the fate of her son. 
" Such things often happen," said Peter, chuckling 
inwardly at the success of his remark ; " I knew a boy 
— an Irish boy, about the size of yours — drowned the 
other day." 
" About the size of my boy I I thought you had not 
noticed him." 
"I — I remember having seen him once," stammered 
Peter. " He is about a dozen years old, isn't he ? " 
" Yes ; but you don't —  you can't think him drowned." 
" How shtFuld I know?" muttered Peter. " Boys are 
careless, very careless, you know that ; and like as not 
he might have been playing on the wharf, and " 
" No, it can't be," said Mrs. Codman, with a feeling 
of relief which her knowledge of Charlie's habits gave 
her. " Charlie was not careless, and never went to play 
. on the wharf." 
The old man was disappointed to find that his blow 
had failed of its effect, but ingenious in devising new 
methods of torture, he now suggested the tnie cause of 
Charlie's absence. 
 ' Perhaps," he said, with his cruel gray eyes fixed 
on the. mother, " perhaps he's been carried off in a 
ship." 
'' Carried off in a ship ! " faltered Mrs. Codman. 
"Yes," said Peter, delighted by the evident dismay 
with which this suggestion was received. 
" But," said Mrs. Codman, not quite comprehending 
his meaning, " Charlie never had any inclination to go 
to sea." 
" Perhaps they didn't consult him about it," suggested 
Peter. 
" What do you mean?" exclaimed the mother, with 
startling emphasis, half advancing towards the old man. 
'' You —  you shouldn't be so violent," said Peter, 
trembling, and starting back in alarm. 
 ' Violent ! Deprive a mother of her only child, and 
she .may well show some vehemence." 
"si— I didn't do it," said Peter, hastily. 
." Certainly not," said Mrs. Codman, wondering at his 
thinking it necessary to exculpate himself; "but you 
were saying something about — about boys being carried 
to sea against their will." 
" I didn't mean anything," muttered Peter, regretting 
that he had put her on the right track. 
" But you did, otherwise you would not have said it. 
For heaven's sake, tell me what you did mean, and all 
you meant. Don't fear to distress me. I can bear any- 
thing except this utter uncertainty." 
She looked up earnestly in the old man's face. 
Peter was somewhat amused at the idea that he might 
be afraid to distress her, but decided, on reflection, to 
tell her all that he chose she should be made acquainted 
with. 
 
 
" Sometimes," he e lained, " a captain is short of 
hands, and fills out his number the best way he can. 
Now perhaps one of the ships at the wharves might 
have wanted a boy, and the captain might have invited 
your son on board, and, ha, ha! it almost makes me 
laugh to think of it, might carry him off before he 
thought where he was." 
" Do you laugh at the thought of such a cruel misfortune ? " asked Mrs. Codman, startled from her grief by 
the old man's chuckle. 
"excuse me, I didn't intend to ; but I thought he 
would be so much surprised when he found out where he 
was." 
"And does that seem to j' ou a fitting subject for 
merriment?" demanded the outraged mother. 
The miser cowed beneath her indignant glance, and 
muttering something unintelligible, slunk away. 
"Curse her!" he muttered, in his quavering tones, 
"why can't I face her like a man? I never could. 
That was the way when — when she rejected me. But 
I shall have my revenge yet." 
Strange to say, Peter's last suggestion produced an 
effect quite different from that which he anticipated and 
intended. Days ptssed, and Charlie did not come ; but 
his mother feeling certain, she hardly knew why, that 
he had been inveigled on board some vessel, felt sure 
he would some day return. 
" He will write to me as soon as he ge£s a chance," 
thought the mother, " and I shall soon see him again.'' 
Small as was the remuneration which Mrs. Codman 
received for sewing, she hoped, by grekt economy, to get 
along with the money which she already had on hand. 
But troubles never come singly, and of this she was 
destined to feel the flill significance. 
One morning she made up a bundle of completed 
work, and proceeded with it to the ready-made clothing 
store of Messrs. Sharp & Keene, her employers. It 
was a trial to one reared as Mrs. Codman had been, to 
come into contact with men who did not think it neces- 
sary to hide their native coarseness from one who 
made shirts for them at twenty cents apiece. 
On the present occasion she was kept waiting for some 
time, before her presence appeared to be noticed. At 
length. Sharp nodded to her from the desk. 
'' Ahem ! Mrs. Wiggins," commenced Sharp. 
" Codman, sir' corrected the one addressed. 
''Well, tjjie name don't signify, I suppose. How 
many shirts have you got there?" 
" Half a dozen, sir." 
'  Half a dozen at twenty cents apiece make a dollar 
and twenty cents. Present this card at the other desk, 
and'yoa will be paid." 
He scratched on a card "— $1.20," and 
handed to her, at the same time calling, in a loud 
voice, "Here, Thomas, pay Mrs. Wigman a dollar 
and twenty cents." 
" Codman, sir." 
 'It seems to me yon are mighty particular about 
your name." 
"Shall I have more work?" asked Mrs. Codman, 
with some anxiety. 
"Well, not at present. Business is dull just now. 
Nothing dping, and won't be for some time to come.'' 
" How long before you can probably give me some- 
thing to do?" inquired Mrs. Codman, apprehensively. 
" Can't say," was the careless reply. " It may be a 
month, or six weeks. You can call round in four or 
five weeks." 
" What am I t J do between now and then ? " thought 
the poor woman, her heart sinking. 
She must get something to do. She could not live 
otherwise, more especially since the rise in the rent, 
and her resources had been so largely diminished by the 
withdrawal of Charlie's services. 
She applied at several other shops which she passed 
on the way home, but found, in every case, that they 
were already overrun with applications, and in the slack 
of business would be compelled to discharge some of 
those at present employed. 
But the hour is the darkest that's just before day, and 
when fortune has done its worst, oftentimes the tide 
turns, and affairs improve. 
 
 
So it proved with Mrs. Codman. 
On reaxihing home, not a little depressed at the idea 
of remaining inactive, when she stood so much in need 
of the proceeds of her labor, Mrs. Codman had scarcely 
removed her bonnet and shawl, when she heard a knock 
at her door. 
In answer to her " Come in," the door opened, and 
the washer-woman, who roomed just above, entered. 
" How do you do, Mrs. O'Grady ?" said Mrs. Codman. 
" I am very well, Miss Codman, and I hope it's the 
same wid yerself. Have you heard anything of the 
swate boy that was lost? " 
"Nothing," was the sad reply. 
'' Cheer up, then. Miss Codman. He'll be coming 
back bimeby, wid his pockets full of gold, so that you 
won't have to work any more." 
  I am afraid that I shall not be able, to work any 
more at present," returned Mrs. Codman. 
" And what for not? Is it sick that ye are? " 
Mrs. Codman related the want of success which she 
had met with in procuring work. She also mentioned 
Peter's visit and the increased rent. 
" Just like him, the old spalpeen ! " broke out Mrs. 
O'Grady, indignantly. " He wants to squeeze the last 
cint out of us poor folks, and it don't do him any good 
neither. I'd be ashamed if Mr. O'Grady wint about 
dressed €is he does. But may be. Miss Codman, I'll get 
you a chance that'll take you out of his reach, the mane 
ould rascal ! " 
" You get me a chance ! What do you mean? " asked 
Mrs. Codbnan, turning with surprise to her Hibernian 
Mend and defender. 
  
'' ril tell ye, only jist sit down, for it may take me 
Bome time." 
This was Mrs. O'Grady's explanation, which it may 
be better to abridge, for the good lady was wont to be 
somewhat prolix and discursive in her narratives. 
It seems she had been employed, at sundry times, in 
the house of a Mr. Bowman, a wealthy merchant living . 
on Mt. Vernon Street. This gentleman had lost his 
wife some months before. The only child arising from 
this union was a daughter, about ten years of age. Her 
father did not like schools, either public or private, for 
a child of her years, and preferred that his daughter, 
for the present, should be educated at home. Hitherto 
she had been left pretty much to herself, and h  never 
been willing to apply herself to study. 
Mr. Bowman was now looking out for a suitable gov- 
erness for his daughter, and it had struck Mrs. O'Grady 
— who,. though ignorant and uncultivated herself, was 
sharp-sighted enough to detect the marks of education 
and refinement in another — that Mrs. Codman would 
suit him. 
So Mrs. O'Grady, in her zeal, made bold to intimate 
to the servants, through whom it reached Mr. Bowman, 
that she knew a sweet lady who would be just the one 
for a governess for the young lady. 
Now the recommendation of an Irish washer-woman . 
may not be considered the most valuable in an affair of 
this kind; but it so happened that the suggestion 
reached Mr. Bowman at a time when he was so op  
pressed with business cares that he did not know how to 
spare the time necessary to seek out a governess. He 
accordingly summoned Mrs. O'Grady to a conference, 
 
 
and asked some hasty questions of her, which she an- 
swered by such a eulogistic account of Mrs. Codman, 
whose condescending kindness had quite won her heart, 
that Mr. Bowman desired her to request Mrs. Codman 
to call upon him the next day at a stated hour. 
" So you see. Miss Codman," concluded the warm- 
hearted Irish woman, "that you're in luck, and all 
you've got to do is to call upon Mr. Bowman to-mor- 
row, and you'll get a nice home, and won't have to work 
any more at your sewing." 
Mrs. Codman did not at once reply. 
" And won't you go?" asked Mrs. O'Grady, wondering at her silence. 
" I think I will," said Mrs. Codman ; " and I feel 
much obliged to you, my good friend, for saying a kind 
word for me, though I do not feel at all confident that I 
shall obtain this place." 
'' Niver fear for that," said the sanguine washer-woman ; " he'll see at once that you're a rale lady, and it's 
in luck he'll be to get you." 
Undoubtedly the position of a governess would be 
more remunerative, and less laborious, than that of a 
seamstress, and, under present circumstances, Mrs. Cod- 
man felt that she could not afford to throw the chance 
away. She retired that night a little more cheerfhl and 
hopeful than would have been the case had not this door 
of escape from the evil of want been shown her. 
Isr the breakfast-room of a house oa Mt. Vernon 
Street sat two persons with whom it is necessary that 
we shoald become acqaainted. 
The first is a gentleman of perhaps forty-five, rather 
stout, and with a pL&asant expression of countenance. 
He has finished his cup of cofiee, and taken up the 
morning paper, which he scans carefully, more especially 
those parts relating to business. 
At the opposite side of the table is a young lady of 
ten, with mirthful black eyes, and very red cheeks, 
which are well set off by her black hair. Altogether, 
she is very handsome, a fact of which she is not altogether unconscious. She is lively, fresh, original, and 
impulsive, not under very much restraint, but with an 
excellent disposition and kindly feelings, which do not 
allow her to go very far wrong. Yet it must be confessed that thus far her education has been sadly neglected, so that, as far as learning goes, she probably 
knows less than most girls two years ygunger. 
The room, in which the father and daughter were 
seated, is tastefully famished with that regard to com- 
fort which is found in our American houses. 
The two whom we have thus introduced are Benja- 
 
 
min Bowman, a wealthy merchant, and his daughter 
Bertha, though, in that shortening of names which is 
apt to take place in a family, hers has been shortened to 
.Bert, which she appears to prefer to the longer and more 
strictly feminine name. 
" Papa," she said, pushing away her plate, " you ain't 
good company at all." 
" Thank you for the compliment, Bert," he said. 
" But you're not, though. There you are wearing 
out your eyes over that stupid paper, and leaving me to 
talk to myself or Topsy. Here, Topsy, isn't it so ? " 
At this summons a kitten, black as the ace of spades, 
and very much addicted to fun and frolic, jumped into 
the lap of her young mistress, and purred a noisy 
acquiescence. 
" There," said Bert, triumphantly, " Topsy says I am 
right. I don't know what I should do without Topsy." 
" She makes a very suitable companion for you, Bert," 
said Mr. Bowman, smiling. 
" Why?" asked the cat's mistress, suspiciously. 
" Because you can sympathize so well. Both are 
equally mischievous, and it is very difficult to tell which 
knows the most of books." 
" Now, papa, that is a slander. I will sue you for 
libel." 
" On your own account, or the kitten's?" asked Mr. 
Bowman. "I really don't know which I have done 
injustice to." 
" Now you are laughing at me, papa. I knew you 
are." 
" Not entirely, Bert. The fact is, you are terribly 
ignorant for one of your age." 
 
 
" I suppose I am," said Bert, shaking her head in 
comic despair. 
" You'll grow up with no more knowledge than a 
Hottentot." 
'  Don't they have any schools among the Hottentots ? " 
'' I suppose not." 
" How delightful that must be ! Why can't we move 
out where they live ? " 
" I don't know but we shall have to," said her father, 
" as, hereabouts, young ladies are expected to know 
something about books. But that reminds me I don't 
knOw but I shall succeed in engaging a governess for 
you to-day." 
" A governess to-day ! " exclaimed Bert, in dismay. 
"Yes. I have made an appointment with a lady to 
call here at nine o'clock, and, if I am satisfied with her, 
I intend to engage her." 
" And if Jam satisfied with her," added Bert. 
" Is that essential? " asked her father, smiling. 
" Yes, for you know she will be with me most of the 
time. If she is like Julia Campbell's governess, I 
sha'n't like her." 
" Well, and what fault do you find with Julia Camp- 
bell's' governess? " asked Mr. Bowman, with more interest than his tone conveyed; for he knew that if Bert 
did not fancy her governess she would be a most incorrigible little rebel, and would be likely to profit very 
little by her instructions. 
' 0h, she's as disagreeable as she can be. In the 
first place, she's an old maid, — not that that's so very 
bad. In fact, I've about made up my mind to be an old 
maid myself." 
 
" Indeed ! " said Mr. Bowman, answered. " May I 
inquire your reasons ? " 
 " Too numerous to mention." 
" Perhaps one is, that you don't expect to have any 
chance to change your name." 
" I've had a chance ahready," said Bert, in a matter-- 
of-fact tone. 
''Had a chance already!" exclaimed her father, in 
amazelnent. 
" Yes," said the young lady of ten, " Charlie Morrill 
offered himself the other day, and I refused him." 
" What is the world coming to? " thought Mr. Bow- 
man. " Why did you refuse him? " 
" Because," said Bert, soberly, " I don't like the way 
he parts his hair. . But as for Julia's governess, I know 
she never had an offer. She's as homely as — as — well, 
I don't know who. Then she wears glasses, and has a 
nose ever so long, and a long face, and she never smiles, 
and she makes Julia study terrible hard." 
And Bert drew a long breath. 
" Not a very charming picture, certainly," said Mr. 
Bowman ; " but I'll promise you that, if the lady who 
applies for the post of governess to-day sbould be anything like this, I won't engage her." 
" That's right, papa. When do you expect her ? " 
'' Let me see. She was to be here at nine, a&d now 
it wants only ten minutes of that time." 
'' And you won't send me out of the room, papa, will 
you?" 
"Mr. Bowman hesitated. 
 ' You know I am very anxious to see how she looks. 
 
 
If I like her, I will make a sign to you, and then you 
can engage her." 
" What sign will yon make, Bert?" asked her father, 
amused, and yet alive to the necessity of securing his 
daughter's acquiescence in his choice. 
' "1 don't know," said Bert, reflecting ; " suppose I . 
wink." 
" And suppose the lady should see you winking at me ? 
What do you suppose she would think ? " 
" Oh; I could tell her afterwards, you know, and she 
would feel flattered, knowing it was a sign that I liked 
her." 
" She might not think it very lady-like in you." 
" What's the use of being lady-like? I don't want to 
be. There's Florence Gates ; I suppose she's lady-like. 
I'll show you how she walks." 
Bert imitated the gait of the young lady, swaying 
herself from side to side, as she walked with mincing 
step, tossing her head, and exhibiting a caricature of 
the airs and affectations which girls sometimes delight 
to display. 
" Why, she wouldn't run for a thousand dollars,'' 
exclaimed Bert. '  She would think it beneath her dignity. If she is lady-like, I don't want to be. But, 
hark ! there goes the bell. She's coming. Now, papa, 
just remember, I shall wink if I like her, and if I don't 
I'll make up a face." 
Bert transferred herself to an ottoman, and took 
Topsy into her lap. 
  Both she and her father looked towards the door with 
curiosity. 
 
Mrs. Codmak had been carefully educated at a large 
expense, and was versed in all the accomplishments 
which are considered indispensable in a young lady's 
education nowadays. It was with no degree of hesita- 
tion on this point, therefore, that she set out this particular morning to present herself as an applicant for 
the post of governess. Having no influential friends, 
however, and not being able to present references from 
a former employer (this being her first essay in this 
line), she feared that her application would be unsuccessful. She could not but feel a considerable degree 
of anxiety, for- her circumstances h&d become desperate, 
owing to the refusal of her former employers to give 
her any more sewing. 
She dressed herself as neatly as her limited wardrobe 
would admit, and with hearty good wishes and many 
glowing predictions of success from her humbly friend, 
Mrs. O'Grady, she set out. 
Though some years past thirty, Mrs. Codman so far 
retained the freshness of youth, that she would hardly 
have been taken for this age. As a girl she had been 
very boautifUl, and her womanhood did not belie her 
early promise. Her attire, though not expensive, was 
in good taste, and characterized by a lady-like simplicity.
Such was the applicant for the post of governess, 
upon whom the curious eyes of Bert and her father fell 
as she was ushered into the breakfast-room by the ser' 
vant, who had received orders to do so. She entered 
the room with the easy grace of a lady. Mr. Bowman 
at once recognized her claim to be considered such by 
deferentially rising, and inviting her to be seated. 
"If I mistake not," he said, politely, "you are the 
lady who has been recommended to me as possessing 
excellent qualifications for the office of governess." 
"Perhaps the recommendation was too strong and 
decided," said Mrs. Codman, modestly. "I shall be 
glad, however, to be considered an applicant for the 
position." 
Here Mr. Bowman, who chanced to glance at Bert, 
detected her executing a surprising succession of winks, 
indicating the favorable impression which had been made 
upon her by the appearance of Mrs. Codman. 
Ah'eady prepossessed in favor of the applicant, this 
was an ' additional inducement to engage her, as her 
success would depend, to a very great extent, upon the 
young lad3''s good-will. 
"I suppose," he said, "you feel prepared to teach 
the branches and accomplishments usually included in 
the education of a young lady." 
Mrs. Codman bowed. 
" I ain't a young lady," interrupted Bert, at this 
point, who thought she was in imminent danger of 
becoming too learned. 
" We hope you will be some time," said Mr. Bowman. 
 
In reply, Bert winked once more. 
There was a piano in the room. 
" Will you favor, us with a specimen of your play- 
ing?" asked Mr. Bowman. 
Mrs. Codman sat down to the piaiio and played two 
pieces, one slow in movement, the other rapid, showing 
a nice touch and easy execution. 
" Thank you," said Mr. Bowman. " I am inclined to 
think that I shall be glad to avail myself of your services. Should you be willing to engage for three months 
at first, to see how we are mutually pleased with each 
other ? The pupil I have to offer j ou is a litle addicted 
to mischief, and I dont know how you may like her." 
" I am quite willing to enter into such an arrangement," said Mrs. Codman; "and in reference to the 
last point, I am quite sure I shall like my pupil. I 
begin to like her already." 
"Do you?" said Bert, with much satisfaction, rising 
from the ottoman, and unceremoniously dropping the 
black kitten, who turned a somerset, and ran off shaking 
her head. 
In answer, LIrs. Codman held out her hand with a 
smile. 
. Bert hurried across the room, and placed her own in 
it confidingly. , 
" I am so glad you do," said she. "You won't make 
me study my eyes out, T ill you ? " 
"That would, indeed, be a pity," said Mrs. Codman, 
looking at Bert's bright eyes, sparkling with fun and 
mischief. 
Mr. Bowman observed these signs of agreement be- 
tween Bert and her new governess with pleasure, and 
 
 
hastened to say, " In regard to business arrangements 
we will speak by and by. I think I can promise that 
they will be satisfactory to you." 
It may be mentioned here, that Mr. Bowman, who 
was by no means 'disposed to deal parsimoniously with 
those in his employ, fixed Mrs. Codman's salary at six 
hundred dollars a year, which was four times as much 
as she had ever been able to gain by her needle. 
" When may we expect you ? " he asked. " You h ve, 
doubtless, some preliminary arrangements to make, for 
which you will please take whatever time yoii may 
require. Meanwhile, accept this sum in advance." 
He drew from his pocket-book a fifty-dollar note, which 
he haoded to Mrs. Codman. She could not feel any 
embarrassment in accepting a sum so tendered, and 
bowing her thanks, intimated that she would make her 
appearance on the following Monday, it being now 
Thursday. 
The advance payment provecj very acceptable to Mrs. 
Codman, as with it she was enabled to replenish her 
 wardrobe, a step rendered necessary by her residence in 
Mr. Bowman's family. She was busily engaged for the 
remainder of the week in supplying its deficiencies. 
No one could be more overjoyed than was the humble 
washer-woman at the success of her friend, of which she 
felt sure from the first, knowing Mrs. Codman to be a 
rale lady. The latter, feeling that she owed her present 
good fortune mainly to the zealous recommendation of 
her friendly neighbor, purchased a heat dress, which 
Mrs. O'Grady was prevailed upon to accept, on being 
convinced she would not thereby be distressing herself, 
 
a fact of which she was assured on being told of Mr. 
Bowman's liberality. 
Yet there was, as the reader well knows, one thought 
which contributed to diminish jthe joy which Mrs. Cod- 
man would otherwise have felt at being restored, in a 
measure, to the mode of life to which she had been 
accustomed, and relieved from the necessity of unremitting labor in order to sustain life. This was, the 
thought of Charlie, her own brave, handsome boy, who 
had been the joy and life of her little household, now 
gone, :— she knew not whither. The uncertainty as to 
his fate cost her many a sleepless night. She was sustained, however, by a strong confidence that he was yet 
living, and had little doubt that the suggestion of Peter 
Manson was correct, that he had been carried off by the 
captain of some vessel short of hands. Of course, she 
did not for an instant harbor the suspicion that Peter 
himself had had anything to do with his disappearance, 
being quite unaware that any motive existed powerful 
enough to tempt the old man to such a crime. 
" I shall hear from him ; I shall see him again," she 
said, with earnest conviction. " He is under the eye of 
Providence, wherever he may be, and no harm shall 
befall him." 
Still, even with this strong feeling of trust, there was 
an uncertainty about the time when her wishes could be 
realized, which could not fail to weigh upon the moth- 
er's heart. Then there was the constant longing for his 
bright and enlivening presence, greater, because he was 
her only child, and she was a widow. 
The furniture which Mrs. Codman had in her rooms 
she was enabled to dispose of without a very great sacrifice. She reserved a few articles, endeared to her by 
association, which she stored in the room of her friendly 
neighbor. 
With her, also, she left a sum of money, sufficient to 
pay for her month's rent, which would not be due for a 
fortnight after her removal to the house of Mr. Bowman. Peter Manson was not a little surprised and disappointed when, on visiting his tenant, — prepared to witness her distress and hear entreaties for a reduction of 
her rent, — to find her already gone, and to hear that she 
had obtained an advantageous situation, though where, 
he was unable to ascertain, as Mrs. O'Grady, with whom 
he was no favorite, was not disposed to be communicative. 
Leaving Mrs. Codman thus comfortably provided for, 
we must now follow the fortunes of our young hero, 
Charlie, whom we left securely bound in the forecastle 
of the Bouncing Betsy. 
 
XVI. 
THE BEGINKING OF CHABLIE's SEA-LIFE. 
When the Bouncing Betsy was fairly out to sea, Captain Brace, anticipating, with the malicious delight 
which a petty tyrant feels in the sufferings of those subject to him, the grief and terror of our young hero, 
ordered Charlie to be released from his bonds and 
brought before him. 
This order the mate chose to execute in person. 
The pressure of the cords, with which he had been 
bound, had chafed his limbs, and the constraint of his 
position had made them ache. 
As the mate busied himself in unbinding him, Charlie 
inquired, with a glimmering of hope, "Are you going 
to let me go?" 
" Where? " asked Randall. 
« On shore." 
" Perhaps you don't know that, by this time, we are 
at least forty miles from Boston." 
" Could you send me back? " asked Charlie, his heart 
sinking within him. 
" I suppose we might turn the ship about, and go back 
for your accommodation," said the mate, with a sneer ; 
" but I don't think Capt. Brace would consent." 
 
 
"Is there no way?'' implored Charlie. "Couldn't 
you put me on board some ship going back ? '' 
" You can speak to the captain about that. He has 
sent for you. Come along, and don't be all day about 
it." 
Charlie stretched himself with the intent of gaining 
some relief from the stricture he had suffered, and prepared to do what he knew there was no means of evading, he followed Randall to the presence of Capt. Brace. 
" "Well, Jack," said Capt. Brace, showing his teeth 
in an unpleasant manner, " how do you like life on ship- 
board?'" 
" My name is not Jack," was our hero's reply. 
" Indeed ! Perhaps you will do me the favor to tell 
me what it is." 
" My name," said our hero, hot liking the captain's 
tone, " is Charlie Codman." 
' So you pretend to be wiser than your uncle," said 
Capt. Brace, looking towards the mate. 
" He is not my uncle," said Charlie, boldly. If he 
had felt it to be prudent, he would have added that he 
had no desire for a relationship to Randall, but he knew 
that it would not be wise. 
"Do you dare to contradict my first officer?" demanded the captain, with a frown. 
" I am only telling the truth," said Charlie, undauntedly. 
" Silence I " roared the captain, in a passion. " If he 
chooses to call you his nephew, you shall be so ; do you 
hear that? I say, do you hear that?" he repeated, 
pounding with his clenched fist upon the table before 
him. 
"" Yes, sir," said our hero. 
" Take care that you remember it then. Your name, 
henceforth, is Jack Randall, — at any rate, as long as 
you remain aboard this ship." 
"How long am I to remain on board, sir?" Charlie 
could not help asking. 
" How long?" repeated the captain. " Forever  if I 
choose. And now as this is the last conversation which 
I intend to hold with you on this point, you will bear in 
mind that you are shipped on board this vessel as a boy, 
and that, if you don't do your duty you'll get." 
We suppress the word with which the captain closed 
his sentence, not being willing to soil our pages with it. 
This was rather a hard trial for our young hero, 
accustomed to a mother's gentle and affectionate words. 
Had he been less manly, he would have burst into tears ; 
but he only turned pale a little, and bit his lips. 
"Take him on deck, Mr. Randall, and set him to 
work," said the captain ; " and mind. Jack, that I don't 
hear any complaints of you." 
Charlie followed the mate to the deck. He had made 
up his mind that he must stay in the ship during the 
voyage, or, at all events until they reached land some- 
where, and resolved that, since it was forced upon him, 
he would do his duty as well as he could, and so afford 
as little advantage as possible to those who seemed 
determined to persecute him. 
He was set to work by Randall, who told him, in a 
sharp tone, to " mind his eye, and keep to work, if he 
knew what was best for himself." 
The work was not difficult, but Charlie's fingers were 
unpractised, and he might very soon have incurred the 
 
 
wrath of the captain and mate, if Bill Sturcly , the 
sailor whose friendly advances to our hero have already 
been noticed, had not approached him, the mate being 
temporarily out of earshot, and given him a little '
instruction. 
" Well, my lad, what news ? " inquired Bill. " Shipped 
for the voyage, are you? " 
"That's what the captain: and mate say," returned 
Charlie. . 
" They're a pair of precious rascals," said Bill, lowering his voice, " and it's my opinion . they're well 
matched, so far as villany goes." 
" What made you ship on board the vessel?" inquired 
Charlie. 
" Bless your soul, boy, I wouldn't a done it if I'd 
known who was in command ; leastways, if I had known 
a little more about him. But I didn't ask any questions. 
I had just got in from a v'y'ge to Calcutta, and happened 
to see one of my old shipmates, Jim Davis, walking on 
the wharf. ' Bill,' says he, ' why won't you ship along 
of me?' I asked him where he was bound, and he 
telled me to Valparaiso, on board the Bouncing Betsy. 
Well, I've been most everywhere else, but I had never 
been there, and reckoned I should like to see it. Besides, I'd got tired of going to Calcutta. I've been 
there, man and boy, six or eight times. It's too hot to 
live there some parts of the year. So I just told him I 
was in for it if he was, provided there was a vacancy. 
I asked him if he knew anything about, the officers. He 
said he didn't, but he guessed they would pass. So I 
just stepped into the office and  pped. There, lad, 
that's the whole story. I don't mind it much m 'self. 
They don't generally meddle much with me." 
'' Have you sailed with bad captains before? " inquired 
our hero.   
" Yes, my lad, sometimes. One captain I sailed with 
— I was a young man then — was Captain Maguire. 
He was a sort of an Irishman, I surmise, and mighty 
fond of drink. He was pleasant enough when he was 
sober, but that wasn't often. When he was drunk, he 
got' into a regular fury. He would tear round the deck 
like as if he was crazy, and so he was after a fashion, 
for he didn't seem to know, after he had got out of his 
fits, what he had done when he was in 'em. One day, I 
remember, as I was at work, he came up to me, and 
gave me a terrible thwack side of the head, swearing 
like a trooper all the time." 
'' What did you do? " asked Charlie, looking up with 
interest into the weathei'-beaten face of the old sailor. 
" I'll tell you," said Sturdy ; " you see, I'm pretty 
strong," glancing at his brawny arms and Herculean 
frame wit& pardonable complacency ; " I don't often 
meet a man I can't manage as easily as the mate can 
manage you. Now the captain wasn't a large man, by 
any means, nor very strong, either. As to the mates, — 
one of them was sick in his berth, and the other was in 
another part of the ship ; so I just took the captain up 
in my arms, and carried him down to the cabin, kickin' 
and cursin', as might be expected, and laid him down 
there. The officers didn't see what was goin' on, or 
there'd have been trouble. As for the crew, they enjoyed it, and wouldn't a man of 'em tell ; and as the 
 
 
captain didn't remember anything about it the next day, 
I didn't get punished." 
" Did you ever get punished? " asked Charlie. 
"Never since I grew up, and had these to fight my 
way with,'' said Bill Sturdy, showing his fists, which 
looked as if a blow from either of them would have 
felled an ox. " No, my lad, these are what I call my 
sledge hammers, and I'd as lives have them to rely upon 
as a pair of pistols." 
At this point in the conversation Bill was called off 
to some other part of the vessel, and the mate coming 
up discovered, somewhat to his disappointment, that our 
hero had discharged his task in a manner which did not 
admit of censure. 
It is customary to divide a ship's crew into two 
watches, whose duty it is to alternate in keeping a 
lookout at night. The first night-watch commenced at 
eight o'clock, and continues till midnight. This watch 
is then relieved by the second, who have had an opportunity of sleeping in the mean time, and who remain on 
duty till four A. M. They then give place to the first, 
who are again on duty till eight in the morning. Thus 
it will be seen that a part of the crew have eight hours 
sleep, while the remainder have but four. This inequality, however, is remedied the next evening, when the 
hours are changed. 
Charlie was fortunate in one respect. He was placed 
on the same watch with Bill Sturdy, who had established 
himself, in some sort, as the boy's protector, aild did not 
scruple to avow it. When some of the crew began to 
tease and play rough practical jokes upon Charliei — a 
mode of treatment to which boys are frequently sub- 
jected on board ship, — Bill Sturdy interfered, and in a 
sonorous voice exclaimed, — 
"Look here, shipmates, don't lay a finger on this 
boy!" 
"And why not?" inquired a burly sailor, with nat- 
urally repulsive features. 
"Because I say so," retorted Bill Sturdy. 
" Who is he, I should like to know, that we are to 
keep our distance ? " 
" I'll tell you who he is, shipmates," was the answer. 
"He's a boy that the mate has entrapped on board 
without his own consent." 
' ' Isn't he the mate's nephew ? " 
"No more than I am, though the mate chooses to 
call him so. He's got a mother living in Boston, and 
he's her only boy. She doesn't know what has become 
of him. Now, shipmates,- he seems to be a fine lad, 
and I'm going to stand by him for his sake and his 
mother's." 
Sailors are generous when you   reach their hearts, 
and there was a murmur of approbation when Bill 
concluded. 
But there is no rule without an exception, and that 
exception was the scowling sailot who has already be mentioned. Few knew much about him. This was his 
second voyage on board the Bouncing Betsy. Next to 
Bill Sturdy he was the stoutest and most athletic sailor 
on board the ship. During the previous voyage he had 
been the bully of the crew, taking advantage of his 
personal strength. Now they were released from his 
tyi-anny. In Bill Sturdy he had 'more than found his 
match. No one, comparing the two men, could doubt, 
that in . a contest, the odds would be decidedly in favor 
of Bill. Antonio, for tHis was his name, for he was a 
Spaniard by birth, could not help seeing the changed 
state of affairs. Now no one likes to be eclipsed, and 
 
to see tlio authority passing from his hands into those ' 
of another. Certainly Antonio did not behold this 
transfer with indifference. He' could not -brook hold- 
ing the second place, where the first had been his. But 
how could he help it? Very evidently the opinions of 
the crew favored Bill Sturdy; not only because they 
believed him to excel Antonio in physical qualities, 
which hold a high value in the eyes of a sailor, but 
because he had, as yet, shown no disposition to abuse 
his power. Antonio was resolved, not to yield without 
a struggle, and therefore determined to take the first 
occasion to pick a quarrel with his rival j as this would 
give him an opportunity to measure his strength with 
him. Antonio did not see, what was evident to all else, 
that his rival was undeniably his superior in prowess. 
People are generally slow to admit their own inferiorty. That is only natural. He hoped, therefore, that 
he should be able to re-establish his supremacy by coming off a conqueror in the contest which he had determined to do all in his power to bring about. 
Antonio's attention had not been especially called to 
our hero, until he heard Bill Sturdy avow his determination to take him under his protection. Then, in a spirit 
of perverseness, and because he thought it would open 
the way for the trial of strength which he courted, he 
resolved t(him, and openly espouse the other 
side. 
Accordingly, when the murmurs of applause, which 
had been elicited by his rival's frank and generous 
appeal to the sympathies of the crew, had subsided, 
Antonio looked round on the rough faces which surrounded him, and growled, — 
 
  " Well, shipmates, are you going to submit to what 
this fellow says? He dares you to touch this snivelling 
milk-sop of a boy." 
Some of the faces grew dark and threatening at this 
representation. Nothing stirs up a sailor's heart to 
opposition so readily as anything which resembles a 
threat. 
Bill Sturdy hastened to reply. 
" He is wrong. I don't threaten any of you. I only 
ask if it is right to play tricks, and abuse a boy who has 
already been treated so scurvily by the mate. I don't 
believe there's any one of you that wants to curry favor 
with Mr. Randall and the captain. Now there is nothing they will like better than to see you kicking round 
this lad." . 
Neither the captain nor the mate stood very high in 
the good graces of the crew, and the effect produced by 
this statement showed that it was adroitly conceived. 
Bill Sturdy took advantage of this to add, " Now, 
lads, when I say I am going to stand by this boy, and 
see that he isn't abused, I know you'll stand by me." 
This frank and bold speech produced a decided reac- 
tion in favor of Charlie. 
There was another murmur of approbation, which was 
interrupted by a stamp upon the deck by Antonio, who, 
with a ferocious contortion of countenance, shouted, 
" If you're all going to follow this man's lead, and do 
like dogs whatever he bids you, you'll find there's one 
here that dares to be independent." 
Saying this, he advanced suddenly to Charlie, who 
was at work near by, and, seizing him by the shoulder, 
was about to proceed to some act of violence. 
 
As soon as Bill Sturdy perceived his design, he sprang, 
forward and gave him a powerful blow which would have 
felled him to the deck, had not Bill slipped a little, as 
hedelivered.it. 
Instantly the Spaniard's sallow face was suffused, and, 
with a torrent of oaths and a howl of fury, he precipitated himself upon Sturdy. 
But it was easier to catch a weasel asleep, than to take 
the stout sailor unprepared. 
With his feet firmly planted upon the deck, and his 
fists in a proper position, he received the bully, parry- 
ing his blows with wonderftil dexterity, and succeeding 
in planting others no less effective. 
A ring of sailors gathered around, eager to watch the 
progress and termination of the affray. There were not 
a few among them, who enjoyed the punishment which 
they foresaw the Spaniard would receive from his antag- 
onist. He had so tyrannized over them in the past, 
that they felt little sympathy for him now. 
Baffled, blinded, and howling with mingled rage and 
vexation, the Spaniard continued the unequal fight. As 
for Bill Sturdy, he was cool and collected, apparently 
neither angry nor excited, but wary and on the alert. 
At length Antonio, perceiving a marline spike at a 
little distance, sprang towards it. It was a critical 
moment for Bill Sturdy, for a marline spike, m the 
hands of a furious and determined man, is a formidable 
weapon. 
His movement did not escape the notice of Sturdy. 
He had acted principally on the defensive thus far, 
but he now saw that something decisive must be done. 
Springing forward, he closed with his assailant,' lifted 
 
 
him from the deck, and, carrying him to the companionway, hurled him down stairs. 
Then, turning to the crew, he exclaimed, " Shipmates, 
I call you to witness that this quarrel was forced upon 
me. Have I done right or wrong? " 
" Right ! '' exclaimed all, in concert. 
At this moment the mate, attracted by the noise, 
came on deck. 
" What has been going on? " asked Randall, perceiving, from the position of the sailors and their looks-, 
that something had happened. What it was, he surmised, having heard something of the noise of the 
conflict. 
No one of the sailors spoke, but all looked at each 
other in hesitating silence. 
" What was it? Are you all deaf?" demanded the 
mate, impatiently. 
" A little fight, that is all, lilr. Bandall," answered 
Bill Sturdy, coolly hitching up his pants. 
'' And you were one of the parties? '' 
" I believe I was." 
" And who was the other? " 
" Antonio." 
" And where is he now? " 
" He has gone below," said Bill, in a significant tone. 
" What was the fight about?" inquired Bandall, who, 
in ordinary cases, would not have cared to pursue the 
subject farther, but had an undefined idea that it was in 
some way connected with our hero, for whom he felt no 
peculiar affection. 
." The fact is," said Bill Sturdy, " Antonio undertook 
 
 
to abuse that lad there," pointing to Charlie ; " and I 
ain't one to stand'by and see a boy abused. Besides," 
he added, with a latent humor which all understood, 
though he did not allow it to alter the gravity of his 
countenance, " I knew he was your nephew, and that 
made me the more anxious to defend him." 
Randall was placed in an awkward predicament. He 
could not deny that Charlie was his nephew after his 
express declaration to that effect, while at the same time 
the relationship which he claimed was far from exciting, 
in his own mind, any attachment for the boy. Still it 
closed his mouth for the time. He only muttered, in an 
undertone, that the boy must fight his own battles, and 
disappeared from the deck. 
"Fight his own battles!" repeated Sturdy, indig- 
nantly. "A pretty sort of an uncle he is, to match a 
boy of fourteen against a grown man, and a strong one 
at that. However," added Sturdy, complacently, " the 
