out his plan.
"Captain, you will permit Mr. Somers to pick his men, and afford him
every facility for the execution of his purpose."
"I will, with pleasure, sir."
"When do you wish to begin, Mr. Somers?" asked the admiral.
"To-night, sir."
"Very well. The monitors haven't arrived, captain, and it may be a
fortnight before we make the attack on the forts. The steamer may run
out in a fog or storm before that time, and I think we do well to
prevent another Tuscaloosa from preying on the commerce of the country."
"Undoubtedly, sir, if we can."
"Mr. Somers's scheme may possibly succeed, though I do not think his
chances of cutting out the steamer are very encouraging."
"I am afraid not, admiral," answered Captain Cascabel, incredulously.
"Mr. Somers, your reputation would be seriously damaged by the failure
of your enterprise. Your officers would be more unwilling to trust you
than they are now if you should meet with a disaster."
"I could not complain. I do not intend to meet with any disaster. If I
do nothing better, I shall bring my men back with me."
The admiral laughed, and seemed to be pleased with this confidence,
while Captain Cascabel shook his head.
"Mr. Somers, the risk is very great. You and your men may be prisoners
in Fort Morgan within twenty-four hours. A failure would damage, if not
ruin you. Are you still ready to undertake the work?" asked the admiral.
"I am, sir."
"Remember that everything depends upon yourself. My best wishes for your
success go with you."
Somers needed no better inspiration, and his frame seemed to jerk and
spring like that of Brave Old Salt, when he realized that he was
actually to undertake his cherished purpose.
The gig pulled back to the Chatauqua, and Somers immediately commenced
his preparations. The cordial indorsement of the admiral was enough to
silence all opposition, and to "put a stopper on the jaw-tackle of all
croakers." He was earnestly seconded by the captain and his officers. In
a short time a light whale-boat was towed up, and made fast to the boom.
Somers's first duty was to select his crew. He was to engage in a
desperate enterprise, and everything must depend upon the skill and
bravery, as well as the silence and discretion, of his force. The first
person selected was the boatswain, Tom Longstone, who, being better
acquainted with the qualities of the seamen, was intrusted with the
selection of the boat's crew. Just as soon as it was discovered that
some daring enterprise was to be undertaken by the third lieutenant, he
was beset by eager applicants for a place in the boat. Acting ensigns,
masters' mates, midshipmen, indeed, all the officers below Somers in
rank, begged to be appointed.
The young commander of the expedition was prudent and cautious, and he
accepted the services of none. Tom Longstone was the only officer to
accompany him. The boatswain would obey his orders without asking any
questions, or bothering him with any advice.
"There, Mr. Somers, I have picked out the twenty-four best men in the
ship--men that will work, fight, and hold their tongues," said Boatswain
Longstone, when he had executed the important trust committed to him.
"Thank you, boatswain. What do you think of the weather?"
"It's going to be a nasty night."
"So much the better. Let every man take his pea-jacket; apply to the
armorer for revolvers and cutlasses for each of them."
"A howitzer, Mr. Somers?"
"No; we must go as light as possible," replied Somers, as he proceeded
to instruct the boatswain in regard to certain "slings" and other
rigging that would be wanted.
Boatswain Longstone did not ask a single question about the nature or
object of the enterprise; and with the exception of the admiral, and the
captain and first lieutenant of the Chatauqua, not a man in the fleet
besides Somers knew "what was up." It was necessary to conduct the
enterprise with the utmost caution and secrecy.
The boatswain's predictions in regard to the weather proved to be
entirely correct, for at eight bells, when the first watch was set, it
was dark, foggy, and rainy. Somers had calculated upon this weather,
when he had so promptly chosen the time for his venture. It was just the
night for a difficult and dangerous enterprise, and the fog and the
darkness were its best friends. While the boatswain was carrying out the
orders given him, Somers had been engaged at the desk in his state-room,
preparing for use certain papers, including his commander's commission
in the Confederate navy, and his letter of instructions, intended for
the Ben Nevis, or Louisiana. With his knife he scratched, and with his
pen he wrote, until the documents suited his present purpose; and they
were placed in his pocket.
At two bells--nine o'clock in the evening--while the rain poured down in
torrents, Somers embarked with his force, consisting of Tom Longstone
and twenty-four as athletic and resolute fellows as ever pulled an oar
or handled a cutlass. The whale-boat was crowded, though it was of the
largest size, being thirty feet in length. The oars were carefully
muffled, and the seamen were so disposed that the oarsmen could be
relieved without noise.
Wrapping his overcoat closely around him, Somers seated himself in the
stern-sheets of the whale-boat, with the boatswain at his side. Though
profoundly impressed by the magnitude and danger of the work in which he
was engaged, he could not help thinking of the changes which had
checkered his lot, since, two years before, he had sat in the first
cutter of the Harrisburg, as an ordinary seaman. Now he was a master,
and in command of the expedition. Tom Longstone had been with him then;
he was with him now. In low tones, they talked of that eventful night,
and of the changes which had occurred since that time.
Somers was grateful for his advancement, and thanked God that he had
been enabled to perform his duty so as to merit the favor of his
superiors. And in the depths of his heart he asked God to bless his
present exertions for the good of his country. He leaned on the Good
Father even in this exciting hour, and his religious faith was the
strength of his arm.
CHAPTER XX.
THE PICKET BOAT.
Through the deep darkness and the dense fog the boat made its way. There
was not an object to be seen, on ship or shore, to guide its course; and
in front of Somers there was a patent binnacle, whose lights were
reflected on the compass, but did not even soften the gloom without,
into which he continued to gaze with the most anxious solicitude. He had
carefully estimated the currents the whale-boat would encounter, and
calculated the force of the wind, so as to determine her lee-way with
the nicest practicable accuracy.
The young commander of the expedition hoped to strike a certain point of
the land to the eastward of the fort on Mobile Point, distant five and a
half miles from the ship. Half a mile east or west of the desired point
might involve him in serious if not fatal difficulties, and everything
depended upon the accuracy of his calculations. His early experience as
a boatman at Pinchbrook Harbor was of incalculable service to him, since
nothing can supply the place of actual observation in the making of
such nice estimates as were required for success in the present
instance.
The rain poured down in torrents, and the sea was rough and uneasy; but
Somers, never for an instant turned aside from the grand object before
him by the discomforts of his situation, watched his compass and closely
observed every motion of the whale-boat. He was fired with zeal, but he
was not excited, for he knew how much depended upon cool judgment and
careful execution of the details of his work.
"Breakers ahead!" said the bowman, in a low tone; and the words were
passed aft to the officer.
Breakers were to be expected; and of course Somers was not appalled by
the announcement. The boat dashed on till she reached the broken water;
but the surf on the shore, thrown up by the storm, was absolutely
fearful. A stunning roar broke upon the ears of the young officer as the
frail craft approached the foaming billows that shattered themselves on
the beach.
"That's a heavy surf, Mr. Somers," said Tom Longstone.
"So much the better," replied the officer, cheerfully.
"This whale-boat will not be much better than a cockle-shell in that
surf."
"She will go through it, if she is well handled."
"Ay, ay, sir; of course she will."
"The rebels will not expect a boat to land in such a surf and on such a
night. We shall not be expected," replied Somers, in a loud tone, for
whispers and soft speech could not be heard above the roar of the
billows.
The commander of the expedition stood up in the stern-sheets, and
attempted to penetrate the gloom and fog in the direction of the beach;
but neither sight nor sound of the shore could be obtained. To plunge
through that boiling surf upon a rebel battery or an artillery company,
would be a sad conclusion of the night's work; but even this must be
risked, for it was not possible to obtain a single item of information
in regard to the surroundings on shore.
"Oars!" shouted Somers, when he had completed his unsatisfactory survey
shoreward, and there was not the slightest danger of his order being
heard by an enemy beyond the thundering roll of the sea. "Hold water!"
The onward progress of the boat was stopped.
"Back the starboard, pull the port oars!" added the officer, who had now
taken the management of the boat out of the hands of the coxswain.
"Oars!" he continued, when the boat was turned so as to head directly
from the shore.
"Now, my lads, pull steady, and mind the orders promptly," said the
confident young officer. "There's a heavy surf; but if you pull strong,
and mind quick, we shall be through it in a moment."
"Ay, ay, sir!" responded the blue-jackets.
"Stern, all!" continued Somers, when he had carefully observed the sweep
of the last wave.
The oarsmen backed water, and the boat moved towards the shore, stern
foremost. In a moment she was lifted up by a great billow and swept
furiously towards the beach.
"Steady!" said Somers, gazing forward over the heads of the men,
watching the approach of the next foam-crested wave.
The men were entirely cool, and their iron muscles held the boat under
perfect control. A huge roller was coming in, fiercely, rapidly, at
double or triple the speed of the whale-boat, and the first great peril
of the surf was at hand.
The danger was, as our inexperienced readers may not understand, that
the stern of the boat, suddenly struck by the swift-flying wave, would
be lifted high in air, and the bow forced under; or that the boat would
broach to, and be rolled over in the sea. In either case the boat would
be swamped, and eventually be stove on the beach. Somers saw one of
these rushing billows coming down with frightful velocity upon the
whale-boat.
"Oars!" cried he; and the men ceased backing her.
"Give way!" he added, with an energy which was at once communicated to
the muscles of the men; and they pulled steadily, as a well-disciplined
crew always does, but with a firmness and strength which caused the boat
to dart forward towards the savage roller.
She met the billow; her bow rose upon it; she passed over without being
ingulfed by it.
"Oars! Hold water! Stern, all!" continued the young officer; and again
the whale-boat moved towards the shore.
The manoeuvre described was repeated several times, until the boat had
passed through the surf, and struck heavily on the sandy beach. The men
in the bow were then ordered to jump into the water; and as the forward
part was thus lightened, the successive rollers bore the boat farther
and farther upon the beach, until the whole crew were landed. The first
step of the expedition had been safely accomplished.
Somers ordered the men to haul up the boat high and dry upon the beach.
There was not a person to be seen, or a sound to be heard, which
indicated the presence of an enemy. The young officer had now to prove
the correctness of his calculations, for as yet he knew not upon what
portion of the point he had landed. A careful survey of the ground was
therefore immediately to be made. It was necessary to have assistance in
this; and Somers selected two first-class firemen, very intelligent men,
machinists and engineers, who were in training for situations in
government ships. They had been brought to work the engine of the Ben
Lomond, if, fortunately, she were captured.
Tom Longstone was left in charge of the boat and crew, and the two
firemen followed the commander of the expedition, who moved towards the
north. When he had proceeded a short distance, he explained to his
companions his object.
"About an eighth of a mile from the beach," said he, "there is a creek,
which widens into a little bay. I wish to find this creek; it will lead
us into Mobile Bay. Conant, you will go east, and, Wade, you will go
west. You must be very careful, or you will lose your way. You will not
go more than half a mile, as nearly as you can judge, in either
direction. If you find it, return to the beach, and take notice of the
best way to reach it."
The firemen parted, and Somers moved forward himself. He did not find
the creek in the direction he had chosen, and returned to the beach,
after a search of about an hour. Wade was there before him; but Conant
had not yet made his appearance, though he did not long delay the
expedition.
"I have found it, sir," said Conant, when he returned. "It lies in this
direction:" he pointed to the north-east. "It isn't a quarter of a mile
distant; but I had some difficulty in finding a good path."
"Did you see anybody, or anything?"
"Nothing, sir."
The whale-boat was then turned over; each man took off his pea-jacket,
rolled it up, and put it on his shoulder. The boat was then lifted up,
and placed on the shoulders of the sailors, the garment acting as a
cushion to support the weight, without injury to the bearers. After a
great many trials and difficulties incident to the darkness of the night
and the character of the ground, the creek was reached, and the
whale-boat launched. Unfortunately, the water was very shallow, and even
the light draught of the boat was too great for rapid progress, though
by various expedients this obstacle was overcome, and the expedition
reached the mouth of the creek at about half past twelve o'clock in the
morning.
Somers was entirely dependent upon his memory and the compass for
sailing directions; and the careful study he had made of the navigation
of the bay enabled him to move with considerable confidence. The creek
disembogued in a nearly landlocked bay, whose comparatively still waters
were passed, and the boat began to be tossed by the waves of the broad
bay.
Heading his craft to the westward, he bade the men give way with a will.
Encouraged by the manner in which all obstacles had thus far been
overcome, they were ready and willing subjects. After pulling about
three miles, the rougher sea and the depth of water which the bowman had
continually reported, assured Somers that he must have reached the
Middle Ground, where vessels bound out usually came to anchor when
subjected to any delay. The Ben Lomond, if she was in the bay, could not
be far distant; but the fog and darkness prevented him from seeing a
ship's length ahead.
"Can you see anything, Mr. Longstone?" asked the young commander, who
felt that he was now in the midst of the greatest obstacles to the
success of his mission.
"I can't see anything," replied the boatswain; "but I think I hear
something. There, sir! Two bells just struck in a vessel dead ahead."
"I see her," said the bowman. "It's a rebel iron-clad!"
"She's an ugly customer. I don't want anything of her," said Somers, as
he ordered the boat to go about, and headed her to the north-east.
"Boat ahead, sir!" reported the bowman.
"Speak out, man!" said the commander. "I am not afraid of being seen
now. Where away is she?"
"On the port quarter, sir."
"Starboard, coxswain," continued Somers.
In a few moments the dark outline of the boat was seen in the water, and
the coxswain was directed to steer towards her. Somers was fully
committed now, and intended to carry himself through by impudence and
audacity. He was in the midst of the rebel fleet to be used for the
defence of the bay. He knew that the waters around him were patrolled
by picket boats, and he doubted not the craft before him was one of
them. He could not find the Ben Lomond readily, and probably the officer
of this boat would know her position.
"Boat ahoy!" he shouted.
"In the boat!" was the reply.
"Oars! Hold water!"
"What boat is that?" demanded the officer of the rebel party.
"My boat," replied Somers, rather irregularly.
"Who are you?"
"John Pillgrim, commander in the Confederate navy, appointed to the
steamer Tallapoosa."
"Ah," responded the officer. "You were expected before."
"Couldn't come before," replied Somers, with perfect assurance. "Where
is the Tallapoosa? I have been beating about here in the fog these two
hours, trying to find her."
"She lies about half a mile to the northward and eastward."
"Thank you; I shall find her. Please report me to Admiral Buchanan, and
say I shall run out immediately."
"It's a good night for it. I beg your pardon, Captain Pillgrim; have you
a pass?"
"A what?" demanded Somers, as if astonished at the request.
"A pass."
"No; where should I get a pass, or what should I want one for?"
"Excuse me, but my orders are very strict. I cannot let a boat or vessel
pass me without the proper papers."
"What papers do you want?"
"Simply a pass."
"I have no pass."
"I shall be obliged to detain you, then."
"No, you won't!" answered Somers, indignantly. "Here it is one o'clock
in the morning. I ought to have been over the bar by this time."
"I can't help it, Captain Pillgrim; my orders are imperative," pleaded
the picket officer.
"Well, if you can't help it, I can. I may not have such another night as
this for a month."
"I shall not detain you half an hour. The Tallapoosa has steam up, and
is only waiting for her commander and the balance of her crew."
"How many men has she on board?" asked Somers, somewhat startled.
"About forty, besides the firemen."
"I have the balance. It is all right."
"Pardon me, if I persist. I must see your papers."
"I have no pass; but I will show you my commission and my orders from
the secretary of the navy."
"Those will answer."
The boat was laid alongside, and by the light of a lantern the officer
glanced at Somers's commission and orders. He pronounced them all right,
and the expedition was permitted to proceed.
CHAPTER XXI.
THE BEN LOMOND.
"That's a bold step, Mr. Somers," said Tom Longstone, as the whale-boat
dashed on towards the intended prize.
"If it were less bold, it would be more dangerous," replied Somers,
easily; for he entered so fully into the spirit of the affair, that he
felt quite at home, and was hardly disturbed by a doubt of final
success.
"Where is Mr. Pillgrim now?" asked the boatswain.
"I haven't the least idea; but I think he cannot be far off."
"You left him at Fortress Monroe?"
"Yes; he had started for the South then, to take command, I suppose, of
this vessel. The traitor's plan was to come down on the Chatauqua, and
then bring out this vessel perhaps, on the pretence of capturing her. At
any rate, he was going to use his official position in the navy to help
him get the Tallapoosa out of the bay, and past the blockading squadron.
If not, he would not have gone in her, and thus wasted so much of his
valuable time. I wish I knew where he is now."
"Perhaps it don't make much difference."
"I am afraid it will make considerable difference. Suppose the traitor
has been on board the Ben Lomond?"
"The what?"
"The Tallapoosa; they have changed her name. Keep a sharp lookout
forward for the ship, bowman."
"Ay, ay, sir! I can't see a thing yet."
"Suppose he has been on board, Mr. Somers?" continued the boatswain.
"If he has, we may have to fight for the vessel."
"Well, we can do that," replied Tom, as he involuntarily grasped his
cutlass.
"He has forty men aboard of her now, besides the firemen and
coal-heavers."
"Our boys wouldn't mind forty of them."
"I should not hesitate to attack her, but the noise would wake up the
rebel iron clads and gunboats. We must get the vessel without fighting.
I don't believe Pillgrim has been on board of her. If he had, that
picket officer would have known that I am not the man. I'm not going to
croak about the business, though. In my opinion it will be all right."
"Of course the Tallapoosa is in charge of some one."
"All her officers are on board, except the commander, we were told."
"Some of them may know Mr. Pillgrim," suggested the boatswain, who had
more fears for his young commander than the latter had for himself.
"Mr. Pillgrim has been in the North, and in England since the war began.
I am of the opinion that those on board do not know him."
"Suppose they do?"
"I shall put them under arrest if they refuse to obey my orders."
"You are smart, Mr. Somers," said Tom, who chuckled over the adroitness
of his protégé, even while he trembled for his safety and success.
"Steamer ahead, sir!" reported the bowman.
"Where does she lie?"
"On the starboard bow, sir!"
"Port a little," said Somers. "Now, my men, you will obey orders and
keep silent. Answer no questions which may be put to you."
"Ay, ay, sir," responded the crew, cheerfully; for though they seemed to
be knocking at the door of a rebel prison, they had full confidence in
their gallant young leader.
Perhaps some of them "had their doubts," for four and twenty men are
hardly ever gathered together, among whom there are not more or less who
are disposed to grumble, and croak, and imagine possible disasters.
Within the rebel lines, surrounded by Confederate vessels, and on the
point of confronting superior numbers, it would not have been
surprising if these men had been rather uncertain of the future.
Whatever doubts or fears they had, they believed in Somers.
"My lads," continued the commander of the expedition, in a low tone,
"you are rebel sailors for an hour or so. You will talk and act as such.
Do you understand me?"
"Ay, ay, sir."
"You will call me Captain Pillgrim."
The men had listened to the conversation between their officer and the
pickets, and they comprehended enough of the plan to enable them to act
intelligently.
"Tom," said Somers, "there is nothing to prevent me from acting just as
Mr. Pillgrim would do, if he were in my place."
"That's so."
"I could go to sea in this steamer, and plunder all the vessels I could
overhaul."
"So you could," replied the boatswain, who seemed to be amazed even at
such a suggestion.
"I'm not sure that I am not carrying out the very plan which the traitor
had in his mind. Perhaps he intended to do just what I have done, when
he reached the blockading station."
"Very likely."
"Then I shall be Mr. Pillgrim, and carry out his purpose to the letter;
only, when we get out of the bay I shall do rather differently from what
he intended."
"Boat ahoy!" shouted a man at the gangway of the Ben Lomond.
"On board the Tallapoosa!" replied Somers.
"Keep off," said the man, who seemed to be the officer of the deck. "Who
are you?"
"Commander John Pillgrim, Confederate States navy, and captain of this
ship."
"Man the side, you lubbers!" added the boatswain, rather improving on
the suggestion of Somers, given him at this moment.
"Captain Pillgrim?" said the officer of the deck.
"I said so. Is the ship ready to sail?"
"She is, sir; we have kept steam up all day, waiting for you."
"Good! You are the right officers for me. I commend you," replied
Somers, as he mounted the accommodation ladder.
The pretended commander went up the side, closely followed by Longstone
and a dozen of the sailors, and stepped down upon the deck.
"I have not the pleasure of your acquaintance, I believe," added Somers,
confronting the officer.
"Mr. Swayne, second lieutenant, sir," replied the officer. "Mr. Langdon
is below, sir. I will send for him."
Langdon! It was all up with Somers! Langdon knew him, had dined with
him, had been intimate with him, and of course it would be useless to
attempt to pass himself off as Mr. Pillgrim.
"Stop, sir!" said Somers, sternly, and with great presence of mind.
"When did Mr. Langdon come on board?"
"Nearly a week ago, sir, when the rest of us did."
"Indeed!" added Somers, savagely. "Mr. Langdon and myself have a little
account to settle. He has disobeyed my orders, and I never will go to
sea with such a man as executive officer. Mr. Swayne, for the present
you will act as first lieutenant. I shall put Mr. Langdon under arrest
at once."
"Here he comes, sir."
"Mr. Longstone, you will arrest the first lieutenant at once; put him in
irons if he resists," said Somers, as he saw Langdon come up the
companion-way.
The stalwart boatswain confronted the astonished officer, as he
approached the spot where Somers stood with the second lieutenant.
"By order of Captain Pillgrim, you are placed under arrest," said Tom,
as, with a couple of seamen, he placed himself in front of the executive
officer.
"Under arrest?"
"Yes, sir."
"What for?"
"For disobedience of orders."
"By whose command?" demanded the bewildered Langdon.
"Captain Pillgrim's, sir?"
"Impossible!"
"I beg your pardon, sir, but the captain told me to lose no time. He is
going to sea at once."
"Is Captain Pillgrim on board?"
"Of course he is. I just came off with him. He ordered me to arrest
you."
"Who are you, sir?"
"Blarney, sir!" exclaimed the boatswain, impatiently; "I can't stop--"
"Mr. Blarney, will you do me the favor to ask Captain Pillgrim for a
moment's conversation with me. There must be some mistake, Mr. Blarney."
"Can't stop, sir," answered Tom, who could not even pause long enough to
laugh at the rebel's blunder. "My orders are to put you in irons if you
resist. What do you say, Mr. Langdon?"
"Of course I do not resist; but there is some mistake."
"No mistake, upon my honor. You may take my word for it, the business is
all straight."
"With what am I charged?"
"With disobedience of orders; and, Mr. Langdon, you'll excuse me, but
there's a suspicion that you mean to go over to the Yankees."
"I! To the Yankees!"
"Beg pardon, sir; but I can't stop to blarney any longer. My duty is
plain; and I'll bet a month's pay you will see the captain sooner than
you want to. Down below if you please, sir, to your state-room."
Langdon obeyed in dogged silence. No doubt he much wondered who the
rough fellow was that subjected him to this summary treatment. But the
salutary hint about irons seemed to satisfy him, and when he had gone
into his room, the door was closed, and a seaman placed before it.
Longstone returned to the deck, touched his cap politely to Somers, and
reported his orders executed.
"Mr. Swayne, you will call all hands," said the new commander of the
Tallapoosa, when his dangerous first lieutenant had been secured.
The boatswain of the steamer piped all hands, among whom the seamen from
the Chatauqua mingled, and made themselves entirely at home.
"Mr. Swayne, will you do me the favor to read my commission to the
crew," said Somers, handing him the document which he had carefully
"tinkered" to suit the present occasion.
Tom Longstone held the lantern, and the acting first lieutenant promptly
complied with the request of the assumed commander. The document
proclaimed that John Pillgrim was duly invested with authority as a
commander in the Confederate navy, and was duly signed by "S. R.
Mallory," though whether that distinguished rebel functionary had
actually issued the paper or not, Somers was himself as ignorant as the
others who listened to the reading.
From his orders Somers then read enough to satisfy any who might be in
doubt of his appointment to the Tallapoosa, which name he had
substituted for that of Ben Nevis, as it read on the original document,
given him by Langdon, alias Lieutenant Wynkoop.
"Are you satisfied, Mr. Swayne?" asked the commander, when he had
finished the document.
"Entirely so, Captain Pillgrim," replied the first lieutenant.
If he had not been satisfied, probably he would have been put under
arrest as summarily as his superior had been a few moments before. With
such an energetic captain, it was lucky for him he was satisfied!
Perhaps Mr. Swayne was duly and properly impressed by the decided
character of his commander, and deemed it prudent to raise no
objections.
"Are you satisfied, gentlemen?" asked Somers, turning to the little
group of officers.
Fortunately for them, and perhaps for Somers too, they were also
satisfied.
"My lads," continued the courteous but decisive captain, "you have
listened to my commission, and you have listened to my orders."
Somers paused, and the two first-class firemen from the Chatauqua
started a demonstration of applause which was a complete success.
"My lads, I am going out to take a look at the Yankee fleet, to-night,"
he proceeded.
Applause.
"I am a fighting man."
More applause.
"That Yankee fleet will not stop me!" added Somers, with enthusiasm.
"That's so!" shouted one of the first-class firemen, who had a high
appreciation of a good joke; and his remark was followed by a storm of
applause.
"I repeat, my lads, the Yankee fleet will not stop me. I shall pay my
respects to the Yankee admiral down there before the sun rises."
Tumultuous applause.
"Now, my lads, I mean just what I say, and I say just what I mean. I
command this ship, and every man on board obeys me. I am going through
the Yankee fleet; will you go with me?"
"Ay, ay, sir!" roared the crew; and the voices of the Chatauqua's people
were prominent in the reply.
"Will you go where I lead you?"
"Ay, ay, sir."
"Very likely I shall send you upon the deck of the heaviest man-of-war
in the Yankee squadron; but I will go with you."
"Bully for the captain!" shouted the enthusiastic first-class fireman,
which remark was indorsed and approved by the crew in general.
"What an awful fellow he is!--a regular fire-eater," whispered Mr.
Swayne to Tom Longstone.
"He will do all he says he will," replied the boatswain.
"Will he board a Yankee frigate?"
"It's like him; but he is as prudent as he is brave."
"Now, my lads, to your duty. We shall get under way at once, and I want
every man to be true to God and his country," continued Somers.
"Three cheers for the captain!" shouted the fireman; and they were given
with a will, as Somers walked aft.
CHAPTER XXII.
RUNNING THE BLOCKADE.
"Mr. Swayne, you will get the ship under way at once," said Somers, as
he turned from the crew, and walked aft.
The first lieutenant gave his orders, and the crew were soon walking
round the capstan. The officers of the Tallapoosa had certainly used
their time to advantage, for the crew was well disciplined, though the
twenty-four petty officers and seamen from the Chatauqua were the spice
of every movement.
"Where is the pilot, Mr. Swayne?" asked Somers.
"We have one on board, sir. He berths in the steerage. Shall I send for
him, Captain Pillgrim?"
"If you please, do so."
A master's mate was ordered to find the pilot.
"Is he up to his business?" continued Somers, to whom the pilotage of
the vessel was of the last importance.
"Yes, sir; he is the best pilot in these waters. He has taken out a
great many vessels on worse nights than this."
"I could take the vessel out myself, so far as that is concerned," said
Somers, nervously. "Does he know how to get through the obstructions?"
"O, yes, sir; he is perfectly familiar with everything about the bay."
"And the channel is full of those infernal torpedoes."
"It is, sir; but the pilot knows exactly where every one of them is
located. We are in no danger from them; but they will blow the Yankee
fleet sky high when they attempt to come up, as they probably will in a
short time."
"So I understand."
"There will be fun here in a few days," added Mr. Swayne, rubbing his
hands with delight, as he contemplated the destruction of the naval
force gathered on the other side of the bar for the demonstration.
"The admiral down there is no joker," suggested Somers. "He won't feel
his way, and then back out."
"It would be better for him if he did. Admiral Buchanan is his equal in
every respect. With his ram he will stave in every wooden ship in the
fleet. His monitors will be blown up on the torpedoes."
"I hope the affair will come out right," said Somers, rather
indefinitely.
"It will; you may depend upon it, captain. Whoever is here when the
thing is done will see the greatest smash-up that has happened since the
war began."
"I hope so," replied Somers. "But suppose Admiral Farragut should run by
the forts."
"He can't do it; the thing is utterly impossible. The torpedoes will
sink his monitors--they are like lead, and if you shake them up a
little, they will plump down on the bottom like a solid shot. His wooden
vessels, even if he gets by the fort,--which can't be done,--would be
all chawed up in half an hour by the ram Tennessee."
"Anchor apeak, sir!" shouted Boatswain Longstone, who was doing duty as
second lieutenant.
"Captain Column, the pilot, sir," said the first lieutenant, presenting
a person who had been waiting a moment at his side.
"I am happy to see you, Captain Column;" and Somers took his hand.
"Thank you, sir," replied the pilot, who was evidently astonished at the
degree of intimacy with which the commander condescended to treat him.
Already the new captain had won a hard reputation abaft the mainmast.
His stern and decisive measures with Langdon had been privately
discussed among the officers, and it was the unanimous opinion that they
had "caught a Tartar."
"Well, Captain Column, have you got your weather eye open? This is a
dark and foggy night."
"Wide open, sir," replied the pilot, cheerfully; for Somers's cordial
greeting had already produced a good effect upon him. "The darker and
foggier the better, captain, for such a job as this. But there are so
many Yankee ships outside, you can hardly get clear of them without a
shot or two."
"O, I don't mind that, if you can get us well over the torpedoes, and
through the obstructions."
"The obstructions are not of much account, and as for the torpedoes, I
could put my hand on every one of them with my eyes shut."
"Good; but I don't want you to put your hand or my ship on them."
"Certainly not, captain," laughed the pilot. "I know how to keep clear
of them."
"That will suit me better. The ship is in your hands, Captain Column."
A quartermaster from the Chatauqua was placed at the wheel, and when the
anchor was heaved up, the Tallapoosa started on her course. Her wheels
began to turn very slowly at first, and before she had gathered any
headway, a boat touched at her side.
"Boat alongside, Captain Pillgrim," reported Mr. Swayne.
"What boat?"
"I don't know, sir."
"I have no more time to waste; keep the ship moving."
As the Tallapoosa gathered headway, a gentleman, clothed in naval
uniform, stepped on the rail from the accommodation ladder. When he had
reached this point, he stopped and looked down at the boat.
"Stop the steamer!" shouted he, in tones of authority; and to those who
had heard it before there was no mistaking that voice.
It was Pillgrim, without a doubt! Somers was vexed and disappointed at
this accident, which threatened to overthrow all his plans; but he
promptly decided to treat him as he had Langdon.
"See what he wants," said the commander to Swayne, "but don't let the
ship be delayed a single instant."
"Stop the steamer!" shouted Pillgrim, with a volley of oaths, because
his first order had not been heeded. "Stop the steamer, or you will
swamp my gig!"
"Your business, sir, if you please," said Swayne, stepping up to him.
"Don't you hear what I say?" replied Pillgrim, angrily. "Stop the
steamer."
"It can't be done, sir."
"Can't be done!" gasped the traitor. "It can and shall be done."
"Who are you, sir, that step upon this deck in that overbearing manner?"
demanded the first lieutenant, roused by the tones and the manner of the
new comer.
"I'll let you know who I am. Where is Langdon?"
"None of your business where he is," said Swayne, spunkily. "What do you
want here?"
"You shall soon know what I want here!"
Pillgrim was boiling over with passion at the rough reception given him
by his officers on board his own ship. He was disposed to be even more
stern and severe in his discipline than Somers had been.
"Who are you?" demanded Swayne.
"None of your business who I am, if you don't know; but I will soon
bring you to your senses," roared Pillgrim, as he leaped down upon the
deck, and with the step of a conqueror moved aft towards the wheel.
"Halt, sir!" said Mr. Swayne, placing himself in front of the stranger;
for he was roused to a high pitch of anger and excitement by the
unwarrantable conduct of the interloper. "You can go no farther on this
deck, sir, till you explain who and what you are."
Somers stood where he could see without being seen; for his presence on
the deck of the Ben Lomond would have explained to Pillgrim the reason
for his uncourteous reception. He quietly sent the two firemen and a
couple of seamen to the assistance of Mr. Swayne.
"I am the captain of this ship," replied Pillgrim, who found it
necessary to make this statement.
"The man is crazy," muttered Swayne.
"You understand me now," growled Pillgrim. "Stop the ship!"
"I think not, sir," replied Swayne, coolly; and he evidently regarded
the claim of the stranger in the light of a joke, or as the whim of a
maniac.
"You think not!" gasped Pillgrim, roused almost to madness by this cool
disregard of his authority. "I'll have you in irons in three minutes,
you scoundrel."
"There, sir, I have heard enough of this!" said Swayne. "No man uses
such language as that to me with impunity."
"I tell you I am the commander of this steamer," added Pillgrim, who
doubtless felt that the epithet he had used was unbecoming an officer
and a gentleman.
"I don't care what you are. If your boat is alongside, you will go into
it, in double quick time."
Pillgrim began to storm again, shouted to the pilot to stop the steamer,
and behaved in the most violent manner. Mr. Swayne's patience was
totally exhausted, and he ordered the seamen who stood near him to
arrest the interloper. A sharp struggle ensued, in which Pillgrim was
overpowered, and was held fast by the stout tars of the Chatauqua.
The first lieutenant then explained to the captain what had passed, and
what he had done.
"Put him in irons!" said Somers, decidedly.
"Who is he, captain?"
"It matters not who he is. No man can behave in that manner on board of
this ship."
Swayne executed his orders to the letter, and the traitor, in spite of
his struggles, in spite of his explanations and appeals, was put in
irons on the quarter deck of his own ship. He was carried below, and put
in a state-room, which was guarded by Conant, who had orders to shoot
him if he did not keep quiet.
In the mean time, the Ben Lomond,--for Somers, in strict accordance with
the subsequent "ruling" of Mr. Seward, refused to recognize the vessel
by any other than her original name, calling her the Tallapoosa only in
the presence of the rebels,--the Ben Lomond, under the skilful guidance
of the pilot, was slowly making her way out of the bay. A quartermaster
had been stationed in the fore-chains when the steamer got under way, to
take the soundings, which seemed to be the pilot's principal reliance in
the difficult duty he had undertaken. Captain Column had placed himself
on the port rail, just abaft the foremast, and the steering directions
were sent aft through a line of officers to the helmsman.
"By the deep four," sang the quartermaster in the chains.
"Steady!" said the pilot. "Keep her sou'-west by west, half west."
"Steady!" responded the quartermaster at the wheel. "Sou'-west by west,
half west."
"By the mark five!" said the leadsman, a little later.
"We are getting into deep water," said Somers.
"Yes, sir; we shall deepen till we get seven fathoms."
"And a half five!" came from the chains. "By the deep six."
The pilot went on the bridge, and taking the cord attached to the
whistle of the engine, made a signal, consisting of several blasts, with
irregular intervals between them. A heavy bell on shore sounded several
times in answer to the signal.
"All right," said the pilot. "I know exactly where I am."
"By the deep six!" called the leadsman.
The pilot repeated the signal with the whistle, which was answered from
the shore by the bell.
"Quarter less seven!"
"It is all going right, captain," said the pilot to Somers, who stood on
the bridge with him.
"By the mark seven!"
"Hard a port!" shouted the pilot, as he gazed into the binnacle on the
bridge.
"Hard a port!" repeated the line of officers, till the order was
returned by the wheelman.
"Steady!" said the pilot.
"Mark under water seven!" cried the quartermaster in the chains.
"Keep her south by west," added the pilot.
"South by west!" returned the wheelman.
"This course will bring us into the midst of the Yankee fleet in about
twenty minutes," said Captain Column.
"I'm not at all afraid of the Yankee fleet," replied Somers.
"I'm not afraid of anything else," laughed the pilot.
"Where are the torpedoes?"
"Between us and Fort Morgan, which is only about a third of a mile
distant, on our beam."
"And the obstructions?"
"We have passed them; they are of no account. Captain, I think all your
troubles are yet to come," said the pilot, as he glanced ahead.
"Why so?"
"If we should happen to plump into one of those monitors, a fifteen inch
shot would finish this craft in less time than it would take to read a
man's epitaph."
"I have prepared for all such accidents. The Yankees will not fire on
me."
"No?" exclaimed the pilot, wonderingly.
"I think you don't know me."
"I heard the first lieutenant say you were coming down here in one of
the Yankee ships."
"I did."
"Did you, though?"
"We will come to anchor, pilot, when we get within hail of the Yankee
squadron."
"Come to anchor, sir?"
"Certainly; come to anchor, until the fog clears off, or we can get a
little daylight. I don't want much."
"Well, that beats me!" ejaculated Captain Column.
"I shall hoist The Yankee flag over the Confederate; then the Yankees
will think this ship is a prize, and will not fire into her."
"That beats me!" repeated the pilot.
"I came down here in a Yankee man-of-war, and I made the arrangements
for carrying this thing through before I left her."
"O, yes, I see!" laughed Captain Column. "You are playing them a Yankee
trick."
"Exactly so!"
"Capital! capital!" exclaimed the pilot.
Fifteen minutes later, the Ben Lomond came to anchor under the lee of
Sand Island, to wait for a favorable time to continue her voyage.
CHAPTER XXIII.
A YANKEE TRICK.
The rebel officers and crew of the Ben Lomond were greatly astonished
when the order was given to let go the anchor. They were not in a
condition to appreciate the policy of stopping the wheels, and waiting
for daylight within hail of the blockading squadron, reënforced as it
had been for the attack on the forts; but as the captain had the
reputation of being a perfect tiger, a fire-eater of the most ravenous
sort, they did not venture to grumble or make any complaints.
Captain Column, the pilot, chuckled, and declared it was all right; the
commander knew what he was about, and would get the steamer out of the
scrape without even a shot from the Yankee men-of-war.
Somers had kept up his dignity and maintained his self-possession in the
exciting scenes through which he had just passed; but it must not be
thought that he was as easy in mind as he appeared to be. Every moment
had been burdened with its own peculiar anxiety. The least slip, the
slightest accident, would expose him and his brave followers to great
peril, if not to capture and death. He had won the day thus far by the
mere force of impudence and self-possession; but it was not without a
fear of failure, disgrace, and captivity.
But everything, up to this time, had worked admirably. He had met and
successfully turned aside the obstacles which beset him; and when the
Ben Lomond came to anchor, the prospect looked more hopeful than at any
previous hour. It was now about two o'clock in the morning. As there was
nothing to do, he devoted an hour to an examination of the vessel, which
had been fitted up at Mobile as a rebel cruiser. She had a heavy rifled
pivot gun amidships, and four broadside guns, and was in every respect
well provided for the work in which she was to engage.
She was a vessel of about four hundred tons measurement, long, narrow,
and very sharp. Her rig was that of a topsail schooner, and her
smoke-stack raked with her masts. She was a beautiful craft, and no
labor or expense had been spared to make her the fastest and most
elegant vessel afloat.
Even in the darkness, Somers could see enough of her shape and fittings
to excite his admiration. He passed from the spar deck to the berth
deck, where everything was in keeping with her appearance above. The
ward-room was small, but it was comfortable and well arranged, and the
captain's cabin was fitted up like that of a royal yacht. Probably Mr.
Pillgrim had spent some of his own money on these arrangements before
she left the Clyde; but what contributed distinctly to make her a war
steamer had been done after her arrival at Mobile.
Somers was delighted with the arrangements of the prize, and as he
examined the commander's cabin, he could not help envying the man who
was permitted to occupy this sumptuous and convenient apartment; that
is, if the stars and stripes floated at the peak above him, for he would
rather have been a coal-heaver in a loyal ship, than in command of the
Ben Lomond under the flag of the Confederacy.
Mr. Swayne had conducted Somers over the vessel, and pointed out to him
those features which were most worthy of notice.
"She is a splendid vessel," said the young commander, as they paused in
the ward-room.
"Yes, sir; I am but too happy in being appointed to such a ship. If we
only get clear of the Yankee squadron, we shall give a good account of
her."
"We shall have no quarrel with the Yankee ships," replied Somers, as he
led the way to the spar deck again, for he was not disposed, just yet,
to let Pillgrim and Langdon, who were confined there, hear his voice.
"Captain Pillgrim, you seem to be more confident on this point than your
officers," replied Swayne, in a gentle tone, which more than insinuated
that he would like to know more of the commander's plans.
Somers was very anxious that he should know more of them, so as to
prevent any suspicions which his subsequent course might excite.
"From what point did you expect me to come, before my arrival?" asked
Somers.
"I had no idea. Mr. Langdon seemed to be familiar with all your
movements, but he did not say much about them. He did remark, at one
time, that you were coming down as second lieutenant of one of the
Yankee men-of-war."
"Did he, indeed? Well, he was a prudent man, and he will have his reward
within a few days. Did he really say that?"
"He did."
"I was deceived in him; he was not to be trusted. I placed every
confidence in him. What else did he tell you?" asked Somers, artfully.
"Nothing else, sir. He said more to me than to any other officer, and
hardly anything to me."
"He has betrayed me."
"He told only me that you were to come in a Yankee man-of-war."
"Yes, he did; the pilot knew it--spoke to me of it; and very likely
every man in the ship has the news. But, Mr. Swayne, the statement was
true."
"Mr. Langdon afterwards contradicted it, and said you were in Richmond,
and were coming down by land."
"Probably he thought he had made a blunder. I did come down in the
Yankee ship, the Chatauqua. I am third lieutenant of her, not second. I
was sent off by the captain, at my own suggestion, of course, to bring
out this vessel. I have done it--haven't I?"
"You have," laughed Swayne. "Then you are expected by the Yankees?"
"Of course I am."
The first lieutenant of the Ben Lomond indulged in a laugh highly
complimentary to the skill and cleverness of his commander. Somers
laughed with him. It was an excellent joke to both parties, though, like
the Druid shield, it was seen from different points of view.
"Capital!" exclaimed Mr. Swayne, when he had evaporated the foam of his
mirth.
"If the fog clears off, I shall let up some rockets, which will prevent
the Yankees from firing at us. You understand?"
"I see, sir: you have the Yankee signals?" chuckled Mr. Swayne.
"Every one of them. No doubt they are on the lookout for me in every
ship in the squadron."
"Excellent, Captain Pillgrim. This is, by all odds, the best joke of the
season."
"Now, Mr. Swayne, you will hoist the Yankee flag over the Confederate."
"I don't like to do that, captain," added Mr. Swayne, with a burst of
patriotic enthusiasm.
"For a purpose, Mr. Swayne. Of course, when the men-of-war see that flag
over the other, they will not fire. We shall run through the squadron,
as though we belonged to it; and then--well, you will see what you will
see."
"Exactly so!" exclaimed Mr. Swayne, who seemed to enjoy the prospect
exceedingly, even independent of his desire to flatter and "toady" to
his commander.
The flags were hoisted as Somers directed, and the "captain" for a
couple of hours planked the deck in silence, impatiently waiting for the
fog to lift, or for the daylight to come. It was his policy to anchor,
because he was fearful that the steamer would run by the squadron, in
the fog and darkness, and it would excite suspicion to return to the
fleet, after safely passing through it. If Mr. Swayne had suspected any
treachery, or that everything was not as it appeared to be, it would
have gone hard with Somers and his men, for he could call in double the
loyal force to assist him, besides releasing Pillgrim and Langdon.
At four o'clock in the morning, the fog lifted, and Somers directed the
rockets to be discharged, and the steamer to be got under way. Though
anxious to keep up appearances, he quietly directed Tom Longstone to
make as much delay as possible, and by some accident the messenger
parted when the anchor was apeak, and it was necessary to do the work
over again.
"Captain Pillgrim, what shall be done with the men who came on board
with you?" asked Mr. Swayne, while the crew were walking round the
capstan.
"What shall be done with them?" asked Somers, apparently not
comprehending the meaning of the question.
"They are Yankees--are they not?"
"They are true men, Mr. Swayne. I selected them for this very duty, and
I know them."
"Excuse me, sir, I heard one of them singing a Yankee song, just now."
"They have been in the habit of singing such songs lately; but they are
true men, and will stand by me to the last. If I had wanted them, I
might have brought off a hundred of the crew of the Chatauqua."
Somers told a great many truths in the course of the night, for the
purpose of deceiving the enemies of his country, which is a very
anomalous duty for truth to perform.
The anchor was at the hawse hole, was "catted and fished;" and the Ben
Lomond moved on again, with the pilot on the bridge. As the fog lifted,
and the daylight increased, the squadron of "Brave Old Salt" was seen by
Somers and his companions. As he had promised, not a ship fired on the
steamer, or offered to molest her. The first lieutenant, pilot, and
other officers were entirely satisfied that everything was working in
exact accordance with the plans of their "smart" commander, as they
already called him.
The exciting moment when all the delusion would be swept away, and the
rebel officers and seamen find themselves prisoners, and their ship a
prize, was at hand. Somers had already arranged his final movements with
the boatswain, and certain of the men were instructed to perform
particular parts in the closing scene of the drama.
"Now, Captain Column," said Somers to the pilot, "we must run down for
the Chatauqua. She is the last vessel in the squadron, and if we appear
to be moving towards her, nothing will be suspected."
"Exactly so, captain," replied the pilot, shaking his fat sides with
laughter at the Yankee trick which they were playing off upon the
originators of this species of pleasantry.
"It is quite smooth this morning. The wind has all gone down. Run right
under the quarter of the Chatauqua."
"I can take her within six feet of the ship, if you like."
"Not too close."
"They will give us three cheers, won't they?" laughed the pilot.
"Very likely."
"Port!" shouted the pilot, as the Ben Lomond approached the Chatauqua.
"Port!" yelled the quartermaster at the helm, at whose side stood Tom
Longstone.
"Port!" repeated the pilot with greater energy, when he saw that the
head of the steamer was swinging off from the Chatauqua.
"Port!" again responded the quartermaster.
"Starboard a little more," said Tom, in a low tone.
Captain Column began to storm because the helm did not go to port as he
ordered.
"Can't help it, sir. The tiller chains are jammed, sir," replied the
quartermaster.
"Now hard a port!" said Tom Longstone.
"Starboard! Hard a starboard!" screamed the pilot, in tones of fury.
"Helm is jammed, sir!" returned the boatswain.
At this moment the bells were rung to stop, and then to back the engine.
To all but the half dozen loyal seamen who stood near the helm,
everything seemed to be in confusion. The Ben Lomond ran up on the lee
side of the Chatauqua, and stopped within a few feet of her. A stroke of
the wheels and a turn of the helm brought her alongside, before the
rebels could clearly apprehend the situation. The twenty-four men, with
their revolvers and cutlasses, stood ready to check any demonstration on
the part of officers or crew, but none was made. Their weapons were in
the armory, and they suspected nothing till an instant before the
steamer touched the ship's side.
Conant, as instructed, leaped on board the Chatauqua, and reported
Somers's wish to the officer of the deck. In another moment, the watch
on deck of the man-of-war poured into the prize, and secured every
officer and seaman. Then came the three rousing cheers which the pilot
had expected, and the work was done.
If ever a rebel was disappointed, disheartened, and disgusted, it was
Mr. Swayne. He had been bewildered by the sudden change in the course of
the steamer, and actually believed that it was caused by the wheel
chains being jammed, until the watch from the Chatauqua poured in upon
her decks.
"Well, Mr. Swayne, I suppose you are satisfied that I spoke the truth.
The Yankees have not fired upon us; I came down in the Chatauqua; I was
sent off to bring out this vessel; I have done it," said Somers.
"I had no suspicion you were a Yankee," replied the first lieutenant.
"Where did you get your commission?"
"It was given me by Mr. Langdon and Mr. Pillgrim, both of whom are under
guard below."
Swayne used some expletives more forcible than polite, and Somers went
on board the Chatauqua to report.
CHAPTER XXIV.
PILLGRIM AND LANGDON.
"I have the honor to report the capture of the Ben Lomond, otherwise the
Tallapoosa," said Somers, as he advanced towards Mr. Hackleford, his
face red with blushes, and his heart bounding with emotion.
The first lieutenant of the Chatauqua had regarded his enterprise with a
want of faith, to say the least; and when the young commander of the
expedition came forward to report its entire success, there was
something like pride and exultation in his manner, mingling not
ungracefully with the manifestations of his natural modesty. He had done
"a big thing;" he felt that he had done "a big thing;" and it would have
been a ridiculous affectation for him to pretend, by word or manner,
that he had not done "a big thing."
"I congratulate you upon your success, Mr. Somers," replied Mr.
Hackleford, warmly. "I was sceptical, I confess; but no man in the fleet
is happier than I am at your good fortune."
"Thank you, sir," said Somers, blushing more deeply than before, and
almost wishing that the first lieutenant had done the "big thing"
instead of himself, because he was so kind and generous in his
