“I suppose it was Helen Ford,” returned the landlady. “She is a little
fairy, as you say. Is your coffee right, M’lle Fanchette?”
“Quite right,” replied that lady, sipping it. “What room do the little
girl and her father occupy?”
“The fourth story back.”
“Ah, indeed!” said M’lle Fanchette, elevating her eyebrows. It was easy
to see that lodging in the fourth story back was sufficient in her eyes
to stamp Helen as one whose acquaintance it was quite beneath her
dignity to cultivate.
“She has a very sweet, attractive face,” said Martha Grey.
“Beautiful! angelic!” exclaimed Mr. Eustace, with enthusiasm.
“I don’t see anything very beautiful or angelic about her,” remarked
M’lle Fanchette, who would much prefer to have had her dashing
neighbor’s admiration bestowed upon herself.
“You should have seen the beautiful flush upon her cheeks.”
“So I did.”
“And did you not admire it?”
“I happened to look into the kitchen yesterday,” returned M’lle
Fanchette, passing her plate for some toast, “and I saw Bridget who had
been over the hot stove all day, with just such a pair of red cheeks.
Did I admire her?”
There was a momentary silence. All who had seen Helen, felt the
injustice of the comparison.
“There is no accounting for tastes,” interrupted the landlady, somewhat
indignantly. “If you had seen the tenderness with which she waits upon
her father, who, poor man, seems quite incapable of taking care of
himself, you would find that she has a heart as beautiful as her face.
Her beauty is not her only attraction.”
“What does her father do?”
“That is more than I can tell. Helen says that he is an inventor, and
that he has made some discovery which is going to make them rich.”
“After all,” thought M’lle Fanchette, “it may be well to notice her. But
they are poor now?” she said aloud.
“Yes. They seem to have little baggage, and dress quite plainly. They
cannot have much property.”
Meanwhile, Helen, quite unconscious that she had been a subject of
discussion among the boarders, drew out the table into the middle of the
room, and spread over it a neat white cloth. She then placed upon it two
bowls of different sizes into which she poured the milk. Several slices
were cut from one of the loaves and laid on a plate. Near by stood the
butter. These simple preparations being concluded, she called upon her
father to partake.
“You are a good girl, Helen,” said he, rousing for the moment from his
fit of abstraction. “You are a good girl, and I don’t know how I should
get along without you.”
“And I am sure I could not get along without you, papa,” was her reply,
accompanied with a glance of affection.
“Have you not always cared for me, Helen, and given up the society of
those of your own age in order to minister to my comfort? But it shall
not always be so. Some day I shall be rich——”
“When you have completed your invention, papa.”
“Yes, when that is completed,” said her father, earnestly. “Then we
shall be rich and honored, and my Helen shall be dressed in silks, and
ride in a carriage of her own.”
“You are quite sure you shall succeed, papa?”
“I am sure of it,” he answered, in a tone of quiet conviction. “I only
fear that some one will be beforehand with me, and snatch away the honor
for which I am toiling. To me it seems passing strange that mankind
should have been content for so many years to grope about upon the earth
and never striven to rise into the nobler element of the air, while the
sea, which presents difficulties as great, is traversed in every part.
For me,” he continued, assuming a loftier mien, and pacing the small
room proudly,—“for me it remains to open a new highway to the world.
What compared with this will be the proudest triumphs of modern science?
How like a snail shall we regard the locomotive, which now seems a
miracle of swiftness! Borne aloft by the appliances which I shall
furnish, man will emulate the proud flight of the eagle. He will skim
over land and sea, and in his airy flight look down upon the monuments
of human skill and industry flitting before him, like the shifting
scenes of a panorama.”
“It will be a glorious destiny,” said the child, “and how proud I shall
feel of you who have done all this!”
“While we are speaking, time passes,” said the father. “I should be at
work even now. I must bring hither my implements without delay. Every
moment wasted before I attain my object, is not my loss, only, but the
world’s.”
“Wait till I have cleared away the table, papa, and I will go with you.”
This was speedily done, and the two descended the stairs, and went forth
into the busy streets hand in hand. Helen diligently cared for the
safety of her father, who, plunged into his usual abstraction, would
more than once have been run over by some passing vehicle but for her
guardianship.
                              CHAPTER III.
                          A HALF RECOGNITION.
The character of Robert Ford may be divined without much difficulty from
the glimpses which have already been given. He was an amiable man, but
strikingly deficient in those practical traits which usually mark our
countrymen and command success even under the most unpromising
circumstances. He was not a man to succeed in business, nor suited for
the rough jostling with the world which business men must expect. He
ought rather to have been a quiet scholar, and dreamed away long days in
his library,—“the world forgetting, by the world forgot.” Such would
have been his choice if his circumstances had been easy. Under the
pressure of necessity he had turned aside from the ordinary paths of
money-making to devote himself to a chimerical plan by which he hoped to
attain wealth and distinction.
No man of a well balanced mind would have labored with such sanguine
expectations of success on a project so uncertain as the invention of a
flying machine. But Mr. Ford had not a well balanced mind. He was much
given to theorizing, and, like many amiable but obstinate persons, it
was as difficult to dislodge from his mind a purpose which had once
gained entrance there as to convert him by some miraculous
transformation into a sharp man of the world. Had he lived in the middle
ages it is very probable that his tastes and the habits of his mind
would have led him to devote himself to alchemy, or some other recondite
science, which would have consumed his time and money without any
adequate return.
We will now suppose three months to have elapsed since the events
recorded in our first chapter; three months in which the flowers of June
had been exchanged for the fruits of September, and the mellow beauty of
autumn had succeeded the glory of early summer.
During this time Helen has become an established favorite with all the
inmates except M’lle Fanchette, who yet, finding the tide of general
opinion against her, is content with privately stigmatizing the child as
an “upstart,” and a “forward hussy,” though in truth it would be
difficult to imagine anything more modest or retiring than her conduct.
She and her father still occupy the little room in the fourth story
back. Nothing has come of Mr. Ford’s invention yet, though he has filled
the room with strange, out-of-the-way appliances, wheels, and bits of
machinery, on which he labors day after day in the construction of his
proposed flying machine. His repeated failures have little effect in
damping his spirits. He has the true spirit of a discoverer, and is as
sanguine as ever of ultimate success. He has learned the difficult
lesson of patience.
“With such an end in view,” he sometimes exclaims with enthusiasm, half
to himself, half to Helen, “what matter a few months or years! Rome was
not built in a day, nor is it to be expected that a discovery which is
to affect the whole world in its consequences, should be the result of a
few hours’ or days’ labor.”
Helen, whose veneration for her father is unbounded, listens with the
fullest confidence, to his repeated assurances. It pains her to find
that others are more skeptical. Even Mother Morton who, though some find
her rough, is invariably kind to Helen, looks upon the father as a
visionary, since she has discovered the nature of his labors. She one
day intimated this to Helen. It was some time before the latter could
understand that a doubt was entertained as to her father’s success, and
when the conviction came slowly, it brought such an expression of pain
to her face, that the landlady resolved never in future to venture upon
an allusion which should grieve the child, whom she could not but love
the better for her filial trust and confidence.
Meanwhile the rent of the apartment which they occupy, and the cost of
living, simple as is their fare, have sensibly diminished their scanty
supply of money. This Helen, who is the steward and treasurer, cannot
help seeing, and she succeeds in obtaining work from the slop-shops. Her
father does not at first discover this. One day, however, he said
abruptly, as if the idea had for the first time occurred to him, “Helen,
you always seem to be sewing, lately.”
The child cast down her eyes in some embarrassment.
“You cannot be sewing so much for yourself,” continued her father. “Why,
what is this?” taking a boy’s vest from her reluctant fingers. “Surely,
this is not yours.”
“No, papa,” answered Helen, laughing; “you don’t think I have turned
Bloomer, do you?”
“Then what does it mean?” questioned her father, in real perplexity.
“Only this, papa, that being quite tired of sitting idle, and having
done all my own sewing, I thought I might as well fill up the time, and
earn some money at the same time by working for other people. Is that
satisfactory?” she concluded, playfully.
“Surely this was not necessary,” said Mr. Ford, with pain. “Are we then
so poor?”
“Do not be troubled, papa,” said Helen, cheerfully. “We could get along
very well without it; but I wanted something to do, and it gives me some
pocket-money for myself. You must know that I am getting extravagant.”
“Is that all?” said her father, in a tone of relief, the shadow passing
from his face. “I am glad of it. I could not bear to think of my little
Helen being compelled to work. Some day,” passing his hands fondly over
her luxuriant curls; “some day she shall have plenty of money.”
This thought incited him to fresh activity, and with new zeal he turned
to the odd jumble of machinery in the corner.
The evening meal was studiously simple and frugal, though Helen could
not resist the temptation of now and then purchasing some little
delicacy for her father. He was so abstracted that he gave little heed
to what was set before him, and never noticed that Helen always
abstained from tasting any luxury thus procured, confining herself
strictly to the usual frugal fare.
After tea it was the custom for father and daughter to walk out,
sometimes in one direction sometimes in another. Often they would walk
up Broadway, and Helen, at least, found amusement in watching the
shifting scenes which present themselves to the beholder in that crowded
thoroughfare. Life in all its varieties, from pampered wealth to squalid
poverty, too often the fruit of a mis-spent life jostled each other upon
the sidewalk, or in the street. The splendid equipage dashes past the
humble handcart; the dashing buggy jostles against the loaded dray.
Broadway is no exclusive thoroughfare. In the shadow of the magnificent
hotel leans the foreign beggar, just landed on our shores, and there is
no one to bid him “move on.” The shop windows, too, are a free “World’s
Fair Exhibition,” constantly changing, never exhausted. Helen and her
father had just returned from a leisurely walk, taken at the close of a
day of labor and confinement, and paused to rest for a moment on the
west side of the Park.
While they were standing there, a handsome carriage drove past. Within
were two gentlemen. One was already well advanced in years, as his gray
hairs and wrinkled face made apparent. He wore an expression of
indefinable sorrow and weariness, as if life had long ago ceased to have
charms for him. His companion might be somewhat under forty. He was tall
and spare, with a dark, forbidding face, which repelled rather than
attracted the beholder.
As the carriage neared the Park, the elder of the two looked out to rest
his gaze, wearied with the sight of brick and stone, upon the verdure of
this inclosure. This, be it remembered, was twenty years since, before
the Park had so completely lost its fresh country look. He chanced to
see Mr. Ford and Helen. He started suddenly in visible agitation.
“Look, Lewis!” he exclaimed, clutching the arm of his companion, and
pointing to Mr. Ford.
The younger man started almost imperceptibly, and his face paled, but he
almost instantly recovered himself.
“Yes,” he said, carelessly; “the Park is looking well.”
“Not that, not that,” said the old man, hurriedly. “That man with the
little girl. He is,—he must be Robert, my long-lost son. Stop the
carriage. I must get out.”
“My dear uncle,” expostulated the younger man, who had been addressed as
Lewis, “you are laboring under a strange hallucination. This man does
not in the least resemble my cousin. Besides, you remember that we have
undoubted proof of his death in Chicago two years since.”
“You may be right,” said the old man, as he sank back into his seat with
a sigh, “but the resemblance was wonderful.”
“But, uncle, let me suggest that more than fifteen years have passed
away since my cousin left home, and even if he were living, he must have
changed so much that we could not expect to recognize him.”
“Perhaps you are right, Lewis; and yet, when I looked at that man, I was
startled by a look that brought before me my dead wife,—my precious
Helen. I fear I have dealt harshly with her boy.”
He relapsed into a silence which his companion did not care to disturb.
He watched guardedly the expression of the old man, and a close observer
might have detected a shade of anxiety, as if there were something
connected with his uncle’s present mood which alarmed him. After a short
scrutiny he himself fell into thought, and as we are privileged to read
what is concealed from all else, we will give the substance of his
reflections.
“Here is a new danger to be guarded against, just at the most critical
time, too. Shall I never attain the object of my wishes? Shall I never
be paid for the years in which I have danced attendance upon my uncle? I
must succeed by whatever means. He cannot last much longer.”
The evident weakness of his uncle seemed to justify his prediction. He
looked like one whose feet are drawing very near the brink of that
mysterious river which it is appointed to all of us at some time to
cross.
                              CHAPTER IV.
                          A GLANCE BACKWARDS.
It was growing late. Night had drawn its sombre veil over the great
city, and the streets, a little while before filled with busy
passers-by, now echoed but seldom to the steps of an occasional
wayfarer. The shops were closed, the long day assigned to trade being
over. To plodding feet and busy brains, to frames weary with exhausting
labor, to minds harassed by anxious cares, night came in friendly guise,
bringing the rest and temporary oblivion of sleep.
From a small building in a by-street, or rather lane, which nevertheless
was not far removed from the main thoroughfare, there gleamed a solitary
candle, emitting a fitful glare, which served, so far as it went, to
give a very unfavorable idea of the immediate vicinity. Within, a young
man, painfully thin, was seated at a low table, engrossing a legal
document. The face was not an agreeable one. The prevailing expression
was one of discontent and weak repining. He was one who could complain
of circumstances without having the energy to control them; born to be a
subordinate of loftier and more daring intellects.
He wrote with rapidity and, at the same time, with scrupulous elegance.
He was evidently a professional copyist.
After bending over his writing for a time, during which he was rapidly
approaching the completion of his task, he at length threw aside the
pen, exclaiming, with an air of relief, “At last it is finished! Thank
Heaven! that is,” he added, after a slight pause, “if there be such a
place, which I am sometimes inclined to doubt. Finished; but what after
all is a single day’s work? To-night I may sleep in peace, but to-morrow
the work must begin once more. It is like a tread-mill, continually
going round, but making no real progress. I wish,” he resumed, after a
slight pause, “there were some way of becoming suddenly rich, without
this wear and tear of hand and brain. I don’t know that I am so much
surprised at the stories of those who, in utter disgust of labor, have
sold themselves to the arch fiend. Why should I have been born with such
a keen enjoyment of luxuries, and without the means of obtaining them?
Why should I be doomed——”
When discontent had thus opened the way for its favorable reception,
temptation came.
There was a knock at the door.
Thinking it might be some strolling vagabond who, in his intoxication,
was wandering he knew not whither, he did not at first respond, but
waited till it should be repeated.
It was repeated, this time with a considerable degree of force.
The young man approached the door, but feeling apprehensive that it
might prove to be some unwelcome visitor, he paused before drawing the
bolt, and called out, in a voice marked by a tremulous quaver, for he
possessed but little physical courage, “Who are you that come here at
such an unseasonable hour? Unless I know your name, I shall not let you
in.”
“Don’t be alarmed, Jacob,” was the reply. “It is only I, Lewis Rand.
Open at once, for I come on business which must be quickly despatched.”
The explanation was evidently satisfactory, for the scrivener in eager
haste opened the door, and admitted his visitor. It was the younger of
the two men upon whom the chance meeting with Helen and her father
seemed to have produced an impression so powerful. Jacob, though well
acquainted with him, was evidently surprised at his presence at an hour
so unseasonable, for he exclaimed, in a tone of mingled surprise and
deference, “You here, Mr. Rand, and at this time of night! It must be
something important which has called you at an hour when most men are
quietly sleeping in their beds.”
“Yet you are up, Jacob, and at work, as I conjecture,” said the visitor,
pointing to the table on which the completed sheets were still lying.
“True,” said the copyist, for this recalled to him the grounds of his
discontent; “but I must work while others sleep, or accept a worse
alternative. Sometimes I am tempted to give up the struggle. You have
never known what a hard taskmaster poverty is.”
“Perhaps not,” returned the other; “but I can testify that the
apprehension of poverty is not less formidable. However, I can perhaps
lend you a helping hand, since the business on which I come, if
successfully carried out, of which with your co-operation I have strong
hopes, will prove so important to me that I shall be able to put a
better face upon your affairs.”
“Ah!” said the young man, with suddenly awakening interest; “what may it
be? I will gladly give you all the aid in my power.”
“Jacob,” said his visitor, fixing his eyes steadily upon the scrivener,
“you know there is an old maxim, ‘Nothing venture, nothing have.’ In
other words, he who aims to be successful in his undertakings, must not
scruple to employ the means best suited to advance his interests, even
though they may involve the possibility of disaster to himself. Do you
comprehend my meaning?”
“Not entirely. At least, I need to be informed of the connection between
what has just been said and the service you require at my hands.”
“You shall presently know. But first promise me solemnly that what I may
say, and any proposition which I may make to you to-night, shall forever
remain a secret between us two.”
The scrivener made the required promise, though his wonder was not a
little excited by the extraordinary language and significant tone of his
companion.
“I promise,” he said. “You may proceed. I am ready.”
“You are quite alone, I suppose,” said Lewis, inquiringly. “There is no
fear of eavesdroppers?”
“Not the least,” replied Jacob, muttering to himself in an undertone,
“Margaret must be fast asleep, I think. You need be under no
apprehensions,” he said, aloud. “We shall not be disturbed.”
At this moment a small clock over the mantel struck two.
“Two o’clock!” exclaimed Lewis. “I had not supposed it so late. However,
it is perhaps better, since we are the safer from interruption. You are
somewhat acquainted,” he continued, “with the position in which I stand
to my uncle. For years I have been his constant companion, the slave of
his whims and caprices, depriving myself of more agreeable and congenial
society, in order to maintain my hold upon his affections, and secure
the inheritance of his large property. No son would have done as much as
I have. And now, when half my life is gone, and the realization of my
hopes is apparently near at hand, an incident has occurred, which
threatens to disarrange all my plans, and defraud me of all but a tithe
of that which I have so long looked upon as my sure inheritance.”
“Surely, your uncle has no nearer relatives than yourself!” exclaimed
Jack, in surprise.
“That is what the world thinks, but they are deceived. My uncle has a
son, and that son has a daughter. You see, therefore, that there is no
lack of heirs. But you need an explanation.
“My father died when I was not quite five years of age. He was what is
called a gay man, and spent freely what property he possessed, in
extravagant living, and, lest that might not prove sufficient, he lost
large sums at the gaming table. He died in an affair of honor which grew
out of a dispute with one of his gambling acquaintances, leaving, as my
inheritance, a few debts and nothing more. But for my uncle I should
have been thrown upon the cold charities of the world. Fortunately for
me, my uncle had none of his brother’s vices, and had preserved his
property intact, so that when need came, he was able to stretch forth a
helping hand to his nephew.
“I can remember the day when I became an inmate of my uncle’s household.
I did not mourn much for my father, who seldom took any notice of me.
Child as I was, I understood that his death, in consigning me to my
uncle’s care, had left me better off than before.
“I was nearly five, as I have said. My uncle had a son,—but one,—who was
two years my senior. So my cousin Robert and I grew up together.
Although we were treated in every respect alike, having the same tutors,
the same wardrobe, and even sharing the same room, I cannot remember a
time when I did not hate him. There was nothing in his manner or his
treatment of me that should lead to this, I acknowledge. He always
treated me as a brother, and I suffered not a word or a gesture, not
even a look, to indicate that I did not regard him in the same light.
You will perhaps wonder at my aversion. It is easily explained. Although
our treatment was the same, I soon learned that our prospects were very
different. I soon became aware that he, as heir of his father’s wealth,
already considerable and rapidly increasing, was considered, by many, a
far more important personage than myself. Notwithstanding my uncle’s
indulgence to me, I well knew that his pride, and a certain desire,
inherited from his English ancestors, that his estate should be handed
down entire from generation to generation, would receive anything beyond
a moderate annuity. I could not brook my cousin’s superior prospects,
and determined to injure him with my uncle, if an opportunity offered.
“The opportunity came. My cousin fell in love with a beautiful girl,
who, but for her poverty, would have attracted me also. This, however,
proved an insuperable obstacle. I waited until the attachment had
ripened into the most ardent affection, and then I made it known to my
uncle with all the embellishments which I thought best calculated to
arouse his irritation. The object of my cousin’s attachment I described
as an awkward country-girl, without cultivation or refinement. It was a
heavy blow to my uncle’s pride, for he had nourished high hopes for his
son, and aspired to an alliance with a family as old and distinguished
as his own. In the exasperation of the moment he summoned Robert to him,
and peremptorily insisted on his at once giving up his attachment,
stigmatizing the object of it in such terms as I had employed in
describing her. My cousin’s spirit was naturally roused by such manifest
injustice, and he refused to accede to his father’s wishes. The
discussion was a stormy one, and terminated as I hoped and believed it
would. My cousin went forth from the house, disowned and disinherited,
and I remained, filling his place as heir.”
Jacob surveyed the speaker with a glance of admiration. He paid homage
to a rascality which surpassed his own. He admired his craftiness and
address, while his want of principle did not repel him.
“What became of your cousin?” inquired the scrivener, after a pause.
“He married and went out West. He possessed a small property inherited
from his mother, and this enabled him to live in a humble way. I have
heard little of him since, except that he had but one child, a daughter,
who must now be not far from fourteen years old. This I learned from a
letter of her father’s which I intercepted.”
“Has your uncle ever shown any symptoms of relenting?” asked Jacob.
“Two years ago he was very sick and it was thought he might die. During
that sickness he referred so often to his son that I began to tremble
for my prospective inheritance. I accordingly procured a notice of his
death to be inserted in a Chicago paper, which I took care to show my
uncle. The authenticity of this he never dreamed of doubting, and I felt
that my chances were as good as ever. But within the last week a fact
has come to my knowledge which fills me with alarm.”
The copyist looked up inquiringly.
“It is this,” resumed Lewis. “Not only is my cousin living, but he is in
this city. Furthermore my uncle has seen him, and but for my solemn
assurance that he was mistaken, and my recalling to his recollection
that Robert’s death was well attested, he would have taken immediate
measures for finding him out. If found, he would be at once reinstated
in his birthright, and I should be reduced to the position of a humble
dependent upon my uncle’s bounty.”
“But you have escaped the danger, and all is well again.”
“By no means. Notwithstanding my representation, my uncle clings
obstinately to the belief that either he or some child of his may be
living, and only yesterday caused a new will to be drawn up, leaving the
bulk of his estate to his son or his son’s issue; and, failing these, to
me. You will readily see how I stand affected by this. Of course in the
event of my cousin’s death a search will be immediately instituted for
my cousin and his daughter, and being in the city they will probably be
found.”
“Your prospects are certainly not of the most encouraging character,”
said Jacob, after a pause. “But, if I may venture to inquire, what
assurance have you that such is the tenor of your uncle’s will?”
“This,” replied Rand, taking from a side-pocket a piece of parchment
tied with a blue ribbon, and leisurely unrolling it. Jacob watched his
movements with curiosity.
“This,” said he, bending a searching glance upon the scrivener, as if to
test his fidelity; “this is my uncle’s will.”
The copyist could not repress a start of astonishment.
“The will!” he exclaimed. “How did you obtain possession of it?”
Lewis smiled.
“It was for my interest,” he said briefly, “to learn the contents of
this document, and I therefore made it my business to find it. You see
that I have been successful. Read it.”
The copyist drew the lamp nearer, and read it slowly and deliberately.
“Yes,” said he, at length, looking up thoughtfully; “the contents are as
you have described. May I ask what it is your intention to do about it,
and what is the service I am to render you?”
“Can you not guess?” demanded his visitor, fixing his eyes meaningly
upon him.
“No,” returned the scrivener, a little uneasily; “I cannot.”
“You are skilful with the pen, exceedingly skilful,” resumed Lewis,
meaningly. “Indeed, there has been a time when this accomplishment came
near standing you in good stead, though it might also have turned to
your harm.”
Jacob winced.
“Ah!” pursued the visitor, “I see you have not forgotten a little
occurrence in the past, when, but for my intervention, you might
have been convicted of—shall I say it?—forgery. You need not thank
me. I never do anything without a motive. I don’t believe in
disinterestedness. The idea struck me even at that time that I might
at some time have need of you.”
“I am ready,” said Jacob, submissively.
“That is well. What I want you to do is this. You must draw me up
another will as nearly like this as possible, except that the whole
estate shall be devised to me unconditionally. Well, man, what means
that look of alarm?”
“It will be very dangerous to both of us,” faltered the copyist.
“It will be a forgery, I admit,” said Lewis, calmly; “but what is there
in that word, forgery, which should so discompose you? Did it ever
occur to you that the old charge might be renewed against you, when no
intervention of mine will avail to save you?”
The copyist perceived the threat implied in those words, and hastened to
propitiate his visitor, of whom he seemed to stand in wholesome fear.
“Nay,” said he, submissively, “you know best the danger to both of us.”
“And I tell you, Jacob, there is none at all. You are so cunning with
the pen that you may easily defy detection, and for the rest, I will
take the hazard.”
“And what will be the recompense?” inquired the scrivener.
“Two hundred dollars as soon as the task is completed,” was the prompt
reply. “One thousand more when the success of the plan is assured.”
Jacob’s eyes sparkled. To him the bribe was a fortune.
“I consent,” he said; “give me the will. I must study it for a time to
become familiar with the handwriting.”
He drew the lamp nearer and began to pore earnestly over the manuscript,
occasionally scrawling with the pen which he held in his hand an
imitation of some of the characters. It was a study for an artist,—those
two men,—each determined upon a wrong deed for the sake of personal
advantage. Lewis, with his cool, self-possessed manner, and the copyist,
with his ignoble features and nervous eagerness, divided between the
desire of gain and the fear of detection.
All this time a woman’s eye might have been seen peering through a
slightly open door, and regarding with a careful glance all that was
passing. The two men were so intent upon the work before them that she
escaped their notice.
“Oho,” said she to herself, “there shall be a third in the secret which
you fancy confined to yourselves. Who knows but it may turn out to my
advantage, some day? I will stay and see the whole.”
She drew back silently, and took her position just behind the door,
where nothing that was said could escape her.
Meanwhile Jacob, having satisfied himself that he could imitate the
handwriting of the will, commenced the task of copying. Half an hour
elapsed during which both parties preserved strict silence. At the end
of that time the copyist, with a satisfied air, handed Lewis the
manuscript he had completed. The latter compared the two with a critical
eye. Everything, including the names of the witnesses, was wonderfully
like. It was extremely difficult from the external appearance, to
distinguish the original from the copy.
“You have done your work faithfully and well,” said Lewis, with evident
satisfaction, “and deserve great credit. You are wonderfully skilful
with the pen.”
The copyist rubbed his hands complacently.
“With this I think we need not fear detection. Here are the two hundred
dollars which I promised you. The remainder is contingent on my getting
the estate. I shall be faithful, in that event, to my part of the
compact.”
Jacob bowed.
“It must be very late,” said Lewis, drawing out his watch. “I am sorry
to have kept you up so late; but no doubt you feel paid. I must hasten
back.”
He buttoned his coat, and went out into the street. A smile lighted up
his dark features as he speculated upon the probable success of his
plans. He felt not even a momentary compunction as he thought of the
means he had employed or the object he had in view.
Meanwhile those whom he was conspiring to defraud were sleeping
tranquilly.
                               CHAPTER V.
                            THE PETTIFOGGER.
The legal profession numbers among its disciples a large class of
honorable and high-minded men; and it also includes some needy
adventurers well versed in the arts of pettifogging and chicanery, and
willing, for a consideration, to throw over the most discreditable
proceedings the mantle of the law, thus perverting, to the injury of the
public, that which was intended for its principal safeguard.
Of this latter class was Richard Sharp, Banister, whose name might have
been read on the door of an exceedingly dirty little office not far from
Wall Street. Being under the necessity of introducing my reader to some
acquaintances and localities not altogether desirable I must trouble him
to enter Mr. Sharp’s office.
In the centre of the office stands a table covered with green baize.
Scattered over it are diverse bundles tied with red tape, evidently
intended to give the unsophisticated visitor the impression that Mr.
Sharp’s business is in a most flourishing condition. Nevertheless, since
the novelist is permitted to see farther into the shams which he
describes than is accorded to others less privileged, it may be remarked
that these identical bundles have lain upon the table with no other
alteration than an occasional change of arrangement, ever since the
office was opened.
The enterprising proprietor of the bundles aforesaid is smoking a cigar,
while reading the Morning Herald, and occasionally glancing out of the
window near by. His features would hardly justify the description of
“beauty in repose,” being deeply pitted with smallpox, which is not
usually thought to improve the appearance. His nose is large and
spreading at the base. His hair is deeply, darkly, beautifully red,
bristling like a cat’s fur when accidentally rubbed the wrong way. Add
to these a long, scraggy neck, and the reader has a tolerable idea of
Mr. Sharp as he sat in his office on the first day of October, 18—.
How long he would have sat thus, if uninterrupted, is uncertain. His
meditations were broken in upon by a quick, imperative knock at the
door. The effect upon Mr. Sharp was electrical. He sprang from his seat,
tossed his cigar away, wheeled his chair round to the table, and drawing
a blank legal form towards him, knit his brows and began to write as if
life and death depended upon his haste. Meanwhile the visitor became
impatient and rapped again, this time more imperatively.
“Come in,” called Mr. Sharp, in a deep bass voice, not raising his eyes
from the paper on which his pen was now scratching furiously. “Take a
seat; shall be at leisure in a moment,—full of business, you know,—can’t
get a moment’s rest.”
When at length he found time to look up, he met the gaze of our recent
acquaintance, Lewis Rand. The latter, who had penetration enough to see
through the lawyer’s artifice, smiled a little derisively.
“It must be a satisfaction to you,” he said, rather dryly, “to find your
services in such request.”
“Why, yes, ahem! yes,” said the lawyer, passing his fingers through his
bristling locks. “It is a satisfaction as you say, though I confess,” he
continued, with a dashing effrontery quite refreshing to contemplate,
“that sometimes when my labors are protracted far into the night, I feel
that business has its pains as well as pleasures, and cannot help
wishing that——”
“That you had a partner to relieve you of a portion of your toils, you
doubtless mean to say,” interrupted Lewis, with a quizzical smile; for
he was quite aware that Mr. Sharp meant no such thing. “In that case I
know the very man for you; a young man just entered at the bar, very
promising, and bidding fair to distinguish himself in his profession. I
should be happy to serve both you and him. When shall I introduce him?”
“Why,” said Sharp, in some embarrassment, for he knew to his cost that
his business was quite too limited to support himself, much less a
partner. “Why, you see, although my business is, as I said, very
driving, I do not at present think of taking a partner. The fact is, I
never enjoy myself more than when I am hard at work. It is an
idiosyncrasy of mine, if I may so express myself.”
And Mr. Sharp looked up, thinking he had made a very clever evasion.
“When I do conclude to take a partner, which the increase of my business
may at some time render absolutely necessary,” he added, graciously
inclining his head, “I will certainly think of your friend. Your
recommendation will be a sufficient guarantee of his ability.”
“I feel deeply indebted to you for the confidence you express in my
judgment,” said Lewis, bowing, “particularly as I am a perfect stranger
to you. Such instances are rarely met with in a world like ours.”
Mr. Sharp was not quite sure whether his visitor was not secretly
bantering him. He thought it best, however, to construe his meaning
literally.
“I am not usually hasty in bestowing my confidence, Mr.—your name
escaped me.”
“I think I have not mentioned it.”
“O ho, ahem! perhaps not,” continued Mr. Sharp, finding his little
artifice to obtain his visitor’s name ineffectual, “but as I was about
to say, I seldom give my confidence without good reason. I am—I may
say—somewhat skilled in physiognomy, and a cursory examination of the
features is sufficient, in ordinary cases, to enable me to form an
opinion of a person.”
Mr. Sharp was fertile in expedients, and had an abundant share of
self-possession.
“Perhaps we had better proceed to business,” said Lewis, abruptly.
“Oh, by all means, sir, by all means?” returned Mr. Sharp, assuming a
brisk tone at the prospect of a client. “As I before remarked, I never
feel more completely in my element than when immersed in business. It is
an——”
“If you will give me your attention for a few minutes,” pursued Lewis,
unceremoniously interrupting him, “I will endeavor to explain the nature
of the service I require.”
Mr. Sharp bent forward, and assumed an attitude of the most earnest
attention. He nodded slightly, and screwed up his eyes, as if to
intimate that he was about to concentrate all his mental energies upon
the matter in hand.
“You must know,” said Lewis, slowly, “that there are two persons living
in this city whose presence, in what way it is needless to specify,
conflict very seriously with my interests. It is my wish to bring some
motive to bear upon them which shall lead to their departure from the
city.”
“I understand,” nodded Mr. Sharp, with an air of profound wisdom. “Go
on, my good sir.”
“One difficulty, however, meets me at the outset,” continued Lewis; “I
do not know in what part of the city the two persons——”
“Aforesaid,” prompted Mr. Sharp, nodding sagaciously.
“Live,” concluded Lewis, not heeding the interpolation; “nor have I any
definite clew by which to find them.”
“Can you describe these persons to me so that I may be able to identify
them?”
“That is not easy, since one of them I have never seen but once, and the
other but once in fifteen years.”
Mr. Sharp looked a little puzzled.
“I can, however, tell you this much. One is a man of about forty, who
appears somewhat older. The other, his daughter, is a girl of fourteen,
or thereabouts. The former is a little absent in manner, or was formerly
so; the little girl, I should judge, is attractive in her personal
appearance.”
“When did you last meet them?” inquired the lawyer.
“One evening last week.”
“And where?”
“They were then leaning against the railing on the west side of the
Park.”
“Can you tell at what hour?”
“About six.”
“Then it is quite possible that they may be found at the same place some
evening, at or near this hour. Very probably they are in the habit of
taking a walk at that time and in that direction. We are all creatures
of habit, and are apt to stick to the ruts we have made. Have you no
other clew by which I may be guided? It is quite likely that there are
others to whom the description you have given will apply. When you saw
them, in what manner were they dressed?”
“I had but a brief glimpse, and do not feel altogether sure. The father
is as tall as yourself. I can tell you the girl’s name also; it is
Helen.”
“And her father’s?”
“I could tell you his real name, but as I have every reason to believe
that he has dropped it and assumed another, it will, perhaps, be
unnecessary. His Christian name is Robert.”
“The first step, then,” said Mr. Sharp, reflectively, “is, of course, to
find these persons. This will be a matter of some difficulty, and may
require considerable time. I do not doubt, however, that I shall
ultimately be able to accomplish it. May I inquire whether they are in
good circumstances pecuniarily?”
“Probably not. I presume their means are quite limited.”
“So much the better.”
“For what reason?” inquired Lewis, in some curiosity.
“Simply this. You tell me you are desirous of removing them from the
city; if they are poor it will be much easier to offer an inducement
likely to weigh with them, than if they were in prosperous
circumstances.”
“There is something in that, I admit, but if Robert is as proud as he
used to be in days gone by, such an attempt would avail but little.
However, there is no occasion to consider what further steps are to be
taken, till we have actually found them. That must be our first care.”
“In that I shall endeavor to serve you. How and where shall I
communicate with you?”
“I shall call upon you frequently. There may, however, be occasions when
it will be needful to communicate with me without delay. In such an
event, a note directed to L. Thornton, Box 1228, will reach me.”
Mr. Sharp noted this address on a slip of paper, and bowed his client
out.
There will of course be no difficulty in divining why Lewis considered
it detrimental to his interests that Helen and her father should remain
in the city. He was in constant alarm lest some accident should bring
together the father and son, who had for so long a time been separated
from each other. He was playing for a large stake, and was not
fastidious as to the means employed, provided they insured his success.
His visit to the copyist, and the bold forgery perpetrated with his
assistance, afforded sufficient evidence of this. He was disposed,
however, to use very prudent precaution. Why he was induced to call in
the co-operation of a needy, and well nigh briefless lawyer like Mr.
Sharp, may be gathered from the soliloquy in which he indulged on
leaving the office of the worthy attorney.
“There’s a great deal of humbug about that fellow,” he said to himself,
“but he is quick-witted and unscrupulous—two qualities which adapt him
to my service. Again, he is poor, and not overburdened with business, so
that he will be the more likely to attach himself to my interests.
Things seem to be in a fair train. It is fortunate that my cousin does
not know of his father’s removal to this city; he doubtless imagines him
a hundred miles away. It is indispensable that I should not show myself
in this business, but leave everything to Sharp. When the property is
mine, I can bid my cousin defiance.”
The wily nephew hastened to the bedside of his uncle, where, with
feigned solicitude, he inquired after his health. It is well for our
happiness that we cannot always read the hearts of those about us. How
hollow and empty would then seem some of the courtesies of life!
                              CHAPTER VI.
                            SO FAR, SO GOOD.
Lewis Rand had displayed his usual sagacity in selecting Mr. Sharp as
his agent in the affair which now occupied so large a share of his
attention. The worthy attorney was not particularly scrupulous, and the
thought that he was lending his aid to defraud, did not have the least
effect in disturbing Mr. Sharp’s tranquillity. Indeed, he considered it
a stroke of remarkably good luck that he should have secured so
promising a client, through whom his rather limited income was likely to
receive so important an accession. To do him justice he intended to
devote his best exertions to the case now in his hands, and insure the
success of his client if it could in any manner be compassed.
For several evenings subsequent to the interview described in the last
chapter, Mr. Sharp found it convenient to walk for an hour or more
towards the close of the afternoon. Singularly enough he never varied
his promenade, always selecting the neighborhood of the Park. It was his
custom to walk slowly up and down, attentively scanning the different
groups that passed under his eye. But among the thousands who passed
him, he could for some time discover none that resembled the description
furnished by his client.
It chanced that Helen and her father had suspended their walks for a few
days, in consequence of a slight indisposition on the part of the
latter. This, however, Mr. Sharp could not be expected to know. His
hopes of ultimate success diminished, and although he continued his
daily walks, he began to be apprehensive that they would result in
nothing. But one evening as he was glancing restlessly about him, his
eye fell upon a plainly-dressed man, above the middle height, but
stooping, walking hand in hand with a young girl. Their ages seemed to
correspond with those given by Lewis Rand.
The thought flashed upon Mr. Sharp that these might be the two persons
of whom he was in search. Judging that they might let fall something in
their conversation which would decide the matter, he followed closely
behind them. But unluckily for the lawyer’s purpose, Mr. Ford was in one
of his not uncommon fits of abstraction, and maintained an unbroken
silence.
Mr. Sharp pondered, and set his wits to work to devise some method by
which he could gain the information he desired. At length it occurred to
him that the little girl’s name was Helen, and this might help to
identify her.
After a while Helen and her father slackened their pace. Mr. Sharp took
up a position behind them. Assuming an air of unconcern, he pronounced,
in a low tone, the word “Helen,” at the same time slipping dexterously
behind an old gentleman of somewhat aldermanic proportions who had just
come up.
On hearing her name pronounced, Helen turned quickly around as Mr. Sharp
had anticipated. Her eyes rested on the grave features of the
respectable old gentleman before alluded to. He was not even looking at
her. Evidently it could not be he. She did not observe the somewhat
flashily attired gentleman behind, whose red locks contrasted so vividly
with the grayish white hat somewhat jauntily perched on the side of his
head. Supposing, therefore, that her ears must have deceived her, she
turned away. Her sudden movement, however, had not been unobserved by
the watchful eyes of the lawyer.
“That must be she,” he said to himself. “She would scarcely have turned
round so quickly on hearing any other name than her own. That’s the
first link in the chain, Sharp. You’ve got a little to build upon now.
Now we’ll see how well you will succeed in following it up.”
Mr. Sharp was in the habit of apostrophizing himself in such familiar
terms as “old fellow,” and would indulge in commendations, or otherwise,
of his conduct, as if of a second person.
When Helen and her father left the spot, they were followed at a little
distance by the lawyer, whose object of course, was to ascertain where
they lived. His curiosity was gratified. Helen entered Mother Morton’s
boarding-house, quite unconscious that she had been followed. A rapid
glance satisfied Mr. Sharp of the name and number which were at once
transferred to his note-book.
“So far, so good,” thought he, with inward satisfaction. “I must inform
my client forthwith, and then we can decide upon further steps.”
So elated was Mr. Sharp by the discovery that he had made, that he
stepped into a saloon on Broadway, and indulged in potations so very
generous, that he narrowly escaped arrest by a policeman on the way
home.
Helen, meanwhile, was becoming daily more and more troubled in mind. Her
father was so wrapped up in his model that he could think of nothing
else. To her, accordingly, had been committed the common purse, and upon
her had devolved the duty of providing for their daily wants, as well as
discharging the rent which was due once in four weeks. She therefore
knew more of their pecuniary condition than her father. She had been
repeatedly alarmed at the rapid diminution of the funds placed in her
hands, and this, notwithstanding she exercised the strictest economy in
all their expenses. For some time, as we have seen, she had eked out
their scanty means by working for the slop-shops. Now, however, there
was a lull in the clothing business, and this resource was temporarily
cut off. How heavily upon the young and inexperienced falls the burden
of pecuniary trouble! Helen saw with a feeling of dismay that a few
weeks would find their means exhausted. What would become of them then,
she did not dare to think. If only her father’s invention could be
completed before that time, she thought, in her simplicity, that all
would be well. Of the long years before even a successful invention can
be made profitable, she knew nothing. She trusted implicitly to her
father’s confident assurances, and never doubted that some time they
would become rich through his discovery. This consideration, however,
did not afford her present relief. Although her father labored
assiduously, it did not appear to her unpractised eye that he was any
nearer the end than he had been six months before. Confident as she was
of his final success, the question how they should live in the mean time
assumed grave importance, and occasioned her not a little perplexity.
If Helen could have shared her doubts and anxieties with some one who
might have sympathized with her, she would have felt less troubled. But
there seemed to be no one to whom she could speak freely. She was only
too anxious to keep it from her father, who, she felt instinctively,
could give her little or no assistance. She thought of speaking to Mrs.
Morton, but the fear lest, if she should acknowledge her poverty, the
latter might be unwilling to allow them to retain their room any longer,
restrained her.
We have before mentioned the humble seamstress, Martha Grey, who
occupied the room beneath that of Mr. Ford. Though plain in appearance,
and of quiet demeanor, Helen had been attracted by the expression of
goodness which lighted up her face. Sometimes, when her father seemed
wholly immersed in his labors, she would steal down stairs and spend a
quiet hour in Martha’s company.
On one of these occasions Martha had a visitor. Although introduced as a
cousin, one could scarcely imagine a greater contrast than existed
between her and Martha. Her dress was more showy than tasteful, and
evidently occupied a large share of her attention. She was employed in a
millinery establishment where she earned good wages,—twice as much as
Martha,—but saved nothing, expending everything upon personal adornment.
She lacked entirely the refinement and quiet dignity of her cousin. In
spite of her humble circumstances, Martha would have been recognized by
any one possessing discernment as a lady. Her cousin, in spite of her
dress, was never in any danger of being mistaken for one. Her manner
towards Martha, however, was a patronizing one, and she evidently
considered herself as occupying a much higher position than the
seamstress.
“I am astonished, Martha,” said she, glancing contemptuously at the
plain room, and plainer furniture, “that you should be willing to live
in such a hole. I believe if I was cooped up here I should die of
loneliness in less than a week.”
“I find it very comfortable,” said Martha, composedly.
“Yes, I suppose it will do. It will keep out the rain and wind, and is
better than nothing, of course. But I want something better than that.”
“I am very well contented,” said Martha, “and even if I were not, I
could afford no better.”
“Do you stay here all the time? Don’t you ever go to concerts or the
theatre?”
“No.”
“What a humdrum life you must lead! It’s Wednesday afternoon. Suppose we
go to the theatre. There’s going to be a splendid play.”
Martha hesitated.
There is so little to excite or interest in the monotonous life of a
hard-working seamstress, that she really longed to throw aside the
needle, and accept her cousin’s invitation.
“I should like to go,” she said at length, “but I am afraid I ought not
to spend either the time or the money.”
“Then I’ll make you a fair offer. If you’ll spare the time, I’ll spare
the money. I’ll buy the tickets. Won’t you go, too?” she continued,
turning to Helen. “I’ll pay for you.”
Helen looked at Martha who nodded kindly, and said, “Did you ever go to
the theatre, Helen!”
“No, Martha.”
“Then you had better come. You can come back with me.”
“Thank you,” said Helen. “I will see if father needs me.”
She hastened up stairs, but found that her father, absorbed in his
engrossing employment, had not even been aware of her absence.
“Do you think you can spare me for two or three hours, papa?” she asked.
“I have been invited to go out.”
She had to repeat the question before her father comprehended.
“Go, by all means, my dear child,” he answered. “I am afraid you confine
yourself too much on my account.”
Helen was soon ready. She went out with Martha Grey and her cousin, and
a few minutes found them standing before a large building with a
spacious entrance.
“This is the theatre,” said Martha, addressing herself to Helen.
Helen little thought of the consequences that were to follow this—her
first entrance within the walls of a theatre.
                              CHAPTER VII.
                             A NEW TALENT.
Seated in the theatre, Helen looked about her in bewilderment. She had
never been within the walls of a theatre. In the street the sun shone
brightly. Here the sun was rigorously excluded, and gas took its place.
It seemed to the unsophisticated child like a sudden leap from noon to
night. She could hear the rumbling of vehicles in the streets, but it
appeared to her, somehow, as if they were far away, and that she had
come into a different world. She wondered what there was behind that
broad green curtain in front, and why the lights should be arranged so
oddly at the foot of it.
“Lor’, child, that’s the stage,” was the lucid explanation of Martha’s
cousin, to whom she applied for information. “Haven’t you ever been to
the theatre before?”
“No, never,” said Helen.
The cousin looked at her with some curiosity, as if there must be
something out of the common way about a person who had never been to the
theatre, and expressed her decided conviction that Helen’s education had
been shockingly neglected.
“Why,” said she, “before I was half as high as you, I had been to the
theatre ever so many times.”
She spoke with so much complacency that Helen imagined she must be a
very superior person, and possessed great knowledge of the world.
While these and other thoughts were passing through her mind, the bell
rang twice, and then the curtain rose.
Helen nearly uttered an exclamation of surprise, so unprepared was she
for the spectacle which was presented to her dazzled gaze. The play was
a fairy extravaganza, which depended for its success chiefly upon
scenery and stage effect. In the first scene was represented the palace
of the Queen of the fairies, crowning the summit of a hill, rising in
the centre of a beautiful island. Above floated fleecy clouds, from a
break in which streamed the sunshine, lending its glory to the scene.
In the foreground stood a circle of children about Helen’s age or
younger, who figured as sylphs. With united voices they sang a song in
honor of the Queen of the fairies, who directly afterwards was seen
floating through the air above the stage, arrayed in such style as
seemed befitting her illustrious rank.
So complete was the illusion to Helen, that she gazed with suspended
breath and a feeling, half of awe, as if the scene she looked upon was
really one of enchantment.
“Is she really a fairy?” she asked of Martha’s cousin.
“No, child, of course not. It’s Henrietta Blake. I’ve seen her in the
street many a time. Once I was introduced to her.”
“What a beautiful creature she must be!” said Helen, admiringly.
“Beautiful!” repeated the cousin, with some disdain. “For my part, I
don’t think she’s anything to boast of in that line. Just notice what a
poor complexion she has. You’d see it if it wasn’t for the paint. You
wouldn’t have thought her very fairy-like if you had seen her in at
Taylor’s the other evening, eating oysters.”
Helen could scarcely believe her ears. It seemed to be almost like
sacrilege to associate such a gross idea with the etherial being that
floated before her in all the majestic beauty of a fairy queen. It took
from the scene before her something of the charm with which her fancy
had invested it. Still it was with a feeling of intense enjoyment that
she followed the play to its conclusion, watching scene after scene pass
before her, and the music was truly enchanting.
At length the play was finished, and the curtain dropped. This, however,
did not conclude the performance. After a short pause the curtain rose
once more, and a young girl came forward and sang the well-known little
Scotch song, “Comin’ thro’ the Rye.” It was sung correctly and in good
taste, but with no remarkable display of power. Still it was
vociferously encored, and, on its repetition, was applauded warmly.
There was an afterpiece, but, as it was already late in the afternoon,
Martha and her cousin decided not to remain.
“Well, how did you like it?” asked the cousin, patronizingly.
“Oh, it was beautiful!” exclaimed Helen, enthusiastically. “I am so much
obliged to you for taking me.”
“They have better plays sometimes,” returned the cousin, with an air of
superior knowledge of the world. “I didn’t think much of the acting
to-day, for my part. I’ll take you again some time when they’ve got
something else.”
Even after she was fairly in the street, Helen found it difficult to
throw off the illusion of the stage. She could still see in imagination
the gorgeous spectacle, the splendid fairy palace, the graceful sylphs,
and the queen in her regal magnificence. She was so entirely under the
dominion of fancy that to her the outer world seemed unreal, and that
which she had seen, the real. She walked on, heeding little, till she
was suddenly roused from her reverie in a very forcible manner, by
coming in collision with some person. It proved to be a very fat old
lady, who was walking, or rather waddling, slowly along the sidewalk,
with her head thrown back. At the unexpected collision, she screamed,
and gasped for breath, eyeing Helen, meanwhile, with no very amiable
expression of countenance.
“You’ve just about beaten the breath out of my body, you young trollop.
Where was you brought up, I’d like to know, not to have any better
manners?”
“I hope you’ll excuse me,” said Helen, humbly, somewhat ashamed of her
preoccupation. “I didn’t mean to run against you.”
“Don’t tell me,” said the irritated old lady. “You did it a purpose. I
know you did.”
“She might as well say you ran into her on purpose,” retorted Martha’s
cousin.
“I didn’t speak to you, ma’am,” said the exasperated old lady. “It’s my
belief that you’re all in league together, and I’ve a great mind to have
you given in charge of the police.”
“Indeed!” said the cousin, ironically.
“Come away,” said Martha, in a low voice. “Don’t let us have a scene
here.”
As quickly as possible they escaped from the irate old lady. She stood
panting for breath, and glaring at them over the rims of her glasses,
which had been accidentally misplaced. This encounter, ludicrous as it
was, served to bring Helen back from the ideal world to the real, and
without any further adventures she reached home.
It was already time to prepare their frugal meal. She found her father
as busily occupied as ever. She was glad of this, for it showed that her
presence had not been missed.
The next day Martha Grey was at work harder than ever. She felt that she
must make up by extra exertion for the unwonted relaxation of the day
before.
“What are you thinking of, Martha?” asked Helen, playfully, as she stole
in unperceived, and placed her hands over the eyes of the seamstress.
“Come, tell me before I take my hands away.”
“I was thinking,” said Martha, “that I should like to hear once more the
song that was sung at the theatre yesterday.”
“You enjoyed it, then?”
“Very much.”
“Shall I sing it to you?” asked Helen, quietly.
“You, Helen?” asked Martha, lifting up her eyes in astonishment. “Can
you sing? I never heard you.”
“I do not sing very often,” said Helen, sadly. “My mother taught me, and
