which soon broke into a run. The moon was 
full, and the snow-covered hills and fields, bright 
in the light, looked like a picture cut in pearl. 
At any other time the beauty and the hush 
would have carried Gypsy away into a world 
of deli ghtful young dreams. To-night she had 
something else to think about. The girls and 
boys on their way to singing-school stopped 
and wondered as she ran past them, calling 
after her ; she scarcely allowed herself time to 
answer, but flew on, flushed and panting, till 
she had left them out of sight, and was at last 
alone upon the moonlit road. 
Not quite alone, though. The sound of 
sleigh-bells broke suddenly on the air, and a 
dark bay horse and slight cutter turned a near 
corner, and swept up to her, and shot past her, 
and left her standing like a statue. 
Two men were in the sleigh, and the light as 
they passed struck their faces sharply. They 
were Francis Rowe and Tom. 
Gypsy stood a moment looking after them, 
shocked and puzzled and helpless ; then a quick 
thought flashed brightly over her face ; she 
started with a bound, and sprang away towards 
home. 
She was very near it, — nearer than she had 
thought ; it took her but a moment to reach the 
end of the garden, to climb the fence, to wade 
through the snow that lay deeply on the
flower-beds, and so come out into the back yard. The 
house was still and dark. Her father and 
mother were both out to tea, and Winnie was 
in bed. Patty’s light glimmered from the 
kitchen where she nodded half asleep over her 
sewing. 
Gypsy went directly to the barn, unlocked 
the stable door, and peered into the dark stall 
where old Billy was sedately dreaming over last 
summer’s clover-tops. She untied his halter, 
pulled him out with a jerk, and saddled and 
bridled him briskly. She had done it many 
times before, when Tom and her father were 
both away, but it was always opposed to Billy’s 
theories of the eternal fitness of things, and to 
be called away from one’s dreams and one’s 
clover at such an unearthly hour, by a girl was 
certainly adding insult to injury. His justifiable 
displeasure thereat he signified — as I have no 
doubt I should have done if I had been in his 
place — by backing into the stall, tossing his 
head just one inch beyond her reach, sidling 
away when she was ready to mount, biting her 
fingers, and nipping her arms, and treading on 
her dress, and otherwise playing the agreeable, 
till her patience and temper were nearly ex- 
hausted. Finally, by dint of threats, persua- 
sion, and diplomacy, she succeeded, to his 
intense mortification and disgust, in mounting, 
and whipped him out into the cold night air. 
There were two roads to East Yorkbury, a 
long one, and a short one which had been cut 
across for farmers through the fields. Tom 
and Francis would take the long one, for there 
was no sleighing upon the other. There was a 
chance, just a chance, that a swift rider through 
the fields might intercept them. But the snow 
lay deep and drifted and roughly broken ; and 
Billy was neither so young nor so free as he 
might have been. However, Gypsy was not 
a girl to give up very easily to obstacles. She 
could but try at least; trying would do no harm. 
So she whipped and coaxed Billy into a 
canter, and swept away through the moonlight, 
over the lonely road. It was very lonely. 
There was not a sound to be heard but the 
heavy plunges of the horse through the drifted 
snow, and the sighing of the wind through the 
trees. Her own shadow took strange shapes as 
it leaped along beside her on the moonlit bank 
and wall. The fields and woods stretched out 
each side of her in fantastic patches of light and 
shade, solitary and still. Gypsy was not afraid, 
she was too much troubled about Tom to be 
afraid ; but she had a bleak, cold, deserted 
feeling which made that singular ride one long 
to be remembered. She was haunted by vague, 
half-formed fears for Tom, too; by new and 
horrible mistrust of him ; by a dread that she 
should be too late. But if she were not too 
late, what then? She hardly knew what then. 
She had formed no plans as to what she should 
do or say. She had come because she could 
not help it ; she was going on because she 
could not help it. Tom might not listen to 
her ; he might be very angry ; it might do 
more harm than good that she had come. But 
here she was, and she trusted to her own 
instinct to guide her. Gypsy’s instincts were, 
however, sad blunders sometimes. Whether 
this one was a blunder or something else, the 
event only would prove. 
The event came very near not proving at all. 
She had ridden through the last patch of pine 
woods, and come out into a broad stretch of 
light, level ground, from which the main road 
was faintly visible, winding away to East York- 
bury tavern. Billy, thoroughly exhausted, was 
panting painfully, head hanging, and ears 
lopped down ; his heavy plunges had changed 
into a feeble trot; the trot was settling 
gradually to a walk, and when Billy made up his 
mind to walk, that was the end of him. When 
hark! — yes, the sound of sleigh-bells, and the 
voices of unseen drivers upon the winding road. 
Gypsy uttered a little cry, and threw her 
arms about the horse’s neck, as if he had been 
human. 
“ Oh, Billy, please! Can’t you go a little 
faster? I don’t want Tom to go.” And Billy 
pleased. Whether he understood what Tom 
had to do with it I cannot state ; but at the 
word he jerked his drooping head with a snort, 
and broke away like a wild thing under the 
touch of Gypsy’s whip. 
The cutter with its fleet bay was just slewing 
past the cart-road, when an apparition of a girl 
on a white horse galloped up, and Francis reined 
in with a shout. 
She made a picture ; her net had come off, 
and her hair was blown back from her face in 
the strong wind ; her cheeks were scarlet, her 
lips a little pale, and her eyes on fire. For an 
instant she sat perfectly still upon the horse, 
and Tom stared. 
“Tom,” she said then, softly. 
“Gypsy Breynton — you!'" Tom finished by 
a word which I will not repeat; there was 
nothing wrong about it, but it was not as elegant 
as it might have been, and one gets enough of 
college slang in real life without putting it into 
print when it can be avoided. 
“Yes, it’s I. Please look here a minute.” 
Tom sprang out into the snow, and left 
Francis growling at the delay. Gypsy leaned 
down over old Billy’s neck, and put her hand 
upon Tom’s shoulder. It was almost purple 
from the cold, for in her haste she had come 
off without her mittens, and had driven all 
the way in cold, thin gloves. 
“ If you only wouldn’t ! I don’t want you to 
go — I mean — please, Tom dear, come home. 
Sarah says East Yorkbury ’s such a dreadful 
place, and so I harnessed Billy and came over 
on the cart-road, and I do hope you won’t be 
angry ! ” blundered poor Gypsy, her cheeks 
very red and her lips very pale. 
Tom was angry — very angry. For a moment 
he only shut up his lips and looked down at the 
little purple hand that trembled on his shoulder, 
as if he were trying to keep back some dreadful 
words. If it had not been so very purple and 
little, and if it had not been so strange a sight 
to see Gypsy tremble, he might have said worse 
than he did. 
“Who ’s been telling you I was going to East 
Yorkbury?’’ he said, between his teeth. 
“Nobody told me, Tom; I guessed it. To 
think of you over in that tavern, with all those 
drunken — Oh, Tom, I did hope you wouldn’t 
be angry, and would please to come back with 
me ! ” 
“ Hurry up, Breynton,’’ called Francis from 
the sleigh ; “ don’t keep a fellow waiting. Why 
didn’t Gypsy do her talking before you started? 
I ’m glad my sister minds her own business, and 
lets mine alone ! ” 
Tom pushed off the purple hand from his 
shoulder. 
“ Gypsy, you must go right straight home. I 
am angry, and you ’ve done a very silly thing. 
I don’t want you inquiring into my affairs, and 
meddling with them like this, and you may 
remember it next time. Here, take my mittens, 
and get home as fast as you can.” 
With that he sprang into the sleigh and left 
her. 
If he had struck her, Gypsy could not have 
felt worse. Never had Tom spoken so to her — 
never, since she was a baby and used to stamp 
on his kites and throw his boats down the well. 
It seemed as if it were more than she could 
bear. Billy, glad to turn his face homewards, 
started briskly away; and she just threw down 
the reins, and put her arms about his huge, 
warm neck, and cried as hard as if her heart 
would break. 
How far she had gone she did not exactly 
know; she was still riding on with her face 
hidden in Billy’s mane, and she was still sobbing 
as Gypsy very seldom sobbed, when the first she 
knew there was a strong hand on Billy’s bridle, 
and another about her neck, and two arms lifted 
her right off the saddle, and there was Tom. 
“Oh, Tom, I didn’t mean to — I didn’t 
really mean to make you angry. I felt so 
badly about your going, and I thought — ” 
“ Gypsy, look up here.” 
Gypsy looked up. 
“ I was a heathen, and the next time I speak 
so to you, I ’ll give you leave to chop my tongue 
out with a hatchet. Now let ’s go home.” 
just the best fun. Francis knows a way of fla- 
vouring the candy with lemon, and we ’re going 
to try it. Besides, Delia Guest and Bob are 
coming, and the Holmans.” 
“ Well, I ’m afraid I can’t. I should love to, 
dearly, but — ” 
“ Not come ! Well, I should like to know ! ” 
“ I think I ’d better stay with Tom.” 
“ Let Tom come too, of course.” 
“ He would like to, but he has a cold, and 
couldn’t go out in this snow-storm. He would 
miss me if I went, and be lonely, — that is, I 
can play checkers with him. Besides, I like 
to make it as nice as I can for him when he is 
at home, so as to — ” 
“To what? ” 
“ Keep him in evenings.” 
Those four words had come to rule all Gyp- 
sy’s plans and words and thoughts. It seemed 
strange that Tom’s vacation, to which she 
had looked forward so long, and of which she 
had dreamed as if it were some beautiful fairy 
tale, should end in that. Into Gypsy’s merry, 
thoughtless heart the new anxiety and the new 
pain crept like a chill ; it took time for her to 
get used to it ; but the queer thing about it was, 
she thought, that when she had become used to 
it, it seemed as if it had always been there. 
For a while after the East Yorkbury under- 
taking, Tom avoided Francis, kept very much 
at home with his mother and Gypsy, and seemed 
so sober and sorry and ashamed that Gypsy’s 
heart ached for him. Whatever the faults into 
which he had fallen at college, — and it was 
quite probable that she did not know the worst 
of them, — Tom was very far from being a 
thoroughly bad boy. Until he went to New 
Haven, he had known nothing worse than 
Yorkbury temptations, and had been helped 
every day of his life by the happiest home and 
the most patient love that a boy could desire. 
To go out from such a home in all the eagerness 
and ignorance of seventeen young years, into 
Yale College, is very much like walking into a 
furnace. It needs what Tom had not, — what 
Gypsy had vaguely felt from the beginning that 
he ought to have, — principle, to come out of it 
unsinged. Tom had no deeper principle than 
his own generous impulses and quick sense of 
honour; even these had been severely put to the 
test; the smell of the fire had passed upon him. 
Although he was much given to lecturing 
thoughtless Gypsy in his superior elder-broth- 
erly way, yet in many respects he was much 
like her. A little more reserved ; somewhat 
better able to say the right thing, or not to say 
anything if necessary ; by right of four years’ 
seniority making fewer blunders, but, like her, 
quick to do wrong or right on a moment’s im- 
pulse, sorry for his faults and willing to say so, 
and very likely to do the same thing over 
to-morrow; especially — and herein lay the key 
to the worst of him — sufficiently determined 
to get the fim out of life, come what might. 
Indeed, Gypsy felt so much sympathy with 
him that it was an effort to scold him some- 
times. 
“ I hate to have you do such things, you 
know,” she said one day when Tom had been 
confiding to her the story of a certain escapade 
with his tutor, which was, like a great many 
wrong things in this world, undeniably funny; 
“ but it makes me want to go to college terribly. 
How I should act ! I know just as well I 
should go head first into all the rushes, and put 
pins in the Prof.’s chairs, and — no, I wouldn’t 
haze, because that ’s mean ; but I should rather 
go to an oyster supper than study, and I should 
get suspended in three weeks, and then come 
home to be sorry, and I suppose it is fortunate 
for the institution that I ’m not a boy ! ” 
Which certainly was not the wisest thing she 
could have said, and she was sorry before the 
words were off her lips. 
As I said, for a while Tom stayed at home 
and let Francis alone ; he threw away his cigars, 
studied hard in the mornings, played checkers 
in the evenings, took the children to ride in the 
afternoons, pushed the cat through the stove- 
pipe, experimented on Mrs. Surly’s puppy, 
helped his mother stone the raisins for her 
puddings, read “ Guy Mannering ” aloud to Gypsy, 
helped his father at the store, became, in a 
word, the old merry, thoughtful, generous Tom, 
and Gypsy was happy. 
Not so happy, though, that she ceased to 
work and plan to keep him with her, or ever 
lost the dull, new sense of uneasiness and care. 
Not so happy as to be thoroughly taken by 
surprise when restless Tom wearied of his quiet 
life and good resolves, and something happened 
far worse than anything which had happened 
yet ; far worse than anything that she had ever 
thought could happen to Tom. 
It was only two days before the short vacation 
ended. Tom had gone to a lyceum lecture that 
evening with Francis Rowe. He would be 
home at ten o’clock, he said, or a quarter-past 
ten at the latest. It was the family custom to 
break up early. Mr. Breynton was apt to be 
sleepy, his wife tired, and Gypsy was always 
ready for bed ; so that the house was usually 
still soon after nine. On this night Mrs. 
Breynton had a headache (it sometimes seemed 
to Gypsy that her mother had a great many 
headaches of late), and it was rather dull with- 
out Tom, so that they separated even earlier 
than usual. By half-past nine they were prob- 
ably all asleep. 
Gypsy had a remarkably unpleasant dream. 
She thought that she was standing on the edge 
of a huge circular chasm lined with winding 
stairs, which gave back a hollow, ugly echo to 
the foot. They seemed to be built of ancient 
wood, worm-eaten and moss-grown ; to have 
stood there for centuries, crumbling away and 
winding down into utter darkness. The horrible 
thing about them was that nobody knew 
what was at the bottom. Another horrible 
thing was that nobody who went down ever 
came up. While she stood peering over the 
edge and shivering, Tom pushed by her with a 
cry and sprang into the chasm, and began to 
leap down the hideous stairway. She stretched 
out her arms to him, calling him by name, but 
he did not or would not hear her. She leaped 
down after him, and, impelled by the fearful, 
dizzy motion, kept winding on and could not 
stop. She called him, but he did not answer. 
He was always just ahead of her, but never 
within her reach. He shot on and down, and 
the hollow echo of his leaping steps came back, 
and the daylight dimmed and his form grew faint 
and faded out of her sight, and darkness fell, and 
only the echoes were left, which weakened and 
grew thin, and were lost in utter silence. 
She started up with a cry of terror which 
woke her. A faint moonbeam was falling in 
upon the bed. She remembered that the moon 
rose late that night, and could not light her 
room till after ten. She was just getting up to 
see what time it was when she heard the kitchen 
clock strike the half-hour. She remembered 
Tom, and was wide awake at once. He had 
undoubtedly come in while she was asleep, — 
very likely his steps coming up the stairs had 
given her that ugly dream ; still she thought 
she should go to sleep a little more comfortably 
to feel sure. So she opened her door softly and 
looked out into the entry ; all was still. She 
stepped on tiptoe to Tom’s room ; the door was 
open ; the room was empty. 
Well, only a quarter of an hour after time. 
But it was a singularly late lyceum lecture. 
And he said he should certainly be at home. 
She went back to her own room and crept 
shivering into bed, but she could not sleep ; she 
rose and went to the window: both yard and 
street lay hushed and solitary in the moonlight ; 
no human being was in sight; not a sound was 
to be heard but the moaning of the wind. The 
lecture must be over long ago, for the lights 
were out in Mrs. Surly’s house, and her 
boarders always went to the lyceum. It must have 
been over an hour ago. Where could he be? 
Gypsy began to be frightened. Her cheeks 
grew hot and her hands grew cold ; she jumped 
up and began to walk across the room as fast as 
she could walk; she came back and sat down 
again, and looked again into the yard and up 
the moonlit street, and jumped up and paced 
the room again. Once a drunken singer in the 
street passed by the house ; her cheeks grew 
hotter and her hands grew colder. She had 
grown too restless for the narrow room, so she 
threw her dress and shawl about her, went softly 
out, and sat down on the stairs where she could 
watch the door. 
If Tom only had not gone with Francis! If 
she could have got up a candy-pull and kept 
him at home? If she had gone to the lecture 
with him? If he should have gone to East 
Yorkbury? If he were playing billiards some- 
where now, such wretched drunken faces all 
around him as she had sometimes seen in the 
alleys on the way to Peace Maythorne’s room? 
If he should become a gambler, or worse? If 
he should grow up into such a man as Francis, — 
Tom? What would her mother say? — poor 
mother, she had been looking so pale lately, and 
troubled. Should she call her and tell her that 
Tom had not come home? What would her 
father say? 
And that was the worst of all. What would 
he? No, she must not call them; it would be 
so terrible between him and Tom if anything 
had gone wrong. There was nothing to be 
done but for her to keep awake till Tom came, 
and let him quietly in. Eleven o’clock. Would 
he never come? 
She began to be very cold sitting there, so 
she stole out to the kitchen stove to try to warm 
herself by the remains of the evening fire ; then, 
afraid that Tom would come while she was out 
there, she went back to her post upon the stairs. 
The entry was dark except for a dull patch 
of moonshine that struggled in through the 
curtained side-lights and lay pale upon the 
floor. In the corners the shadows were heavy. 
Under the stairs the shadows were black. Now 
and then a board creaked somewhere, or a 
mouse rattled past unseen in the wall. It is 
dreary at best to be the only waking thing at 
midnight in a silent house. The vague sense 
of uneasiness about Tom, fearing she knew not 
what, waiting she knew not why ; the dread that 
her father might come out and find her there ; 
the dread of what would happen if he should 
meet Tom coming in ; pictures of his stern, 
shocked face and Tom’s angry eyes, — all this 
made that watch upon the stairs about as 
miserable an hour as Gypsy had ever passed. 
Half-past eleven. How still it was ! Tom 
had never been out so late as this before. 
Twelve o’clock. Could some accident have 
happened to him? Was it possible? Ought 
she to call her mother? Should she wait a little 
longer, or — What was that? Footsteps! 
She crept softly down the stairs, and peered 
through the side-lights. 
Yes, footsteps, — heavy, slow, irregular, shuf- 
fling blindly through the snow. But Tom 
walked like a man, with a spring in his firm, 
strong tread. That man with his hat pulled 
over his eyes, with his coat turned wrong side 
out, who slouched up to the door and fumbled 
for the handle, — was that Tom? 
Gypsy turned the latch without noise, and 
the man muttered some incoherent words, and 
reeled in, and fell heavily upon the stairs, — and 
it was Tom. 
Gypsy just dropped her hands and looked. 
If some one had bayoneted her dead there 
against the wall, she could not have stood more 
still. She could feel the hot blood rush into her 
heart, and rush away again ; her head swam 
round dizzily, and for a moment she had a fancy 
that she was suffocating. Whatever the feeling 
was, it passed in a moment, and she stepped up 
and touched Tom on the shoulder. 
He muttered that her hands were cold, and 
that he wanted another glass. 
“ Tom,” she said, under her breath, “ Tom 
dear, come up to bed.” 
Tom looked at her stupidly, and tried to 
rise, but staggered against the banisters. His 
heavy boots hit the stairs loudly, and the old 
mahogany of the banisters creaked from top to 
bottom. 
“Oh, father will hear, father will hear ! “ 
whispered Gypsy, in an agony. “ Lean on me, 
Tom, — so; now try again.” 
Tom stood up and leaned upon her shoulder, 
— the strong fellow with his six feet of manli- 
ness, — and Gypsy helped him up the stairs. 
Sometimes she had to stop to take breath and 
gather strength. Sometimes the dizziness came 
back to her head, and she thought that she was 
falling. Twice Tom reeled against the wall, and 
she listened for her father’s opening door, and 
all the colour went out of her cheeks and lips. 
Once Tom griped her shoulder so that she 
nearly cried out with the pain. 
But they reached the top of the stairs, and 
reached his room, and shut the door, and had 
wakened no one. Tom threw himself upon the 
bed and asked for water. Gypsy hurried to the 
wash-stand, filled his mug, and brought it to 
him. But he had fallen into a heavy, drunken 
sleep. 
 
“ Y0U see, Peace, I used to be so proud of 
 Tom.” 
Peace saw. 
“ I used to keep thinking how much better 
he was than the other girls’ brothers, and how 
good he was, and that he never went with the 
wild boys, and that he would stand so high at 
college, and make mother so glad and all, and 
to have it come to — that!' 
Peace did not know what “ that ” was ; 
Gypsy had never told her; she did not like 
to ask. 
“ I don’t suppose you understand what I am 
talking about,” said Gypsy, with heightened 
colour, “ but the fact is, I can’t bear to say it, — 
not so much as to saj it. Peace. It was so 
terrible, and I had never known nor suspected ; 
but. Peace Maythorne, he said it never hap- 
pened but once before, — he said so. He was sick 
after it the next morning, because the whisky 
was so bad — there ! I might have known I 
couldn’t help letting it out, — just like me ! ” 
Peace gave her one of her own beautiful 
answers ; she took her hand and held it softly, 
and did not say a word. Gypsy began to wink. 
“ Well, I knew you ’d feel badly for me ; you 
always do. I wish I’d told you before. It 
helps me to have you sorry for me somehow; 
it goes all over me. One little kiss? — there! 
Now I ’m going to tell you about it. It won’t 
bother you to death? Well, then, you see. 
Peace Maythorne, I lay awake till two o’clock 
that night, I felt so. I wouldn’t live that night 
over again, — why, not for anything in this 
world. Well, the next morning he felt sick, 
but he said he had a headache, which was true, 
and he lay in bed till after breakfast and then 
got up, so that father shouldn’t suspect. You 
see that would be so dreadful. Father loves 
Tom, and he ’s real good, but he never knows 
how to go at him. He makes Tom angry 
and never understands, and then Tom is disrespectful,
and mother looks, and I cry, and 
we have an awful time. So Tom and I weren’t 
either of us going to tell him. But mother 
knows, I know, for she ’s been up in her room 
crying ever so much, and she and Tom had a 
long talk before he went back. I guess he told 
her, — he thinks the world of mother, and was 
so sorry, and hates to cheat so. Oh, he was 
so sorry ! He didn’t look any more like Tom 
the next day, and kept by himself, and his eyes, 
— you know he has such beautiful eyes, Peace, 
and so bright, — well, his eyes were so ashamed, 
I thought I should cry right out to look at 
them. I can’t bear to have Tom ashamed. 
Well, then it came night, and he had been 
alone all day, and I went up into his room, 
and that’s what I started to tell you about. 
You ’re not tired of me yet?,” 
‘Not a bit, dear.” 
“Well, I went up, and there he sat alone in 
the dark and cold ; there was a little red sparkle 
of light through the damper, but the fire was 
almost out. So said I, ‘ Tom,’ softly. He had 
his elbows on the table and his head down. 
‘What do you want?’ said he, and never looked 
up. ‘ I want to see you, Tom. I haven’t seen 
you all day hardly.’ Then he said something 
that I can ’t bear to think about. Peace May- 
thorne, — not even to think about. ‘ I shouldn’t 
think you ’d ever want to see me again. I wish 
I were out of the world and out of your way ; ’ 
that ’s what he said. I wouldn’t have you 
think I’m crying, though, — where’s my hand- 
kerchief, for pity’s sake? And what do you 
suppose I did ? — like a little goose ! Why, 
I just jumped into his lap. I did, I jumped 
into his lap right off, and I had come up expecting 
to talk soberly at him and scold him, 
and I had to go and do that, and that was the 
end of me ! ” 
“What did he do? ’’said Peace, smiling, but. 
strangely enough, hunting for her handker- 
chief, too. 
“Do? Well, he had to lift up his head, any- 
way; he couldn’t help himself So I saw his face in 
the red sparkle from the 
damper, and it was just as 
white, and I threw my arms 
straight around his neck, — 
I know I choked him dread- 
fully ! — and said he, ‘ Gypsy, 
weren’t you ashamed of me, 
— ashamed to have me for a 
brother? ’ 
“‘Yes, Tom,’ said I, ‘I 
was ashamed of you last 
night,’ — for I couldn’t tell a 
lie you see, anyway. Down 
went his head again on the 
table, — only my arms were in the way, and it 
hurt, and I squealed, and so he had to take it 
up again. ‘ Why don’t you take your arms off, 
Gypsy? I ’m not fit to have them there. Why 
don’t you take them off? ' I said I was very 
comfortable, and I was going to keep them 
there. ‘ But you ’re ashamed of me,’ said he, 
‘ and you ought to be ! ’ 
“‘No, Tom, I’m not ashamed of you now. 
I was last night. I ’m not a bit ashamed now, 
because you are sorry.’ And what do you 
suppose he said?” 
“ I couldn’t guess.” 
“ He held up his head and looked into my 
eyes. ‘You don’t mean to say that you’re 
going to love me as much as you did before?’ 
And, Peace, I did ; I couldn’t help it if I 
could let you know, only don’t you ever tell, 
but said I, ‘ Tom Breynton, I love you a great 
deal more.’ That ’s what I said, like a little 
simpleton.” 
“What did he say? ” 
“ Say? He didn’t say a word for so long I 
was frightened half out of my wits. He just 
hid his face up against my hair (my net was 
coming off, — you know it always is), and. 
Peace Maythorne, I do believe he was crying. 
I don’t knovv. I never saw Toni cry. He 
didn’t make any noise about it, the way girls 
do, though. At last, said he, all of a sudden, 
‘ Gypsy, I am sorry. I never got drunk but 
once before ; that was one night when I went 
out with Hall. I don’t see how I ever came to 
do it, but Rowe kept filling up my tumbler. 
The worst of it is, mother and you. I wish 
you wouldn’t be so good to a fellow.’ And 
then, Peace, he coughed so, that I thought he 
was going to have a consumption. So by-and- 
by I began to pat him on the back (he always 
says I treat him as if he were a great Maltese 
cat), and I said I was going to be good to him ; 
as good as I could be ; terribly good ; a cherub ; 
a pretty pink cherub with wings ; would he give 
me a kiss? So he gave me a kiss, and I snug- 
gled up in his arms just as if nothing had 
happened, and we had the nicest little talk, and 
he told me ever so much, Peace, that I can’t 
tell you, about college, and how hard it was 
to do right, and how sorry he felt afterwards, 
and how he did things and didn’t think, — just 
like me, for all the world, and I don’t suppose 
I should be half as good as he if I went to col- 
lege, — and how sometimes he thought about 
me, and didn’t go off with Hall because I should 
be sorry. Now, Peace Maythorne, I wonder 
if you know how that made me feel.” 
“ I think I do.” 
“ Well, I hope you do, for I couldn’t tell 
you possibly. Anyway, it made up for that 
dreadful night out on the stairs, and for going 
to East Yorkbury, and for doing things when I 
wanted to do something else, and for all the 
worry and trouble. And I guess I shall write 
him a few more letters this term than I did last, 
if I know myself intimately. 
“Well, after we had talked a while, father 
began to call, downstairs, to know why we 
didn’t come down (mother did n’t, because she 
knew what we were about well enough ; she 
always knows things without having to be 
told) ; so I started to go. 
“Then I stopped. ‘Tom,’ said I, ‘"I told 
you I loved you more than ever, and I do. But 
there’s another tiling. I used to be — proud 
of you.’ You ought to have seen his eyes! 
‘ Well, you shall be proud of me again some 
day.’ I told him that was just what I meant to 
be, but that I did wish I could be real sure. 
Then he fired up like everything, and wanted 
to know if I thought he meant to get drunk 
again ; of course he shouldn’t ; he hadn’t any 
thoughts of it ; he shouldn’t have this time if 
the whisky hadn’t been so bad. Well, you 
see, I knew he might, for all that, so I told 
him I wished he would promise me something. 
‘What is it?’ said he. I told him it was that 
he wouldn’t ever touch the old thing, nor any 
other old thing that made people drunk, — not 
a bit, not a drop, ever. He didn’t like that 
very much, and he drew up his head and put on 
all his grown-up brother airs, just as he looks 
when he scolds me for tearing my dresses, and 
said he never made promises. But I looked at 
his face in the little red sparkle from the 
damper, and stood stock still. ‘ What are you 
waiting for?’ said he. I said I was waiting for 
that promise. He said I shouldn’t have it, and 
it was of no use waiting ; I ought to trust him 
better than that. He wasn’t going to demean 
himself by promising. I didn’t know exactly 
what demean meant, so I looked it out in the 
Dictionary before I went to bed.’ 
“But you didn’t go?’’ 
“ No, I guess I didn’t. I just stood. I 
guess I stood there almost ten minutes. ‘ You ’d 
better go,’ said he, by-and-by, and I never said 
a word. Pretty soon I thought it was getting 
about time to tease, — I do hate to tease, 
though. So I jumped into his arms again 
before he knew it, and began to say ‘ Please, 
Tom,’ as hard as ever I could. ‘Please what?’ 
said he. I wasn’t going to answer such a silly 
question as that, so I pulled his head down into 
the red sparkle so as to see his face. It was 
red one minute and white the next, and I saw 
the promise coming all over it, so I waited. 
‘ Well,’ said he, ‘ I don’t see but I shall have 
to, to get rid of you. I promise.’ ’’ 
“ What did you do? ” 
“ Strangled him. Just strangled him with my 
two arms. And then — let me see — oh, then 
I got up and jumped up and down, and after 
that we went downstairs and popped corn.” 
“ How glad you ought to be,” said Peace. 
“ Well, I suppose I am. I don’t believe he 
will drink any more. Tom never breaks his 
word, — never. Besides, he has been back now 
two weeks, and he wrote me yesterday that he 
hadn’t touched a drop. I don’t trouble about 
that any more ; but. Peace, I never feel quite 
safe.” 
“ I see.” 
“ Tom means to do right and is so good, and 
then forgets, — just like me, you know, only 
I ’m not good, and then he is so handsome. 
College is a dreadful place, and I wish he were 
through and home again. Then I wish he and 
father got along better, and I ’m always afraid 
something will go wrong between them. Then, 
lately, there ’s mother.” 
“ What about her? ” 
“ She has so many headaches, I can’t go to 
her about Tom nor anything, as I used to, for 
fear of making her feel worse. Iff didn’t have 
you, I don’t know what would become of me, 
I always must have somebody to talk to. There 
aren’t any girls here that I ever say anything 
sober to. There ’s Joy, to be sure, but she 
is off in Boston, and I can’t write things out 
in letters ; besides, I shouldn’t want to tell 
her about Tom. I love Joy dearly, but she 
wouldn’t do for that. Peace, I ’m sort of 
troubled about mother.” 
“ I ’m real sorry,” said Peace, in her gentle 
way, and the three simple words seemed to 
mean a great deal more than they would if any- 
body else said them ; “ perhaps she will be 
better when the spring comes.” 
Gypsy said that she hoped so, rather absently, 
and then there was a silence. 
“ Do you know,” said Peace, at last, 
“ that you are growing different, Gypsy, — 
older? ” 
“ Am I ? How funny ! Well, I have a 
great many more thoughts to think than I used 
to. I wonder if you remember the sunbeam 
that came through the hole in the curtain one 
day before Tom came home?” 
“ Oh, yes, very well.” 
“ So do I. I suppose I ’m beginning to find 
out how they feel rainy days.” 
Peace smiled, and Gypsy thrummed on the 
window-sill a moment. 
“ And you have never had anything but 
rainy days ! ” 
“ The sun is there, you know, all the same, 
whether it rains or not,” said Peace, half to 
Gypsy, half to herself. 
“ It ’s there because you make it. If I were 
in your place, I shouldn’t make any. My ! how 
horrid and wicked I should be.” 
“ Why,” said Peace, “ I am sure I have plenty 
of things to be thankful for.” 
“ Aunt Jane, for instance?” 
Peace coloured, for at that very moment Aunt 
Jane opened the door. She said good-afternoon 
curtly enough. She felt instinctively that 
Gypsy did not like her ; which was by no means 
strange, for Gypsy was not apt to take the 
greatest pains to conceal her opinion of people. 
“ Would it trouble you too much to fix the 
fire a little?” said Peace, gently; “I have been 
so cold, somehow, since this change in the 
weather.” 
“ I don’t know as it makes any difference 
whether it troubles me or not,” said Aunt Jane, 
in her hard way, tripping over the coal-hod and 
rattling the poker with what she was pleased to 
term an “ energy,” that went through the 
nerves of Peace like a knife. “ There ! I ’m 
terrible hurried over that dress of Miss Guest’s, 
and I can’t stop to bother over it any longer. 
I guess that will do. I can’t see for the life of 
me what makes you so shivery.” 
Miss Jane had just been to the store for a 
spool of thread, and the rapid walk and bracing 
air had set her healthy blood to circulating 
freely; to look from her to the shrunken, pal- 
lid figure on the bed, one would not perhaps 
wonder that she did not see. 
Peace Maythorne ! ” broke out indignant 
Gypsy, determined to say something this time ; 
“ you haven’t but one comforter on your bed 
besides the quilt.” 
Peace answered only with a quick hand on 
Gypsy’s mouth. 
“One comforter?” spoke up Aunt Jane. 
“Well, it’s thick enough for me, and what is 
enough for me has got to be enough for her, for 
all I see, as long as there ’s no hands but mine 
to support the two of us. I should like to know 
who thinks I can afford new ones for her, with 
cotton-battin’ the price it is now-a-days, and all 
my old pieces sold to the paper-man, to say 
nothing of where ’s the time to come from to 
patch one up.” 
Probably Aunt Jane could not afford mate- 
rials or time for a comforter ; there were the 
rents and food and clothing and fuel to take her 
hard-earned money. While Gypsy’s eyes 
flashed with anger at her way of expressing it, 
yet she could not doubt that she had spoken 
truth, and perplexed her brain with plans to 
supply the need. Peace must have a comforter. 
But Peace could not bear to have things given 
to her. She decided to talk it over with her 
mother; she always found ways to do things 
when other people failed. Nobody knew how 
she managed it, but a few days after, Peace 
had the comforter on her bed, and her eyes 
thanked Gypsy, though she did not say a word 
about it. 
Peace Maythorne’s room, with its golden sunlight 
and its quiet face, was a sort of tabernacle 
to Gypsy. It hushed her and helped her as 
nothing else ever did. It reduced all her wild 
plans to order. It rebuked her mad impulses 
and thoughtless words. It taught her how best 
to work and hope for Tom. It made the new- 
ness and the strangeness of her trouble easier 
to bear. Most of all, the pitiful contrast of it 
with the pleasant places into which her own 
lines had fallen, silenced all grumbling, made 
her very thankful. She had depended more on 
Peace of late, since she had been troubled for 
Tom, and since those headaches of her mother’s 
had begun to be so frequent. Almost all of 
her anxiety and perplexity had been shared with 
Peace ; as she said, she could not very well 
help it. But when Tom had been back at college
a few weeks, something new came up, 
which she did not tell her nor any one. The 
reasons for this she could hardly have explained ; 
but she felt very sure that she preferred to keep 
it to herself. 
It was a letter from Tom. A short letter, 
very pleasant, like all Tom’s letters, and at first 
sight a very unimportant one : — 
Dear Gypsy, — Am hurried to death over 
my Euclid, and can’t write much this morning. 
My stand is better than last term, but it might 
be decidedly higher yet. I flunked dead in 
Euclid yesterday, and that is why I mean to 
study to-day on it. 
How is it about those headaches of mother’s? 
Father sent me a package of new-style French 
envelopes from the store the other day ; very 
good in him, and I am, his affectionately, T. Did 
you see Winnie’s letter to me that mother wrote 
for him? It contained the extraordinary information 
that you had smashed potatoes for dinner, 
and I couldn’t have any ; that he was five years 
old, and that Tom had gone to college. Hall’s 
sister hasn’t written to him but once since he has 
been back. Your two letters a week are jolly. 
Sometimes when I haven’t anything to do, I take 
them out and read them all over. We had a 
tip-top rush with the Sophs yesterday, — beat 
them, of course. A fellow in our house has got 
into a row with one of the Profs., and will be 
rusticated to pay for it. 
Love to all. I must go to cramming now on 
that Euclid. Hall opened a bottle of Old Yriarte 
last night, and it was tough work looking on and 
being laughed at ; but a promise is a promise. 
Very respectfully, your ob’t servant, 
T. Breynton. 
P. S. See here. I wonder if you have a little 
money you could lend a fellow for a few weeks. 
The state of my finances is somewhat precarious, 
and I don’t dare to go to father just yet; he 
won’t expect me to need more before the middle 
of the term. I hate to ask you, but the truth is 
there was a little bet with Hall, — about four 
dollars ; it was about a girl we met on Chapel 
Street, and I said if he bowed to her without an 
introduction, she wouldn’t return it, and I felt 
sure of winning (only I wouldn’t have taken the 
money) ; but she wasn’t the lady she looked, and 
she bowed, and I lost. Now the bother of it is. 
Hall wants his money, and I haven’t it to give 
him ; I have some left, but it is due at the hatter’s 
this week. I feel real mean asking you, 
and you shall have your money back just as soon 
as father hands over. It is mean to bet, — yes, 
I know it without your telling me. I don’t very 
often do it. I shall keep clear of it after this. 
If you will help me out of this scrape and keep 
dark about it to father, you will be as good a 
sister as ever luckless scamp was blessed with. 
Please send as soon as possible. 
Gypsy locked up the letter in her desk where 
no one could see it, and sat down and thought 
about it. 
Tom had done wrong, — yes. But he was 
sorry, and the money must be paid in some 
way. She did not care in the least about keep- 
ing her money, if she could get him out of the 
difficulty, and perhaps prevent his doing the 
same thing again. Certainly, if she refused, it 
would seem selfish and mean, and Tom would 
be vexed, and there would be an end of her 
influence over him. Moreover, her money was 
her own, and she was always allowed to spend 
it as she chose. 
But was it quite right to do it and tell no- 
body? To tell her father was out of the ques- 
tion. Her mother was locked into her room 
with a violent sick-headache. There was no one 
to tell. It seemed to be quite right, she 
thought. Poor Tom ! If he only would not 
get into so much trouble ! 
That very night a note was on its way to him. 
Dear Tom, — Here are four dollars. It 
is all I have, and you are welcome to it, only 
I ’m so sorry. I hate bets. Mother would 
feel badly, I ’m afraid, iC she knew. She ’s 
real sick to-day. 
Your loving 
Gypsy. 
By return of mail came Tom’s answer. 
Dear G., — You’re a diamond. I did not 
mean to take all you had. I promise you this 
is the last of my heavy betting. You are a 
good girl, and treat me better than I deserve, 
and make me ashamed of myself. T. 
And did she do just right? Perhaps one can 
hardly judge without being exactly in her place. 
Certainly the cases are rare in which it would 
be best for a girl to pay her brother’s wrong- 
fully contracted debts without her parents’ 
knowledge. The circumstances were peculiar, 
and whether she acted prudently or not, her 
motive was a noble and generous one. It was 
the nobleness and the generosity which touched 
Tom; which roused in him a fresh throb of love 
for her, and another good resolve. 
Two seeds worth sowing, certainly. 
ONE day Gypsy was walking home from 
school with Sarah Rowe and Delia Guest, 
after the fashion of very young ladies, — with 
their arms interlaced about each other’s waists, 
chatting in the most confidential manner (it 
sounded very much like canary birds chirping) 
about blue ribbons and pink ribbons, bead nets 
and magic ruffles, flounces and tucks and spotted 
veils and a bewilderment of other abstruse 
subjects, — when a buggy drawn by a white 
horse drove furiously by. All at once the 
chirping stopped. 
“Why, Gypsy, that’s your father!” 
“ My father? Where? What? I didn’t see.” 
“ No, she was looking the other way. 
There, — in that buggy; he ’s most out of sight 
now. I wonder what he was driving so for ! ” 
“ Why, that is our buggy, sure enough ; and 
Billy, — I can always tell Billy because his tail 
is so short. Well, I never did see father drive 
like that before. I guess Tom would laugh.” 
“ Why, look ! he ’s turned off High Street.” 
“ You can sec him through the trees.” 
“Why! He’s stopped at — ” 
“ The doctor s !" 
Gypsy turned first red and then pale, and 
before the girls could say another word to her 
she had sprung away from them and was run- 
