you see was the old limit of the tribe of Dan. There Abraham overtook the retiring army. Then, ' dividing himself 
against them ' — attacking in two or more parties, from different sides, and by night, he and his servants surprised and 
confounded the plunder-laden troops. It is a way of making fight still usual in that country, and the more likely to 
be successful because of the common carelessness about 
keeping proper military watch. But doubtless Abraham's 
trust was in the same mighty arm that helped Gideon 
long ages after ; and doubtless that same arm fought for 
him. The invaders fled in confusion; Abraham pursued 
them to the little village of Hobah, hard by Damascus, 
routed and slew them, and brought back in triumph all the 
goods and all the captives, with Lot and everything that 
belonged to him. The victory was so thorough, that it seems 
there was no force left to interfere with him any more ; 
and through the Jordan valley he came peacefully home 
again." 
" Abraham must have been a great man in the country 
after that," said Dan. 
"No doubt of it. He was met as a conqueror. In a 
valley called afterwards the ' Valley of the Kings,' the king of 
Sodom went forth to meet him on his return ; and the king 
of Salem, that is probably Jerusalem, also met him there 
with royal refreshments; and in his quality of 'priest of 
 
the most high God,' blessed Abraham and gave thanks to 
the Lord." 
" Who was Melchisedek ? " liph asked. 
" No one knows. He was some very great and good per- 
sonjvge, greater than Abraham in his priestly character ; for 
Abraham gave him a tribute of the tenth part of the spoil, 
as due to the minister of God ; and received his blessing. 
We .do not know ; except that he was a wonderful fore- 
shadowing of our Lord Jesus Christ; his beginning and 
ending unknown and untraceable, king of righteousness and 
prince of peace, and not only a king, but a priest too on his 
throne. Abraham received his blessing ; but from the king 
of Sodom he would receive none. Yet it was no favour, but 
only a common custom, that goods recaptured should belong 
to the captor." 
" He was very uppish about it," said Liph. 
"He was extremely dignified about it," said my grand- 
mother. 
" So I think," said uncle Sam. " His inheritance, he knew, 
was of God ; he knew that he was of a race which had no- 
thing in common with the Canaanitish idolaters of the land ; 
and he kept himself carefully but civilly aloof. No Canaanite should say, 'I have made Abraham rick' Only 
his Amorite friends he was willing should have the rewards 
due to them. That was their affair." 
''It seem strange, uncle Sam, that Abraham should have 
been so bold here, and so fearful in Egypt." 
"Ay, Prissy! In one place his faith was good; in the 
other it faltered. We are all of us apt to be bolder with 
lance in hand, where we can do something, than in situations where we have only to sit still and trust." 
" But after this little dash was over and Abraham had got 
home, and everything had returned to its usual quiet, it 
seems that a feeling of despondency or weariness came over 
him. It is very apt to be so. He had been now some years 
in the land which was promised to be the inheritance of his 
descendants, and yet he had not one child. He was wealthy 
and honoured and respected, but he was alone ; and in the 
land where he lived he was a stranger. It was not the 
home of his fathers ; how was it to be the home of his children ? Perhaps his faith did not waver, but he was growing 
a little sick with hope deferred, or tempted to think he had 
misunderstood or mistaken something in the Lord's word. 
And so, then, one night, 'the Lord came to Abraham in a 
vision, saying, Fear not, Abraham : I am thy shield, and thy 
exceeding great reward Abraham spoke out immediately 
his heart longing—' Lord God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless ? " 
''I should think he might have been satisfied, uncle 
Sam." 
" We are not to think he was unsatisfied," said my grand- 
mother; ''but Abraham was just like a child in his faith ; 
simple, unfearing, loving, trusting ; and like a child he spoke 
the thought of his heart. You must remember it had been 
told him, that in him all families of the earth should be 
blessed. That promise pointed to the coming Deliverer ; 
but how should it be fulfilled if he had no line of children 
to whom the promise and the inheritance should belong) 
His only heir, that appeared, was his chief servant and 
steward of his house; now that Lot had lost himself among 
the people of Sodom. For after all that had happened, Lot, 
it seems, had gone straight back to his possessions in that 
bad city. 
" Then the Lord told Abraham that his steward should 
not be his heir, but a child of his own. And He brought 
him forth, out of the tent, under the brilliant sky of the 
Eastern night, and bade him look up, and see if he could 
number the stars that were sparkling and blazing in the 
blue overhead ; and He said unto him, ' So shall thy seed 
be.'" 
"And he be Hevedit." 
"Fully. He believed in the Lord, that He could do impossible things as well as easy things. That is faith, Tiny. 
To believe, when we cannot see. That is the one thing God 
wants of His children ; if they will give Him that, they will 
give Him everythiilg else ; and so it was counted to Abraham for righteousness. And the Lord repeated the assurance—' I am the Lord that brought thee out of Ur of the 
Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.' Then Abraham, not in doubt, but with a natural human longing to 
have something besides the promise, asked for a sign. 
Whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it ?" 
" But, uncle Sam, was all this in vision ? " 
" And what is vision ?" said L.
"Vision is seeing. 'God who at sundry times and in 
divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers,' before 
there was the full written revelation — did it sometimes by a 
dream, sometimes by an inspired messenger, and sometimes 
by a vision. And in a vision He showed things to the eyes 
of the mind, which the eyes of the body could not see; 
sometimes when the eyes of the body were sealed up in 
sleep. So the prophets in very old times used to be called 
SeerSf because they had seen what they told. Some had 
visions of angels. Some had visions of the glory of the 
Lord. This of Abraham's was another. I do not know. 
Tiny, whether the whole story of this chapter happened in 
a vision; but I should think not. However, it comes to 
the same thing. Abraham asked for a sign. And then the 
Lord made a covenant with Abraham. 
" He bade him take a heifer, a she-goat and a ram, a turtle- 
dove and a young pigeon, and sacrifice them. Abraham did 
it, dividing the animals in two and laying the parts over 
against each other. He waited for the sign then ; waited, 
keeping the birds of prey from the pieces, until the sun was 
going down. I think all this was done the next day in clear 
daylight, and not in vision. ' And when the sun was going 
down, a deep sleep fell upon Abraham,' and now the vision 
came. The Lord spoke to him and told him more distinctly 
what should be the fortunes of his children. They should 
be strangers in another land, and oppressed for a long time, 
and until four hundred years should be passed ; then their 
oppressors should be judged, and the people brought out 
with great substance, and brought to the land of Canaan. 
Abraham bimadf would see nothing of all this, but end his 
days in peace and blessing ; and in the fourth generation, 
when the wickedness of the Amorites would have reached 
its height, his children should come and take their possession. And having told him this, then God gave Abraham 
His sign. The sun went down ; and it grew dark ; and in 
the darkness there came the appearance of a smoking furnace and of a lamp of jGbre, that passed between the divided 
portions of the sacrifice." 
" But what did that mean ? " 
" This, Tiny. The old custom of making a covenant, was 
to seal it by having both the contracting parties pass between the divided pieces of the sacrifice offered on the occasion. Here it was done. The smoking furnace was the 
figure of the oppressed Israelites, who were brought ' out of 
the iron furnace' of Egypt, as the Bible says  and the lamp 
of fire was the Lord's own sign." 
"But the Israelites could not be one of the contracting 
parties," said liph. 
" Nor can any sinful human creature, when the Lord enters 
into covenant with us. All we can do is to accept the grace 
and take the conditions the Lord gives. But you will remember this was the sign of the covenant vouchsafed to 
Abraham ; it was put in a visible shape, in God's condescending mercy to His servant. And that day ' the Lord made a 
covenant with Abraham, saying. Unto thy seed have I given 
this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the 
river Euphrates.' And the Hebrew word covenant comes 
from a root which means to cut — the word itself is a cutting
in reference to this sealing rite." 
" I shall never forget that now," said I. 
"And you must not forget one thing more. That 'to 
Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith 
not. And to seeds, as of many ; but as of one. And to thy 
seed, which is Christ.' The real promise of inheritance and 
blessing and glory, was made to that great One of Abraham's 
line and to those who belong to Him. 'If ye be Christ's, 
then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the promise.' Not otherwise." 
 
" Heirs of what, sir ? " Liph asked. 
" Of the favour of God, Of a promised inheritance where 
He alone will be King over us, and we shall be delivered 
from all our enemies, and from the bondage of sin and 
death ; and we shall serve Him without fear. ' An inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, and that fadeth not away.'
That is the real promise. You must remember that, all the 
time." 
Sept. 16.— THE WILDERNESS OF PARAN. 
The 15th of September was exceedingly sultry ; and in the 
afternoon, as we could go to church but once in the day, we 
agreed to take our Bibles and repair to our beloved rock-top ; 
perhaps there would be a breath of air stirring. Not much 
could be felt, after all ; but it was pleasanter at any time 
under the trees than it was in the house. The forest was 
very still on Sunday. Insect life indeed was busy and bird 
life ; yet that did not really break the silence ; and no other 
sound was there to break it. Other days a woodchopper's 
axe might now and then be heard ; or the voice of the teamster in the distance ; little else in truth ; but Sundays, the 
rest of nature was absolute and profound. 
" We are in a wilderness," said unde Sam. " I have always 
been of opinion that a wilderness is a pleasant place." 
"Is this a wilderness ? " said Priscilla. 
" Yes. What is meant by a wilderness, in Bible langusge 
at least, is simply ' land not sown,' as one of the prophets 
speaks it Land not cultivated, but left to nature." 
"And with nobody living in it," said Priscilla. 
" That is not a condition. There can be no settled inhabitants of a wildemess ; because if settled they would more or 
less cultivate the ground ; but roving inhabitants there may 
be, and there are In the wilderness south of Palestine, for 
instance ; the wilderness between it and Egypt, and stretching down into the peninsula of Sinai — there are thousands 
of Bedouin rovers, feeding their flocks and their camels by 
the way ; but no cultivation that really changes the face of 
the land. They do sow and reap thin patches of com here 
and there as they can. Eight thousand Bedouins are estimated in that region now; when the powerful Amalekite 
 
nation dwelt there, the population must have been much 
greater ; and doubtless they cultivated the soil to some 
greater extent, and so had more grass and trees." 
" But I thought a desert was all sand and nothing else." 
"That is what we generally mean by a desert, when we 
think of Africa and Asia. But a wilderness is a different 
thing ; or a desert, as the Bible often mentions the word. 
In that wilderness of Paran there is but a proportion of sand; 
a great deal of it is rock; and every here and there one 
comes to a green spot, where a small supply of water 
nourishes a strip of grass or a tuft of palm-trees. All the 
land wants is water ; and if the winter rains and torrents 
were carefully made use of. for purposes of irrigation, the 
desert might even now literally rejoice and blossom as the 
rose. The first we hear of the wilderness, in the Bible, is in 
the story of Hagar." 
" I do not understand that story, uncle Sam," said L.
" It is so unlike our European customs, I do not wonder
Tiny. Yet it is all perfectly natural, and right too, according 
to the customs of the patriarchal days ; or even those of the 
Bedouin Arabs now, though not quite so much. It was not 
thought wrong for a man to have more wives than one ; and 
is not among them ; but one is always the head wife, the 
mistress of the family, the chief of the household ; and the 
others are under her. And also to have children was considered a very great blessing, and to be without them a 
great misfortune. So it was only doing as other people did, 
when Sarah seeing that she had no children proposed to 
Abraham to take another wife in one of her slaves; for 
if her slave had children, according to usage they would 
be reckoned as Sarah's own. 'And Abraham hearkened 
to the voice of Sarah' — very likely he thought it was the 
Lord's will he should ; and she gave him Hagar, an Egyptian 
slave of hers, to be his wife." 
" But was Hagar Sarah's slave, not Abraham's ? " liph 
asked. 
"Sarah's entirely, until she gave her to Abraham. The 
hondwomQji of the wife belonged solely to her, and were at 
her disposal, whether they were hers by gift or by purchase 
or by dower. This Egyptian slave was probably the gift of 
Pharaoh to Sarah, at the time when he was loading Abraham 
with his marks of favour. Now Sarah gave her to her husband to be his wife." 
"And made trouble for herself," said my grandmother. 
" Ay, and for Abraham too ; who hated confusion in the 
household, I judge, if ever a man did. However, the Lord 
gave Hagar the blessing of being a mother ; and when she 
had the promise of it, very naturally she assumed a position 
which was not her right. She despised her former mistress, 
and would not take orders from her meekly, but carried her 
pretty black head high. Then Sarah was both jealous and 
provoked; and appealed to her husband to know if he 
was going to allow her to be insulted. Sarah was a good 
deal of a princess, I fancy, in her temper, as well as her 
name." 
" But I think Abraham ought not to have let her have 
her way," said Priscilla. " It was cruel to Hagar, I think." 
" My dear, Abraham could know nothing about the matter, 
except what his wife told him ; the women did not quarrel 
in his presence ; and you cannot wonder that he cared more 
for Sarah's comfort, whom he loved and had lived with all 
his life, than for the Egyptian woman. It was a little 
cruel to Hagar ; but then Abraham did not know that Sarah 
would use her power so harshly. At any rate, he gave it all 
back to her ; 'do as it pleaseth thee,' he said : ' thy maid is 
in thy hand.' After saying that, he could not interfere, even 
if he had known interference was needed. Sarah ' afflicted 
her,' the Hebrew has it ; punished her well for her impertinence and presumption, I suppose ; and Hagar, after her 
brief taste of liberty and pride, could not bear it. She ran 
away." 
" And so would I," said Priscilla. 
" It is a poor way to get rid of trouble, too," said my uncle ; 
" when one runs away from duty. Hagar's way led her into 
the wilderness— that wilderness I was speaking of. She 
had set out with the idea of getting home to her own country, no doubt ; and that rocky barren desert must have been 
a weary place for a delicate woman's feet to travel Poor 
thing ! she was found by a fountain of water in the wilderness—by a fountain in the way to Shur— where her strength 
and spirits had very likely failed her. I can see the young 
creature in that desolate solitude, down on the ground by 
the well's mouth, with maybe the shade of some scrubby 
palm-trees over her head ; and no other shelter in earth or 
heaven that she knew of." 
"Where is Shur?" 
" Not known certainly. It was a place just without the 
eastern border of Egypt — the last Arabian town on the limit 
of the desert, probably ; but Hagar had not got so far. She 
was only in the great highway of travel between Palestine 
and that point ; on the way." 
" And who was it found her, uncle Sam ? " 
" Who was it ? " repeated my uncla " Who is it, whose eyes 
are in every place — whose eyes are upon the ways of man, 
and He seeth all his goings — and who ' hath not despised nor 
abhorred the auction of the aMcted, neither hath He hid 
His face from him ? ' " 
"But sir," said Dan, "it says, 'the angel of the Lord 
found her.' " 
" See how that angel spoke to her, a little further on. It 
was the same angel thai called to Abraham when he was 
going to sacrifice Isaac, and said, ' Thou hast not withheld 
thy SOD, thine only son, from mk' The same that spoke to 
Jacob and said, ' I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee.' 
The same augel of the Lord who appeared to Moses in a 
flame of fire out of the midst of a bush, and said, 'I am the 
God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, 
and the God of Jacob.' Angel means messenger ; and this 
was that precious messenger who has declared to us all the 
will of God ; who is elsewhere called the ' Word.' " 
" Was it JesuSf uncle Sam ? " 
" Tiny, the Bible says that the Father no man hath seen 
or can see; 'the only-begotten Son, which is in the bosom 
ai the Pather, He hath declared Him.' This was He of whom 
Jacob said, 'God, before whom my fathers Abraham and 
Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long unto 
this day, the Angd which redeemed me from all evil " 
" Was it Jesus ? '' I said again. " Did He stand there by 
Hagar at the fountain, and did she see Him ? " 
" Was it unlike him. Tiny ? It was the same One who, 
some two thousand years later, let the blind and the lame 
come to Him, touched the lepers and healed the sick ; 'the 
same yesterday, to-day, and for ever ! ' Was it unlike Him 
to stand beside the poor runaway slave in the wilderness, 
and hear her cry ? " 
"But,— He doesn't do so now," I said. 
" Yes, He does ; the only difference is, that we cannot see 
Him. He stands by His people when they are in trouble ; 
He brings them comfort, and gives them deliverance, and 
speaks to them in their hearts. It is the ' angel of His presence' that saves them now, and in all their auction He is 
afflicted. Nothing is true of Him then that is not true of 
Him now ; nor true of Him now that was not true of Him 
then." 
" Sir," said liph, " do you think Hagar was one of His 
people?" 
" She was the wife of Abraham, and she was to be the 
mother of his first child ; and God took care of everything 
that belonged to Abraham. But He passes by nothing ; He 
forgets nobody, and nobody's trouble ; He ied to put sin 
and sorrow away ; and men's perverseness is the only reason 
why it is not put away. The ' Messenger of the covenant,' 
He comes to every heart that will let Him in ; and the 
' Messenger of the covenant ' is the same angel who spoke to 
Moses in Mount Sinai, and the same angel who  found Hagar 
by a fountain of water in the wilderness.' " 
"  And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence comest thou ? 
and whither wilt thou go ? '" 
" That sounds like Jesus," I said. 
" She, weary and wondering, said, ' I flee from the face of 
my mistress SaraL' And then she was told to go back and 
be patient ; 'and the angel of the Lord said unto her, I will 
 
multiply thy seed exceedingly, that it shall not be nnmbered 
for multitude.' You see what voice speaks there." 
" But her children were not to be the Jews ? " said liph. 
"No. The people descended from Ishmael, her son, are 
the great Arabian nation, a people almost as wonderful as 
their cousins the Jews. Their character was foretold to 
Hagar. ' Thou shalt bear a son, and shalt call his name Ishmael ; because the Lord hath heard thy affliction. And he 
will be a wild man ; his hand will be against every man, and 
every man's hand against him ; and he shall dwell in the 
presence of all his brethren.' It is the character they have 
borne, without change, through all the generations of the 
three thousand seven hundred years since then. They are 
like no other nation in that. They are a great multitude 
of many various tribes spread over the country from Egypt 
and the Mediterranean coast to the river Tigris and beyond, 
and westward through Egypt to the northern regions of 
Africa. And everywhere they are wild men; their hand 
against every man, and every man's hand against them ; 
but no hand able to put them down or put them out of 
their possessions. Still they dwell in the presence of. all 
their brethren ; their language and manners and habits and 
abodes remaining the same as they were three thousand 
years ago, in all essentials." 
" Why is every man's hand against them, sir ? " 
"Well, their hand is against every man; that is one 
reason." 
"What is that for?" 
"It is their way of enriching themselves. They are not 
great agriculturists; they are not mercantile; although 
something of commerce is carried on by them in a scattering 
way, and some harvests are gathered. Trades, mechanical 
trades, they abhor. The Bedouins will not even permit any 
handicraftsmen to remain in their tribes ; they will not admit them to their society nor allow intermarriages with 
them. Craftsmen are well respected in other parts of the 
East— in Syria and in Egypt— but the Bedouin reckons himself too noble for such low occupatioas. Of course, as he is 
' When we came oat of oar tents one morning, we saw all over 
a wide plain the carling smoke of the Bedoain fires." 
fond of money, he must get it in some other way ; and his 
way ia to take it from foreigners and strangers passing 
through his country : unless, you must remember, they are 
strangers who throw themselves upon his protection or ask 
his hospitality ; in which case he will protect them from all 
harm at the risk of his life." 
" Then they are a curious sort of robbers," said Dan. 
Very curious." 
" Do they kill as well as rob ? " asked liph. 
" Not unless resistance is made and blood is drawn. Then 
comes in blood revenge. No; their robbery is quiet and 
systematic oftentimes ; a regular black maiL For instance
I remember once, crossing with a caravan from Orfa to the 
Tigris to reach Mosul, in the northern part of Mesopotamia, 
when we came out of our tents one morning we saw all over 
a wide plain the curling smoke of the Bedouin fires, scattered 
here and there, rising up into the still air. Of course, pretty 
as it was, we knew what would be the next thing ; and in an 
hour or two, a couple of horsemen were scouring over the 
plain to meet us. The caravan was halted and surveyed by 
them, and then we were all marched off to one of the stations 
and ordered to encamp. The leader came to our tents. He 
was received with the greatest possible respect and with rich 
presents, which were intended to put him in a good humour ; 
but they did not seem to be of much use. His men over- 
hauled everything ; made a list of the goods ; read it to 
their chief, who was much too noble to know anything about 
reading and writing ; and then a certain tribute was fixed 
for all the things. So much for every camel load, so much 
for every donkey, so much for the men of the caravan. It 
was a heavy tribute, but we had to pay it, after beating down 
the demand a little." 
" Buther hard to tax the animals that belonged to the men, 
and then the men themselves," said Liph. 
" Buther. But this was an orderly tribute, to a settled 
tribe taking toll of all who passed through their country. 
The plundering parties do not show as much forbearance. 
They lay hold of whatever suits them, especially gold and 
 
silver and jewels and rich stuffs. These they can send into 
the cities and sell, and so supply themselves with the things 
they want" 
" Then they do not want them themselves ?" 
"They are too poor to use them. Besides, an Arab, 
especially a pure Bedouin, lives very simply, and glories in 
it. His food is plain and poor ; and his house is the black 
goat's hair tent of the desert, with the desert air flowing all 
through it. But that is their glory. I knew of a high-bom 
Bedouin lady who would not sleep under a white tent. Her 
husband was acting as guide to a party of English travellers 
— guide and guard ; and she had gone along to look after 
him. He was a noble specimen of an Arab, but a good deal 
ruled by his wife ; and he was obliged to confess one day 
that she objected to sleep under the white tent which had 
been furnished him. She declared it made her feel like the 
mean dwellers in cities ; and out she went from her white 
curtains, and lay under the stars. The party had not a real 
black Arab tent with them, except the one used for the cooking place ; that, however, was given to the lady, and under 
that, with its black sides rolled up, she said she could breathe 
freely and feel like a Bedouin." 
"They settle sometimes in towns and villages; do they 
lose their old character and ways, then ? " my grandmother 
asked. 
" As little as possible. They will be Arabs, whatever else 
they be. They keep themselves carefully from the contagion 
of the other people of the country ; do not marry with them, 
nor adopt their dress or customs ; pride themselves in their 
pure Bedouin name and blood ; and try to live in houses as 
they would live in tents. In Egypt and Syria there are 
settlements of them as old as hundreds of years, where yet 
this is true. They think it beneath them to read or write ; 
and in general, change nothing that they can help from what 
their forefathers did. Still, the true Bedouin is no settler, 
and looks down upon those that ara'' 
" What presents did you give that Arab chief that robbed 
the caravan, uncle Sam ) " 
" It was not I, Prissy. I believe a fine Cashmere shawl 
was one thing ; and an amber mouth-piece for a pipe, and 
some jewellery. The head men, the sheikhs of the tribes, 
sometimes are rich and live luxuriously ; that is, by comparison ; they like a show of splendour, and know it is a help to 
power, and pleases the pride of the tribe. That is policy. 
The sheikhs ordinarily kill a sheep every day, and feast all
comers, and exercise the most unbounded hospitality. But 
the common Bedouin does not see meat often. He lives 
upon wheat bread and truffles, when, they can be got, with a 
very few other vegetables ; onions and garlic and leeks are 
almost all that he likes ; and curds and sour milk and butter 
' are the rest of his fare. He is well off when he has these, 
for there is many a time, and for months together, when he 
can get nothing but bread. But no matter how poor, every 
Arab is a freeman, and well bom, and reckons himself his 
chiefs and everybody else's equal. And with his long spear 
in his hand, and his swift camel or full-blooded mare, he is 
a wild man. And he looks the character ! " 
" I should think everybody's hand would be against them," 
said Priscilla, "if they are such robbers." 
" But yet nobody has been able to put them down. Still, 
they dwell in the presence of all their brethren, as it was 
foretold Hagar ; free and wild and warlike. Each tribe has 
its own territory ; and anybody that would pass through it 
must secure their protection or submit to their exactions." 
" How many tribes are there of them ? " my grandmother 
asked. " It was promised that Ishmael should be ' multiplied exceedingly.' " 
"It is supposed his descendants are more at the present day than the descendants of Isaac. I do not know at 
how many millions they are reckoned ; but I know there are 
one hundred and twenty millions of people who speak the 
Arabic language. As for the tribes, the original twelve have 
been divided and subdivided until now there are near sixty. 
Some Arabs, you must remember, in the south of Arabia, 
are not Ishmaelites, but the descendants of Joktan ; others 
are the children of Keturah ; but they have intermarried, 
 
doubtless ; and the children of Ishmael are said to form now 
the great mass of the Arabian people." 
" I should not think it would have been much pleasure to 
Hagar to hear all that," said Prissy. 
"It was not said for her pleasure, but for our learning. 
However, the promise that her son should be the father of a 
great nation could not be anything but pleasant to her ; for 
children were esteemed a special boon in the East. One 
thing she ought not to have forgotten — the name her child 
should bear. Ishmad means, ' God shall hear.' That name 
might for ever remind her of those sweet words that were 
spoken to her in her f orlomness there — ' the Lord hath heard 
thy aflliction.' Amid the weary rocks of that wilderness, 
the poor slave did not think her tears had been seen ; but 
they were ; and Jesus came to speak peace to them." 
" But every poor slave's cry is not heard, I suppose," said 
liph. 
"Yes it is ! and registered; and answered when the time 
comes. For the day and the hour, my boy, we must trust 
God's wisdom, as being better than ours. As it is, God has 
given His children a message of comfort to carry to every 
suffering creatura That it is not carried, is the fault of those 
to whom the message has been committed." 
We were all silent a little while upon this. Then Daniel 
asked where the place was, of that fountain of water where 
Hagar was found % 
" Not certainly known," my uncle said. " Only that it 
was in what is called ' the south country ' — & wide tract of 
pasture ground between the hills of JudsJi on the one hand 
and the desert on the other. It is a dry land without 
springs ; and therefore from the oldest times men dug 
wells there, which remain to this day. Beer means a well ; 
and Ain or En, a living spring of water ; you can remember 
that. Hagar's well was called from that time, Beer-lahai-roi, 
' the well of Him that liveth and seeth' And Ishmael means, 
' God hears ; ' so if people had not the Bible in those times 
you'see they carried the truth about with them in the names 
of every-day things. We do the other way, I am afraid. It 
would be good for us if we knew our own well always as 
'Beer-lahai-roL' " 
" But that Angel does not come to speak to us there, uncle 
Sam." 
" Doesn't hel" said my uncle. "Ah, little Tiny, you 
are mistaken. He comes wherever there is a heart that 
wants to hear Him and will be obedient to Him — in the 
forest, or by the spring, or wherever it may be, there comes 
Jesus." 
" But that well is said to have been between Kadesh and 
Bered," said liph. "I should think it might have been 
known." 
"It was known when Moses wrote. But Kadesh and 
Bered are names now and nothing more ; we cannot be sure 
of the exact site of either of them. It doesn't matter. 
Hagar went home again, and in course of time Ishmael was 
bom. Abraham very likely thought that this son was to be 
the promised heir of the promises and of the land of Canaan. 
But it was not so. 
" Thirteen more years had passed quietly away, and Abraham was almost a hundred years old, when the angel that 
had come to Hagar came again to him. ' The Lord appeared 
to Abraham,' and told him more particularly about the promise than Abraham had ever known before. Now let us look 
at it. But first, look at the conmiand ; for the Lord's promises are always with a condition. ' Walk before me and be 
thou perfect." 
"But it isn't always that condition, uncle Sam," said 
Priscilla. 
" Isn't it? Nobody that does not walk before God— as a 
servant before his master— as a child before his father— has 
anything to do with the Lord's good promises." 
"But nobody is perfect, uncle Sam," 
" Nobody is without sin. Prissy. But the Bible must 
mean something when it says, ' Thou shalt be perfect with 
the Lord thy God ; ' and certainly nobody is perfect who has 
the least allowance of sin or makes the least compromise 
with it anywhere, or in anything ; whose heart is not all the 
 
Lord! 9, That is required of everybody ; and the heart that 
is all the Lord's, the Lord will keep. Abraham's was such a 
heart ; and with him God made his covenant. The covenaut 
had been given before ; now the Lord added two seals to it. 
The first was Abraham's change of name. He had been 
Abram ; now he was to be called Abraham, which means, 
' father of a multitude ; ' and his wife was to be Sarah, which 
is, ' princess.' And whenever afterwards the Lord took any 
one into particular favour, you may notice that it was apt 
to be marked by a change of name. 'Thou shalt be called 
by a new name,' was a promise to the church of old ; and 
Jesus says, ' To him that overcometh will I give a white 
stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man 
knoweth saving he that receiveth it.' " 
" Uncle Sam, I don't think I know exactly what that 
means." 
" We shall not know exactly tiU we get it. Tiny. The 
other seal to the covenant was one which Abraham was to 
set, and his children after him ; it was the sign of circumcision. It was only a sign ; but it was like baptism now, the 
believer's sign of faith in the Lord and pledge of belonging 
to him. Anybody who did not choose to give it was cut off 
from the covenant, and had no right to the promises. And 
then the Lord told Abraham, that his promised child, through 
whom the blessing was to come, was not Ishmael; but 
that Sarah should have a son of her own, and with him and 
his children the covenant should stand." 
" ' Then Abraham fell upon his face and laughed,' " said 
Priscilla. 
" Fell upon his face in adoring wonder, and laughed for 
joy. This was not the laughter of one who doubted the 
Lord's word. ' He staggered not at the promise of God 
through unbelief ; but was strong in faith, giving glory to 
God ; and being fully persuaded that what he had promised 
he was able also to perform.' So the Lord told him that 
this promised son should be called 'Laughter;' he should 
be joy and a sign of joy. Nevertheless, Abraham's heart held 
very closely his first child, his thirteen-years-old boy ; and he 
prayed for a blessing upon IshmaeL And the Lord granted 
it ; indeed, the blessing given to Ishmael was as great as that 
given to Isaac, as far as the mere things of this world are 
concerned. But the covenant belonged to Isaac alone. Only 
in Isaac, and in that promised One who should come in 
Isaac's line, was the word to be true to Abraham, 'I will be 
a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.' Only Isaac's 
children should inherit the land of Canaan ' for an everlasting possession;' even as only those who are Christ's can 
receive ' the promise of eternal inheritance ; ' of which the 
land of Canaan was a figure." 
" But the Jews have not got the land of Canaan now," said 
Idph. 
" Nor we haven't got heaven," said my uncle. "But both 
will ' Thus saith the Lord, which giveth the sun for a light 
by day, and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for 
a light by night : If those ordinances depart from before me, 
saith the Lord, then the seed of Israel also shall cease from 
being a nation before me for ever.' ' Yea, I will rejoice over 
them to do them good, and I will plant them in this land assuredly with my whole heart and with my whole souL'" 
" The Arab nations observe circumcision too," said my 
grandmother. 
" Yes, and claim the right of the eldest son of Abraham — 
a right to the possession of earthly territory. With the faith 
of Abraham they have nothing to do. And you know, 
children, that whether it be circumcision or baptism, the 
real thing is the Lord's inward seal set on the heart. If that 
is not washed from sin, and wholly given and marked as the 
Lord's, the /outward sign is good for nothing. So unless a 
man had the inward seal as well as the outward sign, he was 
not one of the true Israel. 'If ye be Christ's' — not otherwise—' then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to 
the promise.' " 
 
Sept. 16.— SODOM. 
" The next time we hear of Abraham," said uncle Sam, " he 
was sitting in his tent door, in the heat of the day." 
" He was at the same place yet," said Daniel 
"Under the oaks of Mamre, near Hebron. The Arabs 
like to pitch their tents near to trees, that they may have 
the refreshment of the shade. Abraham had now been a 
good while at Hebron. There was plenty of pasturage and 
plenty of water, and good ground for cultivation ; and he 
and his sons were not such rovers as his Bedouin children 
are ; they tilled the soil, though they lived in tabernacles." 
" Was it very hot at Hebron ? " I asked. 
" Not very hot. Tiny, for it is good high ground ; it is just 
the country for the grape to flourish. But that means a 
good sun in the middle of the day, though night winds are 
cool. Abraham sat in his tent door. What sort of a house 
do you suppose his tent was ? Nothing like the white canvas tents of our soldiers when they are in camp. Abraham's tent was probably very like the tents of the Arab 
sheikhs; and I have been often enough in them. The 
covering of the tent is black cloth made of goat's hair, woven 
in strips three quarters of a yard wide. A number of these 
strips are sewed together, perhaps ten of them, according 
to the depth of the tent ; and the length of the pieces of 
course depends on the size that is required the other way. 
To support this tent covering, nine poles are set up ; three 
down the middle, and three on each side ; and to keep all 
steady, loops are sewed to the tent cover at the place of each 
pole top, except the one in the middle, and ropes go from 
these loops and are stretched to pins fastened in the ground 
ontde, A curtain or flap is attached to the back of the 
tent, and carried round the sides in winter ; it is hooked up 
or let down, as the want of air or too much air may make it 
desirable. The middle row of poles is about seven feet high ; 
the outer poles, five feet That is the tent. Now to divide 
off the women's portion : a woollen curtain or carpet is hung 
all across by the middle row of poles ; sometimes the curtain 
is white and sometimes it is woven in figures." 
" Had Abraham no better house than Hiat ? " said Priscilla. 
" It is a very good sort of house," said my unde. " It is 
the pleasantest one can have, in travelling through Palestine; but, to be sure, that is because the others are so 
dirty." 
" Are the tents always clean ? " my grandmother asked. 
" Not the dwellers in them, if they are Bedouins," said my 
uncle. " But you cannot help having sweet air ; and the 
ground is a clean floor. I like tents. Over the ground, 
however, a good carpet is spread, in a rich man's tent, and 
cushions laid upon that. The usual fashion in ordinary 
cases is to pile the wheat sacks and the camel bags in a huge 
heap round the middle pole of the tent ; and near this pile 
to lay the pack-saddles about for the sheikh and his friends 
or guests to lean upon — near this pUe, or a little farther 
back. It is impolite to put them near the outer side poles." 
"What is in the woman's side of the tent?" said Priscilla. 
"Ah," said my uncle, "you would not like it. Prissy, 
Everything is piled in there that is not wanted in the other 
place. All the cooking vessels ; the wheat mortar and the 
coffee mortar, and the wooden bowl into which the milk of 
the camels is drawn; the water skins, and the skins of 
butter ; the leather water bucket, and the horse's feeding 
bag." 
" Do you believe Sarah had all those things in her tent, 
uncle Sam?" 
" I guess not. Prissy ; she was the wife of so great a man. 
But yet, you will see she must have had some of them. And 
Abraham's tent may have probably been as well furnished 
 
as the best in which I have been received— though I do not 
know whether they had silk cushions and soft carpets at 
that day. I rather think not. His long spear very likely 
stood before it, as every Arab's does now ; and perhaps it was 
marked as the sheikh's spear, then as now, by the ostrich 
feathers tied to it. It is likely, I think, that Abraham's 
horses were kept somewhere else ; but before the tent is the 
Arab's place for them ; and the sheikh's tent may be known 
by the number of beautiful animals picketed in front of it, 
as well as by the feathered spear." 
"Is the women's part of the tent quite enclosed?" my 
grandmother asked. 
" No, not usually. But Sarah's seems to have been. I 
have seen in the north, near the Euphrates, a different arrangement ; the whole back part of the tent shut otf, and the 
front left open. But it is likely Abraham's tent was of the 
sort I have described, which his children use to this day." 
" Uncle Sam, how do you suppose Abraham was dressed ? 
What did he look like r' 
" Impossible to say with certainty. Prissy ; but I will tell 
you how it is with a Bedouin of the desert ; and it is not 
likely the fashions changed much more in the older time 
than they have in the later. A Bedouin sheikh of the present day wears first a coarse cotton shirt ; Abraham's was 
probably linen, for cotton was not then known in Palestine 
or Egjrpt. Over the shirt, a long gown, silk or cotton now. 
Over the gown, a mantle. There is a thin kind, and a heavier, 
worn over the first, both woollen. The outside one is called 
an abba; it is coarse and heavy, striped white and brown or 
white and black ; sometimes white and blue. No Bedouin 
wears drawers or pantaloons, of any sort ; and they usually 
go barefoot, whether walking or riding, though they do think 
a good deal of yellow boots and red shoes. Prissy. But the 
Bedouin is a hardy animal On his head he folds a square 
kerchief, in such a way that while one corner falls at the 
back, two other corners come over his shoulders; and these 
he can draw around his face if he likes, either to hide who he 
is, or to protect himself from searching hot winds, or rain or 
sun. This kercliief they wear yellow, or yellow and green ; 
and to keep it fast on, they tie a cord or bit of rope round 
the head. That is all a Bedouin's dress — except his arms ; 
and many of them wear their mantle directly over the shirt, 
without any gown at all." 
" Uncle Sam, I do not like to think of Abraham with a bit 
of rope round his head." 
" You need not. Some of the wealthy sheikhs dress very 
handsomely ; wear red and white shawls instead of a kerchief, and black abbas interwoven with gold. But Abraham, 
I think, did not. A great sheikh, whom Mr Layard visited, 
wore a crimson satin robe, a gold-embroidered cloak, and a 
rich Cashmere shawl on his head ; and his tent was spread 
with cushions of silk and furnished with luxurious carpets. 
Abraham had not just such things, but no doubt his establishment was thoroughly worthy of him ; good and ample. 
As a general thing, the Arab sheikh lives and dresses just as 
plainly as his followers. The difference between him and 
them is, that he can indulge in more bounteous hospitality, 
dress his ladies handsomely, and perhaps own one or more 
swift mares." 
" And how was Sarah dressed ? " 
" Her daughters wear a blue gown, with not much under 
it ; a red or black kerchief on the head — red while the lady 
is young ; — silver rings in the ears and nose, and glass brace- 
lets on the arms. Silver bracelets and chains too, if they can 
afford it. There are many varieties in different tribes. But 
the women's blue gown, the men's striped abha and green and 
yellow head-kerchief, are universal north of Mecca. Now
shall we go back to Abraham ? now that you can fancy what 
he looked like. 
" He sat in his tent door in the heat of the day, dressed 
somehow as I have told you, probably ; when he suddenly 
saw three strangers coming near. He did then exactly what 
a Bedouin Arab would do now. To be the guest of one, a 
real Bedouin, is to have the whole scene acted over. Once 
when I was crossing a part of Arabia I was invited to dine 
at the tent of a sheikh in the company. We went a little 
out of our way to get to his encampment. There were nine 
tents of them ; nine black tents set up in a line; the women's 
were close, and the men's tents were all open at the sidea 
As we came to the sheikh's tent, his old father, an old man 
of some eighty years, arose and came forward and bowed himself to salute us, as if we had been the most dignified people 
in the world. We went in, and mats were spread for us to 
sit upon ; water was brought to wash our hands and feet ; 
and a young man was sent to the flock to choose a kid, and 
he killed it and dressed it, and it was handed over to the 
sheikh's wife in her tent to be cooked for us. And after a 
while it came out from her hands in smoking dishes of rice 
and meat, and was placed before us ; and the sheikh himself stood up while we ate, to attend upon us and show us 
honour." 
" That is exactly like Abraham." 
" But is that politeness, uncle Sam ?" 
" It is Arabian politeness. The sheikh does not think he 
lowers himself at all, my boy, nor do his servants think sa 
Hospitality is the pride and delight of a true Bedouin. He 
never has such a dish cooked for his own pleasure ; he would 
be ashamed of it ; luxuries are kept for the times when a 
stranger comes. At other times he lives upon flour and sour 
camel's milk, boiled together into a paste ; or upon the wild 
truffles of the desert, or on dates, where they can be had. It 
is only when a guest of some consequence arrives, that 
bread is made, and coffee served, and a lamb killed." 
" Pretty expensive," said Liph, "to kill a lamb for a dinner, 
every time you have a dinner." 
" There is no help for it. You cannot keep meat in that 
climate ; it must be cooked and eaten at onca So when the 
friends and followers of the sheikh see an unusual smoke 
coming out from the women's tent, they know that a guest 
has arrived and dinner is preparing : and they flock in. The 
lamb or kid is commonly boiled in camel's milk with hurgouL
which is wheat boiled with leaven and afterwards dried. It 
is a common dish among the Arabs. The burgoul is served 
in a large wooden dish and the meat round the edge; and 
in the middle of the wheat is a smaller wooden dish holding 
the melted fat of the animal, pressed down in the middle as 
a centre-piece ; and the bits of meat are all dipped into this 
bowl before they go to the mouths of the eaters." 
" Is that the 'butter ' which Abraham set before his guests 
with the meat ? " my grandmother asked. 
"I think that was real butter. Among many of the 
Bedouins the use of real butter is extravagant, their food 
swims in it. One of their dishes, good too, is made of meat 
and bread chopped and mixed with sour curds ; over this 
when it is ready they pour a quantity of melted butter. The 
milk Abraham brought to the entertainment was probably 
sour milk, lebben ; or else it was camel's milk. The Arabs 
of the desert never drink the milk of sheep and goats, except 
in a sour state — buttermilk literally — and then it is whole- 
some. The milk is soured and churned, in their fashion ; 
and then the buttermilk is used at all their meals. But 
cameFs milk they drink fresh, and it is very good and very 
nourishing." 
" But don't they make hread, uncle Sam, except when a 
stranger comes ? " 
" In the sheikh's tents strangers are sometimes continually 
coming. But at any rate, Tiny, bread cannot be kept good 
among them, any more than meat, for a length of time. The 
bread that Sarah made was of wheaten flour, worked into a 
paste, and baked on the hearth ; that is, probably, in thin 
round cakes upon a hot iron plate. Or else, in another way 
that the Arabs use. A fire is lit over a layer of small stones ; 
when the stones are thoroughly heated, the coals and ashes 
are swept off and the thin dough is laid on the hot stones, 
covered again with the embers, and left till done. And 
there you have the meal which Abraham set out under the 
tree; a rich dish of boiled meat, with wheat and butter 
perhaps; sour milk; and thin, hot, fresh-baked cakes of 
bread." 
" I should have thought Hagar, or some of the servants, 
would have made the bread, and done all that" 
" Perhaps in so great a household they did. An English 
 
lady on a journey paid a visit to the wife of a rich sheikh in 
Mesopotamia, and described what she saw. This sheikh's 
wife had a tent of her own. In the middle of it a number 
of camel sacks were piled, holding com and coffee and rice 
and other things ; and upon these sacks were spread carpets 
and cushions, which made a throne or lounging place for the 
lady. She was the sheikh's chief wife. It is the privilege 
of the chief wife to prepare the dinner for the guests ; so it 
happened that from her domestic throne the lady was super- 
intending this very business at the time of the visit. She 
had as many as fifty servants, or inferior damsels, around 
her, seated or squatting on the ground ; they were attending 
to the stew over the fire, churning fresh butter and baking 
bread on the hot iron plate over the embers ; and as they 
wanted anything they asked for it at the handd of the chief 
lady, who untied the mouths of the sacks and gave out what 
was needed ; directing and scolding and orderiug, :is the case 
seemed to require, and more ; as if to show how much of a 
queen she was. The churning was done, Prissy, by shaking 
a goat-skin filled with milk. The skin was suspended to 
three stakes, and two women took it between them ; and you 
may be pretty sure that Abraham's butter was made in the 
self-same way. Always from sheep's or goat's milk, never 
from camel's milk, in the desert Abraham no doubt had 
milch-kine." 
" Does not the goat-skin give it a bad taste ? " said my 
grandmother. 
" Well, no, I think not. I have eaten it very good. Now 
let us go on with Abraham and the three strangers. Ho 
ran to meet them — it is sometunes almost a matter of 
quarrel now amongst the families of different tents, which 
shall have the guest ; — he bowed himself before them, and 
begged that the travellers, as he thought they were, would 
not pass by his tent, but would stop and rest, wash their feet, 
and break bread, before they went on their way. 'For therefore are ye come to your servant,' he said. You must know, 
that in an encampment the sheikh's tent is so pitched as to 
be probably the first to see either guests or enemies ; it is 
put on tliat side from which either may be expected to arrive. 
And a traveller must not pass by one tent to go into another ; 
it would be a deep affront. If he wishes not to be a guest 
at the tent first in his way, he must make a circuit, so as to 
come up to the one he seeks without passing by any other 
of the encampment. The first tent he comes to has a right 
to him" 
" But Abraham's tent was not in an encampment, I suppose," said Dan. 
"I suppose it was, my boy; and a pretty large encampment, too. He had over three hundred men servants, able 
to carry arms ; they must have had families ; and reckoning 
the usual proportions, there would have been some thirteen 
hundred or more people, young and old, in Abraham's following. Less than a hundred tents would not serve for so 
many. The sheikh's tent is easily known, as I told you. 
Among the Syrian Arabs it is always pitched on the western 
side, for that is the quarter from whence both friends and 
enemies may be looked for ; it would be thought disgraceful 
there for a rich man to have his tent on the eastern side of 
the encampment." 
" There is something very beautiful in that Eastern virtue 
of hospitality," said my grandmother ; "and it is a beauty 
that civilised people are apt to lose." 
" There is some reason for that," replied my uncle. " The 
towns and villages of civilised regions have regular places of 
entertainment for strangers, who would often be too many 
for the natives to take care of. In the desert, hospitality is 
a necessity of the way of life. Still it is beautiful A poor 
Arab's chief ambition is to be able to kill a lamb for every 
worthy guest that may come to his tent ; he does not like 
to be behind others in that honour and pleasure ; and though 
he be poor, yet if he acts up to his means, can kill a lamb for 
the traveller, give coffee to all who come to see hitp or to 
share in the feast — if he keeps his tobacco at the service of 
his friends, and divides his gains with his poor relations— he 
is greatly more honoured than the wealthiest man in the 
tribe who is hard to his relations and cold to his visitors. A 
generous Arab will give his last penny in hospitality and 
charity. A rich one will make good to his guest any losses 
he may have suffered while inhabiting his tent ; and betraying a guest— among the genuine Arabs— is impossible ; nobody even remembers when such a thing happened. life 
and property are safe, once confided to their care." 
" People don't do like that in this country," Daniel remarked 
"Not half enough," said my uncle. "We are tolerably 
ready to entertain rich friends ; but the spirit of the gospel, 
my boy, acted out, would make us revolutionise our whole 
system. ' Use hospitality one to another without grudging.' 
' When thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the 
lame, the blind, and thou shalt be blessed ; for they cannot 
recompense thee.' " 
" But, uncle," said Priscilla, " ought we not to have anybody but poor people come to see us ? " 
"I said nothing about that. I spoke only our Lord's 
words about making a feast." 
" Isn't it right to make a feast sometimes for rich people, 
sir?"- 
"I don't know. Prissy. But this I know. One feast for 
the rich would famish forth a hundred feasts for the poor. 
And I am ready to tremble sometimes when I think of those 
other words, — ' I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat : 
I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink : I was a stranger, 
and ye took me not in : naked, and ye clothed me not : sick, 
and in prison, and ye visited me not.' " 
Prissy looked very cloudy; Dan very intent. liph remarked that we got on very slowly about Abraham. 
" We have done with his entertainment," said my uncle. 
"It began with washing of feet; which you know is the 
greatest refreshment in a hot country, where people go bare- 
foot or wear only sandals. Then there was the rest under 
the great oak ; and the meal of freshly prepared victuals, 
and Abraham's respectful attendance on his guests. And 
then Abraham found, that in receiving strangers, he had 
entertained not merely angels, but the Lord of angels Himself. 
And oh, children, it is not different now. In that day Jesns 
will say, — ' Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the 
least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.'  
There was again silence amongst us. 
" Abraham did not know, until the Lord of angels pro- 
mised Sarah a son, what honour had been put upon him. 
That is clear, I think. And then followed another honour 
'The Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which 
I dol . . . . For I know him, that he will command his 
children and his household after him, and they shall keep 
the way of the Lord.' And then Abraham was told about 
the sin of Sodom, and the inquisition of judgment about to 
be made." 
" As Jesus said in another place," remarked my grand- 
mother : " I have called you friends ; for all things that I 
have heard of my Father I have made known unto you.' 
And ' Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command 
you.'" 
"Uncle Sam," said I, "if it was the Lord, why did He 
say, I will go down and see whether they have done so  — 
Don't He see everything, always ? " 
" Every where— always," said my uncle. " It is just a way, 
Tiny, of expressing the close, perfect looking into things 
which the eye of the Lord gives. In another place the Lord 
said once, He would ' search Jerusalem with candles.' 
'There is no darkness nor shadow of death, where the 
workers of iniquity may hide themselves.' Already the two 
angels were gone forth to Sodom, and Abraham stood yet 
before the Lord. Stood, as a subject desiring a petition of 
his king. And the Lord graciously gave him leave to present it." 
"That prayer is one of the most beautiful things we are 
told of about Abraham," said my grandmother. " You do 
not see it, children ] Think whom it was for. No friends 
of Abraham — no good people even, but wicked people; 
and Abraham knew it ; people of the Canaanitish race, 
too, whom his own descendants were to turn out of the 
land; yet Abraham pleaded that the good few in the 
 
city might save the city. It was a most loving, Christian 
prayer. 
" Why, grandmother," said liph, " it seems to me that he 
prayed only for the good people. ' Wilt thou destroy the 
righteous with the wicked ? ' he said." 
" Yes, but his prayer was that the place might be spared ; 
he argued for that. He did not ask to have the good ones 
taken out in safety, but that the place might be spared for 
their sakes. He knew how wicked it was. And if ten good 
men had been in it, the city would have been spared. You 
