Richard hesitated. He knew how necessary extreme 
quiet was ; he also knew there was a chance of his never 
being better able to finish any earthly task, and consented. 
" Stop at the office, and send Jarvis up, please." 
Something besides directions struggled through the young 
physician's mind a remembrance of his father's death, 
and. the blessed consolation that he had been among those 
who " die in the Lord." Was there not a duty owing to 
 
the soul as well as the body ? He leaned over the bed with 
an earnest face, and said, in the gentlest of tones, 
" Dear friend, is it well with you in either event ? " 
A weak, helpless light in the sick man's eyes, with an im- 
ploring gesture of the hands, was the only answer. Richard 
left the apartment quietly. His own perplexity he must 
bear alone. Eobert must go, and risk all improper associa- 
tions. He would be powerless to restrain him. 
 
CHAPTER VII. 
Sorrow and silence are strong, and patient endurance is Godlike, 
Therefore accomplish thy labor of love till the heart is made Godlike. 
EVANGELINE. 
NOT finding Dr. D at home, he remembered an en 
gagement with Ada, and drove at once to Mrs. Taylor's. 
His betrothed met him with a bright face, and said gayly, as 
she ushered him into the drawing-room, 
" How good of you to come just when one wants you ! 
We have made our final decisions. But how grave you look ! 
What new trouble has been added to your list ? " 
The flippant tone pained him, yet he answered pleasantly, 
" Never mind me. What are the arrangements ? " 
"We are going earlier than we thought next Tuesday. 
Mr. Taylor can stay only two weeks, as his partner is going 
to California. The party will consist of Mr. and Mrs. Taylor, 
Mrs. Ashley, you, and myself. In ten or twelve days Mr. 
Ashley will rejoin us, and you, like a good child, will remain 
with us until we return." 
He thought of Mr. Gruilford, and was silent. 
" You shall not make any excuse," she began, with girlish 
petulance. " For once I am resolved to have my own way." 
" Listen, Ada." There was some authority in his tone. 
"Mr. Guilford, my father's cherished friend as well as my 
own, is seriously ill with typhoid fever. At that period he 
will have reached the worst. No physician would leave a 
patient, at such a moment, to go on a pleasure tour. Affec- 
tion as well as honor binds me." 
" You can never do anything I ask of you ! I think some- 
times that you have not the slightest regard for the tio 
 
between us; that where I go, and what I do, arc alike indif- 
ferent to you. I'm not sure you would have felt at all hurt 
if I had left you without a word." 
" Ada, you are ungenerous. You know I have been looking 
forward to this journey as a great pleasure ; but could you 
counsel me to leave Mr. Guilford at such a time ? " 
" Doubtless there are as skilful physicians in the city as 
yourself," was the cold reply. 
" If I did not value my reputation, common gratitude 
would bid me remain. If the tour could be delayed a 
week " 
" It cannot. We are all ready, and shall go with or with- 
out you. I confess to some mortification in owning to my 
sisters that my lover puts his duty to others on a much higher 
round than his duty to me. When it is your pleasure to at- 
tend to me, I shall be happy to know the fact." Her tone 
was bitter, her face flushed and haughty. 
" I will join you at the earliest day possible. If you 
think, Ada, that, in giving you pain, / do not suffer any, you 
are mistaken." 
She would not unbend. " I have no more favors to ask of 
you. When your duty leads you in this direction, come." 
" You are angry." 
" I am hurt wounded to the quick. Your whole manner 
has changed towards me. If you are tired of of " and 
her rapid breath compelled her to pause. 
He rose and stood before her with much authoritative 
pride in his manner, and his tone was almost stern, as he 
said, 
"Ada, this is child's play; nay, worse. It is wicked. 
We two, who expect to be nearest and dearest through life, 
have no right to torment each other with it. You know I 
love you that my heart has never wandered for an hour. I 
am confident you would despise a man who could be weakly 
tempted to forget duty and honor. If I neglected others, 
what safeguard would you have ? " 
 
" Please yourself. We will not quarrel about it." Her 
tone was provokingly complaisant. 
He rose to go. Her chilling manner never relaxed, and 
their adieux were coldly spoken. With a heavy heart ho 
sought Dr. D , and the two proceeded on their errand. 
Mr. Gruilford was rapidly growing worse. He did nol 
recognize either of them, when they aroused him from hia 
stupor. 
"You are doing the best that can be done," said Dr. 
D . " The disease has so much the start of you that it 
will be difficult to manage. Poor Guilford ! What a pity 
he did not ask advice earlier ; but that is ever the way with 
these strong, hearty men. They think themselves invul- 
nerable." 
" And your opinion is " 
" That it's a serious case. Steady nerves and a cool brain 
are what you must bring to the trial, my young friend. Guil- 
ford has a strong constitution, and is a temperate man ; that's 
in his favor. But the hot weather is against him, and his 
delirium will doubtless be very exhausting. But we will 
hope for the best. Come to me in any doubt." 
" Thank you." fle could not think calmly when the life 
of a dear friend was in jeopardy. 
He hurried home for a little rest and quiet ; but as he was 
hanging up his hat in the hall, an angry, boyish voice caught 
his ear. 
" You're mean and hateful, Rob Bertrand, that's what you 
are ! I wish you'd go off again, for you plague me to death, 
and I don't like you one bit ! " 
He walked to the piazza and surveyed the scene Robert 
cool and tantalizing, Archie flushed and tearful. He held 
out his hand to the child, and said, sorrowfully, 
" Who is angry and rude ? " 
" O, Dick ! but you don't know how he torments me ! " 
" What a little fool you are, Archie ! " and Robert saun. 
tered down the steps. 
Richard led the child to the library, and spent his leisure 
in listening patiently to the story. The dispute had been 
trifling enough in the beginning, but Archie was passionate, 
and smarted under a sense of injustice he could fed better 
than explain. It was no light task to conquer him with 
kindly patience, to convince the child he was not to sin, even 
under provocation. Just as the dinner-bell rang, Archie 
clasped his arms around his brother's neck, and said, in a 
voice that was still humble with sobs, " O, Dick, you are 
the best man in the world ! I love you almost as I used to 
love papa." 
When they took their seats at the table, he passed quietly 
around to Robert's place, and said low, but frankly, as he 
held out his hand, " I am sorry I was so rude to you." 
Robert gave the hand a little pinch, and laughed. 
After dinner Richard walked in the garden with the chil- 
dren. He was surprised to find how soon a wrong example 
was beginning to bring forth fruit. Robert's brilliancy was 
so captivating that the insidious poison took a broad sweep 
before it declared itself. Would he be strong enough to 
counteract the influence it might have on Archie ? More 
keenly than ever he felt the responsibility laid upon him by 
his father's death. With silent fervor he prayed for guid- 
ance, for patience, and a hopeful heart. 
How full of pain that bright, beautiful summer day had 
been to him ! Where he had looked for roses, thorns had 
pricked him. Where he had gone for strength, he had found 
weakness. But there was one never-failing Friend, and in 
this hour of perplexity he went to Him who had said, 
" My grace is sufficient for thee." 
Robert had lighted his cigar immediately after dinner, 
and strolled out. It was late when he returned, and Richard, 
lying wearily on the sofa, was thankful not to be disturbed. 
After breakfast the next morning, he summoned his 
brother to the library. As Robert noticed the grave, de- 
termined face, he fortified himself with some arguments he 
 
had been running over in his mind ; but the precautions were 
needless. 
" I could not discuss your proposed trip with Mr. Guilford 
yesterday," Richard began in a kindly manner, " for I found 
him very ill. I have therefore concluded to let you go under 
protest. I do not approve of the plan. I think, with you! 
means, it is extravagant ; yet I feel myself unable to make 
any other arrangement that would satisfy you. I do not ex- 
pect to have a father's authority over you, but I want to feel 
assured, Robert, that there is a cordial brotherly affection be- 
tween us. I want to have confidence enough in you to trust 
you anywhere, and believe you are doing nothing you would 
be ashamed to have our father know. I want you to think that 
however much my judgment may differ from yours, I have 
your interest and happiness at heart. Will you do this ? " 
" You're a good fellow, Dick, but I wasn't made after your 
pattern. There's different blood running in my veins, and I 
cannot get along in this humdrum style. You need not feel 
afraid, though. I can take care of myself;" and Robert 
glanced around with a proud air of self-sufficiency. 
" You are young, and of a nature that meets temptation 
half way ; but O, Robert, for our dead father's sake be care- 
ful. Remember, we are to strive worthily to meet him at 
the last." 
" Don't preach to me, Dick ! It always stirs up my blood, 
and just now I don't want to say anything cross to you. I'm 
not any worse than other young men, although being a saint 
does not run in the list of my accomplishments." 
Richard wrote him out a check. " Do not forget," he 
said, " that this lessens the money for your education. 
Think before you spend it." 
" I have thought, and ' my heart's in the highlands.' 
Thank you for all, Dick ; " and taking the check, he bowed 
himself gracefully out of the room. 
Richard wrote some letters, and then proceeded to his 
daily duties. Mr. Guilford was much worse ; but besides this 
he had no very severe cases. He was glad of a spare half 
hour before dinner to devote to Ada, for he had experienced 
a strange uneasiness since their parting. 
" Miss Townley had gone to New York," the servant said, 
briefly ; but, before he could turn away, Mrs. Taylor fluttered 
through the hall, and in the most solicitous of tones, in- 
quired for Mr. G-uilford. 
" We are all so sorry, and feel greatly disappointed at 
your not being able to join our party, but of course a friend 
like Mr. G-uilford demands your first attention. You must 
follow us as soon as you can." 
Her cordial tone quite reassured him, and he answered, 
" You cannot regret the interruption more than I do. As 
soon as it is possible for me to leave Mr. Guilford, I shall 
come. When will Ada return ? " 
" On Saturday. Mr. Taylor brought her a note last night 
from Mrs. Ashley. There's some shopping to finish, I be- 
lieve." 
He left her with a lighter heart. Anger had not been the 
cause of Ada's sudden departure, and it was evident Mrs. 
Taylor did not blame him very severely. 
He came home to find the scene of Archie's late quarrel 
in pleasant confusion, and the two brothers agreeing capital- 
ly. Robert was displaying some handsome fishing tackle, 
and a box of flies that interested Archie wonderfully. His 
rifle, powder-flask, a dainty hunting suit, and a wide-brimmed 
Straw hat, had all undergone inspection. Tessy was water- 
ing the jasmine with his drinking-cup, an ingenious affair 
that afforded her much amusement. Robert was in a charm- 
ing mood, and after dinner romped with the children, and 
sang them a host of droll college songs, making most gro- 
tesque faces to accompany them. Tessy seemed to be de 
lighted with 
'? Old mother Scraggins couldn't go to meetin', 
'Cause she hadn't two shoes for to put her feet in j 
Meetin', Meetin', 
Couldn't go to Meetin', 
'Cause she hadn't two shoes for to put her feet in." 
 
The week ended and a new one began. Robert started 
off iu the highest of spirits. Caution and advice were so 
evidently useless, that Richard did not proffer them ; but his 
heart yearned over the handsome, wayward boy. 
On the following day he went to New York with his be- 
trothed's party. He felt that Ada had not quite forgiven 
him ; and as visions of the pleasant tour rose before him, 
the sacrifice seemed almost too great. Under a mask of 
careless good humor, Ada managed to give -him many a 
stinging wound, and at the last, while the bell was ringing, 
in the midst of his assurance that he would rejoin her at the 
earliest possible day, she whispered, " I have half a mind 
to fall sick. When I am married, I shall be ill all the time, 
for the sake of keeping you attentive." 
His glance was reproachful. They had never parted in so 
indifferent a manner. For the first time there entered into 
his heart a doubt, not of her constancy, not of her devotion, 
but whether he had chosen the woman who would care fot 
his happiness above all things. 
CHAPTER VIII. 
A strange, sweet path formed day by day, 
How, when, and wherefore, we cannot say; 
No more than our own life paths we know, 
Whither they lead us, why we go. 
Miss MULOCH. 
WITH an anxious, prayerful heart, Dr. Richard Bertrand 
awaited the issue of his friend Guilford's case. It was the 
first real responsibility since his father's death, and that event 
had made him pitiful and tender. He felt keenly for the 
loving wife and young children who would need the careful 
guidance of such a parent for years to come. Through the 
fearful crisis he never left him. Taking his station at the 
bedside, he noted every stage of the waning delirium until 
it became incoherent mutterings. The terrible fever strength 
began to subside ; the wild, eager eyes grew dull ; the hands 
fell like dead weights ; there was a lingering transition into 
heavy slumber, marked by spasmodic gasps and stertorous 
breathing. Midnight passed ; the gray dawn came up in the 
east. Mr. G-uilford's pulse grew weaker, and his face as- 
sumed a pallid hue. The fever had gone, but whether life 
would not follow it, seemed a doubtful question. He de- 
spatched a servant for Dr. D as soon as he heard the 
household astir. 
All that human knowledge could suggest had been done. 
For an hour the two watched ; then they rioted a faint change ; 
the pulse revived, a calmer sleep succeeded. 
"If he has strength for a day or two, he will come out 
safe. It has been a severe case, and, Bertrand, you deserve 
great credit," said Dr. D . 
 
" I never felt before how entirely in the hands of God the 
issues of life are," Richard replied, solemnly. " When our 
best is done, we have to wait for His fiat." 
" True, true ; but a less cautious man might have killed 
him in three days. Didn't I hear something about your 
going abroad ? " 
" My father's death prevented it ; " and a little flush rose 
to Richard's pale cheeks. 
"If you will take an old man's advice, and your father had 
some faith in me, you will not leave this path until you have 
made your mark. The next ten years here will be invalu- 
able to you, if you expect to stay in the practice. I predict 
a fair future." 
" Thank you ; " and Richard bowed his adieu. 
All that Mr. Guilford would need for several hours was 
extremest quiet. After seeing Mrs. G-uilford take her station 
in the darkened room, he departed. The fresh summery air 
seemed strange as it blew in his face ; indeed, so tensely had 
his nervous system been wrought upon, he could scarcely 
realize for the first few minutes where he was. He took a 
long, brisk walk, and reached home mentally refreshed, but 
physically tired. 
" How pale and weary you look, but not despairing," was 
Mabel's greeting. " There is hope for Mr. Goulford." 
" A little. It was a terrible night ; but I am thankful I 
remained. And now, Bel, I'm going to sleep an hour or 
two ; do not let me be disturbed." 
He bathed his hands and face, and was just settling him- 
self on the sofa when Mabel entered the library. 
" I've made you a nice cup of tea," she said, with a 
smile. 
" Your face tempts me to try it," was his response. 
She arranged his pillows, shut out the sunshine, and sat 
down by him with a book in her hand. 
" What's that for ? " and an arch light crossed his face. 
"I'm going to read you to sleep, as I used to papa, 
 
when he was fagged out ; and you like ' In Meraoriara ' so 
much." 
He closed his eyes, and listened to the clear, liquid voice, 
until the room floated away, and in its stead came dim pic- 
tures of meadow greens, with the tender ripple of silvery 
brooks, the murmur of forest trees rocking in the breeze, de- 
licious fragments of music, and remembrances of fragrant 
airs, steeped in odorous summer blossoms. A vague sense 
of beauty and comfort stole over him. Two hours later he 
awoke refreshed, and found himself alone. 
He ran up stairs to Mabel, and exclaimed, laughingly, 
" What a charming nurse you are ! I'm afraid you have 
not a very high opinion of my endurance, when you see how 
one night's work used me up ; but I shall take matters easier 
another time. Now I must hurry off, and finish up my calls 
before dinner. There's your pay ; " and he kissed the rosy 
mouth. 
By Saturday there was a fair hope of Mr. Gruilford's re- 
covery. Richard was discussing this, and their own plans, 
as they sat on the balcony, in the star-lit evening. 
" And so, Bel," he said, " if you can be ready by Tues- 
day, I'll take you all down to aunt Sophy's, and stay one 
night ; then on Thursday I shall start for the White Moun- 
tains." 
" O, please, Dick," cried Lily, " put it off until Wednes- 
day. Lucy Ogden's birthday party is on Tuesday, and we 
are all invited. They're to have a splendid time, with a 
supper on the lawn, and the fireworks Lucy couldn't have 
Fourth of July because she was sick. I wouldn't miss it for 
anything ! " 
" Wednesday, then," said Richard. And on Monday one 
letter was despatched to Cape May, and another to the White 
Mountains. 
Everything went on prosperously. Tuesday morning 
Mabel spent in looking over the children's clothes, and mak- 
ing preparations for the journey. Lily and Archie inter- 
spersed their dinner with glowing anticipations of the party. 
Tessy's plate was sent away nearly untouched, and she only 
played with her dessert of pine-apple. Richard noticed this, 
and also her flushed face and sparkling eyes. 
" You have been playing too hard this morning," he said. 
" O, I didn't play at all ; I went to sleep on the sofa." 
He drew her to his knee, and took the little hands in his. 
They were feverish ; so he said, gently, 
" Suppose you take a ride with me, and then come home 
to Mabel. It will be better for you than going to the 
party." 
" Dick ! " She drew a long, quivering sigh, and her 
eyes filled with tears. " Please do let me g^> ; I'm not sick." 
He had been studying fever symptoms so long, that he 
fancied he must have grown nervous over them. He looked 
at her earnestly ; but the beseeching face was too much for 
him. 
" Never mind, pet ; don't cry. You may go if you will 
promise not to run too much, or eat up all the candies ; and 
do not get frightened at the fireworks." 
She kissed Richard with convulsive fondness, but in a few 
moments was laughing gayly at some of Archie's nonsense. 
A sudden summons for Dr. Bertrand interrupted the after- 
dinner conversation, and he hurried away. Mabel dressed 
the children, and Martin took them in the carriage. Tessy 
looked so bright and pretty that she dismissed the fears 
Richard's words had calleM up. It was only a child's in- 
tense way of anticipating pleasure. 
Richard was busy until quite late in the evening. He felt 
rather disappointed, as he had intended to have a nice long 
talk with Mabel, before their separation. Letting himself 
in with his latch-key, he encountered her at the foot of the 
etairs ; and even in that subdued light her white face star- 
tled him. 
" Tessy ! " he exclaimed, at a thought. 
"I am so glad you have come;" and Mabel clung to him 
 
with a frightened grasp. " Mrs. Ogden's nurse brought her 
back just at dusk. She had complained of a headache, and 
at last cried to come home. I bathed her and put her in her 
crib, and she fell asleep for a little while, but awoke so wild 
that I had to call in Mrs. Hall." 
By this time they had reached the apartment. In her little 
bed lay the child, talking, laughing, and crying, in a breath ; 
her face crimsoned with fever, her eyes staring vacantly 
around. Richard took the hot hands in his, smoothed away 
the golden curls, and tried to calm her. 
" It's brother Dick," he said, soothingly. " Tessy re- 
members brother Dick ? " 
She made an effort, as if to recall her wandering senses ; 
but it was useless. 
" She has not recognized me since she woke," Mabel said, 
choking down the fear at her heart. 
Mrs. Hall was very anxious, and obeyed Richard's orders 
with speed and quiet. The carriage drove into the yard, 
and the gay voices floated up through the open window. 
" Bel," Richard said, quickly, " go down and keep them 
as still as you can. They must not come in here ; I want 
Lily to sleep elsewhere, for I shall stay with Tessy." 
She ran down and managed to allay their apprehensions, 
mingled as they were with bits of pleasure accounts of the 
fireworks, the lawn full of colored lanterns, and sorrow that 
Tessy could not have seen it all. It was some time before 
she could quiet them sufficiently for sleep, and then she re- 
turned to Richard. Tessy lay dozing now ; but her eyes 
were half open. She looked into her brother's face with a 
feeling of awe, and said, just under her breath, 
" Is it typhoid ? " 
" No, not that. We will see what it proves in the morn- 
ing. And now, dear, I want you to go to sleep, for to-mor- 
row you may have to play nurse, and overstrained nerves 
won't do." 
He kissed away her half-tearful pleading, and led her to 
 
the door. Through those long hours of the night he thought 
not only of the danger, but the new disappointment that had 
befallen him. 
At early dawn Mabel was down again. Richard had fallen 
into a light doze. Tessy moaned uneasily, but was not rest- 
less. Even in that pale light she could see the scarlet face 
and arms in strong relief against the white pillow and night- 
dress. Like a flash the truth thrilled through her, leaving 
her cold, but calm and strong. When Richard stirred she 
went to the sofa. 
" Mabel ! I did not mean you should come in the room 
until 
" It is scarlet fever," she said, in a steady voice. " I am 
not afraid." 
He drew her down beside him, asking, 
" Do you want to take care of her ? " 
" As if I could give her up to any one else ! Our precious 
baby papa loved so well." 
" I would rather have you; and there is no danger if you 
are careful. If you are to take office under me, you must 
learn first not to be wasteful of your strength. I want you 
to have your breakfast every morning before you do much 
around her ; and you must walk in the garden for fresh 
air. I will see if Mrs. Parkhurst cannot take Archie and 
Lilian for a week ; it will make less care for you, and we 
shall be able to keep the house quieter." 
"Do you think " and Mabel's tears finished the sen- 
tence. 
" I have a good deal of hope, dearest. My experience of 
the last fortnight has taught me much. Yet we can judge 
nothing for the present. She is very ill, with a most dan- 
gerous disease. Get your prayer-book, Mabel, and let us 
read together." 
It was the twenty-seventh of the month. Among the 
psalms for that day was the one hundred and twenty-first 
How comfortingly these sentences fell : 
" Behold lie that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor 
sleep. The Lord himself is thy keeper ; the Lord is thy de- 
fence upon thy right hand. 
" So that the sun shall not burn thee by day, neither the 
tnoon by night." 
Ah, yes, here was the stay and support. When human 
love grew weak and fearful, the everlasting arms of divine 
strength were folded about it. They were to be kept from 
all evil, watched over by One who could never know weari- 
ness. Mabel gathered courage, and looked steadily on the 
way before her. 
Opening the window blinds, the fragrant air rushed in, 
heavy with night dew that had lain for hours steeping in 
honeysuckle and roses, and the odorous dampness of the 
river. Tiny threads of vapor curled upward, clinging ten- 
dril-like to the shore. Afar, the horizon seemed studded with 
bars of sapphire and emerald, while faint, arrowy streaks of 
gold shot up, and were lost in the filmy blue overhead. Then 
the glory of day burst slowly through the crimson and pur- 
ple veils ; tree and shrub were burnished with the glowing 
tints, save where in shadow lurked a weir-d, fleecy mist. As 
drifts of rosy cloud floated across the sky, the very air grew 
tremulous with radiated heat ; the freshness turned into lan- 
guor, and the promise of a long, hot summer day dawned 
upon them. But Mabel knew who had said, " So that the 
sun shall not burn thee by day." 
A solemn awe fell upon the household. Instead of Ann's 
lively repartee and gay laugh, she went about with a great 
weight on her heart. Mrs. Hall sat up stairs and sewed, so 
as to be within call. Mabel was grave, and her eyes had a 
startled look in them, as if she could not quite reconcile her- 
self to the sense of danger. It took her back to those sor- 
rowful days whose shadow had only lightened, not departed. 
The little sufferer lay moaning and tossing, restlessly, with 
no light of recognition in her eyes. As Mabel watched, thia 
Beemed the hardest of all. 
 
The day was an almost stifling one. Even as the sun went 
westward, the flickering currents of air seemed to shake out 
rays of molten gold. There was no breeze stirring, and all 
nature drooped exhausted. Tessy's fever raged terribly. 
As Kichard stood gazing at the burning face, he said, 
slowly, 
" Mabel, do you think you could cut her hair ? It is so 
warm, clinging about her face." 
She brought the scissors, and with a trembling hand slowly 
severed the shining rings that were fast becoming matted by 
heat and restlessness, one by one, and laid them in a box of 
keepsakes. How would they be taken out ? As little golden 
remembrances of one gone to heaven, or to be smiled over 
at some happy reunion, when the child's voice was again 
the gayest of all? Only God could tell. Her tears fell 
silently upon them. O, how powerless poor human love 
was at its best estate ! It was well that faith could believe, 
through all the blinding agony, that God was a Father who 
remembered mercy. 
Late in the evening Mabel was dismissed, with injunctions 
to go to sleep as soon as possible, and Richard watched 
through the quiet night alone. It was not strange, perhaps, 
that something besides Tessy should linger in his thoughts. 
In two days he had hoped to see Ada. How would she bear 
this new disappointment ? Was there some strange fatal- 
ity between them ? He brought his writing desk, and 
began a letter to her ; yet, disguise the fact with never so 
much love, he felt he could not lead Ada to look upon his 
duties in the same light that he did. He could not open his 
whole heart to her. Alas for love, when there must be res- 
ervations and fears ! Its divine essence is gone, its electric 
chord is weakened. More sacred than ever seemed his 
promise now, and looking down the future, he felt the years, 
only, could release him. No wonder such a conscience 
should shrink "and tremble with tender, yearning pain. 
Another and another day of heat, blinding sunshine, and 
the agony of dread. The little sufferer lost some of her 
wildness, and sank into pitiful moans, as she tossed her arms 
about, or lay with her eyes half open, regardless of the faces 
pleading in wordless pathos for one gleam of recognition. 
Then there came a time when they counted hours, moments, 
and prayed as they only pray, who stand shivering at the 
entrance of the dark valley, for one beloved ; when they 
scarcely breathed, and learned how little they had hoped, 
when they came back from utter despair, and glanced in each 
other's faces, with a low cry of relief. 
After this Mabel had much more to do. With returning 
consciousness Tessy's wants increased ; and the childish rest- 
lessness, the petulant, humorsome fancies, might have tried 
any other than a loving heart. There were no traces of 
weariness in her face, no impatience in her tones ; indeed, 
her thorough gratitude gave her strength for all demands. 
Richard used to watch this assiduous tenderness with a curi- 
ously strange feeling. Was it inherent in all women, or 
could Mabel be a higher type of her sex ? 
Lilian and Archie came home. Familiar voices floated 
on the summer air, and rang through the house so lately 
silent with the chill of apprehension. Tessy, pillowed on a 
corner of the lounge, or nestling in Mabel's arms, listening 
to the sweet old songs she loved so dearly, her face reduced 
to baby proportions, her scanty locks just waving around her 
head, her thin little hands too weak to grasp anything, was 
the central attraction. How happy they all were ! And one 
Sunday, when Richard carried her down to the parlor, so 
Mabel might play their evening hymn while they all sang, 
their satisfaction was complete. Could he be the one to 
break up this pleasant home circle ? 
Aunt Sophy had written for them as soon as Tessy could 
bear the journey. Mabel was very willing to go, and sin- 
cerely sorry that Richard's trip had been delayed. 
 
" When will it be safe to start ? " she asked. 
" Next week, I think. The sea air and a little bathing 
will soon bring the roses to Tessy's cheeks." 
" O," laughed Lily, " half a wave would carry her to 
Europe, and a breaker land her in the China Sea." Tessy's 
recent efforts at walking had amused the two younger ones 
greatly. 
The child made rapid progress. Richard took her out for 
short rides, Archie petted her when she was restless, and 
Lily arranged dolls, dishes, and toys to her liking, twenty 
times an hour. Then, when the weary eyes were turned to 
Mabel, she was soothed into refreshing slumbers, and nature 
wrought for her with silent power. 
Again the packing commenced. This time there was no 
interruption. Mr. Guilford came to say good by, and was 
delighted with their bright faces. Since his illness he had 
loved Richard like a son. 
CHAPTER IX. 
The man in the spirit he worked in; not what he did, but what he became. 
With self-renunciation begins life. 
THE day was bright and clear, and there was a fresh 
breeze as they steamed down the bay. The purple hills of 
Staten Island gleamed with the peculiar golden bronze of the 
later summer, and the low-lying Jersey shore was bathed in 
a mist of dun amber. The waves crept slowly shoreward, 
drifting into fantastic shapes, whose -foamy crest pranced 
along, and then, breaking, scattered the pearly spray far up 
on the land. As they left the city behind them, the distant 
ships looked like flocks of sea-birds, outlined against the 
blue sky. 
Tessy sat in Richard's lap, her pale little face and his 
devotion attracting more than a casual attention from the 
passengers. She watched Archie and Lilian in their eager 
enjoyment, glanced at the places Richard pointed out to 
them, and was presently lulled to sleep by the motion and 
the monotonous music. More than one mother's face kin- 
dled into a sweet smile over the picture they made. 
At the end of their sail, aunt Sophy came to meet them 
in a large family carriage, and bestowed upon them the 
warmest of welcomes. 
"Poor baby," she said, taking Tessy's wasted hand. "If 
it had been any other season of the year, I should have 
come as soon as I received your letter. Nearly every one 
is alarmed about scarlet fever. I don't see how you man- 
aged so well, my dear ; " and she gave Mabel a fond smile. 
" Mabel proved a most excellent nurse," Richard rejoined. 
 
" And you know I had a physician always at hand," was 
Mabel's arch answer. 
While aunt Sophy listened to the story, Archie amused 
himself with attempts at driving. Presently they reached a 
large country-house, whose numerous additions were more 
suggestive of comfort than architectural beauty. Two bois- 
terous cousins nearly smothered Archie and Lily with kisses. 
Aunt Sophy led the way up stairs to a spacious apartment, 
whose white curtains, checked matting, and maple chairs 
looked cool and inviting. 
" This is the best I can do for you," she exclaimed, 
glancing at Mabel. " Lily must share Dora's room, and 
Tom can take Archie in charge. I've been crowded with 
boarders this summer, but I've kept this room in spite of 
all. Now I'll go and send your trunk up. Wouldn't you 
like to have supper here this first night ? " 
" A very delightful proposal. But think of the trouble." 
She answered Richard's look with a laugh. " Trouble ! 
No, indeed. I'm only too glad to have you all down here ; " 
and she bustled off in her cheery fashion. 
Mabel refreshed herself and the children with a plentiful 
ablution, and by the time she had them all in order, aunt 
Sophy reappeared with the tea-tray. Lily gayly proceeded 
to arrange the table. Such nice creamy biscuits, such dishes 
of fruit, and for Tessy a little broiled bird. Aunt Sophy 
took the head of the table, and soon made them all feel at 
home. Her warm heart and cordial manner were wonder- 
fully enjoyable. 
The next morning Richard left them, though not without 
many charges -concerning Tessy and the two others, who 
seemed disposed to run wild. 
" Never you mind," said aunt Sophy. " I've managed 
them many a time before. As for Tessy, she'll be so plump 
and rosy on your return that you will hardly know her. 
And now, little ones, kiss brother Dick good by, and come 
down to the kitchen with me." 
After his duty was fairly performed, and no pleading eyea 
met his at every turn, Richard was all impatience. Delay 
and disappointment had strengthened his desire for Ada. 
Now that he had a right to shut out every other thought, he 
was almost surprised to find her so dear, so well beloved. 
The party had gone to Newport. It was late in the after- 
noon when he arrived, and just allowing himself time for 
the briefest toilet, he hurried down to the spacious hotel 
parlor. Summoning a servant, he despatched him with a 
message for Miss Townley. 
The reply was that Miss Townley had gone out, but Mrs. 
Taylor would be down presently. 
Ada had not received his letter, then, or she would surely 
have been the first to greet him. He paced impatiently up 
and down the room, glanced at the gay groups among the 
shrubbery, and found it hard work to restrain himself. 
After what seemed to him an interminable while, Mrs. Tay- 
lor entered, and greeted him cordially, yet with perceptible 
constraint. 
" I am so sorry Ada is out ; but Mrs. Ashley was anxious 
for some sea-coast views, and the day was so fine for visiting 
them, they thought it best not to wait." 
" Do you know if she heard from me this morning ? " 
" I was out until nearly noon. I do not think she ex- 
pected you to-day," was Mrs. Taylor's non-committal reply. 
It was some comfort for Richard to believe tnfc mails at 
fault. He walked up and down the balcony with Mrs. Tay- 
lor, and as the best means of quieting his mind, related the 
events of the last few weeks, and questioned her concerning 
their White Mountain trip. Then Mr. Ashley came saun- 
tering towards them, and Richard's first eager question was, 
" Where did you leave the ladies ? " 
" Me ? O, I have not seen them since about four. They 
have quite deserted me, I assure you ; won by a fast horse ; " 
and Mr. Ashley laughed with the easy grace of a man of the 
world. 
 
"Mr. Livingston, an old friend, has taken them out," 
explained Mrs. Taylor. 
Richard's disappointment deepened almost to disapproval. 
"Don't look so sober, doctor," began Mr. Ashley. 
" When you see those magnificent grays, you will not won- 
der. Everybody is frantic about Livingston's turn-out, 
especially the women." 
At this juncture the supper bell rang. " Since we have 
to play the roll of the deserted, we may as well do it with a 
good grace," said Mr. Ashley, gayly. " Accept my arm, 
Mary. Come, doctor." 
" Perhaps we had better wait," suggested Mrs. Taylor, as 
she noticed the expression of Richard's face. 
" Nonsense. You remember Mr. Livingston's description 
of the beach by moonlight, and Ada's saying the only time 
to ride there was after sundown. They will not be back 
these three hours. Don't look so disconsolate, doctor ; this 
Newport bewitches the women." 
Richard followed them reluctantly, wondering if there 
could ever come a time when he would be so indifferent to 
his wife's absence. Mr. and Mrs. Ashley were certainly a 
most fashionably independent couple. Each placed implicit 
confidence in the other, and neither was jealously inclined. 
Perhaps, too, love had some powerful rivals in both hearts, 
and kept uncomplainingly in the background. Mrs. Ashley 
was careful of her own and her husband's honor; Mr. Ash- 
ley was proud of having his wife admired, and not peculiarly 
sensitive in any respect. 
The moments after supper seemed intolerably long. De- 
clining Mr. Ashley's invitation to a game of billiards, he 
watched the throngs promenading the walks, half listened 
to the music, and at length, weary of the gay scene, wan- 
dered down the avenue, taking one of the paths leading to 
the beach. Disappointed and restless, he was anxious for 
the time to pass ; and never did seconds seem more leaden. 
He walked on in a vague hope of meeting the carriage, and 
when he turned to retrace his steps, found he had gone 
much farther than he intended. 
He came up to the long balcony, flushed and anxious ; but 
the first sight that met his eyes restored immediate com- 
posure. There stood Ada Townley in the beauty and bril- 
liancy of an exquisite evening dress, her round, white arms 
gleaming with costly bracelets, her face one dazzle of anima- 
tion. No sign of expectation or longing, no glance down 
the walks for the coming of some one dearer than all these. 
Was he dearer ? If so, how could she stand, there in care- 
less grace, and talk to that tall, handsome man, who did not 
attempt to conceal his admiration ? A fiery-pointed pain 
shot through Richard's heart ; jealousy first, then dreary 
despair. 
He was almost beside her before she raised her eyes. 
There was a light in them he did not like. She held out 
her hand, and said, cordially enough, 
" Dr. Bertrand ! Mrs. Taylor was quite distressed 
about your sudden disappearance. I think I have been 
home nearly an hour is it not ? " and turning, she intro- 
duced her companion. 
Richard responded courteously ; then, in a low but author- 
itative tone, said, " May I ask the favor of your company a 
few moments ? " 
She seemed irresolute at first, but the pressure of his 
hand upon her arm was not to be mistaken. "Excuse me," 
she said in an undertone, meant only for Mr. Livingston ; 
" old friends have a claim on one's indulgence ; " but softly 
breathed as it was, Richard's quick ear caught it. His in- 
tuitions were in an electric state, and biting his lips to keep 
back the rush of anger, he led her down the walk. For 
some time neither spoke. 
"Did you receive a letter from me yesterday or this 
morning ? " he demanded at length. 
" Yes, last night." Her manner was cool and careless. 
" You must have expected me then. Ada ! " 
"No, I confess I did not. You have disappointed me 
too often, of late, for me to believe until I saw you. I was 
not sure but some one would conveniently fall ill at the last 
moment." 
Her heartlessness roused him, and he said,' rather 
sternly, 
" Do you imply that I sought an excuse for not joining 
you earlier ? " 
" I don't imply anything. I know that no request of 
mine has found favor in your sight for a long while. Every 
one seems to have a stronger claim on you than I ? " 
A new fire sprang up in the soft hazel eyes, and outraged 
love asserted itself. In a tone steady with deep power, he 
said, 
" Since you think me capable of subterfuge or wilful de- 
ceit, and can no longer depend on my affection, you cannot 
wish to marry a man so lost to honor and truth. I release 
you from a promise that must have grown irksome." 
It was foolish, doubtless, but he expected even then to 
see her disclaim these cruel assertions, look up with implor- 
ing eyes, and give some sign of love. Vain hope ! Care- 
lessly beautiful, indifferent to any past memory, she an- 
swered, with a haughty inclination of the head, " As you 
please." 
He led her to the balcony, wished her good night, and 
turned away, feeling she was already half won by Howard 
Livingston. In that first moment he thought calmly of her 
being another's. He pitied himself as if it had been a third 
person, so little did he realize the great shadow ^fallen upon 
him. 
Ada turned to Mr. Livingston with an easy grac, and 
as if some explanation was needed, said, nonchalantly, 
" For two years I have been engaged to Dr. Bertrand 
a girlish fancy that I have outlived in the last six months. 
We have just dissolved the bond." 
He bowed with a pleased look. There was nothing for 
her to regret in the exchange. Of late, she had felt tho 
position Dr. Bertrand's wife must fill was very little to her 
liking. Here was a man to whom she would be first always, 
superior to her old lover in those points she cared most for. 
She could retain her position in society; no troublesome 
domestic details would ever be forced upon her, and life 
would prove a perfect round of pleasure. Although she 
inwardly congratulated herself on her improved prospects, 
she gave a pitying thought to Richard, and said to her- 
self, " I could have made him very happy if he had not been 
so set upon those foolish whims." She was relieved to learn 
that he left early the next morning. 
Mrs. Ashley congratulated her openly. She had never 
cordially approved of Dr. Bertrand, her theory being that 
it was much more sensible to love a rich man than a poor 
one. Since affairs had proved so obstinate, she had been 
secretly favoring Mr. Livingston, quite determined to have 
him for a brother-in-law. 
Mrs. Taylor kissed her, and said, 
" I am heartily glad, my dear. You never could have 
given satisfaction in such a family. It would have been 
worse than marrying a widower." 
Two weeks later Ada Townley went home the affianced 
of Howard Livingston. 
In the mean while the party at Cape May were well eared 
for. It took but one day for Lilian and Archie to recom- 
mence the old life laid down the preceding autumn. To 
them there seemed no change, except the few strange 
boarders, and the inches Tom and Dora had grown in a 
year. Aunt Sophy took entire charge of them, and Mabel 
was left to the undisturbed care of Tessy. She felt keenly 
the alteration her father's death had made, and would con- 
tinue to make all the coming years. She had grown older 
in those brief months. Care came to her not as a burden, 
but a portion of life that it was her duty to accept willingly. 
She missed Richard sadly, and tried to resign him with the 
 
pure unselfishness of her nature, knowing the time must 
soon come when another would be first and best to him. 
Tessy's days had been rounded into perfection by a ride 
down to the steamboat landing. But on Saturday both 
horses had gone out with the large carriage, and Mr. Shel- 
don's pony, which Tom often drove, was busy also. The 
child's eyes filled with tears of disappointment. 
" Why, we don't expect any one," Mabel said, cheerily. 
" I know it, but it seems like a little piece of Dick to see 
the steamboat and all the people. Bel ! can't we walk." 
" No, darling, not that distance. Richard would scold us 
for such a crazy step." 
" What is the matter, Snowdrop ? " said stout, good- 
natured Mrs. Chesterton, coming up the steps, and patting 
Tessy's head. Mabel briefly explained the difficulty. 
" Mr. Chesterton has had Mr. Grey's old Hero and the 
little wagon. I do not believe he has taken them back, and 
you may as well use them as not," the lady said. 
Mabel thanked her, but declined. Tessy's eyes over- 
flowed. Mrs. Chesterton found her husband, and brought 
him to the balcony. 
" Why, yes, Miss Bertrand ; take them by all means. I 
told Mr. Grey I'd be home about dusk ; so he won't expect 
his horse until that time. He's so lazy you need not feel a 
bit afraid. He couldn't run if he tried." 
Aunt Sophy insisted as well. Bell and Tessy were lifted 
in, and drove off in triumph, the little one's face full of 
intense satisfaction. The eager eyes and flushed cheeks 
gave Mabel a strange presentiment of something like evil. 
She begged to go faster, that they might be in time to see 
the passengers land. 
" What is the matter, Tessy ? Don't get so excited ; no 
friend of ours is coming," Mabel said, gently. 
" But some day Richard will come." Then, after a long 
pause, in which her eyes wandered over the crowd, she gave 
a rapturous cry, and grasping her sister's hand, exclaimed, 
" He Jias come ! Look ! there he is, our own very Dick ! 
He is waving his handkerchief," and Tessy nodded in 
reply. 
" Why, I don't see him," returned Mabel, slowly. " Tessy, 
you must be dreaming." 
" He is leaning over the eflge of the rail. There, now 
he's gone." 
" I have not had a glimpse of him." 
Tessy's eyes wandered over the throng in curious expec- 
tancy, and grew perceptibly grave. Then the whole face 
was overspread with sunshine, and following her glance, 
Mabel saw Richard. 
He pushed through the mass, and came forward, his eyes 
bright with earnest affection. Tessy reached out her arms 
to him, and was kissed again and again. 
" Why did you think of coming for me?" he asked, in 
surprise. 
" O, we do every day," was Tessy's joyous answer. 
" Because you expect me ? " and he laughed. 
" Not quite. And Bel didn't want to come to-day, 
but " 
"You made her, I suppose, little tyrant. You look im- 
proved already. Are you not going to offer me a seat ? or 
do you purpose to have me walk r " 
She sprang up, and as soon as he was settled, nestled in 
his lap. Mabel bestowed wondering glances on him, and 
asked for the third or fourth time if he was well. 
" Entirely so." He put the reins in Tessy's hands, hold- 
ing his own over them, and bending down, whispered, " I 
was not wanted at Newport. I have come back to be all 
yours." 
The words gave her a pang as she took in their full 
meaning. Yet she hardly knew what an aching heart the 
tender manner to Tessy covered. 
They were all overjoyed to have him back so unexpect- 
edly. Lily and Archie had quantities of adventures to re- 
late. Indeed, Mabel scarcely had a look at him until they 
were all sent off to bed, after he had, as a special favor, 
sung Tessy to sleep. Then he bade Mabel find a shawl, 
and come to walk on the beach with him. 
The tide was going out, leaving the shining sand smooth 
as a floor. The dim and lonely reaches of the broad ocean 
flowed onward with a sad, mighty pulsation, the slow, regu- 
lar swells breaking into a rhythmic melody a grand chant 
of ceaseless sorrow. Along the western sky sailed fleecy 
islands in a sea of wondrous azure. Above them were hosts 
of golden stars, the crown of the summer night. It was 
just the hour for a fond confidence, and Richard opened his 
heart to the fair girl blossoming into pure and lovely 
womanhood. Her tender sympathy soothed him immeasu- 
rably. He said calmly, but not in despair, that his dream 
of love was over. Henceforth he was to fill the position of 
elder brother in its truest, widest sense. There was nothing 
to come between him and his duty now ; no temptation to 
lure him from that precious household. 
It was well, perhaps, that Mabel did not see all. Alone 
in his room, with the sorrowful midnight stars for watchers, 
he laid aside the mask from his heart, and glanced at it, as 
he only might do for many a weary day to come. He did 
not so much regret Ada ; he seemed to understand now the 
wants and trivialities of her nature, the petty trials to which 
she would have continually subjected him. He was content 
to have her choose another. But the keen sense of desola- 
tion after he had shrouded the corse of a sweet first love, 
and silently borne it to a place of sepulture, was what re- 
mained with him, and left a nameless pain. As in death no 
faults are remembered, so he recalled the earlier days of 
their acquaintance, when love was haloed with the rose-hue 
of newness. Could any after passion be so sweet? He 
said then for him there could be no second spring. The 
grave in his heart could never outgrow its greenness. He 
felt how truly, how tenderly, he had loved. 
And so came one of life's sorest lessons to Richard Ber- 
trand. Was it to teach him patience, forbearance ? He 
took it in that wise, quite humbly, as a little child. He re- 
membered who had said, " All things shall work together 
for good." Others had walked in shaded pathways, and 
found rest at last. And for him, hereafter, love and duty 
would be as one word. 
CHAPTER X. 
So many feet that day by day 
Still wander from the fold astray. 
GOLDEN LEGEND. 
As it was impossible for Richard to remain at Cape May, 
he compromised with the children by promising to come 
once a week during their stay. Tessy improved as if by 
magic. When September arrived, aunt Sophy begged for 
another month, but Mabel longed to be again at home. Mrs. 
Hall and Ann were delighted with their return. Robert 
came back in a high state of satisfaction, and had plenty 
of adventures to relate to the younger ones. Yet there was 
something in his light-heartedness that rather pained than 
pleased. Excitement and enjoyment appeared to be his 
continual study. He possessed the brilliant and dangerous 
qualities that make 'men favorites of society and slaves to 
temptation. Easy and generous they are called, yet many 
a weary burden do they lay upon others. 
Richard could only pray for him when they separated. 
And in his frequent letters he strove to keep up an interest 
in home affairs for the absent one. Mabel, who had given 
up school, devoted herself assiduously to the household, and 
endeavored to make all around her happy. Love reigned 
perfect among them. 
It was a quiet, uneventful winter. Christmas brought 
aunt Sophy and the cousins. Yet the day was not gone 
through without tears. There was a missing voice, a place 
unfilled memories infinitely tender and infinitely sad. 
Ada Townley's marriage occurred at this period. It as- 
sistcd Richard to recover his mental tone somewhat. He 
no longer asked himself, in weak moments, if he had not 
been hasty or unjust. No good, faithful, affectionate man 
can easily tear up the tendrils that have twined around his 
very life. He will not in a moment forget the hope that was 
to have made glad all his future years. He may say, "I 
will dream no more," but in lonely hours 
" The spirit that no exorcism can bind " 
will rise from the deepest grave. But Richard's sorrow 
strengthened and ennobled him. He did not look on the 
passion dreams of his young summer with hard, scornful re- 
gret. Duty and sacrifice were no self-scourging bonds whose 
chain clanked with every movement. He had been " wounded 
in the house of a friend," but he did not forget there were 
others to heal. Glancing down the days yet to come, he saw 
himself the ready helper, the comforter in trouble, and the 
