she certainly was, nor did she hesitate to tell him so twenty times a day.
This was a treatment of which Tom decidedly approved. Exactly how
beneficial it was to the growth within him of modesty, self-forgetfulness,
and the passive virtues generally, is another question.
The room in which Tom was sitting might have been exhibited with profit by
Mr. Barnum, as a legitimate relic of that chaos and Old Night, which the
poets tell us was dispelled by the light of this order-loving creation.
It had a bed in it, as well as several chairs and a carpet, but it
required considerable search to discover them, for the billows of feminine
drapery that were piled upon them. Three dresses,--Tom counted, to make
sure,--one on the bedpost, one rolled up in a heap on the floor where it
had fallen, and one spread out on the counterpane, with benzine on it.
What with kerosene oil, candle drippings, and mugs of milk, Gypsy managed
to keep one dress under the benzine treatment all the time; it was an
established institution, and had long ago ceased to arouse remark, even
from Tom. There was also a cloak upon one chair, and a crocheted cape tied
by the tassels on another. There was a white tippet hanging on the
stovepipe. There was a bandbox up in one corner with a pretty hat lying on
the outside, its long, light feather catching the dust; it was three days
now since Sunday. There were also two pairs of shoes, one pair of rubbers,
and one slipper under the bed; the other slipper lay directly in the
middle of the room. Then the wardrobe door was wide open,--it was too full
to stay shut,--upon a sight which, I think, even Gypsy would hardly want
put into print. White skirts and dressing-sacks; winter hoods that ought
to have been put up in camphor long ago; aprons hung up by the trimming; a
calico dress that yawned mournfully out of a twelve-inch tear in the
skirt; a pile of stockings that had waited long, and were likely to wait
longer, for darning; some rubber-boots and a hatchet.
The bureau drawers, Tom observed, were tightly shut,--probably for very
good reasons. The table, at which he sat, was a curiosity to the
speculative mind. The cloth was two-thirds off, and slipping, by a very
gradual process, to the floor. On the remaining third stood an inkstand
and a bottle of mucilage, as well as a huge pile of books, a glass
tumbler, a Parian vase, a jack-knife, a pair of scissors, a thimble, two
spools of thread, a small kite, and a riding-whip. The rest of the table
had been left free to draw a map on, and was covered with pencils and
rubber, compasses, paper, and torn geography leaves.
There were several pretty pictures on the walls, but they were all hung
crookedly; the curtain at the window was unlooped, and you could write
your name anywhere in the dust that covered mantel, stove, and furniture.
And this was Gypsy's room.
Tom had spent a longer time in looking at it than I have taken to tell
about it, and when he was through looking he did one of those things that
big brothers of sixteen long years' experience in this life, who are
always teasing you and making fun of you and "preaching" at you, are
afflicted with a chronic and incurable tendency to do. It is very
fortunate that Gypsy deserved it, for it was really a horrible thing,
girls, and if I were you I wouldn't let my brothers read about it, as you
value your peace of mind, lace collars, clean clothes, good tempers, and
private property generally. I'd put a pin through these leaves, or fasten
them together with sealing-wax, or cut them out, before I'd run the risk.
And what did he do? Why, he put a chair in the middle of the room, tied a
broom to it (he found it in the corner with a little heap of dust behind
it, as Gypsy had left it when her mother sent her up to sweep the room
that morning), and dressed it up in the three dresses, the cloaks and the
cape, one above another, the chair serving as crinoline. Upon the top of
the broom-handle he tied the torn apron, stuffed out with the
rubber-boots, and pinned on slips of the geography leaves for features;
Massachusetts and Vermont giving the graceful effect of one pink eye and
one yellow eye, Australia making a very blue nose, and Japan a small green
mouth. The hatchet and the riding-whip served as arms, and the whole
figure was surmounted by the Sunday hat that had the dust on its feather.
From under the hem of the lowest dress, peeped the toes of all the pairs
of shoes and rubbers, and the entire contents of the sliding table-cloth,
down to every solitary pencil, needle, and crumb of cake, were ranged in a
line on the carpet. To crown the whole, he pinned upon the image that
paper placard upon which he had been scribbling.
When his laudable work was completed, this ingenious and remorseless boy
had to stand and laugh at it for five minutes. If Gypsy had only seen him
then! And Gypsy was nearer than he thought--in the front door, and coming
up the stairs with a great banging and singing and laughing, as nobody but
Gypsy could come up stairs. Tom just put his hand on the window-sill, and
gave one leap out on the kitchen roof, and Gypsy burst in, and stopped
short.
Tom crouched down against the side of the house, and held his breath. For
about half a minute it was perfectly still. Then a soft, merry laugh broke
out all at once on the air, something as a little brook would splash down
in a sudden cascade on the rocks.
"O--oh! Did you ever? I never saw anything so funny! Oh, dear me!"
Then it was still again, and then the merry laugh began to spell out the
placard.
"Gypsy Breynton. Hon.--Hon. Gypsy Breynton,--what? Oh, Esq., M. A., D. D.,
LL. D.--what a creature he is! Gypsy Breynton, R. R. R. R.? I'm sure I
don't know what that means--Tom! Thom--as!"
Just then she caught sight of him out on the ridge-pole, whittling away as
coolly as if he had sat there all his life.
"Good afternoon," said Gypsy, politely.
"Good afternoon," said Tom.
"Been whittling out there ever since dinner, I suppose?"
"Certainly."
"I thought so. Come here a minute."
"Come out here," said Tom. Gypsy climbed out of the window without the
slightest hesitation, and walked along the ridge-pole with the ease and
fearlessness of a boy. She had on a pretty blue delaine dress, which was
wet and torn, and all stuck together with burs; her boots were covered
with mud to the ankle; her white stockings spattered and brown; her turban
was hanging round her neck by its elastic; her net had come off, and the
wind was blowing her hair all over her eyes; she had her sack thrown over
one arm, and a basket filled to overflowing, with flowers and green moss,
upon the other.
"Well, you're a pretty sight!" said Tom, leisurely regarding her. Indeed,
he was not far from right. In spite of the mud and the burs and the tears,
and the general dropping-to-pieces look about her, Gypsy managed, somehow
or other, to look as pretty as a picture, with her cheeks as red as a
coral, and the soft brown hair that was tossing about her eyes. Gypsy's
eyes were the best part of her. They were very large and brown, and had
that same irresistible twinkle that was in Tom's eyes, only a great deal
more of it; and then it was always there. They twinkled when she was happy
and when she was cross; they twinkled over her school-books; they
twinkled, in spite of themselves, at church and Sabbath school; and, when
she was at play, they shone like a whole galaxy of stars. If ever Gypsy's
eyes ceased twinkling, people knew she was going to be sick. Her hair, I
am sorry to say, was not curly.
This was Gypsy's one unalleviated affliction in life. That a girl could
possibly be pretty with straight hair, had never once entered her mind.
All the little girls in story-books had curls. Who ever heard of the
straight-haired maiden that made wreaths of the rosebuds, or saw the
fairies, or married the Prince? And Gypsy's hair was not only straight, it
was absolutely uncurlable. A week's penance "done up in paper" made no
more impression than if you were to pinch it.
However, that did not interfere with her making a bit of a picture,
perched up there on the roof beside Tom, among her burs and her flowers
and her moss, her face all dimples from forehead to chin.
"Where have you been?" said Tom, trying to look severe, and making a most
remarkable failure.
"Oh, only over to the three-mile swamp after white violets. Sarah Rowe,
she got her two hands full, and then she just fell splash into the water,
full length, and lost 'em--Oh, dear me, how I laughed! She did look so
funny."
"Your boots are all mud," said Tom.
"Who cares?" said Gypsy, with a merry laugh, tipping all the wet, earthy
moss out on her lap, as she spoke. "See! isn't there a quantity? I like
moss 'cause it fills up. Violets are pretty enough, only you do have to
pick 'em one at a time. Innocence comes up by the handful,--only mine's
most all roots."
"I don't know what's going to become of you," said Tom, drawing down the
corner of his mouth.
"Neither do I," said Gypsy, demurely; "I wish I did."
"You won't learn to apply yourself to anything," persisted Tom. "Work or
play, there's no system to you. You're like a----" Tom paused for a
simile--"Well, like a toad that's always on the jump."
"Ow!" said Gypsy, with a little scream, "there's a horrid old snail
crawled out my moss!" and over went moss, flowers, basket, and all, down
the roof and upon the stone steps below. "There! Good enough for it!"
Tom coughed and whittled. Gypsy pulled her net out of her basket, and put
up her hair. There was a little silence. Nothing had yet been said about
the image in Gypsy's room, and both were determined not to be the first to
speak of it. Gypsy could have patience enough where a joke was in
question, and as is very apt to be the case, the boy found himself
outwitted. For not a word said Gypsy of the matter, and half an hour
passed and the supper-bell rang.
"There!" said Gypsy, jumping up, "I do declare if it isn't supper, and
I've got these burs to get off and my dress to mend and my shoes and
stockings to change, and--Oh, dear! I wish people didn't ever have to do
things, anyway!"
With this very wise remark, she walked back across the ridge-pole and
climbed in the window. There was nothing for Tom to do but follow; which
he did slowly and reluctantly. Something would have to be said now, at any
rate. But not a syllable said Gypsy. She went to the looking-glass, and
began to brush her hair as unconcernedly as if everything were just as she
left it and precisely as she wanted it.
Tom passed through the room and out of the door; then he stopped. Gypsy's
eyes began to twinkle as if somebody had dropped two little diamonds in
them.
"I say," said Tom.
"What do you say?" replied Gypsy.
"What do you suppose mother would have to say to you about this looking
room?"
"I don't know what she'd say to you, I'm sure," said Gypsy, gravely.
"And you, a great girl, twelve years old!"
"I should like to know why I'm a railroad, anyway," said Gypsy.
"Who said you were a railroad?"
"Whoever wrote Gypsy Breynton, R. R., with my red ink."
"That doesn't stand for railroad."
"Doesn't? Well, what?"
"Regular Romp."
"Oh!"
CHAPTER II
A SPASM OF ORDER
"I can't help it," said Gypsy, after supper; "I can't possibly help it,
and it's no use for me to try."
"If you cannot help it," replied Mrs. Breynton, quietly, "then it is no
fault of yours, but in every way a suitable and praiseworthy condition of
things that you should keep your room looking as I would be ashamed to
have a servant's room look, in my house. People are never to blame for
what they can't help."
"Oh, there it is again!" said Gypsy, with the least bit of a blush, "you
always stop me right off with that, on every subject, from saying my
prayers down to threading a needle."
"Your mother was trained in the new-school theology, and she applies her
principles to things terrestrial as well as things celestial," observed
her father, with an amused smile.
"Yes, sir," said Gypsy, without the least idea what he was talking about.
"Besides," added Mrs. Breynton, finishing, as she spoke, the long darn in
Gypsy's dress, "I think people who give right up at little difficulties,
on the theory that they can't help it, are----"
"Oh, I know that too!"
"What?"
"Cowards."
"Exactly."
"I hate cowards," said Gypsy, in a little flash, and then stood with her
back half turned, her eyes fixed on the carpet, as if she were puzzling
out a proposition in Euclid, somewhere hidden in its brown oak-leaves.
"Take a chair, and sit by the window and think of it," remarked Tom, in
his most aggravating tone.
"That's precisely what I intend to do, sir," said Gypsy; and was as good
as her word. She went up-stairs and shut her door, and, what was
remarkable, nobody saw anything more of her. What was still more
remarkable, nobody heard anything of her. For a little while it was
perfectly still overhead.
"I hope she isn't crying," said Mr. Breynton, who was always afraid Gypsy
was doing something she ought not to do, and who was in about such a state
of continual astonishment over the little nut-brown romp that had been
making such commotion in his quiet home for twelve years, as a respectable
middle-aged and kind-hearted oyster might be, if a lively young toad were
shut up in his shell.
"Catch her!" said the more appreciative Tom; "I don't believe she cries
four times a year. That's the best part of Gyp.; with all her faults,
there's none of your girl's nonsense about her."
Another person in the room, who had listened to the conversation, went off
at this period into a sudden fit of curiosity concerning Gypsy, and
started up-stairs to find her. This was Master Winthrop Breynton,
familiarly and disrespectfully known as Winnie. A word must be said as to
this young person; for, whatever he may be in the eyes of other people, he
was of considerable importance in his own. He had several distinguishing
characteristics, as is apt to be the case with gentlemen of his age and
experience. One was that he was five lengthy and important years of age;
of which impressive fact his friends, relatives, and chance acquaintances,
were informed at every possible and impossible opportunity. Another was,
that there were always, at least, half a dozen buttons off from his
jacket, at all times and places, though his long-suffering mother lived in
her work-basket. A third, lay in the fact that he never walked. He
trotted, he cantered, he galloped; he progressed in jerks, in jumps, in
somersets; he crawled up-stairs like a little Scotch plaid spider, on "all
fours;" he came down stairs on the banisters, the balance of power lying
between his steel buttons and the smooth varnish of the mahogany. On
several memorable occasions, he has narrowly escaped pitching head first
into the hall lamp. His favorite method of locomotion, however, consisted
in a series of thumps, beginning with a gentle tread, and increasing in
impetus by mathematical progression till it ended in a thunder-clap. A
long hall to him was bliss unalloyed; the bare garret floor a dream of
delight, and the plank walk in the woodshed an ecstasy. Still a fourth
peculiarity was a pleasing habit when matters went contrary to his
expressed wishes, of throwing himself full length upon the floor without
any warning whatsoever, squirming around in his clothes, and crying at the
top of his lungs. Added to this is the fact that, for some unaccountable
reason, Winnie's eyes were so blue, and Winnie's laugh so funny, and
Winnie's hands were so pink and little, that somehow or other Winnie
didn't get half the scoldings he deserved. But who is there of us that
does, for that matter?
Well, Winnie it was who stamped across the hall, and crawled up-stairs
hand over hand, and stamped across the upper entry, and pounded on Gypsy's
door, and burst it open, and slammed in with one of Winnie's inimitable
shouts.
"Oh Winnie!"
"I say, father wants to know if----"
"Just see what you've done!"
Winnie stopped short, in considerable astonishment. Gypsy was sitting on
the floor beside one of her bureau drawers which she had pulled out of its
place. That drawer was a sight well worth seeing, by the way; but of that
presently. Gypsy had taken out of it a little box (without a cover, like
all Gypsy's boxes) filled with beadwork,--collars, cuffs, nets, and
bracelets, all tumbled in together, and as much as a handful of loose
beads of every size, color, and description, thrown down on the bottom.
Gypsy was sorting these beads, and this was what had kept her so still.
Now Winnie, in slamming into the room after his usual style, had stepped
directly into the box, crushed its pasteboard flat, and scattered the
unlucky beads to all four points of the compass.
Gypsy sat for about half a minute watching the stream of crimson and blue
and black and silver and gold, that was rolling away under the bed and the
chair and the table, her face a perfect little thunder-cloud. Then she
took hold of Winnie's shoulder, without any remarks, and--shook him.
It was a little shake, and, if it had been given in good temper, would not
have struck Winnie as anything but a pleasant joke. But he knew, from
Gypsy's face, it was no joke; and, feeling his dignity insulted, down he
went flat upon the floor with a scream and a jerk that sent two fresh
buttons flying off from his jacket.
Mrs. Breynton ran up-stairs in a great hurry.
"What's the matter, Gypsy?"
"She sh--sh--shooked me--the old thing!" sobbed Winnie.
"He broke my box and lost all my beads, and I've got them all to pick up
just as I was trying to put my room in order, and so I was mad," said
Gypsy, frankly.
"Winnie, you may go down stairs," said Mrs. Breynton, "you must learn to
be more careful with Gypsy's things."
Winnie slid down on the banisters, and Mrs. Breynton shut the door.
"What are you trying to do, Gypsy?"
"Pick up my room," said Gypsy.
"But what had that to do with stringing the beads?"
"Why, I--don't know exactly. I took out my drawer to fix it up, and my
beads were all in a muss, and so I thought I'd sort them, and then I
forgot."
"I see several things in the room that want putting in order before a
little box of beads," said Mrs. Breynton, with a smile that was half
amused, half sorrowful. Gypsy cast a deprecating glance around the room,
and into her mother's face.
"Oh, I did mean to shut the wardrobe door, and I thought I'd taken the
broom down stairs as much as could be, but that everlasting Tom had to go
and---- Oh dear! did you ever see anything so funny in all your life?" And
Gypsy looked at the image, and broke into one of her rippling laughs.
"It is really a serious matter, Gypsy," said Mrs. Breynton, looking
somewhat troubled at the laugh.
"I know it," said Gypsy, sobering down, "and I came up-stairs on purpose
to put everything to rights, and then I was going to live like other
people, and keep my stockings darned, and--then I had to go head first
into a box of beads, and that was the end of me. It's always so."
"You know, Gypsy, it is one of the signs of a lady to keep one's room in
order; I've told you so many times."
"I know it," said Gypsy, forlornly; "don't you remember when I was a
little bit of a thing, my telling you that I guessed God made a mistake
when he made me, and put in some ginger-beer somehow, that was always
going off? It's pretty much so; the cork's always coming out at the wrong
time."
"Well," said Mrs. Breynton, with a smile, "I'm glad you're trying afresh
to hammer it in. Pick up the beads, and tear down the image, and go to
work with a little system. You'll be surprised to find how fast the room
will come to order."
"I think," she added, as she shut the door, "that it was hardly worth
while to----"
"To shake Winnie?" interrupted Gypsy, demurely. "No, not at all; I ought
to have known better."
Mrs. Breynton did not offer to help Gypsy in the task which bade fair to
be no easy one, of putting her room in order; but, with a few encouraging
words, she went down stairs and left her. It would have been far easier
for her to have gone to work and done the thing herself, than to see
Gypsy's face so clouded and discouraged. But she knew it would be the ruin
of Gypsy. Her only chance of overcoming her natural thoughtlessness, and
acquiring the habits of a lady, lay in the persistent doing over and over
again, by her own unaided patience, these very things that came so hard to
her. Gypsy understood this perfectly, and had the good sense to think her
mother was just right about it. It was not want of training, that gave
Gypsy her careless fashion of looking after things. Mrs. Breynton was a
wise, as well as a loving mother, and had done everything in the way of
punishment, reproof, warning, persuasion, and argument, that mothers can
do for the faults of children. Nor was it for want of a good example, Mrs.
Breynton was the very pink of neatness. It was a natural kink in Gypsy,
that was as hard to get out as a knot in an apple-tree, and which depended
entirely on the child's own will for its eradication. This disorder in her
room and about her toilet was only one development of it, and by no means
a fixed or continued one. Gypsy could be, and half the time she was, as
orderly and lady-like as anybody. She did everything by fits and starts.
As Tom said, she was "always on the jump." If her dress didn't happen to
be torn and her room dusty, why, she had a turn of forgetting everything.
If she didn't forget, she was always getting hurt. If it wasn't that, she
lost her temper every five minutes. Or else she was making terrible
blunders, and hurting people's feelings; something was always the matter;
and some one was always on the qui vive, wondering what Gypsy was going
to do next.
Yet, in spite of it all, the person who did not love Gypsy Breynton
(provided he knew her) was not to be found in Yorkbury. Whether there was
any reason for this, you can judge for yourself as the story goes on.
After her mother had gone down, Gypsy went to work in earnest. She picked
up the beads, and put them back into the drawer which she left upon the
floor. Then she attacked Tom's image. It took her fully fifteen minutes
merely to get the thing to pieces, for the true boy-fashion in which it
was tied, pinned, sewed, and nailed together, would have been a puzzle to
any feminine mind. She would have called Tom up to help her, but she was
just a little bit too proud.
The broom she put out in the entry the first thing; then, remembering that
that was not systematic, she carried it down stairs and hung it on its
nail. The shoes and the dresses, the cape and the cloak, the tippet and
the hat, she put in their places; the torn apron and the unmended
stockings she tumbled into her basket, then went back and folded them up
neatly; she also made a journey into the woodshed expressly to put the
hatchet where it belonged, on the chopping-block. By this time it was
quite dark, but she lighted a lamp, and went at it afresh. Winnie came up
to the entry door, and, at a respectful distance, told her they were
"popping" corn down stairs; but she shook her head, and proceeded with her
dusting like a hero. Tom whistled for her up the chimney-flue; but she
only gave a little thump on the floor, and said she was busy.
It was like walking into a labyrinth to dispose of the contents of that
table-cloth. How to put away the pencils and the rubber, when the
drawing-box was lost; how to collect all the cookey-crumbs and wandering
needles, that slipped out of your finger as fast as you took hold of them;
where on earth to put those torn geography leaves, that wouldn't stay in
the book, and couldn't be thrown away; where was the cork to the
inkstand? and how should she hang up the riding-whip, with the string
gone? These were questions that might well puzzle a more systematic mind
than Gypsy's. However, in due time, the room was restored to an order that
was delightful to see,--for, if Gypsy made up her mind to a thing, she
could do it thoroughly and skilfully,--and she returned to the bureau
drawer. This drawer was a fair specimen of the rest of Gypsy's drawers,
shelves, and cupboards, and their name was Legion. Moreover, it was an
"upper drawer," and where is the girl that does not know what a delicate
science is involved in the rearranging of these upper drawers? So many
laces, and half-worn collars that don't belong there, are always getting
in; loose coppers have such a way of accumulating in the crevices; all
your wandering pins and hair-pins make it a rendezvous by a species of
free-masonry utterly inexplicable; then your little boxes fit in so
tightly, and never have room to open, and are always getting their covers
caught when you shut the drawer, and, when you try to keep them down, you
pinch your fingers so.
Please to imagine, O orderly readers! who keep every pin in its proper
place, the worst looking upper drawer that your horrified eyes ever
beheld, and you will have some idea of this drawer of Gypsy's.
There were boxes large, and boxes small, boxes round, square, and oblong;
boxes with covers (only two), and boxes without; handkerchiefs,
under-sleeves, collars,--both clean and soiled,--laces and ribbons, and
bows and nets; purses and old gloves, a piece of soap, a pile of letters,
scratched and scattering jewelry, a piece of dried cake, several fans all
covered with dust, and nobody knew what not, in the lower strata, out of
sight.
Gypsy sat and looked at it for about two minutes in utter despair. Then
she just turned the whole thing bottom upwards in a great heap on the
floor, and began to investigate matters, with her cheeks very red.
Presently, the family down stairs heard a little scream. Winnie stamped up
to see what was the matter.
"Why, I've found my grammar!" said Gypsy. "It's the one in marble covers I
lost ever--ever so long ago, and had to get a new one. It was right down
at the bottom of the drawer!"
Pretty soon there was another little scream, and Gypsy called down the
chimney:
"Tom Breynton! What do you think? I've found that dollar bill of yours you
thought I'd burnt up."
After awhile there came still another scream, a pretty loud one this time.
Mrs. Breynton came up to see what had happened.
"I've cut my hand," said Gypsy, faintly; "there was a great heap of broken
glass in my drawer!"
"Broken glass!"
"Yes, I'm sure I don't know how it came there; I guess I was going to
frame a picture."
Mrs. Breynton bound up her finger, and went down again. She was no more
than fairly seated before there came from up-stairs, not a scream, but one
of the merriest laughs that ever was heard.
"What is to pay, now?" called Tom, from the entry.
"Oh, dear!" gasped Gypsy; "it's too funny for anything! If here isn't the
carving-knife we scolded Patty for losing last winter, and--Oh, Tom,
just look here!--my stick of peanut candy, that I thought I'd eaten up,
all stuck on to my lace under-sleeves!"
It was past Gypsy's bed-time when the upper drawer was fairly in order and
put back in its place. Three others remained to go through the same
process, as well as wardrobe shelves innumerable. Gypsy, with her
characteristic impulsiveness, would have sat up till twelve o'clock to
complete the work, but her mother said "No" very decidedly, and so it must
wait till to-morrow.
Tom came in just as everything was done, and Gypsy had drawn a long breath
and stood up to look, with great satisfaction, all around her pleasant,
orderly room.
"Well done! I say, Gypsy, what a jewel you are when you're a mind to be."
"Of course, I am. Have you just found it out?"
"Well, you know you're a diamond, decidedly in the rough, as a general
thing. You need cutting down and polishing."
"And you to polish me? Well, I like the looks of this room, anyhow. It
is nice to have things somewhere where you won't trip over them when you
walk across the room--only if somebody else would pick 'em up for me."
"How long do you suppose it will last?" asked Tom, with an air of great
superiority.
"Tom," said Gypsy, solemnly; "that's a serious question."
"It might last forever if you have a mind to have it,--come now, Gyp., why
not?"
"That's a long time," said Gypsy, shaking her head; "I wouldn't trust
myself two inches. To-morrow I shall be in a hurry to go to school; then I
shall be in a hurry to go to dinner; then I shall be in a terrible hurry
to get off with Sarah Rowe, and so it goes. However, I'll see. I feel,
to-night, precisely as if I should never want to take a single pin out of
those little black squares I've put them into on the cushion."
Gypsy found herself in a hurry the next day and the next, and is likely
to, to the end of her life, I am afraid. But she seemed to have taken a
little gasp of order, and for a long time no one had any complaint to make
of Gypsy's room or Gypsy's toilet.
CHAPTER III
MISS MELVILLE'S VISITOR
As will be readily supposed, Gypsy's name was not her original one; though
it might have been, for there have been actual Billys and Sallys, who
began and ended Billys and Sallys only.
Gypsy's real name was an uncouth one--Jemima. It was partly for this
reason, partly for its singular appropriateness, that her nickname had
entirely transplanted the lawful and ugly one.
This subject of nicknames is a curiosity. All rules of euphony, fitness,
and common sense, that apply to other things, are utterly at fault here. A
baby who cannot talk plainly, dubs himself "Tuty," or "Dess," or "Pet," or
"Honey," and forthwith becomes Tuty, Dess, Pet, or Honey, the rest of his
mortal life. All the particularly cross and disagreeable girls are Birdies
and Sunbeams. All the brunettes with loud voices and red hands, who are
growing up into the "strong-minded women," are Lilies and Effies and
Angelinas, and other etherial creatures; while the little shallow,
pink-and-white young ladies who cry very often and "get nervous," are
quite as likely to be royal Constance, or Elizabeth, without any nickname
at all.
But Gypsy's name had undoubtedly been foreordained, so perfectly was it
suited to Gypsy. For never a wild rover led a more untamed and happy life.
Summer and winter, seed-time and harvest, found Gypsy out in the open air,
as many hours out of the twenty-four as were not absolutely bolted and
barred down into the school-room and dreamland. A fear of the weather
never entered into Gypsy's creed; drenchings and freezings were so many
soap-bubbles,--great fun while they lasted, and blown right away by dry
stockings and mother's warm fire; so where was the harm? A good brisk
thunderstorm out in the woods, with the lightning quivering all about her
and the thunder crashing over her, was simple delight. A day of snow and
sleet, with drifts knee-deep, and winds like so many little knives, was a
festival. If you don't know the supreme bliss of a two-mile walk on such a
day, when you have to shut your eyes, and wade your way, then Gypsy would
pity you. Not a patch of woods, a pond, a brook, a river, a mountain, in
the region (and there, in Vermont, there were plenty of them), but Gypsy
knew it by heart.
There was not a trout-brook for miles where she had not fished. There was
hardly a tree she had not climbed, or a fence or stone-wall--provided, of
course, that it was away from the main road and people's eyes--that she
had not walked. Gypsy could row and skate and swim, and play ball and make
kites, and coast and race, and drive, and chop wood. Altogether Gypsy
seemed like a very pretty, piquant mistake; as if a mischievous boy had
somehow stolen the plaid dresses, red cheeks, quick wit, and little
indescribable graces of a girl, and was playing off a continual joke on
the world. Old Mrs. Surly, who lived opposite, and wore green spectacles,
used to roll up her eyes, and say What would become of that child? A
whit cared Gypsy for Mrs. Surly! As long as her mother thought the sport
and exercise in the open air a fine thing for her, and did not complain of
the torn dresses oftener than twice a week, she would roll her hoop and
toss her ball under Mrs. Surly's very windows, and laugh merrily to see
the green glasses pushed up and taken off in horror at what Mrs. Surly
termed an "impropriety."
Therefore it created no surprise in the family one morning, when
school-time came and passed, and Gypsy did not make her appearance, that
she was reported to be "making a raft" down in the orchard swamp.
"Run and call her, Winnie," said Mrs. Breynton. "Tell her it is very late,
and I want her to come right up,--remember."
"Yes mum," said Winnie, with unusual alacrity, and started off down the
lane as fast as his copper-toed feet could carry him. It was quite a long
lane, and a very pleasant one in summer. There was a row of hazel-nut
bushes, always green and sweet, on one side, and a stone-wall on the
other, with the broad leaves and tiny blossoms of a grape-vine trailing
over it. The lane opened into a wide field which had an apple-orchard at
one end of it, and sloped down over quite a little hill into a piece of
marshy ground, where ferns and white violets, anemones, and sweet-flag
grew in abundance. In the summer, the water was apt to dry up. In the
spring, it was sometimes four feet deep. It was a pleasant spot, for the
mountains lay all around it, and shut it in with their great forest-arms,
and the sharp peaks that were purple and crimson and gold, under passing
shadows and fading sunsets. And, then, is there any better fun than to
paddle in the water?
Gypsy looked as if she thought not, when Winnie suddenly turned the
corner, and ran down the slope.
She had finished her raft, and launched it off from the root of an old
oak-tree that grew half in the water, and, with a long pole, had pushed
herself a third of the way across the swamp. Her dress was tucked up over
her bright balmoral, and the ribbons of her hat were streaming in the
wind. She had no mittens or gloves on her hands, which were very pink and
plump, and her feet were incased in high rubber boots.
"Hullo!" said Winnie, walking out on the root of the oak.
"Hilloa!" said Gypsy.
"I say--that's a bully raft."
"To be sure it is."
"I haven't had a ride on a raft since--why since 'leven or six years ago
when I was a little boy. I shouldn't wonder if it was twenty-three years,
either."
"Oh, I can't bear people that hint. Why don't you say right out, if you
want a ride?"
"I want a ride," said Winnie, without any hesitation.
"Wait till I turn her round. I'll bring her up on the larboard side,"
replied Gypsy, in the tone of an old salt of fifty years' experience.
So she paddled up to the oak-tree, and Winnie jumped on board.
"I guess we'll have time to row across and back before school," said
Gypsy, pushing off.
Winnie maintained a discreet silence.
"I don't suppose it's very late," said Gypsy.
"Oh, just look at that toad with a green head, down in the water!"
observed Winnie.
They paddled on a little ways in silence.
"What makes your cheeks so red?" asked Gypsy.
"I guess it's scarlet fever, or maybe it's appleplexy, you know."
"Oh!"
Just then Winnie gave a little scream.
"Look here--Gyp.! The boat's goin'clock down. I don't want to go very
much. I saw another toad down there."
"I declare!" said Gypsy, "we're going to be swamped, as true as you live!
It isn't strong enough to bear two,--sit still, Winnie. Perhaps we'll get
ashore."
But no sooner had she spoken the words than the water washed up about her
ankles, and Winnie's end of the raft went under. The next she knew, they
were both floundering in the water.
It chanced to be about three feet and a half deep, very cold, and somewhat
slimy. Gypsy had a strong impression that a frog jumped into her neck when
she plunged, head first, into the deep mud at the bottom. After a little
splashing and gasping, she regained her feet, and stood up to her elbows
in the water. But what she could do, Winnie could not. He had sunk in the
soft mud, and even if he had had the courage to stand up straight, the
water would have been above his head. But it had never occurred to him to
do otherwise than lie gasping and flat on the bottom, where he was
drowning as fast as he possibly could.
Gypsy pulled him out and carried him ashore. She wrung him out a little,
and set him down on the grass, and then, by way of doing something, she
took her dripping handkerchief out of her dripping pocket and wiped her
hands on it.
"O--o--oh!" gasped Winnie; "I never did--you'd ought to know--you've just
gone'n drownded me!"
"What a story!" said Gypsy; "you're no more drowned than I am. To be sure
you are rather wet," she added, with a disconsolate attempt at a laugh.
"You oughtn't to have tooken me out on that old raft," glared Winnie,
through the shower of water-drops that rained down from his forehead, "you
know you hadn't! I'll just tell mother. I'll get sick and be died after
it, you see if I don't."
"Very well," said Gypsy, giving herself a little shake, very much as a
pretty brown spaniel would do, who had been in swimming.
"You may do as you like. Who teased to go on the raft, I'd like to know?"
"Besides," resumed Winnie, with an impressive cough; "you're late to
school, 'cause mother, she said you was to come right up when she sent me
down, only I--well I guess, I b'lieve I forgot to tell you,--I rather
think I did. Anyways, you're late,--so!"
Gypsy looked at Winnie, and Winnie looked at Gypsy. There was an awful
silence.
"Winnie Breynton," said Gypsy, solemnly, "if you don't get one whipping!"
"I don't care to hear folks talk," interrupted Winnie, with dignity, "I am
five years old."
Gypsy's reply is not recorded.
I have heard it said that when Tom espied the two children coming up the
lane, he went to his mother with the information that the fishman was
somewhere around, only he had sent his fishes on ahead of him. They
appeared to have been freshly caught, and would, he thought, make several
dinners; but I cannot take the responsibility of the statement.
It was very late, much nearer ten o'clock than nine, when Gypsy was fairly
metamorphosed into a clean, dry, very penitent-looking child.
She hurried off to school, leaving Winnie and his mother in close
conference. Exactly what happened on the occasion of that interview, has
never been made known to an inquiring public.
On the way to school Gypsy had as many as six sober thoughts; a larger
number than she was usually capable of in forty-eight hours. One was, that
it was too bad she had got so wet. Another was, that she really supposed
it was her business to know when school-time came, no matter where she was
or what she was doing. Another, that she had made her mother a great deal
of trouble. A fourth was, that she was sorry to be so late at school--it
always made Miss Melville look so; and then a bad mark was not, on the
whole, a desirable thing. Still a fifth was, that she would never do such
a thing again as long as she lived--never. The sixth lay in a valiant
determination to behave herself the rest of this particular day. She would
study hard. She would get to the head of the class. She wouldn't put a
single pin in the girls' chairs, nor tickle anybody, nor make up funny
faces, nor whisper, nor make one of the girls laugh, not one, not even
that silly Delia Guest, who laughed at nothing,--why, you couldn't so much
as make a doll out of your handkerchief and gloves, and hang it on your
pen-handle, but what she had to go into a spasm over it.
No, she wouldn't do a single funny thing all day. She would just sit still
and look sober and sorry, and not trouble Miss Melville in the least. Her
mind was quite made up.
Just as she had arrived at this conclusion she came to the school-house
door. Gypsy and a number of other girls, both her own age and younger, who
either were not prepared to enter the high school, or whose parents
preferred the select school system, composed Miss Melville's charge. They
were most of them pleasant girls, and Miss Melville was an unusually
successful teacher, and as dearly loved as a judicious teacher can be. The
school-house was a bit of a brown building tucked away under some
apple-trees on a quiet by-road. It had been built for a district school,
but had fallen into disuse years ago, and Miss Melville had taken
possession of it.
Gypsy slackened her pace as she passed under the apple-boughs, where the
tiny, budding leaves filled all the air with faint fragrance. It was
nearly recess time; she knew, because she could hear, through the windows,
the third geography class reciting. It was really too bad to be so late.
She went up the steps slowly, the corners of her mouth drawn down as
penitently as Gypsy's mouth could well be.
Just inside the door she stopped. A quick color ran all over her face, her
eyes began to twinkle like sparks from a great fire of hickory, and, in an
instant, every one of those six sober thoughts was gone away
somewhere--nobody could have told where; and the funniest little laugh
broke the silence of the entry.
The most interested observer could not have told what Gypsy saw that was
so very amusing. The entry was quite deserted. Nothing was to be seen but
a long row of girls' "things," hanging up on the nails--hats and bonnets,
tippets, sacks, rubbers, and baskets; apparently as demure and respectable
as hats, bonnets, tippets, sacks, rubbers, and baskets could be. Yet there
Gypsy stood for as much as a minute laughing away quietly to herself, as
if she had come across some remarkable joke.
About ten minutes after, some one knocked at the school-room door. Miss
Melville laid down her geography.
"Cape Ann, Cape Hatteras, Cape--may I go to the door?" piped little Cely
Hunt, holding up her hand. Miss Melville nodded and Cely went. She opened
the door--and jumped.
"What's the matter, Cely?--Oh!" For there stood the funniest old woman
that Cely or Miss Melville had ever seen. She had on a black dress, very
long and very scant, that looked as if it were made out of an old
waterproof cloak. Over that, she wore a curious drab-silk sack, somewhat
faded and patched, with all the edges of the seams outside. Over that, was
a plaid red-and-green shawl, tied about her waist. There was a little
black shawl over that, and a green tippet wound twice around her throat
with the ends tucked in under the shawl. She had a pair of black mitts on
her hands, and she carried a basket. Her face no one could see, for it was
covered with a thick green veil, tied closely about her bonnet.
Cely gave a little scream, and ran behind the door. Miss Melville stepped
down from the platform, and went to meet the visitor.
"Good arternoon," said the old woman, in a very shrill voice.
"Good afternoon," said Miss Melville, politely.
"I come to see the young uns," piped the old woman. "I ben deown teown fur
some eggs, an'clock I heerd the little creaturs a sayin'clock of their
lessons as I come by, an'clock thinks says I to myself, says I, bless
their dear hearts, I'll go in an'clock see 'em, says I, an'clock I'll
thank ye kindly for a seat, for I'm pretty nigh beat out."
The scholars all began to laugh. Miss Melville, somewhat reluctantly,
handed her visitor a chair by the door, but did not ask her upon the
platform, as the visitor seemed to expect.
"There's a drefful draught here on my neck," she muttered, discontentedly;
"an'clock I'm terribly afflicted with rheumatiz mostly. Can't see much of
the young uns here, nuther."
"I doubt if there is much here that will interest you," observed Miss
Melville, looking at her keenly. "You may rest yourself, and then I think
you had better go. Visitors always disturb the children."
"Bless their dear hearts!" cried the old woman, shrilly. "They needn't be
afraid of me--I wouldn't hurt 'em. Had a little angel boy once myself;
he's gone to Californy now, an'clock I'm a lone, lorn widdy. I say--little
gal!" and the stranger pointed her finger (it trembled a little) at Sarah
Rowe, who had grown quite red in the face with her polite efforts not to
laugh. "Little gal, whar's yer manners?--laughin'clock at a poor ole
creetur like me! Come out here, and le's hear ye say that beautiful psalm
of Dr. Watts--now!"
"How doth the little busy bee!"
But just then something happened for which the old woman and the scholars
were equally unprepared. Miss Melville looked through the green veil
straight into the old woman's eyes, and said just one word. She said it
very quietly, and she said it without a smile. It was
"Gypsy!"
There was a great hush. Sarah Rowe was the first to break it.
"Why, that's my sack turned wrong side out!"
"And those are my mitts!" said Agnes Gaylord.
"If you please, Miss Melville, that's my black shawl,--I know it by the
border," piped a very little girl in mourning.
"I do believe that's my waterproof, and Lucy's plaid shawl," giggled Delia
Guest. "Did you ever?"
"And my green veil," put in somebody else, faintly.
Miss Melville quietly removed the veil, and Gypsy looked up with her
mischief bright all over her face. Her eyes fell, however, and her cheeks
flushed crimson, when she saw the look about Miss Melville's mouth.
"You may go and put away the things, Gypsy," said Miss Melville, still
without a smile. Gypsy obeyed in silence. The girls stopped laughing, and
began to whisper together behind the desk-covers.
"The school will come to order," said Miss Melville. "Cely, what is the
largest river in New England?--Next."
Gypsy hung up the things, and came slowly back into the room. Miss
Melville motioned her to her seat, but took no further notice of her.
Gypsy, silent and ashamed, took out her spelling-book, and began to study.
The girls looked at her out of the corners of their eyes, and every now
and then Delia Guest broke out afresh into a smothered laugh, but no one
spoke to her, and she spoke to nobody.
The spelling-class was called out, but Miss Melville signified, by a look,
that Gypsy was to keep her seat. Recess came, but Miss Melville was busy
writing at her desk, and took no notice of her, further than to tell the
group of girls, who had instantly clustered buzzing and laughing about
her, that they were all to go out doors and play. They went, and Gypsy sat
still with her head behind the desk-cover. Something in Miss Melville's
manner said, louder than words, that she was displeased. It was a manner
which made Gypsy feel, for once in her life, that she had not one word to
say.
She busied herself with her books, and tried to look unconcerned when the
scholars came back. The arithmetic class recited, but her teacher did not
call for her; the history class, but no one spoke to Gypsy. The disgrace
of this punishment was what Gypsy minded the most, though it was no slight
thing to see so many "absent" marks going down on her report, when she was
right in the room and had learned her lessons.
After what seemed to her an interminable time, the morning passed and the
school broke up. The children, controlled by that something in Miss
Melville's manner, and by Gypsy's averted head and burning cheeks, left
the room quickly, and Gypsy and her teacher were alone.
"Gypsy," said Miss Melville.
There was no answer.
"Gypsy."
There came a faint "Yes'm" from behind the desk-cover. Miss Melville laid
down her pencil, closed her own desk, and came and sat down on the bench
beside Gypsy.
"I wonder if you are as sorry as I am," she said, simply.
Something very bright glittered on Gypsy's lashes, and two great drops
stood on her hot cheeks.
"I don't see what possessed me!" she said, vehemently. "Why don't you turn
me out of school?"
"I did not think you could willingly try to make me trouble," continued
Miss Melville, without noticing the last remark.
The two great drops rolled slowly down Gypsy's cheeks, and into her mouth.
She swallowed them with a gulp, and brushed her hand, angrily, across her
eyes. Gypsy very seldom cried, but I fancy she came pretty near it on that
occasion.
"Miss Melville," she said, with an earnestness that was comical, in spite
of itself; "I wish you'd please to scold me. I should feel a great deal
better."
"Scoldings won't do you much good," said Miss Melville, with a sad smile;
"you must cure your own faults, Gypsy. Nobody else can do it for you."
Gypsy turned around in a little passion of despair.
"Miss Melville, I can't! It isn't in me--you don't know! Here this
very morning I got late to school, tipping Winnie over in a raft--drenched
through both of us, and mother, so patient and sweet with the dry
stockings she'd just mended, and wasn't I sorry? Didn't I think about it
all the way to school--the whole way, Miss Melville? And didn't I make up
my mind I'd be as good as a kitten all day, and sit still like Agnes
Gaylord, and not tickle the girls, nor make you any trouble, nor anything?
Then what should I do but come into the entry and see those things, and it
all came like a flash how funny it would be'n I'd talk up high like Mrs.
Surly 'n you wouldn't know me, and--that was the last I thought, till you
took off the veil, and I wished I hadn't done it. It's just like me--I
never can help anything anyhow."
"I think you can," said her teacher, kindly. "You certainly had the power,
when you stood out there in the entry, to stop and think before you
touched the things."
"I don't know," said Gypsy, shaking her head, thoughtfully; "I don't
believe I had."
"But you wouldn't do it again?"
"I guess I wouldn't!" said Gypsy, with an emphasis.
"What you can do one time, you can another," said Miss Melville.
Gypsy was silent.
"There's one other thing about it," continued her teacher, "besides the
impropriety of playing such a trick in school hours--that is, that it was
very unkind to me."
"Unkind!" exclaimed Gypsy.
"Yes," said Miss Melville, quietly, "unkind."
"Why, Miss Melville, I wouldn't be unkind to you for anything!--I love you
dearly."
"Nevertheless, Gypsy, it was very unkind to deliberately set to work to
annoy me and make me trouble, by getting the school into a frolic.
Anything done to break the order of study-hours, or to withstand any rule
of the school, is always an unkindness to a teacher. There is scarcely a
girl in school that might help me more than you, Gypsy, if you chose."
"I don't see how," said Gypsy, astonished.
"I do," said Miss Melville, smiling, "and I always think a little vote of
thanks to you, when you are quiet and well-behaved. An orderly scholar has
a great deal of influence. The girls all love you, and are apt to do as
they see you do, Gypsy."
There was a little silence, in which Gypsy's eyes were wandering away
under the apple-boughs, their twinkling dimmed and soft.
At last she turned quickly, and threw her arms about her teacher's neck.
"Miss Melville, if you'll give me one kiss, I'll never be an old woman
again, if I live as long as Methuselah!"
Miss Melville kissed her, and whispered one or two little loving words of
encouragement, such as nobody but Miss Melville knew how to say. But Gypsy
never told what they were.
"I believe there's a bolt left out of me somewhere," she said, as they
left the school-house together; "what do you suppose it is?"
"It is the strong, iron bolt, 'stop and think,' Gypsy."
"Um--yes--perhaps it is," said Gypsy, and walked slowly home.
CHAPTER IV
GYPSY HAS A DREAM
"Come, Tom--do."
"Do what?"
"You know as well as I do."
"What did you observe?"
"Tom Breynton!"
"That's my name."
"Will you, or will you not, come down to the pond and have a row?"
"Let's hear you tease a little."
"Catch me! If you won't come for a civil request, I won't tease for it."
"Very good," said Tom, laying aside his Euclid; "I like your spunk. Rather
think I'll go."
Tom tossed on his cap and was ready. Gypsy hurried away to array herself
in the complication of garments necessary to the feminine adventurer, if
she so much as crosses the yard; a continual mystery of Providence, was
this little necessity to Gypsy, and one against which she lived in a state
of incessant rebellion. It was provoking enough to stand there in her
room, tugging and hurrying till she was red in the face, over a pair of
utterly heartless and unimpressible rubbers, that absolutely refused to
slip over the heel of her boot, and to see Tom through the window, with
his hands in his pocket, ready, waiting, and impatient, alternately
whistling and calling for her.
"I never did!" said Gypsy, in no very gentle tone.
"Hur--ry up!" called Tom, coolly.
"These old rubbers!" said Gypsy.
"What's the matter?" asked her mother, stopping at the door.
"It's enough to try the patience of a saint!" said Gypsy, emphatically,
holding out her foot.
"Perhaps I can help you," said Mrs. Breynton, stooping down. "Why, Gypsy!
your boots are wet through; of course the rubbers won't go on."
"I didn't suppose that would make any difference," said Gypsy, looking
rather foolish. "I got them wet this morning, down at the swamp. I thought
they were dry, though: I sat with my feet in the oven until Patty drove me
off. She said I was in the bread."
"You will have to put on your best boots," said her mother.
"Oh, Tom!" called Gypsy, in despair, as the shrillest of all shrill
whistles came up through the window. "Everything's in a jumble! I'll be
there as soon as I can."
She changed her boots, tossed on her turban, whisked on her sack, and
began to fasten it with a jerk, when off came the button at the throat,
and rolled maliciously quite out of sight under the bed.
"There!" said Gypsy.
"Can't wait!" shouted Tom.
"I mended that sack," said Gypsy, "only yesterday afternoon. I call it too
bad, when a body's trying to keep their things in order, and do up all
their mending, that things have to act so!"
"I think you have been trying to be orderly," said her mother, helping her
to pin the offending sack about the throat, for there was no time now to
restore the wandering button. "I have noticed a great improvement in you;
but there's one thing wanting yet, that would have kept the button in its
place, and had the boots properly taken off and dried at the right time."
"What's that?" asked Gypsy, in a great hurry to go.
"A little more thoroughness, Gypsy."
This bit of a lesson, like most of Mrs. Breynton's moral teachings, was
enforced with a little soft kiss on Gypsy's forehead, and a smile that was
as unlike a sermon as smile could be.
Gypsy gave two thoughts to it, while she jumped down stairs three steps at
a time; then, it must be confessed, she forgot it entirely, in the sight
of Tom coolly walking off down the lane without her. But words that Mrs.
Breynton said with a kiss did not slip away from Gypsy's memory "for good
an a'," as easily as that. She had her own little places and times of
private meditation, when such things came up to her like faithful angels,
that are always ready to speak, if you give them the chance.
Tom was still in sight, among the hazel-nut bushes and budding grape-vines
of the lane, and Gypsy ran swiftly after him. She was fleet of foot as a
young gazelle, and soon overtook him. She had just stopped, panting, by
his side, and was proceeding to make some remarks which she thought his
conduct richly deserved, when the sound of some little trotting feet
behind them attracted their attention.
"Why, Winnie Breynton!" said Gypsy.
"Where are you going?" asked Tom, turning round.
"Oh, nowheres in particular," said Winnie, with an absent air.
"Well, you may just turn round and go there, then," said Tom. "We don't
want any little boys with us this afternoon."
"Little boys!" said Winnie, with a terrible look; "I'm five years old,
sir. I can button my own jacket, and I've got a snowshovel!"
Tom walked rapidly on, and Gypsy with him. A moment's reflection seemed to
convince Winnie that his company was not wanted, and he disappeared among
the hazel nut bushes.
Gypsy and Tom were fast walkers, and they reached the pond in a
marvellously short time. This pond was about a half-mile from the house,
just at the foot of a hill which went by the name of Kleiner Berg--a
German word meaning little mountain. There were many of these elevations
all along the valley in which Yorkbury was situated. They seemed to be a
sort of stepping-stones to the great, snow-crowned mountains, that towered
sharply beyond. The pond that nestled in among the trees at the foot of
the Kleiner Berg was called the Kleiner Berg Basin. It was a beautiful
sheet of water, small and still and sheltered, and a great resort of
pleasure-seekers because of the clouds of white and golden lilies that
floated over it in the hot summer months. Mr. Breynton owned a boat there,
which was kept locked to a tiny wharf under the trees, and was very often
used by the children, although Tom declared it was no better to fish in
than a wash-tub; as a Vermont boy, used to the trout-brooks up among the
mountains, would be likely to think.
"What's that?" asked Gypsy, as they neared the wharf.
"Looks as much like a little green monkey as anything," said Tom, making a
tube of his hands to look through. "It's in the boat, whatever it is."
"It's a green-and-white gingham monkey," said Gypsy, suddenly, "with a
belt, and brown pants, and a cap on wrong side before."
"The little----, he may just walk home anyhow," observed Tom, in his
autocratic style. "He ought to be taught better than to come where older
people are, especially if they don't want him."
"I suppose he likes to have a boat-ride as well as we do," suggested
Gypsy.
"Winthrop!" called Tom, severely.
Winnie's chin was on his little fat hand, and Winnie's eyes were fixed
upon the water, and Winnie was altogether too deeply absorbed in
meditation to deign a reply.
"Winnie, where did you come from?"
"Oh!" said Winnie, looking up, carelessly; "that you?"
"How did you get down here, I'd like to know?" said Gypsy.
Winnie regarded her impressively, as if to signify that his principles of
action were his own until they were made public, and when they were made
public she might have them.
"You may just get out of that boat," said Tom, rather crossly for him.
Winnie hinted, as if it were quite an accidental remark, that he had no
intention of doing so. He furthermore observed that he would be happy to
take them to row. "Father said whoever took the boat first was to have
it."
Tom replied by taking him up in one hand, twisting him over his shoulder,
and landing him upon the grass. At this Winnie, as characteristic in his
wrath as in his dignity, threw himself flat, and began to scream after his
usual musical fashion.
"It's too bad!" said Gypsy. "Let him go, Tom--do."
"He should have stayed where he was told to," argued Tom, who, like most
boys of his age, had a sufficiently just estimate of the importance of his
own authority, and who would sometimes do a very selfish thing under the
impression that it was his duty to family and state, as an order-loving
individual and citizen.
"I know it isn't so pleasant to have him," said Gypsy, "but it does make
him so dreadfully happy."
That was the best of Gypsy;--she was as generous a child as poor, fallen
children of Adam are apt to be; as quick to do right as she was to do
wrong, and much given to this fancy of seeing people "dreadfully happy." I
have said that people loved Gypsy. I am inclined to think that herein lay
the secret of it.
Then Gypsy never "preached." If she happened to be right, and another
person wrong, she never put on superior airs, and tried to patronize them
into becoming as good as she was. She made her suggestions in such a
straightforward, matter-of-fact way, as if of course you thought so too,
and she was only agreeing with you; and was apt to make them so merrily
withal, that there was no resisting her.
Therefore Tom, while pretending to carry his point, really yielded to the
influence of Gypsy's kind feeling, in saying,--
"On the whole, Winnie, I've come to the conclusion to take you, on
condition that you always do as I tell you in future. And if you don't
stop crying this minute, you sha'n't go."
This rather ungracious consent was sufficient to dry Winnie's tears and
silence Winnie's lungs, and the three seated themselves in the little
boat, and started off in high spirits. It was a light, pretty boat,
painted in bright colors, and christened The Dipper, it being an
appropriate and respectful title for a boat on the Kleiner Berg Basin.
Moreover, the air was as sweet as a May-flower, and as warm as sunshine;
there was a soft, blue sky with clouds of silver like stately ships
sailing over it, and such a shimmering, bright photograph of it in the
water; then Tom was so pleasant, and rowed so fast, and let Gypsy help,
and she could keep time with him, and the spray dashed up like silver-dust
about the oars, and the bees were humming among the buds on the trees, and
the blue dragon-flies, that skipped from ripple to ripple, seemed to be
having such a holiday. Altogether, Gypsy felt like saying, with famous
little Prudy,--
"Oh, I'm so glad there happened to be a world, and God made me!"
After a while Tom laid down his oars, and they floated idly back and forth
among the lily-stems and the soft, purple shadows of the maple-boughs,
from which the perfumed scarlet blossoms dropped like coral into the
water. Tom took off his cap, and leaned lazily against the side of the
boat; Winnie, interested in making a series of remarkable faces at himself
in the water, for a wonder sat still, and Gypsy lay down across two seats,
with her face turned up watching the sky. It was very pleasant, and no one
seemed inclined to talk.
"I wish I were a cloud," said Gypsy, suddenly, after a long silence. "A
little white cloud, with a silver fringe, and not have anything to do but
float round all day in the sunshine,--no lessons nor torn dresses nor
hateful old sewing to do."
"S'posin' it thunder-stormed," suggested Winnie. "You might get striked."
"That would be fun," said Gypsy, laughing. "I always wanted to see where
the lightning came from."
