you will have to pay them about a dollar a day each. 
Your expenses, including coal, oil for machinery, and 
hands, will be about twenty dollars a day. If you 
add repairs, of which steamboats are continually in 
need, you will run it up to twenty-five dollars a day." 

" That will leave me a profit of twenty-five dollars 
a day," added Lawry, delighted at the thought. 

" If you are employed every day, it will ; but you 
cannot expect to do anything with parties for more 
than two months in the year." 

" I can get some towing to do ; and I may make 
something with passengers." 

" Parties will pay best in July and August, and 
perhaps part of September; but you must be wide 
awake." 

" I intend to be." 
. "I advise you to get up a handbill of your 
steamer, announcing that she is to be let to parties 
by the day, at all the large ports on the lake. There 
are plenty of wealthy people, spending the summer in 
this vicinity, who would be glad to engage her, even 
for a week at once." 

 







" Will you write me a handbill, Mr. Sherwood ? " 
" Yes, and get it printed." 
" Thank you, sir." 

" The Woodville is engaged to me for to-morrow," 
added Mr. Sherwood ; and he went to the engine-room 
to see Ethan. 



 



CHAPTER XV. 

THE NEW CAPTAIN. 

Lawey was bewildered by the magnificence of 
the arrangements suggested by Mr. Sherwood ; but 
if the Woodville was to be employed in taking 
out parties of genteel people, nothing less magnifi- 
cent would answer the purpose. His infiuential 
friend, it appeared, had already exerted himself to 
procure employment of this kind for the steamer, 
and the proprietor of the beautiful craft was not 
only willing to conform to his ideas, but was grate- 
ful for the kindly interest he manifested in the pros- 
perity of the enterprise. 

In the afternoon, an upholsterer who had been 
employed at the house of Mr. Sherwood came on 
board, put down the carpets, and hung the curtains 
and draperies in the cabin and saloon. The furni- 
ture was put on board, the mirrors restored to their 



 



places, and the beds made up in the cabin and 
state-rooms. At sundown none but a close observer 
could have suspected that the steamer had lain three 
or four days on the bottom of the lake. 

While this work had been in progress, Mrs. Wil- 
ford had been up to the village and engaged a cook, 
and two girls for the steward's department; the fire- 
man had been sent for ; and two boys, who had 
been brought up on board a lake sloop, were em- 
ployed as deck hands. By the time the cabin and 
saloon were completed, all these persons had reported 
for duty on board. Mrs. Light, the cook, was in 
the kitchen, exploring the lockers, ice-chest, and 
shelves of her department, and the waiter-girls were 
ascertaining how to set the table in the cabin. 
The deck hands were experimenting with the chain- 
box, and the fireman was quite at home at the 
furnaces. 

Now, Lawry thought it was quite necessary that 
his crew should be trained a little before any pas- 
sengers were received on board, and after Mr. Sher- 
wood and his party had gone home, the fires were 
revived, and a short trip down the lake determined 



 



upon. As soon as there was steam enough for the 
purpose, the pilot, now the captain, rang his bell to 
back her, and the deck hands were instructed in 
getting the fasts on board. Ben Wilford, who was 
standing on the wharf, cast off the hawsers, and then 
jumped aboard himself. The bells jingled for a few 
moments, and then the Woodville went off on her 
course. 

" This is all very fine," said Ben, seating himself 
behind Lawry, in the wheel-house. 

" First rate," laughed Lawry. 

" What am I to do ? " demanded Ben, rather 
gruffly. 

" You ? " said the pilot. 

" Everybody seems to have something to do with 
her except me." 

" What do you want to do ? " 

" I suppose you think I'm not fit for anything." 

" I had an idea that you would stay at home, 
and run the ferry-boat." 

"Did you?" sneered Ben. 

" Some one must do that ; and of course I can't 
now." 





 



" Hang the ferry-boat ! " 

" It must be run, or we shall forfeit the privilege." 
" I shall not run it, whatever happens." 
" I don't see how I can." 

" Lawry, I don't think you are using me right," 
added Ben, sourly. 

" Why, what have I done ? " 

" You've got this boat, and though you know 
I'm a steamboat man, you don't say a word to me 
about taking any position on board of her." 

" I don't know what position there is on board 
for you, unless you take a deck hand's place." 

" A deck hand ! " 

" That is what you have always been." 

" Do you think I'm going to be bossed by you ? " 

" Ben, if you will tell me just what you want, I 
shall understand you better," said Lawry, rather im- 
patiently. 

" You know what I want. There is only one 
place in the boat I would be willing to take." 
" What is that ? " 
" You know as well as I do." 
" You mean captain,'' 



 

" Of course I do." 

" I intended to be captain myself." 

" I thought you were going to be pilot of her." 

"So I am; and captain too." 

" Then you mean to leave me out entirely." 

" Ben, I don't want to have any row ; and I won't 
quarrel with my brother ; but I don't think it is 
quite fair for you to ask so much of me." 

" Don't I know all about a steamboat ? " 

" Can you pilot one up and down the lake ? " 

" Well, no ; I never did that kind of work." 

"Can you run an engine ? " 

" No ; and you can't, either. The captain doesn't 
have to be a pilot, nor an engineer." 
" What must he do, then ? " 

" He must look out for everything on board, see 
to making the landing, and that the people on board 
are comfortable." 

" I intend to do all that." 

" How can you do it, and stay in the wheel-house 
all the time ? " 

" I shall not stay here all the time. The deck 
hands know how to steer. I want to do what's fair 







and right, Ben. The steamer was given to rae ; 
and I don't exactly like to have any one to boss 
me on board." 

" The captain don't have much to do with the 
pilot, and I shan't boss you." 

" Suppose the question should come up, whether 
or not the boat should take a certain job ; who 
would decide the question — you or I ? " 

" I'm the oldest, and I think I ought to have the 
biggest voice in the matter." 

" But the boat is mine," added Lawry, with em- 
phasis. 

"As to that, she is just as much mine as she is 
yours ; " and Ben rehearsed his old argument about 
minors not being competent to hold property. 

" I'm willing to do what's fair and right ; but I 
shall not have any captain over me in this boat," 
replied Lawry, firmly, but kindly. 

" Lawy, you are my brother," said Ben, angrily ; 
" but I don't care for that. You set yourself up 
above me ; you make me a nobody. I won't stand 
it!" 

" I don't set myself up above you, Ben." 



 

" Yes, you do. Just now you offered me the 
place of a deck hand ! " 

" I didn't ask you to take any place. I'll tell 
you what I will do, Ben. I'll talk with mother and 
Mr. Sherwood about the matter, and if they think 
you ought to be captain of the Woodville, you 
shall be." 

" Mr. Sherwood don't know everything." 
" I think he would know what is right in a case 
like this." 

" He thinks you are a little god, and I know 
what he would say." 

" I 'll do as mother says, then." 

" What do women know about these things ? " 

" I don't think Mr. Sherwood or mother, either, 
would like it if I should give up the command of 
this boat to any one." 

" Let them lump it, then," replied Ben, as he 
rushed out of the wheel-house, incensed beyond 
measure at Lawry's opposition to his unreasonable 
proposal. 

Captain Lawry was sorely disturbed by the con- 
duct of his brother. He could not enjoy his pleasant 



 

position at the wheel, and he put the steamer about, 
heading her towards Port Rock. 

" Lawry," said Ben, returning to the wheel-house, 
" I want you to tell me what you are going to do. 
I'm older than you, and I have seen more steam- 
boating than you have. I think it's my right to 
be captain of this boat." 

" I don't think so." 

" I don't want to jaw any more about it." 
" I'm sure I don't." 

" All I've got to say is, that if I don't run this 
boat no one will." . 

" What do you mean by that, Ben ? " demanded 
Lawry, appalled at the threat the words implied. 

" No matter what I mean. I'm going to have 
what belongs to me. Now, once for all, am I to 
be captain, or not ? " 

" No," replied Lawry, firmly. 

Ben went out of 'the wheel-house, and the pilot 
did not see him again till after the Woodville reached 
her wharf. Lawry was sadly grieved at the attitude 
of his brother ; and if Ben had been a reliable per- 
son, fit for the position he aspired to obtain, he 



 

would have yielded the point. But the would-be 
captain was an intemperate and dissolute fellow, as 
unsuitable for the command as he would have been 
for the presidency of a bank. 

Early on the following morning the supplies for 
the Woodville were taken on board, and at eight 
o'clock everything was in readiness for the reception 
of Mr. Sherwood's party. The steam was merrily 
hissing from the escape-pipe ; Ethan was busy, as 
he always was, in rubbing down the polished parts 
of the engine, and Lawry was walking up and down 
the forward deck. Quite a collection of people had 
assembled on the unfinished wharf and the shore to 
witness the departure of the steamer. As Captain 
Lawry paced the deck, there was a slight commo- 
tion in the crowd, and three persons passed through, 
making their way to the deck. One of them was 
the sheriff who had arrested the ferryman a few days 
before. He was followed by Mr. Taylor, his father's 
creditor, and Ben Wilford. 

" I'm sorry to trouble you, Lawry," said the official, 
as he stepped np to the young captain ; " but I 
suppose I must do my duty." 



 



"What's the matter, sir?" asked Lawry, aston- 
ished at the formidable introduction of the messenger 
of the law. " What have I done r " 

" Nothing, my boy. I think this is rather mean 
business ; but I can't help it," replied the sheriff, 
as he produced certain documents. " Your father 
owes Mr. Taylor a note of nine hundred and fifty 
dollars, on which the interest has not been paid for 
two years, making the debt ten hundred and sixty- 
four dollars." 

" But the place is mortgaged for that," replied 
Lawry, who could not see what he had to do with 
the debt. 

" I have just foreclosed the mortgage ; and now 
I must attach this steamboat." 

" Attach it ! " groaned Lawry. 

" Such are my orders ; your father's place would 
hardly sell for enough to pay the debt." 

" But this boat is mine," pleaded Lawry, over- 
whelmed by the calamity which had befallen him. 

" You are a minor, Lawry ; and your father is 
entitled by law to all your earnings, as you have a 
claim on him for your support. I can't stop to ex- 



 

plain this matter.' The steamer is in my possession 
now, subject to the decree of the court. I shall ap- 
point a person as keeper to take charge of her, and 
run her for the benefit of the parties in interest." 

"That's too bad!" exclaimed Lawry. 

" I know it is ; but I can't help it," replied the 
sheriff. " I shall appoint your brother as keeper, and 
from this time he has full control of her. I want 
to make it as easy as I can for you." 

It was evident even to Lawry, who had not been 
informed of his brother's worst intentions, that Ben 
was at the bottom of this conspiracy. Such was 
indeed the truth. Mr. Taylor was a young man who 
had recently inherited a large fortune, which, it was 
plain, would soon be squandered, for he was both 
intemperate and reckless. Ben had helped him home 
one night after a drunken carousal, which had been 
the beginning of an intimacy between them, for the 
younger tippler was not one to neglect an opportunity 
to secure a wealthy friend. 

They had talked together about the Woodville on 
several occasions, and Ben had suggested in what 
manner he might obtain the debt due him. On the 
 



 



night before the visit of the sheriff to the steamer, 
the malignant and jealous brother had repeated to his 
dissipated patron the story of his grievances — that 
he was a " nobody" at home, and that Lawry wanted 
to make a deck hand of him. Though not a badly 
disposed man in the main, Taylor listened with in- 
terest and sympathy to the exaggerated and distorted 
narrative, and the plan by which Ben was to be put 
in possession of the steamer was matured. 

The creditor went to a lawyer, one of his boon 
companions, who was quite willing to make business 
for himself; and he had looked up the law and arranged 
the facts, by which he expected to hold the steamer. 
Doubtless it was a very ingenious scheme, and per- 
haps it is unfortunate that the case never came to 
trial, for it involved some interesting legal points. 
Thus far the design had been carried out, and Ben 
was in command of the steamer, as an employee of 
the sheriff, who was responsible to the court for her 
safe keeping. 

" I won't be as hard with you, Lawry, as you 
were with me," said Ben, in a low tone, as he walked 
up to Lawry in the wheel-house, to which he had re- 
treated to hide his confusion. 



 



" This is your work, Ben," replied the poor youth, 
bitterly. 

" I was bound to have the command of this steam- 
er, and I have got it," added Ben, with malignant 
triumph. 

" I know you have ; you put Mr. Taylor up to 
this, or he never would have done it." 

" Don't snarl about it, Lawry ; the thing is done, 
and you can't help yourself. The sheriff has given 
me the command of the boat." 

" And he has attached the place. Mother will be 
turned out of house and home ! " cried Lawry, unable 
to repress his tears. 

" No, she won't ; that will be all right." 

"Oh, Ben ! How could you do it ? "• 

" You drove me to it. It is all your fault, Lawry ; 
so you needn't whine about it. Don't make a fuss ; 
here comes Taylor." 

" I don't want to see him," said Lawry, moving 
towards the door. 

" Don't go off ; I'm going to take Taylor and his 
friends up the lake, to give them a sail." 

" The boat is engaged to Mr. Sherwood, to-day." 



 



" I can't help it ; he will not have her to-day. 
Come, Lawry, be a man. I won't be as hard with 
you, I say, as you were with me, I don't ask you 
to be a deck hand. You shall be the pilot still." 

" No, I won't." 

" Won't you ? " 

" I will not," said Lawry, firmly, as he dried his 
tears, " The boat is engaged to Mr. Sherwood, and 
he has invited a party to go with him. They were 
to start at nine o'clock, and they will be down here 
soon," 

" Can't help it. I promised to take Taylor and 
his friends out, and they are all here now. There 
are the stores for his party," replied Ben, as a 
couple of mea brought a large basket on board, from 
the top of which protruded the necks of a demijohn 
and several bottles. 

" I shall not go with that party," added Lawry, 
decidedly; and the "stores" which came on board 
assured him what kind of a time the passengers 
would have. 

" But I want a pilot," said Ben, whose plans were 
entirely defeated by the refusal of Lawry, for there 



 

was not another person, within ten miles of the spot, 
who was competent to navigate the Woodville. 

"What's the trouble, Wilf or d ? " demanded Tay- 
lor, approaching the spot. 

" Let me tell him you will go, Lawry ? " whispered 
Ben. " He may be hard on you if you don't." 

" I will not go. I must see Mr. Sherwood at 
once ; " and the pilot hastened down from the wheel- 
house. 

" What's the matter ? " asked Ethan, to whom a 
rumor of what had happened had come. 

Lawry was explaining what had occurred, when 
Ben came down with Taylor. 

" I shall not go in her till I have seen Mr. Sher- 
wood," added Lawry, as he finished his brief state- 
ment. 

" Then I shall not," replied Ethan. 

" I can steer her myself," said Ben to Taylor. 

" Certainly you can." 

" Mr. Sherwood will be down soon, and we must 
be off before he gets here." 

" Go up, arid start her then," added Taylor. 
Without noticing Lawry and Ethan, Ben rushed 




 

up to the wheel-house, and ordered the deck hands 
to cast off the fasts, which was done. He knew how 
to steer a boat, and understood the bells, having had 
considerable experience on board the large steamers. 
He rang to back her, supposing Ethan was at his 
post in the engine-room. 

She did not back, and he rang again, but with no 
better success than before. 

" Back her ! " shouted he, through the speaking- 
tube. 

There was no answer; and, filled with anger, the 
new captain rushed down to the engine-room to 
" blow up " the engineer. He found Ethan on the 
main deck. 

" What are you doing there ? " demanded Ben- 
" Don't you hear the bells ? " 

" I heard them," replied Ethan, quietly. 
" Why don't you start her, then ? " 
" I've nothing to do with her." 
"Don't you run that engine ? " 
"I don't." 

" What do you mean ? " 

" I mean that I will have nothing to do with the 
engine as things are now." 



 

Ben raved and stormed at Ethan ; then he tried 
to coax him to take his place ; but the engineer was 
as firm as the pilot had been. Taylor offered him 
ten dollars if he would run the engine that day ; 
but he positively refused. The new captain then 
went down to the fire-room, where the man in charge 
of the furnaces was promoted to the position of 
engineer. 

" Now we can go it," said Ben, as he hurried back 
to the wheel-house. 

" No ; don't start her," said the sherifi*, who was 
one of the party. 

" Why not ? " 

"I am responsible for the safety of this boat, 
and she shall not go with neither pilot nor engineer." 

Taylor and the new captain swore terribly ; but the 
sheriff was immovable. 



 



CHAPTER XVI. 

THE EXCTJRSION TO WHITEHALL. 

Lawey was no lawyer, and was therefore unable 
to form an opinion in regard to the legality of the 
steps by which the Woodville had been taken from 
him. It was an accomplished fact, and he was as 
disconsolate as though he had lost his best friend. 
He went on shore, and until the peremptory order 
of the sheriff was given, he expected to see the 
steamer shoot out from the wharf, and disappear 
beyond the point, in charge of another person than 
himself. 

He had refused to pilot the steamer under the 
new order of things, not becaiise he wished to be 
spiteful to his brother, but because he was smarting 
under a sense of injustice, which unfitted him for 
the duty. Though he did not comprehend the legal 
measures which had been taken, he felt that there 



 

was something wrong. The Woodville belonged to 
him, not to bis father ; and though he was willing to 
give all his earnings for the support of the family, 
and even to pay off the mortgage on the place, he 
felt that it was not right to take the steamer from 
him. 

He stood on the wharf, paralyzed by the calamity 
which had overtaken him. He wanted to do some- 
thing, but he did not know what to do. The sheriff, 
by his caution, had defeated the plans of the new 
captain, and Lawry was waiting to see what would 
happen next. He wished to see Mr. Sherwood, and 
he would have hastened up to his house if he could 
have endured the thought of losing sight of the 
steamer even for a moment. Ethan was still on 
deck, for though he refused to run the engine, he 
felt it to be his duty to stand by and see that no 
accident happened, for the steam was up, and the 
fireman was an unskilful person. 

Ben Wilford and Taylor were disappointed and 
chagrined at their failure to get off. They stormed 
and swore, till it was apparent that storming and 
swearing would not start the steamer. The sheriff 



 



positively refused to let the boat depart witliout a 
competent pilot and engineer, especially after he had 
noticed the contents of the basket, from which pro- 
truded the necks of the demijohn and the bottles. 
It was to be a drunken party, and the steamer would 
not be safe in their hands. 

"What shall we do, Wilford ? " said Taylor. 
" Can't you persuade your brother to take hold 
again ? " 

"He's as obstinate as a mule; but I'll try," re- 
plied Ben, as he went on the wharf, followed by the 
dissipated creditor, who was very unwilling to relin- 
quish the prospect of the good time h.<t anticipated. 

" Offer him twenty dollars for his day's work," 
added Taylor. 

" I may be able to compromise with him, if you're 
willing." 

" Anything you please, if you can make him and 
the other fellow go with us." 

" Lawry, Mr. Taylor will give you twenty dollars 
if you will pilot the steamer to-day," said Ben, as he 
stepped up to his brother. 

" I wouldn't go for a hundred," replied the young 
pilot, "I won't go with you at any rate." 



 



" Don't be so obstinate, Lawry." 

" I engaged the boat to Mr. Sherwood, and I will 
not go with anybody else." ♦ 

" Mr. Sherwood won't care when he finds out that 
you are not to blame. You can't resist the law, and 
it isn't your fault." 

" Ben, I wouldn't do what you have done for all 
the steamers on the lake. You have got this man to 
attach the property, and take the house away from 
mother, just because you wanted to be captain of this 
steamer." 

" What's the use of talking about that, Lawry ? " 
replied Ben, impatiently. " I'm going to be captain 
of this steamer, anyhow ; and the sooner you make 
up your mind to it, the better it will be for you." 

" I can't help myself." 

" I know you can't, and for that reason you had 
better submit with a good grace. If you will take 
your place in the wheel-house, Mr. Taylor will re- 
move the attachment." 

" Will he ? " 

" I will," replied Taylor. 

" And put everything where it was before ? " asked 
Lawry. 





" Of course I am to be captain, and Mr. Taylor is 
to have the boat to-day," added Ben. 

" Mr. Taylor can't have her to-day," said Lawry, 
firmly. " I engaged her to Mr. Sherwood, and if 
anybody has her to-day, he must. That's all I want 
to say about it now." 

The young pilot turned on his heel and walked 
away. His brother and the creditor were conspira- 
tors, and he wanted nothing to do with them. He 
might have been less resolute, if he had not seen Mr. 
Sherwood's carriage stop at the head of the wharf. 

" Are you all ready, Lawry ? " asked Mr. Sherwood. 

The poor boy could make no reply ; he burst into 
tears, and turned away from his kind friend. 

"What's the matter, Lawry?" demanded • Mr. 
Sherwood, greatly astonished at this singular demon- 
stration. 

" I suppose he feels bad, sir," interposed the sher- 
iff. " The boat has been attached for his father's 
debts." 

" For his father's debts ! " exclaimed the rich 
gentleman. 

The officer gave him a full explanation of the case. 




" This will never do," added Mr. Sherwood, indig- 
nantly. " This boat is Lawry's property in his own 
right." 

" I think not," added Taylor, who enjoyed the 
confusion of Lawry's powerful friend. " Here's my 
lawyer ; he can explain the matter to you." 

" No explanation is needed," replied Mr. Sherwood. 

" The boy is a minor," said the legal gentleman, 
who had been invited to join his client in the excur- 
sion in the Woodville, and was therefore one of the 
disappointed party. 

" He may need a guardian, nothing more, to enable 
him to hold the property." 

"Perhaps you are more familiar with the law than 
I am, Mr. Sherwood," said the legal gentleman, 
pompously. " You gave this boat to the boy." 

" I did." 

" While she lay at the bottom of the lake she was 
worth nothing. She was an abandoned wreck. If 
you had any property at all in her, it was subject to 
the salvage. Lawry Wilford raised her. I suppose 
you are willing to believe that the boy's father is 
entitled to his earnings ? " 

 







" I grant that." 

" Well, sir, whatever the boy earned in the way of 
salvage belongs to his father ; and we sue to recover 
that." 

" This is a ridiculous suit ! " exclaimed Mr. Sher- 
wood. 

" Perhaps it is, sir, but we shall hold the boat, 
subject to the decision of the coxirt." 

Mr. Sherwood was vexed and perplexed ; for, 
whether the claim could be substantiated or not, 
the Woodville could be held until a decision was 
reached. Lawry then took him aside, and told him 
what his brother had done, in order to make himself 
captain of the steamer. 

" Is that it, Lawry ? I'm more sorry for your 
brother's sake than I am for yours. I pity him, 
because he has been capable of doing so mean a 
thing. Don't distress yourself, my boy. We will 
make this all right in the course of ten minutes." 

" But they have taken the steamer away from me, 
and given her up to Ben, who is to take charge 
of her." 

" Never mind, Lawry. They shall give her back 



 

to yt)u," replied the rich man, as he walked up to 
the lawyer, " How much is your claim against 
Mr. Wilford?" 

" One thousand and sixty-four dollars," answered 
the legal gentleman. 

" Will you take my draft or check for the amount?" 

" No, sir." 

" I see you are not disposed to be accommodating." 

" We intend to have the first sail in this steamer," 
sneered Taylor. 

" I intend you shall not," said Mr. Sherwood. 

Unfortunately he had not money enough with him 
to discharge the claim against the ferryman, which, as 
it was a just debt, whatever might be said of the 
means taken to recover it, he had decided to pay, 
rather than give bonds for the steamer, and contest 
the attachment. He had invited several gentlemen to 
accompany him up the lake in the Woodville, who 
were now on the wharf, and from them he borrowed 
enough to make up the sum required. The money 
was given to Mrs. Wilford, with instructions to go to 
a certain lawyer in the village, and employ him to see 
that the mortgage on the house and land was properly 
cancelled. 







" When we get our money, the attachment on the 
boat can be dissolved, not before," said the lawyer. 
"Mr. Sheriff, the debt is not paid yet." 

" I will put the money in your hands, if you 
desire," added Mr. Sherwood to the sheriff. 

" I am satisfied. You may go where you please 
with the boat, and as soon as you please," replied the 
official, who was not disposed to cause any needless 
trouble. 

" She will not go till this claim is settled, Mr. 
Sheriff," remonstrated the legal gentleman. 

" She may go now," responded the officer. " Ben 
Wilford, your services will not be needed. Now, 
gentlemen, we will go up to the village and settle the 
bills." 

The lawyer protested that the attachment could 
not be removed till the debt had been paid ; but 
the sheriff was willing to take the responsibility of 
releasing the boat. 

" All aboard, Lawry ! " shouted Mr. Sherwood. 

" I didn't expect you to do this, sir," said the 
young pilot ; " but I will pay you every dollar, if the 
steamer ever earns so much." 



 



" We will talk about that some other time, my 
boy. We are all ready to be off now." 

Lawry, with a light heart, sprung to his place in 
the wheel-house ; Ethan was already at his post in 
the engine-room, and the ladies and gentlemen of 
the party hastened on board. 

" Put that basket ashore," said Lawry to the 
deck hands, as he pointed to the " stores " of the 
party who had expected to revel that day on the 
decks of the Woodville, 

The basket was tumbled on the wharf, to the im- 
minent peril of the glass ware it contained. Ben 
Wilford stood on the pier, leaning against one of the 
posts to which the steamer was fastened. He looked 
sour and disappointed. 

" Cast off the bow line," said Lawry, when all 
was ready. 

At this moment Ben jumped on board. 

" Stop her ! " said Mr, Sherwood, sharply, as 
Lawry rang the bell to back her. 
