Ship. It was understood that the officers were to be selected for their
merit, and that the ship, some time or other, was to cross the ocean;
but beyond this, all was darkness and uncertainty.
"To-morrow will be the first day of April," said George Wilton, as he
walked the deck of the Young America with Richard Carnes, a dignified
young gentleman of seventeen. "Mr. Lowington said we should go to work
on that day."
"If he said so, then of course we shall go to work," replied Carnes.
"I'm tired of waiting," added Wilton. "I think this is a stupid kind of
life. We are not even tied to a bell rope here."
"You will get discipline enough as soon as the crew are organized."
"I suppose we shall. Do you think we shall go to sea to-morrow?"
"Go to sea to-morrow!" exclaimed Carnes.
"Shuffles said so."
"How can we go to sea to-morrow? The crew don't know the mainmast from a
handspike. They couldn't do anything with the ship now; they don't know
the ropes."
"You do, Carnes."
"Well, I know something about a ship," replied the dignified young
gentleman, who had made one voyage up the Mediterranean with his uncle.
"I was pretty sure we should get out into blue water by to-morrow."
"Nonsense!"
"Shuffles said so."
"He is mistaken."
"What are we going to do?"
"I don't know? I'm content to wait till orders come."
"I don't want to wait any longer," added Wilton.
"What are you talking about, fellows?" asked Shuffles, joining them, as
they walked forward.
"Didn't you say we were going to sea to-morrow, Shuffles?" asked Wilton.
"Of course we are."
"Who says so?" demanded Carnes.
"All the fellows say so."
"It can't be true."
"Why not? We are not going to stay here forever."
"In my opinion, we shall stay here some weeks, if not some months,"
added Carnes.
"What for?"
"To pursue our studies, in the first place, and to learn our duty as
seamen, in the second."
"I don't believe I shall stay here a great while longer," said Shuffles,
with evident disgust. "There's no fun lying here."
"You can't help yourself," added Wilton.
"Perhaps I can't, but I can try," said Shuffles, as he glanced towards
the shore.
"All hands ahoy!" shouted Peaks, the boatswain, as his shrill whistle
rang through the ship.
The boys had been taught the meaning of this call, and they gathered in
the waist, eager to know what was to be required of them.
Mr. Lowington stood on the raised hatch over the main scuttle, where all
the students could see him. It was evident that he had some announcement
to make, especially as the following day had been assigned for
organizing the ship's company. The boys were silent, and their faces
betrayed the curiosity which they felt.
"Young gentleman," the principal began, "this ship will go into
commission to-morrow."
"Don't know what you mean, sir," said Paul Kendall as Mr. Lowington
paused to observe the effect of his announcement.
"I did not suppose that many of you would understand the expression. In
the navy, a ship is said to go into commission when the captain takes
his place on board, and the crew are organized for duty. When this
takes place, the ensign is hoisted. To-morrow, at twelve o'clock, we
shall display the colors at the peak. With us, going into commission
will only mean the organization of our school. From that time, we shall
observe the discipline of a man-of-war, so far as the ship and crew are
concerned."
"Shall we go to sea then?" asked Wilton.
"I think not," replied Mr. Lowington, laughing. "We shall not leave the
harbor till every officer and seaman knows his duty. You shall have
enough to do to-morrow, young gentlemen."
"When shall we be able to go to sea?"
"I don't know. There are many ropes in the ship, and you have a great
deal to learn before I shall be willing to trust you with the anchor at
the cat-head."
"What is the cat-head, sir?" asked Kendall
"Do you wish to go to sea without knowing what the cat-head is?" replied
the principal. "You shall know in due time. To-morrow we shall select
the officers, fifteen in number, who are to occupy the after cabin."
This announcement created a decided sensation among the eighty-seven
boys gathered in the waist, for the subject had been full of interest to
them. The after cabin had thus far been a sealed book; the door was
locked, and they had not even seen the inside of the apartment. They
were curious to visit this cabin, and to know who were to occupy it.
"After the organization of the school, it is my intention to give these
offices to those who obtain the highest number of merit marks, which
will be given for good conduct, good lessons, and progress in
seamanship. The best boy, who is at the same time the best scholar and
the best seaman, shall be captain. We have no marks now by which to make
the selection, and I intend to have you elect him the first time,
reserving to myself the right to veto your choice if it is obviously an
improper one."
As Mr. Lowington uttered this last remark, he glanced, perhaps
unconsciously, at Shuffles, who stood directly in front of him.
"Young gentlemen, the ballot will take place to-morrow morning, at nine
o'clock. I have given you this notice, that you may be able to consider
the matter and, if you choose, to make nominations for the several
offices," continued the principal.
"What are the offices, sir?"
"The first and most important one, of course, is the captain. The others
are four lieutenants, four masters, two pursers, and four midshipmen."
"What are they to do?" asked Kendall.
"I will not explain their duties now; it would require too much time. I
mentioned them in the order of their importance. Now, young gentlemen,
you should select your candidates for these offices by merit, not by
favor. I am aware that a few of you have been to sea, but probably none
of you are competent to handle a ship; and your choice should be based
mainly on good character and good conduct. I hope I shall be able to
approve the choice you may make. You are dismissed now."
"Three cheers for the principal!" shouted one of the boys.
"Silence, young gentleman! Let me say now, that no expressions of
approbation or disapprobation are to be allowed."
The boys separated into groups, and immediately gave their attention to
the important subject suggested to them by Mr. Lowington. It must be
acknowledged that violent symptoms of "log-rolling" began to be
exhibited. There were fifty, if not eighty-seven young men who wished to
be captain, and sit at the head of the table in the after cabin. Some of
them went down into the steerage, and in five minutes there was a
confused jabbering in every part of the ship.
"For whom shall you vote, Wilton?" asked Shuffles in a group of half a
dozen which had gathered around one of the mess tables.
"I don't know? whom do you go for?" replied Wilton.
"I rather think I shall go for Bob Shuffles. In my opinion, he is the
best fellow on board," replied the owner of that name.
"That's modest," laughed Wilton.
"Do you know of any fellow that would make a better captain than I
should?"
"You don't know the first thing about a ship."
"What odds does that make? I can learn as fast as anybody else."
"Do you expect every fellow to vote for himself?" asked Howe, another of
the group.
"Of course I don't; I expect them to vote for me," answered Shuffles,
with great good-nature.
"You are rather cheeky, Shuffles."
"What's the use of mincing the matter? Here we are, half a dozen of the
best fellows in the ship. We can't all be captain; but one of us can be
just as well as not."
"That's so," added Howe, approvingly. "But who shall that one be?"
"I am the one, without a doubt," said Shuffles.
"I don't see it," interposed Monroe, shaking his head; and he was the
young gentleman who had assisted the aspirant for the captaincy to rob
Mr. Lowington's favorite peach tree.
"What have you got to say about it, Ike Monroe? Do you expect us to go
for you?"
"I didn't say so."
"That's what you meant."
"I've just as much right to the place as you have, Bob Shuffles."
"Do you think you could make the fellows stand round as I can? But hold
on; fellows, don't let us fight about it. We are just the best six
fellows on board, and if we have a mind to do so, we can have this thing
all our own way," continued Shuffles.
"I don't see how," said Philip Sanborn.
"Don't you know how the politicians manage these things?"
"I don't."
"I'll tell you, then."
"But the principal said we must go according to merit, and elect the
fellows who were the best fitted for the offices," interposed Howe.
"Exactly so; that's just what we are going to do. I'm going to be
captain; can you tell me of any better fellow for the place?" demanded
Shuffles, who, putting aside the jesting manner in which he had
commenced the discussion, now assumed an earnest and impudent tone.
"Didn't you hear what Lowington said when he wound up his speech?" asked
Wilton.
"What?"
"About vetoing our choice if it was not a proper one."
"What of it?" asked Shuffles, innocently.
"Don't you think he would veto you?"
"Me! Not he! Lowington knows that I'm smart; I was too smart for him
once, and he knows it. He won't veto me. We have been the best of
friends lately."
"I don't believe he'll have a chance to veto you," said Wilton.
"What do you mean?"
"I don't believe you will be elected."
"I know I shall, if we manage it right. Let us look at it," continued
Shuffles, as he took a pencil from his pocket. "Got a piece of paper?"
Monroe gave him a piece of paper, and the wire-puller began to make his
calculations.
"Eighty-seven votes," said he, writing the number on the paper.
"Necessary to a choice, forty-four. Here are six votes to start with."
"For whom?" asked Monroe.
"For me, for captain, first, and for each of the others for whatever
place he wants; say for Wilton for first lieutenant; Howe for second,
Sanborn for third, Monroe for fourth, and Adler for first master. What
do you say to that, fellows?"
As with the political "slate," there was some difference of opinion in
regard to the minor officers, even after Shuffles' claim to the
captaincy had been conceded But this disposition of the spoils was
finally agreed to.
"Now we want thirty-eight more votes," Shuffles proceeded.
"Just so; and you might as well attempt to jump over the main royal yard
as to get them," added Adler, who, having been assigned to the office
lowest in rank, was least satisfied with the "slate."
"Hold on; we haven't done yet. There are nine more offices. Now we will
pick out some good fellow that will work for us, for each of these
places; then we will promise him six votes if he will go our ticket, and
do what he can for us."
"That will give us only fifteen votes," said Adler.
"I think that will be doing very well to start with. Then you five
fellows can electioneer for me, and I'll do the same for you."
"I think we have made one mistake," added Sanborn. "Most of the fellows
will go for Carnes for captain. He is an old salt, and has more
influence than any other student in the ship. We ought to offer him some
place."
"Make him purser, if you like," said Shuffles, contemptuously.
"That won't go down. Make him first lieutenant."
"And shove me out?" demanded Wilton, indignantly. "I don't see it!"
"Nor I," added Shuffles. "I won't vote for Carnes, any how. He's a snob
and a flunky."
It was useless to resist the fiat of the chief wire-puller; the ticket
remained as it had been originally prepared; and the young gentlemen
proceeded to distribute the rest of the offices.
CHAPTER III.
THE ENSIGN AT THE PEAK.
The students on board of the Young America were between the ages of
fourteen and seventeen. By the regulations, no boy under fourteen or
over seventeen could be admitted, and they averaged about fifteen. They
had, therefore, reached the years of discretion. Among them were a great
many who were disposed to be wild boys, and not a few who had found it
difficult to remain in similar institutions on shore. They were not
criminal or depraved, but simply wild; with a tendency to break through
reasonable restraint; with a taste for mad pranks, and a contempt for
authority.
Of this class, who were a trial and a torment to the teachers of the
ordinary high schools and academies, the larger proportion would have
scorned to steal, or commit any wanton outrage upon the persons or
property of others. There were many high-minded, noble-hearted young
men, who could not tamely submit to authority, and were prone to
insubordination, and who only needed the right kind of discipline to
make them earnest and faithful men and useful citizens. There were few,
if any, dunces or blockheads among them, for a life on shipboard had no
attractions for such boys. They were, almost without an exception,
wide-awake, bold, daring fellows, who had a taste for stirring events;
fellows who wanted to climb the Rocky Mountains, visit the North Pole,
and explore the Mammoth Cave. They were full of fun and mischief and it
would have been easy at any time to get up a party among them to march
the principal's cow into the parlor of the Academy; to climb to the
belfry on a winter's night, and fill the inverted bell with water, where
it would freeze solid before morning; or to convey the occupants of the
hen-coop to the recitation room.
It was Mr. Lowington's task to repress the mischief in these boys, to
keep them occupied with work and play, and to develop their moral and
mental capacities. He had doubtless taken a heavy load upon himself but
he felt that he was to labor for his race and his country. At least one
half of his students were too wild to attend the ordinary public or
private schools, or to profit by them if admitted. With such material,
his work could not be a sinecure. But he had a taste for it, and he gave
his whole heart and soul to the performance of his duties.
When the students were gathered on board the Young America, they were
mostly strangers to him, though he had communicated personally or by
letter with the parents of all of them. He had read and listened to the
stories of their pranks and peccadilloes, but when they came together,
he hardly knew one from another, and was not prejudiced against any
individual by the terrible accounts of him related by parents,
guardians, or teachers. He purposed to give them the opportunity to
select their own officers at first, in order to win a more cheerful
obedience from them, and because the students knew each other better
than he knew them.
After the announcement of the principal that the voting would commence
on the following morning, nothing else was talked of on board. The
qualifications of various members of the school were discussed by groups
of excited voters; and we must do them the justice to say that most of
them considered the matter unselfishly and with a single eye to the
public good. Perhaps it is a little remarkable that not a single
student, outside of the little group of wire-pullers that gathered in
the steerage, thought of Shuffles for the position of captain; and the
"log-rollers" were likely to have up-hill work in electing themselves to
the six principal offices. But they went to work, and labored very
diligently till bed-time in carrying their point.
While none thought of Shuffles in connection with the highest position,
many mentioned the dignified young gentleman, who had made one voyage up
the Mediterranean--Richard Carnes. He had been on board a fortnight, and
had won and retained the respect of all his companions.
Before the little band of wire-pullers in the steerage had made up the
"slate" to suit their minds, the crowd on deck had agreed upon Richard
Carnes for captain, and were busy in discussing the qualifications of
others for the subordinate offices, when the log-rollers separated, and
went to work upon their mission.
"How are you going to vote for captain, Kendall?" said Wilton, stopping
up to the young gentleman who had proposed so many questions to the
principal, and who had been so honest in confessing his ignorance of
nautical matters.
"For Carnes, of course."
"Humph! I wouldn't vote for him," sneered the wire-puller.
"Why not?"
"He's too stiff; he'll put on airs, and be a tyrant over us."
"No, he won't."
"You see if he don't. I say, Kendall, are you up for any office?"
continued Wilton, with a certain appearance of slyness which the
straightforward young gentleman did not exactly like.
"Am I?"
"Yes, you. Wouldn't you like a room in the after cabin?"
"Perhaps I would," answered Kendall, thoughtfully; and the place was
certainly very inviting to him.
"They say the after cabin is a perfect little palace."
"I dare say it is."
"You can just as well go in there, if you like."
"I don't see how that can be. I don't think I'm fit to be an officer. I
am from Cincinnati, and I never saw a ship till I came east three weeks
ago."
"None of the fellows know anything about a ship. All of us will have to
learn."
"Carnes knows all about one."
"No, he don't. He made one voyage, and knows just enough to talk salt.
He's a good fellow enough, but he isn't fit for captain. If you want to
be an officer, Kendall, and have a berth in the after cabin, you can,
just as well as not."
"Well, I would like such a place; I can't deny it; but I don't think the
fellows will go for me."
"They will, if you say so."
"If I say so! I'm not going to ask them to vote for me," replied
Kendall, warmly; for he was no politician and had a vein of modesty in
his composition.
"You needn't say a word to any one. If you will go for our ticket, it
will be all right. Half a dozen of us have talked this matter over, and
we have concluded that you would be the best fellow for second master."
"Have you?" asked Kendall, who could not help being gratified to learn
that even half a dozen of his companions had thought him worthy to be an
officer of so high a rank as second master. "I'm very much obliged to
you."
"All you have to do, is to go for our ticket."
"What do you mean by your ticket?" demanded Kendall, who was rather
confused by the technical terms of the wire-puller.
Wilton explained that his little party had selected a candidate for each
of the offices; and if all the fellows agreed to it, there would be
fifteen votes for their ticket, to begin with.
"Well, what is your ticket?" demanded Kendall, impatiently. "If they are
all good fellows, I will go for them. Of course you mean to vote for
Carnes for captain."
"Not exactly," replied Wilton, with evident disgust. "We shall put up a
better fellow than he is for captain."
"Why, all the boys are going for him," added Kendall, astonished to find
there were any who did not believe in Carnes.
"No, they are not."
"I thought they were."
"He will not be elected, and you need not throw your vote away upon him,
because, if you don't want a place in the after cabin, there are plenty
of fellows who do," added the wire-puller, with apparent indifference.
"But I do want it."
"Then all you have to do, is to go for our ticket."
"I think Carnes will make the best captain."
"Very well; if you think so, you have a right to your own opinion. I
haven't any mortgage on it."
"Whom are you going to run for captain?"
"It's no use to talk any more about it, if you are going for Carnes,"
replied Wilton, as he turned to move away.
The wire-puller was playing a part. Paul Kendall was a noble little
fellow, and was already a great favorite on board, not only with the
boys, but with the principal and the professors. Wilton knew that he had
a great deal of influence, and it was important to secure him for their
ticket. If he could tell others that Kendall was going for their men, it
would induce many to join their party. The "favorite," though he was an
honest, noble-hearted fellow, was still human, and a berth in the after
cabin was a strong temptation to him.
"I'm not going to say I'll vote for a fellow till I know who he is,"
added Kendall. "If he's the right person, perhaps I'll go for him,
though I wanted to see Carnes captain."
"Carnes can't be elected, I tell you. We are going against him."
"Whom are you going for, then?"
"For Bob Shuffles," replied Wilton, desperately, for he did not wish to
mention his candidate till he had won the assent of his companion.
"Shuffles!" exclaimed Kendall, with something like horror mingled with
his astonishment; "I shall not go for him, anyhow."
"Why not?"
"I don't think he is the right person for the place."
"I do; he's a first-rate fellow--none of your milk and water chaps, that
swallow camels and strain at gnats."
Kendall had some decided objections to Shuffles, and he positively
refused to vote for him, even to obtain the coveted position in the
after cabin. Wilton argued the matter with much skill and cunning; but
his logic and his eloquence were both wasted.
"Well, if you won't go for Shuffles, you must be content with your place
in the steerage," added Wilton.
"I won't go for him, any how," said Kendall, firmly.
"You are making a mistake."
"I don't think so. I'm bound to vote for the best fellow, and I'm sure
Shuffles isn't the right one."
"See here, Kendall; don't say a word to the others that I spoke to you
of this little matter. I thought you would go with us, or I shouldn't
have said anything to you."
"Not say anything? Why not?"
"Because it will be better to keep still."
"I shall not do anything of the kind. You have got up a plan to defeat
Carnes, by giving the offices to fellows who will vote against him. You
wish me to keep still, while you carry out your plan. I can see through
a cord of wood, when there's a hole big enough."
"I mentioned this thing to you in confidence."
"You didn't say a word about confidence; and I didn't promise to keep
still. I won't keep still. I think it is a mean trick to buy up the
votes of the fellows, and I'll blow the whole thing higher than a kite."
"You'll catch it if you do," said Wilton, in a threatening tone.
"Catch what?" demanded Kendall, with a very pretty exhibition of
dignity.
"Bob Shuffles will give it to you."
"Give what to me?"
"Give you the biggest licking you ever had in your life," answered
Wilton, angrily, "You are so stupid, you can't understand anything."
"I think I can understand the licking, when if comes. That's a game that
two can play at."
"What do you mean, you little bantam? Do you think you can whip Bob
Shuffles?"
"I had no idea of whipping him; and I have no idea of his whipping me,
either."
Kendall was spunky. Wilton could make nothing of him by threats or
persuasion; and he turned away from him to seek a more promising field
of labor. Kendall took off his cap, scratched his head as he reflected
upon the event which had just transpired, and made up his mind that it
was an insult to an independent elector to attempt to buy his vote with
the paltry consideration of an office. He was sorry that he had been
even tempted by the proposition of the wire-pullers, and thankful that
his sense of honor and decency had prompted him to decline it when asked
to vote for an improper person. True to his promise, he made all haste
to expose the conspiracy, as he regarded it, against Carnes.
When the students turned in that night, the wire-pullers had found a
sufficient number of candidates for all the offices on the terms set
forth in the compact, each of whom had promised to use his influence for
the entire ticket. Shuffles had made a very pretty calculation, to the
effect that each of the fifteen candidates could influence at least two
votes besides his own for the ticket, which would inevitably elect it.
But during all this time Paul Kendall had been laboring like a Trojan
for Carnes, and had induced his friends to do the same.
At nine-o'clock in the morning, the polls were opened for the election
of officers. A box was placed on the fife-rail, at the mainmast, in
which the ballots were deposited, under the inspection of Professor
Mapps.
"Have all the students voted?" called the professor, when the voting
was suspended. "If so, I declare the poll closed."
It was a moment of intense excitement on the spar deck of the Young
America when Mr. Lowington stood up on the hatch to announce the vote.
There was a pleasant smile upon his face, which indicated that it would
not be his painful duty to veto the choice of the independent electors.
"Young gentlemen, your balloting appears to have been conducted with
entire fairness," said he, "and I will proceed to declare the result.
Whole number of votes, eighty-seven; necessary to a choice, forty-four.
Paul Kendall has five; Charles Gordon has seven; Robert Shuffles has
twenty-two; Richard Carnes has fifty-three, and is elected captain of
the Young America for the succeeding three months."
The party who had worked and voted for Carnes applauded the result most
lustily, and gave three cheers for the new captain, which, on this
exciting occasion, were not objected to by the principal. Shuffles's jaw
dropped down, and his lip quivered with angry emotion.
"That little whipper-snapper of a Kendall did that," said Wilton, in a
low tone, to the disappointed candidate. "I was afraid of this when I
saw him blowing about the deck."
"I'll settle it with him when I get a good chance," growled Shuffles, as
he went to the rail and looked over into the water, in order to conceal
his disappointment and chagrin.
"Young gentlemen will bring in their votes for first lieutenant," said
Professor Mapps, as he placed the box on the fife-rail again.
The boys marched around the mainmast, and deposited their ballots for
the second officer, as they had done before. The friends of Shuffles
rallied again, hoping that something might yet come of the compact they
had made with him, and gave him their votes for first lieutenant,
though, in his chagrin, he declared that he would not accept the
position. Fortunately for him, he was not called upon to do so; for
Charles Gordon was elected by a very large majority. As the election
proceeded, it became evident that there was no office for Shuffles. Paul
Kendall was elected fourth lieutenant and the announcement of the vote
was greeted by even more hearty applause than had been bestowed upon the
captain.
At the conclusion of the balloting, Shuffles found that not a single one
of the wire-pullers, or of the candidates nominated by them, had been
elected. The attempt to bribe the independent voters, by giving them
office, had been a signal failure; and it is to be hoped that Young
America, when fully developed, will stick to his principles.
"Captain Richard Carnes," said Mr. Lowington, as he stepped upon the
hatch, after the voting had been concluded.
The young gentleman thus addressed came forward, blushing beneath the
honors which had been bestowed upon him. The principal took his hand.
"Captain Carnes, I congratulate you upon your election to the highest
office in the gift of your companions; and I congratulate your
fellow-students also upon having so good a young man to handle the ship.
You have been modest, and they have been wise. I congratulate you both.
Young gentlemen, I am satisfied that your captain will be just,
courteous, and gentlemanly, in his relations with you; and I hope you
will yield a willing and cheerful obedience to his orders, and to those
of all your superiors. Let me say that this business is not a farce; it
is not mere boys' play; for as soon as the officers and crew are fully
trained and instructed, all ship duty will be carried on without
assistance from me or others. When necessary, I shall advise the captain
what to do, but I shall not do it myself; neither shall I needlessly
interfere with the discipline of the ship.
"This is the last time an election of officers will be permitted, for it
is liable to many objections, not the least of which are the bribery and
corruption by which some have attempted to obtain office."
Mr. Lowington looked at Shuffles, as though he knew all about the method
to which he had resorted to secure an election; but we are quite sure
that Paul Kendall had never lisped a word of it to him, or to any of the
instructors.
"On the first day of July, young gentlemen, all the offices will be
vacant; and they will be awarded strictly in accordance with the marks
you may obtain. There will be no veto upon the result of the merit roll.
These places, therefore, are open to all. We have no aristocracy on
board. Every student in the ship is a candidate for the captaincy. Now,
if the officers elect will follow me to the after cabin, I will install
them into their new positions; after which I will proceed to organize
the crew."
The door of the after cabin, which had hitherto been a mystery to all
the boys, was unlocked by the head steward, and Mr. Lowington, followed
by the officers, entered. The students on deck were ordered forward, and
were not even permitted to look down the companion-way, for the
principal intended to keep the after cabin exclusively for the officers;
and no one not entitled to admission was to be allowed to cross its
threshold. He believed that this mystery, and this rigid adherence to
the division line between officers and crew, would promote the
discipline of the ship, and enhance the value of the offices--the prizes
for good conduct, and general fidelity to duty.
"Captain Carnes, this is your state room," continued Mr. Lowington,
opening the door of the room farthest forward on the starboard side. "As
the commander of the ship you are entitled to an apartment by yourself."
"Thank you, sir," replied the captain, as he stepped into the room.
"You will find on the hooks your uniform as captain. There are three
suits, from which you will select one that fits you."
Captain Carnes entered and closed the door. If he did not feel like a
king, he ought to have felt so.
Mr. Lowington then gave the next room to the first and second
lieutenants, who were to occupy it together; and they were also directed
to clothe themselves in the uniforms deposited there for their use. The
third state room was given to the third and fourth lieutenants, and the
fourth to the first and second midshipmen. The forward room of the port
side was assigned to the first and second masters; the next to the third
and fourth; the third to the two pursers, and the last to the third and
fourth midshipmen.
In a short time the officers came out of their rooms clothed in their
uniforms, which consisted of a blue frock coat, with brass buttons, and
blue pants. The cap was of the same material, with a gold band around
it. Thus far the uniforms were all alike; but there were distinguishing
insignia to indicate the rank of each. All the officers had
shoulder-straps, by which their positions were designated. The captain
had two anchors; the first lieutenant had one anchor, with four stars,
one above, one below, and one on each side; the second lieutenant had
the anchor with three stars--none above; the third lieutenant, one star
on each side of the anchor; and the fourth lieutenant one star below the
anchor. The captain also wore five narrow gold bands on each of his coat
sleeves; the first lieutenant four, and so on, the fourth wearing but
one band.
The shoulder-straps of the masters contained no anchor; only the stars,
one for each grade, the first master having four stars; the fourth only
one. The rank of the pursers was indicated by the outline of a
parallelogram for the second, and two of the same figure, one within the
other, for the first. The straps of the midshipmen contained gilt
numbers, from one to four, designating their grade.
The officers presented a very elegant and dashing appearance in their
new uniform; and if some of them did not feel a little vain, it was
because they were less human than boys usually are.
"What are we to do, sir?" asked Kendall of the principal, after the
uniforms had been duly criticised.
"Nothing, at present."
"Nothing! Why, I feel like a counterfeit gold dollar, in this rig, when
I know no more about a ship than I do about the inside of the moon."
"You will learn in due time. You will go on deck now, young gentlemen;
and remember that, as officers, you are not to be familiar with the crew
while you are on duty."
"Can't we speak to them?" asked Kendall, who was not disposed to be so
exclusive as naval discipline required him to be.
"Not while you are on duty, except when it is necessary to do so. We
will now assign the berths in the steerage to the crew."
As the boys came on board, they had taken the berths as they pleased.
Shuffles had selected a room, and invited his "cronies" to occupy the
bunks it contained with him. The berths were now to be distributed by
lot. Professor Mapps had provided seventy-two slips of paper, on each of
which he had written a number. The boys were mustered into line, and
drew out these numbers from the package. As each student drew his slip,
the purser wrote down his name in a book, with the number he had drawn.
In the steerage, each berth had its own number, which was also applied
to a locker, and a seat at one of the mess tables. When the drawing was
completed each student had his berth, his clothes locker, and his seat
at meals. Many of them were extremely dissatisfied when they found that
they had been separated from their "cronies;" but the principal was
firm, and would not allow a single change to be made.
By this time it was twelve o'clock, and Boatswain Peaks piped all hands
to muster. The ensign was hoisted, and saluted with three cheers, in
which all hands, young and old, joined. When this ceremony was finished,
the crew were piped to dinner, and the officers went to their cabin,
where the steward had set the table for them for the first time. They
dined like lords, though upon the same fare as their companions in the
steerage.
CHAPTER IV.
OFFICERS AND SEAMEN.
After dinner the organization of the crew was continued. All hands were
"piped to muster," and by this time most of those who had been
disaffected at the drawing of berths had recovered their natural
equanimity, and all were intensely interested in the arrangement of the
details. None of the boys knew what was coming, and their curiosity kept
them in a continuous state of excitement.
"All who have drawn even numbers will take the starboard side of the
ship," said Mr. Lowington from his perch on the hatch. "All who have
drawn odd numbers will take the port side."
"This is the starboard side, my lads," added Mr. Fluxion, the instructor
in mathematics--who, like the principal, had been a naval officer,--as
he pointed to the right, looking forward.
Some had already forgotten their numbers, and there was considerable
confusion before the order could be obeyed.
"Young gentlemen, the books will be opened to-day; and a student who
forgets his number again will lose a mark," said Mr. Lowington. "Are
they all in their places, Mr. Fluxion?"
"They are, sir," replied the instructor, who had just counted them.
"Young gentlemen, you are thus divided into two equal parts--the
starboard and the port watches. Now form a straight line, toe the crack,
and call your numbers in order, beginning with the starboard watch."
The boys eagerly followed this direction, though some assistance was
required from the instructors in repressing their superfluous
enthusiasm.
"Very well," continued Mr. Lowington, when the students were formed in
two lines. "Every boy in the starboard watch whose number is divisible
by four, step forward one pace. Number three in the port watch, do the
same. Mr. Mapps, oblige me by seeing that every alternate boy in the
line steps forward."
"The line is formed, sir," replied the instructor, when he had carried
out the direction of the principal.
"Each watch is now divided into two parts--the first and second parts,
as they will be called. Now, young gentlemen, the clothing will be
distributed, and each student will put on his uniform at once."
The four lines were then marched down into the steerage, each under the
charge of an instructor, to a particular locality, where the head
steward and his assistants had deposited the clothing for each watch and
quarter watch. The uniform consisted of blue seaman's pants and a heavy
flannel shirt or frock, such as is worn in the United States navy. To
each student the following articles were served out:--
1 pea-jacket.
1 blue cloth jacket.
1 pair blue cloth pants.
1 pair blue satinet pants.
1 blue cap.
1 straw hat, of coarse, sewed straw.
1 Panama hat, bound.
2 knit woollen shirts.
2 pair knit woollen drawers.
2 white frocks.
2 pair white duck pants.
4 pair socks.
2 pair shoes.
2 black silk neck-handkerchiefs.
These articles were given to the boys, and they were required to put on
the every-day uniform; after which they were directed to arrange the
rest of the clothing in the lockers belonging to them. The contractor
who had furnished the goods was present with four tailors, to attend to
the fitting of the clothes, which were all numbered according to the
size. In a short time the students began to come out of their rooms,
clothed in their new rig. They looked intensely "salt," and there was no
end to the jokes and smart things that were said on this interesting
occasion. Even Shuffles hardly knew himself in his new dress.
The frock had a broad rolling collar, in each corner of which was worked
an anchor in white. The black silk neck-handkerchief was worn under the
collar, and not many of the boys had acquired the art of tying the
regular sailor's knot. Boatswain Peaks not only stood up as a model for
them, but he adjusted the "neck gear" for many of them. Bitts, the
carpenter, and Leech, the sailmaker, who were also old sailors,
cheerfully rendered a valet's assistance to such as needed help.
Agreeably to the directions of Mr. Lowington, the shore suits of the
students were done up in bundles, each marked with the owner's name, and
the head steward took them to Mr. Lowington's house for storage.
Rigged out in their "sea togs," the students began to feel salt, as well
as to look salt. Some of them tried to imitate the rolling gait of the
boatswain when they walked, and some of them began to exhibit an
alarming tendency to indulge in sea slang.
"There, my hearty, you look like a sailor now," said Peaks, when he had
rolled over the collar and tied the square knot in the handkerchief of
Wilton.
"Shiver my timbers, but I feel like one," laughed the embryo seaman.
"What's that, young gentleman?" demanded Mr. Lowington, who happened to
be within hearing; "what did you say?"
"I said I felt like a sailor, sir."
"What was the expression you used?"
"I only said shiver my timbers, sir."
"You stole that expression from a yellow-covered novel. Did you ever
hear Mr. Peaks, who has been a sailor all his lifetime, use such
language?"
"I'll be bound he never did," added Peaks.
"No, sir. I don't know that I ever did."
"Some sailors do use such expressions; but it is gross affectation for
these young gentlemen, who never saw a blue wave, to indulge in them. If
you please, Wilton, you will not use such language. It is simply
ridiculous. Mr. Peaks, you will pipe all hands to muster again."
The shrill whistle of the boatswain sounded through the ship, and the
boys tumbled up the ladders, eager to learn what was to be done next. As
they formed in lines, they presented a novel and picturesque appearance
in their jaunty uniform. Most of them had already learned to wear their
caps canted over on one side, and not a few of them, perhaps as much
from necessity as because it was a sailor's habit, hitched up their
trousers, and thrust their hands deep down into the side pockets.
The students were again formed in watches and quarter watches, each of
which classes and sub-classes was indicated on the uniforms. All the
starboard watch wore a small silver star on the right arm, above the
elbow, and the port watch the same emblem on the left arm. The first
part of each watch had a figure 1, under the star, and the second part a
figure 2 in the same position.
The rest of the day was spent in the organization for ship's duty, which
was far from completed when the sun went down. The next day every boy
was kept so busy that he had no time to grumble. The instructors
attended to the lessons in the steerage with one watch, while the other
was on deck acquiring seamanship. In the course of the month, as the
boys learned their duties, and the capabilities of each were
ascertained, they were assigned to their stations in the various
evolutions required in working the vessel.
Boatswain Peaks had taught the boys, a few at a time, how to set a
sail, reef and furl it. They had been gradually accustomed to going
aloft, until the giddy height of the main royal did not appall them, and
they could lay out on the yards without thinking of the empty space
beneath them. By the first of June, all the petty officers had been
appointed, and every student had his station billet. When the order was
given to unmoor ship, to make sail, or to furl the sails, every one knew
where to go and what to do. The station billets were cards on which the
various evolutions of the ship had been printed in a column on the left,
while the particular duty of the owner of the card was written against
it. The card was kept by the student, and he was expected to learn its
contents so that he could take his place without stopping to consult it,
when an order was given. Here is a specimen of the cards:--
+---------------------------------------------------------+
|PORT WATCH, NO 21,              WILLIAM FOSTER,          |
|Second Part.            Captain of the Forecastle.     |
+----------------------+----------------------------------+
|REEFING.              |Head Bowlines.                    |
|TACKING OR WEARING.   |Forecastle. Let go head bowlines. |
|                      |  Let go and shorten in foretack  |
|                      |  and belay it.                   |
|GETTING UNDER WAY.    |Head Bowlines. Downhauls and      |
|                      |  head-sheets.                    |
|ANCHORING.            |Head Bowlines, Sheets and Tacks.  |
|                      |  Downhauls.                      |
|LOOSING SAILS.        |Foretopmast Staysail.             |
|FURLING.              |Head Bowlines and Downhauls,      |
|                      |  Staysail.                       |
|MOORING AND UNMOORING.|Forecastle.                       |
|BOAT.                 |Professor's Barge, stroke-oar.    |
|MESS.                 |No. 11.                           |
+----------------------+----------------------------------+
The crew had been in training a month before an attempt was made to set
more than one sail at once; but by this time the officers knew the
orders, having practised every day since the organization. The petty
officers had been appointed, and had, to some extent, become familiar
with their duties.
The boys still continued to wonder when the Young America would go on a
cruise, for they were very anxious to see the blue water, and to roll on
the great waves of the Atlantic; but they were so constantly occupied
with ship's duty and their studies, that the time did not hang heavily
on their hands. Two months of constant practice had made tolerable
seamen of them, and the discipline of the ship went on regularly. The
young officers, as Mr. Lowington had promised, began to conduct the
evolutions and give the orders.
On the 1st day of June, after breakfast, the students were thrown into a
fever of excitement by an unusual order, and they ventured to hope that
the ship was to leave her moorings.
"Mr. Gordon, you will pipe all hands to muster," said Captain Carnes to
the first lieutenant.
"Pass the word for the boatswain," added Gordon to one of the
midshipmen, who stood near him.
This call was answered, not by Peaks, who no longer performed the duties
of boatswain, but by one of the students, who had been appointed to this
position.
"Pipe all hands to muster, boatswain," said the first lieutenant, as the
petty officer touched his cap to him.
"All hands on deck, ahoy!" shouted the boatswain, as he piped the call.
This was an unusual order for that time of day, the forenoon being
appropriated to study for each watch in turn; and those who were below
hastened on deck to ascertain what was to be done.
"All hands, stations for loosing sail!" piped the boatswain, when
ordered to do so by Gordon.
The first lieutenant was in charge of the ship, under the direction of
the captain. The second lieutenant stood on the forecastle, where he was
attended by the boatswain. The third lieutenant was in the waist, and
the fourth on the quarter deck, near the mizzenmast. These were the
stations of the officers whenever all hands were called. Mr. Lowington
and the instructors stood near the companion-way, watching with interest
this first attempt to make sail all over the ship.
"Lay aloft, sail-loosers!" shouted Gordon; and his order was repeated by
the officers at their several stations.
The little tars who belonged on the topsail and top-gallant yards sprang
up the rigging like so many cats, excited beyond measure by the scene of
activity around them.
"Lower yardmen in the chains!" continued Gordon and his order was
passed, along by the officers. "Aloft, lower yardmen!"
In a moment the crew were in their places; the studding-sail booms were
triced up with the usual system, so that the sails could be reached.
"Lay out!" continued the first lieutenant; and the boys walked out on
the foot-ropes to their stations on the yards. "Loose!"
The ropes by which the sails were secured to the yards were removed at
this order, and the topmen held the sails in their places.
"All ready on the forecastle, sir," reported Foster, who was captain of
that part of the ship.
"All ready in the foretop."
"All ready in the maintop."
"All ready in the mizzentop," reported the several captains of the tops,
in their proper order.
These reports were passed to the first lieutenant in charge of the deck,
by his subordinates.
"Let fall!" shouted Gordon, highly excited; and the sails dropped from
the yard. "Overhaul your rigging aloft! Man sheets and halyards! Sheets
home, and hoist away!"
These orders were passed from mouth to mouth among the officers, and
return reports made, according to the strict discipline of the navy.
They were promptly executed by the crew, though of course not without
some blunders; and the Young America was covered with her cloud of
canvas. Mr. Lowington commended the officers and crew for the promptness
and skill they had displayed in their first concerted attempt at making
sail. He then directed Captain Carnes to furl. Both evolutions were then
repeated, until a proficiency satisfactory for one day was attained.
"Not going to sea, after all," said Shuffles, when the crew were
dismissed from muster.
"No," replied Wilton. "I'm tired of lying here, and if we don't go to
sea soon, I shall take myself off."
"I'm with you."
"I thought we were going to have some fun on board, but we don't do
anything but study and shake out topsails."
"Do you know how you stand on marks, Wilton?" asked Shuffles.
"No; not very high, though."
"Don't you think you shall get into the cabin next term?"
"I know I shall not. I haven't tried for anything."
"On the first of next month, you know, new officers will be appointed,
and I suppose the crew will be messed over again."
"I don't care, I'm getting tired of this thing, I had a better time at
the Academy before we came on board."
"There isn't much chance for any sport. Hardly a fellow has been allowed
to go on shore since we joined the ship."
"Well get up a mutiny, if things don't improve."
"I was thinking of that very thing myself," said Shuffles, in a low
tone.
"A mutiny!" exclaimed Wilton, who had used the word in jest.
"Just for fum, you know," laughed Shuffles.
"You don't mean any such thing?"
"Not yet, of course."
"Do you at any time?"
"We want something more exciting than this kind of a life. Here we are,
kept down and treated like common sailors. We have to touch our caps and
make our manners to Dick Carnes and the rest of the flunkies in the
after cabin. My father pays as much for me as Dick Carnes' father does
for him, and I don't think it is fair that he should live in the cabin
and I in the steerage."
"If you get marks enough, you can have a berth in the cabin," replied
Wilton.
"Marks! Confound the marks! I'm not a baby. Do you think a fellow
seventeen years old is going to be put up or put down by marks?" said
Shuffles.
"I thought you had been working for a place in the cabin."
"So I have, but I don't expect to get it. I never studied so hard in my
life, and I believe I haven't had a bad mark since I came on board,
Lowington thinks I have reformed," laughed Shuffles. "And so I have."
"What do you want to get up a mutiny for, then?"
"I shall not, if I get a decent position; if I don't, I'm going in for
some fun."
"But do you really think of getting up a mutiny?" asked Wilton,
curiously.
"I was thinking the other day what a fine thing it would be if our
fellows had the ship all to themselves."
"What could we do with her?"
"Go on a cruise in her."
"We couldn't handle her; there is hardly a fellow on board that knows
anything about navigation."
"Of course, I don't mean to do anything yet a while; not this year,
perhaps. One of these days, if we stay on board, we shall know all about
a ship. Fifteen or twenty of the fellows are studying navigation. We are
going to Europe some time or other. When we do, we can take the ship,
and go it on our own hook."
"I don't believe you mean anything of the kind, Bob Shuffles."
"I've been thinking about it, anyhow. We can lock Lowington and the rest
of the old folks into their cabin while they are at dinner; and there
are enough of us to handle Peaks and Bitts."
"I think you are crazy, Shuffles."
"We should have a high old time if we could get possession of the ship.
We wont say a word about it yet."
"I think you had better not."
"We might go round Cape Horn into the Pacific, and have a splendid time
among the beautiful islands of the South Sea."
"Of course all the fellows wouldn't join you."
"We could put those ashore somewhere who did not agree with us."
"You know the penalty of mutiny on the high seas."
"Bah!" said Shuffles, contemptuously. "It would be nothing but it lark.
No one would think of hanging us, or even sending us to prison for it.
My father is rich enough to get me out of any scrape."
"So is mine; but I don't think it would be quite safe to go into a
mutiny."
"Not yet, my dear fellow. You can think it over."
"But I'm tired of this kind of a life. I liked it first rate in the
beginning. Do you think Lowington really intends to go to sea with the
ship?"
"I know he does."
"If he don't go pretty soon, I shall run away, and go to sea in
earnest."
"Don't say a word about the mutiny at present, Wilton. By and by, if
things go right, or if they don't go right, we may want to take some
stock in such an enterprise."
"I don't see it yet, but of course I shall keep still."
It is doubtful whether even so daring a young man as Shuffles, who had
the temerity to do almost anything, seriously contemplated getting up a
mutiny. Very likely his untamed and vicious imagination had revelled in
such an enterprise; had pictured the delights of the rover's life at
sea; but a boy of ordinary common sense could hardly think of engaging
in such a mad scheme.
The last week of June, with which month ended the first school term on
board of the Young America, was devoted to examinations and reviews in
all the studies for which extra marks were given. On the last day the
instructors made up the merit lists, and on the morning of the 1st of
July all hands were mustered, and the result declared. Most of the
officers, all of whom had studied with unremitting diligence in order to
retain their positions, were reinstated in their offices. The third
lieutenant, however, fell out, having failed in his reviews, and to the
astonishment of all, Robert Shuffles was found to be entitled to the
place. The first and second lieutenants exchanged ranks, and Paul
Kendall fell to the position of second master. Three of the tenants of
the after cabin were compelled to move into the steerage, and three of
the crew were transferred to the officers' quarters.
Many were disappointed, and perhaps some were disheartened, for the
competition had been a severe struggle; and as much depended upon
natural ability as upon energy and perseverance. But the Young America
was a world by herself. She had all the elements of society within her
wooden walls, and success and failure there followed the same rules as
in the great world of which she was an epitome.
After the officers had been duly installed in their positions, the petty
offices were given to those having the highest number of marks among the
crew. It was certainly democratic for the late third lieutenant to
become captain of the foretop, and for a second master to become
coxswain of the professors' barge; but these young gentlemen, though
disappointed, submitted with a good grace to their misfortune.
The student having the highest number of marks among the crew was
allowed to have the first choice of berths in the steerage; the one
having the next highest number had the second choice, and so on, until
all the numbers had been appropriated. At the conclusion of the
reorganization, Mr. Lowington made a speech, "comforting the mourners,"
and reminding all the students that, on the 1st of October, there would
be another distribution of the places of honor. He hoped those who had
failed to attain what they aspired to reach would not be discouraged,
for, after all, they had been gaining knowledge, and thus the real end
of the school had been reached.
"How about the mutiny?" said Wilton to the new third lieutenant, when
both were off duty in the evening.
"It won't pay just now," replied Shuffles, with great good humor.
"I suppose not," sneered Wilton, who had not even won a petty office.
"What would Lowington say if he knew the third lieutenant talked of
getting up a mutiny on board?"
"What would he say?" repeated Shuffles, who was as much surprised at the
high rank he had gained as his companion had been.
"Yes; what would he say if I should tell him of it?"
"He would say you were a mean pup for telling tales out of school; at
least, he ought to say so, and I think he would. Lowington is a pretty
good fellow, after all."
"No doubt he is, now you are third lieutenant."
"You needn't snuff at it, Wilton. If you want a place, why don't you
sail in, and get one. Just look out for your marks; that's all you have
to do."
"Marks! I thought a fellow seventeen years old was not to be put up or
put down by marks," said Wilton, bitterly.
"That depends somewhat upon whether you get in or out," laughed
Shuffles.
"I suppose you and Paul Kendall will be fast friends now," added the
discontented student.
"Kendall behaves very well, and has treated me first rate since I went
into the cabin."
"I suppose if I want to run away, you will stop me now."
"If you are going to do that, you musn't tell me of it, now I'm an
officer," replied Shuffles, as he turned on his heel, and walked aft.
Wilton was disgusted, and felt that he had lost his best friend, now
that Shuffles had worked his way into the cabin.
CHAPTER V.
OUR FELLOWS.
"I would like leave of absence for to-morrow, Mr. Pelham," said Wilton,
as he touched his cap to the first lieutenant of the Young America, on
the day before the Fourth of July.
"I am sorry to inform you, Wilton, that no leave of absence will be
granted to-morrow," replied Pelham in accordance with the instructions
given him by the captain, who, in turn, had received his orders from the
principal.
"No leave!" exclaimed Wilton, his jaw dropping down.
"Such are the orders."
"I have always been in the habit of celebrating the Fourth of July,"
replied Wilton. "Are we to stay on board the ship, and mope all day?"
"I presume the day will be celebrated on board in a proper manner,"
added the first lieutenant.
"On board! What can a fellow do here? We might as well go to bed, and
sleep off the day."
"No words are necessary, Wilton," replied Pelham as he turned and walked
away.
"That's a good one!" added Wilton, to the group of boys who had come
with him to the mainmast, to request the same favor, if the spokesman
was permitted to go on shore and celebrate the day.
"Not to celebrate!" exclaimed Monroe, with something like horror in his
tones and looks.
"Work on the Fourth of July!" chimed in Adler.
"I won't stand it, for one!" said Wilton.
"Nor I, for another," added Monroe.
So said half a dozen others.
"Well, what are you going to do about it?" demanded Adler. "Here we are,
and we can't get ashore."
"Perhaps we can," said Wilton, as he led the way to a retired part of
the deck, where they could talk without being overheard. "Did any one
ever hear of such a thing as keeping the fellows on board on the Fourth
of July? Why, every little Greek in the city yonder has his liberty on
that day; and we are to be cooped up here like a parcel of sick
chickens! I suppose we shall have to recite history and French, and
shake out topsails, as usual."
"It's outrageous. I don't believe the fellows will stand it," added
Adler, who did not know how bad the case was, until it had been
rehearsed by Wilton, who, in the absence of Shuffles, had become the
leader of a certain clique on board, given to taking opposite views.
"But I don't see what we can do," said Monroe.
"We will do something. I won't stand it. If I stay on board the ship
to-morrow, it will be as a prisoner," answered Wilton.
"It's a hard case; but what can we do about it?" asked Sanborn.
"Suppose we go to Lowington, and state the case to him," suggested
Adler.
"What's the use of that? Of course the first lieutenant spoke by the
card. He had his orders to say what he did, and I'm sure they came from
Lowington."
