
IN WHICH ERNEST ATTENDS THE TRIAL OF BILL POODLES AND DICK PEARL.


I confess that I was appalled at the boldness and daring of my
fellow-students, who had actually taken possession of the Parkville
Liberal Institute, and purposed to mete out justice to me and to Bill
Poodles. There was a certain kind of solemnity in the proceedings,
which was not without its effect upon me. My companions were
thoroughly in earnest, and the affair was not to be a farce.

Mr. Parasyte, after prayer, had made a statement to the students in
regard to the unpleasant event of the day, in which he represented me
as a contumacious offender, one who desired to make all the trouble he
could; an obstinate, self-willed fellow, whose example was dangerous
to the general peace, and who had refused to be guided by reason and
common sense. He told the students that he had even offered to pay for
my boat--a concession on his part which had had no effect in softening
my obdurate nature. He appealed to them to sustain the discipline of
the Parkville Liberal Institute, which had always been celebrated as a
remarkably orderly and quiet establishment. He then added that he
should consult my uncle in regard to me, and be guided in some measure
by his judgment.

The students heard him in silence; but Bob Hale assured me that it was
with compressed lips, and a fixed determination to carry out the plan
which had been agreed upon while the boys were watching the chase on
the lake, and which had not been modified by the wilful destruction of
the Splash.

I glanced around at my fellow-students as I entered the hall; and
though they smiled as their gaze met mine, there was a look of
earnestness and determination which could not be mistaken. Henry
Vallington, the chairman, judge, or whatever the name of his office
was, had the reputation of being the steadiest boy in the school. It
was understood that he intended to become a minister. He was about
eighteen, and was nearly fitted to enter college. He never joined in
what were called the "scrapes" of the Institute, but devoted himself
with the closest attention to his studies. He was esteemed and
respected by all who knew him; and when I saw him presiding over this
irregular assemblage, I could not help regarding the affair as much
more serious than it had before seemed, even to me, the chief actor
therein.

Poodles and Pearl, I learned, had been captured in their rooms, and
dragged by sheer force into the school-room, to be examined on the
charges to be preferred against them. Poodles looked timid and
terrified, while Pearl was dogged and resolute.

"Thornton," said Henry Vallington, as my conductors paused before the
judge, "I have sent for you in order that we may ascertain the truth
of the charges brought against you by Mr. Parasyte. If you provoked
the quarrel to-day noon with Poodles, it is no more than fair and
right that you should make the apology required of you. If you did
not, we intend to stand by you. Have you anything to say?"

"I wish to say, in the first place, that, guilty or innocent, I am
willing to submit to whatever penalty the principal imposes upon me."

"That is very well for you, but it won't do for us," interposed the
judge. "If such gross injustice is done to one, it may be to another.
We act in self-defence."

"I don't know what you intend to do; but I am opposed to any
disorderly conduct, and to any violation of the rules of the
Institute."

"We know you are, Thornton; and you shall not be held responsible for
what we do to-night. If you are willing to tell us what you know about
this affair, all right. If not, we shall go on without you."

"I am willing to tell the truth here, as I have done to-day. As there
seems to be some mistake in regard to what transpired between Mr.
Parasyte and myself, up stairs, I will state the facts as they
occurred. He agreed to pay for my boat on condition that I would
apologize, privately, to Poodles, and publicly to the principal. I
offered to apologize to Mr. Parasyte, but not to Poodles, who was the
aggressor in the beginning. I told him, if Poodles would perform half
the examples now, I would make the apology to him."

"That's it!" shouted half a dozen boys.

"Order!" interposed the judge, sternly.

"I think that would be a good way to prove that Poodles did or did not
tell the truth, when he said he had performed the examples,"
interposed Bob Hale.

"Capital!" added Tom Rush.

"I approve the method; but let us have no disorder," replied
Vallington. "Conduct Poodles to the blackboard."

The custodians of the culprit promptly obeyed this order, and led him
to the blackboard, which was cleaned for immediate use. The
school-room was well lighted, and the expression on the faces of all
could be distinctly seen.

"Poodles, we desire to have justice done to all," said Vallington,
when the culprit had taken his place at the blackboard. "You shall
have fair play in every respect. You shall have a chance to prove
that you were right, and Thornton wrong."

"Well, I was right," replied Poodles.

"Did you perform all the examples on your paper without any help?"

"Of course I did."

"Then of course you know how to perform them. Here is an examination
paper. If you can perform five of the ten examples you shall be
acquitted."

"Perhaps I don't choose to do them," said Poodles, looking around for
some way to escape his fate.

"Are you not willing that the truth should come out?"

"I told the truth to-day."

"All right, if you did. You surely will not object to prove that you
did. You shall have fair play, I repeat."

"Suppose I don't choose to do them?" asked Poodles, doubtfully.

"Then we shall take it for granted that you did not do them, as you
declared on your paper."

"You can take it for granted, then, if you like," answered Poodles, as
he dropped the chalk.

"You refuse to perform the examples--do you?" demanded Vallington,
sternly.

"Yes, I do."

"Then you may take the consequences. Either you shall be expelled from
the Institute, or at least fifty of us will petition our parents to
take us from this school. We have done with you."

Bill Poodles smiled, and was pleased to get off so easily; but I
noticed that Dick Pearl turned pale, and looked very much troubled. He
was a relative of Mr. Parasyte, and it was generally understood that
he was a free scholar, his parents being too poor to pay his board and
tuition. While he expected to be ducked in the lake, or subjected to
some personal indignity, after the manner in which boys usually treat
such cases, his courage was good. Now, it appeared that the boys
simply intended to have Poodles expelled, or to ask their parents and
guardians to remove them; and as most of the students were from
fourteen to eighteen years of age, they would probably have influence
enough to effect their design.

"Pearl," said the judge, while the other culprit was apparently still
attempting to figure out the result of the trial.

"I'm here," replied Pearl.

"We are entirely satisfied that Poodles had some assistance in
performing his examples. It is believed that you gave him that
assistance. If you did, own up."

"Who says I helped Poodles?"

"I say so, for one," added the judge, sharply.

"Can you prove it?"

"I will answer that question after you have confessed or refused to
confess. You shall have fair play, as well as Poodles. If you wish to
put yourself right on the record, you can do so; if not, you shall
leave, or we will."

Pearl looked troubled. He was under very great obligations to Mr.
Parasyte. If he denied that he had helped Poodles, and it was then
proved against him, the boys would insist that he should be expelled.
If he stood out, he must either be expelled or the Institute be broken
up. He did not appear willing to take such a responsibility.

"You can do as you please, Pearl; but tell the truth, if you say
anything," continued Vallington.

"I did help Poodles," said he, looking down at the floor.

"How much did you help him?"

"I lent him my examination paper, and he copied all the solutions upon
his own."

"And after that you were willing to declare that you had not assisted
any one?" demanded the judge, with a look of supreme contempt on his
fine features.

"I had not helped any one when I signed my paper."

"Humph!" exclaimed Vallington, with a withering sneer. "That is the
meanest kind of a lie."

"I didn't mean to assist him; he teased me till I couldn't help
myself," pleaded Pearl.

A further examination showed that Poodles had browbeaten and
threatened him; and we were disposed to palliate Pearl's offence, in
consideration of his poverty and his dependent position, after he had
confessed his error.

"Are you willing to make this acknowledgment to Mr. Parasyte?" asked
the judge, in a tone of compassion.

"I don't want to; but I will. I suppose he will send me home then,"
replied the culprit.

"We will do what we can for you," added the judge.

Pearl had been a pretty good fellow among the boys, was generally
popular, and all were sorry for him. But his confession in a manner
absolved him, and the students heartily declared that they would stand
by him.

"Our business is finished," said Vallington, "unless Poodles has
something more to say."

Poodles had listened with consternation to the confession of Pearl,
and he now appeared to be dissatisfied with himself rather than with
the court.

"I didn't think Dick Pearl would let on in that way," said he, casting
a reproachful glance at his fellow-culprit.

"He has told the truth. If he had not confessed, we could have proved
that he helped you," added Vallington. "I have seen the six papers
that were all right myself. Pearl performed the third example in a
very peculiar and roundabout way; and Poodles had it in the same way,
while the other did it by the most direct method."

"I suppose it's of no use to stand out now," said Poodles, timidly.

"Will you confess now?"

"I will, if it will do any good."

"If you will tell the truth to Mr. Parasyte, that is all we want. The
fellows haven't anything against you. Will you do so?"

"I will if you say I shall not be expelled," whined Poodles.

"I can only say that we will not ask for your expulsion. I suppose
there is no danger of Mr. Parasyte expelling you," added the judge,
with a dry humor, appreciated by all the students.

"Mr. Parasyte!" exclaimed one of the sentinels at the door.

There was an attempt on the part of the principal to pull the door
open, but it was well secured upon the inside.

"Let him in," said the judge.

The door opened, and Mr. Parasyte entered the school-room.




CHAPTER VIII.

IN WHICH ERNEST VANQUISHES THE SCHOOLMASTER.


Mr. Parasyte had evidently obtained some information in regard to the
great rebellion before he entered the school-room; for though he
looked extremely troubled, he did not seem to be so much astonished as
might have been expected. He was admitted by order of the judge, and
took off his hat as he walked up the aisle to the platform, wiping
away the perspiration which gathered on his heated brow under the
severe mental struggles his position induced.

"What does all this mean?" he demanded, with a sternness which we
could not help seeing was assumed.

The boys were all orderly and quiet; the school room was as still as
during the regular sessions of the Institute. The sentinels, with
their bats and clubs, stood immovable at their stations, and the
scene produced its full impression upon the mind of the principal. As
he did not seem to be prepared to receive an answer to his question,
none was given; and Mr. Parasyte glanced uneasily around the room,
apparently seeking to obtain a better understanding of the scene.

"What does all this mean?" demanded he, a second time.

"It means, sir," replied Henry Vallington, "that the boys are
dissatisfied, and intend to have things set right."

"Is this a proper way to express their dissatisfaction--to take
advantage of my absence to get up a riotous assembly?"

"We have been perfectly orderly, sir," added the judge, in respectful
tones.

"How came you here, Thornton?" continued the principal, as his gaze
rested on me.

"We brought him here, sir," promptly interposed Vallington, anxious to
relieve me of any responsibility for my escape from my prison-chamber.

"Vallington, I confess my astonishment at seeing you engaged in an
affair of this kind," said Mr. Parasyte, reproachfully; and he fixed
his gaze upon the judge, and again wiped the perspiration from his
forehead. "I have always regarded you as an orderly and well-behaved
boy."

"I do not expect to forfeit my reputation as such by what I have done.
Mr. Parasyte, the boys are dissatisfied. We are not little children.
We have all reached the years of discretion, and we know the
difference between right and wrong, between justice and injustice."

"Do you intend to read me a lecture?" demanded the principal, angrily.

"No, sir; I had no such intention--only to state the facts."

"But you are arraigning me, the principal of the Parkville Liberal
Institute," added Mr. Parasyte, measuring the judge from head to foot.

"You may call it what you please, sir."

"May I ask what you purpose to do?" continued the principal, in a
sneering tone, not unmingled with timidity.

"Poodles," said the judge, turning to the lank toady, "stand up."

He obeyed; and being now with the majority of the boys, I think he was
mean enough to enjoy the discomfiture of Mr. Parasyte, for there can
be no real respect or true sympathy in the relation of one flunky with
another.

"Are you ready to tell the whole truth?" demanded Vallington.

"I am," replied Poodles.

"Perhaps you will be willing to inform Mr. Parasyte, in the beginning,
whether you do so of your own free will and accord, or not."

"I do so of my own free will and accord."

"Did you perform the examples on the examination paper without any
assistance?"

"I did not."

"How many did you do yourself?"

"None of them."

"Who struck the first blow in the affray on the pier with Thornton?"

"I did," answered Poodles, with a silly leer. "Thornton told the facts
just exactly as they were."

"You may sit down."

Mr. Parasyte wiped his brow again.

"Pearl," continued Vallington.

This culprit, unlike his companion in guilt, looked sheepish and
crestfallen, as he slowly rose from his seat. He was not so base and
low-minded as Poodles, and he felt a genuine shame for the mean
conduct of which he had been guilty.

"Have you anything to say, Pearl?" asked the judge.

"I lent my paper to Poodles, who copied the solutions from it,"
replied Pearl, with his glance fixed upon the floor.

"That's all; you may sit down."

Pearl seated himself; and if a pin had fallen to the floor then, it
might have been heard in the anxious silence that followed. Mr.
Parasyte's chest heaved with emotion. He wanted to storm, and scold,
and threaten, but seemed to be afraid to do so.

"I have nothing more to say at present, Mr. Parasyte. In the name and
in behalf of the students, I have brought the facts to your notice,"
said Vallington, breaking the impressive stillness, as the principal
did not seem disposed to do so.

"After the riotous proceedings of this afternoon, I might have
expected this; but I did not," the principal began. "You appear to
have intimidated Poodles to such an extent that he has entirely
modified and reversed the statements he made this afternoon. He is a
weak-minded boy, and it was not difficult to do so."

This remark roused the ire of Poodles, and it required a sharp
reprimand from the judge to repress his impertinence.

"Pearl is a poor boy, upon whose fears you seem to have successfully
wrought. A confession from either of them, under the circumstances, is
not reliable. I do not countenance this meeting, or these proceedings.
I am not to be intimidated by your action. In regard to what you have
done, I have nothing to say; but I require you to separate, and go at
once to your rooms."

"Will you be kind enough to inform us what you intend to do, Mr.
Parasyte?" said Vallington.

"I am not to be taken to task by my pupils."

"We do not intend to resort to any disorderly proceedings," added the
judge. "Poodles and Pearl, without compulsion, have acknowledged
their errors, and it has been fully proved that Thornton was not to
blame for the affair on the pier. We ask, therefore, that Thornton be
restored to his rank and privileges as a member of the Institute. If
this is not done, at least fifty of us will sign a paper urging our
parents and guardians to take us away from this school."

"I will grant nothing under these circumstances--promise nothing,"
replied the principal, doggedly.

"We are in no haste. We leave the matter for your consideration, Mr.
Parasyte. We will all go to our rooms now."

Vallington left the chair, and walked out of the school-room, followed
in good order by all the students who had taken part in these
irregular proceedings. I was going out with the rest, when Mr.
Parasyte intimated that he had something to say to me, and I remained.
When the boys had all gone, he invited me to accompany him to his
private office--a small apartment, opening from the main hall, near
the front door, in which he received callers, and sat in state when
not employed in the school-room.

There is an old saying that "you must summer and winter" a man before
you know him. Mr. Parasyte was considered a tyrant; not a coarse and
brutal tyrant, but a refined and gentlemanly one, who cows you by his
polite impertinence. He seldom indulged in harsh speech, never in
personal violence--at least no instance of it was known to the
students. He indulged in sneers and polished browbeating. A boy was
never stupid--he lacked common intelligence; never a blockhead--his
perceptions were very dull. His polite epithets were more cutting than
good round invectives would have been.

He had a will of his own; and he was obstinate, mulish, pig-headed. If
he had been surprised into declaring that black was white, then black
would continue to be white, in spite of positive demonstration to the
contrary. He was dogmatic to the last degree; and this is a fault to
which the schoolmaster is peculiarly liable. It required the event of
the day whereof I speak to enable us fully to comprehend Mr. Parasyte.
We had summered him before; now we were to winter him.

What he had said in the school-room indicated that he intended to
regard the confessions of Poodles and Pearl as extorted from them by
intimidation, and that he purposed to persist in persecuting me. I had
no desire to be a martyr; but I did not see how I could help myself.

"Thornton, I see you intend, if possible, to break up the Parkville
Liberal Institute," said he.

"No, sir, I do not. I hadn't anything to do with what took place in
the school-room," I replied.

"You did not seem to be a martyr there," sneered he. "The boys have
made a mistake; so have you. They don't know me; you don't. You got up
a quarrel this afternoon."

"No, sir, I did not."

"Don't contradict me," said he, sharply. "I say you got up a quarrel
this afternoon."

"And I say I did not."

"I am in no humor to trifle with you," said he, opening a desk, and
taking out a cowhide.

I was willing to confess, when I saw that implement, that I had not
known him before. He was about to step down from refined to brutal
tyranny.

"Poodles himself has confessed that he lied," I added, taking no
further notice of the cowhide.

"Confessed!" exclaimed Mr. Parasyte, savagely. "The boys have either
bribed or frightened him into this confession. It will have no effect
upon me."

"I have nothing to say, then," I answered, with dignity. "If you will
look into the case again, and require Poodles to do the examples, you
will see that you, and not the boys, have made a mistake."

"Silence, sir! I don't intend to be addressed in that impudent way by
any student. I have attempted to suppress this rebellion by mild
means; but they have failed. I have been to see your uncle. As I
supposed he would, he has taken a proper view of the case. He does not
wish to have you expelled, and I revoke my sentence; but he desires to
have you reduced to subjection."

My uncle had actually spoken, and taken sides with the tyrant. I was
astonished, but not intimidated.

"I have drawn up a paper for you to sign, which shall be read to the
boys to-morrow morning. There it is."



I glanced at the document. It was an acknowledgment of all Mr.
Parasyte charged me with, and a promise to behave myself properly. I
refused to sign it. The principal rolled up his sleeves, and took the
cowhide in his hand. He looked cool and malignant.

"Then I shall do as your uncle wishes me to do--reduce you to
subjection," said he. "Consider well what you are doing."

"I have considered, sir. If you strike me with that cowhide, I shall
do the best I can to defend myself."

"Do you threaten me?" demanded Mr. Parasyte, stepping towards me with
a jerk.

"No, sir; but I will not submit to a blow, if it costs me my life."

"Won't you? We'll see."

He did see. He struck me. The blow cut my soul. I sprang upon him with
all the tiger in my nature let loose. I kicked, bit, scratched. I
clawed at his throat like a vampire, and, though severely belabored, I
finally wrenched the cowhide from his grasp, and hurled him back so
that he fell full length upon the floor.




CHAPTER IX.

IN WHICH ERNEST STRIKES A HEAVY BLOW, AND WINS ANOTHER VICTORY.


I was astonished at my own prowess, as I stood, with heaving breast,
gazing at the prostrate form of the vanquished tyrant. I was a stout
young fellow, heavy enough and strong enough for a boy of fifteen; but
I did not regard myself as a match for a full-grown man. I suppose the
fury and impetuosity of the onslaught I made had given me the victory
before Mr. Parasyte was able to bring all his power to bear upon me.

I was satisfied with what I had done, and did not care to do any more.
I wished to leave; but the principal had locked the door, and put the
key into his pocket. I glanced at the window, hoping to find a means
of egress in that direction, though it was at least ten feet above the
ground. But ten feet are nothing to a boy of spirit; and I was moving
towards the window, intending to take the leap, when Mr. Parasyte
sprang to his feet, and confronted me again. If ever a man wore the
expression of a demon, the principal of the Parkville Liberal
Institute did at that moment; and it was patent to me that, unless I
could effect my escape, my trials and troubles had but just commenced.

I was more disposed to use strategy than force; for, in spite of the
victory I had won, I was fearful that the tyrant "carried too many
guns" for me. The malignity of his aspect was accompanied by an
expression of pain, as though he had been injured by his fall. This
was in my favor, if I was to be again compelled to break a lance with
him.

"You villain!" gasped Mr. Parasyte, with one hand upon his side. "How
dare you resist?"

"I have no fancy for being cut to pieces with a cowhide," I replied,
as coolly as I could, which, however, was not saying much.

"Your uncle wished me to reduce you to subjection, and to flog you
till you came to your senses."

"I am not very grateful to my uncle for his request; and I have to
say, that I will not be tamely flogged either by you or by him."

"What do you mean to do?" demanded he, apparently astonished to find
me so resolute.

"I mean to resist as long as I am flogged," I replied, twisting the
cowhide I still held in my hand.

Saying this, I jumped upon the window-seat, and unfastened the sash.

"Stop!" said he, moving towards me.

"I know what you mean now; and if you come near me, I will hit you
over the head with the butt-end of this cowhide," I replied, raising
the sash.

"I intend to reduce you to subjection at any hazard," he added.

Without making reply, I attempted to get out of the window in such a
way that I could drop to the ground, or "hang off" with my hands. In
doing this, I laid myself open to the assault of the enemy, who was
prompt in perceiving his advantage, and in availing himself of it.
Seizing me by the collar with both hands, he dragged me back into the
office, and hurled me heavily upon the floor, at the same time
wrenching the cowhide from my grasp. I sprang to my feet with the
celerity of a wounded tiger; but the principal began to beat me with a
zeal corresponding to his malignity.

A heavy round ruler on the desk, which had before attracted my
attention, was available as a weapon, and in the fury of my passion I
grasped it. Without thought or consideration except in my own defence,
I sprang upon the tyrant again, and dealt him several heavy blows with
the implement, until one was planted in such a place on his head that
it knocked him insensible upon the floor. Panting like a hunted deer
from the rage which filled my soul, and from the violence of my
exertions, I gazed upon the work I had done. Mr. Parasyte lay
motionless upon the floor. I took the key from his vest pocket, and
unlocked the door.

In the hall I found several persons, including Mrs. Parasyte, and Mr.
Hardy, one of the assistant teachers. They had been sitting in the
parlor opposite the office, and had heard the noise of the desperate
struggle between the principal and myself.

"What have you done!" exclaimed Mrs. Parasyte, greatly alarmed when
she saw her husband lying senseless upon the floor.

"This is bad business," added Mr. Hardy, as he hastened to the
assistance of the principal.

"Is he dead?" asked the wife, in tremulous tones.

"No--O, no! But he has had a heavy blow on the temple," replied the
teacher.

I assisted Mrs. Parasyte and Mr. Hardy in carrying my foe to his
chamber. I was alarmed myself. I feared that I had done more than I
intended to do. I went for the doctor at the lady's request; but
before my return Mr. Parasyte had come to his senses, and complained
of a severe sickness at his stomach. The physician carefully examined
him, and declared that his patient was not seriously injured. I need
not say that I was greatly relieved by this opinion. I left the room,
intending to depart from the house, though it was now nearly eleven
o'clock at night. Mr. Hardy followed me out into the hall, and wished
to know where I was going.

"Home," I replied.

"I'm afraid you have got into difficulty, Thornton," added he.

"I can't help it if I have. I didn't mean to hurt him so badly; but it
was his own fault."

"How did it happen?"

I told him how it happened; but Mr. Hardy expressed no opinion on the
merits of the case. He knew, as well as I did, that Mr. Parasyte had
been wrong from the beginning; but being in a subordinate position, it
was not proper for him to condemn his principal.

"The boys are in a riotous condition, and it is fortunate they do not
know of this affair. I hope you do not intend to inform them--at least
not to-night," he added.

"No, sir, I do not. I have tried from the first to keep the peace.
Poodles confessed to Mr. Parasyte that he had lied about the affair on
the pier, but he refused to believe him. I am sorry there has been any
trouble; but I couldn't help it."

Mr. Hardy was really troubled; but he could not say anything, and he
did not. He was a poor man, trying to earn the means to study a
profession by teaching, and a word or a look of sympathy to a rebel
like me would have cost him his situation. He was a just and a fair
man, and as such was loved and respected by all the students. Many of
the boys had often wished that he might be the principal of the
academy, instead of Mr. Parasyte, who had established and who still
owned the institution.

There was nothing more to be said or done, and I left the academy for
home. I was sincerely sorry for what had happened. Even a quarrel in
which I had been the victor had no pleasant reflections for me. I
would have submitted to any punishment except the flogging, and borne
the injustice of it without a complaint; but I had been required to
confess that of which I was not guilty, and I could not do that. I
hated a lie of any kind, and I could not tell one to save myself from
the consequences of the tyrant's rage and injustice.

I considered all the events of the day as I walked home, and came to
the conclusion that I was not to blame for the mischief that had been
done. If I had been haughty and disobedient, it was because I had been
treated badly. I certainly did not deserve flogging, and it would have
been impossible for me to submit to it. If I had been guilty, I could
have borne even that.

My uncle had counselled Mr. Parasyte to reduce me to subjection; and
much I marvelled that he had found words to say so much. It was an
evidence of interest in me which he had never before manifested. It
was plain that, in the settlement of the difficulty, I must count upon
the opposition of my uncle, who had already espoused the principal's
side of the quarrel. But I did not make any rash resolves, preferring
to act as my sense of right and justice should dictate when the time
for action came.

As I approached the cottage by the lake, I saw a light in my uncle's
library. My guardian sat up late at night, and rose early in the
morning. He did not sleep well, and he always looked pale and haggard.
He was a misanthrope in the worst sense of the word. He seemed to have
no friends, and to care for no one in the world--not even for himself.
Certainly he had no regard for me.

Of his past history I knew nothing; but I had already concluded that
he had been subjected to some terrible disappointment or injustice. He
appeared to suffer all the time; and if he would have permitted it,
how gladly would I have assuaged his woe by my sympathy! He was cold
and forbidding, and would not permit me to speak a word to him. I had
once tried to make him tell me something about my father and mother;
but, with an expression of angry impatience upon his face, he had
turned and fled in disgust from me.

I longed to know who and what my mother was; but my questions brought
no answer. One day, when my uncle was away, I had crept into his
library, and tried vainly to obtain some information from his books
and papers. He caught me in the room, and drove me out with a curse
upon his lips. After that a spring lock was put upon the door, the key
of which he carried in his pocket.

On the present occasion I had nothing to expect from my uncle; but I
wished to see him, and tell him my story. I knew that he could talk;
for, during the preceding year, a man of thirty, elegantly dressed,
came to the cottage one afternoon, and walked with my uncle into the
grove by the lake. They had business together, and it was not of a
pleasant nature; for, prompted by curiosity, I rowed my skiff up to
the shore, to learn what I might of the stranger's purpose. I could
not understand a word that was said; but my uncle talked rapidly and
fiercely, and a violent altercation ensued, which I feared would end
in blows. The stranger did not come back to the cottage, and the
supper which Betsey had prepared for the guest was not needed.

Learning from this that my uncle had a tongue, I asked him who the
stranger was. The answer was only a savage frown. He had no tongue for
me. Neither old Jerry nor his wife was any better informed than I was,
for both assured me they did not know the stranger. Satisfied,
therefore, that my uncle could talk, I was determined to see him
before I went to bed, though it was nearly midnight. Perhaps, also, I
was disposed to adopt this course, because my guardian had given such
bad advice to Mr. Parasyte. I was not insensible to the indulgence
with which I had ever been treated; and seeing that my silent uncle
wished to avoid me, I had generally favored him in doing so. It was
different now. He had given an order or a permission to have me
brutally punished, and I was determined to make him "face the music."

I entered the house, and passing through my uncle's chamber, stood at
the door of the library, which was fastened by the spring lock.




CHAPTER X.

IN WHICH ERNEST HAS AN INTERVIEW WITH HIS UNCLE.


With my resolution still at the highest pitch of firmness, I knocked
at the library door. I expected a storm; it was hardly possible to
avoid one; but I hoped, if I could induce my stern and silent guardian
to speak or to listen, that I might make an impression upon him. There
was no answer to my knock, and I repeated it. Then I heard a stir in
the library, and my uncle opened the door. When he saw me, he was
about to close the door in my face, doubtless regarding my conduct in
knocking at his door as impudent in the highest degree. I was not
disposed to be shut out, and anticipating his purpose, I stepped
nimbly into the room.

"Uncle Amos, I wish to speak with you for a few moments, if you will
be kind enough to hear me," I began, in tones as humble as the veriest
tyrant could have required.

He sat down in his arm-chair, leaned his head upon his hand in such a
way as to cover his face, but made me no reply, either by word or by
sign.

"I would not trouble you if it were not necessary to do so," I
continued. "Will you permit me to tell my story?"

He removed his hand, and gave me an affirmative nod; but it was
evident to me that my presence was the occasion of positive suffering
to him. I knew of no reason why I should be personally disagreeable to
him, and it seemed to me that his aversion was caused wholly by a kind
of obstinacy, which I could not understand.

"I have had a difficulty with Mr. Parasyte; but I was not to blame, as
I can prove by more than half the students in the academy," I
proceeded; and then I rehearsed all the particulars of my affray with
Poodles, on the pier, including the rebellion of the students, and the
confession of the guilty ones.

My uncle may have heard me, and he may not; but he took not the least
notice of me, appearing to be absorbed in his own meditations during
the recital of my wrongs.

"Mr. Parasyte called me into his private office, and informed me that
he had been to see you," I added.

My uncle removed his hand from his face, glanced at me, nodded his
head, which was the first indication he had given that he was
conscious of my presence, after I began to relate my story. The look
that accompanied the nod was anything but a pleasant one. There was
something like malignant satisfaction in the glance that he bestowed
upon me.

"Then you did request Mr. Parasyte to reduce me to subjection, as he
expressed it?"

"I did," replied he, decidedly, as he again uncovered his face, and
nodded to emphasize his reply.

This was hopeful, for I had at least got an answer out of him, though
the reply was cold-blooded and cruel.

"Did you request him to flog me?" I demanded, a little excited by the
fact that my uncle was likely to prove as malignant as the
schoolmaster.

"I did," he added; and his eyes seemed to glow like two coals of fire.

It was not difficult now for me to understand the situation. My uncle
hated me,--why I knew not. I could not reconcile such a feeling with
the indulgence he had always extended to me. I could not see why, if
he hated me, as that fierce glare of his eyes indicated, he had always
allowed me to have my own way, had always given me money without
stint, and had permitted me to go and come when and as I pleased, and
rove at will over the broad and dangerous lake.

I have since learned that this indulgence was perfectly consistent
with hatred, and that the judicious parent, who truly loves his son,
would deprive him of such unhealthy and dangerous indulgences. As he
hated me, so he let me have my own way. Had he loved me, he would have
restrained me; he would have inquired into my conduct when away from
home; and above all, he would not have allowed me to risk my life upon
the stormy lake as I did.

"You did request him to flog me, and without understanding the
merits of the case!" I replied, indignantly.

He nodded again.

"Uncle Amos, I have tried to do my duty faithfully at school, and to
be respectful and obedient to my teachers. This is the first time I
have had any trouble. I say, most solemnly, I was not to blame."

"You were," said my uncle.

"Will you hear the evidence in my favor?"

"No."

"You will not?"

"No."

"What would you have me do?"

"Obey your teacher."

"Mr. Parasyte ordered me to apologize to Poodles."

"Do it then."

"But Poodles confesses that I was not to blame."

"No matter."

"I cannot do it, uncle."

"The master must make you do it," added my uncle, with a sneer.

"He attempted to do so. He began to flog me, and I knocked him down,"
I replied, quietly, but sullenly.

My uncle sprang to his feet, and stared at me with an intensity which
would have made me quail if I had been guilty.

"You struck him!" exclaimed he, trembling with emotion.

"When he attempted a second time to flog me, I hit him on the head
with a heavy ruler, and he fell insensible upon the floor."

My stern guardian rushed furiously across the room, foaming with
passion.

"You villain!" gasped he, pausing before me. "You struck the master?"

"I knocked him down, as I would any other man who insulted me with a
blow," I replied, firmly; for I intended to have my uncle understand
exactly how I felt.

"You are an obstinate whelp!" ejaculated my guardian, who had
certainly found a tongue now.

"All the students think I am right."

"The students! What do I care what they think?"

"They understand the case."

"Humph!" sneered my uncle.

"I see, sir, that I have nothing to expect from you," I continued.

"No!"

"I have only to say that Mr. Parasyte can't flog me. If I were guilty,
I would not resist; but I will fight as long as I have a breath left
against such injustice."

"Very pretty! May I ask what you are going to do with yourself?"

"I don't know yet; only, if I am not wanted here, I won't stay here. I
think I can take care of myself."

"Do you consider this a proper return for all I have done for you?"
asked he, more calmly.

"I don't know what you have done for me. I asked you once something
about my father and mother, and you did not answer me."

"You have no father and mother," he replied, with visible emotion.
"You need not ask any questions, for I will not answer them."

"Did they leave any property for me?" I asked, mildly; and I had
already concluded that they did, or my uncle would not have been so
lavish of his money upon me.

"Property! What put that idea into your head?" demanded he; and he was
more agitated than the circumstances seemed to warrant.

"I have no idea anything about it. I only asked the question."

"It is enough for you to know that I am willing to take care of you,
and pay your expenses, however extravagant they may be, as long as you
behave properly."

"I have always done so."

"No, you haven't! You have resisted your teacher, knocked him down,
killed him for aught I know. You are a bad boy."

It seemed just as though my uncle intended to drive me to desperation,
and compel me to commit some rash act. I could not see why he should
refuse to tell me anything about my father and mother.

"I asked you whether my parents left any property for me. You did not
answer me," I continued.

"I will answer no questions," replied he.

"If they did, it is right that I should know it," I persisted.

"If they did, you will know it when you are of age to receive it."

"I would like to know whether you are supporting me out of your own
property or with my own."

"It doesn't concern you to know, so long as you are supported."

"Yes, it does, and I insist upon knowing."

"I shall answer no questions," replied he, more troubled now than
angry.

"If there is nothing belonging to me, I am very willing to go to work
and support myself. I don't wish to be a burden upon one who cares so
little for me as you do."

"I did not say you were a burden. I have given you all you asked for,
and am willing to do so still."

"I don't wish to have you do so, if what you give me does not belong
to me."

"You are a foolish boy!" said he, impatiently.

"You have hardly spoken to me before for a year; and you never said as
much to me as you have to-night before in all my lifetime."

"It was not necessary to do so."

"Uncle Amos, I am old enough now to be able to think for myself," I
continued, earnestly. "It is time for me to know who and what I am,
and I am going to find out if it is possible for me to do so."

"It is not possible," said he, greatly agitated, though he struggled
to be calm. "What do you wish to know?"

"About my parents."

He walked the room for a moment with compressed lips, as if
considering whether he should tell me what I wanted to know.

"If I have concealed anything from you, it was for your own good,"
replied he, with a desperate effort. "Your father is dead; he died
eleven years ago."

"And my mother?" I asked, eagerly.

"She is a raving maniac in an insane asylum."

This information came like a shock upon me, and I wept great tears of
grief.

"I thank you, uncle Amos, for telling me so much, sad as it is. One
more question and I am satisfied. Did my father leave any property?"

