shabby uniform and every variety of cocked hat, 
the present railroad period is one of but stale and 
insipid flavor. Much of local life and color re- 
mains, of course ; but the hurried traveller sees little 
of it, and, passed from one grand hotel to another, 
without material change in the cooking or the meth- 
ods of extortion, he might nearly as well remain at 
Paris. The Italians, who live to so great extent by 
the travel through their country, learn our abomina- 
ble languages and minister to our detestable comfort 
and propriety, till we have slight chance to know 
them as we once could, musical, picturesque, and 
full of sweet, natural knaveries, graceful falsehood, 
and all uncleanness. Rome really belongs to the 
Anglo-Saxon nations, and the Pope and the past 
seem to be carried on entirely for our diversion. 
Every thing is systematized as thoroughly as in a 
museum where the objects are all ticketed ; and our 
prejudices are consulted even down to alms-giving. 
Honest Beppo is gone from the steps in the Piazza, di 
Spagna, and now the beggars are labeled like police- 
men, with an immense plate bearing the image of St. 
Peter, so that you may know you give to a worthy 
person when you bestow charity on one of them, and 
not, alas ! to some abandoned impostor, as in former 
days. One of these highly recommended mendicants 
gave the last finish to the system, and begged of us 
in English ! No custodian will answer you, if he 
can help it, in the Italian which he speaks so ex- 
quisitely, preferring to speak bad French instead ; 
and in all the shops on the Corso the English tongue 
is de rigueur. 
After our dear friends at the Conservatorio, I think 
we found one of the most simple and interesting of 
Romans in the monk who showed us the Catacombs 
of St. Sebastian. These catacombs, he assured us, 
were not restored like those of St. Calixtus, but 
were just as the martyrs left them ; and, as I do not 
remember to have read anywhere that they are 
formed merely of long, low, narrow, wandering un- 
der-ground passages, lined on either side with tombs 
in tiers like berths on a steamer, and expanding here 
and there into small square chambers, bearing the 
traces of ancient frescos, and evidently used as chap- 
els, I venture to offer the information here. The 
reader is to keep in his mind a darkness broken by 
the light of wax tapers, a close smell, and crookedness 
and narrowness, or he cannot realize the catacombs 
as they are in fact. Our monkish guide, before en- 
tering the passage leading from the floor of the church 
to the tombs, in which there was still some " fine 
small dust " of the martyrs, warned us that to touch 
it was to incur the penalty of excommunication, and 
then gently craved pardon for having mentioned the 
fact. But, indeed, it was only to persons who showed 
a certain degree of reverence that these places were 
now exhibited ; for some Protestants who had been 
permitted there had stolen handfuls of the precious 
ashes, merely to throw away. I assured him that I 
thought them beasts to do it ; and I was afterwards 
puzzled to know what should attract their wantonness 
 
in the remnants of mortality, hardly to be distin- 
guished from the common earth out of which the 
catacombs were dug. 
RETURNING to the church above we found, kneel- 
ing before one of the altars, two pilgrims, a man 
and a woman. The latter was habited in a nun- 
like dress of black, and the former in a long pilgrim's 
coat of coarse blue stuff. He bore a pilgrim's staff in 
his hand, and showed under his close hood a fine, 
handsome, reverent face, full of a sort of tender awe, 
touched with the pathos of penitence. In attendance 
upon the two was a dapper little silk-hatted man, 
with rogue so plainly written in his devotional coun- 
tenance that I was not surprised to be told that he 
was a species of spiritual valet de place, whose occu- 
pation it was to attend pilgrims on their tour to the 
Seven Churches at which these devotees pray in 
Rome, and there to direct their orisons and join in 
them. 
It was not to the pilgrims, but to the heretics that 
the monk now uncovered the precious marble slab on 
which Christ stood when he met Peter flying from 
Rome and turned him back. You are shown the 
prints of the divine feet, which the conscious stone 
received and keeps forever ; and near at hand is one 
of the arrows with which St. Sebastian was shot. 
We looked at these things critically, having to pay 
for the spectacle ; but the pilgrims and their guide 
were all faith and wonder. 
 
I remember seeing nothing else so finely super- 
stitious at Rome. In a chapel near the Church of 
St. John Late ran are, as is well known, the marble 
steps which once belonged to Pilate's house, and 
which the Saviour is said to have ascended when he 
went to trial before Pilate. The steps are protected 
against the wear and tear of devotion by a stout 
casing of wood, and they are constantly covered with 
penitents, who ascend and descend them upon their 
knees. Most o the pious people whom I saw in this 
act were children, and the boys enjoyed it with a 
good deal of giggling, as a very amusing feat. Some 
old and haggard women gave the scene all the dignity 
which it possessed ; but certain well-dressed ladies 
and gentlemen were undeniably awkward and ab- 
surd, and I was led to doubt if there were not an 
incompatibility between the abandon of simple faith 
and the respectability of good clothes. 
IV. 
IN all other parts of Italy one hears constant talk 
among travellers of the malaria at Rome, and having 
seen a case of Roman fever, I know it is a thing 
not to be trifled with. But in Rome itself the mala- 
ria is laughed at by the foreign residents, who, 
nevertheless, go out of the city in midsummer. The 
Romans, to the number of a hundred thousand or so, 
remain there the whole year round, and I am bound 
to say I never saw a healthier, robuster-looking popu- 
lation. The cheeks of tho French soldiers, too, whom 
we met at every turn, were red as their trousers, and 
they seemed to flourish on the imputed unwholesome- 
ness of the atmosphere. All at Rome are united in 
declaring that the fever exists at Naples, and that 
sometimes those who have taken it there come and 
die in Rome, in order to give the city a bad name ; 
and I think this very likely. 
Rome is certainly dirty, however, though there 
is a fountain in every square, and you are never 
out of the sound of falling water. The Corso 
and some of the principal streets do not so much im- 
press you with their filth as with their dullness ; 
but that part of the city where some of the most 
memorable relics of antiquity are to be found is un- 
imaginably vile. The least said of the state of 
the archways of the Coliseum the soonest mended ; 
and I have already spoken of the Forum. The 
streets near the Theatre of Pompey are almost im- 
passable, and the so-called House of Rienzi is a stable, 
fortified against approach by a fosse of excrement. 
A noisome smell seems to be esteemed the most ap- 
propriate offering to the memory of ancient Rome, 
and I am not sure that the moderns are mistaken in 
this. In the rascal streets in the neighborhood of 
the most august ruins, the people turn round to stare 
at the stranger as he passes them ; they are all dirty, 
and his decency must be no less a surprise to them 
than the neatness of the French soldiers amid all the 
filth is a puzzle to him. We wandered about a long 
time in such places one day, looking for the Tarpeian 
Rock, less for Tarpeia's sake than for the sake of 
 
Miriam and Donatello and the Model. There are 
two Tarpeian rocks, between which the stranger 
takes his choice ; and we must have chosen the 
wrong one, for it seemed but a shallow gulf com- 
pared to that in our fancy. We were somewhat dis- 
appointed ; but then Niagara disappoints one ; and as 
for Mont Blanc 
v. 
IT is worth while for every one who goes to Rome 
to visit the Church of St. Peter's ; but it is scarcely 
worth while for me to describe it, or for every one 
to go up into the bronze globe on the top of the 
cupola. In fact, this is a great labor, and there is 
nothing to be seen from the crevices in the ball 
which cannot be far more comfortably seen from the 
roof of the church below. 
The companions of our ascent to the latter point 
were an English lady and gentleman, brother and 
sister, and both Catholics, as they at once told us. 
The lady and myself spoke for some time in the 
Tuscan tongue before we discovered that neither of 
us was Italian, after which we paid each other some 
handsome compliments upon fluency and perfection 
of accent. The gentleman was a pleasant purple 
porpoise from the waters of Chili, whither he had 
wandered from the English coasts in early youth. 
He had two leading ideas :* one concerned the Pope, 
to whom he had just been presented, and whom he 
viewed as the best and blandest of beings ; the other 
 
related to his boy, then in England, whom he called 
Jack Spratt, and considered the grandest and great- 
est of boys. With the view from the roof of the 
church this gentleman did not much trouble himself. 
He believed Jack Spratt could ride up to the roof 
where we stood on his donkey. As to the great 
bronze globe which we were hurrying to enter, he 
seemed to regard it merely as a rival in rotundity, 
and made not the slightest motion to follow us. 
I should be loth to vex the reader with any de- 
scription of the scene before us and beneath us, even 
if I could faithfully portray it. But I recollect, with 
a pleasure not to be left unrecorded, the sweetness 
of the great fountain playing in the square before the 
church, and the harmony in which the city grew in 
every direction from it, like an emanation from its 
music, till the last house sank away into the pathetic 
solitude of the Campagna, with nothing beyond but 
the snow-capped mountains lighting up the remotest 
distance. At the same moment I experienced a rap- 
ture in reflecting that I had underpaid three hack- 
men during my stay in Rome, and thus contributed 
to avenge my race for ages of oppression. 
The vastness of St. Peter's itself is best felt in 
looking down upon the interior from the gallery that 
surrounds the inside of the dome, and in comparing 
one's own littleness with the greatness of all the 
neighboring mosaics. But as to the beauty of the 
temple, I could not find it,without or within. 
 
VI. 
IN Rome one's fellow -tourists are a constant 
source of gratification and surprise. I thought that 
American travellers were by no means the most ab- 
surd among those we saw, nor even the loudest in 
their approval of the Eternal City. A certain orcjer 
of German greenness affords, perhaps, the pleasant- 
est pasturage for the ruminating mind. For example, 
at the Villa Ludovisi there was, beside numerous 
Englishry in detached bodies, a troop of Germans, 
chiefly young men, frugally pursuing the Sehens- 
wiirdigkeiten in the social manner ofrtheir nation. 
They took their enjoyment very noisily, and wran- 
gled together with furious amiability as they looked 
at Guercino's " Aurora." Then two of them parted 
from the rest, and went to a little summer-house in 
the gardens, while the others followed us to the top 
of the Casino. There they caught sight of their 
friends in the arbor, and the spectacle appeared to 
overwhelm them. They bowed, they took off their 
hats, they waved their handkerchiefs. It was not 
enough : one young fellow mounted on the balus- 
trade of the roof at his neck's risk, lifted his hat on 
his cane and flourished it in greeting to the heart's- 
friends in the arbor, from whom he had parted two 
minutes before. 
In strange contrast to the producer of this enthusi- 
asm, so pumped and so unmistakably mixed with beer, 
a fat and pallid Englishwoman sat in a chair upon 
the roof and coldly, coldly sketched the lovely land- 
 
scape. And she and the blonde young English girl 
beside her pronounced a little dialogue together, winch 
I give, because I saw that they meant it for the public : 
The Young Girl. I wonder, you knoa, you don't 
draw-ow St. Petuh's ! 
The Artist. O ah, you knoa, I can draw-ow St. 
Petuh's from so mennee powints. 
I am afraid that the worst form of American green- 
ness appears abroad in a desire to be perfectly up in 
critical appreciation of the arts, and to approach the 
great works in the spirit of the connoisseur. The 
ambition is not altogether a bad one. Still I could 
not help laughing at a fellow-countryman when he 
told me that he had not yet seen Raphael's " Trans- 
figuration," because he wished to prepare his mind 
for understanding the original by first looking at all 
the copies he could find. 
VII. 
THE Basilica San Paolo fuori le Mura surpasses 
every thing in splendor of marble and costly stone 
porphyry, malachite, alabaster and luxury of gild- 
ing that is to be seen at Rome. But I chiefly remem- 
ber it because on the road that leads to it, through 
scenes as quiet and peaceful as if history had never 
known them, lies the Protestant graveyard in which 
Keats is buried. Quite by chance the driver men- 
tioned it, pointing in the direction of the cemetery 
with his whip. We eagerly dismounted and repaired 
to the gate, where we were met by the son of the 
sexton, who spoke English through the beauteous line 
 
of a curved Hebrew nose. Perhaps a Christian could 
not be found in Rome to take charge of these here- 
tic graves, though Christians can be got to do almost 
any thing there for money. However, I do not think 
a Catholic would have kept the place in better order, 
or more intelligently understood our reverent curi- 
osity. It was the new burial-ground which we had 
entered, and which is a little to the right of the elder 
cemetery. It was very beautiful and tasteful in every 
way ; the names upon the stones were chiefly Eng- 
lish and Scotch, with here and there an American's. 
But affection drew us only to the prostrate tablet in- 
scribed with the words, " Percy Bysshe Shelley, Cor 
Cordium," and then we were ready to go to the 
grave of him for whom we all feel so deep a tender- 
ness. The grave of John Keats is one of few in the 
old burying-ground, and lies almost in the shadow of 
the pyramid of Caius Cestius ; and I could not help 
thinking of the wonder the Roman would have felt 
could he have known into what unnamable richness 
and beauty his Greek faith had ripened in the heart 
of the poor poet, where it was mixed with so much 
sorrow. Doubtless, in his time, a prominent citizen 
like Caius Cestius was a leading member of the 
temple in his neighborhood, and regularly attended 
sacrifice : it would have been but decent ; and yet I 
fancied that a man immersed like him in affairs might 
have learned with surprise the inner and more fra- 
grant meaning of the symbols with the outside of 
which his life was satisfied ; and I was glad to reflect 
that in our day such a thing is impossible. 
 
The grave of our beloved poet is sunken to the 
level of the common earth, and is only marked by 
the quaintly lettered, simple stone bearing the famous 
epitaph. While at Rome I heard talk of another 
and grander monument which some members of the 
Keats family were to place over the dust of their 
great kinsman. But, for one, I hope this may never 
be done, even though the original stone should also 
be left there, as was intended. Let the world still 
keep unchanged this shrine, to which it can repair 
with at once pity and tenderness and respect. 
A rose-tree and some sweet-smelling bushes grew 
upon the grave, and the roses were in bloom. We 
asked leave to take one of them ; but at last could 
only bring ourselves to gather some of the fallen 
petals. Our Hebrew guide was willing enough, and 
unconsciously set us a little example of wantonness ; 
for while he listened to our explanation of the mys- 
tery which had puzzled him ever since he had learned 
English, namely, why the stone should say " writ on 
water," and not written, he kept plucking mechan- 
ically at one of the fragrant shrubs, pinching away 
the leaves, and rending the tender twig, till I, re- 
membering the once -sensitive dust from which it 
grew, waited for the tortured tree to cry out to 
him with a voice of words and blood, " Perche mi 
schianti ? " 
VIII. 
IT seems to me that a candid person will wish to 
pause a little before condemning Gibson's colored 
 
statues. They have been grossly -misrepresented. 
They do not impress one at all as wax-work, and 
there is great wrong in saying that their tinted na- 
kedness suggests impurity any more than tliQ white 
nakedness of other statues. The coloring is quite 
conventional ; the flesh is merely warmed with the 
hue representing life ; the hair is always a very deli- 
cate yellow, the eyes a tender violet, and there is no 
other particularization of color ; a fillet binding the 
hair may be gilded, the hem of a robe traced in 
blue. I, who had just come from seeing the frag- 
ments of antique statuary in Naples Museum, tinted 
in the same way, could not feel that there was any 
thing preposterous in Gibson's works, and I am not 
ashamed to say that they gave me pleasure. 
As we passed, in his studio, from one room to an- 
other, the workman who showed the marbles sur- 
prised and delighted us by asking if we would like to 
see the sculptor, and took us up into the little room 
where Gibson worked. He was engaged upon a 
bass-relief, a visit of Psyche to the Zephyrs, or 
something equally aerial and mythological, and re- 
ceived us very simply and naturally, and at once 
began with some quaint talk about the subject in 
hand. When we mentioned our pleasure in his 
colored marbles we touched the right spring, and he 
went on to speak of his favorite theory with visible 
delight, making occasional pauses to bestow a touch 
on the bass-relief, and coming back to his theme with 
that self-corroborative " Yes ! " of his, which Haw- 
thorne has immortalized. He was dressed with ex- 
 
traordinary slovenliness and indifference to clothes ; 
had no collar, I think, and evidently did not know 
what he had on. Every thing about him hespoke 
the utmost unconsciousness and democratic plainness 
of life, so that I could readily believe a story I heard 
of him. Having dined the greater part of his life in 
Roman restaurants, where it is but wholesome to go 
over your plate, glass, spoon, and knife and fork witli 
your napkin before using them, the great sculptor had 
acquired such habits of neatness that at table in the 
most aristocratic house in England he absent-mind- 
edly went through all that ceremony of cleansing and 
wiping. It is a story they tell in Rome, where every 
body is anecdoted, and not always so good-naturedly. 
IX. 
ONE Sunday afternoon we went with some artistic 
friends to visit the studio of the great German paint- 
er, Overbeck ; and since I first read Uhland I have 
known no pleasure so illogical as I felt in looking at 
this painter's drawings. In the sensuous heart of 
objective Italy he treats the themes of medieval 
Catholicism with the most subjective feeling, and I 
thought I perceived in his work the enthusiasm 
which led many Protestant German painters and 
poets of the romantic school back into the twilight 
of the Romish faith, in the hope that they might 
thus realize to themselves something of the ear- 
nestness which animated the elder Christian artists. 
Overbeck's work is beautiful, but it is unreal, and 
 
expresses the sentiment of no time ; as the work of 
the romantic German poets seems without relation 
to any world men ever lived in. 
Walking from the painter's house, two of us 
parted with the rest on the steps of the Church of 
Santa Maria Maggiore, and pursued our stroll 
through the gate of San Lorenzo out upon the 
Campagna, w r hich tempts and tempts the sojourner 
at Rome, until at last he must go and see if it 
will give him the fever. And, alas ! there I caught 
the Roman fever the longing that burns one who 
has once been in Rome to go again that will not 
be cured by all the cool contemptuous things he 
may think or say of the Eternal City ; that fills him 
with fond memories of its fascination, and makes it 
forever desired. 
We walked far down the dusty road beyond the 
city walls, and then struck out from the highway 
across the wild meadows of the Campagna. They 
were weedy and desolate, seamed by shaggy grass- 
grown ditches, and deeply pitted with holes made in 
search for catacombs. There was here and there a 
farm-house amid the wide lonesomeness, but oftener 
a round, hollow, roofless tomb, from which the dust 
and memory of the dead had long been blown away, 
and through the top of which fringed and over- 
hung with grasses, and opening like a great eye 
the evening sky looked marvelously sad. One of 
the fields was full of grim, wide-horned cattle, and 
in another there were four or five buffaloes lying 
down and chewing their cuds, holding their heads 
 
horizontally in the air, and with an air of gloomy 
wickedness which nothing could exceed in their 
cruel black eyes, glancing about in visible pursuit of 
some object to toss and gore. There were' also many 
canebrakes, in which the wind made a mournful 
rustling after the sun had set in golden glitter on the 
roofs of the Roman churches and the transparent 
night had fallen upon the scene. 
In all our ramble we met not a soul, and I scarcely 
know what it is makes this walk upon the Campagna 
one of my vividest recollections of Rome, unless it 
be the opportunity it gave me to weary myself upon 
that many-memoried ground as freely as if it had 
been a woods-pasture in Ohio. Nature, where his- 
tory was so august, was perfectly simple and moth- 
erly, and did so much to make me at home, that, as 
the night thickened and we plunged here tind there 
into ditches and climbed fences, and struggled, heavy- 
footed, back through the suburbs to the city gate, I 
felt as if half my boyhood had been passed upon 
the Campagna. 
x. 
PASQUINO, like most other great people, is not very 
interesting upon close approach. There is no trace 
now in his aspect to show that he has ever been 
satirical ; but the humanity that the sculptor gave him 
is imperishable, though he has lost all character as a 
public censor. The torso is at first glance nothing 
but a shapeless mass of stone, but the life can never 
 
die out of that which has been shaped by art to 
the likeness of a man, arid a second look restores 
the lump to full possession of form and expression. 
For this reason I lament that statues should ever 
be restored except by sympathy and imagination. 
XI. 
REGARDING the face of Pompey's statue in the 
Spada Palace, I was more struck than ever with a 
resemblance to American politicians which I had 
noted in all the Roman statues. It is a type of 
face not now to be found in Rome, but frequent 
enough here, and rather in the South than in the 
North. Pompey was like the pictures of so many 
Southern Congressmen that I wondered whether 
race had not less to do with producing types than 
had similarity of circumstances ; whether a republi- 
canism based upon slavery could not so far assimi- 
late character as to produce a common aspect in 
people widely separated by time and creeds, but hav- 
ing the same unquestioned habits of command, and 
the same boundless and unscrupulous ambition. 
XII. 
WHEN the Tiber, according to its frequent habit, 
rises and inundates the city, the Pantheon is one of 
the first places to be flooded the sacristan told 
us. The water climbs above the altar-tops, sapping, 
in its recession, the cement of the fine marbles which 
 
incrust the columns, so that about their bases the 
pieces have to be continually renewed. Nothing 
vexes you so much in the Pantheon as your con- 
sciousness of these and other repairs. Bad as ruin 
is, I think I would rather have the old temple ru- 
inous in every part than restored as you find it. 
The sacristan felt the wrongs of the place keenly, 
and said, referring to the removal of the bronze 
roof, which took place some centuries ago, " They 
have robbed us of every thing" (Channo levato 
tutto) ; as if he and the Pantheon were of one blood, 
and he had suffered personal hurt in its spoliation. 
What a sense of the wildness everywhere lurk- 
ing about Rome we had given us by that group of 
peasants who had built a fire of brushwood almost 
within the portico of the Pantheon, and were cook- 
ing their supper at it, the light of the flames luridly 
painting their swarthy faces ! 
XIII. 
POOR little Numero Cinque Via del Gambero has 
seldom, I imagine, known so violent a sensation as 
that it experienced when, on the day of the Immac- 
ulate Conception, the Armenian Archbishop rolled 
up to the door in his red coach. The master of the 
house had always seemed to like us ; now he ap- 
peared with profound respect suffusing, as it were, 
his whole being, and announced, " Signore, it is 
Monsignore come to take you to the Sistine Chapel 
in his carriage," and drew himself up in a line, as 
 
much like a series of serving-men as possible, to 
let us pass out. There was a private carriage for 
the ladies near that of Monsignore, for he had al- 
ready advertised us that the sex were not permitted 
to ride in the red coach. As they appeared, how- 
ever, he renewed his expressions of desolation at 
being deprived of their company, and assured them 
of his good- will with a multiplicity of smiles and 
nods, intermixed with shrugs of recurrence to his 
poignant regret. But ! In fine, it was forbidden ! 
Monsignore was in full costume, with his best ec- 
clesiastical clothes on, and with his great gold chain 
about his neck. The dress was richer than that of 
the western archbishops ; and the long white beard 
of Monsiornore made him look much more like a 
Scriptural monsignore than these. He lacked, per- 
haps, the fine spiritual grace of his brother, the 
Archbishop at Venice, to whose letter of introduc- 
tion we owed his acquaintance and untiring civili- 
ties; but if a man cannot be plump and spiritual, 
he can be plump and pleasant, as Monsignore was to 
the last degree. He enlivened our ride with dis- 
course about the Armenians at Venice, equally be- 
loved of us ; and, arrived at the Sistine Chapel, he 
marshaled the ladies before him, and won them early 
entrance through the crowd of English people crush- 
ing one another at the door. Then he laid hold upon 
the captain of the Swiss Guard, who was swift to 
provide them with the best places ; and in nowise 
did he seem one of the uninfluential and insignificant 
priests that About describes the archbishops at Rome 
 
to be. According to this lively author, a Swiss guard 
was striking back the crowd on some occasion with 
the butt of his halberd, and smote a cardinal on the 
breast. He instantly dropped upon his knees, with 
" Pardon, Eminenza ! I thought it was a mon- 
signore ! " Even the chief of these handsome fellows 
had nothing but respect and obedience for our Arch- 
bishop. 
The gentlemen present were separated from the 
ladies, and in a very narrow space outside of the 
chapel men of every nation were penned up together. 
All talked several priests as loudly as the rest. 
But the rudest among them were certain Germans, 
who not only talked but stood upon a seat to see 
better, and were ordered down by one of the Swiss 
with a fierce " Griu, signore, giu ! " Otherwise the 
guard kept good order in the chapel, and were no 
doubt as useful and genuine as any thing about the 
poor old Pope. What gorgeous fellows they were, 
and, as soldiers, how absurd ! The weapons they 
bore were as obsolete as the excommunication. It 
was amusing to pass one of these play-soldiers on 
guard at the door of the Vatican tall, straight, 
beautiful, superb, with his halberd on his shoulder 
and then come to a real warrior outside, a little, ugly, 
red-legged French sentinel, with his Minie* on his 
arm. 
Except for the singing of the Pope's choir which 
was angelically sweet, and heavenly far above all 
praise the religious ceremonies affected me, like 
all others of that faith, as tedious and empty. Each 
 
of the cardinals, as he entered the chapel, blew a 
sonorous nose ; and was received standing by his 
brother prelates a grotesque company of old-wom- 
anish old men in gaudy gowns. One of the last to 
come was Antonelli, who has the very wickedest face 
in the world. He sat with his eyes fastened upon his 
book, but obviously open at every pore to all that 
went on about him. As he passed out he cast gleam- 
ing, terrible, sidelong looks upon the people, full of 
hate and guile. 
From where I stood I saw the Pope's face only in 
profile : it was gentle and benign enough, but not 
great in expression, and the smile on it almost de- 
generated into a simper. His Holiness had a cold ; 
and his recitative, though full, was not smooth. He 
was all priest when, in the midst of the service, he 
hawked, held his handkerchief up before his face, a 
little way off, and ruthlessly spat in it I 
 
FORZA MAGGIORE. 
I IMAGINE that Grossetto is not a town much 
known to travel, for it is absent from all the guide- 
books I have looked at. However, it is chief in the 
Maremma, where sweet Pia de' Tolommei lan- 
guished and perished of the poisonous air and her 
love's cruelty, and where, so many mute centuries 
since, the Etrurian cities flourished and fell. Further, 
one may say that Grossetto is on the diligence road 
from Civita Vecchia to Leghorn, and that in the very 
heart of the place there is a lovely palm-tree, rare, 
if not sole, in that latitude. This palm stands in a 
well-sheltered, dull little court, out of every thing's 
way, and turns tenderly toward the wall that shields 
it on the north. It has no other company but a beau- 
tiful young girl, who leans out of a window high 
over its head, and I have no doubt talks with it. At 
the moment we discovered the friends, the maiden 
was looking pathetically to the northward, while the 
palm softly stirred and opened its plumes, as a bird 
does when his song is finished ; and there is very lit- 
tle question but it had just been singing to her that 
song of which the palms are so fond, 
" Ein Fichtenbaum steht einsam 
Im Norden auf kahler HohV 
 
Grossetto does her utmost to hide the secret of this 
tree's existence, as if a hard, matter-of-fact place 
ought to be ashamed of a sentimentality of the kind. 
It pretended to be a very worldly town, and tried to 
keep us in the neighborhood of its cathedral, where 
the caffS and shops are, and where, in the evening, 
four or five officers of the garrison clinked their sa- 
bres on the stones, and promenaded up and down, 
and as many ladies shopped for gloves ; and as many 
citizens sat at the principal caff and drank black 
coffee. This was lively enough ; and we knew that 
the citizens were talking of the last week's news and 
the Roman question ; that the ladies were really 
looking for loves, not gloves ; that such of the offi- 
cers as had no local intrigue to keep their hearts 
at rest were terribly bored, and longed for Florence 
or Milan or Turin. 
Besides the social charms of her piazza, Grossetto 
put forth others of an artistic nature. The cathedral 
was very old and very beautiful, built of alternate 
lines of red and white marble, and lately restored in 
the best spirit of fidelity and reverence. But it was 
not open, and we were obliged to turn from it to the 
group of statuary in the middle of the piazza, repre- 
sentative of the Maremma and Family returning 
thanks to the Grand Duke Leopold III. of Tuscany 
for his goodness in causing her swamps to be drained. 
The Maremma and her children are arrayed in the 
scant draperies of Allegory, but the Grand Duke is 
fully dressed, and is shown looking down with some 
surprise at their figures, and with a visible doubt 
of the propriety of their public appearance in that 
state. 
There was also a Museum at Grossetto, and I won- 
der what was in it ? 
The wall of the town was perfect yet, though the 
moat at its feet had been so long dry that it was only 
to be known from the adjacent fields by the richness 
of its soil. The top of the wall had been leveled, 
and planted with shade, and turned into a peaceful 
promenade, like most of such medieval defenses in 
Italy ; though I am not sure that a little military life 
did not still linger about a bastion here and there. 
From somewhere, when we strolled out early in the 
morning, to walk upon the wall, there came to us a 
throb of drums ; but I believe that the only armed 
men we saw, beside the officers in the piazza, were 
the numerous sportsmen resorting at that season to 
Grossetto for the excellent shooting in the marshes. 
All the way to Florence we continued to meet them 
and their dogs ; and our inn at Grossetto overflowed 
with abundance of game. On the kitchen floor and 
in the court were heaps of larks, pheasants, quails, 
and beccafichi, at which a troop of scullion-boys con- 
stantly plucked, and from which the great, noble, 
beautiful, white-aproned cook forever fried, stewed, 
broiled, and roasted. We lived chiefly upon these 
generous birds during our sojourn, and found, when 
we attempted to vary our bill of fare, that the very 
genteel waiter attending us had few distinct ideas 
beyond them. He was part of the repairs and im- 
provements which that hostelry had recently under- 
 
gone, and had evidently come in with the four- 
pronged forks, the chromo - lithographs of Victor 
Emanuel, Garibaldi, Solferino, and Magenta in the 
large dining-room, and the iron stove in the small 
one. He had nothing, evidently, in common with 
the brick floors of the bed-chambers, and the ancient 
rooms with great fire-places. He strove to give a 
Florentine blandishment to the rusticity of life in the 
Maremma ; and we felt sure that he must know 
what beefsteak was. When we ordered it, he as- 
sumed to be perfectly conversant with it, started to 
bring it, paused, turned, and, with a great sacrifice 
of personal dignity, demanded, " Bifsteca di manzo, 
o Ufsteca di motone f " " Beefsteak of beef, or 
beefsteak of mutton ? " 
Of Grossetto proper, this is all I remember, if I 
except a boy whom I heard singing after dark in the 
streets, 
" Camicia rossa, O Garibaldi ! " 
The cause of our sojourn there was an instance of 
forza maggiore, as the agent of the diligence com- 
pany defiantly expressed it, in refusing us damages 
for our overturn into the river. It was in the early 
part of the winter when we started from Rome for 
Venice, and we were traveling northward by dili- 
gence because the railways were still more or less 
interrupted by the storms and floods predicted of 
Matthieu de la Drome, the only reliable prophet 
France has produced since Voltaire ; and if our 
accident was caused by an overruling Providence, the 
company, according to the very law of its existence, 
 
was not responsible. To be sure, we did not see how 
an overruling Providence was to blame for loading 
upon our diligence the baggage of two diligences, 
or for the clumsiness of our driver ; but on the other 
hand, it is certain that the company did not make 
it rain or cause the inundation. And, in fine, 
although we could not have traveled by railway, we 
were masters to have taken the steamer instead of 
the diligence at Civita Vecchia. 
The choice of either of these means of travel had 
presented itself in vivid hues of disadvantage all the 
way from Rome to the Papal port, where the French 
steamer for Leghorn lay dancing a hornpipe upon 
the short, chopping waves, while we approached by 
railway. We had leisure enough to make the deci- 
sion, if that was all we wanted. Our engine-driver 
had derived his ideas of progress from an Encyclical 
Letter, and the train gave every promise of arriving 
at Civita Vecchia five hundred years behind time. 
But such was the desolating and depressing influence 
of the weather and the landscape, that we reached 
Civita Vecchia as undecided as we had left Rome. 
On the one hand, there had been the land, soaked 
and sodden, wild, shagged with scrubby growths 
of timber and brooded over by sullen clouds, and 
visibly inhabited only by shepherds, leaning upon 
their staves at an angle of forty-five degrees, and 
looking, in their immovable dejection, with their legs 
wrapped in long-haired goat-skins, like satyrs that 
had been converted, and were trying to do right ; 
turning dim faces to us, they warned us with every 
 
mute appeal against the land, as a waste of mud 
from one end of Italy to the other. On the other 
hand, there was the sea-wind raving about our train 
and threatening to blow it over, and whenever we 
drew near the coast, heaping the waves upon the 
beach in thundering menace. 
We weakly and fearfully remembered our former 
journeys by diligence over broken railway routes ; 
we recalled our cruel voyage from Genoa to Naples 
by sea ; and in a state of pitiable dismay we ate five 
francs' worth at the restaurant of the Civita Vecchia 
station before we knew it, and long before we had 
made up our minds. Still we might have lingered 
and hesitated, and perhaps returned to Rome at last, 
but for the dramatic resolution of the old man who 
solicited passengers for the diligence, and carried 
their passports for a final Papal visa at the police- 
office. By the account he gave of himself, he was 
one of the best men in the world, and unique in 
those parts for honesty and truthfulness ; and he be- 
sought us, out of that affectionate interest with which 
our very aspect had inspired him, not to go by 
steamer, but to go by diligence, which in nineteen 
hours would land us safe, and absolutely refreshed by 
the journey, at the railway station in Follonica. 
And now, once, would we go by diligence ? twice, 
would we go ? three times, would we go ? 
" Signore," said our benefactor, angrily, " I lose 
my time with you ; " and ran away, to be called- 
back in the course of destiny, as he knew well 
enough, and besought to take us as a special favor. 
 
From the passports he learned that there was offi- 
cial dignity among us, and addressed the unworthy 
bearer of public honors as Eccellenza, and, at parting 
bequeathed his advantage to the conductor, commend- 
ing us all in set terms to his courtesy. He hovered 
caressingly about us as long as we remained, strain- 
ing politeness to do us some last little service ; and 
when the diligence rolled away, he did all that one 
man could to give us a round of applause. 
We laughed together at this silly old man, when 
out of sight ; but we confessed that, if travel in our 
own country ever came, with advancing corruption, 
to be treated with the small deceits practiced upon it 
in Italy, it was not likely to be treated with the small 
civilities also there attendant on it, and so tried to 
console ourselves. 
At the moment of departure, we were surprised to 
have enter the diligence a fellow-countryman, whom 
we had first seen on the road from Naples to Rome. 
He had since crossed our path with that iteration of 
travel which brings you again and again in view of 
the same trunks and the same tourists in the round 
of Rurope, and finally at Civita Vecchia he had 
turned up, a silent spectator of our scene with the 
agent of the diligence, and had gone off apparently 
a confirmed passenger by steamer. Perhaps a nearer 
view of the sailor's hornpipe, as danced by that ves- 
sel in the harbor, shook his resolution. At any rate, 
here he was again, and with his ticket for Follonica, 
a bright-eyed, rosy-cheeked man, and we will say 
a citizen of Portland, though he was not. For the 
 
first time in our long acquaintance with one another's 
faces, we entered into conversation, and wondered 
whether we should find brigands or any thing to eat 
on the road, without expectation of finding either. 
In respect of robbers, we were not disappointed ; but 
shortly after nightfall we stopped at a lonely post- 
house to change horses, and found that the landlord 
had so far counted on our appearance as to have, just 
roasted and fragrantly fuming, a leg of lamb, with 
certain small fried fish, and a sufficiency of bread. 
It was a very lonely place as I say ; the sky was 
gloomy overhead ; and the wildness of the landscape 
all about us gave our provision quite a gamy flavor ; 
and brigands could have added nothing to our sense 
of solitude. 
The road creeps along the coast for some distance 
from Civita Vecchia, within hearing of the sea, and 
nowhere widely forsakes it, I believe, all the way to 
Follonica. The country is hilly, and we stopped 
every two hours to change horses ; at which times 
we looked out, and, seeing that it was a gray and 
windy night, though not rainy, exulted that we had 
not taken the steamer. With very little change, 
the wisdom of our decision in favor of the diligence 
formed the burden of our talk during the whole 
night ; and to think of eluded sea-sickness requited 
us in the agony of our break-neck efforts to catch a 
little sleep, as, mounted upon our nightmares, we 
rode steeple-chases up and down the highways 
and by-ways of horror. Any thing that absolutely 
awakened us was accounted a blessing ; and I re- 
 
member few things in life with so keen a pleasure as 
the summons that came to us to descend from our 
places and cross a river in one boat, while the two 
diligences of our train followed in another. Here 
we had time to see our fellow-passengers, as the pul- 
sating light of their cigars illumined their faces, and 
to discover among them that Italian, common to all 
large companies, who speaks English, and is very 
eager to practice it with you, who is such a bene- 
factor if you do not know his own language, and 
such a bore if you do. After this, being landed, it 
was rapture to stroll up and down the good road, and 
feel it hard and real under our feet, and not an abys- 
mal impalpability, while all the grim shapes of our 
dreams fled to the spectral line of small boats sus- 
taining the ferry-barge, and swaying slowly from it 
as the drowned men at their keels tugged them 
against the tide. 
" S J accommodino, Signori ! " cries the cheerful 
voice of the conductor, and we ascend to our places 
in the diligence. The nightmares are brought out 
again ; we mount, and renew the steeple-chase as be- 
fore. 
Suddenly, it all comes to an end, and we sit wide 
awake in the diligence, amid a silence only broken 
by the hiss of rain against the windows, and the 
sweep of gusts upon the roof. The diligence stands 
still ; there is no rattle of harness, nor other sound 
to prove that we have arrived at the spot by other 
means than dropping from the clouds. The idea 
that we are passengers in the last diligence destroyed 
 
before the Deluge, and are now waiting our fate on 
the highest ground accessible to wheels, fades away 
as the day dimly breaks, and we find ourselves 
planted, as the Italians say, on the banks of another 
river. There is no longer any visible conductor, the 
horses have been spirited away, the driver has van- 
ished. 
"The rain beats and beats upon the roof, and begins 
to drop through upon us in great, wrathful tears, 
while the river before us rushes away with a mo- 
mently swelling flood. Enter now from the depths 
of the storm a number of rainy peasants, with our 
conductor and driver perfectly waterlogged, and 
group themselves on the low, muddy shore, near a 
flat ferry-barge, evidently wanting but a hint of 
forza maggiore to go down with any thing put into it. 
A moment they dispute in pantomime, sending now 
and then a windy tone of protest and expostulation 
to our ears, and then they drop into a motionless si- 
lence, and stand there in the tempest, not braving it, 
but enduring it with the pathetic resignation of their 
race, as if it were some form of hopeless political op- 
pression. At last comes the conductor to us and says, 
It is impossible for our diligences to cross in the boat, 
and he has sent for others to meet us on the opposite 
shore. He expected them long before this, but we 
see ! They are not come. Patience and malediction ! 
Remaining planted in these unfriendly circum- 
stances from four o'clock till ten, we' have still the 
effrontery to be glad that we did not take the steamer. 
What a storm that must be at sea ! When at last 
 
our connecting diligences appear on the other shore, 
we are almost light-hearted, and make a jest of the 
Ombrone, as we perilously pass it in the ferry-boat 
too weak for our diligences. Between the landing 
and the vehicles there is a space of heavy mud to 
cross, and when we reach them we find the coupe 
appointed us occupied by three young Englishmen, 
who insist that they shall be driven to the boat. 
With that graceful superiority which endears their 
nation to the world, and makes the traveling Eng- 
lishman a universal favorite, they keep the seats to 
which they have no longer any right, while the tem- 
pest drenches the ladies to whom the places belong ; 
and it is only by theforza maggiore of our conductor 
that they can be dislodged. In the mean time the 
Portland man exchanges with them the assurances 
of personal and national esteem, which that mighty 
bond of friendship, the language of Shakespeare and 
Milton, enables us to offer so idiomatically to our 
transatlantic cousins. 
What Grossetto was like, as we first rode through 
it, we scarcely looked to see. In four or five hours 
we should strike the railroad at Follonica ; and we 
merely asked of intermediate places that they should 
not detain us. We dined in Grossetto at an inn of 
the Larthian period, a cold inn and a damp, which 
seemed never to have been swept since the broom 
dropped from the grasp of the last Etrurian cham- 
bermaid, and we ate with the two-pronged iron 
forks of an extinct civilization. All the while we 
dined, a boy tried to kindle a fire to warm us, and 
 
beguiled his incessant failures with stories of inunda- 
tion on the road ahead of us. But we believed him so 
little, that when he said a certain stream near Gros- 
setto was impassable, our company all but hissed him. 
When we left the town and hurried into the open 
country, we perceived that he had only too great 
reason to be an alarmist. Every little rill was risen, 
and boiling over with the pride of harm, and the 
broad fields lay hid under the yellow waters that 
here and there washed over the road. Yet the 
freshet only presented itself to us as a pleasant ex- 
citement ; and even when we came to a place where 
the road itself was covered for a quarter of a mile, 
we scarcely looked outside the diligence to see how 
deep the water was. We were surprised when our 
horses were brought to a stand on a rising ground, 
and the conductor, cap in hand, appeared at the door. 
He was a fat, well-natured man, full of a smiling good- 
will ; and he stood before us in a radiant desperation. 
Would Eccellenza descend, look at the water in 
front, and decide whether to go on ? The conductor 
desired to content ; it displeased him to delay, ma, 
in somma ! the rest was confided to the conduct- 
or's eloquent shoulders and eyebrows. 
Eccellenza, descending, beheld but a dishearten- 
ing prospect. On every hand the country was un- 
der water. The two diligences stood on a stone 
bridge spanning the stream, that, now swollen to an 
angry torrent, brawled over a hundred yards of the 
road before us. Beyond, the ground rose, and on 
its slope stood a farm-house up to its second story in 
 
water. Without the slightest hope in his purpose, 
and merely as an experiment, Eccellenza suggested 
that a man should be sent in on horseback ; which 
being done, man and horse in a moment floundered 
into swimming depths. 
The conductor, vigilantly regarding Eccellenza, 
gave a great shrug of desolation. 
Eccellenza replied with a foreigner's broken shrug, 
a shrug of sufficiently correct construction, but 
wanting the tonic accent, as one may say, though ex- 
pressing, however imperfectly, an equal desolation. 
It appeared to be the part of wisdom not to go 
ahead, but to go back if we could ; and we reentered 
the water we had just crossed. It had risen a little 
meanwhile, and the road could now be traced only 
by the telegraph-poles. The diligence before us 
went safely through ; but our driver, trusting rather 
to inspiration than precedent, did not follow it care- 
fully, and directly drove us over the side of a small 
viaduct. All the baggage of the train having been 
