" It isn't, either ! It 's only red strings to 
Maude 's winter bonnet ! " and the row of eyes 
over the banisters looked like a little thunder 
cloud. 
" Oh, it is too it is a plum cake and a 
bottle of pickles ! Girls, we never saw such a 
duck of a bonnet as Maude 's, did we? It 's the 
sweetest love in school, isn't it? " 
This came from Mary Blunt, and the rest 
flew after her down the stairs. Even Maude 
and nobody liked to have her pretty things ad 
mired better than Maude Clare was a little 
suspicious of the singular amount of interest 
that her bonnet excited. She went away up 
stairs with it rather haughtily, that is to say, 
as haughtily as she conveniently could, under 
the circumstances, for the box was heavy, and 
the nails stuck into her chin. 
" She isn't going to stand that ! " 
" Just like Maude ; she 's a stingy thing ! " 
" Gypsy Breynton, you go up after her! " 
Gypsy preferred to wait till she was sent for, 
and did so. Maude Clare called her up at last. 
Cake and pickles were nowhere to be seen; 
Maude stood before the glass, with the winter  
bonnet a rich velvet affair, which the light 
struck as it strikes a garment tied over her 
onyx hair. 
"Pretty, isn't it?" 
" Very." 
Gypsy stood admiring it, and the face inside 
of it, but she was thinking about the pickles. 
What did the girls mean by calling Maude 
Clare "stingy"? 
Presently Maude put away her bonnet, went 
to the closet, and brought out a little a very 
little cucumber on a fork. 
" I would give you more," she said, " but I 'm 
going to save them for to-night. We will have 
the girls in after Biblical, and have a Heigh-o." 
" Oh, splendid ! " Gypsy brightened ; so 
Maude Clare wasn't stingy, and the girls ought 
to be ashamed of themselves. " And the cake 
too?" 
" No, not the cake," said Maude Clare, look 
ing a little displeased. 
Gypsy 's face fell once more. Was she a 
little? or wasn't she? 
It was the custom at the Golden Crescent to 
consider boxes from home as common prop 
erty. There was not a girl in school but her 
" beautiful, darling, precious Maude Clare," 
who would have locked up her plum cake in 
the drawer for private consumption. 
" Isn't Maude going to have a Bang-up to 
night? What! only the pickles? Whe w!" 
This was Jo Courtis judgment. 
" But I 'm sure, Jo, it was very good in her 
to give us those," argued Gypsy, trying to 
comfort herself. 
However nobody objected in the least to tak 
ing what they could get, and at nine o'clock 
Maude Clare 's room was crowded. Miss Holly 
had built a particularly good fire, and Miss 
Holly had brought in chairs, and Miss Holly 
had dusted off the trunks, and Miss Holly had 
borrowed plates of the housekeeper, and Miss 
Holly had done all the work, generally, as she 
was very apt to do, while Maude Clare did the 
honours, and looked handsome. 
But make the best they would of the re 
past, there was certainly a most uncomfor 
table consciousness of an aching void in every 
heart. 
" But clear, bare, unadulterated pickles* you 
know ! " said Josephine, pausing at the outset 
of a mouthful. 
" They last so long and they do seem te 
taste so exactly the same all the way through ! " 
remarked Mary Blunt, in a tone of conviction. 
" Plum cake wouldn't be the thing at all," 
said Gypsy, in an anxious undertone ; " it isn't 
Maude 's fault." 
" Go down and lay siege to Nancy," sug 
gested somebody; and Jo went down. She 
was gone about ten minutes. 
" It must be something extra superfine, you 
see," said Gypsy, " it has taken her so long to 
tease it out." Jo came in laughing. 
" Here is a dainty dish to set before the 
king ! speaking of kings. Oh, my bleeding 
heart ! you ought to have seen me squeezed 
up there behind the door on the back stairs, 
waiting for Madame la Holt to clear the way ; 
nearly twisted my neck off, to say nothing of 
the spiders, and stepping on the cat and then 
choking her so she shouldn't howl over it, 
and just look here." 
Three cold fish-balls on a cracked saucer ! 
" That depraved female has either been read- 
ing her Bible, or getting her quarter 's wages," 
observed Mary Blunt, after a solemn pause. 
" I 'm going down to appeal to the humanity 
&gt;f Dolly. I gave Dolly two old crinolines and 
linen collar last week; habit of mine to pro 
vide for emergencies ; you see if I don't bring 
up bread and butter for you hot bread ; crisp 
pieces of crust; right out of the oven; with 
the butter melting." 
Mary was gone another ten minutes, and 
came back with a tumbler of water. 
" Take it somebody, do ! I can't hold it for 
laughing. Here, Lou Armstrong, you must 
faint right away if you have the least regard for 
my conscience. Ran into Mrs. M. splash ! 
Knocked off her waterfall you ought to have 
seen it spin ! begged her pardon, but my 
feelings were agitated my room-mate was 
sick, and wanted a glass of water. And Oh 
dear ! the woman was so compassionate, and 
offered to come up and see her ! Wouldn't 
anybody have the goodness to be thirsty ! " 
The prospect began to look serious; the 
" clear, bare, unadulterated pickles," 
impossible, through that hope deferred, which maketh 
the heart sick. 
At last Maude Clare said that she had 
thought of a plan. Maude Clare was famous 
for thinking of plans, and very willing to look 
on and see somebody else carry them out. 
There is a plate of oyster crackers on the 
china closet shelf; I saw them this noon, when 
we hadn't enough for the oysters, and Dolly 
said they were all gone." Maude was inter 
rupted by a chorus of " Just the thing ! " 
"And Gypsy might go down she 's so 
little through the dining-room ; there isn't 
a soul there ; if anybody comes, she can whisk 
up the kitchen stairs, and if anybody comes 
from the kitchen, she can want my Testament 
that I dropped under the dining-room table at 
Biblical. You are so little, you know, Gypsy, 
and can get out of the way like a squirrel. I 
would go myself, but I 'm always so big; 
everybody sees me" 
Gypsy 's eyes had begun to twinkle at th 
prospect. What good fun it would be ! And 
when a thing promised good fun, Gypsy was 
not apt to think very far about it. 
" Good ! I 'll do it. Here I bequeath you 
my pickle, girls, if I come to an untimely end. 
Keep it sacred to my memory, will you?" So, 
with her bubbling laugh, she bounded away 
from them, and downstairs. 
The entry was nearly dark. The lamp at 
the foot of the stairs had gone out, and only 
the light from the front hall fell in faintly. The 
house was quite still. 
Mademoiselle was correcting exercises in the 
back parlour. Jacqueline Delancey had fallen 
asleep over her practising, in the music-room. 
Phoebe Hand 's room was just opposite the din 
ing-room door, but Phcebe Hand 's room was 
always still. Phcebe roomed with Miss Ayre, 
and that kept the girls away. Besides, as 
Maude Clare said, " a lame girl isn't nice com 
pany; she can't go about; and then it makes 
you nervous to see an ugly crutch round all the 
time, though, to be sure, it isn't her fault." 
Gypsy stole into the dining-room, and 
looked around; crept to the closet door, and 
looked around; nobody was to be seen; nobody 
was to be heard. A little fleck of light fell 
through a chink in the kitchen door, and fell 
exactly upon the plate of crackers. 
She stepped in on the softest tiptoe, leaving 
the door open a crack behind her, for the sake 
of the light. The plate was large, and very 
full. She could not move it without rattling 
off its contents, and she reflected that to climb 
the side stairs dropping crackers all the way, 
and that within an entry 's width of Miss Ayer, 
would be an undertaking more rash than val 
orous. Accordingly she decided to put the 
crackers into her pocket. Maude had a plate 
upstairs, and school-girls are not particular. 
The last cracker was just in, when she heard 
a noise. Somebody groping for the door- 
handle, and before she could stir, somebody 
groping, groping, across the dining-room; then 
a resounding blow, and a crash, and a groan, 
and a voice, 
"Oh, the Land 's End! Oh, goodness gra 
cious mercy on me ! I ve gone over that 
rocking-chair again ! Nancy, Nancy ! Here ! 
You ve let that entry lamp go out, and this is 
the third time I ve broken my bones over Mrs. 
McMunn 's rocking-chair, this blessed night. 
Come right along with a match now, as quick 
as you can ! " 
Gypsy, in the closet, choked and gasped, 
and stuffed her mouth with crackers to keep 
herself from laughing. Nancy came, mutter 
ing, with a lamp, and the housekeeper scolded 
till her ankle-bones felt better. 
" You may leave the lamp," she said then. 
" I want to use it, to lock up for the night." 
Oh dear ! Oh dear ! she was coming into the 
closet ! Already her heavy steps sounded half 
way across the room, limped by the register, 
thundered up to the door. Gypsy had but an 
instant to think. A barrel, nearly empty, stood 
under the shelves. She whisked it out, climbed 
into it, gave a little lurch partly back under the 
shelves, and crouched there, waiting. Mrs. 
Holt came in with her lamp in her hand, and 
her spectacles on her nose. 
Gypsy held her breath. Mrs. Holt dusted a 
plate, and looked into the sugar-bowl; shook 
down the salt-cellars; looked in the macaroni 
drawer, and counted the tumblers. 
Gypsy, becoming suffocated, gave a little 
gasp. 
Mrs. Holt stopped, and looked around. 
" Another mouse, I declare ! Nancy, bring 
the trap." 
Nancy brought the trap, and the housekeeper, 
after setting it, put it down behind Gypsy 's 
barrel. 
" Nancy ! " she called again. Nancy came 
back. 
" Have you been meddling with this barrel, 
pushing it out in this style, from under the 
shelf ? " 
Nancy had not been meddling with the 
barrel, and Nancy wished, though this was in 
an undertone, that folks would mind their 
business, and let her go to bed in peace. 
Mrs. Holt took hold of the barrel with her 
stout arms, and rolled it up with a jerk into the 
corner, under the shelves. 
" I wouldn't have thought of its being so 
heavy," she remarked half aloud, as she paused 
for breath. "There must be more sugar left 
than I supposed." 
Upon that, she went out, shut the door, 
locked it, put the key in her pocket, and 
limped away. 
" And never thought a thing about the 
crackers ! " gasped Gypsy, through her stifled 
laughter. " Locked me in, with them in my 
pocket. Oh, I never did ! How the girls will 
laugh ! Oh dear, oh dear ! Now it 's only to 
jerk out my barrel from under this old shelf, 
and then in through the dumb waiter into the 
kitchen and up the back stairs. Nancy will be 
abed, or if she isn't, why, I 'll give her an old 
necktie to-morrow, and that will be the end of 
her. Now, Mrs. Halt, we 'll see ? " 
See, she did, in a very unexpected manner. 
For the sugar barrel absolutely refused to 
move. She jerked it and turned it ; she leaned 
over on this side, she leaned over on the other; 
she worked herself round in it; she jumped 
up and down in it that is to say, she rose and 
fell a very little way laboriously, bumping her 
head each time against the shelf. But all 
to no purpose. The barrel remained in statu 
quo. 
"You won't will you?" said Gypsy, 
apostrophising it slowly. " Now, my dear, if 
I were a barrel, I wouldn't ; I really would n t. 
I don't think it 's sweet-tempered in you ; and 
who has facilities for cultivating sweet temper, 
if you haven t? Now, if Jo Courtis gets over 
this in a term ! I don't see as there is anything 
to do but to call the daughters of Erin. 
" Nancy ! Dolly ! Nancy ! " Somebody was 
shuffling about the kitchen, but nobody 
answered. 
"Nancy!" 
The shuffling stopped, apparently in some 
alarm. 
" Nancy ! Nancy Donnavan I Let me out ! " 
" Arrah ! The howly mither ! What 's that 
now?" 
"It 's I locked up here in a barrel, and I 
can't get out ! " called Gypsy. " You crawl 
in the dumb waiter, and pull me out, you 
know. Nan-try, unfasten the dumb waiter, 
quick ! " 
The only answer was a quick stampede, as 
of some one hiding behind the pantry door, 
and a terrified, panting breath broken up into 
short cries of " Oh, Lor have mercy ! " " An 
it 's kilt intirely I am with the fear!" And 
"To think of their selthin afther a poor 
creether this time o night the very time this 
day year, me third cousin died of the liver com 
plaint, an me sole an alon in the kitchen ! 
Oh, good gracious ! " 
Gypsy, rinding that any ordinary noise which 
she could make rather complicated than bet 
tered her prospects of release, began forthwith 
to make a most extraordinary one. She rattled 
the barrel, she pounded the barrel; she 
bumped the shelf ; she slapped the shelf; 
she shouted after Nancy till her breath 
out. 
Nancy gave one howl, 
" Och ! it 's the ghost of him, as true as I 'm 
a livin sinner ! The Virgin an the blessed 
Saints have mercy on us," threw her apron 
over her head, and tore upstairs as if her last 
hour had come. 
It was absolutely necessary to laugh now, no 
matter what the consequences. 
" Dear me ! " said Miss Ayre, coming to her 
door in her night-dress, and putting the edge 
of her sharp chin out into the cool entry air, 
" what a racket ! Do you know what mischief 
the girls are up to to-night, Phcebe? On the 
whole, though, I think it must be Nancy 
putting away her tubs." 
She went back and shut the door, and after 
that the house was still. Very still ; in fact, it 
seemed to Gypsy as if she had never known it 
so still. Her very breaths sounded like groans, 
and a crack of the barrel like a thunderclap. 
What was to be done? The idea of staying 
locked up all night in a china-closet in a 
barrel under a shelf! Jerk herself free she 
could not, and tip herself over she dared not. 
Such a noise in that deathly stillness would 
wake every echo and every inmate of the 
house. The chance of crawling through into 
the kitchen and escaping upstairs before dis 
covery was too slight to be worth the risk. 
Besides, the dumb waiter might be fastened 
upon the other side. 
" C-h-a-r-ming little fix ! Now I should like 
to know ! Let me see ; if I tip over, no, I 
won't tip over. Mrs. M. would be frantic. If 
I stay where I am and go to sleep, why, by- 
and-by it will be morning, and Nancy will be 
up building the furnace fire early, and if she 
doesn't expect her third cousin to walk round 
by daylight, she will let me out ; and what .s 
more, she will hold her tongue about it. But 
to sleep in a sugar-barrel ! Let 's taste ; yes, 
to be sure. I wonder how many pounds there 
are, or quarts don't they sell sugar by the 
quart? I wonder if I shall have to pay for it 
You blessed little woman at home, what would 
you think of this? I wonder what the girls 
did with my pick-le and " 
By the time that she had thought as far as 
this, she was asleep. So, by that time, was 
every one else. Maude Clare and the rest, 
finding that she and the crackers did not make 
their appearance, supposed that she had been 
playing a trick upon them, and was gone to 
bed. Jane Bruce, sound asleep half an hour 
ago, did not suppose anything about her. 
In the middle of the night there was an 
unearthly noise in the china-closet. Gypsy, 
dreaming that there was a mouse down her 
neck, had tipped over her barrel. 
Miss Ayre came to her door and screamed 
" Robbers ! " Mrs. Holt appeared in an in 
describable wrapper, groped into the dining- 
room, tripped over the inevitable rocking-chair, 
and fiercely demanded, "Who 's there? Mr. 
Holt, bring along that gun ! " This worthy 
man, twenty years since departed to a world 
where thieves do not break through and steal, 
was invariably at least so ran the traditiofc 
made formidable use of against that per 
sistent burglar by whom the dreams of his 
valiant relict were almost nightly disturbed. 
" Mr. Holt 's gun " had passed into a proverb 
at the Golden Crescent, but never with her own 
ears had Gypsy actually heard it appealed to 
before. It took her so long to smother her 
laughter and gain her breath, that Mrs. Holt 
had gone back to bed, and the house was 's . 'll 
again, and she had not called for help. 
" However, now I 'm tipped over," she 
thought, " I don't see what is to prevent my 
trying the dumb waiter and getting upstairs in 
my stocking-feet Hilloa ! " 
The dumb waiter was fastened upon the 
other side. 
There being nothing to do but to go to sleep 
again, Gypsy lay down with her head in the 
barrel, and went to sleep ; and that was the last 
she knew till it was morning, and somebody 
was trying the key in the door. 
Mrs. Holt had waked at six o'clock and 
wjiought of those crackers, and, forthwith jump 
Ing into her dressing-gown and spectacles, 
down she had come, frowning and suspicious, 
to see if they were safe. 
She flung open the door and glared in. 
There lay Gypsy, with her head in the sugar- 
barrel. 
" Miss BREYNTON ! " said Mrs. Holt, in a 
voice of thunder. 
" Ma 'am ? " said Gypsy, sleepily. 
"Is it you?" 
"I suppose so," said Gypsy, faintly. "I
don't know exactly. I went to sleep, and 
then-" 
Mrs. Holt solemnly took off her spectacles, 
solemnly rubbed them, solemnly put them on 
again, solemnly pinched Gypsy to see if she 
were flesh and blood, locked the door upon 
her, and went straight to Mrs. McMunn. 
Gypsy waited and trembled. Mrs. McMunn 
came with awful haste, threw open the door, 
and stood speechless. In the agitation conse 
quent upon Mrs. Holt 's announcemeal, the 
good lady had succeeded in fastening her 
waterfall precisely in a line with her right ear, 
and there it hung gracefully swaying, tremu 
lous yet, from her hurried descent of the stairs. 
Gypsy became so much interested in watching 
it that she very nearly forgot what Mrs. 
McMunn had come for. The Principal, 
however, quickly restored her memory. 
" Miss Gypsy Breynton ! " 
" Yes, m, I know it," said Gypsy, meekly. 
" I should like to know," proceeded Mrs. Mc 
Munn, with a severe shake of her waterfall, &gt; 
"I should like to know, if you will be so good 
as to tell me, how you came here, and what 
you have been doing." 
Just then something rattled out of Gypsy 's 
pocket, and spun away over the bare floor. 
" It 's my crackers ! " screamed the house 
keeper, looking in over Mrs. McMunn 's shoul 
ders. " It 's those crackers, that I lay awake 
half the night over, I was so anxious about 
them. Oh, the Land 's End ! to think of it ! " 
" Oh, I forgot," said Gypsy. " Yes, the girls 
wanted the crackers, Mrs. McMunn, and I 
never thought, and so I came down and Mrs. 
Holt locked me in, and then you see I thought 
there was a mouse in my neck and the barrel 
tipped me over, and I 'm very sorry, Mrs. 
McMunn, but you can't think how funny it was, 
I don't think you can possibly think how funny 
it was, unless you were to see me, now really." 
The teacher 's mouth twitched a little. 
" Miss Breynton, we have had enough of this 
levity, I think we have had enough of this levity." 
" Yes, m," replied Gypsy mildly, regarding 
her with an attentive air. 
" You re not attending to what I say ! " said 
her teacher, rather sharply. " What are you 
looking at?" 
" Oh, I do beg your pardon ! " Gypsy 
blushed all over. "I was only thinking I 
was only looking " 
"At what?" insisted the Principal. 
"At your your waterfall, you know." 
It was now Mrs. McMunn 's turn to blush. 
She felt round her head with both hands, after 
the unfortunate waterfall, till she found it; 
when, by way of improving the matter, she 
took it off and put it in her pocket. Gypsy 
felt that the scene beggared description, but 
look, she dared not. 
"Altogether too much levity," repeated the 
Principal, as severely as she knew how. 
"And I really never would have supposed, 
Miss Breynton, that you could be capable 
of" 
" Mrs. McMunn," interrupted Gypsy, seriously. 
- If you had spent the night in a sugar-barrel, 
squeezed up in a funny little heap you 've no 
idea what a funny little heap it would make 
of you under an old shelf, and bumped your 
head every time you stirred, and found the dumb 
waiter locked on top of it, and all, you wouldn't 
want to be scolded very badly, Mrs. McMunn." 
" In the sugar-barrel ! Oh, Miss Breynton, 
Miss Breynton ! " 
Mrs. McMunn gave up all efforts at com 
posure, collapsed upon the nearest firkin, and 
laughed till she cried. She seemed to recol 
lect, at last, that Gypsy remained there to be 
scolded, and grew suddenly severe again. 
" I really never should have thought you 
capable, Miss Gypsy, of stealing anybody 's 
crackers, much less " 
" Stealing ! " 
"Certainly, my dear. What was it if it 
wasn't stealing?" 
" Why, so it was," said horrified Gypsy, 
after some consideration. " Why, I never 
thought ! Why, how funny ! " 
" Funny i " said poor Mrs. McMunn, in im 
minent danger of subsiding upon the firkin again. 
" Funny, Miss Breynton? Why, really, I " 
"What will that blessed woman say?" 
observed Gypsy in an undertone, seriously 
enough. " Stealing ! And I must tell her all 
about it to-night. And to think it never 
crossed my mind now ! " 
"What blessed woman, my dear?" asked 
Mrs. McMunn, looking very much flattered. 
" Only my mother," said Gypsy, looking up. 
" Mrs. McMunn, I believe I ve been a horrid 
little wretch, and I ask your pardon, you know, 
and I 'll pay for the sugar, but I 'm sure I did 
not mean to be a horrid little wretch, and if 
you please, I 'll never get into any of your 
sugar-barrels again. I don't suppose I ever 
shall hear the last of this, though." 
She never did. 
GYPSY, Why don't Mrs. 
Makmunn let you come home? 
I don't like her. If I should 
just see her, I 'd knock her down, sir, and 
then I 'd stamp on her, and then I 'd frow 
sum orful cold watter on her. My Cat had 2 
fits ; she skratched Mrs. Surly too. I swallerd 
a apple-seed yesterday, Why won't it gro upp 
into a napple-tree inside of me. I wouldn't 
like that. Tommy Rowe 's dorg she laid him 
little dorgs last week. They haven't got any 
feathers. Besides, they re blind, and Besides, 
they can't see anything. Father says if I etc 
so much pop corn, I shan't live long enuff 
to gro up and keep my kandy-shop. I am 
bigger n I was when you were hear. I am 
a big Boy and go two Sundy-School now. I 
know about Elijah. I would like to be as good 
Mann as Elijah was. Of kourse a Prophett is 
a great deal gooder than a kandy-man. Now 
you just write me a leter as good as this. 
MR. WINNIE BREYNTON. 
Yorkbury, Vt 
Gypsy laid down the letter laughing, and 
took up her mother s. She had already read 
that through twice, but one part of it much 
surprised and somewhat puzzled her. So, 
thinking it over, she read it again. It ran thus : 
Be on your guard a little, Gypsy. There 
will be, figuratively speaking, a good many 
plates of crackers at the Golden Crescent, 
which will draw you into locked closets, unless 
you are on the watch against being led. Be 
cause the girls are older than you, they have 
a certain advantage of influence. Struggle 
against it. Take your own time to think, and 
act as you think, if what you think is right 
Yoar " beautiful, darling, precious Maude 
Clare for instance ; she may be a very nice 
girl, but remember that you do not yet know 
very much about her. If, some day or other, 
you should find out that she is not exactly 
what she seems to you to be in fact, that 
she is something very different from what she 
seems to you to be, it would be only what has 
happened in girls lives ever since there have 
been any girls. However, any such discoveries 
that are to be made, you must make for your 
self. I only throw out now and then a bit of a 
hint, by way of signal-light. 
By the way, speaking of Maude Clare, re 
minds me: Be sure that you are a perfect 
lady, no matter what anybody else may ever 
prove to be. 
As ever, lovingly, 
MOTHER. 
When Gypsy had read this for the third 
time, she threw her Virgil and Lexicon with 
such a bang upon the floor that quiet Jane 
jumped half-way across the room. 
"Why, Gypsy! What on earth is the 
matter?" 
" Nothing," said Gypsy, with flushed cheek, 
"only I have something to say to mother; 
that 's all" 
She sat straight down and wrote : 
"Why, mother! Why, I never! Why, 
how could you? You just went and hinted 
that Maude Clare isn't a perfect lady you 
know you did ! Why, she 's so par&Vular, and 
so proud, you ve no idea; and last summer 
one day a gentleman kissed her and she fired 
up and told him he didn't dare to do that 
again, and he did it again, and by-and-by she 
got up and walked right out of the room. She 
never lets people take liberties with her, and 
she 's so polite, too, and I think you re very 
much mistaken, and I don't see what made you 
say such a thing, for you see you don't know 
hardly anything about her; only what I 've 
told you; and I don't see how I can help 
knowing best, mother, I 'm sure." 
Had Gypsy seen the smile with which her 
mother read this, she would have been more 
perplexed than ever. 
One afternoon when study-hours were over, 
Maude Clare came upstairs to ask Gypsy to 
go to walk with her. 
" Why you see," said Gypsy, hesitating, 
with a glance at the window, where her room 
mate was finishing her French exercise, " I 
promised Jane I 'd go with her. I don't go 
with her very often, you know. It 's too 
bad, though; I 'd a great deal rather go with 
you." 
This was in a whisper, but whispers are al 
ways more easily audible than people suppose; 
Jane may have heard it, for she turned over the 
leaves of her Fasquelle quickly, with a sudden 
flush upon her cheek. 
"Oh, Jane doesn't care; do you, Jane?" 
said Maude, aloud. 
" Care about what? " 
" Let Gypsy go to walk with me, there 's 
a good girl. I have a particular reason for 
wanting her to-day." 
"A particular reason?" questioned Gypsy, 
curious and undecided. 
" Oh, don't mind me," spoke up Jane, hur 
riedly. " I don't care that is, I mean I 
would rather have you do as you feel about it 
I can go with Phoebe Hand just as well, you 
know." 
" It 's a very particular reason," urged Maude. 
Gypsy, still looking undecided, began to put 
on her things, saying something to Jane mean 
while about being sorry, and hating to break 
an engagement, and she didn't know 
but 
Jane put an end to the matter by running 
down to find Phoebe ; and Gypsy and Maude 
Clare went slowly down after her, and out of 
the house. Maude was chattering about the 
fit of her gloves. Gypsy did not listen. 
" It is good," she interrupted suddenly. 
"What the colour?" 
" No ; I wasn't thinking about gloves. I 
mean Jane Bruce." 
" Well, what about Jane Bruce? " 
Maude spoke a little sharply, and pulled up 
her gloves with a jerk. As long as Miss 
Maude Clare was the subject of remark, this 
young lady evinced unusual conversational
abilities. Strike off upon another topic, and one 
could but notice every one, that fs, but 
Gypsy how suddenly her interest flagged, 
and her brilliancy grew dim. 
" Why, I was thinking how good it is in her 
to go so much with that Phoebe Hand," 
pursued Gypsy, too busy with the thought to ob 
serve how Maude had received it. " She walks 
with her, and she rides with her, and she goes 
in to see her ; I don't see how she can, I 'm sure, 
with Miss Ayre looking round." 
" Yes," said uninterested Maude. " Yes, I 
suppose so. Look at Jack Delancey showing 
off those everlasting hands of hers across the 
road there ! She wears kid gloves all the time 
just because they make them look smaller. I 
wouldn't be seen in kids every day, such 
freezing weather as this, in such a little country 
place as Snapberry." 
" I think your hands look prettier in Cash 
mere than they do in kid," observed Gypsy. 
" Such little soft brown stuff curves and fits so 
easily; besides, it makes the fingers look 
shorter." 
" Yes," said Maude Clare ; " I don't know 
but it does. It isn't everybody that can bear 
Cashmere without making one 's hands look like 
a cook s. I know Jack couldn't, because hers 
are so fat. I declare ! See her flirting her 
handkerchief at those boys. How she does 
act ! See, she has on her best bonnet too, and 
I never saw anybody sail about the streets as 
she does, since she had that trailing green pop 
lin. I 'd bet you a cookie, as Jo Courtis 
says, that Jack Delancey considers herself Num 
ber i in this school, in fact, I have it on very 
good authority, that she said so herself, to 
Mary Blunt" 
" Number I ! " repeated Gypsy, looking puz 
zled. " Why, what do you mean by Number I ? " 
" Why I mean just Number I ! I can't put it 
any plainer ; if you don't know what that is." 
" Why, I 'm sure she doesn't profess to be 
the best scholar," said Gypsy, considering, 
" nor the best behaved ; and she isn't a bit of a 
favourite among the girls, and 
" You little simpleton ! " interrupted Maude 
Clare, with her patronising laugh. " Of course 
I don't mean anything like that. If you must 
have a translation, Number I means the most 
stylish, the most distingue, the I suppose 
having the most of an air to your things, 
and plenty of money, you know, and why, all 
that." 
" Oh ! " said Gypsy. She looked down the 
street as she spoke, where Jacqueline 's striking 
green poplin dragged its slow length along, and 
Jacqueline 's feathers and ribbons were blowing 
about in the wind. Then turning around, her 
eye fell on Phoebe, limping down the hill, and 
leaning heavily on Jane Bruce 's arm. 
" You haven't shown yourself much inter 
ested in what I said before we came out," said 
Maude Clare, in an aggrieved tone, after a 
silence had fallen between the two. 
Gypsy started from her musing, and begged 
pardon. 
" Your particular reason for wanting me to 
day ? Oh yes, I am interested ; I want to know, 
Of course I want to know. What was it?" 
"I have something to show you, ma 
and that 's why " 
"Something to " 
" That is to say, somebody." 
"Maude Clare, what is the matter? What 's 
up? What are you blushing about? " 
Maude Clare indignantly denied that she 
was blushing, and somewhat unintelligibly re 
quested Gypsy not to say anything, but to wait 
and see. Gypsy, not having anything to say, 
said nothing, but waited and saw. 
Presently Maude Clare turned from the main 
street into a quiet by-road, bounded with 
stone walls and apple-trees, and comparatively 
secure from a crowd of passers. 
" Why, what are you turning up Love Lane 
for?" asked Gypsy. "It isn't half so good 
walking; the ground is all frozen up in little 
jolts, Maude." 
"You 'll see," said Maude, mysteriously. 
At the same time she was looking very intently 
up the road. 
" There ! " she said at last, and pulled her 
spotted lace veil it was very becoming 
down suddenly over her face. 
"There what?" 
"There he is." 
Gypsy observed then, far up the road, the 
figure of a young man or boy approaching 
them. He was not very tall, but of rather a 
graceful form, and even at that distance she 
could see that he was fresh from the hands of a 
city tailor. 
"Who is he, Maude?" 
" Hush-sh ! It 's Ben Sizer." 
Gypsy hushed ; thinking that it was some 
old acquaintance of whom Maude Clare had 
never chanced to speak to her. She was much 
surprised to see that, as the young fellow 
neared them, Maude did not bow to him. She 
glanced up with a smile one of those brilliant 
smiles, such as had attracted Gypsy in the car 
on the evening that they came to the Golden 
Crescent and then looked demurely on the 
gtmd, her eyelashes on her cheeks, and her 
hands in her sacque-pockets. 
The stranger had scarcely passed her, how 
ever, when he stopped, and, raising his hat, said 
something in an undertone that Gypsy did not 
hear ; at the same time handing her his card. 
If Gypsy had been surprised before, she was 
struck dumb when Maude Clare, instead of 
repelling the impertinence in a dignified way, 
took the card with a blush and a smile, drew 
her own from her pocket, handed it to him, 
and with a familiar " Good-afternoon " walked 
slowly on. 
Gypsy waited till they were out of hearing, 
then expressed her opinion in this fashion: 
" Why, Maude Clare Smith ! " 
"Well, what 's the matter? You needn't 
tuck on my last name if you are mystified. 
Anybody would think you had been taking 
lessons of Jack Delancey." 
" I should like to know ! " 
"Know what?" 
" Didn't you why, haven't you ever seen 
that boy before to-day?" 
Maude laughed noisily. 
" Occasionally yes, dear; about a dozen 
times, perhaps." 
"Why, where?" 
" Oh, church, and lectures, and down town, 
ftnd so on. You ve seen him too, only you 
hadn't the sense to remember it. Did you 
ever see such eyes? And such a love of a 
moustache ! " 
" Why, then, you must be acquainted with 
him, I suppose?" 
" Depends upon what you call acquaintance. 
I never spoke to him till to-day. It was real 
bright in him to think of introducing himself 
that way, wasn't it? I never should have got 
an introduction any other way. Nobody knows 
him in school but Jack Delancey, and she 'd 
sooner cut her head off than have him fall 
into my hands. It will be a joke to hear what 
My Lady has to say to this. It was so cute." 
" Cute ! Why, I thought he was the most 
impudent fellow I ever saw. But you won't 
treat him like anybody else, of course, and bow 
to him?" 
" My dear little Gypsy, pray, why shouldn't 
I ! Of course I wouldn't without any intro 
duction, like Jack; but I 'm sure he was 
very thoughtful and gentlemanly about it, 
and I don't see any reason for cutting him. 
I don't care anything about it though, any 
way, and very likely I shall if I feel like 
it." 
" Oh," said Gypsy, looking a little relieved ; 
" well, I hope you won't have anything more 
to do with him, anyway ; it isn't a bit like 
you." But after this she was silent for some 
time. 
"Have you ever met him before in Love 
Lane?" she questioned presently. 
" Why, let me see ; once or twice, perhaps," 
said Maude Clare, evasively. 
" But you know something about him, I 
suppose, who he is, and all." 
" Why, stupid ! he is Mr. Ben Sizer." 
" But, I mean, anything more, you know." 
" Well, he is a student at Harvard College^ 
I believe ; so Jack says." 
" Harvard ! But it 's term time at Harvard ; 
how happens he to be here?" 
" Oh, I don't know, nor care," said Maude, 
carelessly. " Hush ! I declare ! Look 
round ! " 
Gypsy looked, and saw, to her surprise, that 
Mr. Benjamin Sizer was following them at a 
rapid pace. 
"The horrid, impudent old thing! Come, 
Maude, let 's hurry home." 
Just then, the most surprising series of acci 
dents happened to Miss Maude Clare. She 
dropped her glove, and she was sure that she 
had lost her purse, and her boot-lacing came 
untied, and her veil blew off, and, take it alto 
gether, she was delayed so long upon the side 
walk that Mr. Sizer had picked up the veil, 
had joined them to return it, had fallen into 
step to walk beside them, and had been for 
mally introduced to Gypsy, before Gypsy had 
fairly recovered from her amazement and seen 
through the performance. 
At this point, however, " I 'm going to walk 
on ! " she said, with bright cheeks and indig 
nant eyes. 
Maude Clare exclaimed: " Oh, don t, 
Gypsy ! Stay with us, it 's only a little 
way." 
" I should be really very sorry to be de 
prived of the pleasure of your company," 
urged the collegian, with a very low bow. 
" Can't help it if you are ! " said Gypsy, 
bluntly. " It 's against the rules, and I'm
going home." 
And home she went as fast as her feet could 
carry her. 
" Spunky ! I declare ! " she heard Mr. 
Sizer observe as she crossed the street. 
He strolled on slowly with Maude Clare, 
very slowly; there were no teachers upon the 
street; the twilight was falling. The twilight 
had quite fallen when Maude Clare came in. 
Gypsy was sitting alone in the dark, with her 
cheek leaning upon her hand, and her hat in 
her lap; she had not taken off the rest of 
her things, but seemed to have dropped 
into the first chair that she came to, deep in 
thought. 
" Gypsy this you ? " 
" Yes." 
" What are you sitting here in this azure 
fashion for?" 
Maude Clare came up and pinched her cheek, 
as she was used to, to " find the dimple," and 
kissed her several times. Gypsy sat silent, and 
did not return the caress. 
" Gypsy, how cross you are ! What ails 
you?" 
But Gypsy sat silent still. If it had not 
been dark, Maude Clare might have seen that 
her pretty black eyelashes were wet. She 
was thinking of what her mother had said. 
She was thinking of Mr. Benjamin Sizer. All 
her sense of delicacy and dignity had been 
jarred. Could a lady have done what Maude 
had done that afternoon? She must answer 
her own question honestly, and it hurt her it 
did hurt a little to decide it against her 
" precious Maude Clare." 
But Maude stood there, looking very hand 
some and grieved and injured, and she 
caressed the dimple back into its place with 
her pretty soft fingers, and so they went 
down to tea together, and Gypsy said nothing 
about it 
ANGEL OF A MOTHER, Holidays, holidays, holidays ! 
The darling McMunn has given us a week, and I 'll 
never laugh at her waterfall again, if I can 
help it. I shall just catch that blessed Thomas, 
and I shall sleep again in my own dear room, 
and I shall climb into your own dear arms, and 
besides, I shall have some rice griddle-cakes, 
and I really don't know whether I am standing 
on my head or my feet. 
Your bewildered 
GYPSY. 
P. S. Maude Clare means to write to me 
every day. A week is so long to be separated. 
to* 
The little letter hurries on its way, and the 
days are hurrying with it. There is much sur 
prise and expecting and making ready, in the 
happy Green Mountain home. There is impa 
tient waiting and there are longing eyes, and 
there is a wild sense of freedom in the very 
grammars and lexicons at the Golden Crescent 
Gypsy falters through the last Virgil lesson, 
corrects the last French exercise, plunges poor 
Chaplain Goss into despair over her last equa 
tion, by announcing that x equals one goose 
and two-thirds of a goose, rushes through the 
last Shakespeare reading and the last composi 
tion, loses the last lead-pencil, and tips over 
the last ink-bottle; bestows the last crinoline 
on Dolly, takes the last look at Mrs. McMunn 's 
ivaterfall, the last kiss from Maude Clare 's red 
rtps, and before she knows exactly what is hap 
pening, has been steamed into Yorkbury, and 
rumbled up in the old coach to the old home- 
door, with the old dear faces clustered on the 
steps. 
Ah, such a pleasant week; such a short; 
dear week ! She grudges every moment spent 
in night and sleep, and is sure that the days 
are not so long by several hours as they were 
when last she was at home. Her mother 's 
sweet, bright face is there, to be watched and 
kissed and patted and talked to, hours without 
end. Her father 's mind must be set at rest as 
to the exact amount of her expenses, and the 
ventilation of her room at the Golden Crescent. 
Winnie 's cat, feeling called upon to contribute 
to the entertainment, has three fits regularly 
every day; which furnish Winnie with a most 
fruitful and interesting subject of conversation, 
in season and out of season. Patty, with 
beaming face, concocts the most delicious of 
rice-cakes and Charlotte Russe, to honour the 
vacation, and in addition gives astonishing 
and practical evidence of her favour, by volun 
teering to make Miss Gypsy 's bed for her while 
she is at home, which, be it recorded, Patty has 
never thought herself capable of before. But, 
best of all, is the short, sweet sight of Tom. 
" So nice, you know, that his vacation should 
Just come right with mine," Gypsy says, " and 
did you ever see such a handsome fellow in all 
your life?" "Besides," she writes to Maude 
Clare, " he studies like a house on fire, and 
behaves like a deacon, and I have a good realt; 
son for being glad of that. Perhaps," she is 
going to add, " perhaps I will tell you about 
it sometime ; " but hesitates, and leaves the 
sentence unfinished. Maude Clare is not ex 
actly the one to hear that story. Some quick 
tears spring just then into her eyes; for she 
has a thought of another than Maude Clare, 
whom she used to love with a very different 
love from that which she gives to this strong, 
bright, handsome girl,, another, ^vho knew 
all about " that story." As for the meaning of 
these two memories, will it not be found re 
corded in the chronicles of " Gypsy 's Sowing 
and Reaping"? or according to Winnie (who 
has, by chance, heard a distant report of that 
book), " Gypsy 's Sewing and Ripping" 
Right into the happy week come Christmas 
frolics and sweet New Year hopes and wishes, 
and last, but not least, a present or two. 
Gypsy, undoing a curious, oblong bundle that 
she finds in her chair at the breakfast-table, 
