 
be nble to secure something else without much difficulty. 
I i'elt armed, as it were, to fight any battle now. 
Such interminable days as these were! I was very quiet 
outwardly, but within reigned chaos resolves, prejudices, 
and events vibrating and influencing one another, until I 
felt strangely irresolute. Even the thought of love ceased 
to charm. 
The breach between Mrs. Lawrence and myself widened * 
perceptibly. There was nothing tangible in her demeanor; 
indeed, she sometimes appeared more solicitous ; but I had 
a consciousness that these phases were not real, and that 
she assumed them from a sense of duty. Disliking the 
senior Mrs. Channing, she could not approve Aylmer's mar- 
riage cordially, and held me in some degree answerable for 
it. Besides this, she experienced a pang of secret mortifi- 
cation that, with my many advantages, I was not married. 
The weather was growing intensely warm. A great 
cloud appeared to envelop me, full of slumbrous magnetic 
influences, not sufficiently charged for a crisis. I had a 
sensation of being cut off from the rest of the world. The 
very air about me grew stifling, and I drew my breath 
with great gasps of apprehension. And in this mood I 
counted up the days, until one morning, when I heard a 
stir among the servants. 
The master of Laurehvood had come! 
There were joyous greetings in the hall, the sweet voice 
of Mrs. Lawrence murmuring a pleasant welcome. Had I 
any part or lot in the matter? Should I thrust myself 
upon his attention in this first moment of his return ? 
Pride held me back. If he was very desirous of my pres- 
ence, he might signify it. But I waited in vain for any 
summons. What little events change the purposes of our 
lives! Any time dui ing that morning I could have been 
convinced by a word or a look of the great fact of his love j 
 
when the bell rang for luncheon, the hour of grace had 
passed. I felt calm, but bitter and cold. 
I hurried down, hoping to enter the dining-room first. 
He intercepted me in the hall. Somehow, I shall always 
remember the picture he made. The voyage had com- 
pleted the work of the tropical sun, and left him almost 
swarthy. His hair had been cut quite closely, displaying 
his broad forehead, and leaving a few stray curls at the 
temple. His eyes had a set look, that was fairly stern, 
while the flowing beard, with its peculiar bronze glitter, 
gave him a weird, foreign appearance. 
He flushed deeply in spite of the olive hue, and appeared 
at the first moment absolutely disconcerted. 
" You seem in no haste to welcome me," he said, rather 
sharply. " I had been counting on that, at least." 
" Your sister had the first right, I am sure," I answered, 
gravely. 
"And you none?" This was uttered in a tone of in- 
quiry. 
" None," I repeated. 
" At least you might ask if I were well ; " and he laughed 
rather nervously. 
" The fact is apparent. Allow me to congratulate you 
upon your safe return." 
At this juncture Mrs. Lawrence joined us. She looked 
somewhat discomposed, and glanced curiously at me. My 
sensitive pride took alarm at once. Did she fear that her 
brother would foolishly rush to the rescue, and marry me? 
Each one made an effort, and the meal passed most 
pleasantly, though the conversation was all upon Mr. St. 
John's journey. He was really delighted to be at home 
again ; that I could plainly see. We lingered over our 
dessert of fruit a long while, and as we rose he said, turn- 
ing to me, 
 
"May I see you in the library, Miss Adrinnce?" 
I crossed the hall with him, and then went over to the 
window. Just here we discussed my foolish engagement 
with such bitterness. How vividly it all carne back ! 
"Miss Adriance," he began presently, "my sister has 
informed me of your misfortune. I am most sorry that I 
should be absent at such a time; but I doubt if it is as bad. 
as she thinks. You are not quite disheartened." 
" I have sufficient courage to bear a reverse of fortune," 
I said, proudly. 
" You have both been looking at the darkest side. Such 
things alarm Isabelle a good deal. She knows so little 
about business." 
Then, after a pause, seeing that I made no reply, 
"I think I understand the matter perfectly, and can as- 
sure you that your fortune is not all gone. Have you no 
faith in my assertion, that you look so incredulous?" 
" Besides the lawyer's statement, I have heard from my 
friends at Baltimore, who were anxious to soften the blow 
as much as possible. There maybe a few thousands saved, 
but even that is doubtful." 
" Half at least," he said-, walking down the room, his face 
turned partly from me. 
I imagined his motive in an instant, and though it gave 
me a quick thrill, I could not endure to be the recipient 
of his generosity. 
"Mr. St. John," I said, trying to keep the touch of ex- 
citement out of my voice, "I can understand that you con- 
sider yourself in some manner answerable for this misfor- 
tune ; but I do not hold you so. It was Mr. Anthon's 
investment, and one cannot always guard against losses. 
I am satisfied that it is nearly all gone, and have made 
some arrangements for the future." 
He paused suddenly. " What arrangements ? " he asked, 
in a sharp tone. 
 
u I have already obtained a situation ns governess. It 
is necessary that I should depend upon my own exertions, 
and this offer came to me with a very litt'e trouble." 
"Governess!" He accompanied the word with such a 
disdainful gesture that it angered me. 
'You are in haste, I think, Miss Adriance. "It is pay- 
ing a poor compliment to your friends," he went on, with 
a scornful inflection. 
"I do not propose to test friendship that far," I said, 
haughtily. "Dependence would not be pleasant for me." 
"O, you arc strong-minded. It will not harm you to 
nir your theories occasionally; but you have forgotten one 
important fact. I am still your guardian." 
'There is no longer a necessity for supervision. When 
people are at work, they seldom fall into mischief." 
"It is still tin/ duty to provide you a home, and yours 
to remain there," he said, not attempting to disguise the 
power in his tone. 
"You can insist upon this for some time longer," I re- 
turned, coldly; "but it would not be an agreeable experi- 
ment. I question if a young lady with no fortune would 
be considered a valuable acquisition to Laurel wood society." 
"That is pure pride." 
"I am proud; I confess it." 
"And willing to make everything bow to this demon !" 
His tone was bitter, unjust, I thought. 
"The demon, as you style it, will not have many wor- 
ship] ers. There is nothing to be rendered subservient." 
"Nothing!" 
lie strode up and down the room, his face clouded, his 
lips compressed, and his eyes coming to points of flame. 
Had I gone too far? At all events, I could not be a sup- 
pliant for his love, and, truth to tell, he seemed in no haste 
to offer it. 
 
"This governessing is an absurd idea," he flung' out 
angrily. 
" I see nothing so absurd in a woman having courage to 
meet any exigency, and a desire not to become a burden 
to her friends." 
" I believe friends never were very weighty considera- 
tions with you." 
The taunt was too bitter. A scarlet heat flamed up in 
my face. 
"I have consulted some friends, in whom I have confi- 
dence," and my breath as well as my words came slowly, 
for I knew this was a cruel thrust. 
As if it had not touched him at all, he came nearer. 
"Can nothing induce you to give up this wild idea? You 
will find the routine very different from your fancy con- 
cerning it." 
"I do not expect a path of roses. I have some sense, at 
least," I returned, with warmth and passion. 
" And fortitude equal to any emergency," he retorted, 
with caustic dryness. 
Could this man ever have loved me? Love was kind 
and tender, shielding its object from every chilling blast, 
but he was more bitter and cutting than storm itself. I 
felt sick at heart. 
" It is not necessary to discuss the matter any farther," 
I said, rising. 
" I shall make a strict examination into this unfortunate 
business, and until then " 
He paused. I was so near that our hands almost clasped 
of their own accord. What invisible barrier kept us 
apart ? 
He made a sudden gesture, then he let me go without 
another word. 
I went directly to my room and answered Mrs. Ingalls's 
letter, promising to be at my post at the appointed time. 
It had been folly to delay it. What sweet, wild dreams I 
had indulged in for a brief space ! Gone, to the faintest 
shadow. I had always idealized Mr. St. John. He was 
not as grand and tender as the hero of my imagination, 
nny, he had never loved me as I wished to be loved. At 
times he had swayed me by his immense personal power, 
but the woman who won him must be a slave, and content 
to yield every atom of her own individuality. This did 
not quite satisfy me. 
I despatched my note at once. Passing through the 
hall, Mrs. Lawrence called me to ask about some trifle, 
but with more real kindliness in her manner than had been 
apparent of late. 
"Stuart told you, I suppose, that he believes the loss 
involved in the failure has been exaggerated. I am really 
glad for your sake. It's delightful to have some one in- 
spire us with a little courage." 
"I think he is mistaken," I answered, gravely. 
"At all events we can hope for the best. I've been a 
poor comforter, but bad news of any kind always has a 
depressing effect upon my nerves;" and she ended with 
a faint, sweet smile, 
I had learned my lesson to some purpose, and was not 
to be beguiled by this small display of graciousness. Per- 
haps I was hard and faithless, but my wound was bitter 
also. 
That night I found a note on my dressing-table. I 
recognized the writing instantly. What could Mr. St. 
John wish to say to me in this manner? Some neighbors 
had been in to spend the evening, and Mr. St. John had 
proved most entertaining. 
I broke the seal with no little trepidation, and then, 
drawing up the nearest chair, sat down to read. 
 
It was not the passionate declaration of love one 
might expect from such a man, but a rather stately offer 
of his hand, fortune, Laurel wood, the place I had professed 
to hold in such high regard. It was kind and exquisitely 
worded, but the heart seemed left out, as if he were more 
desirous of saving me from hardship and making my outer 
life luxurious and pleasant, than aiming to reach any true 
and high soul existence. For a long while I sat in deep 
thought. The world would believe that I considered this 
the best means of retrieving my fallen fortunes, but what 
would he think? He had not made one appeal to my 
regard for himself. Did he really hold that women were 
always swayed by mercenary considerations, and that to 
satisfy these was the royal road to their hearts? 
To live with him and not be allowed the fullest liberty 
to love, and to express it, would be simply torture. With 
me the regard must soon become a passion, and repression 
would be harder to endure than total loss and absence. 
I will not deny that pride was strongly concerned. I 
thought he had not treated me fairly, justly. I had a right 
to expect something better at his hands. 
I had somewhere read of a little boat floating over the 
sea, holding a slumbering lady, whose stiing of pearls had 
become unfastened, and the gems were slowly dropping 
into the water. She woke and grasped it, terrified at see- 
ing her precious pearls slip away. I had been a traveller 
drifting down a sunny stream, gathering priceless pearls 
human hearts. Now they began to drop away. Should 
I reach out my hand to save any ? 
Mr. St. John was calm and inscrutable at breakfast the 
next morning. No look or gesture on his part betrayed 
the slightest concern. I believe his very self-possession 
roused all the angry strength of my soul. I should never 
be able to decide whether he loved me, and must take my 
step in the darkness of unbelief. 
 
I intended to answer him in his own fashion, and yet 
dreaded to say the fatal words, to cut myself off from hope. 
So I rambled about the grounds, lingering in shady nooks 
that I loved so well. It would be hard to go. 
I came suddenly upon him at a turn in the path. For a 
moment we faced each other. 
" Miss Adriauce," he said, in a strange, husky tone, yet 
with a touch of fierce impatience, "you must have read my 
note. Answer me now I cannot wait." 
The old imperious manner. There was no instinct of 
serfdom in me. I would not be forced into fetters. Every 
drop of blood in my veins revolted. 
" It is easily said. No man's gold can buy my heart." 
"Easily!" 
It was an ill-chosen word. One bitter lightning glance, 
that seemed to scorch the very springs of life, and he 
turned was lost to me. Should I utter a cry of agony, 
and bring him back ? 
When I could rouse myself from this stupor, I con- 
tinued my walk. An interposing fate had settled all my 
perplexity. I was quite free to go. But Eve's wail of 
desolation seemed borne to me on every breath of the 
summer air. It would be rending body and soul asunder. 
 
CHAPTER XVII. 
" I see thecurse on gestures proud and cold, 
And looks of proud defiance and calm bate, 
And such despair as mocks itself with smiles." 
SHELLET. 
A QUICK step crossed the wide balcony, and a cheery 
voice fell upon ray ear. I turned to behold Philip Wes- 
tervelt. 
" What a ghostly face ! " he exclaimed. " Isn't St. John 
home ? I saw his name amongst the arrivals, and flew 
down from Washington to have a look at our travelled 
hero. Don't disappoint me by any evil tidings." 
" Mr. St. John came home yesterday, and is very well," 
I returned ; and in another instant the master's voice 
sounded from ^he library. 
Philip vaulted into the open window. I ran away to 
my room, and took one glimpse of myself in the long mirror 
that had told me so many flattering tales. I fancied that 
I could see suffering already written in my face. 
" This will never do," I said to myself. " It is cowardly 
to take the marks of the first evil blow fate gives." 
So I summoned my resolution, and sought to bury the 
dead hopes out of my sight. One dream too bright, too 
perfect for earthly realization. There are many trials and 
crosses before one enters the promised land. I might have 
known that so fair a prospect was but a mirage, and that 
my life could be no more perfect than any other human 
lot. Yet had I not bereft it of all hope ? Would it ever 
blossom with the promise of golden fruitage ? 
 
I resigned myself to fate. Struggling was vain and 
futile. I would not ask what the future held, but go on, 
no matter how thorny the path might prove. 
Philip's arrival was certainly well timed, though the 
accident of a sudden whim. When we all met at luncheon, 
Mr. St. John was quite in his usual mood, and met me 
without the slightest awkwardness. Indeed, so serene 
and gracious seemed he, that I wondered if the man had 
any soul that could be touched. Philip was in the gayest 
of spirits, but somehow his happiness jarred upon me. 
Was it because my own desolation became the more 
apparent ? 
I had been resolving in my own mind that I would pro- 
pose a visit to Mrs. Otis as the easiest way of leaving 
Laurel WOOL!. I had an opportunity of announcing this at 
the dinner-table, and felt that I was safely over one diffi- 
cult step. 
Quite late in the evening, when I was meditating a 
retreat to my own room, Philip asked me to walk a little 
while with him. It was a glorious night,,with the moon 
nearly at its full. The wandering air brought faint voices 
from the distant groves a tender, suggestive sound that 
touched the heart. 
"How can you leave this?" Philip asked, suddenly. 
"Sydnie, how much soul have you? I seem to have gone 
widely astray in my estimate of you." 
" Your estimate may have been wrong. I don't know 
as I am answerable to all my friends." 
Why do you go ? " 
" Because I do not choose to stay and be dependent." 
" St. John said you were going out as a governess." 
"I find some kind of employment necessary. You seem 
to forget that I am no longer an heiress." 
" St. John thinks something can be saved from the wreck." 
 
This is folly," I said, half vexed at Mr. St. John's 
pertinacity. "He is generous enough to replace a part of 
it; but I would not accept such a favor from any man, 
least of all him." 
"Don't intrench yourself so strongly in your own might. 
Do you think so lightly of friends that you can discard 
them with ease?" 
" We are hardly friends when it comes to that," I said, 
with a scornful inflection. 
" And you might have been so much more ! O, Sydnie, 
are women born blind and wilful, that they should thus 
throw away the great prizes of life ? I felt so sure that 
you would end by loving Stuart. I do not see how a 
woman could fail to be won by his strength, that is like a 
resistless tide, and his sweetness that can find a way to any 
but the most obdurate heart. It amazes me to think that 
you have been insensible to all the finer traits iahis char- 
acter, and most of all, his love." 
" Did he send you to plead his cause ? " 
Sydnie ! " 
I felt the involuntary movement of his arm, almost as if 
he would have spurned me. 
"We shall never agree about Mr. St. John," I returned. 
" To you he has been one' of the dearest and tenderest 
friends, while with me it has proved widely different. 
Your romance about us has misled you. We are not con- 
genial in scarcely any sense. He does not understand my 
most ordinary moods; and I confess he has always been a 
puzzle to me." 
"You are proud and impatient. Forgive the truth, 
and believe that no sister could have a larger share in a 
brother's heart than you have in mine. If you will accept 
of our sympathy and love, our home shall be yours, freely 
proffered by Ellen as well as myself, and any word of dis- 
 
satisfaction that I utter comes from a heart sore and 
pained because* I am grieved to see one dear friend suffer 
who might be made happy by love." 
" You may set your heart at rest. Mr. St. John does 
not love me as you imagine." 
" It is your pride that blinds you. O, pause and con- 
sider ere you throw away the sweetest gift of life, and 
wreck your own soul." 
" Convincing you would be a hopeless task. But I see 
my way clearly, and there are no thorns that a resolute 
step cannot crush." 
"You are too strong and cruel for a woman. Look 
down the futue, and see if the path is fair! Are there no 
places marked by tears ? no shrine where hope despoiled 
still clings to some stray fragment of what it once might 
have held with a tender clasp ? no day of loneliness, regret, 
or despajf ? " 
I would not own to any. 
" I used to think you, of all others, would be keenly sus- 
ceptible to love. I fancied it would be no light passion, 
but a perfect, overwhelming tide that would regenerate 
you into new being. How have you thrust out that low- 
voiced angel?" 
Ah, he little guessed how madly I had loved, how my 
heart throbbed now in its torturing throes of anguish! 
That both these men should deem me cold and heartless 
was bitter indeed. But I could never make them see me 
as I truly was. Therefore I vouchsafed no answer. 
Presently Philip said, " You are quite resolved, then ? " 
" I shall not shrink from the duties that I see be- 
fore me." 
He faced me suddenly ; but I was prepared. I felt that 
not a feature would betray me, and perhaps exulted a little 
in my strength. 
 
" How beautiful you are," he went on ; " like this idea 
of Milton's 
What though the field be lost all is not lost ; 
The unconquerable will 
and courage never to submit 
Or yield; and what is else not to be overcome ' " 
" I feel like it," I replied. I could have found it in my 
heart to repeat the rest. 
"But the fiercest flames burn out, and then the ashes 
of desolation ! Will you never weary on this great high- 
way, and long for shade where none may ever come ?" 
" Whether it be shade or sun, I am content." 
"And this is the result of a life that promised so much. 
O, Sydnie!" 
His tone seemed to strike a knell in my heart. 
"We all dream dreams in youth," I said, and then we 
returned to the house in silence. 
He left us the next morning. After that I made prepa- 
rations for my visit. No one opposed me, or suggested 
any change. Mr. St. John and his sister were very kind. 
It really seemed as if nothing had occurred, and that 
presently I would return and resume the old life. I could 
not bring myself to believe that this was to be the last ; 
and my heart smote me for cowardly concealing my 
resolve. 
Mrs. Lawrence parted with me most cordially. She had 
a faith, or affected it, that her brother could manage to 
restore part of my fortune, and began to plan gayeties for 
the winter. Mr. St. John drove me to the station. We 
.exchanged a lingering good by. Was there any latent word 
that might still be spoken, any glance capable of changing 
the current of our lives? . 
Alone in the car I dropped my travelling veil, although 
the day was warm. I felt weak and nervous now, and 
 
 
the tears filled my eyes slowly. "Was I as brave as I had 
made others believe? 
The mental atmosphere pervading the house of Mr. 
Otis served to restore me. Anne's cheerful self-reliance 
roused me from the despondent mood into which I was 
falling. But my life was not to be quite as I had planned 
it. Mrs. Ingalls, offended it seemed at my delay, had ac- 
cepted another person to fill the place. And from Philip 
I received a most kindly letter, enclosing an offer of a sit- 
uation in a school to teach music, drawing, and painting. 
He urged me to accept it if I was still resolved upon the 
course I had marked out. 
Mr. Otis had interested himself warmly in my lost for- 
tune. Mr. St. John thanked him in a most cordial letter 
when he came to hear of the fact. A year might elapse 
before it was finally settled, and perhaps a few thousand 
dollars could be saved. As the time of my departure was 
drawing nigh, I informed Mr. St. John of the change in 
my arrangements, not omitting Philip's kindly interest. 
It was hardly worth while to return to Laurelwood, I 
added, if Mrs. Lawrence would allow Thirza to pack the 
remainder of my wardrobe, and send it to Baltimore. 
Anne insisted that henceforward I should consider her 
house as my home. 
"You will remember that I am your sister now, and 
that it will not do for you to neglect me. I shall claim all 
your vacations," Anne said, with some tender tears in her 
eyes. 
I thanked Heaven for this dear friend as I started out to 
try the world anew. 
Elm Grove Seminary was situated in the western part 
of the State of New York. I could not help thinking of 
the tender care that had made so many journeys delight- 
ful to me; and by contrast this seemed tiresome and per- 
 
plexing. Yet I had some curiosity to see my new home, 
and I thought a round of active duties would still this 
restless gnawing at my heart crowd out the ghost of 
dreams dead forever. 
The seminary was delightfully located, half a mile from 
the village, a lovely, sleepy place, that looked as if it might 
be taking a Rip Van Winkle nap. The white cottnges 
were embowered with vines and trees, and the churches 
ivy grown. I was glad to find it different from anything 
I had ever seen. 
The interior was no novelty. I had been used to board- 
ing-schools, and the long halls, recitation-rooms, and rows 
of sleeping apartments greeted me with a most natural 
look. I was ushered into the reception-room, where Mrs. 
Ellingwood awaited me. 
She was a tall, fine-looking woman, with great suavity 
of manner, but a cold gray eye, and a rigid mouth that 
bespoke strong determination. One would not be drawn 
to her in any friendly relation. She enlarged upon the 
order, strictness, and precision with which everything was 
carried on, her high principles and views of duty towards 
the young ladies intrusted to her care ; in short, she made 
me understand that she was the head of the establishment, 
and that all were to respect her authority. 
In return, I felt she was very well satisfied. I had come 
highly recommended, and, as she had a peculiar love for 
the best society, the fact of my having been a member of 
it, and met with a reverse of fortune, was a passport to 
her favor. I followed Laura Ilastings's worldly-wise max- 
ims, and made the most of myself and my accomplish- 
ments. 
Friday was the first of September ; but school did not 
open until the following Monday. I had time to look 
about me, and decided that it would be a very tolerable 
place. My room was pleasswit, overlooking the south and 
the village ; but what a contrast to the spacious one I had 
left! no soft carpet and curtains, no airy marble Graces, 
and the sweetness of countless flowers. It was not to be 
shared with anyone, however, and I was thankful for that. 
So I hung up my dresses, arranged a few articles of virtu, 
turned my chairs, to take off the stiff, orderly look, and 
filled a shelf with some choice volumes. 
There were quite a number of scholars, and during the 
next day they increased rapidly. I met most of my fellow- 
teachers, but there was not one that won me in the slight- 
est degree. By Sunday evening I was as miserably lone- 
some as Mr. St. John could desire in his just wishes of 
retribution, if he thought of me at all. The years looming 
up before me grew frightful with grim phantoms. What 
an enchanting world I had left behind ! Had fate alone 
shut me out of it? 
I was glad to begin my duties. I threw the most ear- 
nest energy into them, and resolved to allow nothing to 
o/ o 
daunt me. Since I had chosen the path, I would take no 
weak, lagging step. I did find it tiresome, and not much 
to my taste ; but I won Mrs. Ellingwood's commendation 
early in the battle. I resolved not to yield to any morbid 
desire to exaggerate my own trials and disappointments. 
I no longer expected life to be rose-hued ; the carnival was 
over, and I was a sober. Lenten-robed pilgrim, on my way 
to another shrine. 
Alter a month or two, when I was settled to my daily 
routine, an intolerable craving took possession of my soul. 
I tried a severe course of reading; but, though my eyes 
followed the lines for page after page, my thoughts went 
far astray. Music, which had once been my solace, was 
now connected with a sense of drudgery. Were the days 
Philip foretold coming upon me so soon? Had I no more 
courage or fortitude ? 
 
I certainly was not discontented with my situation : the 
salary was good, the treatment kind, and no stringent de- 
mands were made upon my time. I found that I soon 
gained the reputation of being haughty and reserved, and 
it suited me as well. I had no mind to listen to girlish 
complaints, or the vapid talk of sentimental women ; there- 
fore I spent my evenings much alone, except when I was 
invited to the reception-room, which was not infrequently. 
Mrs. Ellingwood was rather proud of her acquisition, and 
showed a disposition to make the most of it. Except being 
rather tiresome, these small parties amused me. The 
other teachers generally managed to get into nervous 
spasms over what they should wear and whom they should 
see. The fifteen or twenty guests did not in the slightest 
alarm me. I was alike indifferent to their admiration or 
disfavor. Contrasting them with what I had known, made 
them seem poor and meagre indeed. A spirit of self-com- 
placency pervaded many of these people. On the whole, 
I wondered if it was not a pleasant thing to hold one's self 
in high esteem. 
Looking over the future, I could not but speculate upon 
it. Marriage, the great dream of most women, was not 
for me. If I had not loved in the past two years, I should 
not be likely to meet with any one in time to come whose 
charm would prove overmastering. 
Then I tore down the flimsy subterfuge, and looked the 
truth boldly in the face. I had loved Mr. St. John I did 
love him now. The peculiar influence he had exerted 
over me would always keep me from yielding to any other. 
Whether we were really antagonistic, or if it had been 
the result of some special fault in either, I was unable to 
determine ; but I recognized the fact. That hope, there- 
fore, had dropped out of my life. 
My future was all my own : to spend it in slow years of 
 
stagnation was simply impossible. What must I do? I 
could not go out into the world and make another fortune 
in the place of 'the one I had lost. I could not raise my- 
self to any height: a simple, aimless existence, earning my 
daily bread and raiment. 
Then I bethought myself of ray book. I had com- 
menced it in the happy solitude of Laurelwood, piqued 
into a mood of ambition by Mr. St. John's doubts and 
cynicisms. I recalled the fanciful dreams concerning those 
imaginary people, their loves, hopes, struggles, and the dif- 
ferent ways by which they attained happiness and content. 
So I roused myself, and went at it again, thankful for the 
employment. Autumn came on, brown and chilly. I noted 
how the sun went lower, how the leaves lost their gold and 
crimson glory, and then winter, with its potent step, writ- 
ing desolation everywhere. 
It mattered little to me. My inner world was fast ab- 
sorbing my very soul. Night after night I used to .sit 
alone, taking a strange delight in these creations of my 
pen. How real they all became to me ! I suffered in their 
sorrows, rejoiced in their joys, gave them faith when I 
doubted myself, made all things possible for them, while 
I felt bound hand and foot. In some lives there came just 
such seasons of rapture, after long and patient waiting; in 
others, despair and nothing. But since there is more 
shadow than sun in the existence of most people, we like 
the contrast, and enjoy the sun in pictures, rather than the 
shadow. 
Then I began to watch the people around me with a 
new zest. Their peculiarities caught my eye at once. I 
speculated what they would do in certain situations, how 
they would endure trials; and found that for the many 
weak there were but few strong. Almost each one was 
continually shifting some burden on his or her neighbor. 
 
Not much self-reliance and true courage. It was curious, 
too, that the people in the Laura Hastings mould generally 
won the clay. How could men and women be so blind, so 
credulous? 
One of my pupils awoke a strong interest in me pres- 
ently; perhaps because she stood .so entirely alone, was so 
repellent, and no favorite with the rest. Indeed, it seemed 
as if she was in disgrace half the time. The child for 
she was barely sixteen had a violent temper, and a quick, 
caustic tongue: an orphan; a friend was educating her; 
and, to render the terms more reasonable, she taught in 
one or two of the lower classes. 
I believe she hated all but music. A strange, lithe little 
thing, with eyes and hair of the deepest hue, and a pale, 
clear olive complexion. Her features were small and regu- 
lar; but her general expression was cold, faithless, and 
defiant, as if some way she were at war with half the 
world, and constantly watching for an opportunity to re- 
turn the current coin of unkindness. 
Yet at times, when she yielded herself to the charm of 
music, she used to startle me by her absolute loveliness. 
It was wild and weird, and made one almost shiver at the 
capabilities it revealed. 
Every advance I made was repelled with a coolness that 
savored of disdain, and I presently ceased in my efiiyrts, yet 
I was none the less interested. I had a curious presenti- 
ment that somewhere we would be strangely drawn to- 
gether one of those electric intuitions, for which one can 
give no reason. I fell into the habit of watching her, and 
involuntarily shielding her from the consequences of some 
of her faults. 
" I wonder you can tolerate Miss Whitney," one of .the 
teachers said to me; "she is the most disagreeable girl in 
school" 
 
Magdalene. "What did the name portend ? 
Spring was coming on apace. The time had not hnng 
heavily on my hands, for I had been very busy. These 
warm days gave me a peculiar languor, yet I fought the 
spell of indolence with rigid bravery. Every week brought 
my book nearer completion. If it held some of my own 
yearning desires and unfulfilled hopes, who shall marvel ? 
The world was full of these likenesses ; phantoms sat in 
every corner of the heart, rarely clothed in glorious ap- 
parel. Life sprang up clear and sweet with its heavenly 
harmonies ; but in the rude turmoil and jar of discordant 
voices, the pure strains were too often lost to human ears. 
What power was strong enough to reunite these broken 
links ? Did God care when his children were weary and. 
heavy laden ? 
The school that had gone on so methodically for nine 
months was now roused to a sudden tumult and fever. 
The graduating class was straining every nerve, and Mrs. 
Ellingwood was making preparations for some brilliant 
closing exercises. I was called out of my seclusion, and 
for a month was busy with the rest. The examinations 
passed very creditably, and then there was a general dis- 
persion. 
Mrs. Ellingwood was anxious to make an engagement 
for another year, and I assented ; but my soul was buoyed 
up with a precious hope. If it were possible to win fame 
and other women had succeeded I would bend every 
energy to this pursuit. It was the choicest thing life held 
now. 
I decided to remain at Elm Grove for a brief while. In 
those first days of quiet I finished my book, and wrote to 
several publishers in New York. I had promised my va- 
cation to Mrs. Otis. Philip and Ellen had gone to Europe 
in Mny, so Anne was the only friend to whom my presence 
 
would be a positive pleasure. I remembered how, three 
years before, I had watched for vacation. How long ago! 
a past ago it seemed. Then I was as careless and expect- 
ant as these girls were now. I felt old beside them, as 
if with eighteen had gone all the brightness and blossom 
of youth. Could-any hand restore the sweet hope? Not 
for me, I said, softly and sadly. 
 
CHAPTER XVIII.' 
" O, bow full of briers is this working day world ! " 
ROSALIND As You Like It. 
" It is to live without the vanished light 
That strength is needed." MRS. HEMANS. 
I PUT my room in order, locked drawers and desks, 
gave Mrs. Ellingwood a courteous good by, and com- 
menced a new journey. No gay, satirical voice to laugh 
at me, no far-reaching eyes to hold me with subtle glances, 
no foolish quarrels and quick repentance. I was a sober, 
staid, business woman, with a most matter-of-fact air. 
Youth was nothing to me ; girlishness I was glad to lay 
aside. 
I went directly to New York. Of the five letters I had 
written, three had declined reading anything new on ac- 
count of the press of matter on hand. The remaining two 
held out a slender hope. I weighed their respective merits, 
and finally decided by chance, though it was with some 
trepidation that I presented myself. One feels so different 
when one has nothing to ask of the world. It really ap- 
peared as if my earlier daring had all failed. 
I met with a polite reception, that quite restored my 
courage. The book should be read, and my answer given 
in a week. Had I ever written any before ? 
" No ; this was my first attempt." 
"Not even stones or sketches?" 
" Nothing at all." 
" It was quite difficult to introduce a new writer of whom 
 
the world had never heard. If the book had some par- 
ticular merit " and a very charming smile finished the 
sentence. 
I could hardly claim that it was better than the majority 
of stories. Indeed, now I was seized with a fear that it 
was not so good ; but we bowed hopefully to each other. 
I realized the loneliness of a great city fully during that 
week of waiting. I had chosen the most retired hotel, 
and that was not overcrowded. Every one who could get 
away was at some pleasant summer resort, or country 
house. I was not at all sure that even Mrs. Westervelt 
was in the city. But I wanted no one to know my errand. 
If I failed entirely, the secret should be locked in the 
depths of my own soul. I desired no pity or sympathy. 
I watched the dawn of morning and the close of day in 
the most utter solitude, yet in a state of feverish expecta- 
tion. At last the eventful time arrived, and assuming an 
air of indifference that I was far from feeling, I presented 
myself for this important verdict. 
It is something, perhaps, for a man to be handsome and 
affable. My book was declined with the utmost suavity, I 
had almost said sweetness. While it betrayed unmistaka- 
ble marks of genius, it was not at all in the popular style. 
If I had a reputation, it would do very well to make such 
a venture; indeed, in that case, it might be a perfect suc- 
cess. But he did not feel safe to undertake it. If I chose 
to try again I might be more fortunate. This story was 
very peculiar. 
How brilliantly the sun shone as I stepped into the 
street ! I shivered at the brightness, and longed to hide 
myself where it was never so dark and deep. Not even 
the loss of my fortune had affected me thus keenly. I 
began to understand how much of my future life had been 
staked upon this issue. 
" Courage, lienrt," I said. " Some strong souls win 
heaven by force, how much more the things of earth." 
So I ventured agi.in. A grave, middle-aged man, with 
no smiles, but a kindly voice, received me. The same 
cautious story, the difficulty of taking the first step. And 
although he took the manuscript, he prepared me for a 
fresh disappointment also. 
" It was very dull with him just now, and he would read 
it immediately. Could I call in a few days?" 
I assented. If I had thought the first week wearisome, 
this was doubly so. A wild impulse urged me to go to 
Anne's at once, but I persisted in my resolve. My heart 
sank within me, and every pulse quivered with the torture 
of suspense as I set out. I wondered how many times I 
should go on the same errand, or if I should accept this 
blow of fate as final. 
I waited many moments in the little office. On the 
desk stood a few roses and geranium leaves in a slender 
bouquet-holder. These flowers appealed to me in a 
strange, tender manner, stirred my heart to sympathy. 
I looked at the man's face as lie entered, but it betrayed 
no secret. Yet it was so kindly, with all its gravity, that 
it inspired me with something like hope. 
"I have been deeply interested in your story," he began. 
" It lias much merit, but I am not at all prepared to say 
that it will be a success. It may prove a very fair intro- 
duction to the literary world, and it is quite necessary that 
a young author should try first for a name." 
I bowed my head acquiescently ; I could not trust my 
voice to speak. 
" We are willing to undertake it, though we do not feel 
justified in making a very extravagant offer." 
I drew a long breath of relief. Did I really hear aright ? 
Then followed the business part. I confessed that I did 
 
feel satisfied with his proposal, though if I had thought 
more of fortune than fame, it would have appeared small, 
I felt, too, that I had made a friend, and that was a conso- 
lation. I agreed to his propositions unhesitatingly, uay 
heart growing lighter with every breath. 
But what was there so singular about the book? Was 
the yearning of a high> passionate spirit for that grand ex- 
istence haunting most pure souls, a thing to astonish ordi- 
nary minds? What if the way was long and dark? what 
if failure did happen, was that improbable? or success, did 
that sound unreal? There comes a time to some few blest 
souls when they stand untrembling on the mountain tops. 
If it were not so, existence would be an utter failure. 
The next day I reached Baltimore. There was great 
rejoicing in the happy household, for a little blue-eyed 
stranger had been added to their number a sweetj darl- 
ing girl, who had been received with the most rapturous 
emotion. 
"You almost vexed me by your delay," Anne said^ with 
her glad smile, that half contradicted her assertion. " I 
knew you would be surprised, and I could hardly wait. 
But, my dear, how thin and worn you are, quite unlike 
your usual self. You shall have nothing but rest and 
pleasure for the next month." 
A most delightful prospect, truly. I thanked Heaven 
for this sweet friend, for these yet unbroken links in my 
chain. Anne's welcome was so cordial, and she bright and 
winsome with the old shy grace still clinging about her. 
The dearest and most perfect happiness had come to her, 
and no one could prove more worthy. 
There was a small business matter awaiting me. Mr. 
St. John had secured three thousand dollars from the 
wreck of my fortune, and placed it in the hands of Mr. 
Otis. His connection as my guardian had of course ceased. 
 
Besides these details, there was a letter very cordially 
worded, containing a message from Mrs. Lawrence, and 
inviting me to Laurelwood any time that I felt disposed 
to make them a visit. 
In what mood Mr. St. John had penned these words I 
should never be able to tell. Of course I should not go. 
"And Mr. Otis has an excellent investment for your 
money," Anne said. " I shouldn't wonder if you became 
a rich woman by and by, though it seems very little 
now." 
" By the time I am old, and compelled to retire from 
active service;" and I smiled. 
"I can hardly endure the thought of your being so far 
away. I've been wondering, dear, how it would answer to 
keep you here. You could have music pupils, you know, 
and probably do as well as at school." 
" I have made a positive engagement for another year. 
Besides, I like the school very well." 
"But you are certainly worked too hard." 
"My darling, don't distress yourself about me," I re- 
plied, with a kiss, for her tender regard touched me to the 
heart's core. Had any one else ever loved me as well ? 
My month passed most delightfully. How many times 
I longed to give her my secret in return for her confidence, 
I can hardly say; but I doubted my own ability to achieve 
a thorough success. And if I did fail, better that it should 
be hidden from all pitying eyes. I was too proud to ac- 
knowledge a defeat. 
Anne's baby was a source of unbounded satisfaction. 
Her sisters, fast growing into womanhood, held it in the 
highest esteem. Mr. Otis appeared to have taken upon 
himself a new dignity. He was slowly coming up to the 
heights of complete and ripened manhood. I remem- 
bered my first impressions of him with a feeling akin to 
 
wonder that I could not have discerned his worth sooner. 
To me he was the kindest of friends, unobtrusively solicit- 
ous for my welfare. 
But youth is the season of quick judgments and over 
hasty conclusions. And though my experience had been 
brief, I was better able to distinguish between fine gold 
and alloy. Already the rumor had reached Anne that 
Aylmer Channing and his wife were not in a felicitous 
state. The lady was high-spirited and rather inclined to 
jealousy, while Aylmer still made himself as fascinating in 
society. It was well fate had interposed and saved Anne 
from the dreary state of a neglected wife. As for myself, 
I still thought of my episode with a shiver. How weak I 
must have been to yield to such folly. Perhaps Mr. St. 
John was right in his estimate of me; but O, was there 
no love in the world that could afford to be generous, to 
forgive freely ? 
It seemed quite natural to go back to school, though 
Anne was earnest in her entreaties that this should be the 
last year. Unconsciously a new hope began to animate 
me. If I could gain my old position, and it seemed al- 
most possible, I should not hesitate to encounter old 
friends. Yet I felt a little bitter to think how soon one 
drops out of memory. Two years before I had been the 
centre of an -admiring circle; now I suppose this homage 
was paid to a new star. I was no longer in the ranks. 
"Well, I had not made one appeal. I had taken fate at her 
very worst, and meant to fight my own way up again, or 
remain in obscurity. 
And yet I confess a strange feeling of depression stole 
over me. My tasks began to prove wearisome. I lived 
in a constant fever of expectation that was not hope, and 
began to realize how much I was counting on a, slender 
reed. If it should fail, what was left ? 
 
The number of new pupils was quite large, and most of 
them, it appeared to me, were exceedingly dull. Magda- 
lene Whitney had come back ; this was her last year. 
Some wonderful change had befallen her; not merely in 
disposition, but face and air were softer, sweeter. The 
girls had always teased her a good deal because she flashed 
into flame so easily, but now she shunned them. She 
seemed to desire solitude, and not infrequently I found 
her in the music-room when there was no practising. 
One day I remember she turned suddenly upon me. 
"Miss Adriance," she said," why do you watch me so?" 
It was the easiest to tell the truth. 
"Because I am interested in you," I answered. 
"Why?" The deep eyes seemed to pierce me through. 
"I don't know that I can explain. You stand so much 
alone, you are so different from other girls." 
"The difference will not repay your close study;" and 
her scarlet lips curled with the most superb scorn. 
I made no reply. Why should I care about her, since 
she evidently desired no one's sympathy ? 
Going to the music-room quite late one afternoon, I dis- 
turbed her reverie. She appeared confused at first, then 
bowed coldly, and passed me. Something dropped from 
the folds of her dress. I picked up a note with a broken 
seal, but bearing no superscription. I took it to my own 
apartment, and as I laid it on the table the seal caught my 
eye fairly. "A. C.," with a quaint device that I knew 
well. I started in the utmost surprise. 
The rules of correspondence were very strict, but I knew 
the system of smuggling letters was brought to a state of 
high perfection among school-girls. My duty was to hand 
this over to Mrs. Ellingwood, who would not scruple to 
read its contents. I had a more than passing interest in 
it, if it was as I suspected. I took the note out of its en- 
 
closure, therefore, and glanced at the heading, "My 
clearest Magdalene," in Aylmer Channing's light, grace- 
ful chirography. I conld not mistake it. 
I had not thought the man a deliberate villain before. 
With a girl of Magdalene's nature, the acquaintance could 
not be one of calm friendship, though that would be little 
to his taste. In his search for something new and piquant, 
I could see just how she had attracted him. Her spirit 
and daring, her fiery, passionate nature, her strange, sug- 
gestive face, had roused him from the tame duties of married 
life. I question if fidelity was possible to him. Some fatal 
desire for change swayed him with an irresistible impulse. 
The next morning I summoned Magdalene to my room, 
as I had resolved upon my course. There was an appre- 
hensive look in her eyes, and a nervousness quite unlike 
her usual demeanor. 
" Does this note belong to you ? " I asked. " I found it 
in the music-room soon after you had left." 
"It does." I watched the eager working of the fingers, 
but I still retained it in rny hand. 
"I thought such things were forbidden here," I resumed, 
carelessly. 
" Then you have read it ; you had no right ; " and her 
face was dark with intense passion. 
"Perhaps you would prefer Mrs. Ellingwood's scru- 
tiny?" 
"O, you can give it to her," was the scornful reply. "I 
could defy you both, if I chose." 
"Miss Whitney, I prefer to keep your secret. To be 
reprimanded can do you no possible good; besides, I have 
a deeper interest in the affair. Will you tell me where 
you met Mr. Channing?" 
She turned pale at the mention of the name. After a 
long pause, she said, slowly, 
 
 
"I cannot tell you anything. I would gather suffer than 
break a promise, and a most solemn one binds me." 
Then she folded her hands, and stood calmly waiting, 
her face settling into impassible lines. 
"Is he your lover?" 
The only answer was a faint flush. 
"I have not read your letter," I went on. "I knew the 
seal, because I had some acquaintance with this Mr. Chan- 
ning, and was once engaged to him." 
" Then you hate me, as a matter of course ! " with a bit- 
ter sneer. 
"As little as I care for him. But he has no right to ask 
any woman's love, or to win it. He is already married." 
A most indifferent and incredulous smile crossed her 
face. 
"It is best that you should be convinced," I said. " His 
cousin was my guardian. I have a friend living in Balti- 
more who is distantly related to him, ami through either 
party I could procure you positive proofs. But it would 
be better for you to write to him once again, and tell him 
from whom you had the story, and that Miss Adriance is 
one of the teachers in this place. There is the letter." 
She bowed as she took it, and left the room without an- 
other word. 
I wondered whether she would have sufficient courage 
for such a step. That she should take pains to shun me 
was in no wise remarkable, and I made no further effort 
to g un her confidence. Indeed, my own affairs occupied 
much of my thoughts. Every day was bringing me nearer 
the test of failure or triumph. It was so strange to bear 
