for."
"I suppose you like it better than blacking boots?" said Roswell, who,
supposing that Dick was ashamed of his former occupation, felt a
malicious pleasure in reminding him of it.
"Yes," said Dick, "I like it better on the whole; but then there's some
advantages about boot-blackin'."
"Indeed!" said Roswell, superciliously. "As I was never in the business,
I can't of course decide."
"Then I was in business for myself, you see, and was my own master. Now
I have to work for another man."
"You don't seem to be working very hard now," said Roswell, enviously.
"Not very," said Dick. "You must be tired carrying that heavy bundle.
I'll carry it for you as far as I go."
Roswell, who was not above accepting a favor from a boy he didn't like,
willingly transferred it to our hero.
"I carried it out just to oblige," he said, as if he were not in the
daily habit of carrying such packages.
"That's very kind of you," said Dick.
Roswell did not know whether Dick spoke sarcastically or not, and
therefore left the remark unnoticed.
"I don't think I shall stay where I am very long," he said.
"Don't you like?" asked Dick.
"Not very well. I'm not obliged to work for a living," added Roswell,
loftily, but not altogether truly.
"I am," said Dick. "I've had to work for a living ever since I was six
years old. I suppose you work because you like it."
"I'm learning business. I'm going to be a merchant, as my father was."
"I'll have to give up the bundle now," said Dick. "This is as far as I
am going."
Roswell took back his bundle, and Dick went up the steps of Mr.
Rockwell's residence and rang the door-bell.
CHAPTER X.
A STORE ON SIXTH AVENUE.
Roswell kept on his way with his heavy bundle, more discontented than
ever. The bundle seemed heavier than ever. Dick had no such bundles to
carry. He had an easier time, his business position was better, and his
wages more than double. And all this in spite of the glaring fact that
Roswell was a gentleman's son, and Dick wasn't. Surely fortune was very
blind, and unfair in the distribution of her favors.
"I suppose he'll be crowing over me," thought Roswell, bitterly, judging
from what would have been his own feeling had the case been reversed. "I
hope he'll have to go back to boot-blacking some day. I wish mother'd
buy me a gold watch and chain. There'd be some sense in my wearing
it."
Roswell evidently thought it very inappropriate that Dick should wear a
handsome gold watch, more especially as he was quite sure beforehand
that his mother would not gratify his own desire to possess one. Still
he resolved to ask.
There was another thing he meant to ask. Feeling that his services were
worth more than the wages he received, and convincing himself that his
employers would be unwilling to lose him, he determined to ask an
advance of two dollars a week, making six dollars in all. Not that he
considered that even this would pay him, but as he could hardly hope
that he would be appreciated according to his deserts, he limited his
request to that sum. He concluded to defer making his application until
Saturday evening, when he would receive his week's wages.
He consulted his mother upon this subject, and she, having nearly as
high an opinion of her promising son as he had himself, consented to the
application. If his cousin, James Gilbert, had heard of his intention,
he was enough of a business man to have dissuaded him from the attempt.
Though he saw fit to espouse the cause of Roswell against Dick, it was
more because he disliked the latter than because he was blind to the
faults of the former. Indeed, he had a very moderate opinion of his
young cousin's capabilities.
The days slipped by, and Saturday night came. It was nine o'clock before
Roswell was released, the Saturday-night trade being the best of the
week. The other clerks had been paid, Roswell's turn coming last,
because he was the youngest.
The designation of the firm was HALL & TURNER. Mr. Hall, the
senior partner, usually went home early in the evening; and Mr. Turner,
the junior partner, a man of about thirty-five, attended to the evening
business, and paid the weekly wages.
"Here, Crawford," he said, counting out four one dollar bills; "it's
your turn now."
"I want to speak to you for a moment, Mr. Turner," said Roswell,
beginning to feel a little nervous; for now that the time had come for
making his request, he felt a little uncertain how it would be received.
"Very well," said his employer, showing a little surprise; "be quick
about it, for I want to get through."
"I want to know if you will not be willing to raise my wages," said
Roswell, rather awkwardly.
"On what ground do you ask for it?" said Mr. Turner, looking up.
"I thought I might be worth more," said Roswell.
"How long have you been in my employment,--do you remember?"
"About four months," said Roswell.
"Do you think you have learned enough in that time to make you worth
more?"
"Yes, sir," said Roswell, with a little hesitation.
"How much more would satisfy you?"
"Two dollars more,--for the present," said Roswell, beginning to feel a
little hopeful.
"That is six dollars a week."
"Yes, sir."
"And how soon would you expect another advance?" asked Mr. Turner,
quietly.
"In about six months."
"You are quite moderate in your demands, certainly."
There was something in Mr. Turner's tone which struck Roswell as
unfavorable, and he hastily said in his own justification:--
"There's a friend of mine, no older than I am, who gets ten dollars a
week."
Certainly Roswell must have spoken inadvertently, or he would hardly
have referred to Dick as his friend; but his main idea at present was to
produce an impression upon the mind of Mr. Turner.
"Is your friend in a dry goods store?" asked Mr. Turner.
"No, sir."
"Then I don't see that his wages have any bearing upon your case. There
may be some special circumstances that affect his compensation. How long
has he been in the service of his present employer?"
"Only a week or two."
"Is this his first place?"
"Yes, sir."
"It may be that he is some relative of his employer."
"That isn't very likely," said Roswell, his lip curling. "He used to be
a boot-black about the streets."
"Indeed!" said Mr. Turner, keenly. "I think you said he was a friend of
yours."
"No, sir," said Roswell, proudly; "I haven't the honor."
"You certainly said 'There's a friend of mine, no older than I am, who
gets ten dollars a week.'"
"I didn't mean to speak of him as my friend," said Roswell; "I'm a
gentleman's son."
"If you are, his friendship might do you no harm. If he receives the
wages you state, he must be a smart fellow. If he didn't earn as much,
probably he would not receive it."
"I don't believe he'll keep his place long," muttered Roswell, his wish
being father to the thought.
"If he doesn't, you may be able to succeed him," said Mr. Turner. "I
shall be compelled to refuse your request. Indeed, so far from
increasing your compensation, I have been considering during the last
week whether it would not be for my interest to get another boy in your
place."
"Sir!" exclaimed Roswell, in dismay.
"I will give you my reasons. You appear to think yourself of too great
consequence to discharge properly the duties of your position."
"I don't understand you, sir," stammered Roswell.
"I believe you claim to be a gentleman's son."
"Yes, sir," said Roswell. "My father used to keep a store on Broadway."
"And I am led to suppose you think it incompatible with your dignity to
carry bundles to different parts of the city."
"I would rather stand behind the counter and sell goods," said Roswell.
"Of course you will be a salesman in time, if you stick to business
faithfully. But it so happens that we didn't hire you as a salesman, but
as a boy, whose chief business it should be to carry bundles. But we
don't want to impose a disagreeable duty upon you. Therefore, if you
think upon reflection that you would prefer not to continue in your
situation, we will hire somebody else."
"That won't be necessary, sir," said Roswell, considerably crest-fallen.
"You are content, then, to remain?"
"Yes, sir."
"And upon four dollars a week?"
"Yes, sir. I suppose I may hope to have my wages increased some time?"
"When we find your services worth more, you shall receive more," said
Mr. Turner. "That is fair,--isn't it?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then here is your money. I didn't mean to talk so long; but it's as
well to come to an understanding."
Roswell left the store considerably crest-fallen. He found that, instead
of regarding him worth an advance of wages, Mr. Turner had had it in his
mind to discharge him; and that hurt his pride. It was certainly very
singular that people shouldn't be more impressed with the fact that he
was a gentleman's son. He could not have received less deference if he
had been an ex-boot-black, like Dick himself. He certainly was no more
contented than before, nor was his self-appreciation materially
diminished. If the world did not recognize his claims, there was one
comfort, his mother appreciated him, and he appreciated himself. As to
his cousin, he did not feel quite so certain.
"Why are you so late, Roswell?" asked his mother, looking up from her
work as he entered. "It seems to me they kept you later than usual at
the store, even for Saturday evening."
"I'm sick of the store," said Roswell, impatiently.
"What's the matter?"
"I asked old Turner to-night if he wouldn't raise my wages," said
Roswell.
"Well, what did he say?"
"He said he wouldn't do it."
"Did he give any reason?"
"He said I didn't earn any more. He's a stingy old hunks, any way, and I
wish I was in another place."
"So do I; but it isn't so easy to get a new position. You had better
stay in this till another offers."
"I hate carrying bundles through the streets. It isn't fit work for a
gentleman's son."
"Ah, if your poor father had lived, things would have been very
different with us all!" said Mrs. Crawford, with a sigh. She chose to
forget that previous to his death her late husband's habits had been
such that he contributed very little to the comfort or support of the
family.
"I wouldn't care if I were a salesman," continued Roswell; "but I don't
like being an errand boy. I'd just as lives go to the post-office for
letters, or to the bank with money, but, as for carrying big bundles of
calico under my arm, I don't like it. I was walking on Madison Avenue
the other day with a ten-pound bundle, when the boot-black came up,
dressed handsomely, with a gold watch and chain, and exulted over me for
carrying such a big bundle."
There was a little exaggeration about this, for Dick was very far from
exulting over Roswell, otherwise he certainly would not have volunteered
to carry the bundle himself. But it often happens that older persons
than Roswell are not above a little misrepresentation now and then.
"He's an impudent fellow, then!" said Mrs. Crawford, indignantly. "Then
Mr. Hall won't raise your wages?"
"It wasn't Mr. Hall I asked. It was Mr. Turner," said Roswell.
"Didn't he hold out any hopes of raising your wages hereafter?"
"He said he would raise them when I deserve it. He don't amount to much.
He's no gentleman," said Roswell, scornfully.
"Who's no gentleman?" inquired James Gilbert, who chanced just then to
enter the room.
"Mr. Turner."
"Who's Mr. Turner?"
"My employer,--Hall & Turner, you know."
"What's amiss with him?"
"I asked him to raise my wages to-night, and he wouldn't."
"Umph! How much did you ask for?"
"Two dollars more a week."
"You're a fool!"
"What!" said Roswell, astonished.
"WHAT!" exclaimed Mrs. Crawford, angrily.
"I say the lad's a fool to ask for so large an advance so soon. Of
course his employers refused it. I would, in their place."
"You're very hard upon the poor boy!" said Mrs. Crawford. "I thought you
were his friend."
"So I am; but he's acted foolishly for all that. He should have known
better."
"I ought to be worth six dollars, if your boot-black is worth ten,"
responded Roswell.
"He isn't worth ten."
"Why do you pay him that, then?"
"It's Mr. Rockwell who pays him, not I. Why he does it, I can't say. It
isn't because he earns it. No boy of his age, or yours either, can earn
ten dollars a week."
"At any rate he gets ten, and I get only four. I certainly earn more
than that," said Roswell.
"I am not so sure about that," said his cousin. "But if it will afford
you any comfort, I'll venture to make the prediction that he won't
remain in Rockwell & Cooper's employment a week longer."
"Has anything happened?" asked Roswell, eagerly.
"Not yet," said James Gilbert, significantly.
"Then something is going to happen?"
"You need not trouble yourself to ask questions. Wait patiently, and
when anything happens I'll let you know."
Here James Gilbert left the room, and went up to his own chamber. His
words had excited hope in both Roswell and his mother. The former felt
that it would be a satisfaction to him to learn that Dick had lost his
situation, even if he failed to get it himself.
CHAPTER XI.
A NEW ALLIANCE.
The name of Micky Maguire is already familiar to the readers of "Ragged
Dick." He had acquired a prominent position among the down-town
boot-blacks by his strength, which he used oftentimes to impose upon
boys weaker than himself. He was a young ruffian, indeed, with few
redeeming qualities. When Dick was in the same business, he tried on two
or three occasions to make him acknowledge his superiority; but it was
not in Dick's nature to be subservient to any one whom he did not
respect. Moreover, Dick had two good stout arms of his own, and knew how
to use them in self-defence. The consequence was that Micky Maguire
signally failed in the attempts which he made on different occasions to
humble our hero, and was obliged to slink off in discomfiture with his
satellite, Limpy Jim.
The last glimpse we had of Micky was in Dick's cast-off clothes, of
which by some means, probably not honest, he had become possessed. He
did not wear them long, however. The famous Washington coat and Napoleon
pants were only mortal, and, being already of venerable antiquity,
became at length too fragmentary even for Micky's not very fastidious
taste. One morning, accordingly, having levied an unwilling contribution
from a weaker but more industrious boot-black, Micky went to Baxter
Street, and invested it in a blue coat with brass buttons, which, by
some strange chain of circumstances, had found its way thither from some
country town, where it may at one time have figured at trainings and on
town-meeting days. A pair of overalls completed Micky's costume. He
dispensed with a vest, his money not having been sufficient to buy that
also.
Certainly Micky presented a noticeable figure as he stood in the City
Hall Park, clad in the above-mentioned garments. He was rather proud of
the brass buttons, and may even have fancied, in his uncultivated taste,
that his new costume became him.
While he was swaggering about he espied part of a cigar, which some one
had thrown aside. Micky, who was fond of smoking, picked it up, and
looked about him for a light, not being provided with a match. A young
man was slowly crossing the park with a cigar in his mouth. But he was
evidently plunged in thought, and hardly conscious of the scene about
him. Micky observed this, and a cunning scheme suggested itself.
He walked up to the young man, and said, cavalierly, "Give us a light,
mister, will yer?"
The young man mechanically took the cigar from his mouth, and passed it
to the questioner without observing who he was. Had he done so, it is
doubtful whether the request would have been complied with.
Rapidly calculating that he would not notice the substitution, Micky,
after lighting the "stub," handed it to the young man, retaining the
good cigar himself, and placing it straightway in his mouth.
This trick would probably have passed off undetected, if it had not been
observed by some of Micky's fellow-professionals.
A jeering laugh from these called the young man's attention to the
substitution, and, with a look of indignation, he said, "You young
rascal, you shall pay for this!"
[Illustration]
But Micky evaded his grasp, and scudded rapidly through the park,
pursued by the victim of misplaced confidence.
"Run, Micky; I'll bet on you!" cried Pat Nevins, encouragingly.
"Go it, long legs!" said another, who backed the opposite party. "Give
him a good lickin' when you catch him."
"Maybe you'd have to wait too long for that," said Pat.
"Leave yer cigar wid us, mister," said another boy.
James Gilbert, for he was the young man in question, began to find that
he was becoming rather ridiculous, and felt that he would rather let
Micky go free than furnish a spectacle to the crowd of boot-blacks who
were surveying the chase with eager interest. He accordingly stopped
short, and, throwing down the "stub," prepared to leave the park.
"Don't give it up, mister! You'll catch him," said his first backer.
"Micky can't run far. Ragged Dick give him a stretcher once."
"Ragged Dick!" said Gilbert, turning abruptly at the sound of this name.
"Maybe you know him?"
"Does he black boots?"
"He used to, but he don't now."
"What does he do?"
"Oh, he's a swell now, and wears good clothes."
"How is that?"
"He's in a store, and gets good pay."
"What's the name of the boy that ran away with my cigar?"
"Micky Maguire."
"Was he a friend of Ragged Dick, as you call him?"
"Not much. They had two or three fights."
"Which beat?"
"Dick. He can fight bully."
Gilbert felt disappointed. He was in hopes our hero had met with a
defeat. Somehow he seemed born for success.
"Then I suppose Maguire hates him?"
"I'll bet he does."
"Humph!" thought Gilbert; "I may turn his enmity to some account. Let me
consider a little."
At length a plan suggested itself, and his countenance cleared up, and
assumed an expression of satisfaction. On reaching home he held the
conversation with Roswell and his mother which has been recorded at the
close of the last chapter.
Meantime Micky went home to a miserable lodging on Worth Street, in the
precincts of the Five Points, and very near where the Five Points House
of Industry now stands. This admirable institution has had a salutary
influence, and contributed greatly to the improvement of the
neighborhood. Then, however, it was about as vile and filthy as could
well be.
Micky exulted not a little at the success of his cunning, and smoked the
cigar--an expensive one, by the way--with not a little satisfaction. He
recounted the story to a group of admiring friends who had not been
fortunate enough to witness it.
"It's you that's got the cheek, Micky," said Teddy Donovan.
"You did it neat," said another. "Maybe I'll try that same, some day."
"You'd better not. The copp might get hold of you."
"Was it a good cigar, Micky?"
"Wasn't it, just! I wish I'd got another. Stand treat, Teddy."
"I would if I had the stamps. I'm savin' up my money to go to the Old
Bowery to-night."
The boys were standing in a little group, and in the interest of their
discussion did not observe the approach of James Gilbert, who was now
visiting the park with a special object in view. With an expression of
satisfaction he recognized the boy who had served him a trick the day
before. Indeed, it was not easy to mistake Micky. The blue coat with
brass buttons and the faded overalls would have betrayed him, even if
his superior height had not distinguished him from his comrades.
Had Micky been aware of Gilbert's approach he would have thought it
prudent to "change his base;" but, his back being turned, he was taken
by surprise. His attention was drawn by a tap on the shoulder, and,
looking round, he recognized his enemy, as he regarded him. He started
to run, but was withheld by a strong grasp.
"Leave me alone, will yer?" he said, ducking his head as if he expected
a blow.
"I believe you are fond of smoking," said Gilbert, continuing to hold
him tight.
Micky maintained silence.
"And sometimes exchange a poor cigar for a good one?" continued his
captor.
"It was a mistake," said Micky.
"What did you run for, then?"
"What you going to do about it, mister?" asked one boy, curiously.
"So it was a mistake,--was it?" said Gilbert.
"Yes, sir," said Micky, glibly.
"Take care you don't make the mistake again, then. Now you may black my
boots."
Not only the boys who were standing by, but Micky himself, were
considerably surprised at this unexpected turn. They confidently
expected that Micky would "get a lickin'," and instead of that, he had
found a customer. Their respect for Gilbert was considerably diminished
for failing to exact punishment, and, their interest in the affair being
over, they withdrew.
Micky laid down his box, and commenced operations.
"How long have you been a boot-black?" asked Gilbert.
"Five years--goin' on six," said Micky.
"Can you earn much?"
"No," said Micky. "Business aint very good now."
"You manage to dress well," said Gilbert, with an amused look at Micky's
habiliments.
"Yes," said Micky, with a glance at the brass buttons; "but I had to
borrer the money to buy my clo'es."
"There used to be a boy around here that was called Dick. Did you know
him?"
"There be a good many Dicks. Which did you mean?"
"This boy was nearly your size. I believe they called him 'Ragged
Dick.'"
"I know'd him," said Micky, shortly, with a scowl.
"Was he a friend of yours?"
"No, he wasn't. I give him a lickin' once."
The fact happened to be the other way; but Micky was not very scrupulous
as to the strict truth of his statements.
"You don't like him, then? Where is he now?"
"He's in a store, and swells round with good clothes."
"Have you seen him lately?"
"No, an' I don't want to."
"He wears a gold watch now. I suppose he wouldn't have anything to say
to you."
"Maybe not," said Mickey.
"It would be a good joke if he should lose his place and have to go back
to boot-blacking again."
"I wish he would," said Micky, fervently. "It 'ould cure him of puttin'
on airs."
"If, for example, his employer should be convinced that he was a thief,
he would discharge him."
"Do you know him, mister?" asked Micky, looking up suddenly.
"Yes."
"Is he a friend of yours?"
"I like him about as well as you do," said Gilbert.
"Done!" said Micky, releasing the second foot.
"Suppose you brush the other boot again. I'll pay you double. I want to
talk to you a little."
"All right!" said Micky, and he resumed operations.
The conversation that followed we do not propose to chronicle. The
results will appear hereafter. Enough that Gilbert and Micky departed
mutually satisfied, the latter the richer by five times his usual fee.
CHAPTER XII.
DICK FALLS INTO A TRAP.
One evening, when Dick and Fosdick returned from their respective
stores, a surprise awaited them.
"The postman left some letters for you," said the servant, as she opened
the door to admit them.
"Maybe they're from the tax-collectors," said Dick. "That's the
misfortun' of being men of property. What was your tax last year,
Fosdick?"
"I don't remember such trifles," said Fosdick.
"I don't think they was taxes," said the girl, seriously; "they looked
as if they was from a young lady."
"Very likely they are from Fosdick's wife," said Dick. "She's
rusticatin' in the country for the benefit of her health."
"Maybe they're from yours, Mr. Hunter," said the girl, laughing.
"No," said Dick, gravely, "I'm a disconsolate widower, which accounts
for my low spirits most of the time, and my poor appetite. Where are the
letters?"
"I left them on the bureau in your room," said the servant. "They come
this afternoon at three o'clock."
Both Fosdick and Dick felt not a little curious as to who could have
written them letters, and hastened upstairs. Entering their chamber,
they saw two very neat little notes, in perfumed French envelopes, and
with the initial G in colors on the back. On opening them they read the
following in a neat, feminine, fine handwriting. As both were alike, it
will be sufficient to give Dick's.
     "Miss Ida Greyson presents her compliments to Mr. Richard Hunter,
     and solicits the pleasure of his company on Thursday evening next,
     at a little birthday party.
     "No. -- West Twenty-Fourth Street."
"We're getting fashionable," said Dick. "I didn't use to attend many
parties when we lived in Mott Street and blacked boots for a livin'. I'm
afraid I shan't know how to behave."
"I shall feel a little bashful," said Fosdick; "but I suppose we've got
to begin some time."
"Of course," said Dick. "The important position we hold in society makes
it necessary. How'll I be able to hold levees when I'm mayor, if I don't
go into society now?"
"Very true," said Fosdick; "I don't expect to occupy any such position;
but we ought to go in acknowledgment of Mr. Greyson's kindness."
Mr. Greyson was the teacher of the Sunday-school class of which both
Dick and Fosdick were members. His recommendation had procured Fosdick
his present place, and he had manifested his kindness in various ways.
Those who have read "Ragged Dick" will remember that he had a very
sprightly and engaging daughter of ten years of age, who seemed to have
taken an especial fancy to Dick. Being wealthy, his kindness had been of
great service to both boys, inspiring them with self-respect, and
encouraging them to persevere in their efforts to raise themselves to a
higher position.
The dinner-bell rang just as the boys had finished their discussion, and
they went down and took places at the table.
Soon Miss Peyton came sailing in, shaking her ringlets coquettishly. She
was proud of these ringlets, and was never tired of trying their
fascinations upon gentlemen. But somehow they had not succeeded in
winning a husband.
"Good-evening, Mr. Hunter," said she. "You look as if you had had good
news."
"Do I?" said Dick. "Perhaps you can tell what it is."
"I know how it came," said Miss Peyton, significantly.
"Then I hope you won't keep me in suspense any longer than you can
help."
"Perhaps you'd rather I wouldn't mention before company."
"Never mind," said Dick. "Don't have any regard to my feelin's. They're
tough, and can stand a good deal."
"How do you like the letter G?" asked Miss Peyton, slyly.
"Very much," said Dick, "as long as it behaves itself. What is your
favorite letter?"
"Don't think I'm going to tell you, Mr. Hunter. That was a pretty little
note, and in a young lady's hand too."
"Yes," said Dick. "Perhaps you'd like to see it."
"You wouldn't show it to me on any account, I know."
"You may see it if you like," said Dick.
"May I, really? I should like to very much; but would the young lady
like it?"
"I don't think she'd mind. She's written one to my friend Fosdick just
like it."
Dick passed the invitation across the table.
"It's very pretty indeed," said Miss Peyton. "And is Miss Ida Greyson
very handsome?"
"I'm no judge of beauty," said Dick.
"So she lives in West Twenty-Fourth Street. Is her father rich?"
"I don't know how rich," said Dick; "but my impression is that his taxes
last year were more than mine."
"I know now what your favorite letters are," said Miss Peyton. "They are
I. G."
"I. G. are very well as long as you don't put P. before them," said
Dick. "Thank you for another cup of tea, Mrs. Browning."
"I should think you'd need some tea after such a brilliant effort,
Hunter," said Mr. Clifton, from across the table.
"Yes," said Dick. "I find my brain gets exhausted every now and then by
my intellectual efforts. Aint you troubled that way?"
"Can't say I am. Don't you want to go out and try a game of billiards
this evening?"
"No, thank you. I've got to study."
"I expect to see you a college professor some of these days."
"I haven't made up my mind yet," said Dick. "I'm open to an offer, as
the oyster remarked when he was placed on the table. If I can serve my
fellow-men best by bein' a college professor, and gettin' a big salary,
I'm willin' to sacrifice my private feelin's for the public good."
"Do you agree with your friend, Mr. Fosdick?" said Miss Peyton. "Won't
you favor us with your views?"
"I have none worth mentioning," said Fosdick. "I leave my friend to do
the talking, while I attend to the eating."
"Mr. Hunter's remarks are very entertaining," said Miss Peyton.
"Thank you," said Dick; "but my friend prefers a different kind of
entertainment."
The boys rose from the table, and went up to their room to look over the
evening's lessons. They were quite pleased with their new teacher, whom
they found not only competent for his task, but interested in promoting
their progress. He was able to help them readily out of their
difficulties, and encouraged them to persevere. So they came to look
forward to their evening lessons not as tasks, but as pleasant
exercises.
"It's strange," said Dick, one evening after the teacher had left them;
"I used to enjoy goin' to the Old Bowery so much. I went two or three
times a week sometimes. Now I would a good deal rather stay at home and
study."
"Then you didn't have a home, and the lighted theatre must have been
much pleasanter than the cold and cheerless streets."
"Yes, that was it. I used to get so tired sometimes of having no home to
go to, and nobody to speak to that I cared about."
"You'd hardly like to go back to the old life, Dick?"
"No, it would come pretty hard to me now. I didn't seem to mind it so
much then."
"Because you had never known anything better."
"No. It was a lucky day when I met you, Fosdick. I'd never have had the
patience to learn. Readin', or tryin' to read, always gave me the
headache."
"You always leave off the last letter in such words as 'reading,' Dick.
You should be more careful, now that you associate with educated
persons."
"I know it, Fosdick, but I'm so used to droppin'--I mean dropping--the g
that it comes natural. I will try to remember it. But about this
party,--shall we have to get new clothes?"
"No, we have each a nice suit, and we shan't be expected to dress in the
height of the fashion."
"I wish it was over. I dread it."
"So do I a little; but I think we shall enjoy it. Ida is a nice girl."
"That's so. If I had a sister I'd like her to be like Ida."
"Perhaps she'd like a brother like you. I notice she seems to fancy your
company."
"I hope you're not jealous, Fosdick. You can be a brother to Miss
Peyton, you know."
Fosdick laughed. "There's no chance for me there either," he said. "She
evidently prefers you."
"I'll adopt her for my aunt if it'll be gratifying to her feelings,"
said Dick; "but I aint partial to ringlets as a general thing."
It is well perhaps that Miss Peyton did not hear these remarks, as she
cherished the idea that both Fosdick and Dick were particularly pleased
with her.
A day or two afterwards Dick was walking leisurely through Chatham
Street, about half past one o'clock. He was allowed an hour, about noon,
to go out and get some lunch, and he was now on his way from the
restaurant which he usually frequented. As it was yet early, he paused
before a window to look at something which attracted his attention.
While standing here he became conscious of a commotion in his immediate
neighborhood. Then he felt a hand thrust into the side-pocket of his
coat, and instantly withdrawn. Looking up, he saw Micky Maguire dodging
round the corner. He put his hand into his pocket mechanically, and drew
out a pocket-book.
Just then a stout, red-faced man came up puffing, and evidently in no
little excitement.
"Seize that boy!" he gasped, pointing to Dick. "He's got my
pocket-book."
Contrary to the usual rule in such cases, a policeman did happen to be
about, and, following directions, stepped up, and laid his hand on
Dick's shoulder.
"You must go with me, my fine fellow," he said "Hand over that
pocket-book, if you please."
"What's all this about?" said Dick. "Here's the pocket-book, if it is
yours. I'm sure I don't want it."
"You're a cool hand," said the guardian of the public peace. "If you
don't want it, what made you steal it from this gentleman's pocket?"
"I didn't take it," said Dick, shortly.
"Is this the boy that stole your pocket-book?" demanded the policeman of
the red-faced man, who had now recovered his breath.
"It's the very young rascal. Does he pretend to deny it?"
"Of course he does. They always do."
"When it was found on him too! I never knew such barefaced impudence."
"Stop a minute," said Dick, "while I explain. I was standing looking in
at that window, when I felt something thrust into my pocket. I took it
out and found it to be that pocket-book. Just then that gentleman came
up, and charged me with the theft."
"That's a likely story," said the officer. "If any one put the
pocket-book into your pocket, it shows you were a confederate of his.
You'll have to come with me."
And poor Dick, for the first time in his life, was marched to the
station-house, followed by his accuser, and a gang of boys. Among these
last, but managing to keep at a respectful distance, was Micky Maguire.
CHAPTER XIII.
DICK IN THE STATION-HOUSE.
Poor Dick! If Trinity Church spire had suddenly fallen to the ground, it
could scarcely have surprised and startled him more than his own arrest
for theft.
During the hard apprenticeship which he had served as a street boy, he
had not been without his share of faults and errors; but he had never,
even under the severest pressure, taken what did not belong to him.
Of religious and moral instruction he had then received none; but
something told him that it was mean to steal, and he was true to this
instinctive feeling. Yet, if he had been arrested a year before, it
would have brought him less shame and humiliation than now. Now he was
beginning to enjoy the feeling of respectability, which he had compassed
by his own earnest efforts. He felt he was regarded with favor by those
whose good opinion was worth having, and his heart swelled within him as
he thought that they might be led to believe him guilty. He had never
felt so down-hearted as when he walked in company with the policeman to
the station-house, to be locked up for examination the next morning.
"You wasn't sharp enough this time, young fellow," said the policeman.
"Do you think I stole the pocket-book?" asked Dick, looking up in the
officer's face.
"Oh, no, of course not! You wouldn't do anything of that kind," said the
policeman, ironically.
"No, I wouldn't," said Dick, emphatically. "I've been poor enough and
hungry enough sometimes, but I never stole. It's mean."
"What is your name?" said the officer. "I think I have seen you before."
"I used to black boots. Then my name was Ragged Dick. I know you. Your
name is Jones."
"Ragged Dick! Yes, yes, I remember. You used to be pretty well out at
elbows, if I remember rightly."
"My clothes used to be pretty well ventilated," said Dick, smiling
faintly. "That was what made me so healthy, I expect. But did you ever
know me to steal?"
"No," said the officer, "I can't say I have."
"I lived about the streets for more then eight years," said Dick, "and
this is the first time I was ever arrested."
"What do you do now?"
"I'm in a store on Pearl Street."
"What wages do you get?"
"Ten dollars a week."
"Do you expect me to believe that story?"
"It's true."
"I don't believe there's a boy of your age in the city that gets such
wages. You can't earn that amount."
"I jumped into the water, and saved the life of Mr. Rockwell's little
boy. That's why he pays me so much."
"Where did you get that watch and chain? Are they gold?"
"Yes, Mrs. Rockwell gave them to me."
"It seems to me you're in luck."
"I wasn't very lucky to fall in with you," said Dick. "Don't you see
what a fool I should be to begin to pick pockets now when I am so well
off?"
"That's true," said the officer, who began to be shaken in his previous
conviction of Dick's guilt.
"If I'd been going into that business, I would have tried it when I was
poor and ragged. I should not have waited till now."
"If you didn't take the pocket-book, then how came it in your pocket?"
"I was looking in at a shop window, when I felt it thrust into my
pocket. I suppose it was the thief who did it, to get out of the scrape
himself."
"That might be. At any rate, I've known of such cases. If so, you are
unlucky, and I am sorry for you. I can't let you go, because appearances
are against you, but if there is anything I can do to help you I will."
"Thank you, Mr. Jones," said Dick, gratefully. "I did not want you to
think me guilty. Where is the man that lost the pocket-book?"
"Just behind us."
"I should like to speak to him a moment."
The red-faced man, who was a little behind, came up, and Dick asked,
quietly, "What makes you think I took your pocket-book, sir?"
"Wasn't it found in your pocket, you young rascal?" said the other,
irritably.
"Yes," said Dick.
"And isn't that enough?"
"Not if somebody else put it there," said Dick.
"That's a likely story."
"It's a true story."
"Can you identify this as the boy who robbed you, and whom you saw
running?"
"No," said the red-faced man, rather unwillingly. "My eyesight is not
very good, but I've no doubt this is the young rascal."
"Well, that must be decided. You must appear to-morrow morning to prefer
your complaint."
"Mind you don't let the rascal escape," said the other.
"I shall carry him to the station-house, where he will be safe."
"That's right, I'll make an example of him. He won't pick my pocket
again in a hurry."
"I hope the judge won't be so sure that I am guilty," said Dick. "If he
is, it'll go hard with me."
"Why don't you call your employer to testify to your good character?"
"That's a good idea. Can I write a note to him, and to another friend?"
"Yes; but perhaps the mail wouldn't carry them in time."
"I will send a messenger. Can I do so?"
"When we get to the station-house I will see that you have a chance to
send. Here we are."
Escorted by the officer, and followed by his accuser, Dick entered.
There was a railing at the upper end of the room, and behind it a desk
at which sat a captain of the squad.
The officer made his report, which, though fair and impartial, still was
sufficient to cause our hero's commitment for trial.
"What is your name?" questioned the captain.
Dick thought it best to be straightforward, and, though he winced at the
idea of his name appearing in the daily papers, answered in a manly
tone, "Richard Hunter."
"Of what nation?"
"American."
"Where were you born?"
"In this city."
"What is your age?"
"Sixteen years."
These answers were recorded, and, as Dick expressed a desire to
communicate with his friends before trial, permission was given him to
write to them, and the trial was appointed for the next morning at the
Tombs. The red-faced man certified that his wallet contained nine
dollars and sixty-two cents, which was found to be correct. He agreed to
be present the next morning to prefer his charge, and with such manifest
pleasure that he was not retained, as it sometimes happens, to insure
his appearance.
"I will find a messenger to carry your notes," said the friendly
officer.
"Thank you," said Dick. "I will take care that you are paid for your
trouble."
"I require no pay except what I have to pay the messenger."
Dick was escorted to a cell for safe-keeping. He quickly dashed off a
letter to Mr. Murdock, fearing that Mr. Rockwell might not be in the
store. It was as follows:--
     "MR. MURDOCK,--What will you think when I tell you that I
     have been unlucky enough to be arrested on suspicion of picking a
     man's pocket? The real thief slipped the wallet into my pocket as I
     was looking into a shop window, and it was found on me. I couldn't
     prove my innocence, so here I am at the station-house. They will
     think strange at the store because I am absent. Will you tell Mr.
     Rockwell privately what has detained me; but don't tell Mr.
     Gilbert. He don't like me any too well, and would believe me guilty
     at once, or pretend he did. I am sure you won't believe I would
     do such a thing, or Mr. Rockwell either. Will you come and see me
     to-night? I am to be tried to-morrow morning. I aint very proud of
     the hotel where I am stopping, but they didn't give me much choice
     in the matter.
     "RICHARD HUNTER."
     "Station-House, Franklin Street."
The other letter was to Fosdick; here it is:--
     "DEAR FOSDICK,--I didn't much think when I left you this
     morning that I should be writing to you from the station-house
     before night. I'll tell you how it happened." [Here follows a
     detailed account, which is omitted, as the reader is already
     acquainted with all the circumstances.] "Of course they will wonder
     at the boarding-house where I am. If Miss Peyton or Mr. Clifton
     inquires after me to-night, you can say that I am detained by
     business of importance. That's true enough. I wish it wasn't. As
     soon as dinner is over, I wish you'd come and see me. I don't know
     if you can, not being acquainted with the rules of this hotel. I
     shan't stop here again very soon, if I can help it. There's a woman
     in the next cell, who was arrested for fighting. She is swearing
     frightfully. It almost makes me sick to be in such a place. It's
     pretty hard to have this happen to me just when I was getting along
     so well. But I hope it'll all come out right. Your true friend,
     "DICK.
     "P.S.--I've given my watch and chain to the officer to keep for me.
     Gold watches aint fashionable here, and I didn't want them to think
     me putting on airs.
     "Station-House, Franklin Street."
After Dick had written these letters he was left to himself. His
reflections, as may readily be supposed, were not the most pleasant.
What would they think at the boarding-house, if they should find what
kind of business it was that had detained him! Even if he was acquitted,
some might suppose that he was really guilty. But there was a worse
contingency. He might be unable to prove his innocence, and might be
found guilty. In that case he would be sent to the Island. Dick
shuddered at the thought. Just when he began to feel himself
respectable, it was certainly bad to meet with such hard luck. What,
too, would Mr. Greyson and Ida think? He had been so constant at the
Sunday school that his absence would be sure to be noticed, and he knew
that his former mode of life would make his guilt more readily believed
in the present instance.
"If Ida should think me a pick-pocket!" thought poor Dick, and the
thought made him miserable enough. The fact was, that Ida, by her
vivacity and lively manners, and her evident partiality for his society,
had quite won upon Dick, who considered her by all odds the nicest girl
he had ever seen. I don't mean to say that Dick was in love,--at least
not yet. Both he and Ida were too young for that; but he was certainly
quite an admirer of the young lady. Again, if he were convicted, he
would have to give up the party to which he had been invited, and he
could never hope to get another invitation.
All these reflections helped to increase Dick's unhappiness. I doubt if
he had ever felt so unhappy in all his life. But it never once occurred
to him that his arrest was brought about by the machinations of his
enemies. He hadn't chanced to see Micky Maguire, and had no suspicion
that it was he who dropped the wallet into his pocket. Still less did he
suspect that Gilbert's hostility had led him so far as to conspire with
such a boy as Micky against him. It was lucky that he did not know this,
or he would have felt still more unhappy.
But it is now time to turn to Micky Maguire and Mr. Gilbert, whose joint
scheme had met with so much success.
CHAPTER XIV.
MICKY MAGUIRE'S DISAPPOINTMENT.
Micky Maguire waited until Dick was actually on the way to the
station-house, and then started for Pearl Street to acquaint Gilbert
with the success of his machinations. His breast swelled with triumph at
the advantage he had gained over his enemy.
"May be he'll keep his 'cheerin' reflections' to himself another time,"
thought Micky. "He won't have much to say about my going to the Island
when he's been there himself. They won't stand none of his airs there,
I'm thinkin'."
There was another pleasant aspect to the affair. Micky had not only
triumphed over his enemy, but he was going to be paid for it. This was
the stipulation between Gilbert and himself. The book-keeper had not
promised any definite sum, but Micky, in speculating upon the proper
compensation for his service, fixed upon five dollars as about what he
ought to receive. Like many others who count their chickens before they
are hatched, he had already begun to consider what he would buy with it
when he had got it.
Now, only the day previous, Micky had noticed hanging in a window in
Chatham Street, a silver watch, and chain attached, which was labelled
"GENUINE SILVER, ONLY FIVE DOLLARS." Since Micky had been the
possessor of a blue coat with brass buttons, his thoughts had dwelt more
than ever before on his personal appearance, and the watch had struck his
fancy. He did not reflect much on the probable quality of a silver watch
which could be sold for five dollars, and a chain thrown into the
bargain. It was a watch, at any rate, and would make a show. Besides,
Dick wore a watch, and Micky felt that he did not wish to be outdone. As
soon as he received his reward he meant to go and buy it.
It was therefore in a very cheerful frame of mind that Micky walked up
in front of Rockwell & Cooper's store, and took his stand, occasionally
glancing at the window.
Ten minutes passed away, and still he remained unnoticed. He grew
impatient, and determined to enter, making his business an excuse.
Entering, he saw through the open door of the office, the book-keeper,
bending over the desk writing.
"Shine yer boots?" he asked.
Gilbert was about to answer angrily in the negative, when looking up he
recognized his young confederate. His manner changed, and he said, "Yes,
I believe I'll have a shine; but you must be quick about it."
Micky swung his box from his shoulder, and, sinking upon his knees,
seized his brush, and went to work scientifically.
"Any news?" asked Gilbert, in a low voice.
"Yes, mister, I've done it," said Micky.
"Have you managed to trap him?"
"Yes, I left him on his way to the station-house."
"How did you manage it?"
"I grabbed an old fellow's wallet, and dropped it into Dick's pocket. He
pulled it out, and while he was lookin' at it, up came the 'copp' and
nabbed him."
"How about the man from whom the wallet was taken?"
"He came up puffin', and swore Dick was the chap that stole it."
"So he was carried off to the station-house?"
"Yes; he's there safe enough."
"Then we shall have to carry on business without him," said Gilbert,
coolly. "I hope he will enjoy himself at his new quarters."
"Maybe they'll send him to the Island," said Micky, beginning his
professional operations upon the second boot.
"Very likely," said Gilbert. "I suppose you've been there before this."
"Wot if I have?" said Micky, in rather a surly tone, for he did not
relish the allusion.
"No offence," said Gilbert. "I only meant that if you have ever been
there, you can judge whether your friend Dick will enjoy it."
"Not a great deal," said Micky; "but you needn't call him my friend. I
hate him."
"Your enemy, then. But get through as soon as possible."
Micky struck his brush upon the floor to indicate that the job was
finished, and, rising, waited for his fee.
Gilbert took from his pocket ten cents and handed him.
"That's for the shine," he said; "and here's something for the other
matter."
So saying, he placed in the hand of the boot-black a bank-note.
Micky glanced at it, and his countenance changed ominously, when he
perceived the denomination. It was a one-dollar bill!
"It's one dollar," he said.
"Isn't that enough?"
"No, it isn't," he answered, sullenly. "I might 'ave been nabbed myself.
I can't afford to work on no such terms."
Micky was right. It certainly was a very small sum to receive for taking
such a risk, apart from all moral considerations, and his
dissatisfaction can hardly be wondered at. But Gilbert was not of a
generous nature. In fact he was disposed to be mean, and in the present
instance he had even expected to get the credit of being generous. A
dollar, he thought, must seem an immense sum to a ragged boot-black. But
Micky thought differently, and Gilbert felt irritated at his
ingratitude.
"It's all you'll get," said he, roughly.
"Then you'd better get somebody else to do your dirty work next time,
mister," said Micky, angrily.
"Clear out, you young blackguard!" exclaimed Gilbert, his temper by this
time fully aroused. "Clear out, if you don't want to be kicked out!"
"Maybe you'll wish you'd given me more," said Micky, sullenly picking up
his box, and leaving the office.
"What's the matter?" asked Mr. Murdock, who happened to come up just as
Micky went into the street, and heard the last words of the altercation.
"Oh," said Gilbert, carelessly, "he wasn't satisfied with his pay. I
gave him ten cents, but the young rascal wanted more."
As he said this, he turned back to his desk.
"I wonder whether Gilbert's going anywhere," thought the head clerk. "I
never knew him so extravagant before. He must be going out this
evening."
Just then it occurred to him that Dick had been absent longer than
usual, and, as he needed his services, he asked, "Has Richard returned,
Mr. Gilbert?"
"I haven't seen him."
"Did he go out at the usual time?"
"Yes."
"What can have detained him?" said Mr. Murdock, thoughtfully.
"He's probably fallen in with some of his old friends, and forgotten all
about his duties."
"That is not his way," said Mr. Murdock, quietly, as he walked away. He
understood very well Mr. Gilbert's hostility to Dick, and that the
latter was not likely to receive a very favorable judgment at his hands.
Five minutes later a boy entered the store, and, looking about him a
moment in uncertainty, said, "I want to see Mr. Murdock."
"I am Mr. Murdock," he answered.
"Then this note is for you."
The clerk felt instinctively that the note was from Dick, and, not
wishing Gilbert to hear the conversation, motioned the boy to follow him
to the back part of the store.
Then he opened and read the note quickly.
"Did Richard Hunter give this to you?" he asked.
"No," said Tim Ryan, for that was his name. "It was the 'copp' that
arrested him."
"I suppose a 'copp' is a policeman."
"Yes, sir."
"Were you present when he was arrested?"
"Yes, sir."
"Do you know anything about it?"
"Yes, I seed it all."
"You saw the wallet taken?"
"Yes, sir."
"Did Richard take it?"
"You mean Dick?" said Tim, interrogatively, for Richard was to him a
strange name.
"No, he didn't, then. He wouldn't steal. I never know'd him to."
"Then you know Dick?"
"Yes, sir. I've knowed him ever since I was so high," indicating a point
about three feet above the floor.
"Then who did take it, if not he?"
"Micky Maguire."
"Who is he?"
"He blacks boots."
"Then how did it happen that he was not arrested?"
"Micky was smart enough to drop the wallet into Dick's pocket as he was
standin' before a shop winder. Then he got out of the way, and Dick was
nabbed by the 'copp.'"
"Is this Micky of whom you speak a friend of yours?"
"No; he likes to bully small boys."
"Then why didn't you tell the officer he had arrested the wrong boy?"
"I wanted to," said Tim, "for Dick's always been kind to me; but I was
afraid Micky would give me a beatin' when he got free. Then there was
another reason."
"What was that?"
"It's mean to tell of a fellow."
"Isn't it meaner to let an innocent boy get punished, when you might
save him by telling?"
"Maybe it is," said Tim, perplexed.
"My lad," continued Mr. Murdock, "you say Dick has been kind to you. You
now have an opportunity to repay all he has ever done, by clearing him
from this false charge, which you can easily do."
"I'll do it," said Tim, stoutly. "I don't care if Micky does lick me for
it."
"By the way," said Mr. Murdock, with a sudden thought, "what is the
appearance of this Micky Maguire?"
"He's rather stout, and has freckles."
"Does he wear a blue coat, with large brass buttons?"
"Yes," said Tim, in surprise. "Do you know him?"
"I have seen him this morning," said Mr. Murdock. "Wait a minute, and I
will give you a line to Dick; or rather it will not be necessary. If you
can get a chance, let him know that I am going to call on him this
afternoon. Will you be at the station-house, or near it, at six
o'clock?"
"Yes, sir."
"Then we can arrange about your appearing as a witness at the trial.
Here is half a dollar for your trouble in bringing the note."
"I don't want it, sir," said Tim. "I don't want to take anything for
doing a good turn to Dick."
"But you have been prevented from earning money. You had better take
it."
But Tim, who was a warm-hearted Irish boy, steadfastly refused, and left
the store in quest of Henderson's hat and cap store, having also a note
to deliver to Fosdick.
"So that was Micky Maguire who was here a little while since," said Mr.
Murdock to himself. "It seems singular that immediately after getting
Richard into trouble, he should have come here where he was employed.
Can it be that Gilbert had a previous acquaintance with him?"
The more Mr. Murdock reflected, the more perplexed he became. It did
cross his mind that the two might be in league against Dick; but then,
on the other hand, they evidently parted on bad terms, and this seemed
to make such a combination improbable. So he gave up puzzling himself
about it, reflecting that time would clear up what seemed mysterious
about the affair.
Gilbert, on his part, could not help wondering on what errand Tim Ryan
