Paul walked about the church, and examined other pictures and works of
art; and then, after paying the keeper of the tower a franc, they
commenced the long ascent to the spire and chimes.
"These churches and these pictures are certainly very fine," said Paul,
as they stopped at a window to rest. "We don't have them in our country.
There isn't a church there that will compare with any of these
cathedrals, to say nothing of the celebrated pictures, such as we have
just seen."
"That's very true; and I am thankful that our people make a better use
of their money. Here in Belgium, as in most countries of Europe, poverty
is the curse of the people. They do not receive the reward of their
labor. The government and the church take the lion's share of their
earnings, and thus keep them down. This Cathedral was commenced in 1352,
and finished in 1411, though another spire was to have been built.
Nearly sixty years were employed in its erection, and probably it cost
millions of dollars. Of course the people had to pay for it. The greater
portion of the expense of it lies dormant here, it being merely an
ornamental structure. It gratifies people's tastes, it is true; but God
could be acceptably worshipped in a less costly edifice. If the capital
locked up in this church had been invested in schools, colleges, and
other educational institutions, it would be a blessing to the country.
What is paid in Europe to build these grand structures for worship, and
to support the trappings of royalty, is in our own country appropriated
to public schools; and the nation reaps the benefit of them every year
of its existence."
"That's so," replied Paul, emphatically; "and when any foreigner says
anything to me again about our want of costly cathedrals, I shall call
his attention to our schools."
"That's right; you are an American to the core," laughed the doctor.
"But I don't see any reason why we should not have as great painters in
the United States as in Europe," added Paul.
"I do see the reason. Probably we have just as much talent for art in
our nation, but the people find that it doesn't pay so well as
developing the resources of a new country. When it is possible in
America for a man to win the wealth and distinction which Rubens won,
we shall be as successful in art as Europe has been; for Washington
Allston, Benjamin West, and others have demonstrated the capacity of our
people in this direction. The encouragement which artists receive makes
the men. There are not many persons in our country who are willing to
pay ten, fifty, or a hundred thousand dollars for a picture. So much
money in a painting is dead capital among an energetic people who need
all they can get to carry on agricultural, commercial, and manufacturing
enterprises."
"Of course people will follow that calling which pays best, either in
money or in reputation."
"Certainly, and the number of Dutch and Flemish artists assures us that
painting has been a cherished art in the Low Countries. Vandyck was
another celebrated painter of this country. He was born in Antwerp, and
was a pupil of Rubens. There is a story that The Descent from the Cross
was thrown down by the carelessness of a student, and badly injured by
the fall. Vandyck, who was then a pupil of the great Flemish master,
undertook to repair the mischief with his brush, and did it so well that
Rubens declared the work was superior to his own. This story is current
in the guide-books, and in the mouths of the commissionaires, who
point out the places on the face of the Virgin and on the arm of one of
the Marys where the pupil touched it up. But there is no truth in it,
since the picture was hung up in the Cathedral before Vandyck entered
the studio of Rubens."
"I suppose these people like to tell good stories, whether true or not."
"Yes; and you will find a man up in this steeple who believes that his
spire is the tallest in the world," added Dr. Winstock.
They continued on their long ascent till they reached the region of the
bells, where they found the attendant who glories in magnifying the
wonders of the chimes and the spire. He had a small furnished apartment,
which the visitors were invited to enter, and where he dispensed
refreshments, of which no total abstinence man could partake. The
doctor, knowing what the man had to say, skilfully turned his attention
away from his favorite topic, until they were sufficiently
refreshed--not by the eau de vie and noyau, but by the rest--to
explore the bell towers.
The bells composing the chime were fixed in the lofts, which were filled
with wires, cranks, and other machinery, used in operating them. In one
place there was a bank of keys like those of an organ, where a person
could play any tune he pleased upon the bells. The keeper had a history
to relate of each bell, many of which were contributed by kings,
princes, and lords, and bore their names. In another tower there was an
immense bell, at the baptism of which--for church bells are duly
consecrated in Catholic countries--the Emperor Charles V. stood as
godfather. It requires sixteen men to ring it; but its peals rouse the
Antwerpers only on great occasions, such as a visit of the king.
Dr. Winstock and Paul waited among the chimes till they had played the
hourly tune, and then continued their progress to the heights above.
The custodian of the steeple said there were six hundred and sixteen
steps from the bottom to the top, and a person does not care to make the
journey more than once in his lifetime. The winding stairs passed close
to the Gothic openings of the tower, and they had an opportunity closely
to observe the delicate workmanship of the structure, which Charles V.
said should be kept in a glass case, and Napoleon compared to Mechlin
lace.
At last, out of breath, they reached the highest point of the spire, and
looked far down upon the lofty roof of the church. The buildings of the
city looked like card houses, and a company of Belgian soldiers,
marching in the streets, appeared like the pygmies who inhabited them.
In the distance could be seen the towers of Ghent, Brussels, Mechlin,
and Flushing, the wandering Scheldt, and the low country for a vast
distance. The magnificent view, and the information it afforded, amply
repaid them for the toil of ascending, and Paul made the Cathedral the
subject of an entire letter to Miss Grace Arbuckle.
It was easier to go down than to come up, and when they had passed out
into the Place Verte, the doctor declared that he must lunch before he
walked any farther. The Hotel de l'Europe faced the Park, and Paul was
desirous of seeing the interior of it. They entered through an archway,
there being no doors on the street. There was a spacious area, or
court-yard, through which alone the house could be reached. In other
respects the establishment was similar to those in the United States.
On the continent, as in England, none but working people take breakfast
much before nine o'clock, and the hour varies from this time till noon.
Of late years the practice in American hotels corresponds with that of
European ones. In the dining-room of the Hotel de l'Europe there are
many small tables, and one or two long ones, the latter being used at
table d'hôte, which is served at five o'clock. A hotel bill is added, to
give the reader an idea of the prices:--
   "HOTEL DE L'EUROPE.
   Place Verte.
   ANVERS.
   Note à M. Smith,
   Chambre No. 40, A.
                                       Fr. Cen.
   Août 4.   1/2 Poulet et Salade,       3.00
             1 Thé Complet,              1.50
             Appartement,                2.50
             Bougie,                      .50
             Service,                    1.00
        5.   1 Déjeûné et Bifstek,       3.00
             1 Bifstek, Pomme de Terre,  1.50
                                        -----
                                        13.00
              Pour Acquit,
                                 J. W. BARBER."
"One Thé Complet" consists of simply tea and bread and butter, and as a
franc is about twenty cents, its price is thirty cents. A centime is the
hundredth of a franc, and fifty centimes is ten cents. If the guest adds
a beefsteak and potatoes, or any other dish, to his meal, it just
doubles the cost. The "bougie" is a candle, which is charged all over
Europe, at from a quarter of a franc up to a franc. The traveller also
pays for his soap, or provides it himself. When an "old stager" pays a
franc for a candle, or a piece of soap, he rolls the part unused up in a
paper and puts it into his trunk; and, if at his next stopping-place, he
finds a candle in his room, he orders the waiter to remove it, and will
not submit to be charged for it.
Table d'hôte is a more formal meal, and in some large hotels much parade
is made over it. The bill of fare is usually very meagre compared with
that of the Fifth Avenue Hotel in New York, and every dish in the
programme is presented to the guest. The charge for this meal, at
first-class houses outside of Paris, is usually four francs, or eighty
cents.
Dr. Winstock and Paul took a seat in the Salle à manger. The student
was principally anxious to know what they had to eat, and in what manner
they served it, for he was of an inquiring mind, and fond of making
comparisons. The most common lunch consists of cold chicken and salad,
the latter being simply lettuce prepared with oil and vinegar. Paul was
disappointed, for the lunch differed hardly a shade from the same thing
at home. Even the gentlemanly Belgian waiter, dressed in seemly black,
spoke good English, and the "demi-poulet" was wasted upon him.
"Where shall we go now, Paul?" asked the doctor, as they left the
dining-room.
"I leave that to you, sir. You seem to be quite at home here," replied
Paul.
"We will take a carriage, and we can do up the city in a few hours."
A one-horse barouche was called, and a commissionaire--a kind of guide
or interpreter, who assists strangers in doing their business, or in
seeing the sights of the city--presented himself to be employed; but Dr.
Winstock, who was familiar with the place, declined his services.
"What was that man?" asked Paul, as the carriage drove off to the Rue
des Soeurs Noires, where the Dominican Church of St. Paul is located.
"He is a commissionaire, interpreter, or valet de place. Many
travellers regard such men as swindlers; but for my own part I have
found them very useful. When I first visited Antwerp I employed one. I
found him intelligent and gentlemanly, and, so far as I could judge, not
disposed to swindle me himself or to let others do so. I paid him five
francs a day, and I am sure he saved me more money than I paid him,
besides taking me in the easiest and most convenient way to the various
points in the city."
"I should think such men would be very necessary, especially to those
who cannot speak the language."
"In Amsterdam and Rotterdam I should have been on my beam-ends without
them. I never could imagine where they obtained their bad name, unless
it was from Englishmen, who are generally afraid of being cheated, and
take the alarm before there is any real danger."
The driver stopped before the Church of St. Paul, and the passengers
alighted. There was nothing worthy of note in the church; but outside of
it, in a kind of garden, one of the most singular and remarkable
exhibitions is open to the visitor. It is called "Calvary," and is a
representation of the "several stages," as they are termed, in the life
of Christ. An artificial mound is raised on the side next to the church
edifice, which is covered with a kind of rock-work, in imitation of
Mount Calvary. In various parts of the area are placed the statues of
saints, angels, patriarchs, and prophets.
On the summit of the mound is represented the crucifixion, with a figure
of the Savior on the cross. At the foot of it is the sepulchre, which is
claimed to be a perfect copy of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalem, though
travellers who have seen it say it bears no resemblance whatever to the
original. In the tomb, on a kind of shelf, rests the crucified Christ,
represented by a figure clothed in silk and muslin!
Near the tomb an ideal of Purgatory is exhibited, consisting of wood
carvings. The making-up of the scene appears to be a kind of cage, like
those one sees in a menagerie, with bars in front of it to prevent the
escape of the unhappy mortals temporarily confined there. Within the den
are carved and painted several figures of men, in the midst of darting,
leaping flames, upon whose faces there is an expression of intense
anguish. Doubtless the intention of those who conceived this astounding
exhibition was to impress upon the mind of the spectator the sufferings
of the unrepentant wicked. It is hardly possible that this effect could
ever have been produced upon the minds of sensible men. The spectacle is
not only in exceedingly bad taste, but it is positively repulsive, not
to say sacrilegious.
Such was the opinion of Paul Kendall, who could hardly conceal his
disgust; and ten minutes in the place exhausted his patience. He was
silent, so deep was his feeling of dissatisfaction, until he was again
seated in the voiture. The next objects of interest were the docks and
basins, which were reached after a short drive from St. Paul's. They
merely passed along the quay, making no stop, as the works could be seen
from the carriage.
"That is the house of the Hanseatic League," said the doctor, pointing
to a large ancient building.
"What is the Hanseatic League?" asked Paul, who had never even heard of
it.
"It was a commercial alliance between some of the cities of Germany for
the protection and development of their trade. It had its origin in the
thirteenth century, for the purpose of preventing piracy and shipwreck,
and to encourage commerce, and, indeed, all branches of industry. It
established great warehouses or factories in different parts of Europe,
and became an exceedingly powerful association, so much so that it
dictated the policy of sovereigns on their thrones, and even declared
and carried on war with several of the powers of Europe. In the
fourteenth century, the League defeated the King of Norway and Sweden.
It unseated the King of Sweden, and gave his crown to another, and
having declared war against Denmark, sent a fleet of two hundred and
fifty ships, and thousands of troops to carry it on. In fact, the
association prepared for war with England, and Edward IV. made important
concessions to avoid it. Of course the crowned heads were jealous of
its power and influence, and it was eventually broken up; but it laid
the foundation of the commercial policy of the nations. The League died
out in 1630; but Hamburg, Lubec, and Bremen formed a new one, under the
name of the Hanse Towns; and Frankfort-on-the-Main afterwards joined
them."
"I have heard of the Hanse Towns," added Paul; "but I never knew what
the term meant before."
"The docks and basins here are mainly the work of Napoleon. The great
conqueror intended to make Antwerp the first seaport of the north. The
mouth of the Thames is less than a hundred miles from the mouth of the
Scheldt, and he knew that, with a naval station equal to any in the
possession of England, he could, in time of war, cripple or destroy the
commerce of his great rival. He expended ten millions of dollars on
these docks, basins, and fortifications. The English were alarmed, and
in 1809 sent the Walcheren expedition, which obtained a foothold on that
island, but were defeated by disease and death, for seven thousand
British soldiers perished by marsh fever. By the peace of Paris in 1814,
after the battle of Waterloo, it was stipulated that the dock-yards
should be destroyed, for they were a standing threat to the maritime
powers; but these basins were preserved for commercial purposes. The
largest one will accommodate thirty-four ships of the line."
The travellers continued on their way through some of the principal
streets till they arrived at the Church of St. Jacques, which is richer
in its ornaments than the Cathedral, containing exquisitely wrought
marbles, carved wood, painted glass. This magnificent church contains
the burial vaults of the noble families of the city, and among them that
of Rubens, which is marked by a white marble tablet with a long
inscription upon it, embedded in the pavement of his private chapel. The
Holy Family, which forms the altar-piece of the church, was painted by
the great master. In 1793, when the mob, incited by the furious spirit
of the French Revolution, broke into the church, pillaging altars and
tombs alike, that of Rubens was spared from desecration by the universal
respect for his memory, though not another tomb in St. Jacques escaped
their impious touch.
The house of Rubens, situated in a street of the same name, was visited;
an outside view of the Bourse, or Exchange, the Hotel de Ville, or Town
Hall, and of other public buildings, was obtained. The Citadel, built
under the direction of the cruel Duke of Alva, to overawe the rebellious
Antwerpers, was an object of interest. After the expulsion of the
Spaniards in 1577, the people, including those of high and low degree,
men, women, and children, assisted in its demolition; but it was
speedily rebuilt, and has played an important part in subsequent sieges
and insurrections. The city is surrounded by a continuous line of
fortifications and ditches, extending from a point on the river below
the city to a point above it; and outside of this line there are a
number of detached forts to keep a hostile force from approaching near
enough to the city to shell it.
When the carriage reached the Quai Vandyck, most of the students had
returned, and the boats were in waiting. They chattered like magpies
about the wonders they had seen. When Captain Kendall went on board, the
mail-bag was handed to him, and the boys were eager to obtain their
letters from home and elsewhere.
"A letter for you, Mr. Hamblin," said the captain, as he handed the
professor a formidable envelope, postmarked "Anvers."
The learned gentleman seemed to be astonished, and bore the missive to
his state-room.
CHAPTER IX.
TROUBLE ON BOARD THE JOSEPHINE.
Almost every one on board of the Josephine had a letter, and some had
two or three. Paul had one from Grace, dated at Paris, in which she
expressed a hope that, as she was to travel a few months with her
father, she might see him in some of her wanderings. The young captain
hoped so too, and he read the letter a second time. Probably he read it
a third time after he went to his state-room, and a fourth before he
retired; for boys of his age are apt to be enthusiastic in this
direction.
Professor Stoute sat in the cabin. He had been all over Antwerp, and had
walked a larger part of the distance than a man of his obesity could
well endure in a warm day. Though he was very tired, he was very
good-natured; indeed, thus far, nothing had ever occurred to disturb his
equanimity. He was exceedingly popular with the boys, and if he had
fallen overboard, every one of them would have jumped in after him. No
one ever thought of disobeying him, and consequently he never had any
trouble.
While he sat there fanning himself with a newspaper, Mr. Hamblin came
out of his state-room with the huge envelope he had received in his
hand. The learned gentleman looked perplexed; in fact, he always wore
an anxious expression, as though he were in constant fear that somebody
would infringe upon his dignity, or that some of the boys did not
believe he was the wisest man since the days of Solomon. He always
walked just so; he always sat just so; he always moved just so. He never
was guilty of using a doubtful expression. He was stern, rigid, and
precise, and from the beginning all the boys had disliked him; but since
he had behaved so unreasonably in the squall, they could hardly endure
him.
The lean professor walked up to the fat professor, and took a stand
before him. He had removed the letter from the formidable envelope, and
held it unfolded in his hand. He looked at the letter, and then at Mr.
Stoute. The fat professor laughed, but the lean professor frowned. The
jolly one knew just what the precise one wanted, but he waited patiently
for the exordium.
"Mr. Stoute, may I trouble you?" he began, after he had put himself in
proper position.
"Certainly, sir," replied the fat gentleman.
"If this letter had been written in Greek or Latin, I could have read
it," continued Mr. Hamblin, glancing at the sheet.
"Precisely so; if it had been written in Greek or Latin I could not read
it," laughed Mr. Stoute.
"My French, as I have had occasion to acknowledge to you with deep
humiliation, has been neglected for more important studies. This letter
appears to have been written by some distinguished person, but
unfortunately he has chosen to indite it in French."
"In a word, you wish me to read it to you."
"That is what I was about to request of you. May I ask you to retire
with me to our state-room?" continued Professor Hamblin, glancing at the
officers who were reading their letters in the cabin.
"Excuse me, Mr. Hamblin; you forget that I carry round with me two
hundred and odd pounds of flesh, besides bone and muscle, and that I
have been on my feet three hours. I think, sir, if I knew this vessel
was going to the bottom of the Scheldt this instant, I should go down
with her rather than move. Have me excused, I pray you, and have
compassion on mine infirmities," laughed Mr. Stoute.
Mr. Hamblin was vexed, but he gave the letter to his associate, who
turned the sheet and glanced at the signature.
"Ah!" exclaimed he, looking at Mr. Hamblin.
"What is it? Do me the favor to read it," replied the learned gentleman,
impatiently.
"It is from Monsieur Charles Rogier, the president of the council, and
minister of foreign affairs," added Professor Stoute. "He is the man who
organized the revolution of 1830, and the greatest man in Belgium, King
Leopold excepted."
"Is it possible!" ejaculated Mr. Hamblin, struggling to keep down the
smile in which his vanity sought to manifest itself. "What does he say?"
"He says that just as he was leaving Antwerp for Brussels, he heard that
the very learned and distinguished Professor Hamblin was on board of a
vessel at anchor in the river."
"Does he say that?" asked the learned gentleman, who, knowing that Mr.
Stoute had a horrid vein of humor running through his fat frame, had,
perhaps, a suspicion that he was making fun at his expense.
"That is precisely what it says."
"How should Mr. Rogier know me?" queried Mr. Hamblin.
"I was about to read his explanation on that point: he says he heard of
you through a friend who was in London a few weeks since. He wished to
see you and extend to you a welcome to the kingdom of Belgium; but the
command of his royal master required him to leave Antwerp by the next
train; and he was deprived of the pleasure of extending to you in person
the expression of his distinguished consideration. He hopes when you
visit Brussels you will do him the honor to call upon him at the Palais
de la Nation, Rue de la Soie."
"Humph!" ejaculated the learned professor, prolonging the interjection,
and trying to suppress the smile which had a sad tendency to overwhelm
his dignity.
"You are fortunate, Mr. Hamblin," added Mr. Stoute; "of course he will
present you to King Leopold."
"Possibly," replied the Greek savant, stroking his chin, and frowning,
to counteract the sinister influence of the smile he could not wholly
overcome.
Mr. Hamblin took the letter and read the signature. It was certainly
"Charles Rogier," with a flourish extensive enough for any great man.
From the letter he glanced at the fat professor, who, being always
good-natured, was so now. He could not get rid of a lingering suspicion
that his undignified associate was imposing upon him. It was a great
misfortune that his own knowledge of French was so limited, and if it
had not been so late, he would have gone on board of the ship to ask
Professor Badois to translate the epistle to him.
Instead of doing this, he went to the record book of the Josephine, and
ascertained that Duncan was marked among the highest in French. Now
Duncan was a very polite and respectful student, and Mr. Hamblin had a
greater regard for him than for most of his companions. Finding this
promising young man on deck, he invited him to the sacred precincts of
the professor's state-room. Duncan was even more polite and obliging
than usual. At the request of his present host, who did not offer any
explanations, he wrote out a translation of the important letter. Mr.
Hamblin thanked him, and he retired.
There was no material difference between the translations of Mr. Stoute
and Duncan, and the learned professor congratulated himself upon the
distinction he had attained. His fame as a savant had preceded him
across the ocean. The king's chief minister courted his acquaintance.
This was the homage which greatness paid to learning, and Mr. Hamblin
was willing to believe that it was a deserved tribute. He soon worked
himself into a flutter of excitement, in anticipation of being taken by
the hand by the king's chief minister, and he slept but little during
the night, so absorbed was he in the contemplation of the distinguished
honor which awaited him.
"Professor Hamblin is going to court," said Duncan to his old friend
the captain, when they met on deck after supper.
"To court whom?" laughed Paul.
"He has had an invitation to go to court to see the big bugs. I
translated a letter for him from the minister of foreign affairs; and I
suppose he's about the biggest toad in the Belgian puddle," added
Duncan. "You won't be able to touch him with a ten-foot pole after
that."
"We shall get along very well with him, if we only do our duty," said
Paul.
"The fellows are not very fond of him; and if he puts on any more airs,
they won't be able to stand it."
"Why, what's the matter, Duncan? asked Paul, anxiously, for generally
everything had gone on so well on board of the Josephine, that he
dreaded any trouble.
"O, nothing, nothing!" laughed Duncan; "only the fellows don't like
him."
"Ben, there's something up," said Paul, earnestly. "If the fellows think
anything at all of me, they won't make any trouble. If I don't complain
of Mr. Hamblin, they needn't."
"I don't find any fault with him myself," protested Ben. "I don't like
him, but I have always got along very well with him."
"What did you mean by mentioning this matter to me, Ben?" asked Paul.
"Nothing; only I shouldn't be surprised if the fellows were to haze the
venerable patriarch a little in a quiet way. They are all down upon
him."
"I am sorry for that. I hope all the fellows will do their duty, and
not get into any scrapes, replied Paul, very seriously.
"I am sorry, but I can't say that I blame them much."
"I shall blame them if they commit any act of disrespect," said the
captain, decidedly. "I hope you will say what you can forward to keep
the fellows from doing anything that would hurt Mr. Hamblin's feelings."
"What can I do? The old fossil doesn't treat the students like
gentlemen; and if he behaves so, what can you expect of the fellows? He
is cross, crabbed, and tyrannical."
"Have they just found it out?"
"No, but they were willing to bear it rather than make any trouble on
board. After what he did last Saturday, they are not disposed to be so
patient; and I can't blame them much."
"What happened last Saturday was between Mr. Hamblin and me, and the
students needn't trouble themselves about that."
"But the fellows all like you first rate, even the worst ones we have on
board; and there are some pretty hard boys here," laughed Duncan.
"If they like me, they will not get up a row."
"I will take care that all of them know just how you feel," said Duncan,
concluding to end the conversation at this point, for the subject of
these remarks had just come on deck.
The learned gentleman appeared to carry his head even higher, and to be
more dignified, stiff, and reserved, than usual. With an invitation in
his pocket to visit the greatest statesman in Belgium, he felt like a
very exalted personage; for not even Mr. Lowington had been so highly
favored. Mr. Hamblin was puffed up and swelled out by the honor the
great man had done him, and as he walked up and down the deck, the
students might have known by his air, if they had not been told of the
fact, that greatness had suddenly been thrust upon him.
It presently occurred to him that the principal had not been informed of
the distinguished consideration in which the government of Belgium
regarded the Josephine's senior instructor. It was important that he
should know it, for the fact would certainly elevate him in the
estimation of the principal, and cause him to regret that in the recent
difficulty he had not more fully sustained his notable professor.
Besides, he wished to make some arrangements which would permit him to
visit the Palais de la Nation, and to dine with the minister, if he
should be invited, as he had no doubt he should be.
With as much sternness on his wrinkled face as he could assume, he
walked forward to demand a boat of Captain Kendall. As he was passing in
the waist, a coil of signal line dropped down from the gaff above,
square upon the top of his hat, forcing it far down upon his head. Mr.
Hamblin immediately threw himself into an undignified passion. When he
had with some difficulty extricated his head from the linings of his
hat, he looked up to see who had been guilty of this act of flagrant
disrespect.
"I beg your pardon, Mr. Hamblin," shouted Grimme, a seaman, whose legs
were twined around the end of the gaff, while he was in the act of
passing a signal halyard through an eye.
The captain had received orders from the principal to have the Josephine
ready for the visit of a distinguished person on the following day, and
Mr. Cleats was preparing to dress the rigging.
"You scoundrel!" roared Mr. Hamblin, gazing up at the unfortunate youth
who had been the cause of his misfortune.
"Did it hurt you, sir?" asked Paul, stepping up to the professor.
"Was that done by your order, Mr. Kendall?" demanded the irate savant.
"No, sir; it was not," replied Paul, blushing with indignation at such
an insinuation.
"It is very singular that the rope should fall just at the moment I was
passing," added Mr. Hamblin, sourly, as he straightened out his crumpled
tile.
"I am sorry it occurred, sir," said Paul, who uttered no more than the
literal truth.
Mr. Hamblin glanced around the deck at the students who were collected
there. They did not seem to be sorry; on the contrary, there was a look
of diabolical satisfaction in the expression of most of them, and not a
few were actually laughing.
"I demand the immediate punishment of the offender," said Mr. Hamblin,
irritated by this manifestation on the part of the students.
By this time Grimme had descended from his perilous perch, having
completed the reeving of the halyard. Without a moment's delay, he
hastened to the spot where the angry man stood, and touched his cap with
the utmost deference.
"I beg your pardon, Mr. Hamblin. I hope you will excuse me," said
Grimme, who really wore a very troubled look.
"You did it on purpose, you scoundrel!" growled the professor, savagely;
for he could not fail to see the ill-suppressed chuckling of the
students in the waist.
"No, sir! I did not, sir!" protested Grimme. "I had the end in my mouth,
and was just going to drop the coil when I saw you."
"And you did drop it when you saw me."
"I did not mean to drop it then. I was going to wait till you had
passed; but my foot slipped, and, in catching hold of the gaff with my
hand, I let go the coil. If I hadn't dropped it, I should have fallen
myself," replied Grimme, who seemed determined to make the explanation
strong enough to meet the emergency.
"I don't believe a word of it! You meant to insult me!" exclaimed Mr.
Hamblin, still goaded on to intemperate speech by the ill-concealed
jeers of the students. "Mr. Kendall, it is your duty to punish that
insolent fellow."
"I will inquire into the matter, sir. If it appears that he did the act
on purpose, he shall certainly be punished," replied Paul, who, after
his conversation with Duncan, could not help suspecting that this was
the first step in the hazing process to which his friend had alluded.
"Inquire into it!" sneered Mr. Hamblin, with deep disgust. "I complain
of the boy: that is enough."
Paul did not think so; but he made no reply to the angry man, though he
ordered the alleged culprit to the mainmast, which is the locality of
the high court on shipboard.
"Mr. Kendall, I desire to have the gig, for the purpose of visiting the
ship."
"The gig, sir!" exclaimed Paul, to whom the professors were not in the
habit of designating which boat they would have.
"I said the gig, sir," repeated Mr. Hamblin, loftily.
"I beg your pardon, sir; but the gig is the captain's boat," replied
Paul, with deference.
"The captain's boat!" puffed the professor.
"Mr. Lowington directed me to use the first cutter for the professors,"
added Paul.
"Am I to understand that you again refuse me a boat?"
"No, sir; by no means," said the captain, ready to weep with vexation at
these disagreeable incidents.
He turned from Mr. Hamblin, and directed the first lieutenant to pipe
away the first cutters; and in a few moments the boat was ready. The
fourth lieutenant was sent in charge of the cutter. The professor went
over the side into the boat; and as he made no objections, the officers
concluded that he did not know the difference between the gig and the
first cutter. At certain stages of the tide, there is a three-mile
current in the Scheldt, with strong eddies, formed by the sweep of the
river. By a miscalculation of the coxswain, the cutter fell astern of
the ship, and had to pull up to her, which prolonged the passage
somewhat, thereby increasing the ill nature and impatience of Mr.
Hamblin.
"In bows!" said the coxswain, as the boat approached the ship; and the
two bowmen tossed their oars and boated them, taking position in the
bow-grating, with the boat-hooks in their hands.
"Way enough!" added the coxswain; and the rest of the crew tossed their
oars.
At the gangway of the ship stairs had been rigged, at the foot of which
there was a platform, for the convenience of those boarding or leaving
the ship by the boats. The bowmen fastened their boat-hooks upon the
platform, in readiness to haul the boat alongside, so that the passenger
could step out without inconvenience. But the current was strong, and
some delay ensued.
"There! let me get out!" exclaimed Mr. Hamblin, rising in the boat, and
walking between the oarsmen to the bow.
"Steady, sir!" said Humphreys, the officer, as he took the arm of the
professor, to prevent him from falling.
"Pull the boat up, so I can step out!" said Mr. Hamblin, impatiently, to
the bowmen.
They were hauling her up closer to the platform, against the strong
current, which, being in a direction contrary to the wind, made
considerable sea, causing the boat to roll and jerk uneasily. When she
was within a couple of feet of the platform, the professor attempted to
step out.
"Steady, sir!" said Morgan, one of the bowmen, as Mr. Hamblin was about
to take the step; but at that instant the boat receded from the
platform, and the learned gentleman, with one foot on the plank and the
other on the bow of the boat, made a very long straddle, toppled over
into the water, and disappeared in the eddies.
"My boat-hook broke!" protested Morgan, holding up the implement, from
which the iron had drawn out; and after what had occurred on board of
the consort, he probably deemed it necessary to make an immediate
defence.
"Man overboard!" shouted several students in the ship; and immediately
there was an immense commotion on board of her.
Mr. Hamblin rose to the surface an instant later, and shouted for help.
The accident was observed from the Josephine, and the gig piped away in
double quick time.
"Up oars! Let fall! Give way!" shouted Robinson, in the first cutter, as
she drifted away from the gangway of the ship, without waiting for the
orders to be repeated by the coxswain.
A few vigorous strokes of the oars brought the cutter to the spot where
the professor was struggling with the dirty current. The bowmen seized
him by the collar, and the crew, after no little labor, owing to the
excitement of the unfortunate gentleman, succeeded in getting him into
the boat. He was placed in the stern sheets, and Robinson afforded him
such assistance as the circumstances would permit.
The gig, with Paul and Pelham on board, was darting through the current
towards the first cutter. It was too late to be of any service; but it
continued on its way, and the captain manifested his interest and
sympathy as well as he could. Mr. Hamblin pressed the water from his
hair, wiped his face with his wet handkerchief, and otherwise
endeavored to remove the effects of his involuntary bath. He seemed to
be, thus far, no worse for the disaster; but he directed Robinson to
return directly to the Josephine, for obvious reasons.
The two boats came alongside together; and this time the professor,
notwithstanding the discomfort of his condition, made no undue haste to
leave the cutter before she was properly secured.
"I am very sorry indeed for your misfortune, sir," said Paul, politely,
when he met Mr. Hamblin on deck.
"Perhaps you are!" replied he, rushing down the cabin stairs, bestowing
hardly a glance upon the sympathizing commander.
He went to his state-room, and made an entire change of his clothing.
The weather was warm, and he suffered no serious consequences.
"You are a very unfortunate person, Mr. Hamblin," said his associate
instructor, when the savant, clean and dry, emerged from the
state-room.
"It was done on purpose, Mr. Stoute," replied he, solemnly, with
compressed lips.
"O, no! It couldn't be!" protested the fat professor. "You are simply
unfortunate. First, a coil of rope falls on your head, and then you fall
overboard. You should be careful."
"Has that student been punished for throwing the rope upon me?"
"No, sir. I stood by during the investigation at the mainmast. It could
not be proved that the act was done on purpose; and, for my part, I did
not believe it was."
"I am very confident it was. I can read the expression on the faces of
the boys; and I am certain there is a conspiracy among them to knock out
my brains or drown me in the river."
"Boys will be boys, and they are very prone to look at the ludicrous
aspect of an accident," added the stout professor. "I should not give a
serious interpretation to any little signs of mirth I happened to see."
"Mr. Stoute, you allow yourself to be hoodwinked, deceived, overwhelmed,
by these artful boys. You should maintain more dignity in your
intercourse with them."
"There is a true and a false dignity, Mr. Hamblin. I shall endeavor to
avoid the one, and cling to the other," replied Mr. Stoute, warmly, but
good-naturedly.
"You are aware that I asked for the gig before I started for the ship?"
continued Mr. Hamblin, impressively.
"I am; and I was also aware that the first cutter had been appropriated
to the use of the instructors."
"I demanded the gig. It was refused. What did that mean?"
"It meant just what the captain said--that the principal required him to
furnish the first cutter for our use."
"That is not what it meant," persisted Mr. Hamblin. "The crew of the
first cutter had been instructed to tip me into the river. When I called
for the gig, it deranged the plan. I am only sorry that I did not refuse
to take the cutter, and insist upon having the gig; but I do not wish to
make trouble."
"But why did you ask for the gig?"
"Because I saw Morgan, who, I knew, belonged in the cutter, laughing
when the rope fell on my head. He would as lief drown me as not."
"I think you misjudge the boys."
"I am surprised that one who has been a teacher as long as you have does
not understand boys any better," replied Mr. Hamblin, coldly. "I am
satisfied that Kendall is at the bottom of all this mischief."
"I am very sure he is not," said Mr. Stoute, decidedly.
"The crew of the cutter had been prepared for their work."
It was surprising that two men who had been among boys so long took such
opposite views of them; but the difference of opinion was more in the
men than in the boys.
These events were the staple of conversation on deck and in the steerage
among the crew; and some of the better boys heard certain indefinite
remarks about "the first step" and "the second step," used by "our
fellows;" but no real friend of law and order discovered anything which
threw any new light upon the two misfortunes that had overtaken the
senior professor, though there was a suspicion that these were the first
and second steps hinted at by the doubtful ones.
CHAPTER X.
WHO WAS CAPTAIN OF THE JOSEPHINE?
Mr. Hamblin, as before intimated, did not sleep well on the night in
question. The burden of being called to the state department, and even
to the royal palaces of Belgium, was very trying to his nerves. When he
slept, it was only to dream of the great statesman and revolutionary
leader of the Low Countries, in the act of taking him by the hand or of
presenting him to his majesty Leopold, "Roi de Belge."
He prepared himself with great care, in his reflections, for the
stupendous occasion. He studied up courtly bows, and imagined just how
he would look when in the act of making one of them. He pictured to
himself various graceful gestures which he intended to use, in order to
impress upon the great man the dignity of his character. He arranged the
little tableau of his presentation to the king, with all the speeches,
interludes, and movements. If the king said certain things, he should
say certain other things in reply; and when the interview ended, he was
with becoming grace to back out of the royal presence.
Leopold, "Roi de Belge," would probably inform him that he had, either
directly or through his faithful minister, heard of the distinguished
Greek savant; that he had seen or heard of the Greek Grammar he had
published, the Greek Reader he had compiled, and the Anabasis he had
edited and annotated. It was more than probable that there were copies
of these learned and valuable works in the Royal Library; for no library
could be complete without them. If they were there, the king would
graciously inform him of the fact, as the highest compliment that could
be paid to his fame as a Greek scholar. To all this, with his left hand
upon his heart, with his right extended, palm prone, at an angle of
forty-five degrees with his perpendicular, his body bent in a courteous
but dignified bow, he was to reply that his majesty did him too much
honor. It would be necessary to deprecate, in some degree, the
distinguished consideration awarded to him, and to declare his own
unworthiness of the king's notice and favor.
Then, perhaps, the royal Leopold would present him a snuff-box, studded
with pearls, diamonds, and rubies,--monarchs have a habit of presenting
snuffboxes to men who do not take snuff,--in token of his princely
appreciation of the learning of the distinguished American professor.
Or, perhaps, "Le Roi de Belge" would inform him that he desired to
promote the study of the Greek language and literature in his kingdom,
and that he was graciously pleased to appoint him Inspector of Greek, or
Librarian of the Greek portion of the Royal Library, with no active duty
but that of collecting his salary of twenty thousand francs--liberal
princes, as rich as Leopold was reputed to be, often spent their money
more foolishly than this, in rewarding distinguished men of learning.
The learned gentleman did not feel a very strong confidence that the
king would thus reward his forty years' patient study of the Greek; but
if he should conclude to behave in this rather erratic but highly
honorable manner, it would give him a pleasant opportunity of waiting
upon Mr. Lowington in his cabin, and politely informing him that he
could no longer endure the insults of the Josephines, or countenance
their want of appreciation of the privilege of having such a professor
of Greek as he was; and that he felt compelled to resign his present
position, in order that "Le Roi de Belge" might avail himself of his
valuable services.
It would be delightful to make such a call upon the principal of the
academy squadron. It would be a grand occasion for a display of dignity.
He did not feel that such a pleasant event was likely to occur; but it
was not impossible. The fame of his Grammar and other works might have
come over the Atlantic while he was transplanting Greek roots in the
hard heads of stupid boys. He felt that he deserved some higher token of
public appreciation than had yet been bestowed upon him. Why should the
Secretary of Foreign Affairs send an autograph letter to him, unless
some especial notice was to be taken of him?
An audible voice seemed to say, "Go up higher, friend;" but, alas! that
was only the snoring of Professor Stoute, in the berth above him, which
his fancy had incorporated into words. There was no voice--only the
guttural sounds of his obese room-mate, who was so tired that he
breathed with unwonted labor in his sleep. There was no poetry in the
snoring of his companion, and the vision was rudely dissolved by the
reality. But the invitation to go to court was in his pocket: he could
not be cheated out of that, or of his brilliant expectations. Leopold
might do the handsome thing, at least as to the snuff-box. It was rather
awkward, in view of the approaching interview, that he could not speak
French; but the king had lived in London for a time, and doubtless spoke
English fluently. Of course the Minister of Foreign Affairs could speak
English; but even if he did not, they could meet on the same level in
Latin or Greek.
Professor Hamblin did not sleep very well; and he did not sleep any
better because Mr. Stoute slept so well, and made the state-room
sonorous with the richest base snoring that ever tormented a nervous
man. Indeed, the heavy sleeper made it so lively for the light sleeper
that the latter was two or three times goaded to the alternative of
waking the former, or abandoning the room.
In the course of the night the learned professor had polished up all his
little speeches to be recited before the minister, and probably before
the king; had nicely adjusted all his bows and gestures, and laid up a
magazine of expedients for possible emergencies, such as the presence of
the Duke of Brabant, Prince Leopold, and even of "La Reine de Belge;"
but the dreamer was glad when the morning came; for the night had been
very long, though he had probably slept three quarters of the time;
gladder still when he heard the water splashing on the deck above him,
as the watch washed down the quarter-deck, for now he could get up. He
did get up, and went out to taste the freshness of the early air.
The young seamen had finished their labor on the quarters, and were at
work in the waist. A kind of force-pump, or fire-engine, was attached to
the Josephine, to save labor in washing down the decks, and to be used
in case of fire below. It was provided with a sufficient length of hose
to reach all parts of the vessel, and was worked by a single brake,
manned by four hands. With this apparatus the boys were deluging the
decks with water, one of them holding the pipe, and half a dozen
scrubbing the planks with long-handled brushes.
A fire-engine, or indeed anything that will squirt, is a great luxury to
the boys, with whom "running with the machine" is a constitutional
tendency. The novelty of the Josephine's force-pump had not yet worn
away, and it contributed in no small degree to alleviate the hard and
ungentlemanly labor of washing down decks.
Mr. Hamblin was not a boy, and he had a constitutional dislike of
fire-engines and all hydraulic apparatus, partly, perhaps, because the
boys liked it. The quarter-deck was still wet with the drenching it had
received, and the professor did not like to dampen his feet on the one
hand, or retreat to the close cabin on the other. He did what Americans
are very apt to do when situated between the two horns of a dilemma--he
compromised between the difficulties by seating himself on the fife-rail
between a couple of belaying-pins. He was careful to place himself
abaft the mainmast, so that the wicked engine would not spatter him.
He sat on the fife-rail and began to think of the king and the minister
again; but his reflections this time were very brief, and if his fancy
burned again with glowing anticipation, the flame was suddenly quenched
by a stream of water directed at the foot of the mast, which spattered
his lower extremities very badly.
"What are you about, you rascal?" roared the learned gentleman,
springing from his perch to the deck.
But it would have been better for him to remain where he was, for the
instant his feet struck the deck, the full force of the stream from the
hose-pipe saluted him squarely in the face, filling his mouth with
water, and well nigh overthrowing him with its violence. This was a sad
accident. McDougal, one of the quartermasters, held the pipe. At the
moment the professor sprang from the fife-rail, the hoseman was looking
behind him, his attention having been called away from his work by a
remark of one of the hands at the brake.
"What do you mean, you rascal?" sputtered Mr. Hamblin, attempting to
free his mouth of the dirty Scheldt water which had been forced into it.
"That's number three," whispered one of the brake-men to another.
"Hush up!" replied the one addressed, from the corner of his mouth.
McDougal dropped the hose, and rushed aft to the place where the unhappy
savant stood.
"You impertinent puppy!" cried Mr. Hamblin, soiling his white
handkerchief with the foul water upon his face.
"O, dear! What have I done!" groaned McDougal, clasping his hands in an
agony of dismay. "I beg your pardon! I didn't see you, sir. O, what have
I done!" And the wretched hoseman actually threw himself on his knees
upon the wet deck, and implored the forgiveness of the injured magnate
of the school-room.
"You meant to do it!" exclaimed the implacable pedagogue.
"No, sir! Indeed, I did not! Won't you forgive me?" pleaded McDougal,
still upon his knees.
"What does all this mean?" demanded Pelham, who was officer of the deck,
as he rushed to the spot from the topgallant forecastle, where he had
gone to keep out of the way of the splashing waters.
"O, Mr. Pelham," groaned the hoseman, "I am so sorry!"
"Get up!" said Pelham to the culprit, sternly, for anything like
servility was very disgusting to him, and probably he had his own views
in regard to Mr. Hamblin.
McDougal obeyed this imperative command, and though, ordinarily, a young
man of nerve and of much self-possession, he appeared to be trembling
with apprehension. His lips quivered, his knees smote against each
other, and he stood wringing his hands, apparently in the most abject
terror.
"I didn't mean to do it, Mr. Pelham," chattered the miserable hoseman.
"Mr. Pelham, in my opinion this act was deliberately contrived and
carried out," said Mr. Hamblin, severely, though he was evidently
somewhat moved by the misery of the culprit.
"I am very sorry for it, sir, whether it was done on purpose or by
accident," replied Pelham. "Where were you, sir, when it happened?"
"I was sitting on that frame," answered Mr. Hamblin, pointing to the
place.
"On the fife-rail?"
"Yes; if that is the name of the frame."
"Yes, sir; and he was behind the mast, and I didn't see him," pleaded
McDougal. "I saw some dirt on deck at the foot of the mast, and I threw
the stream there. I couldn't see Mr. Hamblin--indeed I couldn't, sir."
"I would not complain of the act if that had been all, for I was simply
spattered; but when I stepped down, the stream was directed full into my
face."
"I didn't mean to do it, sir. One of the brake-men hollered to me, and I
turned to see what he wanted, and when I did so, I raised up the hose;
and I suppose that's what made the stream hit Mr. Hamblin in the face,"
groaned McDougal.
"Yes, sir," interposed the brakeman, who had designated the act as
"number three." "I saw Mr. Hamblin, and I sung out to McDougal to turn
the hose. He turned round and asked me what I said, and before I could
answer Mr. Hamblin cried out to him."
"So far as I can see, it appears to be an accident, sir," added Pelham;
"but I will report it to the captain."
"O, Mr. Pelham, don't report me to the captain!" begged McDougal. "He
will send me back to the ship. I didn't mean to do it; it was an
accident."
"It is useless to report it to the captain," said the professor, with a
palpable sneer.
"Thank you, sir; you will forgive me, sir?" moaned the culprit.
"I am willing to forgive you if it was an accident," replied the
savant, more graciously.
"It was an accident, sir."
"It is very singular that so many accidents happen to me," said the
professor, knitting his brow, and looking very savage, when he recalled
the events of the preceding evening. "This is the third time within half
a day that an accident has occurred to me."
Mr. Hamblin walked off, and descended to the cabin to change his clothes
again. The suit in which he had fallen overboard had been dried at the
cook's galley, and was in condition for use. While changing his
garments, he recited to Mr. Stoute the new misfortune that had overtaken
him.
Pelham sharply questioned the hands who had been concerned in the
outrage; but McDougal, who appeared to be the only one implicated in the
deed, protested that the circumstances were just as he had stated them;
nothing could be proved, for the boys all agreed in their statements.
The case was therefore dismissed, to be called up again by the captain,
if he thought proper to do so. McDougal walked forward to pick up the
hose-pipe again, and as he met the brakeman who had exhibited some
intelligence before, he gave him a very sly wink.
The officer of the watch was more than suspicious. He was an old hand at
mischief himself, and not easily hoodwinked by "our fellows." He could
not help thinking that McDougal had overdone his part, for a bold young
man, like him, would not behave so much like a coward under any
circumstances. Just before breakfast time the captain and first
lieutenant came on deck together, and Pelham reported "number three" to
them.
"It was not an accident," exclaimed Paul, indignantly.
"I don't think it was myself," replied Pelham. "But at the same time,
what can you do? You can't prove that it was done on purpose."
"I had a hint from Duncan that the fellows intended to haze Mr. Hamblin,
and if this thing isn't stopped in the beginning, there is no knowing
where it will end," continued Paul, decidedly. "You will pipe to muster
the first thing after breakfast, Mr. Terrill."
The young commander was entirely satisfied in his own mind that the
unpleasant incident of the morning was a part of the hazing programme,
if the two on the preceding evening were not. He had already decided to
take prompt action, and put a stop to the disgraceful proceedings.
After breakfast, agreeably to the order, all hands were piped to muster.
The two professors had come on deck to ascertain the cause of this
movement. They had had a long talk together about the second drenching
of the senior, and Mr. Stoute was obliged to conclude that the deed had
been wilfully done. He acknowledged as much as this, and felt, as the
captain did, that prompt action was necessary; but to his surprise, Mr.
Hamblin took opposite ground towards the latter part of the interview,
and declared that McDougal, on his knees, had begged his pardon. The
learned gentleman appeared to be determined to keep his opinion at
variance with that of his associate.
Mr. Hamblin was one of those old fogies who could not appreciate
manliness in a boy. He demanded abject servility and pusillanimous
crouching on the part of an offender. When he frowned, the boy ought to
wither with fear rather than with the consciousness of guilt. McDougal
had thrown himself into a becoming attitude, in his estimation; had
groaned, trembled, and cringed. He was willing to forgive McDougal, and
had intimated as much as this to him before he left the deck.
The young commander took his place on the hatch, and made quite a
telling speech in regard to what he termed the disgraceful proceeding
which had occurred on board. He solemnly warned the boys that he would
not tolerate anything irregular and disorderly.
"Mr. Terrill, you will pipe away the second cutters," he continued,
turning to the first lieutenant.
The crew of the boat were piped away, the cutter lowered, and they took
their places in her. The second lieutenant was detailed to take charge
of her, and waited near the captain for his orders.
"Pass the word for McDougal," added the captain, when the second cutter
was ready, as he stepped down from the hatch, and stood at the foot of
the mainmast.
The culprit came forward, and touched his cap to the captain.
"For your conduct this morning to Mr. Hamblin I shall send you on board
of the ship," said Paul, in firm and decided tones.
"I couldn't help it, Captain Kendall," pleaded McDougal; but he
exhibited none of the servility which had characterized his demeanor to
the professor; he knew the captain too well to resort to such an
expedient.
"Perhaps you could not," replied Paul, pointedly. "Perhaps you could
not; but you were very careless."
"I didn't mean to do it," added McDougal.
"I do not say that you did. If the professor cannot walk the deck
without being drenched with water, it is time those who are so careless
should be sent out of the Josephine."
"Mr. Hamblin was behind the mast, and I thought he had gone below, sir."
"I have no time nor inclination to argue the matter. If you think any
injustice has been done to you, the principal will hear your complaint,
and I shall be as willing as you are to abide by his decision. Mr.
Martyn, you will report the case as it is to Mr. Lowington. McDougal,
consider yourself under arrest, and take your place in the boat."
The culprit wanted to say something more, but Paul ordered him into the
boat with an emphasis which he did not deem it prudent to disregard.
"Captain Kendall," said Professor Hamblin, stepping up to the young
commander, "I request that you will detain that boat for a moment or
two."
"Certainly, sir, if you desire it," replied Paul, giving the necessary
order.
"May I ask for a few moments' private conversation with you?" added the
professor, as he led the way aft.
The learned gentleman seemed to be considerably excited, and conducted
the captain to the taffrail.
"I protest against your action in this matter," said he, warmly, when
they were out of hearing of others.
"Indeed, sir! I supposed you would protest if I did not take decided
action."
"I am sorry to feel obliged to say, that you do not use good judgment in
this case," continued Mr. Hamblin, solemnly. "When that rope was thrown
upon me, you took no notice of it. I do not hear that the crew of the
first cutter have been called to account for their carelessness in
throwing me into the water last night; but, in this instance, where the
guilty party has begged my pardon on his bended knees, and shown a
degree of sorrow which it would be inhuman to disregard, you resort to
the severest punishment known on board."
"You will excuse me, Mr. Hamblin, but I think my action is fully
justified by the circumstances."
"I think not. You are extremely severe in this case, while the more
flagrant act of throwing me into the river, whether it was a wilful or a
careless one, was passed over in silence."
"It was not passed over in silence. I examined the officer of the boat,
and I found that the accident was caused by the breaking of a boat-hook
in the hands of one of the bowmen. If you will pardon me for being
entirely candid with you, Mr. Hamblin, the mishap was caused by your own
carelessness, rather than by that of the boat's crew."
"Do you mean to insult me?" demand the professor, angrily.
"Most assuredly not, sir. If you had kept your seat in the stern-sheets
of the boat, as a passenger should, until the cutter was properly
secured, you could not possibly have fallen overboard when the boat-hook
broke," answered Paul, gently and firmly.
"I do not ask your judgment upon my actions, Mr. Kendall," growled the
professor.
"Excuse me, sir; but I alluded to your movement only in defence of the
boat's crew. If the bowmen had actually intended to throw you into the
water, they could not have done it if you had kept your seat."
"It is not proper for you to criticise my action."
Paul bowed, and made no reply.
"I protest against your action in punishing McDougal. He apologized to
my satisfaction; and, as this is an affair personal with me, I am
surprised at your taking any step without consulting me."
"It is a case which affects the discipline of the vessel; and, as such,
it was proper that I should dispose of it."
"It was a personal matter, I say," repeated the professor, growing more
wrathy when he found his mighty will opposed.
"I have such information, sir, as leads me to believe that the act of
this morning was intentional."
