his strength was not yet equal to his desire.
"I think it would be better to remove him to the hospital," said the
doctor to the housekeeper. "He will be well nursed there."
"No, no, no!" exclaimed Maggie, rising and walking up to the physician.
Her idea of the hospital was not a very clear one, and she did not
consider it much better than a prison; at least, it was to her a place
where sick people who had neither home nor friends were sent; a place
where other hands than her own would lave her father's fevered brow,
and administer the cooling draught. To her it was sacrilege to permit
any but herself to nurse him; and she felt that it was a privilege to
stand day and night by his bed, and hold his hand, and anticipate all
his wants. Her womanly instincts were strong, and she heard with horror
the suggestion to take the sufferer to the hospital.
"Your father would be very kindly cared for at the hospital," said the
doctor.
"But it would not be his own home!" pleaded Maggie. "O, he so loves his
own home! He always staid there when he was not in the shop. It would
break his heart to send him away from his own home when he is sick."
"Have you a mother?" asked Dr. Fisher, kindly.
"I have not; but I will nurse him by day and night. I will be mother,
wife, and daughter to him. Do not send him away from me--not from his
own home!" continued Maggie, so imploringly that the good physician had
to take off his spectacles and wipe the moisture from his eyes.
"We will take good care of him at home," added Leo.
"Very well," replied the doctor. "He shall be removed to his own home,
since you desire it so much. Lawrence, will you send for a carriage?"
"I will, sir," answered the servant, leaving the room.
André had turned his eyes towards the group, and appeared to understand
the matter they were discussing. He smiled as he comprehended the
decision, and made an effort to embrace Maggie, when she again knelt at
his side; but a portion of his frame was paralyzed, and he could not
move.
"Your father may be sick a long time," said Dr. Fisher.
"I'm so sorry! But I will take such good care of him!" replied Maggie.
"He needs very careful nursing."
"O, he shall have it! He would rather have me nurse him than any other
person. I will watch him all the time. I will sit by his bed all day
and all night," added she, with womanly enthusiasm.
"You will wear yourself out. You are not strong enough to do without
your sleep."
"I am very strong, sir. I do all the work in the house myself. I know
how to make gruel, and porridge, and beef tea, and soup; and mon père
shall have everything nice."
The doctor smiled, and felt sure that no better nurse could be provided
for the sick man.
"Where is your mother?" he asked. "Is she living?"
"I have no mother. Leo has no mother. We are not André's own children;
but we love him just the same, and he loves us just the same."
"But who was your mother?"
"I don't know."
"Doesn't André know?"
"He does not."
"You have some kind of a history, I suppose," added the doctor, greatly
interested in the girl.
"Mon père don't like to talk about it. He seems to be afraid that
some one will get me away from him; but I'm sure I don't want to go
away from him; I wouldn't leave him for a king's palace."
"Why do you call him 'mon père'?"
"He taught me to call him so when I was little. André's father was an
Italian, and his mother a French woman; but he was born in London."
"Where did he find you?"
"At the cholera hospital."
"Where?"
"I don't know. He always looked so sad, and his heart seemed to be so
pained when I asked him any questions about myself, that I stopped
doing so long ago. When I was five years old, he found me playing about
the hospital, where hundreds and hundreds of people had died with
cholera. I had the cholera myself; and he came to play with me every
day; and when they were going to send me to an orphan asylum, or some
such place, he took me away, and promised to take care of me. Ah, mon
père" said she, glancing tenderly at the sick man, and wiping a tear
from her eyes, "how well he has kept his promise! I can't help thinking
he loved me more than any real father could. I never saw any father who
was so kind, and tender, and loving to his child as André is to me."
"And you don't know where this hospital was?"
"No, sir; and I don't want to know. Mon père thinks my parents died
of the cholera; but André has been father and mother to me. He would
die if he lost me."
"And your brother--was he taken from the cholera hospital?" asked the
doctor.
"No, sir," replied Maggie, rising and speaking in a whisper to the
physician, so that Leo should not hear what she said. "André had to
leave me all alone when he went to the shop, and he went to the
almshouse to find a poor orphan to keep me company. He found Leo, whose
father and mother had both died from drinking too much. He took him
home, and mon père has been as good to him as he has to me."
"His name is Leo--the Lion?"
"No, sir; not the lion. Mon père called him Leopold, after the King
of Belgium, in whose service he once was; but we always call him Leo.
He is a real good boy, and will get the medal at his school this year."
"The carriage has come, sir," said Lawrence, opening the door.
The arrangements were made for the removal of the barber to his house.
The hackman and the man servant came to carry him down stairs in an
armchair, and the doctor was to go with his patient, and assist in
disposing of him at his house. André was placed in the chair, covered
with blankets, and the door opened in readiness to carry him down.
Maggie kept close to him, comforting him with the kindest words, and
adjusting the blanket so that the rude blasts of winter might not reach
him.
"Lawrence!" called Elinora, in a petulant tone, from the dressing-room
on the same floor.
Under the circumstances, Lawrence was not disposed to heed the call;
but it was so often and so ill-naturedly repeated, that Dr. Fisher told
him to go and see what she wanted, fearful that some accident had
happened to her. The man went into the hall. Elinora had come out of
her room in her impatience, arrayed for the party she was to attend.
Another hair-dresser had been sent for to complete the work which André
had begun; but the young lady was more than an hour late, and
proportionally impatient.
"Are you deaf, Lawrence? The carriage has come," pouted Elinora.
"That's not the carriage for you, miss. It's to take the barber to his
own place," replied Lawrence.
"That horrid barber again! I shall not get over the fright he gave me
for a month! I will take this carriage, and he may have the other when
it comes," said she, walking to the stairs. "Go down and open the door
for me."
"If you plaze, miss, you can't go in this carriage. It's for the sick
man."
"I don't care what it's for! I'm in a hurry, Lawrence. I must have the
first carriage."
"Indade, miss, but we have the sick man up in the chair, ready to take
him down the stairs. It's very bad he is."
"Let him wait! Go down and open the door, as I tell you."
"I beg your pardon, miss, but the docthor--"
"If you don't do what I tell you this instant, I'll ask pa to discharge
you."
Dr. Fisher came out to ascertain the cause of the delay. He explained
that the carriage had been ordered to convey the barber to his home,
and he insisted that it should be used for that purpose. André was his
patient, and he would not permit any further delay. Elinora pouted and
flouted, and hopped back into her chamber.
André was borne carefully down the stairs, and placed in the carriage.
Maggie and the doctor entered the vehicle with him, and they were
driven to the barber's own home, where he was placed upon his bed in
the front room.
CHAPTER VIII.
MAKE OR BREAK.
Maggie plied the kind-hearted physician with questions in regard to her
father's condition--with questions which no man with merely human
knowledge could answer. He thought André would be able to talk to her
by the next day; but he feared the patient would not be well enough to
resume his place in the shop for weeks, and perhaps months.
André appeared to be quite comfortable, and did not seem to be
suffering very severely. The doctor had given him some medicine before
he was removed from the banker's house, and the sick man went to sleep
soon after he was put to bed in his own room. Dr. Fisher then went out
into the rear room, and told Maggie that her father would probably
sleep for several hours.
"I will come again in the morning, Maggie," said he. "Is there anything
I can do for you?"
"Nothing more, I thank you, sir," replied she. "I am very grateful to
you for what you have done."
"I know nothing about your father's circumstances; but if you need any
assistance, I hope you will make it known."
"Thank you, sir; I don't think we need anything," replied Maggie, a
slight blush mantling her pretty face; for the idea of asking or
accepting charity was painful to her.
"I fear it will be a long time before your father will be able to work
again," continued Dr. Fisher, glancing around the room to ascertain, if
possible, whether the singular family were in poverty or in plenty.
"I will take good care of him, whether it be for weeks or for months,
or even for years. You don't know how sorry I am to have poor mon
père sick; but you can't think what a pleasure it is to me to have
an opportunity to do something for him. I wish I could tell you how
good and kind he has always been to me; how tenderly he watched over me
when I was sick; how lovingly he prayed for me; but I cannot, though it
makes me happy to think I can now do something for him."
"You are a good girl, Maggie, and I don't see how André could have done
any less for you," replied the doctor. "Who keeps house here?"
"O, I do that, sir."
"Then you must have to work very hard."
"Indeed, I don't! I have to keep busy almost all day; but it is such a
pleasure to me to know that I am doing something for mon père, that I
never think it is hard at all."
Everything looked so neat and nice in the house that the doctor could
not decide whether any assistance was required or not. He was one of
those good physicians who felt for the poor and the humble. Though he
practised in some of the richest and most aristocratic families in the
city, his mission was not to them alone. He visited the haunts of
poverty, and not only contributed his professional services in their
aid, but he gave with no stinted hand from his own purse to relieve
their wants. When he died, the sermon preached on the Sunday after his
funeral was from the text, "The beloved physician;" and no one ever
went to his reward in heaven who better deserved the praise bestowed
upon him.
In the present instance, he felt that his work was not alone to heal
the sick. His patient was a journeyman barber, with only a boy, and a
girl of fifteen, to depend upon. This same doctor often went among his
friends in State Street, in 'change hours, to preach the gospel of
charity in his own unostentatious way. All gave when he asked, and it
was not a very difficult matter for him to raise fifty or a hundred
dollars for a deserving family. He purposed to do this for those under
the barber's humble roof, who, without being connected by the remotest
tie of blood, were more loving and devoted towards each other than many
whom God had joined by the ties of kindred.
The doctor never told anybody of his good deeds. Hardly did his left
hand know what his right hand did; and one of his eyes, which followed
not the other's apparent line of vision, seemed to be looking out all
the time for some hidden source of human suffering. He was as tender of
the feelings of others as he was of the visible wounds of his patients.
He saw the blush upon the cheeks of Maggie, and he interpreted it as
readily as though the sentiment had been expressed in words. He forbore
to make any further inquiries in regard to the pecuniary condition of
the strange family; but he was determined that all their wants should
be supplied, without injury to their laudable pride. He went away, and
Maggie and Leo were left to themselves.
"You haven't been to supper, Leo," said Maggie, when Dr. Fisher had
gone.
"I don't seem to care about any supper," replied Leo, gloomily.
"You must eat your supper, Leo," added Maggie, as she placed the teapot
on the table. "There are some cold sausages I saved for mon père. Sit
down, Leo. We must work now, and we need all the strength we can get."
Then she crept on tiptoe into the front room, and looked into the face
of the sleeper. He was still slumbering, and she returned to the table,
seating herself in her accustomed place, near the stove. Leo looked
heavy and gloomy, as well he might; for the sad event of that day
promised to blast the bright hopes in which his sanguine nature
revelled. He knew, and Maggie knew, that André Maggimore had made no
preparation for the calamity which had so suddenly overtaken him.
It was Wednesday, and the wages of the preceding week were more than
half used. He had no money, no resources, no friends upon whom he could
depend, to fall back on in the day of his weakness. The barber was
faithful and affectionate as a woman, but he had no business
calculation, and his forethought rarely extended beyond the duration of
a single week. While he owed no man anything, and never contracted any
debts, he had never saved a dollar beyond what he had invested in
furnishing the small house.
The dark day had come, and Leo was the first to see it. In another
week, or, at most, in two weeks, every dollar the barber had would have
been spent. It was plain enough to him that he could not continue to
attend school till exhibition day came, and he would lose the medal he
coveted, and for which he had worked most diligently. Maggie poured out
his cup of tea, and handed it to him. He was eating his supper; but his
head was bowed down.
"Leo," said she.
He looked up with a start, took his tea, and immediately lost himself
again.
"Leo!" added Maggie, in her peculiarly tender tones.
He looked up again.
"What are you thinking about, Leo?" she continued, gazing earnestly at
him. "I need not ask you, Leo. You are thinking of poor mon père."
"I was thinking of him. I was thinking, too, that I should lose my
medal now," replied Leo, gloomily.
"Fie on your medal! Don't think of such a trifle as that!" she added,
gently rebuking the selfish thought of her brother.
"You don't quite understand me, Maggie."
"I hope you are not thinking of yourself, Leo--only of mon père."
"I was thinking that he has worked for me, and now I must work for him.
I must give up my school now."
"You must, indeed, Leo."
"We can't stay in this house unless we pay the rent. Father made ten
dollars a week, and it took every cent of it to pay the expenses. What
shall we do now?"
"We must both work."
"We can't make ten dollars a week if both of us work. But you can't do
anything more than take care of father. I don't see how we are going to
get along. Fitz Wittleworth has only five dollars a week at Mr.
Checkynshaw's. If he gave me the same wages, it wouldn't more than half
pay our expenses."
Maggie looked puzzled and perplexed at this plain statement. It was a
view of the situation she had not before taken, and she could not
suggest any method of solving the difficult problem.
"We can reduce our expenses," said she, at last, a cheerful glow
lighting up her face as she seemed to have found the remedy.
"You can't reduce them. The doctor's bill and the medicines will more
than make up for anything we can save in things to eat and drink."
"That's very true, Leo. What shall we do?" inquired Maggie,
sorrowfully, as her ingenious argument was overthrown.
"I don't know what we can do. They say doctors charge a dollar a visit,
and that will make seven dollars a week. The medicines will cost
another dollar, at least, perhaps two or three. That makes eight
dollars. Even if we save three dollars a week in provisions and such
things, it will cost fifteen dollars a week. I might as well try to fly
as to make that. I couldn't do it. It's half as much again as father
could make."
"O, dear!" sighed Maggie, appalled by this array of financial demands.
"I suppose the doctor won't bring in his bill yet a while," added Leo.
"But we must pay him. Mon père would worry himself to death in a
short time if he knew he was getting in debt."
"I don't see how we can do it."
Leo relapsed into silence again, and finished his supper. The problem
troubled him. He sat down by the stove, and did not move for half an
hour. Maggie cleared off the table, washed the dishes and put them
away, creeping stealthily into the front room every few moments to
assure herself that all was well with her father.
"Leo, don't worry any more. We shall be cared for somehow. Our good
Father in heaven will watch over us in the future, as he has in the
past. Trust in God, Leo," said Maggie, impressively. "I will not worry
any more, and you must not."
"I will trust in God; but God expects me to do something more than
that. He helps those who help themselves. I am going to do something!"
exclaimed he, springing to his feet. "MAKE OR BREAK, I'm going to do my
duty; I'm going to do my whole duty."
"What are you going to do, Leo?"
"I don't know yet; but, make or break, I'm going to do something. It's
no use for me to work for Mr. Checkynshaw at five dollars a week, when
it will cost us fifteen dollars a week to get along. I'm going to do
something," continued Leo, as he took a lamp from the shelf and lighted
it.
Then he stopped before Maggie, and looked her full in the face, his
eyes lighting up with unusual lustre.
"Why, what's the matter, Leo? What makes you look at me so?"
"Maggie, André is not our own father; but he has done all that an own
father could do for us. Maggie, let me take your hand."
She gave him her hand, and was awed by the impressive earnestness of
his manner.
"Maggie, I'm going to do my duty now. I want to promise you that poor
father shall never want for anything. I want to promise you that I will
do all for him that a real son could do."
"Good, kind Leo! We will both do our whole duty."
Leo dropped her hand, and went down stairs into his workshop. The white
mice were capering and gamboling about their palatial abodes, all
unconscious that poor André had been stricken down. Leo gave them their
suppers, and sat down on the work-bench. He was in deep thought, and
remained immovable for a long time.
He was a natural mechanic. His head was full of mechanical ideas. Was
there not some useful article which he could make and sell--a
boot-jack, a work-box, a writing-desk--something new and novel? He had
half a dozen such things in his mind, and he was thinking which one it
would pay best to mature. His thought excited him, and he twisted about
on the bench, knocking a chisel on the floor. The noise frightened the
mice, and they made a stampede to their nests. He looked up at them.
"That's an idea!" exclaimed he, leaping off the bench. "Make or break,
I'll put it through!"
CHAPTER IX.
MR. CHECKYNSHAW AND FAMILY.
We left Mr. Checkynshaw entering the house of Mrs. Wittleworth, in
Atkinson Street; and, as he was a gentleman of eminent dignity and
gravity, we feel compelled to beg his pardon for leaving him so long
out in the cold of a winter night. Having made the barber as
comfortable as the circumstances would permit, we are entirely willing
to let the banker in, though the abode at which he sought admission was
hardly worthy of the distinguished honor thus conferred upon it.
Mrs. Wittleworth cautiously opened the door, for those who have the
least to steal are often the most afraid of robbers; but, recognizing
the lofty personage at the door, she invited him to enter, much
wondering what had driven him from his comfortable abode in Pemberton
Square to seek out her obscure residence at that hour in the evening.
Mr. Checkynshaw was conducted to an apartment which served as kitchen,
parlor, and bed-room for the poor woman, her son having a chamber up
stairs. A seat was handed to the great man, and he sat down by the
cooking-stove, after bestowing a glance of apparent disgust at the room
and its furnishings.
The banker rubbed his hands, and looked as though he meant business;
and Mrs. Wittleworth actually trembled with fear lest some new calamity
was about to be heaped upon the pile of misfortunes that already
weighed her down. Mr. Checkynshaw had never before darkened her doors.
Though she had once been a welcome guest within his drawing-rooms, she
had long since been discarded, and cast out, and forgotten. When the
poor woman, worse than a widow, pleaded before him for the means of
living, he had given her son a place in his office, at a salary of five
dollars a week. If she had gone to him again, doubtless he would have
done more for her; but, as long as she could keep soul and body
together by her ill-paid drudgery, she could not endure the humiliation
of displaying her poverty to him.
Mrs. Wittleworth had once lived in affluence. She had been brought up
in ease and luxury, and her present lot was all the harder for the
contrast. Her father, James Osborne, was an enterprising merchant, who
had accumulated a fortune of a hundred thousand dollars, on which he
had the good sense to retire from active business. Of his four
children, the two sons died, leaving the two daughters to inherit his
wealth.
John Wittleworth, the father of Fitz, was a clerk in the counting-room
of Mr. Osborne, and finally became the partner of his employer, whose
confidence he obtained to such a degree that the merchant was willing
to trust him with all he had. He married Ellen Osborne; and when her
father retired from business, his son-in-law carried it on alone. At
this time, doubtless, John Wittleworth was worthy of all the confidence
reposed in him, for the terrible habit, which eventually beggared him,
had not developed itself to an extent which seemed perilous even to the
eye of affection.
A few years after the marriage of Ellen, Mr. Checkynshaw, then aspiring
to no higher title than that of a simple broker, presented himself as
the suitor of Mary, the younger daughter of the retired merchant. Mr.
Osborne did not like him very well; but Mary did, and their affair was
permitted to take its course. Only a few months after this alliance of
the Checkynshaw and the Osborne, the merchant was taken sick. When it
was evident that his days were drawing to a close, he made his will.
His property consisted of about one hundred thousand dollars. One half
of it was invested in a block of stores, which paid a heavy rental, and
the other half was in money, stocks, and debts. In settling the affairs
of the firm he had taken John Wittleworth's notes for thirty thousand
dollars, secured by a mortgage on the stock. In making his will, Mr.
Osborne gave to Ellen or--what was the same thing in those days, when a
woman did not own her own property--to her husband, all the money,
stocks, and debts due from Wittleworth. He did this because his late
partner wanted more capital to increase his business.
To Mary, the wife of Mr. Checkynshaw, he gave the block of stores; but,
not having so much confidence in Mary's husband as in Ellen's, he gave
her the property with certain restrictions. The income of the estate
was to be hers--or her husband's--during her life. At her death the
estate was to pass to her children. If she died without children, the
property was to be her sister's, or her sister's children's. But Mr.
Osborne did not wish to exhibit any want of confidence in Mary's
husband; so he made Mr. Checkynshaw the trustee, to hold the block of
stores for his wife and for her children. He had the power to collect
the rents, and as long as his wife lived, or as long as her children
lived, the money was practically his own.
Mary, the first Mrs. Checkynshaw, was in rather feeble health, and the
doctors advised her to spend the winter in the south of France. Her
husband complied with this advice; and her child, Marguerite, was born
in Perpignan, and had a French name because she was born in France. The
family returned home in the following spring; but Mrs. Checkynshaw died
during the succeeding winter. Marguerite was a fine, healthy child; and
to her now belonged the block of stores bequeathed by her grandfather,
her father holding it in trust for her.
In another year Mr. Checkynshaw married his second wife, who treated
little Marguerite well enough, though she felt no deep and motherly
interest in her, especially after Elinora, her own daughter, was born.
Mr. Checkynshaw called himself a banker now. He had taken Mr. Hart and
another gentleman into the concern as partners, and the banking-house
of Checkynshaw, Hart, & Co. was a rising establishment.
The second Mrs. Checkynshaw was an ambitious woman, vain and
pretentious. Her friends had been to London, Paris, Naples, and Rome.
She had never been in Europe, and it galled her to be out of the
fashion. When Elinora was only two years old, she insisted upon going
abroad. Her husband did not like the idea of travelling with two
children, one five and the other two years old. But he was
over-persuaded, and finally consented to go. They arrived in Paris in
July, and intended to remain there two months; but, before this period
elapsed, the banker received a letter from Mr. Hart informing him of
the sudden death of the third partner in their house. This event
compelled him to return immediately; but Mrs. Checkynshaw was so well
pleased with Parisian life, that she was unwilling to leave the city so
soon. The voyage to her was terrible, and she had seen little or
nothing of Europe. The family had taken apartments, and she was loath
to leave them.
A friend of the banker, who with his wife occupied rooms in the same
house, suggested that Mrs. Checkynshaw and her children should remain
until her husband could return, two or three months later. An
arrangement to this effect was made, and the banker hastened home to
settle his business affairs. He had hardly departed before the cholera
broke out with fearful violence in Paris. One of its first victims was
the gentleman who had charge of Mr. Checkynshaw's family. His wife
followed him, only a day later, to the cholera hospital.
Of course the banker's wife was terribly frightened, and instantly made
her preparations to leave the infected city. Poor little Marguerite was
the first of the family to take the disease, and she was hurried off to
the hospital by the landlord of the house, who was very polite, but
very heartless. This event would not have delayed the departure of Mrs.
Checkynshaw, but she was stricken down herself before she could leave.
The fearful malady raged with awful violence; hospitals were crowded
with patients, and the dead were hurried to their last resting-place
without a prayer or a dirge.
Little Elinora was taken by her nurse to the Sisters of Charity, and
escaped the disease. Mrs. Checkynshaw recovered, and as soon as she was
able, reclaimed her child, and fled to the interior of Switzerland, to
a small town which the plague had not yet visited. When the panic had
subsided, she returned to Paris. She bad been informed, before her
departure, that little Marguerite had died of the disease; but, on her
return, she visited the hospital, and made more careful inquiry in
regard to the little patient. She was told that the child answering to
her description had died, and been buried with a dozen others. It was
then impossible to identify the remains of the child.
Mr. Checkynshaw returned to Paris in September. His wife had written to
him and to Mrs. Wittleworth as soon as she was able, and her husband
had received her letter before his departure from Boston. Poor little
Marguerite! She was his own child, and he was sorely grieved at her
death. He was not quite satisfied with his wife's investigations, and
he determined to inquire further. With Mrs. Checkynshaw he went to the
hospital.
"The child died the day after it was brought here," replied the
director. "Here is the name;" and he pointed to the record.
The name indicated certainly was not "Checkynshaw," though it was as
near it as a Frenchman could be expected to write it. The letters
spelled "Chuckingham."
"Allow me to look at the book," said Mr. Checkynshaw.
"Certainly, sir; but I remember the case well. She was a little English
girl," added the director.
"This child was American," interposed the anxious father.
"We cannot tell the difference. She spoke only English."
"What is this?" asked Mr. Checkynshaw, pointing to another name.
"Marguerite Poulebah."
"That patient was discharged, cured."
"Do you translate English proper names?"
"Never!"
"What became of this patient?" asked Mr. Checkynshaw, deeply
interested.
"I don't know."
The banker was satisfied that "Marguerite Poulebah" was his daughter;
that the persons who had brought her to the hospital understood a
little English, and had translated his surname literally from "chicken"
and "pshaw." He investigated the matter for a week. The concierge of
the lodgings where he had resided assured him he had not given the name
as "Poulebah." At the end of the week he informed his wife that he had
obtained a clew to the child. She had been taken from the hospital by
the Sisters of Charity, and sent to Strasburg, that she might not have
a relapse. Mr. Checkynshaw went to Strasburg alone.
On his return he assured his wife that he had found Marguerite; that
she was happy with the Sisters, and cried when he spoke of taking her
away. The devoted ladies were very much attached to her, he said; and
he had concluded that it would be best to leave her there, at least
until they were ready to embark for home. Mrs. Checkynshaw did not
object. She had no love for the child, and though she had treated her
well from a sense of duty, was rather glad to get rid of her.
The family remained in Europe till the next spring. Mr. Checkynshaw
went to see his daughter again. The Sisters were educating her, and he
declared that Marguerite was so very happy with them, and begged so
hard not to be taken from them, that he had consented to let her remain
at their school. Mrs. Checkynshaw did not care; she thought it was
strange; but if the child's father deemed it best for her to remain
with the Sisters, it was not for her to say anything. She did not say
anything--Marguerite was not her own child.
When they returned to Boston, the friends of the Osbornes wished to
know what had become of the child. Mr. Checkynshaw had not informed any
one of the death of Marguerite when the intelligence came to him in his
wife's letter, though Mrs. Wittleworth had received it direct from the
same source. He had grieved deeply at the loss of the child. Yet his
sorrow was not alone for poor Marguerite; the block of stores, every
year increasing in value, must not pass out of his hands.
"The poor child had the cholera in Paris, and was sent to the
hospital," was his reply. "When she recovered, Mrs. Checkynshaw was
down with the disease, and the Sisters of Charity took her in charge.
They treated her as a mother treats her own child, and Marguerite loves
them better than she does my wife. I don't like to say anything about
it, and will not, except to most intimate friends; but Marguerite was
not Mrs. Checkynshaw's own daughter. They were not very fond of each
other, and--well, I think you ought to be able to understand the matter
without my saying anything more. The poor child is very happy where she
is, and I had not the heart to separate her from such dear friends."
Everybody inferred that Mrs. Checkynshaw did not treat the child well,
and no more questions were asked. The banking-house of Checkynshaw,
Hart, & Co. increased in wealth and importance, and had extensive
foreign connections in England. Every year or two the head of the house
crossed the ocean, partly, as he declared, to transact his business in
London, and partly to visit his child in France.
CHAPTER X.
THE WITTLEWORTH FAMILY.
While everything appeared to be well with the banker, into whose
exchequer the revenues of the block of stores flowed with
unintermitting regularity, the affairs of the other branch of the
Osborne family were in a far less hopeful condition. John Wittleworth
drank to excess, and did not attend to his business. It was said that
he gambled largely; but it was not necessary to add this vice to the
other in order to rob him of his property, and filch from him his good
name.
He failed in business, and was unable to reëstablish himself. He
obtained a situation as a clerk, but his intemperate habits unfitted
him for his duties. If he could not take care of his own affairs, much
less could he manage the affairs of another. He had become a confirmed
sot, had sacrificed everything, and given himself up to the demon of
the cup. He became a ragged, filthy drunkard; and as such, friends who
had formerly honored him refused to recognize him, or to permit him to
enter their counting-rooms. Just before the opening of our story, he
had been arrested as a common drunkard; and it was even a relief to his
poor wife to know that he was safely lodged in the House of Correction.
When Mrs. Wittleworth found she could no longer depend upon her natural
protector, she went to work with her own hands, like an heroic woman,
as she was. As soon as her son was old enough to be of any assistance
to her, a place was found for him in a lawyer's office, where he
received a couple of dollars a week. Her own health giving way under
the drudgery of toil, to which she had never been accustomed, she was
obliged to depend more and more upon Fitz, who, in the main, was not a
bad boy, though his notions were not suited to the station in which he
was compelled to walk. At last she was obliged to appeal to her
brother-in-law, who gave Fitz his situation.
Fitz was rather "airy." He had a better opinion of himself than anybody
else had--a vicious habit, which the world does not readily forgive. He
wanted to dress himself up, and "swell" round among bigger men than
himself. His mother was disappointed in him, and tried to teach him
better things; but he believed that his mother was only a woman, and
that he was wiser, and more skilful in worldly affairs, than she was.
He paid her three dollars a week out of his salary of five dollars, and
in doing this he believed that he discharged his whole duty to her.
Perhaps we ought again to apologize to Mr. Checkynshaw for leaving him
so long in such a disagreeable place as the poor home of his first
wife's sister; but he was seated before the cooking-stove, and the
contemplation of poverty would do him no harm; so we shall not beg his
pardon.
The banker looked around the room, at the meagre and mean furniture,
and then at the woman herself; her who had once been the belle of the
circle in which she moved, now clothed in the cheapest calico, her face
pale and hollow from hard work and ceaseless anxiety. Perhaps he found
it difficult to believe that she was the sister of his first wife.
"Where is Fitz?" asked he, in gruff accents.
"He has gone up in Summer Street. He will be back in a few minutes,"
replied Mrs. Wittleworth, as she seated herself opposite the banker,
still fearing that some new calamity was about to overtake her.
"I want to see him," added Mr. Checkynshaw, in the most uncompromising
tones.
"Fitz says you discharged him," continued the poor woman, heaving a
deep sigh.
"I didn't; he discharged himself. I could not endure the puppy's
impudence. But that is neither here nor there. I don't want to see him
about that."
"I hope you will take him back."
"Take him back if he will behave himself."
"Will you?" asked she, eagerly.
"I will; that is, if it turns out that he was not concerned in robbing
my safe."
"In what?" exclaimed Mrs. Wittleworth.
"My safe has been robbed of some of my most valuable papers."
"Robbed!"
"Yes, robbed."
"Did Fitz do it?" gasped the wretched mother; and this was even a
greater calamity than any she had dreaded.
"I don't know whether he did or not; that's what I want to find out;
that's what I want to see him for."
Mr. Checkynshaw proceeded to relate the circumstances under which the
safe had been robbed. Before he had finished, Fitz came in, and his
mother was too impatient to wait for her distinguished visitor to set
any of his verbal traps and snares. She bluntly informed her hopeful
son that he was suspected of being concerned in the robbery.
"I don't know anything about it. I had nothing to do with it,"
protested Fitz. "There's nothing too mean for Checkynshaw to say."
"Don't be saucy, Fitz. Try to be civil," pleaded his mother.
"Be civil! What, when he comes here to accuse me of robbing his safe? I
can't stand that, and I won't, if I know myself," replied Fitz, shaking
his head vehemently at the banker.
"I haven't accused you of anything, Fitz," added Mr. Checkynshaw, very
mildly for him. "I came to inquire about it."
"Do you think if I did it that I would tell you of it?"
"I wish to ask you some questions."
"Well, you needn't!"
"Very well, young man," said the banker, rising from his chair, "if you
don't choose to answer me, you can answer somebody else. I'll have you
arrested."
"Arrested! I'd like to see you do it! What for? I know something about
law!" He had been an errand boy in a lawyer's office!
"Don't be so rude, Fitz," begged his mother.
"Arrest me!" repeated the violent youth, whose dignity had been touched
by the threat. "Do it! Why didn't you do it before you came here? You
can't scare me! I wasn't brought up in the city to be frightened by a
brick house. Why don't you go for a constable, and take me up now? I'd
like to have you do it."
"I will do it if you don't behave yourself," said the banker, beginning
to be a little ruffled by the violent and unreasonable conduct of Mr.
Wittleworth.
"I wish you would! I really wish you would! I should like to know what
my friend Choate would say about it."
"How silly you talk!" exclaimed his mother, quite as much disgusted as
her stately visitor.
"You may let him badger you, if you like, mother; but he shall not come
any odds on me--not if I know it, and I think I do!"
"It is useless for me to attempt to say anything to such a young
porcupine," added Mr. Checkynshaw, taking his hat from the table.
Mrs. Wittleworth burst into tears. She had hoped to effect a
reconciliation between her son and his employer, upon which her very
immunity from blank starvation seemed to depend. The case was a
desperate one, and the bad behavior of Fitz seemed to destroy her last
hope.
"I will give up now, Fitz, and go to the almshouse," sobbed she.
Fitz was inclined to give up also when this stunning acknowledgment was
made in the presence of his great enemy, the arch dragon of
respectability.
"I am willing to work, but not to be trodden upon," added he, sullenly;
but his spirit for the moment seemed to be subdued.
"Mr. Checkynshaw wishes to ask you some questions, and it is your duty
to answer them," said Mrs. Wittleworth, a little encouraged by the more
hopeful aspect of her belligerent son.
"Ask away," replied Fitz, settling himself into a chair, and fixing his
gaze upon the stove.
"Do you know Pilky Wayne?" asked the banker, who had a certain
undefined fear of Fitz since the robbery, which, however, the immensity
of his dignity prevented him from exposing.
"Know who?" demanded Fitz, looking up.
"Pilky Wayne."
"Never heard of him before."
"Yes, you have; you made an arrangement with him to rob my safe,"
continued the banker, who could not help browbeating his inferior.
"Did I? Well, if I did, I did," answered Fitz, shaking his head. "What
do you think my friend Choate would say to that?"
"He would say you were a silly fellow," interposed Mrs. Wittleworth.
"Don't be impudent, Fitz."
"Well, I won't be impudent!" said Fitz, with a kind of suppressed
chuckle.
"There were, or you thought there were, certain papers in my safe which
might be useful to you," added Mr. Checkynshaw.
"I don't believe there were any letters from my cousin Marguerite among
them," replied Fitz, with a sneering laugh. "Marguerite must be able to
write very pretty letters by this time."
"Be still, Fitz," pleaded Mrs. Wittleworth.
"Fitz, I don't want to quarrel with you," continued Mr. Checkynshaw, in
the most pliable tones Fitz had ever heard the banker use to him.
"I thought you did. Accusing a gentleman of robbing your safe is not
exactly the way to make friends with him," said Fitz, so much
astonished at the great man's change of tone that he hardly knew what
to say.
"I accuse you of nothing. Fitz, if you want your place in my office
again, you can return to-morrow morning."
Mr. Wittleworth looked at his disconsolate mother. A gleam of triumph
rested on his face. The banker, the head and front of the great house
of Checkynshaw, Hart, & Co., had fully and directly recognized the
value of his services; had fairly "backed out," and actually entreated
him to return, and fill the vacant place, which no other person was
competent to fill! That was glory enough for one day. But he concluded
that it would be better for the banker to come down a peg farther, and
apologize for his abusive treatment of his confidential clerk.
"Certainly he will be glad to take the place again, sir," said Mrs.
Wittleworth, who was anxious to help along the negotiation.
"Perhaps I will; and then again, perhaps I will not," replied Mr.
Wittleworth, who was beginning to be airy again, and threw himself back
on his chair, sucked his teeth, and looked as magnificent as an Eastern
prince. "Are you willing to double my salary, Mr. Checkynshaw?"
"After what I have heard here to-night, I am," answered the banker,
promptly. "I ought to have done it before; and I should, had I known
your mother's circumstances."
That was very unlike Mr. Checkynshaw. Mr. Wittleworth did not like it.
His salary was to be doubled as an act of charity, rather than because
he deserved such a favor. It was not like the banker to want him at all
after what had happened. There was something deep under it; but Fitz
was deep himself.
"Perhaps you might help me in finding my papers. Of course I don't care
a straw for the three hundred and fifty dollars or so which was stolen
with them," suggested Mr. Checkynshaw.
"Perhaps I might; perhaps I have some skill in business of that kind,
though I suppose it doesn't exactly become me to say so," added Fitz,
stroking his chin. "But if you mean to intimate that I know anything
about them, you are utterly and entirely mistaken. I'm an honest
man--the noblest work of God."
"I will give you ten dollars a week for the future, if you will
return," said Mr. Checkynshaw, impatiently.
"Of course he will," almost gasped the eager mother.
Fitz was deep. The banker was anxious. It meant something. Fitz thought
he knew what it meant.
"On the whole, I think I will not return," replied he, deliberately.
"Are you crazy, Fitz?" groaned Mrs. Wittleworth, in despair.
"Never a more sane man walked the earth. Mr. Checkynshaw knows what he
is about; I know what I am about."
"We shall both starve, Fitz!" cried his mother.
"On the contrary, mother, we shall soon be in possession of that block
of stores, with an income of five or six thousand a year," added Fitz,
complacently.
"The boy's an idiot!" exclaimed the banker, as he took his hat, and
rushed out of the house.
CHAPTER XI.
THE MOUSE BUSINESS.
While Maggie Maggimore took upon herself the blessed task of nursing
the barber, Leo charged himself with the duty of providing for the
wants of the family. Each had assumed all that one person could be
expected to achieve. It was no small thing for a girl of fifteen to
take the entire care of a helpless invalid; and it was no small thing
for a boy of fifteen to take upon himself the task of providing for the
expenses of the house, and the medical attendance of the sick man.
It would have been much easier for Leo to fail in his assumed task than
for Maggie to do so. Even a young man of so much importance as
Fitzherbert Wittleworth, upon whom the salvation of the great house of
Checkynshaw, Hart, & Co. seemed to depend, toiled for the meagre
pittance of five dollars a week. Leo had some acquaintance with the
late clerk in the private office of the banker, and he had listened
with wonder to the astounding achievements of Fitz in the postal and
financial departments of the house. Of course Mr. Wittleworth would be
a partner in the concern as soon as he was twenty-one, if not before;
for, besides his own marvellous abilities, he had the additional
advantage of being a relative of the distinguished head of the concern.
Leo was abashed at his own insignificance when he stood in the presence
of the banker's clerk. If such an astonishing combination of talent as
Mr. Wittleworth possessed could be purchased for five dollars a week,
what could he, who was only a mere tinker, expect to obtain? Half that
sum would have been an extravagant valuation of his own services, under
ordinary circumstances. But beneath the burden which now rested upon
him, he felt an inspiration which had never before fired his soul; he
felt called upon to perform a miracle.
He was born with a mechanical genius, and he felt it working within
him. There was no end of wooden trip-hammers, saw-mills, and other
working machines he had invented and constructed. Under the pressure of
the present necessity he felt able to accomplish better things.
Something must be done which would produce fifteen, or at least ten,
dollars a week. It was no use to think it couldn't be done; it must be
done. It looked like a species of lunacy on his part to flatter himself
that it was possible to make even more than a journeyman mechanic's
wages.
Leo had in his busy brain half a dozen crude plans of simple machines.
Often, when he saw people at work, he tried to think how the labor
might be done by machinery. As he sat in the kitchen, where Maggie was
sewing or preparing the dinner, he was devising a way to perform the
task with wood and iron. Only a few days before the illness of the
barber, he had seen her slicing potatoes to fry, and the operation had
suggested a potato slicer, which would answer equally well for
cucumbers, onions, and apples.
Sitting on the bench, he was thinking of this apparatus, when fifteen
dollars a week became a necessity. But the machine required more iron
than wood work, and he had not the means to do the former, and no
capital to invest in other people's labor. Then he turned his attention
to a new kind of boot-jack he had in his mind--an improvement on one he
had seen, which could be folded up and put in a traveller's carpet-bag.
As this implement was all wood except the hinges and screws, it looked
more hopeful. He could make half a dozen of them in a day, and they
would sell for half a dollar apiece. He was thinking of an improvement
on the improvement, when the stampede of the mice deranged his ideas;
but they gave him a new one.
White mice were beautiful little creatures. Their fur was so very
white, their eyes so very pink, and their paws so very cunning, that
everybody liked to see them. Even the magnificent Mr. Checkynshaw had
deigned to regard them with some attention, and had condescended to say
that his daughter Elinora would be delighted to see them. Then the
houses, and the gymnastic apparatus which Leo attached to them,
rendered them tenfold more interesting. At a store in Court Street the
enterprising young man had seen them sold for half a dollar a pair;
indeed, he had paid this sum for the ancestral couple from which had
descended, in the brief space of a year and a half the numerous tribes
and families that peopled the miniature palaces on the basement walls.
At this rate his present stock was worth seventy-five dollars--the
coveted salary of five whole weeks! In another month, at least fifty
more little downy pink-eyes would emerge from their nests, adding
twenty-five dollars more to his capital stock in trade!
Leo had already decided to go into the mouse business.
He was counting his chickens before they were hatched, and building
magnificent castles in the air; but even the most brilliant success, as
well as the most decided failure, is generally preceded by a vast
amount of ground and lofty tumbling in the imagination. If the man in
Court Street could sell a pair of white mice for fifty cents, and a
beggarly tin box with a whirligig for a dollar, making the
establishment and its occupants cost a dollar and a half, why would not
one of his splendid palaces, with two or three pairs of mice in it,
bring three, or even five dollars? That was the point, and there was
the argument all lying in a nutshell.
Leo had faith. What would a rich man care for five dollars when he
wanted to please his children? He had watched his mice day after day,
and week after week, by the hour at a time, and had never failed to be
amused at their gambols. Everybody that came to the house was delighted
with them. If the man in Court Street could sell them, he could. There
was money in the speculation, Leo reasoned, and it should not fail for
the want of a fair trial.
He could make houses of various sizes, styles, and prices, and thus
suit all tastes. He could stock each one with as many mice as the
customer desired. He could make a pretty elaborate establishment in two
days--five-dollar size; and of the smaller and plainer kind--two-dollar
pattern--he could make two in a day.
The palace on the bench was nearly completed, and he went to work at
once and finished it. It had a glass front, so that the dainty little
occupants of the institution could not get out, and the foe of white
mice, the terrible cat, could not get in. This establishment had been
intended for Mr. Stropmore; but as that gentleman had not been informed
of his purpose to present it, Leo decided that it should be used to
initiate the experiment on whose success so much depended.
It was ten o'clock at night when the grand palace on the bench was
finished. Leo put some cotton wool into the sleeping apartments, and
then transferred three pairs of mice from the most densely populated
house to the new one. He watched them for a while, as they explored
their elegant hotel, going up stairs and down, snuffing in every
corner, standing upon their hind legs, and taking the most minute
observations of the surroundings.
Leo was entirely satisfied with the work of his hands, and with the
conduct of the mice who had been promoted to a residence in its elegant
and spacious quarters. If there was not five dollars in that
establishment, then the rich men of Boston were stingy and ungrateful.
If they could not appreciate that superb palace, and those supple
little beauties who held court within its ample walls, why, they were
not worthy to be citizens of the Athens of America!
Leo went up stairs. André still slept, and Maggie sat by the bedside,
patiently watching him in his slumbers. He crept softly into the front
room, and looked at the pale face of his father. His heart was lighter
than it had been before since the news of the calamity was told to him.
He was full of hope, and almost believed that he had solved the problem
of supplying all the wants of the family.
"You must sleep yourself, Maggie," said he, in a whisper.
"Hush!" said she, fearful that the sleeper might be disturbed, as she
led the way into the rear room.
"I will sit up half the night, Maggie."
"No, Leo; there is no need of that. I wake very easily, and I can sleep
enough in the rocking-chair. You seem to be quite cheerful now, Leo,"
added she, noticing the change which had come over him.
"I feel so, Maggie. You say we shall want fifteen dollars a week."
"No, you said so, Leo. I might take in sewing; but I don't think both
of us can make anything like that sum. I am very much worried. I don't
know what will become of us."
"Don't be worried any more. I'm going to make that money myself. You
needn't do anything but take care of father; and I'll help you do the
housework," added Leo, cheerfully.
"What are you going to do?"
"I'm going into the mouse business."
"Into what?"
"The mouse business," replied Leo, gravely.
"What do you mean by that?" asked Maggie, puzzled as much by his
gravity as by the unintelligible phrase he had used.
Leo explained what he meant, and argued the case with much skill and
enthusiasm.
Maggie would have laughed if she had not been solemnly impressed by the
condition of her father, and by the burden of responsibility that
rested upon her as his nurse. She went into the basement, and looked at
the house which Leo had just finished. It was certainly very pretty,
and the mice in it were very cunning.
"You don't think any one will give you five dollars for that house--do
you?" said she, as she joined him in the back room again.
"I mean to ask six for it, and if folks won't give it, they are mean.
That is all I've got to say about it," replied Leo.
"But they won't."
"Why, the mice alone are worth a dollar and a half; and there is two
days' work in the house, besides the stock and the glass. I certainly
expect to get six dollars for the concern, though I shall not complain
if I don't get but five. I can make from three to a dozen of them in a
week, and if I don't make at least fifteen dollars a week out of the
mouse business, I shall be disappointed--that's all."
"I am afraid you will be disappointed, Leo," replied Maggie, with a
sigh, as she thought what a sad thing it would be when the brilliant
air-castle tumbled to the ground.
"Perhaps I shall; if I do, I can't help it. But if this fails, I have
got another string to my bow."
"What's that?"
"I shall go into the boot-jack business next; and I hope to get up my
machine for slicing potatoes, and such things, soon."
"O, dear, Leo! You are full of strange ideas. I only hope that some of
them will work well," added Maggie.
"I'm going to be reasonable, sis. I'm not going to give up if a thing
fails once, twice, or nineteen times. I'm going to keep pulling. I've
got half a dozen things in my head; if five of them fail, I shall make
a big thing out of the sixth."
"I hope you will; you are so patient and persevering that you ought to
succeed in something."
"O, I shall; you may depend upon that! Make or break, I'm bound to
succeed in something."
"What do you mean by 'make or break,' Leo? It sounds just as though you
meant to make money if you sacrificed everything."
"I don't mean that."
"I would rather go to the almshouse than be dishonest. I can't think of
anything more horrid than being wicked."
"Nor I either. I don't mean to be dishonest, Maggie. I would rather be
a good man than a rich one, any day; but I think a man can be both. A
good man, with lots of money, is better than a good man without it; for
he can do good with it. When I say, 'make or break,' I don't mean
anything bad by it. I'll tell you what I mean, Maggie. It seems to me,
when I get hold of a good thing, I ought to keep pulling till I carry
my point, or pull away till something breaks. I don't mean to risk
everything on a turn of the wheel of fortune; nothing of that sort. I
mean to persevere and stick to anything so long as there's any chance
of success--till the strings break, and the whole thing tumbles down.
That's my idea."
The idea was satisfactory to Maggie, and she returned to her patient,
while Leo went up to bed; but not to sleep for hours, for the "mouse
business" excited his brain, and kept him awake.
CHAPTER XII.
LEO'S WONDERFUL PERFORMERS.
Maggie, at the sick bed of André, slept even more than Leo. She had a
lounge in the room, placed near her charge, on which she rested
comfortably, though she rose several times in the night to assure
herself that all was well with her father. In the morning André seemed
to be in the entire possession of his faculties. He had slumbered
quietly all night, hardly opening his eyes after he took the doctor's
prescription.
He awoke before his attentive nurse. He had but a faint remembrance of
the events of the preceding evening; for, after he came out of the fit,
he was in a kind of stupor. He had noticed Maggie and Leo at the house
of the banker; but everything seemed like a dream.
"Maggie," said he, as he looked around the familiar apartment, and saw
her lying on the lounge.
She sprang to her feet, and went to him, glad to hear the sound of his
voice, but fearful that the call might be the prelude of another
attack. He smiled as she approached him, and made an effort to extend
his right hand to her; but he could not move it.
"Father!" exclaimed the fond girl, as she bent over him and kissed his
pale face, now slightly flushed with fever.
"I have been very ill," he added.
"You have, indeed; but you are better now; and I am so glad, mon
père!"
"Ah, ma fille, you are a good girl! You have been by my side all
night. It was selfish for me to wake you."
"No, no! It was not. I'm glad you did. I am so happy to find you
better!"
"What ails me? I can't move my right arm, nor my right leg," asked
André, struggling to raise his limbs. "There is no feeling in my right
side."
"The doctor will come by and by, and tell you all about it."
"My head feels very strange," added the sufferer.
"I am sorry, mon père. What can I do?" said Maggie, tenderly.
"Give me some cold water."
She gave him the drink, supporting his head with her arm. It was plain,
even to Maggie, that André was in a very bad way.
"Go up stairs, and go to bed now, Maggie. You have been up all night,"
said he, with a loving glance at her.
"No, mon père, I have no need to go to bed. I have slept on the
lounge nearly all night. I feel quite bright, only I'm so sad to think
you are sick."
"I shall be well soon. I must be well soon," he added, looking
anxiously at her.
"I hope you will be well soon; but it may be several weeks before you
are able to go out," replied Maggie, wishing to have him reconciled to
his lot as soon as possible.
"Several weeks, Maggie! O, no! I must go to the shop sooner than that."
"You must be very patient, mon père."
"I will be patient, Maggie; but I must go to the shop soon."
"Don't think of the shop yet."
"My poor children! What will become of you? I have no money. I must
work, or you will starve, and be turned out of the house because the
rent is not paid. Indeed I must go to the shop, Maggie."
"But you cannot. You are not able to lift your right arm at all, and
you are so weak you could not stand up. Do be patient, and not think at
all of the shop."
"I must do as you bid me now, Maggie."
"Then don't think of the shop, or anything but our nice little home,
where we have always been so happy."
"How shall we pay the rent if I lie here? Where will you get food to
eat and clothes to wear?" demanded André, with something like a shudder
of his paralyzed frame.
"Don't think of those things."
"I must. I was wicked not to save up some money."
"No, you were not wicked; you were always as good as you could be. The
good God will take care of us."
"They will send us all to the almshouse."
"No, no; Leo is going to make heaps of money!" replied Maggie, though
she had not much confidence in her brother's brilliant scheme, or even
in the inventions that reposed in his active brain. "Can't you go to
sleep again, mon père?"
"I will try," replied he, meekly. "I will if you go to bed, and sleep.
What should I do if you were sick?"
"I shall not be sick. I have slept enough. I will go and make you some
beef tea, and get breakfast for Leo. I shall hear you if you call."
Leo had made the fire in the cooking-stove, and in a short time the
odor of fried sausages pervaded the house; the beef tea was in course
of preparation, and the coffee was boiling on the stove. Maggie was as
