"You shall talk what you will, darling. But wait till we get a
better place."
I would have liked the place where we were, and the time.
Better where the road was rough than where it was smooth;
easier where there was something to make interruption than
where Christian could give too exclusive heed to me. But I
could not gainsay him; and we rode on, till we came to a piece
of pretty broken ground with green turf and trees. Here Mr.
Thorold stopped and proposed that we should dismount; he said
we should talk more at our ease so. I thought my predetermined
measures of dignity could be more easily maintained on
horseback; but I could not bear to refuse him, and he did not
mean to be refused, I saw. He had dismounted even while he
spoke, and throwing his horse's bridle over the branch of a
tree, came to lift me down; first throwing his cap on the
grass. Then keeping me in his arms and bending a brilliant
inquisitive look on my face, he asked me,
"Daisy - is this my Daisy, as I left her?"
I could not help answering a plain yes. Nothing in me was
changed; and come what might, that was true. No other answer
would have been true. And I could not blame him that he held
me fast and kissed me, almost as he had done that first time.
Almost; but the kisses were more grave and deliberate now;
every one seemed a seal and a taking possession. Indeed the
whole manner of Mr. Thorold had taken gravity and manliness
and purpose; he was changed, as it would have taken much
longer in other circumstances to change a man. I stood still
and trembled, I believe; but I could no more check him than I
could that first night.
Still holding me fast, he lifted my face a little and smiling
asked me, what Daisy had to say to him? The tone, tender and
happy, was as much as I could bear; more than I could answer.
He led me a little way, arranged a seat for me on a green
bank, and threw himself down by my side. But that was very
inconvenient, for he could look up right into my face.
"Business, Daisy?" he said gayly and tenderly at once. The
tone seemed to .touch the colour in my cheeks and the droop of
my eyes.
"Yes," I said. "It is business."
"Well, what, love?"
"Christian," said I, putting my hand in his, "you know papa
and mamma do not know of this."
"They shall know, as soon as I can write to them," he answered.
"I understand - you do not wish that, Daisy; but see - I
cannot leave it unsaid, as long as your thought would leave
it. Till they know, I have only half a right to you. I cannot
live so."
"You must," I whispered, - "till this war is over."
"What then?" said he quickly. "How will that help the matter?"
"Then they may see you for themselves. A letter would not do."
"If you please, how do you expect I am to live till then?" he
said smiling. "With half a right to you."
"Yes - with that, - and without writing to me," I answered.
"Daisy!" exclaimed Thorold, raising himself half up.
"Yes," I said - "I know - I have been wanting to talk to you
about it. You know, Christian, I could not write nor receive
your letters without my father's and mother's permission."
"Can you bear that, Daisy?" he asked.
My heart seemed to turn sick. His words suggested nothing new,
but they were his words. I failed to answer, and my face went
down in my hands.
"There, is no need of that, darling," he said, getting one of
them and putting it to his lips. "Here you are fearing dangers
again. Daisy -with truth on your side and on mine, nothing can
separate us permanently."
"But for the present," - I said as soon as I could speak. "I
am sure our chance for the future is better if we are patient
and wait now."
"Patient, and wait?" said Mr. Thorold. "If we are patient now?
What do you mean by patience? You in Switzerland, with half a
hundred suitors by turns; and I here in the smoke of artillery
practice, unable to see twenty yards from my drill - and that,
you think, does not call for patience, but you must cut off
the post-office from our national institutions. And to wait
for you is not enough, but I must wait for news of you as
well!"
"Christian!" said I, in desperation - "it is harder for me
than for you."
He laughed at that; laughed and looked at me, and his eyes
sparkled like a shower of fireworks, and then I was sure that
a mist was gathering in them. I could scarcely bear the one
thing ands the other. My own composure failed. He did not this
time answer by caresses. He got up and paced the turf a little
distance below me; his arms folded, his lips set, and the
steps never slackening. So he was when I could look up and
see. This was worse than anything. And the sun was lowering
fast, and we had settled nothing, and our time was going. I
waited a minute, and then I called him. He came and stood
before me, face and attitude unchanged.
"Christian," I said, - "don't you see that it is best - my
plan?"
"No," he said.
I did not know what to urge next. But as I looked at him, his
lips unbent and his face shone down at me, after a sort, with
love, and tenderness and pleasure. I felt I had not prevailed
yet. I rose up and stood before him.
"Indeed it is best!" I said earnestly.
"What do you fear, Daisy?" His look was unchanged and feared
nothing. It was very hard to tell him what I feared.
"I think, without seeing you and knowing you, they will never
let us write; and I would rather they did not know anything
about the - about us - till you can see them."
He took both my hands in his, and I felt how hard it is for a
woman to move a man's will when it is once in earnest.
"Daisy, that is not brave," he said.
"No - I am not," I answered. "But is it not prudent?"
"I do not believe in cowardly prudence," he said; but he
kissed me gently to soften the words; "the frank way is the
wisest, always, I believe; and anyhow, Daisy, I can't stand
any other. I am going to ask you of your father and mother;
and I am going to do it without delay."
"I wish they could see you," I said helplessly.
"And as I cannot be present to do my pleading in person, I
must trust you to plead for me."
"You forget," said I; "it is against you that you are a
Northern officer."
"That may depend upon the event of the war," he said; and I
saw a sparkle again. Wilful and manly as he could be; but he
did not know my father and mother. Yet that last word of his
might be true; what if it were? The end of the war! When might
that be? and how? If all the Northern army were Thorolds, -
but I knew they were not. I felt as if my magazine of words
was exhausted. I suppose then my face spoke for me. He
loosened his hold of one hand to put his arm round me and draw
me to him, with a fine tenderness, both reverent and
masterful.
"My Daisy" - he said, - "what do you want of me?"
And I could not tell him then. As little could I pretend to be
dignified. Pain was too sharp. We drew very close to each
other, and were very silent for those minutes. I would command
myself, and did, hard work as it was, and though my face lay
on his shoulder. I do not know how his face looked; when he
spoke again the tone was of the gravest tenderness.
"What do you want of me, Daisy?"
"I think, this," I said, raising my head and laying my hand on
his shoulder instead. "Suppose, Christian, you leave the
question undecided - the question of letters, I mean, - until
I get there, - to Switzerland, - and see my father and mother.
Perhaps I can judge then what will be safe to do; and if I can
write, you know I will write immediately."
"And if you cannot?"
"Then - I will write once, to let you know how it is."
He stood still, reading my face, until it was a little hard to
bear, and my eyes went down.
"Suppose your father and mother - suppose they are obdurate,
Daisy, and will not have me, being a Northern man and in the
Government service?"
What then? I could not say.
"Suppose it, Daisy."
"Well, Christian?" I said, raising my eyes to his face.
"What will you do?"
"You know, Christian, I must obey my father and mother."
"Even as I my other duty. Well, we are both soldiers. But what
would you do, Daisy?"
"Do? -" I repeated.
"Yes," he said very gravely, and with a certain determination
to have the answer.
"I should do nothing, Christian. I should be just the same."
But I believe my cheeks must have answered for me, for I felt
them grow pale.
"What if they chose a Southern husband for you, and laid their
commands in his favour?"
"I am yours -" I said, looking up at him. I could not say any
more, but I believe Mr. Thorold understood it all, just what I
meant him to understand; how that bond could never be
unloosed, what though the seal of it might be withheld. He was
satisfied.
"You are not brave, Daisy," he said, holding me again very
close; "here are these cheeks fairly grown white under my
supposings. Does that bring the colour back?" he added
laughing.
"Christian," I said, seizing my time while my face was half
hidden, "what would you do, supposing I should prove to be a
very poor girl?"
"What is that?" said he, laughing more gayly, and raising my
face a little.
"You know what our property is."
"No, I do not."
"You know - I mean, you know, my father's and mother's
property is in Southern lands mostly, and in those that
cultivate them."
"Yes. I believe I have understood that."
"Well, I will never be the owner of those people - the people
that cultivate those lands; and so I suppose I shall not be
worth a sixpence; for the land is not much without the
people."
"You will not be the owner of them?"
"No."
"Why do you tell me that?" said Mr. Thorold gravely.
"I wanted you to know -" I said, hesitating and beginning very
much to wish my words unsaid.
"And the question is, what I will do in the supposed
circumstances? Was that it?"
"I said that," - I assented.
"What shall I do?" said Mr. Thorold. "I don't know. If I am in
camp, I will pitch a tent for my wife; it shall have soft
carpets and damask cushions; as many servants as she likes,
and one in especial who will take care that the others do her
bidding; scanty accommodations, perhaps, but the air full of
welcome. She will like it. If I am stationed in town
somewhere, I will fill her house with things to please her. If
I am at the old farm, I will make her confess, in a little
while, that it is the pleasantest place she ever saw in her
life. I don't know what I will do! I will do something to make
her ashamed she ever asked me such a question."
"Oh, don't!" said I, with my cheeks burning. "I am very much
ashamed now."
"Do you acknowledge that?" he said, laughing and taking his
revenge. "So you ought."
But then he made me sit down on the grass again and threw
himself at my feet, and began to talk of other things. He
would not let me go back to the former subjects. He kept me in
a state of amusement, making me talk too about what he would;
and with the light of that last subject I had unluckily
started, shining all over his face and sparkling in his eye
and smile, until my face was in a condition of permanent
colour. I had given him an advantage, and he took it and
played with it. I resolved I would never give him another. He
had gone back apparently to the mood of that evening at Miss
Cardigan's; and was full of life and spirits and mischief. I
could do nothing but fall in with his mood and be happy;
although I remembered I had not gained my point yet; and I
half suspected he had a mind I should not gain it. It was a
very bright, short half hour; and then I reminded him it was
growing late.
"Moonlight -" he said. "There is a good large moon, Daisy."
"But Mrs. Sandford -" I said.
"She knows you are your own mistress."
"She thinks I am," I said. "You know better."
"You are mine," said Mr. Thorold, with gentle gravity,
immediately. "You shall command me. Do you say go, Daisy?"
"May I influence you in something else?" I said putting my
hand in his to enforce my words.
"Eh?" said he, clasping the hand. "What, Daisy?"
"Christian, I want you not to write to my father and mother
until I give you leave." I thought I would let go arguing and
try persuasion.
He looked away, and then looked at me; - a look full of
affection, but I saw I had not moved him.
"I do not see how we can settle that, Daisy."
"But you said - you said -"
"What?"
"You said just now, you intimated, that my wishes would have
weight with you."
He laughed a little, a moved laugh, and kissed me. But it was
not a kiss which carried any compromise.
"Weight with me? Yes, a little. But with me, Daisy. They must
not change me into somebody not myself."
"Would that? -"
"If I could be content to have your faith in secret, or to
wait to know if I might have it at all? I must be somebody not
myself, Daisy."
I pondered and felt very grave. Was it true, that Mr. Thorold,
though no Christian, was following a rule of action more noble
and good than I, who made such professions? It was noble, I
felt that. Had my wish been cowardly and political? Must not
open truth be the best way always? Yet with my father and
mother old experience had long ago taught me to hold my tongue
and not speak till the time came. Which was right? I felt that
his rule of action crossed all my inner nature, if it were not
indeed the habit which had become second nature. Mr. Thorold
watched me.
"What is it, Daisy? - my Daisy?" he asked with a tender
inquisitiveness, though looking amused at me.
"I was thinking -" I answered, - "whether you are a great deal
better than I am."
"Think it by all means," he said laughing. "I am certainly a
good deal braver. But what else, Daisy? there was something
else."
"That," said I. "I was thinking of my habit, all my life long,
of keeping things back from my father and mother till I
thought it was safe to show them."
"Are you going to let that habit live? What lessons you will
have to learn, my little Daisy! I could never bear to have my
wife afraid of me."
"Of you!" I said. "I never should." - But there I stopped in
some confusion, which I knew my neighbour enjoyed. I broke up
the enjoyment by standing up and declaring that it was now
time to go.
We had a pretty ride home. My mind was disburthened of its
various subjects of care which I had had to communicate to Mr.
Thorold; and although I had not been able entirely to prevail
with him, yet I had done all I could, and my conscience was
clear. I let myself enjoy, and the ride was good. Mr. Thorold
said we must have another; but I did not believe that
feasible.
However, it fell out so. Dr. Sandford lingered on in the same
disabled state; his sister-in-law was devoted to her
attendance on him; I was left to myself. And it did come to
pass, that not only Mr. Thorold and I had walks continually
together; but also we had one more good ride. I did not try
moving him again on the point of my father and mother. I had
read my man and knew that I could not. And I suppose I liked
him the better for it. Weakness is the last thing, I think,
that a woman forgives in men, who ought to be strong.
Christian was not weak; all the more he was gentle and tender
and thoughtful for those who were. Certainly for me. Those
days, those walks, - what music of thought and manner there
was in them! The sort of protecting care and affection I had
from him then, I never had from any other at any time. Care
that seemed to, make my life his own; affection that made it
something much before his own; but all this told, not in
words, which could not have been, but in indescribable little
things of manner and tone; graces too fine to count and
measure. Once I had fancied I ought to put more reserve into
my manner, or manage more distance in his; that thought fled
from me after the first afternoon's ride and never came back.
I did not take care for myself; he took care for me. The
affection that held me as a part of himself, held me also as a
delicate charge more precious than himself; and while he
protected me as one who had a right to do it, he guarded me
also as one whose own rights were more valuable than his. He
never flattered, nor praised, nor complimented me; or with
rare exceptions; but he showed me that he lived for me, and
sometimes that he knew I lived for him.
What days and walks! The extreme and impending gravity of the
time and the interests at work, lent only a keen and keener
perception of their preciousness and sweetness. Any day our
opportunities might suddenly come to an end; every day they
were welcomed as a special fresh gift. Every evening, as soon
as Mr. Thorold's engagements allowed it, he met me on the
avenue, and we walked until the evening was as far spent as we
durst spend it so. I basked in a sunshine of care and
affection which surrounded me, which watched me, which catered
to my pleasure, and knew my thoughts before they were spoken.
We were both grown suddenly older than our years, Mr. Thorold
and I; the coming changes and chances in our lives brought us
to life's reality at once.
One ride besides we had; that was all. Except one other
experience; which was afterwards precious to me beyond price.
As it became known that Dr. Sandford's illness was persistent
and not dangerous, and that I was in consequence leading a
(supposed) bitterly dull life; it naturally happened that our
acquaintances began to come round us again; and invitations to
this or that entertainment came pouring upon me. I generally
refused; but once thought it, best, as a blind to Mrs.
Sandford, to accept an invitation to ride. Mrs. Sandford as
before demurred, but would not object.
"Who is it this time, Daisy?" she asked.
I named Major Fairbairn; luckily also an officer whom I had
known the last summer at West Point.
"Nothing but officers!" she remarked in a dubious tone. "Not
much else to be had here."
"And nothing much better anywhere," I said, "when, one is
going on horseback. They know how to ride."
"All Southerners know that. By the way, Daisy, I have heard
yesterday of Lieutenant Gary. He is in Beauregard's army."
"Are you sure?" I asked.
"Quite, I think. I was told by Mr. Lumpkin; and he knows all
the Southern doings, and people."
"Then he ought not to be here." I said. "He may let them know
our doings."
"Ours!" said Mrs. Sandford. "How fierce you are. Is Major
Fairbairn South or North? I don't remember."
"From Maine."
"Well. But, Daisy, what will your father and mother say to
you?"
There was no use in considering that question. I dismissed it,
and got ready for the major and my horse. Mounted, my
companion asked me, where should we go? I had considered that
point; and after a little pause asked, as coolly as I could,
where there were any troops drilling in cavalry or artillery
exercises. Major Fairbairn pondered a minute and told me, with
rather a rueful countenance.
"Let us go there first," I said. "It is an old story to you;
but I never saw such a thing. I want to see it and understand
it, if I can."
"Ladies like to see it, I know," said the major.
"You think, we cannot understand it?"
"I don't see how you should."
"I am going to try, Major Fairbairn. And notwithstanding your
hopeless tone, I expect you to give me all the help you can."
"I think, the less you understand of it, the better," said the
major.
"Pray why?"
"Doesn't seem comfortable knowledge, for those who cannot use
it."
"Men think that of many things," I said. "And they are much
mistaken. Knowledge is always comfortable. I mean, it is
comfortable to have it, rather than to be ignorant."
"I don't know -" said the major. "Where ignorance is bliss -"
"Ignorance never is bliss!" I said energetically.
"Then the poet must be wrong."
"Don't you think poets may be wrong as well as other people,
Major Fairbairn?"
"I hope so! or I should wish to be a poet. And that would be a
vain wish for me."
"But in these war matters," I resumed, as we cantered on, "I
am very much interested; and I think all women ought to be -
must be."
"Getting to be serious earnest -" said the major, resignedly.
I was silenced for a while. The words, "serious earnest," rang
in my heart as we went through the streets.
"Is it getting to be such serious earnest?" I asked as lightly
as I could.
"We shall know more about it soon," the major answered. His
carelessness was real.
"How soon?"
"May be any day. Beauregard is making ready for us at Manassas
Junction."
"How many men do you suppose he has?"
"Can't tell," said the major. "There is no depending, I think
myself, on any accounts we have. The Southern people generally
are very much in earnest."
"And the North are," I said.
"It is just a question of who will hold out best."
I thought I knew who those would be; and a shiver for a moment
ran through my heart. Christian had said, that the success of
his suit with my father and mother might depend on how the war
went. And certainly, if the struggle should be at all
prolonged and issue in the triumph of the rebels, they would
have little favour for the enemies they would despise. How if
the war went for the North?
I believe I lost several sentences of my companion in the
depth of my musing; remembered this would not do; shook off my
thoughts and talked gayly, until we came to the place where he
said the drilling process was going on. I wondered if it were
the right place; then made sure that it was; and sat on my
horse looking and waiting, with my heart in a great flutter.
The artillery wagons were rushing about; I recognised them;
and a cloud of dust accompanied and swallowed up their
movements, a little too distant from me just now to give room
for close observation.
"Well, how do you like it, Miss Randolph?" my major began,
with a tone of some exultation at my supposed discomfiture.
"It is very confused -" I said. "I do not see what they are
doing."
"No more than you could if it was a battle," said the major.
"Won't they come nearer to us?"
"No doubt they will, if we give them time enough."
I would not take this hint. I had got my chance; I was not
going to fling it away. I had discerned besides in the distant
smoke and dust a dark figure on a gray horse, which I thought
I knew. Nothing would have drawn me from the spot then. I kept
up a scattering fire of talk with my companion, I do not know
how, to prevent the exhaustion of his patience; while my heart
went out at my eyes to follow the gray horse. I was rewarded
at last. The whole battery charged down upon the point where
we were standing, at full gallop, "as if we had been the
Secession army," Major Fairbairn remarked; adding, that
nothing but a good conscience could have kept me so quiet. And
in truth guns and horses and all were close upon us before the
order to halt was given, and the gunners flung themselves from
the wagons and proceeded to unlimber and get the battery in
working order, with the mouths of the cannon only a few yards
from our standing-place. I hardly heard the major now, for the
gray horse and dark rider were near enough to be seen,
stationed quietly a few paces in the rear of the line of guns.
I saw his eye going watchfully from one point to another of
his charge; his head making quick little turns to right and
left to see if all were doing properly; the horse a statue,
the man alive as quicksilver, though nothing of him moved but
his head. I was sure, very sure, that he would not see me. He
was intent on his duty; spectators or the whole world looking
on were nothing to him. He would not even perhaps be conscious
that anybody was in his neighbourhood. I don't know whether I
was most glad or sorry; though indeed, I desired nothing less
than that he should give any sign that he saw me. How well he
looked on horseback, I thought; how stately he sat there,
motionless, overseeing his command. There was a pause now;
they were all still, waiting for an order. I might have
expected what it would be; but I did not, till the words
suddenly came out -
"Battery - Fire!"
The voice went through my heart; but my horse's nerves were
immediately as much disturbed as mine. The order was followed
by a discharge of the whole battery at once, sounding as the
burst of one gun. My horse, exceedingly surprised, lifted his
fore feet in the air on the instant; and otherwise testified
to his discomposure; and I had some little difficulty to keep
him to the spot and bring him back to quietness. It was
vexatious to lose such precious minutes; however, we were
composed again by the time the smoke of the guns was clearing
away. I could hardly believe my eyes. There lay the cannon, on
the ground, taken from their carriages; the very carriages
themselves were all in pieces; here lay one wheel, there lay
another; the men were sitting around contentedly.
"What is the matter?" I exclaimed.
"The officer in charge of the drill, seeing what mischief his
guns have unwittingly done, you see, Miss Randolph, has taken
his battery to pieces. He will not fire any more while you are
here. By George!" said the major, "I believe here he comes to
tell us so."
I wished myself away, as I saw the gray horse leap over some
of the obstacles before him and bear down straight towards me.
I bowed low, to hide various things. Mr. Thorold touched his
cap gravely, to the major as well as to me, and then brought
his gray horse alongside.
"Your horse does not like my battery," he remarked.
I looked up at him. His face was safely grave; it meant
business; but his eyes sparkled a little for me; and as I
looked he smiled, and added,
"He wants a spur."
"To make him run? I had difficulty enough to prevent his doing
that just now, Mr. Thorold."
"No; to make him stand still. He wants punishing."
"Miss Randolph deserves a great deal of credit," said the
major. "But all Southern women know how to ride; and the men
to fight."
"We are going to have a hard time then," said Thorold; with a
wilful presuming on his privileges.
"But what have you done with your battery?" I asked.
"Taken it to pieces - as you see."
"Pray, what for? I thought something was the matter."
"Nothing was the matter, I am glad to know," Thorold said
looking at me. "It is sometimes necessary to do this sort of
thing in a hurry; and the only way to do it then in a hurry,
is to practise now when there is no hurry. You shall see how
little time it will take to get ready for another order to
fire. But Miss Randolph had better be out of the way first.
Are you going farther?"
The major said he hoped so, and I answered certainly.
"I shall fire no more while you are here," Thorold said as he
touched his cap, and he gallopped back to his place. He sat
like a rock; it was something pretty to see. Then came an
order, which I could not distinguish; and in an incredibly
short time wheels were geared, guns were mounted, and the
dismantled condition of everything replaced by the most alert
order. The major said it was done very well, and told me how
quick it could be done; I forget, but I think he said in much
less than a minute; and then I know he wanted to move; but I
could not. I held my place still, and the battery manoeuvred
up and down the ground in all manner of directions, forming in
various forms of battery; which little by little I got the
major partially to explain. He was not very fluent; and I did
not like his explanations; but nevertheless it was necessary
to give him something to do, and I kept him busy, while the
long line of artillery wagons rushed over the ground, and
skirted it, and trailed across it in diagonal lines; walking
sometimes, and sometimes going at full speed of horses and
wheels. It stirred me, it saddened me, it fascinated me, all
at once; while the gray horse and his rider held my eye far
and near with a magnet hold. Sometimes in one part of the
line, sometimes in another, the moving spirit and life of the
whole. I followed and watched him with eye and heart, till my
heart grew sick and I turned away.
CHAPTER VI.
IN THE FIRE
My ride with Major Fairbairn made me unsettled. Or else it was
my seeing Mr. Thorold at his drill. A certain impatience
seized me; an impatience of the circumstances and position in
which I found myself privately, and of the ominous state and
position of affairs in public. The horizon black with clouds,
the grumble of the storm, and yet the portentous waiting and
quiet which go before the storm's burst. It irked me to see
Mr. Thorold as I had seen him yesterday; knowing ourselves
united, but standing apart as if it were not so, and telling a
lie to the world. It weighed on me, and I half felt that
Christian was right and that anything openly acknowledged was
easier to bear. And then Major Fairbairn's talk had filled me
with fears. He represented things as being so very
threatening, and the outbreak of the storm as being so very
near; I could not regain the tranquillity of the days past, do
what I would. I did a very unwise thing, I suppose, for I went
to reading the papers. And they were full of Northern
preparations and of Southern boastings; I grew more and more
unsettled as I read. Among other things, I remember, was a
letter from Russell, the Times correspondent, over which my
heart beat wearily. For Mr. Russell, I thought, being an
Englishman, and not a party to our national quarrel, might be
expected to judge more coolly and speak more dispassionately
than our own writers, either South or North. And the speeches
he reported as heard from Southern gentlemen, and the feelings
he observed to be common among them, were most adverse to any
faint hope of mine that the war might soon end, or end
advantageously for the North, or when it ended, leave my
father and mother kindly disposed for my happiness. All the
while I read, a slow knell seemed to be sounding at my heart.
"We could have got on with those fanatics if they had been
either Christians or gentlemen" - "there are neither
Christians nor gentlemen among them." "Nothing on earth shall
ever induce us to submit to any union with the brutal, bigoted
blackguards of the New England States, who neither comprehend
nor regard the feelings of gentlemen." That was like what
Preston said. I recognised the tone well. And when it was
added, "Man, woman, and child, we'll die first" - I thought it
was probably true. What chance then for Christian and me?
"There is nothing in all the dark caves of human passion," Mr.
Russell wrote, "so cruel and deadly as the hatred the South
Carolinians profess for the Yankees." The end of the letter
contained a little comfort in the intimation of more moderate
counsels just then taking favour; but I went back to my father
and mother, and aunt, and Preston, and others; and comfort
found no lodgment with me. Then there was an extract from a
Southern paper, calling Yankees "the most contemptible and
detestable of God's creation" - speaking of their "mean,
niggardly lives - their low, vulgar and sordid occupations" -
and I thought, How can peace be? or what will it be when it
comes?
I went out for my usual evening walk, longing and half
dreading to see Mr. Thorold; for I did not like to show him my
fears; they gave him pain; and yet at the same time I wanted
him to scold them away. But this time I did not see him. I
walked the avenue, at first eagerly, then anxiously; then with
an intense pressing pain and suspense which could hardly be
borne. Neither Thorold nor Thorold's horse appeared among all
the figures moving there; and after walking as long as I
dared, I was fain to go home with that pain in my heart. It
seemed, as I went up the stairs to my room, almost as if I
could die at once with it. Yet I had to make my hair smooth
and meet Mrs. Sandford at tea, and hear all her little details
about Dr. Sandford's illness; which, as they were precisely
the same as those of the day before, had nothing even to hold
my attention for a moment. But I attended. It was necessary.
And I eat toast and drank tea. That was necessary too; with
every mouthful a stab of pain, and every little ordinary
incident of the tea-table a wrenching of my heartstrings. One
does those things quietly and the world never knows. But I
hailed it as a great relief when Mrs. Sandford rose from the
table.
"Poor Daisy!" she said. "I must leave you to yourself again -
all alone. It's too bad!"
"I like it very well so," I told her.
"It mustn't go on," she said. "Really it must not. You will
mope, if you don't already. Don't you, Daisy? Where are all
your admirers?"
She had touched my face caressingly with her fingers, and I
had to look up and meet her. It was one of the hardest minutes
of self-control I ever knew. I met her and answered calmly,
even coldly; and she went; and I sat down and shrank, I
remember how I shrank, lowering my head and neck and shoulders
in a crushing reaction from the erect self-assertion of the
moment before. The next thing, two hands were on my shoulders
and a voice whispered in my ear a question, "what was the
matter?". So as no other voice ever asked me that question; -
with the tender assumption of the right to know, and an
equally gentle hint that there was comfort and help somewhere
not far off. Now, however, I only started up with terror at
hearing that voice there; - terror instantly displaced by
another terror at the reason of its being there. I knew, I
can't tell how I knew, by the first glance into Mr. Thorold's
face.
"Yes," said he, in a low voice, "I have got orders."
"Where?" I managed to ask. "To do what?"
"I must take a battery across the country to General
Patterson."
"That will take you out of the way," I said.
"Out of the way of what?" said he, drawing me to his breast,
and looking down into my face with his hazel eyes sparkling
over a depth of something that was not merry. "Out of the way
of what, Daisy?" he repeated. "Out of the way of fighting, do
you mean? Is that your way of being a proper soldier's wife?
It is out of your way, love; that is what I think of."
I hid my face and we stood still. It was no time then to be
dignified.
"How long?" - I whispered at last.
"Impossible to tell, you know. I could not meet you this
evening. I must be off in an hour."
"To-night?"
"Yes."
There was another silence.
"What is General Patterson doing?" I ventured then.
"I suppose he has to keep Johnston in order. How long will you
stay in Washington? - can you tell?"
"Till Dr. Sandford can travel. - He is no better."
"Well!" - and a breath of a sigh came then which went to my
heart - "Something will be decided before a few days; and then
we shall know a little better where we stand. I must go!"
He clasped me close and gave me kisses all over my face; but I
would not have lost one this time. Then he gently put me on
the sofa, pressed his lips to mine one last time, and was out
of the room in an instant. I listened to every step in the
hall; I heard him open the door and shut it; I heard his foot
upon the stone steps outside two or three times; and then I
had lost all.
I sat very still and stunned for a long time. There seemed
nothing to do. I could not rouse myself. It was the fear of
being found there that roused me at last. I gathered myself
up, and went to my room. Oh days, days! How much one lives
through.
I was keen set now for news, army news especially; and I spent
hours in studying all the public prints that were within reach
of my hand. So contradictory they were, and so confusing, that
they made me only the more long for actual living advices. The
second day, Major Fairbairn came to ask me again to ride; and
though at first I thought I could not, the next feeling of
restless uncertainty and suspense decided me. Better be on a
horse's back than anywhere else, perhaps. And Major Fairbairn
was not a bad person to talk to. But I had to nerve myself
forcibly to the task of entering upon the subject I wanted.
"How perplexing the papers are," I remarked, by way of making
an easy beginning.
"Find them so?" said the major. "That is because you read all
sides."
"How else can one make up one's mind? How can you know what is
the truth?"
"Apparently you do not know it that way," said the major,
smiling. "No; the way is, to choose your side, and stick to
it. Then you stand a chance to be comfortable."
"But you cannot go into society without hearing more sides
than one."
"Silence the wrong."
"I want to know first which is right."
"Haven't you found that out yet?" my companion said, with a
surprised glance at me. "I thought, Miss Randolph, you were a
safe person; all right for the good cause."
"Oh, yes, of course, that is not the question. I do not want
to hear both sides to decide that. But I mean lesser
questions; movements, probabilities, dangers; the truth of
actual events. Those I want to know about."
"I am sure, so do I," said the major.
"I hoped you could enlighten me, Major Fairbairn."
"About movements?" said the major. "Well, our forces are
moving; there is no doubt. McDowell is going forward in
earnest at last."
"Against Beauregard?"
"Against whatever he meets; and I suppose Beauregard will meet
him."
"Then there will be a battle?"
"I hope so."
"Why do you hope so, Major Fairbairn?"
"It is the shortest way to peace, Miss Randolph. But it is not
likely that one battle will do it."
"I know it will not if the North succeed," I said; "but how if
the Southern army should get the better?"
"You aren't a rebel in disguise?" said the major, looking
askance at me. "Is my reputation in danger, to be riding with
you?"
"It is just as well to look the truth in the face, Major
Fairbairn."
"So it is; you are right there," said my companion seriously
enough. "Well, I look for a long tussle of it, whichever way
this particular game goes to-day. It will be well if there is
anything left to fight for, by the time it is over."
"There is always the truth" - I said.
"The truth gives poor board wages to its servants, though,"
said the major. "It is all very well to cry 'victory,' when
there is no corn in the hopper."
"Is it likely that Patterson will fight?" I asked, with my
heart in my mouth. I had been trying to get this question out;
and it seemed to me now as if every word were as big as two.
"Humph! - I don't know," said the major. "I suppose he will,
if he can't help it."
"What do you mean?"
"Why, he has got work enough to do," said Major Fairbairn. "I
don't know if it is work that he likes. I have some private
acquaintance with the man. His business is to keep Johnston
busy, so that he will not have leisure to look our way."
"And suppose Patterson does not do his duty?"
"Then we may have too much on our hands. Beauregard doesn't
want any help just now." And weary, no doubt, of the subject,
the major diverged to some lighter matters of conversation. I
tried to answer and make talk, but my heart was very sick. I
could hardly know what he was saying; Beauregard, and
Patterson, and Johnston, so ran in my thoughts. I suppose the
major did not find it out, for he seemed very well satisfied,
and at parting said that "after the victory" he would come and
have another ride with me.
So I waited now for news. Dull, dreadful days; long with an
interminable length of quarters and half hours; heavy with
fear. They were not many; for the morning but one, I think,
after my last ride, a gentleman stopped me in the street to
tell me that firing had been heard that morning, and McDowell
had, it was thought, met his enemy. I calculated the days
since I had seen Mr. Thorold; speculated on Patterson's
probable activity or non-activity, and Christian's consequent
place and duty in the position of affairs; and could only know
that it was all a confusion of pain. At first I thought to go
at once back to the house and give up my walk; but a second
thought of that dull weary waiting inside of walls sent me on
up the avenue. I might hear something more; at any rate, the
open sky was a better breathing-place.
The open sky! Blue and calm as ever; moveless and pure; while
the grim strife of a battlefield was raging beneath it. Was
there another struggle where Johnston's forces were opposed by
General Patterson? And why could I not leave my cares now, as
so many a time I had left them, as I longed to leave them this
minute, - in the hand that upheld that blue sky? I could not.
That is to say, I did in some fashion, which kept me from
utterly fainting; but I was not confident; I was not willing
that the will of God should be done irrespective of mine, If
writhed from under the pressure of a coming possibility. Could
I help it? My one first earthly joy, the treasure that
gathered up all life's riches for me; could I think of that
treasure being scattered and not know that should be left
poor? And what if God willed I should be thus poor? Ah, I was
not ready.
I had a long, feverish walk, made as long as I could; and came
home with a sort of thirst of heart, and very weary. Mrs.
Sandford met me, and I had to turn into the parlour.
"Grant is a little better, I think," she said.
I could not find words to speak to her. If he was better, why,
then, he would be taking me from Washington. I knew how it
would be.
"He is certainly better," she repeated, with exultation in her
voice; "and now, my dear Daisy, we will get away from this
horrid place. My dear, how - how grey you look! What is the
matter? you are tired to death."
I almost wished I was. However, I commanded myself, and told
her I had been walking far, and it was hot, and no doubt I was
grey with dust.
"And do you know," Mrs. Sandford went on, "they say the attack
has commenced. Firing has been heard from some direction down
in Virginia; the doctor told me."
"Mr. Vinton told me."
"Did he? while you were out? and you never mentioned it!
Daisy, you are the coolest creature! I envy you for that more
than for everything else you have got; though people do say -
some people - that Miss Randolph's grey eyes are depths of
delight. My dear! whose possible encomiums have I hit in your
memory, that your cheeks are taking up the matter with such a
delicious rose colour?"
She did not know what she touched. It was no vanity, but her
words brought up suddenly what Thorold had told his aunt about
Vermont lakes, and all the bitter-sweetness of that evening.
My heart swelled. I was very near bursting into tears and
astonishing Mrs. Sandford.
"Daisy, my dear," she said fondly and half seriously, "you are
too great a treasure to be risked out of your parents' hands.
The responsibility is weighing upon me. I hope Grant will get
well, I am sure, and take us away. What with one sort of
danger and another, it is really too much. Fancy, what it
would be if we were to lose this battle! Why, the rebels would
be here in no time; the doctor said so."
"Well -" I said. I could not tell all my thought; that in such
an event I would not be anywhere but where I was, for worlds;
unless indeed I could be with the army of General Patterson
before Johnston.
"Is Dr. Sandford really better?" I asked.
"He certainly is; I am so glad! and I will tell him you asked
so earnestly about him, and that will make him better still.
Yes, we will get away now from this dismal place some time, I
do believe. Do go and lie down, Daisy; and I will send you
some lemonade."
The lemonade stood by me all day; while I thought of the smoke
and the conflict to which no refreshment could come. I could
not touch the lemonade.
I cannot tell now whether that day was Friday or Saturday. I
have tried to recollect, and I cannot. I am not sure whether
it was not Thursday. But I know it was Saturday evening when
the next thing happened which stands clear in my memory. I was
in my own room, forlornly endeavouring to work some worsted
embroidery; - though the sickness of my heart seemed to find
its way into my fingers, and it was with pain and difficulty
that they pulled the needle in and out. It was only more
difficult to sit still and do nothing; and to read was
impossible. I sat drawing the wool through the canvass-drawing
long threads of thought at the same time - when Mrs. Sandford
burst in.
"Daisy! - they say McDowell has had a bad time - they have
driven him back, or something; isn't it dreadful! - and there
you sit embroidering as quiet as can be. But bless me, child!
you haven't a bit of colour. Washington will kill us all yet."
"Who told you?"
"Doctor Barnard says it's so; it's all through the city. And
if the rebels get the better of McDowell, they'll come
straight here, Daisy, and take Washington. Oh, I wish Grant
was well enough to set right off to-morrow! but he isn't. How
can you be so quiet? I tell you, our army has been repulsed,
and how bad it is nobody knows."
"We had better wait till somebody does know," I said. "We have
had repulses before. There was Big Bethel - and Vienna - and a
great many."
"But this is McDowell and the great army; and Beauregard has
hosts at his back."
"Well! -" I said.
"But you are dreadfully pale, Daisy. How can you keep so
quiet? What are you made of?"
"I do not think they will take Washington," I said. "I am in
no hurry, for my part, to get away. Look - do you say maroon
or dark purple for this bit of grounding? I cannot make up my
mind."
Mrs. Sandford dived into the purples and browns of my coloured
wools; came back again to McDowell and Beauregard, but came
back quieted, and presently left the room. Then, I put down my
needle and laid my head on the table, and shook from head to
foot with the trembling she had given me. And a longing to see
Christian took possession of me; a sick, crying thirst for the
sight, if it were only for a minute; the impatient agony of
self-will. Necessity's bands and manacles put it down after a
time.
The next day was Sunday. I went to church alone, and with my
usual average of calm. But I heard some one say to his
neighbour, that there was a great battle going forward - with
what promise nobody knew. The words sent me home with a sort
of half breath. I avoided Mrs. Sandford, took no dinner; and
in the afternoon feverishly crept out to church again. The air
seemed to me full of bodings. Yet I heard nothing. I saw
people whisper each other, and nod; I thought good news was
given and received, and I breathed a little easier. It was not
till I was coming out from the service that any one spoke to
me. I found myself then near a gentleman whom we knew.
"Glorious news, Miss Randolph!" he half whispered. "General
Scott will dine with a good appetite to-day."
"What is the news"
"Oh, a great victory! We have not got the details yet, of
course; but it seems all is going right."
"It seems going right."
"Yes. You know we have not details yet. There's been heavy
fighting, though."
"Is it a general engagement?"
"Oh, yes! All in that could be in. And some that had no
business to be in. They say, Johnston has reinforced
Beauregard; but they are totally routed, I believe. So it is
said."
"Who says it?"
"The accounts from the battlefield, I presume. They are coming
in all the time. The Nation has triumphed. I congratulate you.
I know you are loyal. Mrs. Sand- ford will be rejoiced. Good
afternoon."
It was too sudden, too soon, and too confused. I could not
breathe freely yet. Johnston reinforced Beauregard? That was
just what Patterson was expected to prevent; ought to have
prevented. Then, probably, Patterson had done no fighting? I
was pondering, when I suddenly found Major Fairbairn beside
me. He belonged with the troops left to guard Washington.
"Oh, Major," said I, "what is the news?"
"Firing down in Virginia, -" said the major, laconically.
"Is it true, that a battle has been won by McDowell?"
"I wish it were," said he; "but in general it is safe not to
speak of a fight till it is over."
"Then it is not over?"
"I have not heard that it is."
"But they tell me a fight has been won."
"They tell every conceivable thing in war-time," said the
major. "Don't you know that? It is safe to believe nothing."
"Has Johnston joined Beauregard?"
"I am afraid he has. The advices seem to put that beyond
disbelief."
"You are afraid! Then the news means nothing to you; nothing
good, I mean?"
"The rumours mean nothing to me," said the major, smiling.
"The reliable news is really, so far, not much. It is certain
there is a battle going on, Miss Randolph, and a battle along
the whole line. And it is certain that Patterson had orders to
follow up Johnston, and keep him from troubling us. And I am
afraid it is also certain that he has not done it - confound
him! Excuse me; but a man who don't obey orders deserves to
have people swear at him, Miss Randolph."
I left the major at a corner, and before I got home, another
acquaintance informed me that the victory was undoubted,
though severely purchased, and that the city was in a state of
exultation. I did not know what to think. I said as little as
possible to Mrs. Sandford; but later in the evening Dr.
Barnard came with the details of the day, and the added
intelligence that since seven o'clock the firing had
recommenced.
"What for? if the victory is sure?" said Mrs. Sandford; and I
went to my room feeling that it was not sure. Nevertheless I
slept that night. I cannot tell why, or how. Whether it were
most akin to weariness or despair, I slept, and quietly, and
the whole night through. But I know very well that I awaked
with a full sense that it was not to quietness nor peace. I
took up my burden as I got out of bed.
My room was at the back of the house. Consequently I heard and
saw nothing of the outer world till I came down to the
breakfast-room. Nobody was there yet, and I went to the
window. The first thing I saw then made my heart stand still.
A group was gathered just before the window, on the sidewalk.
In the midst a soldier, one of a gay Zouave regiment, not at
all gay now, stood talking to a little crowd of listeners;
talking in a pouring rain, which nobody seemed to care about.
He was wet; his bright uniform was stained and draggled; he
had no musket; and his tasseled cap sat on a head which in
every line and movement expressed defeat and disgrace. So they
all listened who stood around; I read it as well as if I had
heard the words they were hearing. I saw dejection, profound
sorrow, absorbed attention, utter forgetfulness of present
bodily discomfort. I noticed that one man who carried an
umbrella had put it down, and stood listening in the rain.
Occasionally the soldier raised his arm to eke out his words
with a gesture; and then moved a step as if to go on, but they
closed around him again and staid him with eager questions or
urgings. I was very near throwing up the sash to ask what it
all was; and then I thought, what matter! I should know soon
enough, But I could not move from the window; and Mrs.
Sandford entering and seeing me there came and looked over my
shoulder. I did not know it, till I heard her -
"Good Heavens! - Daisy, my dear, what is the matter?"
"We shall hear presently," I said, turning away from the
window.
"But what is it?" - And Mrs. Sandford first took my place, and
then did what I had been tempted to do; - threw up the sash.
"What is the matter?" she said. "Is there news. Men, is there
news?"
I do not know what was answered; I did not hear; I had gone
into the middle of the room; but Mrs. Sanford closed the
window presently and came to me, looking even pale. A rare
thing for her.
"Daisy, there is trouble," she said.
"Yes, -" I answered.
"How do you know? They say - they say, the army is all cut to
pieces!"
I could not speak about it. We knew nothing yet; but Mrs.
Sandford went on -
"He says, everybody is killed. All routed and destroyed, the
army is. Can it be possible?"
I thought it was very possible: I never had doubted but that
the Southerners - as a body - were the best fighters. But I
said nothing; while Mrs. Sandford poured out sorrows and fears
and speculations in a breath. I could have smiled, but that I
could not have smiled. We stood still, looking at each other,
nobody remembering breakfast. I was thinking, if the cause was
lost, where would Mr. Thorold be then. And I ceased to hear
Mrs. Sandford.
"But Daisy!" she said suddenly - "the other army -
Beauregard's - they will be here directly to take Washington,
if all this is true; and it must be true; or that soldier
would not have been out there in the rain. They will be coming
here directly, Daisy. And, bless me! how wicked I am! You are
