"No, I don't think you that."
"If I find myself in the wrong I am always ready to confess it and give
up."
"That's right, my lad. It's a thing that some of us who are much older
than you find it hard to do. By the way, I suppose you wonder how I
happen to be here so opportunely for you."
"I have been wondering all the time, but did not like to ask."
"One of my clients placed some business in my hands relating to
property which required me to consult the county records of this
county."
"You didn't come through by the stage?"
"No, I thought it too long and tedious. So I came by a roundabout
way which left me only twenty miles' staging. I travelled a greater
number of miles than you, but in considerably less time. Now, John, is
there anything more I can do for you before I set about the particular
business which called me here?"
"No, sir, thank you. At least I think of nothing."
"One thing at least let me say. We don't know how this affair is coming
out. Your stepmother may prove wholly unmanageable, especially as the
power is in her hands, as things are at present situated. Should there
come a time when you have need of further money, let me know frankly,
and I will see what I can do for you."
"You are very kind indeed, sir," said John, earnestly.
"I certainly ought to be. When I came to Hampton, a young lawyer and
without acquaintances, your father took me by the hand, and placed
his business in my hands, and influenced others to do the same. So I
consider that he laid the foundation of my present prosperity, and
therefore I shall not desert his son while he is in trouble."
"Thank you, Squire Selwyn," said John. "I did not know what you just
told me; but I did know that my father looked upon you as one of his
most valued friends."
"Well, John, good-by," said the lawyer, kindly, extending his hand.
"Keep up a good heart, and something may turn up which may set matters
right. Be sure to keep me apprised of your movements, and rely upon me
to do what I can for you in Hampton."
John left the court-house much encouraged by the friendly words of
Squire Selwyn. He felt that he would prove a powerful friend, and
his burden of care was diminished now that he had communicated his
situation to such a friend.
Just then David Wallace drove up to the gate in his wagon.
"Have you got through your talk?" he asked.
"Just finished."
"Jump aboard then, and we'll be getting home."
"I've been pretty lucky to-day, David," said John.
"How's that?"
"In the first place, in finding my letter by the side of the road. But
for that I should have thought it had gone straight. Next in meeting
you, and being saved a hot walk; and again in just meeting the very man
I wanted most to see."
"There's one thing you forgot," said David, roguishly.
"What's that?"
"The affectionate welcome you'll get from old Huxter when you reach
home."
"I don't count much on that," said John, smiling in return.
"I'm glad you've overreached the old fellow," said David.
"He thinks he's overreached me."
"I know it. That makes it all the better."
John reached his temporary home about four o'clock. Mr. Huxter was
not at home when he arrived, and remained ignorant of the important
interview which had taken place between John and Squire Selwyn.
CHAPTER XIX.
ON THE TRACK.
When the stage which conveyed John and Mr. Huxter was fairly out of
sight Mrs. Oakley entered the house with a great feeling of relief.
She realized for the first time how she had been constrained by the
presence of her stepson. Though he had always been respectful, there
was an unuttered reproach in his frank, fearless glance, which made
her uncomfortable. It was the tribute which a mean and wicked nature
pays to one of greater nobility, though Mrs. Oakley did not acknowledge
that. She only felt glad that John was out of the way.
She had been so fearful that something might happen to prevent the
success of her plan, that she had been careful not to make Ben
acquainted with it. She was apprehensive that Ben would, in his
exultation, lead John to suspect what was going on, and so cause him
to refuse going. Now that he was fairly off she would tell her son the
good news.
Ben came down to breakfast late. He generally had his way now, and was
seldom present at the regular breakfast hour. It was different when
Squire Oakley was alive; but then many other things were different also.
"Benjamin is delicate," she said, one morning in presence of the
servant. "He needs more sleep than the rest of us."
"Maybe it's smoking cigars makes him delicate," suggested the servant,
who did not particularly admire Ben, or care to join his mother in
making allowances for him.
Her mistress silenced her with some asperity; but nevertheless took an
opportunity to speak to Ben on the subject. But that young gentleman
only laughed at her remonstrances.
"It does me good, mother," he said. "I always feel better after smoking
a good cigar."
"It seems to me you are growing pale," said Mrs. Oakley, whose heart
was full of tenderness where Ben was concerned.
"That's all nonsense," said Ben. "I'm not as red as a beet, and I don't
want to be. But as to being pale, I'm healthy enough. Don't worry
yourself."
With this Mrs. Oakley had to be contented, for Ben, though a coward
with his equals, had sense enough to take advantage of his mother's
weak partiality, and take his own way.
When Ben came down to breakfast on the morning of his uncle's
departure, he said in an indifferent tone:--
"Has that man gone?"
"Do you refer to your uncle, Benjamin?" asked Mrs. Oakley, not
altogether pleased to hear Mr. Huxter spoken of in that style, though
she felt no very warm attachment for him herself.
"I mean Mr. Huxter," said Ben, carelessly, breaking an egg as he spoke.
"He is your uncle."
"I don't mean to call him so. I'm ashamed of the relationship."
"He is my brother."
"That's your misfortune," said Ben. "All I know is, that I hope he
won't darken our doors again."
"What have you against him?"
"He's a coarse, low man. He isn't a gentleman. You're a rich woman now,
mother. You'd better cut his acquaintance. He won't do us any credit.
You haven't invited him to come again, I hope."
"I don't think he will come again very soon."
"He'd better not. How can you expect people to forget that you were
the late Mr. Oakley's house-keeper if you show them such a man as that
as your brother?"
This argument had weight with Mrs. Oakley. She wanted to be looked
upon as a lady, and she acknowledged to herself that Mr. Huxter's
relationship would be no credit to her. He was coarse and low, as Ben
said,--not because he was poor. Wealth would have made no difference in
him, except that it might have enabled him to dress better. It would
not have diminished the redness of his nose, for instance, or refined
his manners. Mrs. Oakley, however, made no comment on what Ben had
said, but remarked:--
"At any rate, Ben, your uncle has done us a good turn."
"What is that, mother?" asked Ben.
"John has gone with him."
"Gone home with him?"
"Yes."
"How long is he going to stay?"
"For good."
"How's that? I don't understand."
"John was in the way here. You and he could not agree,--not that I
blame you for that,--and I did not like him. Therefore I made an
arrangement with my brother to have John board with him. I don't
suppose you'll miss him much."
"It'll be a lucky miss," said Ben, emphatically. "But John's rather
stubborn. How did you get him to go?"
"He doesn't know he is to stay. I told him I wanted him to go back with
your uncle, in order to attend to a little business for me. When he
gets there he'll find out what it is."
"Won't he rave, though?" exclaimed Ben, laughing heartily. "He'll find
it a healthy old boarding-house."
"I wish you wouldn't use such language, Ben," said his mother. "It is
my great ambition to see you act and talk like a gentleman."
"So I do, mother. That's just the way they talk."
Mrs. Oakley looked rather incredulous.
"I say, mother, is Uncle Huxter going to prepare John for college?"
Mrs. Oakley laughed--heartily for her.
"Your uncle's shoe-shop will be the only college John will enter," she
said.
"Do you mean that he is to peg shoes?"
"Yes."
"His pride will have a pretty hard fall."
"I mean that it shall," said Mrs. Oakley, compressing her thin lips.
"Well, I don't envy John. Every dog has his day, and he has had his.
It's our turn now. Another cup of coffee, and not so weak as the last."
"I don't think such strong coffee is good for you, Benjamin."
"Oh bother, don't be a granny," said Ben, rudely. "Anybody'd think I
was a baby."
This was the way in which Ben addressed his mother, who deserved his
gratitude at least, for she was to him a devoted and self-sacrificing
mother, however faulty might be her conduct towards John.
At length Ben's late breakfast was over, and he left the house to
resort to his accustomed haunt,--the hotel bar-room and billiard saloon.
"I wish Ben cared more about study, and was more ambitious," thought
Mrs. Oakley, with a half sigh. "If I could only make him feel as I do!"
It would have been fortunate for Ben if he had inherited his mother's
energy and ambition. The ambition was not a noble one; but at least it
would have kept him from low haunts and bad associates, which were all
he cared about at present. Though all his mother's worldly plans should
succeed, this was the point in which they were likely to fail. Mrs.
Oakley's punishment would come in all probability through the son for
whom she was willing to sacrifice justice and duty.
When Ben had left the house, Mrs. Oakley began to concentrate her
thoughts upon that which had first led her to determine upon John's
banishment. This was the hidden will. She could not feel assured of
her position until that was found. Until now she had not felt at
full liberty to search. She had feared that John might come upon
her unexpectedly, and divine her object. Now there was no fear of
interruption. She could ransack the house from top to bottom, and no
one would understand the motive of her search. She had not communicated
her intention to Ben. She trusted in his discretion too little to
confide to him any secret of importance, for she was a shrewd and
prudent woman.
On this particular morning she had a feeling that she had never had
before. There was a confidence that she had never before experienced
that success awaited her.
"I must and will find it," she thought. "This is not a large house.
Then there are some parts of it that need not be searched. Mr.
Oakley would never have hidden his will in the servants' rooms, nor
in the kitchen. Everywhere else I will search. Let me go to work
systematically and thoroughly. This time it shall not be my fault if it
escapes me."
There was a small room on the lower floor, where the late Mr. Oakley
used to do the most of his writing. This has already been referred to.
Here he kept a desk, and this desk more than once had been searched by
Mrs. Oakley. She determined to search it once more, but only for form's
sake.
"He did not mean that I should find it," she thought. "Therefore he did
not conceal it where I should be certain to look first."
So, though she searched the desk, she was not disappointed when this
search, like the preceding, resulted in bringing nothing to light.
"It is as I thought," she said. "Where shall I search next?"
She selected her own bedchamber, though here, for obvious reasons, she
had little hopes of finding the missing document.
"He wouldn't place it under my very eyes," she said. "Of course I know
that. Still I cannot afford to leave a single place unexplored."
The result justified her anticipations. So room after room was
searched, and no clue was obtained.
"He wouldn't put it under the carpet," she thought.
Yet the thought seemed worth following up. She got down on her hands
and knees, and felt of every square foot of carpeting in the several
rooms to see if she could detect beneath the pressure of any paper. In
one place there was a rustle, and she eagerly tore up the carpet. But
nothing was revealed save a loose piece of newspaper, which by some
chance had got underneath. Disappointed, she nailed down the carpet
again.
Where else should she look? All at once a luminous idea came to her.
John's room,--his old room, of course! Why had she never thought of
that? John, of course, was the one who would be most benefited by
the new will. If by any chance it should be discovered by him, no
harm would result. His father would trust John, when he would not
have trusted her or Ben. Mrs. Oakley could not help acknowledging to
herself that in that he was right. What strengthened her in this view
was, that among the articles of furniture was an old desk which had
belonged to Squire Oakley's father. It was battered and defaced by
hard usage, and had been at one time banished to the attic. But John,
who was accustomed to study in his room, felt that this old desk would
be of use to him, and he had asked to have it transferred to his own
chamber. There had been no objection to this, and the transfer took
place about a year before Squire Oakley's death. It had stood in John's
room ever since.
When the new idea came to Mrs. Oakley, she thought at once of this old
desk as the probable repository of the will. Her eyes sparkled with
anticipated triumph.
"I was a fool not to think of this before," she said. "If the will is
anywhere in the house, it is in John's room, and in that old desk. At
last I am on the right track!"
With a hurried step she entered John's room. Her hands trembled with
nervous agitation. She felt that she was on the brink of an important
discovery.
CHAPTER XX.
MRS. OAKLEY FINDS THE WILL.
Mrs. Oakley commenced her examination of the old desk, thoroughly
convinced that if the missing will were in existence at all, it was
hidden there.
It was one of those old desks and bureaus combined, which were so
common in the days of our grandfathers. In the drawers beneath, John
had been accustomed to keep his clothing; in the desk above, writing
materials, and some small articles of no particular importance. These
he had not had time to remove before his unexpected departure.
Mrs. Oakley turned those over impatiently, and explored every drawer
hurriedly. But she did not discover what she had expected to find.
This first failure, however, did not surprise her. She did not
expect to find the will lying loosely in any of the drawers. But she
suspected that some one drawer might have a false bottom, beneath which
the important document would prove to be concealed. She therefore
carefully examined every drawer with a view to the discovery of such a
place of concealment. But to her disappointment she obtained no clue.
The drawers seemed honestly made. For the first time Mrs. Oakley began
to doubt whether the will were really in existence. She had searched
everywhere, and it could not be found.
"I wish I could be sure," she said to herself. "I would give five
hundred dollars this minute to be sure that there was no will. Then I
should feel secure in the possession of my money. But to feel that at
any moment a paper may turn up depriving me of forty thousand dollars
keeps me in constant anxiety."
She gave up the search for the day, having domestic duties to attend
to. She tried to persuade herself that her fears and anxieties were
without foundation, but in this she was unsuccessful. She permitted a
day to slip by, but on the second day she again visited John's room.
The old desk seemed to have a fascination for her.
This time she turned the desk around, and passed her hand slowly over
the back. Just when she was about to relinquish the attempt in despair,
success came.
Suddenly beneath her finger a concealed spring was unconsciously
touched, and a thin drawer sprang from the recesses of the desk. Mrs.
Oakley's eyes sparkled with the sense of approaching triumph, as she
perceived carefully laid away therein a paper compactly folded.
With fingers trembling with nervous agitation she opened it. She had
not been deceived. The missing will lay outspread before her! Mrs.
Oakley read it carefully.
It was drawn up with the usual formalities, as might have been
expected, being the work of a careful lawyer. It revoked all other
wills of a previous date, and bequeathed in express terms two-thirds of
the entire estate left by the testator to his only son, John. Squire
Selwyn was appointed executor, and guardian of said John, should he be
under age at the time of his father's death. The remaining third of
the property was willed to Mrs. Jane Oakley, should she survive her
husband; otherwise to her son Benjamin in the event of his mother's
previous death.
Such was the substance of Squire Oakley's last will and testament, now
for the first time revealed.
Mrs. Oakley read it with mingled feelings,--partly of indignation
with her late husband that he should have made such a will, partly
of joy that no one save herself knew of its existence. She held in
her hand a document which in John Oakley's hands would be worth forty
thousand dollars if she permitted him to obtain it. But she had no such
intention. What should be done with it?
Should she lock it up carefully where it would not be likely to be
found? There would be danger of discovery at any moment.
"It must be destroyed," she said to herself, resolutely. "There is no
other way. A single match will make me secure in the possession of the
estate."
Mrs. Oakley knew that it was a criminal act which she had in view; but
the chance of detection seemed to be slight. In fact, since no one
knew that such a will was in existence, though some might suspect it,
there seemed to be no danger at all.
"Yes, it shall be destroyed and at once. There can be no reason for
delay," she said firmly.
She crossed the entry into her own chamber, first closing the secret
drawer, and moving the old desk back to its accustomed place. There was
a candle on the mantel-piece, which she generally lighted at night.
She struck a match, and lighted it now. This done, she approached
the will to the flame, and the corner of the document so important
to John Oakley caught fire, and the insidious flame began to spread.
Mrs. Oakley watched it with exulting eyes, when a sudden step was
heard at the door of her chamber, and, turning, she saw Hannah, the
servant-girl, standing on the threshold, looking in.
Mrs. Oakley half rose, withdrawing the will from the candle, and
demanded harshly:--
"What brought you here?"
"Shall I go out to the garden and get some vegetables for dinner?"
asked Hannah.
"Of course you may. You needn't have come up here to ask," said her
mistress, with irritation.
"I didn't know whether you would want any," said Hannah, defending
herself. "There was some cold vegetables left from yesterday's dinner.
I thought maybe you'd have them warmed over."
"Well, if there are enough left you may warm them. I'll come down
just as soon as I can. I have been looking over some old papers of my
husband's," she explained, rather awkwardly, perceiving that Hannah's
eyes were bent curiously upon the will and the candle, "and burning
such as were of no value. Do you know what time it is?"
"Most eleven, by the kitchen clock," said Hannah.
"Then you had better go down, and hurry about dinner."
"I can take down the old papers, and put them in the kitchen stove,"
suggested Hannah.
"It's of no consequence," said Mrs. Oakley, hastily. "I will attend to
that myself."
"Mrs. Oakley seems queer this morning," thought Hannah, as she turned
and descended the stairs to her professional duties in the kitchen. "I
wonder what made her jump so when I came in, and what that paper is
that she was burning up in the candle."
Hannah had never heard of the will, and was unacquainted with legal
technicalities, and therefore her suspicions were not excited. She only
wondered what made Mrs. Oakley seem so queer.
When she went out Mrs. Oakley sat in doubt.
"Hannah came in at a most unlucky moment," she said to herself, with
vexation. "Could she have suspected anything? If she should breathe a
word of this, and it should get to that lawyer's ears, I might get into
trouble."
Mrs. Oakley held the will in her hand irresolutely. Should she follow
out her first intention, and burn it? A feeling of apprehension as to
the possible consequences of her act prevented her. The flame had gone
out, leaving the corner scorched, and slightly burned; but apart from
this the will was uninjured.
After a pause of deliberation, Mrs. Oakley blew out the candle, and,
taking the will, opened the upper drawer of her bureau, and deposited
it carefully inside. She locked it securely, and, putting the key in
her pocket, went downstairs.
Before doing so, however, she went to the closet in which she kept her
wardrobe, and, selecting a handsome silk cape, took it down with her.
"Hannah," she said, "here's a cape I shall not use again. It doesn't
fit me exactly. If you would like it, it is yours."
"Thank you, ma'am," said the astonished Hannah, for this was the first
present she had ever received from her mistress; "you're very kind
indeed. It is an elegant cape."
"Yes, it is a nice one. I am glad you like it."
"The mistress must be crazy," thought the bewildered Hannah. "I never
knew her to do such a thing before, and I've lived here three years
come October."
CHAPTER XXI.
SQUIRE SELWYN'S CALL.
Mrs. Oakley's door-bell rang, and Hannah answered the summons.
"Is Mrs. Oakley at home?" inquired Squire Selwyn, for it was he.
"Yes, sir. Will you walk in?"
"I think I will. Let her know that I wish to see her, if you please."
Hannah did as directed.
"Squire Selwyn?" asked Mrs. Oakley. "Where is he?"
"In the parlor."
"Very well. I will go in at once."
"Has he found out anything about John, I wonder?" thought Mrs. Oakley.
"Good-morning, sir," she said, as she entered the lawyer's presence.
"Good-morning, Mrs. Oakley."
"Is your family well?"
"Quite well. My son tells me that John has been absent from school for
two or three days past."
"Yes."
"He is not sick, I suppose?"
"No."
"You will excuse my questions; but his father and myself were very
intimate friends. Is he at home?"
"No, he is not."
"I suppose you have no objection to telling me where he is?"
"Suppose I have?" said Mrs. Oakley, coolly.
"Then I should think it very strange."
"You are at liberty to think it very strange," said Mrs. Oakley,
composedly.
"Why should you object to telling me that he went away with your
brother, Mr. Huxter, and is now at his house?"
Mrs. Oakley started in surprise. The lawyer was better informed than
she supposed.
"If you knew," she answered, after a slight pause, "why need you
inquire?"
"I wished to know whether you had sent him away, intending to keep his
destination a secret."
"I suppose he has written to you."
"He did write to me; but the letter was suppressed by your brother.
May I inquire whether this was by your wish?"
"What you tell me is news to me," said Mrs. Oakley; "but I have no
hesitation in saying that my brother understands my wishes, and will
carry them out."
"I am answered," said the lawyer. "Is it your intention to permit John
to continue his studies preparatory for college?"
"It is not."
"It was his father's wish and intention. That wish ought to be sacred
with you."
"I understand my duty."
"I trust you will do something more than understand it," said the
lawyer, gravely. "I must remonstrate with you on your intentions with
regard to John. He is an excellent scholar, and his abilities are
superior. It would be a great pity that he should be debarred from the
privilege of a college education."
"You say he is an excellent scholar," said Mrs. Oakley. "Then, if his
education is already so excellent, there is no further need of his
studying. He can begin to earn his living."
"Surely you do not mean what you say. If he were poor, and such a
necessity existed, it would be well enough that he should go to work;
but you well know that no such necessity exists."
"I am not going to support him in idleness," said Mrs. Oakley, coolly.
"As a student in college he would lead far from an idle life," said the
lawyer. "Study is hard work, and college distinction is never won by a
lazy student."
"It may be work, though to my mind it is not; but it brings in no
money."
"Not at first, perhaps, but it prepares the student for remunerative
employment in after life."
"I don't think much of colleges."
Though Mrs. Oakley said this, she would have been very glad to have Ben
in college, not that she cared so much to have him a scholar, but it
would give him a good social standing.
"I don't know," said Squire Selwyn, rather sharply, for he was getting
out of patience with Mrs. Oakley,--"I don't know that it matters much
what your opinion of colleges is. It was, as you know, the desire and
intention of your late husband that John should enter college. It is
your moral duty to carry out that intention."
"I don't care to be told what is my duty," said Mrs. Oakley, her eyes
flashing.
"Do you propose to be independent of public opinion?"
"Perhaps you mean your opinion?"
"Not mine alone. Let me tell you, Mrs. Oakley, that in defrauding John
Oakley of the privileges which his father meant him to enjoy, you are
wronging the dead as well as the living,--not John alone, but the dead
husband from whom all your money comes."
"He chose to leave all his money to me," said Mrs. Oakley, "Probably he
thought that I would know how to dispose of it without outside advice."
"I am not so sure that he did leave his money to you," said the lawyer,
significantly.
Mrs. Oakley flushed. Could he know that the will was found?
Involuntarily she put her hand to her pocket, where the will was at
that moment lying concealed. But a moment's reflection satisfied
her that Hannah, who had not left the house, could not have had a
communication with Squire Selwyn. Besides, there was no probability of
Hannah's suspecting the nature of the document which she had seen in
the candle.
"You have not forgotten that there was a will executed three months
before Mr. Oakley died," added Squire Selwyn,--"a will by which John
would have come into possession of two-thirds of the estate."
"I have heard a great deal about that will," retorted Mrs. Oakley.
"Undoubtedly my husband destroyed it, as unjust to me."
"I don't see how it was unjust to you. It left the property as the law
would have left it."
"Very well, where is the will? If you will produce it, I shall of
course surrender to John all except the third which comes to me."
"I wish I could produce it."
"But you can't," said Mrs. Oakley, triumphantly, looking the lawyer in
the face.
"In my opinion it has never been properly searched for," said the
lawyer. "I have the strongest reason to believe that it exists."
"May I inquire what is that reason?" asked Mrs. Oakley.
"Mr. Oakley, in his last sickness, spoke to John about the will."
"What did he say about it?" asked the lady. "This is the first I have
heard of it."
"Unfortunately he was so low that he was unable to declare where it
was."
Mrs. Oakley looked relieved.
"But John heard the words 'secret drawer.'"
"Then you conclude that the will is still in existence."
"I do."
"And where do you think it is?"
"Somewhere in this house," said Squire Selwyn, emphatically.
"It is strange then that it has not been found," said Mrs. Oakley.
"I do not think so. If hidden in a secret drawer, it would naturally be
difficult to find."
Mrs. Oakley rapidly made up her mind what to do. She saw that Squire
Selwyn was suspicious of her. By a show of fair dealing she could allay
those suspicions, and this would be worth while.
"If this will exists," she said, "it ought to be found."
"So I think," said the lawyer, surprised to hear her speak thus.
"And though its discovery would be to my disadvantage, I certainly
shall not object to a search. Are you at leisure now to assist me in
such a search?"
"I am," said the lawyer. "I think there is no time like the present."
"Then let us begin in this very room."
"It wouldn't be likely to be here. Still it is best not to slight any
possible place of concealment."
Assisted by Mrs. Oakley, Squire Selwyn commenced a strict search,
beginning with the parlor, and proceeding from room to room. He little
suspected how near him the document was all the time. Of course the
search proved fruitless.
"There is one room which has not yet been searched," said Mrs.
Oakley,--"the only one except the kitchen, in which Mr. Oakley would be
hardly likely to conceal it. I mean my own room."
"There's no occasion to search there."
"I would prefer that the search should be thorough. Here are my keys. I
would rather have you go up."
Thus requested, Squire Selwyn complied with the request. He returned
from the quest disappointed.
"It is very strange," he thought. "I am firmly convinced that my friend
Oakley left a will in existence. But where is it?"
That question he was unable to answer.
"I cannot find the will," he said.
"I am glad you have searched," said Mrs. Oakley. "The fact that I have
given you every facility for searching proves that I am perfectly
willing that my husband's will should be carried out."
"And his wishes as well?"
"What do you refer to?"
"I refer to John's education."
"I have made up my mind as to that," said Mrs. Oakley, briefly.
"Do you consider your brother's house a suitable home for Mr. Oakley's
son?"
"Why not?" she demanded, sharply.
"Do you think, in setting him to work in a shoe-shop, you are doing as
his father wished?"
"I do not know where you got your information, Mr. Selwyn," said Mrs.
Oakley, angrily, "but I must tell you that you are meddling with
business that does not concern you. As you were my husband's lawyer,
and drew up the will which you thought in existence, I have asked you
to search for it; I have even opened my own chamber to your search.
You ought to be satisfied by this time that you are mistaken. In doing
this, I have done all that I intend doing. I shall take my own course
with John Oakley, who is dependent upon me, and whatever you choose to
think or say can have no effect upon me. Good-afternoon, sir."
Mrs. Oakley swept from the room, and Squire Selwyn left the house,
feeling that his visit had not benefited John in the slightest degree.
That night he wrote John a letter.
CHAPTER XXII.
MR. HUXTER GETS INTO HOT WATER.
It was Mr. Huxter's intention to set John to work as soon as possible;
but it so happened that the shoe business, in which he was engaged,
had been for some time unusually dull, and had not yet revived. To
this circumstance our hero was indebted for the comparative freedom
which for a few days he was permitted to enjoy. During that time he
was waiting anxiously for the expected letter from Squire Selwyn. He
wished to know whether his stepmother was resolutely determined upon
her present course with regard to himself, before he decided to take
the matter into his own hands, and help himself in his own way. Upon
one thing he was fully resolved,--not to remain much longer a member of
Mr. Huxter's household.
As the letter was to come to the Milbank post-office, on the fourth
afternoon he walked over to that village. This time he was not
fortunate enough to meet David Wallace, and therefore had a long and
tiresome walk.
"Is there a letter here for John Oakley?" he inquired of the postmaster.
"John Oakley," said the old official, looking under his glasses. "Do
you live round here?"
"I am passing a short time in the neighborhood," said John.
The postmaster took some time to adjust his spectacles, and a longer
time in looking over the letters. John waited anxiously, fearing that
he had taken the long walk for nothing. But he was destined to be more
fortunate.
"You said your name was John Oakley?" repeated the official, balancing
a letter in his hand.
"Yes," said John, quickly.
"Then here's a letter for you. It looks like Squire Selwyn's writing."
"It is from him," said John.
"Then you know him?"
"Yes," said John, mechanically, impatiently tearing open the letter.
"He's a good lawyer, the squire is," said the postmaster. "He was here
only last week."
"Yes, I saw him."
This was the letter which John received:--
 "MY DEAR YOUNG FRIEND:--I called upon your stepmother yesterday in
 the afternoon, hoping to induce her to adopt different measures
 with regard to yourself. I regret to say that I failed utterly in my
 mission. She will not permit you to go to college, declaring that you
 have already a sufficient education. Nor will she remove you from the
 house of Mr. Huxter, though I represented that he was not a proper
 person to have the charge of you.
 "We had some conversation about the missing will. I was a little
 surprised by her suggesting that I should search the house for it. I
 was glad of the opportunity, and proceeded to do so. I made the search
 as thorough as possible, but discovered nothing. I still believe,
 however, that the will is in existence, unless it has been destroyed
 since your father's death.
 "I hardly know what to advise under the circumstances. If you should
 leave Mr. Huxter, I advise you to seek your aunt at Wilton, and I
 shall be glad to hear from you when you have arrived there. If you
 should need money, do not hesitate to apply to me, remembering that I
 am your father's friend."
  "Your true friend,
  JAMES SELWYN."
 "P. S. I enclose a few lines from Sam."
There was another sheet inside the envelope, on which John recognized
easily Sam's familiar handwriting. He was very glad to hear from Sam,
for whom he felt a warm attachment.
Here is Sam's letter:--
 "DEAR JOHN:--I have been missing you awfully. I couldn't think what
 had become of you till father told me he had seen you at Milbank. So
 you are in the spider's clutches, you poor innocent fly? A nice time
 you must have of it with old Huxter. I declare I've no patience with
 Mrs. Oakley, when I think of the way she has treated you. I can't do
 anything to her; but I'll take it out in tricks on Ben. By the way,
 your amiable stepbrother has got a new friend,--a flashy young man
 from New York, who sports a lot of bogus jewelry, and smokes from
 ten to a dozen cigars a day, and spends his time in lounging about
 the billiard and bar room. He isn't doing Ben any good. They play
 billiards a good deal, and he tells Ben stories about the city, which
 I expect will make Ben want to go there. Do you think Mrs. Oakley will
 let him?
 "You've no idea how I miss you, old fellow. All the hard parts in
 Virgil and Xenophon come to me now. I don't enjoy studying half so
 much now that you are away. If I were you, I'd give old Huxter the
 slip some fine morning. I only wish you could come and stay at our
 house. Wouldn't it be jolly? I know father would like it; but I
 suppose people would talk, and Mrs. Oakley would make a fuss.
 "Well, it's time for me to go to studying. Keep up a stiff upper lip,
 and never say die. Things will be sure to come round. One thing, you
 must be sure to write to me as soon as you can. Tell me all about how
 you're getting along with the monstrum horrendum informe. Of course
 I mean old Huxter."
  "Your affectionate friend,
  SAM SELWYN."
John felt much better after reading these letters. He felt that,
whatever might be the hardships of his present lot, he had two good
friends who sympathized with him. He read over the lawyer's letter once
more. Though he didn't expressly advise him to leave Mr. Huxter, it was
evident that he expected him to do so. John himself had no doubts on
that point. He felt that he would be willing anywhere else to work for
his living; but to remain in his present position was insupportable.
He could feel neither regard nor respect for Mr. Huxter. He witnessed
daily with indignation the manner in which he treated his poor wife,
whom he sincerely pitied. But it was not his business to interfere
between man and wife. No, he could not stay any longer in such a house.
To-morrow morning he would rise early, and, before Mr. Huxter woke, bid
a silent farewell to Jackson, and start on his journey to Wilton.
When he reached his boarding-place, it was already four o'clock in the
afternoon. Mr. Huxter had come home just drunk enough to be ugly. He
had inquired of his wife where John was. She couldn't tell him.
"What business has he to leave the house without permission?" he
growled.
"He is old enough for that, surely," said Mrs. Huxter.
"Shut up, Mrs. Huxter! What do you know about it?" said her husband.
"The boy needs a good flogging."
"I'm sure he's a very good boy," said Mrs. Huxter. "He is quite a young
gentleman."
"He is altogether too much of a young gentleman," said Mr. Huxter. "He
puts on too many airs for me."
"You are not just to him, Mr. Huxter."
"How many times, Mrs. Huxter, must I request you to mind your own
business?" said her husband, coarsely. "Do you know what I am going to
do?"
"What?" asked his wife, with apprehension.
"I'm going to cut a stout stick out in the orchard, and give the young
gentleman a lesson when he returns. That's what I'm going to do."
"Oh don't, Mr. Huxter!" implored his wife, clasping his arm.
But Mr. Huxter was in one of his ugly fits, and shaking off his wife's
grasp, went out into the orchard, taking out his jack-knife. He
returned in a few minutes with a thick stick in his hand, which boded
no good to poor John.
Mrs. Huxter turned pale with apprehension, and earnestly hoped John
would not return until her husband had forgotten his resolution. But
this was not to be. She heard a step upon the threshold, and John
entered by the back way. Mr. Huxter tightened the grasp upon his stick,
and smiled grimly.
"Where've you been, Oakley?" he demanded, abruptly.
"I have been over to Milbank," said John, quietly, not knowing the
intention of the questioner.
"What did you go over to Milbank for?" asked Huxter.
"I didn't know there was any objection to my going," said John.
"What business had you to go without asking my leave?"
"I didn't suppose there was any need of my asking you whether I could
go or not."
"You're an impudent young rascal!" exclaimed Mr. Huxter.
"What reason have you for calling me that?" asked John, calmly. He
saw that Mr. Huxter had been drinking, and did not wish to get into a
dispute with him.
"You needn't think you can put on any of your airs here. I won't stand
it!" vociferated Huxter, gradually working himself up into a rage.
"I don't want to put on any airs, Mr. Huxter," said John.
"Do you mean to contradict me?" demanded Huxter, glaring at John.
"You had better go out," said Mrs. Huxter, in a low voice.
"He shan't go out! He shall stay," roared Huxter. "I'll thank you not
to interfere, Mrs. Huxter. I'm going to flog the young jackanape."
He seized his stick and made a rush at John. Our hero, knowing he could
not cope with him, and besides not wishing to get into a fight in the
presence of Mrs. Huxter, dodged the angry man. This made Mr. Huxter,
whose blood was now up, all the more eager to get hold of him. John,
however, succeeded in eluding him once more. This time, however, Mr.
Huxter was unlucky. Mrs. Huxter had been washing, and the tub full of
quite warm water had been temporarily placed upon the floor of the
kitchen. Mr. Huxter, whose motions were not over-steady, slipped, and,
falling backward, sat down in the tub.
He gave a yell of pain, and John, taking advantage of the accident, ran
out of the door. But Mr. Huxter was in no condition to follow him. The
water was not hot enough to scald him; but it certainly made him feel
very uncomfortable.
"The young rascal has killed me," he groaned. "I'm scalded to death,
and I suppose you're glad of it, Mrs. Huxter. You put the tub there on
purpose."
Mr. Huxter took off his clothes and went to bed, swearing at his poor
wife, who he declared was in league with John.
"There's no help for it now," said John to himself. "I must leave this
house to-morrow."
CHAPTER XXIII.
IN WHICH JOHN TAKES FRENCH LEAVE.
"To-morrow I will leave Jackson," thought John, as he undressed
himself, and jumped into bed.
His spirits rose as he made this resolution. It had been very
irksome to him to feel that he was under the control of such a man
as Mr. Huxter,--a man for whom it was impossible for him to feel
either respect or regard. Under any circumstances it would have been
disagreeable for him to remain, but off from the studies in which he
had taken delight, the time passed heavily; he felt that he had no
longer an object in life. But the petty persecutions to which he was
subjected made it intolerable, and he was satisfied that the accident
which had befallen Mr. Huxter would only make matters worse.
Meanwhile Mr. Huxter, on his bed below, cherished thoughts the reverse
of agreeable concerning our hero.
"I'll come up with the young rascal," he muttered. "He'll find it's a
bad day's work he's done for himself."
"It wasn't his fault, Mr. Huxter," said his wife, who wanted justice
done.
"Why isn't it his fault?" said her husband, looking at her with a frown.
"He didn't know you would slip into the tub."
"And I shouldn't wonder if you put it there, Mrs. Huxter. It was a
regular trap."
"I put it there just for a few minutes. I was going to move it."
"Yes, after you had accomplished your object, and got me scalded."
"You ought not to say such things, Mr. Huxter. You know I was innocent
of any such intention."
"Oh, of course nobody was to blame! That's always the way. But it isn't
much comfort to me."
"I don't see how anybody was to blame."
"Well, I do," said Mr. Huxter, savagely. "As soon as I get up, I'll
give Oakley such a flogging as he never got before."
It was a great disappointment to Mr. Huxter that he could not carry out
his benevolent design at once; but he felt too uncomfortable for that.
"I wish you had never brought him here," said Mrs. Huxter. "I am sure
he cannot enjoy himself much here."
"I don't care whether he enjoys himself or not," said her husband. "We
get six dollars a week for his board,--that's the main point. And next
week, when I set him to work in the shop, we'll make a pretty good
thing out of him."
"I don't believe he will be willing to work in the shop. He knows that
you get paid for his board."
"I think I can persuade him with the horsewhip," said Mr. Huxter,
significantly.
At that moment John's steps were heard as he ascended the attic stairs
on his way to bed.
A new thought came to Mr. Huxter about an hour later. He reflected that
it was in John's power to elude his vengeance by escaping, and this he
had no intention of permitting.
"Mrs. Huxter," he said.
"Do you want anything?"
"Yes, I want you to go upstairs, and fasten the door of John Oakley's
chamber."
"What for?"
"No matter what for. Go and do it, and I will tell you afterwards."
"He won't be able to come downstairs in the morning."
"I don't mean that he shall. I'll keep him in his room for twenty-four
hours on bread and water. It'll be a good lesson for him. Come, are you
going? If you don't I'll get out of bed myself, and go up."
Mrs. Huxter thought it best to comply with the command accompanied
by such a threat. Much against her will, therefore, she went up and
secured the door of John's chamber by a bolt placed upon the outside.
She hoped that her husband would forget all about it during the night,
so that she might release John before he had learned that he had been a
prisoner.
It was about half-past three that John awoke. He did not know what
time it was, but conjectured that it might be near four. Though he
still felt sleepy, he deemed it advisable to lose no more time, but
escape while Mr. Huxter was asleep. He accordingly dressed himself as
carefully as he could, in the imperfect light, and went on tiptoe to
the door. He tried to open it, but without success. Thinking that the
door might stick, he made another attempt. This time he understood the
state of things.
"I have been bolted in," he said to himself. "Can Mr. Huxter have
suspected my plan?"
Whether this was or was not the case John was unable to determine.
He sat down on the bed, and reflected what he had better do. Should he
give up the attempt, and go to bed again? No; he was resolved not to
relinquish his plan while there was any chance of carrying it out.
He went to the window and looked out. If it had been on the second
floor the difficulty would have been less, but it was an attic window,
and over twenty feet from the ground. There was no ell part beneath;
but the distance to the ground was unbroken.
A sudden thought struck John. He turned up the bed, and found that it
rested upon an interlacing cord. Why could he not detach this cord,
and, fastening it to some fixed object in the chamber, descend with
safety to the ground? The plan no sooner occurred to John than he
determined to carry it into execution.
The rope proved to be quite long enough for his purpose. He fastened
one end securely, and dropped the other over the sill. Looking down,
he saw that it nearly reached the ground. He had no fear of trusting
himself to it. He had always been good at climbing ropes, and was very
strong in the arms.
"After all," he thought, "this is better than to have gone downstairs.
I might have stumbled over something in the dark, and Mr. Huxter would
have been roused by the noise."
He got out of the window, and swung out. He let himself down as
noiselessly as possible. In less than a minute he stood upon the
ground, under the gray morning sky.
He looked up to Mr. Huxter's window, but everything was still.
Evidently no one had heard him.
"So far, so good," thought John. "Now I must travel as many miles as
possible between now and six o'clock. That will give me a good start if
I am pursued."
John hoped he would meet no one who would recognize him. But in this
he was disappointed. He had walked six miles, when he heard his name
called from behind. Startled, he looked back hastily, and to his relief
discovered that the call came from David Wallace, who had taken him up
on his first journey to Milbank.
"Where are you going, John?" asked David. "Don't you want to ride?"
"Thank you," said John.
He jumped on board the wagon, and took a seat beside David.
"You are travelling early, David," he said.
"Just what I was going to say to you," said David, laughing. "Are you
walking for your health?"
"Not exactly," said John. "I've a great mind to tell you. You won't
tell?"
"Honor bright!"
"Then, I've left Mr. Huxter without bidding him good-by."
"Good!" said David. "I don't blame you a bit. Tell me how it happened."
David was highly amused at Mr. Huxter's adventure with the tub.
"I must tell that to George Sprague," he exclaimed. "It's a good joke."
"I'm afraid Mr. Huxter wouldn't agree with you there."
"He never does agree with anybody. Now tell me how you managed to walk
off."
John narrated how he found himself locked in, and how he resorted to
the expedient of the bed-cord.
"You're a trump, John!" said David, slapping him on the shoulder. "I
didn't think you had so much spunk."
"What did you think of me?" asked John, smiling.
"You see you're such a quiet fellow, you don't look as if you were up
to such things. But what will you do if Mr. Huxter pursues you?"
"I can tell better when the time comes," said John.
"You wouldn't go back with him?"
"Not if I could help myself. I don't feel that he has any right to
control me. He isn't my guardian, and he is the last man, I know, that
my father would be willing to trust me with."
"I wish I could see how he looks when he finds you are gone. If you'd
like to send him your love I could go round by the house on my way
back."
"I don't think I shall need to trouble you, David," said John.
"Whereabouts are you going?"
"I have an aunt living about fifty miles away. I shall go there for the
present."
"Well, I'm sorry you're going to leave Jackson. I mean I'm sorry I
shan't see you any more. Can't you write to me now and then?"
"I would but for one thing," said John.
"What's that?"
"I am afraid the letters would be noticed by the postmaster, and put
Mr. Huxter on the track. I don't want to have any more to do with him."
"There's something in that. I didn't think of it. At any rate I hope
we'll meet again some time."
"So do I, David. You have been very kind to me, and I shall not forget
it. I don't know what lies before me, but I shall keep up good courage,
hoping that things will come out right in the end."
"That's the best way. But I am afraid I must bid you good-by here. I
turn up that side road. I suppose you are going straight ahead."
"Yes."
"I wish I could carry you further."
"It's been quite a help what I have already ridden."
"Whoa, Dan!" said David, and the horse stopped.
"Good-by, David," said John, as he jumped out of the wagon.
"Good-by, John. Then you haven't any message to send back to Mr.
Huxter?"
"Not to him," said John; "but," he added, after a moment's thought, "if
you happen to see Mrs. Huxter, just let her know that you saw me, and
that I am grateful for all she tried to do for me."
"You're sure she won't tell her husband?"
"No; she acted like a good friend. I would like to have said good-by;
but it wouldn't do."
"All right, I'll remember what you say. Good-by, old fellow."
"Good-by, David."
John estimated that he was now nearly ten miles from his
starting-place. The sun was already shining brightly, and it promised
to be a fine day. Our hero began to feel hungry. The fresh morning air
had given him an appetite.
CHAPTER XXIV.
JOHN IS PURSUED.
Mr. Huxter felt better after a night's rest. In fact, his injuries had
not been as serious as he wished Mrs. Huxter to suppose. The truth is,
he was a coward, and even a small sickness terrified him. But with the
morning, finding himself very little inconvenienced by his mishap of
the day previous, his courage returned, and with it his determination
to wreak condign vengeance on John.
"How do you feel, Mr. Huxter?" asked his wife.
"I feel like whipping that young scamp, Oakley," said her husband.
"He has done nothing that deserves punishment, I am sure."
"Of course, scalding me is a very slight affair, in your opinion; but
I happen to think differently," he said, with a sneer.
He drew on his pantaloons as he spoke, and seizing a leather strap,
left the room.
"Oh, dear," sighed Mrs. Huxter, "I do wish Mr. Huxter wouldn't be so
violent. I don't see what can have turned him so against that poor boy.
I am sure he's very polite and gentlemanly."
She wanted to say more, in the hope of dissuading her husband from
his harsh resolution, but she dared not. She went to the foot of the
attic stairs to listen, fearing that she would hear the sounds of an
altercation. She saw Mr. Huxter draw the bolt and enter the chamber,
but she was quite unprepared to see him burst forth furiously a minute
later, exclaiming in a rage:--
"He's gone,--the young rascal has escaped."
"Escaped?" repeated Mrs. Huxter, bewildered, for she could not conceive
how John could escape from a third-story room when the door was bolted.
"Ha, are you there?" demanded her husband. "What do you know of this?"
he asked, suspiciously.
"Nothing at all," said Mrs. Huxter. "I don't see how he could have got
away."
"You'll see plain enough if you come upstairs," said her husband. "He
got out of the window."
"Jumped out?" gasped Mrs. Huxter.
"Slid down by the bed-cord, you fool!" said her husband, who was too
angry to be polite.
"I declare!" exclaimed Mrs. Huxter, in a tone indicating her surprise.
"Did you advise him to run away?" asked Mr. Huxter.
"Of course not."
"And did you know nothing of his going? Didn't he tell you?" he asked,
suspiciously.
"Not a word. But I'm glad he's gone,--I really am."
"You're glad we've lost six dollars a week, are you?" growled her
husband. "You'd like to see us starvin', I suppose. But you needn't
be in such a hurry to be glad. I'll have him back yet, and then if
he doesn't get the tallest kind of a flogging, that'll sicken him of
running away forever, my name is not Huxter."
"You'd better let him go, husband. Don't go after him."
"You'll oblige me by minding your business, Mrs. Huxter. I shall go
after him, as soon as I have eaten breakfast."
Meanwhile John, feeling very hungry, as was stated at the close of the
last chapter, determined to get a breakfast at the first inn on the
road. He had only to walk a mile further, when he came to a country
inn, with its long piazza, and stable-yard alongside. It had a
comfortable look, suggestive of good old-fashioned hospitality.
John walked through the front entrance, chancing to meet the landlord.
"Can I have some breakfast?" he asked.
"Are you travelling alone?" asked the landlord, who was a Yankee.
"Yes, sir."
"Well, I guess we can give you some. What would you like?"
"I should like some beefsteak and a couple of eggs."
"Coffee or tea?"
"Coffee."
"Very well."
"How soon will it be ready, sir? I've taken a long walk, and am very
hungry."
"You won't have to wait long. Here, Betty, just get up some breakfast
for this young man. Beefsteak, boiled eggs, and coffee. As quick as you
can."
In twenty minutes John was told that breakfast was ready. He was shown
into rather a cheerless dining-room, but the meat emitted a savory
odor, and he enjoyed the meal better, it seemed to him, than ever
before in his life. He rose from the table at length with a sigh of
enjoyment. Going into the office he called for his bill.
"Fifty cents," said the landlord.
John produced a two-dollar bill, and the change was returned to him.
"Not going to stay with us?" said the landlord, interrogatively.
"No," said John; "I've got to travel further."
"Where may you have come from?"
"From Jackson this morning," said John.
"Did you walk? It's a pretty long stretch,--hard upon ten miles."
"I rode part of the way."
"And where are you bound?"
John was beginning to tire of this persistent questioning, and would
have declined answering, but that he feared this would excite suspicion.
"I am going to Redport," he answered.
Redport, as he had ascertained, was the next town on the route. He
did not think it necessary to mention that he was going considerably
further.
"Redport!" repeated the landlord.
"Yes. How far is it?"
"It's a matter of six miles. Are you going to walk?"
"Yes, unless I find somebody that's going that way."
"I'm going over myself this afternoon. If you'll wait till that time
you may go with me."
"Thank you," said John; "but I don't think I will wait. I've got pretty
good legs, and I shan't mind the walk."
"You can get over in two hours easy. Ever been that way before?"
"No."
"Well, it's a straight road. You can't miss it."
John left the landlord's presence with a feeling of relief. He had
declined his offer for two reasons: partly because he did not want to
wait till afternoon, but principally because the landlord would be sure
to ask where he intended to stop in Redport, which would of course
embarrass him.
John waited about half an hour, as he did not wish to walk immediately
after a hearty meal. Then, having cut a stick from a tree by the
