bill in his pocket. Indeed, he was now working for six dollars a week,
and glad to get that, after having been out of a situation for several
months.
Just then Mr. Gladden, of the large down-town firm of Gladden & Co.,
came into the store, and, seeing Richard, saluted him cordially.
"How are you this morning, Mr. Hunter?" he said. "Are you on your way
down town?"
"Yes, sir," said Richard.
"Come with me. We will take an omnibus together;" and the two walked
out of the store in familiar conversation.
"I shouldn't think such a man as Mr. Gladden would notice a low
boot-black," said Roswell, bitterly.
The rest of the day he was made unhappy by the thought of Dick's
prosperity, and his own hard fate, in being merely a clerk in a
bookstore with a salary of six dollars a week.
CHAPTER XV.
MARK GETS A PLACE.
In a week from the purchase of the books, Mark felt that he was fully
recovered. He never had much color, but the unhealthy pallor had left
his cheeks, and he had an excellent appetite.
"Well, Mark, how do you feel to-night?" asked Richard, on his return
from the store one evening.
"I'm all right, now, Mr. Hunter. I think I will go to work to-morrow
morning."
"What sort of work?"
"Selling matches."
"Do you like to sell matches?"
"I like it better than selling papers, or blacking boots."
"But wouldn't you like better to be in a store?"
"I couldn't get a place," said Mark.
"Why not?"
"My clothes are ragged," said the match boy with some hesitation.
"Besides I haven't got anybody to refer to."
"Can't you refer to your guardian?" asked Richard Hunter, smiling.
"Do you think I had better try to get a place in a store, Mr. Hunter?"
asked Mark.
"Yes, I think it would be much better for you than to sell matches on
the street. You are not a strong boy, and the exposure is not good
for you. As to your clothes, we'll see if we cannot supply you with
something better than you have on."
"But," said Mark, "I want to pay for my clothes myself. I have got ten
dollars in the bank at the Newsboys' Lodge."
"Very well. You can go down to-morrow morning and get it. But we
needn't wait for that. I will go and get you some clothes before I go
to business."
In the morning Richard Hunter went out with the match boy, and for
twenty dollars obtained for him a very neat gray suit, besides a supply
of under-clothing. Mark put them on at once, and felt not a little
pleased with the improvement in his appearance.
"You can carry your old clothes to Mr. O'Connor," said Richard. "They
are not very good, but they are better than none, and he may have an
opportunity of giving them away."
"You have been very kind to me, Mr. Hunter," said Mark, gratefully.
"Good-by."
"Good-by? What makes you say that?"
"Because I am going now to the Newsboys' Lodge."
"Yes, but you are coming back again."
"But I think I had better go there to live now. It will be much
cheaper, and I ought not to put you to so much expense."
"You're a good boy, Mark, but you must remember that I am your
guardian, and am to be obeyed as such. You're not going back to
the Lodge to live. I have arranged to have you stay with me at my
boarding-place. As soon as you have got a place you will work in the
daytime, and every Saturday night you will bring me your money. In the
evening I shall have you study a little, for I don't want you to grow
up as ignorant as I was at your age."
"Were you ignorant, Mr. Hunter?" asked Mark, with interest.
"Yes, I was," said Richard. "When I was fourteen, I couldn't read nor
write."
"I can hardly believe that, Mr. Hunter," said Mark. "You're such a fine
scholar."
"Am I?" asked Richard, smiling, yet well pleased with the compliment.
"Why, you can read French as fast as I can read English, and write
beautifully."
"Well, I had to work hard to do it," said Richard Hunter. "But I
feel paid for all the time I've spent in trying to improve myself.
Sometimes I've thought I should like to spend the evening at some place
of amusement rather than in study; but if I had, there'd be nothing
to show for it now. Take my advice, Mark, and study all you can, and
you'll grow up respectable and respected."
"Now," he added, after a pause, "I'll tell you what you may do. You
may look in my 'Herald' every morning, and whenever you see a boy
advertised for you can call, or whenever, in going along the street,
you see a notice 'Boy wanted,' you may call in, and sooner or later
you'll get something. If they ask for references, you may refer to
Richard Hunter, book-keeper for Rockwell & Cooper."
"Thank you, Mr. Hunter," said Mark. "I will do so."
On parting with his guardian the match boy went down town to the
Lodging House. The superintendent received him kindly.
"I didn't know what had become of you, Mark," he said. "If it had been
some of the boys, I should have been afraid they had got into a scrape,
and gone to the Island. But I didn't think that of you."
"I hope you'll never hear that of me, Mr. O'Connor," said Mark.
"I hope not. I'm always sorry to hear of any boy's going astray.
But you seem to have been doing well since I saw you;" and the
superintendent glanced at Mark's new clothes.
"I've met with some kind friends," said the match boy. "I have been
sick, and they took care of me."
"And now you have come back to the Lodge."
"Yes, but not to stay. I came for the money that I have saved up in the
bank. It is going for these clothes."
"Very well. You shall have it. What is the name of the friend who has
taken care of you?"
"Richard Hunter."
"I know him," said the superintendent. "He is an excellent young man.
You could not be in better hands."
On leaving the Lodge Mark felt a desire to find his old ally, Ben
Gibson, who, though rather a rough character, had been kind to him.
Ben was not difficult to find. During business hours he was generally
posted on Nassau Street, somewhere between Fulton Street and Spruce
Street.
He was just polishing off a customer's boots when Mark came up, and
touched him lightly on the shoulder. Ben looked up, but did not at
first recognize the match boy in the neatly dressed figure before him.
"Shine yer boots!" he asked, in a professional tone.
"Why, Ben, don't you know me?" asked Mark, laughing.
"My eyes, if it aint Mark, the match boy!" exclaimed Ben, in surprise.
"Where've you been all this while, Mark?"
"I've been sick, Ben."
"I'd like to be sick too, if that's the way you got them clo'es. I
didn't know what had 'come of you."
"I found some good friends," said Mark.
"If your friends have got any more good clo'es they want to get rid
of," said Ben, "tell 'em you know a chap that can take care of a few.
Are you in the match business now?"
"I haven't been doing anything for three weeks," said Mark.
"Goin' to sell matches again?"
"No."
"Sellin' papers?"
"No, I'm trying to find a place in a store."
"I don't think I'd like to be in a store," said Ben, reflectively.
"I'm afraid my delicate constitution couldn't stand the confinement.
Besides, I'm my own boss now, and don't have nobody to order me round."
"But you don't expect to black boots all your life, Ben, do you?"
"I dunno," said Ben. "Maybe when I'm married, I'll choose some other
business. It would be rather hard to support a family at five cents a
shine. Are you comin' to the Lodge to-night?"
"No," said Mark, "I'm boarding up at St. Mark's Place."
"Mother Watson hasn't opened a fashionable boardin'-house up there, has
she?"
"I guess not," said Mark, smiling. "I can't think what has become of
her. I haven't seen her since the day she tried to carry me off."
"I've heard of her," said Ben. "She's stoppin' with some friends at the
Island. They won't let her come away on account of likin' her company
so much."
"I hope I shall never see her again," said Mark, with a shudder. "She
is a wicked old woman. But I must be going, Ben."
"I s'pose you'll come and see a feller now and then."
"Yes, Ben, when I get time. But I hope to get a place soon."
Mark walked leisurely up Broadway. Having been confined to the house
for three weeks, he enjoyed the excitement of being out in the street
once more. The shop windows looked brighter and gayer than before, and
the little match boy felt that the world was a very pleasant place
after all.
He had passed Eighth Street before he was fairly aware of the distance
he had traversed. He found himself looking into the window of a
bookstore. While examining the articles in the window his eye suddenly
caught the notice pasted in the middle of the glass on a piece of white
paper:--
  "BOY WANTED."
"Perhaps they'll take me," thought Mark, suddenly. "At any rate I'll go
in and see."
Accordingly he entered the store, and looked about him a little
undecidedly.
"Well, sonny, what do you want?" asked a clerk.
"I see that you want a boy," said Mark.
"Yes. Do you want a place?"
"I am trying to get one."
"Well, go and see that gentleman about it."
He pointed to a gentleman who was seated at a desk in the corner of the
store.
"Please, sir, do you want a boy?" he asked.
"Yes," said the gentleman. "How old are you?"
"Ten years old."
"You are rather young. Have you been in any place before?"
"No, sir."
"Do you know your way about the city pretty well?"
"Yes, sir."
"I want a boy to deliver papers and magazines, and carry small parcels
of books. Do you think you could do that?"
"Yes, sir."
"Without stopping to play on the way?"
"Yes, sir."
"I have just discharged one boy, because he was gone an hour and a
half on an errand to Twentieth Street. You are the first boy that has
answered my advertisement. I'll try you on a salary of three dollars a
week, if you can go to work at once. What is your name?"
"Mark Manton."
"Very well, Mark. Go to Mr. Jones, behind the counter there, and he
will give you a parcel to carry to West Twenty-First Street."
"I'm in luck," thought Mark. "I didn't expect to get a place so
easily."
CHAPTER XVI.
MARK'S FIRST IMPRESSIONS.
Probably my readers already understand that the bookstore in which Mark
has secured a place is the same in which Roswell Crawford is employed.
This circumstance, if Mark had only known it, was likely to make his
position considerably less desirable than it would otherwise have been.
Mr. Baker, the proprietor of the store, was very considerate in his
treatment of those in his employ, and Mr. Jones, his chief clerk, was
good-natured and pleasant. But Roswell was very apt to be insolent and
disagreeable to those who were, or whom he considered to be, in an
inferior position to himself, while his lofty ideas of his own dignity
and social position as the "son of a gentleman," made him not very
desirable as a clerk. Still he had learned something from his bad luck
thus far. He had been so long in getting his present place, that he
felt it prudent to sacrifice his pride in some extent for the sake of
retaining it. But if he could neglect his duties without attracting
attention, he resolved to do it, feeling that six dollars was a
beggarly salary for a young gentleman of his position and capacity. It
was unfortunate for him, and a source of considerable annoyance, that
he could get no one except his mother to assent to his own estimate
of his abilities. Even his Cousin Gilbert, who had been Rockwell &
Cooper's book-keeper before Richard Hunter succeeded to the position,
did not conceal his poor opinion of Roswell; but this the latter
attributed to prejudice, being persuaded in his own mind that his
cousin was somewhat inclined to be envious of his superior abilities.
At the time that Mark was so suddenly engaged by Mr. Baker, Roswell had
gone out to dinner. When he returned, Mark had gone out with the parcel
to West Twenty-first Street. So they missed each other just at first.
"Well, Crawford," said Mr. Jones, as Roswell re-entered the store, "Mr.
Baker has engaged a new boy."
"Has he? What sort of a fellow is he?"
"A little fellow. He doesn't look as if he was more than ten years old."
"Where is he?"
"Mr. Baker sent him on an errand to Twenty-first Street."
"Humph!" said Roswell, a little discontented, "I was going to recommend
a friend of mine."
"There may be a chance yet. This boy may not suit."
In about five minutes Mr. Baker and Mr. Jones both went out to dinner.
It was the middle of the day, when there is very little business, and
it would not be difficult for Roswell to attend to any customers who
might call.
As soon as he was left alone, Roswell got an interesting book from the
shelves, and, sitting down in his employer's chair, began to read,
though this was against the rules in business hours. To see the pompous
air with which Roswell threw himself back in his chair, it might have
been supposed that he was the proprietor of the establishment, though
I believe it is true, as a general rule, that employers are not in the
habit of putting on so many airs, unless the position is a new one, and
they have not yet got over the new feeling of importance which it is
apt to inspire at first.
While Roswell was thus engaged Mark returned from his errand.
He looked about him in some uncertainty on entering the store, not
seeing either Mr. Baker or the chief clerk.
"Come here," said Roswell, in a tone of authority.
Mark walked up to the desk.
"So you are the new boy?" said Roswell, after a close scrutiny.
"Yes."
"It would be a little more polite to say 'Yes sir.'"
"Yes, sir."
"What is your age?"
"Ten years."
"Humph! You are rather young. If I had been consulted I should have
said 'Get a boy of twelve years old.'"
"I hope I shall suit," said Mark.
"I hope so," said Roswell, patronizingly. "You will find us very easy
to get along with if you do your duty. We were obliged to send away a
boy this morning because he played instead of going on his errands at
once."
Mark could not help wondering what was Roswell's position in the
establishment. He talked as if he were one of the proprietors; but his
youthful appearance made it difficult to suppose that.
"What is your name?" continued Roswell.
"Mark Manton."
"Have you been in any place before?"
"No, sir."
"Do you live with your parents?"
"My parents are dead."
"Then whom do you live with?"
"With my guardian."
"So you have a guardian?" said Roswell, a little surprised. "What is
his name?"
"Mr. Hunter."
"Hunter!" repeated Roswell, hastily. "What is his first name?"
"Richard I believe."
"Dick Hunter!" exclaimed Roswell, scornfully, "Do you mean to say that
he has charge of you?"
"Yes," said Mark, firmly, for he perceived the tone in which his friend
was referred to, and resented it. Moreover the new expression which
came over Roswell's face brought back to his recollection the evening
when, for the first time in his life, he had begged in Fulton Market,
and been scornfully repulsed by Roswell and his mother. Roswell's
face had at first seemed familiar to him, but it was only now that he
recognized him. Roswell, on the other hand, was not likely to identify
the neatly dressed boy before him with the shivering little beggar of
the market. But it recurred to him all at once that Dick had referred
to his ward as a match boy.
"You were a match boy?" he said, in the manner of one making a grave
accusation.
"Yes, sir."
"Then why didn't you keep on selling matches, and not try to get a
place in a respectable store?"
"Because Mr. Hunter thought it better for me to go into a store."
"Mr. Hunter! Perhaps you don't know that your guardian, as you call
him, used to be a boot-black."
"Yes, he told me so."
"They called him 'Ragged Dick' then," said Roswell, turning up his
nose. "He couldn't read or write, I believe."
"He's a good scholar now," said Mark.
"Humph! I suppose he told you so. But you mustn't believe all he tells
you."
"He wouldn't tell anything but the truth," said Mark, who was bolder in
behalf of his friend than he would have been for himself.
"So he did tell you he was a good scholar? I thought so."
"No, he told me nothing about it; but since I have lived with him I've
heard him read French as well as English."
"Perhaps that isn't saying much," said Roswell, with a sneer. "Can you
read yourself?"
"Yes."
"That is more than I expected. What induced Mr. Baker to take a boy
from the street is more than I can tell."
"I suppose I can run errands just as well, if I was once a match boy,"
said Mark, who did not fancy the tone which Roswell assumed towards
him, and began to doubt whether he was a person of as much importance
as he at first supposed.
"We shall see," said Roswell, loftily. "But there's one thing I'll
advise you, young man, and that is, to treat me with proper respect.
You'll find it best to keep friends with me. I can get you turned away
any time."
Mark hardly knew whether to believe this or not. He already began to
suspect that Roswell was something of a humbug, and though it was not
in his nature to form a causeless dislike, he certainly did not feel
disposed to like Roswell. He did not care as much for any slighting
remarks upon himself, as for the scorn with which Roswell saw fit to
speak of his friend, Richard Hunter, who by his good offices had won
the little boy's lasting gratitude. Mark did not reply to the threat
contained in these last words of Roswell.
"Is there anything for me to do?" he asked.
"Yes, you may dust off those books on the counter. There's the duster
hanging up."
This was really Roswell's business, and he ought to have been at work
in this way instead of reading; but it was characteristic of him to
shift his duties upon others. He was not aware of how much time had
passed, and supposed that Mark would be through before Mr. Barker
returned. But that gentleman came in while Roswell was busily engaged
in reading.
"Is that the way you do your work, Roswell?" asked his employer.
Roswell jumped to his feet in some confusion.
"I thought I had better set the new boy to work," he said.
"Dusting the books is your work, not his."
"He was doing nothing, sir."
"He will have plenty to do in carrying out parcels. Besides, I don't
know that it is any worse for him to be idle than you. You were reading
also, which you know is against the rules of the store." Roswell made
no reply, but it hurt his pride considerably to be censured thus in
presence of Mark, to whom he had spoken with such an assumption of
power and patronage.
"I wish I had a store of my own," he thought, discontentedly. "Then I
could do as I pleased without having anybody to interfere with me."
But Roswell did not understand, and there are plenty of boys in the
same state of ignorance, that those who fill subordinate positions
acceptably are most likely to rise to stations where they will
themselves have control over others.
"I suppose you have not been to dinner," said Mr. Baker, turning to
Mark.
"No, sir."
"You board in St. Mark's Place, I think you said?"
"Yes, sir."
"Very well, here is a parcel to go to East Ninth Street. You may call
and leave that at the address marked upon it, and may stay out long
enough for dinner. But don't be gone more than an hour in all."
"No, sir."
"I am glad that boy isn't my employer," thought Mark, referring of
course to Roswell Crawford, who, by the way, would have been indignant
at such an appellation. "I like Mr. Baker a great deal better."
Mark was punctual to his appointment, and in a little less than an hour
reported himself at the store again for duty.
CHAPTER XVII.
BAD ADVICE.
Roswell pursued his way home with a general sense of discontent. Why
should he be so much worse off than Richard Hunter, who had only been a
ragged boot-black three years before? The whole world seemed to be in a
conspiracy to advance Richard, and to keep him down. To think he should
be only earning six dollars a week, while Dick, whom he considered so
far beneath him, was receiving twenty, was really outrageous. And now
he had pushed a low dependent of his into Baker's store where Roswell
was obliged to associate with him!
Certainly Roswell's grievances were numerous. But there was one thing
he did not understand, that the greatest obstacle to his advancement
was himself. If he had entered any situation with the determination
to make his services valuable, and discharge his duties, whatever
they might be, with conscientious fidelity, he would have found his
relations with his employer much more agreeable and satisfactory.
Mrs. Crawford still kept the house in Clinton Place, letting nearly all
the rooms to lodgers. In this way she succeeded in making both ends
meet, though with considerable difficulty, so that she had not the
means to supply Roswell with the spending money he desired. Her nephew,
James Gilbert, Richard Huntley's predecessor as book-keeper, still
boarded with her. It will be remembered by the readers of "Fame and
Fortune," that this Gilbert, on being questioned by Mr. Rockwell as to
his share in the plot against Dick, had angrily resigned his position,
thinking, probably, that he should lose it at any rate.
It so happened that business was generally depressed at this time, and
it was three months before he succeeded in obtaining another place, and
then he was compelled to work for eight hundred dollars, or two hundred
less than he had formerly received. This was a great disappointment to
him, and did not help his temper much, which had never been very sweet.
He felt quite exasperated against Dick, whom, very much against his
wishes, he had seen the means of promoting to his own place. Indeed,
on this point, he sympathized heartily with Roswell, whose dislike to
Richard Hunter has already been shown.
"Well, mother," said Roswell, as he entered Mrs. Crawford's presence,
"I'm getting tired of Baker's store."
"Don't say so, Roswell," said his mother, in alarm. "Remember how long
it took you to get the place."
"I have to work like a dog for six dollars a week," said Roswell.
"Yes," said his cousin, with a sneer, "that's precisely the way you
work. Dogs spend their time running round the street doing nothing."
"Well, I have to work hard enough," said Roswell, "but I wouldn't mind
that so much, if I didn't have to associate with low match boys."
"What do you mean, Roswell?" asked his mother, who did not understand
the allusion.
"Baker hired a new boy to-day, and who do you think he turns out to be?"
"Not that boy, Ragged Dick?"
"No, you don't think he would give up Cousin James' place, where he
gets a thousand dollars a year, to go into Baker's as boy?"
"Who was it, then?"
"He used to be a ragged match boy about the streets. Dick Hunter picked
him up somewhere, and got him a situation in our store, on purpose to
spite me, I expect."
As the reader is aware, Roswell was mistaken in his supposition, as
Mark obtained the place on his own responsibility.
"The boot-black seems to be putting on airs," said Mrs. Crawford.
"Yes, he pretends to be the guardian of this match boy."
"What's the boy's name?"
"Mark Manton."
"If I were Mr. Baker," said Mrs. Crawford, "I should be afraid to take
a street boy into my employ. Very likely he isn't honest."
"I wish he would steal something," said Roswell, not very charitably.
"Then we could get rid of him, and the boot-black would be pretty well
mortified about it."
"He'll be found out sooner or later," said Mrs. Crawford. "You may
depend on that. You'd better keep a sharp lookout for him, Roswell. If
you catch him in stealing, it will help you with Mr. Baker, or ought
to."
This would have comforted Roswell more, but that he was privately of
opinion that Mark was honest, and would not be likely to give him any
chance of detecting him in stealing. Still, by a little management
on his part, he might cause him to fall under suspicion. It would of
course be miserably mean on his part to implicate a little boy in a
false charge; but Roswell was a mean boy, and he was not scrupulous
where his dislike was concerned. He privately decided to think over
this new plan for getting Mark into trouble.
"Isn't dinner ready, mother?" he asked, rather impatiently.
"It will be in about ten minutes."
"I'm as hungry as a bear."
"You can always do your part at the table," said his cousin
unpleasantly.
"I don't know why I shouldn't. I have to work hard enough."
"You are always talking about your hard work. My belief is that you
don't earn your wages."
"I should think it was a pity if I didn't earn six dollars a week,"
said Roswell.
"Come, James, you're always hard on Roswell," said Mrs. Crawford. "I am
sure he has hard times enough without his own relations turning against
him."
James Gilbert did not reply. He was naturally of a sarcastic turn,
and, seeing Roswell's faults, was not inclined to spare them. He might
have pointed them out, however, in a kindly manner, and then his young
cousin might possibly been benefited; but Gilbert felt very little
interest in Roswell.
Immediately after dinner Roswell took up his cap. His mother observed
this, and inquired, "Where are you going, Roswell?"
"I'm going out to walk."
"Why don't you go with your cousin?"
James Gilbert had also taken his hat.
"He don't want to be bothered with me," said Roswell, and this
statement Gilbert did not take the trouble to contradict.
"Why can't you stay in and read?"
"I haven't got anything to read. Besides I've been cooped up in the
store all day, and I want to breathe a little fresh air."
There was reason in this, and his mother did not gainsay it, but still
she felt that it was not quite safe for a boy to spend his evenings out
in a large city, without any one to look after him.
Roswell crossed Broadway, and, proceeding down Eighth Street, met a boy
of about his own age in front of the Cooper Institute.
"How long have you been waiting, Ralph?" he asked.
"Not long. I only just came up."
"I couldn't get away as soon as I expected. Dinner was rather late."
"Have a cigar, Roswell?" asked Ralph.
"Yes," said Roswell, "I don't mind."
"You'll find these cigars pretty good. I paid ten cents apiece."
"I don't see how you can afford it," said Roswell. "Your cigars must
cost you considerable."
"I don't always buy ten-centers. Generally I pay only five cents."
"Well, that mounts up when you smoke three or four in a day. Let me
see, what wages do you get?"
"Seven dollars a week."
"That's only a dollar more than I get," said Roswell.
"I know one thing, it's miserably small," said Ralph. "We ought to get
twice what we do."
"These shop-keepers are awfully mean," said Roswell, beginning to puff
away at his cigar.
"That's so."
"But still you always seem to have plenty of money. That's what puzzles
me," said Roswell. "I'm always pinched. I have to pay my mother all
my wages but a dollar a week. And what's a dollar?" he repeated,
scornfully.
"Well," said Ralph, "my board costs me all but a dollar. So we are
about even there."
"Do you pay your board out of your earnings?"
"I have to. My governor won't foot the bills, so I have to."
"Still you seem to have plenty of money," persisted Roswell.
"Yes, I look out for that," said Ralph Graham, significantly.
"But I don't see how you manage. I might look out all day, and I
wouldn't be any the better off."
"Perhaps you don't go the right way to work," said his companion,
taking the cigar from his mouth, and knocking off the ashes.
"Then I wish you'd tell me the right way."
"Why, the fact is," said Ralph, slowly, "I make my employer pay me
higher wages than he thinks he does."
"I don't see how you can do that," said Roswell, who didn't yet
understand.
Ralph took the cigar, now nearly smoked out, from his mouth, and threw
it on the pavement. He bent towards Roswell, and whispered something in
his ear. Roswell started and turned pale.
"But," he said, "that's dishonest."
"Hush!" said Ralph, "don't speak so loud. Oughtn't employers to pay
fair wages,--tell me that?"
"Certainly."
"But if they don't and won't, what then?"
"I don't know."
"Well, I do. We must help ourselves, that is all."
"But," said Roswell, "what would be thought of you if it were found
out?"
"There's plenty of clerks that do it. Bless you, it's expected. I heard
a man say once that he expected to lose about so much by his clerks."
"But I think it would be better to pay good wages."
"So do I, only you see they won't do it."
"How much do you--do you make outside of your salary?" asked Roswell.
"From three to five dollars a week."
"I should think they'd find you out."
"I don't let them. I'm pretty careful. Well, what shall we do this
evening? There's a pretty good play at Niblo's. Suppose we go there."
"I haven't got money enough," said Roswell.
"Well, I'll pay for both to-night. You can pay another time."
"All right!" said Roswell, though he did not know when he should have
money enough to return the favor. They crossed to Broadway, and walked
leisurely to Niblo's Garden. The performance lasted till late, and it
was after eleven when Roswell Crawford got into bed.
CHAPTER XVIII.
THE FIRST STEP.
To do Roswell Crawford justice, the idea of taking money from his
employer had never occurred to him until the day when it was suggested
to him by Ralph Graham. The suggestion came to him at an unfortunate
time. He had always felt with a sense of bitter injustice that his
services were poorly compensated, and that his employer was making
money out of him. Yet he knew very well that there was no chance of
an advance. Besides, he really felt the need of more money to keep up
appearances equal to Ralph Graham, and some other not very creditable
acquaintances that he had managed to pick up. So Roswell allowed
Ralph's suggestion to recur to his mind with dangerous frequency. He
was getting familiar with what had at first startled and shocked him.
But it was not at once that he brought his mind to the point. He was
not possessed of much courage, and could not help fearing that he would
get himself into a scrape. It needed a little more urging on the part
of Ralph.
"Well, Roswell," said Ralph, a few evenings after the conversation
recorded in the last chapter, "when are you going to take me to the
theatre?"
"I didn't know I was going to take you at all," said Roswell.
"Come, there's no use in crawling off that way. Didn't I take you to
Niblo's last week?"
"Yes."
"And didn't you promise to take me some night in return?"
"I should like to do it well enough," said Roswell, "but I never have
any money."
"You might have some if you chose."
"The way you mentioned?"
"Yes."
"I don't like to try it."
"Then you are foolish. It's what half the clerks do. They have to."
"Do you think many do it?" said Roswell, irresolutely.
"To be sure they do," said Ralph, confidently.
"But I am sure it would be found out."
"Not if you're careful."
"I shouldn't know how to go about it."
"Then I'll tell you. You're in the store alone some of the time, I
suppose."
"Yes, when Mr. Baker and Mr. Jones are gone to dinner."
"Where is the money kept?"
"There are two drawers. The one that has the most money in it is kept
locked, and Mr. Baker carries away the key with him. He leaves a few
dollars in another drawer, but nothing could be taken from that drawer
without being missed."
"Does he keep much money in the first drawer?"
"I expect so."
"Then," said Ralph, promptly, "you must manage to get into that."
"But how am I to do it?" asked Roswell. "Didn't I tell you that it was
kept locked, and that Mr. Baker took the key?"
"I can't say you are very smart. Roswell," said Ralph, a little
contemptuously.
"Tell me what you mean, then."
"What is easier than to get a key made that will fit the drawer?
All you'll have to do is to take an impression of the lock with
sealing-wax, and carry it to a locksmith. He'll make you a key for two
shillings."
"I don't know," said Roswell, undecidedly. "I don't quite like to do
it."
"Do just as you please," said Ralph; "only if I carry you to the
theatre I expect you to return the compliment."
"Well, I'll think of it," said Roswell.
"There is another way you can do," suggested Ralph, who was full of
evil suggestions, and was perhaps the most dangerous counsellor that
Roswell could have had at this time.
"What is it?"
"If you make any sales while you are alone you might forget to put the
money into the drawer."
"Yes, I might do that."
"And ten to one Baker would never suspect. Of course he doesn't know
every book he has in his store or the exact amount of stationery he
keeps on hand."
"No, I suppose not."
"You might begin that way. There couldn't be any danger of detection."
This suggestion struck Roswell more favorably than the first, as it
seemed safer. Without giving any decided answer, he suffered the
thought to sink into his mind, and occupy his thoughts.
The next day when about the middle of the day Roswell found himself
alone, a customer came in and bought a package of envelopes, paying
twenty-five cents.
With a half-guilty feeling Roswell put this sum into his pocket.
"Mr. Baker will never miss a package of envelopes," he thought.
He sold two or three other articles, but the money received for these
he put into the drawer. He did not dare to take too much at first.
Indeed, he took a little credit to himself, so strangely had his ideas
of honesty got warped, for not taking more when he might have done so
as well as not.
Mr. Baker returned, and nothing was said. As might have been expected,
he did not miss the small sum which Roswell had appropriated.
That evening Roswell bought a couple of cigars with the money he had
stolen (we might as well call things by their right names), and treated
Ralph to one.
"There's a splendid play on at Wallack's," said he, suggestively.
"Perhaps we'll go to-morrow evening," said Roswell.
"That's the way to talk," said Ralph, looking keenly at Roswell. "Is
there anything new with you?"
"Not particularly," said Roswell, coloring a little, for he did not
care to own what he had done to his companion, though it was from him
that he had received the advice.
The next day when Roswell was again alone, a lady entered the shop.
"Have you got La Fontaine's Fables in English?" she asked. "I have
asked at half a dozen stores, but I can't find it. I am afraid it is
out of print."
"Yes, I believe we have it," said Roswell.
He remembered one day when he was looking for a book he wanted to read,
that he had come across a shop-worn copy of La Fontaine's Fables. It
was on a back shelf, in an out of-the-way place. He looked for it, and
found his memory had served him correctly.
"Here it is," he said, handing it down.
"I am very glad to get it," said the lady. "How much will it be?"
"The regular price is a dollar and a quarter, but as this is a little
shop-worn you may have it for a dollar."
"Very well."
The lady drew out a dollar bill from her purse, and handed it to
Roswell.
He held it in his hand till she was fairly out of the door. Then the
thought came into his mind, "Why should I not keep this money? Mr.
Baker would never know. Probably he has quite forgotten that such a
book was in his stock."
Besides, as the price of a ticket to the family circle at Wallack's
was only thirty cents, this sum would carry in him and his friend, and
there would be enough left for an ice-cream after they had got through.
The temptation was too much for poor Roswell I call him poor, because I
pity any boy who foolishly yields to such a temptation for the sake of
a temporary gratification.
Roswell put the money into his vest-pocket, and shortly afterwards Mr.
Baker returned to the store.
"Have you sold anything, Roswell?" he inquired, on entering.
"Yes, sir. I have sold a slate, a quire of notepaper, and one of Oliver
Optic's books."
Roswell showed Mr. Baker the slate, on which, as required by his
employer, he had kept a record of sales.
Mr. Baker made no remark, but appeared to think all was right.
So the afternoon passed away without any incident worthy of mention.
In the evening Roswell met Ralph Graham, as he had got into the habit
of doing.
"Well, Roswell, I feel just like going to the theatre to-night," were
his first words of salutation.
"Well, we'll go," said Roswell.
"Good! You've got money to buy the tickets, then?"
"Yes," said Roswell, with an air of importance. "What's the play?"
"It's a London play that's had a great run. Tom Hastings tells me it is
splendid. You take me there to night, and I'll take you to the New York
Circus some evening next week."
This arrangement was very satisfactory to Roswell, who had never
visited the circus, and had a great desire to do so. At an early hour
the boys went to the theatre, and succeeded in obtaining front seats
in the family circle. Roswell managed to enjoy the play, although
unpleasant thoughts of how the money was obtained by which the tickets
were procured, would occasionally intrude upon him. But the fascination
of the stage kept them from troubling him much.
When the performance was over, he suggested an ice-cream.
"With all my heart," said Ralph. "I feel warm and thirsty, and an
ice-cream will cool my throat."
So they adjourned to a confectionery establishment nearly opposite, and
Roswell, with an air of importance, called for the creams. They sat
leisurely over them, and it was nearly half past eleven when Roswell
got home.
"What keeps you out so late, Roswell?" asked his mother, anxiously, for
she was still up.
"I was at the theatre," said Roswell.
"Where did you get the money?"
"It's only thirty cents to the family circle," said Roswell,
carelessly. "I'm tired, and will go right up to bed."
So he closed the discussion, not caring to answer many inquiries as to
his evening's amusement. His outlay for tickets and for the ice-cream
afterwards had just used up the money he had stolen, and all that
he had to compensate for the loss of his integrity was a headache,
occasioned by late hours, and the warm and confined atmosphere at the
theatre.
CHAPTER XIX.
RICHARD HUNTER IS PROMOTED.
It was with eager impatience that Mark awaited the return of Richard
Hunter, to communicate to him his good luck in securing a place. The
thought that he had secured it by his own exertions gave him great
satisfaction.
"I've got a place," were his first words, as Richard entered the house.
"Already?" asked Richard Hunter. "You have been quite smart, Mark. How
did you manage to obtain it?"
Mark gave the particulars, which need not be repeated.
"What kind of a store is it?"
"A bookstore."
"What is the name of your employer?"
"Baker."
"Baker's bookstore!" repeated Richard, turning to Fosdick. "That is
where our particular friend, Roswell Crawford, is employed."
"Yes," said Mark; "there's a boy there about sixteen or seventeen. I
believe that is his name."
"I am not sure whether his being there will make it pleasant to you.
Does he know that you are a friend of mine?"
"Yes," said Mark; "he inquired particularly about you, Mr. Hunter."
"He's very fond of me," said Dick; "I suppose he sent me his love."
"No," said Mark, smiling; "he didn't speak as if he loved you very
much."
"He doesn't like me very much. I am afraid when he gets to be president
I shan't stand much chance of an office. He didn't try to bully
you,--did he?"
"He said he could get me sent off if I wasn't careful to please him."
"That sounds like Roswell."
"He talked as if he was one of the firm," said Mark; "but when Mr.
Baker came in, he began to scold him for not dusting the books. After
that I didn't think so much of what he said."
"It's a way he has," said Fosdick. "He don't like me much either, as I
got a place that he was trying for."
"If he bullies you, just let me know," said Richard. "Perhaps I can
stop it."
"I am not afraid," said Mark. "Mr. Baker is there most of the time, and
he wouldn't dare to bully me before him."
Sunday morning came,--a day when the noisy streets were hushed, and the
hum of business was stilled. Richard Hunter and Fosdick still attended
the Sunday school, to which they had now belonged for over two years.
They were still members of Mr. Greyson's class, and were much better
informed in religious matters than formerly. Frequently--for they were
favorite scholars with Mr. Greyson--he invited them home to dine at
his handsome residence. Both boys were now perfectly self-possessed
on such occasions. They knew how to behave at the table with perfect
decorum, and no one would have judged from their dress, manners, or
conversation, that they had not always been accustomed to the same
style of living.
Mr. and Mrs. Greyson noticed with pleasure the great improvement in
their protegés, and always welcomed them with kind hospitality. But
there was another member of the family who always looked forward with
pleasure to seeing them. This was Ida, now a young lady of thirteen,
who had from the first taken an especial fancy to Dick, as she always
called him.
"Well, Mark," said Richard Hunter, on Sunday morning, "wouldn't you
like to go to Sunday school with me?"
"Yes," said Mark. "Mother always wanted me to go to Sunday school, but
she was so poor that she could not dress me in suitable clothes."
"There is nothing to prevent your going now. We shall be ready in about
half an hour."
At the appointed time the three set out. The distance was not great,
the church being situated four blocks farther up town on Fifth Avenue.
They chanced to meet Mr. Greyson on the church steps.
"Good-morning, Richard. Good-morning, Henry," he said. Then, glancing
at Mark, "Who is your young friend?"
"His name is Mark Manton," said Richard. "He is my ward."
"Indeed! I had not thought of you in the character of a guardian," said
Mr. Greyson, smiling.
"I should like to have him enter one of the younger classes," said
Richard.
"Certainly, I will gladly find a place for him. Perhaps you can take
him in your class."
"In my class!" repeated Richard, in surprise.
"Yes, I thought I had mentioned to you that Mr. Benton was about to
leave the city, and is obliged to give up his class. I would like to
have you take it."
"But am I qualified to be a teacher?" asked Richard, who had never
before thought of being invited to take a class.
"I think you have excellent qualifications for such a position. It
speaks well for you, however, that you should feel a modest hesitation
on the subject."
"I think Fosdick would make a better teacher than I."
"Oh, I intend to draft him into the service also. I shall ask him to
take the next vacancy."
The class assigned to our friend Dick (we are sometimes tempted to
call him by his old, familiar name) consisted of boys of from ten to
eleven years of age. Among these Mark was placed. Although he had
never before attended a Sunday school, his mother, who was an excellent
woman, had given him considerable religious instruction, so that he was
about as well advanced as the rest of the class.
Richard easily adapted himself to the new situation in which he was
placed. He illustrated the lesson in a familiar and oftentimes quaint
manner, so that he easily commanded the attention of the boys, who were
surprised when the time came for the lesson to close.
"I am glad you are my teacher, Mr. Hunter," said one of the boys at the
close of the service.
"Thank you," said Richard, who felt gratified at the compliment. "It's
new business to me, but I hope I shall be able to interest you."
"Won't you come and dine with us?" asked Mr. Greyson, as they were
leaving the church.
Richard Hunter hesitated.
"I don't know if Mark can find his way home," he said with hesitation.
"Yes, I can, Mr. Hunter," said Mark. "Don't trouble yourself about me."
"But I mean to have him come too," said Mr. Greyson. "Our table is a
large one, as you know, and we can accommodate three as well as two."
"Do come, Dick," said Ida Greyson.
Richard was seldom able to resist a request preferred by Ida, and
surrendered at discretion. So, as usual, Fosdick walked on with Mr.
Greyson, this time with Mark beside him, while Richard walked with Ida.
"Who is that little boy, Dick?" asked the young lady.
"That's my ward, Miss Ida," said Richard.
"You don't mean to say you are his guardian, Dick?"
"Yes, I believe I am."
"Why," said the lively young lady, "I always thought guardians were
old, and cross, and bald-headed."
"I don't know but that description will suit me after a while," said
Dick. "My hair has been coming out lately."
"Has it, really?" said Ida, who took this seriously. "I hope you won't
be bald. I don't think you would look well."
"But I might wear a wig."
"I don't like wigs," said the young lady, decidedly. "If you were a
lady now, you might wear a cap. How funny you'd look in a cap!" and she
burst out into a peal of merry laughter.
"I think a cap would be more becoming to you," said Richard.
"Do you ever scold your ward?" asked Ida.
"No, he's a pretty good boy. He don't need it."
"Where did you get acquainted with him? Have you known him long?"
"He was taken sick at the door of our office one day. So I had him
carried to my boarding-place, and took care of him till he got well."
"That was very good of you," said Ida, approvingly. "What did he use to
do?"
"He was a match boy."
"Does he sell matches now?"
"No; he has got a place in a bookstore."
"What did you say his name was?"
"Mark."
"That's a pretty good name, but I don't like it so well as Dick."
"Thank you," said Richard. "I am glad you like my name."
At this moment they were passing the Fifth Avenue Hotel. Standing on
the steps were two acquaintances of ours, Roswell Crawford and Ralph
Graham. They had cigars in their mouths, and there was a swaggering
air about them, which was not likely to prepossess any sensible person
in their favor. They had not been to church, but had spent the morning
in sauntering about the city, finally bringing up at the Fifth Avenue
Hotel, where, posting themselves conspicuously on the steps, they
watched the people passing by on their way from church.
Richard Hunter bowed to Roswell, as it was his rule never to be found
wanting in politeness. Roswell was ill-mannered enough not to return
the salutation.
"Who is that, Roswell?" asked Ralph Graham.
"It's a boot-black," said Roswell, sneeringly.
"What do you mean? I am speaking of that nice-looking young fellow that
bowed to you just now."
"His name is Hunter. He used to be a boot-black, as I told you; but
he's got up in the world, and now he's putting on airs."
"He seems to have got into good company, at any rate. He is walking
with the daughter of Mr. Greyson, a rich merchant down town."
"He's got impudence enough for anything," said Roswell, with a feeling
of bitter envy which he could not conceal. "It really makes me sick to
see him strutting about as if he were a gentleman's son."
"Like you," suggested Ralph, slyly; for he had already been informed by
Roswell, on various occasions, that he was "a gentleman's son."
"Yes," said Roswell, "I'm a gentleman's son, if I'm not so lucky as
some people. Did you see that small boy in front?"
"Walking with Mr. Greyson?"
"Yes, I suppose so."
"What of him?"
"That's our errand boy."
"Is it?" asked Ralph, in some surprise. "He seems to be one of the
lucky kind too."
"He sold matches about the streets till a few weeks ago," said Roswell,
spitefully.
"He sold them to some purpose, it seems, for he's evidently going home
to dine with Mr. Greyson."
"Mr. Greyson seems to be very fond of low company. That's all I can
say."
"When you and I get to be as rich as he is, we can choose our own
company."
"I hope I shall choose better than he."
"Well, let's drop them," said Ralph, who was getting tired of the
subject. "I must be getting home to dinner."
"So must I."
"Come round to my room, after dinner, and we'll have another smoke."
"Yes, I'll come round. I suppose mother'll be wanting me to go to
church with her, but I've got tired of going to church."
CHAPTER XX.
THE MADISON CLUB.
Two days afterwards, when Roswell as usual met his friend Ralph, the
latter said, with an air of importance:--
"I've got news for you, Roswell."
"What is it?" inquired Roswell.
"You've been unanimously elected a member of our club."
"Your club?"
"Yes; didn't I ever mention it to you?"
"No."
"Well, I believe I didn't. You see I intended to propose your name as a
member, and not feeling certain whether you would be elected, I thought
I had better not mention it to you."
"What is the name of the club?" asked Roswell, eagerly.
"The Madison Club."
"What made you call it that?"
"Why, you see, there's one fellow in the club that lives on Madison
Avenue, and we thought that would be an aristocratic name, so we chose
it."
Roswell liked whatever was aristocratic, and the name pleased him.
"Did you say I was unanimously elected, Ralph?" he asked.
"Yes; I proposed your name at our meeting last night. It was on account
of that, that I couldn't meet you as usual. But hereafter we can go
together to the meetings."
"How many fellows belong?"
"Twenty. We don't mean to have more than twenty-five. We are quite
particular whom we elect."
"Of course," said Roswell, in a tone of importance. "You wouldn't want
a set of low fellows like that Dick Hunter."
"No. By the way, I've got somewhere your notification from the
secretary. Here it is."
He drew from his pocket a note adorned with a large and elaborate seal,
which Roswell, opening found read as follows:--
  "MADISON CLUB.
  "Mr. ROSWELL CRAWFORD.
  "Sir:--I have the honor of informing you that at the last regular
  meeting of the Madison Club you were unanimously elected a member.
  "Yours respectfully,
  "JAMES TRACY."
This document Roswell read with much satisfaction. It sounded well
to say that he was a member of the Madison Club, and his unanimous
election could only be regarded as a high compliment.
"I will join," he said, pompously. "When is the next meeting?"
"Next Tuesday evening."
"Where does the society meet?"
"In a room on Fourth Avenue. You can come round early, and we will go
together."
"All right. What do you do at the meetings?"
"Well, we smoke, and tell stories, and have a good time. Generally
there are some eatables provided. However, you'll know all about it,
when you join. Oh, by the way, there's one thing I forgot to tell you,"
added Ralph. "There's an initiation fee of five dollars."
"A fee of five dollars!" repeated Roswell, soberly.
"Yes."
"What is it for?"
"To defray expenses, of course. There's the rent, and lights, and
stationery, and the eatables. They always, I think, have an initiation
fee at clubs."
"Are there any other expenses?"
"Not much. There's only a dollar a month. That isn't much."
"I don't know how I'm going to raise the five dollars," said Roswell,
soberly. "I could manage the dollar a month afterwards."
"Oh, you'll think of some way," said Ralph.
"My mother wouldn't give it to me, so there's no use asking her."
"Why can't you pay it out of your extra wages?" said Ralph,
significantly.
"I shouldn't dare to take such a large sum," said Roswell. "They would
find me out."
"Not if you're careful."
"They don't keep but a few dollars in the drawer at one time."
"But didn't you tell me there was another drawer?"
"Yes; but that is always kept locked."
"Open it then."
"I have no key."
"Get one that will fit it then."
"I don't like to do that."
"Well, it's nothing to me," said Ralph, "only I should like to have
you belong to the club, and you can't unless you are able to pay the
initiation fee."
"I would like very much to belong," said Roswell, irresolutely.
"I know you would enjoy it. We have splendid times."
"I'll see what I can do to raise the money," said Roswell.
"That's the way to talk. You'll manage to get it some way."
It was a great temptation to Roswell. The more he thought of it, the
more he thought he should like to say that he was a member of the
Madison Club. He had a weak love of gentility, and he was persuaded
that it would improve his social standing. But he did not wish to adopt
the course recommended by Ralph if there was any other way of getting
the money. He determined, therefore, first to make the effort to obtain
the money from his mother on some pretext or other. By the time he
reached home, which was at an earlier hour than usual, he had arranged
his pretext.
"I am glad you are home early," said Mrs. Crawford.
"Yes, I thought I'd come home early to-night. Mother, I wish you'd let
me have four dollars."
"What for, Roswell?"
"I want to buy a new hat. This one is getting shabby."
Roswell's plan was, if he could obtain the four dollars from his
mother, to make up the extra dollar out of sales unaccounted for. As to
the failure to buy the hat, he could tell his mother that he had lost
the money, or make some other excuse. That thought did not trouble him
much. But he was not destined to succeed.
"I am sorry you are dissatisfied with your hat, Roswell," said Mrs.
