and it is my duty to recover it if I can, danger or no danger."
Mr. Turner secretly admired the pluck of Rufus; but he was not a man
given to compliments, so he only said, quietly, "Well, Rufus, you shall
have the week I promised you. I have no doubt you will do your best. I
shall not be surprised, however, if you fail."
So Rufus entered upon his second day's search.
He went up Chatham Street, and explored most of the streets intersecting
it, visiting many places which he remembered as former haunts of his
step-father. But he was quite off the track here. Martin's employment
now was on the other side of the city, near the North River, and he had
no longer occasion to visit his old haunts. Besides, he had again been
sent over to New Jersey, and did not get back to the city at all till
late in the afternoon.
The next day Martin complained of headache, and was permitted to remain
at home. He did not think it prudent to be out during the day; but
easily solaced himself in his confinement with whiskey and cigars, of
which he had laid in a good supply. He was sitting in his shirt-sleeves
at the front window, looking through the blinds, which were always
closed, when his eyes lighted on Rufus passing on the opposite side of
the street.
"He's looking for me," exclaimed Martin to himself, observing that Rufus
was looking about him as he walked.
"Who's looking for you?" asked his confederate, Smith, who happened just
then to enter the room.
"My undootiful son. Look, there he is," said Martin, nervously. "I
wonder if he has heard about my living here."
Smith went to the window, and looked out.
"He looks resolute and determined," said Smith. "We must pull his
teeth."
"What do you mean?"
"I mean we must put it out of his power to do you harm."
"How are we going to do that?"
"Wait a minute and I'll tell you."
Smith left the room hastily, and after a brief interval returned.
"I think I'll fetch it," he said.
"What have you done?" asked Martin.
"I've sent Humpy to follow your son. He's to carry him a message from
you."
"What do you mean?" asked Martin, alarmed.
"Don't be afraid. It's all right."
"But I don't understand it. I didn't send any message. What was it?"
"I'll tell you. If I'm not mistaken Humpy will bring your son back with
him, so that I shall have the pleasure of reuniting parent and child."
"You don't mean to say you are going to bring Rufus here?" said Martin,
his lower jaw falling. "You aint going to betray me, are you?"
"Stuff and nonsense! What are you thinking of? All you need understand
is, that the boy is getting dangerous. He is following you round as if
he meant something, and that must be stopped. I mean to get him into the
house, but I don't mean to part company with him very soon."
Smith here briefly detailed the instructions which he had given to his
errand-boy. Martin listened with much satisfaction.
"What a head you've got!" he said admiringly.
"I'm generally ready for an emergency," remarked Smith, complacently.
"You've got to get up early in the morning to get ahead of me."
We must now follow Smith's messenger, and we shall ascertain that
gentleman's plan.
Humpy was a boy of sixteen, very short, in fact almost a dwarf, and, as
his name implies, disfigured by a hump. He was sharp, however, and
secretive, and, though he could not help understanding the character of
the men who employed him, was not likely to betray them. He had a pride
in deserving the confidence which he saw was reposed in him.
After receiving the instructions of his principal, he crossed the
street, and followed Rufus at a little distance, being particular to
keep him in sight. Our hero turned a corner, and so did he. He then
quickened his pace and came up with him.
"Was you a-lookin' for anybody in particular?" he said.
"What makes you ask?" said Rufus, facing round upon him.
"Maybe I could help you."
"Perhaps you know who I am after," said Rufus, looking at him steadily.
"You're looking for a man named Martin, aint you?"
"Do you know where I can find him?" asked Rufus, eagerly.
"Yes, I do. He sent me after you."
"He sent you!" repeated our hero, hardly believing his ears.
"Yes; he wants to see you."
"What does he want to see me for?" asked Rufus, inclined to be
suspicious.
"There's something he's got of yours that he wants to return," said
Humpy, in a low voice, looking around cautiously.
Rufus was more and more astonished. Was it possible that Martin's
conscience troubled him, and that he wanted to make restitution? He
could hardly believe this, knowing what he did of his step-father.
Martin was about the last man he would have suspected of being troubled
in any such way.
"Yes, he has got something of mine," he said aloud. "Does he want to
return it?"
"Yes, he's sorry he took it. He's afraid you'll set the copps on him."
"So he's frightened," thought Rufus. This seemed to throw light on the
new phase of affairs. He had never regarded his step-father as very
brave, and now concluded that he was alarmed about the consequences of
the theft.
"If he'll return what he took, all right," said Rufus, venturing to make
this promise on his own responsibility; "he shan't be touched. Where is
he?"
"Not far off," said Humpy.
"Tell him to bring it to me, and I'll give my word not to have him
arrested."
"He can't come."
"Why can't he?"
"He's sick."
"Where?"
"In a house near by. He wants you to come and see him."
Rufus hesitated.
"What's the matter with him?" he asked.
"He caught a cold, and is threatened with a fever," said the boy,
glibly. "If you want to see him, I'll lead you where he is."
"All right! Go ahead!" said Rufus, thoroughly deceived by the boy's
plausible story.
"You'll promise not to set the copps on him, after you've got the box?"
said Humpy.
"Yes, I promise."
"Then follow me."
Rufus followed, congratulating himself that things were coming out
satisfactorily. He had no hesitation in making the promise he did, for
he felt sure that he would be sustained by his employer. At any rate, he
determined that, having pledged his word to Martin, nothing should make
him break it.
Humpy stumped along, followed by Rufus. They turned the corner again,
and the boy guided him at once to the counterfeiter's den.
"He's in there," said Humpy, with a jerk of his forefinger. "Come
along!"
He mounted the steps, and opened the door, which had been left unlocked.
"He's upstairs," said Humpy. "Come up."
Rufus, without suspicion, followed his humpbacked guide up the narrow
staircase. They had scarcely reached the top, when Smith, coming out of
a room on the floor below, locked the outer door, and put the key in his
pocket. This Rufus did not see, or it would have aroused his suspicion.
The boy opened the door of a chamber at the head of the staircase. "Go
in there," he said.
Rufus entered, and looked around him, but saw no one. He did not have to
wait long. A step was heard at the door, and James Martin entered the
room, apparently in perfect health.
"I'm glad to see you, Rufus," he said with a triumphant grin. "You've
been such an undootiful son that I didn't much expect you'd come to see
your sick father."
Rufus sprang to his feet in dismay. The whole plot flashed upon him at
once, and he realized that he had walked into a trap with his eyes wide
open.
CHAPTER XIX.
IN A TRAP.
Our hero's first impulse, on finding himself entrapped, was to escape.
He sprang towards the door, but Martin quickly grasped him by the arm,
and forced him back.
"No you don't!" he said, with emphasis. "I want you to stay with me."
"Let me go!" exclaimed Rufus, struggling to escape.
"Sorry I couldn't oblige you," said Martin, with a grin. "Can't you stay
with your sick father a few days?"
"You've played me a mean trick," said Rufus, indignantly.
"What was you walkin' through this street for?" asked Martin. "Wasn't it
because you wanted to see me?"
"Yes," answered our hero.
"Well, you've got what you wanted," said Martin, smiling maliciously. "I
know'd you'd never find me if I didn't send out for you. Was there
anything partic'lar you wish to say to me?"
"Yes," said Rufus, bluntly. "I want you to give me back that tin box you
stole from me the other day."
"What do I know about any tin box?" asked Martin, not knowing that it
had been spoken of by Humpy in the street.
"You needn't deny it, Mr. Martin. The boy you sent after me told me you
took it."
"He did, did he?" said Martin, seeing that he must try another tack.
"Well, s'posin' I did, what then?"
"The law may have something to say. You'll stand a chance of going to
Sing Sing for a few years."
"You'd have to prove I took it," said Martin, uneasily. "I only told the
boy to say so, so's to get you in here. I read about the robbery in the
papers."
"I recognized you at the time, and am ready to swear to you," said
Rufus, firmly.
This was rather imprudent, for it made Martin even more determined to
prevent our hero's escape.
"If that's your game," he said, "I'll see you don't get a chance to
swear to any lies."
"What do you mean to do with me?" demanded Rufus.
"I aint decided yet," said Martin. "Your health's so delicate that I
don't think it'll agree with you to go out in the street."
"Are you going to confine me here?"
"Maybe," said his step-father. "I shan't charge you nothing for board.
Your cheerful company'll pay me for that."
"Mr. Martin," said Rufus, "I've got a proposition to make to you."
"Go ahead and make it then."
"You've got yourself into a scrape about that tin box."
"I thought you was the one that had got into a scrape," said Martin,
jocularly.
"So I have; but mine is of a different kind from yours. You run the risk
of going to prison."
"And you're in prison already," said Martin, with a grin. "Seems to me
I've got the best of it so far."
"Perhaps you have; but I wouldn't exchange with you for all that. Now
I've got a proposition to make."
"That's what you said before."
"If you will restore the tin box, and let me go free, I'll see that you
are not arrested for what you've done."
"You're very kind," said Martin; "but that won't pay me for my trouble."
"If I'll get you out of your present danger?"
"I don't know about that. S'posin' I was to do as you say, the first
thing you'd do after you got out would be to set the copps on me."
"No, I wouldn't. I'd go to prison first myself."
This proposition had some effect upon Martin. He realized that he was in
danger, and felt that he had been very poorly paid for his risk and
trouble. He was inclined to believe Rufus would keep his word, but he
knew also that matters had gone too far. Smith, he was sure, would not
consent to any such arrangement, and without him he could do nothing.
Besides, it was a satisfaction to him to feel that he had Rufus in his
power, and he had no desire to lose that advantage by setting him free.
Tyrant and bully as he was by nature, he meant to gratify his malice at
our hero's expense.
"I couldn't do it, Rufus," he said. "There's another man in it, and he's
got the box."
Rufus looked sharply at Martin to ascertain if he was speaking the
truth. He decided that it was as his step-father stated, and, if this
was the case, he would have more than one enemy to deal with.
"Does the other man live here?" he asked.
"Maybe he does, and maybe he doesn't."
"Who is he?"
"Maybe it's the Emperor of Chiny, and maybe it isn't. What would you
give to know?"
"Not much," said Rufus, assuming an indifferent tone. "You're the man
that took the box,--that's enough for me."
"He put me up to it," said Martin, unguardedly.
"I thought Martin wasn't smart enough to plan the robbery himself," said
Rufus to himself. He resolved to appear indifferent to this information,
in the hope of learning more.
"You can settle that among yourselves," he said, quietly. "If you
consented to do it, you're as much to blame as he."
At this moment Smith, influenced by curiosity, opened the door and
entered.
"This is my undootiful son, Mr. Smith," said Martin.
"So his name's Smith," thought Rufus. "I wonder whether it's his real
name, or a false one."
"I'm glad to see you, young man," said Smith. "So you've called to see
your father?"
"He isn't my father."
"You see how undootiful he is," said Martin. "He won't own me."
"We'll teach him to be more dutiful before we get through with him,"
said Smith.
"Mr. Smith," said Rufus, "I'm not here of my own accord. I dare say you
know that. But as long as I am here, I'd like to ask you if you know
anything about a tin box that was taken from me the other day by Mr.
Martin."
"By your father?"
"By Mr. Martin," said Rufus, determined not to admit the relationship.
"What should I know about it?"
"Mr. Martin tells me that, though he took it, somebody else set him to
do it. I thought you might be the one."
"Did you say that?" demanded Smith, looking angrily at Martin.
"I was only foolin'," returned Martin, who began to think he had made a
blunder.
"It's my belief that you're a fool," retorted Smith. "You'd better be
careful what you tell your son. Young man," turning to Rufus, "as to the
tin box you speak of, I can tell you nothing. Your father says that he
has recovered some property which you stole from him a while since, and
I suppose that may be the tin box you refer to."
"That isn't true. It belonged to Mr. Turner, my employer, or rather to a
customer of his."
"That's nothing to me. Mr. Martin boards with me, and as long as he pays
for his board I don't want to pry into his affairs. If he has taken a
tin box from you, I presume he had a better right to it than you had.
Are you going to bring your son down to dinner, Mr. Martin?"
"I guess he'd better eat his victuals up here," said Martin.
"Just as you say. I can send Humpy with them. We shall have dinner in
about an hour."
"All right; I'll go down now if my dootiful son can spare me."
As Rufus did not urge him to stay, Martin left the room with Smith,
taking care to lock the door after him.
"What's the boy's name?" asked Smith, abruptly.
"Rufus."
"He's smart. I can tell that by his looks."
"Ye-es, he's smart enough," said Martin, hesitatingly; "but he's as
obstinate as a pig."
"Likes to have his own way, eh?"
"That's what he does."
"He'd make a good boy for our business," said Smith, musingly.
Martin shook his head.
"It wouldn't do," he said.
"Why not?"
"He wants to be honest," said Martin, contemptuously. "We couldn't trust
him."
"Then there's only one thing to do."
"What's that?"
"We must keep him close. We mustn't on any account allow him to escape."
"I'll look after that," said Martin, nodding. "I've had hard work enough
to get hold of him. He won't get away in a hurry."
"If he does, you'll be arrested."
"And you too," suggested Martin.
"Why should I?"
"Didn't you put me up to taking the box, and haven't you taken half what
was in it?"
"Look here," said Smith, menacingly, "you'd better stop that. You've
already told the boy more than you ought. If you are taken through your
own carelessness, mind what you are about, and don't split on me. If
you do, it'll be the worse day's work you ever did. Imprisonment isn't
the worse thing that can happen to a man."
Martin understood what his confederate meant, and the intended effect
was produced. He began to think that Smith was a desperate man, and
capable of murdering him, or instigating his murder, in case of
treachery. This made him feel rather uneasy, in spite of his capture of
Rufus.
Meanwhile, our hero, left to himself, began to examine the apartment in
which he was confined. The door had been locked by Martin, as we have
already said. This was the only mode of exit from the apartment, except
what was afforded by two windows. Rufus walked to them, and looked out.
The room was in the back part of the house, and these windows looked out
into a back yard. He could see the rear portions of the houses on a
parallel street, and speculated as to the chances of escape this way. As
the room was only on the second floor, the distance to the ground was
not great. He could easily swing off the window-sill without injury.
Though he knew it would not be well to attempt escape now when Martin
and Smith were doubtless on the lookout, he thought he would open the
window softly and take a survey. He tried one window, but could not
raise it. He tried the other, with like want of success. He thought at
first that the difficulty lay in their sticking, but, on closer
examination, he ascertained that both were firmly fastened by nails,
which accounted for their being immovable.
CHAPTER XX.
HUMPY.
"I might break the window," thought Rufus; but it occurred to him at
once that the noise would probably be heard. Besides, if there was any
one in the room below, he would very likely be seen descending from the
window. If this plan were adopted at all, he must wait till evening.
Meanwhile some other way of escape might suggest itself.
The room was of moderate size,--about fifteen feet square. A cheap
carpet covered the floor. A pine bedstead occupied one corner. There
were three or four chairs, a bureau, and a bedstead.
Rufus sat down, and turned the matter over in his mind. He couldn't make
up his mind what Martin's business was, but decided that it was
something unlawful, and that he was either employed by Smith, or
connected in some way with him. It seemed to him probable that his
step-father, in waylaying him and stealing the tin box, had acted under
the direction of Smith, and that probably the box was at that very
moment in the possession of the superior villain.
"If I could only find the box and escape with it," thought Rufus, "that
would set me right with Mr. Turner."
But there seemed little chance of that. It did not seem very probable
even that he could escape from the room in which he was confined, much
less carry out the plan he had in view.
While he was thinking over his situation, the key turned in the lock,
and the door was opened. Rufus looked up, expecting to see Martin; but
instead of his step-father there entered the boy already referred to as
Humpy.
Humpy carried in his hand a plate of meat and vegetables.
"Here's your dinner," he said, laying the plate down, while he locked
the door behind him.
"Look here, Johnny," said Rufus, "you served me a mean trick."
Humpy chuckled.
"You came in just as innocent," he said. "It was jolly."
"Maybe it is, but I don't see it. You told me a lie."
"Didn't you find the man you was after?" said Humpy.
"You told me he was sick."
"So he is. He's in delicate health, and couldn't go to business to-day."
"What is his business?" asked Rufus, a little too eagerly.
Humpy put his thumbs to his nose, and twirled his fingers with a grin of
intelligence.
"Don't you wish you knew?" he said tantalizingly.
"Do you know anything about the tin box?" asked Rufus, seeing that his
former question was not likely to be answered.
"Maybe I do."
"It's in this house."
"Oh, is it? Well, if you know that, there's no use of my telling you."
"I can't make much of him," thought Rufus. "He's a young imp, and it
isn't easy to get round him."
He looked at Humpy meditatively, and it occurred to him whether it would
not be well to spring upon him, snatch the key, release himself from the
room, and dash downstairs. So far as the boy was concerned, this plan
was practicable. Rufus was much his superior in strength, and could
master him without difficulty. But, doubtless, Martin and Smith were
below. They would hear the noise of the struggle, and would cut off his
flight. Evidently that plan would not work. Another suggested itself to
him.
"Johnny," said he, "don't you want to make some money?"
Here he attacked the boy on his weak side. Humpy was fond of money. He
had already scraped together about twenty dollars from the meagre pay he
received, and had it carefully secreted.
"Of course I do," he answered. "How'm I to do it?"
"I'll tell you. That tin box contained property of value. It doesn't
belong to me. It belongs to Mr. Turner, the banker. I was trying to
recover it when you got me to come in here this morning. Now what I
want to say, is this. Get that tin box for me, and help me to get away
with it, and it'll be worth fifty dollars to you."
Fifty dollars! Humpy's eyes sparkled when he heard the sum named; but
prudence came to his aid, fortified by suspicion.
"Who's a-goin' to pay it?" he asked.
"Mr. Turner."
"S'posin' he don't?"
"Then I will."
"Where'd you raise the money?"
"I'm not rich, but I'm worth a good deal more than that. I'd rather pay
it out of my own pocket than not get back that box."
But if Humpy was fond of money, he had also a rude sense of honor, which
taught him to be faithful to his employer. He did want the money, and
then there was something in our hero's look that made him pretty sure
that he would keep his promise. So he put away the seductive temptation,
though reluctantly.
"I aint a-goin' to do it," he said, doggedly.
"Perhaps you'll think better of it," said Rufus, who, in spite of the
boy's manner, saw the struggle in his mind. "If you do, just let me
know."
"I've got to be goin'," said Humpy, and, unlocking the door, he went
out, locking it again directly.
Rufus turned his attention to the dinner, which he found of good
quality. Despite his imprisonment, his appetite was excellent, and he
ate all there was of it.
"I must keep up my strength at any rate," he said to himself; "I may
need it."
Meanwhile, as there was no longer anything to dread, Rufus being a
prisoner, Martin went out in the service of his employer.
"Now," thought he, reflecting with satisfaction on his signal triumph
over Rufus, "if I only knew where Rose was, I'd go after her, and her
brother shouldn't get hold of her again in a hurry. He's got enough to
do to take care of himself."
This was pleasant to think about; but Martin had not the least idea
where Rose was, and was not likely to find out.
Meanwhile something happened in the counterfeiter's den, which was
destined to prove of advantage to Rufus.
Smith sent Humpy out on an errand. The boy was detained unavoidably, and
returned an hour later than he was expected. Smith was already in an
ill-temper, which the late return of his emissary aggravated.
"What made you so late?" he demanded, with lowering brow.
"I couldn't help it," said Humpy.
"Don't tell me that!" roared Smith. "You stopped to play on the way; I
know you did."
"No, I didn't," said Humpy, angrily.
"Do you dare to contradict me, you villanous little humpback?" screamed
Smith. "I'll teach you to do it again."
He clutched the boy by the collar, and, seizing a horsewhip, brought it
down with terrible force on the boy's shrinking form.
"Let me go! Don't beat me!" screamed Humpy, in mingled fear and rage.
"Not till I've cured you," retorted Smith. Twice more he struck the
humpbacked boy with the whip, and then threw him on the floor.
"That's what you get for contradicting me," he said.
The boy rose slowly and painfully, and limped out of the room. His face
was pale, but his heart was filled with a burning sense of humiliation
and anger against the man who had assaulted him. It would have been well
for Smith if he had controlled himself better, for the boy was not one
of the forgiving kind, but harbored resentment with an Indian-like
tenacity, and was resolved to be revenged.
He crawled upstairs to the small attic room in which he usually slept,
and, entering, threw himself upon the bed, face downward, where he burst
into a passion of grief, shame, and rage, which shook his crooked form
convulsively. This lasted for fifteen minutes, when he became more
quiet.
Then he got up slowly, and, going to a corner of the room, lifted up a
board from which the nails appeared to have been drawn out, and drew
from beneath a calico bag. This he opened, and exposed to view a
miscellaneous collection of coins, which he took out and counted.
"Twenty dollars and nineteen cents!" he said to himself. "I've been
more'n a year gettin' it. That boy offers me fifty dollars,--most three
times as much,--if I'll get him the tin box and help him to escape. I
said I wouldn't do it; but he hadn't struck me then. He hadn't called me
a villanous humpback. Now he's got to pay for it. He'll wish he hadn't
done it;" and the boy clenched his fist, and shook it vindictively.
"Now, how'll I get the box?"
He sat on the bed thinking for some time, then, composing his
countenance, he went downstairs. He resolved to assume his usual manner,
in order not to excite Smith's suspicion.
Smith had by this time got over his rage, and was rather sorry he had
struck the boy so brutally, for he knew very well that Humpy might prove
a dangerous enemy. He glanced at Humpy's face when he came downstairs,
but saw nothing unusual.
"Oh, he'll forget all about it," he thought to himself.
"Here's ten cents, Humpy," he said. "Maybe I struck you too hard. Go and
buy yourself some candy."
"Thank you," said the boy, taking the money.
"I've another errand for you."
He told what it was.
"Go and come back as soon as possible."
Humpy went quietly, and returned in good season.
About five o'clock, Martin not yet having returned, Smith directed him
to carry up our hero's supper. There was a little exultant sparkle in
the boy's eye, as he took the plate of buttered bread, and started to go
upstairs.
"So it's you, is it?" said Rufus, on the boy's entrance. "Where is
Martin?"
"He aint come in yet. Do you want to see him?"
"No, I'm not particular about it."
Humpy stood looking earnestly at Rufus while he was eating the bread and
butter. At length he said, "I've been thinkin' over what you said to me
at dinner-time. Shall I get the fifty dollars certain sure if I do what
you want?"
"Yes," said Rufus, eagerly. "Get me the tin box, and help me to escape,
and the money shall be yours."
"Honor bright?"
"Honor bright."
CHAPTER XXI.
SUSPENSE.
Rufus generally reached his boarding-house at half-past five o'clock.
Sometimes Rose and her two young companions were playing in Washington
Park at that time, and ran to meet him when he appeared in sight. But on
the night of our hero's capture by Martin they waited for him in vain.
"Where can Rufie be?" thought Rose, as she heard six o'clock peal from a
neighboring church-tower.
She thought he might have gone by without her seeing him, and with this
idea, as it was already the hour for dinner, she went into the house.
She ran upstairs two steps at a time, and opened the door of her own
room.
"You should not have stayed out so late, Rose," said Miss Manning. "You
will hardly have time to get ready for dinner."
"I was waiting for Rufie. Has he come?"
"No; he seems to be late to-night."
"I am afraid he's got run over," said Rose anxiously.
"Rufus is old enough to take care of himself. I've no doubt he's quite
safe."
"Then what makes him so late?"
"He is probably detained by business. But there is the bell. We must go
down to dinner."
"Can't we wait for Rufie?"
"No, my dear child; we cannot tell when he will be home."
"It don't seem a bit pleasant to eat dinner without Rufie," complained
Rose.
"It isn't often he stays, Rose. He'll tell us all about it when he
comes."
They went down and took their seats at the dinner-table.
"Where is your brother, Rose?" asked Mrs. Clifton.
"He hasn't got home," said Rose, rather disconsolately.
"I am sorry for that. He is a very agreeable young man. If I wasn't
married," simpered Mrs. Clifton, "I should set my cap for him. But I
mustn't say that, or Mr. Clifton will be jealous."
"Oh, don't mind me!" said Mr. Clifton, carelessly. "It won't spoil my
appetite."
"I don't think there's anything that would spoil your appetite," said
his wife, rather sharply, for she would have been flattered by her
husband's jealousy.
"Just so," said Mr. Clifton, coolly. "May I trouble you for some
chicken, Mrs. Clayton?"
"You're a great deal too old for Rufie, Mrs. Clifton," said Rose, with
more plainness than politeness.
"I'm not quite so young as you are, Rose," said Mrs. Clifton, somewhat
annoyed. "How old do you think I am?"
"Most fifty," answered Rose, honestly.
"Mercy sake!" exclaimed Mrs. Clifton, horrified, "what a child you are!
Why don't you say a hundred, and done with it?"
"How old are you, Mrs. Clifton?" persisted Rose.
"Well, if you must know, I shall be twenty-five next November."
Mrs. Clifton was considerably nearer thirty-five; but, then, some ladies
are very apt to be forgetful of their age.
The dinner-hour passed, and Rose and Miss Manning left the table. They
went upstairs hoping that Rufus might be there before them; but the room
was empty. An hour and a half passed, and it was already beyond eight,
the hour at which Rose usually went to bed.
"Can't I sit up a little later to-night, Miss Manning?" pleaded Rose. "I
want to see Rufie."
"No, Rose, I think not. You'll see him in the morning."
So Rose unwillingly undressed and went to bed.
By this time Miss Manning began to wonder a little why Rufus did not
appear. It seemed to her rather strange that he should be detained by
business till after eight o'clock, and she thought that an accident
might possibly have happened to him. Still Rufus was a strong, manly
boy, well able to take care of himself, and this was not probable.
When ten o'clock came, and he had not yet made his appearance, she went
downstairs. The door of the hall bedroom, which Rufus occupied, was open
and empty. This she saw on the way. In the hall below she met Mrs.
Clayton.
"Rufus has not yet come in?" she said, interrogatively.
"No, I have not seen him. I saved some dinner for him, thinking he might
have been detained."
"I can't think why he doesn't come home. I think he must be here soon.
Do you know if he has a latch-key?"
"Yes, he got a new one of me the other day. Perhaps he has gone to some
place of amusement."
"He would not go without letting us know beforehand. He would know we
would feel anxious."
"Yes, he is more considerate than most young men of his age. I don't
think you need feel anxious about him."
Miss Manning went upstairs disappointed. She began to feel perplexed and
anxious. Suppose something should happen to Rufus, what would they do?
Rose would refuse to be comforted. She was glad the little girl was
asleep, otherwise she would be asking questions which she would be
unable to answer. It was now her hour for retiring, but she resolved to
sit up a little longer. More than an hour passed, and still Rufus did
not come. It seemed unlikely that he would return that night, and Miss
Manning saw that it was useless to sit up longer. It was possible,
however, that he might have come in, and gone at once to his room,
thinking it too late to disturb them. But, on going down to the next
floor, she saw that his room was still unoccupied.
Rose woke up early in the morning; Miss Manning was already awake.
"Did Rufie come last night?" asked the little girl.
"He had not come when I went to bed," was the answer. "Perhaps he came
in afterwards."
"May I dress and go down and see?"
"Yes, if you would like to."
Rose dressed quicker than usual, and went downstairs. She came up again
directly, with a look of disappointment.
"Miss Manning, he is not here," she said. "His chamber door is open,
and I saw that he had not slept in his bed."
"Very likely Mr. Turner sent him out of the city on business," said Miss
Manning, with an indifference which she did not feel.
"I wish he'd come," said Rose. "I shall give him a good scolding, when
he gets home, for staying away so long."
"Has not Mr. Rushton come?" asked Mrs. Clayton, at the breakfast-table.
"Not yet. I suppose he is detained by business."
Just after breakfast, Miss Manning, as usual, took the three little
girls out in the Park to play. It was their custom to come in about nine
o'clock to study. This morning, however, their governess went to Mrs.
Colman and said, "I should like to take this morning, if you have no
objection. I am feeling a little anxious about Rufus, who did not come
home last night. I would like to go to the office where he is employed,
and inquire whether he has been sent out of town on any errand."
"Certainly, Miss Manning. The little girls can go out and play in the
Park while you are gone."
"Thank you."
"Where are you going, Miss Manning?" asked Rose, seeing that the
governess was preparing to go out.
"I am going to Rufie's office to see why he stayed away."
"May I go with you?" asked Rose, eagerly.
"No, Rose, you had better stay at home. The streets are very crowded
down town, and I shouldn't like to venture to cross Broadway with you.
You can go and play in the Park."
"And shan't we have any lessons?"
"Not this morning."
"That will be nice," said Rose, who, like most girls of her age, enjoyed
a holiday.
Miss Manning walked to Broadway, and took a stage. That she knew would
carry her as far as Wall Street, only a few rods from Mr. Turner's
office. She had seldom been in a stage, the stage fare being higher than
in the cars, and even four cents made a difference to her. She would
have enjoyed the brilliant scene which Broadway always presents, with
its gay shop-windows and hurrying multitudes, if her mind had not been
preoccupied. At length Trinity spire came in sight. When they reached
the great church which forms so prominent a landmark in the lower part
of Broadway, she got out, and turned into Wall Street.
It did not take her long to find Mr. Turner's number. She had never been
there before, and had never met Mr. Turner, and naturally felt a little
diffident about going into the office. It was on the second floor. She
went up the stairway, and timidly entered. She looked about her, but
Rufus was not to be seen. At first no one noticed her; but finally a
clerk, with a pen behind his ear, came out from behind the line of
desks.
"What can I do for you, ma'am?" he asked.
"Is Rufus Rushton here?" she inquired.
"No, he is not."
"Was he here yesterday?"
"He's out of the office just now, on some business of Mr. Turner's.
That's Mr. Turner, if you would like to speak to him."
Miss Manning turned, and saw Mr. Turner just entering the office. He
was a pleasant-looking man, and this gave her courage to address him.
"Mr. Turner," she said, "I came to ask about Rufus Rushton. He did not
come home last night, and I am feeling anxious about him."
"Indeed!" said the banker, "I am surprised to hear that. It leads me to
think that he may have found a clue to the stolen box."
"The stolen box!" repeated Miss Manning, in surprise.
"Yes; did he not tell you of it?"
"No, sir."
Mr. Turner briefly related the particulars already known to the reader.
"I think," he said, in conclusion, "Rufus must have tracked the man
Martin, and--"
"Martin!" interrupted Miss Manning. "Was he the thief?"
"Yes, so Rufus tells me. Do you know him?"
"I have good reason to. He is a very bad man. I hope he has not got
Rufus in his power."
"I don't think you need feel apprehensive. Rufus is a smart boy, and
knows how to take care of himself. He'll come out right, I have no
doubt."
"I am glad to hear you say so, Mr. Turner. I will bid you good-morning,
with thanks for your kindness."
"If Rufus comes in this morning, I will let him go home at once, that
your anxiety may be relieved."
With this assurance Miss Manning departed. She had learned something,
but, in spite of the banker's assurance, she felt troubled. She knew
Martin was a bad man, and she was afraid Rufus would come to harm.
CHAPTER XXII.
MARTIN GROWS SUSPICIOUS.
Our hero's interview with Humpy gave him new courage. When he had felt
surrounded by enemies the chances seemed against him. Now he had a
friend in the house, who was interested in securing his escape. Not only
this, but there was a fair chance of recovering the box for which he was
seeking. On the whole, therefore, Rufus was in very good spirits.
About nine o'clock he heard a step on the stairs, which he recognized as
that of his step-father. He had good reason to remember that step. Many
a time while his mother was alive, and afterwards while they were living
in Leonard Street, he had listened to it coming up the rickety
staircase, and dreaded the entrance of the man whose presence was never
welcome.
After some fumbling at the lock the door opened, and Martin entered. It
was dark, and he could not at first see Rufus.
"Where are you, you young villain?" he inquired, with a hiccough.
Rufus did not see fit to answer when thus addressed.
"Where are you, I say?" repeated Martin.
"Here I am," answered Rufus.
"Why didn't you speak before? Didn't you hear me?" demanded his
step-father, angrily.
"Yes, Mr. Martin, I heard you," said Rufus, composedly.
"Then why didn't you answer?"
"Because you called me a young villain."
"Well, you are one."
Rufus did not answer.
Martin locked the door and put the key in his pocket. He next struck a
match, and lit the gas. Then seating himself in a rocking-chair, still
with his hat on, he looked at Rufus with some curiosity, mingled with
triumph.
"I hope you like your accommodations," he said.
"Pretty well."
"We don't charge you nothing for board, you see, and you haven't any
work to do. That's what I call living like a gentleman."
"I believe you tried the same kind of life at Blackwell's Island," said
Rufus.
"Look here," said Martin, roughly, "you'd better not insult me. I didn't
come here to be insulted."
"What did you come for, then?" asked Rufus.
"I thought you'd like to know how Rose was," answered Martin.
"I don't believe you have seen her."
"Well, you needn't believe it. Perhaps I didn't meet her on the street,
and follow her home. She begged me to tell her where you was; but I
couldn't do it."
Rufus felt a temporary uneasiness when he heard this statement; but
there was something in Martin's manner which convinced him that he had
not been telling the truth. He decided to change the subject.
"Mr. Martin," he said, "have you made up your mind to give up that tin
box?"
"No I haven't. I can't spare it."
"If you will give it up, I will see that you are not punished for taking
it."
"I aint a-goin' to be punished for taking it."
"You certainly will be if you are caught."
"What do you know about it?"
"There was a man convicted of the same thing three months ago, and he
got five years for it."
"I don't believe it," said Martin, uneasily.
"You needn't if you don't want to."
"I haven't got the box now, so I couldn't give it back. Smith's got it."
"Is that the man I saw this morning?"
"Yes."
"Then you'd better ask him to give it back to you."
"He wouldn't do it if I asked him."
"Then I'm sorry for you."
Martin was not very brave, and in spite of his assertions he felt uneasy
at what Rufus was saying. Besides, he felt rather afraid of our hero. He
knew that Rufus was a resolute, determined boy, and that he could not
keep him confined forever. Some time he would get out, and Martin feared
that he would set the officers on his track. The remark of Smith that
he would make a good boy for their business occurred to him, and he
determined to try him on a new tack. If he could get him compromised by
a connection with their business, it would be for his interest also to
keep clear of the police.
"Rufus," said Martin, edging his chair towards our hero, "I'm your
friend."
Rufus was rather astonished at this sudden declaration.
"I'm glad to hear it," he said; "but I don't think you've treated me in
a very friendly manner."
"About the tin box?"
"Yes, partly that. If you're my friend, you will return it, and not keep
me locked up here."
"Never mind, Rufus, I've got a business proposal to make to you. You're
a smart boy."
"I am glad you think so."
"And I can give you a chance to make a good living."
"I am making a good living now, or I was before you interfered with me."
"How much did you earn a week?"
"Why do you want to know?"
"Was it over ten dollars a week?"
"About that."
"I know a business that will pay you fifteen dollars a week."
"What is it?"
"It is the one I'm in. I earn a hundred dollars a month."
"If you are earning as much as that, I shouldn't think you'd need to
steal tin boxes."
"There wasn't much in it. Only a hundred dollars in money."
"You are not telling me the truth. There were four hundred dollars in
it."
"What was that you said?" asked Martin, pricking up his ears.
"There were four hundred dollars in it."
"How do you know?"
"Mr. Turner told me so."
"Smith told me there were only a hundred. He opened it, and gave me
half."
"Then he gave you fifty, and kept three hundred and fifty himself."
"If I thought that, I'd smash his head!" said Martin, angrily. "Make me
run all the risk, and then cheat me out of my hard earnin's. Do you call
that fair?"
"I think he's been cheating you," said Rufus, not sorry to see Martin's
anger with his confederate.
"It's a mean trick," said Martin, indignantly. "I'd ought to have got
two hundred. It was worth it."
"I wouldn't do what you did for a good deal more than two hundred
dollars. You haven't told me what that business was that I could earn
fifteen dollars a week at."
"No," said Martin, "I've changed my mind about it. If Smith's goin' to
serve me such a mean trick, I won't work for him no longer. I'll speak
to him about it to-morrow."
Martin relapsed into silence. Rufus had given him something to think
about, which disturbed him considerably. Though he had been disappointed
in the contents of the box, he had not for a moment doubted the good
faith of his confederate, and he was proportionately incensed now that
the latter had appropriated seven dollars to his one. Considering that
he had done all the work, and incurred all the danger, it did seem
rather hard.
There was one bed in the room, rather a narrow one.
"I'm goin' to bed," said Martin, at length. "I guess the bed'll be big
enough for us both."
"Thank you," said Rufus, who did not fancy the idea of sleeping with his
step-father. "If you'll give me one of the pillows, I'll sleep on the
floor."
"Just as you say, but you'll find it rather hard sleepin'."
"I shan't mind."
This was the arrangement they adopted. Martin took off his coat and
vest, and threw himself on the bed. He was soon asleep, as his heavy
breathing clearly indicated. Rufus, stretched on the floor, lay awake
longer. It occurred to him that he might easily take the key of the door
from the pocket of Martin's vest, which lay on the chair at his bedside,
and so let himself out of the room. But even then it would be uncertain
whether he could get out of the house, and he would have to leave the
tin box behind him. This he hoped to get hold of through Humpy's
assistance. On the whole, therefore, it seemed best to wait a little
longer.
CHAPTER XXIII.
ESCAPE.
Humpy made up his mind to accept our hero's offer. Fifty dollars was to
him a small fortune, and he saw no reason why he should not earn it. The
brutal treatment he had received from Smith removed all the objections
he had at first felt.
Now, how was he going to fulfil his part of the compact?
To release Rufus would be comparatively easy. He happened to know that
the key of his own room in the attic would also fit the door of the
chamber in which our hero was confined. The difficulty was to get
possession of the tin box. He did not even know where it was concealed,
and must trust to his own sagacity to find out.
To this end he watched his employer carefully whenever he got a chance
to do so without being observed, hoping he might take the box out from
its place of concealment. Finally Smith noticed the boy's glances, and
said, roughly, "What are you looking at, boy? Do you think you shall
know me the next time you see me?"
Humpy did not reply, but this made him more careful.
In the morning he took up our hero's breakfast, meeting Martin on his
way downstairs.
"Well," said Rufus, eagerly, as he entered the room, "have you found out
anything about the box?"
"Not yet," said Humpy. "I'm tryin' to find where he's hid it. I can let
you out any time."
"How?"
"I've got a key that fits this lock."
"That's well, but I'd rather wait till I can carry the box with me."
"I'll do what I can," said Humpy. "I'm goin' to watch him sharp. I'd
better go down now, or maybe he'll be suspectin' something."
Humpy went downstairs, leaving Rufus to eat his breakfast. On his way
down his attention was drawn by angry voices, proceeding from the room
in which he had left Smith. He comprehended at once that Smith and
Martin were having a dispute about something. He stood still and
listened attentively, and caught the following conversation:--
"The boy tells me," said Martin, doggedly, "that there was four hundred
dollars in the box. You only gave me fifty."
"Then the boy lies!" said Smith, irritated.
"I don't believe he does," said Martin. "I don't like him myself, but he
aint in the habit of telling lies."
"Perhaps you believe him sooner than you do me."
"I don't see where the three hundred dollars went," persisted Martin.
"Considerin' that I did all the work, fifty dollars was very small for
me."
"You got half what there was. If there'd been more, you'd have got
more."
"Why didn't you wait and open the box when I was there?"
"Look here," said Smith, menacingly, "if you think I cheated you, you
might as well say so right out. I don't like beating around the bush."
"The boy says there was four hundred dollars. Turner told him so."
"Then Turner lies!" exclaimed Smith, who was the more angry, because the
charge was a true one. "The box is just as it was when I opened it. I'll
bring it out and show you just where I found the money."
When Humpy heard this, his eyes sparkled with excitement and
anticipation. Now, if ever, he would find out the whereabouts of the tin
box. Luckily for him the door was just ajar, and by standing on the
upper part of the staircase he could manage to see into the room.
He saw Smith go to a desk at the centre of one side of the room, and
open a drawer in it. From this he drew out the box, and, opening it,
displayed the contents to Martin.
"There," said he, "that's where I found the money. There was a roll of
ten ten-dollar bills. I divided them into two equal parts, and gave you
your share. I was disappointed myself, for I expected more. I didn't
think you'd suspect me of cheating you. But I don't want any fuss. I'll
give you ten dollars off my share, and then you can't complain."
So saying, he took out a ten from his pocket-book, and handed it to
Martin.
"Are you satisfied now?" he asked.
"I suppose I shall have to be," said Martin, rather sullenly, for he was
by no means sure of the veracity of his confederate.
"It's all I can do for you at any rate," said Smith. "And now suppose we
take breakfast. I shall want you to go to Newark to-day."
He replaced the box in the drawer, and, locking it, put the key in his
pocket.
By this time Humpy thought it would do to reappear.
"Where've you been all the time?" asked Smith, roughly.
"The boy upstairs was talkin' to me."
"What did he say?"
"He asked what was your business."
"What did you tell him?"
"I told him I didn't rightly know; but I thought you was a
manufacturer."
"Right, Humpy; you're a smart boy," laughed Smith. "You know a thing or
two."
The boy showed his teeth, and appeared pleased with the compliment.
"What else did he ask?"
"He asked, would I let him out?"
"Did he, the young rascal? And what did you tell him?"
"Not for Joe!"
"Good for you! There's a quarter;" and Smith offered the boy twenty-five
cents.
"If he'd done that yesterday instead of hittin' me," thought Humpy, "I
wouldn't have gone ag'inst him."
But the money came too late. Humpy had a brooding sense of wrong, not
easily removed, and he had made up his mind to betray his employer.
The breakfast proceeded, Humpy waiting upon the table. When the meal was
over, Smith gave Martin some instructions, and the latter set out for
Newark, which was to be the scene of his operations during the day.
About half an hour later Smith said, "Humpy, I've got to go down town; I
may be gone all the forenoon. Stay in the house while I am gone, and
look out, above all, that that boy upstairs don't escape."
"Yes, sir," said Humpy.
When Smith left, the coast was clear. There were none in the house
except Rufus and the boy who was expected to stand guard over him. The
giant had gone to Philadelphia on some business, precisely what Humpy
did not understand, and there was nothing to prevent his carrying out
his plans.
He had two or three old keys in his pocket, and with these he eagerly
tried the lock of the drawer. But none exactly fitted. One was too
large, the other two were too small.
Humpy decided what to do. He left the house, and went to a neighboring
locksmith.
"I want to get a key," he said.
"What size?"
"A little smaller than this."
"I must know the exact size, or I can't suit you. What is it the key
of?"
"A drawer."
"I can go with you to the house."
"That won't do," said Humpy. "I've lost the key, and I don't want the
boss to know it. He'd find out if you went to the house."
"Then I'll tell you what you can do. Take an impression of the lock in
wax. I'll give you some wax, and show you how. Then I'll make a key for
you."
"Can you do it right off? I'm in a great hurry."
"Yes, my son, I'll attend to it right away."
He brought a piece of wax, and showed Humpy how to take an impression of
a lock.
"There," said he, laughing, "that's the first lesson in burglary."
Humpy lost no time in hurrying back and following the locksmith's
instructions. He then returned to the shop.
"How soon can I have the key?"
"In an hour. I'm pretty sure I've got a key that will fit this
impression with a little filing down. Come back in an hour, and you
shall have it."
Humpy went back, and seeing that there were some traces of wax on the
lock, he carefully washed them off with soap. A little before the hour
was up, he reported himself at the locksmith's.
"Your key is all ready for you," said the smith. "I guess it will
answer."
"How much is it?"
"Twenty-five cents."
Humpy paid the money, and hurried to the house, anxious to make his
experiment.
The locksmith's assurance was verified. The key did answer. The drawer
opened, and the errand-boy's eyes sparkled with pleasure as they rested
on the box. He snatched it, hastily relocked the drawer, and went up the
stairs two at a time. He had the key of his attic room in his pocket.
With this he opened the door of the chamber, and, entering triumphantly,
displayed to Rufus the tin box.
"I've got it!" he ejaculated.
Rufus sprang to his feet, and hurried up to him.
"You're a trump!" he said. "How did you get hold of it?"
"I haven't time to tell you now. We must be goin', or Mr. Smith may come
back and stop us."
"All right!" said Rufus; "I'm ready."
The two boys ran downstairs, and, opening the front door, made their
egress into the street, Rufus with the tin box under his arm.
"Where will we go?" asked Humpy.
"Are you going with me?"
"Yes, I want that money."
"You shall have it. You have fairly earned it, and I'll see that you get
it, if I have to pay it out of my own pocket."
"I shan't go back," said Humpy.
"Why not?"
"He'll know I let you out. He'll murder me if I go back."
"I'll be your friend. I'll get you something to do," said Rufus.
"Will you?" said the hunchback, brightening up.
"Yes. I won't forget the service you have done me."
Rufus had hardly got out these words when Humpy clutched him violently
by the arm, and pulled him into a passageway, the door of which was open
to the street.
"What's that for?" demanded Rufus, inclined to be angry.
Humpy put his finger to his lip, and pointed to the street. On the
opposite sidewalk Rufus saw Smith sauntering easily along with a cigar
in his mouth.
CHAPTER XXIV.
HOW RUFUS GOT BACK.
It happened that Smith espied the man whom he wished to meet, from the
car-window, just as it turned into Canal Street. He got out, therefore,
and, adjourning to a whiskey saloon, the two discussed a matter of
business in which they were jointly interested, and then separated. Thus
Smith was enabled to return home sooner than he had anticipated. He
little suspected that his prisoner had escaped, as he walked
complacently by on the opposite sidewalk.
"It's lucky I saw him," said Humpy. "He might have nabbed us."
"He wouldn't have nabbed me," said Rufus, resolutely. "He'd have found
it hard work to get me back."
"He's stronger than you," said Humpy, doubtfully.
"I'd have called a copp, then," said Rufus, using his old word for
policeman.
"He'll kill me if he ever gets hold of me," said Humpy, shuddering. "He
horsewhipped me yesterday."
"Then he's a brute," said Rufus, who could not help feeling a degree of
sympathy for the deformed boy, who had done him such good service.
"He never did it before," said Humpy. "That's what made me turn against
him."
"And you won't go back to him?"
"Never!" said Humpy, decidedly. "He'll know I let you out."
