there is more than one character among us, I 
should like to find it out; and this will do it." 
So saying, she fetched out her purse and 
presented to each of her sister's children a 
bank-note for twenty five dollars. 
Mrs. Englefield exclaimed and protested. 
But Mrs. Candy laid her hand on her sister's 
mouth and declared she must please herself 
in her own way. 
" What do you want us to do with this 
 
Aunt Candy ? " Matilda inquired in a sort of 
contemplative wonder. 
" Just whatever will please you, will please 
each of you, best. Only that. That is my 
condition, girls, if I may call it so. You are 
not to spend that money for any claims of 
duty or conscience but simply in that 
way which will afford you the highest pleasure." 
Thanks were warm and gratification very 
high ; and in the best mood in the world the 
new relations sat down to talk to each other 
and study each other for the remainder of the 
day. Clarissa pleased her cousins. She was 
undoubtedly extremely pretty, with big brown 
honest eyes, that gave a good full look into 
the face she was speaking to ; beautiful hair 
a little lighter in colour, and great sweetness 
of outline and feature. Yet she was reserved ; 
very quiet ; very self-possessed ; to a degree 
that almost carried an air of superiority in 
the minds of her cousins. Those large brown 
eyes of hers would be lifted swiftly to the face 
of some one speaking, and then go down 
again, with no sign of agreeing or disagreeing, indeed with no sign of her thought at 
all ; but she had thoughts of course ; why 
should she not show them, as her cousins did ? 
It was almost supercilious, to the fancy of 
Anne and Letitia ; Matilda and Maria were 
fascinated. Then her hands were more deli- 
cate than those of Mrs. Englefield's children ; 
and there were one or two costly rings on 
them. Anne and Letty did not understand 
their value, but nevertheless even they could 
guess that they belonged to a superior description of jewellery from that which was 
displayed beneath the glass cases of Mr. 
Kurtz, the watchmaker of Shadywalk. Then 
Clarissa's dress was of fine quality, and made 
beautifully, and her little gold watch with its 
chain " put a finish upon it," Anne said. A 
little hair necklace with a gold clasp was 
round her neck besides ; and her comb was 
real tortoise-shell. Clarissa was dainty, there 
was no doubt; but her sweet mouth was 
grave and modest ; her words were few ; her 
manners were very kindly and proper; and 
her cousins on the whole were obliged to 
approve her. 
CHAPTER IV. 
" THAT is all this hurry about? " Clarissa 
inquired one evening, as they were 
going downstairs in answer to the tea-bell , 
" why are we earlier than usual ? Anne saya 
we are." 
" O, because it is prayer meeting night 
no, not prayer meeting, it isn't either, but our
Band meeting ; and we have to be early for 
that, you know. O, you don't know anything about our Band ; but you will, to-night. 
You'll join it, won't you, Clarissa ? " 
" I know something about Bands," said 
Clarissa ; " but I never belonged to one. Is 
it the custom here for ladies to do such 
things ? " 
" What things? And do you know about 
Bands? like ours?" 
" I dare say I shall find I have something to 
learn," said Clarissa. 
" There is a great deal to learn from Mr. 
Richmond, I can tell you," said Maria. " O, 
you don't know Mr. Richmond, you haven't 
seen him, because Sunday was so stormy. 
Well, you'll see him to-night." 
" Aunt Englefield," said Clarissa when they 
were seated at the tea-table, "is your Mr. 
Richmond Band-master as well as clergy- 
man?" 
" Bands are a mystery to me, Clarissa," 
said Mrs. Englefield ; " I do not understand 
Maria when she gets upon that subject. I 
hope you will be able to enlighten me some 
time. Are you going to-night ? well, then, 
I shall hope to be wiser when you return." 
Tea was hurried through, cloaks and furs 
and hoods and all sorts of wrappings were 
put on ; and the party set forth ; Anne and 
Letitia this time going along. It was pleasanter out than in. White streets and clear 
starlight, and still, cold, fine air. About the 
 
corner a few men and boys were congregated, 
as usual ; after passing them and turning into 
the other street, few passengers were to be 
seen. Here and there one, or a group, making for the lecture-room ; here and there somebody seeking a friend's house for pleasure ; 
nobody was out on business at Shadywalk in 
the evening, and no wagons or sleighs got 
belated in the darkness. It would have been, 
very dark, but for the snow and the stars. 
There were no shop windows illuminated, and 
no lamps along the street and no gas any- 
where. Past the shut-up houses and stores, 
in the dim snowy street, the little cluster of 
girls went swiftly on. 
" You are in a great hurry," said Clarissa. 
" O, we want to get there before any- 
thing begins," Maria said. " And it's cold, 
besides!" 
" What church is this we are passing ? " 
" O, this is our church. You haven't seen 
it. It is real nice inside." 
"Not outside?" said Clarissa. "Well, I 
 
cannot see it in this light. And is that next 
place the one we are going to ? " 
" Yes, that's our lecture-room. That's very 
nice." 
So it was. Pleasant light from withinside 
streamed warm through the hanging window- 
blinds of the long windows, and promised welcome before they got in. At the door, under 
the projecting hood, a lamp shone bright upon 
the entrance steps. People were flocking in. 
The opening door let them into a cheerful 
room, not large, with long rows of seats on 
either hand of a wide matted aisle ; the view 
closed by a little desk at the further end on a 
raised platform. Right and left of the desk, 
two small transepts did somewhat to enlarge 
the accommodations of the place ; which had 
a cozy, home look, comfortable and bright. 
Where do those doors lead to ? " Clarissa 
whispered ; " behind the desk ? " 
" O, those open to the infant class room. 
Isn't it nice ? " Maria answered. 
" It is small," said Clarissa. 
 
" It is large enough, though. We shall not 
fill it to-night." 
And they did not. There was only a little 
company gathered, of various ages. Some 
quite grown people ; many who were younger. 
They had drawn towards the upper end of 
the room, and clustered near the platform. 
" There is Mr. Richmond," Maria whis- 
pered presently ; " do you see him ? he is up 
there near the desk talking to Mr. Barker, 
Mr. Barker is one of our teachers, but he haa 
got nothing to do with the Band. That is 
Mrs. Trembleton, isn't she pretty ? sitting 
down there in front; she always sits just 
there, if she can, and I have seen her ever so 
put out if she couldn't when somebody else 
had got it, you know. And there " 
" But, Maria," whispered Clarissa gravely, 
" do you think it is quite proper to whisper so 
in church ? " 
This isn't church ! " Maria replied with 
great readiness. 
" What then ? " 
" Why, it is only our Sunday school room 
and this is a Band meeting." 
"It looks very like church to me," said 
Clarissa. " Hush ! don't whisper any more." 
For the minister now took his stand at the 
little desk before mentioned ; and even Maria 
was quiet enough during the prayer with 
which he began the proceedings. But then 
Mr. Richmond came in front of the desk, and 
began to speak, seriously indeed, but with an 
easy simplicity which Clarissa thought was 
" not like church." 
" It may not be known to everybody pres- 
ent," Mr. Richmond began, " exactly what 
was done at our last meeting here Thursday 
night. I wish it to be very well understood, 
that every one may join with us in the action 
we took, intelligently ; or keep away from 
it, intelligently. I wish it to be thoroughly 
understood. We simply pledged ourselves, 
some of us who were here Thursday night, to 
live and work for Christ to the best and the 
utmost of our ability, as He would give us 
 
grace to do. We pledged ourselves to each 
other and to our Master ; to the end that we 
might the better help each other, being so 
pledged; and that we might enter into some 
system and plan of work by which we might 
accomplish much more than we could hope to 
do without plan or system. I have a list in 
my hand, of various kinds of work which it 
may be well for us to attempt ; some kinds 
will suit some people and other kinds will suit 
other people ; but before we go into a consideration of these, I will read something else to 
you. We must do this thing we must 
enter into this pledge to God and each other, 
those of us who enter into it, knowing exactly what we do, and if possible, why we do 
it. I have drawn up in a few words what we 
mean, or what we ought to mean, in giving 
this pledge ; and now I am going to read it 
to you ; and after I have read it I shall ask all 
of you who have heard it and agreed to it, to 
rise up, without any regard to the question 
whether you were among those who rose last 
 
Thursday or not. I wish no one to stand 
who does not fully and intelligently agree to 
every word of this covenant ; but I hope 
that will be the case with every one of you 
all. The children can understand it as 
well as the grown people. This is the covenant. 
" ' We are the servants of Christ. 
" ' And as he died for all, that they which 
live should not live unto themselves but unto 
him so we do not count ourselves to belong 
to ourselves. We are the Lord's. 
" ' We want to do all we can do, that would 
please him and honour him, whether it be in 
our own hearts or in the world. 
" ' So we stand ready to do his will ; in telling the good news to others ; in shewing how 
precious we hold it ; in carrying help of every 
sort to our neighbour, upon every opportunity ; 
walking as children of the Light; if by any 
means we may advance our Lord's kingdom 
and glory. 
" ' And all this we will try to do, by his 
help, trusting in his grace and resting in 
his promises, whose word cannot fail.' " 
" Now," said Mr. Richmond when he had 
read this, which he read very slowly and deliberately, as if he wished that every one 
should weigh every word, " I am going to ask 
you to rise and so declare your agreement 
with this covenant all of you who have 
heard and understood it, and who are ready 
to pledge yourselves to its responsibilities. 
Every one whose own mind and wish this 
covenant expresses will please rise." 
The little stir which this request occasioned 
through the room, left few of the assembly in 
their seats. Maria, as soon as she was upon 
her feet, looked to see how it was with her 
companions. To her great satisfaction, 
Clarissa was standing beside her; but Anne 
and Letitia were sitting in their places, and 
so was Matilda in hers beyond them. Maria 
frowned and nodded at her; but Mr. Richmond had desired the people to sit down 
again before these signs could take any effect, 
" It is as I hoped," Mr. Richmond said in a 
satisfied voice. " I have no alteration to 
make in my lists, beyond the addition of one 
or two new names ; and that sort of alteration 
J shall be glad to make whenever people will 
let me. I will receive new names at any time, 
of those who wish to join our Band our 
Working Band. I do not know what we 
shall call ourselves ; but one thing is certain, 
we mean to be a working people. Now suppose we see what kinds of work we are 
prepared to undertake each one of us in particular. Of course, we are all to do all we 
can and of all kinds ; but there are some kinds 
of work that each one can do better than he 
can do others ; and to those particular lines of 
effort each one will pledge himself to give 
special attention. 
" The first thing on my list, is, 
"'Bringing new scholars to the school! 
Who will take this as his special work ? Observe, it is not meant that you should ask 
any children to come to our school who are 
already members of some other school. We 
do not wish that. But who will undertake to 
look out and bring in some of the children 
that go nowhere ? All who want to do this 
raise your hands." 
There was a show of hands. 
" We must have a secretary," said Mr. 
Richmond. " Mr. Van Dyke, here is paper 
and ink, will you kindly come and write 
for us ? We want to put down all the names 
that enlist in this department of work. This 
is Number One. Put down, opposite to Number One, Mattie Van Dyke, Willie Edwards, 
Mary Edwards, Maria Englefield," 
Mr. Richmond went on giving the names 
until some eight or ten were registered. The 
children looked delighted. It was great 
doings. 
The next thing on Mr. Richmond's list was 
the "School singing" He explained that he 
wished the special attention of those who 
could give it, to this matter; that they should 
always stand ready to help the singing in the 
Sunday school, and make it just as good as 
it could be, and keep it good ; that they should 
not wait for others, if there was no one to 
lead, but start the hymn themselves and carry 
it through with spirit. 
There were not so many that pledged them- 
selves to this work, but as before, Maria was 
one. 
The third thing, was " Welcoming strangers 
and new scholars" in the church and in the 
school. Here a breeze sprung up. Mr. Richmond had remarked upon the great importance of this duty and the common neglect of 
it ; nevertheless there seemed to be some prospect that the neglect would continue. Mrs. 
Trembleton asked, " How were such strangers 
to be welcomed ? " 
" What would you like yourself, Mrs. Trem- 
bleton ? Suppose you were to go to a strange 
church, where you knew nobody. Would it 
be pleasant to have some one come up and 
take your hand and say you were wel- 
come? and give you a greeting when you 
met in the street ? perhaps come to see 
you ? " 
"I think," said Mrs. Trembleton after a 
pause, " it would depend a good deal on who 
it was did it!" 
Whether it would be pleasant ? " said Mr. 
Richmond smiling. " But you do not doubt 
that it would be pleasant to any stranger to 
have you come up and speak and shake hands, 
and do such offices of kindness ? " 
" It might be pleasant to them," said Mrs. 
Trembleton. " I don't think I should like to 
do it, to everybody.". 
" What do you say, Miss Benyon ? " Mr. 
Richmond asked. 
" O, I couldn't, Mr. Richmond! " the young 
lady answered shrinking. 
" I'll do it," spoke out one of the boys. 
" George Lockwood will welcome stran- 
gers, Mr. Van Dyke," said the minister. " And 
Willie Edwards holds up his hand, and Ben 
Barth. But shall we have none but the boys 
to do the welcoming ? The new scholars will 
not be all boys. Ah, there is Miss Peach; 
Ellen Peach, Mr. Van Dyke; and Maria 
Englefield, and Sarah Bent." 
" Won't it make confusion in the school ? " 
Mr. Van Dyke suggested. 
" Will not what make confusion ? " 
" Why, if half a dozen scholars are jumping 
up and leaving their classes, to receive somebody who is coming in ? " 
" I did not say that they should choose lesson time or school time at all for their kind 
civilities. After school is over or when 
meeting in the street or going into church. 
Opportunities will present themselves. It is 
rather the will that seems to be wanting, than 
the way." 
" It seems to me," spoke out another lady, 
" this welcoming of strangers is everybody's 
business." 
" Proverbially, nobody's business, Misa 
Fitch," Mr. Richmond answered with a 
smile. " You will leave it for me to do ; and 
I shall conclude that Mrs. Trembleton will 
 
attend to it; Mrs. Trembleton does not like 
the charge ; and there we are. Esther, what 
do you say ? " 
" O, I should not like to do it, Mr. Richmond ! " 
Nobody seemed to like to do it. Some 
were shy; some were humble, or thought 
they were; some fancied themselves of too 
little consequence ; some of too much ! Mr. 
Richmond went on to the next thing, which 
was " Temperance, Work." Here there was 
no want of volunteers. Boys and girls, and 
young ladies, and even men, were ready to 
pledge themselves to this cause. The names 
were many. It took some time to get them 
all down. 
Then came what Mr. Richmond's list 
called "Aid and Comfort;" and which he 
explained to mean, the giving of all sorts of 
material and social aid that the cases of sick 
and poor and distressed might call for. Anybody who would visit such cases, and provide 
or procure what they needed, or anybody unable to visit who would furnish the necessary 
supplies if called upon, might be enrolled on 
this committee. Plenty of people were ready 
for this. 
" Visiting absent scholars " found quite a 
number willing to engage in it. The cause 
of " Missionary Collections " and " Sunday 
school prayer meetings" found but few; 
evidently those were not popular objects. 
" Promoting attendance upon church " did 
not meet with much favour. The tenth department of work was " Carrying the Message" This Mr. Richmond explained to 
mean, the telling the good news of Christ to 
all who have not heard or who do not accept 
it ; to everybody we can reach, at home and 
abroad, wherever we may. There were not 
a few who were ready to pledge themselves 
to this ; as also to " Bible Reading" in houses 
where sickness or poverty or ignorance made 
such work desirable. But " Tract Distributing," which one would have thought a very 
kindred effort with the two last, was much 
 
more cautiously undertaken. Some boys 
were ready for it ; a few girls ; very few grown 
up people of either sex. 
The young people of Mrs. Englefield's family walked home more silently than they had 
come. To be sure, there was a little throng 
of persons going their way ; they could not 
speak in private. So under the still, bright 
stars, they went home without telling any of 
their thoughts to each other. But perhaps 
the air was chilly after coming out of the 
heated lecture room ; for they all poured into 
the parlour to get warm, before going upstairs to take off their things. 
" Well, you are late," Mrs. Englefield said. 
" Yes ; but we had, O such a nice meeting ! " Maria answered. 
What was it all about ? Now, I hope, 
we shall get at some light on the subject." 
But the light was not in a hurry to come. 
Anne and Letitia loosened their bonnet 
strings, and sat down ; Maria and Matilda 
threw off their cloaks and hoods and sought 
 
the fire ; nobody volunteered to be spokesman 
for the party. 
"What was done, Clarissa?" her mother 
asked. 
" I can hardly tell, mamma. A sort of association formed, for doing parish work." 
" I do not think much of associations," Mrs. 
Candy said. " People can work just as well 
in private, if they would only be content 
Did you, join this association ? " 
" What is parish work, Clarissa ? " Matilda 
asked. 
" Why, work in the parish, of course," Mrs. 
Englefield answered. 
" I don't know what the parish is, mam- 
ma?" 
" Don't you ? Well, all the people that 
Mr. Richmond has the care of, I suppose; 
isn't it, sister ? " 
"But who has he the care of?" Matilda persisted, looking up at her mother earnestly. 
"Well, child," said Mrs. Englefield half 
laughing, "in a sort, he has the care of all 
the people he preaches to." 
"Does he?" said Matilda. But at that 
the laugh became general. 
Why not, Tilly ? said Mrs. Candy. 
" Who gave him the care of us ? " said Matilda thoughtfully. 
" A minister always has the care of a 
church, when he has a church," said Mrs. 
Candy. " Is this Tilly's way of going into 
things in general, Marianne ? " 
" But? said Matilda, " can anybody take 
a church and take care of people, if he has 
a mind ? " 
" No ; only a man who has been properly 
educated and appointed." 
" Then how comes he to have the care of 
us?" 
" Come here, Tilly," said Clarissa. And 
she began a whispered explanation to which 
the little girl listened intently. 
" I do not hear yet what was the business 
done to-night ? " Mrs. Englefield went on. 
 
" Why, there were committees formed," 
said Letitia, " for doing every sort of business under heaven." 
" Committees ! " said the two ladies who 
had staid at home. 
" Maria can tell you," said Anne. " Maria, 
on how many committees are you ? " 
Maria hugged the fire and did not answer. 
" On how many, Maria ? " 
" I don't know. I didn't count." 
" I lost count, too," her sister said. " Let 
me see. Mamma, Maria has undertaken to 
find and bring in new scholars for the 
school." 
" I hope she will be punctual in going 
herself, then," said Mrs. Englefield. " She 
hasn't been, this six months past, to my 
knowledge." 
" O, but I am now, mamma," said Maria. 
" She has undertaken to practise for the 
school singing." 
" I didn't," said Maria. " I only said I 
would help in it." 
" Your help will not be worth much without practising. She has promised to undertake temperance work, too. How she will 
manage it, I do not know; unless she is going 
to begin upon us here at home. We are 
all such hard drinkers." 
" Almost all the Sunday school are en- 
gaged to help in temperance work," said 
Maria, standing on her defence. 
" How are you going to do anything ? " 
her mother asked. " You have neither brothers, nor father, nor cousins, in danger, that 
you can go to work upon them. What are 
you going to do, Maria ? " 
" That is but the beginning, mamma," 
Anne went on. " Maria is also engaged to 
visit the sick and afflicted and make soup and 
give medicine for them." 
" Why I did not, Anne ! " Maria ex- 
claimed again. 
" What did you mean, then, by joining the 
4 Aid and Comfort ' committee ? " 
" I did not say I would make soup, or 
 
give medicine. Everybody does not make 
soup." 
" No ; and so I thought that is just what 
the ' Aid and Comfort ' committee agreed to 
do." 
" And the doctors give the medicine," said 
Matilda. " Clarissa is on that committee 
too." 
" We can go together ; " said Maria ; " and 
we can find something to do." 
" Something for somebody else to do," said 
Anne. " You can find who would like some 
soup, can't you ? " 
" There are next to no poor people in 
Shadywalk," said Mrs. Englefield. I don't 
believe there is anybody in the village 
who would like some soup better than I 
should." 
" There are several doctors," said Anne ; 
"so I am afraid there are sick people occasionally. Else the doctors will soon be in 
want of soup. But, marnma, that is not the 
whole of Maria's engagements. She has 
 
pledged herself to ' carry the message,' read 
the Bible, and distribute tracts." 
" Don't you read the Bible now, Maria ? " 
her mother asked. 
O yes, mamma," said Matilda. " This 
means reading the Bible to somebody who is 
blind, you know, or sick and can't read, or 
who doesn't know how." 
" There are no such people in Shadywalk," 
said Mrs. Englefield promptly. 
" Shadywalk is a happy village then," said 
her sister. 
" When do you expect to find time for all 
these things, Maria? " her mother continued. 
' Do you know what a state your bureau 
drawers are in, at this minute? You told 
me you had been too busy to attend to them. 
And the frock that you spilt ink on, the 
week before last, at school, you have not 
mended ; and you need it ; and you said you 
could not get a minute." 
" I have been busy about something else, 
mamma," Maria said. 
 
" That braiding. Yes. But there is always 'something else.' There are other 
things that ought to begin at home, besides 
charity. Do you belong to this association, 
Matilda ? " 
" No, mamma," came in a low voice from 
the child. 
Why not ? " 
The answer was not ready. 
" Have you joined it, Clarissa ? " her mother asked. 
" Yes, mamma." 
" And what have you pledged yourself to 
do?" 
' I think nothing, mamma, that I was not 
properly pledged to before." 
" Such as what ? " 
" I gave my name for the visiting and help- 
ing sick and poor people ; for the singing in 
the school ; I believe that is all, mamma." 
" I shall not let you go where there is sickness," said Mrs Candy. " When did you 
pledge yourself to that ever ? " 
 
" When I took the vows of the church, 
mamma," Clarissa said with a little hesitation, 
" I suppose I engaged to do some of these 
things." 
" Some of them ; I have no objection to 
your singing as much as you like ; but as to 
your going where there are fevers and bad 
air and all that sort of thing, I should not be 
willing at all." 
" There will not be much occasion for it in 
Shadywalk," said Mrs. Englefield. We 
have few poor people ; there are not many 
who have not friends of their own to take 
care of them." 
" Anne and Letitia, you have nothing to 
do with all this ? " their aunt asked. 
" I have enough to do as it is, Aunt 
Candy," said Anne. 
" And I don't like the new sorts of work, 
Aunt Erminia," said Letitia. 
" I know you wanted to stand up with us 
this evening, though," said Maria. " You felt 
bad oecause you didn't." 
 
This remark threatened to disturb the harmony of the party ; so Mrs. Englefield broke 
it up and sent everybody to bed. 
" How do you like our Mr. Richmond, 
Clarissa ? " she asked, as they were separating. 
" I don't know, Aunt Marianne ; it struck 
me he was something of an enthusiast." 
That is just what I think," said Mrs. 
Englefield. 
" Those people are dangerous, Marianne," 
said Mrs. Candy. 
CHAPTER V. 
rtlHE next day but one, in the afternoon, a 
little figure set out from Mrs. Engle- 
field's gate on a solitary expedition. She had 
left her sisters and cousin in high debate, 
over the various probabilities of pleasure attainable through the means of twenty five 
dollars. Matilda listened gravely for a while ; 
then left them, put on her hood and cloak 
and went out alone. It was rather late in 
the short winter afternoon ; the slanting sunbeams made a gleam of cheer, though it was 
cold cheer too, upon the snowy streets. They 
stretched away, the white streets, heaped with 
banks of snow where the gutters should be, 
overhung with brown branches of trees, where 
in summer the leafy canopy made a pleasant 
shade all along the way. No shade was 
wanted now ; the air was growing more keen 
already since the sun had got so far down 
in the west. Tilly turned the corner, where 
by Mr. Forshew's hardware shop there was 
often a country wagon standing, and always 
a knot of loitering men and boys gathering 
or retailing the news, if there was any ; 
when there was none, seeking a poorer 
amusement still in stories and jests, mingled 
with profanity and tobacco. Tilly was always glad to have passed the corner ; not 
that there was the least danger of incivility 
from any one lingering there, but she did not 
like the neighbourhood of such people. She 
turned up towards the church, which stood 
in one of the principal streets of the village. 
Matilda herself lived in the other principal 
street. The two were at right angles to each 
other, each extending perhaps half a mile, 
with comfortable houses standing along the 
way; about the " corner" they stood close together, for that was the business quarter and 
there were the stores. Passing the stores and 
 
shops, there came next a succession of dwelling houses, some of more and some of less 
pretension ; in general it was less. The new 
houses of the successful tradesmen were for 
the most part in the street where Matilda's 
mother lived. These were many of them old 
and low ; some were poor. Here there was 
a doctor's shop ; there a heap of dingy sheep 
skins and brown calf hides cast down at a 
door, told of the leather store ; here and there 
hung out a milliner's sign. A few steps 
further on the other side of the way, a great 
brick factory stood; Matilda had no very 
distinct notion of what wares it turned out, 
but the children believed they were iron works 
of some sort. A cross street here led to side 
ways which extended parallel with the main 
thoroughfare, one on" the north and one on the 
south of it, and which though more scatteringly built up, were yet a considerable enlargement of the village. A little further on, 
and Matilda had reached the church ; in her 
language the church, though only one of 
several in which the villagers delighted. A 
great creamy-brown edifice, of no particular 
style of architecture, with a broad porch upheld by a row of big pillars, and a little square 
tower where hung a bell, declared to be the 
sweetest and clearest of all in the neighbourhood. So, many thought, were the utterances inside the church. Just beyond, Matilda 
could see the lecture room, with its transepts, and its pretty hood over the door, for 
all which and sundry other particulars concerning it she had a private favour ; but 
Matilda did not go so far this afternoon. 
Short of the lecture room, a gate in the fence 
of the church grounds stood open ; a large 
gate, through which wagons and carriages 
sometimes passed ; Matilda turned in there, 
and picked her way over the ridgy snow 
down the lane that led to the parsonage. 
The parsonage sat thus quietly back from 
the sights and noises of the street; a little 
brown house, it looked, half hidden in summer by the sweeping foliage of the elms that 
 
overarched the little lane ; half sheltered now 
in winter by a goodly pine tree that stood in 
the centre of the little plot of grass round 
which swept the road to the front door. 
Wheels or runners had been there, for the 
road was tracked with them ; but not many, 
for the villagers needed no such help to get 
to the minister, and there were few of the 
church people who lived at a distance and 
could leave their work and take their teams 
on a week day to come a-pleasuring ; and 
still fewer who were rich enough to do as 
they liked at all times. There were some ; 
bu.t Matilda ran little risk of meeting them ; 
and so mounted the parsonage steps and 
lifted the knocker with no more than her 
own private reasons for hesitation, whatever 
those might be. She knocked, however, and 
steps carne within and Miss Redwood opened 
the door. 
" Well ! " she said, " here's the first one this 
blessed afternoon. I thought I was going to 
get along for once without any one ; but such 
 
luck don't come to me. Wipe the snow off, 
dear, will you, clean ; for my hall's as nice as 
well, I don't know what ; as nice as it had 
ought to be. That will do. Now come in, 
for the air's growin' right sharp. What is it, 
my dear ? " 
"Is Mr. Richmond at home?" Matilda 
asked. 
" Well, I s'pose he is. I hain't hearn him 
nor seen him go out since noon. Do ye 
want to see him, or is it a message? ye 
want to see him, eh. Well, I s'pose he'll see 
you if he ain't too busy and I don't 
know when he gets time for all he has to do, 
but he gets it; so I s'pose I had ought to be 
satisfied. I  don't, I know ; but I s'pose men 
and women is different. Some folks would 
say that's a reason why men was created the 
first and the best ; but I don't think so myself. 
And here I am an old goose, a-talkin' to little 
Tilly Englefield about philosophy, instead o' 
lettin' her into the minister's room. Well, 
come in, dear ; round this way ; the minister 
nas taken a notion to keep that door shut up 
because of the cold." 
Miss Redwood had not been idle during the 
utterance of this speech. First she had been 
shaking the snow from the door mat on which 
Matilda's feet had left it ; then she seized a 
broom and brushed the white masses from the 
hall carpet out to the piazza and even off the 
painted boards of that. Finally came in, shut 
the door, and led Matilda to the back of the 
hall, where it turned, and two doors, indeed 
three, confronted each other across a yard of 
intervening space. The housekeeper knocked 
at the one which led into the front room ; then 
set it open for Matilda to go in, and closed it 
after her. 
A pleasant room that was, though nothing 
in the world could be more unadorned. Deal 
shelves all around were filled with books ; a 
table or two were piled with them ; one, 
before the fire, was filled as well with papers 
and writing materials. This fronted, however, a real blazing fire, the very thing Miss 
 
Redwood had once been so uneasy about ; 
in a wide 'open chimney place, where two 
great old-fashioned brass andirons with round 
heads held a generous load of oak and hickory 
sticks, softly snapping and blazing. The 
sweet smell of the place struck Matilda's 
sense, almost before she saw the minister. It 
was a pure, quiet, scented atmosphere that 
the room held; where comfort and study 
seemed to lurk in the very folds of the chintz 
window curtains, and to shine in the firelight, 
and certainly seemed to fill Mr. Richmond's 
arm-chair even when he was not in it. He 
rose out of it now to meet his little visiter and 
laid study on the table. Of one sort. 
"All's well at home,. Tilly ?" he asked as 
he put her into his own chair. 
" Yes, sir." 
" And you do not come to me with any 
message, but to see me yourself?" 
Yes, sir." 
" That's nice. Now while you are talking 
to me, I will roast you an apple." 
Matilda looked on with great curiosity and 
as great a sense of relief, while Mr. Richmond 
took out of a cupboard a plate of apples, 
chose a fine one with a good bit of stem, tied 
a long pack-thread to this, and then hung the 
apple by a loop at the other end of the string, 
to a hook in the woodwork over the fireplace. 
The apple, suspended in front of the blazing 
fire, began a succession of swift revolutions; 
first in one direction and then in the other, as 
the string twisted or untwisted. 
" Did you ever roast an apple so ? " 
" No, Mr. Richmond." 
" It is the best way in the world when 
you haven't got any other." 
" We haven't got that way at our house," 
said Matilda ; " for we have no fires ; nothing 
but stoves." 
" You speak as if you thought fires were 
the best plan of the two." 
" O, I do, Mr. Richmond ! I do not like 
stoves at all. They're so close." 
" I always thought stoves were rather 
 
close," said Mr. Richmond. " Now what did 
you come to see me roast apples for, this 
afternoon ? Did you come to keep your 
promise ? " 
" Yes, sir," Matilda answered rather faintly 
" Are you sorry you made the promise ? " 
Mr. Richmond inquired, looking at her. 
But the look was so pleasant, that Matilda's 
could not keep its solemnity. She had come 
in with a good deal. 
" I don't know but I was soiry," she said. 
" And you are not sorry now ? " 
I think not." 
That is all the better. Now what did you 
want to say to me, Matilda ? " 
" You know you made me say I would 
come, Mr. Richmond." 
"Did I? I think not. I do not think I 
made you say anything do you think I 
did?" 
" Well, you asked me, Mr. Richmond." 
Just what did I ask you ? " 
" You asked rne if I would come and tell 
 
you you said you wished I would come and 
tell you if" 
And Matilda made a great pause. The 
eyes of her friend seemed only to be watching 
the apple, yet perhaps they knew that her 
little lips were unsteady and were trying to 
get steady. He left his seat to attend to the 
roast; got a plate and put on the hearth 
under it ; arranged the fire ; then came and 
with his own hands removed Matilda's hood 
and loosened and threw back her cloak ; and 
while he did this he repeated his question, in 
tones that were encouragement itself. 
" I wished you would come and tell me if 
if what?" 
" Yes, Mr. Richmond, if I thought I 
could not do something that I thought I 
ought." 
" Yes, I believe that was it, Tilly. Now, to 
begin with one thing at a time, what do you 
think you ' ought ' to do ? " 
" Last night, I mean, Mr. Richmond ; I 
mean, the night before last, at the meeting." 
I know. Well, what did you think then 
you ought to do ? " 
Mr. Richmond, I think, I thought that I 
ought to rise up, when Maria and the others 
did." 
" I knew you thought so. Why did you 
not, then, Matilda ? " 
I couldn't." 
" Do you know why you could not ? " 
Again there was difficulty of speech on the 
child's part. Mr. Richmond's saying that " he 
knew " she had had such feelings, was an endorsement to her conscience ; and Matilda 
could not immediately get over a certain 
swelling in her throat, which threatened to 
put a stop to the conversation. The minister 
waited, and she struggled. 
" Why could you not do what the others 
did, Matilda?" 
" Mr. Richmond I didn't want to do the 
things." 
" What things ? Bringing new scholars to 
the Sunday school, for instance ? " 
" O no, sir, I wouldn't mind doing that, or 
some other things either. Bat " 
" You mean, you do not want to pledge 
yourself to be a servant of the Lord Jesus 
Christ?" 
" NO, sir ; " after a pause, and low. 
"Well, Tilly," said the minister, "I can 
only be very sorry for you. You keep yourself out of a great joy." 
" But, Mr. Richmond," said Matilda, down 
whose cheeks quiet tears were now running, 
one after another, "don't you think I am very 
young yet to be a member of the church ? " 
" Do you think Jesus died for you, Tilly ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" Do you believe he loves you now ? " 
" Yes, sir." 
" You understand all about that. Does He 
want you to be his obedient child and dear 
servant?" 
" Yes, Mr. Richmond." 
" You know all about that, too. Can you 
think of any reason why you should for another year refuse to love him, refuse to mind 
him, and do all that your example and influence can do to keep others from loving and 
minding him? When He so loves and has 
loved you." 
Tilly's little hands went up to her face 
now, and the room was very still; only the 
flames softly flickering in the fireplace, and 
the apple sputtering before the fire. Mr. 
Richmond did not say a word for several 
minutes. 
" Mr. Richmond," said Matilda at last, " do 
you think anybody cares what I do ? when 
I am so little ? " 
"I think the Lord Jesus cares. He said 
nobody was to hinder the little children from 
coming to him. And I would rather be in 
his arms and have him bless me, if I were 
you, than be anywhere else, or have anything 
else. And so would you, Tilly." 
"But, Mr. Richmond it is because I am 
not good." 
" Yes, I know it. But that is a reason for 
 
giving yourself to the Lord Jesus. He will 
make you good ; and there is no other way." 
But Tilly's trouble at this got beyond management. She left her seat and came to Mr. 
Richmond, letting his arm draw her up to 
him, and dropping her head on his shoulder. 
"O Mr. Richmond," she said, "I don't 
know how ! " 
" Don't know how to give yourself to Jesus ? Do it in your heart, Tilly. He is 
there. Tell him he may have you for his 
own child. He is at the door of your heart 
knocking; open the door and bid him come 
in. He will make it a glad place if you 
do." 
" Mr. Richmond," said the child with great 
difficulty between her sobs, "won't you tell 
him that I will ? " 
They kneeled down and the minister madt 
a short prayer. But then he said, 
" Now, Tilly, I want you to teU the Lord 
yourself." 
"I can't, Mr. Richmond " 
 
" I think you can. And I want you to
try." 
They waited and waited. Tilly sobbed 
softly, but the minister waited still. At last 
Tilly's tears ceased ; then with her little 
hands spread before her face, she said very 
slowly, 
" O Lord, I am a naughty child. I want to 
be good. I will do everything that you tell 
me. Please take my heart and make it all 
new, and help me to be strong and do right. 
Amen." 
They rose up, but Mr. Richmond kept the 
child within his arm, where she had been 
standing. 
" Now, Tilly, how do we know that our 
prayers are heard ? " 
" God has promised, hasn't he, Mr. Richmond?" 
" Where ? in what words ? " 
Tilly hesitated, and then repeated part of 
the verse, " Ask, and it shall be given you 
Seek, and ye shall find." 
* And look here," said Mr. Richmond, half 
turning, so as to bring her and himself within 
reach of the Bible that lay at his elbow on 
the table, " see here, Matilda. Read these 
words." 
" ' If ye shall ask anything in my name, I 
will do it."' 
And here," 
" ' Whatsover ye shall ask the Father in my 
name, he will give it you.' " 
" Does Jesus ever break his promises? " 
" No, Mr. Richmond ; he can't." 
" Then remember that, whenever you think 
of to-day, and whenever you feel troubled or 
weak. You are weak, but he is strong; 
and he cannot break his promises. So 
you and I are safe, as long as we hold to 
him." 
There was silence a little while, and Mr. 
Richmond set the apple to twirling again. 
It had untwisted its string and was hanging 
still. 
" I am to put your name now, I sup- 
pose, Tilly, among the names of our Band 
ami?" 
" Yes, Mr. Richmond." 
"What work would you like specially to 
do?" 
" I do not know, Mr. Richmond ; I will 
think." 
<r Very well; that is right. And there is 
another place where your name ought to go 
is there not ? " 
" I don't know, sir." 
" Yes among those who desire to be 
members of the church to tell the world 
they are Christ's people." 
" O no, Mr. Richmond ! " 
" Why O no, Mr. Richmond ' ? " 
