Paul was as one of them. He knew their language even to 
the broad patois, and understood their ways, their jests, and 
laughter. He played the old songs of Fatherland for them, 
and joined in the ringing chorus. And yet how different ! 
Victor smiled inwardly. 

"Is it dull, comrade?" 

"Dull ? No. It's a strange picture to me, and I feel as if I 
had wandered beyond the seas. But I like it." 

"They are going to dance;" with a light smile. "Come 
and join them." 

" I ?" Victor drew back with the old boyish blush. 

"Yes. These people do not study the grace or poetry of 
motion. The women dance as they cut their grain, by the 
hardest !" 

" Let me watch them here." 

"There are some passable girls. Hark! what is that? 
Audience for my fair friends !" 

A great lumbering wagon stopped, and amid much talk and 
laughter, a gay crowd was handed out 

"The fame of the festival has spread through the land. I 
believe there is a hotel or something up the mountain, and 
their own pleasures will not suffice." 



 

Twelve or fifteen trooped out of the crowded wagon. Two 
among them finished their merriment first, and stood silent, as 
if feeling hardly at home ; a girl and a youth, brother and sister 
Victor thought them at first. 

And yet their faces were most unlike. She, a mere slip of 
fifteen or thereabouts, petite, slender, with soft curling hair that 
fell like a cloud to her waist, a fine, clear complexion, and 
lovely blue eyes. A rosy, dainty picture, different from any 
thing he had ever seen. 

The other was slight as well, with the light hair arid blonde 
characteristics ; but instead of the clear straightforward outlook 
of the girl, his was weak, vascillating, selfish, and crafty. Not 
a face to trust, Victor decided. 

The dancing began. At first, the spectators laughed a little, 
then a few of the more venturesome joined two or three 
madcap girls ripe for a frolic, and as many young men. They 
flavored it with the grace and elegance of cultivation. Faster 
thrilled out the glowing sweetness and daring of the violin, 
until all the summer-night air seemed to throb with sentiency. 
If some kept time with brain and soul, and others with mere 
slow, physical enjoyment, what matter ? 

The hosts were courteous with overflowing German hospital 
ity, and the guests fraternized speedily. Here a couple strayed 
off to the veiling shadow of a great tree, shy even of the tender 
moonlight so akin to the romance stirring in their hearts, albeit 
a little dully according to their slow natures. 

Even Victor's bashful mood was thawed by the general gay 
good-humor. Paul dragged him here and there ; his hand was 
grasped in a strong, heartsome welcome, and he translated the 
strange tongue by the smiles and beaming eyes. 

Presently he found himself in the vicinity of the girl he had 
been unconsciously watching, or rather she came and threw 
herself with the sweet abandon of fearless youth on the rude 
bench beside him, and laughed out. her apology in German ; 
but, oh, the music ! Could it be akin to these coarse tongues? 



 

" I am not a German," stammering and blushing. 

"Oh!" looking sharply at the hair of bronze, and ruddy 
skin. "Then you don't belong to the settlement?" in an 
impulsive tone. 

" No. I came down the river with with Latour." 

" Isn't he the musician ? They call him Paul." 

"Yes. Do you like it?" 

"It is a grand old name," in a meditative way. "Yes, 
I like it. I like all names that seem to mean some 
thing." 

He smiled at her earnestness. 

"And on the same principle, I always find fault with mine. 
Sylvia Redmond. It carries no weight. It has no character!" 

She was a charming picture of pretty, pettish dissatisfaction. 

"Yes," he made answer. "Names ought to be the key 
note. But one can tell so little about a child." 

She was a trifle vexed that he did not compliment hers. 
There were a good many small coquetries in her heart of fifteen, 
but they were very sweet withal. 

" How far down the river did you come ?" 

"A dozen miles. But I left Weareham this morning." 

"Oh, that's a great town !" looking oddly at him. "And 
you are a friend of Paul Latour's. Tell me something about 
him. It is a curious dark face ; Italian, I think, though the 
name is French." 

" I have been acquainted with him since noon, only." 

She stared with a pretty, piquant grace, and laughed in short, 
musical notes. 

"It is an adventure," she said, with gleeful heedlessness. 
" Mr. Gilliat tells me about them sometimes incidents of his 
tours abroad." 

"Your brother?" Victor returned nervously. "The fair 
youth by whom you stood so long when you first left the 
wagon ?" 

"You saw us then?" pleased with the confessed notice. 



 

"But he is not my brother I have none. It is Eustace 
Gilliat." 

Her announcement did not in the least seem to astonish this 
stranger. Yet she had seen people wonderfully gratified by the 
knowledge. 

"I am glad he is not your brother ;" in a strange, relieved 
tone. 

"Why? Perhaps you don't know " in her winning, childish 
eagerness. "It is such a grand old family. I like to look over 
the old genealogy. There have been earls and dukes, and a 
Sir Hugh Gilliat, who was a great royalist in the time of Charles 
the First, -and a brave soldier. And Madame Gilliat came from 
royalty. They were cousins Eustace's parents. And the house 
is like a palace ! Do you know, I. sometimes wish that I could 
be Eustace Gilliat !" 

"Better a thousand times be yourself," a curious heat and 
passion flushing his face and adding a touch of hoarse strength 
to his voice. 

"Mamma came of the Randolphs in Virginia. 'I'm proud 
of that, though maybe it is not quite so grand as the Gilliat 
descent, " meditatively. "I like this idea of pure old blood, 
that has never been brought in contact with vulgarity or igno 
rance, but kept clean and fine. I think it always speaks in a 
person. " 

A born aristocrat, dainty, refined, and no doubt exclusive, 
when the lines came to be sharply drawn. Well, why should 
he care if her clean, pure lines barred him without ? Why 
should every nerve rise up in bristling resistance to her foolish 
child's gossip ? 

"And so," he began almost harshly, "you were desirous of 
taking that shallow, flavorless life in exchange for your bright 
ness !" 

"Shallow ! What do you mean?" in a sudden heat. 

"What I said ;" doggedly. "There's not a strong line in 
his face, there's not a bit of energy in that girlish figure, and 



 

if the old blood ever was rich and strong, it became diluted 
before it reached his veins." 

She gazed at her companion with an odd mixture of terror, 
surprise, and offended dignity, blended with the interest that, 
after all, overrules youth and renders it daring, incautious. 

"He is very young, just past nineteen ; and then he has 
lived abroad so much. Mr. Gilliat, you know, had a govern 
ment appointment four years, and he has seen everything 
is accomplished, and all that. Mamma likes him so much !" 

' ' And you ?" 

Some deep interest urged him on, not mere morbid curios 
ity. He had never talked so freely to any one in his life 
quite as if he had a right. And she did not resent it, as a 
girl with more pride or experience would have done. The 
Randolph blood could not have made much headway in her 
veins. 

"He amuses and entertains me ;" rather pettishly. "And 
he knows all about Paris and Baden-Baden, and it's like a 
novel to hear him talk. But when he comes to a man's 
life" 

"Yes, when he comes to a man's life," with a touch of ex 
citement in his voice, and his eyes growing darker, dimmer. 

"It will be different, I suppose. If you could see Mr. Gil 
liat ! He always seems like a story-book hero to me, so grand, 
so courteous, so learned ; and as Eustace grows older he will 
be more like his father." 

"Does that follow ?" grimly, twisting the button on his gray 
blouse. 

"I think it ought. But that wasn't quite what I meant 
when I wished to be in his place. It is a great thing to have 
power, and wealth, and knowledge ; to be able to wrest the 
secrets out of the earth and the air, to know why ^governments 
fail or succeed, and why nations perish. I listen to them often 
when they are talking in the great drawing-room at Rothermel, 
and it seems of. so much more import: ace to be a man, and 



 

not have your head full of silly trifles dresses, and laces, and 
parties. But how can we help it ?" 

She .looked so entirely sweet and beguiling, that Victor 
Huist, foolish fellow, thought the world would sustain an 
irreparable loss if in this case sex were reversed. 

" Every man has a right to know this much !" with a fierce, 
rapid underbreath that half strangled him in his abrupt tran 
sition of thought. " And when he is crowded out of his place 
by some cruel, unjust fate, the world cannot blame him if he 
makes a hard fight and deals blows right and left !" 

She looked at him in dim amaze. This was not quite the 
creed of the gentlemen in the Gilliat drawing-room. Their 
heroes and high souls were born to the position, and did not 
have to fight their way up. Hard blows were connected, in her 
mind, with the lower classes, poverty, degradation, and their 
kindred. 

He saw the surprise in her soft eyes, and it fretted him, for 
he had fancied a moment ago that there was a delicate bridge 
between them over which one might pass to the better knowl 
edge of the other. And not understanding social problems 
clearly, he was the more ready to parade his weapons for the 
fray. 

"It seems to me that a man has a right to bring himself 
up to any height that he can reach, no matter if he came out of 
the sloughs of the street ! If the fine, earnest soul is in him." 

"But I think it never is in such people," venturing to fill 
his pause. "The coarse, degraded lives, the common and 
menial occupations, the low pleasures, and the lack of educa 
tion unfits them for any sphere save their own. They would 
not be happy out of it" 

She had heard all this so often that it was like a lesson 
learned by rote. She looked so graceful and dainty here in 
the soft moonlight, the fine, pure complexion, the silken hair, 
the almost haughty mouth and chin, the delicate child's hand, 
slender and white, and all the elegant touches of dress, from 



 

her bronze boot, restlessly crunching the grass, to the bit of 
lace against her shapely, swelling throat. It affected him 
curiously. His soul was full of awkward, rugged honesty, 
and he would not win one word from her under a false 
pretence. 

"I think they could be happy elsewhere if they had a 
chance. Many of them are able to understand the advantages 
of education : they work for it, fight for it, starve for it. 
Would your rich men's sons do this ? And if any soul can lift 
itself up to the purer, higher level, what right have you and 
your class to crowd him out?" 

"I shouldn't crowd anybody out," falteringly. 

"But you would tread upon him, crush him, as if he were 
a worm who had dared to rear his head." 

"Not such as you," she made answer, involuntarily, noting 
the strong resolute eyes, and the fine lips he was compressing 
in the heat of passion. It did not occur to her then that gen 
tlemen of the Gilliat school never carried their tempers so 
plainly in their faces. 

" Why, I belong to the class you think incapable of redemp 
tion !" with a short, bitter laugh. "But maybe I can feeVthe 
most plainly what is stirring in my own soul. Yours set 
bounds for it, but now and then one daring spirit flashes out of 
the orbit made by men's hands. Victor Hurst means to do this." 

She possessed a sweet, generous nature, and it was so used 
to daily crossings, and thwartings, and ridicule, that she was 
not angry now, as any other girl might have been. Indeed, 
her habit of catching at any new idea, and following stray 
whims, stood her in good stead. 

"Victor," she said, softly, "somewhere along your line 
there must have been a king. It is a king's name." 

" There have been no kings," brusquely. " My father is a 
plain, commonplace man ; my mother well, she could have 
been a lady with the best of you. The small accident of birth 
or wealth shut her out. I mean to overleap it." 



 

His voice rang out with a sharp, electric force, and obeying 
some sudden impulse, he rose and stood before her. 

He was thinking of the far future, so bright with youthful 
ambition, so possible as he felt the warm, vigorous blood 
rushing through his veins in great, tumultuous bounds. He 
would win something. He would stand before her and her 
class one day, and say, proudly, " I am Victor Hurst. What 
is the praise of your fragrant lips to me, when I remember 
that last year they laughed me to scorn !" 

She glanced at him as he towered before her, in the moon 
light. Tall, arrowy-straight, haughty enough in this mood to 
match the finest of her every-day princes, the fiery eyes sweep 
ing the space between, and challenging her soul, as if it would 
cleave an entrance therein ; the flexible nostrils panting with 
inward heat, like a thorough-bred waiting impatiently for the 
signal. A sense of awe and mystery crept over her ; a con 
sciousness of a peculiar kind of power which had never before 
bearded her in this fashion. 

The music had ceased moments ago. The crowd was surg 
ing to the long table, improved by the magical touch of excite- 
men^ pleasure. Heavy eyes had brightened, dull lips were 
scarlet and smiling, and the very air appeared full of chatter 
and vivacity. The clatter of strange tongues, the quaint 
dresses, the animation, gave the scene a peculiarly foreign ap 
pearance. To Victor it was like a glimpse of a far country. 

Miss Redmond's party were coming in search of her. Victor 
drew back in the shadow of a great oak, his courage vanished 
into diffidence. He saw so clearly, now, the gulf that divided 
them. These women, in gay attire, and the haughty air of 
superiority, their faces full of a kind of pleasant contempt, as 
if, after all, they would not grudge these poor fools their enjoy 
ment, as it would even afford them something to laugh about 
to-morrow. 

And yet they came to the simple feast Just for the sake of 
criticising the homely fare, and distorting their faces a little 



 

with the Rhine wine. No breach of hospitality therein, since 
there could be no social equality. 

Paul Latour laughed and jested with rare good-humor, 
remembering festivals among other mountains. The young 
men crowded to his vicinity awkward clowns, perhaps, but he 
did not smile over their lack of polish. So they ate, drank, 
and feasted with soul as well as body, breaking presently into 
wild German choruses that made the woods ring out a thou 
sand echoes. 

After this, the staid matrons began to gather their dishes 
and pile up the fragments. The younger ones entreated Paul 
for some more music, and formed themselves into a ring on 
the greensward. Victor strolled away in a curious mood of 
unrest, for Sylvia's duenna seemed suddenly to have awakened 
to her sense of duty, keeping the girl close to her. 

Down by the river's edge, where the noiseless breath of night 
wafted fleets of damp, fragrant odors, like a shadowy army. 
Thinking of these dull, uneventful lives with their slow, brood 
ing content : of those out yonder, rendered fine and keen by 
the flow, of gold, wishes gratified, desires fulfilled, art, and 
science, and culture at their feet, drifted up by the plenteous 
sea. And he, neither dully content, nor having the means to 
compass any vague dream. 

What was that? A half-smothered cry, not one of pleasure 
altogether, it seemed, then a voice of enireaty, a cruel, mock 
ing laugh, a triumphant jest of some kind, as he could tell by 
the tone. The chivalrous blood stirred within him, and yet he 
paused until the cry was repeated, but this time more faintly. 

Then he sprang forward. One of the young girls of the 
"settlement," he could tell by her dress; and the other some 
instinctive knowledge warned him that it was Eustace Gillian
No sweet stolen kisses were these, but ravished from lips that 
cried out in stifled, impotent helplessness. 

"Villain! Thief!" and the next instant he had the slight 
form cowering in his giant's grasp. 




"So that is your translation of hospitality ! Go, child, go ;" 
to the girl, who, sobbing and gesticulating, kissed his dis 
engaged hand with frantic fervor, and vanished like a fawn. 

" You deserve to be thrown into the river yonder, base 
coward that you are ! A defenceless child, too ! I heard her 
cry of affright." 

"Sneak and spy that you are !" was the insolent rejoinder. 
"As if the little fool's resistance meant anything !" and he 
struggled in the grasp that was not relaxed a trifle. "Do you 
kn<ow that I am Eustace Gilliat? Unhand me, you low vag 
abond !" 

It would be an easy thing to fling him over into the current 
like so much carrion. A mean, arrogant, blustering coward, 
rose-scented without, but vile within ! The son of a rich man, 
heir to a fortune, revelling in luxury and perhaps grossness, a 
pale, effeminate, beardless youth, with hardly a woman's 
strength in his puny arms. He had seen Paris with its wonders ! 

It all passed through Victor's brain like a flash. One of 
those curious presentiments as well. He felt that he had made 
an enemy, and that sometime the bitter blood between them 
would have to be fought out to the last drop. 

" Let me go, I say, or by heaven you shall rue it ! Is there 
no help at hand that a man must be murdered in cold blood 
by a ruffian for having kissed a pretty girl, who after all was 
willing enough, as such creatures usually are ! It was Bur 
gundy to her after her sour Rhine." 

"I shall not murder you," with a scornful laugh, "though 
I could do it easily. Neither do I spare you because you are 
a rich man's son. You have outraged the commonest law of 
hospitality, and lied, basely. This is some of your pure old 
blood !" 

The sneer stung Gilliat, and the mortification of still being 
a prisoner made him tremble with rage. He gave a sudden 
wrench and aimed a backward blow at his adversary, but it 
went wide of its aim. 



 

"Take that, in memory of your insult to a defenceless 
girl, and go ;" loosening his hold of Gilliat with so sudden 
a force that the youth stumbled. And there in his face was 
the red flush left by the other's hand. 

Eustace Gilliat arose livid with passion, and confronted the 
supple giant standing unmoved before him. To venture a 
blow would be the simplest folly. 

" A Gilliat never forgives an insult, never ! You will hear 
of this again ;" a look of baffled hatred gleaming from his 
eyes. 

"Very well. The girl possibly can tell her own story. It 
will be two against one, but if your high-born Gilliat blood 
thirsts for the notoriety " with another stinging laugh. 

Eustace Gilliat walked away in ignominious, impotent 
silence, the rage of a narrow, selfish nature that could brook 
no control. If look could have murdered, his surely would 
have done so. 

Victor felt quite light of heart. He had struck the blow 
against the class of aristocrats, as well as the particular in 
dividual. The secret antagonism had raised its voice in pro 
test, and now he meant to fight his way through. 

Ah, Victor, youth has many battles on this rough ground, 
where neither can see his adversary clearly, and there is a good 
deal of useless fighting with shadows. 

Long before midnight Bohmerwald had sunk into the silence 
of peaceful slumber. Paul and Victor shared a great room 
whose uncarpeted floor was silvery white, and whose single 
pallets were fragrant with sweet herbs. 



CHAPTER VII. 

BY dawn the little village was again astir, but there was no 
bright flutter of holiday caps and gowns. The clear, shrill ring of 
the cocks from wayside eminences, the lowing of kine, and the 
faint bleating of the distant sheep, mingled with the cheerful 
but uncadenced voices of men and women, taking up their 
homely life. 

And they were content, Victor thought, gazing idly out over 
the lovely landscape in its rosy, morning haze. No rank, nervous 
vitality to be rubbed sharply against the plodding details, until 
it was all one keen, aching sore. Was it because they knew no 
better? Their simple-hearted Lutheran priest had religion 
enough for them ; their ambition went no farther than their 
farm fences. 

Did God make them all of one clay, and breathe into every 
soul the breath of life ? These in their cleanly quiet, and the 
hosts of wretches out city-ward, who turned night into a vile 
orgie, beat their wives and children, filled the festering prisons 
and paupers' graves ? And the delicate souls pampered in 
luxury until weakness became their only grace : the restless 
souls like his, finding no place where they could work in their 
full, exultant strength not of brawn, but brain. 

Paul Latour startled him by a fling of laughter, though the 
sun had flooded the room for nearly an hour. 

" You take life too hard, comrade ! I said it yesterday." 

. " Yes, " twisting his fingers nervously. ' ' But life t's a strange, 
hard matter with me." 

"And why should it be? Ask the birds for their secret. A 
crumb, a nest, and a song. A twittering among the leaves in 
the morning, a cheery whistle at night. Here to-day, to- 



 

morrow in the grave, mayhap ! What does it matter ? Tra, 
la, la, la." 

Victor smiled oddly. Yesterday, the magnetic voice had 
fascinated him. The luminous eyes, the olive skin, and 
stragling gipsy beard, and the inconsequent trifles of talk 
were so many charms. 

To-day he wanted strength; the positive instead of the nega 
tive. And work of the right kind, when it came to that. 

"Come," Latour said gayly, "cast care to the winds. Let 
us follow the breeze which warms and ripens all within its 
reach. Our empire shall be the whole world, field, forest, sea, 
or desert. We will sun ourselves amid Spanish vineyards, 
where the grapes lie purpling into sweeter wine than we drank 
last night, and eat our fruit where the laughing waves dash 
music in our very faces. Or, if you like Italian skies better, 
there are groves of olives and figs. We shall not starve. And 
for amusement or greed, I will fiddle to villagers as I did last 
night. For see, I like you !". 

The odd, piquant, earnest manner moved Victor, and above 
all, the naive confession. 

"Thank you. But it would be quite impossible." 

"Yet you sigh for freedom ?" 

"And I should tire of idleness after awhile." 

" Paf ! You might paint a picture !" 

Victor flushed and thrilled with secret joy. Why not the 
desultory Bohemian life of art and music ? He loved both. 
And the vision tempted him. 

He reached over for his knapsack with eager, trembling 
hands. 

"I don't know about painting. It is either a genius or a 
life-long study. I could never translate the color of this 
morning, or the softness of last night. But I have done 
these. " 

Some small pencil-studies, defined with marvellous accuracy, 
and two or three half-finished. 



 

" If they could be done in black and white ! But color " 

"You can study over there;" nodding his head eastward. 
"And there a bunch of grapes and a crust suffices. What do 
we care for palaces while the stars shine and peasants keep the 
ground warm with their dancing? Yes, come." 

The voice fell into soft, pleading accords, and the quaint 
face had the eagerness of a child's. 

They were summoned to breakfast. Their hostess had 
spread a small table with delicacies, and welcomed them with 
the cordiality of a mother. 

Brown and bent, the grizzled hair gathered under the high 
starched cap, the skin dried and wrinkled ; but the smile frank 
and joyous, the eyes keen, yet kind. 

By the open window opposite, sat a young girl knotting some 
coarse white fringe. She glanced up, blushed, and trembled ; 
then with a sudden rush joined the group, clasping her 
mother's horny hands, and talking rapidly. Paul and the 
mother turned their eyes toward Victor, the latter breaking into 
voluble exclamations. 

"So, comrade !" and Paul's hand was laid upon his shoulder. 
"You made true your claim to the guild. Marie says, that 
last night you rescued her from the freedom of an insolent 
scamp, and she is all gratitude. How modest you were !" 

"It was nothing," and Victor flushed. He had not recog 
nized the girl at first, but her voice and gestures were familiar 
after a moment. 

Paul interpreted. Marie, it seems, had danced once with 
the young gallant, and then been drawn into walking with 
him, when his friendliness had degenerated into coarse, 
ungentlemanly license. Marie magnified her deliverer's office, 
and was profuse in her gratitude. 

" They are boors, these rich men's sons," exclaimed Paul, 
angrily. "They have their balls, and dinners, and dissipations 
why could they not stay away, or behave honorably ! Pah ! 
I am only sorry that you did not throw him into the river !" 



 

Victor laughed gayly. He was good-humored this morning, 
and not morbid ; besides, Paul would hardly understand the 
smouldering class-quarrel that he had with the Gilliat blood. 

They ate their breakfast and rambled round the settlement, 
where so many things were new to Victor's eyes. And the 
friends, for such they were, fell into a half-confidence, and a 
promise that when May came, the two would journey together 
as free companions. 

Victor threaded his way over the mountains that night alone. 
Three days since Monday morning, and in them he seemed to 
have lived half a lifetime. But he was coming back to civil 
ization, where the air was full of strangling smoke and vile 
odors, and then he balanced liberty in the one hand and honor 
in the other, and thought he had lost. If he could have cried 
through the trees for Paul ! 

His mother sat by the window watching, and knew the step 
long before it sounded on the old garden-path. She snuffed 
her dim candle, wiped the tears from her eyes, and went out to 
meet him. 

"Victor !" with a great tremble in her voice, a great throb 
of joy at her weary heart. 

He knew what fear had been chilling along the pulses 
like a keen, wintry blast, making the hands ice-cold even 
now. 

" I told you that I would come back," not unkindly. 

"But it was so late." 

"Am I a baby that I must be housed at dark ?" 

"Victor!" with a fond lingering over the name, a cling 
ing of hands and a tremulous flutter of the weary eyelids. 
Ah, poor mother ! Sons who do not go up to Calvary, still 
say "Woman, what have I to do with thee !" 

He looked for his father to be in the arm-chair, stern, 
questioning, ready to censure, but the corner was vacant, so 
he softened a little. 

" I have had a rare holiday indeed ! a journey to the Bo- 



 

hemian settlement, miles down the river. They had a har 
vest festival last night." 

"I am glad you were happy." 

With her there had been nothing but dead people and 
funerals. The seven works of Mercy was her rosary, and she 
toll the beads over often. 

"Yes, I am glad that you have been happy ;" in a moth 
erly, wandering way, the eyes still sad and wistful. 

He looked so handsome, his face all aflush, and his tawny 
hair thrown back, the lithe rounded limbs just defined under 
the gray blouse, compact, nervous, strong. 

If he had sat down and told her of the festival, the joys 
and pleasures of the simple folk, and most of all, particu 
larized his own, it would have rendered her so happy. The 
warm, vital interest between her child and herself grew less 
every day. She saw it with pain. 

"Good-night. Is father home?" 

"He went to bed an hour ago, very tired. I think he 
grows feebler this warm weather ;" sighing wearily. 

"Carrying the burden of all those miserable lives upon 
his soul ! I don't believe God requires it." 

" He is anxious for you, too ;" timidly. 

"He may lay down that care! I shall never be saved in 
his way, never. There ! I have hurt you ! But good 
night, again. You were kind to sit up for me." 

In his own room he pulled out the dry bread and 
withered grapes, laughing a little. 

"It's not so bad after all. And to see the world all those 
rare old lands, the groves of orange and palm, the long 
glistening vineyards, the palaces and galleries, to study a little 
and to know life, life ! Next May. I wonder if the waiting 
will seem long?" and he sighed softly, for 

" A boy's will is the winds' will, 
And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts." 

Through his dreamy brain floated Paul, Sylvia Redmond, 



 

and Eustace Gilliat. The last he hated with a kind of bitter 
contempt. Sylvia would marry him, of course, she was so 
permeated with admiration of lofty descent. A foolish little 
thing, and yet he half envied the wealth that would fall into 
her hands, golden, ripe fruit. 

John Hurst had been deeply shocked at his son's derelic 
tion, and perhaps a little offended that his mother had silently 
abetted it. To go off pleasuring when so good an old man 
as Mr. Norcross lay dead, and all the shop-hands were ex 
pected to show their sympathy and respect, seemed to him 
absolutely heartless. For he believed devoutly in the lesser 
command of ordering one's self lowly and reverently to one's 
betters. The old-fashioned faith of his boyhood wouJd never 
be eradicated. 

"The lad strays farther and farther," he said sharply. " He 
has no fear of present displeasure, nor the judgment to come. 
We have failed in our duty, and God sends us this bitter, wild 
fruit by way of punishment." 

" I don't know," she made answer in her tender, motherly 
way. " We were not all wise at twenty ;" and she sighed. 

"But he has had good counsel and many prayers, much 
patience. It will be the story of the child Absalom over 
again !" 

She shivered, crying out with sharp pain 

' ' You judge too soon ! Perhaps the mistake may have 
been ours. He has a peculiar nature " 

"The old excuse for sin and wilfulness. What will it 
avail with God, think you ? There is but one law, one way." 

A hard faith, truly. Was it her carnal heart that rose in 
bitterness ? And somehow every pulse within her mutinied, 
gave a quick throb of resistant anguish. Had she sinned so 
sorely then, that she must be bitterly punished now? To whom 
should she turn to God, or to her son ? 

So she had gone patiently about her household cares and 
her works of mercy. These poor women clung to her, perhaps 



 

because she had so few texts and so many tears. She listened 
to her husband's earnest warning over the grave of the poor 
laborer, hurried out of the world, at his post of duty, by the 
careless and narrow economy of his fellow-man, who builded 
a frail scaffolding ; and then she turned to the Reverend 
Underwood's glowing discourse of the dead saint lying below 
the pulpit in all the delicate state of rosewood and satin. A 
good man, a just man, a generous almoner, a bulwark of 
the state, society, virtue, a man whose death would be felt 
everywhere, over whom the grateful heathen would weep, and 
Christians sorrow, but not without hope. 

Ah, had he ever stamped in the snow to warm his chilled 
and weary feet, and crawled under a stoop, or in some 
empty ash-box to sleep ; had he felt the wind blow through 
tattered garments, shaving the tender skin with an edge as 
keen as a razor ; had he looked with hungry, longing eyes at 
the bread in the shop-windows, and feasted on the smell 
steaming out from some grand kitchen shadowy supper 
indeed ! No ! his had been the purple and the fine linen 
and yet men praised him for not having been a villain. 

Anah Hurst's brain was confused with it all. Could God 
see how easy it was to be good there, how hard here ; and 
how much more faith it takes to starve by inches, being 
honest, than to be cast to wild beasts at Ephesus ? 

She crept softly up to her room, took off the plain gray 
dress with its linen collar, and hung it carefully on the peg. 
And the picture came oddly into her mind of having seen Mrs. 
Underwood among the mourners, in her rich black-silk and 
point-lace, and the clusters of purple heliotrope and pansy in 
her elegant lace bonnet. Not that only. Sons and daughters 
were around her bright, rosy children maybe this very 
evening she went and kissed them as they lay in their beds. 
It seemed as if all prosperous women were happy. So much 
gold stood for so much comfort, and ease, and bliss. If she 
had been rich she could have given her boy that which he 



 

most wanted, all the appliances of knowledge. And if he 
had not been fretted on every side, repressed, clipped to fit a 
certain mould was it God's express wish ? Did he mean 
that poor people only should save their souls through much 
tribulation, much pain and self-sacrifice, and that the others 
should go to heaven on "flowery beds of ease?" 

She was so tired, now, that judgment and piety had gone 
astray, and in the dark were taking each other for sharp foes. 
And kneeling there by her bed she prayed in a sort of breath 
less hush not for the poor women who dropped their babies 
into the Ganges, but the one nearer home, whose son was 
drifting out out somewhere beyond a mother's arms, and 
thinking of the one who, in His great agony, prayed for 
Himself. 

On Thursday morning Victor Hurst went back to his dis 
tasteful employment with a peculiar energy and content. Less 
than a year of it, and he had so much to do besides. For he 
was ignorant of even-thing. The rigid fears and scruples that 
had shut out the world of literature, left his mind a kind of 
blank, troubled sea. What did he know of the old heroes, and 
warriors, and poets, whose names were common food to Paul 
Latour's lips ? And if he went to the country of th,eir birth or 
their wanderings, he must learn a little of their lives. 

The household went on in its olden groove. John Hurst 
laboring among the poor and miserable, trying to fit creeds 
and beliefs into minds turned awry by many a cruel wrench ; 
receiving a meagre pittance, and bestowing half of that in 
alms, taking his share of meat out to some starving laborer, 
his soft white bread to the sickly, famished baby. If he was 
sometimes a little hungered, he said to himself that fasting was 
good for the soul, made it more earnest and fervent in prayer. 

But the fire always burned cheerfully on the hearth, with a 
great, ruddy, rollicking blaze. Victor used to turn from his pile 
of books, and study its emerald and violet heats, and the stur 
dier scarlet flashes that writhed up the dusky background like 



 

some tortured living thing. All sights and sounds came to 
have a new meaning for him ; an under-current of subtle trans 
lation from the material to the intellectual. What a dull clod 
he had been last year : what a poor, weak fool farther back, 
when he had a hankering for the rough merriment of tavern steps, 
and low songs, with a coarse banjo accompaniment ! And yet 
it was simply a boy's love for amusement, companionship. 

Anah Hurst sat on the opposite side of the broad chimney, 
and sewed. Garments for the poor, sometimes the cast-off 
clothes of richer neighbors, but as often the product of her 
own small economies. 

The distance between Victor Hurst and his parents grew 
more sharply defined. John Hurst had made one protest against 
infidel books being brought into the house. 

"Very well," was Victor's curt, incisive answer. "Where 
my books go, I go. I dare say I can find friendly shelter in 
town. And as for infidelity go look through the library 
of your clerical brethren ; you will find them all there." 

So Victor and his books remained. His mother used to 
watch him out of her soft, sad eyes. She made no attempts to 
draw him nearer to herself: let her get used to the separation 
by degrees. And he never saw the lines settling in her face, the 
slight depression about the mouth, the delicate skin coming 
to have a gray, wan look. He had a right to make the best 
he could out of his own life. 

And so it came to April four weeks, only, to May a few 
days between him and freedom. 

"Norcross wants to see you in the office, to-night," Baxter 
announced to him one afternoon. 

He merely nodded. After six he washed his hands and 
face, and combed his tumbled hair, the %vater drenching it with 
bright amber tints. 

There, in his arm-chair covered with Russia leather, sat the 
great man. Ruddy, prosperous, satisfied. 

"Ah, Hurst!" glancing up at the tall fellow. "I sent for 



 

you, to say," tumbling over some papers to give the matter 
a more important air, "that but I suppose you have counted 
the days your time is up on next Wednesday." 

"Yes." Very grave and quietly, as if he might be an 
equal. 

Norcross stared a little. 

"What I have to say, young man," in a sort of pompous, 
patronizing manner, "is, that I have heard a fair account of 
you from Baxter; a good, skilful workman, steady and 
sober ; for of late the vice of drinking has increased terribly 
among your class. I am very glad for your father's sake. 
Your father is an excellent man, Hurst. I hear noble stories 
of him everywhere." 

"My father does right according to his belief." 

"And religion is a good thing. I wish we had more of it 
in the world." 

"You would not want his," with a bitter smile. "It is 
comprised in two words labor and sacrifice." 

The ruddy face was a trifle ruddier, as if some sarcasm 
underlaid the words. * 

"It is a bad sign when young men sneer at religion, the 
great substratum of society and morality," in a rather sharp, 
dogmatic tone. 

Victor was silent. 

"And I was about to say, that next Wednesday you may 
consider yourself engaged at the highest journeyman's wages. 
We are pretty full of orders, now, and I never let a good 
workman go if I can help it. Baxter learned his trade here. 
I always give my boys the first offer." 

"I am obliged, Mr. Norcross, but I shall not stay." 

"Not stay, eh! What's up? Why, Baxter said you had 
been steady as an old clock the past ten months,, and that you 
had never been given to beer or fooling. Where are you 
going? If wages is the object " 

" No," still calmly. " I do not mean to work at my trade." 



 

"Why?" in a tone of surprise. 

"I do not like it," as if he was shaking off some repul 
sive object "I never have. I came to it against my will." 

" Doubtless your father knew what was best for you," with 
