Sure enough, smiling gayly as if he had not been 
away more than a moment. 
“ O Uncle Robert, I thought you were lost!” 
He patted the perplexed little face. “ I should 
have to take leave of my senses first, before I could 
be lost in New York. Now, if you will carry the 
shawls, I ’ll take Aunt Ruth in my arms. Oh, here ’s 
her crutch too. I will come back after that.” 
Kathie followed down the long platform. A 
driver was holding open the coach door, and Uncle 
Robert placed the invalid tenderly within. Then he 
handed up Kathie and sprang after them, and the 
door shut with a click. Off they rolled. Kathie 
glanced out of the window. 
“ Oh Uncle Robert, doesn’t it look queer ? 
What lots and lots of houses ! And how we do 
joggle ! Won’t it hurt Aunt Ruth ? ” 
“It will be easier when we turn out of this 
street.” 
“ Uncle Robert, where do all the people come 
from ? ” 
He laughed. “Why, the streets are quite thin 
now ! An hour or two later and there will be a 
crowd.” 
Kathie was silent from astonishment. “ W T hat 
beautiful stores ! ” she said presently. “ Why, Uncle 
Robert, it is like fairy-land.” 
“We will take a walk down Broadway some day, 
and you will think it more wonderful than ever.” 
They stopped in front of what seemed to Kathie a 
palace. She felt quite strange because there were so 
many people standing round, and it appeared as if 
every one stared at her, so she clung very closely to 
Uncle Robert. 
“ Why, Conover ! ” said a frank voice. “ W r ho ever 
expected to see you here ? Can I be of any assist- 
ance ? ” 
“ Meredith !” returned Uncle Robert. “ I ’m glad 
to see you. I believe I left you climbing the Alps. 
Will you take charge of this little girl and a shawl ? ” 
It seemed to Kathie that he looked wonderfully 
like Uncle Rob, for he had a full beard and eyes that 
sparkled with fun. He picked up the shawl and drew 
Kathie’s hand just through his arm with the utmost 
ease and grace, leading her through the hall and up 
 
the wide stairs that were soft as a cushion. She felt 
quite lost as she entered the parlor, for a deep glass 
coming nearly down to the floor showed her herself 
and Mr. Meredith, and one opposite gave back the 
same picture. 
“ This is my sister, Miss Conover,” Uncle Robert 
said as soon as she was seated in a great crimson arm- 
chair, “ and this my niece, Miss Kathie Alston. My 
friend, Mr. Meredith, Ruth, whom I met in Europe.” 
“ I ’in right glad to see you, Conover, and if I can be 
of the slightest service, command me to the utmost. 
It will be a charity to find me some employment.” 
Kathie couldn’t help smiling. Mr. Meredith’s 
voice had such a merry ring, and he shrugged his 
shoulders so oddly. 
“ You can entertain the ladies while I find a room. 
I hope^ we shall not have to go up to the skylight.” 
“ You can step in the elevator and come down,” re- 
joined Mr. Meredith, “or enjoy yourself like the 
German student who lived in the first story if you 
entered by the chimney.” 
“ Scaling the roofs beforehand ? I ’ve turned quiet 
and sensible.” 
“ The excuse that is generally made for laziness.” 
 
Uncle Robert bowed liimself away, and Mr. Mere- 
dith began to talk to Kathie, who told him very 
frankly that this was her first visit to the city, 
although she had been born there. 
“There will be a great many things to entertain 
you then. I shall petition for the situation of escort 
several times. I hope we shall get on famously 
together. I have a niece just about your age, and we 
have gay times.” 
“ Does she live here ? ” asked Kathie, timidly. 
“ Only awhile in the winter. My brother’s resi- 
dence is a short sail up the Hudson. I ’ll try and 
persuade Mr. Conover to go there some day. Do 
you like to sail ? ” 
“ I don’t know,” Kathie answered, a little doubtfully. 
Uncle Robert came back presently. He had secured 
two very nice rooms, and their trunk, having arrived, 
had been sent up already. 
“ Oh Uncle Robert, I don’t believe I ever could find 
my way around this place,” Kathie said, amazed at 
the stairs and halls. 
“ I ’ll have to hire a guide as they do in the Cata- 
combs.” 
The rooms were very cosey, and to Kathie’s inexpe 
 
rienced eyes extremely elegant. Aunt Ruth was so 
tired that she begged to be laid on the bed at once. 
“ You must be housekeeper and settle the things,” 
she said to Kathie. 
Uncle Rob unlocked the trunk and helped Kathie 
unpack. They hung up the dresses in the wardrobe, 
and laid the smaller articles in the drawers. Kathie 
was so neat and handy that she quite surprised Uncle 
Rob. In a few moments they were all in order. 
“ What can be done for you, my dear, tired sister ?” 
Uncle Robert asked. 
“ I wish you would order me some tea and toast, 
and if Kathie will help me to undress, I shall be more 
comfortable. Every bone in my body aches.” 
She did look very pale and tired. Uncle Rob went 
to his own room, and then Kathie bathed Aunt Ruth’s 
face and hands, brushed her hair smooth, put on a 
nice fresh night-dress and arranged the pillows. 
“ It seems so odd to go to bed in the afternoon,” 
she said, with a smile. 
“ I can rest better in this manner.” 
The toast and tea came up. Aunt Ruth didn’t 
seem much hungry ; but Kathie fed her just as 
mamma used to feed Rob when he was sick, and 
presently she declared herself quite refreshed. 
 
“ You are a most charming little nurse, Kathie, ’’ 
said Uncle Robert ; “ I shall be tempted to fall ill 
some time.” 
“ Not here,” returned Kathie, entreatingly ; “ I 
should get lost the first time I ventured into the 
hall.” 
Aunt Ruth sipped her tea until she began to feel 
rather sleepy ; then she told Kathie to get ready for 
dinner and go down with Uncle Rob, and during the 
quiet she might manage to get a nap. 
So Kathie brushed out her shining hair and put on 
a white dress. Uncle Robert tied her blue party 
sash after he came in, and then, kissing Aunt Ruth 
many times, they went down to the parlor. 
“ Here ’s a veritable fairy ! ” exclaimed Mr. Mere- 
dith. “ Will you sit here by the window ? How is 
your sister, Conover ? ” 
“Very much fatigued. I brought her to New 
York for medical advice. A number of years ago she 
had a bad fall, which crippled her ; but having known 
some wonderful cures myself, I have faith to believe 
that she can be helped. I should like to meet a 
skilful and honorable physician, and learn just what 
could be done, for I shouldn’t want her subjected to 
any unnecessary suffering.” 
 
“ I have an old uncle who is held in high repute 
by medical men generally, and I ’d like you to see 
him, Conover. You may be sure that he will tell 
the truth. He doesn’t attend to anything hut 
office practice except sometimes for an old friend ; 
yet I think he could be persuaded to come here 
and see her.” 
“ Very kind of you, indeed. I feel rather strange 
here now, and the people I used to know have 
mostly forgotten me. A great many changes occur 
in ten years.” 
“ Have you been away that long ? ” 
“ Nearly eleven years ; but I realize the lapse 
of time more by the alterations in all I see here 
than in my own experience there. I regret deeply 
that I did not return sooner ; hut for a long, long 
while I never heard a word from home.” 
Mr. Meredith was a good deal interested and began 
to question his friend. As travelling acquaintances 
in Germany they had learned very little of each 
other’s past life, though much pleased with the 
chance encounter. 
Kathie looked out of the window, greatly amazed 
at the sight. A procession of people appeared to be 
going up both sides of the street, and in the middle 
an interminable confusion of carriages, omnibuses, 
drays, express-wagons, and, it seemed to her, every- 
thing that could he put upon wheels. Occasionally a 
brave pedestrian ventured across the street, running 
between the horses, in imminent danger of having 
his head bitten off or being trodden under foot, she 
thought. Then a strange, sharp clang sounded 
through the rooms, making echoes everywhere. 
She sprang up and glanced at Uncle Eobert. 
“ Only the gong,” he answered, laughingly. “ Now 
we will go to dinner, for I dare say you need yours.” 
With her hand in Uncle Eobert’s she went to the 
long dining-hall. The children’s supper at the Dar- 
rells was nothing in comparison. Kathie was too 
well bred to stare about or show her surprise. To be 
sure, the tall waiter standing behind, bowing and 
asking rapid questions, rather disconcerted her. 
Uncle Eobert took pains to make her comforta- 
ble, and Mr. Meredith was very agreeable. Kathie 
stole a glance now and then at the long rows, — 
ladies very handsomely dressed and fine-looking men 
chatting gayly. It was like a story. 
“ What a little lady that child is ! ” Mr. Meredith 
 
said in a low tone to Uncle Robert. “You must 
certainly go up the river with me one day. I want 
Ada to see her.” 
Uncle Robert looked very much gratified. He ran 
up stairs presently to see how Aunt Ruth progressed, 
and brought back a favorable account. 
“ Doesn’t she want me ? ” asked Katliie. 
“ Not unless you are too tired to stay down here.” 
Kathie said she was not. The parlors were lighted 
up and looked enchanting. One after another saun- 
tered in, and presently a lady began to play on the 
piano. Some friends of Mr. Meredith found him 
out, and formed quite a circle about them. He 
brought one lady to introduce to Kathie, a very 
sweet-looking person, to whom the child took an 
instant fancy. Mrs. Havens asked her if she was 
there alone with her uncle, and Kathie said they 
had come with her aunt, who was an invalid. This 
led to quite a conversation on the subject, until sud- 
denly her eyes felt as if there had been a leaden 
weight attached to them. 
“ Uncle Robert,” she said, when there was a pause, 
“ if you please I will go up stairs.” Then she bade 
them all good night. 
“ A charming child ! ” exclaimed Mrs. Havens. 
“ We must manage to see the aunt to-morrow, for 
I am much interested in them. I knew some 
Alstons a number of years ago, but I don’t suppose 
it is her family.” 
Kathie talked a little while to Aunt Ruth, then 
put her clothes away in an orderly fashion, said her 
prayers, and crept in beside the invalid. 
“ It seems so lonesome without mother and Rob 
and Freddy, — doesn’t it? And though I ’in tired 
and sleepy, I don’t believe I can ever go to sleep. 
There ’s such a noise in the street, and I ’m not used 
to living in palaces.” 
But a soft little laugh was the last sound Aunt 
Ruth heard. 
 
CHAPTER XIII. 
GALA-DAYS. 
When Kathie woke the next morning the elegant 
lace curtains with their gilt cornices and the marble- 
topped bureau with its carved mirror-frame met her 
eyes. She rubbed them dreamily, wondering where 
she was. Then she sat up in the bed and listened 
to the noise without. 
“ O Aunt Ruth ! ” she exclaimed, glad to find a 
home face. 
There was a little tap at the door, and Uncle 
Robert’s cheerful voice asked if they were in bed yet. 
“ ISTo,” said Kathie, hopping out on the floor, “ but 
I ’m just up, and will be ready in a few moments.” 
Aunt Ruth felt quite rested. After Kathie was 
dressed she assisted her, and then they admitted 
Uncle Robert, who was glad to find them so much 
refreshed. 
“ Do you feel strong enough to go down to break- 
fast ? ” he asked of Aunt Ruth. 
 
“ Oh, do ! ” pleaded Katliie. “ It ’s so odd and pretty 
down there, and there are such crowds of people.” 
“ It will look quite different by daylight,” said 
Uncle Robert. 
“ But you can’t help liking Mr. Meredith, and Mrs. 
Havens is so sweet, something like Mrs. Darrell. 
And she wants to see you.” 
Then Uncle Robert told what Mr. Meredith had 
said about his uncle. He was to call on Dr. Mark- 
ham that morning and ask his advice. 
Presently they went down. The dining-hall did 
look rather sparse and straggling. They crossed over 
to a table at which Mrs. Havens was sitting. 
“ Good morning,” exclaimed Mr. Meredith, joining 
them. “ I was afraid some of your kinsfolk had 
spirited you away.” 
“ Who l ” asked Kathie. 
“Why, the people in green.” 
“ So you have found out her relatives ? ” asked 
Uncle Robert. 
“ Have you brought your wand and your invisible 
cap, to say nothing of the unfailing purse ? ” 
Kathie laughed at this. “ I believe I have a 
purse,” she said, “ but I have never tried it.” 
 
“ Invite me to go out with you ; will you not ? ” 
She glanced at Uncle Robert. “ I ’m afraid you 
do not understand the charm,” she answered, slowly. 
“I Ve a great mind to pack Mr. Conover off to 
the country, and take you in charge myself,” he re- 
turned. 
It was half past nine when they returned to the 
parlor, Kathie thought they were rapidly falling into 
lazy habits. The two gentlemen prepared for their 
walk, and Mrs. Havens proposed entertaining Kathie 
and her aunt. Indeed,, in the course of the morning’s 
talk, she discovered that she had been acquainted 
with Mr. Alston’s family. He had no nearer relatives 
than uncles and cousins, and after his death they had 
not interested themselves especially in his widow, as 
is too often the way of the world. 
The morning passed very pleasantly indeed. 
Uncle Robert returned with the news that Dr. 
Markham had promised to call on Aunt Ruth that 
afternoon. Mr. Meredith persuaded Kathie to take 
a walk with him, and after their late lunch they 
started. 
“ We will go down Broadway first,” he began, 
gayly. “ They don’t charge much for looking at 
 
pretty things, and we will both make believe that 
we have come from the country.” 
Katliie made a sudden pause. Three of the oddest 
people she had ever seen in her life were coming 
towards her. They wore flat straw hats, had one 
long braid of hair hanging down behind, carried 
parasols, and were so strangely dressed that she could 
n’t tell whether they were men or women. 
“ Are they real Chinese ? ” she asked, timidly. 
“ The pure article, — packed in tea, standing on 
their heads, and imported at great expense ; war- 
ranted not to spoil in any climate.” 
Kathie looked very doubtful after this explana- 
tion. 
“ Yes. Some distinguished strangers visiting the 
city. Your Uncle Kobert has lived among them, I 
believe.” 
“ How comical they do look ! I shouldn’t want to 
be Chinese.” 
“ Well, I can’t say that I have any particular 
desire for a pig- tail and rat diet. Now here is a 
store of curiosities. It is almost as good as travel- 
ing round the world.” 
They entered, and Kathie went from one thing 
 
to another in the greatest surprise. Toys and arti- 
cles of virtu imported from every corner of the globe. 
She wanted to buy some for Freddy, but she couldn’t 
tell which to choose. 
“ Oh, we will come in again some day,’ Mr. Mere- 
dith said. “ There ’s ever so much more to see.” 
And so she thought as they went on. Mr. Mere- 
dith explained everything in the gayest manner 
imaginable, told her odd stories about the woman 
who sold apples and nuts at the corner, people who 
begged for a living, and the organ-grinders. They 
went up in the belfry of Trinity Church, and it 
seemed to Katliie that they could see all over the 
world. Then they strolled into the Museum, but the 
play being half through they did not care for that. 
Afterward Mr. Meredith stopped an omnibus and 
they rode down to the Battery. Here he enter- 
tained her with some of Irving’s anecdotes of the 
O 
early Dutch settlers, after which they returned to 
the hotel. 
Aunt Buth was in her room, so Mr. Meredith 
took Kathie up, and there she found Uncle Bobert. 
“ Has Dr. Markham been ? ” was her eager ques- 
tion. 
 
“ Yes,” he answered. 
“ And what did he say ? Oh Aunt Euth — ” 
Uncle Bobert took her on his knee. “ My little 
girl,” he began, “ it will be a long and tedious af- 
fair, but Dr. Markham thinks she can be so far re- 
stored as to dispense with a crutch. There would 
have to be a very painful operation, and Aunt Euth 
would be compelled to remain in the city for sev- 
eral months.” 
“ Now ? ” Katliie asked with a little awe. 
“He doesn’t advise it until September. There 
will be no danger to Aunt Butli’s life, and he seems 
quite h tpeful. He is coming again to-morrow with 
a skilful surgeon, and after we hear all we shall 
decide.” 
“ I should be sorry about the pain, but, Aunt 
Euth, if you could walk easily, how delightful it 
would be ! I shouldn’t like to have you away — ” 
“ You will have to come and be her little nurse.” 
“ Oh, if I only might ! ” 
Uncle Bobert kissed the generous girl. 
Then she told what a gay time she had with Mr. 
Meredith. “ And I wanted to buy ever so many 
things, but I couldn’t make any choice.” 
 
“ We will take our turn to-morrow morning. You 
must put on your wishing-cap, for I ’m afraid the 
purse will never be brought in requisition .” 
“ But you get everything for me,” she said, 
earnestly, “ and for mamma and the boys. I really 
don’t know what to do with money.” 
“An unusual complaint,” he said, laughingly. 
The following day was very fine, and they took 
quite an early start. 
“ Now you must have large eyes, Kathie,” her 
uncle said. 
“ What are you going to do ? ” 
“ Buy ever so much for our new house. First, I 
think we will look at wall-papers. Since I am here 
I may as well get all the things there would be 
any difficulty about in a small town. They can be 
sent by express very easily.” 
They went to a large paper-warehouse. The 
clerk began to unroll some elegant things. Uncle 
Robert looked them over very indifferently, Kathie 
thought, while she was silent from surprise. At 
length she uttered an involuntary exclamation. 
“ So you like this crimson ? ” he said, much pleased. 
“Now, Kathie, we can have our library or our 
 
parlor furnished with crimson ; which shall it 
be?” 
Kathie considered a few moments. Red carpets 
and curtains always looked so cosey and bright, and 
this paper with its stripe of rich deep crimson be- 
tween the gilt was so very pretty. 
“ Or we can have the crimson in Aunt Ruth’s 
room.” 
“ Oh, that will be just it,” returned Kathie. “Green, 
I suppose, does look more like a library.” 
“ And there ’s a paper just this pattern with a 
green stripe. See how beautifully it contrasts with 
the pearl of the panels.” 
“ Let us have that for our library then, and this 
for Aunt Ruth’s room. And for the parlor something 
very delicate.” 
“Then there ’s the dining-room, which must be 
in oak. We have quite an arduous task before 
us.” 
They compared, discussed respective merits, and 
finally made their selections. Then the furniture 
was to be chosen. 
This interested Kathie wonderfully. There was 
such a variety ; all were so lovely. Great luxurious 
 
chairs of every description, in which one might dream 
away hours. Two were especially comfortable, — a 
rocker and a reclining-chair that could be turned into 
a bed at a moment’s notice. Both were in crimson 
plush 
“ These must be Aunt Ruth’s,’ Katliie said, “ un- 
less — ” 
“Well?” Uncle Robert smiled good-naturedly. 
“ I think they will cost a good deal,” she ventured, 
timidly. 
“ That part of it you are not to mind,” he re- 
turned. 
“ I begin to believe you are a fairy prince.” 
So Kathie had a gay time, her wishes being 
answered as soon as expressed. But Uncle Robert 
noticed that she was continually thinking of others, 
and seemed to have very little anxiety about herself. 
So he told her he was going to choose the furniture 
of her room, and she was not to see it until it came 
home. 
Afterward came the carpets. It was quite late 
before they were through, and they hurried back to 
the hotel just in time to meet Dr. Markham and his 
friend. Kathie remained in the parlor with Mrs. 
Havens, ratlier fatigued with her morning’s work, 
and glad to rest. 
It was determined in the evening that Aunt Ruth 
would come to the city in the fall and undergo the 
operation. Dr. Markham proposed to take her to his 
house, where he could have her under his immediate 
supervision. He was quite sanguine of success. 
Mr. Meredith was very anxious to have them all 
go up the river to his brother’s, but Aunt Ruth 
thought it too tiresome for her. She insisted that 
Kathie should not be deprived of the pleasure, and 
one lovely morning they started. The sail was 
delightful Guilford River, that had seemed remark- 
able to Kathie heretofore, shrank into insignificance. 
Beautiful green shores rising higher and higher until 
broken by the frowning rocks of the Palisades ! 
Kathie held her breath in wonder. It was like 
entering an enchanted country. 
Mr. Meredith enjoyed Kathie’s surprise and 
pleasure. She was so sweet and unaffected, and 
thoroughly appreciated the efforts made to enter- 
tain her. More than one of the passengers watched 
her as she rambled up and down, talking in her 
pretty fashion, her soft eyes and winsome smile 
brightening with every word. 
 
There was a carriage at the landing, awaiting them. 
Miss Ada had come down with the driver, and greet- 
ed her uncle and her guests very cordially. She was 
not as pretty as Kathie, and had a proud air that 
might not be pleasant at all times ; but now she was 
charming. 
The drive home was short, as the house stood but 
half a mile from the river. It was a very handsome 
place, and elegantly furnished. There were several 
younger children ; but Ada had a room to herself, 
fitted up in a lovely manner, Kathie thought. There 
was a tiny sofa, a bookcase, well filled, and some 
pretty pictures ; a cottage bedstead, with the whitest 
of counterpanes and dainty ruffled pillow-cases. 
The two girls compared notes. Did Kathie have a 
piano, and could she play and sing and draw ? Did 
she go to parties and have beautiful dresses ? 
Kathie felt rather embarrassed ; but, in turn, she 
told about the snow-house, and how they enjoyed 
sledding down hill in winter. Rob and Freddy came 
in for a fond remembrance. 
“ I think children are a great bother,’ said Ada, 
“ and I ’m glad that we have a nurse. You don’t 
take care of your little brother, — do you ? ” 
 
“ Oh yes ; I don’t mind it very much, though ; but 
sometimes he is quite troublesome. Only I think 
we always love our family so well that it is a pleas- 
ure to care for them.” 
Ada shrugged her shoulders. 
“ Can’t we go in the nursery ? ” Katliie asked, 
presently. 
“ Yes, if you like ” ; and Ada led the way to a 
large, plainly furnished room, strewn with toys, and 
containing four occupants, — a nurse and three chil- 
dren. The baby was a sweet little girl of about four. 
Kathie held out her hands and she came at once. 
“ Why, how odd ! Florence is generally shy of 
strangers ” ; and Ada looked surprised. 
But Kathies sweet smile had won the little one. 
“ What a pretty name, — Florence ! If I had such 
a darling little sister I shouldn’t want ever to go 
away from her.” 
Ada smiled rather indifferently as she replied, 
“ But I have so much to occupy my attention, and 
I don’t love to take care of children.” 
The boys began to make shy advances to Kathie. 
She told George about her little brother at home ; 
and Willie asked if she didn’t know any stories. 
 
But Ada had no intention of her visitor’s wasting 
so much time upon the children. 
“ I want to show you my piano,” she said, “ and we 
will take a walk in the grounds. Uncle Edward said 
I was to entertain you.” 
“ Don’t go ’way,” pleaded Willie, holding fast her 
dress. 
“ Ask Miss Kathie if she will not call on us again,” 
prompted the nurse. 
“Ada won’t let her,” George appended, rather crossly. 
“ Hush, Georgie ; that isn’t nice.” 
They had a great time kissing Kathie, and begging 
her to come again. Then Ada took her down stairs 
and played for her quite a while. The music inter- 
ested Kathie very much, still she could not help 
thinking of the little children in the nursery. Pres- 
ently they were summoned to lunch, and afterwards 
the whole party rambled through the grounds. Mrs, 
Meredith then proposed a drive, as they would have 
just about time before the boat returned. 
Mr. Meredith came down stairs just as the girls 
were putting on their hats. “ Kathie,” he exclaimed, 
" those little rogues in the nursery insist upon saying 
another good by to you ; will you come ? ” 
 
She was delighted to comply ; and the children 
would have almost devoured her if Uncle Edward 
had not interfered. 
“ She will never dare venture in this lion’s den 
again,” he said, with a laugh. 
The drive was delightful. Mrs. Meredith was 
very cordial in her invitation for them to come again, 
and Ada regretted that Kathie’s stay must be so 
short. 
“ I begin to have some wants,” Kathie said that 
night, sitting on Uncle Robert’s knee ; “ I ’d like to 
have a piano and quantities ol nice books, and a 
pony. Ada has such a pretty one. Will my purse 
buy them all ? ” and she looked archly up in his 
face. 
“You don’t know until you test it.” 
“ The visit was very pleasant,” she said to Aunt 
Ruth, when they were alone ; “ but I couldn’t help 
thinking that Miss Jessie makes you happy by doing 
everything your way, just as if she had asked you 
what you liked most, and Ada thinks her way is 
so much better that you ought to be pleased with it 
as a matter of course.” 
Aunt Ruth smiled. “ That is the germ of selfish- 
 
ness, Katliie, and people in Ada’s circumstances have 
many temptations to yield to it. Only by striving 
very hard can it be overcome. And since my dear 
little girl can see it, she must endeavor to strive 
against it.” 
There were several more very busy days, and at 
last Katliie tried her purse. She bought a set of 
books for Rob, he having read stray ones and liked 
them very much ; and she saw a most elegant little 
locomotive with a train of cars, that, being wound up 
like a clock, ran all over the floor. That must he for 
Fred. But then in dismay she found that she had 
not money enough. Just as she laid the last piece 
on the counter there was a glitter before her eyes, 
and sure enough her store was immediately in- 
creased. 
“ But if I should be away from you, Uncle Rob ? ” 
“ Oh, it ’s part of the bargain that you always take 
me along.” 
“ Now I ’d like to buy something for mamma, — a 
gray silk dress, just like Mrs. Darrell’s.” 
After quite a search they found it. Kathie 
laughed each time her purse was replenished. 
“ But you have bought nothing for yourself."
“ I believe I don’t want anything just now.” 
“ Very well,” Uncle Robert said, a merry twinkle 
dancing in his eye a moment. 
Mr. Meredith was very sorry to part with Kathie, 
and promised to come to Brookside as soon as the new 
house was in order. Several of the ladies besides 
Mrs. Havens had taken a great fancy to her, for she 
had proved herself so sweet-tempered and engaging. 
“ I should be real sorry to go home if it wasn’t 
for seeing mamma and Freddy and Rob, but that 
seems so delightful. And I wonder what they have 
done to the house ! Then there ’s Miss J essie and 
Charlie, and all the girls. Yes, I believe I do want 
to go home.” 
It was royal to see them all again. Freddy near- 
ly kissed her to death, until presently Rob said, 
“ Come, Fred, give me a chance. Remember that 
I haven’t seen Kathie for ’most a fortnight.” 
Fred opened his eyes at this, not exactly taking in 
the meaning. 
“ Dear mamma,” Kathie said, “ I ’m so glad to get 
back to you ! It has all been splendid, and I have 
seen ever so many nice people ; but you are the best 
and sweetest of them all.” 
Two trunks came from New York instead of the 
one they had taken. The largest Kathie was to 
unpack herself. 
“ I tried my purse, Rob, and here \s what came out 
of it for you ; and Oh, here is mamma’s share ! ” 
“ You might ha’ brought me something. It ’s real 
mean ” ; and Fred’s face was the picture of woe. 
“ Just wait and see.” 
She took out a large package and began tearing 
off the wrappings. Fred watched with anxious eyes. 
Kathie lifted the cars carefully out one by one, 
linked them together, and wound up the locomotive. 
“ There, Fred, you can go to Boston a dozen times 
a day.” 
He capered around the room in a most delighted 
fashion and declared that Kathie was the best girl 
in the whole world. Then he ran back to give her 
a hug and a dozen kisses. 
“ But what are all the rest, Uncle Robert ? ” 
Kathie asked. 
“ Go on and see.” 
Two flat and nearly square packages, each bearing 
a card containing briefly, “ To Kathie, from E. M.” 
O, that ’s Mr. Meredith. And — what lovely, 
 
lovely pictures ! They are just what I liked so much 
one day when he took me to a store to see Little 
Red Riding-Hood. Did you know it, Uncle Rob ? ” 
He laughed a little. 
“ And here ’s something from Mrs. Havens. Mam- 
ma, she used to know papa, and has seen you. She 
was so sweet and pleasant to me.” 
A very curious Japanese work-box and carved 
sandal- wood fan. Kathie glanced first at these and 
then at her beautiful chromo-lithographs. They 
were all such a great surprise to her. Mr. Mere- 
dith would have enjoyed it very much. 
Then in the bottom of the trunk were several new 
dresses Uncle Robert had bought her, — dainty printed 
pique, and two white ones. 
“ And what did you buy for yourself out of your 
wonderful purse ? ” asked Rob. 
“ O, nothing at all, and I don’t think I needed any- 
thing.” 
As Kathie glanced up she met Uncle Robert’s 
eyes. There was something in them that touched 
her deeply, a kind of approval and appreciation that 
told her he loved her better for her unconsciousness 
of self. 
 
Kathie found herself quite a heroine at school. 
That she had stayed nearly two weeks at a hotel on 
Broadway gave her a wonderful prestige. There 
would have been great danger to her self-esteem if 
she had not thought constantly of the temptations in 
the way. 
“ What a splendid uncle you have ! ” Lottie Thorne 
admitted. 
“And that I should think him something dread- 
full ” said Lucy Gardiner, penitently. 
“ He is a real prince, and every night and morning 
I give thanks to God for sending him home,” was 
Katl lie’s response. 
 
CHAPTEE XI Y. 
HOME. 
Rob and Freddy never tired of hearing about 
Kathie’s trip to the city. The Museum, Central 
Park, High Bridge, and the rides in cars and omni- 
buses, always had a fresh interest for them. The 
old women who sold apples, the boys hawking papers, 
and the great markets, lost none of their charm or 
quaintness, for Kathie possessed quite graphic powers 
of description. 
In the mean while the new house progressed 
rapidly. The papering was very handsome, and the 
painters added their skill. The grounds were cleared, 
and a rustic summer-house was commenced for Ka- 
thie. The place presented a very different aspect 
from what it did six weeks before. 
Kathie had taken Uncle Robert to call upon Miss 
Jessie, and made him acquainted with the whole 
family. Their admiration was mutual, and Charlie 
declared that Rob was a lucky boy to have such an 
 
uncle fall from the clouds. He was delighted to hear 
some of his adventures. 
“ Kathie isn’t a hit proud,’ he said to Jessie after 
they had gone. “ She doesn’t seem to feel any 
grander than before.” 
“ I think little Kathie Alston in poverty, trying to 
render her mother’s burdens lighter and make every 
one around her happy, was as grand as any royal 
princess. I rejoice warmly in her good fortune, for 
no one ever deserved it more, and she will improve 
it wisely, I have no doubt.” 
Just at the edge of the grounds stood a small 
cottage that had been rented out to some rather un- 
comfortable tenants. Uncle Robert had the place 
vacated and put in order. 
“ Now we must have a man living here who can 
attend to the garden and look after all little matters. 
Kathie, do you know of any one among your poor 
folks ? ” 
For Kathie somehow found out a great deal about 
poor and sick people. She couldn’t do much to- 
wards relieving them, it was true, until she came in 
possession of her wonderful purse, and that had been 
called upon quite often. 
“ It ’s so nice to surprise people and make them 
very happy,” she said to Uncle Robert one day. “ It 
seems almost like being a fairy.” 
And when he applied to her now she thought a 
little while. 
“ There are several real old people, but we want 
some one to work as well, — don’t we ? ” she asked. 
“ Yes ; we cannot have them quite for ornament.” 
“O Uncle Robert, I know of some one,” she ex- 
claimed presently, "and he isn’t very old either. 
He was hurt in the mill last summer, and is a little- 
lame. When mamma didn’t want to take in sewing 
any more, she recommended his wife to Mrs. Gray- 
son and several other ladies. They have two little 
children. Suppose we see what Aunt Ruth thinks of 
it?” 
They were walking home when this conversation 
occurred, so they entered the little parlor where 
Aunt Ruth sat reading. She had plenty of leisure 
now. 
Kathie began at once, for when she espoused a 
cause she was a very warm partisan. 
Aunt Ruth said, “ Mrs. Morrison has been in this 
alternoon, and she feels quite discouraged, for her 
 
husband had a promise of being employed at the mill 
again, but just now business is dull, and they cannot 
take him until in the fall. If we could do that for 
him I should be very glad. Hugh Morrison has been 
a good son to his poor old mother, who now feels 
herself a sad burden on them in their straitened cir- 
 
cumstances.” 
“ Couldn’t we go and call upon them ? ” asked 
Uncle Eobert. 
“ O yes ” ; and Kathie started up with alacrity. 
“ You will be sure to see Mr. Morrison now,” said 
Aunt Euth. 
So they started, and after a short walk came to 
what was called the tenement-houses, a row of rather 
dilapidated buildings. After being sick half the 
winter, Mr. Morrison had found retrenchment abso- 
lutely necessary, and they had moved hither because 
the rents were lower. 
Kathie walked in and introduced her Uncle 
Eobert very gracefully. Old Mrs. Morrison, white- 
haired and placid -looking, sat in a large rocking- 
chair with a year-old baby on her knee, while a little 
boy stood beside his father, who was repairing the 
clock. 
 
Uncle Robert began a pleasant conversation, and 
gradually led the way to business. He found Mr. 
Morrison an intelligent, practical man, and was very 
well satisfied with him. Everything about the house 
looked clean and orderly, though it was plain. 
“ A man with a family doesn’t have much chance 
to get forehanded,” Mr. Morrison was saying. 
“ Wages are low, and every week lost in the dull 
season counts. Sometimes I ’ve thought of going to 
the West ; but it ’s a hard thing to get started.” 
“ I believe my niece has an offer to make you, 
Mr. Morrison, and it may be as advantageous as 
trying your fortune elsewhere,” Mr. Conover made 
answer. 
“ Oh Uncle Robert, it isn’t really mine. I only 
said — ” and Kathie paused, blushing deeply. 
“ Well, you may say it over again ” ; and he 
smiled, encouragingly. 
“ It ’s to come and live in the gardener’s cottage 
at our new house,” Kathie said, hurriedly, seeing 
that she was expected to speak. 
“ We want a lodge-keeper and gardener, some one 
who will look after the place, and since you were 
brought up on a farm I think you might do very 
 
well. Kathie mentioned you when I was making 
some inquiries.” 
“ Oh Miss Kathie, I ’m so grateful to you ! ” and a 
quick tear sprang to Mr. Morrison’s eye. “ It ’s 
just what I would like above all things. I ’ll try 
never to make you regret your good word. And 
Mary will be overjoyed. I wish she was at home.” 
“ I ’d like you to come as soon as you can. We 
expect to take possession in the course of a fort- 
night, and it seems quite difficult to get all the 
help we want, — of the right kind. The house is 
all ready to be occupied.” 
“ Indeed, sir, I could come right away. Though 
we have paid our rent here in advance, that will 
not be much of an object.” 
Mr. Conover stated the terms he had thought of 
offering. To Mr. Morrison they appeared generous. 
“ You can come over to-morrow and see how 
you like it. I shall be there nearly all day.” 
“ I don’t know how to thank you, but I shall 
do my best to deserve your favor.” 
“ We owe much of our good fortune to Miss 
Kathie, I ’m sure,” said grandmother, in a tremu- 
lous voice. The Lord bless you, child, for caring 
 
for the poor and needy. I ’m sure I rejoice in your 
prosperity.” 
“ It ’s so nice to he able to do these things ! ” Ka- 
thie exclaimed, clasping Uncle Eobert’s hand as they 
walked slowlv homeward. “ Mamma once said the 
fairies didn’t all live in palaces.” 
“ No, for I found one in a very humble cottage ; 
but I shall transport her to the best at my com- 
mand.” 
Kathie laughed gayly. 
A few days after Mr. Morrison removed his family 
to the pretty little house awaiting them. Mrs. Mor- 
rison had to come and express her thanks in person. 
“ It was a perfect godsend to us. Poor Hugh 
was getting so discouraged. O Mrs. Alston, it is 
n’t every one who in prosperity remembers the poor. 
You ought to be proud indeed of Miss Kathie.” 
“ I am thankful to God for her, which is better,” 
Mrs. Alston returned, with a sweet smile. 
The carpets came down, and were soon fitted to 
their respective places. Kathie thought them love- 
lier than ever. Then quantities of furniture, until 
she almost wondered if they would ever find a 
place for it all. 
 
Latterly she had not gone to school, as it was so 
near vacation, and Uncle Robert was very fond of 
having her lor a companion. She was delighted 
now in watching the completion of their plans. 
Aunt Ruth’s room looked lovely. Kathie kept 
admiring every new article that was brought into 
it, and when the pictures came to be hung she 
declared it perfect. 
“ Haven’t you any curiosity to see yours ? ” 
Uncle Robert asked. 
“ Is it done yet ? ” 
“ Finished yesterday afternoon. Shall I conduct 
you to your realm of enchantment ? ” 
“ Oh ! ” and Kathie sprang up eagerly. 
Two steps at a time they went, laughing gayly 
Uncle Robert took the key out of his pocket. 
“ Open sesame ! ” 
It was like e fairy palace ! The daintiest flowered 
carpet, and a set of elegant enamelled furniture done 
in a tint of exquisite pearl, with lovely ornamentation. 
The bureau was broad and low, the mirror showing 
her more than half of herself, the shining golden 
curls and happy, beaming face. There was the white 
bed opposite, a little table with its vase of flowers, a 
 
low rocking-chair, and a pretty red and white willow 
workstand. And there, best of all, over the low 
mantel hung a picture of Uncle Robert. Kathie 
clasped her arms around his neck. 
“ Oh Uncle Robert ! ” and her voice trembled with 
emotion. “You are the best and dearest uncle in 
the world. And I ’m so glad to have you ! ” 
He kissed the rosy face many times. She was 
very dear indeed to him. 
“ It is so very beautiful,” she exclaimed, when she 
could command her voice. “ And I am very glad 
about the picture. I shall always think whose 
generous hand bestowed all these blessings. If I 
could only do something in return.” 
“ You can repay me for everything, Kathie, my 
darling. To see you growing into a noble and pure- 
hearted woman, intent upon making the world a 
little better for her presence, will make me feel that 
I have not placed all these blessings in your way 
vainly. The reward is not simply in being grateful 
to me, but in sharing your happiness with others, in 
proving a good daughter and sister, and a kind 
friend.” 
“ I am sometimes afraid that I never can be good 
 
enough, Uncle Robert,” Kathie answered, seri- 
ously. 
“ I can trust you while you keep so near to 
humility,” he said, in an encouraging tone. 
“ I feel like the Pilgrims when they reached the 
Palace Beautiful,” she returned, with a sweet smile. 
“ And the giants, — are they all dead ? ” 
“ I don’t know. I ’in so happy ^that nothing 
seems to trouble me. I wonder if it is quite right.” 
“ Yes,” he said, gayly. “ God means that we shall 
have some hours of satisfaction and content, es- 
pecially in childhood. I want you to enjoy life now. 
With years always come added cares.” 
Her two gifts from Mr. Meredith had been nicely 
hung. Indeed, it seemed as if nothing was wanting. 
“ In a few days we shall he ready for our removal,” 
Uncle Robert said. “ To-morrow mamma is to come 
over and unpack the dishes and settle the little odds 
and ends. As soon as the smell of paint is aired out 
Aunt Ruth can take up her abode. There will be a 
great deal to do afterward with the grounds and 
fences, but it will be pleasant to watch the improve- 
ments from our windows.” 
So they locked up the enchanted palace and walked 
 
slowly down the broad, shady avenue. Grand- 
mother Morrison stood out by the door of her little 
cottage. Hugh had improved it a great deal already. 
The straggling shrubbery had been trimmed, the 
grass cut short, and the falling vines trained over the 
lattice. 
“ Come in and see how we look, Miss Kathie,” 
grandmother said, with an old-fashioned courtesy. 
Kathie thought her cap and apron were even 
whiter than snow. 
They walked into the cheerful room. Mrs. Morri- 
son sprang up and placed some chairs for them. 
Jamie was dragging a wooden horse on wheels, 
and his little sister, who sat on the floor, clapped 
her hands and crowed, and occasionally delivered 
a speech in baby dialect. 
“Are you feeling at home?” Uncle Robert asked. 
“ O yes, wonderfully so,” returned Mrs. Morrison. 
“ I tell Hugh that we can never be grateful enough 
for our good fortune. I don’t know what we should 
have done, and I hope that he will please you ; I 
know he will try to do his best.” 
“ Kathie and I are not very unreasonable people, 
he answered, smilingly. 
 
Mrs. Morrison insisted that they should have a 
saucer of berries and cream, and then grandmother 
wanted her to go through the house. It looked 
so cosey and pretty, with a quaint, old-fashioned air, 
for much of the furniture had been the old lady’s 
when she first went to housekeeping. In the tall 
China vases, standing on the parlor mantel, there 
were some fragrant roses that perfumed the room, 
and great long sprays of honeysuckle. 
“ I hope you ’ll be just as happy in your own 
house,” she said, laying her hand on Katliie’s shoul- 
der. “ If you begin by remembering the poor and 
distressed, God will not be likely to turn his face 
from you ; and I wish you a long, happy life.” 
“ Thank you,” Kathie said, in a low tone, yet her 
smooth brow was rather thoughtful. It did not 
seem hardly right for her to have so much credit 
when Uncle Eobert was the true agent, the gen' 
erous prince. 
Mrs. Alston and Kathie were over to the ne.\? 
house all of the following day, placing furniture and 
dishes in order. The boys were to come after school, 
and there was no lagging behind, you may be sure. 
Uncle Eobert had kept the doom locked most of the 
 
time, though Bob and Freddy thought it rather 
unjust that Kathie should be indulged in such an 
unlimited manner, while they “ couldn’t have any- 
thing, or go anywhere ! ” 
Now they were wild with delight, and ran in and 
out of every room, each “ Oh ! ” growing larger and 
louder. After they had explored the lower rooms, 
they made a grand rush for their own. They were 
