are away.”
Mrs. Sutton wiped her eyes.
“The dear child!” she said, in the subdued tone habitual to the
frequenters of the sick-room. “No wonder you want to see her! Why didn’t
you give her a holiday, and bring her to Virginia with you?”
“I dreaded the effect of a child’s high animal spirits and thoughtless
bustle upon her mother’s health”--the shadow thickening into trouble.
“The next best thing to having her with me is to know that she is kindly
and lovingly looked after by my married sister, of whom she is very
fond. Florence is merrier, if not always happier, with her young cousins
than if she were condemned to the repression and joyless routine of
a house where the care of the sick is the most engrossing business to
all.”
The more Mrs. Sutton meditated upon this conversation, the more
enigmatical it appeared that the mother never spoke of missing her only
living child--never pined for the sound of her vivacious talk and the
sight of her winning ways. Curiosity--her strong love for all children,
and a lively interest in Florence and Florence’s father, the two who
assuredly did feel the separation--got the ascendency over discretion
that night, when Rosa, too nervous to sleep, begged her to talk, “to
scare away the horrors that were sitting, a blue-black brood, upon her
pillow.”
“Your little daughter would be an endless source of entertainment to
you if she were here,” said downright Aunt Rachel, with no show of
circumlocution. “I am surprised you do not send for her.”
“Children of that age are a nuisance!” returned Rosa, peevishly. “And
of all tiresome ones that I ever saw, Florence is the most trying. She
doesn’t talk after I bid her hold her tongue, but her big, solemn eyes
see and her ears hear all that passes. If there is one thing that pushes
me nearer to the verge of distraction than another it is to have my own
words quoted to me when I have forgotten that I ever uttered them. And
she--literal little bore!--is always pretending to take all that I say
in earnest. If I were to tell her to go to Guinea, it is my belief
she would put on her bonnet, cloak, and gloves, pocket a biscuit for
luncheon and a story-book to read by the way, and set out forthwith,
asking the first decent-looking man she met in the street at what wharf
she would find a vessel bound for Africa.”
Mrs. Sutton was obliged to laugh.
“She must be a truthful, sincere little thing!”
“Didn’t I tell you she is TOO outrageously literal and unimaginative?
Just let me give you an example of how she tires and vexes me. One day,
about a fortnight before I left home, she set her heart upon spending
the whole of Saturday afternoon with me. Her father objected, for he
understands, if he does not sympathize with me, what a trial she is to
flesh and spirit. But I was moderately comfortable, and my nerves were
less unruly than usual, so I said we would try and get on together.
“No sooner had he gone than the catechism commenced:
“‘Now, mamma, what can I do to amuse you?’
“She talks like a woman of fifty.
“‘What should you propose if I were to leave it to you?’ I asked.
“‘I suppose,’ said my Lady Cutshort, ‘that it would excite you too much
to talk, so I had better read aloud. What book do you prefer?’
“I named one--a novel I had not finished--and resigned myself to
martyrdom. She reads fluently--her father says prettily; but the
piping voice rasped my auriculars to the quick, and I soon stopped the
exhibition. Then we essayed conversation, but our range of themes was
limited, and a dismal silence succeeded to a short dialogue. By and by I
told her that I was sleepy, hoping she would take the hint and leave my
room.
“‘Then, mamma, I will just get my work-basket, and sit here, as still as
a mouse, and prevent all disturbance.’
“With that, she gets out her miniature thimble and scissors, and falls
to work upon a pair of slippers she was embroidering for her father’s
birthday present, sitting up, starched and prim as an old maid, her lips
pursed, and her forehead gravely consequential. I could not close my
eyes without seeing her still, like an undersized nightmare, her
hair smooth to the least hair, her dress neat to the smallest fold,
stitching, stitching, the affected, conceited marmoset!
“At last I said:
“‘Put down your sewing, Florence, and look out of the window at the
people going by. You must be very tired.’
“‘Not in the least, mamma, dear,’ answered Miss Pert. ‘I like to work,
and there is nothing interesting going on outside.’
“I tossed and sighed, and she was by me in a second.
“‘Darling mamma! my poor, sweet little mother!’ in her reed-like chirp;
‘can I do nothing to make you feel better?’ putting her hands upon my
head and stroking my face until my flesh crawled.
“‘Yes,’ said I, out of all patience. ‘Take yourself off, and don’t
let me see you again until to-morrow morning! You kill me with your
teasing.’
“And would you believe it? she just put up her sewing in the basket and
went directly out, without a tear or a murmur, and when her father
came home he could not prevail upon her, by commands or persuasions,
to accompany him further than the door of my chamber. So he, who won’t
admit that she can do anything wrong, instead of whipping her for her
obstinacy, as he ought to have done, guessed she ‘had some reason’ for
her disobedience which she did not like to tell, and interrogated poor,
persecuted me. When he had heard my version of the manner in which we
had spent the afternoon, he only said, ‘I should have foreseen this. But
the child--she is only a child, Rosa!--did her best!’ and he looked
so mournful that I, knowing he blamed me for his bantling’s freak of
temper, told him plainly that he cared a thousand times more for this
diminutive bundle of hypocrisy than he ever did for me, and that his
absurd favoritism was fast begetting in me a positive dislike for her. I
couldn’t endure the sight of the sulky little mischief-maker for a week
after her complaint of barbarity had brought the look into his face I
knew so well.”
“O Rosa, she is your own flesh and blood! and, as her father said, a
mere baby yet! You said, too, that she refused to assign any cause to
him for her singular conduct.”
“She might better have made open outcry than have left upon his mind
the impression that I had banished her cruelly and unnecessarily. But
I despair of giving you an idea of how provoking she can be. She is a
Chilton, through and through, in feature, manner, and disposition--one
of those ‘goody’ children, you know! a class of animals that are simply
intolerable to me. She is too precocious and unbaby-like to be in the
least interesting. You should have seen my little Violet to understand
what a constant disappointment Florence is. She was myself in miniature,
and moreover the most witching, prankish, peppery elf that was ever
made. The best trait in Florence’s character was her love for her
baby-sister. She gave up everything to her while she was alive, and they
told me that she would not eat, and scarcely slept, for days after her
death. Her father will have it that she is singularly sensitive, and
has marvellous depths of feeling; but if this be so, it is queer I
never found it out. Nobody could help adoring Violet--my sweet, lost,
beautiful angel!”
The hysterical sobs were pumping up the tears now in hot torrents, and
these Mrs. Sutton was fain to assuage by loving arts she would not--but
for the danger of allowing them to flow--have been in the temper to
employ, so full was her heart of yearning pity for the hardly-used
babe, and displeasure at the mother’s weak selfishness. It was easier to
forgive and forget Rosa’s sins; to lessen, in the retrospect, her worst
faults into foibles, than it would have been to overlook the more venal
failings of one less mercurial, and whose personal fascinations did not
equal hers.
Ere the close of another day, Mrs. Sutton had excused her unnatural
insensibility to her child’s virtues and affection, by representing to
herself how fearfully disease had warped judgment and perception; had
cast over the enormities she could not palliate the pall of solemn
remembrance of the truth that death’s dark door was already as surely
shut between mother and daughter, as if the grave held the former. A
week of chill March rains and wind was disastrous to the patient, who
had seemed to draw her main supplies of strength from the sunshine
admitted freely to her room, with the spring air, redolent with the
delicious odors of the freshly-turned earth, the budding trees, and
early blossoms from the garden beneath her windows. She shrank and
shivered under the ungenial sky, while the drizzling mist soaked life
and animation out of the fragile body. Occasional fits of delirium,
increased difficulty of breathing, and a steady decline of the slender
remains of vital force, warned her attendants that their care would not
be required much longer. She was still obstinate in her disbelief of the
grave nature of her malady. The most distant reference to her decease
would arouse her to angry refutation of the hinted doubt of her
recovery, and excited her to offer proof of her declaration that she was
less ill than others supposed; she would summon up a poor counterfeit
of energy and mirth, more ghastly than her previous lassitude; deny
that she suffered from any cause, save the unfailing nervous depression
consequent upon the unfavorable weather.
Then came a day on which the sun looked forth with augmented splendor
from his sombrely curtained pavilion; when the naked branches of the
deciduous trees, the serried lances of the evergreens, and the
broad leaves of the tent-like magnolias--the pride of the Tazewell
place--shone as from a bath of molten silver. The battered flowers
ventured into later and healthier bloom, and a robin, swinging upon
the lilac spray nearest Rosa’s window, sang blithe greeting to the
reinstated spring.
Rosa heard him--opened her eyes, and smiled.
“One--maybe the very same--used to sing there every morning when I was a
girl--used to awake me from my second nap. I could sleep all night then,
and never dream once!”
A messenger had been sent, at daybreak, for her sisters and brother, who
resided several miles away, but as yet Mrs. Sutton and Frederic were her
only nurses. She had dozed almost constantly during the night, and
been delirious when awakened to take nourishment or tonics, muttering
senseless and disconnected words, and moaning in pain, the location and
nature of which she could not describe to the solicitous watchers.
“I remember that Mabel and I,” she continued, dreamily, after a long
pause--then correcting herself, “I ask your pardon, Frederic! I said I
wouldn’t speak of her ever again to you, but we were so much together in
those days. Moreover, it has troubled me at times, that you did not know
who your real friends were, and she did like you--and--and--what am I
saying! You shouldn’t let me run on so!”
She raised her hand with difficulty, and tried to wipe away the film
gathering over her dilated eyes.
“Never mind, my darling! Do not attempt to talk! You are too weak and
tired!” said her husband, tenderly.
“Tired!” catching at the word, “That is it! There is nothing else the
matter, whatever Dr. Ritchie and the rest of them may say. Tired! for
how many years I have been THAT! It seems like a thousand. This world is
a tiresome place to most people, I think I shall never forget how jaded
Mabel looked that week,” breaking off, as before, with a frightened
start, such as a dreamer gives when he fancies he is falling from an
immeasurable height. “Indeed, Fred, dear!” feeling for his hand upon
the coverlet, “I did not mean to wound or offend you. It was a terrible
ordeal for you, my love! But you came out of it as silver seven times
refined. That is what the text says--isn’t it? And you and Aunt Rachel
are friends once more! That is one good deed I have done. I hope it
will be recorded up THERE! Heaven knows there are not so many that I can
afford to have one overlooked!”
Another season of dozing, and she awoke, rubbing her hands feebly
together, as to cleanse them.
“My hands ought to be whiter--purer! I know what ails them. I should
have picked up the letter she--Mrs. Sutton--wrote you. But I loved you
so--even then!” beseechingly. “You will not hate me when I am gone? I
mean when you get back to Philadelphia, and I am well enough to be left
here. I was sure, if you got it, you would come to Ridgeley, and I let
it go down the stream--down--down! Frederic!”
“I am here, dearest!” slipping his arm under, and raising her, as her
shrill cry rang out, and she grasped the empty air. “Rosa, my WIFE!”
“I thought I was strangling--in the water! I am your wife--am I not? She
couldn’t take you from me if she were here. I wish she were! I always
liked Mabel. She was a good, true woman--but she did not love you as I
did!”
Panting for breath, she leaned upon her husband’s breast, and her
eyelids fell together again. Only for a moment! Then a smile--fond,
sweet, and penitent--played among the ashy shadows encircling her mouth.
“Poor little Florence! I am sorry I was cross to her. Tell her so,
papa!” Her husband stooped to kiss her, laid her back upon the pillows,
closed the sightless eyes, and left Mrs. Sutton alone with the dead.
CHAPTER XVII. -- AFTER FIFTEEN YEARS.
“OLD Mrs. Tazewell has departed this life at last!” said Winston Aylett,
entering his own parlor one bleak November evening on his return from
the village post-office. “I met Al. Branch on the road just now. For a
wonder he was sober--in honor of the occasion, I suppose. He and Gus.
Tabb are to sit up with the corpse to-night.”
“When did she die?” queried his wife, drawing her skirts aside, that he
might get nearer the fire.
“At twelve o’clock to-day. That is, she ceased the unprofitable business
of respiration at that hour. She died, virtually, five years ago. She
has been little better than a mummy for that period.”
“Poor old lady!” said Mabel Dorrance, regretfully, from her corner
of the hearth. “Hers was a kind heart, while she could think and act
intelligently. One of my earliest recollections is of the dainties
with which she used to ply me when I visited Rosa. She was an indulgent
parent and mistress, yet I suppose few even of those most nearly related
to her will mourn her loss.”
“It would be very foolish if they did!” Mr. Aylett picked up the tongs
to mend the fire. “And very unnatural did they not rejoice at being
rid of a burden. The old place has been going to destruction all these
years, and it could not be sold while she cumbered the upper earth.”
No one replied directly to this delicate and feeling observation, and
Mrs. Aylett presently diverted the conversation slightly by saying,--
“And Alfred Branch has gone to tender his services to the family! There
is something romantic in his constancy to a memory. From the day of
Rosa’s death, he has embraced every chance of testifying his respect
for and wish to serve her friends. He is a sadder wreck than was Mrs.
Tazewell. You would hardly recognize him, Mabel. His hair and beard are
white as those of a man of sixty-five, and his face bloated out of all
comeliness.”
“White heat!” interjected Mr. Aylett. “He can not last much longer.”
“And all because a pretty girl said him ‘Nay!’” pursued the wife.
Mr. Aylett and Mr. Dorrance made characteristic responses in a breath.
“The greater blockhead he!” said one.
The other, “His was never a rightly balanced mind, I suspect. I always
thought him weak and impressionable.”
“Are your adjectives synonymous?” asked Mrs. Aylett playfully.
“Generally!”
Her brother had been reading at a distant window, while the daylight
sufficed to show him the type of his book. He now laid it by, and came
forward into the redder circle of radiance cast by the burning logs. He
was in his forty-third year, saturnine of visage, coldly monotonous in
accent, a business machine that did its work in good, substantial style,
and undertook no “fancy jobs.” He had amassed a handsome fortune, built
a handsome house, and married a handsome woman, all of which appendages
to his consequence he contemplated with grim complacency. As regarded
spiritual likeness, mutual affection, and assimilation of feeling and
opinion, he and his wife had receded, the one from the other, in the
fourteen years of their wedded life. There had been no decided rupture.
Both disliked altercations, and where radical opposition of sentiment
existed, they avoided the unsafe ground by tacit consent. Mabel’s
uniform policy was that of outward submission to the mandates of her
chief.
“After all, it makes little difference!” she fell into the habit of
saying in the earlier years of matronhood, and he interpreted her
listless acquiescence in his decrees as faith in the soundness of his
judgment, the infallibility of his decisions. No woman of sense and
spirit ever becomes an exemplar in unquestioning obedience to a mortal
man, unless through apathy--fatal torpor of mind or heart. Of this fact
in moral history our respectable barrister was happily ignorant. He was
no better versed in the lore of the heart feminine than when he accepted
Mabel Aylett’s esteem and friendly regard in lieu of the shy, but ardent
attachment a betrothed maiden should have for the one she means to make
her husband.
He respected her thoroughly, and loved her better than he did
anybody else. She was the one woman he recognized as his sister’s
superior--supremacy due to the influence of single-minded integrity and
modest dignity. What Mabel said, he believed without gainsaying;
while Clara’s clever dicta required winnowing to separate the probably
spurious from the possibly true. If his tone, in addressing his wife,
was seldom affectionate, it was never careless, as that which replied to
his sister’s raillery.
“Generally,” he said in his metallic, unmodulated voice. “The man who
would cast away health, usefulness, and fortune in his chagrin at not
winning the hand of a shallow-pated, volatile flirt, must be both silly
and susceptible.”
“Rosa Tazewell may have been shallow of heart, but she was not of pate,”
 answered Mr. Aylett, with a cold sneer. “She was a fair plotter, and not
fickle of purpose when she had her desires upon a much-coveted object.
Her marriage proved that. She meant to captivate Chilton before she
had known him a month--yes, and to marry him, as she finally did. Her
intermediate conquests were but the practice that was to perfect her in
her profession. Does anybody know, by the way, if he has ever taken a
second wife to his bereaved bosom?”
A brief silence, then Mrs. Aylett said, negligently, “I think not.
Mrs. Trent, Rosa’s sister, was expatiating to me a month since upon the
beauty and accomplishments of his daughter, and she said nothing of
a step-mother. Father and child live with a married sister of Mrs.
Chilton, I believe.”
“I had not heard that Rosa left a child,” remarked Mabel, interested. “I
understood that two died before the mother.”
“Only one--and that the younger. Miss Florence is now twelve years old,
Mrs. Trent says. I saw her at church once, when she was visiting her
grandmother and aunts. She is really passable--but very unlike her
mother.”
Mabel did not join in the desultory talk that engaged the others until
supper-time. There was a broken string in her heart, that jangled
painfully when touched by an incautious hand.
“Twelve years old!” she was saying, inwardly. “My darling would have
been thirteen, had she lived!”
And then flitted before her fancy a girlish form, with pure, loving
eyes, and a voice melodious as a mocking-bird’s. Warm arms were about
her neck, and a round, soft cheek laid against hers--as no human arms
and face would ever caress her--her, the childless, whose had been the
hopes, fears, pains--never the recompence of maternity.
She had been to the graveyard that day--secretly, lest her husband
should frown, Clara wonder, and Winston sneer at her love for and memory
of that which had never existed, according to their rendering of the
term. She had trimmed the wire-grass out of the little hollow, above
which the mound had not been renewed since the day of her baby’s burial,
and, trusting to the infrequency of others’ visits to the neglected
enclosure, had laid a bunch of white rose-buds over the unmarked dust
she accounted still a part of her heart, ‘neath which it had lain so
long. People said she had never been a mother; never had had a living
child; had no hope of seeing it in heaven. God and she knew better.
“Clara, I wish you to attend Mrs. Tazewell’s funeral this afternoon,”
 said Mr. Aylett at breakfast the next day but one after this. “There
were invidious remarks made upon your non-appearance at her daughter’s,
and I do not choose that my family shall furnish food for neighborhood
scandal.”
“My dear Winston, you must recollect what an insufferable headache I had
that day.”
“Don’t have one to-day,” ordered her husband laconically. “Mabel, do you
care to go?”
“By all means. I would not fail, even in seeming, in rendering respect
to one I used to like so much, and whose kindness to me was unvarying.
You have no objection, Herbert?”
“None. I may accompany you--the day being fine, and the roads in
tolerable order.”
The funeral was conducted with the disregard of what are, in other
regions, established customs that distinguish such occasions in the
rural districts of Virginia.
Written notices had been sent out, far and near, the day before,
announcing that the services would begin at two o’clock, but when the
Aylett party arrived at a quarter of an hour before the time specified,
there was no appearance of regular exercises of any kind. A dozen
carriages besides theirs were clustered about the front gate, and a
long line of saddle-horses tethered to the fence. Knots of gentlemen in
riding costume dotted the lawn and porches, and within-doors ladies sat,
or walked at their ease in the parlor and dining room, or gathered in
silent tearfulness around the open coffin in the wide central hall.
The bed-room of the deceased was a roomy apartment in a wing of the
building, and to this Mabel was summoned before she could seat herself
elsewhere.
“Miss Mary’s compliments and love, ma’am; and she says won’t you please
step in thar, and set with Mistis’ friends and relations?” was the
audible message delivered to her by Mrs. Trent’s spry waiting-maid.
Herbert looked dubious, and Mrs. Aylett enlarged her fine eyes in a
manner that might mean either superciliousness or well-bred amazement.
But Mabel was neither surprised nor doubtful as to the proper course
for her to pursue. Time was when she was as much at home here as Rosa
herself, and Mrs. Tazewell’s partiality for her was shared by others of
the family. That she had met none of them in ten or twelve years, did
not at a season like the present dampen their affection. They would
rather on this account seize upon the opportunity of honoring publicly
their mother’s old favorite.
The chamber was less light than the hall she traversed to reach it.
She recognized Mary Trent, the daughter next in age to Rosa, who fell
upon her neck in a sobbing embrace, then the other sisters and their
brother, Morton Tazewell, with his wife, and was formally presented to
their children.
Finally she turned inquiringly toward a gentleman who stood against the
window opposite the door, with a little girl beside him.
Confused beyond measure, as the hitherto unthought-of consequences of
her impulsive action in sending for her friend rushed upon her mind,
Mrs. Trent faltered out:
“I forgot! You must excuse me, but I was so anxious to see you. My
brother-in-law, Mr. Chilton. He arrived yesterday--not having heard of
mother’s death.”
And for the first time since they looked their passionate farewell into
each other’s eyes under the rose-arch of the portico at Ridgeley, on
that rainy summer morning, the two who had been lovers again touched
hands.
“I hope you are quite well, Mr. Chilton,” said Mabel’s firm, gentle
voice. “Is this your daughter?” kissing the serious-faced child on the
forehead, and looking intently into her eyes in the hope of discovering
a resemblance to her mother.
Then she went back to a chair next to Mrs. Trent’s, and began to talk
softly of the event that had called them together, not glancing again
at the window until the outer hall was stilled, that the clergyman might
begin the funeral prayer.
“The services will be concluded at the grave,” was the announcement that
succeeded the sermon; and there followed the shuffling of the bearers’
feet, and their measured tramp across the floors and down the steps of
the back porch.
The daughters and daughter-in-law let fall their veils and pulled on
their gloves, and Herbert Dorrance beckoned somewhat impatiently to his
wife from the parlor door. While she was on her way to join him, she saw
his complexion vary to a greenish sallow, his mouth work spasmodically,
and his eyes sink in anger or dismay.
Winston Aylett likewise noted and knew it, for the same look of abject
terror he had observed upon the hard Scotch face when Mabel enumerated
upon her fingers those she accused of having robbed her of her babe.
The wife attributed it to displeasure at seeing Frederic Chilton among
the mourners. Her whilom guardian, never charitable overmuch, inclined
the more to the belief begotten within him by other incidents, to wit:
that his brother-in-law’s talk was more doughty than his deeds, and his
real sentiment upon beholding the man he boasted of having flogged as
a libertine and coward, was physical dread for his own safety. Watchful
alike of the other party to the ancient quarrel, he was rewarded by the
sight of Chilton’s irrepressible start and frown, when Mabel put her
hand within her husband’s arm, and stood awaiting the formation of
the procession. The discarded lover gazed steadfastly into Dorrance’s
countenance in passing to his place, in recognition that scouted
assimilarity with salutation, but his eye did not waver or his color
fade.
“I would not be afraid to wager that this is but another version of the
fable of the statue of the man rampant and the lion couchant,” thought
Mr. Aylett, following with his wife in the funeral train down
the grass-grown alley leading through the garden to the family
burying-ground. “It would be an entertaining study of human veracity
if I could hear Chilton’s story, and compare the two. He is either an
audacious rascal, or there is something back of all that I have heard
which will not bear the light.”
It was not remorse at the thought of the total alteration in his
sister’s life and feelings that had grown out of this imperfect or false
evidence, but simple curiosity to inspect the lineaments and note the
actions of the cool rascal whose audacity commanded his admiration, and
note his bearing in the event of his coming into closer contact with his
former foe, that prompted him to single him out for scrutiny among
those whose relationship to the deceased secured them places nearest the
grave.
For a time the widower was gravely quiet, holding his child’s hand and
looking down steadfastly into the pit at his feet, perhaps remembering
more vividly than anything else a certain sunny day in March, many years
back, when another fissure yawned close by, where now a green mound--the
ridged scar with which the earth had closed the wound in her breast--and
a stately shaft of white marble were all that remained to the world of
“Rosa, wife of Frederic Chilton.” But, while the mould was being heaped
upon the coffin, he raised his eyes, and let them rove aimlessly over
the crowd, neither avoiding nor courting observation--the cursory regard
of a man who had no strong interest in any person or group there. They
changed singularly in resting upon the family from Ridgeley. A stare
of stupefaction gave place to living fires of angry suspicion and
amazement--lurid flame that testified its violence in the reddening of
cheeks and brow, in the dilating nostril and quivering lips. Then he
passed his hand downward over his features, evidently conscious of their
distortion, and striving after a semblance of equanimity, and looked
again in stern fixity, not at her from whom he had been parted in the
early summer of his manhood, nor at his successful rival, nor yet at the
guardian who had offered him gratuitous insult in addition to the
injury of refusing to permit his ward’s marriage with a disgraced
adventurer--but at Mrs. Aylett, the chatelaine of Ridgeley, the wife
whose serene purity had never been blemished by a doubting breath;
chaste and polished matron; the admired copy for younger and less
discreet, but not more beautiful women. He surveyed her boldly--if the
imagination had not seemed preposterous--Mr. Aylett would have said
scornfully, as he might study the face and figure of some abandoned
wretch who had accosted him in the public thoroughfare as an
acquaintance.
A haughty and uncontrollable gesture from the husband succeeded in
diverting the offender’s notice to himself for one instant--not more.
But in that flash he detected a shade of difference in the expression
that irked him; a ray, that was inquiry, sharp and eager, tempered by
compassion, yet still contemptuous.
All this passed in less time than it has taken me to write a line
descriptive of the pantomime. The mound was shaped, and the decorously
mournful train turned from it to retrace their course to the house,
Frederic Chilton imitating the example of those about him, but moving
like a sleep-walker, his brows corrugated and eyes sightless to all
surrounding objects. He had awakened when the Ridgeley carriage drove
to the door. Mrs. Sutton detained Mabel in one of the upper chambers to
concert plans for a visit to the homestead while the Dorrances should
be there. Aunt and niece had not met since the arrival of the latter
in Virginia, a fortnight before, the elder lady being in constant
attendance upon Mrs. Tazewell.
“This is very stupid! And I am getting hungry!” said Mrs. Aylett, aside
to her lord, as she stood near a front window, tapping the floor with
her feet, while vehicle after vehicle received its load and rolled off.
“We shall be the last on the ground. Herbert! can’t you intimate to
Mabel that we are impatient to be gone?”
“I don’t know where she is!” growled the brother, for once
non-complaisant to her behest, and not stirring from the chair in the
corner into which he had dropped at his entrance.
His head hung upon his breast, and he appeared to study the lining of
his hat-crown, balancing the brim by his forefingers between his knees.
Mrs. Aylett had lowered her veil in the burying-ground or on her way
thither, but it was a flimsy mass of black lace--richly wrought, yet
insufficient to hide the paleness of the upper part of her visage. Mr.
Aylett watched and wondered, with but one definite idea in his brain
beyond the resolve to ferret out the entire mystery in his stealthy,
taciturn fashion. Herbert Dorrance had been, in some manner, compromised
by his association with this Chilton, had reason to dread exposure from
him, and his sister was the confidante of his guilty secret.
“I shall know all about it in due season,” thought the master of himself
and his dependents.
Not that he meant to extort or wheedle it from his consort’s keeping,
but he had implicit faith in his own detective talents.
“Here she is at last!” he said, when Mabel came down the staircase,
holding Aunt Rachel’s hand, and talking low and earnestly, her noble
face and even gliding step a refreshing contrast to Mrs. Aylett’s
nervousness and Herbert’s dogged sullenness.
“I am sorry I have kept you so long, but there will be less dust than if
we had gone sooner. The other carriages will have had time to get out of
our way,” she said, pleasantly. “Winston,” coming up to her brother, and
speaking in an undertone, “will it be quite convenient for you to send
for Aunt Rachel on next Friday?”
“Entirely! The carriage shall be at your service at any hour or day you
wish,” with more cordiality than was common with him.
However treacherous others might be in their reserve and
half-confessions, here was one who had never deceived him or knowingly
misled him to believe her better, or otherwise, than she was. Honesty
and truth were stamped upon her face by a life-long practice of these
homely virtues--not by meretricious arts. It was tardy justice, but he
rendered it without grudging, if not heartily.
A few words passed as to the hour at which the carriage was to call for
Mrs. Sutton, and Mabel kissed her “Good-by,” the others shaking hands
with her, and with three or four of the Tazewell kinsmen who officiated
as masters of ceremonies, and Mrs. Aylett made an impatient movement
toward the front steps. Directly in her route, leaning against a pillar
of the old-fashioned porch, was Frederic Chilton, no longer dreamy and
perplexed, but on the alert with eye and ear--not losing one sound
of her voice, or trick of feature. She inclined her head slightly and
courteously, the notice due a friend of the house she, as guest, was
about to leave. He did not bow, nor relax the rigor of his watch. Only,
when she was seated in the carriage, he bent respectfully and mutely
before Mabel, who followed her hostess, and paying as little attention
to the two gentlemen as they did to him walked up to Mrs. Sutton, and
said something inaudible to the bystanders. As they drove out of the
yard, the Ridgeley quartette saw the pair saunter, side by side, to the
extreme end of the portico, apparently to be out of hearing of the
rest, but no one remarked aloud upon the renewed intimacy and then
confidential attitude.
“If it is anything very startling, the old gossip will never keep it to
herself,” Mr. Aylett congratulated himself, while his wife’s complexion
paled gradually to bloodlessness, and Herbert sat back in his corner,
sulky and dumb. “And she is coming to us on Friday!”
CHAPTER XVIII. -- THUNDER IN THE AIR.
THE only malady that put Herbert Dorrance in frequent and unpleasant
remembrance of his mortality was a fierce headache, which had of
late years supervened upon any imprudence in diet, and upon excessive
agitation of mind or physical exertion. His invariable custom, when
he awoke at morning with one of these, was to trace it to its supposed
source, and after determining that it was nothing more than might have
been expected from the circumstance, to commit himself to his wife’s
nursing for the day.
She ought, therefore, to have been surprised when, while admitting that
the pain in his head was intense, he yet, on the morrow succeeding Mrs.
Tazewell’s funeral, persisted in rising and dressing for breakfast.
“It must have been the roast duck at dinner yesterday,” he calmly and
languidly explained the attack. “It was fat, and the stuffing reeked
with butter, sage, and onion. An ostrich could not have digested it. I
was tired, too, and should not have eaten heartily of even the plainest
food.”
Mabel neither opposed nor sustained the theory. She had slept so ill
herself as to know how restless he had been; had heard his hardly
suppressed sighs and tossings to and fro, infallible indications with
him of serious perturbation. Had his discomfort been bodily only, he
would have felt no compunction in calling her to his aid, as he had
done scores of times. Her sleepless hours had also been fraught with
melancholy disquiet. Putting away from her--with firmness begotten by
virtue born of will--and so much of this thoughtfulness as pertained to
the bygone days with which Frederic Chilton was inseparable associated,
she yet deliberated seriously upon the expediency of speaking out
courageously to Herbert of the relation this man had once borne to
her, the incidents of their recent meeting, and the effect she saw was
produced upon her husband’s mind by the sight of him.
“If we would have this negative happiness continue, this matter ought
to be settled at once and forever,” she said, inwardly. “He must not
suspect me of weak and wicked clinging to the phantoms of my youth; must
believe that I do not harbor a regret or wish incompatible with my duty
as his wife. I will avail myself of the first favorable moment to assure
him of the folly of his fears and of his discomfort.”
Another consideration--the natural sequence of her conviction of his
unhappiness--was a touching appeal to her woman’s heart. If he had
not loved her more fervently than his phlegmatic temperament and
undemonstrative bearing would induce one to suppose, he would not dread
the rekindling of her olden fancy for another. The image of him who,
she had confessed, had taught her the depth and weight of her own
affections, whom she had loved as she had never professed to care for
him, would not have haunted his pillow to chase sleep, and torture him
with forebodings.
“I must make him comprehend that Mabel Aylett at twenty, wilful,
romantic, and undisciplined, was a different being from the woman who
has called him ‘husband,’ without a blush, for fourteen years!”
It was these recollections that softened her kindly tones to tenderness;
made the pressure of her hand upon his temples a caress, rather than a
manual appliance for deadening pain; while she combated his intention of
appearing at the breakfast-table.
“Lie down upon the sofa!” she entreated. “Let me bring up a cup of
strong coffee for you; then darken the room, and chafe your head until
you fall asleep, since you turn a deaf ear to all proposals of mustard
foot-baths and Dr. Van Orden’s panacea pills.”
“No!” stubbornly. “Aylett and Clara would think it strange. They do not
understand how a slight irregularity of diet or habit can produce such a
result. They would attribute it to other causes. I may feel better when
I have taken something nourishing.”
The dreaded critics received the tidings of his indisposition without
cavil at its imputed origin, treated the whole subject with comparative
indifference, which would have mortified him a week ago, but seemed now
to assuage his unrest. The breakfast hour was a quiet one. Herbert
could not attempt the form of eating, despite his expressed hope of the
curative effects of nourishment, and sipped his black coffee at tedious
intervals of pain, looking more ill after each. Mabel was silent, and
regardful of his suffering, while Mrs. Aylett toyed with the tea-cup,
broke her biscuit into small heaps of crumbs upon her plate, and under
her visor of ennui and indolent musing, kept her eye upon her vis-a-vis,
whose face was opaque ice; and his intonations, when he deigned to
speak, meant nothing save that he was controller of his own meditations,
and would not be meddled with.
“You are not well enough to ride over to the Courthouse with me,
Dorrance?” he said, interrogatively, his meal despatched. “It is
court-day, you know?”
“What do you say, Mabel?” was Herbert’s clumsy reference to his nurse.
“Don’t you think I might venture?”
“I would not, if I were in your place,” she replied, cautiously
dissuasive. “The day is raw, and there will be rain before evening.
Dampness always aggravates neuralgia.”
“It is neuralgia, then, is it?” queried Winston, shortly, drawing on his
boots.
His sister looked up surprised.
“What else should it be?”
“Nothing--unless the symptoms indicate softening of the brain!” he
rejoined, with his slight, dissonant laugh. “In either case, your
decision is wise. He is better off in your custody than he would
be abroad. I hope I shall find you convalescent when I return. Good
morning!”
His wife accompanied him to the outer door.
“It is chilly!” she shivered, as this was opened. “Are you warmly clad,
love?” feeling his overcoat. “And don’t forget your umbrella.”
Her hand had not left his shoulder, and, in offering a parting kiss, she
leaned her head there also.
“I wish you would not go!” she said impulsively and sincerely.
“Why?”
“I cannot say--except that I dread to be left alone all day. You may
laugh at me, but I feel as if something terrible were hanging over
me--or you. The spiritual oppression is like the physical presentiment
sensitive temperaments suffer when a thunder-storm is brooding, but not
ready to break. Yet I can refer my fears to no known cause.”
“That is folly.” Mr. Aylett bit off the end of a cigar, and felt in his
vest pocket for a match-safe. “You should be able always to assign a
reason for the fear as well as the hope that is in you. You have no
idea, you say, from what recent event your prognostication takes its
hue?”
She laughed, and straightened her fine neck.
“From the same imprudence that has consigned poor Herbert to the house
for the day, I suspect--a late and heavy dinner. I had the nightmare
twice before morning. You will be home to supper?”
“Yes.”
Hesitating upon the monosyllable, he took hold of her elbows, so as to
bring her directly before him, and searched her countenance until it was
dyed with blushes.
“Why do you color so furiously?” he asked in raillery that had a sad or
sardonic accent. “I was about to ask if you would be inconsolable if I
never came back. Perhaps your presentiment points to some such fatality.
These little accidents have happened in better-regulated families than
ours.”
“WINSTON!”
She gasped and blanched in pain or terror.
“What is the matter? Have I hurt you?” releasing his grasp.
“Yes--HERE!” laying his hand upon her heart, the beautiful eyes
terrified and pathetic as those of a wounded deer. “For the love of
Heaven, never stab me again with such suggestions. When you die, I shall
not care to live. When you cease to love me, I shall wish we had died
together on our marriage-day--my husband!”
He let her twine her arms about his neck, laid his cheek to her brow,
clasped her tightly and kissed her impetuously, madly, again and yet
again--disengaged himself, and ran down the steps. She was standing
on the top one, still flushed and breathless from the violence of his
embrace, when he looked back from the gate, her commanding figure framed
by the embowering creepers, as Mabel’s girlish shape had been when
Frederic Chilton waved his farewell to her from the same spot.
Did either of them think of it, or would either have reckoned it an
ominous coincidence, if the remembrance of that long-ago parting had
presented itself then and there?
Herbert spent the day upon the lounge in the family sitting-room--a cosy
retreat, between the parlor and the conservatory, which had been added
to the lower floor in the reign of the present queen. Her brother’s
seizure was no trifling ailment. Alternations of stupor and racking
spasms of pain defied, for several hours, his wife’s application of
the remedies she had found efficacious in former attacks. Her ultimate
resort was chloroform, and by the liberal use of this, relaxation of the
tense nerves and a sleep that resembled healing repose were induced by
the middle of the afternoon. The weather continued to threaten rain,
although none had fallen as yet, and the wind moaned lugubriously in
the leafless branches of the great walnut before the end window of the
narrow apartment. It was a grand tree, the patriarch of the grove
that sheltered the house from the north winds. Mabel, relieved from
watchfulness, and to some extent from anxiety, by her husband’s profound
slumber, lay back in her chair with a long-drawn sigh, and looked out at
the naked limbs of the wrestling giant--the majestic sway and reel she
used to note with childish awe--and thought of many things which had
befallen her since then, until the steady rocking of the boughs and hum
of the November breeze soothed her into languor--then drowsiness--then
oblivion.
She awoke in alarm at the sense of something hurtful or startling
hovering near her.
The fire had been trimmed before she slept, and now flamed up gayly; the
window was dusky, as were the distant corners of the room, and Herbert
was gazing steadfastly at her.
“I fell asleep without knowing it. I am sorry! Have you wanted anything?
How long have you been awake?”
“Only a few minutes, my dearest!” with no change in the mesmeric
intentness of his gaze. “I want nothing more than to have you always
near me. You have been a good, faithful wife, Mabel, better and
nobler--a thousandfold nobler than I deserved. I have thought it all
over while you were sleeping so tranquilly in my sight. I wish my
conscience were void of evil to all mankind as is yours. I awoke with an
odd and awful impression upon my mind. The firelight flamed in a bright
stream between your chair and me--and I must have dreamed it--or the
chloroform had affected my head--I thought it was a river of light
dividing us! You were a calm, white angel who had entered into
rest--uncaring for and forgetful of me. I was lost, homeless, wandering
forever and ever!”
Had her prosaic spouse addressed her in a rhythmic improvisation, Mabel
could not have been more astounded.
“You are dreaming yet!” she said, kneeling by him and binding his
temples with her cool, firm palms. “When we are divided, it will be by a
dark--not a bright river.”
“Until death do us part!” Herbert repeated, thoughtfully. “I wish I
could hear you say, once, that you do not regret that clause of your
marriage vow. I was not your heart’s choice, you know, Mabel, however
decided may have been the approval of your friends and of your judgment.
The thought oppresses me as it did not in the first years of our wedded
life.”
“I am glad you have spoken of this,” began the wife. “I would disabuse
your mind--”
“All in the dark!” exclaimed Mrs. Aylett, at the door. “And what a
stifling odor of chloroform!”
Mabel got up, and drew a heavy travelling-shawl that covered Herbert’s
lower limbs over his arms and chest.
“I will open the window!” she said, deprecatingly.
A sluice of cold air rushed in, beating the blaze this way and that,
puffing ashes from the hearth into the room, and eliciting from Mrs.
Aylett what would have been a peevish interjection in another woman.
“My dear sister! the remedy is worse than the offence. Chloroform is
preferable to creosote, or whatever abominable element is the principal
ingredient of smoke and cold! The thermometer must be down to the
freezing-point!”
Mabel lowered the sash.
“You have been sitting in a room without fire, I suspect. The
temperature here is delightful. I am sorry we have exiled you from such
comfortable quarters.”
“Don’t speak of it! I cannot endure to sit here alone--or anywhere else.
I have slept most of the afternoon. How the wind blows! I wish Winston
were at home.”
“It is a dark afternoon. He seldom returns from court so early as this.
It is not six yet.”
Mabel still essayed pacification of the other’s ruffled mood.
“You are better, I see,” Mrs. Aylett said abruptly to her brother. “You
were not subject to these spells formerly. People generally outlive
constitutional headaches--so I have noticed. It is queer yours should
occur so often and wax more violent each time. You should have medical
advice before they ripen into a more serious disorder.”
Herbert shaded his eyes from the fire, and lay with out replying, until
his wife believed he had relapsed into a doze.
She was convinced of her mistake by his saying, slowly and distinctly,--
“You do not enter into Clara’s whole meaning, Mabel. We have been
careful, all of us, never to tell you that our father was imbecile by
the time he was fifty and died, in his sixtieth year, of the disease
your brother named this morning--softening of the brain. I, of all his
children, am most like him physically. If it be true that this danger
menaces me, you should be informed of it, and know, furthermore, that it
is incurable.”
Mabel also paused before answering.
“I cannot assent to the hypothesis of your inherited malady, Herbert.
These headaches may mean nothing. But let that be as it may, you should
have told me of this before.”
“You see,” broke in Mrs. Aylett’s triumphant sarcasm. “The reward of
your maiden attempt at conjugal confidence is reproof. What have I
warned you from the beginning?”
“Not reproof,” corrected Mabel, in mild decision. “My knowledge of the
secret he deemed it wise and kind to withhold would have gained for him
my sympathy, and my more constant and intelligent care of his health. It
is the hidden fear that grows and multiplies itself most rapidly. Before
it is killed it must be dragged to the light.”
“That is YOUR hypothesis,” was the bright retort. “We Dorrances have
justly earned a reputation for discretion by the excellent preservation
of our own secrets, and those committed to our keeping by our friends.
My motto is, tell others nothing about yourself which they cannot learn
without your confession. An autobiography is always either a bore or
a blunder. Not that I would regulate the number and nature of your
divulgations to your wife, Herbert. As to Winston’s unlucky hit this
morning, it was mere fortuity. I have never felt myself called upon to
enlighten him in family secrets, and his is an incurious disposition.
He never asks idle questions. He has a marvellous faculty of striking
home-blows in the dark, but that is no reason why one should betray his
wound by crying out. Apropos to darkness, may I ring for a lamp, or will
the light hurt your eyes?”
“The fire-light is more trying,” rejoined Mabel, pushing a screen before
the sofa, and placing herself where she could, in its shadow, hold her
husband’s hand.
It was cold and limp when she lifted it, but tightened upon hers with
the instinctive grip of gratitude too profound to be uttered.
She had never been so near loving him as at the instant in which he
believed he had incurred her ever-lasting displeasure. Generosity
and pity were fast undoing the petrifying influences of her early
disappointment, their mutual reserve, and tacit misunderstandings. If
half he feared were true, his need of her affection, her counsel and
companionship were dire. Whatever wrong he had done her by keeping back
the tale of hereditary infirmity, he had suffered more from the act than
she could ever do. Who knew how much of what she, with others, mistook
for constitutional phlegm and studied austerity, was the outward sign
of the battle between dread of his inherited doom and the resolve of an
iron will to defy natural laws and the sentence of destiny herself, and
hold reason upon her rickety throne?
Heaven’s gentlest and kindest angels were busy with Mabel Dorrance’s
heart in that reverie, and, as they wrought, the cloud that had rested
there for fifteen years broke into rainbow smiles that illumined her
countenance into the similitude of the shining ones.
“I bless Thee, Father, the All-wise and Ever-merciful, that she is
safe!” was her voiceless thanksgiving.
No more bitter tears over the lonely, sunken grave! no more hearkening,
with aching, never-to-be-satisfied ears for the patter of the “little
feet that never trod.” The great sorrow of her life that had been
good in His sight was at length a blessing in hers. Her “hereafter” of
knowledge of His doings had come to her in this world.
“Does it rain, Peter?” questioned Mrs. Aylett of the lad who brought in
lights.
“Yes, ma’am. It’s beginnin’ to storm powerful!” he said, respectfully
communicative.
“Your master has not come?”
“No, ma’am.”
“See that the lantern over the great gate is lighted, and that some
one is ready to take his horse. And, Peter,” as he was going out, “tell
Thomas not to bring in supper until Mr. Aylett returns.”
She moved to the window, bowed her hands on either side of her eyes to
exclude the radiance within, and strained them into the black, black
night.
“He will have a dark and a disagreeable ride,” she said, coming back to
the fire.
Her uneasiness was so palpable as to excite Mabel’s compassion.
“Every step of the road is familiar to him, and he is accustomed to
night rides,” she said, encouragingly. “Yes,” absently. “But he will be
very wet. Hear the rain!”
It plashed against the north window, and tinkled upon the tin roof of
the conservatory, and Mabel, though aware of her brother’s habitual
disregard of wind and weather, could not but sympathize with the wifely
concern evinced by the sober physiognomy and unsettled demeanor of one
generally so calm. She observed, now, that her sister-in-law was arrayed
more richly than usual, and her attire was always handsome and tasteful.
A deep purple silk, trimmed upon skirt and waist with velvet bands of
darker purple, showed off her clear skin to fine advantage, and was
saved from monotony of effect by a headdress of lace and buff ribbons.
A stately and a comely matron, she was bedight for her lord’s return;
weighed as heavy each minute that detained him from her arms.
She was still standing by the low mantel, her arm resting lightly upon
it, the fire-blaze bringing out lustrous reflections in her drapery
and hair, and tinging her pensive check with youthful carmine, when her
husband entered.
CHAPTER XIX. -- NEMESIS.
IT was a peculiarity of Winston Aylett that he was never discomposed in
seeming, however embarrassing or distressing might be his position. In
his childhood he was one to whom, to use the common phrase, dirt would
not stick. His face was clean and fair, his hands smooth, and his hair
in order after rough and tumble experiences that sent his companions
home begrimed, ragged, and unkempt frights. To-night, he had ridden
a dozen miles in the teeth of the storm, and made no pause before
appearing before his wife and sister, except to lay off his hat and
overcoat in the hall. But had he expected to encounter a roomful of
ladies, his costume could not have been more unexceptionable.
His linen was pure and fresh, even to the narrow line of wristband
edging his coat sleeve; his clearly cut patrician features were tranquil
in every line and tint; his step was the light, yet deliberate stride of
an athlete without passion or bravado. Conscious power, inexorable will,
and thorough self-command were stamped upon him from crown to foot,
and his salutation to the small family party accompanied a smile as
mirthless and cold as were his eyes.
Mrs. Aylett advanced a step, not more, and returned the bow that
comprehended all present, with a pleased, not rapturous welcome.
“We were beginning to fear lest you might be wet,” she said, emulating
his polite equanimity. Genuine tact is always chameleon-like in quality.
“It rains quite fast, does it not?”
“The storm is increasing, but I experienced no inconvenience from it,
thank you.”
He sat down in his favorite arm-chair, and spread his fingers before the
fire.
“I am happy to see you so very much better”--to Herbert. “There were
many kind inquiries for you at the court-house to-day. Dr. Ritchie
wanted to know if you had ever taken nux vomica for these neuralgic
turns. I invited him to come in with me and prescribe for you, but he
said he must push on home, so we parted at the outer gate.”
So affable as almost to put others at their ease in his company,
he chatted until supper was announced; regretted civilly Herbert’s
inability to go to the table, and gave his sister his arm into the
dining-room, Mrs. Aylett following in their wake. If he did not eat
heartily, he praised, in gentlemanly moderation, the viands selected by
his consort for his delectation after his wet ride, and pleaded a late
dinner as the reason of his present abstinence. Then they adjourned to
the apartment where they had left Mr. Dorrance, and the host produced
his cigar-case.
“Mabel says that smoke never offends your olfactories, or affects your
head unpleasantly, when you are suffering from this nervous affection,”
 he said to Herbert.
“On the contrary, it often acts as a sedative,” was the reply.
Winston lighted a cigar with an allumette from a bronze taper-stand--a
Christmas gift from his wife, which she kept supplied with fanciful
spiles twisted and fringed into a variety of shapes; drew several long
breaths to be certain that the fire had taken hold of the heart of the
Havana, tossed the pretty paper into the embers, and resumed his seat in
the chimney corner.
“A sedative is a good thing for people who allow their nerves to get out
of gear,” he remarked, dryly and leisurely, puffing contentedly in the
middle and at the end of the sentence. “But he who does this subverts
the order of the ruler and the ruled. I supposed I had nerves once,
but it is an age since they have dared molest me. I know that I had my
impulses when I was younger.”
He stopped to fillip the ash forming upon the ignited end of his cigar,
performing the operation with nicety, using the extreme tip of his
middle-finger nail over the salver attached for the purpose to the
bronze smoking-set.
“I obeyed one, above a dozen years ago. I learned only to-day that it
was rash and unwise, and to how much evil it may lead.”
“Not a very active evil, if you have just discovered it to be such.”
The speaker was his sister. Herbert was motionless upon his couch. Mrs.
Aylett, in the lounging-chair at the opposite side of the hearth from
her husband, was cutting the leaves of a new magazine he had brought
from the post-office, and did not seem to hear his remark.
“You reason upon the assumption that ignorance is bliss,” said Mr.
Aylett. “Allow me to express the opinion that the adage embodying
that idea is the refuge of cowards and fools. No matter how grievous a
bankrupt a man may be financially in spirit, he is craven or a
blockhead to shrink the investigation of his accounts. Which allusion
to bankruptcy brings me to the recital of a choicely offensive bit of
scandal I heard to-day. It is seldom that I give heed to the like, but
the delicious rottenness revealed by this tale enforced my hearing, and
fixed the details in my mind. I could not but think, as I rode home,
of the accessories which would add effectiveness, to-night, to my
second-hand narrative. I had the whole scene, which is now before me,
in my mind’s eye--the warm firelight and the shaded lamp brightening all
within, while the rain pattered without; the interesting invalid over
there gradually stirring into interest as the story progressed; you,
Mabel, calmly and critically attentive; and my Lady Aylett, too proud to
look the desire she really feels to handle the lovely carrion.”
“Your figures are not provocative of insatiable appetite,” returned his
wife, with inimitable sang-froid, staying her paper knife that she might
examine an engraving.
“Your appetite needs further excitants, then? So did mine until I began
to suspect that the history might be authentic, and not a figment of
the raconteur’s imagination. The hero’s name at first disposed me to set
down the entire relation as a fiction. It is romantic enough to perfume
a three-volume novel--Julius Lennox!”
Mabel’s instinctive thought was for her husband, but, in turning to
him she could not but notice that Mrs. Aylett sat motionless, the
paper-cutter between two leaves, and her left hand pressed hard upon the
upper, but without attempting to sever them.
Herbert twisted his head upon the pillow until he faced the back of the
sofa, and a convulsion went through him, hardly quelled by the clasp of
Mabel’s hand upon his.
“Julius Lennox!” reiterated Mr. Aylett, between the fragrant puffs, “A
lieutenant in the navy--the good-looking, but, as the sequel proved,
not over-steady, spouse of a lady who was the daughter of another naval
officer of similar rank. The latter was compelled to leave the service
on account of incipient idiocy, and retired, upon half-pay, to an
unfashionable quarter of a certain great city, where his wife, a smart
Yankee, opened a boarding-house for law and medical students, and
contrived not only to keep the souls and bodies of her family together,
but to marry off her two still single daughters--the one to a
barrister, the other to a physician. The lovely Louise Lennox--a pretty
alliteration, is it not?--remained meanwhile under the paternal roof,
her husband’s ship being absent most of the time, and the handsome
Julius having unlimited privileges in the line condemned by “Black-eyed
Susan” in her parting interview with her sailor lover--finding a
mistress in every port. It is woman’s nature and wisdom to seek
consolation for such afflictions as the deprivation of the beloved one’s
society, and the almost certainty that he is basking his faithless self
in the sunlight of another’s eyes. Our heroine, being at once ardent and
philosophical, put the lex talionis into force by falling in love
with one of her mother’s lodgers, a sprig of the legal profession.
The favored youth--so says my edition of the romance--remained
preternaturally unconscious of the sentiment he had inspired,
attributing her manifestations of partiality to platonic regard, until
she opened his modest eyes by proposing an elopement. He had completed
his professional studies, taken out a license to practise law, was about
to quit her and the city, and the no-longer-adored Julius was coming
home--a wreck in health and purse--upon a six months’ leave of absence.
It must be owned the Lady Louise had some excuse for a measure that
seemed to have amazed and horrified her cicisbeo. Recoiling from the
proposition and herself with the virtuous indignation that is ever
aroused in the manly bosom by similar advances, he packed up his trunk,
double-locked it and his heart, paid his bill, and decamped from the
dangerous precincts.
“Ignoble conclusion to a tender affair; but not so devoid of tragicality
as would seem. Infuriated at the desertion of this modern Joseph,
Louise, the lorn, avenged the slight offered her charms by declaring
to her youngest brother, the only one who resided in the same city
with herself, that Joseph had made dishonorable proposals to her--a
proceeding which demonstrates that the feminine character has withstood
the proverbially changing effects of time from age to age. My narrative
is but a later and a Gentile version of the Jewish novelette to which
I have referred. The role of Potiphar was cast for the unsophisticated
brother, who, being unable to immure the unimpressible Joseph in the
Tombs, attempted the only means of redress that remained to him, to wit:
Personal chastisement.
“And here,” continued the narrator, yet more slowly, “I find myself
perplexed by the discrepancy between the statement I have had to-day and
one of this section of the story furnished me several years since.
In the latter the indignant fraternal relative flogged the would-be
betrayer within a quarter of an inch of his life. The other account
reverses the position of the parties, and makes Joseph the incorruptible
also the invincible. However this may have been, the adventure seems to
