
" When are you coming again ? " said Mrs. 
Laval, taking her in her arms when she was 
about going. 

" Whenever you will let me, ma'am." 

" Could you learn to love me a little bit, 
some day? " 

Matilda did not know how to answer. 
She looked into the handsome dark eyes that 



 

were watching her, and with the thought of 
the secret sympathy between the lady and 
herself, her own watered. 

" I see you will," said Mrs. Laval kissing 
her. " Now kiss me." 

She sat quite still while Matilda did so ; 
then returned it warmly, and bade Norton 
take care of her home. 




CHAPTER V. 

MATILDA found her aunt, cousin and 
sister gathered in the parlour. 

" Well ! " said Maria. " I suppose you 
have had a time." 

" A good time ? " Mrs. Candy asked. 
Matilda replied yes. 

" You staid late," observed Clarissa. This 
did not seem to need an answer. 

"What have you been doing?" Maria asked. 

" Playing." 

" You sigh over it, as if there were some 
melancholy associations connected with the 
fact," said Clarissa. 

So there were, taken with the contrast at 
home. Matilda could not explain that. 

" Any company there ? " inquired Mrs. 
Candy. 



 

" No, ma'am." 

" You are wonderfully taciturn," said 
Clarissa. " Do tell us what you have been 
about, and whether you have enjoyed yourself." 

" I enjoyed myself," said Matilda, repressing another sigh. 

" Did you bring any message for me ? " 
asked her aunt. 

" No, aunt Candy." 

" Did you deliver mine to Mrs. Laval ? "

" What, ma'am ? " 

" My message. Did you deliver it ? " 

" No, aunt Candy." 

" Did you forget it, Matilda ? " 

" I did not forget it." 

Both mother and daughter lifted up their 
heads at this. 

" Why did you not give the message 
then ? " 

Matilda was in sore difficulty. There was 
nothing she could think of to say. So she 
said nothing. 




" Speak, child ! " said her aunt. " Why 
did you not give my message as I charged 
you?" 

" I did not like to do it, aunt Candy. 

" You did not like to do it! Please to say 
why you did not like to do it." 

It was so impossible to answer, that Matilda 
took refuge in silence again. 

" It would have been civil in Mrs. Laval to 
have sent her message, whether or no," said 
Clarissa. 

" Go upstairs, Matilda," said her aunt ; 
" and don't come down again to-night. No, 
Maria," for Maria rose, muttering that she 
would go too, " no, you do not go now. 
Sit down till the usual time. Go to bed, 
Matilda. I will talk to you to-morrow." 

It was no punishment, the being sent off; 
though her aunt's words and manner were. 
In all her little life, till now, Matilda had 
never known any but gentle and tender treatment. She had not been a child to require 
other; and though a more decided government 



 

might have been good, perhaps, the soft and 
easy affection in the midst of which she had 
grown up was far better for her than harshness, which indeed she never deserved. As 
she went up the stairs to-night, she felt like a 
person suddenly removed in the space of an 
hour from the atmosphere of some balmy
tropical clime, to the sharp rigours of the 
north pole. She shivered, mentally. 

But the effect of the tropics returned when 
she had closed the door of her room. The 
treasures of comfort and pleasure stored up 
that afternoon were not lost; and being a 
secret treasure, they were not within any 
body's power. Matilda kneeled down and 
gave thanks for it all; then took out her 
pocket-book and admired it ; she would not 
count the money this evening, the outside 
was quite enough. She stowed it away in 
a safe place, and slowly undressed ; her heart 
so full of pleasant things enjoyed and other 
pleasant things hoped for, that she soon 
utterly forgot Mrs. Candy, message and all. 



 

Sweet visions of. what was to be done in 
Lilac lane rose before her eyes ; what might 
not be done, between Norton and her, now ? 
and with these came in other visions; of 
those kisses of Mrs. Laval, which had been 
such mother's kisses. Matilda stood still to 
remember and feel them over again. Nobody 
had ever kissed her so, but her mother. And 
so, in a little warm heart-glow of her own 
which enveloped everything, like the golden 
haze on the mountains that evening, Matilda 
undressed leisurely, and read her Bible, and 
prayed, and went to sleep. And her waking 
mood was like the morning light upon the 
mountains, so clear and quiet. 

Maria, however, was in complete contrast. 
This was not very unusual. She was crusty, 
and ironical, and disposed to find fault. 

"I wonder how long this is going to last? " 
she said, in the interval between complaining 
and fault-finding. 

" What? " Matilda asked. 

" This state of things. Not going to 



 

school, nor learning anything; cooking and 
scrubbing for aunt Candy ; and you petted 
and taken upstairs to be taught, and asked 
out to tea, and made much of. Nobody 
remembers that I am alive." 

" Dear Maria, I have been asked out to tea 
just once." 

" You'll be asked again." 

" And I am sure people come to see you. 
Frances Barth was here yesterday ; and 
Sarah Haight and Esther Trembleton two 
days ago ; and Esther asked you to tea too." 

" I couldn't go." 

" But people remember you are alive. O, 
Maria, they remember you too. Mr. Rich 
mond don't forget you ; and Miss Benton 
asked you to come to tea with her." 

" It is all very well talking," said Maria. 
" I know what I know ; and I am getting 
tired of it. You are the only one that has 
any really good times." 

It soon appeared that one of Matilda's 
good times was not to be to-day. Mrs. Can- 




dy and Clarissa looked on her coldly, spoke 
to her dryly, and made her feel that she was 
not in favour. Matilda could bear this down 
stairs pretty well ; but when she found her 
self in Mrs. Candy's room for her morning 
hours of reading and darning, it became 
heavy. Reading was not the first thing to 
day. Mrs. Candy called Matilda to stand 
before her while she proceeded to give her a 
species of correction in words. 

" You were baptized a few weeks ago, 
Matilda." 

" Yes, ma'am." 

" And by so being, you became a member 
of the church ; of your church." 

" Yes, ma'am." 

" What do you think are the duties of a 
member of the church ? " 

A comprehensive question, Matilda thought. 
She hesitated. 

" I ask you, what do you think are the 
duties of a member of the church ? in any 
branch of it." 



 

" I suppose they are the same as anybody 
else's duties," Matilda answered. 

" The same as anybody else's duties." 

" Yes, aunt Candy." 

" You think it makes no change in one's 
duties ? " 

" What change does it make, aunt Can 
dy?" 

Matilda spoke in all innocence; but Mrs. 
Candy flushed and frowned. It did not 
sweeten her mood, that she could not readily 
find an answer for the child. 

" You allow, at least, that it is one of your 
duties to obey the fifth commandment?" 

" Yes, aunt Candy. I try to do it." 

" Did you try last night ? " 

Matilda was silent. 

" You made me guilty of rudeness by not 
delivering the message I had charged you 
with ; and you confessed it was not through 
forgetfulness. Will you tell me now why it 
was ? " 

It had been through a certain nice sense on 




Matilda's part that the message was uncalled 
for, and even a little officious. She would 
have been mortified to be obliged to repeat it 
to Mrs. Laval. There had never been the 
least intercourse between the ladies, and Mrs. 
Laval had sought none. If Mrs. Candy 
sought it, Matilda was unwilling it should 
be through her means. But she could not 
explain this to her aunt. 

" You did not choose it," that lady said 
again, with kindling anger. 

" I did not mean to offend you, aunt Candy." 

" No, because you thought I would never 
hear of it. I have a great mind, as ever I 
had to eat, to whip you, Matilda. You are 
not at all too old for it, and I believe it would 
do you a great deal of good. You haven't 
had quite enough of that sort of thing." 

"Whether Matilda had or had not had 
enough of that sort of thing, it seemed to 
her that it was very far from Mrs. Candy's 
place to propose or even hint at it. The 



 

indignity of the proposal flushed the child 
with a sense of injury almost too strong to 
be borne. Mrs. Candy, in all her years of 
life, had never known the sort of keen pain 
that her words gave now to a sensitive 
nature, up to that time held in the most 
dainty and tender consideration. Matilda 
did not speak nor stir ; but she grew pale. 

" The next time you shall have it," Mrs. 
Candy went on. " I should have no hesita 
tion at all, Matilda, about whipping you; and 
my hand is not a light one. I advise you as 
your friend not to come under it. Your 
present punishment shall be, that I shall 
refuse you permission to go any more to Mrs. 
Laval's." 

The child was motionless and gave no 
sign, further than the paleness of her cheeks 
which indeed caught Clarissa's observant eye 
and made her uneasy. But she did not tremble nor weep. Probably the rush of feeling 
made such a storm in her little breast that 
she could not accurately measure the value of 



 

this new announcement, or know fairly what 
it meant. Perhaps too it was like some 
other things to her limited experience, too 
bad to be believed; and Matilda did not 
really receive it as a fact, that her visits to 
Mrs. Laval had ceased. She realized enough, 
however, poor child, to make it extremely 
difficult to bear up and maintain her dignity ; 
but she did that. Nothing but the pale 
ness told. Matilda was quite erect and steady 
before her aunt ; and when she was at last 
bidden to go to her seat and begin her read 
ing, her graceful little head took a set upon 
her shoulders which was very incensing to 
Mrs. Candy. 

" I advise you to take care ! " she said 
threateningly. 

But Matilda could not imagine what new 
cause of offence she had given. It was very 
hard to read aloud ! She made two or three 
efforts to get voice, and then went stiffly 
on. 

" You are not reading well," her aunt broke 



 

in. " You are not thinking of what you are 
reading." 

Matilda was silent. 

" Why do you not speak ? I say you do 
not read well. Why don't you attend to 
your book ? " 

" I never understand this book," said Ma 
tilda. 

" Of course not, if you do not attend. Goon ! " 

" She can't read, mamma," whispered 
Clarissa. 

" She shall read," Mrs. Candy returned in 
an answering whisper. 

And recognizing that necessity, Matilda 
put a force on herself and read on ; at the 
imminent peril of choking every now and 
then, as one thought and another came up 
to grasp her. She put it by or put it down, 
and went on ; obliged herself to go on ; 
wouldn't think ; till the weary pages were 
come to an end at last, and the hoarse voice 
had leave to be still, and she took up her 



 

darning. Thoughts would have overcome 
her self-control then, in all nature ; but that, 
happily for Matilda's dignity as she wished to 
maintain it, Mrs. Candy was pleased to interrupt the darning of stockings to give Ma 
tilda a lesson in patching linen. An entirely 
new thing to the child, requiring her best 
attention and care ; for Mrs. Candy insisted 
upon the patch being straight to a thread, 
and even as a double web would have been. 
Matilda had to baste and take out again, 
baste and take out again ; she had enough 
to do without going back upon her own 
grievances ; it was extremely difficult to make 
a large patch of linen lie straight on all sides 
and not pucker itself or the cloth some 
where. Matilda pulled out her basting 
threads the third time, with a sigh. 

" You will do it, when you come to taking 
pains enough," said Mrs. Candy. 

Now Matilda knew that she was taking 
the utmost pains possible. She said nothing, 
but her hands grew more unsteady. 



 

" Mamma, may I help her?" said Clarissa. 

" No. She can do it if she tries," said Mrs. 
Candy. 

Matilda queried within herself, how it 
would do, to throw up the work and declare 
open rebellion ; how would the fight go ? 
She was conscious that to provoke a fight 
would be wrong ; but passion just now had 
got the upper hand of wisdom in the child. 
She concluded however that it would not do ; 
Mrs. Candy could hold out better than she 
could; but the last atom of good will was 
gone out of her obedience. 

" Matilda " said Mrs.. Candy. 

" Yes, ma'am." 

" You have been an hour and a halt trying 
to fix that patch." 

" Isn't it long enough for one day ? " 
said Matilda wearily, sitting back on her 
heels. 

She had got down on the floor the better 
to manage the work ; a large garment with a 
large patch to be laid. 




" Too long, by an hour ; but not long 
enough, inasmuch as it is not yet done." 

" I am too tired to do it." 

" We will see that." 

Matilda sat back on her heels, looking at 
the hopeless piece of linen. She was flushed 
and tired and angry, but she only sat there 
looking at the linen. 

" It has got to be done," said Mrs. Candy. 

" I must get rested first," said Matilda. 

" You are not to say ' must ' to me," said 
her aunt. " My dear, I shall make you do 
whatever I order. You shall do exactly what 
I tell you in everything. Your times of having your own way are ended. You will do 
my way now. And you will put on that 
patch neatly before you eat." 

" Maria will want me." 

" Maria will do very well without." 

Matilda looked at her aunt in equal surprise and dismay. Mrs. Candy had not 
seemed like this before. Nothing had prepared her for it. But Mrs. Candy was a 



 

cold-natured woman, not the less fiery and 
proud when roused. She could be pleasant 
enough on the surface and in general intercourse with people ; she could have petted 
Matilda and made much of her, and was 
indeed quite inclined that way. If only Mrs. 
Laval had not taken her up, and if Matilda 
had not been so independent. The two 
things together touched her on the wrong 
side. She was nettled that the wish of Mrs. 
Laval was to see only Matilda, of the whole 
family ; and upon the back of that, she was 
displeased beyond endurance that Matilda 
should withstand her authority and differ 
from her opinion. There was no fine and 
delicate nature in her, to read that of the 
child ; only a coarse pride that was bent upon 
having itself regarded. She thought herself 
disregarded. She was determined to put 
that down with a high hand. 

Seeing or feeling dimly somewhat of all 
this, Matilda sat on the floor in a kind of 
despair, looking at her patch. 





" You had better not sit so but go about 
it," said Mrs. Candy. 

" Yes. I am tired," said Matilda. 

" You will not go- down to dinner," said 
Mrs. Candy. 

Could she stand it ? Matilda thought. 
Could she bear it, and not cry? She was 
getting so tired and downhearted. It was 
quite plain there would be no going out this 
afternoon to buy things for Lilac lane. That 
delightful shopping must be postponed. That 
hope was put further in the distance. She sat 
moodily still. She ceased to care when the 
patching got done. 

" Losing time," said Mrs. Candy at length, 
getting up and putting by her own basket. 
" The bell will ring in a few minutes, Matilda ; and I shall leave you here to do your 
work at your leisure." 

The child looked at her and looked down 
again, with what slight air of her little head 
it is impossible to describe, though it undoubtedly and unmistakably signified her 


disapproval. It was Matilda's habitual gesture, but resented by Mrs. Candy. She 
stepped up to her and gave the side of her 
head a smart stroke with the palm of her hand. 

" You are not to answer me by gestures, 
you know I told you," she exclaimed. And 
she and Clarissa quitting the room, the door 
was locked on the outside. 

Matilda's condition at first was one of 
simple bewilderment. The indignity, the 
injury, the wrong, were so unwonted and so 
unintelligible, that the child felt as if she were 
in a dream. What did it mean ? and was it 
real? The locked door was a hard fact, that 
constantly asserted itself; perhaps so did 
Matilda's want of dinner ; the linen patches 
on the floor were another tangible fact. And 
as Matilda came to realize that she was alone 
and could indulge herself, at last a flood of 
bitter tears came to wash, they could not 
wash away, her hurt feeling and her despair. 
Every bond was broken, to Matilda's thinking, between her and her aunt ; all friendship 




was gone that had been from one to the other ; 
and she was in the power of one who would 
use it. That was the hardest to realize ; for 
if Matilda had been in her mother's power 
once, it had also been power never exercised. 
The child had been always practically her 
own mistress. Was that ended ? Was Mrs. 
Candy her mistress now ? her freedom gone ? 
and was there no escape ? It made Matilda 
almost wild to think these thoughts, wild and 
frightened together. And with all that, very 
angry. Not passionately, which was not her 
nature, but with a deep sense of displeasure 
and dislike. The patch and the linen to be 
patched lay untouched on the floor, it is need 
less to say, when Mrs. Candy came up from 
dinner. 

Mrs. Candy came up alone. She surveyed 
the state of things in silence. Matilda had 
been crying, she saw. She left her time to 
recover from that and take up her work. But 
Matilda sat despairing and careless, looking 
at it and not thinking of it. 


" You do not mean to do that, do you ? " 
she said at last. 

"Yes, ma'am some time," Matilda an 
swered. 

" Not now ? " 

" When I get a little rested." 

" You want something," said Mrs. Candy 
looking at her; "and I -know what it is. 
You want bringing down. You never were 
brought down in your life, I believe, or you 
would not dare me so now ! " 

" I did not mean to dare you, aunt Candy," 
said Matilda lifting her head. 

" You will not do it after to-day," said 
Mrs. Candy. " I am not going to give you 
what I threatened. I leave that for another 
time. I don't believe we shall ever corne to 
that. But you want bringing down, all the 
same ; and I know what will do it too. Cold 
water will do it." 

" What do you mean, aunt Candy ? " 

" I mean cold water. I have heard you 
say you don't like it, but it would be very 




good for you, in two ways. I am going to 
bathe you with it from your head to your 
feet. Here is my bath tub, and I'll have it 
ready in a minute. Take off your clothes, 
Matilda." 

It was with nothing less than horror that 
Matilda now earnestly besought her aunt to 
think better of this determination. She did 
dislike cold water, and after a child's luxurious fashion had always been allowed to use 
warm water. But worse than cold water was 
the idea of her aunt, or anybody, presuming to 
apply it in the capacity of bather. Matilda 
refused and pleaded, alternately ; pleaded 
very humbly at last ; but in vain. 

" I thought I knew something that would 
bring you down," Mrs. Candy said composedly and pleased ; and in the same manner 
proceeded to strip off Matilda's clothes, put 
her in the bath tub, and make thorough application of the hated element as she had said, 
from head to foot; scrubbing and dousing 
and sponging ; till if Matilda had been in the 



 

sea she would not better have known how 
cold water felt all over her. It was done in 
five minutes too ; and then after being well 
rubbed down, Matilda was directed to put on 
her clothes again and finish her patching. 

" I fancy you will feel refreshed for it now," 
said her aunt. " This will be a good thing 
for you. I used to give it to Clarissa always 
when she was a little thing ; and now I will 
do the same by you, my love. Every day, 
you shall come to me in the morning when 
you first get up." 

No announcement could have been more 
dismayful ; but this time Matilda said nothing. She bent herself to her patching, the 
one uppermost desire being to finish it and 
get out of the room. The cold water had 
refreshed and strengthened her, much as she 
disliked and hated it; at the same time the 
sense of hunger, from the same cause, grew 
keener than ever. Matilda tried her very best 
to lay the patch straight and get it basted so. 
And so keen the endeavour was, so earnest 




the attention, that though laying a linen patch 
by the thread is a nice piece of business, she 
succeeded at last. Mrs. Candy was content 
with the work, satisfied with its being only 
basted for that time, and let her go. 

Matilda slowly made her way down to the 
lower regions, where Maria was still at work, 
and asked for something to eat. Maria 
looked very black, and demanded explanations 
of what was going on upstairs. Matilda 
would say nothing, until she had found some 
thing to satisfy her hunger and had partially 
devoured a slice of bread and meat. In the 
midst of that she broke off, and wrapping her 
arms round her sister in a clinging way, 
exclaimed suddenly, 

" O Maria, keep me, keep me ! " 

" Keep you ! from what ? What do you 
mean, Tilly ? " said the astonished Maria. 

" From aunt Candy. Can't you keep 
me?" 

" What has she done ? " Maria asked, 
growing very wrathful. 




" Can't you keep me from her, Maria ? " 

" And I say, what has she done to you, 
Tilly ? Do hold up and answer me. How 
can I tell anything when you act like that? 
What has she done?" 

" She says she'll give me a cold bath every 
morning," Matilda said, seeming to shrink 
and shiver as she said it. 

" A cold bath ! " exclaimed Maria. 

" Yes. O can't you keep me from it ? " 

" What has put the notion in her head ? " 

" She used to do it to Clarissa, she says ; 
but I think she wants to do it to me because 
I don't like it. O I don't like it, Maria ! " 

" She's too mean for anything," said Maria. 
" I never saw anything like her. But maybe 
it won't be so bad as you think, Tilly. She 
and Clarissa both take a cold bath every 
morning, you know ; and they like it." 

" I don't like it ! " said Matilda with the 
extremest accent of repugnance. 

" Maybe it won't seem so bad when you've 
tried." 



 

" I have tried," said Matilda bursting into 
tears ; " she gave me one to-day ; and I don't 
like it; and J can't bear to have her bathe 
me!" 

Matilda's tears came now in a shower, 
with sobs of the most heartfelt trouble. Maria 
looked black as a thunder cloud. 

" O Maria, can't you keep me from her ? " 

" Not without killing her," said Maria. " I 
feel as if I would almost like to do that some 
times." 

" O Maria, you mustn't speak so ! " said 
Matilda, shocked even in the midst of her 
grief. 

" Well and I don't mean it,"said Maria ; 
"but what can I do, Tilly? If she takes a 
notion in her head, she will follow it, you 
know ; and it would take more than ever I 
saw to turn her. And you see, she thinks 
cold water is the best thing in the world." 

" Yes, but I can't bear to have her bathe 
me!" Matilda repeated. "And I don't like 
cold water. She rubs, and she scrubs, and 



she throws the water over me, and the soap 
suds, and she don't care at all whether I like 
it or not. I wish I could get away ! I wish 
I could get away, Maria ! O I wish I could 
get away ! " 

" So do I wish I could," said Maria, gloom 
ily eyeing her little sister's sobs. " We've got 
to stand it, Tilly, for the present. I haven't 
anywhere to go to, and you haven't. Come, 
don't cry. Eat your bread and meat. I dare 
say you will get used to cold water." 

" I shall not get used to her" said Matilda. 

However, a part of Maria's prediction did 
come true. Cold water is less terrible, the 
more acquaintance one has with it ; and 
probably Mrs. Candy's assertion was also 
true, that it was capital for Matilda. And 
Matilda would not have much minded it at 
last, if only the administration could have 
been left to herself. But Mrs. Candy kept 
that in her own hands, knowing probably that 
it was one effectual means of keeping Matilda 
herself in her hands Every morning, when 



 

Mrs. Candy's bell rang, Matilda was obliged 
to run downstairs and submit herself to her 
aunt's manipulations, which were pretty 
much as she had described them ; and under 
those energetic unscrupulous hands, which 
dealt with her as they listed and regarded 
her wishes in no sort nor respect, Matilda 
was quite helpless. And she was subdued. 
Mrs. Candy had attained that end. She no 
longer thought of resisting her aunt in any 
way. It was the first time in Matilda's life 
that she had been obliged to obey another. 
Between her mother and herself the question 
had hardly arisen, except upon isolated occasions. She dared not let the question ever 
arise now with Mrs. Candy. She read, and 
darned, and patched, and grew skilful in 
those latter arts ; she never objected now. 
She came to her bath, and never uttered now 
the vain pleadings which at first even her 
dignity gave way to make. Mrs. Candy had 
quite put down the question of dignity. Matilda did not venture to disobey her any more 



 

in anything. She went no more to walk 
without asking leave ; she visited no more at 
Mrs. Laval's ; Mrs. Candy even took Matilda 
in her triumph to her own church in the 
morning. Matilda suffered, but submitted 
without a word. 

How much the child suffered, nobody knew 
or guessed. She kept it to herself. Mrs. 
Candy did not even suspect that there was 
much suffering in the case, beyond a little 
enforced submission, and a little disappointment now and then about going to see some 
body. Mrs. Laval's -house was forbidden, 
that was all ; and for a few days Matilda did 
not get time, or leave, to go out to walk. 

She was kept very busy. And she was 
pleasant about her work with Maria, and 
gentle and well-behaved when at her work 
with her aunt. Not gay, certainly, as she had 
begun to be sometimes lately, before this 
time ; but Maria was so far from gayety her 
self that she did not miss it in her sister ; and 
Mrs. Candy saw no change but the change 



 

she had wished for. Nevertheless they did 
not see all. There were hours, when Matilda 
could shut herself up in her room and be 
alone, and Maria was asleep in her bed at 
night; when the little head bent over her 
Bible, and tears fell like rain, and struggles 
that nobody dreamed of went on in the 
child's heart. The thing she lived on, was 
the hope of getting out and doing that be 
loved shopping; meeting Norton somehow, 
somewhere, as one does impossible things in 
a dream, and arranging with him to go to 
Lilac lane together. The little pocket-book 
lay all safe and ready waiting for the time; 
and when Matilda could let herself think 
pleasant thoughts, she went into rapturous 
fancies of the wonderful changes to be 
wrought in Mrs. Eldridge's house. 

She saw nothing meanwhile of Lemuel 
Dow. The Sunday following her afternoon 
at Mrs. Laval's had been a little rainy in the 
latter part of it. Perhaps the little Dow boy, 
who minded rain no more than a duck ou 



 

other days, might be afraid of a wetting on 
Sunday. Other people often are. But Matilda meant to look for him next time, and 
have her sugared almonds in readiness. 

One of the days of that week, it happened 
that Mrs. Candy took Matilda out with her 
for a walk. It was not at all agreeable to 
Matilda ; but she was learning to submit to 
what was not agreeable, and she made no 
objection. On the way they stopped at Mr. 
Sample's store; Mrs. Candy wanted to get 
some smoked salmon. Mr. Sample served 
her himself. 

" How did you like the tea I sent you ? " 
he asked while he was weighing the fish. 

" Tea ? " said Mrs. Candy. " You sent me 
no tea." 

" Why yes I did ; last week ; it was Monday or Tuesday, I think. You wanted to try 
another kind, I understood." 

" I wanted nothing of the sort. I have 
plenty of tea on hand, and am perfectly suited 
with it. You have made some mistake." 



 

" I am glad you are suited," Mr. Sample 
rejoined ; " but I have made no mistake. 
This little girl came for it, and I weighed it 
out myself and gave it to her. And a loaf 
of bread at the same time." 

" It was not for you, aunt Candy ; it was 
for myself," said Matilda. " I paid for it, 
Mr. Sample ; it was not charged." 

" You did not pay me, Miss Matilda." 

" No, Mr. Sample ; I paid Patrick." 

"What did you buy tea and bread for ?" 
her aunt inquired. 

" I wanted it " Matilda answered. 

What for ? " 

" I wanted it to give away," Matilda said 
in a low voice, being obliged to speak. 

Mrs. Candy waited till they were out of 
the shop, and then desired to know particulars. For whom Matilda wanted it; where 
she took it ; when she went ; who went with 
her. 

" Is it a clean place ? " was her inquiry at 
last. Matilda was obliged to confess it was 
