dered if our street were not about to march upon 
Rome in a body. 
In her untamable disobedience, Naomi alone be- 
trayed her sylvan blood, for she was in all other 
respects negro and not Indian. But it was of 
her aboriginal ancestry that Mrs. Johnson chiefly 
boasted, — when not engaged in argument to main- 
tain the superiority of the African race. She loved 
to descant upon it as the cause and explanation of 
her own arrogant habit of feeling ; and she seemed 
mdeed to have inherited something of the Indian's 
hauteur along with the Ethiop's supple cunning and 
abundant amiability. She gave many instances in 
which her pride had met and overcome the insolence 
of employers, and the kindly old creature was by no 
means singular in her pride of being reputed proud. 
She could never have been a woman of strong 
logical faculties, but she had in some things a very 
surprising and awful astuteness. She seldom intro- 
duced any purpose directly, but bore all about it, 
and then suddenly sprung it upon her unprepared 
antagonist. At other times she obscurely hinted a 
reason, and left a conclusion to be inferred ; as when 
she warded off reproach for some delinquency by 
saying in a general way that she had lived with 
ladies who used to come scolding into the kitchen 
after they had taken their bitters. " Quality ladies 
took their bitters regular," she added, to remove any 
sting of personality from her remark ; for, from many 
things she had let fall, we knew that she did not 
regard us as quality. On the contrary, she often 
tried to overbear us with the gentility of her former 
places ; and woidd tell the lady over whom she 
reigned, that she had lived with folks worth their 
three and four hundred thousand dollars, who never 
complained as she did of the ironing. Yet she had 
a sufficient regard for the literary occupations of the 
family, Mr. Johnson having been an author. She 
even professed to have herself written, a book, which 
was stOI in manuscript, and preserved somewhere 
among her best clothes. 
It was well, on many accounts, to be in contact 
with a mind so original and suggestive as Mrs. John- 
son's. We loved to trace its intricate yet often 
transparent operations, and were perhaps too fond 
of explaining its peculiarities by facts of ancestry, — 
of finding hints of the Powwow or the Grand Cus- 
tom in each grotesque development. We were con- 
scious of something warmer in this old soul than in 
ourselves, and something wilder, and we chose to 
think it the tropic and the untracked forest. She 
had scarcely any being apart from her aflFection ; she 
had no morality, hut was good because she neither 
hated nor envied ; and she might have been a saint 
far more easily than tar more civiHzed people. 
There was that also in her sinuous yet malleable 
nature, so full of guile and so fiill of goodness, that 
reminded us pleasantly of lowly folk in elder lands, 
where relaxing oppressions have lifted the restraints 
of fear between master and servant, without disturb- 
ing the familiarity of their relation. She advised 
freely with us upon all household matters, and took 
a motherly interest in whatever concerned us. She 
could be flattered or caressed into almost any service, 
but no threat or conmiand could move her. When 
she erred, she never acknowledged her wrong in 
words, but handsomely expressed her regrets in a 
pudding, or sent up her apologies in a favorite dish 
secretly prepared. We grew so well used to this 
form of exculpation, that, whenever Mrs. Johnson 
took an afternoon at an inconvenient season, we 
knew that for a week afterwards we should be feasted 
like princes. She owned frankly that she loved us, 
that she never had done half so much for people 
before, and that she never had been nearly so well 
suited in any other place ; and for a brief and happy 
time we thought that we never should part. 
One day, however, our dividing destiny appeared 
in the basement, and was presented to us as Hip- 
polyto Thucydides, the son of Mrs. Johnson, who had 
just arrived on a visit to his mother from the State 
of New Hampshire. He was a heavy and loutish 
youth, standing upon the borders of boyhood, and 
looking forward to the future with a vacant and list- 
less eye. I mean that this was his figurative atti- 
tude ; his actual manner, as he lolled upon a chair 
beside the kitchen window, was so eccentric, that we 
felt a little uncertain how to regard him, and Mrs. 
Johnson openly described him as peculiar. He was 
so deeply tanned by the fervid suns of the New 
Hampshire winter, and his hair had so far suffered 
from the example of the sheep lately under his 
charge, that he could not be classed by any stretch 
of compassion with the blonde and straight-haired 
members of Mrs. Johnson's family. 
He remained with us all the first day until late in 
the afternoon, when his mother took him out to get 
him a boarding-house. Then he departed in the 
van of her and Naomi, pausing at the gate to collect 
his spirits, and, after he had sufficiently animated 
himself by clapping his palms together, starting off 
down the street at a hand-gallop, to the manifest 
terror of the cows in the pastures, and the confusion 
of the less demonstrative people of our household. 
Other characteristic traits appeared in Hippolyto 
Thiicydides within no very long period of time, and 
he ran away from his lodgings so often during the 
summer that he might be said to board round among 
the outlying corn-fields and turnip-patches of Charles- 
bridge. As a check upon this habit, Mrs. Johnson 
seemed to have invited him to spend his whole time 
in our basement ; for whenever we went below we 
found him there, balanced — perhaps in homage to 
US, and perhaps as a token of extreme sensibility in 
himself — upon the low window-sill, the bottoms of 
his boots touching the floor inside, and his face buried 
in the grass without. 
We could formulate no very tenable objection to 
all this, and yet the presence of Thucydides in our 
kitchen unaccountably oppressed our imaginations. 
We beheld him all over the house, a monstrous 
eidolon, balanced upon every window-sill ; and he 
certainly attracted unpleasant notice to our place, no 
less by his fiirtive and hang-dog manner of arrival 
than by the bold displays with which he celebrated 
his departures. We hinted this to Mrs. Johnson, 
but she could not enter into our feeling. Indeed, all 
the wild poetry of her maternal and primitive nature 
seemed to cast itself about this hapless boy ; and if 
we had listened to her we should have believed there 
was no one so agreeable in society, or so quick-witted 
in affairs, as Hippolyto, when he chose. She used 
to rehearse us long epics concerning his industry, his 
courage, and his talent ; and she put fine speeches in 
his mouth with no more regard to the truth than if 
she had been a historian, and not a poet. Perhaps 
she believed that he really said and did the things 
she attributed to him : it is the destiny of those who 
repeatedly tell great things either of themselves or 
others ; and I think we may readily forgive the illu- 
sion to her zeal and fondness. In fact, she was not 
a wise woman, and she spoiled her children as if she 
had been a rich one. 
At last, when we said positively that Thucydides 
should come to us uo more, and then qualified the 
prohibition by allowing him to come every Sunday, 
she answered that she never would hurt the child's 
feelings by telling him not to come where his mother 
was ; that people who did not love her children did 
not love her; and that, if Hippy went, she went. 
We thought it a master-stroke of firmness to rejoin 
that Hippolyto must go in any event ; but I am 
bound to own that he did not gd, and that his mother 
stayed, and so fed us with every cunning propitiatory 
dainty, that we must have been Pagans to renew 
our threat. In fact, we begged Mrs. Johnson to go 
into the country with us, and she, after long reluc- 
tation on Hippy's account, consented, agreeing to 
send him away to fi;iends during her absence. 
We made every preparation, and on the eve of 
our departure Mrs. Johnson went into the city to 
engage her son's passage to Bangor, while we awaited 
her return in untroubled security. 
But she did not appear till midnight, and then re- 
sponded with but a sad " Well, sah I " to the cheer- 
fid " Well, Mrs. Johnson ! " that greeted her. 
" all right, Mrs. Johnson ? " 
Mrs. Johnson made a strange noise, half chuckle 
and half death-rattle, in her throat. "All wrong, 
sah. Hippy's oflF again; and I've been all over 
the city after him." 
" Then you can't go with us in the morning ? " 
" How can I, sah ? " 
Mrs. Johnson went sadly out of the room. Then 
she came back to the door again, and, opening it, 
uttered, for the first time in our service, words of 
apology and regret : " I hope I ha'n't put you out 
any. I wanted to go with you, but I ought to hnowed 
I couldn't. All is, I loved you too much." 
Vagabonds the world would no doubt call many 
of my doorstep acquaintance, and I do not attempt 
to defend them altogether against the world, which 
paints but black and white and in general terms. 
Yet I would fain veil what is onjy half-truth under 
another name, for I know that the service of their 
Gay Science is not one of such disgraceful ease as 
we associate with ideas of vagrancy, though I must 
own that they lead the life they do because they 
love it. They always protest that nothing but their 
ignorance of our tongue prevents them from practic- 
ing some mechanical trade. " What work could be 
harder," they ask, " than carrying this organ about 
all day ? " but while I answer with honesty that 
nothing can be more irksome, I feel that they only 
pretend a disgust with it, and that they really Hke 
organ-grinding, if for no other reason than that they 
are the children of the summer, and it takes them 
into the beloved open weather. One of my friends, 
at least, who in the warmer months is to all appear- 
ance a blithesome troubadour, living 
" A meny life in sun and shade," 
is a coal-heaver in winter ; and though this more 
honorable and useAil occupation is doubtless open to 
 
aim the whole year round, yet he does not devote 
himself to it, but prefers with the expanding spring 
to lay aside his grimy basket, and, shouldering his 
organ, to quit the dismal wharves and carts and cel- 
lars, and to wander forth into the suburbs, with his 
lazy, soft-eyed boy at his heels, who does nothing 
with his tambourine but take up a collection, and 
who, meeting me the other day in a chance passage 
of Ferry Street, knew me, and gave me so much of 
his father's personal history. 
It was winter even there in Ferry Street, in which 
so many Italians live that one might think to find it 
under a softer sky and in a gentler air, and which I 
had always figured in a wide unlikeness to all other 
streets in Boston, — with houses stuccoed outside, 
and with gratings at their ground-floor windows ; 
with mouldering archways between the buildings, 
and at the comers feeble lamps glimmering before 
pictures of the Madonna ; with weather-beaten 
shutters flapping overhead, and many balconies from 
which hung the linen swathings of young infants, 
and love-making maidens fiirtively lured the velvet- 
jacketed, leisurely youth below : a place haunted 
by windy voices of blessing and cursing, with the 
perpetual clack of wooden-heeled shoes upon the 
stones, and what perfume from the blossom of vines 
and almond-trees, mingling with less delicate smells, 
the travelled reader pleases to imagine. I do not 
say that I found Ferry Street actually different from 
this vision in most respects ; but as for the vines and 
almond-trees, they were not in bloom at the moment 
of my encounter with the little tambourine-boy. At 
we stood and talked, the snow fell as heavily and 
thickly around us as elsewhere in Boston. With a 
vague pain, — the envy of a race toward another 
bom to a happier clime, — I heard from him that his 
whole faniily was going back to Italy in a month. 
The father had at last got together money enough, 
and the mother, who had long been an invalid, must 
be taken home ; and, so far as I know, the population 
of Ferry Street exists but in the hope of a return, 
soon or late, to the native or the ancestral land. 
More than one of my doorstep acquaintance, in 
fact, seemed to have no other stock in trade than 
this fond desire, and to thrive with it in our sympa- 
thetic community. It is scarcely possible but the 
reader has met the widow of Giovanni Cascamatto, 
a Vesuvian lunatic who has long set fire to their 
home on the slopes of the volcano, and perished in 
the flames. She was our first Italian acquaintance 
in Charlesbridge, presenting herself with a little 
subscription-book which she sent in for inspection, 
with a printed certificate to the facts of her history 
signed with the somewhat conventionally Saxon 
names of William Tompkins and John Johnson. 
These gentlemen set forth, in terms vaguer than can 
be reproduced, that her object in coming to America 
was to get money to go back to Italy ; and the whole 
document had so. fictitious an air that it made us 
doubt even the nationality of the bearer; but we 
were put to shame by the decent joy she manifested 
in an Itahan salutation. There was no longer a 
question of imposture in anybody's mind ; we gladly 
paid tribute to her poetic fiction, and she thanked us 
with a tranquil courtesy that placed the obligation 
where it belonged. As she turned to go with many 
good wishes, we pressed her to have some dinner, 
but she answered with a compliment insurpassably 
flattering, she had just dined — in another palace. 
The truth is, there is not a single palace on Benicia 
Street, and our little box of pine and paper would 
hardly have passed for a palace on the stage, where 
these things are often contrived with great simplic- 
ity ; but as we had made a little Italy together, she 
touched it with the exquisite politeness of her race, 
and it became for the instant a lordly mansion, stand- 
ing on the Chiaja, or the Via Nuovissima, or the 
Canalazzo. 
I say this woman seemed glad to be greeted in 
Italian, but not, so far as I could see, surprised ; and 
altogether the most amazing thing about my doorstep 
acquaintance of her nation is, that they are never 
sm*prised to be spoken to in their own tongue, or, if 
they are, never show it. A chestnut-roaster, who 
has sold me twice the chestnuts the same money 
would have bought of him in English, has not other- 
wise recognized the fact that Tuscan is not the dia- 
lect of Charlesbridge, and the mortifying nonchalance 
with which my advances have always been received 
has long since persuaded me that to the grinder at 
the gate it is not remarkable that a man should open 
the door of his wooden house on Benicia Street, and 
welcome him in his native language. After the first 
shock of this indifference is past, it is not to be ques- 
tioned but it flatters with an illusion, which a stare 
of amazement would forbid, reducing the encounter 
to a vulgar reality at once, and I could almost be- 
lieve it in those wily and amiable folk to intend the 
sweeter effect of their unconcern, which tacitly im- 
plies that there is no other tongue in the world but 
Italian, and which makes all the earth and air Ital- 
ian for the time. Nothing else could have been the 
purpose of that image-dealer whom I saw on a sum- 
mer's day lying at the foot of one of our meeting- 
houses, and doing his best to make it a cathedral, 
and really giving a sentiment of mediaeval art to the 
noble sculptures of the fagade which the carpenters 
had just nailed up, fishly painted and newly re- 
paired. This poet was stretched upon his back, 
eating, in that convenient posture, his dinner out of 
an earthen pot, plucking the viand from it, whatever 
it was, with his thumb and fore-finger, and dropping 
it piecemeal into his mouth. When the passer asked 
him " Where are you from? " he held a morsel in 
air long enough to answer " Da Lucca, signore," and 
then let it fall into his throat, and sank deeper into a 
reverie in which that crude accent even must have 
sounded like a gossip's or a kinsman's voice, but 
aever otherwise moved muscle, nor looked to see 
who passed or lingered. There could have been 
jttle else in his circumstances to remind him of 
home, and if he was really in the sort of day-dream 
attributed to him, he was wise not to look about him. 
I have not myself been in Lucca, but I conceive that 
its piazza is not like our square, with a pump and 
horse-trough in the midst ; but that it has probably a 
fountain and statuary, though not possibly so mag- 
nificent an elm towering above the bronze or marble 
groups as spreads its boughs of benison over our 
pump and the horse-car switchman, loitering near it 
to set the switch for the arriving cars, or lift the 
brimming buckets to the smoking nostrils of the 
horses, while out from the stable comes clanging and 
banging with a fresh team that famous African who 
has turned white, or, if he is off duty, one of his 
brethren who has not yet begun to turn. Figure, 
besides, an expressman watering his horse at the 
trough, a provision-cart backed up against the curb 
in front of one of the stores, various people looking 
from the car-office windows, and a conductor appear- 
ing at the door long enough to call out, " Ready for 
Boston! " — and you have a scene of such gayety as 
Lucca could never have witnessed in her piazza at 
high noon on a summer's day. Even our Campo 
Santo, if the Lucchese had cared to look round the 
comer of the meeting-house at its moss-grown head 
stones, could have had little to remind him of home, 
though it has antiquity and a proper quaintness. 
But not for him, not for them of his clime and faith, 
is the pathos of those  simple memorial slates with 
their winged skulls, changing upon many later stones, 
as if by the softening of creeds and customs, to 
cherub's heads, — not for him is the pang I feel 
because of those who died, in our country's youth, 
exiles or exiles' children, heirs of the wilderness and 
toil and hardship. Could they rise from their restful 
beds, and look on this wandering Italian with his 
plaster statuettes of Apollo, and Canovan dancers 
and deities, they would hold his wares little tetter 
than Romish saints and idolatries, and would scarcely 
have the sentimental interest in him felt by the mod- 
em citizen of Charlesbridge ; but I think that even 
they must have respected that Lombard scissors- 
grinder who used to come to us, and put an edge to 
all the cutlery in the house. 
He has since gone back to Milan, whence he came 
eighteen years ago, and whither he has returned, — 
as he told me one acute day in the fall, when all the 
winter hinted itself, and the painted leaves shuddered 
earthward in the grove across the way, — to enjoy a 
little climate before he died (j)ergoder unpo" di clima 
prima di morire). Our climate was the only thing 
he had against us ; in every other respect he was a 
New-Englander, even to the early stages of con- 
sumption. He told me the story of his whole life, 
and of how in his adventurous youth he had left 
Milan and sojourned some years in Naples, vainly 
seeking his fortune there. Afterwards he went to 
Greece, and set up his ancestral business of green- 
grocer in Athens, faring there no better, but rather 
worse than in Naples, because of the deeper wicked- 
ness of the Athenians, who cheated him right and 
left;, and whose viws gave him no redress. The 
Neapolitans were bad enough, he said, making a wry 
face, but the Greeks ! — and he spat the Greeks out 
on the grass. At last, after much misfortune in 
Europe, Jie bethought him of coming to America, 
and he had never regretted it, but for the climate. 
You spent a good deal here, — nearly all you earned, 
— but then a poor man was a man, and the people 
were honest. It was wonderful to him that they all 
knew how to read and write, and he viewed with 
inexpressible scorn those Irish who came to this 
country, and were so httle sensible of the benefits it 
conferred upon them. Boston he believed the best 
city in America, and " Tell me," said he, " is there 
such a thing anywhere else in the world as that 
Public Library ? " He, a poor man, and almost 
unknown, had taken books from it to his own room, 
and was master to do so whenever he liked. He 
had thus been enabled to read Botta's history of the 
United States, an enormous compliment both to the 
country and the work which I doubt ever to have 
been paid before ; and he knew more about Wash- 
ington than I did, and desired to know more than I 
could tell him of the financial question among us. 
So we came to national politics, and then to Euro- 
pean affairs. " It appears that Garibaldi will not go 
to Rome this year," remarks my scissors-grinder, 
who is very red in his sympathies. " The Emperor 
forbids ! Well, patience ! And that blessed Pope, 
what does he want, that Pope ? He will be king 
and priest both, he will wear two pairs of shoes at 
once ! " I must confess that no other of my door- 
step acquaintance had so clear an idea as this one of 
the difference between things here and at home. To 
the minds of most we seemed divided here as there 
 
into rich and poor, — aignori, peraone eivili, and 
povera gente, — and their thoughts about us did not 
go beyond a speculation as to our individual willing- 
ness or ability to pay for organ-grinding. But this 
Lombard was worthy of his adopted country, and I
forgive him the frank expression of a doubt that one 
day occurred to him, when offered a glass of Italian 
wine. He held it daintily between him and the sun 
for a smiling moment, and then said, as if our wine 
must needs be as ungenuine as our Italian, — was 
perhaps some expression from the surrounding cur- 
rant-bushes, harsh as that from the Northern tongues 
which could never give his language the true life 
and tonic charm, — " But I suppose this wine is not 
made of grapes, signor ? " Yet he was a very cour- 
teous old man, elaborate in greeting and leave-taking, 
and with a quicker sense than usual. It was ac- 
counted delicacy in him, that, when he had bidden 
us a final adieu, he should never come near us again, 
though the date of his departure was postponed some 
weeks, and we heard him tinkling down the street, 
and stopping at the neighbors' houses. He was a 
keen-faced, thoughtftil-looking man ; and he wore a 
blouse of blue cotton, from the pocket of which 
always dangled the leaves of some wild salad culled 
from our wasteful vacant lots or prodigal waysides. 
Altogether different in character was that Triest- 
jne, who came one evening to be helped home at the 
close of a very disastrous career in Mexico. He 
was a person of innumerable bows, and fluttered 
his bright-colored compliments about, till it appeared 
that never before had such amiable people been 
asked charity by such a worthy and generous suf- 
ferer. In Trieste he had been a journalist, and it 
was evident enough from his speech that he was of 
a good education. He was vain of his Italian accent, 
which was peculiarly good for his heterogeneously 
peopled native city ; and he made a show of that 
marvelous facility of the Tiiestines in languages, by 
taking me down French books, Spanish books, Ger- 
man books, and reading from them all with the prop- 
erest accent. Yet with this boyish pride and self- 
satisfaction there was mixed a tone of bitter and 
worldly cynicism, a belief in fortune as the sole 
providence. As nearly as I could make out, he 
was a Johnson man in American politics ; upon the 
Mexican question he was independent, disdaining 
French and Mexicans alike. He was with the for- 
mer from the first, and had continued in the service 
of Maximilian after their withdrawal, till the execu- 
tion of that prince made Mexico no place for adven- 
turous merit. He was now going back to his native 
country, an ungratefiil land enough, which had ill 
treated him long ago, but to which he nevertheless 
returned in a perfect gayety of temper. What a 
light-hearted rogue he was, — with such merry eyes, 
and such a pleasant smile shaping his neatly trimmed 
beard and mustache ! After he had supped, and he 
stood with us at the door taking leave, something 
happened to be said of Itahan songs, whereupon this 
bhthe exile, whom the compassion of strangers was 
enabling to go home after many years of unprofitable 
toil and danger to a country that had loved him not, 
fell to caroling a Venetian barcarole, and went 
sweetly away in its cadence. I bore Mm company 
as far as the gate of another Italian-speaking signor, 
and was there bidden adieu with great efiiision, so 
that I forgot till he had left me to charge him not to 
be in fear of the house-dog, which barked but did 
not bite. In calling this after him, I had the mis- 
fortune to blunder in my verb. A man of another 
nation — perhaps another man of his own nation — 
would have cared rather for what I said than how I 
said it ; but he, as if too zealous for the honor of his 
beautiftil language to endure a hurt to it even in that 
moment of grief, hfting his hat, and bowing for the 
last time, responded with a " Morde, non morsica, 
signore ! " and passed in under the pines, and next 
day to Italy. 
There is a little old Genoese lady comes to sell us 
pins, needles, thread, tape, and the like roha, whom 
I regard as leading quite an ideal life in some re- 
spects. Her traffic is limited to a certain number of 
families who speak more or less Italian ; and her 
days, so far as they are concerned, must be passed 
in an atmosphere of sympathy and kindliness. The 
truth is, we Northern and New World folk cannot 
help but cast a little romance about whoever comes 
to us fi-om Italy, whether we have actually known 
the beauty and charm of that land or not. Then 
this old lady is in herself a very gentle and lovable 
kind of person with a tender mother-fece, which is 
also the face of a child. A smile plays always upon 
her wrinkled visage, and her quick and restless eyes 
are full of friendliness. There is never much stufiF 
in her basket, however, and it is something of a mys- 
tery how she manages to live from it. None but an 
ItaHan could, I am sure ; and her experience must 
test the ftill virtue of the national genius for cheap 
salads and much-extenuated soup-meat. I do not 
know whether it is native in her, or whether it is a 
grace acquired from long dealing with those kindly- 
hearted customers of hers in Charlesbridge, but she 
is of a most munificent spirit, and returns every 
smallest benefit with some present from her basket. 
She makes me ashamed of things I have written 
about the sordidness of her' race, but I shall vainly 
seek to atone for them by open-handedness to her. 
She will give favor for favor; she will not even 
count the money she receives ; our bargaining is a 
contest of the courtliest civilities, ending in many 
an " Adieu ! " "To meet again ! " " Remain well ! " 
and " Finally ! " not surpassed if rivaled in any 
Italian street. In her ineffectual way, she brings 
us news of her different customers, breaking up their 
stout Saxon names into tinkling polysyllables which 
suggest them only to the practiced sense, and is per- 
fectly patient and contented if we mistake one for 
another. She loves them all, but she pities them as 
living in a terrible climate ; and doubtless in her 
heart she purposes one day to go back to Italy, there 
to die. In the mean time she is very cheerful ; she, 
too, has had her troubles, — what troubles I do not 
remember, but those that come by sickness and by 
 
death, and that really seem no sorrows nntil they 
come to us, — yet she never complains. It is hard 
to make a living, and the house-rent alone is six dol- 
lars a month ; but still one lives, and does not fare 
so ill either. As it does not seem to be in her to 
dislike any one, it must be out of a harmless guile, 
felt to be comforting to servant-ridden householders, 
that she always speaks of " those Irish," her neigh- 
bors, with a bated breath, a shaken head, a hand 
lifted to the cheek, and an averted coimtenance. 
Swarthiest of the organ-grinding tribe is he who 
peers up at my window out of infinitesimal black 
eyes, perceives me, louts low, and for form's sake 
grinds me out a tune before he begins to talk. As 
we parley together, say it is eleven o'clock in the 
forenoon, and a sober tranquillity reigns upon the 
dust and nodding weeds of Benicia Street. At that 
hour the organ-grinder and I are the only persons 
of our sex in the whole suburban population ; all 
other husbands and fathers having eaten their break- 
fasts at seven o'clock, and stood up in the early 
horse-cars to Boston, whence they will return, with 
aching backs and quivering calves, haJf-pendant by 
leathern straps from the roofs of the same luxurious 
conveyances, in the evening. The Italian might go 
and grind his organ upon the front stoop of any one 
of a hundred French-roof houses around, and there 
would be no arm within strong enough to thrust him 
thence ; but he is a gentleman in his way, and, as 
he prettily explains, he never stops to play except 
where the window smiles on him : a frowning lattice 
he will pass in silence, I behold in him a disap- 
pointed man, — a man broken in health, and of a 
liver baked by long sojourn in a tropical clime. In 
large and dim outline, made all the dimmer by his 
dialect, he sketches me the story of his life ; how in 
his youth he ran away from the Milanese for love 
of a girl in France, who, dying, left him with so 
little purpose in the world that, after wqrking at his 
trade of plasterer for some years in Lyons, he lis- 
tened to a certain gentleman going out upon govern- 
ment service to a French colony in South America. 
This gentleman wanted a man-servant, and he said 
to my organ-grinder, " Go with me and I make your 
fortune." So he, who cared not whither he went, 
went, and found himself in the tropics. It was a 
hard life he led there ; and of the wages that had 
seemed so great in France, he paid nearly half to 
his laundress alone, being forced to be neat in his 
master's house. The service was not so irksome 
in-doors, but it was the hunting beasts in the forest 
all day that broke his patience at last. 
" Beasts in the forest ? " I ask, forgetftil of the 
familiar sense of bestie, and figuring cougars at least 
by the word. 
" Yes, those little beasts for the naturalists, — flies, 
bugs, beetles, — Heaven knows what." 
" But this brought you money ? " 
" It brought my master money, but me aches and 
pains as many as you will, and at last the fever. 
When that was burnt out, I made up my mind to 
ask for more pay, and, not getting it, to quit that 
service. I think the signor would have given it, — 
but the signora ! So I left, empty as I came, and 
was cook on a vessel to New York." 
This was the black and white of the man's story. 
I lose the color and atmosphere which his manner as 
well as his words bestowed upon it. He told it in a 
cheerful, impersonal kind of way as the romance of 
a poor devil which had interested him, and might 
possibly amuse me, leaving out no touch of character 
in his portrait of the fat, selfish master, — yielding 
enough, however, but for his grasping wife, who, 
with all her avarice and greed, he yet confessed to 
be very handsome. By the wave of a hand he 
housed them in a tropic residence, dim, cool, close 
shut, kept by servants in white linen moving with 
mute slippered feet over stone floors ; and by another 
gesture he indicated the fierce thorny growths of the 
forest in which he hunted those vivid insects, — the 
luxuriant savannas, the gigantic ferns and palms, 
the hush and shining desolation, the presence of the 
invisible fever and death. There was a touch, too, 
of inexpressible sadness in his half-ignorant mention 
of the exiles at Cayenne, who were forbidden the 
wide ocean of escape about them by those swift gun- 
boats keeping their coasts and swooping down upon 
every craft that left the shore. He himself had seen 
one such capture, and he made me see it, and the 
mortal despair of the ftigitives, standing upright in 
their boat with the idle 'oars in their unconscious 
hands, while the corvette swept toward them. 
For all his misfortunes, he was not cast down. 
He had that lightness of temper which seems proper 
to most northern Italians, whereas those from the 
south are usually dark-mooded, sad-faced men. 
Nothing surpasses for unstudied misanthropy of 
expression the visages of diiferent Neapolitan harpers 
who have visited us ; but they have some right to 
their dejected countenances as being of a yet half- 
civilized stock, and as real artists and men of genius. 
Nearly all wandering violinists, as well as harpers, 
are of their race, and they are of every age, from 
that of mere children to men in their prime. They 
are very rarely old, as many of the organ-grinders 
are ; they are not so handsome as the Italians of the 
north, though they have invariably fine eyes. They 
arrive in twos and threes ; the violinist briefly tunes 
his fiddle, and the hai-per unslings his instrument, 
and, with faces of profound gloomj they go through 
their repertory, — pieces from the great composers, 
airs from the opera, not unmingled with such eflForts 
of Anglo-Saxon genius as Champagne Charley and 
Captain Jenks of the Horse Marines, which, like the 
language of Shakespeare and Milton, hold us and 
our English cousins in tender bonds of mutual affec- 
tion. Beyond the fact that they come " dal Basili- 
cat'," or " dal Principat'," one gets very little out 
of these Neapolitans, though I dare say they aie 
not so surly at heart as they look. Money does not 
brighten them to the eye, but yet it touches them, 
and they are good in playing or leaving off to him 
that pays. Long time two of them stood between 
the gateway firs on a pleasant summer's afternoon, 
 
and twanged and scraped their harmonious strings, 
till all the idle boys of the neighborhood gathered 
about them, listening with a grave and still delight. 
It was a most serious company : the Neapolitans, 
with their cloudy brows, rapt in their music ; and the 
Yankee children, with their impassive faces, warily 
guarding against the faintest expression of enjoy- 
ment ; and when at last the minstrels played a brisk 
measure, and the music began to work in the blood 
of the boys, and one of them shuffling his reluctant 
feet upon the gravel, broke into a sudden and resist- 
less dance, the spectacle became too sad for contemplation. The boy danced only from the hips 
down  no expression of his face gave the levity 
sanction, nor did any of his comrades : they beheld 
him with a silent fascination, but none was infected 
by the solemn indecorum ; and when the legs and 
music ceased their play together, no comment was 
made, and the dancer turned unheated away. A 
chance passer asked for what he called the Geary- 
baldeye Hymn, but the Neapolitans apparently did 
not know what this was. 
My doorstep acquaintance were not all of one race ; 
now and then an alien to the common Italian tribe 
appeared, — an Irish soldier, on his way to Salem, 
and willing to show me more of his mutilation than 
I cared to buy the sight of for twenty-five cents ; 
and more rarely yet an American, also formerly of 
the army, but with something besides his wretched- 
ness to sell. On the hottest day of last summer such 
a one rang the bell, and was discovered on the thresh- 
old wiping with his poor sole hand the sweat that 
stood upon his forehead. There was still enough of 
the independent citizen in his maimed and emaciated 
person to inspire him with deliberation and a show 
of that indiflference with which we Americans like to 
encounter each other ; but his voice was rather faint 
when he asked if I supposed we wanted any starch 
to-day. 
" Yes, certainly," answered what heart there was 
within, taking note willftdly, but I hope not wantonly, 
what an absurdly limp figure he was for a peddler of 
starch, — " certainly from you, brave fellow ; " and 
the package being taken from his basket, the man 
turned to go away, so very wearily, that a cheap phi- 
lanthropy protested : " For. shame ! ask him to sit 
down in-doors and drink a glass of water." 
" No," answered the poor fellow, when this indig- 
nant voice had been obeyed, and he had been taken 
at a disadvantage, and as it were surprised into the 
confession, " my family hadn't any breakfast this 
morning, and I've got to hurry back to them." 
" Haven't you had any breakfast ? " 
" Well, I wa'n't rightly hungry when I left the 
house." 
" Here, now," popped in the virtue before named, 
" is an opportunity to discharge the debt we all owe 
to the brave fellows who gave us back our coimtrv- 
Make it beer." 
So it was made bee.r and bread and cold meat, 
and, after a little pressing, the honest soul consented 
to the refreshment. He sat down in a cool doorway, 
 
and began to eat and to tell of the fight before 
Vicksburg. And if you have never seen a one- 
armed soldier making a meal, I can assure you the 
sight is a pathetic one, and is rendered none the 
cheerfiiller by his memories of the fights that muti- 
lated him. This man had no very susceptible audi- 
ence, but before he was carried off the field, shot 
through the body, and in the arm and foot, he had 
sold every package of starch in his basket. I am 
ashamed to say this now, for I suspect that a man 
with one arm, who indulged himself in going about 
under that broiling sun of July, peddling starch, was 
very probably an impostor. He computed a good 
day's profits of seventy-five cents, and when asked 
if that was not very little for the support of a sick 
wife and three children, he answered with a quaint 
effort at impressiveness, and with a trick, as I im- 
agined, from the manner of the regimental chaplain, 
"You've done your duty, my friend, and more'n 
your duty. If every one did their duty like that, we 
should get along." So he took leave, and shambled 
out into the furnace-heat, the sun beating upon his 
pale face, and his linen coat hugging him close, but 
with his basket lighter, and I hope his heart also. 
At any rate, this was the sentiment which cheap phi- 
lanthropy offered in self-gratulation, as he passed out 
of sight : " There ! you are quits with those maimed 
soldiers at last, and you have a country which you 
have paid for with cold victuals as they with blood." 
We have been a good deal visited by one dis- 
banded volunteer, not to the naked eye maimed, nor 
apparently suffering from any lingering illness, yel 
who bears, as he tells me, a secret disabling wound 
in his side from a spent shell, and who is certainly a 
prey to the most acate form of shifrlessness. I do 
not recall with exactness the date of our acquaint- 
ance, but it was one of those pleasant August after- 
noons when a dinner eaten in peace fills the di- 
gester with a millennial tenderness for the race too 
rarely felt in the nineteenth century. At such a 
moment it is a more natural action to loosen than to 
tighten the purse-strings, and when a very neatly 
dressed young man presented himself at the gate, 
and, in a note of indescribable plaintiveness, asked 
if I had any little job for him to do that he might 
pay for a night's lodging, I looked about the small 
domain with a vague longing to find some part of it 
in disrepair, and experienced a moment's absurd 
relief when he hinted that he would be willing to 
accept fifty cents in pledge of ftiture service. Yet 
this was not the right principle : some work, real or 
apparent, must be done for the money, and the 
veteran was told that he might weed the strawberry 
bed, though, as matters then stood, it was clean 
enough for a strawberry bed that never bore any- 
thing. The veteran was neatly dressed, as I have 
said : his coat, which was good, was buttoned to the 
throat for reasons that shall be sacred against curios- 
ity, and he had on a perfectly clean paper collar ; he 
was a handsome young fellow, with regular features, 
and a solicitously kept imperial and mustache ; his 
hair, when he lifted his hat, appeared elegantly oiled 
 
and brushed. I did not hope &om this figure that 
the work done would be worth the money paid, and, 
as nearly as I can compute, the weeds he took from 
that bed cost me a cent apiece, to say nothing df a 
cup of tea given him in grace at the end of his 
labors. 
My acquaintance was, as the reader will be glad 
to learn, a native American, though it is to be re- 
gretted, for the sake of facts which his case went far 
to establish, that he was not a New-Englander by 
birth. The most that could be claimed was, that he 
pame to Boston from Delaware when very yoimg, 
and that there on that brine-washed granite he had 
grown as perfect a flower of helplessness and indo- 
lence, as fine a fiTiit of maturing civilization, as ever 
expanded or ripened in Latin lands. He hved, not 
only a protest in flesh and blood against the tendency 
of democracy to exclude mere beauty from our sys- 
tem, but a refiitation of those Old World observers, 
who deny to our vulgar and bustling communities 
the refining and elevating grace of Repose. There 
was something veiy curious and original in his 
character, from which the sentiment of shame was 
absent, but which was not lacking in the fine in- 
stincts of personal cleanliness, of dress, of style. 
There was nothing of the rowdy in him ; he was 
gentle as an Italian noble in his manners: what 
other traits they may have had in common, I do not 
know ; perhaps an amiable habit of illusion. He 
was always going to bring me his discharge papers, 
but he never did, though he came often and had 
many a pleasant night's sleep at my cost. If some- 
times he did a little work, he spent great part of the 
time contracted to me in the kitchen, where it was 
understood, quite upon his own agency, that his 
wages included board. At other times, he called for 
money too late in the evening to work it out that 
day, and it has happened that a new second girl, 
deceived by his genteel appearance in the uncertain 
light, has shown him into the parlor, where I have 
found' him to his and my own great amusement, as 
the gentleman who wanted to see me. Nothing else 
seemed to raise his ordinarily dejected spirits so much. 
We all know how pleasant it is to laugh at people be- 
hind their backs ; but this veteran afforded me at a 
very low rate the luxury of a fellow-being whom one 
might laugh at to his face as much as one liked. 
Yet with all his shamelessness, his pensiveness, his 
elegance, I felt that somehow our national triumph 
was not complete in him, — that there were yet more 
finished forms of self-abasement in the Old World, 
till one day I looked out of the window and saw at a 
little distance my veteran digging a cellar for an 
Irishman. I own that the spectacle gave me a shock 
of pleasure, and that I ran down to have a nearer 
view of what human eyes have seldom, if ever, be- 
held, — an American, pure blood, handhng the pick, 
the shovel, and the wheelbarrow, while an Irishman 
directed his labors. Upon inspection, it appeared 
that none of the trees grew with their roots in the 
air, in recognition of this great reversal of the 
natural law ; all the French-roof houses stood, right 
 
side up. The phenomenon may become more com- 
mon in ftitxire, unless the American race accom- 
plishes its destiny of dying out before the more pop- 
nlatory foreigner, but as yet it graced the veteran 
with an exquisite and signal distinction. He, how- 
ever, seemed to feel unpleasantly the anomaly of his 
case, and opened the conversation by saying that he 
should not work at that job to-morrow, it hurt his 
side ; and went on to complain of the inhumanity of 
Americans to Americans. "Why," said he, "they'd 
rather give out their jobs to a nigger than to one of 
their own kind. I was beatin' carpets for a gentle- 
man on the Avenue, and the first thing I know he 
give most of 'em to a nigger. I beat seven of 'em 
in one day, and got two dollars ; and the nigger beat 
'em by the piece, and he got a dollar an' a half 
apiece. My luck ! " 
Here the Irishman glanced at his hireling, and the 
rueftd veteran hastened to pile up another wheel- 
barrow with earth. If ever we come to reverse 
positions generally with our Irish brethren, there is 
no doubt but they will get more work out of us than 
we do from them at present. 
It was shortly after this that the veteran offered to 
do second girl's work in my house if I would take 
him. The place was not vacant ; and as the sum- 
mer was now drawing to a close, and I feared to be 
left with him on my hands for the winter, it seemed 
well to speak to him upon the subject of economy. 
The next time he called, I had not about me the 
exact sum for a night's lodging, — fifty cents, namely, 
— and asked him if he thought a dollar would do. 
He smiled sadly, as if he did not like jesting upon 
such a very serious subject, but said he allowed to 
work it out, and took it. 
" Now, I hope you won't think I am interfering 
with your affairs," said his benefactor, " but I really 
think you are a very poor financier. According to 
your own account, you have been going on from 
year to year for a long time, trusting to luck for a 
night's lodging. Sometimes I suppose you have to 
sleep out-of-doors." 
" No, never ! " answered the veteran, with some- 
thing like scorn. "I never sleep out-doors. I 
wouldn't do it." 
" Well, at any rate, some one has to pay for your 
lodging. Don't you think you'd come cheaper to 
yom- friends, if, instead of going to a hotel every 
night, you'd take a room somewhere, and pay for it 
by the month ? " 
" I've thought of that. If I could get a good bed, 
I'd try it awhile anyhow. You see the hotels have 
raised. I used to get a lodgin' and a nice breakfast 
for a half a dollar, but now it is as much as you can 
do to get a lodgin' for the money, and it's just as 
dear in the Port as it is in the city. I've tried hotels 
pretty much everywhere, and one's about as bad as 
another." 
If he had been a travelled Englishman writing a 
book, he could not have spoken of hotels with greater 
disdain. 
" You see, the trouble with me is, I ain't got any 
 
relations around here. Now," he added, with the 
life and eagerness of an inspiration, " if I had a 
mother and sister livin' down at the Port, say, I 
wouldn't go hunting about for these mean little jobs 
everywheres. I'd just lay round home, and wait till 
something come up big. What I want is a home." 
At the instigation of a malignant spirit I asked 
the homeless orphan, " Why don't you get married, 
then?" 
He gave me another smile, sadder, fainter, sweeter 
than before, and said : " When would you like to see 
me again, so I could work out this dollar ? " 
A sudden and unreasonable disgust for the charac- 
ter which had given me so much entertainment suc- 
ceeded to my past delight. I felt, moreover, that I 
had bought the right to use some frankness with the 
veteran, and I said to him : " Do you know now, I 
shouldn't care if I never saw you again ? " 
I can only conjecture that he took the confidence 
in good part, for he did not appear again after that. 
 
Walking for walking's sake I do not like. The 
diversion appears to me one of the most factitious 
of modern enjoyments; and I cannot help looking 
upon those who pace their five miles in the teeth of 
a north wind, and profess to come home all the live- 
lier and better for it, as guilty of a venial hypocrisy. 
It is in nature that after such an exercise the bones 
should ache and the flesh tremble ; and I suspect 
that these harmless pretenders are all the while pay- 
ing a secret penalty for their bravado. With a 
pleasant end in view, or with cheerful companion- 
ship, walking is far from being the worst thing in 
life ; though doubtless a truly candid person must 
confess that he would rather ride under the same 
circumstances. Yet it is certain that some sort of 
recreation is necessary after a day spent within doors ; 
and one is really obliged nowadays to take a little 
walk instead of medicine ; for one's doctor is sure to 
have a mania on the subject, and there is no more 
getting pills or powders out of him for a slight indi- 
gestion than if they had all been shot away at the 
rebels during the war. For this reason I sometimes 
go upon a pedestrian tour, which is of no great ex- 
tent in itself, and which I moreover modify by keep- 
ing always within sound of the horse-car bells, or 
easy reach of some steam-car station. 
I fear that I should find these rambles dull, but 
that their utter lack of interest amuses me. I will 
be honest with the reader, though, and any Master 
Pliable is free to forsake me at this point; for I 
cannot promise to be really livelier than my walk. 
There is a Slough of Despond in fiill view, and not 
a Delectable Mountain to be seen, unless you choose 
so to call the high lands about Waltham, which we 
shall behold dark blue against the western sky pres- 
ently. As I sally forth upon Benicia Street, the 
whole suburb of Charlesbridge stretches about me, 
— a vast space upon which I can embroider any 
fiincy I like as I saunter along. I have no associa- 
tions with it, or memories of it, and, at some seasons, 
I might wander for days in the most frequented parts 
of it, and meet hardly any one I know. It is not, 
however, to these parts that I commonly turn, but 
northward, up a street upon which a flight of French- 
roof houses suddenly settled a year or two since, with 
families in them, and many outward signs of per- 
manence, though their precipitate arrival might cast 
some doubt upon this. I have to admire their uni- 
form neatness and prettiness, and I look at their 
dormer-windows with the envy of one to whose 
weak sentimentality dormer-windows long appeared 
the supreme architectural happiness. But, for all 
my admiration of the houses, I find a variety that is 
pleasanter in the landscape, when I reach, beyond 
them, a little bridge which appears to span a small 
stream. It unites banks hned with a growth of trees 
