great one it is—to have been singularly beautiful from the cradle, and
so was praised and exclaimed over and caressed as she walked through
the streets. She was sent for, far and near; borrowed to be looked at;
her picture taken by photographers. If one reflects how many foolish
and inconsiderate people there are in the world, who have no scruple in
making a pet and plaything of a pretty child, one will see how this one
unlucky lot of being beautiful in childhood spoiled Lillie’s chances of
an average share of good sense and goodness. The only hope for such a
case lies in the chance of possessing judicious parents. Lillie had not
these. Her father was a shrewd grocer, and nothing more; and her mother
was a competent cook and seamstress. While he traded in sugar and salt,
and she made pickles and embroidered under-linen, the pretty Lillie was
educated as pleased Heaven.
Pretty girls, unless they have wise mothers, are more educated by
the opposite sex than by their own. Put them where you will, there
is always some man busying himself in their instruction; and the
burden of masculine teaching is generally about the same, and might be
stereotyped as follows: “You don’t need to be or do any thing. Your
business in life is to look pretty, and amuse us. You don’t need to
study: you know all by nature that a woman need to know. You are, by
virtue of being a pretty woman, superior to any thing we can teach
you; and we wouldn’t, for the world, have you any thing but what you
are.” When Lillie went to school, this was what her masters whispered
in her ear as they did her sums for her, and helped her through her
lessons and exercises, and looked into her eyes. This was what her
young gentlemen friends, themselves delving in Latin and Greek and
mathematics, told her, when they came to recreate from their severer
studies in her smile. Men are held to account for talking sense.
Pretty women are told that lively nonsense is their best sense. Now
and then, an admirer bolder than the rest ventured to take Lillie’s
education more earnestly in hand, and recommended to her just a little
reading,—enough to enable her to carry on conversation, and appear
to know something of the ordinary topics discussed in society,—but
informed her, by the by, that there was no sort of need of being either
profound or accurate in these matters, as the mistakes of a pretty
woman had a grace of their own.
At seventeen, Lillie graduated from Dr. Sibthorpe’s school with a
“finished education.” She had, somehow or other, picked her way
through various “ologies” and exercises supposed to be necessary for a
well-informed young lady. She wrote a pretty hand, spoke French with a
good accent, and could turn a sentimental note neatly; “and that, my
dear,” said Dr. Sibthorpe to his wife, “is all that a woman needs, who
so evidently is intended for wife and mother as our little Lillie.” Dr.
Sibthorpe, in fact, had amused himself with a semi-paternal flirtation
with his pupil during the whole course of her school exercises, and
parted from her with tears in his eyes, greatly to her amusement; for
Lillie, after all, estimated his devotion at just about what it was
worth. It amused her to see him make a fool of himself.
Of course, the next thing was—to be married; and Lillie’s life now
became a round of dressing, dancing, going to watering-places,
travelling, and in other ways seeking the fulfilment of her destiny.
She had precisely the accessible, easy softness of manner that
leads every man to believe that he may prove a favorite, and her
run of offers became quite a source of amusement. Her arrival at
watering-places was noted in initials in the papers; her dress on
every public occasion was described; and, as acknowledged queen of
love and beauty, she had everywhere her little court of men and women
flatterers. The women flatterers around a belle are as much a part of
the cortége as the men. They repeat the compliments they hear, and
burn incense in the virgin’s bower at hours when the profaner sex may
not enter.
The life of a petted creature consists essentially in being deferred
to, for being pretty and useless. A petted child runs a great risk,
if it is ever to outgrow childhood; but a pet woman is a perpetual
child. The pet woman of society is everybody’s toy. Everybody looks
at her, admires her, praises and flatters her, stirs her up to play
off her little airs and graces for their entertainment; and passes
on. Men of profound sense encourage her to chatter nonsense for their
amusement, just as we delight in the tottering steps and stammering
mispronunciations of a golden-haired child. When Lillie has been in
Washington, she has had judges of the supreme court and secretaries
of state delighted to have her give her opinions in their respective
departments. Scholars and literary men flocked around her, to the
neglect of many a more instructed woman, satisfied that she knew enough
to blunder agreeably on every subject.
Nor is there any thing in the Christian civilization of our present
century that condemns the kind of life we are describing, as in any
respect unwomanly or unbecoming. Something very like it is in a measure
considered as the appointed rule of attractive young girls till they
are married.
Lillie had numbered among her admirers many lights of the Church. She
had flirted with bishops, priests, and deacons,—who, none of them,
would, for the world, have been so ungallant as to quote to her such
dreadful professional passages as, “She that liveth in pleasure is dead
while she liveth.”
In fact, the clergy, when off duty, are no safer guides of attractive
young women than other mortal men; and Lillie had so often seen their
spiritual attentions degenerate into downright, temporal love-making,
that she held them in as small reverence as the rest of their sex.
Only one dreadful John the Baptist of her acquaintance, one of
the camel’s-hair-girdle and locust-and-wild-honey species, once
encountering Lillie at Saratoga, and observing the ways and manners
of the court which she kept there, took it upon him to give her a
spiritual admonition.
“Miss Lillie,” he said, “I see no chance for the salvation of your
soul, unless it should please God to send the small-pox upon you. I
think I shall pray for that.”
“Oh, horrors! don’t! I’d rather never be saved,” Lillie answered with a
fervent sincerity.
The story was repeated afterwards as an amusing bon mot, and a
specimen of the barbarity to which religious fanaticism may lead; and
yet we question whether John the Baptist had not the right of it.
For it must at once appear, that, had the small-pox made the
above-mentioned change in Lillie’s complexion at sixteen, the entire
course of her life would have taken another turn. The whole world then
would have united in letting her know that she must live to some useful
purpose, or be nobody and nothing. Schoolmasters would have scolded her
if she idled over her lessons; and her breaking down in arithmetic, and
mistakes in history, would no longer have been regarded as interesting.
Clergymen, consulted on her spiritual state, would have told her
freely that she was a miserable sinner, who, except she repented, must
likewise perish. In short, all those bitter and wholesome truths, which
strengthen and invigorate the virtues of plain people, might possibly
have led her a long way on towards saintship.
As it was, little Lillie was confessedly no saint; and yet, if much
of a sinner, society has as much to answer for as she. She was the
daughter and flower of the Christian civilization of the nineteenth
century, and the kind of woman, that, on the whole, men of quite
distinguished sense have been fond of choosing for wives, and will go
on seeking to the end of the chapter.
Did she love John? Well, she was quite pleased to be loved by him, and
she liked the prospect of being his wife. She was sure he would always
let her have her own way, and that he had a plenty of worldly means to
do it with.
Lillie, if not very clever in a literary or scientific point of view,
was no fool. She had, in fact, under all her softness of manner, a
great deal of that real hard grit which shrewd, worldly people call
common sense. She saw through all the illusions of fancy and feeling,
right to the tough material core of things. However soft and tender and
sentimental her habits of speech and action were in her professional
capacity of a charming woman, still the fair Lillie, had she been a
man, would have been respected in the business world, as one that had
cut her eye-teeth, and knew on which side her bread was buttered.
A husband, she knew very well, was the man who undertook to be
responsible for his wife’s bills: he was the giver, bringer, and
maintainer of all sorts of solid and appreciable comforts.
Lillie’s bills had hitherto been sore places in the domestic history of
her family. The career of a fashionable belle is not to be supported
without something of an outlay; and that innocence of arithmetical
combinations, over which she was wont to laugh bewitchingly among her
adorers, sometimes led to results quite astounding to the prosaic,
hard-working papa, who stood financially responsible for all her finery.
Mamma had often been called in to calm the tumult of his feelings on
such semi-annual developments; and she did it by pointing out to him
that this heavy present expense was an investment by which Lillie was,
in the end, to make her own fortune and that of her family.
When Lillie contemplated the marriage-service with a view to going
through it with John, there was one clause that stood out in consoling
distinctness,—“With all my worldly goods I thee endow.”
As to the other clause, which contains the dreadful word “obey,” about
which our modern women have such fearful apprehensions, Lillie was
ready to swallow it without even a grimace.
“Obey John!” Her face wore a pretty air of droll assurance at the
thought. It was too funny.
“My dear,” said Belle Trevors, who was one of Lillie’s incense-burners
and a bridesmaid elect, “have you the least idea how rich he is?”
“He is well enough off to do about any thing I want,” said Lillie.
“Well, you know he owns the whole village of Spindlewood, with all
those great factories, besides law business,” said Belle. “But then
they live in a dreadfully slow, pokey way down there in Springdale.
They haven’t the remotest idea how to use money.”
“I can show him how to use it,” said Lillie.
“He and his sister keep a nice sort of old-fashioned place there, and
jog about in an old countrified carriage, picking up poor children and
visiting schools. She is a very superior woman, that sister.”
“I don’t like superior women,” said Lillie.
“But you must like her, you know. John is perfectly devoted to her, and
I suppose she is to be a fixture in the establishment.”
“We shall see about that,” said Lillie. “One thing at a time. I don’t
mean he shall live at Springdale. It’s horridly pokey to live in those
little country towns. He must have a house in New York.”
“And a place at Newport for the summer,” said Belle Trevors.
“Yes,” said Lillie, “a cottage in Newport does very well in the season;
and then a country place well fitted up to invite company to in the
other months of summer.”
“Delightful,” said Belle, “if you can make him do it.”
“See if I don’t,” said Lillie.
“You dear, funny creature, you,—how you do always ride on the top of
the wave!” said Belle.
“It’s what I was born for,” said Lillie. “By the by, Belle, I got a
letter from Harry last night.”
“Poor fellow, had he heard”—
“Why, of course not. I didn’t want he should till it’s all over. It’s
best, you know.”
“He is such a good fellow, and so devoted,—it does seem a pity.”
“Devoted! well, I should rather think he was,” said Lillie. “I believe
he would cut off his right hand for me, any day. But I never gave him
any encouragement. I’ve always told him I could be to him only as a
sister, you know.”
“You ought not to write to him,” said Belle.
“What can I do? He is perfectly desperate if I don’t, and still
persists that he means to marry me some day, spite of my screams.”
“Well, he’ll have to stop making love to you after you’re married.”
“Oh, pshaw! I don’t believe that old-fashioned talk. Lovers make a
variety in life. I don’t see why a married woman is to give up all the
fun of having admirers. Of course, one isn’t going to do any thing
wrong, you know; but one doesn’t want to settle down into Darby and
Joan at once. Why, some of the young married women, the most stunning
belles at Newport last year, got a great deal more attention after they
were married than they did before. You see the fellows like it, because
they are so sure not to be drawn in.”
“I think it’s too bad on us girls, though,” said Belle. “You ought to
leave us our turn.”
“Oh! I’ll turn over any of them to you, Belle,” said Lillie. “There’s
Harry, to begin with. What do you say to him?”
“Thank you, I don’t think I shall take up with second-hand articles,”
said Belle, with some spirit.
But here the entrance of the chamber-maid, with a fresh dress from
the dressmaker’s, resolved the conversation into a discussion so very
minute and technical that it cannot be recorded in our pages.
CHAPTER V.
WEDDING, AND WEDDING-TRIP.
WELL, and so they were married, with all the newest modern forms,
ceremonies, and accessories.
Every possible thing was done to reflect lustre on the occasion. There
were eight bridesmaids, and every one of them fair as the moon; and
eight groomsmen, with white-satin ribbons and white rosebuds in their
button-holes; and there was a bishop, assisted by a priest, to give
the solemn benedictions of the church; and there was a marriage-bell
of tuberoses and lilies, of enormous size, swinging over the heads of
the pair at the altar; and there were voluntaries on the organ, and
chantings, and what not, all solemn and impressive as possible. In the
midst of all this, the fair Lillie promised, “forsaking all others, to
keep only unto him, so long as they both should live,”—“to love, honor,
and obey, until death did them part.”
During the whole agitating scene, Lillie kept up her presence of mind,
and was perfectly aware of what she was about; so that a very fresh,
original, and crisp style of trimming, that had been invented in Paris
specially for her wedding toilet, received no detriment from the
least unguarded movement. We much regret that it is contrary to our
literary principles to write half, or one third, in French; because
the wedding-dress, by far the most important object on this occasion,
and certainly one that most engrossed the thoughts of the bride, was
one entirely indescribable in English. Just as there is no word in the
Hottentot vocabulary for “holiness,” or “purity,” so there are no words
in our savage English to describe a lady’s dress; and, therefore, our
fair friends must be recommended, on this point, to exercise their
imagination in connection with the study of the finest French plates,
and they may get some idea of Lillie in her wedding robe and train.
Then there was the wedding banquet, where everybody ate quantities of
the most fashionable, indigestible horrors, with praiseworthy courage
and enthusiasm; for what is to become of “paté de fois gras” if we
don’t eat it? What is to become of us if we do is entirely a secondary
question.
On the whole, there was not one jot nor tittle of the most exorbitant
requirements of fashion that was not fulfilled on this occasion. The
house was a crush of wilting flowers, and smelt of tuberoses enough
to give one a vertigo for a month. A band of music brayed and clashed
every minute of the time; and a jam of people, in elegant dresses,
shrieked to each other above the din, and several of Lillie’s former
admirers got tipsy in the supper-room. In short, nothing could be
finer; and it was agreed, on all hands, that it was “stunning.”
Accounts of it, and of all the bride’s dresses, presents, and even
wardrobe, went into the daily papers; and thus was the charming Lillie
Ellis made into Mrs. John Seymour.
Then followed the approved wedding journey, the programme of which had
been drawn up by Lillie herself, with carte blanche from John, and
included every place where a bride’s new toilets could be seen in the
most select fashionable circles. They went to Niagara and Trenton, they
went to Newport and Saratoga, to the White Mountains and Montreal;
and Mrs. John Seymour was a meteor of fashionable wonder and delight
at all these places. Her dresses and her diamonds, her hats and her
bonnets, were all wonderful to behold. The stir and excitement that
she had created as simple Miss Ellis was nothing to the stir and
excitement about Mrs. John Seymour. It was the mere grub compared with
the full-blown butterfly,—the bud compared with the rose. Wherever she
appeared, her old admirers flocked in her train. The unmarried girls
were, so to speak, nowhere. Marriage was a new lease of power and
splendor, and she revelled in it like a humming-bird in the sunshine.
And was John equally happy? Well, to say the truth, John’s head was a
little turned by the possession of this curious and manifold creature,
that fluttered and flapped her wings about the eyes and ears of his
understanding, and appeared before him every day in some new device
of the toilet, fair and fresh; smiling and bewitching, kissing and
coaxing, laughing and crying, and in all ways bewildering him, the
once sober-minded John, till he scarce knew whether he stood on his
head or his heels. He knew that this sort of rattling, scatter-brained
life must come to an end some time. He knew there was a sober,
serious life-work for him; something that must try his mind and soul
and strength, and that would, by and by, leave him neither time nor
strength to be the mere wandering attaché of a gay bird, whose string
he held in hand, and who now seemed to pull him hither and thither at
her will.
John thought of all these things at intervals; and then, when he
thought of the quiet, sober, respectable life at Springdale, of the
good old staple families, with their steady ways,—of the girls in his
neighborhood with their reading societies, their sewing-circles for
the poor, their book-clubs and art-unions for practice in various
accomplishments,—he thought, with apprehension, that there appeared
not a spark of interest in his charmer’s mind for any thing in this
direction. She never had read any thing,—knew nothing on all those
subjects about which the women and young girls in his circle were
interested; while, in Springdale, there were none of the excitements
which made her interested in life. He could not help perceiving that
Lillie’s five hundred particular friends were mostly of the other sex,
and wondering whether he alone, when the matter should be reduced to
that, could make up to her for all her retinue of slaves.
Like most good boys who grow into good men, John had unlimited faith
in women. Whatever little defects and flaws they might have, still
at heart he supposed they were all of the same substratum as his
mother and sister. The moment a woman was married, he imagined that
all the lovely domestic graces would spring up in her, no matter what
might have been her previous disadvantages, merely because she was a
woman. He had no doubt of the usual orthodox oak-and-ivy theory in
relation to man and woman; and that his wife, when he got one, would
be the clinging ivy that would bend her flexible tendrils in the way
his strong will and wisdom directed. He had never, perhaps, seen, in
southern regions, a fine tree completely smothered and killed in the
embraces of a gay, flaunting parasite; and so received no warning from
vegetable analogies.
Somehow or other, he was persuaded, he should gradually bring his wife
to all his own ways of thinking, and all his schemes and plans and
opinions. This might, he thought, be difficult, were she one of the
pronounced, strong-minded sort, accustomed to thinking and judging for
herself. Such a one, he could easily imagine, there might be a risk
in encountering in the close intimacy of domestic life. Even in his
dealings with his sister, he was made aware of a force of character and
a vigor of intellect that sometimes made the carrying of his own way
over hers a matter of some difficulty. Were it not that Grace was the
best of women, and her ways always the very best of ways, John was not
so sure but that she might prove a little too masterful for him.
But this lovely bit of pink and white; this downy, gauzy, airy little
elf; this creature, so slim and slender and unsubstantial,—surely he
need have no fear that he could not mould and control and manage her?
Oh, no! He imagined her melting, like a moon-beam, into all manner of
sweet compliances, becoming an image and reflection of his own better
self; and repeated to himself the lines of Wordsworth,—
    “I saw her, on a nearer view,
     A spirit, yet a woman too,—
     Her household motions light and free,
     And steps of virgin liberty.
     A creature not too bright or good
     For human nature’s daily food,
     For transient pleasures, simple wiles,
     Praise, blame, love, kisses, tears, and smiles.”
John fancied he saw his little Lillie subdued into a pattern wife,
weaned from fashionable follies, eagerly seeking mental improvement
under his guidance, and joining him and Grace in all sorts of edifying
works and ways.
The reader may see, from the conversations we have detailed, that
nothing was farther from Lillie’s intentions than any such conformity.
The intentions of the married pair, in fact, ran exactly contrary to
one another. John meant to bring Lillie to a sober, rational, useful
family life; and Lillie meant to run a career of fashionable display,
and make John pay for it.
Neither, at present, stated their purposes precisely to the other,
because they were “honey-mooning.” John, as yet, was the enraptured
lover; and Lillie was his pink and white sultana,—his absolute
mistress, her word was law, and his will was hers. How the case was
ever to be reversed, so as to suit the terms of the marriage service,
John did not precisely inquire.
But, when husband and wife start in life with exactly opposing
intentions, which, think you, is likely to conquer,—the man, or
the woman? That is a very nice question, and deserves further
consideration.
CHAPTER VI.
HONEY-MOON, AND AFTER.
WE left Mr. and Mrs. John Seymour honey-mooning. The honey-moon, dear
ladies, is supposed to be the period of male subjection. The young
queen is enthroned; and the first of her slaves walks obediently in her
train, carries her fan, her parasol, runs of her errands, packs her
trunk, writes her letters, buys her any thing she cries for, and is
ready to do the impossible for her, on every suitable occasion.
A great strong man sometimes feels awkwardly, when thus led captive;
but the greatest, strongest, and most boastful, often go most
obediently under woman-rule; for which, see Shakspeare, concerning
Cleopatra and Julius Cæsar and Mark Antony.
But then all kingdoms, and all sway, and all authority must come to
an end. Nothing lasts, you see. The plain prose of life must have its
turn, after the poetry and honey-moons—stretch them out to their utmost
limit—have their terminus.
So, at the end of six weeks, John and Lillie, somewhat dusty and
travel-worn, were received by Grace into the old family-mansion at
Springdale.
Grace had read her Bible and Fénelon to such purpose, that she had
accepted her cross with open arms.
Dear reader, Grace was not a severe, angular, old-maid sister, ready to
snarl at the advent of a young beauty; but an elegant and accomplished
woman, with a wide culture, a trained and disciplined mind, a
charming taste, and polished manners; and, above all, a thorough
self-understanding and discipline. Though past thirty, she still had
admirers and lovers; yet, till now, her brother, insensibly to herself,
had blocked up the doorway of her heart; and the perfectness of the
fraternal friendship had prevented the wish and the longing by which
some fortunate man might have found and given happiness.
Grace had resolved she would love her new sister; that she would look
upon all her past faults and errors with eyes of indulgence; that she
would put out of her head every story she ever had heard against her,
and unite with her brother to make her lot a happy one.
“John is so good a man,” she said to Miss Letitia Ferguson, “that I am
sure Lillie cannot but become a good woman.”
So Grace adorned the wedding with her presence, in an elegant Parisian
dress, ordered for the occasion, and presented the young bride with a
set of pearl and amethyst that were perfectly bewitching, and kisses
and notes of affection had been exchanged between them; and during
various intervals, and for weeks past, Grace had been pleasantly
employed in preparing the family-mansion to receive the new mistress.
John’s bachelor apartments had been new furnished, and furbished, and
made into a perfect bower of roses.
The rest of the house, after the usual household process of
purification, had been rearranged, as John and his sister had always
kept it since their mother’s death in the way that she loved to see
it. There was something quaint and sweet and antique about it, that
suited Grace. Its unfashionable difference from the smart, flippant,
stereotyped rooms of to-day had a charm in her eyes.
Lillie, however, surveyed the scene, the first night that she took
possession, with a quiet determination to re-modernize on the very
earliest opportunity. What would Mrs. Frippit and Mrs. Nippit say to
such rooms, she thought. But then there was time enough to attend
to that. Not a shade of these internal reflections was visible in
her manner. She said, “Oh, how sweet! How perfectly charming! How
splendid!” in all proper places; and John was delighted.
She also fell into the arms of Grace, and kissed her with effusion; and
John saw the sisterly union, which he had anticipated, auspiciously
commencing.
The only trouble in Grace’s mind was from a terrible sort of
clairvoyance that seems to beset very sincere people, and makes them
sensitive to the presence of any thing unreal or untrue. Fair and soft
and caressing as the new sister was, and determined as Grace was to
believe in her, and trust her, and like her,—she found an invisible,
chilly barrier between her heart and Lillie. She scolded herself, and,
in the effort to confide, became unnaturally demonstrative, and said
and did more than was her wont to show affection; and yet, to her own
mortification, she found herself, after all, seeming to herself to be
hypocritical, and professing more than she felt.
As to the fair Lillie, who, as we have remarked, was no fool, she
took the measure of her new sister with that instinctive knowledge of
character which is the essence of womanhood. Lillie was not in love
with John, because that was an experience she was not capable of.
But she had married him, and now considered him as her property, her
subject,—hers, with an intensity of ownership that should shut out
all former proprietors.
We have heard much talk, of late, concerning the husband’s ownership
of the wife. But, dear ladies, is that any more pronounced a fact than
every wife’s ownership of her husband?—an ownership so intense and
pervading that it may be said to be the controlling nerve of womanhood.
Let any one touch your right to the first place in your husband’s
regard, and see!
Well, then, Lillie saw at a glance just what Grace was, and what her
influence with her brother must be; and also that, in order to live the
life she meditated, John must act under her sway, and not under his
sister’s; and so the resolve had gone forth, in her mind, that Grace’s
dominion in the family should come to an end, and that she would, as
sole empress, reconstruct the state. But, of course, she was too wise
to say a word about it.
“Dear me!” she said, the next morning, when Grace proposed showing her
through the house and delivering up the keys, “I’m sure I don’t see why
you want to show things to me. I’m nothing of a housekeeper, you know:
all I know is what I want, and I’ve always had what I wanted, you know;
but, you see, I haven’t the least idea how it’s to be done. Why, at
home I’ve been everybody’s baby. Mamma laughs at the idea of my knowing
any thing. So, Grace dear, you must just be prime minister; and I’ll be
the good-for-nothing Queen, and just sign the papers, and all that, you
know.”
Grace found, the first week, that to be housekeeper to a young duchess,
in an American village and with American servants, was no sinecure.
The young mistress, the next week, tumbled into the wash an amount of
muslin and lace and French puffing and fluting sufficient to employ
two artists for two or three days, and by which honest Bridget, as she
stood at her family wash-tub, was sorely perplexed.
But, in America, no woman ever dies for want of speaking her mind; and
the lower orders have their turn in teaching the catechism to their
superiors, which they do with an effectiveness that does credit to
democracy.
“And would ye be plased to step here, Miss Saymour,” said Bridget to
Grace, in a voice of suppressed emotion, and pointing oratorically,
with her soapy right arm, to a snow-wreath of French finery and puffing
on the floor. “What I asks, Miss Grace, is, Who is to do all this?
I’m sure it would take me and Katy a week, workin’ day and night, let
alone the cookin’ and the silver and the beds, and all them. It’s a
pity, now, somebody shouldn’t spake to that young crather; fur she’s
nothin’ but a baby, and likely don’t know any thing, as ladies mostly
don’t, about what’s right and proper.” Bridget’s Christian charity and
condescension in this last sentence was some mitigation of the crisis;
but still Grace was appalled. We all of us, my dear sisters, have stood
appalled at the tribunal of good Bridgets rising in their majesty and
declaring their ultimatum.
Bridget was a treasure in the town of Springdale, where servants
were scarce and poor; and, what was more, she was a treasure that
knew her own worth. Grace knew very well how she had been beset with
applications and offers of higher wages to draw her to various hotels
and boarding-houses in the vicinity, but had preferred the comparative
dignity and tranquillity of a private gentleman’s family.
But the family had been small, orderly, and systematic, and Grace the
most considerate of housekeepers. Still it was not to be denied, that,
though an indulgent and considerate mistress, Bridget was, in fact,
mistress of the Seymour mansion, and that her mind and will concerning
the washing must be made known to the young queen.
It was a sore trial to speak to Lillie; but it would be sorer to be
left at once desolate in the kitchen department, and exposed to the
marauding inroads of unskilled Hibernians.
In the most delicate way, Grace made Lillie acquainted with the
domestic crisis; as, in old times, a prime minister might have carried
to one of the Charleses the remonstrance and protest of the House of
Commons.
“Oh! I’m sure I don’t know how it’s to be done,” said Lillie, gayly.
“Mamma always got my things done somehow. They always were done,
and always must be: you just tell her so. I think it’s always best to
be decided with servants. Face ’em down in the beginning.”
“But you see, Lillie dear, it’s almost impossible to get servants
at all in Springdale; and such servants as ours everybody says are an
exception. If we talk to Bridget in that way, she’ll just go off and
leave us; and then what shall we do?”
“What in the world does John want to live in such a place for?” said
Lillie, peevishly. “There are plenty of servants to be got in New York;
and that’s the only place fit to live in. Well, it’s no affair of mine!
Tell John he married me, and must take care of me. He must settle it
some way: I shan’t trouble my head about it.”
The idea of living in New York, and uprooting the old time-honored
establishment in Springdale, struck Grace as a sort of sacrilege;
yet she could not help feeling, with a kind of fear, that the young
mistress had power to do it.
“Don’t, darling, talk so, for pity’s sake,” she said. “I will go to
John, and we will arrange it somehow.”
A long consultation with faithful John, in the evening, revealed to
him the perplexing nature of the material processes necessary to get
up his fair puff of thistledown in all that wonderful whiteness and
fancifulness of costume which had so entranced him.
Lillie cried, and said she never had any trouble before about “getting
her things done.” She was sure mamma or Trixie or somebody did them,
or got them done,—she never knew how or when. With many tears and
sobs, she protested her ardent desire to realize the Scriptural idea
of the fowls of the air and the lilies of the field, which were fed
and clothed, “like Solomon in all his glory,” without ever giving a
moment’s care to the matter.
John kissed and embraced, and wiped away her tears, and declared she
should have every thing just as she desired it, if it took the half of
his kingdom.
After consoling his fair one, he burst into Grace’s room in the
evening, just at the hour when they used to have their old brotherly
and sisterly confidential talks.
“You see, Grace,—poor Lillie, dear little thing,—you don’t know how
distressed she is; and, Grace, we must find somebody to do up all her
fol-de-rols and fizgigs for her, you know. You see, she’s been used
to this kind of thing; can’t do without it.”
“Well, I’ll try to-morrow, John,” said Grace, patiently. “There is Mrs.
Atkins,—she is a very nice woman.”
“Oh, exactly! just the thing,” said John. “Yes, we’ll get her to take
all Lillie’s things every week. That settles it.”
“Do you know, John, at the prices that Mrs. Atkins asks, you will have
to pay more than for all your family service together? What we have
this week would be twenty dollars, at the least computation; and it is
worth it too,—the work of getting up is so elaborate.”
John opened his eyes, and looked grave. Like all stable New-England
families, the Seymours, while they practised the broadest liberality,
had instincts of great sobriety in expense. Needless profusion shocked
them as out of taste; and a quiet and decent reticence in matters of
self-indulgence was habitual with them.
Such a price for the fine linen of his little angel rather staggered
him; but he gulped it down.
“Well, well, Gracie,” he said, “cost what it may, she must have it as
she likes it. The little creature, you see, has never been accustomed
to calculate or reflect in these matters; and it is trial enough to
come down to our stupid way of living,—so different, you know, from the
gay life she has been leading.”
Miss Seymour’s saintship was somewhat rudely tested by this remark.
That anybody should think it a sacrifice to be John’s wife, and a
trial to accept the homestead at Springdale, with all its tranquillity
and comforts,—that John, under her influence, should speak of the
Springdale life as stupid,—was a little drop too much in her cup. A
bright streak appeared in either cheek, as she said,—
“Well, John, I never knew you found Springdale stupid before. I’m sure,
we have been happy here,”—and her voice quavered.
“Pshaw, Gracie! you know what I mean. I don’t mean that I find
it stupid. I don’t like the kind of rattle-brained life we’ve been
leading this six weeks. But, then, it just suits Lillie; and it’s so
sweet and patient of her to come here and give it all up, and say not
a word of regret; and then, you see, I shall be just up to my ears in
business now, and can’t give up all my time to her, as I have. There’s
ever so much law business coming on, and all the factory matters at
Spindlewood; and I can see that Lillie will have rather a hard time of
it. You must devote yourself to her, Gracie, like a dear, good soul,
as you always were, and try to get her interested in our kind of life.
Of course, all our set will call, and that will be something; and
then—there will be some invitations out.”
“Oh, yes, John! we’ll manage it,” said Grace, who had by this time
swallowed her anger, and shouldered her cross once more with a womanly
perseverance. “Oh, yes! the Fergusons, and the Wilcoxes, and the
Lennoxes, will all call; and we shall have picnics, and lawn teas, and
musicals, and parties.”
“Yes, yes, I see,” said John. “Gracie, isn’t she a dear little
thing? Didn’t she look cunning in that white wrapper this morning? How
do women do those things, I wonder?” said John. “Don’t you think her
manners are lovely?”
“They are very sweet, and she is charmingly pretty,” said Grace; “and I
love her dearly.”
“And so affectionate! Don’t you think so?” continued John. “She’s a
person that you can do any thing with through her heart. She’s all
heart, and very little head. I ought not to say that, either. I think
she has fair natural abilities, had they ever been cultivated.”
“My dear John,” said Grace, “you forget what time it is. Good-night!”
CHAPTER VII.
WILL SHE LIKE IT?
“JOHN,” said Grace, “when are you going out again to our Sunday school
at Spindlewood? They are all asking after you. Do you know it is now
two months since they have seen you?”
“I know it,” said John. “I am going to-morrow. You see, Gracie, I
couldn’t well before.”
“Oh! I have told them all about it, and I have kept things up; but then
there are so many who want to see you, and so many things that you
alone could settle and manage.”
“Oh, yes! I’ll go to-morrow,” said John. “And, after this, I shall
be steady at it. I wonder if we could get Lillie to go,” said he,
doubtfully.
Grace did not answer. Lillie was a subject on which it was always
embarrassing to her to be appealed to. She was so afraid of appearing
jealous or unappreciative; and her opinions were so different from
those of her brother, that it was rather difficult to say any thing.
“Do you think she would like it, Grace?”
“Indeed, John, you must know better than I. If anybody could make her
take an interest in it, it would be you.”
Before his marriage, John had always had the idea that pretty,
affectionate little women were religious and self-denying at heart, as
matters of course. No matter through what labyrinths of fashionable
follies and dissipation they had been wandering, still a talent for
saintship was lying dormant in their natures, which it needed only the
touch of love to develop. The wings of the angel were always concealed
under the fashionable attire of the belle, and would unfold themselves
when the hour came. A nearer acquaintance with Lillie, he was forced
to confess, had not, so far, confirmed this idea. Though hers was a
face so fair and pure that, when he first knew her, it suggested ideas
of prayer, and communion with angels, yet he could not disguise from
himself that, in all near acquaintance with her, she had proved to
be most remarkably “of the earth, earthy.” She was alive and fervent
about fashionable gossip,—of who is who, and what does what; she was
alive to equipages, to dress, to sightseeing, to dancing, to any thing
of which the whole stimulus and excitement was earthly and physical.
At times, too, he remembered that she had talked a sort of pensive
sentimentalism, of a slightly religious nature; but the least idea
of a moral purpose in life—of self-denial, and devotion to something
higher than immediate self-gratification—seemed never to have entered
her head. What is more, John had found his attempts to introduce such
topics with her always unsuccessful. Lillie either gaped in his face,
and asked him what time it was; or playfully pulled his whiskers, and
asked him why he didn’t take to the ministry; or adroitly turned the
conversation with kissing and compliments.
Sunday morning came, shining down gloriously through the dewy
elm-arches of Springdale. The green turf on either side of the wide
streets was mottled and flecked with vivid flashes and glimmers of
emerald, like the sheen of a changeable silk, as here and there long
arrows of sunlight darted down through the leaves and touched the
ground.
The gardens between the great shady houses that flanked the street were
full of tall white and crimson phloxes in all the majesty of their
summer bloom, and the air was filled with fragrance; and Lillie, after
a two hours’ toilet, came forth from her chamber fresh and lovely as
the bride in the Canticles. “Thou art all fair, my love; there is
no spot in thee.” She was killingly dressed in the rural-simplicity
style. All her robes and sashes were of purest white; and a knot of
field-daisies and grasses, with French dew-drops on them, twinkled
in an infinitesimal bonnet on her little head, and her hair was all
créped into a filmy golden aureole round her face. In short, dear
reader, she was a perfectly got-up angel, and wanted only some tulle
clouds and an opening heaven to have gone up at once, as similar angels
do from the Parisian stage.
“You like me, don’t you?” she said, as she saw the delight in John’s
eyes.
John was tempted to lay hold of his plaything.
“Don’t, now,—you’ll crumple me,” she said, fighting him off with a
dainty parasol. “Positively you shan’t touch me till after church.”
John laid the little white hand on his arm with pride, and looked down
at her over his shoulder all the way to church. He felt proud of her.
They would look at her, and see how pretty she was, he thought. And
so they did. Lillie had been used to admiration in church. It was one
of her fields of triumph. She had received compliments on her toilet
even from young clergymen, who, in the course of their preaching and
praying, found leisure to observe the beauties of nature and grace in
their congregation. She had been quite used to knowing of young men
who got good seats in church simply for the purpose of seeing her;
consequently, going to church had not the moral advantages for her that
it has for people who go simply to pray and be instructed. John saw the
turning of heads, and the little movements and whispers of admiration;
and his heart was glad within him. The thought of her mingled with
prayer and hymn; even when he closed his eyes, and bowed his head, she
was there.
Perhaps this was not exactly as it should be; yet let us hope the
angels look tenderly down on the sins of too much love. John felt as if
he would be glad of a chance to die for her; and, when he thought of
her in his prayers, it was because he loved her better than himself.
As to Lillie, there was an extraordinary sympathy of sentiment between
them at that moment. John was thinking only of her; and she was
thinking only of herself, as was her usual habit,—herself, the one
object of her life, the one idol of her love.
Not that she knew, in so many words, that she, the little, frail bit of
dust and ashes that she was, was her own idol, and that she appeared
before her Maker, in those solemn walls, to draw to herself the homage
and the attention that was due to God alone; but yet it was true
that, for years and years, Lillie’s unconfessed yet only motive for
appearing in church had been the display of herself, and the winning of
admiration.
But is she so much worse than others?—than the clergyman who uses the
pulpit and the sacred office to show off his talents?—than the singers
who sing God’s praises to show their voices,—who intone the agonies
of their Redeemer, or the glories of the Te Deum, confident on the
comments of the newspaper press on their performance the next week? No:
Lillie may be a little sinner, but not above others in this matter.
“Lillie,” said John to her after dinner, assuming a careless,
matter-of-course air, “would you like to drive with me over to
Spindlewood, and see my Sunday school?”
“Your Sunday school, John? Why, bless me! do you teach Sunday
school?”
“Certainly I do. Grace and I have a school of two hundred children and
young people belonging to our factories. I am superintendent.”
“I never did hear of any thing so odd!” said Lillie. “What in the world
can you want to take all that trouble for,—go basking over there in
the hot sun, and be shut up with a room full of those ill-smelling
factory-people? Why, I’m sure it can’t be your duty! I wouldn’t do it
for the world. Nothing would tempt me. Why, gracious, John, you might
catch small-pox or something!”
“Pooh! Lillie, child, you don’t know any thing about them. They are
just as cleanly and respectable as anybody.”
“Oh, well! they may be. But these Irish and Germans and Swedes and
Danes, and all that low class, do smell so,—you needn’t tell me,
now!—that working-class smell is a thing that can’t be disguised.”
“But, Lillie, these are our people. They are the laborers from whose
toils our wealth comes; and we owe them something.”
“Well! you pay them something, don’t you?”
“I mean morally. We owe our efforts to instruct their children, and
to elevate and guide them. Lillie, I feel that it is wrong for us to
use wealth merely as a means of self-gratification. We ought to labor
for those who labor for us. We ought to deny ourselves, and make some
sacrifices of ease for their good.”
“You dear old preachy creature!” said Lillie. “How good you must be!
But, really, I haven’t the smallest vocation to be a missionary,—not
the smallest. I can’t think of any thing that would induce me to take a
long, hot ride in the sun, and to sit in that stived-up room with those
common creatures.”
John looked grave. “Lillie,” he said, “you shouldn’t speak of any of
your fellow-beings in that heartless way.”
“Well now, if you are going to scold me, I’m sure I don’t want to go.
I’m sure, if everybody that stays at home, and has comfortable times,
Sundays, instead of going out on missions, is heartless, there are a
good many heartless people in the world.”
“I beg your pardon, my darling. I didn’t mean, dear, that you were
heartless, but that what you said sounded so. I knew you didn’t
really mean it. I didn’t ask you, dear, to go to work,—only to be
company for me.”
“And I ask you to stay at home, and be company for me. I’m sure it is
lonesome enough here, and you are off on business almost all your days;
and you might stay with me Sundays. You could hire some poor, pious
young man to do all the work over there. There are plenty of them, dear
knows, that it would be a real charity to help, and that could preach
and pray better than you can, I know. I don’t think a man that is busy
all the week ought to work Sundays. It is breaking the Sabbath.”
“But, Lillie, I am interested in my Sunday school. I know all my
people, and they know me; and no one else in the world could do for
them what I could.”
“Well, I should think you might be interested in me: nobody else can
do for me what you can, and I want you to stay with me. That’s just the
way with you men: you don’t care any thing about us after you get us.”
“Now, Lillie, darling, you know that isn’t so.”
“It’s just so. You care more for your old missionary work, now,
than you do for me. I’m sure I never knew that I’d married a
home-missionary.”
“Darling, please, now, don’t laugh at me, and try to make me selfish
and worldly. You have such power over me, you ought to be my
inspiration.”
“I’ll be your common-sense, John. When you get on stilts, and run
benevolence into the ground, I’ll pull you down. Now, I know it must
be bad for a man, that has as much as you do to occupy his mind all
the week, to go out and work Sundays; and it’s foolish, when you could
perfectly well hire somebody else to do it, and stay at home, and have
a good time.”
“But, Lillie, I need it myself.”
“Need it,—what for? I can’t imagine.”
“To keep me from becoming a mere selfish, worldly man, and living for
mere material good and pleasure.”
“You dear old Don Quixote! Well, you are altogether in the clouds above
me. I can’t understand a word of all that.”
“Well, good-by, darling,” said John, kissing her, and hastening out of
the room, to cut short the interview.
Milton has described the peculiar influence of woman over man, in
lowering his moral tone, and bringing him down to what he considered
the peculiarly womanly level. “You women,” he said to his wife, when
she tried to induce him to seek favors at court by some concession of
principle,—“you women never care for any thing but to be fine, and to
ride in your coaches.” In Father Adam’s description of the original
Eve, he says,—
    “All higher knowledge in her presence falls
     Degraded; wisdom, in discourse with her,
     Loses, discountenanced, and like folly shows.”
Something like this effect was always produced on John’s mind when he
tried to settle questions relating to his higher nature with Lillie. He
seemed, somehow, always to get the worst of it. All her womanly graces
and fascinations, so powerful over his senses and imagination, arrayed
themselves formidably against him, and for the time seemed to strike
him dumb. What he believed, and believed with enthusiasm, when he was
alone, or with Grace, seemed to drizzle away, and be belittled, when
he undertook to convince her of it. Lest John should be called a muff
and a spoon for this peculiarity, we cite once more the high authority
aforesaid, where Milton makes poor Adam tell the angel,—
                “Yet when I approach
    Her loveliness, so absolute she seems
    And in herself complete, so well to know
    Her own, that what she wills to do or say
    Seems wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best.”
John went out from Lillie’s presence rather humbled and over-crowed.
When the woman that a man loves laughs at his moral enthusiasms, it is
like a black frost on the delicate tips of budding trees. It is up-hill
work, as we all know, to battle with indolence and selfishness, and
self-seeking and hard-hearted worldliness. Then the highest and holiest
part of our nature has a bashfulness of its own. It is a heavenly
stranger, and easily shamed. A nimble-tongued, skilful woman can so
easily show the ridiculous side of what seemed heroism; and what is
called common-sense, so generally, is only some neatly put phase of
selfishness. Poor John needed the angel at his elbow, to give him the
caution which he is represented as giving to Father Adam:—
                “What transports thee so?
    An outside?—fair, no doubt, and worthy well
    Thy cherishing, thy honor, and thy love,
    Not thy subjection. Weigh her with thyself,
    Then value. Oft-times nothing profits more
    Than self-esteem, grounded on just and right
    Well managed: of that skill the more thou knowest,
    The more she will acknowledge thee her head,
    And to realities yield all her shows.”
But John had no angel at his elbow. He was a fellow with a great
heart,—good as gold,—with upward aspirations, but with slow speech;
and, when not sympathized with, he became confused and incoherent, and
even dumb. So his only way with his little pink and white empress was
immediate and precipitate flight.
Lillie ran to the window when he was gone, and saw him and Grace get
into the carriage together; and then she saw them drive to the old
Ferguson House, and Rose Ferguson came out and got in with them.
“Well,” she said to herself, “he shan’t do that many times more,—I’m
resolved.”
No, she did not say it. It would be well for us all if we did put
into words, plain and explicit, many instinctive resolves and purposes
that arise in our hearts, and which, for want of being so expressed,
influence us undetected and unchallenged. If we would say out boldly,
“I don’t care for right or wrong, or good or evil, or anybody’s rights
or anybody’s happiness, or the general good, or God himself,—all I care
for, or feel the least interest in, is to have a good time myself, and
I mean to do it, come what may,”—we should be only expressing a feeling
which often lies in the dark back-room of the human heart; and saying
it might alarm us from the drugged sleep of life. It might rouse us to
shake off the slow, creeping paralysis of selfishness and sin before it
is for ever too late.
But Lillie was a creature who had lost the power of self-knowledge.
She was, my dear sir, what you suppose the true woman to be,—a bundle
of blind instincts; and among these the strongest was that of property
in her husband, and power over him. She had lived in her power over
men; it was her field of ambition. She knew them thoroughly. Women are
called ivy; and the ivy has a hundred little fingers in every inch of
its length, that strike at every flaw and crack and weak place in the
strong wall they mean to overgrow; and so had Lillie. She saw, at a
glance, that the sober, thoughtful, Christian life of Springdale was
wholly opposed to the life she wanted to lead, and in which John was to
be her instrument. She saw that, if such women as Grace and Rose had
power with him, she should not have; and her husband should be hers
alone. He should do her will, and be her subject,—so she thought,
smiling at herself as she looked in the looking-glass, and then curled
herself peacefully and languidly down in the corner of the sofa, and
drew forth the French novel that was her usual Sunday companion.
Lillie liked French novels. There was an atmosphere of things in them
that suited her. The young married women had lovers and admirers; and
there was the constant stimulus of being courted and adored, under the
safe protection of a good-natured “mari.”
In France, the flirting is all done after marriage, and the young
girl looks forward to it as her introduction to a career of conquest.
In America, so great is our democratic liberality, that we think
of uniting the two systems. We are getting on in that way fast. A
knowledge of French is beginning to be considered as the pearl of
great price, to gain which, all else must be sold. The girls must go
to the French theatre, and be stared at by French débauchées, who
laugh at them while they pretend they understand what, thank Heaven,
they cannot. Then we are to have series of French novels, carefully
translated, and puffed and praised even by the religious press, written
by the corps of French female reformers, which will show them exactly
how the naughty French women manage their cards; so that, by and by,
we shall have the latest phase of eclecticism,—the union of American
and French manners. The girl will flirt till twenty à l’Américaine,
and then marry and flirt till forty à la Française. This was about
Lillie’s plan of life. Could she hope to carry it out in Springdale?
CHAPTER VIII.
SPINDLEWOOD.
IT seemed a little like old times to Grace, to be once more going with
Rose and John over the pretty romantic road to Spindlewood.
John did not reflect upon how little she now saw of him, and how much
of a trial the separation was; but he noticed how bright and almost gay
she was, when they were by themselves once more. He was gay too. In the
congenial atmosphere of sympathy, his confidence in himself, and his
own right in the little controversy that had occurred, returned. Not
that he said a word of it; he did not do so, and would not have done so
for the world. Grace and Rose were full of anecdotes of this, that, and
the other of their scholars; and all the particulars of some of their
new movements were discussed. The people had, of their own accord,
raised a subscription for a library, which was to be presented to John
that day, with a request that he would select the books.
“Gracie, that must be your work,” said John; “you know I shall have an
important case next week.”
“Oh, yes! Rose and I will settle it,” said Grace. “Rose, we’ll get the
catalogues from all the book-stores, and mark the things.”
“We’ll want books for the children just beginning to read; and then
books for the young men in John’s Bible-class, and all the way
between,” said Rose. “It will be quite a work to select.”
“And then to bargain with the book-stores, and make the money go ‘far
as possible,’” said Grace.
“And then there’ll be the covering of the books,” said Rose. “I’ll tell
you. I think I’ll manage to have a lawn tea at our house; and the girls
shall all come early, and get the books covered,—that’ll be charming.”
“I think Lillie would like that,” put in John.
“I should be so glad!” said Rose. “What a lovely little thing she is!
I hope she’ll like it. I wanted to get up something pretty for her. I
think, at this time of the year, lawn teas are a little variety.”
“Oh, she’ll like it of course!” said John, with some sinking of heart
about the Sunday-school books.
There were so many pressing to shake hands with John, and congratulate
him, so many histories to tell, so many cases presented for
consultation, that it was quite late before they got away; and tea had
been waiting for them more than an hour when they returned.
Lillie looked pensive, and had that indescribable air of patient
martyrdom which some women know how to make so very effective. Lillie
had good general knowledge of the science of martyrdom,—a little spice
and flavor of it had been gently infused at times into her demeanor
ever since she had been at Springdale. She could do the uncomplaining
sufferer with the happiest effect. She contrived to insinuate at times
how she didn’t complain,—how dull and slow she found her life, and yet
how she endeavored to be cheerful.
“I know,” she said to John when they were by themselves, “that you and
Grace both think I’m a horrid creature.”
“Why, no, dearest; indeed we don’t.”
“But you do, though; oh, I feel it! The fact is, John, I haven’t a
particle of constitution; and, if I should try to go on as Grace does,
it would kill me in a month. Ma never would let me try to do any thing;
and, if I did, I was sure to break all down under it: but, if you say
so, I’ll try to go into this school.”
“Oh, no, Lillie! I don’t want you to go in. I know, darling, you could
not stand any fatigue. I only wanted you to take an interest,—just to
go and see them for my sake.”
“Well, John, if you must go, and must keep it up, I must try to go.
I’ll go with you next Sunday. It will make my head ache perhaps; but no
matter, if you wish it. You don’t think badly of me, do you?” she said
coaxingly, playing with his whiskers.
“No, darling, not the least.”
“I suppose it would be a great deal better for you if you had married a
strong, energetic woman, like your sister. I do admire her so; but it
discourages me.”
“Darling, I’d a thousand times rather have you what you are,” said
John; for—
                    “What she wills to do,
    Seems wisest, virtuousest, discreetest, best.”
“O John! come, you ought to be sincere.”
“Sincere, Lillie! I am sincere.”
“You really would rather have poor, poor little me than a woman like
Gracie,—a great, strong, energetic woman?” And Lillie laid her soft
cheek down on his arm in pensive humility.
“Yes, a thousand million times,” said John in his enthusiasm, catching
her in his arms and kissing her. “I wouldn’t for the world have you any
thing but the darling little Lillie you are. I love your faults more
than the virtues of other women. You are a thousand times better than
I am. I am a great, coarse blockhead, compared to you. I hope I didn’t
hurt your feelings this noon; you know, Lillie, I’m hasty, and apt to
be inconsiderate. I don’t really know that I ought to let you go over
next Sunday.”
“O John, you are so good! Certainly if you go I ought to; and I shall
try my best.” Then John told her all about the books and the lawn tea,
and Lillie listened approvingly.
So they had a lawn tea at the Fergusons that week, where Lillie was
the cynosure of all eyes. Mr. Mathews, the new young clergyman of
Springdale, was there. Mr. Mathews had been credited as one of the
admirers of Rose Ferguson; but on this occasion he promenaded and
talked with Lillie, and Lillie alone, with an exclusive devotion.
“What a lovely young creature your new sister is!” he said to Grace.
“She seems to have so much religious sensibility.”
“I say, Lillie,” said John, “Mathews seemed to be smitten with you. I
had a notion of interfering.”
“Did you ever see any thing like it, John? I couldn’t shake the
creature off. I was so thankful when you came up and took me. He’s
Rose’s admirer, and he hardly spoke a word to her. I think it’s
shameful.”
The next Sunday, Lillie rode over to Spindlewood with John and Rose and
Mr. Mathews.
Never had the picturesque of religion received more lustre than from
her presence. John was delighted to see how they all gazed at her
and wondered. Lillie looked like a first-rate French picture of the
youthful Madonna,—white, pure, and patient. The day was hot, and the
hall crowded; and John noticed, what he never did before, the close
smell and confined air, and it made him uneasy. When we are feeling
with the nerves of some one else, we notice every roughness and
inconvenience. John thought he had never seen his school appear so
little to advantage. Yet Lillie was an image of patient endurance,
trying to be pleased; and John thought her, as she sat and did nothing,
more of a saint than Rose and Grace, who were laboriously sorting
books, and gathering around them large classes of factory boys, to whom
they talked with an exhausting devotedness.
When all was over, Lillie sat back on the carriage-cushions, and
smelled at her gold vinaigrette.
“You are all worn out, dear,” said John, tenderly.
“It’s no matter,” she said faintly.
“O Lillie darling! does your head ache?”
“A little,—you know it was close in there. I’m very sensitive to such
things. I don’t think they affect others as they do me,” said Lillie,
with the voice of a dying zephyr.
“Lillie, it is not your duty to go,” said John; “if you are not made
ill by this, I never will take you again; you are too precious to be
risked.”
“How can you say so, John? I’m a poor little creature,—no use to
anybody.”
Hereupon John told her that her only use in life was to be lovely
