Ada rose languidly. She had grown taller during 
the last six months, but was now very thin and 
seemed scarcely able to support herself. Her face 
was small and deathly pale, with purplish circles 
under her eyes, and a wan, feverish look in them. 
" Why, this is a surprise," she said, kissing Kathie 
with affection. " But I don't see how you came to 
stray in town when everybody else is straying out. 
You are not tired of green fields, surely ? ' 
Kathie explained. 
" Now," exclaimed the Doctor, looking at his watch, 
" I am going to leave you two girls for an hour or so, 
when I shall come back after Kathie, as I left Mrs. 
Jessie broken-hearted. So talk fast." 
Kathie was really shocked with the change in Ada, 
WHICH, - - HERSELF, OK HER NEIGHBOR V 
and the kind of wistful expression went to her heart 
at once. She did indeed look very delicate. Her 
fingers were slender enough for the most rigid re- 
quirements of fashion, and white enough, too, for that 
matter. 
The room was quite tidy and pleasant. Instead 
of the careless girl they had a very efficient woman, 
who rather admired Miss Ada, but considered her 
"not long for this world." 
" How glad I am to see you ! " Ada said, with much 
interest. " And so Bruce Mackenzie has gone off to 
have a visit with his new mother. How odd it seems 
that the General's wife should be your Aunt Ruth ! 
And you know you met him that night when you 
were at the opera with me. It is like a story-book, 
isn't it ? " 
" A good deal better," returned Kathie. " It is all 
real, and they are very happy." 
Ada sighed. " Everything has changed terribly 
since then. I only went to two operas last winter." 
" And I didn't go to any," said Kathie, cheerily. 
" But you were in Washington. Where will your 
uncle take you this summer ? ' : 
" Perhaps we shall not go anywhere." 
 
 
" Tell me about the Brookside girls and boys. It 
is so seldom that any one comes in to talk to me." 
Kathie described their graduating class and its 
success and Sue Coleman's little party. " They have 
planned a trip to the White Mountains,' she added. 
" I don't envy them. It seems such an undertak- 
ing to go climbing about ; though if one were well it 
would make a difference. I don't even want to go to 
the seaside." 
" Why ? " 
" I believe I begin to hate strange faces and all 
that. I would like to hide away where it was beau- 
tiful and quiet, and no one stared at me when I went 
to the table, and there was some one to talk with. I 
never feel well any more, you know, and I cannot 
stand the slightest exertion." 
" But if you could make a little " Kathie said, 
hesitatingly. 
" I can't. The least thing tires me to death. The 
only pleasure I should enjoy would be carriage rid- 
ing. I suppose you have your ponies yet ? ' 
" yes, and ever so much enjoyment with them." 
" You are a fortunate girl, Kathie Alston. I wish 
I had such health and spirits, yes, all, for it seems 
to me you cannot have a bit of pleasure if you are 
poor." 
" But a great many do," was the rather timid re- 
sponse. " And we were quite happy while we were 
poor." 
Ada glanced at her as if she was studying some- 
thing, and could hardly get at the central truth upon 
which the whole structure was reared. 
" I don't understand it," shaking her head. 
Kathie did not try to explain. She felt that it 
would be like planting seed before the ground was 
prepared. But she went on talking of matters that 
she fancied would not be uninteresting to Ada, and 
succeeded so well that Ada could hardly believe an 
hour and a half had elapsed since Dr. Markham left 
them. 
" How long are you going to stay ? " asked Ada. 
" Do come to-morrow and take lunch with us. I do 
hate to have you go away." 
Kathie promised. 
" I wouldn't mind taking you to the Park after- 
ward for a drive, if you will both promise to be very 
good." 
Kathie accepted eagerly, and Ada did not dissent. 
 
" I am not going to ask you what you think until 
to-morrow night,' said the Doctor. " You are a little 
bunch of sunshine, and if you don't go about bright- 
ening the world, you will certainly miss your voca- 
tion. So don't set up for a comet, with fancy stream- 
ers and zigzag ways." 
She laughed a little, and yet she was rather grave 
during the brief drive. Uncle Robert and Jessie 
were watching for her, and gave her a sweet, smiling 
welcome. " Little runaway, we thought we should 
have to set out on a search for you," he said. 
"As if she could stay away from the Prince for- 
ever," Jessie made answer, smilingly. 
 
CHAPTEE VI. 
SOWING ON STONY GROUND. 
KATHIE was considering how she could manage to 
have a good talk with Uncle Kobert, when he said, 
" It is a lovely moonlight evening. Would you not 
like to take a walk in the Park, or are you too tired ? " 
" no, I should be delighted." 
"I see that you are forgetting me rapidly," ex- 
claimed Mr. Meredith, in a make-believe injured 
tone, which sounded so real that Kathie started. 
" Quote to him ' Not that you love Caesar less, but 
Home more,' " appended Jessie, laughingly. 
" I do not mean to forget anybody," she said, with 
slow gravity. 
" My little friend, I think I know that " ; and he 
gave her the old sweet smile. Then, bending his 
head a little lower, he whispered, " I see you have 
something on your mind that Uncle Kobert only can 
settle ; so go get the tangle smoothed out of it." 
They walked quietly along a few squares, and then 
 
turned into the broad entrance. The winding roads 
looked like streams of silver in this tender light, and 
the trees rustled softly to the monotone of the south- 
wind. How beautiful it was ! How glorious the 
whole world was when God's love was seen in it and 
through it I The earth and all the fulness thereof 
was made for human souls, that they might gather 
the spiritual manna after the type of the old Israel- 
ites, never having any lack, and yet providing for the 
day only ; for to-morrow it would be flooded again 
with waves of light and glory and love. 
" How quiet you are ! " Uncle Eobert said, at length. 
" Am I ? I was thinking, and it puzzles me " ; 
with a slow accent on the last words. 
" I suppose the end is somewhere with which you 
can unravel it all." 
" It is about Ada. Uncle Eobert, would it be very 
foolish if I did not go to the White Mountains ? ' 
" Why, no, child, if there is anything pleasanter for 
you." 
" I don't know as it will be pleasanter for me or 
anybody. And I cannot tell whether I want to do it 
or not, even if you were all willing." 
" I think I understand the state of mind, but what 
is the project ? " 
 
" First, I will tell you about my call this afternoon, 
and my talk with Dr. Markham," she said, repeating 
it in her simple, straightforward manner. 
" So the vexed question is, whether you will invite 
Ada, and devote your summer to her, or choose some- 
thing that you would enjoy really better." 
" What would mamma think of it ? ' 
"I believe she doesn't care much about joining 
Mrs. Colernan's party, though she would for your 
sake." 
" I think I shall not go, then, whatever else I 
may do," she made answer, quietly. 
" And if you loved Ada very much this would be 
a great pleasure ; but at present it is a kind of duty 
for her welfare." 
" She doesn't want to go to the seaside. She is 
very nervous, and the children fret her, and she can- 
not bear the thought of being among strangers. Dr. 
Markham says she needs quiet and a little pleasant 
diversion and excitement, to be roused out of her- 
self. I don't know as I could do any of it, but " 
" Dr. Markham is a true physician, - - a healer of 
souls as well as bodies. We owe him something for 
his kind care of Aunt Euth. And if you were will- 
 
ing to undertake it, since the most troublesome 
part must fall upon you." 
" You do not think that mamma would object ? " 
" I will answer for her. But, Kathie, suppose it is 
a trouble and perplexity, and brings forth no good 
result, how shall you feel then ? " 
" I don't believe I am a bit sanguine, Uncle Eob- 
ert. It doesn't seem as if I could do anything much 
for Ada, for our thoughts and wishes and enjoyments 
are so different. Only there is the lovely place, the 
quiet house, the ponies, and no one very rich or grand 
to fret her. I would try to do my best." 
" Perhaps it is worth an effort. It is the poor and 
needy we are to save, and those from the lanes and 
by-ways that we are to ask in to our feasts. There 
may be great poverty of soul and much straying into 
perverse and crooked paths without absolute pecuni- 
ary indigence. I sometimes think the rich people 
need to have missionaries sent among them as well 
as the poorer ones." 
" Then I may do it, if it seems best ? Ada may 
not want to come, to be sure." 
" I would talk it over with Jessie to-morrow, and 
learn what she thinks." 
 
They had rambled to the lake by this time, and 
paused to study the clear waters that seemed alive 
with stars shining in the quivering depths. They 
both felt the beauty, but they had no heart to talk 
about it then ; and though Uncle Eobert understood 
better than she how truly generous her proposal was, 
praise would have marred the sweet, noble charity 
of it, 
By and by they turned and walked homeward. 
Jessie had spread out a cunning little quartette table 
with dainty China saucers and cream. After that 
Kathie played a game of backgammon with Mr. 
Meredith, and, as it was a rather tight squeeze, 
managed to beat him by a solitary one left on the 
board. 
Jessie and Kathie had their talk the next morning. 
" I cannot decide whether it is sheer perverseness 
in Ada, or not," Jessie said. " If I had proposed that 
she should go to Brookside, I dare say she would have 
thought the place insufferably dull, and declined. She 
is excessively 'notional, and in very poor health, 
brought about by her own indolence and selfishness. 
If we all made self the central figure, what a world it 
would be ! " 
 
This rather damped Kathie's ardor. 
" Perhaps I don't feel quite as patient as I should, 
since Ada has refused nearly every effort of mine to 
make her life a little brighter." 
" She may have come to a different mood," said 
Kathie. 
" Well, it is very sweet and generous of you to be 
willing to give up so much time for her entertain- 
ment. And that is where your duty comes out sun- 
bright." 
A lovely smile broke over Jessie's face as she ut- 
tered this. 
Kathie was thinking of the great Exemplar, " who 
pleased not himself." And life was not a mere mat- 
ter of gathering the rose that grew directly in one's 
way. 
So, when she was going over to Ada's, Jessie re- 
marked, " I will commission you to say anything 
that you can for me, and I will abide by it." 
Ada was very low-spirited at first. She had been 
crying half of the morning. It was a warm, rather 
sultry and depressing day, and she was in a state to 
suffer from everything while she kept thinking so 
steadily about herself. 
 
"I don't believe I ever shall get well," she said, 
despondingly. " No one realizes how my health is 
failing. To be sure, there doesn't seem much worth 
living for when you have to give up all the things 
that interest you. I sometimes think it would not 
be much harder to die." 
Kathie started at that. Life seemed such a blessed 
and glorious thing to her. 
" Isn't it cooler down stairs ? " she asked, presently. 
" It seems so warm up here, next door to the sun." 
" I seldom do go down before lunch-time. Mamma 
is out finishing up the shopping. I have heard about 
seaside until I am tired and sick of it." 
" We might go down to the parlor and look over 
some of the old books. I suppose you do not study 
any nowadays ? Have you given up the languages 
and everything ? ' 
" O, what is the use of bothering one's brains ! I 
shall never have occasion for them again. And I was 
getting along so beautifully in my Italian music ; but 
if one is to be shut out of the world forever " 
" I don't believe any one is compelled to be," said 
Kathie, gently. "There are always some nice peo- 
ple " 
 
" You do not know much about it here," Ada 
returned, with an air of dignified, world-weary expe- 
rience. " Country places are different." 
Kathie persuaded and entreated in her cunning 
fashion, which had in it so much sweetness that 
presently Ada was won into going down stairs. It 
was much cooler. The room was in very nice order, 
except that a glass of faded flowers stood on the 
centre-table. 
" dear," Ada exclaimed, fretfully, " papa brought 
them home for me. I dare say they never had a drop 
of fresh water yesterday. I asked Mary to bring 
them up to me, but she i? just as likely to forget as 
to remember. And mamma knows how fond I am 
of flowers." 
Why could she not have thought of it herself, if 
she valued the gift ? Kathie colored with conscious 
and perhaps unkind criticism in her thoughts. 
She rolled the tete-a-tete over by the window and 
arranged a pillow for Ada, chatting in a way that 
would have seemed very easy and unrestrained to a 
third person, but she did have to make a great effort 
to keep her voice so sunny and clear. 
Mary tapped at the door directly. 
 
" Miss Ada," she said, in a pleasant tone, " would 
you not like to have your lunch brought up here ? 
Your mamnia has not come home yet, and the chil- 
dren may be a trouble 
" That will be very pleasant, Mary. I am glad you 
thought of it." 
" How much better you look, Miss Ada ! ' and 
Mary smiled. " I wish you could have company 
every day." 
She arranged a small table in the back parlor, and 
brought up a few delicacies. Ada had but little 
appetite and merely tasted, and Kathie felt almost 
ashamed of her hunger, the result of perfect health 
and good habits. 
Afterward she read to Ada a long while. It 
seemed as if she had at last hit upon something 
satisfying. Mrs. Meredith dropped in and chatted 
a few minutes, gratified to find her daughter in so 
pleasant a mood. 
They were quite ready to go out when Dr. Mark- 
ham came. 
" Kathie has stolen my art," he declared, in bluff 
good-humor. " What has she done to you ? Why. 
if I am not careful, I shall lose my patient and have 
no one to drill me into good-mannered ways. You 
look as bright as a daisy." 
" But I can't have Kathie always," Ada said, with 
a little longing in her tone. " I believe I do feel 
better. You see, I get so very lonesome, not being 
able to go out any." 
" You must brighten up and find a young and 
handsome escort, not an old bear like me. Well, 
where are your traps ? Doctors don't have much 
time to waste upon compliments." 
" I will send Mary for them." 
" Let me go," exclaimed Kathie. It appeared to 
her that Mary had been up and down stairs a thou- 
sand times at least during the day. On the way she 
stopped to kiss Florence and give her a tender little 
squeeze. 
The ride was a success certainly. Ada even con- 
sented to go to dinner at Aunt Jessie's, though slit- 
was pretty tired when they reached the house. 
" I think you can do it," Dr. Markham whispered 
to Kathie, with a shrewd smile. 
It came out some way at the dinner- table, helped 
along a little by Uncle Eobert's kindly tact, that Ada 
should come to Brookside with her aunt and uncle, 
SOWING ON STONY GRulIND. Ill 
and then spend a few weeks with Kathie, not going 
to the seaside at all. 
" It would be much pleasanter," she said, " only I 
am afraid mamma will not agree to it." She had 
fallen into the habit of conjuring lions out of any 
little wayside shadow. 
" I will see to that," replied her uncle. 
He took her home later in the evening. 
" Kathie, you must have bewitched her," he said, 
afterward. " I have not seen Ada so like herself in 
a long while. I wish the child could get a little 
common sense in her head before it is altogether too 
late. But it is a grand moral conversion for her to 
want to go to Brookside. Last summer she held 
herself immeasurably above it." 
Kathie kept the Doctor's conspiracy to herself. 
He had only planned a little, set the wheels in 
motion, and the rest had come about itself. She 
sincerely hoped that it would all be for the best. 
They returned home the next day. 
" Dear, lovely Cedarwood," Kathie said, betwixt 
smiles and tears, " there isn't another place in all the 
wide world so beautiful and so dear ! " And then, in 
her mind, she ran over the greater events since their 
 
coming. Not one lasting, heartfelt sorrow, but O, so 
many joys ! Could she ever be thankful enough ? 
Sue was a good deal disappointed, much more than 
Kathie had thought possible. 
" You are such a sort of comfortable little midget 
that you could help a body find out all the bright 
places, and you would be excellent for a rainy day. 
I have half a mind to kidnap you and take you off in 
spite of yourself." 
Kathie laughed archly. Yet it was very pleasant 
to be needed and wanted. 
Fred Lauriston had come home in her absence. 
He was taller than Rob, but so thin and pale, and 
his eyes had a kind of feverish stare that was very 
uncomfortable. 
" I am afraid he is really ill," Emma said, anxiously. 
" Grandfather was so shocked. But Fred insists that 
a little of the old-fashioned country life will make him 
all right again. I am so glad that you are not going 
away. He wondered if we might have Eob's boat." 
" Yes, indeed, anything. And you must come 
over as often as you can. Ada Meredith is to be 
here, and she is an invalid too. We will have a 
regular hospital." 
 
" Oh ! " exclaimed Emma, in a tone of disappoint- 
ment. " There are some people in the world that you 
cannot take to cordially, and Ada is one. Why did 
she want to come this particular summer ? ' 
" She may never have another summer," Kathie 
said, slowly. 
Emma shivered. " I cannot bear to think of any 
one's dying, and in summer most of all." 
Every one seemed a little regretful when it was 
known who was to have the first claim upon Kathie. 
She visited industriously in the few days of grace 
remaining, taking up several of her old playmates, who 
somehow had strayed off during her last busy year. 
Charlie Darrell came over one evening to say that 
Jessie and Mr. Meredith and Ada had arrived. 
" She looks like a walking ghost," he exclaimed ; 
" worse even than poor Fred." 
Mrs. Alston had quietly acquiesced in Kathie's 
plans. In truth, she much preferred this to the fash- 
ionable rambling about with the Coleman party for 
so young a girl as Kathie. It was rather too soon to 
throw her into the temptations of the world, the van- 
ities, jealousies, and petty detractions that narrow 
the soul and harden the heart and brain. Let her 
 
 
keep pure and fresh, even if she were less wise and 
less mature. 
The journey had fatigued Ada a good deal. For 
several days she kept to the bed or sofa. Every one, 
even to grandmother, vied in kindness. She was 
capricious and desponding. To-day she fancied that 
she had too much company ; to-morrow, that she was 
neglected. 
" It will be so different when you are able to ride 
out," Kathie said, cheerily. "And I want you to 
come over and get fairly settled at Cedarwood before 
Mr. and Mrs. Meredith go back." 
" I am sure we would do everything in our power 
for her," exclaimed grandmother. " Poor dear young 
thing ! What a pity ! I wonder if the people who 
have such sensitive nerves ever think that others 
have any at all ? ' 
They were not apt to, Kathie suspected. She had 
a fancy that Ada would feel more at home with her. 
But when she was a little rested and began to go 
out there was a decided change. Dick Grayson came 
over to call upon her, and Charlie was quite a chival- 
rous escort, more from the natural kindness of his 
heart than any real admiration. 
 
"For Kathie is worth a dozen of her,' he said, 
with his old boyish partiality. " But she is the 
queerest girl. She always makes the nice things 
come to Ada. She will not see that they are meant 
for her, and puts them by in that odd fashion that 
you can't get vexed over, and never seems to miss 
them when some one else appropriates them without 
so much as a thank you." 
" Isn't that the highest and finest regard for oth- 
ers, working for them and yet never making them 
feel the weight of favors ? " asked Jessie, looking into 
her brother's clear eyes. 
" I suppose it is. dear, how much goodness it 
does take to make us good, after all ! ' 
Jessie smiled. " And yet I think Kathie is re- 
warded. When we see her do these pleasant things 
for others, we always try to do the next delightful 
favor for her. Gruff old Dr. Markham takes as much 
pains for her as if she were the greatest lady in the 
land." 
" As if she wasn't ! " exclaimed Charlie, with en- 
thusiasm. " But I like her to accept my small favors 
for herself, and not be handing them over to oth- 
ers." 
 
" Charlie, maybe that is a hint that you ought 
to offer twice as many," Jessie returned, laughingly. 
" Well, I never thought of that. I do believe I 
have been a little cross sometimes and held up, so 
I will take the lesson." 
Mr. Meredith could not make a very long stay, as 
it would not do for both of them to leave the business. 
They all teased Jessie to spend the remainder of the 
summer at her old home, but she seemed to think 
that her husband's claim was first and strongest. 
Uncle Eobert brought Ada and her trunk over one 
day in the light wagon. She was to have Aunt 
Euth's sleeping apartment. The crimson room with 
the bay-window had fallen into ordinary use as a 
sitting-room, and Kathie sewed, studied, and had all 
her fancy-work here. Not a nook or corner but spoke 
of Aunt Euth. 
They had heard from the boys in the mean while, 
who had reached their destination safely, and, if one 
could judge from the tenor of their letters, were well- 
nigh transformed into wild Indians themselves. Such 
rides over plains and prairies, such a scaling of 
mountains and hunting up of cascades and curious 
haunts and game of all kinds ! General Mackenzie 
was a most magnificent uncle, and Aunt Euth was a 
most lovely stepmother. Only if Kathie could be 
there ! 
She thought of them all as she was beautifying the 
room with flowers, and wondered a little if she could 
have given up such a pleasure for Ada's sake, feeling 
very glad that she had not been asked. 
" O, how cool and delightful ! >: Ada exclaimed. 
" What beautiful flowers ! There is an odd sweet 
home feeling about your house, after all." 
" I am glad you think so," Kathie said, pleased 
with the late praise. 
" Not but what they are very nice over at the 
Darrells'. It is quaint and old-fashioned, with their 
great rooms and low ceilings and heavy furniture. 
Sometimes I think " 
Ada paused so long that Kathie glanced shyly at 
her, and found her eyes filled with tears. 
" You are all very good," she said, in a tone that 
sounded cold and ungracious almost, and yet it was 
because her heart had been stirred to its very depths 
with a new and unwonted emotion. Love and grati- 
tude did not come to her naturally, and the first 
awakenings were a little constrained and awkward. 
Kathie went over to her presently, and kissed 
her quietly. Perhaps one great charm in her affec- 
tion was that it never overwhelmed, was never ob- 
trusive, but as simple and graceful as her own pure 
self. 
 
CHAPTEE VII. 
THE ENEMIES' TABES. 
" I WONDER what we shall do, or can do ? " Kathie 
said to her mother the next evening, in great per- 
plexity. 
It had been a long, quiet day. No one had " run 
in." Ada had rested and read and looked out of the 
windows. Kathie had gone up and down and in and 
out rather restlessly for her, sewed a little and tatted 
a little. 
" About what ? " asked her mother. 
" I want to try and entertain Ada, and I don't just 
know what to do. If Eob were home, or if all the 
larger girls were not away " 
" It seems to me the most necessary lesson for Ada 
to learn is to entertain herself." 
" But, mamma - 
" Not that you should be indifferent, my dear. Yet 
a great many of the loveliest li ves I have known were 
made up of common things and trifles. It cannot be 
 
one great holiday, and the quicker every one learns 
this the better." 
" But I am afraid Ada cannot understand." 
" You must not let your missionary work become 
a task and a burden. I cannot have my little girl's 
bright face grave and overclouded." 
" But, mamma, isn't it right that one should do 
everything for a friend, if one wanted to make her 
happier and ' " Better," Kathie was about to say, 
but paused, rather distrusting her own powers. 
" In one sense, yes ; in another, no. I am not sure 
that I can quite explain my meaning to you, so we 
will take Ada for an illustration. All her life she 
has been waited upon, amused, and had a constant 
variety in every respect. Eich people can nearly 
always do this, if they choose. It has made her en- 
tirely dependent upon others. Now she cannot have 
this constant ministering, and perhaps never will in 
her life again. Is it wise for all her friends to keep 
up the pretence ? " 
" But it isn't comfortable to feel that one is dull." 
" No. I should like to see you use all the means 
within your power, and though there are cases when 
we go out of our way and take upon ourselves a 
 
great deal of arduous perplexity, it does not seem to 
me that this is one of the instances where it can be 
rightly demanded. Ada has had very little come to 
interest her through the winter and spring, and I dare 
say it never occurred to her that she might go out 
and find something, use her own dormant energies 
instead of taxing other people. I think we know of 
one who made a little heaven below by her unselfish 
ways, when she had a great deal to suffer and no 
outside pleasures." 
" Oh ! Aunt Kuth," Kathie said, with a glad, bright 
smile. 
" Yes, dear Aunt Euth. Yet she might easily have 
made herself so unlovely that she would not at all 
have attracted the notice of a grand and tender gen- 
tleman like General Mackenzie, and said, with much 
show of truth, that she could not help being fretful, 
dependent, and dissatisfied." 
" I wish you would tell me just what to do, mam- 
ma," her perplexity not entirely cleared. 
" I should go on much as usual, and not give up 
my own duties and pleasures altogether. Always in- 
vite Ada to share them, but not allow her to feel that 
she has the right to change your whole life simply 
 
because she has come into it for a while. You will 
have to go on when she drops out of it." 
Kathie began to understand. Each person in this 
world had certain individual rights which, though 
she might relinquish them for a brief while under 
peculiar circumstances, were not to be made another's 
property through selfishness. 
An incident occurred the next morning. Kathie 
was up early, and had been down to the Morrison 
cottage to see Ethel and grandmother, coming back 
with glowing cheeks, as Freddy had bantered her to 
run a race up the drive. 
Mrs. Alston made no difference with the breakfast 
hour, but she did not insist that Ada should be pres- 
ent, since she was in the habit of rising late. It was 
only a few minutes' work to get a dainty little meal, 
and Jane was willing to do it if Hannah was busy. 
Kathie was just sitting down to the table when 
Harry Cox ran across the lawn. She went to the 
open window. 
" O," said Harry, laughingly, " good morning ! I 
shouldn't have come so early, but the girls asked me 
to do an errand last evening, and I did forget all 
about it." 
 
" Won't you walk in and take some breakfast with 
us ? " asked Mrs. Alston. " You ought to have a good 
appetite for it." 
" O, I had it, fifteen minutes ago, appetite and 
all ; but thank you all the same. The girls want to 
come over this afternoon, Kathie, if you were not 
going anywhere. And could we have the boat out 
a while ? " 
Kathie glanced at her mother with an odd smile. 
" How many ? " asked Mrs. Alston. 
" O, Mary and Till, and the Gardiner girls, and 
Carry Jelliffe, and two or three of us boys. Mary 
thought it would be nice before before you had 
company," exclaimed Harry, blushing. 
" Mary and Lucy and Annie were to come to tea. 
mamma, can't we have them all ? " and Kathie 
glanced up entreatingly. 
" But the company ? " said Uncle Kobert, in a low 
tone. 
Kathie's thoughts recurred to her last evening's 
conversation. Would it not be rather foolish and 
selfish to disappoint the gay little party for the 
sake of one ? 
" Well, Kathie ? " 
 
" O mamma, I should like to have them come." 
"Very well. Harry, tell them that we shall be 
very glad to see them all, and that we shall expect 
them to stay to supper. And you boys as well." 
Harry nodded, with graceful satisfaction. 
" And come early," appended Kathie. " Give my 
love to them." 
" Now you must tell Hannah as soon as you are 
through, and decide what it would be nice to have ; 
for I am afraid a little cream and sponge-cake will 
not be just the thing for a hungry troop." 
Before breakfast was ended they had another call. 
Little Dolly Maybin ran over to see " if Janie might 
come home to-day. Mother was sick in bed, and 
Martha had a sore finger." 
" It will be rather bad to spare her to-day, still, I 
suppose she ought to go." 
" yes," said Kathie. " I can help, and there 
won't be so very much to do." 
" If she will come back early." 
Jane was in something of a flurry when she heard 
it. Mrs. Maybin had been ailing for a week or ten 
days. Threatened with a fever, Jane thought. And 
if she should have a long illness 
 
' Never mind ; we will not worry until it happens," 
said Mrs. Alston. " Come back by five, and let us 
know how she is. Then, after supper is through, you 
may return." 
Kathie ran out to the kitchen. " We are going to 
have a surprise-party, Hannah," she said, " only they 
do not bring their eatables along. And Jane has had 
to go home to her sick mother." 
" How large a party ? ' and Hannah held up her 
skimmer, as she was improving her spare moments 
by doing blackberries. 
" O, four or five girls, and as many boys maybe. 
But we don't need to make any great time." 
" I was going to do preserves all the morning," said 
Hannah, who gave the possible objections first and 
the cheerful willingness afterward. 
"I can make the cake and some jelly; and, 
mamma, may we have cream ? Uncle Robert will 
see to that, I know." 
" Yes, if he chooses. Kathie may as well make the 
cake this morning, Hannah, but wait until Ada has 
had her breakfast." 
" And the bread and biscuit ? " said Hannah. " We 
had just about enough to last over till to-morrow." 
 
" The biscuits may as well be cold, as they are 
really better for the children." 
" Why, I can make them too. It will seem quite 
like old times. I haven't done any kitchen work in 
ever so long." 
Kathie cleared the "pastry-table," and began to 
bring out some materials. 
"You had better put your room in order," said 
her mother, " and then you will have the whole 
morning." 
So Kathie ran up stairs. The bed had been airing 
in the morning sunshine, so she spread it up and 
dusted, and brought in a few fresh flowers. At that 
juncture Ada called. 
" I have had such a lovely sleep ! " she exclaimed. 
JL suppose you have been up an hour or two, and 
you look as bright as a rose. Dear, if I ever could 
look well again ! I am getting real sallow, - - am I
not ? and I did have such a sweet complexion. 
But it doesn't matter, after all. I shall never care 
much for anything again. O Kathie, if you only 
would do up my back hair I You can always manage 
it so nicely. Are you going to wear curls forever ? " 
Kathie' s curls were tied in a knot behind with 
 
a blue ribbon, and looked both cool and comforta- 
ble. 
"I don't know. Why are they not as good as 
' boughten ones, as Fred calls them ? " 
" But if you would braid part of it " 
" I will wait until I have to," Kathie returned, 
laughingly, taking up the comb. 
Kathie packed and padded after the requirements 
of fashion. She did not wonder that Ada's head often 
ached, with the cushion and the rolls and the great 
braid that was stuffed inside with just hair enough to 
cover the top. 
" It is a beautiful morning, isn't it ? Could 
not we go out driving, Kathie, before it gets so very 
warm ? >: 
" You may. I shall be busy. Uncle Eobert will 
take you with pleasure." 
" What are you going to do ? " 
" Jane has been sent for ; her mother is sick." 
" Something is always happening to servants, or to 
their fathers and mothers. However, I will excuse 
yon then " ; for she felt that she would full as lief go 
with Uncle Robert. 
Kathie washed her hands and ran down stairs, 
 
made a little toast and a cup of fresh coffee. Then 
she sat and chatted with Ada, who did seem in a 
very gracious mood. But as she heard Uncle Rob- 
ert's step, she ran out into the hall and preferred her 
request. 
" That just suits me," he said, good-humoredly. " I 
want to go over to the village." 
Ada put on her hat and stepped into the basket 
phaeton as if it was all her very own, and threw a 
rose-colored shawl over her light dress for effect, 
while she played with her inevitable sandal-wood 
fan, brought from Paris by mamma. 
Kathie carried the few dishes out to the kitchen, 
stood a great vase of flowers on the table, and dark- 
ened the blinds a trifle, to give the room a cool, 
shady look. Then she ran up stairs. Ada always 
did litter a room so. Here was her night-dress, there 
her sack, her slippers nearly in the middle of the 
floor, all her toilet articles about, and yesterday's 
dress thrown over a chair. She often laughed at 
Kathie for hei old-maidish ways, but the child could 
not help thinking how much time and trouble orderly 
habits saved. 
It was just nine when she went back to the kitchen. 
 
Hannah was washing dishes between, now, to fill up 
the vacancy. 
" I will have time to make your biscuit," she said. 
" Hannah, if you would only make some of your 
delightful macaroons instead ! ' 
" Would you like them, really ? Yes, I will do 
that and anything I can. And we will have the 
cream all right this afternoon. Children always do 
have such a good time when they come to this house." 
Kathie thought so too as she went at the biscuits. 
Two large pans full, looking absolutely flaky in the 
dough. Hannah held her hand in the oven a minute. 
" I guess it won't be too hot. They are beauties, 
Miss Kathie." 
Then she went to beating eggs. Hannah declared 
that it was too hard, and took the bowl and the beater 
herself. 
" You ought to be a little careful, Miss Kathie, and 
not spread your hands now while you are growing. 
Little girls' hands are tender." 
Kathie laughed. " Mamma's hands are pretty, and 
she has done a great deal of work." 
" It was after she had her growth. People's bones 
settle then, and are not so easily strained." 
 
 
Kathie did not take exception in physical or logi- 
cal view of the case, for beating eggs on a warm day 
was hard work. 
Mrs. Alston came in with her bonnet on and para- 
sol in hand. " I am going down to Mrs. Maybin's," 
she said. " I think, by the appearance of things, you 
can get along without me. Don't hurry yourself to 
death, as you will want to be fresh for this afternoon." 
" Mamma, shall we not ask Ethel too ? Annie and 
Lucy like her so much." 
" I will stop on my way." 
Hannah was quite delighted to have Kathie in the 
kitchen, and made her tell over the visit to Washing- 
ton. Then she made some crisp, golden jumbles, set 
in Kathie's cake, and the work was iiearlv done. She 
wanted to see the macaroons made, and was quite 
sure she could do it herself another time. 
She had her face washed and a fresh white dress 
on when Ada returned. They had a very pleasant 
drive, of course, but she was almost tired to death. 
Mr. Langdon crossed the wide porch at that mo- 
ment, so she did not go up stairs. 
" How cool and delightful you look ! " he said. I 
suppose, like Solomon's lilies, you eschew toiling and 
 
spinning, this warm weather ! I was lazy and lone- 
some, and have come over to be amused." 
" What shall we do, play croquet ? " and a roguish 
light gleamed in Kathie's eyes. 
" It is cruel in you even to hint at a mallet. You 
had better stay me with music, and comfort me with 
singing instead." 
" As if that was not exertion ! ' 
He laughed. 
" I believe you and your friend sing very beauti- 
fully together. Suppose you try." 
Ada was all out of voice and out of practice, then 
her health had been so delicate for the last six months 
that she was sure she had no strength. But after a 
while she did sing, and that very prettily. Kathie 
watched her returning animation with pleasure. 
" Miss Katliie," he said, as he was going away, 
" won't you and your friend walk over to Miss Lau- 
riston's this afternoon when it begins to grow shady ? 
I promised to take some books to her brother, and I
have exhumed an old art review that I think will 
interest her." 
" I am to have some company to-day. Mr. 
Langdon," with a happy after-thought, - - " they 
 
want a sail. I wish you would take out your boat, 
there will be so many of us. And to-morrow I shall 
be glad to go to Emma's." 
" With pleasure. Who are they ? " 
" Some of my old schoolmates." 
" Consider me invited. I like little girls' parties.' 
" We shall be glad to see you." 
" Who is coming ? ' asked Ada, as she watched 
Mr. Langdon cross the lawn. 
" Four or five of the girls sent me word this morn- 
ing." 
Rather a short notice, I should say. Any one I 
have ever seen ? " 
" The Gardiner girls and Mary Cox r 
" O, I don't wonder Mr. Langdon said little girls. 
And country girls are such romps and hoydens." 
Kathie colored a trifle. Ada always managed to 
make her feel uncomfortable. 
The bell rang for lunch, and Mrs. Alston returned 
just in time. So the party dropped for a moment. 
" How is Mrs. Maybin, mamma ? ' 
" Very ill indeed. She was taken worse last night. 
Jane will not be able to come home, so we shall have 
to do the best we can without her." 
 
" It is a pity that people have not sense enough to 
wait until they are invited," Ada said, when the two 
girls were alone. "How are you going to manage 
with only one servant ? ' 
" O, everything is done but the cream. I helped 
Hannah bake this morning. And Uncle Eobert is 
always so kind. Besides, it seems to me that there 
is a great deal of true enjoyment in these little in- 
formal parties." 
" But you have to work so hard." 
" If you make others happy you feel amply repaid." 
" I should not," in a rather dry, hard tone. " I 
should be too tired even to think." 
" But if everybody in the world felt the same way ! 
If no one was willing to do anything because it was 
a trouble, or " 
Kathie was a little astonished at her sudden burst 
of frankness, and was afraid for the moment that she 
had vexed Ada by reflection. 
But there was no reply made. Ada looked a shade 
more thoughtful, not displeased. 
She put on a wrapper and went to bed, for she was 
really tired, and after fanning herself awhile she fell 
asleep. 
 
Kathie went to look after Uncle Eobert and the 
cream, and they had quite a merry time. 
" I am going to set the table now," said Hannah, 
" so there won't be everything to do in a hurry, for I 
can't get along as spry as Jane. And she won't be 
quite so frisky when she begins to go down the other 
side." 
The girls came early, of course. They wanted a 
good time and oceans of fun. There were Mary and 
her cousin Tilly Waite, the Gardiners and their 
cousin, a tall, good-looking fellow, who was actu- 
ally a banking-clerk, and Carry Jelliffe. Harry Cox 
had hunted up Charlie Darrell. 
The glad and rather boisterous voices roused Ada. 
" As if any one cared to be among those snips ! ' 
she said disdainfully to herself, and shut up her 
eyes again, never so much as winking when Kathie 
came in to look at her. 
"It is good to see you once more," began Mary. 
" But, Kathie, we had no idea that Miss Meredith 
was here ! Why, I had half a mind to turn back 
with my lords of Spain when I heard it. Must we 
all be proper and formal, and put on our Sunday 
manners ? " 
 
" Let me catch you at it ! ' exclaimed Mr. Lang- 
don, bringing up the rear with Dick Grayson. " Here 
we are, two jolly boatmen, at your service, and the 
first one who doesn't laugh as often as once in five 
minutes will be fined. Proceeds to go towards cakes 
and cream." 
They all looked desperately sober, half frightened 
in fact, and then began to smile until it almost set- 
tled into a giggle. 
" Will you have the sail first ? There is a nice 
shady side to the lake." 
" Mr. Langdon, we did not expect so much 
attention," exclaimed Mary. "How good you are, 
Kathie ! " 
" Don't give her the credit. I invited myself." 
" As we all did. Doesn't your mother think us 
ridiculous, Kathie ? We only meant to come over 
and take a sail and have a game of croquet ' 
Mrs. Alston came out on the porch and welcomed 
them cordially, and Dick made a neat little speech in 
return. 
" Where is Ada ? >: asked Uncle Eobert, joining 
them. 
" She was tired and went to lie down," Kathie said, 
 
softly. " Mamma, will you please look after her a 
little when she wakes ? ' 
" Come, rank and file, fall into line. Mv bark 
V 
rocks in the tide. Isn't that poetical, girls ? Miss 
Kathie, are you the admiral ? if so, lead the party." 
The girls laughed a little and paired off. Uncle 
Eobert took shy Ethel under his wing. There seemed 
no likelihood of any one being fined just yet, for each 
one added a sentence that kept the ball rolling. 
Down the wide walk they went gayly enough. 
Ada rose and glanced out of the window after them. 
Why, she never supposed there would be gentlemen 
enough to go round. Uncle Eobert, Mr. Langdon, 
Dick, and another tall youth, beside Charlie and 
Harry. Why hadn't she opened her eyes when 
Kathie came in, and been coaxed to accompany 
them I It showed plainly enough that Kathie did 
not care anything special for her. And she had 
promised to stay a month; perhaps Kathie would 
go on neglecting her in this fashion, and she would 
be miserable and homesick. dear, she might as 
well die ! No one cared for her, no one took any 
trouble to please her, and, burying her face on the 
pillow, she sobbed as if her heart was breaking. 
 
Out on the lake they had the gayest madcap time, 
singing, shouting, and laughing. It takes so little to 
amuse healthy, happy young people, who have not 
yet grown worldly-wise. And somehow, Mr. Lang- 
don seemed to be in a great glee, as if he had come 
back to boyish moods and days. 
" We ought to return now," said Kathie, at length, 
thinking of Ada. She did not want any one to feel 
neglected. 
 
CHAPTEK VIII. 
THE ONE TALENT. 
" ARE you awake ? " said a clear, sweet voice. " I
came in just before we started, and you were sleeping 
beautifully. We have had such a lovely sail, and I 
am so sorry you did not go. Are you rested, and 
shall I help you dress ? ' 
Ada knew it had been her own fault. With Ka- 
thie's brave, honest eyes upon her, she could not evade 
the truth, and she had a misgiving that it would be 
rather foolish to stay alone the remainder of the 
