circumstances," suggested Maverick. 
No ; Perley shook her head again ; the house 
was not cold ; never mind. Was his cup out ? 
The milk was cold, at any rate ; he must wait 
a minute ; and so sat thoughtfully silent while 
she touched the bell, with the little silver service
shining against her shoulder and the curve 
of her arm. 
" What did you come down here for .' " asked 
Maverick, over his second cup. 
Perley didn't know. 
" When shall you go back ? " 
Perley didn't know that. 
" What are you going to do ? " 
Perley didn't know that, either. " Perhaps I 
shall not go back. I am tired of town. Per- 
haps I shall stay here and look after — things." 
" Things .'' For instance .' " 
" The mills, for instance. My property, for 
instance." 
Maverick lazily laughed ; pushing back his 
chair, and raising the connoisseur's eyebrow 
again at the liLcle shining service, and the black 
curve of the womanly, warm arm. 
Perhaps she would take his place this morn- 
ing ; he was late, now ; she could rake over a 
shoddy-heap, he was sure, or scold an overseer. 
He would agree to sit by the fire and order dinner, 
if she would just run over to father's for him 
and bring him his slippers. 
" I 'll run over to the counting-room with you, 
and bring you to repentance," said Perley ; " the 
air must be like wine this morning, and the sun 
like heaven." 
The air was so much like wine and the sun like 
heaven, that Perley, upon leaving the junior 
partner at the mill-gates, strolled on by a path on the 
river's brink through and beyond the town, find- 
ing herself loath to go back and sit by the fire 
and order dinner ; the more so, possibly, because 
she was a bit annoyed that Maverick should have 
hit with such exactness her typical morning ; it 
had, somehow, a useless, silly sound. 
A useless, silly sound in this town of Five 
Falls was artistically out of place. She almost 
felt herself to be a superfluity in the cold, crisp 
air filled to the full with business noises ; and 
took a pleasure in following the river almost out 
of hearing of the mill machinery, and quite into 
the frozen silence of the upper streaih. 
Though the stream was large, the town was 
not ; neither had the mills, from that distance, an 
imposing air. Perley, with a sudden remem- 
brance of the size of her income, wondered at 
this for the first time. " The business " had been 
a standing mystery in the young lady's careless 
fancy, the existence of which she had dimly understood
from her father, as she had dimly under- 
stood the existence of " The Blue Plum " ; perhaps
both had been about equally withheld from 
her comprehension. That there was some cotton 
in it she felt sure ; that it was a responsible 
business and a profitable business she understood ; 
that there were girls in little shawls, ragged men, 
and bad tobacco, an occasional strike, and a mission 
Sunday school connected with it, she remem- 
bered. 
Upon the cool of her summer rest the hot 
whir of the thing had never breathed. Factory 
feet had trodden as lightly as dewdrops upon her 
early dreams. 
She put on Five Falls for a few months every 
year as she put on a white dress, — a cool thing, 
which kept wash-people busy. 
Five Falls in July agreed with her, and she 
fancied it. Five Falls in February entertained 
her, and she found it suggestive ; and indeed 
Five Falls in February was not a barren sight. 
She had wandered, it might be, half a mile up 
stream, and had turned to look behind her, just 
at the spot from which the five cascades, which 
named the town, broke into view ; more accurately, 
there were four cascades — pretty, swift, 
slender things — and the dam. The stream was 
a deep one, with a powerful current, and Perley 
noticed the unusual strength of the bridge below 
the dam. It was a county bridge and well built ; 
its stone piers, freckled and fringed with heavy 
frost, had the sombre, opulent air of time-worn 
frescos, behind which arches of light and sky 
drew breath like living things, and palpitated in 
time to the irregular pulse of the water. 
The pulse of the water was sluggish, half 
choked by swathings of beautiful ice ; the falls, 
caught in their tiny leap, hung, frozen to the heart, 
in mid-air; the open dam, swift, relentless, and 
free, mocked at them with peals of hollow laughter ; 
and great puffs and palls of smoke, which 
overhung the distant hum of the little town, made 
mouths, one fancied, at the shining whiteness of 
the fields and river bank. 
Miss Kelso, turning to retrace her steps with 
her face set thoughtfully towards this sight, was 
disturbed by a quick, loud tread behind her ; it 
came abreast of her and passed her, and, in so 
doing, thrust the flutter of a dingy plaid dress 
against her in the narrow path. 
Either some faded association with the faded 
dress or with the energetic tread, or both, puzzled
Miss Kelso, and she stopped to consider it. 
Apparently the girl stopped to consider something,
but without turning her head. Miss Kelso, 
after a moment's hesitation, stepped up and 
touched her on the shoulder. 
" I knew you," said the girl abruptly, still without
turning her head. " I didn't suppose you 'd 
know me. You needn't unless you want to." 
" I had forgotten you," said Perley, frankly. 
" But I remember now. I remember very well. 
I am surprised to see you in Five Falls." 
' " You needn't never be surprised to see factory 
folks anywhere," said Sip Garth. " We 're a 
restless set. Wanderers on the face of the earth." 
" Are you in my father's — in the mills ." 
" Yes," more gently, and with a glance at Perley's 
mourning, " in your mills, I suppose ; the 
brick ones, — yes. I supposed they were yours 
when I heard the names. But folks told me you 
only come down here in summer-time. I didn't 
expect to see you. I 've been here three 
weeks." 
" You like it here ? " asked Miss Kelso, somewhat 
at a loss how to pursue the art of conversation 
under what she found to be such original 
circumstances, — she and Sip were walking towards 
the town now, in the widening path, side by- 
side. 
" I hope you like it here ? " she repeated. 
" Catty likes. It doesn't make much odds to 
me.'' 
" Who is Catty ? " 
" That 's my sister ; we 're the last of us, she 
and I. Father got smashed up three weeks ago 
last Friday ; caught in the gearing by the arm. 
They wouldn't let Catty and me look at him, he 
was smashed so. But I looked when there 
wasn't anybody round. I wanted to see the last 
of him. I never thought much of father, but I 
wanted to see-the last of him." 
In her controlled, well-bred way, Perley sick- 
ened and shrunk again, as she had sickened and 
shrunk from this girl before, but said quickly, " O, 
I am sorry ! " 
" You needn't be," said Sip Garth. " Haven't 
I told you that I didn't think much of father .' I 
never did neither." 
" But that is dreadful ! " exclaimed Miss 
Kelso. " Your own father ! and now he is 
dead ! " 
Something in their kindred deprivation moved 
Perley ; an emotion more like sympathy than 
recoil, and more like attraction than disgust, 
took possession of her as they walked slowly 
and more slowly, in the ever-widening path, side 
by side into the town. 
" He beat Catty," said Sip, after a pause, in a 
low voice. " He beat me, but I didn't make so 
much of that. He used to take my wages. I 
had to hide 'em, but he used to find 'em. He 
spent it on drink. You never saw a man get 
drunker than my father could. Miss Kelso." 
Miss Kelso presumed that she never had ; 
thinking swiftly how amused Maverick would 
be at that, but said nothing. 
" Drunk as a beast," continued Sip, in an 
interested tone, as if she were explaining a 
problem in science, — " drunk as a fool. Why, so 
drunk, he 'd lie on a rummy's floor for twenty- 
four hours, dead as a door-nail. I 've seen them 
kick him out, down the steps, into the ditch, you 
know, when they couldn't get rid of him no 
other way. Then " — lowering her voice again 
— " then he came home and beat Catty." 
" You seem to be fond of your sister," ob- 
served Miss Kelso. 
"Yes," said Sip, after some silence, — "yes, 
I love Catty." 
" You have not been to work this morning ? " 
asked Pejley, for want of something better to 
say. 
" No, I asked out to-day. Catty 's sick. I 've 
just been up river to Bijah's after some dock- 
weed for her ; he had some dock-weed, and he 
told me to come ; he 's a well-meaning old chap, 
Bijah Mudge." 
Not having the pleasure of the acquaintance 
of Mr. Mudge, Parley was perplexed how to 
follow the topic, and did not try. 
" I suppose you think I was saucy to you,'' 
said Sip, suddenly, " in the Opera House, I mean. 
I didn't expect you 'd ever notice me again." 
" You ' put it to me honest,' certainly," said 
Miss Kelso, smiling. " But though, of course, you 
were quite mistaken, I did not think, as far as 
I thought at all about it, that you meant to be 
impertinent. The Opera question. Sip, is one 
which it takes a cultivated lover of music to 
understand." 
" Oh ! " said Sip with a puzzled face. 
" Poetry, fiction, art, all are open to the same 
objections which you found to Giovanni. People 
are affected by these things very differently. 
Superior music is purity itself ; it clears the air ; 
and only — " 
Miss Kelso remembered suddenly that she was 
talking to an ignorant factory-girl ; a girl who 
went to the Blue Plum, and had never heard of 
Mozart ; wondered how she could have made 
such a blunder ; collected her scattered pearls 
into a hasty change of subject, — something about 
the cold weather and mill-hours and Catty. 
" Catty 's deaf," said Sip again in her sudden 
way, after they had walked in silence for a few 
moments down the shining, slippery, broadening 
way. She lifted her little brown face sidewise to 
Perley's abstracted one, to watch the effect of 
this ; hesitating, it seemed, whether it were worth 
while to bestow some lingering confidence upon 
her. 
"Ah!" said Perley ; "poor thing!" 
The little brown face fell, and with it fell 
another pause. It had been a thoughtful pause for 
Miss Kelso, and she broke it in a thoughtful voice. 
"Can you stop with your dock-weed long 
enough to sit down here a minute? It is 
warm in the sun just here on these rocks, and 
we are so close to town ; and I want you to talk 
to me." 
" I haven't got anything to say to you," said 
Sip a little sullenly, sitting down, however, upon 
a broad, dry rock, and spreading her hands, 
which were bare and purple, out upon her lap 
in the sun. 
" Don't you earn enough to buy you gloves ? " 
asked Miss Kelso. 
"Catty had my gloves," said Sip, evasively. 
" What do you want of me ? I can't stay long." 
" Why, I hardly know," said Parley, slowly. 
"I want you to talk without being questioned. 
I don't like to question you all the time. But I 
want to hear more about you, and — you didn't 
speak of your mother ; and where you live, and 
how ; and many other things. I am not used to 
people who live as you do. I presume I do not 
understand how to treat you. I do not think it 
is curiosity. I think it is — I do not know 
what it is. I suppose I am sorry." 
" You needn't trouble yourself to be sorry, as 
I 've said before," replied Sip, chafing her purple 
fingers. " Besides, I haven't much to tell. 
There 's folks in your mills has enough to tell, 
that would make stories in newspapers, I bet 
you ! Foreigners mostly. If you want stories 
to amuse you, you 've come to the wrong place. 
I 'm a Yankee, and my mother was a Yankee. 
Father wasn't ; but I don't know what he was, 
and I don't believe he knew himself There 's 
been six of us, put together ; the rest died, 
babies mostly, of drink and abuse. I wish 
Catty and me 'd been two of 'em ! Well, mother 
she died with one of 'em four years ago (it was 
born of a Tuesday, and Thursday morning she 
was to work, and Saturday noon she was dead), 
and father he died of the gearing, and Catty and 
me moved here where there was easy work for 
Catty. We was in a hoop-skirt factory before, at 
Waltham ; I used to come in nights to the Blue 
Plum, as you see me in your carriage. I guess 
that 's all. I 've worked to cotton-mills before 
' the hoops ; so they put me right to weaving. I 
told you we 're a restless lot. But we 're always 
at factory jobs someways, from father to son and 
mother to daughter. It's in the blood. But I 
guess that 's all. 
" You have good prompt pay,'' said Miss Kelso, 
properly. " I suppose that you could not have 
a better or healthier occupation. You get so 
much exercise and air." 
She had heard her father say this, in times 
long past. 
Sip shrugged her shoulders with a suppressed 
laugh ; the unmistakable, incorrigible, suppressed 
laugh of " discontented labor," but said nothing. 
" I should like to see your sister Catty," said 
Perley, obliged to reintroduce conversation. 
" We 're on the Company board. You can 
come when she gets well." 
"How long has she been deaf.'" 
" It may not please you to hear," said Sip, 
reluctantly. 
Miss Kelso was sure that it would not displease 
her to hear. 
" Well, they were running extra time," said 
Sip, " in the town where we was at work before 
Catty was born. They were running 
fourteen hours a day. Mother she was at work, 
you know. There was no two ways to that. 
Father was on a spree, and we children were 
-little shavers, earning next to nothing. She 
begged off from the extra ; but it was all, or 
quit ; it 's always all or quit. Quit she couldn't. 
I 'II say this for Jack Bench, — he was our boss, 
— Jack, he hadn't got it through his head what 
condition she was in. But she worked till a 
Saturday night, and Catty was born on a Monday
morning. Father came off his drunk Sun- 
day, and Jack Bench he . always laid it on to 
that ; but Catty was born deaf. Father did 
fly round pretty well that Sunday night, and 
maybe it helped. But he didn't strike mother. 
I was round all day to see to it that he should 
n't strike. But Catty was born deaf — and," 
half under her breath, " and — queer, and dumb, 
you know ; but I 've taught her a little talk. 
She talks on her fingers. Sometimes she makes 
sounds in her throat. But I can always understand 
Catty. Poor Catty ! It 's never her fault, 
but she 's a world of care and wear." 
" But such things," said Miss Kelso, rising 
with a shocked face from the sunny stone, " do 
not often happen in our New England fac- 
tories ! " 
" I only know what I know," said Sip, shortly ; 
" I didn't blame anybody. I never knew any. 
other woman as it turned out so bad to. They 
're mostly particular about women in that state ; 
fact is, they 're mostly more particular than the 
women themselves. I 've seen a boss threaten 
a woman with her notice to get her home, and 
she wouldn't stir. But it 's all or quit, in 
general." 
" But these people cannot be in such need of 
money as that!" said Perley. 
" Folks don't do such things for fun," said 
Sip, shortly. 
" But in our mills — " 
" Your own mills are your own affairs," interrupted
Sip. " You 'd better find out for yourself. 
It ain't to complain to you that I talk to you." 
They had come now quite into the town, and 
stopped, at the parting of their several ways. 
Miss Kelso held out her hand to the girl, with 
a troubled face. The mills were making a 
great noise and confused her, and she felt that 
it was of little use to say anything further than 
that she should try to come and see Catty, and 
that she thanked her for — but she was sure that 
she did not know for what, and so left the
sentence unfinished, and bade her good morning 
instead. 
Sip Garth stood still in a snow-drift, and 
rubbed her hands, which had grown pink and 
warm. Her brown little face was puzzled. 
" It wasn't all the sun, nor yet the touch. 
It was the newness, I think," she said. 
She said it again to Catty, when she got home 
with the dock-weed. 
" Eh ! " said Catty. She made a little harsh 
sound like a croak. 
" O, no matter," said Sip, talking upon her 
fingers, " you couldn't understand ! But I think 
it must have been the newness." 
CHAPTER III. 
A GAME OF CHESS. 
" I BEG your pardon ? " said Maverick Hayle. 
 He said it in simple bewilderment. 
Perley repeated her remark. 
" You wish — excuse me — do I understand 
you to wish — " 
" ' Partner ' was undoubtedly the word that she 
used, Maverick," said Mr. Hayle the senior, with 
an amused smile. 
" I want to be a partner in the firm," reiterated 
Perley, with great distinctness ; " you 're very 
stupid this morning, Maverick, if you 'll excuse me. 
I thought I had expressed myself clearly. I want 
to be a partner in Hayle and Kelso.'' 
They were sitting — the two gentlemen and the 
young lady — around a table in Miss Kelso's 
parlor : a little table which Perley had cleared to 
its pretty inlaid surface, with some indefinite idea, 
which vastly entertained Maverick, of having 
room in which to "conduct business.'' Some 
loose papers, a new glazed blank-book, and a little 
gold pencil lay upon the table. The pattern of 
the table was a chess-board of unusual beauty : 
Miss Kelso's hand, slightly restless, traced the 
little marble squares, sometimes with the pencil, 
sometimes without, while she talked. The squares 
were of veined gray and green. 
" I sent for you this morning," said Perley, 
turning to the elder gentleman, " because it 
seemed to me quite time that I should understand 
the state of my affairs as my father's death has 
left them. I am very ignorant, of course. He 
never talked to me about the business ; but I 
suppose that I could learn. I should prefer to 
learn to understand my own affairs. This is not 
inconsistent, I am sure you will appreciate, with 
that confidence which it is my delight to feel in 
you and Maverick." 
Maverick, at the sound of his own name, looked 
up with a faint effort to recall what had preceded 
it, having plunged suddenly and irretrievably into 
the depths of a decision that Story, the next time 
he was in the country, should make a study of a 
hand upon squares of gray and green. In self- 
defence he said so. 
" Whatever responsibilities," said Perley, with 
a slight twitch of annoyance between her eyes, 
and speaking still to the elder gentleman, — 
"whatever responsibilities rest upon me, as sole heir to 
my father's property, I am anxious to fulfil in 
person. Whatever connection I have with the 
Hayle and Kelso Mills, I am anxious, I am exceed- 
ingly anxious, to meet in person. And I thought," 
added the young lady;-, innocently, " that the
simplest way would be for me to become a part- 
ner." 
" Now I don't know another woman," said 
Maverick, rousing, with an indulgent smile, " who 
could have originated that, father, if she had tried. 
Let us take her in. By all means take her in. 
As she says, what could be simpler.' " 
" Miss Perley will of course understand what 
would be in due time legally and suitably
explained to her," observed Mr. Hayle, " that she 
has, and need have, no responsibilities as heir to 
her father's property ; that she has, and can have, 
no such connection with the Hayle and Kelso 
Mills as requires the least exertion or anxiety 
upon her part." 
" But I don't understand at all," said Perley. 
" I thought I fell heir to all that, with the money. 
At least I thought I could if I wished to." 
" But we 're private, not corporate, don't you 
see ." explained Maverick, carelessly. " You 
don't fall heir to a partnership in a company as 
you would to stock in a corporation, Perley. 
You must see that." 
Probably Perley did not see that in the least. 
The little gold pencil traced a row of greens and 
skipped a row of grays in a sadly puzzled,
unbusiness-like way. 
" You could not fall heir to the partnership 
even if you were a man," continued Maverick, in 
his patronizing fashion. " The choice of a new 
partner, or whether, indeed, there shall be a new 
partner, is a matter resting wholly with the Senior 
and myself to settle. Do I make it clear .? " 
" Quite clear," said Perley, brightening ; " so 
clear, that I do not see anything in the world to 
prevent your choosing me." 
Both gentlemen laughed ; about as much as 
they seemed to think was expected of them. 
Maverick took up the pencil which Perley had 
laid down, and jotted green squares at his end of 
the table. Perley, at hers, slipped her empty 
fingers musingly along a soft gray vein. She 
was half vexed, and a little mortified. For the 
first time in her life, she was inclined to feel 
ashamed of being a woman. She was seriously 
interested, — perhaps, again, for the first time in 
her life, seriously interested — in this matter. A 
faint sense of degradation at being so ignorant 
that she could not command the respect of two 
men sufficiently to the bare discussion of it 
possessed her. 
" One need not be a child because one is a 
woman ! " she said, hotly. 
" The case is just this, my dear," said the 
Senior, kindly observant of her face and tone. 
"Your father dies" — this with a slight, decorous 
sadness in his voice, but mathematically withal, as 
he would propound a sum for Perley's solution : 
A man buys a bushel ; or, A boy sold a yard — 
"your father dies. Maverick and I reorganize 
the firm in our own way : that is our affair. You 
fall heir to a certain share of interest in the 
business : that is your affair. It is for you to say 
what shall be done with your own property. You 
are even quite at liberty to withdraw it entire 
from the concern, or you can leave it in our 
hands, which, I am free to say, we should, in the 
existing state of affairs, prefer — " 
" And expect," interrupted Maverick, pleas- 
antly, making little faces on Perley's pink, shell- 
like nails with the pencil. 
" Which we prefer, and very naturally, under 
the circumstances, expect," continued the Senior. 
" You then receive certain dividends, which will 
be duly agreed upon, and have thus the advan- 
tage of at once investing your property in a safe, 
profitable, and familiar quarter, and of feeling no 
possible obligation or responsibility — business 
obligation and responsibility are always so trying 
to a lady — about it. You thus become, in fact 
and in form, if you prefer, a silent partner. 
Indeed, my dear," finished the Senior, cheerfully, 
" I do not see but this would meet your fancy 
perfectly." 
" Especially as you are going to marry into 
the firm," observed Maverick. 
" Has a silent partner a voice and vote in — 
questions that come up .? " asked Perley, 
hesitating, and rubbing off the little faces from her nails 
with a corner of her soft handkerchief 
" No," said Maverick ; '• none at all. An ordi- 
nary, unprivileged dummy, I mean. If you have 
your .husband's, that 's another matter. A 
woman's influence, you know ; you 've heard of it. 
What could be more suitable .' " 
" Then, if I understand," said Perley, " I invest 
my property in your mills. You call me a silent 
partner, to please me and to stop my asking 
questions. I have nothing to do with the mills 
or the people. I have nothing to do but to spend 
the money and let you manage it. That 's all it 
amounts to." 
" That 's all," said Maverick. 
Perley's light finger and the Junior's pencil 
skirmished across the chess-table for a few 
moments in silence ; the finger from gray to gray ; 
the pencil on green and green ; the finger, by 
chance, it seemed, pursuing; the pencil,
unconsciously, it seemed, retreating, as if pencil-mark 
and finger-touch had been in the first idle stages 
of a long game. 
" Who will go into the firm if I can't t " asked 
Perley, suddenly. 
" Father talks of our confidential clerk," said 
Maverick, languidly, " a fellow we 've promoted 
from East Street, but smart. Smart as a trap. 
Garrick by name. You 've seen him, perhaps, — 
Stephen Garrick. But nothing is settled ; and 
this is submitted," bowing, "to the close
confidence of our silent partner." 
Perley did not seem to be in a mood for gallan- 
try ; did not smile, but only knitted her soft brows. 
" Still, I do not see that there is anything to 
prevent my becoming an active partner. There 
is nothing the matter with the law, I suppose, 
which forbids a woman becoming an active 
partner in anything ? " 
Maverick assured her that there was nothing 
the matter with the law ; that the matter was 
entirely with the existing firm. Excepting,
indeed, some technicality, about which he could 
not, at the moment, be precise, which, he 
believed, would make formal partnerships 
impossible in the case of husband and wife. 
" But that case we are not considering," said 
Perley, quickly. " That case it will be time 
enough to consider when it occurs. As long as 
I am unmarried and independent, Maverick, I 
am very much in earnest in my wish to manage 
my mills myself. I do not like to think that a 
; I great many people may be affected by the use 
of my property in ways over which I can have no 
possible control. Of course, I don't know what 
else to do with my money, and if it must be, it 
must be," — Perley noticed with some wonder 
here an amused glance between father and son. 
" But I shall be very much disappointed ; and 
I am much, I am very much, in earnest." 
" I verily believe she is," said Maverick, with 
sudden conviction. " Now, I admire that ! It 
is ingenuous and refreshing." 
" Then why don't you take my part, Maverick, 
instead of laughing at me !" asked Perley, and 
was vexed at herself for asking immediately. 
" O, that," said Maverick, " is another matter. 
I may find myself entertained to the last degree 
by the piquancy, originality, esprit, of a lady, 
when I may be the last man upon earth to 
consent to going into business with my wife. 
Seriously, Perley," for Perley did not bear this well, 
" I don't see what has given you this kink, nor 
why you have become so suddenly reluctant to 
intrust the management of your property to me." 
" It is not my property," said Perley, in a low 
voice, " which I am reluctant to intrust to you." 
" What, then, may it be .? " 
" My people, — the people. Perhaps I have 
thought of them suddenly. But it may be better 
to remember a thing suddenly than never to 
remember it at all." 
" People ! O, the hands, the mill-people. 
A little Quixotic fancy there. Yes, I 
understand now ; and very pretty and feminine it is 
too. My dear Perley, you may set your kind 
heart at rest about the mill-people, — a well- 
paid, well-cared-for, happy set of laboring people 
as you could ask to see. You can go down into 
our mission school and take a class, if that is 
what you are troubled about." 
" Suppose I were to withdraw my share of the 
business," suggested Perley, abruptly. " Suppose, 
upon being refused this partnership for which I 
have asked this morning, I should prefer to
withdraw my interest in the mills ." " 
"We should regret it," said Mr. Hayle, 
courteously ; " but we should have nothing to do but 
to make the best of circumstances." 
" I see, I see now ! " Perley flushed as the eyes 
of the two gentlemen met again and again with 
suppressed amusement in them. " I ought to have 
said that before I told you that I didn't know 
what else to do with the money. Of course ! 
I see, I 've made a bad business blunder. I see 
that you think I should always make bad 
business blunders. Now, Maverick Hayle, I don't 
believe I should ! " 
"My dear Perley," said Maverick, wearily, 
"just listen to reason for reason's sake. A 
lady's patience and a gentleman's time are too 
valuable to throw away at this rate. Even if 
you possessed any other qualification, which you 
do not, or all other qualifications, which you 
cannot, for this ridiculous partnership, you lack an 
absolutely essential one, — the acquaintance of 
years with the business. Just reflect upon your 
acquaintance with the business ! " 
" I will acquire an acquaintance of years with 
the business," said Perley, firmly. 
" Begin at the spools, for example ? " 
" I will begin at the spools." 
" Or inspect the cotton .' " 
" Or inspect the cotton." 
" Wear a calico dress, and keep the books 
in a dingy office ? " 
" Wear a dozen calico dresses, and keep books 
in the dingiest office you have. I repeat, I am in 
earnest. I ask for the vacant partnership, or 
a chance to fit myself for a partnership, in Hayle 
and Kelso. Whatever my disqualifications, I am 
ready to remove them, any and all. If you refuse 
it to me, while I suppose we shall all go on and 
be very good-natured about it, I shall feel that 
you refuse it to me because I am a young lady, 
not because I do not stand ready to remove a 
young lady's disqualifications." 
" Really, Perley, this is becoming absurd, and 
the morning is half gone. If you won't take a 
gallant dismissal of a foolish subject, then I do 
refuse it to you because you are a young lady.'' 
" We must refuse it to you certainly, on whatever 
grounds," remarked the Senior, with politeness,
" however unpleasant it may be to refuse 
you even the gratification of an eccentric fancy." 
Perley's pursuing finger on the little gray 
squares thoughtfully traced the course of 
Maverick's retreating pencil on the green. Pencil- 
mark and finger-touch played faster now, as if in 
the nervous stages of a shortening game. 
" What do you do," asked the young lady,
irrelevantly, and still with her light fingers 
thoughtfully tracking the chess-board, and still watching 
the little gold pencil, which still retreated before 
it, " in your mills, when you have occasion to run 
extra time ? " 
" Run it," said Maverick, laconically. 
" But what do you do with the people, — the 
operatives, I mean ? " 
" Pay them extra." 
 " But they are not obliged, unless they desire, 
I to work more than eleven hours a day ? " 
" No," said the Junior, nonchalantly ; " they 
can leave if they prefer." 
Perley's face, bent over the squares of gray and 
green, changed color slightly. She would have 
spoken, it seemed, but thought better of it, and 
only played with her thoughtful finger silently 
along the board. 
" Your remark will leave an unfortunate 
impression upon the young lady, my son," observed 
the elder Mr. Hayle, " unless you explain to her 
that in times of pressure it would be no more 
possible for a mill to thin out its hands in extra 
hours than it would be for her to dismiss her 
cook when she has a houseful of company. The 
state of the market is an inexorable fact, an 
inex-orable fact. Miss Parley, before which employer 
and employee, whose interests, of course, 
are one, have little liberty of choice. The 
wants of the market must be met. In fast times, 
we are all compelled to work pretty hard. In 
dull times, we rest and make up for it. I can 
assure you that we have almost universally found 
our hands willing and anxious to run an extra 
hour or so for the sake of extra pay." 
" How long a day's work has the state of the 
market ever required of your mills ? " asked 
Perley, still with her head bent and her finger 
moving. 
" Perhaps thirteen hours and a half We ran 
thirteen hours and a half for a week last July, 
wasn't it, Maverick .' " 
" What is the use of talking business to a 
woman .' " said Maverick, with such unusual 
animation that he said it almost impatiently. 
" I understand then," said Perley, with the same 
abruptness which had characterized her words so 
often that morning, " that my application to look 
after my mills in an official capacity is refused ? " 
" Is refused." 
" In any official capacity ? " 
" In any official capacity." 
" But that," with a faint smile, " of silent 
partner." 
" But that," with a bow, " of silent partner." 
"It is quite impossible to gratify me in this 
respect .'' " pursued Perley, with her bent head 
inclined a little to the Senior. 
" Quite impossible," replied the Junior. 
" So, out of the question." 
" And so, out of the question." 
The finger-touch brought the pencil-mark 
abruptly to a stop upon a helpless square of green. 
" Checkmate .' " asked the young man, smiling. 
'• Checkmate," said the young lady, smiling 
too. 
She closed the pencil-case with a snap, tossed 
the little glazed blank-book into the fire, and rang 
for luncheon, which the three ate upon the chess- 
table, — smiling. 
CHAPTER IV. 
THE STONE HOUSE. 
IF you are one of " the hands " in the Hayle and 
 Kelso Mills, you go to your work, as is well 
known, from the hour of half past six to seven, 
according to the turn of the season. Time has 
been when you went at half past four. The 
Senior forgot this the other day in a little talk 
which he had with his silent partner, — very 
naturally, the time having been so long past ; but the 
time has been, is now, indeed, yet in places. Mr. 
Hayle can tell you of mills he saw in New 
Hampshire last vacation, where they ring them 
up, if you 'll believe it, winter and summer, in 
and out, at half past four in the morning. O no, 
never let out before six, of course. Mr. Hayle 
disapproves of this. Mr. Hayle thinks it not 
humane. Mr. Hayle is confident that you would 
find no mission Sunday school connected with 
that concern. 
If you are one of " the hands " in the Hayle 
and Kelso Mills — and again, in Hayle and Kelso, 
— you are so dully used to this classification, " the 
hands," that you were never known to cultivate 
an objection to it, are scarcely found to notice its 
use or disuse. Being surely neither head nor 
heart, what else remains ? Conscious scarcely, 
from bell to bell, from sleep to sleep, from day to 
dark, of either head or heart, there seems even a 
singular appropriateness in the chance of the 
word with which you are dimly struck. Hayle 
and Kelso label you. There you are. The world 
thinks, aspires, creates, enjoys. There you are. 
You are the fingers of the world. You take your 
patient place. The world may have need of you, 
but only that it may think, aspire, create, enjoy. 
It needs your patience as well as your place. 
You take both, and you are used to both, and the 
world is used to both, and so, having put the label 
on for safety's sake, lest you be mistaken for a 
thinking, aspiring, creating, enjoying compound, 
and so some one be poisoned, shoves you into 
your place upon its shelf, and shuts its cupboard 
door upon you. 
If you are one of " the hands," then, in Hayle 
and Kelso, you have a breakfast of bread and 
molasses probably ; you are apt to eat it while 
you dress ; somebody is heating the kettle, but you 
cannot wait for it ; somebody tells you that you 
have forgotten your shawl, you throw it over one 
shoulder, and step out, before it is fastened, into 
the sudden raw air ; you left lamp-light in-doors ; 
you find moonlight without ; the night seems to 
have overslept itself ; you have a fancy for 
trying to wake it, would like to shout at it or cry 
through it, but feel very cold, and leaVe that for 
the bells to do by and by. You and the bells are 
the only waking things in life. The great brain 
of the world is in serene repose. The great heart 
of the world lies warm to the core with dreams. 
The great hands of the world, the patient, 
perplexed, one almost fancies at times, just for the 
fancy, seeing you here by the morning moon, the 
dangerous hands, alone are stirring in the dark. 
You hang up your shawl and your crinoline, 
and understand, as you go shivering by gaslight 
to your looms, that you are chilled to the heart, 
and that you were careless about your shawl, but 
do not consider carefulness worth your while by 
nature or by habit ; a little less shawl means a 
few less winters in which to require shawling. 
You are a godless little creature, but you cherish 
a stolid leaning, in these morning moons, towards 
making an experiment of death and a wadded 
coffin. 
By the time that gas is out, you cease, perhaps, 
though you cannot depend upon that, to shiver, 
and incline less and less to the wadded coffin, and 
more to a chat with your neighbor in the alley. 
Your neighbor is of either sex and any description,
as the case may be. In any event, warm- 
ing a little with the warming day, you incline 
more and more to chat. If you chance to be a 
cotton-weaver, you are presently warm enough. 
It is quite warm enough in the weaving-room. 
The engines respire into'the weaving-room ; with 
every throb of their huge lungs you swallow 
their breath. The weaving-room stifles with 
steam. - The window-sills of this room are 
guttered to prevent the condensed steam from 
running in streams along the floor ; sometimes they 
overflow, and water stands under the looms ; the 
walls perspire profusely ; on a damp day, drops 
will fall from the roof 
The windows of the weaving-room are closed ; 
the windows must be closed ; a stir in the air 
will break your threads. There is no air to stir. 
You inhale for a substitute motionless, hot 
moisture. If you chance to be a cotton-weaver, it is 
not in March that you think most about your 
coffin. 
Being " a hand " in Hayle and Kelso, you are 
used to eating cold luncheon in the cold at noon, 
or you walk, for the sake of a cup of soup or 
coffee, half a mile, three quarters, a mile and a 
half, and back. You are allowed three quarters 
of an hour in which to do this. You come and 
go upon the jog-trot. 
You grow moody, being " a hand " at Hayle 
and Kelso's, with the growing day ; are inclined 
to quarrel or to confidence with your neighbor in 
the alley ; find the overseer out of temper, and 
the cotton full of flaws ; find pains in your feet, 
your back, your eyes, your arms ; feel damp and 
sticky lint in your hair, your • neck, your ears, 
your throat, your lungs ; discover a monotony 
in the process of breathing hot moisture, lower 
your window at your risk ; are bidden by 
somebody whose threads you have broken at the other 
end of the room to put it up, and put it up ; 
are conscious that your head swims, your eye- 
balls burn, your breath quickens ; yield your 
preference for a wadded coffin, and consider 
whether the 'river would not be the comfortable 
thing ; cough a little, cough a great deal, lose 
your balance in a coughing fit, snap a thread, 
and take to swearing roundly. 
From swearing you take to singing ; both 
perhaps are equal relief, active and diverting. 
There is something curious about that singing 
of yours. The time, the place, the singers, 
characterize it sharply, — the waning light, the 
rival din, the girls with tired faces. You start 
some little thing with a refrain and a ring to it ; 
a hymn, it is not unlikely ; something of a River 
and of Waiting, and of Toil and Rest, or Sleep, 
or Crowns, or Harps, or Home, or Green Fields, or 
Flowers, or Sorrow, or Repose, or a dozen things, 
but always, it will be noticed, of simple, spot- 
less things, such as will surprise the listener who 
caught you at your oath of five minutes past. 
You have other songs, neither simple nor 
spotless, it may be ; but you never sing them at your 
work, when the waning day is crawling out from 
spots between your looms, and the girls lift up 
their tired faces to catch and keep the chorus in 
the rival din. 
You like to watch the contest between the 
chorus and the din ; to see — you seem almost to 
see — the struggle of the melody from alley to 
alley, from loom to loom, from darkening wall 
to darkening wall, from lifted face to lifted face ; 
to see — for -you are very sure you see — the 
machinery Tall into a fit of rage. That is a sight ! 
You would never guess, unless you had watched 
it just as many times as you have, how that 
machinery will rage. How it throws its arms about, 
what fists it can clench, how it shakes at the 
elbows and knees, what teeth it knows how to 
gnash, how it writhes and roars, how it clutches 
at the leaky, strangling gas-lights, and how it 
bends its impotent black head, always, at last, 
without fail, and your song sweeps triumphant, 
like an angel, over it ! With this you are very 
much pleased, though only " a hand," to be sure, 
in Hayle and Kelso. 
You are singing when the bell strikes, and 
singing still when you clatter down the stairs. 
Something of the simple spotlessness of the 
little song is on your face, when you dip into 
the wind and dusk. Perhaps you have only- 
pinned your shawl, or pulled your hat over your 
face, or knocked against a stranger on the walk ; 
but it passes ; it passes and is gone. It is cold 
and you tremble, direct from the morbid heat in 
which you have stood all day ; or you have been 
cold all day, and it is colder, and you shrink ; or 
you are from the weaving-room, and the wind 
strikes you faint, or you stop to cough and the 
girls go on without you. The town is lighted, 
and people are out in their best clothes. You 
pull your dingy veil about your eyes. You are 
weak and heart-sick all at once. You don't 
care to go home to supper. The pretty song 
creeps, wounded, back for the engines in the 
deserted dark to crunch, You are a miserable 
little factory-girl with a dirty face. 
A broken chatter falls in pieces about you ; 
all the melody of the voices that you hear has 
vanished with the vanquished song ; they are 
hoarse and rough. 
" Goin' to the dance to-night. Bet ? " 
" Nynee Mell ! yer alway speerin' awa' after 
some young mon. Can't yer keep yer een at 
home like a decint lassie ? " 
"An' who gave you lave to hoult a body's 
hand onasked an' onrequested, Pathrick
Donnavon ? " 
" Sip Garth, give us ' Champagne Charley ' ; 
can't you ? " 
" Do you think the mules will strike ? " 
" More mules they, if they do. Did ye never 
see a mouse strike a cat ? " 
" There 's Bub beggin' tobacco yet ! How old 
is that little devil ? " 
" The Lord knows ! " 
" Pity the Lord don't know a few more 
things as one would suppose might fall in his 
Hne." 
"A tract?" 
" A tract. Bless you, four pages long. Says 
I, What in 's this ? for I was just going in 
to the meetin' to see the fun. So he stuffs it 
into my hand, and I clears out." 
"Sip, I say! Priscilla ! Sip Garth — " 
But Sip Garth breaks out of sight as the 
chatter breaks out of hearing ; turns a corner ; 
turns another ; walks wearily fast, and wearily 
faster ; pushes her stout way through a dirty 
street and a dirtier street ; stops at shadowy 
corners to look for something which she does 
not find ; stops at lighted doors to call for 
something that does not answer; hesitates a 
moment at the dismal gate of a dismal little 
stone house by the water, and, hesitating still 
and with a heavy sigh, goes in. 
It is a damp house, and she rents the damp- 
est room in it ; a tenement boasting of the 
width of the house, and a closet bedroom with 
a little cupboard window in it ; a low room 
with cellar smells and river smells about it, and 
with gutter smells and drain smells and with 
unclassified smells of years settled and settling 
in its walls and ceiling. Never a cheerful 
room ; never by any means a cheerful room, 
when she and Catty — or she without Catty — 
come home from work at night. 
Something has happened to the forlorn little 
room to-night. Sip stops with the door-latch 
in her hand. A fire has happened, and the 
kerosene lamp has happened, and drawn
curtains have happened ; and Miss Kelso has 
happened, — down on her knees on the bare floor, 
with her kid gloves off, and a poker in her 
hands. 
So original in Perley ! Maverick would say ; 
Maverick not being there to say it, Perley 
spoke for herself, with the poker in her hand, 
and still upon her knees. 
"I beg your pardon. Sip, but they told me, 
the other side of the house, that you would be 
in in five minutes, and the room was dark and 
so I took the liberty. If you wouldn't mind 
me, and would go right on as if I hadn't come, 
I should take it very kindly." 
, " All right,' said Sip. 
" The fact is," said Miss Kelso, meditatively 
twirling her poker, " that that is the' first fire I 
evef made in my life. Would you believe it, 
to look at it ? " 
" I certainly shouldn't," said Sip. 
" And you 're quite sure that you wouldn't 
mind me .' " 
" No, not quite sure. But if you 'll stay 
