Clyde had well nigh exhausted his breath in his fruitless struggle,
and before his sister went far enough forward to see him, he was
tolerably calm, because he had no more strength to resist. Then the
boatswain told his story of a boy that wanted to go to sea, but found
that he could not have his own way on board the ship.

In the cabin, Mrs. Blacklock told a pitiful story of the wilfulness of
her son; that she was obliged to do just as he said, and if he wanted
anything, however absurd it might be, she was obliged to give it to
him, or he made the house too "hot" for her. Her husband had died when
the children were small, and the whole care of them had devolved on
her. Clyde had made her miserable for several years. She had sent
him to several celebrated schools; but he had got into trouble
immediately, and she had been compelled to take him away, to prevent
him from killing himself and her, as she expressed it. Her husband had
left her a handsome property, but she was afraid her son would spend
it all, or compel her to do so, before he became of age.

Mr. Lowington repeated only what most of her friends had told her
before--that her weak indulgence would be the ruin of the boy; that he
needed a strong arm. He was willing to take him into the Academy ship,
but he must obey all the rules and follow all the regulations. The
perplexed mother realized the truth of all he said.

"You will take him as an officer--won't you, sir?" she asked, when
she had in a measure reconciled herself to the discipline proposed.

"Certainly not, madam," replied the principal. "If he ever becomes an
officer, he must work himself up to that position, as the other
students do."

"But you could let him have one of the rooms in the cabin. I am
willing to pay extra for his tuition."

"No, madam; he must go with the other students, and do precisely as
they do."

"Where will his servant lodge?"

"His servant?"

"Yes, James. He will want a servant, for I don't know that he ever
dressed himself alone."

"He can have no servant, except those of the ship."

"That's very, very hard."

"Perhaps it is, but if the boy can't dress himself alone, he must lie
in his berth till he acquires the art by hard thinking. I wish you to
understand the matter thoroughly before you leave him, madam."

Mrs. Blacklock struggled with the hard terms; but even to her the case
seemed like a desperate one, and she was willing at last to try the
experiment, though she intended to follow the ship wherever she went,
to save him from suicide when his situation became absolutely
hopeless. The terms arranged, she followed Mr. Lowington on deck,
where Clyde was discovered in the loving embrace of the big boatswain,
who released him as soon as he saw the lady.

"Now, Clyde, my dear, we have arranged it all," said Mrs. Blacklock;
and it ought to be added that such a result would have been utterly
impossible if the subject of the negotiations had been present.

"I don't care if you have," replied Clyde, bestowing a fiery glance
upon the boatswain, who was smiling as blandly as though earth had no
naughty boys.

"Why, what's the matter, Clyde!" demanded the anxious mother.

"I've had enough of this ship," howled the little gentleman, as he
glanced again at the stout forward officer.

The complacent face of Peaks maddened him, and Clyde felt that,
perhaps for the first time in his life, he had lost a battle. He could
not bear the sight of the boatswain's placid features, unruffled by
anything like anger or malice. He felt that he had not even provoked
his powerful adversary. He howled in his anger, and then he cried in
his desperation. Suddenly he seized a wooden belaying-pin from the
rail, and shied it at the boatswain's head. Peaks caught it in his
hand, as though he had been playing toss-ball with his victim; but the
next instant his anaconda fold encircled the youth again. Mrs.
Blacklock screamed with terror.

"There is no harm done, madam," interposed the principal. "We don't
allow boys to throw things here."

"You are very, very harsh with the poor boy."

"And the poor boy is very, very harsh with us. He throws belaying-pins
at our heads."

"He did not mean any harm."

"Perhaps not; but that's an unpleasant way of manifesting his regard."

"I've had enough of this ship! I won't go in her!" howled Clyde,
struggling to escape from the grasp of the officer.

"Do you hear that, sir? Poor boy!"

"He will soon learn better than to behave in this violent manner. We
can cure him in ten minutes after you have left the ship."

"What! whip him?" exclaimed the mother, with horror.

"No, madam; we never strike a student under any circumstances, unless
it be in self-defence; but if a boy won't go when ordered, we carry
him. We always have force enough to do this without injury to the
person."

"But see the poor boy struggle!"

"It will do him no harm."

"He says now that he will not go in the ship."

"If I were his parent, it would be as I said, not as he said, after he
had ceased to be reasonable. I would consult the wishes and opinions
of a boy of mine, as long as he behaved properly--no longer. You have
only to leave him, and I assure you he shall be treated as kindly as
he will permit us to treat him. I do not wish to influence you, but I
am confident that ruin lies in that boy's path, unless he is
reformed."

Mrs. Blacklock actually wept. She loved the boy with a blind affection
in spite of the disrespect and even abuse that he heaped upon her. It
was a terrible struggle to her, but she finally decided to leave him
on board of the ship, perhaps satisfied that nothing else could ever
save him from himself, and her from the misery his reckless conduct
constantly occasioned her.

"You wished to go to sea, Clyde, and I have decided to leave you in
this ship," said the poor mother, trembling with emotion.

"But I tell you I won't stay in this ship," roared Clyde, as Peaks, at
a signal from the principal, released his prisoner.

"I can do nothing with you, my dear boy. You won't obey me, and I must
leave you to those who can control you. I am going on shore now, but I
shall see you again at Christiania."

"I won't stay!" howled Clyde.

"Good by, Clyde," said Mrs. Blacklock, desperately, as she folded her
son in her arms, and kissed him on both cheeks.

"I tell you I won't stay!" cried the angry youth, breaking away from
his mother's embrace.

"Make it short, madam," suggested Mr. Lowington.

"Do try to be good, Clyde, and then you can come home very, very
soon," added Mrs. Blacklock, as the principal conducted her to the
accommodation ladder, where the first cutter had been manned to put
her on shore.

"I tell you again, I won't stay! If you leave me, I'll jump
overboard."

"O!" groaned the weak mother.

"If you do, young man, we will pick you up with the greatest
pleasure," said Mr. Lowington, as he hurried the lady to the side.

"O, if he should!" gasped she.

"There is not a particle of danger, madam; Mr. Peaks will take
excellent care of him," replied her comforter.

The boatswain, at a nod from Mr. Lowington, again embraced Clyde, but
did not injure him, nor permit him to injure himself. The lady was
handed into the boat, and Captain Cumberland politely performed this
service for Miss Blacklock. Of course the poor mother was in an agony
of doubt and anxiety, but the students in the cutter seemed to be so
cheerful, contented and gentlemanly, that she hoped for the best.

Clyde was appalled at the situation, and one of the stern realities
of life seemed suddenly to dawn upon him. As soon as his mother
disappeared over the side, he ceased to struggle, for he gained
nothing by it, and the students appeared to be amused by his
sufferings. Peaks released him, and the victim of wholesome discipline
looked about him with a wondering stare; but there was no mother to
cajole or intimidate, and he was thrown entirely upon his own
resources for the means of resistance, if he purposed to resist. He
appeared to be stupefied by the situation, and Mr. Lowington, taking
advantage of his bewilderment, invited him into the main cabin, where
he kindly but firmly "laid down the law" to him. Clyde was by no means
conquered, but was rather considering how he should escape from this
trying position. At the close of the interview, the principal handed
the patient over to one of the stewards, and requested him to see the
new comer clothed in the uniform of the ship. Peaks was directed to
keep an eye on the victim while the crew were on shore.

All hands were soon seated in the boats, and in half an hour all
the students in the squadron were turned loose in the streets of
Christiansand. Though the instructors were of the party, they were not
required to exercise any particular supervision over their pupils.
There was hardly anything to be seen, and as a large number of the
students had never crossed the Atlantic before, they wanted to know if
they had come so far to see such a town. Most of the houses were of
wood, but they were neat and well kept. As the capital of the province
of Christiansand, the town was the residence of the Stift Amtmand, or
governor, and of the bishop of the diocese. It was founded in 1641,
and having an excellent harbor, it is a place of considerable
commercial importance, having a population of about ten thousand.

The boys visited the cathedral, which is a fine building of gray
stone, and being the first which most of them had seen, it had a
considerable interest to them. They observed the people, and their
manners and customs, so far as they could, with more interest than the
buildings, which differed in no important respect from those in the
United States. Passing across the water front of the town, they came
to the Torrisdal River, over which there is an excellent bridge. They
crossed the stream, and walked to an antiquated church. Some of the
houses on the way were very neat, pretty structures, not unlike the
one-story dwellings seen all over New England.

"Here's a Runic stone," said Dr. Winstock, as the captain and several
of the officers followed him into the burying-ground connected with
the ancient church.

"What is a Runic stone?" asked Lincoln, the third lieutenant.

"A stone with Runic characters upon it."

"I haven't the least idea what the word means, though Poe sings, in
the 'Bells,'----

    'Keeping time, time, time,
     In a sort of Runic rhyme!'

Runic is derived from a word which means secret; and a Runic stone
is any memorial, table, or column, on which Runic characters are
inscribed, as a tombstone, a boundary mark. There are sixteen of
these characters, forming an alphabet, which were used by the ancient
Scandinavians, and were thought by them to possess magical properties,
and willow wands inscribed with them were used by the pagans of the
north in their magic rites. Sticks were used as almanacs, to keep the
account of the days and months, and also constituted the day-books and
ledgers of the ancients. In Germany, in modern times, the baker, for
example, and the purchaser of bread, each had a stick, and the number
of loaves delivered was notched upon both. Scarcely less primitive was
the custom of some of our American farmers, who kept their accounts on
the barn door; and I have heard a story of one who, when required to
produce his books in court at a lawsuit, carried in the barn door, and
held it up before the judge and jury. In Denmark and Sweden you will
see more Runic writings, especially in the museum at Copenhagen."

"They seem to bury people here, in about the same manner as with us,"
said Captain Cumberland.

"There is not half so much difference between things here and those at
home as I expected to find," added Judson.

"The houses are almost the same, and so are the people," continued
Norwood.

"People coming to Europe are often disappointed because they find
almost everything so near like what they have been accustomed to,"
replied the doctor. "You will find Norway and Sweden more like New
England than any other countries on the continent. But I think you
will find differences enough to excite your interest and attention
before you return."

The students walked back to Christiansand, and having exhausted the
town, went on board the vessels of the squadron, ready and even
anxious to continue the voyage. The pilots were on deck, Paul Kendall
and lady had returned to the Grace, and the principal only waited the
arrival of the steamer Moss, from Frederiksværn, to give the order to
get under way. The boats were all hoisted up except the first cutter,
which was to bring off the unfortunate crew of the professor's barge,
as soon as they arrived.

At eight o'clock the steamer came in, and the first cutter, with the
principal on board, hastened to her landing-place, to meet Sanford and
his companions. To his great astonishment and regret, they were not on
board of the Moss. The captain, who spoke English very well, knew
nothing about the absentees, and was quite confident they were not on
board of the Foldin, the boat which had picked them up. Captain Hoell
had said nothing to him about the accident, but then the Foldin had
arrived only that morning, instead of the night before, when she was
due, and their interview had been very hurried. "Did any person in the
Moss know anything about the unfortunates?" the captain was kind
enough to inquire; and a passenger was found who heard some one say
that a party of young men had been landed by the Foldin at Lillesand.
But the Moss had left Lillesand at six o'clock, and her captain had
not seen or heard of the persons described. Mr. Lowington was very
anxious about the fate of the second cutter's crew, and feared that
some of them had been injured by the collision, so that they were
unable to take the steamer back to Christiansand. He returned to the
cutter and pulled off to the Tritonia, and directed Mr. Tompion, the
second vice-principal, in charge of her, to run into Lillesand, and
ascertain what had become of the absentees. Without waiting for the
signal, the Tritonia got under way, and under full sail, with a fresh
breeze, stood out of the harbor. The other vessels followed her soon
after, the principal intending to lay off and on till the Tritonia
reported.

The ship had been searched from keel to truck for Ole Amundsen on the
day before. Of course he was not found, and the conclusion was that he
had dropped into the water and swam ashore, though it was difficult to
understand how he had accomplished the feat without detection.
Inquiries in regard to him were made on shore, but if any one knew
him, application was not made to the right persons.

Mr. Clyde Blacklock had not yet jumped overboard, and during the busy
scene of getting under way, he stood with his mouth agape, watching
the proceedings with wondering interest. He was not quite sure, after
his anger had subsided, that he had made a bad bargain. There was
something rather pleasant in the motion of the ship, and the zeal and
precision with which the students worked, showed that they enjoyed
their occupation. No one noticed Clyde, or even seemed to be aware
of his presence. Before, when he behaved in an extravagant and
unreasonable manner, the boys only laughed at him. They did not beg
him to be pacified, as his mother and James always did; on the
contrary they seemed to enjoy his chagrin.

As soon as the ship was under way, the new student was informed that
he belonged to the port watch, second part, and the silver star, which
designated his watch, was affixed to his left arm. He was told that he
would be called with the others to take his turn on deck during the
night.

"What am I to do?" he asked, rather blankly.

"Just the same as the others do?" replied De Forrest, the fourth
lieutenant, who had the deck with the second part of the port watch.
"I have your station bill."

"What's that?"

"It is a card on which all your duties are explained. Here it is,"
added De Forrest, producing the station bill. "You are No. 71; all the
even numbers belong to the starboard watch, and all the odd numbers to
the port."

These cards were all printed; for among the various amusements
provided for the students, a couple of octavo Novelty presses, with
a sufficient supply of type and other printing material had been
furnished. All the blanks for use in the ship were printed on board,
and the Oceanic Enterprise, a weekly Journal, had been regularly
issued during the voyage across the Atlantic, though a gale of wind,
which disturbed the equilibrium of the press and the printers, had
delayed its publication a couple of days on one occasion.

Clyde read the station bill which was handed to him by the officer,
but it would have been just as intelligible to him if it had been in
Runic character.

"'Reefing, main-topsail, and main-topsail halyards,'" said Clyde,
reading from the card. "What does all that mean?"

"You mind only what you have to do yourself, and not trouble your head
about orders that have nothing to do with your work; for the orders
come as thick as snow flakes at Christmas. When all hands are called
to reef topsails, you are one of them, of course. When any thing is
said about topsails, or topsail-halyards, you are the man."

"Good; I understand that, and I shall make a sailor, I know," added
Clyde.

"I hope you will. The order will come to 'settle away the topsail
halyards.' Be ready to help then."

"But I don't know the topsail halyards from a pint of soup."

"Here they are," added the lieutenant, conducting his pupil to the
rail, and pointing out the main-topsail halyards. "Then, when the
officer says, 'Aloft, top-men,' you will run up the main rigging here,
and the midshipman in the top will tell you what to do. At the word,
you will lay out on the yard, and do as the others do. At the words,
'Lay down from aloft,' you will come on deck, and hoist up the
main-topsail. Nearly all your duty is connected with the main-topsail.
In tacking, you will go to the clew-garnets."

"What are they?"

"These ropes, by which the corners of the mainsail are hauled up,"
answered De Forrest, pointing out the clew-garnets. "You will also
let go the main tack. In getting under way, you will help loose the
main-topsail. In anchoring, you are at the main clew-lines, and the
main brace. Here they are. In loosing and furling you are on the
main-topsail. In boat service, you are attached to the third cutter.
You sleep in berth No. 71, your ship's number, and eat with mess No.
6."

De Forrest, as instructed by the principal, carefully explained the
duties of the new comer, indicating every rope as he mentioned it, and
describing its use. He was prudent in his manner, and tried to give
the proud youth no offence by making him feel the superiority of an
officer. The lieutenant then conducted him to his mess room, and
pointed out his berth.

The wind was still from the southward, and quite fresh; and though the
squadron went under short sail, it was off Lillesand in a couple of
hours. The Tritonia, which was a fast vessel, did not detain her
consorts more than a couple of hours. Mr. Tompion boarded the ship,
and reported that the crew of the second cutter had landed at
Lillesand, and fearing that they should miss the ship if they returned
to Christiansand, had taken carioles, and left early in the morning
for Christiania. There were ten of the party, and one of them was a
Norwegian, though he was dressed like the others. Mr. Lowington could
not imagine who the Norwegian was that wore the Academy's uniform, for
it did not occur to him that Ole could have joined them. He was glad
to hear that all of them were well, and able to travel; and had no
doubt they would arrive in safety at Christiania. He was aware that
the crew of the second cutter were rather wild boys; but as there were
no large towns in the interior, he had no fear that they would be led
astray among the simple Norwegians.

The fleet filled away again, and at eight bells the following morning
was off Frederiksværn.




CHAPTER VII.

UP THE CHRISTIANIA FJORD.


"I should like to know where this place is," said Ryder, the second
master, as he appeared upon the quarter-deck of the ship, with one of
the forty bound volumes of Harper's Magazine, which were contained in
the library.

"What place?" asked Lincoln, the third lieutenant, as he glanced at
the volume.

"That's more than I know; but here is a picture of a steamer between
two high bluffs of rock, and under it, she is said to be entering the
fjord."

"We are just at the mouth of the fjord now, and if there are any such
rocks as those here, I should like to see them. Why, you see they rise
above the steamer's main-topmast."

Lincoln took the book, and read the description; but he was none the
wiser for his labor, for the narrow strait through which the steamer
in the picture was passing was not particularly described. The book
was shown to the pilot, who did not know just where the place was; but
after he had been told that the steamer came from Gottenburg, and was
on her way to Christiania, he thought that the bold rocks must be in
the vicinity of Frederiksværn. He offered to take the ship through
the pass, as the wind was fair, and Mr. Lowington consented that he
should do so, for in order to enable the students to see the fine
scenery on the fjord, the studies were to be laid aside for the day.

"I don't see where there can be anything like this," said Ryder, as he
surveyed the shores.

"There are plenty of islands here, but certainly none of them rise to
any such heights as those in the picture," replied Lincoln. "They are
bare rocks out at sea, but some of them are a little green farther in.
It don't begin to be so wild as I supposed it was in these parts. Why,
I have read and heard so much about the Christiania Fjord, that I
supposed it was the grandest scenery in the world."

"It don't look much like the picture--does it?" laughed Ryder.

In a short time the ship was approaching the narrow pass. The cliffs
on each side were very bold and rugged, and if the students had not
been feasting themselves with grand anticipations, they would have
appreciated the scenery much better. Ryder and Lincoln laughed when
they compared the reality with the pictures they had. The scenery
could not be called grand, though it was certainly very fine. The
strait was very narrow, and on each side of it rings were fastened in
the rocks, which were painted white around them, for the convenience
of vessels warping out in a calm or against the wind. On the high
rock,--it could not have been a hundred feet high,--at the right, was
a small fort, which looked grim and terrible in its way, but which any
well-ordered man of war, with modern ordnance, could have battered
down in half an hour.

Passing through the strait, the ship came in sight of the small
village of Frederiksværn, which is a naval station, where a number of
gunboats are housed in a series of uniform buildings. The town itself
is only a hamlet, but as the vessels proceeded, those on board saw
Laurvig at the head of the bay, which is a place of considerable
importance.

"Little Foerder," said the pilot, an hour later, as he pointed to a
tall, red light-house, at the entrance of the fjord.

"Then the land we see beyond must be Sweden," added Ryder.

"Sverige," nodded the pilot.

"I suppose that is Sweden, but I don't see the use of having half a
dozen names to a country."

"And this is Norge," added the second master, pointing to the other
side.

"Yes, Norge," answered the pilot, pleased to hear the young officer
apply the Norwegian name.

On the port hand of the ship was a vast sea of rocky islands, of all
shapes and sizes. Those farthest from the mainland were entirely
destitute of soil or verdure; but in the distance a few pines, and the
fresh tints of the early grass, could be seen.

"Keep her north-north-east," said the pilot.

"Man the weather and stand by the lee braces!" shouted the first
lieutenant.

Clyde Blacklock took out his station card, and looked to see whether
the order applied to him.

"You are on the main brace," said Scott, a good-natured young tar,
who happened to be near the new student. "There you are, on the
weather side."

"Who spoke to you?" demanded Clyde, dropping his card, and looking
Scott in the face.

"I haven't been introduced to you, I know; but I thought you wanted to
know your duty," laughed Scott.

"You take care of yourself, and I'll mind my own duty," growled Clyde.

"All right, my lad," replied the good-natured student, whose station
was at the weather fore brace.

Clyde walked aft, and placed himself in the line of those who were to
haul on the weather main brace.

"Slack the lee, and haul on the weather braces," said the first
lieutenant, and the other officers repeated the order.

"Walk away with it!" shouted the fourth lieutenant to those at the
main brace.

Clyde took hold, and tugged with all his might; but the brace would
not come away. To tell the exact truth, there was a disposition among
the students to haze the new comer, and the main brace men had agreed
among themselves to let him do the whole of the work. They pretended
to haul, but not one of them bore a pound upon the brace.

"Pull!" shouted Clyde, at the top of his lungs, as he strained at the
rope. "Why don't you pull, boys?"

"Silence on the quarter-deck!" cried the executive officer--for all
work was required to be performed in silence. "Walk away with the main
brace."

"Come, boys, why don't you pull?" roared Clyde, who was blest with a
pair of hearty lungs.

"Silence, Blacklock! You mustn't hollo like that when you are on
duty," interposed De Forrest.

"Who says I mustn't?" demanded Clyde, dropping his hold upon the
brace, and walking up to the officer who had dared to give him these
words of counsel, which were uttered in a mild and pleading tone,
rather than in those of authority.

"Starboard the helm," said the executive officer.

"Starboard, sir," repeated the quartermaster at the wheel.

"Walk away with that main brace!" added the first lieutenant.

The main brace men, finding that Clyde was at issue with the fourth
lieutenant, applied themselves to their work, and the main yard swung
round.

"Steady!" said the executive officer.

"Steady, sir."

"Avast hauling! Belay, all."

By these manoeuvres the ship had been kept away, and was now headed
directly up the fjord.

"I don't allow any fellow to speak to me like that," blustered Clyde.
"I want you to understand that I am a gentleman."

"Go forward, Blacklock, and don't make a row on the quarter-deck,"
replied De Forrest, mildly.

"I'll not go forward!"

"Then I must report you to the first lieutenant."

"I'm willing to do my work, but I won't be fagged by any nob in gold
lace."

"You are making a mistake, Blacklock," said De Forrest, in a low
tone, as he walked towards the angry Briton, with the intention of
reasoning with him upon the absurdity of his conduct.

Mr. Lowington had cautioned him and other officers to be very prudent
in dealing with the new student till he had become accustomed to his
duty, and certainly De Forrest was prudent in the extreme. Perhaps
Clyde misunderstood the purpose of this officer when approaching him,
and suspected that he intended to use violence, for, drawing back, he
made a pass at De Forrest with his fist. But the latter detected the
nature of the demonstration in season to ward off the blow, and, still
in the exercise of the extreme prudence which had before characterized
his conduct, retreated to the other side of the quarter-deck.

"Enough of that," said Judson, the first lieutenant, as he stepped
between Clyde and De Forrest.

Clyde was very angry. Though he had made up his mind to perform his
duty in the beginning, he fancied that no one had the right to command
him to be silent. In his wrath he pulled off his blue jacket, tossed
it upon the deck with a flourish, and intimated that if the first
lieutenant wanted to fight, he was ready for him. Happily the first
lieutenant did not wish to fight, though he was fully prepared to
defend himself. At this crisis, the principal observed the hostile
attitude of the young Briton, and quietly ordered Peaks to interfere.

"Go forward, Blacklock," said Judson, calmly.

"I won't go forward! I have been insulted, and I'll break the sconce
of the fellow that did it," added Clyde, glancing at the fourth
lieutenant.

"Come, my hearty, let us go forward, as we are ordered," interposed
Peaks, as he picked up Clyde in his arms, and in spite of his
struggles, carried him into the waist.

It was useless to resist the big boatswain, and the pressure of
Peaks's arms soon crushed out Clyde's anger, and like a little child,
he was set down upon the deck, amid the laughter of his companions. He
felt that he was not getting ahead at all; and though he reserved the
expression of his anger, he determined at the first convenient
opportunity to thrash both Judson and De Forrest. He had also decided
to run away at the first chance, even if he had to camp on a desolate
island in doing so. He regarded Peaks as a horrible ogre, whose only
mission in the ship was to persecute and circumvent him.

"I'll have it out with those nobs yet," said Clyde, as Peaks left him,
restored to his senses, so far as outward appearances were concerned.

"Have it out! Have what out?" asked Scott, the good-natured.

"I'll whip that nob who told me to be silent."

"Don't you do it, my jolly Briton," laughed Scott.

"I can do it."

"Do you mean the first lieutenant?"

"Yes, that I do; and I'll teach him better manners."

"I wouldn't hurt him; Judson's a good fellow."

"I don't care if he is; he'll catch it; and De Forrest, too. They
insulted me."

"I dare say they didn't mean to."

"If they didn't, I'll give them a chance to apologize," added Clyde,
a little mollified by the mild words of his companion.

"That's very kind of you; but officers don't often apologize to seamen
for telling them of it when they disobey the rules of the ship."

"Rules or not, I'll hammer them both if they don't apologize."

"Don't be cruel with them," laughed Scott.

"And that big boatswain--I'll be even with him yet," blustered Clyde,
as he shook his head menacingly.

"Are you going to thrash him too?" asked Scott, opening his eyes.

"I'll take care of him. He don't toss me round in that way without
suffering for it."

"Well, don't hurt him," suggested the good-natured seaman.

"He'll get a broken head before he grows much older," added Clyde,
drawing out a belaying-pin from the fife-rail. "I shall not be in this
ship a great while longer; but I mean to stay long enough to settle my
accounts with the big boatswain and the two nobs on the quarter-deck."

"How are you going to do it, my dear Albion?"

"Leave that to me. No man can insult me without suffering for it."

"Perhaps the officers will apologize, but I don't believe Peaks will.
He's an obstinate fellow, and would do just what the principal told
him to do, even if it was to swallow you and me, and half a dozen
other fellows. You don't mean to lick the principal too--do you?"

"I haven't had any trouble with him."

"But he is at the bottom of it all. He told Peaks to persecute you.
I'm not sure that the principal isn't more to blame than all the
others put together."

"No matter for him; he has done very well."

"Then you mean to let him off?"

"I say I've nothing against the head master."

"Don't be too hard on Peaks," added Scott, as he climbed upon the rail
to see the scenery of the fjord.

"I suppose all these islands, points, bays, and channels have names,
just as they do on the other side of the ocean," said Laybold, at
whose side the good-natured tar seated himself.

"Of course," nodded Scott.

"I wonder what they are."

"Don't you know?"

"Certainly not--how should I?"

"I didn't know but you might have seen the chart," added Scott,
gravely.

"There's a town!" exclaimed the enthusiastic Laybold, as the progress
of the ship opened a channel, at the head of which was a village, with
a church.

"I see; that's Bossenboggenberg," said Scott.

"O, is it? Is that a river?"

"Not at all. That's only a channel, called the Hoppenboggen, which
extends around the Island of Toppenboggen. That channel is navigable
for small vessels."

"Where did you learn all those names?" demanded Laybold, amazed at the
astonishing words which his companion rolled off so glibly.

"My father had to send me to sea to keep me from learning too much.
My hair all fell off, and the schoolmasters were afraid of me."

"There's another town ahead on the port hand," said Laybold, a little
later.

"That is Aggerhousenboggen, I think. Let me see; here's Cape
Tingumboggen, and that must be the opening to the Stoppenboggen Fjord.
Yes, that must be Aggerhousenboggen."

"Where did you learn to pronounce Norwegian so well, Scott?"

"O, I learned Norwegian when I was an infant. I could speak it first
rate before I learned to utter my mother tongue."

"Go 'way!" protested Laybold. "Do you know what island that is on the
starboard hand."

"To be sure I do. Do you think my education has been neglected to that
extent? That's Steppenfetchenboggen. A very fine island it is, too,"
continued Scott, rattling off the long names so that they had a
decidedly foreign ring.

"I don't see how you can pronounce those words," added Laybold. "They
would choke me to death."

"I don't believe they would," laughed Scott.

The squadron passed through several narrow passages, and then came to
a broad expanse of water at the mouth of the Drammen River. The
students were perched on the rail and in the rigging of the various
vessels, observing with great interest the development of the
panorama, which seemed to be unrolled before them.

"It is rather fine scenery," said Lincoln, who still carried the book
in his hand, and occasionally glanced at the pictures; "but I think
the artist here must have multiplied the height of the cliffs by two,
and divided the height of houses, men, and masts by the same number."

"It certainly looks like an exaggeration," replied Ryder.

"Look at this," added Lincoln, pointing to a scene on the coast of
Norway. "There's a large steamer carrying a top-gallant yard on the
foremast. That mast is probably a hundred and fifty feet high, and
there are hills and bluffs beyond it--which would lose by the
perspective--five times as high."

"Still it is very fine scenery."

"So it is; but no finer than we have on the coast of Maine. You
remember last summer we went through the Reach, down by Machias? That
was something like this, and quite as pleasant."

"We mustn't be too critical, Lincoln," laughed Ryder.

"I don't intend to be critical; but I had an idea, from the pictures
I have seen, that Christiania Fjord was something like the Saguenay
River, where the cliffs rise perpendicularly four or five hundred feet
high. These pictures would certainly lead one to expect such sights."

"Horton," said the pilot, pointing to a town which now came into view,
as the vessel passed beyond a point of land.

It was a small place, in appearance not unlike a New England village.
At the wharf were a couple of small steamers, one of which had come
down the Drammen, and the entire population of the town seemed to
have turned out on the occasion, for the shore was covered with
people. They were all neatly dressed. On the opposite side of the
fjord was the town of Moss, where the convention by which Norway and
Sweden were united was drawn up and agreed upon.

The fleet sailed rapidly before the fresh breeze across the broad
expanse, and then entered a narrow passage. There was a gentle
declivity on each side of the fjord, which was covered, as far as the
eye could see, with pines. Dröbak, on the right, is a village of one
street, on the side of the hill. The houses are mostly of one story,
painted yellow, with roofs covered with red tile. Before noon the
passage began to widen, and the fleet entered another broad expanse of
water, filled with rocky islands, at the head of which stood the city
of Christiania. Some of the islets were pretty and picturesque, in
some instances having a single cottage upon them, with a little
garden. The rocks were often of curious formation, and the shore of
one island was as regular and smooth as though it had been a piece of
masonry. After rounding a point of rocks, the fleet came into full
view of Christiania. The city and its environs are spread out on
the southern slope of a series of hills, and presents a beautiful
landscape to the eye. On the left the country was covered with villas,
prominent among which was Oscarshal, a summer palace of the late king.
On the right was the castle of Agershuus, rising abruptly from the
water. At a little distance from the town was a kind of hotel, built
on a picturesque island, with its pretty landing-place, not unlike
some similar establishments near the head of Narragansett Bay. At the
wharf in front of the city, and lying in the bay, was a considerable
number of steamers, some of them quite large. The fleet ran up to the
front of the city and anchored.

"This is the end of my voyage," said Clyde Blacklock, when everything
had been put in order on board of the ship.

"You are not going yet--are you?" laughed Scott.

"Very soon."

"I thought you were going to stop, and whip Peaks and the two
lieutenants."

"Time enough for that. I suppose the ship will stay here two or three
days--won't she?"

"Perhaps a week. I suppose we shall go on shore this afternoon, and
see the sights."

"I say, Scott, if you tell those officers what I've been saying to
you, I'll serve you in the same way," added Clyde, as for the first
time it occurred to him that he had been imprudent in developing his
plans to another.

"No! You won't lick me, too--will you?"

"Not if you behave like a man, and don't peach," answered Clyde, in a
patronizing tone.

"I will try to be a good boy, then," laughed Scott.

"I only want to catch them on shore, where I can have fair play. I'm
not to be fagged by any fellow that ever was born."

Clyde walked uneasily about the deck till the crew were piped to
dinner, evidently thinking how he should carry his big intentions into
execution. To one less moved by fancied insults and indignities the
case would have looked hopeless. He devoured his dinner in a much
shorter period than is usually allotted by well-bred Englishmen to
that pleasing diversion, and hastened on deck again. Peaks was there,
acting as ship-keeper, while the carpenter was painting the second
cutter, the repairs upon which had been completed. The big boatswain
was seated on one of the cat-heads, where he could see the entire deck
of the ship, and observe every craft that approached her. The new
student observed his position, and thought he was seated in a very
careless manner. A very wicked thought took possession of the Briton's
mind, and he ascended to the top-gallant forecastle. The boatswain sat
very composedly on the cat-head, with his feet hanging over the water,
and was just then studying the beauties of the landscape. A very
slight exercise of force would displace him, and drop him into the
water.

"Well, my hearty, you stowed your grub in a hurry," said Peaks, when
he discovered the new pupil.

"I was not very hungry, and thought I would take another look at the
town," replied Clyde. "What's that big building off there, near the
hills?"

"That may be the county jail, the court-house, or the lunatic asylum.
I haven't the least idea what it is," answered Peaks, indifferently.
"The professors can tell you all about those things."

"I wonder where that ship came from?" added Clyde, pointing to a
vessel which was standing in ahead of the Young America.

"That isn't a ship," replied Peaks, as he turned partly round, so that
he could see the craft. "That's a 'mofferdite brig; or, as bookish
people would say, an hermaphrodite brig--half brig and half schooner.
You must call things, especially vessels, by their right names, or you
will fall in the opinion of--"

At that instant the big boatswain dropped into the deep waters of the
fjord.

"And you will fall, in my opinion," said Clyde, as, taking advantage
of his antagonist's attention to the brig, he gave him a smart push,
which displaced him from the cat-head.

But Peaks, who was half man and half fish, was as much at home in the
water as on the deck, and struck out for the cable, by which the ship
was anchored, as the nearest point of support. Clyde walked along the
rail till he came to the swinging-boom, where the boats which had been
lowered for use after dinner were fastened. Climbing out on the boom,
he dropped down by the painter into the third cutter, one of the
four-oar boats. Bitts, the carpenter, who had been the only person on
board except the boatswain, was in the waist busily at work upon the
boat, and did not observe that anything unusual had transpired. Clyde
had practised gymnastics a great deal, and was an active, agile
fellow. Casting off the painter of the third cutter, he worked her
astern, so as to avoid Peaks. Then, shipping a pair of oars, he pulled
for the shore.

In the mean time, the boatswain, disdaining to call for assistance,
and not having observed the movements of Clyde, climbed up the cable
to the hawse-hole, and then, by the bowsprit guys, made his way to the
top-gallant forecastle, where he discovered the Briton in the cutter,
pulling with all his might for the shore. Shaking the water from his
clothes, he hastened to the main cabin, and informed the principal
that the new scholar had left the ship.

"Left the ship!" exclaimed Mr. Lowington. "Were you not on deck while
the students were at dinner?"

"Yes, sir, most of the time; but just at the moment when the young
sculpin left the ship, I happened to be in the water," answered Peaks,
shrugging his shoulders like a Frenchman, and glancing at his wet
garments.

"How came you in the water?"

"The little Britisher pushed me overboard, when I was sitting on the
cat-head."

"I see," added the principal. "We must get him back before his mother
arrives."

By this time most of the students had come up from the steerage, and
the order was given to pipe away the first cutter. Peaks was directed
to change his clothes, and go in her. He was ready by the time the
crew were in their seats, for, as he was not a fashionable man, his
toilet was soon made. The boats from the other vessels of the fleet,
including those of the yachts, were already on their way to the town.
The first cutter pulled to the shore; but Clyde had already landed,
and disappeared in the city.

As at Christiansand, Paul Kendall and lady decided to remain on shore
during the stay of the fleet. They had several pieces of baggage, and
the custom-house officers on the wharf were obliged to examine them,
after which they followed a porter to the Victoria Hotel, which was
said to be the best in the place. Peaks found a man who could speak
English, and immediately applied himself to the business of finding
the runaway. Clyde had been seen going up one of the streets, but no
one knew anything about him.

The fugitive felt that he had achieved a victory. He had "paid off"
the big boatswain, and no fellow on board of the ship could believe
that he had not kept his word. He walked up the street till he came to
Dronningensgaden. People looked at him as though he were a stranger,
and he became aware that his uniform was exciting attention. In the
Kirkegade he found a clothing store, in which the shop-keeper spoke
English. In changing his dress on board of the ship, he had retained
the contents of his pockets, including a well-filled purse. He
selected a suit of clothes which pleased him, and immediately put it
on. At another store he bought a hat, and then he appeared like a new
being. With the bundle containing his uniform, he walked till he found
a carriage, in which he seated himself, and ordered the driver to
leave him at the Victoria Hotel. He thought it would only be necessary
for him to keep out of sight till evening, when his mother would
probably arrive in the Foldin, and he was confident he could induce
her to withdraw him from the Academy. He would stay in his room the
rest of the day, and by that time the search for him, if any was made,
would be ended.

"I want a nice room for myself, another for my mother and sister, who
will arrive this evening, and a place for the man," said Clyde, as the
porter of the hotel touched his cap, and helped him out of the
carriage.

The young man was evidently a person of some importance. The porter,
the clerk, and the head waiter, who came out to receive him, bowed
low. A man took his bundle, and he was ushered to a room on the ground
floor. As he crossed the court, he discovered several of the Orlando's
passengers in the reading-room. He had not entered his chamber before
there was another arrival,--Paul Kendall and lady,--who were assigned
to the next room.



