“He’s worse off than me,” thought Tom; but she had no time to reflect on
the superior privileges of her own position, for she was beginning to
feel hungry herself.
There was a cheap restaurant near by, only a few blocks away.
Tom knew it well, for she had often paused before the door and inhaled
enviously the appetizing odor of the dishes which were there vended to
patrons not over-fastidious, at prices accommodated to scantily lined
pocket-books. Tom had never entered, but had been compelled to remain
outside, wishing that a more propitious fortune had placed it in her
power to dine there every day. Now, however, first thrusting her fingers
into the lining of her jacket to make sure that the money was there, she
boldly entered the restaurant and took a seat at one of the tables.
The room was not large, there being only eight tables, each of which
might accommodate four persons. The floor was sanded, the tables were
some of them bare, others covered with old newspapers, which had become
greasy, and were rather worse than no table-cloth at all. The guests, of
whom perhaps a dozen were seated at the table, were undoubtedly
plebeian. Men in shirt-sleeves, rough-bearded sailors and ’long-shore
men, composed the company, with one ragged boot-black, who had his
blacking-box on the seat beside him.
It was an acquaintance of Tom, and she went and sat beside him.
“Do you get dinner here, Jim?” she asked.
“Yes, Tom; what brings you here?”
“I’m hungry.”
“Don’t you live along of your granny?”
“Yes; but I thought I’d come here to-day. What have you got?”
“Roast beef.”
“Is it good?”
“Bully!”
“I’ll have some, then. How much is it?”
“Ten cents.”
Ten cents was the standard price in this economical restaurant for a
plate of meat of whatever kind. Perhaps, considering the quality and
amount given, it could not be regarded as very cheap; still the sum was
small, and came within Tom’s means.
A plate of beef was brought and placed before Tom. Her eyes dilated with
pleasure as they rested on the delicious morsel. There was a potato
besides; and a triangular slice of bread, with an infinitesimal dab of
butter,—all for ten cents. But Tom’s ambition soared higher.
“Bring me a cup o’ coffee,” she said to the waiter.
It was brought,—a very dark, muddy, suspicious-looking beverage,—a base
libel upon the fragrant berry whose name it took; but such a thought did
not disturb Tom. She never doubted that it was what it purported to be.
She stirred it vigorously with the spoon, and sipped it as if it had
been nectar.
“Aint it prime just?” she exclaimed, smacking her lips.
Then ensued a vigorous onslaught upon the roast beef. It was the first
meat Tom had tasted for weeks, with the exception of occasional cold
sausage; and she was in the seventh heaven of delight as she hurriedly
ate it. When she had finished, the plate was literally and entirely
empty. Tom did not believe in leaving anything behind. She was almost
tempted to “lick the platter clean,” but observed that none of the other
guests did so, and refrained.
“Bring me a piece of apple pie,” said Tom, determined for once to have
what she denominated a “good square meal.” The price of the pie being
five cents, this would just exhaust her funds. Payment was demanded when
the pie was brought, the prudent waiter having some fears that his
customer was eating beyond her means.
Tom paid the money, and, vigorously attacking the pie, had almost
finished it, when, chancing to lift her eyes to the window, she saw a
sight that made her blood curdle.
Looking through the pane with a stony glare that meant mischief was her
granny, whom she had supposed safe at home.
                              CHAPTER III
                           CAUGHT IN THE ACT.
It was Tom’s ill luck that brought granny upon the scene, contrary to
every reasonable expectation. After smoking out her pipe, she made up
her mind to try another smoke, when she found that her stock of tobacco
was exhausted. Being constitutionally lazy, it was some minutes before
she made up her mind to go out and lay in a fresh supply. Finally she
decided, and made her way downstairs to the court, and thence to the
street.
Tim saw her, and volunteered the information, “Tom gave me some bread.”
“When?” demanded granny.
“When she come out just now.”
“What did she do that for?”
“She said she wasn’t hungry.”
The old woman was puzzled. Tom’s appetite was usually quite equal to the
supply of food which she got. Could Tom have secreted some money to buy
apples? This was hardly likely, since she had carefully searched her.
Besides, Tom had returned the usual amount. Still, granny’s suspicions
were awakened, and she determined to question Tom when she returned at
the close of the afternoon.
The tobacco shop where granny obtained her tobacco was two doors beyond
the restaurant where Tom was then enjoying her cheap dinner with a zest
which the guests at Delmonico’s do not often bring to the discussion of
their more aristocratic viands. It was only a chance that led granny, as
she passed, to look in; but that glance took in all who were seated at
the tables, including Tom.
Had granny received an invitation to preside at a meeting in the Cooper
Institute, she would hardly have been more surprised than at the sight
of Tom, perfidiously enjoying a meal out of money from which she had
doubtless been defrauded.
“The owdacious young reprobate!” muttered the old woman, glaring
fiercely at her unconscious victim.
But Tom just then happened to look up, as we have seen. Her heart gave a
sudden thump, and she said to herself, “I’m in for a lickin’, that’s so.
Granny’s mad as blazes.”
The old woman did not long leave her in doubt as to the state of her
feelings.
She strode into the eating-house, and, advancing to the table, seized
Tom by the arm.
“What are you here for?” she growled, in a hoarse voice.
“To get some dinner,” said Tom.
By this time she had recovered from her temporary panic. She had courage
and pluck, and was toughened by the hard life she had led into a stoical
endurance of the evils from which she could not escape.
“What business had you to come?”
“I was hungry.”
“Didn’t I give you a piece of bread?”
“I didn’t like it.”
“What did you buy?”
“A plate of beef, a cup o’ coffee, and some pie. Better buy some,
granny. They’re bully.”
“You’re a reg’lar bad un. You’ll fetch up on the gallus,” said granny,
provoked at Tom’s coolness.
So saying, she seized Tom by the shoulder roughly. But by this time the
keeper of the restaurant thought fit to interfere.
“We can’t have any disturbance here, ma’am,” he said. “You must leave
the room.”
“She had no right to get dinner here,” said granny. “I won’t let her pay
for it.”
“She has paid for it already.”
“Is that so?” demanded the old woman, disappointed.
Tom nodded, glad to have outwitted her guardian.
“It was my money. You stole it.”
“No it wa’n’t. A gentleman give it to me for callin’ me names.”
“Come out of here!” said granny, jerking Tom from her chair. “Don’t you
let her have no more to eat here,” she added, turning to the keeper of
the restaurant.
“She can eat here whenever she’s got money to pay for it.”
Rather disgusted at her failure to impress the keeper of the restaurant
with her views in the matter, granny emerged into the street with Tom in
her clutches.
She gave her a vigorous shaking up on the sidewalk.
“How do you like that?” she demanded.
“I wish I was as big as you!” said Tom, indignantly.
“Well, what if you was?” demanded the old woman, pausing in her
punishment, and glaring at Tom.
“I’d make your nose bleed,” said Tom, doubling up her fist.
“You would, would you?” said granny, fiercely. “Then it’s lucky you
aint;” and she gave her another shake.
“Where are you going to take me?” asked Tom.
“Home. I’ll lock you up for a week, and give you nothin’ to eat but
bread once a day.”
“All right!” said Tom. “If I’m locked up at home, I can’t bring you any
money.”
This consideration had not at first suggested itself to the vindictive
old woman. It would cut off all her revenue to punish Tom as she
proposed; and this would be far from convenient. But anger was more
powerful just then than policy; and she determined at all events to
convey Tom home, and give her a flogging, before sending her out into
the street to resume her labors.
She strode along, dragging Tom by the arm; and not another word was
spoken till they reached the rear tenement house.
“What’s the matter with the child?” asked Mrs. Murphy, who had just come
down into the court after one of her own children.
“She stole my money,” said granny; “and was eatin’ a mighty fine dinner
out of it.”
“It was my money, Mrs. Murphy,” said Tom. “I gave granny twenty-two
cents when I came home.”
“I hope you won’t go to hurt the child,” said kind-hearted Mrs. Murphy.
“I’ll be much obliged to you, Mrs. Murphy, if you’ll mind your own
business,” said granny, loftily. “When I want your advice, mum, I’ll
come and ask it; begging your pardon, mum.”
“She’s a tough craythur,” said Mrs. Murphy to herself. “She beats that
poor child too bad entirely.”
Granny drew Tom into the room with no gentle hand.
“Now you’re goin’ to catch it,” said she, grimly.
Tom was of the same opinion, and meant to defend herself as well as she
knew how. She had all her wits about her, and had already planned out
her campaign.
On the chair was a stout stick which granny was accustomed to use on
such occasions as the present. When wielded by a vigorous arm, it was
capable of inflicting considerable pain, as Tom very well knew. That
stick she determined to have.
Accordingly when granny temporarily released her hold of her, as she
entered the room, Tom sprang for the chair, seized the stick, and sent
it flying out of the window.
“What did you do that for?” said granny, fiercely.
“I don’t want to be licked,” said Tom, briefly.
“You’re going to be, then.”
“Not with the stick.”
“We’ll see.”
Granny poked her head out of the window, and saw Tim down in the court.
“Bring up that stick,” she said; “that’s a good boy.”
Tim picked up the stick, and was about to obey the old woman’s request,
when he heard another voice—Tom’s—from the other window.
“Don’t you do it, Tim. Granny wants to lick me.”
That was enough. Tim didn’t like the old woman,—no one in the building
did,—and he did like Tom, who, in spite of being a tough customer, was
good-natured and obliging, unless her temper was aroused by the old
woman’s oppression. So Tim dropped the stick.
“Bring it right up,” said granny, angrily.
“Are you goin’ to lick Tom?”
“None of your business! Bring it up, or I’ll lick you too.”
“No, you don’t!” answered Tim. “You must come for it yourself if you
want it.”
Granny began to find that she must do her own errands. It was an
undertaking to go down three flights of stairs to the court and return
again, especially for one so indolent as herself; but there seemed to be
no other way. She inwardly resolved to wreak additional vengeance upon
Tom, and so get what satisfaction she could in this way. Muttering
imprecations which I do not care to repeat, she started downstairs,
determined to try the stick first upon Tim. But when she reached the
court Tim had disappeared. He had divined her benevolent intentions, and
thought it would be altogether wiser for him to be out of the way.
Granny picked up the stick, and, after a sharp glance around the court,
commenced the ascent. She did not stop to rest, being spurred on by the
anticipated pleasure of flogging Tom. So, in a briefer space of time
than could have been expected, she once more arrived at her own door.
But Tom had not been idle.
No sooner was the door closed than Tom turned the key in the lock,
making herself a voluntary prisoner, but having in the key the means of
deliverance.
Granny tried the door, and, to her inexpressible wrath, discovered Tom’s
new audacity.
“Open the door, you trollop!” she screamed.
“You’ll lick me,” said Tom.
“I’ll give you the wust lickin’ you ever had.”
“Then I shan’t let you in,” said Tom, defiantly.
                               CHAPTER IV
                               THE SIEGE.
“Open the door,” screamed granny, beside herself with rage, “or I’ll
kill you.”
“You can’t get at me,” said Tom, triumphantly.
The old woman grasped the knob of the door and shook it vigorously. But
the lock resisted her efforts. Tom’s spirit was up, and she rather
enjoyed it.
“Shake away, granny,” she called through the key-hole.
“If I could only get at you!” muttered granny.
“I won’t let you in till you promise not to touch me.”
“I’ll skin you alive.”
“Then you can’t come in.”
The old woman began alternately to pound and kick upon the door. Tom sat
down coolly upon a chair, her dark eyes flashing exultingly. She knew
her power, and meant to keep it. She had not reflected how it was to
end. She supposed that in the end she would get a “lickin’,” as she had
often done before. But in the mean while she would have the pleasure of
defying and keeping the old woman at bay for an indefinite time. So she
sat in placid enjoyment in her stronghold until she heard something that
suggested a speedy raising of the siege.
“I’m goin’ for a hatchet,” said granny, through the key-hole.
“If you break the door, you’ll have to pay for it.”
“Never you mind!” said the old woman. “I know what I’m about.”
She heard the retreating steps of granny, and, knowing only too well her
terrible temper, made up her mind that she was in earnest. If so, the
door must soon succumb. A hatchet would soon accomplish what neither
kicks nor pounding had been able to effect.
“What shall I do?” thought Tom.
She was afraid of something more than a lickin’ now. In her rage at
having been so long baffled, the old woman might attack her with the
hatchet. She knew very well that on previous occasions she had flung at
her head anything she could lay hold of. Tom, brave and stout-hearted as
she was, shrunk from this new danger, and set herself to devise a way of
escape. She looked out of the window; but she was on the fourth floor,
and it was a long distance to the court below. If it had been on the
second floor she would have swung off.
There was another thing she could do. Granny had gone down below to
borrow a hatchet. She might unlock the door, and run out upon the
landing; but there was no place for hiding herself, and no way of
getting downstairs without running the risk of rushing into granny’s
clutches. In her perplexity her eyes fell upon a long coil of rope in
one corner. It was a desperate expedient, but she resolved to swing out
of the window, high as it was. She managed to fasten one end securely,
and let the other drop from the window. As it hung, it fell short of
reaching the ground by at least ten feet. But Tom was strong and active,
and never hesitated a moment on this account. She was incited to extra
speed, for she already heard the old woman ascending the stairs,
probably provided with a hatchet.
Tom got on the window-sill, and, grasping the rope, let herself down
rapidly hand over hand, till she reached the end of the rope. Then she
dropped. It was rather hard to her feet, and she fell over. But she
quickly recovered herself.
Tim, the recipient of her dinner, was in the court, and surveyed her
descent with eyes and mouth wide open.
“Where’d you come from, Tom?” he asked.
“Can’t you see?” said Tom.
“Why didn’t you come downstairs?”
“’Cause granny’s there waitin’ to lick me. I must be goin’ before she
finds out where I am. Don’t you tell of me, Tim.”
“No, I won’t,” said Tim; and he was sure to keep his promise.
Tom sped through the arched passage to the street, and did not rest till
she had got a mile away from the home which had so few attractions for
her.
Beyond the chance of immediate danger, the young Arab conjured up the
vision of granny’s disappointment when she should break open the door,
and find her gone; and she sat down on the curbstone and laughed
heartily.
“What are you laughing at?” asked a boy, looking curiously at the
strange figure before him.
“Oh, it’s too rich!” said Tom, pausing a little, and then breaking out
anew.
“What’s too rich?”
“I’ve run away from granny. She wanted to lick me, and now she can’t.”
“You’ve been cutting up, I suppose.”
“No, it’s granny that’s been cuttin’ up. She’s at it all the time.”
“But you’ll catch it when you do go home, you know.”
“Maybe I won’t go home.”
It was not a street-boy that addressed her; but a boy with a comfortable
home, who had a place in a store near by. He did not know, practically,
what sort of a thing it was to wander about the streets, friendless and
homeless; but it struck him vaguely that it must be decidedly
uncomfortable. There was something in this strange creature—half boy in
appearance—that excited his interest and curiosity, and he continued the
conversation.
“What sort of a woman is your granny, as you call her?” he asked.
“She’s an awful old woman,” was the answer.
“I shouldn’t think you would like to speak so of your grandmother.”
“I don’t believe she is my grandmother. I only call her so.”
“What’s your name?”
“Tom.”
“Tom!” repeated the boy, in surprise. “Aint you a girl?”
“Yes; I expect so.”
“It’s hard to tell from your clothes, you know;” and he scanned Tom’s
queer figure attentively.
Tom was sitting on a low step with her knees nearly on a level with her
chin, and her hands clasped around them. She had on her cap of the
morning, and her jacket, which, by the way, had been given to granny
when on a begging expedition, and appropriated to Tom’s use, without
special reference to her sex. Tom didn’t care much. It made little
difference to her whether she was in the fashion or not; and if the
street boys chaffed her, she was abundantly able to give them back as
good as they sent.
“What’s the matter with my clothes?” said Tom.
“You’ve got on a boy’s cap and jacket.”
“I like it well enough. As long as it keeps a feller warm I don’t mind.”
“Do you call yourself a feller?”
“Yes.”
“Then you’re a queer feller.”
“Don’t you call me names, ’cause I won’t stand it;” and Tom raised a
pair of sharp, black eyes.
“I won’t call you names, at least not any bad ones. Have you had any
dinner?”
“Yes,” said Tom, smacking her lips, as she recalled her delicious
repast, “I had a square meal.”
“What do you call a square meal?”
“Roast beef, cup o’ coffee, and pie.”
The boy was rather surprised, for such a dinner seemed beyond Tom’s
probable resources.
“Your granny don’t treat you so badly, after all. That’s just the kind
of dinner I had.”
“Granny didn’t give it to me. I bought it. That’s what she wants to lick
me for. All she give me was a piece of hard bread.”
“Where did you get the money? Was it hers?”
“That’s what she says. But if a feller works all the mornin’ for some
money, hasn’t she got a right to keep some of it?”
“I should think so.”
“So should I,” said Tom, decidedly.
“Have you got any money?”
“No, I spent it all for dinner.”
“Then here’s some.”
The boy drew from his vest-pocket twenty-five cents, and offered it to
Tom.
The young Arab felt no delicacy in accepting the pecuniary aid thus
tendered.
“Thank you,” said she. “You can call me names if you want to.”
“What should I want to call you names for?” asked the boy, puzzled.
“There was a gent called me names this mornin’, and give me twenty cents
for doin’ it.”
“What did he call you?”
“I dunno; but it must have been something awful bad, it was so long.”
“You’re a strange girl, Tom.”
“Am I? Well, I reckon I am. What’s your name?”
“John Goodwin.”
“John Goodwin?” repeated Tom, by way of fixing it in her memory.
“Yes; haven’t you got any other name than Tom?”
“I dunno. I think granny called me Jane once. But it’s a good while ago.
Everybody calls me Tom, now.”
“Well, Tom, I must be getting back to the store. Good-by. I hope you’ll
get along.”
“All right!” said Tom. “I’m goin’ into business with that money you give
me.”
                               CHAPTER V
                          TOM GAINS A VICTORY.
Granny mounted the stairs two at a time; so eager was she to force a
surrender on the part of the rebellious Tom. She was a little out of
breath when she reached the fourth landing, and paused an instant to
recover it. Tom was at that moment half-way down the rope; but this she
did not suspect.
Recovering her breath, she strode to the door. Before making an assault
with the hatchet, she decided to summon Tom to a surrender.
“Tom!” she called out.
Of course there was no answer.
“Why don’t you answer?” demanded granny, provoked.
She listened for a reply, but Tom remained obstinately silent, as she
interpreted it.
“If you don’t speak, it’ll be the wuss for ye,” growled granny.
Again no answer.
“I’ll find a way to make you speak. Come and open the door, or I’ll
break it down. I’ve got a hatchet.”
But the old woman had the conversation all to herself.
Quite beside herself now with anger, she no longer hesitated; but with
all her force dealt a blow which buried the hatchet deep in the door.
“Jest wait till I get in!” she muttered. “Will ye open it now?”
But there was no response.
While she was still battering at the door one of the neighbors came up
from below.
“What are you doin’, Mrs. Walsh?” for such was granny’s name.
“I’m tryin’ to get in.”
“Why don’t you open the door?”
“Tom’s locked it. She won’t let me in,” said granny, finishing the
sentence with a string of profane words which had best be omitted.
“You’ll have a good bill to pay to the landlord, Mrs. Walsh.”
“I don’t care,” said granny. “I’m goin’ to get at that trollop, and beat
her within an inch of her life.”
Another vigorous blow broke the lock, and the door flew open.
Granny rushed in, after the manner of a devouring lion ready to pounce
upon her prey. But she stopped short in dismay. Tom was not visible!
Thinking she might be in the closet, the old woman flung open the door:
but again she was balked.
“What has ’come of the child?” she exclaimed, in bewilderment.
“She got out of the window,” said the neighbor, who had caught sight of
the rope dangling from the open casement.
Granny hastened to the window, and the truth flashed upon her. Her prey
had escaped her!
It was a deep disappointment to the vindictive old woman, whose hand
itched to exercise itself in punishing Tom.
“She’s a bold un,” said the neighbor, with some admiration of Tom’s
pluck.
Granny answered with a strain of invective, which gave partial vent to
the rage and disappointment she felt.
“If I could only get at her!” she muttered between her teeth; “I’d give
her half-a-dozen lickin’s in one. She’d wish she hadn’t done it.”
Not a doubt entered granny’s mind that Tom would return. It never
occurred to her that her young servant had become tired of her bondage,
and had already made up her mind to break her chains. She knew Tom
pretty well, but not wholly. She did not realize that the days of her
rule were at an end; and that by her tyranny she had driven from her the
girl whose earnings she had found so convenient.
If there had been much chance of meeting Tom outside, granny would have
gone out into the streets and hunted for her. But to search for her
among the numerous streets, lanes, and alleys in the lower part of the
city would have been like trying to find a needle in a haystack. Then,
even if she found her, she could not very well whip her in the street.
Tom would probably come home at night as usual, bringing money, and she
could defer the punishment till then.
Fatigued with her exercise and excitement, the old woman threw herself
down on her rude pallet, first drawing the contents of a jug which stood
in the closet, and was soon in a drunken sleep. Leaving her thus, we go
back to Tom.
She had made up her mind not to go back to sweeping the streets; partly,
indeed, because she no longer had her broom with her. Moreover, she
thought that she would in that case be more likely to fall into the
clutches of the enemy she so much dreaded. With the capital for which
she was indebted to her new boy acquaintance she decided to lay in a
supply of evening papers, and try to dispose of them. It was not a new
trade to her; for there was scarcely one of the street trades in which
the young Arab had not more or less experience.
She bought ten copies of the “Express,” and selected the corner of two
streets for the disposal of her stock in trade.
“Here’s the ‘Express,’—latest news from the seat of war!” cried Tom;
catching the cry from a boy engaged in the same business up on Broadway.
“What’s the news?” asked one of two young men who were passing.
“The news is that you’re drafted,” said Tom, promptly. “Buy the paper,
and you’ll find out all about it.”
It was in the midst of the draft excitement in New York; and as it so
happened that the young man had actually been drafted, his companion
laughed.
“You must buy a paper for that, Jack,” he said.
“I believe I will,” said the first, laughing. “Here’s ten cents. Never
mind about the change.”
“Thank you,” said Tom. “Come round to-morrow, and I’ll sell you
another.”
“You’ll have me drafted again, I am afraid. Perhaps you will go as my
substitute?”
“I would if I was old enough,” said Tom.
“You’re a girl,—aint you? Girls can’t fight.”
“Try me and see,” said Tom. “I can fight any boy of my size.”
The two young men passed on, laughing.
Tom soon had an opportunity to test her prowess. The corner where she
had stationed herself was usually occupied by a boy somewhat larger than
Tom, who considered that it belonged to him by right. He came up rather
late, having a chance to carry a carpet-bag for a guest at French’s
Hotel to the Hudson River station. Tom had disposed of half her papers
when he came blustering up:—
“Clear out of here!” he said, imperiously.
“Who was you speakin’ to?” asked Tom, coolly.
“To you. Just clear out!”
“What for?” asked Tom.
“You’ve got my stand.”
“Have I?” said Tom, not offering to move.
“Yes, you have.”
“Then I’m goin’ to keep it. ’Ere’s the ‘Express,’—latest news from the
seat of war.”
“Look here!” said the newsboy, menacingly, “if you don’t clear out, I’ll
make you.”
“Will you?” said Tom, independently, taking his measure, and deciding
that she could fight him. “I aint afraid of you!”
Her rival advanced, and gave her a push which nearly thrust her from the
sidewalk into the street. But he was rather astonished the next moment
at receiving a blow in the face from Tom’s fist.
“If you want to fight, come on!” said Tom, dropping her papers and
squaring off.
He was not slow in accepting the defiance, being provoked by the
unexpected blow, and aimed a blow at Tom’s nose. But Tom, who had some
rudimental ideas of boxing, while her opponent knew nothing of it,
fended off the blow, and succeeded in getting in another.
“Ho! ho!” laughed another boy, who had just come up; “you’re licked by a
gal.”
Bob, for this was the newsboy’s name, felt all the disgrace of the
situation. His face reddened, and he pitched in promiscuously,
delivering blow after blow wildly. This gave a decided advantage to Tom,
who inflicted considerably more damage than she received.
The fight would have gone on longer if a gentleman had not come up, and
spoken authoritatively: “What is all this fighting about? Are you not
ashamed to fight with a girl?”
“No, I aint,” said Bob, sullenly. “She took my place, and wouldn’t give
it up.”
“Is that true?” turning to Tom.
“I’ve got as much right to it as he,” said Tom. “I’ll give it to him if
I am a gal.”
“Don’t you know it is wrong to fight?” asked the gentleman, this time
addressing Tom.
“No, I don’t,” said Tom. “Wouldn’t you fight if a feller pitched into
you?”
This was rather an embarrassing question, but the gentleman said, “It
would be better to go away than to get into a fight.”
“He fit me.”
“It is bad enough for boys to fight, but it is worse for girls.”
“Don’t see it,” said Tom.
Had Tom been in a higher social position, it might have been suggested
to her that to fight was not ladylike; but there was such an incongruity
between Tom’s appearance and anything lady-like, that such an appeal
would have been out of place. The fact is, Tom claimed no immunity or
privilege on the score of sex, but regarded herself, to all intents and
purposes, as a boy, and strongly wished that she were one.
The gentleman looked at her, rather puzzled, and walked away, satisfied
with having stopped the fight.
Bob did not seem inclined to renew hostilities, but crossed the street,
and took his stand there. Tom, by right of conquest, held her place
until she had sold out her whole stock of papers.
                               CHAPTER VI
                        AN UNFASHIONABLE HOTEL.
Tom found at the end of the afternoon that her capital had increased
from twenty-five to fifty cents.
“Granny won’t get none of this,” she soliloquized, complacently. “It’s
all mine.”
Sitting on a doorstep she counted over the money with an entirely
different feeling from what she had experienced when it was to be
transferred to granny. Now it was all her own, and, though but fifty
cents, it made her feel rich.
“What shall I do with it?” thought Tom.
She had a square meal in the middle of the day; but several hours had
passed since then, and she felt hungry again; Tom did not see any
necessity for remaining hungry, with fifty cents in her possession. She
made her way, therefore, to another eating-house, where the prices were
the same with those at the one before mentioned, and partook of another
square meal, leaving out the pie. This reduced her capital to thirty
cents. She felt that she ought to save this, to start in business upon
in the morning. As a street-sweeper she required no capital except her
broom; but though Tom was not troubled with pride, she preferred to sell
papers, or take up some other street vocation. Besides, she knew that as
a street-sweeper on Broadway, she would be more likely to be discovered
by the old woman whom she was now anxious to avoid.
After eating supper Tom went out into the streets, not knowing exactly
how to spend her time. Usually, she had gone down into the court, or the
street, and played with the children of her own and neighboring tenement
houses. But now she did not care to venture back into the old locality.
So she strolled about the streets aimlessly, until she felt sleepy, and
began to consider whereabouts to bestow herself for the night. She might
have gone to the “Girls’ Lodging House,” if she had known of such an
institution; but she had never heard of it. Chance brought her to a
basement, on which was the sign,—
                         “LODGINGS—FIVE CENTS.”
This attracted Tom’s attention. If it had not been a cold night, she
would have been willing to sleep out, which would have been cheaper; but
it was a damp and chilly evening, and her dress was thin.
“Five cents won’t bust me!” thought Tom. “I’ll go in.”
She went down some steps, and opened a door into a room very
low-studded, and very dirty.
A stout woman, in a dirty calico loose-gown, was sitting in a chair,
with a fat, unhealthy-looking baby in her lap.
“What you want, little gal?” she asked.
“Where’s your lodgin’?” asked Tom.
“In back,” answered the woman, pointing to an inner room, partially
revealed through a half-open door. It was dark, having no windows, and
dirtier, if possible, than the front room. The floor was covered with
straw, for beds and bedsteads were looked upon as unnecessary luxuries
in this economical lodging-house.
“Is that the place?” asked Tom.
“Yes. Do you want to stop here to-night?”
Tom had not been accustomed to first-class hotels, still the
accommodations at granny’s were rather better than this. However, the
young Arab did not mind. She had no doubt she could sleep comfortably on
the straw, and intimated her intention of stopping.
“Where’s your money?” asked the woman.
The invariable rule in this establishment was payment in advance, and,
perhaps, considering the character of the customers, it was the safest
rule that could be adopted.
Tom took out her money, and counted out five cents into the woman’s
palm. She then put back the remainder in her pocket. If she had been
less sleepy, she might have noticed the woman’s covetous glance, and
been led to doubt the safety of her small fortune. But Tom was sleepy,
and her main idea was to go to bed as soon as possible.
“Lay down anywhere,” said the landlady, dropping the five cents into her
pocket.
Tom’s preparation for bed did not take long. No undressing was required,
for it was the custom here to sleep with the day’s clothes on. Tom
stowed herself away in a corner, and in five minutes was asleep.
It was but little after eight o’clock, and she was, at present, the only
lodger.
No sooner did her deep, regular breathing indicate slumber, than the
landlady began to indulge in various suspicious movements. She first put
down her baby, and then taking a lantern,—the only light which could
safely be carried into the lodging-room, on account of the straw upon
the floor,—crept quietly into the inner room.
“She’s fast asleep,” she muttered.
She approached Tom with cautious step. She need not have been afraid to
awaken her. Tom was a good sleeper, and not likely to wake up, unless
roughly awakened, until morning.
Tom was lying on her side, with her face resting on one hand.
The woman stooped down, and began to look for the pocket in which she
kept her money; but it was in that part of her dress upon which she was
lying. This embarrassed the woman somewhat, but an idea occurred to her.
She took up a straw, and, bending over, gently tickled Tom’s ear. Tom
shook her head, as a cat would under similar circumstances, and on its
being repeated turned over, muttering, “Don’t, granny!”
This was what her dishonest landlady wanted. She thrust her hand into
Tom’s pocket, and drew out the poor girl’s entire worldly treasure. Tom,
unconscious of the robbery, slept on; and the woman went back to the
front room to wait for more lodgers. They began to come in about ten,
and by twelve the room was full. It was a motley collection, and would
have been a curious, though sad study, to any humane observer. They were
most of them in the last stages of ill-fortune, yet among them was more
than one who had once filled a respectable position in society. Here was
a man of thirty-five, who ten years before had filled a good place, with
a fair salary, in a city bank. But in an evil hour he helped himself to
some of the funds of the bank. He lost his situation, and, though he
escaped imprisonment, found his prospects blasted. So he had gone down
hill, until at length he found himself reduced to such a lodging-house
as this, fortunate if he could command the small sum needful to keep him
from a night in the streets.
[Illustration]
Next him was stretched a man who was deserving still more pity, since
his misfortunes sprang rather from a want of judgment than from his own
fault. He was a scholar, with a fair knowledge of Latin and Greek, and
some ability as a writer. He was an Englishman who had come to the city
in the hope of making his acquisitions available, but had met with very
poor encouragement. He found that both among teachers and writers the
demand exceeded the supply, at least for those of moderate
qualifications; and, having no influential friends, had sought for
employment almost in vain. His small stock of money dwindled, his suit
became shabby, until he found himself, to his deep mortification and
disgust, compelled to resort to such lodging-houses as this, where he
was obliged to herd with the lowest and most abandoned class.
Next to him lay a mechanic, once in profitable employment. But drink had
been his ruin; and now he was a vagabond, spending the little money he
earned, at rum-shops, except what was absolutely necessary for food.
There is no need of cataloguing the remainder of Meg Morely’s lodgers.
Her low rates generally secured her a room-full, and a dozen, sometimes
more, were usually packed away on the floor. On the whole she found it a
paying business, though her charges were low. Sixty cents a day was
quite a respectable addition to her income, and she had occupied the
same place for two years already. Tom’s experience will show that she
had other, and not quite so lawful, ways of swelling her receipts, but
she was cautious not to put them in practice, unless she considered it
prudent, as in the present instance.
It was seven o’clock when Tom awoke. She looked around her in
bewilderment, thinking at first she must be in granny’s room. But a
glance at the prostrate forms around her brought back the events of the
day before, and gave her a realizing sense of her present situation.
“I’ve had a good sleep,” said Tom to herself, stretching, by way of
relief from her constrained position. “I guess it’s time to get up.”
She rubbed her eyes, and shook back her hair, and then rising, went into
the front room. Her landlady was already up and getting breakfast.
“What time is it?” asked Tom.
“It’s just gone seven,” said Meg, looking sharply at Tom to see if she
had discovered the loss of her money. “How did you sleep?”
“Tip-top.”
“Come ag’in.”
“All right!” said Tom. “Maybe I will.”
She climbed up the basement stairs to the street above, and began to
think of what the day had in store for her. Her prospects were not
brilliant certainly; but Tom on the whole felt in good spirits. She had
thrown off the yoke of slavery. She was her own mistress now, and
granny’s power was broken. Tom felt that she could get along somehow.
She had confidence in herself, and was sure something would turn up for
her.
“Now, what’ll I do first?” thought Tom.
With twenty-five cents in her pocket, and a good appetite, breakfast
naturally suggested itself.
She dove her hand into her pocket, but the face of the little Arab
almost instantly expressed deep dismay.
Her money was gone!
                              CHAPTER VII.
                          TOM MAKES A FRIEND.
Twenty-five cents is not a large sum, but it was Tom’s entire fortune.
It was all she had, not only to buy breakfast with, but also to start in
business. She had an excellent appetite, but now there was no hope of
satisfying it until she could earn some more money.
Tom hurried back to the lodging, and entered, looking excited.
“Well, what’s wanted?” asked Meg, who knew well enough without asking.
“I’ve lost some money.”
“Suppose you did,” said the woman, defiantly, “you don’t mean to say I
took it.”
“No,” said Tom, “but I had it when I laid down.”
“Where was it?”
“In my pocket.”
“Might have tumbled out among the straw,” suggested Meg.
This struck Tom as not improbable, and she went back into the bedroom,
and, getting down on her hands and knees, commenced poking about for it.
But even if it had been there, any of my readers who has ever lost money
in this way knows that it is very difficult to find under such
circumstances.
Tom persevered in her search until her next-door neighbor growled out
that he wished she would clear out. At length she was obliged to give it
up.
“Have you found it?” asked Meg.
“No,” said Tom, soberly.
“How much was it?”
“Twenty-five cents.”
“That aint much.”
“It’s enough to bust me. I don’t believe it’s in the straw.”
“What do you believe?” demanded Meg, whose guilty conscience made her
scent an accusation.
“I think some of them took it while I was asleep,” said Tom, indicating
the other lodgers by a jerk of her finger.
“Likely they did,” said Meg, glad to have suspicion diverted elsewhere.
“I wish I knew,” said Tom.
“What’ud you do?”
“I’d get it back again,” said Tom, her black eyes snapping with
resolution.
“No, you wouldn’t. You’re nothin’ but a babby. You couldn’t do nothin’!”
“Couldn’t I?” returned Tom. “I’d let ’em know whether I was a baby.”
“Well, you go along now,” said Meg. “Your money’s gone, and you can’t
get it back. Next time give it to me to keep, and it’ll be safe.”
Being penniless, Tom was in considerable uncertainty when she would
again be mistress of so large a sum. At present she felt in no
particular dread of being robbed. She left the lodgings, realizing that
the money was indeed gone beyond hope of recovery.
There is some comfort in beginning the day with a good breakfast. It
warms one up, and inspires hope and confidence. As a general rule people
are good-natured and cheerful after a hearty breakfast. For ten cents
Tom might have got a cup of coffee, or what passed for such, and a plate
of tea-biscuit. With the other fifteen she could have bought a few
morning papers, and easily earned enough to pay for a square meal in the
middle of the day. Now she must go to work without capital, and on an
empty stomach, which was rather discouraging. She would have fared
better than this at granny’s, though not much, her breakfast there
usually consisting of a piece of stale bread, with perhaps a fragment of
cold sausage. Coffee, granny never indulged in, believing whiskey to be
more healthful. Occasionally, in moments of extreme good nature, she had
given Tom a sip of whiskey; but the young Arab had never got to like it,
fortunately for herself, though she had accepted it as a variation of
her usual beverage, cold water.
In considering what she should do for the day, Tom decided to go to some
of the railway stations or steamboat landings, and try to get a chance
to carry a carpet-bag. “Baggage-smashing” required no capital, and this
was available in her present circumstances.
Tom made her way to the pier where the steamers of the Fall River line
arrive. Ordinarily it would have been too late, but it had been a windy
night, the sound was rough, and the steamer was late, so that Tom
arrived just in the nick of time.
Tom took her place among the hackmen, and the men and boys who, like
her, were bent on turning an honest penny by carrying baggage.
“Clear out of the way here, little gal!” said a stout, overgrown boy.
“Smash your baggage, sir?”
“Clear out yourself!” said Tom, boldly. “I’ve got as much right here as
you.”
Her little, sharp eyes darted this way and that in search of a possible
customer. The boy who had been rude to her got a job, and this gave Tom
a better chance. She offered her services to a lady, who stared at her
with curiosity and returned no answer. Tom began to think she should not
get a job. There seemed a popular sentiment in favor of employing boys,
and Tom, like others of her sex, found herself shut out from an
employment for which she considered herself fitted. But, at length, she
saw approaching a big, burly six-footer, with a good-natured face. There
was something about him which inspired Tom with confidence, and,
pressing forward, she said, “Carry your bag, sir?”
He stopped short and looked down at the queer figure of our heroine.
Then, glancing at his carpet-bag, which was of unusual size and weight,
the idea of his walking through the streets with Tom bending beneath the
weight of his baggage, struck him in so ludicrous a manner that he burst
into a hearty laugh.
“What’s up?” demanded Tom, suspiciously. “Who are you laughin’ at?”
“So you want to carry my carpet-bag?” he asked, laughing again.
“Yes,” said Tom.
“Why, I could put you in it,” said the tall man, his eyes twinkling with
amusement.
“No, you couldn’t,” said Tom.
“Do you think you could carry it?”
“Let me try.”
He set it down, and Tom lifted it from the ground; but it was obviously
too much for her strength.
“You see you can’t do it. Have you found anything to do this morning?”
“No,” said Tom.
“Business isn’t good, hey?”
“No,” said Tom, “but I wouldn’t mind so much if I hadn’t had my money
stole. I’m bust!”
“How’s that? Did the bank break or have you been speculating?”
“Oh, you’re gasin’! I aint got nothing to do with banks. Somebody stole
two shillin’s I had, so I’ve had no breakfast.”
“Come, that’s bad. I guess I must give you a job, after all. You can’t
carry my bag, but you can carry this.”
He had under his arm something wrapped in a paper, making a small
bundle. He handed it to Tom, and she trudged along with it after him.
“You couldn’t guess what that is, I suppose?” said her companion,
sociably.
“No,” said Tom; “it feels soft.”
“It’s a large wax doll, for my little niece,” said her patron. “You
haven’t got any dolls, I suppose?”
“I had one once,” said Tom. “It was made of rags. But granny threw it
into the fire.”
“I suppose you were sorry.”
“I was then; but I’m too old for dolls now.”
“How old are you?”
“I aint sure. Somewheres about twelve.”
“You live with your granny, then?”
“No, I don’t,—not now.”
“Why not?”
“She wanted to lick me, so I run away.”
“Then where do you live now?”
“Nowhere.”
“You have no home?”
“I don’t want no home. I can take care of myself,” said Tom, briskly.
“I see you are an independent, young woman. Now, if you were a boy, I’d
give you a chance on board my ship.”
“Have you got a ship?” asked Tom, becoming interested.
“Yes, I am a sea-captain, and go on long voyages. If you wasn’t a girl,
I’d take you along with me as cabin-boy.”
“I wish you would,” said Tom, eagerly.
“But you are a girl, you know? You couldn’t climb a mast.”
“Try me,” said Tom. “I’m strong. I fit with a boy yesterday, and licked
him.”
Captain Barnes laughed, but shook his head.
“I see you’re spunky, if you are a girl,” he said. “But I never heard of
a girl being cabin-boy, and I don’t think it would do.”
“I’d put on a boy’s clothes,” suggested Tom.
“You’ve begun to do it already,” said the captain, glancing at the cap
and jacket. “I didn’t know at first but you were a boy. What makes you
wear a cap?”
“Granny gave it to me. I like it better than a bonnet.”
They had by this time reached Broadway.
“You may steer across the Park to French’s Hotel,” said the sailor.
“It’s too late to get breakfast at my sister’s.”
“All right,” said Tom.
They crossed the Park, and the street beyond, and reached the door of
the brick hotel on the corner of Frankfort Street.
“I’ll go down into the restaurant first,” said Captain Barnes. “I feel
like laying in a cargo before navigating any farther.”
“Here’s your bundle,” said Tom.
He took it, and handed Tom twenty-five cents, which she received with
gratification, not having expected so much for carrying so small a
bundle.
“Stay a moment,” said the sailor, as she was about to go away. “You
haven’t had any breakfast, I think you said.”
“No.”
“Then you shall come in, and breakfast with me.”
This invitation astonished Tom not a little. It was the first invitation
she had ever received to breakfast with a gentleman. French’s restaurant
being higher priced than those which her class were in the habit of
patronizing, she entered with some hesitation, not feeling quite sure
how her entrance would be regarded by the waiters. She was not generally
wanting in self-possession, but as she descended the stairs and entered
the room, she felt awkward and out of her element.
                             CHAPTER VIII.
                           AT FRENCH’S HOTEL.
“Clear out of here!” said a waiter, arresting Tom’s progress, and
pointing to the steps by which she had descended from the sidewalk.
If Tom had been alone, she would have felt bound to obey the summons;
but being under the protection of Captain Barnes, who, she reflected,
looked a good deal stronger than the waiter, she stood her ground.
“Did you hear what I said?” demanded the waiter angrily, about to take
Tom by the shoulder.
“Avast there!” put in the captain, who thought it time to interfere; “is
that the way you treat your customers?”
“She aint no customer.”
“She is going to take breakfast here, my friend, and I should like to
know what you have got to say about it.”
The waiter seemed taken aback by this unexpected championship of one
whom he had supposed to be an unprotected street girl.
“I didn’t know she was with you,” he stammered.
“Well, you know it now. Come, child, you can sit down here.”
Tom enjoyed her triumph over the waiter, and showed it in a
characteristic manner, by putting her thumb to her nose.
Captain Barnes sat down on one side of a table at one of the windows,
and motioned Tom to sit opposite.
“I don’t think you told me your name,” he said.
“Tom.”
“Then, Tom, let me suggest that you take off your cap. It’s usual in the
best society.”
“I never was there,” said Tom; but she removed her cap. This revealed a
mop of hair, tangled it is true, but of a beautiful brown shade. Her
black eyes sparkled from beneath, giving a bright, keen look to her
face, browned by exposure to all weathers. I regret to say that the face
was by no means clean. If it had been, and the whole expression had not
been so wild and untamed, Tom would certainly have been considered
pretty. As it was, probably no one would have wasted a second glance
upon the little street girl.
“What will you have, sir, you and the young lady?” asked the waiter,
emphasizing the last word, with a grin at Tom.
“What will you have, Tom?” asked the captain.
“Beefsteak, cup o’ coffee, and bread-and-butter,” said Tom, glibly.
Her knowledge of dishes was limited; but she had tried these and liked
them, and this guided her in the selection.
“Very good,” said Captain Barnes; “the same for me, with fried potatoes
and an omelet.”
Tom stared at this munificent order. She fixed her black eyes
meditatively upon her entertainer, and wondered whether he always
indulged in such a superlatively square meal.
“What are you thinking about, Tom?” questioned the captain.
“You must be awful rich,” said Tom.
Captain Barnes laughed.
“What makes you think so?”
“It’ll cost you a lot for breakfast.”
“But you know I don’t always have company to breakfast.”
“Do you call me company?”
“Of course I do.”
“I shouldn’t think you’d want to have me eat with you.”
“Why not?”
“You’re a gentleman.”
“And you’re a young lady. Didn’t you hear the waiter call you so?”
“He was chaffin’.”
“You may be a lady some time.”
“’Taint likely,” said Tom.
“Why not?”
“I haven’t got no good clothes to wear, nor don’t know nothin’.”
“Can you read?”
“A little, but I don’t like to. It’s too hard work.”
“Makes your head ache, eh?”
“Yes,” said Tom, seriously.
Captain Barnes looked attentively at the odd little creature opposite
him. He wondered what would be her fate. She was quick, sharp, pretty,
but withal an untamed Arab of the streets. The chances seemed very much
against her in the warfare of life. Society seemed leagued against her,
and she was likely to be at war with it.
“I’ll make an effort to save her,” he thought. But of this he did not
speak to Tom at present, more especially as the waiter was seen
advancing with the breakfast ordered.
He deposited the various dishes, some before Tom, and the remainder
before the captain.
Tom was not used to restaurants of the better class, and did not see the
necessity of an empty plate in addition to the dish which contained the
meat. Such ceremony was not in vogue at the ten-cent restaurants which
she had hitherto patronized. She fixed her eyes eagerly upon the
beefsteak, which emitted a very savory odor.
“Pass your plate, Tom, and I will give you some meat.”
Tom passed her plate, nothing loath, and the captain transferred to it a
liberal supply of meat.
Tom waited for no ceremony, but, seizing her knife, attacked the meat
vigorously.
“How is it?” asked her companion, amused.
“Bully!” said Tom, too busy to raise her eyes from her plate.
“Let me help you to a little of the omelet.”
Tom extended her plate, and a portion of the omelet was placed upon it.
Tom raised a little to her lips, cautiously, for it was a new dish to
her, and she did not know whether she would like it. It seemed to be
satisfactory, however, none being left upon her plate when she had
finished eating.
Not much conversation went on during the meal. Tom’s entire energies
were given to disposing of the squarest meal in which she had ever
indulged, and the captain’s attention was divided between his breakfast
and the young waif upon whom he was bestowing perfect bliss.
At length Tom’s efforts relaxed. She laid down her knife and fork, and
heaved a sigh of exquisite enjoyment.
“Well,” said the captain, “would you like some more?”
“No,” said Tom, “I’m full.”
“Did you enjoy your breakfast?”
“Didn’t I, just?” and Tom’s tone spoke volumes.
“I’m glad of that. I think it’s very good myself.”
“You’re a brick!” said Tom, in a tone of grateful acknowledgment.
“Thank you,” said Captain Barnes, his eyes twinkling a little; “I try to
be.”
“I wonder what granny would say if she knowed where I was,” soliloquized
Tom, aloud.
“She’d be glad you had enjoyed your breakfast.”
“No, she wouldn’t. She’d be mad.”
“You don’t give your grandmother a very good character. Doesn’t she like
you?”
“No; she hates me, and I hate her. She takes all my money, and then
licks me.”
“That’s unpleasant, to be sure. Then you don’t want to go back to her?”
“Not for Joe!” said Tom, shaking her head very decidedly.
“Then you expect to take care of yourself? Do you think you can?”
Tom nodded confidently.
“What are you going to do this morning, for instance?”
“Buy some papers with the money you give me.”
“What a self-reliant spirit the little chit has!” thought Captain
Barnes. “I’ve known plenty of young men, who had less faith in their
ability to cope with the world, and gain a livelihood, than she. Yet she
has next to no clothes, and her entire capital consists of twenty-five
cents. There is a lesson for the timid and despondent in her
philosophy.”
Tom had no idea of what was passing in the mind of her companion. If she
had been able to read his thoughts, it is not likely she would have
understood them. Her own thoughts had become practical. She had had a
good breakfast,—thanks to the kindness of her new friend,—but for dinner
she must depend upon herself. She felt that it was quite time to enter
upon the business of the day.
She put on her cap and rose to her feet.
“I’m goin’,” she said, abruptly.
“Where are you going?”
“To buy some papers. Thank you for my breakfast.”
It was probably the first time Tom ever thanked anybody for anything. I
am not quite sure whether anybody before this had given her any cause
for gratitude. Certainly, not granny, who had bestowed far less than she
had received from the child, upon whom she had not been ashamed to be a
selfish dependent. There was something, possibly, in her present
companionship with a kind-hearted gentleman, something, perhaps, in her
