"Have you heard bad news?" she asked of Kathie. "My cousin said your
uncle had returned."
"Yes," in a grave tone, rather unlike the sunshiny Kathie.
"That was quite a romance about your friend Miss Darrell. Do they think
Mr. Meredith will--never get well?"
"They are afraid."
The little bell sounded to call them to order, and then began the usual
lessons. Kathie's were always perfect, and yet, oddly enough, it seemed
to Emma that her whole heart was not in them.
She had fallen into the habit of watching Kathie very narrowly. The
"something different from other girls" was still a puzzle to her; and
when the doctor had said, a few days ago, "You just missed having a
severe attack of diphtheria," it startled Emma a good deal. She knew
several who had died of diphtheria; and if she were to die--
Of course she wanted to live. She was young, and full of hope; and there
would be the fortune by and by,--one of those odd bequests of which she
reaped little benefit now, as it was to go on accumulating until she was
twenty-one; but then she would be able to do a great many delightful
things with it. That was not all, however. There was something very
terrible in the idea of death.
"O Miss Lauriston, we have ever so much to tell you and to talk about!"
exclaimed Sue Coleman. "We are going to have some tableaux for a
charitable object, and we want you to stand in several of them. You will
make such a lovely Sister of Charity in Consolation."
With that the ball was fairly opened. Emma was pleased and interested at
once.
"You are all to come over to my house after school. Belle Hadden has
planned everything. She is a host in herself."
Kathie had been walking up and down with two or three girls that she did
not care much about, only they had joined her, and were, perhaps, better
company than her lonely thoughts.
"You are going over to Mrs. Coleman's,--are you not?" asked Emma, in
surprise. "Don't you like tableaux?"
"Very much, but--Good by"; and Kathie made a feint of kissing her hand.
"Girls, haven't you asked Kathie Alston?" exclaimed Emma, in the first
lull, for the talk had been very energetic; "she would make up lovely in
ever so many characters."
There was a silence, and the girls glanced at each other with
determination in their faces.
"What is the matter? Has she offended you? I noticed something a little
peculiar in school to-day."
"Kathie Alston is well enough--in her place."
Emma colored. "Her place is as good as any of ours, I suppose," she made
answer, slowly.
"Well, I don't quite think it is"; and Belle took up the glove. "There
are some social distinctions--" The rest of the sentence was rather
troublesome.
"I am sure the Alstons are rich, if that is what you mean."
"That is not altogether what I mean"; yet Belle was a trifle embarrassed
at being forced to meet the issue so squarely, though every girl felt in
her secret soul that Emma was undeniably aristocratic. "If we are to
take up everybody who becomes suddenly rich, there is Mary Carson and
several others; and I've never been used to it. Mamma is particular
about my associates."
"But the Alstons are educated, refined, and were always wealthy until
they met with a reverse of fortune when Mr. Alston died."
"And Mrs. Alston used to sew for the whole neighborhood, I've heard.
Fancy being compelled to meet your seamstress as an--an equal! Mrs.
Wilder ought to be more exclusive about her scholars. Mamma said so
herself. And only a few days ago some horrid country clowns stopped
right in front of the school, and she went off to take a ride in their
forlorn old wagon. Our cook is actually related to these people! Their
name is Strong,--a coarse, vulgar set, I know."
Belle talked very rapidly, and her face flushed with excitement. For
several moments Emma hesitated. The distinction appeared paltry and mean
to her. Then she really did like Kathie. "Girls," she began, at
length, "I think you are unjust. I have been at Cedarwood, and met all
the family. They are refined, intelligent, have a lovely home, and
are--truly noble and Christian people." Emma uttered the last in spite
of herself.
"Well, every one can do as she likes"; and Belle gave her head a haughty
toss. "I don't think because a man digs up a nugget of gold in Australia
he is entitled to a king's position at once. There are some girls at
school that I should not associate with under any circumstances."
Emma had a feeling that this was really absurd; yet most of the girls
had ranged themselves on this side, and it did require a good deal of
courage to go against the opinions of her mates and friends. Still, when
she came to think of it, Mrs. Grayson visited the Alstons, the Darrells
were their firm friends, and that rich and elegant Mr. Meredith! But
Kathie was rather inclined to be hand and glove with people beneath
her.
"And Kathie Alston does take up everybody," said one of the girls.
"Every few days you see her having some common thing in that
pony-phaeton of hers. She hasn't a bit of pride or good taste, and it
seems to me that is next of kin to refinement."
"Let us go on with the tableaux."
Emma listened to the arrangements in silence. This made such a beautiful
scene,--that was so brilliant, or so pathetic, and must not be left out.
And before they were aware the dusky evening dropped down about them.
"Girls," she said at length, in a soft, low voice, "I have decided that
I will not take part in the tableaux. Kathie Alston and I have been
friends, and I shall do nothing that I am quite sure to be ashamed of
afterward. You have been very kind to ask me, and I am not angry with
any of the opinions I have heard expressed, though they may not please
me. Good night."
"Let her go over to the plebeians!" said some one, with a laugh.
At home Kathie had two pleasant surprises. First, a letter from Miss
Jessie all to herself, in which they hoped, very faintly indeed, that
Mr. Meredith had taken a turn for the better. If the good news should
prove true, they meant, as soon as it would be safe, to remove to a
private house. And then she said, "My darling little Kathie, we often
feel that we would give half the world to see you."
The other was from Sarah,--a decided improvement upon her Christmas
epistle,--not a word misspelled, and the sentences very fairly
constructed. The last part was filled with Cousin Ellen and her little
boy. Sarah told the whole story in her innocence, without the least
intention of boasting. Mr. and Mrs. Strong had offered these poor
wayfarers a home until they could do better.
"It is very good of them,--isn't it?" said Kathie. "If the Strongs are
not polished, they have generous hearts."
"It certainly is most kind; and I am wonderfully pleased with the
improvement in Sarah."
"Uncle Robert, would it be rude to send Sarah a pretty blue hair-ribbon,
and tell her a little about contrasting colors? I wish she would not
wear so much scarlet. Is it wrong for everybody to look as pretty as he
or she can?"
"No, my dear; and sometimes a delicate hint proves very useful. Sarah
has entirely too much color for scarlet; she needs something to tone her
down."
Kathie had been casting about for some time how to manage this matter
nicely, and her present idea appeared both delicate and feasible to her.
Looking over her store, she found a fresh, pretty ribbon, and forgot all
about the school trouble.
The tableaux progressed rapidly. A number of the Academy boys were
invited to join. Mr. Coleman had some tickets printed, which sold
rapidly, and the affair promised to be successful.
But one evening Dick Grayson said, "Emma Lauriston would look prettier
in Consolation, and make the best Evangeline, of any girl in Brookside.
Why haven't you asked her and Kathie Alston?"
"Emma declined," was the almost abrupt answer.
"But Kathie is the sweetest little girl I ever saw. She is always ready
for everything."
There was no response. Belle Hadden had gone quite too far to admit that
her line of distinction had been wrongly drawn. Lottie Thorne felt
both sorry and ashamed; but there was no going back without a rather
humiliating admission. And yet if she only had not spoken that day!
But Emma and Kathie drew nearer together in a quiet way through these
troubled times. There were some petty slights to endure, and many
unkindnesses. Friends and companions can wound each other so often in a
noiseless manner,--pain and sting without the buzzing of a wasp, so
patent to all the world,--and I often think these unseen hurts are the
hardest to bear.
The evening at Mrs. Coleman's was both delightful and profitable. The
Brookside Standard contained quite a glowing account of the
entertainment, and praised the young ladies for their labor in so good a
cause. The sum received, with several donations, amounted to
eighty-seven dollars.
"Why did you not speak of it, Kathie?" asked Uncle Robert. "We would all
have gone."
Now, there had not been even a ticket offered to Kathie. Indeed, the
space being limited, Sue and Belle had made out a list of guests
beforehand.
Kathie colored violently, and Uncle Robert looked quite astonished.
Seeing that she was expected to answer, she summoned her courage.
"It was a--a party affair of the larger girls in school. They did not
ask every one."
"But we might have sent a gift, the object was so very worthy."
Kathie made no reply to that. Uncle Robert studied the grave face, and
decided that something had gone wrong.
Dick Grayson dropped in that evening. "I was so disappointed about your
not being there," he said. "You would just have fitted in two or three
of the tableaux."
But Kathie did not appear to be disposed to converse on the subject, so
they wandered off into a talk about Rob, and then Mr. Meredith claimed
their attention.
The patricians flourished in grand style. It would have been really
laughable to sensible people to see how one after another copied Belle
Hadden's airs and graces, and how the gulf widened in school. Several of
the girls asked to have their seats changed, until the plebeians were
left quite to themselves.
And yet the matter worked out a very odd and rather mortifying
retaliation. One afternoon Dick Grayson overtook Emma Lauriston walking
homeward. He had that day received a letter from her brother Fred, and
repeated some of the contents.
"Are you going to Belle Hadden's party?" he asked, presently.
"I have not had any invitation." Emma's tone was rather curt.
"No?" in the utmost surprise. "What has happened among you girls? You
and Kathie were not at the tableaux. Is there a standing quarrel?"
Dick and Emma were excellent friends in boy-and-girl fashion.
"There is something very mean and foolish. I wish somebody could look at
it with clear eyes and give Belle Hadden a lesson!"
Emma's usually soft voice was indignant, and her face crimsoned with
excitement.
"But how did Kathie Alston come to get mixed up with it. It seems to me
that she is the last one to quarrel."
"There was no quarrel, at least no words. There are some very
aristocratic girls in school, and Belle is forever talking about her
mother's family. So they have divided the girls into patricians and
plebeians."
"But Mr. Conover is a gentleman, and the Alstons are all refined. The
idea of putting Kathie on the plebeian side is absurd! And you too--"
"I went over there," she said, sharply. "I would not take part in the
tableaux on that account. Kathie had done nothing to them. It was
because her mother used to sew, I believe, and then Kathie herself is
not a bit proud. I suppose if they made a great show and parade like the
Haddens--"
"I did not think Belle was that small! And you are a splendid champion,
Emma. But Kathie is worthy of the best friendship in the world. She is
never mean or envious, or looking out for the best places, and Mr.
Conover is just royal. The idea of the Haddens setting themselves up!
Why, Mrs. Alston used to sew for my mother, and mother is one of her
warmest friends. Isn't there something very unjust about girls,--some
girls, I mean?" blushing as he corrected himself. "And why does not Mrs.
Wilder interfere, or is she on the patrician side?"
"Mrs. Wilder really doesn't know anything about it. The little hateful
acts are done on the sly, just looks and tones, or some sentence that no
one can take hold of. It would seem silly to complain of not being
noticed. But it takes away the pleasant feeling that used to exist."
"And how does Kathie bear it?"
"Like a little angel. It hurts her cruelly too. About the time this
first began, some very common-looking people spoke to Kathie in the
street, and the girls have laughed and sneered at that. Indeed, nothing
that she does escapes them. I almost wish that I wasn't a girl!"
"Boys don't badger a fellow that way, if they did there would be some
thrashing! But I know just how to come up with Belle Hadden, and I'll do
it!"
With that Dick laughed.
Emma was so much exasperated that the thought rather delighted her.
"What will you do?"
"I can't tell you until afterward. Don't I wish Rob Alston was home,
though! He would enjoy the fun."
They separated at Emma's gate. She was not altogether sure that she was
right in her desire, but she determined not to worry herself on that
score.
Belle's party was to be quite a grand affair. A number of the Academy
boys were invited, those who were rich and stylish; Belle did not come
to school the next day, and the girls were rather indiscreet without
their leader.
The rooms were beautiful, the supper elegant, the music fine, but--there
were so few young gentlemen! Not Dick Grayson, nor Walter Dorrance,
nor Charlie Darrell, nor--ever so many others that had been counted upon
sure.
Emma guessed as she heard the floating talk.
"I do suppose Belle Hadden was as deeply mortified last night as she
could be," Emma said to Kathie. "If ever I have another cause that I
want righted I will place it in Dick Grayson's hand. He is equal to
Arthur's knights."
"What did he do?"
"He said he had a plan. I know now that it must have been to keep the
nicest boys away from the party. Belle likes Dick so much too. It must
have been worth seeing,--their disappointment. A host of wall-flowers
with no one to lead them out to dance!"
"You didn't ask him to do it?" Kathie's face was full of pain and
regret.
"No, not exactly. Indeed, I did not know what he meant to do, only I was
telling him about Belle Hadden's meanness, and he thought of a way to
pay her back."
"I am so sorry it was--that way."
"Kathie!"
"O Emma dear, don't think me ungrateful! You have stood by me of your
own accord, I know," and Kathie clasped her hand. "I am so much obliged
to you. They had nothing against you at first, and they were very sorry
not to have you at the tableaux. But it always troubles me to know that
other people have suffered--"
"Not when they deserve it, surely!"
"Always--if it can be helped."
"And you would not have done this? You think it was not right for me to
tell?"
What could Kathie say,--blame her brave comrade?
"No, you do not think it right. I can see that in your face! Kathie, how
can you bear everything so patiently?"
"God makes it all right at last. He asks us to wait his time. And though
it is very hard--" Kathie's lip quivered and her voice grew unsteady.
"It seems to me this has been the meanest thing I ever knew. You cannot
guess what gave it the first start."
"Yes. It was while you were sick that the girls--took a dislike to me. I
spoke to some people one day, some friends," correcting herself, "and
Belle laughed at them. Then the girls talked about--mamma."
"It was shameful!"
"We were poor, and we had to work. Mamma could not help all that. And
then Uncle Robert came, and we have been so very happy ever since.
Thinking of it all, I don't mind this little trouble much. All that
Belle says cannot make us coarse and vulgar and ignorant, and I have
been trying all the time to look on the best and brightest side."
Emma put her arm suddenly around Kathie.
"What is it," she asked, in a husky voice,--"what is it that makes you
sweet and patient and tender and forgiving, always ready to minister to
others and to the poor, even if you are laughed at and teased? Maybe
it's the same grace that takes away the fear of death! O, I wish I knew!
I wish I had it! I am sometimes so miserable, Kathie. Do you believe
that your God could love and pity me a little?"
"'Him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out.'"
It was all that Kathie could think of to say as Emma stopped short in
her walk, trembling, excited, and tearful.
"But how to come?"
Kathie hesitated. It seemed that she knew so little herself, how then
could she direct another? She remembered the other time when she failed
to bear witness, and though her shy, delicate nature shrank from
anything like a parade of her most sacred feelings, strength was given
her when she asked for it.
"I do not know how it is always--" in her sweet, faltering voice, "but
when I first wanted to try--to be good,--to follow HIM even a little, it
was just as if I reached out my hand and prayed him to take it, and kept
close to him by endeavoring to do what he wishes--"
"And you did not have--any great light--"
"I had only a love and a desire to obey him. And it seemed as if
everybody helped me,--mamma, Aunt Ruth, and Uncle Robert. But there is
always something to overcome, some battle to fight."
"And I am a poor, raw recruit. Do you think He will accept me, Kathie?"
"Every one--to the uttermost."
They walked to the corner, where their paths diverged.
"I wish you would come and see me," Kathie said, with her ready grace.
"Fred was there occasionally last summer, and Uncle Robert liked him so
much!"
"And you will forgive that--revenge? Perhaps I ought to have waited."
Kathie's look was sufficient, though she could not have spoken.
But the child went home in a gravely sweet frame of mind. She was in a
mood to tell Uncle Robert the whole story that evening; but there were
several guests, so there could be no confidences.
The next morning, after school was opened, Mrs. Wilder rose and told
them she had a few words to say upon a subject that had been a source of
much disquiet for several days; and then she very kindly but wisely took
up the matter that had so divided and agitated the girls, and severely
condemned the folly of which some of them had been guilty. "They would
find as they grew older," she said, "that with people of culture and
refinement social distinctions did not depend so much on a little more
or a little less money, but nobleness of soul, thought, and
feeling,--deeds that could brave and endure the scrutiny of clear eyes,
and not those which must always slink away and hide themselves behind
whispered insinuations."
It seemed, after all, as if, in some mysterious way, Mrs. Wilder had
learned all the particulars. She mentioned no names, and did not in the
least seek to exalt Kathie; but the child knew by the kiss and the
lingering glance bestowed upon her that afternoon that all her silence
and pain had been appreciated.
If Belle needed anything further to lower her self-esteem, she had it on
her return home. Mr. Conover, Mrs. Alston, and Mrs. Grayson had met at
the house of a mutual friend when Mrs. Hadden happened to call.
"Belle," she began, sharply, "how could you have committed such a
blunder as to omit that pretty little Miss Alston from your party-list?
Her mother and her uncle are very charming people, and they have a host
of elegant friends in New York. Mrs. Havens was here last summer to
visit them, and those aristocratic Merediths are warm friends of theirs.
I am so sorry it should have happened!"
"Miss Alston is a regular little Methodist,--too good to go to parties,"
returned Belle, rather crossly.
And so ended the reign of the patricians. Belle somehow lost prestige at
school. Even Lottie began to be pleasant again with Kathie, secretly
hoping that Belle would never repeat her unlucky remark.
Dick Grayson and Charlie had to tell Kathie one evening how they spoiled
a good deal of the fun at Belle Hadden's party.
"I felt so sorry," Kathie said, gravely.
"Well, you are the queerest girl I ever saw," was Charlie's comment; yet
something inside told him she was a noble one as well.
But the sweetest of all was the talk with Uncle Robert.
CHAPTER XI.
IN ANOTHER'S STEAD.
CLOSER pressed the ranks of brave men who were to strike a final blow
for the good cause, nearer, nearer, marching on with a steady, crushing
step. The nation rejoiced over victories, but firesides, from palace to
hovel, missed and mourned some dear, familiar face, some cheerful voice
that would never speak again.
Kathie used to watch daily. The campaign was growing more exciting as it
approached the end. Her heart used to beat chokingly as she glanced down
the lists. And this was what she saw one day: "Missing, William
Morrison."
"O mamma!" with a quick cry, "did you read this?"
Mrs. Alston looked. "Oh!" she exclaimed, with sudden pain. "Uncle Robert
and Mr. Morrison have gone to the nursery to select a few more
fruit-trees. They will doubtless hear of it at the village."
"You do not think--he has been--killed!"
Kathie's face was very pale and her sweet voice faltered.
"Hardly," returned Mrs. Alston. "But one can never be quite certain what
becomes of the missing."
Kathie put on her shawl and hood presently, and walked slowly down the
winding drive. She had not sufficient courage to enter the cottage,
though through the window she saw Ethel and Jamie having a game of
romps. The child's cheeks were like roses, and now and then a careless
laugh floated out to Kathie, who shivered with something more than cold.
Presently the wagon approached slowly. When Uncle Robert caught sight of
his little niece he sprang out and greeted her warmly.
"I have some good news for you, Kitty," he said, in his bright, breezy
tone. "Mr. Meredith is really better. They hope to bring him home before
long. Why--isn't it delightful?" seeing that she made no answer.
"Yes, I am very, very thankful."
"But, Kathie--what has happened, little one?"
"Our other soldier--"
"Mr. Morrison--O child, what tidings of him?"
"There has been another battle, and he is--missing."
"The news might be worse then. There is a little hope, so do not despair
at once."
Kathie grasped his arm tighter, and they walked nearly to the house in
silence. Then he said, "Of what are you thinking, my darling?"
There were tears in her soft, violet eyes.
"Uncle Robert, what a strange and solemn thing it is to have any one die
for you,--in your stead."
"Yes. I wonder if we do not sometimes forget the One who died eighteen
hundred years ago? But this brings it home to you and me in a manner
that we shall always remember."
"And, looking at that, all our little trials and burdens seem as
nothing. I thought it quite hard to be treated so unjustly at school,
but what was it compared with giving up one's life?"
"It is something, my darling, when we bear reviling from that highest of
all motives,--His sake. Even the little steps are precious in his sight.
We are not all called upon to walk the sorrowful way he trod."
"But poor little Ethel!"
"We promised, you know, to make all the amends in our power to her."
"But it seems to me that nothing could comfort me if you were gone."
He took the cold little face in his hands, as they were standing on the
broad porch now, at the very door.
"Do you love me so well, my child? But we must not forget that those who
stay at home are sometimes called from the earthly ranks. God asks of us
that his will and pleasure shall be ours as well."
"Yes, I know "; but her voice was quite faint as he kissed her.
It was dusk, and as he opened the door the cheerful light and warmth of
the hall were most grateful. Kathie gave a shiver as if she were shaking
off the wintry cold.
"Do not anticipate the worst," he said, pleasantly. "To-morrow's news
may be different."
She smiled faintly. "I am not a very good soldier, after all," she
returned, with a little faltering in her tones.
"My darling, when our Captain calls us out to fight, he always gives us
grace and strength. But we must never look away from him; that is part
of the promise."
She hung up her hood, smoothed her hair, that had been blown about by
the wind, and went in to supper. They all talked a little about Mr.
Morrison, but it appeared to Kathie that they were wonderfully hopeful.
Indeed, the news from Mr. Meredith was so very encouraging that it
seemed to dim the force of the other.
Afterward Mr. Conover went down to the cottage. Freddy brought his
solitaire-board to Kathie.
"I've forgotten how it is done," he said, "and I want you to show me.
Let me take them out, and you just tell me when I go wrong."
It really seemed that Fred had a marvellous faculty for going wrong.
Kathie felt very much as if she did not care to be bothered. She was
restless and nervous, and wanted to curl herself up on Aunt Ruth's
lounge and think a little.
"Greater love hath no man--" the words kept running through her mind.
But the love began in little things, even the love which suffered at
last upon the cross. So she roused herself to patience and interest.
Uncle Robert looked quite grave when he returned. The Morrisons had
heard the tidings, and were very anxious.
"I must write to Mr. Morrison's captain to-morrow," he said. "We must
make every effort to find him. He may have been wounded and carried off
of the field unnoticed."
Kathie prayed fervently for Mr. Morrison's safety. Uncle Robert made
immediate inquiries, and they waited in half fear, half hope. In the
mean while events in Virginia had the stirring ring of near victories.
All was breathless excitement throughout the land. Sorties, surprises,
battles, Sherman coming up from his march to the sea, Sheridan brave and
dashing as ever, and Grant going slowly with his men, like some
ponderous machine that was to crush at last.
And then the telegraph flashed the news far and wide: "Lee has
surrendered!" "Richmond has been taken!"
It seemed so odd to Kathie to be going on in her quiet, uneventful
fashion. School lessons, music practices, home duties,--nothing grand
or heroic. Mrs. Wilder's lecture to the girls had been productive of a
little good, beside breaking the foolish cabal; for in it she had
touched upon dress and parties, and tried to set before them the urgency
of paying some attention to their studies. So there were fewer bows, a
plainer arrangement of hair, and less talk of fashion.
"I think it was mean to crowd Kathie Alston out," declared Sue Coleman.
"Mamma says the Alstons are people one might be proud of anywhere; and
they are extremely well connected. She met them one evening at Mrs.
Adams's, and that elegant Mr. Langdon thinks Mr. Conover about perfect.
Mamma is so sorry that we did not have her in the tableaux. Every one
noticed it. That was your fault, Belle!"
"Of course you are all quite at liberty to choose your own friends,"
Belle answered, loftily; "I'm sure you agreed to it. You did not want
Mary Carson and all that rabble."
"Mary and Kathie are not friends in our acceptation of the term. She is
polite to Mary, and I am not sure but that a ladylike courtesy is more
effectual in keeping people at a distance than absolute rudeness. I
believe Kathie and Emma Lauriston are the only two girls in the school
who have not indulged in rudeness in some form or other."
"If she is not hand and glove with Mary Carson, she has another friend
who is no better, whom she visits and sends pictures to, and I don't
know what all. It's a second or third cousin of our cook. Of course
these Strongs are rich; so it is not the breeding as much as the money.
But, as I said, you can all do as you like. It seems to me that half of
the town has gone crazy on the subject of Kathie Alston."
Emma was a little troubled with these talks about Sarah Strong. She had
a certain delicacy which held her aloof from any such associations.
"Kathie," she said at length, "I wish you would tell me how you came to
take a fancy to those people who were at--the Fair, I believe."
Kathie colored a little. "I don't know as you would understand it," she
answered, slowly.
"I am beginning to comprehend some things," her eyes drooping a little,
and glancing past Kathie.
"I noticed them at the Fair--because--something was said to hurt their
feelings--"
"O, I know! Lottie Thorne came over to our table and made fun of the
woman. But--do you not think--such people always take advantage of a
little notice?--and then it leads to mortifying embarrassments."
"Maybe that is just one of the things God puts in the daily warfare to
make us good soldiers. It is like being a private in the army. Sometimes
people sneer at the hard, rough work the soldiers have to do, and yet it
often helps the officers to gain the victory."
"And the officers have the credit. That looks rather unjust, doesn't
it?"
"It would seem hard if God did not remember it all."
"But how did you come to visit the Strongs?"
Kathie told the whole story. "I cannot explain these things to you just
as Uncle Robert does," she went on, with a rather perplexed smile.
"Always when I am in any doubt or trouble I go to him. He thinks when
people are anxious for mental or social improvement a helping hand does
them so much good. Persons in their own station cannot give it, as a
general thing. And the Saviour said, 'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto
the least of these--'"
"Yes, I see. But it is harder to do your good in that way, Kathie."
"Digging in the trenches"; and Kathie smiled.
"Ah, you have gone out as a private in the ranks; and I am afraid, after
all, that very few of us like to be privates," Emma returned. "But it
certainly did show a good deal of delicate feeling and remembrance when
Sarah Strong sent you the lichen."
"I thought so. And our visit was very pleasant."
"Only, if she had not spoken to you that day in the street, it would
have saved you a good deal of pain and trouble," returned Emma.
"Maybe it was just what I needed. Life is so pleasant and lovely to me
that I might forget who gives it all if every once in a while something
did not bring me back to Him. And it is so good, when others
misunderstand and blame, to know that God sees all, and never makes a
mistake in his judgment."
Emma was silent. It was the keeping near to Him that rendered Kathie
meek, patient, and full of love. And it seemed to Emma as if she strayed
continually.
Was it because Kathie always had some good work in hand?
But amid all the rejoicing, and the certainty that Mr. Meredith would
recover, the other shadow seemed to be growing deeper. Three weeks, and
not a word of Mr. Morrison yet. His captain remembered the man, and
could only account for the disappearance by supposing that he had been
buried among the rebel dead. Twice since the battle they had exchanged
prisoners, and he had not been returned among the well or wounded; and
now every one was flocking to the Union lines.
"Mr. Darrell went to Washington to-day," Uncle Robert announced to
Kathie. "He is to bring Jessie and Mr. Meredith home."
"Here,--to Brookside?"
"Yes," with a smile. "He needs the quiet and the country air, and I
fancy there are two or three people here whom he is longing to see."
Kathie's heart beat with a great bound.
By and by she found herself rambling slowly toward the cottage. Hugh was
busy with some spring preparations, pruning trees and vines. He nodded
to her, but did not seem inclined to stop and talk, and Jamie caught
hold of her dress, begging her to come in.
Grandmother took off her spectacles and wiped them; she often did this
now, for her eyes grew dim many times a day.
"So you have had good news," she said, after the first greeting. "I am
glad there is a little joy saved out of the great wreck. Such a handsome
young man as Mr. Meredith was too; but there's many a bonny lad sleeping
under the sod, who was fair enough to his mother."
Kathie slipped her hand within the one so wrinkled and trembling.
"It is such a sorrow to us all," she said, in her soft, comforting tone.
"I keep thinking of it day and night. It was so noble in him to go--to
suffer--"
"It is the one thing, Miss Kathie, that gives me a little resignation. I
shall always feel thankful that he went in your dear uncle's stead, not
for the money merely. And if it has saved him--if it has kept you all
together; but this is too sad a talk for you, dear child."
The tears were dropping from Kathie's long bronze lashes.
"Dear grandmother, there has not been a morning nor night but that I
have remembered him and his generous deed. I know his life was as
precious to you as Uncle Robert's was to us, and now poor little Ethel
is an orphan--for my sake. How strange that the whole world keeps doing
for one another, and that, after all, no one really stands alone in it!"
"We are nearer than we think for--rich and poor, when one takes God's
word aright. We can't any of us do without the other unless there comes
a sense of loss and something that is not quite right. You and yours see
further into it than most folk. I'm glad to have the precious comfort of
knowing that William went safely, and that in the other country he has
met his dear wife. I shall soon go to them, and I know well that little
Ethel will never lack for friends. William felt it with great
certainty."
Another duty was laid upon Kathie. This orphan was to be more to her
than any chance friend. What could she do of her own self? Only to show
her now how truly she appreciated the sacrifice and loss, and to put a
few simple pleasures in her life, to give her tenderness and affection
that might make some slight amends.
She thought of something else that evening.
"Uncle Robert," she said, "do you believe there is any hope that Mr.
Morrison may still be alive?"
"It is very slight now," he answered. "And yet I can hardly be
reconciled to the loss amid this general rejoicing. It seems so much
harder to have him dead now that the war is over and many of the
soldiers will soon return home."
"I feel so sorry that he had to die out there alone. If some one could
have given him only a cup of cold water--"
"Perhaps they did."
"But if it had been you!" Kathie clung closely to him as if there might
be danger yet.
"It was not, my darling. God seems to hold me in the hollow of his hand,
and while he takes such care of me I feel more than ever the need of
doing his work. And now little Ethel has been added to us."
"Uncle Robert, I think I ought to take a special share in it, since God
has left me the delight of your love."
"As Ethel grows older, there will be many things that you can do."
"But I have thought of this one now. The interest on Ethel's little
fortune amounts to almost one hundred dollars."
"A little more than that. I put it in bonds."
"And if it could be saved for her,--since she will want but very little.
She will have her home with her aunt, and need only her clothes. I'd
like to buy those for her as a kind of thank-offering."
"But, my darling, in a few years more you will be a young lady, and
there will come parties, journeys, and pleasures of different kinds,
where it may be necessary for you to be dressed in something besides the
simple garments of childhood. Perhaps you will want more money
yourself!"
"I never have to give up anything needful, but I was thinking that I
should like now and then to make a real sacrifice, relinquish some
article that I wanted very much, and use it for her instead. It would
help me to remember what her father had done for me."
Uncle Robert stooped and kissed her, touched to the heart by her simple
act of self-denial.
"It shall be as you wish," he replied, tenderly. "And, my dear child, I
am glad to see you willing to take your share in the great work there
is to be done in the world."
"It is so little, after all, and so many blessings come to me."
Ah, was it not true that God restored fourfold? After many days the
bread we have cast upon the waters comes floating back to us. Well for
us then if we are not shamed by niggardly crumbs and crusts flung out
impatiently to some wayside beggar while we ourselves feasted. For God's
work and love go together, and there is always something for the willing
hand.
CHAPTER XII.
HOME AGAIN.
THE pony phaeton stood before the school-house. Jasper and Hero nodding
their heads impatiently in the April sunshine. The prettiest striped
lap-robe imaginable was thrown over the empty seat, the plating of the
harness made a silvery glitter, and altogether it was a turnout that one
might be rather proud of, if one's self-complacency was nurtured upon
such things.
And the driver thereof was not to be despised. The girls, as they
trooped down stairs, thought Kathie Alston "so lucky!" No one in
Brookside had a father or uncle or brother so devoted,--not old, by any
means, and certainly good-looking, but, best of all, showing his
affection in a manner that made her envied of others.
Sue Coleman had met him several times through the course of the winter,
and pronounced him "magnificent," in her enthusiastic fashion. Indeed,
he was the kind of man to be very attractive to young girls. She bowed
now in her most gracious manner. Belle bit her lip angrily. If she had
taken up Kathie instead of that insignificant little gossiping Lottie
Thorne! Her mother had been to call at Cedarwood, but it wasn't at all
likely that she would be invited within its charmed precincts. Of course
she said she did not care; but there was a gnawing jealousy at her
heart.
Uncle Robert was so in the habit of coming for Kathie that she sprang
in, nodded a gay farewell to the group, and went on for some distance
before she thought it anything more than a pleasure drive.
Suddenly her heart gave a quick bound. "You are going to the Darrells'?"
she said.
"Yes." Disguise it as he might, there was a glow in the half-averted
eyes.
"O, Mr. Meredith hasn't--come home!"
"Hasn't he? Are you quite sure?"--with a little smile.
"O Uncle Robert!"
"They came at twelve. I was in there half an hour, when he insisted that
I should drive over for you."
It was very flattering to be remembered first of all; and yet there was
something connected with it which made Kathie's heart beat in an
unwonted manner, and a quiver came into her throat almost as if she
wanted to cry. Six months ago!--how much had happened since then!
He fastened the horses, and entered the hall with Kathie, who seemed
strangely shy.
"They took him right up to Miss Jessie's room," said her uncle.
Thither they went, though there was a sound of joyous voices in
grandmother's room, just across the hall. The two halted a moment, then
Uncle Robert pushed the door a little wider open.
"Have you brought her?"
The dear, well-known voice, sounding a bit husky and tremulous, and with
something in it which brought the tears to Kathie's eyes. What with the
flood of sunshine, the white bed and pillows a little tumbled, and a
gray travelling-wrap thrown partly over somebody, she seemed to see
nothing but confusion at first; then a thin white hand was stretched
out.
"I am so tired that I cannot rise. Dear Kathie! Dear child!"
They were both crying then, and neither felt ashamed. Just a miracle
that he was here at all; and if he had gone to the other country, the
golden key opening the gates set with jasper and pearl must have been
Kathie's precious words.
"My dear Kathie, I've lost all the little sense I ever did have. I sent
Jessie away for fear she might indulge in a scene, and here I am crying
like a baby! But there are so many things to think of, and it is so
delightful to see familiar faces once more!"
Then Kathie took a look at him. He was very thin and pale, the hair and
beard cropped quite close, the eyes sunken, yet with the old bright glow
she had watched so many times; and, oddest of all, the once plump hands
looking, as Hannah would have said, like "chickens' claws."
"Well, should you know me?"
"Yes, but you are changed."
"And if you had seen me a month ago! The doctors have cut me open,
turned me inside out, and run up and down my body with lodestone in
search of a stray rebel ball. When they had me nearly killed, they would
leave off a little while; but as soon as they saw signs of coming to
life they went at it again. It's a kind of gymnastics that a man can't
get fat on, try his best."
"I should think not"; and Kathie couldn't help laughing.
"But it's through now. I feel like saying, with Joe Gargery, 'And now,
Pip, old chap,' (Pip, in this instance, standing for country) 'we've
done our duty by one another.' School is out, and Uncle Sam is sending
us home as fast as possible. I've nothing to do now but to be gloriously
lazy, and have every one wait upon me."
"O, I am so glad, so thankful," and Kathie pressed the thin hands in her
own, so soft and warm, "to have you back here, when we were afraid--"
"It has been a hard struggle, little Kathie. I shall never see a blue
coat again without thinking of what many a brave fellow has had to
suffer. I seem to have been feasted upon roses; but hundreds of them had
no such luck."
"And to come to peace at last,--to know there will be no more calls!"
"It certainly is good tidings of great joy. And though I couldn't be in
at the last, losing all the triumph and glory, I feel that I did a
little good work, and shall never regret the rest."
Her soft eyes answered him.
"And there is something else. I want to tell you that your precious
words bore good fruit after many days. My dear child," drawing her
closer to him until the silken curls swept his cheek, "I owe you more
than I can ever express, ever pay. It was your sweet, simple daily life,
and your unconscious heroism that first led me to think. I have heard
hundreds of sermons, and had hosts of religious friends, but nothing
ever touched me like your gentle firmness that night so long ago at my
brother's, and your rare modesty afterward, and all your straightforward
course, even when it involved pain and sacrifice. I can't exactly tell
you how the truth and the peace came to me, enabling me to do my duty to
God and man; but when I was ill and helpless, and hovering on the verge
of death, I want you to know that His love was infinitely precious to
me. It took away all perplexity, all care and trouble, and gave me rest
in the dreariest of nights. And as He suffered for us, so ought we to be
willing to suffer for one another. I never realized before what a great
and grand thing life was when obedience to God crowns it first of all
And even out there it seemed as if I was always taking lessons of you,
remembering what you had said and done."
"O no, no!" she cried, with her utmost sweet humility. "I am not worthy
of so much."
"My darling friend, I think you are one of God's own messengers. Through
you I have found him, come to see him as he is, a tender, loving
Father."
She hardly dared to taste the rich ripe fruit gathered here to her hand.
It was such a sacred work to have guided another soul ever so little,
and she could scarcely believe that it had come through her.
"Are you going to keep Kathie all the afternoon?" asked a soft, pleading
voice.
Both started. For many minutes they had been silently thinking of the
little steps that reached to God, made so much more simple and easy by
the tender spirit-leading than all the learned philosophy of the world.
"O Miss Jessie!"
"Mrs. Meredith, if you please," he exclaimed with a little laugh in his
tone. "There, you have kissed enough. Come, sit down and look at me. I
am afraid you will forget about my being one of our country's noble
sons."
Jessie might have been a little thinner with all her anxiety and
watching, but she was the same dear, sweet friend, and Kathie thought
prettier than ever, with her half shy, tender grace.
"He has grown very exacting," the young wife said, with a smile.
Kathie blushed. "It seems so odd for you to--be--"
"Married," exclaimed Mr. Meredith. "Why, what else could I do? When I
was a poor, helpless log, unable to stir hand or foot, some one had to
take pity upon me. She was very good, I assure you."
"As if I had not known it long before!" and a host of old memories
rushed over Kathie.
"Isn't it odd," Mr. Meredith said, in a lower tone, taking his wife's
hand, "that it was through Kathie we came to know each other? I can just
see the picture she made in the great hall of the hotel, like a little
wild-flower blown astray by a gust of wind."
Jessie thought of something else,--how she and Charlie were sitting by
the cheerful fire one winter night, when he had expressed a desire to
make her happy in some way, because she was always studying the pleasure
of others. But for that she might never have known the Alstons so
intimately, and of course--
There she had to stop with a dainty blush.
It was very odd, Kathie decided, in her simple child's way.
"And we have to thank Kathie for a good deal of delicacy in keeping our
secret," Mr. Meredith said. "Circumstances gave it into her hands long
ago."
She smiled a little. "What did Ada say?" she asked, rather shyly.
"I have not been favored with Ada's opinion, but she and her mother are
to pay me a short visit presently. George wanted me to come immediately
to New York, but I fancied Jessie must be a trifle homesick; and, to
confess the truth, I was longing for a glimpse of Brookside. Have you
begun gardening yet, Kathie? And tell me the story of the whole winter.
I'm just famishing for gossip."
Uncle Robert proposed returning presently, but they would not listen to
his taking Kathie. Mr. Meredith begged her and Jessie to have tea up in
the room, where he could look at them. His side was still very weak, and
his journey had fatigued him too much to admit of his sitting up. "But I
shall soon be about with a crutch," he announced, gayly.
Passing the lodge cottage again that evening, Kathie gave a tender
thought to its inmates, and the childish longing for fairy power came
back to her. No wand, nothing but a Fortunatus's purse with one piece of
gold in it, and that could not do everything.
Kathie was up betimes the next morning. There were lessons to study, an
exercise to write, and a music practice to be sandwiched in somewhere,
for Mr. Lawrence was to come that afternoon. And her head was still so
full of Mr. Meredith and dear Jessie.
"It will not do," she said, presently, to herself, when she found that
she was listening to every bird, and watching the cloud of motes in the
sunshine; so with that she set to work in good earnest.
Belle Hadden was loftier than ever on this day, and seemed to hold
herself quite apart. "A new kink of grandeur," Emma Lauriston said.
Lottie Thorne always had the earliest news. Now she made sundry
mysterious confidences, prefaced with, "Would you have believed it?"
"What is that, Lottie?" asked one of the girls.
"O, haven't you heard?" the face aglow with a sense of importance. "Papa
told us last night, though I suppose it is all over. Poor Belle! Why,
it would kill me!"
"But what is it?"
"About Mr. Hadden. He has been embezzling, or making false returns, or
something, and charged the government with a great deal more than he
supplied. Why, I believe it is almost a million! And he is in prison!"
"Not so bad as that," subjoined Sue Coleman, quietly.
"But he is in prison."
"Yes, there is some trouble, but maybe it will not amount to much."
"I should think she would be ashamed to show her face!"
"How can she help it?" said the softest and sweetest of voices. "It is
very hard to punish her or make her answerable for her father's faults."
"What should you do, Kathie Alston, if you had been intimate with her?"
It was Sue Coleman who spoke, and there was a husky strand in her voice.
"I should keep on just the same. It will be very painful for her to bear
anyhow. Suppose it was one of us!"
"You don't know what hateful things she said about your uncle ever so
long ago," pursued Lottie.
"But if they were false, her merely saying them could not make them
true, you know."
It was a bit of philosophy quite new to the girls, though each one might
have thought of it long before, and was one of the things that had been
a great comfort to Kathie many a time.
"But this is true."
"It will be bitter enough to bear, then, without our adding to the
burden"; and a tremulous color flitted over Kathie's fair face, not so
much at what she had been saying as the fact that these girls were
grouped around listening for her verdict.
"I don't believe she will come to-morrow," two or three voices decided.
They never knew how hard her coming was, how she had begged and
entreated her mother to let her stay at home, and finally threatened
not to go, when Mrs. Hadden had taken her in the carriage. There was
no pride in her soul as she stepped out of it, only a bitter, haughty
hatred.
"Don't act like a fool!" was her mother's parting advice. "The matter
will soon blow over."
For Mrs. Hadden felt that she should not be utterly crushed. The deed of
the house was in her name, and the furniture bills had been made out in
the same manner, consequently that much was secure. Mr. Hadden had
probably not done more than hundreds of others, and she felt confident
that he would get out of it somehow. They had plenty of money, and could
start afresh in a new place, but the people here should see that she was
able to hold her head as high as the best of them.
There was a little bouquet on Belle's desk. No one knew who put it
there. They would have suspected Kathie Alston, of course, if they had
not seen her come in empty-handed, but no one guessed it was her second
coming that morning.
The Brookside Standard copied the report, stating also that Mr. Hadden
had asked a suspension of public opinion for the present.
"Do you suppose it is really true?" inquired Kathie of Uncle Robert.
"I believe Mr. Hadden's reputation does not stand very high, at the
best. I can forgive a man who is tempted to retrieve himself by some
desperate step, when on the brink of ruin; but the men who wronged our
poor brave boys with clothing that was but half made, and food of the
poorest kind, enriching themselves while the country was at her sorest
need, do deserve punishment. Still, it would be hardly kind to begin by
meting it out to his children."
"How terrible it must be, Uncle Robert, to know that some one you held
dear was guilty of such a crime!"
"Yes, I think it would be worse than taking up poor and uncultivated
people"; and a peculiar smile crossed his face. "You will have an
opportunity to show your blue blood, Kathie. I believe I never knew a
Conover who struck a fallen foe."
"Yes," she answered, wondering if it would be foolish to tell him about
the flowers; but just then Freddy ran in, full of tribulation as usual.
Mr. Meredith improved rapidly. Kathie had to take him in her way some
time during the day, or there was a most heart-rending complaint.
"It is so delightful to have them all love him so well!" she said to
Aunt Ruth. "Charlie has a hero of his own now."
They received a long and characteristic letter from Rob, who wished he
was a bombshell and could be dropped down into Brookside. The war was
actually ended, and "Johnny was marching home," and everything had
happened about right. "Only I am awful sorry about Mr. Morrison. I can't
seem to believe but that he will come to light somewhere yet. It gave me
such a strange feeling,--thinking, for a moment, if it had been Uncle
Robert. We will try all our lives to make it up to Ethel. I will never
tease her again, at any rate." Which was all the resolve in Rob's power
at present.
CHAPTER XIII.
GOOD NEWS.
IT seemed to Kathie in these days as if she had her hands very full. The
weeks were hardly long enough. Yet what could be left out? The daily
call at the Darrells', or the Morrisons', for now Ethel looked to see
her every day, and used to confide to her the sums that bothered, the
thoughts that puzzled, and the many things which come to trouble little
girls; and if sometimes Kathie considered them tiresome or foolish, she
remembered how patient dear Aunt Ruth used to be with her in the old
times,--and now she had Uncle Robert saved to her by Ethel's loss.
No, neither of those could be given up, nor the school-lessons, nor the
music, nor even Sarah, who was improving.
The blue ribbon had delighted her exceedingly. Kathie said, very gently
indeed,--that is, prefacing and ending it with something pleasant,--"I
think it will be much prettier for your hair than any other color." That
started Sarah upon a new tack.
"I wish you would tell me something about colors," she begged in her
next letter. "I always remember how lovely you looked that night at the
Fair, and some of the ladies too. I can't be pretty, I know, but I'd
like to look nice, so that people wouldn't laugh at me. Now that I have
begun, there are so many things that I want to know. Cousin Ellen helps
me a good deal, and she is such a rest to mother. She has the
pleasantest way of managing the children, and does such a deal of
sewing. Father said I might raise all the chickens I wanted to this
summer, and I think I'll buy a nice rocking-chair for the parlor. O, I
have crocheted two beautiful tidies, and one of them is about as good as
sold for two dollars and a half. If it isn't too much trouble, I would
like to send the money to you, and let you buy me some books. You know
what is pretty and interesting. And if you would only tell me what would
be nice for summer dresses and a hat."
The ice being once broken, discussions upon dress followed quite
frequently. When Kathie was in any doubt she referred the subject to
Aunt Ruth. It was plain that Sarah was emerging from her crude and
barbaric state, yet she showed no disposition thus far to drift over
into the frothy waves of vanity. With her other knowledge seemed to come
shrewd, practical self-knowledge.
Jim too had been made the happy recipient of some useful books. He
seemed to have a great taste for wood-working,--"conjuring," his father
said,--and talked a little of going to the city to learn a trade, but
Mr. Strong had no fancy for giving him up now, when he was such a help.
"The farm is plenty large enough for two," Mr. Strong said, "and there's
no life so independent."
But Mr. Conover felt that it ought to be rendered interesting as well.
So he asked Jim to come down to Cedarwood and take a look around, which
delighted the youth greatly, and gave him some new ideas.
The rumors concerning Belle Hadden's father proved too true. It was an
aggravated case, and each day brought new circumstances to light. It was
useless to think of holding their position in Brookside. Acquaintances
began to make ceremonious calls, or bow coldly. A few of the girls in
school openly rejoiced.
"Thank the Lord my father never stole nor cheated," said Mary Carson.
"I'd rather be a plebeian than a thief."
The mortification was too much. Belle begged and prayed that she might
be allowed to leave Brookside, and finally a visit to an aunt was
determined upon. She was a queen to the last moment, though, and said
her good-bys to the few with a haughty grace.
"Thus endeth the reign of the patricians," commented Emma Lauriston.
There was a grave, perplexed light in Sue Coleman's eyes.
"Belle was real fascinating," she said; "but I wonder that we--that some
of us hadn't more sense last winter. We all went to persecuting and
ruling out Kathie Alston, who bore it all like a saint. Belle had
courage and pride, but there was something nobler in Kathie." Yet Sue
knit her brows in silent perplexity.
"But there is another view of it that puzzles me, after all," she said,
breaking her long silence. "Where do people make a distinction? Now
suppose Kathie Alston invited this protge of hers to her house, and
you or I should drop in--it would look ill-bred to take Kathie away from
her guest, and yet it is not likely her talk would interest us much.
Then as Kathie grows larger--well, it is all of a muddle in my brain. I
dare say these Strongs are good, honest, respectable people, and--there
is no use in smoothing it over--Mr. Hadden was dreadfully dishonest. All
their grandeur and fine clothes belong by right to some one else. And
yet they are allowed to go into the best society. Is it quite right?"
"Not the very best, perhaps," returned Emma, slowly. "A good many
people do insist upon worth, virtue, honesty, and all that."
"And then, as Kathie said, Belle was not to blame for her father's
sins."
"It seems to me now that Belle's mistake was in trying to decide who
should be greatest, and pushing down all who did not exactly suit her.
She had no right to be the judge."
"Who of us has? And here is another question. You remember Mrs. Duncan?
She went to the city about a fortnight ago, and had a business offer.
First, I must tell you that she was very elegantly brought up, but her
father died, and somehow the fortune melted into thin air. She went to
visit an aunt, and met Mr. Duncan, who was cashier in a bank. They have
always lived very nicely,--stylishly, Belle would say,--but now they
have nothing, and Mrs. Duncan has no friends who can take care of
her. She has forgotten a good deal of her French and her other
accomplishments, and teachers' situations are hard to get. Well, a Mrs.
Marsh in the city has offered Mrs. Duncan eight hundred dollars a year
to take a position in her millinery establishment. She has a marvellous
faculty for trimming,--equal to any French woman. And why wouldn't she
be just as good and just as much of a lady if she did take it? Will it
make her coarse and vulgar?"
"No," answered Emma, decisively.
"Yet I dare say the Hadden children would not be allowed to associate
with the Duncan girls. I cannot seem to get at the wrong, nor where it
comes in."
"I believe, after all, Kathie Alston has the secret,--the little leaven
which leavens the whole lump."
"Only some of us object to being leavened"; and Sue finished with a
laugh.
But though Kathie had not heard the talk, there was a secret uneasiness
in her soul as well. Sarah Strong was begging her to come up to
Middleville again, and Uncle Robert believed the relaxation would do her
good.
"Mamma," she said, thoughtfully, "there are one or two puzzles that I
cannot make quite clear to my own mind."
"What is the matter now? Any new gift for Sarah?"
"Not a gift exactly, but--a great pleasure. When I was with them in the
wagon that day, and they were both so cordial and warm-hearted, it
appeared rude, or at least impolite, not to ask them to call here. Mrs.
Strong said, 'Sarah wouldn't look well among your grand people'; but
there was such a sad, wistful look in Sarah's eyes, as if somehow she
felt that she was shut out."
"And you would like to have her come?" returned Mrs. Alston, with a
smile.
"I was thinking how happy it would make her, mamma. I don't believe she
ever saw so many pretty things together in her life,--and she is so fond
of them."
"And what puzzles you?"
"Whether it would be quite--I don't mean that I am too proud," catching
herself with a quick breath, while a scarlet flush quivered from brow to
chin.
"Whether it would be proper,--is that what you mean?" asked her mother.
"Yes"; and Kathie began to twist the fringe of the nearest tidy.
"Miss Jessie asked you to her house, you know. We lived very plainly
then, and you had to wear a cheap delaine for best dress all winter."
"Then you think I may?" she exclaimed, joyously, while her soft eyes
brightened.
"It all depends upon the manner of the asking. I think she might come
some Saturday when you were alone and have a very pleasant visit. It is
