presence, and rattled on with a free and easy slang familiarity,
precisely as he had done with me.
"What do you think Old Soapy has engaged Hal for?" he said. "Why, he
only offers him--" Here followed the statement of terms.
I was annoyed at this matter-of-fact way of handling my private affairs,
but on meeting the eyes of my new friend I discerned a glance of quiet
humor which re-assured me. He seemed to regard Jim only as another form
of the inevitable.
"Don't you think it is a confounded take-in?" said Jim.
"Of course," said Mr. Bolton, with a smile, "but he will survive it. The
place is only one of the stepping-stones. Meanwhile," he said, "I think
Mr. Henderson can find other markets for his literary wares, and more
profitable ones. I think," he added, while the blood again rose in his
cheeks, "that I have some influence in certain literary quarters, and I
shall be happy to do all that I can to secure to him that which he ought
to receive for such careful work as this. Your labor on the paper will
not by any means take up your whole power or time."
"Well," said Jim, "the fact is the same all the world over--the people
that grow a thing are those that get the least for it. It isn't your
farmers, that work early and late, that get rich by what they raise out
of the earth, it's the middlemen and the hucksters. And just so it is in
literature; and the better a fellow writes, and the more work he puts
into it, the less he gets paid for it. Why, now, look at me," he said,
perching himself astride the arm of a chair, "I'm a genuine literary
humbug, but I'll bet you I'll make more money than either of you,
because, you see, I've no modesty and no conscience. Confound it all,
those are luxuries that a poor fellow can't afford to keep. I'm a
sounding brass and a tinkling cymbal, but I'm just the sort of fellow
the world wants, and, hang it, they shall pay me for being that sort of
fellow. I mean to make it shell out, and you see if I don't. I'll bet
you, now, that I'd write a book that you wouldn't, either of you, be
hired to write, and sell one hundred thousand copies of it, and put the
money in my pocket, marry the handsomest, richest, and best educated
girl in New York, while you are trudging on, doing good, careful work,
as you call it."
"Remember us in your will," said I.
"Oh, yes, I will," he said. "I'll found an asylum for decayed authors of
merit--a sort of literary 'Hotel des Invalides.'"
We had a hearty laugh over this idea, and, on the whole, our evening
passed off very merrily. When I shook hands with Bolton for the night,
it was with a silent conviction of an interior affinity between us.
It is a charming thing in one's rambles to come across a tree, or a
flower, or a fine bit of landscape that one can think of afterward, and
feel richer for their its in the world. But it is more when one is in a
strange place, to come across a man that you feel thoroughly persuaded
is, somehow or other, morally and intellectually worth exploring. Our
lives tend to become so hopelessly commonplace, and the human beings we
meet are generally so much one just like another, that the possibility
of a new and peculiar style of character in an acquaintance is a most
enlivening one.
There was something about Bolton both stimulating and winning, and I lay
down less a stranger that night than I had been since I came to New
York.
CHAPTER XIV.
HAPS AND MISHAPS.
I entered upon my new duties with enthusiasm, and produced some
editorials, for which I was complimented by Mr. Goldstick.
"That's the kind of thing wanted!" he said; "a firm, moral tone, and
steady religious convictions; that pleases the old standards."
Emboldened by this I proceeded to attack a specific abuse in New York
administration, which had struck me as needing to be at once righted. If
ever a moral trumpet ought to have its voice, it was on this subject. I
read my article to Bolton; in fact I had gradually fallen into the habit
of referring myself to his judgment.
"It is all perfectly true," he remarked, when I had finished, while he
leaned back in his chair and stroked his cat, "but they never will put
that into the paper, in the world."
"Why!" said I, "if ever there was an abuse that required exposing, it is
this."
"Precisely!" he replied.
"And what is the use," I went on, "of general moral preaching that is
never applied to any particular case?"
"The use," he replied calmly, "is that that kind of preaching pleases
everybody, and increases subscribers, while the other kind makes
enemies, and decreases them."
"And you really think that they won't put this article in?" said I.
"I'm certain they won't," he replied. "The fact is this paper is bought
up on the other side. Messrs. Goldstick and Co. have intimate connection
with Messrs. Bunkam and Chaffem, who are part and parcel of this very
affair."
I opened my mouth with astonishment. "Then Goldstick is a hypocrite," I
said.
"Not consciously," he answered, calmly.
"Why!" said I, "you would have thought by the way he talked to me that
he had nothing so much at heart as the moral progress of society, and
was ready to sacrifice everything to it."
"Well," said Bolton, quietly, "did you never see a woman who thought she
was handsome, when she was not? Did you never see a man who thought he
was witty, when he was only scurrilous and impudent? Did you never see
people who flattered themselves they were frank, because they were
obtuse and impertinent? And cannot you imagine that a man may think
himself a philanthropist, when he is only a worshiper of the golden
calf? That same calf," he continued, stroking his cat till she purred
aloud, "has the largest Church of any on earth."
"Well," said I, "at any rate I'll hand it in."
"You can do so," he replied, "and that will be the last you will hear of
it. You see, I've been this way before you, and I have learned to save
myself time and trouble on these subjects."
The result was precisely as Bolton predicted.
"We must be a little careful, my young friend," said Mr. Goldstick, "how
we handle specific matters of this kind; they have extended relations
that a young man cannot be expected to appreciate, and I would advise
you to confine yourself to abstract moral principles; keep up a high
moral standard, sir, and things will come right of themselves. Now, sir,
if you could expose the corruptions in England it would have an
admirable moral effect, and our general line of policy now is down on
England."
A day or two after, however, I fell into serious disgrace. A part of my
duties consisted in reviewing the current literature of the day; Bolton,
Jim, and I, took that department among us, and I soon learned to
sympathize with the tea-tasters, who are said to ruin their digestion by
an incessant tasting of the different qualities of tea. The enormous
quantity and variety of magazines and books that I had to "sample" in a
few days brought me into such a state of mental dyspepsia, that I began
to wish every book in the Red Sea. I really was brought to consider the
usual pleas and tone of book notices in America to be evidence of a high
degree of Christian forbearance. In looking over my share, however, I
fell upon a novel of the modern, hot, sensuous school, in which glowing
coloring and a sort of religious sentimentalism were thrown around
actions and principles which tended directly to the dissolution of
society. Here was exactly the opportunity to stem that tide of
corruption against which Mr. Goldstick so solemnly had warned me. I made
the analysis of the book a text for exposing the whole class of
principles and practices it inculcated, and uttering my warning against
corrupt literature; I sent it to the paper, and in it went. A day or two
after Mr. Goldstick came into the office in great disorder, with an open
letter in his hand.
"What's all this?" he said; "here's Sillery and Peacham, blowing us up
for being down on their books, and threatening to take away their
advertising from us."
Nobody seemed to know anything about it, till finally the matter was
traced back to me.
"It was a corrupt book, Mr. Goldstick," said I, with firmness, "and the
very object you stated to me was to establish a just moral criticism."
"Go to thunder! young man," said Mr. Goldstick, in a tone I had never
heard before. "Have you no discrimination? are you going to blow us up?
The Great Democracy, sir, is a great moral engine, and the advertising
of this publishing house gives thousands of dollars yearly towards its
support. It's an understood thing that Sillery and Peacham's books are
to be treated handsomely."
"I say, Captain," said Jim, who came up behind us at this time, "let me
manage this matter; I'll straighten it out; Sillery and Peacham know me,
and I'll fix it with them."
"Come! Hal, my boy!" he said, hooking me by the arm, and leading me out.
We walked to our lodgings together. I was gloriously indignant all the
way, but Jim laughed till the tears rolled down his cheeks.
"You sweet babe of Eden," said he, as we entered my room, "do get quiet!
I'll sit right down and write a letter from the Boston correspondent on
that book, saying that your article has created a most immense sensation
in the literary circles of Boston, in regard to its moral character, and
exhort everybody to rush to the book-store and see for themselves. Now,
'hush, my dear, lie still and slumber,' while I do it."
"Why, do you mean to go to Boston?" said I.
"Only in spirit, my dear. Bless you! did you suppose that the Boston
correspondents, or any other correspondents, are there, or anywhere else
in fact, that they profess to be? I told you that I was the professor of
humbug. This little affair lies strictly in my department."
"Jim!" said I, solemnly, "I don't want to be in such a network of
chicanery."
"Oh, come, Hal, nobody else wants to be just where they are, and after
all, it's none of your business; you and Bolton are great moral
forty-pounders. When we get you pointed the right way for the paper you
can roar and fire away at your leisure, and the moral effect will be
prodigious. I'm your flying-artillery--all over the field everywhere,
pop, and off again; and what is it to you what I do? Now you see, Hal,
you must just have some general lines about your work; the fact is, I
ought to have told you before. There's Sillery and Peacham's books have
got to be put straight along: you see there is no mistake about that;
and when you and Bolton find one you can't praise honestly, turn it over
to me. Then, again, there's Burill and Bangem's books have got to be put
down. They had a row with us last year, and turned over their
advertising to the Spouting Horn. Now, if you happen to find a bad
novel among their books show it up, cut into it without mercy; it
will give you just as good a chance to preach, with your muzzle pointed
the right way, and do exactly as much good. You see there's everything
with you fellows in getting you pointed right."
"But," said I, "Jim, this course is utterly subversive of all just
criticism. It makes book notices good for nothing."
"Well, they are not good for much," said Jim reflectively. "I sometimes
pity a poor devil whose first book has been all cut up, just because
Goldstick's had a row with his publishers. But then there's this
comfort--what we run down, the Spouting Horn will run up, so it is
about as broad as it is long. Then there's our Magazines. We're in with
the Rocky Mountains now--we've been out with them for a year or two
and cut up all their articles. Now you see we are in, and the rule is,
to begin at the beginning and praise them all straight through, so
you'll have plain sailing there. Then there's the Pacific--you are to
pick on that all you can. I think you had better leave that to me. I
have a talent for saying little provoking things that gall people, and
that they can't answer. The fact is, the Pacific has got to come down
a little, and come to our terms, before we are civil to it."
"Jim Fellows"--I began,
"Come, come, go and let off to Bolton, if you have got anything more to
say;" he added, "I want to write my Boston letter. You see, Hal, I shall
bring you out with flying colors, and get a better sale for the book
than if you hadn't written."
"Jim," said I, "I'm going to get out of this paper."
"And pray, my dear Sir, what will you get into?"
"I'll get into one of the religious papers."
Jim upon this leaned back, kicked up his heels, and laughed aloud. "I
could help you there," he said. "I do the literary for three religious
newspapers now. These solemn old Dons are so busy about their
tweedle-dums and tweedle-dees of justification and election, baptism and
church government, that they don't know anything about current
literature, and get us fellows to write their book notices. I rather
think that they'd stare if they should read some of the books that we
puff up. I tell you, Christy's Minstrels are nothing to it. Think of it,
Hal,--the solemn Holy Sentinel with a laudatory criticism of Dante
Rosetti's "Jenny" in it--and the Trumpet of Zion with a commendatory
notice of Georges Sand's novels." Here Jim laughed with a fresh impulse.
"You see the dear, good souls are altogether too pious to know anything
about it, and so we liberalize the papers, and the publishers make us a
little consideration for getting their books started in religious
circles."
"Well, Jim," said I, "I want to just ask you, do you think this sort of
thing is right?"
"Bless your soul now!" said Jim, "if you are going to begin with that,
here in New York, where are you going to end--'Where do you 'spect to
die when you go to?'--as the old darkey said."
"Well," said I, "would you like to have Dante Rosetti's "Jenny" put
into the hands of your sister or younger brother, recommended by a
religious newspaper?"
"Well, to tell the truth, Hal, I didn't write those notices. Bill Jones
wrote them. Bill's up to anything. You know every person in England and
this country have praised Dante Rosetti, and particularly "Jenny," and
religious papers may as well be out of the world as out of fashion,--and
so mother she bought a copy for a Christmas present to sister Nell. And
I tell you if I didn't get a going over about it!"
"I showed her the article in the Holy Sentinel, but it didn't do a bit
of good. She made me promise I wouldn't write it up, and I never have.
She said it was a shame. You see mother isn't up to the talk about high
art, that's got up now a days about Dante Rosetti and Swinburne, and
those. I thought myself that "Jenny" was coming it pretty strong,--and
honest now, I never could see the sense in it. But then you see I am not
artistic. If a fellow should tell a story of that kind to my sister, I
should horsewhip him, and kick him down the front steps. But he dresses
it up in poetry, and it lies around on pious people's tables, and nobody
dares to say a word because it's "artistic." People are so afraid they
shall not be supposed to understand what high art is, that they'll
knuckle down under most anything. That's the kind of world we live in.
Well! I didn't make the world and I don't govern it. But the world owes
me a living, and hang it! it shall give me one. So you go up to Bolton,
and leave me to do my work; I've got to write columns, and then tramp
out to that confounded water-color exhibition, because I promised Snooks
a puff,--I shan't get to bed till twelve or one. I tell you it's steep
on a fellow now."
I went up to Bolton, boiling, and bubbling and seething, with the spirit
of sixteen reformers in my veins. The scene, as I opened the door, was
sufficiently tranquilizing. Bolton sat reading by the side of his shaded
study-lamp, with his cat asleep in his lap; the ill-favored dog, before
mentioned, was planted by his side, with his nose upturned, surveying
him with a fullness of doggish adoration and complacency, which made his
rubbishly shop-worn figure quite an affecting item in the picture.
Crouched down on the floor in the corner, was a ragged, unkempt,
freckled-faced little boy, busy doing a sum on a slate.
"Ah! old fellow," he said, as he looked up and saw me. "Come in; there,
there, Snubby," he said to the dog, pushing him gently into his corner;
"let the gentleman sit down. You see you find me surrounded by my
family," he said. "Wait one minute," he added, turning to the boy in the
corner, and taking his slate out of his hand, and running over the sum.
"All right, Bill. Now here's your book." He took a volume of the
Arabian Nights from the table, and handed it to him, and Bill settled
himself on the floor, and was soon lost in "Sinbad the Sailor." He
watched him a minute or two, and then looked round at me, with a smile.
"I wouldn't be afraid to bet that you might shout in that fellow's ear
and he wouldn't hear you, now he is fairly in upon that book. Isn't it
worth while to be able to give such perfect bliss in this world at so
small an expense? I've lost the power of reading the Arabian Nights,
but I comfort my self in seeing this chap."
"Who is he?" said I.
"Oh, he's my washerwoman's boy. Poor fellow. He has hard times. I've set
him up in selling newspapers. You see, I try now and then to pick up one
grain out of the heap of misery, and put it into the heap of happiness,
as John Newton said."
I was still bubbling with the unrest of my spirit, and finally
overflowed upon him with the whole history of my day's misadventures,
and all the troubled thoughts and burning indignations that I had with
reference to it.
"My dear fellow," he said, "take it easy. We have to accept this world
as a fait accompli. It takes some time for us to learn how little we
can do to help or to hinder. You cannot take a step in the business of
life anywhere without meeting just this kind of thing; and one part of
the science of living is to learn just what our own responsibility is,
and to let other people's alone. The fact is," he said, "the growth of
current literature in our times has been so sudden and so enormous that
things are in a sort of revolutionary state with regard to it, in which
it is very difficult to ascertain the exact right. For example, I am
connected with a paper which is simply and purely, at bottom, a
financial speculation; its owners must make money. Now, they are not bad
men as the world goes--they are well-meaning men--amiable, patriotic,
philanthropic--some of them are religious; they, all of them, would
rather virtue would prevail than vice, and good than evil; they, all of
them, would desire every kind of abuse to be reformed, and every good
cause to be forwarded, that could be forwarded without a sacrifice of
their main object. As for me, I am not a holder or proprietor. I am
simply a servant engaged by these people for a certain sum. If I should
sell myself to say what I do not think, or to praise what I consider
harmful, to propitiate their favor, I should be a dastard. They
understand perfectly that I never do it, and they never ask me to.
Meanwhile, they employ persons who will do these things. I am not
responsible for it any more than I am for anything else which goes on in
the city of New York. I am allowed my choice among notices, and I never
write them without saying, to the best of my ability, the exact truth,
whether literary or in a moral point of view. Now, that is just my
stand, and if it satisfies you, you can take the same."
"But," said I, "It makes me indignant, to have Goldstick talk to me as
he did about a great self-denying moral enterprise--why, that man must
know he's a liar."
"Do you think so?" said he. "I don't imagine he does. Goldstick has
considerable sentiment. It's quite easy to get him excited on moral
subjects, and he dearly loves to hear himself talk--he is sincerely
interested in a good number of moral reforms, so long as they cost him
nothing; and when a man is working his good faculties, he is generally
delighted with himself, and it is the most natural thing in the world,
to think that there is more of him than there is. I am often put in mind
of that enthusiastic young ruler that came to the Saviour, who had kept
all the commandments, and seemed determined to be on the high road to
saintship. The Saviour just touched him on this financial question, and
he wilted in a minute. I consider that to be still the test question,
and there are a good many young rulers like him, who don't keep all
the commandments."
"Your way of talking," said I, "seems to do away with all moral
indignation."
He smiled, and then looked sadly into the fire--"God help us all," he
said. "We are all struggling in the water together and pulling one
another under--our best virtues are such a miserable muddle--and
then--there's the beam in our own eye."
There was a depth of pathos in his dark eyes as he spoke, and suddenly a
smile flashed over his features, and looking around, he said--
  "So, what do you think of that, my cat,
  And what do you think of that, my dog."
CHAPTER XV.
I MEET A VISION.
"I say, Hal, do you want to get acquainted with any of the P. G.'s here
in New York? If you do, I can put you on the track."
"P. G.'s?" said I, innocently.
"Yes; you know that's what Plato calls pretty girls. I don't believe you
remember your Greek. I'm going out this evening where there's a lot of
'em--splendid house on Fifth avenue--lots of tin--girls gracious. Don't
know which of 'em I shall take yet. Don't you want to go with me and
see?"
Jim stood at the looking-glass brushing his hair and arranging his
necktie.
"Jim Fellows, you are a coxcomb," said I.
"I don't know why I shouldn't be," said he. "The girls fairly throw
themselves at one's head. They are up to all that sort of thing.
Besides, I'm on the lookout for my fortune, and it all comes in the way
of business. Come, now, don't sit there writing all the evening. Come
out, and let me show you New York by gaslight."
"No," said I; "I've got to finish up this article for the Milky Way.
The fact is, a fellow must be industrious to make anything, and my time
for seeing girls isn't come yet. I must have something to support a wife
on before I look round in that direction."
"The idea, Harry, of a good-looking fellow like you, not making the most
of his advantages! Why, there are nice girls in this city that could
help you up faster than all the writing you can do these ten years. And
you sitting, moiling and toiling, when you ought to be making some
lovely woman happy!"
"I shall never marry for money, Jim, you may depend upon that."
"Bah, bah, black sheep," said Jim. "Who is talking about marrying for
money? A fine girl is none the worse for fifty thousand dollars, and I
can give you a list of twenty that you can go round among until you fall
in love, and not come amiss anywhere, if it's falling in love that you
want to do."
"Oh, come, Jim," said I, "do finish your toilet and be off with yourself
if you are going. I don't blame a woman who marries for money, since
the whole world has always agreed to shut her out of any other way of
gaining an independence. But for a man, with every other avenue open to
him, to mouse about for a rich wife, I think is too dastardly for
anything."
"That would make a fine point for a paragraph," said Jim, turning round
to me, with perfect good humor. "So I advise you to save it for the
moral part of the paper. You see, if you waste too much of that sort of
thing on me, your mill may run low. It's a deuced hard thing to keep the
moral agoing the whole year, you'll find."
"Well," said I, "I am going to try to make a home for a wife, by good,
thorough work, done just as work ought to be done; and I have no time to
waste on society in the meanwhile."
"And when you are ready for her," said Jim, "I suppose you expect to
receive her per 'Divine Providence' Express, ticketed and labeled, and
expenses paid. Or, may be she'll be brought to you some time by genii,
as the Princess of China was brought to the Prince of Tartary, when he
was asleep. I used to read about that in the Arabian tales."
I give this little passage of my conversation with Jim, because it is a
pretty good illustration of the axiom, that "It is not in man that
walketh to direct his steps." When we have announced any settled purpose
or sublime intention, in regard to our future course of life, it seems
to be the delight of fortune to throw us directly into circumstances in
which we shall be tempted to do what we have just declared we never will
do, and the fortunes of our lives turn upon the most inconsiderable
hinges.
Mine turned upon an umbrella.
The next morning I had business in the very lowermost part of the city,
and started off without my umbrella; but being weather-wise, and
discerning the face of the sky, I went back to my room and took it. It
was one of those little pet objects of vertu, to which a bachelor
sometimes treats himself in lieu of domestic luxuries. It had a
finely-carved handle, which I bought in Dieppe, and which caused it to
be peculiar among all the umbrellas in New York.
It was one of those uncertain, capricious days that mark the coming in
of April, when Nature, like a nervous beauty, doesn't seem to know her
own mind, and laughs one moment and cries the next with a perplexing
uncertainty.
The first part of the morning the amiable and smiling predominated, and
I began to regret that I had encumbered myself with the troublesome
precaution of an umbrella while tramping around down town. In this mood
of mind I sat at Fulton Ferry waiting the starting of the Bleecker
street car, when suddenly the scene was enlivened to my view by the
entrance of a young lady, who happened to seat herself exactly opposite
to me.
Now, as a writer, an observer of life and manners, I had often made
quiet studies of the fair flowers of modern New York society as I rode
up and down in the cars. In no other country in the world, perhaps, has
a man the opportunity of being vis-à-vis with the best and most
cultured class of young women in the public conveyances. In England,
this class are veiled and secluded from gaze by all the ordinances and
arrangements of society. They go out only in their own carriage; they
travel in reserved compartments of the railway carriages; they pass from
these to reserved apartments in the hotels, where they are served apart
in family privacy as much as in their own dwellings. So that the
stranger traveling in the country, unless he have introductions to the
personal hospitality of these circles, has almost no way of forming any
opinion even as to the external appearance of its younger women. In
France, a still stricter régime watches over the young, unmarried
girl, who is kept in the shade of an almost conventual seclusion till
marriage opens the doors of her prison. The young American girl,
however, of the better and of the best classes, is to be met and
observed everywhere. She moves through life with the assured step of a
princess, too certain of her position and familiar with her power even
to dream of a fear. She looks on her surroundings from above with the
eye of a mistress, and expects, of course, to see all things give way
before her, as in our republican society they generally do.
During the few months I had spent in New York I had diligently kept out
of society. The permitted silent acquaintance with my fair countrywomen
which I gained while riding up and down the street conveyances, became,
therefore, a favorite and harmless source of amusement. Not an item in
the study escaped me, not a feather in that rustling and wonderful
plumage of fashion that bore them up, was unnoted. I mused on styles,
and characteristics, and silently wove in my own mind histories to
correspond with the various physiognomies I studied. Let not the reader
imagine me staring point blank, with my mouth open, at all I met. The
art of noting without appealing to note, of seeing without seeming to
see, was one that I cultivated with assiduity.
Therefore, without any impertinent scrutiny, satisfied myself of the
fact that a feminine presence of an unusual kind and quality was
opposite to me. It was, at first glance, one of the New York princesses
of the blood, accustomed to treading on clouds and breathing incense.
There was a quiet savoir faire and self-possession as she sat down on
her seat, as if it were a throne; and there was a species of repressed
vitality and decision in all her little involuntary movements that
interested me as live things always do interest, in proportion to their
quantum of life. We all are familiar with the fact that there are some
people, who, let them sit still as they may, and conduct themselves
never so quietly, nevertheless impress their personality on those around
them, and make their presence felt. An attraction of this sort drew my
eyes toward my neighbor. She was a young lady of medium height, slender
and elastic figure, features less regularly beautiful than piquant and
expressive. I remarked a pair of fine dark eyes the more from the
contrast with a golden crêpe of hair. The combination of dark eyes and
lashes with fair hair, always produces effect of a striking character.
She was attired as became a Fifth Avenue princess, who has the world of
fashion at her feet,--yet, to my thinking, as one who had chosen and
adapted her material with an eye of taste. A delicate cashmere was
folded carelessly round her shoulders, and her little hands were gloved
with a careful nicety of fit; and dangling from one finger was a toy
purse of gold and pearl, in which she began searching for the change to
pay her fare. I saw, too, as she investigated, an expression of
perplexity, slightly tinged with the ludicrous, upon her face. I
perceived at a glance the matter. She was surveying a ten-dollar note
with a glance of amused vexation, and vainly turning over her little
purse for the smaller change or tickets available in the situation. I
leaned forward and offered, as gentlemen generally do, to take her fare
and pass it forward. With a smile of apology she handed me the bill, and
showed the little empty purse. "Allow me to arrange it," I said. She
smiled and blushed. I passed up the ticket necessary for the occasion,
returned her bill, bowed, and immediately looked another way with
sedulous care.
It requires an extra amount of discretion and delicacy to make it
tolerable to a true lady to become in the smallest degree indebted to a
gentleman who is a stranger. I was aware that my fair vis-à-vis was
inwardly disturbed at having inadvertently been obliged to accept from
me even so small an obligation as a fare ticket; but as matters were,
there was no help for it. On the whole, though I was sorry for her, I
could not but regard the incident as a species of good luck for myself.
We rode along--perhaps each of us conscious at times of being
attentively considered by the other, until the cars turned up Park Row
before the Astor House; she signalled the conductor to stop, and got
out. Here it was that the beneficent intentions of the fates, in causing
me to bring my umbrella, were made manifest.
[Illustration: THE UMBRELLA.
"Before a very elegant house in Fifth Avenue my unknown alighted, and
the rain still continuing, there was an excuse for my still attending
her up the steps."]
Just as the car started again, came one of those sudden gushes of rain
with which perverse April delights to ruffle and discompose unwary
passengers. It was less a decent, decorous shower, than a dash of water
by the bucketful. Immediately I jumped out and stepped to the side of my
gentle neighbor, begging her to allow me to hold my umbrella over her,
and see her in safety across Broadway. She meant to have stopped at one
or two places, she said, but it rained so she would thank me to put her
into a Fifth Avenue stage. So we went together, threading our way
through rushing and trampling carriages, horses, and cars,--a driving
storm above, below, and around, which seemed to throw my fair princess
entirely upon my protection for a few moments, till I had her safe in
the up-town omnibus. As it was my route, also, I, too, entered, and by
this time feeling a sort of privilege of acquaintance, arranged the fare
for her, and again received a courteous and apologetic acknowledgment.
Before a very elegant house in Fifth Avenue my unknown alighted, and the
rain still continuing, there was an excuse for my attending her up the
steps, and ringing the door-bell for her.
We were kept waiting in this position several minutes, when she very
gracefully expressed her thanks for my kindness, and begged that I would
walk in.
Surprised and pleased, I excused myself on plea of engagements, but
presented her with my card, and said I would do myself the pleasure of
calling at another time.
With a little laugh and blush she handed me a card from the tiny pearl
and gold case, on which was engraved "Eva Van Arsdel," and in the
corner, "Wednesdays."
"We receive on Wednesdays, Mr. Henderson," she said, "and mamma will be
so happy to make your acquaintance."
Here the door opened, and my fairy princess vanished from view, with a
parting vision of a blush, smile, and bow, and I was left outside with
the rain and the mud and the dull, commonplace grind of my daily work.
The house, as I noted it, was palatial in its aspect. Clear, large
windows, which seemed a single sheet of crystal, gave a view of banks of
flowering hyacinths, daffodils, crocuses, and roses, curtained in by
misty falls of lace drapery. Evidently it was one of those Circean
regions of retreat, where the lovely daughters of fashionable wealth in
New York keep guard over an eternal lotus-eater's paradise; where they
tread on enchanted carpets, move to the sound of music, and live among
flowers and odors a life of blissful ignorance of toil or care.
"To what purpose," I thought to myself, "should I call there, or pursue
the vision into its own regions? Æneas might as well try to follow Venus
to the scented regions above Idalia, where her hundred altars forever
burn, and her flowers never die."
But yet I was no wiser and no older than other men at three-and-twenty,
and the little card which I had placed in my vest pocket seemed to
diffuse an agreeable, electric warmth, which constantly reminded me of
its presence there. I took it out and looked at it. I spelled the name
over, and dwelt on every letter. There was so much positive character
in the little lady,--such a sort of spicy, racy individuality, that the
little I had seen of her was like reading the first page of an
enchanting romance, and I could not repress a curiosity to go on with
it. To-day was Monday; the reception day was Wednesday. Should I go?
Prudence said, "No; you are a young man with your way to make; you are
self-dependent; you are poor; you have no time to spend in helping rich
idle people to hunt butterflies, and string rose-leaves, and make
dandelion-chains. If you set your foot over one of those enchanted
thresholds, where wealth and idleness rule together, you will be
bewildered, enervated, and spoiled for any really high or severe
task-work; you will become an idler, a dangler; the power of sustained
labor and self-denial will depart from you, and you will run like a
breathless lackey after the chariot of wealth and fashion."
On the other hand, as the little bit of enchanted pasteboard gently
burned in my vest pocket, it said:
"Why should you be rude? It is incumbent on you as a gentleman to
respond to the invitation so frankly given. Besides, the writer who
aspires to influence society must know society; and how can one know
society unless one studies it? A hermit in his cell is no judge of what
is going on in the world. Besides, he does not overcome the world who
runs away from it, but he who meets it bravely. It is the part of a
coward to be afraid of meeting wealth and luxury and indolence on their
own grounds. He really conquers who can keep awake, walking straight
through the enchanted ground; not he who makes a detour to get round
it."
All which I had arrayed in good set terms as I rode back to my room, and
went up to Bolton to look up in his library the authorities for an
article I was getting out on the Domestic Life of the Ancient Greeks.
Bolton had succeeded in making me feel so thoroughly at home in his
library that it was to all intents and purposes as if it were my own.
As I was tumbling over the books that filled every corner, there fell
out from a little niche a photograph, or rather ambrotype, such as were
in use in the infancy of the art. It fell directly into my hand, so that
taking it up it was impossible not to perceive what it was, and I
recognized in an instant the person. It was the head of my cousin
Caroline, not as I knew her now, but as I remembered her years ago, when
she and I went to the Academy together.
It is almost an involuntary thing, on such occasions, to exclaim, "Who
is this?" But Bolton was so very reticent a being that I found it
extremely difficult to ask him a personal question. There are
individuals who unite a great winning and sympathetic faculty with great
reticence. They make you talk, they win your confidence, they are
interested in you, but they ask nothing from you, and they tell you
nothing. Bolton was all the while doing obliging things for me and for
Jim, but he asked nothing from us; and while we felt safe in saying
anything in the world before him, and while we never felt at the moment
that conversation flagged, or that there was any deficiency in sympathy
and good fellowship on his part, yet upon reflection we could never
recall anything which let us into the interior of his own life-history.
The finding of this little memento impressed me, therefore, oddly,--as
if a door had suddenly been opened into a private cabinet where I had no
right to look, or an open letter which I had no right to read had been
inadvertently put into my hands. I looked round on Bolton, as he sat
quietly bending over a book that he was consulting, with his pen in hand
and his cat at his elbow; but the question I longed to ask stuck fast in
my throat, and I silently put back the picture in its place, keeping the
incident to ponder in my heart. What with the one pertaining to myself,
and with the thoughts suggested by this, I found myself in a disturbed
state that I determined to resist by setting myself a definite task of
so many pages of my article.
In the evening, when Jim came in, I recounted my adventure and showed
him the card.
He surveyed it with a prolonged whistle. "Good now!" he said; "the
ticket sent by the Providence Express. I see--"
"Who are these Van Arsdels, Jim?"
"Upper tens," said Jim, decisively. "Not the oldest Tens, but the second
batch. Not the old Knickerbocker Vanderhoof, and Vanderhyde, and
Vanderhorn set that Washy Irving tells about,--but the modern nobs. Old
Van Arsdel does a smashing importing business--is worth his
millions--has five girls, all handsome--two out--two more to come out,
and one strong-minded sister who has retired from the world, and isn't
seen out anywhere. The one you saw was Eva; they say she's to marry Wat
Sydney,--the greatest match there is going in New York. How do you
say--shall you go, Wednesday?"
"Do you know them?"
"Oh, yes. Alice Van Arsdel is a splendid girl, and we are good friends,
and I look in on them sometimes just to give them the light of my
countenance. They are always after me to lead the German in their
parties; but I've given that up. Hang it all! it's too steep on a fellow
that has to work all day, with no let up, to be kept dancing till
daylight with those girls. It don't pay!"
"I should think not," said I.
"You see," pursued Jim, "these girls have nothing under heaven to do,
and when they've danced all night, they go to bed and sleep till
eleven or twelve o'clock the next day and get their rest; while we
fellows have to be up and in our offices at eight o'clock next morning.
The fact is, it may do for once or twice, but it knocks a fellow up
pretty fast. It's a bad thing for the fellows; they get to taking wine
and brandy and one thing or another to keep up, and the Devil only knows
what comes of it."
"And are these Van Arsdels in that frivolous set?" said I.
"Well, you see they are not really frivolous, either; they are nice
girls, well educated, graduated at the Universal Thingumbob College,
where they teach girls everything that ever has been heard of, before
they are seventeen. And then they have lived in Paris, and lived in
Germany, and lived in Italy, and picked up all the languages; so that
when they have anything to say they have a choice of four languages to
say it in."
"And have they anything to say worth hearing in any of the four?" said
I.
"Well, yes, now, honor bright. There's Alice Van Arsdel: she's ambitious
as the devil, but, after all, a good, warm-hearted girl under it--and
smart! there's no doubt of that."
"And this lady?" said I, fingering the card.
"Eva? Well, she's had a great run; she's killing, as they say, and she's
pretty--no denying that; and, really, there's a good deal to her,--like
the sponge cake at the bottom of the trifle, you know, with a good smart
flavor of wine and spice."
"And she's engaged to--whom did you say?"
"Wat Sydney."
"And what sort of a man is he?"
"What sort? why, he's a rich man; owns all sorts of things,--gold
mines in California, and copper mines in Lake Superior, and salt works,
and railroads. In fact, the thing is to say what he doesn't own. Immense
head for business,--regular steel-trap to deal with,--has the snap of a
pike."
"Pleasing prospect for a domestic companion," said I.
"Oh, as to that, I believe Wat is good-hearted enough to his own folks.
They say he is very devoted to his old mother and a parcel of old maid
aunts, and as he's rich, it's thought a great virtue. Nobody sings my
praises, I notice, because I mind my mammy and Aunt Sarah. You see it
takes a million-power solar microscope to bring out fellows' virtues."
"Is the gentleman handsome?"
"Well, if he was poor, nobody would think much of his looks. If he had,
say, a hundred thousand or two, he would be called fair to middling in
looks. As it is, the girls rave about him. He's been after Eva now for
six months, and the other girls are ready to tear her eyes out. But the
engagement hasn't come out yet. I think she's making up her mind to
him."
"Not in love, then?"
"Well, she's been queen so long she's blasée and difficult, and likes
to play with her fish before she lands him. But of course she must
have him. Girls like that must have money to keep 'em up; that's the
first requisite. I tell you the purple and fine linen of these
princesses come to something. Now, as rich men go, she'd find ten
worse than Wat where there's one better. Then she's been out three
seasons. There's Alice just come out, and Alice is a stunner, and takes
tremendously! And then there's Angeline, a handsome, spicy little witch,
smarter than either, that is just fluttering, and scratching, and
tearing her hair with impatience to have her turn. And behind Angeline
there's Marie--she's got a confounded pair of eyes. So you see there's
no help for it; Miss Eva must abdicate and make room for the next
comer."
"Well," said I, "about this reception?"
"Oh! go, by all means," said Jim. "It will be fun. I'll go with you. You
see it's Lent now, thank the stars! and so there's no dancing,--only
quiet evenings and lobster salad; because, you see, we're all repenting
of our sins and getting ready to go at it again after Easter. A fellow
now can go to receptions, and get away in time to have a night's rest,
and the girls now and then talk a little sense between whiles. They
can talk sense when they like, though one wouldn't believe it of 'em.
Well, take care of yourself, my son, and I'll take you round there on
Wednesday evening." And Jim went whistling down the stairs, leaving me
to finish my article on the Domestic Manners of the Greeks.
I remember that very frequently that evening, while stopping to consider
how I should begin the next sentence, I unconsciously embellished the
margin of my manuscript by writing "Eva, Eva, Eva Van Arsdel" in an
absent-minded, mechanical way. In fact, from that time, that name began
often to obtrude itself on every bit of paper when I tried my pen.
The question of going to the Wednesday evening reception was settled in
the affirmative. What was to hinder my taking a look at fairy land in a
purely philosophical spirit? Nothing, certainly. If she were engaged she
was nothing to me,--never would be. So, clearly there was no danger.
CHAPTER XVI.
THE GIRL OF OUR PERIOD.
[Letter from Eva Van Arsdel to Mrs. Courtney.]
My Dear Friend and Teacher:--I scarcely dare trust myself to look at
the date of your kind letter. Can it really be that I have let it lie
almost a year, hoping, meaning, sincerely intending to answer it, and
yet doing nothing about it? Oh! my dear friend, I was a better girl
while I was under your care than I am now; in those times I really did
my duties; I never put off things, and I came somewhere near
satisfying myself. Now, I live in a constant whirl--a whirl that never
ceases. I am carried on from day to day, from week to week, from month
to month, with nothing to show for it except a succession of what girls
call "good times." I don't read any thing but stories; I don't study; I
don't write; I don't sew; I don't draw, or play, or sing, to any real
purpose. I just "go into society," as they call it. I am an idler, and
the only thing I am good for is that I help to adorn a house for the
entertainment of idlers; that is about all.
Now Lent has come, and I am thankful for the rest from parties and
dancing; but yet Lent makes me blue, because it gives me some time to
think; and besides that, when all this whirligig stops awhile, I feel
how dizzy and tired it has made me. And then I think of all that you
used to tell me about the real object of life, and all that I so
sincerely resolved in my school-days that I would do and be, and I am
quite in despair about myself.
It is three years since I really "came out," as the phrase goes. Up to
that time I was far happier than I have been since, because I satisfied
myself better. You always said, dear friend, that I was a good scholar,
and faithful to every duty; and those days, when I had a definite duty
for each hour, and did it well, were days when I liked myself better
than now. I did enjoy study. I enjoyed our three years in Europe, too,
for then, with much variety and many pleasures, I had regular studies; I
was learning something, and did not feel that I was a mere do-nothing.
But since I have been going into company I am perfectly sick of myself.
For the first year it was new to me, and I was light-headed and thought
it glorious fun. It was excitement all the time--dressing, and going,
and seeing, and being admired, and, well--flirting. I confess I liked
it, and went into it with all my might,--parties, balls, opera, concerts
all the winter in New York, and parties, balls, etc. at Newport and
Saratoga in Summer. It was a sort of prolonged delirium. I didn't stop
to think about anything, and lived like a butterfly, by the hour. Oh!
the silly things I have said and done! I find myself blushing hot when I
think of them, because, you see, I am so excitable, and sometimes am so
carried away, that afterward I don't know what I may have said or done!
And now all this is coming to some end or other. This going into company
can't last forever. We must be married--that's what we are for, they
say; that's what all this dressing, and dancing, and flying about has
got to end in. And so mamma and Aunt Maria are on thorns, to get me off
their hands and well established. I have been out three seasons. I am
twenty-three, and Alice has just come out, and it is expected, of
course, that I retire with honor. I will not stop to tell you that I
have rejected about the usual number of offers that young ladies in my
position get, and I haven't seen anybody that I care a copper for.
Well, now, in this crisis, comes this Mr. Sidney, who proposed to me
last Fall, and I refused point-blank, simply and only because I didn't
love him, which seemed to me at that time reason enough. Then mamma and
Aunt Maria took up the case, and told me that I was a foolish girl to
throw away such an offer: a man of good character and standing, an
excellent business man, and so immensely rich--with such a splendid
place at Newport, and another in New York, and a fortune like Aladdin's
lamp!
I said I didn't love him, and they said I hadn't tried; that I could
love him if I only made up my mind to, and why wouldn't I try? Then papa
turned in, who very seldom has anything to say to us girls, or about any
family matters, and said how delighted he should be to see me married
to a man so capable of taking care of me. So, among them all, I agreed
that I would receive his visits and attentions as a friend, with a
view to trying to love him; and ever since I have been banked up in
flowers and confectionery, and daily drifting into relations of closer
and closer intimacy.
Do I find myself in love? Not a bit. Frankly, dear friend, to tell the
awful truth, the thing that weighs down my heart is, that if this man
were not so rich, I know I shouldn't think of him. If he were a poor
young man, just beginning business, I know I should not give him a
second thought; neither would mother, nor Aunt Maria, nor any of us. But
here are all these worldly advantages! I confess I am dazzled by them. I
am silly, I am weak, I am ambitious. I like to feel that I may have the
prize of the season--the greatest offer in the market. I know I am
envied and, oh, dear me! though it's naughty, yet one does like to be
envied. Besides, to tell the truth, though I am not in love with him, I
am not in love with anybody else. I respect him, and esteem him, and all
that, in a quiet, negative sort of way, and mother and Aunt Maria say
everything else will come--after marriage. Will it? Is it right? Is this
the way I ought to marry?
But then, you know, I must marry somebody--that, they say, is a fixed
fact. It seems to be understood that I am a sort of helpless affair, to
be taken care of, and that now is my time to be disposed of; and they
tell me every day that if I let this chance go, I shall regret it all my
life.
Do you know I wish there were convents that one could go out of the
world into? Cousin Sophia Sewell has joined the Sisters of St. John,
and says she never was so happy. She does look so cheerful, and she is
so busy from morning till night, and has the comfort of doing so much
good to a lot of those poor little children, that I envy her.
But I cannot become a Sister. What would mamma say if she knew I even
thought of it? Everybody would think me crazy. Nobody would believe how
much there is in me that never comes to light, nor how miserable it
makes me to be the poor, half-hearted thing that I am.
You know, dear friend, about sister Ida's peculiar course, and how very
much it has vexed mamma. Yet, really and truly, I can't help respecting
Ida. It seems to me she shows a real strength of principle that I lack.
She went into gay society only a little while before she gave it up, and
her reasons, I think, were good ones. She said it weakened her health,
weakened her mind; that there was no use in it, and that it was just
making her physically and morally helpless, and that she wanted to live
for a purpose of her own. She wanted to go to Paris, and study for the
medical profession; but neither papa, nor mamma, nor any of the family
would hear of it. But Ida persisted that she would do something, and
finally papa took her into his business, to manage the foreign
correspondence, which she does admirably, putting all her knowledge of
languages to account. He gives her the salary of a confidential clerk,
and she lays it up, with the intention finally of carrying her purpose.
Ida is a good, noble woman, of a strength and independence perfectly
incomprehensible to me. I can desire, but I cannot do; I am weak and
irresolute. People can talk me round, and do anything with me, and I
cannot help myself.
Another thing makes me unhappy. Ida refused to be confirmed when I was,
because, she said, confirmation was only a sham; that the girls were
just as wholly worldly after as before, and that it did no earthly good.
Well, you see, I was confirmed; and, oh dear me! I was sincere, God
knows. I wanted to be good--to live a higher, purer, nobler life than I
have lived; and yet, after all, it is I, the child of the Church, that
am living a life of folly, and show, and self-indulgence; and it is Ida,
who doubts the Church, that is living a life of industry, and energy,
and self-denial.
Why is it? The world that we promise to renounce, that our sponsors
promised that we should renounce--what is it, and where is it? Do those
vows mean anything? if so, what? I mean to do all that I ought to; but
how to know what? There's Aunt Maria, my god-mother, she did the
renouncing for me at my baptism, and promised solemnly that I should
abjure "the vain pomp and glory of the world, with all covetous desires
of the same; that I should not follow, or be led by them;" yet she has
never, that I can see, had one thought of anything else but how to
secure to me just exactly those very things. That I should be first in
society, be admired, followed, flattered, and make a rich, splendid
marriage, has been her very heart's desire and prayer; and if I should
renounce the vain pomp and glory of the world, really and truly, she
would be utterly heart-broken. So would mamma.
I don't mean to lay all the blame on them, either. I have been
worldly, too, and ambitious, and wanted to shine, and been only too
willing to fall in with all their views.
But it really is hard for a person like me to stand alone, against my
own heart, and all my relatives, particularly when I don't know exactly,
in each case, what to do, and what not; where to begin to resist, and
where to yield.
Ida says that it is a sin to spend nights in dancing, so that one has to
lie in bed like an invalid all the next day. She says it is a sin to run
down one's health for no good purpose; and yet we girls all do
it--everybody does it. We all go from party to party, from concert to
ball, and from ball to something else. We dance the German three or four
nights a week; and then, when Sunday comes, sometimes I find that there
is the Holy Communion--and then I am afraid to go. I am like the man
that had not on the wedding garment.
It seems to me that our church services were made for real
Christians--people like the primitive Christians, who made a real thing
of it; they gave up everything and went down and worshiped in the
catacombs, for instance. I remember seeing those catacombs where they
held their church far down under ground, when I was in Rome. There would
be some meaning in such people's using our service, but when I try to
go through with it I fear to take such words on my lips. I wonder that
nobody seems to feel how awful those words are, and how much they must
mean, if they mean anything. It seems to me so solemn to say to God, as
we do say in the communion service, "Here we offer and present unto
Thee, O, Lord, ourselves, our souls and bodies, to be a reasonable,
holy, and living sacrifice unto Thee"----
I see so many saying this who never seem to think of it again; and, oh,
my dear friend, I have said it myself, and been no better afterward, and
now, alas, I too often turn away from the holy ordinance because I feel
that it is only a mockery to utter them, living as I do.
About this marriage. Mr. Sydney is not at all a religious man; he is all
for this world, and I don't think I shall grow much better by it.
I wish there were somebody that could strengthen me, and help me to be
my better self. I have dreams of a sort of man like King Arthur, and the
Knights of the Holy Grail--a man, noble, holy, and religious. Such an
one I would follow if I broke away from everyone else; but, alas, no
such are in our society, at least I never have met any. Yet I have it in
me to love, even to death, if I found a real hero. I marked a place in a
book the other day, which said:
"There is not so much difficulty in being willing to die for one, as
finding one worth dying for."
I haven't, and they laugh at me as a romantic girl when I tell them what
I would do if I found my ideal.
Well, I suppose you see how it's all likely to end. We drift, and drift
and drift, and I shouldn't wonder if I drifted at last into this
marriage. I see it all before me, just what it will be,--a wonderful
wedding, that turns all New York topsy turvy--diamonds, laces,
cashmeres, infinite flowers, and tuberoses of course, till one's head
aches,--clang and ding, and bang and buzz;--triumphal processions to all
the watering-places; tour in Europe, and then society life in New York,
ad infinitum.
Oh, dear, if I only could get up some enthusiasm for him! He likes me,
but he don't like the things that I like, and it is terribly slow work
entertaining him--but when we are married we shan't see so much of each
other, I suppose, and shall get on as other folks do. Papa and mamma
hardly ever see much of each other, but I suppose they are all right.
Aunt Maria says, love or no love at the beginning, it all comes to this
sort of jog-trot at the end. The husband is the man that settles the
bills, and takes care of the family, that's all.
Ida says--but I won't tell you what Ida says--she always makes me feel
blue.
Do write me a good scolding letter; rouse me up; shame me, scold me,
talk hard to me, and see if you can't make something of me. Perhaps it
isn't too late.
    Your affectionate bad girl,      EVA.
       
[Letter from Mrs. Courtney to Eva Van Arsdel.]
My Dear Child:--You place me in an embarrassing position in asking me
to speak on a subject, when your parents have already declared their
wishes.
Nevertheless, my dear, I can but remind you that you are the child of an
higher than any earthly mother, and in an affair of this moment you
should take counsel of our holy Church. Take your prayer-book and read
her solemn service, and see what those marriage vows are that you think
of taking. Are these to be taken lightly and unadvisedly?
I recollect, when I was a young girl, we used to read Sir Charles
Grandison, and one passage in the model Harriet Byron's letters I copied
into my scrap-book. Speaking of one who had proposed to her, she says:
"He seems to want the mind that I would have the man blessed with that I
am to vow to love and honor. I purpose whenever I marry to make a very
good, and even dutiful wife; must I not vow obedience, and shall I break
my marriage vow? I would not, therefore, on any consideration, marry a
man whose want of knowledge might make me stagger in the performance of
my duty to him; who would, perhaps, command from caprice or want of
understanding what I think unreasonable to be complied with."
I quote this because I think it is old fashioned good sense, in a
respectable old English novel, worth a dozen of the modern school. To
me, there is indicated in your description of Mr. Sydney, just that lack
of what you would need in a husband, which would make difficult, perhaps
impossible, the performance of your marriage vows. It is evident that
his mind does not impress yours or control yours, and that there are no
mental sympathies between you.
That a man is a good business man; that he is fitted to secure the rent
or taxes of the house one lives in, and to pay one's bills, is not all.
Think, my child, that this man, for whom you can "get up no enthusiasm,"
whose company wearies you, is the one whom you are proposing to take by
the hand before God's altar, and solemnly promise that forsaking all
others, you will keep only unto him, so long as you both shall live,
to love, to honor, and to obey. Can you do it?
You say you can get up no enthusiasm for this man, yet you have a
conception of a man for whom you could leave all things; whom you
could love unto the death.
It is out of just such marriages, made by girls with just such hearts as
yours, that come all these troubles that are bringing holy marriage
into disrepute in our times. A woman marries, thoughtlessly and
unadvisedly, a man whom she consciously does not love, hoping that she
shall love him, or that she shall do as well as others do; then by
accident or chance she is thrown into the society of the very one whom
she could have loved with enthusiasm, and married, for himself alone.
The modern school of novels are full of these wretched stories, and
people now are clamoring for free divorce, to get out of marriages that
they never ought to have fallen into.
Amid all this confusion the Church stands from age to age and teaches.
She shows you exactly what you are to promise; she warns you against
promising lightly, or unadvisedly, and I can only refer my dear child to
her mother's lessons. Marriage vows, like confirmation vows, are
recorded in Heaven, and must not be broken.
The time for reflection is before they are made. Instead of clamoring
for free divorce, as a purifier of marriage, all Christians should
purify it as the church recommends, by the great care with which they
enter into it. That is my doctrine, my love. I am a good old English
Church-woman, and don't believe in any modern theories. The teachings of
the prayer-book are enough for me. I know that, in spite of them all,
there are thoughtless confirmation vows and marriage vows daily uttered
in our church, but it is not for want of clear and solemn instruction.
But you, my love, with your conscientiousness, and good sense, and
really noble nature, will I am sure act worthily of yourself in this
matter.
Another consideration I suggest to you. This man, whom I suppose to be a
worthy and excellent man, has his rights. He has the right to the whole
heart of the woman he marries--to whom at the altar he gives himself and
all which he possesses. A woman who has what you call an enthusiasm for
a man, can do much with him. She can bear with his faults; she can
inspire and lead him; she can raise him in the scale of being. But
without this enthusiasm, this real love, she can do nothing of the kind;
it is a thing that cannot be dissembled, or affected. And after
marriage, the man who does not find this in his wife, has the best
reason to think himself defrauded.
Now, if for the sake of possessing a man's worldly goods, his advantages
of fortune and station, you take that relation when you really are
unable to give him your heart, you act dishonestly. You take and enjoy
what you cannot pay for. Not only that, but you deprive him through all
his life of the blessing of being really loved, which he might obtain
with some other woman.
The fact is, you have been highly cultivated in certain departments;
your tastes would lead you into the world of art and literature. He has
been devoted to business, and in that way has amassed a fortune, but he
has no knowledge, and no habits that would prepare him to sympathise
with you.
I am not here undervaluing the worth of those strong, sterling qualities
which belong to an upright and vigorous man. There are many women who
are impressed by just that sort of power, and admire it in men, as they
do physical strength and courage; it dazzles their imagination, and they
fall in love accordingly. You happen to have another kind of fancy--he
is not of your sort.
But there are doubtless women whom he would fully satisfy; who would
find him a delightful companion who, in short, would be exactly what you
are not, in love with him. My dear, men need wives who are in love
