and rasping went on, and with one impulse the defenders of sleeping
innocence made for the table in the corner.
There was the midnight robber at his fell work!--the big cat peacefully
gnawing the cold chicken, and knocking about the treasured crusts
dragged from the luncheon-basket carefully packed for an early start.
'Wake and behold the ruin your pet has made!'
'We might be murdered or carried off a dozen times over without her
knowing it. Here's a nice duenna!'
And the indignant ladies shook, pinched, and shouted till the hapless
sleeper opened one eye, and wrathfully demanded what the matter was.
They told her with eloquent brevity, but instead of praising their
prowess, and thanking them with fervour, the ungrateful woman shut her
eye again, merely saying with drowsy irascibility,--
'You told me to go to sleep, and I went; next time fight it out among
yourselves, but don't wake me.'
'Throw the cat out of window and go to bed, Mat,' and Amanda uncocked
her pistol with the resignation of one who had learned not to expect
gratitude in this world.
'Touch a hair of that dear creature and I'll raise the house!' cried
Lavinia, roused at once.
Puss, who had viewed the fray sitting bolt upright on the table, now
settled the vexed question by skipping into Lavinia's arms, feeling with
the instinct of her race that her surest refuge was there. Mat retired
in silent disgust, and the Raven fell asleep soothed by the grateful
purring of her furry friend.
'Last night's experiences have given me a longing for adventures,' said
Mat, as they journeyed on next morning.
'I've had quite enough of that sort,' growled Lavinia.
'Let us read our papers, and wait for time to send us something in the
way of a lark,' and Amanda obscured herself in a grove of damp
newspapers.
Lavinia also took one and read bits aloud to Mat, who was mending her
gloves, bright yellow, four-buttoned, and very dirty.
'Translate as you go along--I do so hate that gabble,' begged Mat, who
would not improve her mind.
So Lavinia gave her a free translation which convulsed Amanda behind her
paper. Coming to this passage, 'Plusieurs faits graves sont arrivés,'
the reader rendered it, 'Several made graves have arrived,' adding,
'Dear me, what singular customs the French have, to be sure!' A little
farther on she read, 'Un portrait de feu Monsieur mon père,' adding, 'A
fire portrait means a poker sketch, I suppose.'
Here a smothered giggle from Amanda caused the old lady to say 'Bless
you!' thinking the dear girl had sneezed.
'I must have some blue cotton to mend my dress with. Remind me to get
some at Moulins. By the way, how do you ask for it in French?' said Mat,
surveying a rent in her skirts.
'Oh, just go in and say, "Avez-vous le fils bleu?"' replied Lavinia,
with a superior air.
'A blue son! My precious granny, what will you say next?' murmured
Amanda, faint with suppressed laughter.
'What are you muttering about?' asked Granny, sharply.
'Trying to recall those fine lines in "Wilhelm Meister;" don't you
remember? "Wer nie sein Brod mit Thränen ass,"' replied Amanda, polite
even at the last gasp.
'I read my Goethe in decent English, and don't know anything about
training asses,' returned Lavinia, severely.
That was too much! Amanda cast her paper down, and had her laugh out, as
the only means of saving herself from suffocation. The others gazed upon
her in blank amazement, till she found breath enough to enlighten them,
when such peals of merriment arose, that the guard popped his head in to
see if he had not unwittingly shipped a load of lunatics.
'That was splendid! But now we must sober down, for a gorgeous being is
about to get in,' said Amanda, as they stopped at a station.
The gorgeous being entered, and found three demure ladies rapt in
newspapers. They apparently saw nothing but the words before them; yet
every one of them knew that the handsome young man had bowed in the most
superior manner; also, that he was dressed in brown velvet, long
gaiters, buttoned to the knee, a ravishing blue tie, buff gloves, and
pouch and powder-horn slung over his shoulder. Also, that a servant with
two dogs and a gun had touched his hat and said, 'Oui, monsieur le
comte,' as he shut the door.
A slight thrill pervaded the statues as this fact was made known, and
each began to wonder how the elegant aristocrat would behave. To say
that he stared, feebly expresses the fixity of his noble gaze, as it
rested in turn upon the three faces opposite. When satisfied, he also
produced a paper and began to read. But Matilda caught a big, black eye
peering over the sheet more than once, as she peered over the top of her
own.
'I don't like him. Remember, we don't speak French,' whispered the
discreet Amanda.
'I can swear that I don't,' said Lavinia, with an irrepressible smile,
as she remembered the 'blue son.'
'The language of the eye is not forbidden me, and I can't sit baking
under a newspaper all the way,' returned Matilda, whose blond curls had
evidently met with the great creature's approval.
A slight pucker about the Comte's lips caused a thrill of horror to
pervade the ladies, as Amanda murmured under her breath,--
'He may understand English!'
'Then we are lost!' returned the tragic Raven.
'Wish he did. I really pine for a little attention. It gives such a
relish to life,' said Matilda, thinking regretfully of the devoted
beings left behind.
The prudent Amanda and the stern Lavinia steeled their hearts, and iced
their countenances to the comely gentleman. But the social Matilda could
not refrain from responding to his polite advances, with a modest
'Merci, Monsieur,' as he drew the curtain for her, a smile when he
picked up the unruly curling-stick, and her best bow as he offered his
paper with a soft glance of the black eyes.
In vain Amanda tried to appal her with awful frowns; in vain Lavinia
trod warningly upon her foot: she paid no heed, and left them no hope
but the saving remembrance that she couldn't talk French.
'If the man don't get out soon, I'll tie her up in my shawl, and tell
him she is mad,' resolved Lavinia, whose spinster soul was always
scandalised at the faintest approach to a flirtation.
'If the man does speak English, Mat will have it all her own way,'
thought Amanda, remembering the vow imposed upon the reckless girl.
Alas, alas for the anxious twain! The man did not get out soon, the
man did speak English, and in ten minutes Matilda was off, like a colt
without a halter. The anguish of her keepers added zest to the fun, and
finding that the gentleman evidently thought her the lady of the party
(owing to the yellow gloves, smartest hat, and irreproachable boots),
and the others in sober gray and black, were maid and duenna, this
reprehensible girl kept up the joke, put on airs, and enjoyed that
flirtatious hour to her heart's content.
As if to punish the others for their distrust, and to reward Mat's
interest in him, M. le Comte devoted himself to Mademoiselle, telling
her about his hunting, his estate, and finished by inviting her and her
party to call and view his château, if they ever paused at the town,
which had the honour of being his summer residence. Mat responded to all
these courtesies with confiding sweetness, and when at length he was
desolated at being obliged to tear himself away, she
     'Gave sigh for sigh,'
as he retired with a superb bow, a gallant 'Bon voyage, mesdames,' and a
wicked twinkle of the black eyes as they rested on the faces of the
frozen ladies.
'I got rather the best of the joke in that little affair: didn't I?'
said Mat, gayly, as the brown velvet Adonis vanished.
'You are a disgrace to your party and your nation,' sternly responded
Amanda.
Lavinia spoke not, but shook her little sister till the hat flew off her
head, and she had only breath enough left to declare with unquenched
ardour that she would do it again the very next chance she got.
Lectures, laughter, and longings for 'my Comte' beguiled the remainder
of the way, and Moulang (as Mat pronounced Moulins) was reached after
a pleasant trip through a green country, picturesque with the white
cattle of Berri. There was not much to see, but the town was so quaint
and quiet, that Amanda was seized with one of her remarkable projects.
'Let us find a little house somewhere and stay a week or two. I fain
would rest and ruminate among the white cows for a while; have a little
washing done, and slowly prepare to emerge into the world again. Lyons
is our next point, and there we must bid adieu to freedom and
shawl-straps.'
'Very well, dear,' responded Lavinia, with resignation, having learned
that the best way to curb these aberrations of genius was to give in,
and let circumstances prove their impracticability.
So Amanda inquired of the landlady if such a rustic cot could be found.
Whereupon the dingy little woman clasped her dingy little hands, and
declared that she had exactly the charming retreat desired. Truly yes,
and she would at once make her toilette, order out the carriage, and
display this lovely villa to the dear ladies.
With many misgivings the three squeezed themselves into a square
clothes-basket on wheels, drawn by an immense, bony, white horse, driven
by a striped boy, and adorned by Madame, in a towering bonnet, laden
with amazing fruit, flowers, and vegetables. Lavinia counted three
tomatoes, a bunch of grapes, poppies and pansies, wheat ears and
blackberry-vines, a red, red rose, and one small lettuce, with glass
dewdrops and green grubs lavishly sprinkled over it. A truly superb
chapeau and a memorable one.
Away they trundled through stony streets, dusty roads, waste grounds,
marshy meadows, and tumbled-down pleasure-gardens, till the
clothes-basket turned down a lane, and the bony horse stopped at length
before a door in a high red wall.
'Behold!' cried madame, leading them with much clanking of keys, into a
cabbage-garden. A small tool-house stood among the garden-stuff, with
brick floors, very dirty windows, and the atmosphere of a tomb. Bags of
seed, wheel-barrows, onions, and dust cumbered the ground. Empty bottles
stood on the old table, cigar ends lay thick upon the hearth, and a
trifle of gay crockery adorned the mantel-piece.
'See, then, here is a salon, so cool, so calm. Above is a room with
beds, and around the garden where the ladies can sit all day. A maid can
achieve the breakfast here, and my carriage can come for them to dine at
the hotel. Is it not charmingly arranged?
'It is simply awful,' said Mat, aghast at the prospect.
'Settle it as you like, dear, only I'm afraid I couldn't stay very
long on account of the dampness,' observed Lavinia, cheerfully, as she
put a hoe-handle under her feet and wiped the blue mould from a
three-legged chair.
'It won't do, so I'll tell her you are an invalid and very particular,'
said Amanda, with another inspiration, as she led the landlady forth to
break the blow tenderly.
'My neuralgia is useful if it isn't ornamental; and what a comfort that
is!' said Lavinia, as she lightly threw a large cockroach out of window,
dodged a wasp, and crushed a fat spider.
And so it was in many ways. If the party wanted a car to themselves,
Granny was ordered to lie down and groan dismally, which caused other
travellers to shun the poor invalid. If rooms did not suit, suffering
Madame must have sun or perish. Late lunches, easy carriages, extra
blankets, every sort of comfort was for her, whether she wanted them or
not.
'Shall I be sick or well?' was always the first question when an
invitation came, for 'my sister's delicate health' was the standing
excuse when parties palled, or best gowns were not get-at-able.
While Amanda conferred with the hostess among the cabbages, Mat
discovered that the picturesque white cattle in the field close by were
extremely fierce and unsocial; that there was no house in sight, and the
venerable horse and shay would never sustain many trips to and fro to
dinner at the hotel. Lavinia poked about the house, and soon satisfied
herself that it abounded in every species of what Fanny Kemble calls
'entomological inconvenience,' and an atmosphere admirably calculated to
introduce cholera to the inhabitants of Moulins.
'It is all settled; let us return,' said Amanda, appearing at last with
an air of triumph, having appeased the old lady by eating green
currants, and admiring an earwiggy arbour, commanding a fine view of a
marsh where frogs were piping and cool mists rising as the sun set.
The chickens were tough at dinner, the wine bitter, the bread sour, but
no one reproached Amanda as the cause of this change. And when the
hostess bowed them out, next day, without a smile, they drove away,
conscious only of deep gratitude that they were saved from leaving their
bones to moulder among the cabbages of Moulins.
'Now we return to civilisation, good clothes, and Christian food,' said
Lavinia, as they surveyed their fine rooms at the Grand Hotel, Lyons.
'Likewise letters and luggage,' added Amanda, as the maid brought in a
bundle of letters, and two porters came bumping up with the trunks.
'Well, I've enjoyed the trip immensely, though nothing very remarkable
has happened,' said Mat, diving into her private ark with satisfaction.
'I should like to wander in the wilderness for years, if I could hear
from my family at intervals,' said Lavinia, briskly breaking open the
plump, travel-worn letters.
'Then you consider our trip a success?' asked Amanda, pausing in the act
of removing the dust from her noble countenance.
'A perfect success! We have done what we planned, had no mishaps, seen
and enjoyed much, quarrelled not at all, laughed a great deal, and been
altogether festive, thanks to you. I shall hang my shawl-strap on the
castle wall as a trophy of the prowess of my Amanda, and the success of
the last Declaration of American Independence,' replied Lavinia.
'I, also,' said Mat, opening her bundle for the one hundreth and last
time.
'You do me proud; I humbly thank you,' and with a superb curtsy the
commander-in-chief modestly retired behind the towel.
IV.
SWITZERLAND.
'My children, listen to the words of wisdom ere it is too late,' began
Lavinia, as the three sat about in dressing-gowns after a busy day in
Geneva.
'We listen, go on, Granny,' replied the irreverent girls.
'If we stay here a week longer, we are ruined. Firstly, this Metropole
is an expensive hotel; also noisy and full of fashionable people, whom I
hate. Secondly, the allurements of the jewellers' shops are too much for
us, and we had better flee before we spend all our money. Thirdly, if
war does break out along the Rhine, as rumour now predicts, Geneva will
be crammed with people whose plans, like ours, are upset; therefore we
had better skip across the lake, and secure a comfortable place for
ourselves at Vevey or Montreaux, for we shall probably have to winter
there.'
'Hear, hear! we will do it, and if Italy doesn't get over her revolution
in time for us to go to Rome, we must content ourselves with some nook
in this refuge for all wanderers on the face of the continent,' said
Amanda.
'But I like Geneva so much. It's such fun to watch the splendid waiters
file in at dinner, looking like young gentlemen ready for a ball; the
house is so gay, and the shops!--never did I dream of such richness
before. Do stay another week and buy a few more things,' prayed Matilda,
who spent most of her time gloating over the jewelry, and tempting her
sister to buy all manner of useless gauds.
'No: we will go to-morrow. I know of several good pensions at Vevey,
so we are sure of getting in somewhere. Pack at once, and let us flee,'
returned Lavinia, who, having bought a watch, a ring, and a locket, felt
that it was time to go.
And go they did, settling for a month at Bex, a little town up the
valley of the Rhone, remarkable for its heat, its dirt, its lovely
scenery, and the remarkable perfection to which its inhabitants had
brought the goître, nearly every one being blessed with an unsightly
bunch upon the neck, which they decorated with ribbons and proudly
displayed to the disgusted traveller.
Here in the rambling old Hôtel des Bains, with its balconies, gardens,
and little rooms, the wanderers reposed for a time. A Polish countess,
with her lover, daughter, and governess, conferred distinction upon the
house. An old Hungarian count, who laboured under the delusion that he
descended in a direct line from Zenobia, also adorned the scene. An
artist with two pretty boys, named Alfred Constable Landseer Reynolds
and Allston West Cuyp Vandyke, afforded Matilda much satisfaction.
English mammas with prim daughters of thirty or so still tied to their
apron-strings were to be found, of course, for they are everywhere; also
wandering French folk raving about the war one minute and tearing their
hair over bad coffee the next.
Amanda read newspapers and talked politics with the old count; while
Lavinia, with a paper bag of apricots under one arm and a volume of
Disraeli's novels under the other, spent her shining hours wandering
from balcony to garden, enjoying the heat, which gave her a short
respite from her woes.
While here Matilda, in company with a kindred soul, made the ascent of
Mount St. Bernard with the pleasing accompaniments of wind, rain,
thunder, and lightning. But the irrepressible Americans went on in spite
of warnings from more prudent travellers who stopped half-way. With one
mule and a guide for escort, the two enthusiasts waded swollen streams
with ice-cold water up to their knees, climbed slippery roads, faced
what seemed a whirlwind at that height, and, undaunted by the uproar of
the elements, pressed on to the Hospice, to the great admiration of
Moritz, the guide, who told them he had seldom taken men up in such a
storm, never ladies.
At the Hospice the dripping lasses found a hospitable welcome from the
handsome monk who does the honours there. Being provided with dry
garments, and having much fun over the tall Matilda draped in skirts of
many colours in the attempt to get any long enough, they were fed and
warmed by the engaging monk, who entertained them as they sat about a
roaring fire while the storm raged without, with thrilling tales of the
travellers they had saved, the wild adventures they had known in the
dreadful winter time, and the gifts bestowed upon them by grateful
travellers or generous guests.
The Prince of Wales had sent them a piano, and many fine pictures
ornamented the walls from famous persons. An old English lady who spends
her summers up there seemed much amused at the prank of the girls, and
evidently wondered what their guardians were about.
A merry and memorable evening; and when, on going to their cells, they
found the beds nicely warmed, Matilda exclaimed,--
'This is the most delightful of the romantic and the comfortable I ever
saw. Alps and warming-pans taken "jintly" are delicious!'
At five next morning they were wakened by the chanting of the invisible
brotherhood, and went down to the chapel for mass. On going out for a
clamber on the rocks, seven or eight great dogs came baying and leaping
about them, licking their hands and smelling their garments to see if
they were hurt. Looking into their bright, benevolent eyes, one could
well believe the wonderful tales told of their courage and sagacity.
Though so powerful and large they were gentle as kittens, and the
dog-loving girls were proud to receive and return the caresses of these
four-footed heroes.
Leaving a grateful souvenir in the box intended to receive whatever
guests choose to leave, the girls descended in the morning sunshine,
finding it a very different experience from the ascent. All was clear
and calm now,--beautiful and grand; and only pausing at M. to send back
a fine engraving to the comely priest, who had made a deep impression on
their romantic hearts, the enfants returned to their anxious friends,
mildewed, rumpled, and weary, but full of enthusiastic delight over
their successful ascent of St. Bernard.
War broke out, and Alexandre, the all-accomplished head-waiter, dropped
his napkin, shouldered his gun, and marched away, leaving the Hôtel des
Bains desolate. Being pretty thoroughly baked, and very weary of the
little town, our trio departed to Vevey, and settled down in the best
pension that ever received the weary traveller.
Standing in its own pretty grounds, and looking out upon the lake,
Pension Paradis deserves its name. Clean and cosy within, a good table,
a kindly hostess, and the jolliest old host ever seen! what more could
the human heart desire?
Vevey was swarming with refugees. Don Carlos, or the Duke de Madrid, as
he was called, was there with his Duchess and court, plotting heaven
knows what up at his villa, with the grave, shabby men who haunted the
town.
Queen Isabella reigned at one hotel, and Spanish grandees pervaded the
place. There were several at Pension Paradis, and no one guessed what
great creatures they were till a fête day arrived, and the grim, gray
men blossomed out into counts, marquises, and generals covered with
orders, stars, and crosses splendid to behold.
One particularly silent, shabby little man with a shaven head and fine
black eyes, who was never seen to smile, became an object of interest on
that occasion by appearing in a gorgeous uniform with a great gilt
grasshopper hanging down his back from a broad green ribbon. Who was he?
What did the grasshopper mean? Where did he go to in a fine carriage,
and what was he plotting with the other Carlists, who dodged in and out
of his room at all hours?
No one ever knew, and all the artful questions put to the young
Spaniard, who played croquet with the girls, were unavailing. Nothing
was discovered, except that little Mirandola had a title, and might be
sent back to Spain any day to lose his life or liberty in some rash
plot, which circumstance made the black-eyed boy doubly interesting to
the free-born Americans. Lavinia bewailed his hard lot, Amanda taught
him whist and told his fortune, and Matilda put him in her sketch-book
done in the blackest India-ink. It is also to be recorded that the
doomed little Don was never seen to laugh but once, and that was when
the girls taught him the classical game of Muggins. The name struck him;
he went about saying it to himself, and on the first occasion of his
being 'mugginsed,' he was so tickled that he indulged in a hearty boy's
laugh; but immediately recovered himself, and never smiled again, as if
in penance for so forgetting his dignity.
A bashful Russian, who wore remarkably fine broadcloth and had perfect
manners, was likewise received into the good graces of the ladies, who
taught him English, called him 'the Baron' in private, and covered him
with confusion in public by making him talk at table.
But the most amusing of all the family was Madame A., a handsome widow
from Lyons, with two ugly children and a stout old mamma, who wore
orange stockings and a curious edifice of black lace encircled with
large purple asters. The widow had married an Italian artist, who was
mortally jealous of his wife, whose blonde beauty attracted much
attention at Rome. In some quarrel with a model the husband was stabbed,
and the handsome widow left in peace.
A tall, fair lady, with a profile like Marie Antoinette; she dressed in
white with violet ribbons, and wore much ancient jewelry. A loud-voiced,
energetic woman, who bewailed the sack of her house at Lyons, scolded
her children, and cursed the Germans with equal volubility and spirit.
When silent she was the picture of a patrician beauty; but, alas! her
voice destroyed the charm, and her manners--great heavens, what things
that woman did! Picking her pearly teeth with a hair-pin, and knocking
her darlings into their chairs with one sweep of her elbow when they
annoyed her at table, were the least of the horrors she perpetrated.
But she talked well, devoted herself to her family, and took misfortune
bravely; so much may be pardoned her.
Her infants were only remarkable for their ugliness and curious
costumes. The little girl usually wore soiled silk gowns, and had her
hair tied up with bits of twine. The boy appeared in a suit of yellow
calico spotted with black, looking very much like a canary bird who had
fallen into an inkstand. On festival occasions he wore white cloth
raiment, with red ribbons stuck here and there, and high red boots.
But, on the whole, the old mamma was the queerest of the set; for she
spent most of her time lumbering up and down stairs, which amusement
kept the orange hose constantly before the public. When not disporting
herself in this way, she dozed in the salon, or consumed much food at
table with a devotion that caused her to suck her fingers, on every one
of which shone an antique ring of price. Her head-gear was a perpetual
puzzle to the observing Lavinia, who could never discover whether it was
a cap, a bonnet, or a natural production, for it was never off. Madame
walked out in it, wore it all day, and very likely slept in it. At least
Lavinia firmly believed so, and often beguiled the watches of the night,
imagining the old soul placidly slumbering with the perennial asters
encircling her aged brow like a halo.
One other party there was who much amused the rest of the household. An
American lady with a sickly daughter, who would have been pretty but for
her affectation and sentimentality. The girl was engaged to a fierce,
dissipated little Russian, who presented her with a big bouquet every
morning, followed her about all day like a dog, and glared wrathfully at
any man who cast an eye upon the languishing damsel in white muslin and
flowing curls 'bedropt with pearls,' as a romantic lady expressed it.
It was evident that the Russian without any vowels in his name was going
to marry Mademoiselle for her money, and the weak Mamma was full of
satisfaction at the prospect. To others it seemed a doubtful bargain,
and much pity was felt for the feeble girl doomed to go to Russia with a
husband who had 'tyrant' written in every line of his bad, blasé
little face and figure. French polish could not hide the brute, nor any
quantity of flowers conceal the chain by which he was leading his new
serf away to bondage in St. Petersburg.
Into the midst of this select society came a countryman of our
three,--a jocund youth fresh from Algiers, with relics, adventures, and
tales that utterly eclipsed the 'Arabian Nights.' Festive times
followed, for the 'Peri' (the pet name of aforesaid youth) gave them the
fruits of his long wanderings, sung whole operas heard in Paris, danced
ballets seen in Berlin, recounted perils among the Moors, served up
gossip from the four corners of the globe, and conversed with each
member of the household in his or her own language.
A cheerful comrade was the 'Peri,' and a great addition to the party,
who now spent most of their time sitting about the town, eating grapes,
and listening to the pranks of this sprightly M.D., who seemed to be
studying his profession by wandering over Europe with a guitar à la
troubadour.
Sounding the lungs of a veiled princess in Morocco was the least of his
adventures, and the treasures he had collected supplied Lavinia with
materials for unlimited romances: cuff-buttons made from bits of marble
picked up among the ruins of Carthage; diamond crescents and ear-rings
bought in Toledo, so antique and splendid that relic-loving Amanda raved
about them; photographs of the belles of Constantinople, Moorish coins
and pipes, bits of curious Indian embroidery; and, best of all, the
power of telling how each thing was found in so graphic a manner that
Eastern bazaars, ruins, and palaces seemed to rise before the listeners
as in the time of the magic story-tellers. But all too soon he packed
his knapsack, and promising to bring each of his friends the nose or ear
of one of the shattered saints from the great cathedral at Strasbourg,
the 'Peri' vanished from Paradis, and left them all lamenting.
The little flurry in Italy ending peacefully, our travellers after much
discussion resolved to cross the Alps and spend the winter in Rome, if
possible. So with tragic farewells from those they left behind them,
who, hoping to keep them longer, predicted all manner of misfortunes,
the three strong-minded ladies rumbled away in the coupé of a
diligence to Brieg.
A lovely day's journey up the valley of the Rhone, and a short night's
rest in the queer little town at the foot of the mountains.
Before light the next morning they were called, and, after a hurried
breakfast in a stony hall, went shivering out into the darkness, and,
stumbling through the narrow street, came to the starting-point.
Lanterns were dancing about the square, two great diligences loomed up
before them, horses were tramping, men shouting, and eager travellers
scrambling for places. In the dimly lighted office, people were
clamouring for tickets, scolding at the delay, or grimly biding their
time in corners, with one eye asleep, and the other sharply watching the
conductor.
'Isn't it romantic?' cried Matilda, wide awake, and in a twitter of
excitement.
'It is frightfully cold; and I don't see how we are going, for both
those caravans are brimful,' croaked Lavinia, chafing her purple nose,
and wishing it had occurred to her to buy a muff before going to sunny
Italy.
'I have got through tickets, and some one is bound to see us over these
snow-banks, so "trust in Providence and the other man," and we shall
come out right, I assure you,' replied the energetic Amanda, who had
conferred with a spectral being in the darkness, and blindly put her
faith in him.
Away lumbered one diligence after the other, the first drawn by seven
horses, the second by five, while the carrier's little cart with one
brought up the rear. But still three muffled ladies sat upon a cool
stone in the dark square, waiting for the spectre to keep his promise.
He did like a man; for suddenly the doors of an old stable flew open,
and out rattled a comfortable carriage with a pair of stout little
horses jingling their bells, and a brisk driver, whose voice was
pleasant, as he touched his hat and invited the ladies to enter,
assuring them that they would soon overtake and pass the heavy
diligences before them.
'Never again will I doubt you, my Amanda,' cried the Raven, packing
herself into the dowager's corner with a grateful heart.
'I hope the top of this carriage opens, for I must see everything,'
cried Matilda, prancing about on the front seat in a chaos of wraps,
books, bottles, and lunch-baskets.
'Of course it does, and when there is anything to see we will see it. It
is dark and cold now, so we'd better all go to sleep again.'
With which sage remark, Amanda burrowed into her cloaks and slumbered.
But not the other two. Matilda stuck her head out of one window,
uttering little cries of wonder and delight at all she saw; while Livy
watched the solemn stars pale one by one as the sky brightened, and felt
as if she were climbing up, out of a dark valley of weariness and pain,
into a new world full of grand repose.
Slowly winding higher and higher through the damp pine forest, softly
stirring in the morning wind, they saw the sky warm from its cold gray
to a rosy glow, making ready for the sun to rise as they never saw it
rise before.
     'Full many a glorious morning have I seen,
     Flatter the mountain tops with sovereign eye,'
but never more wonderfully than on that day. Long after the distant
peaks flamed in the ruddy light, they rode in shadow; but turning
suddenly round a corner, the sun came dazzling through a great gorge,
startling them with the splendour it brought.
Down went the carriage-top, and standing bolt upright, three pairs of
eager eyes drank in the grandeur and the beauty that makes the crossing
of the Simplon an experience to live for ever in the memory. Peak after
peak of the Bernese Oberland rose behind them, silver white against a
wonderful blue sky. Before them Monte Rosa, touched with the morning
red, and all around great glaciers glittering in the sunshine, awful
gorges with torrents thundering from the heights above, relics of
land-slides and avalanches still visible in uprooted trees, boulders
tumbled here and there, and ruins of shepherds' huts in solitary nooks
where sheep now feed.
The road crept in and out, over frail bridges, spanning chasms that made
one dizzy to look into, through tunnels of solid rock, or galleries with
windows over which poured waterfalls from the treacherous glaciers
above. This road is a miracle in itself, for all nature seems to protest
against it, and the elements never tire of trying to destroy it. Only a
Napoleon would have had the audacity to dream of such a path, and it is
truly a royal road into a lovely land.
Passing the diligences the little carriage went rapidly on, and soon
the three were almost alone. Out leaped Lavinia and Matilda, and walked
along the level way that curved round a great gorge.
'Go on and let me be. It is all so magnificent it almost takes my breath
away. I must just sit a minute, like a passive bucket, and let it pour
into me,' said Lavinia, in a solemn tone.
Mat understood; for her own heart and soul were full, and with a silent
kiss of sympathy, walked on, leaving her sister to enjoy that early mass
in a grander cathedral than any built with hands.
In spite of the sunshine it was very cold, and when the three met again
their noses looked like the eldest Miss Pecksniff's, 'as if Aurora had
nipped and tweaked it with her rosy fingers.' Subsiding into their
places with pale, excited faces, they went silently on for a long time,
with no sound but the chime of the bells on the horses who were covered
with a light hoar-frost. Wrapped up to their eyes, like Egyptian women,
sat Livy and Amanda; while Matilda, having tried to sketch Monte Rosa,
and given it up, made a capital caricature of them as they ate cold
chicken, and drank wine, in a primitive manner, out of the bottle.
It was a sudden descent from the sublime to the ridiculous; but the
feeble human mind cannot bear too much glory at once, and is saved by
the claims of the prosaic body, that will get tired and hungry even atop
of the everlasting hills. So the enthusiasts picked their chicken bones,
sipped their wine, and felt less exhausted and hysterical. A good laugh
over the carrier's little boy, who sniffed the banquet afar off, and
came running to offer a handful of pale Alpine flowers, with wistful
glances at the lunch, did them more good still: for the little chap
caught and bolted the morsels they gave him with such dexterous
rapidity, it was as good as juggling.
Refuges and the Hospice came in sight one after the other, and while
waiting to change horses one had time to wonder how the people living
there managed to be such a stolid, dirty, thriftless-looking set.
Mountaineers should be intelligent, active, and hardy; but these men
were a most ungainly crew, and Lavinia's theories got a sad blow.
A bad dinner at Simplon would have been an affliction at any other time;
but with the Valley of Gondo for dessert, no one cared for other food.
Following the wild stream that had worn its way between the immense
cliffs, they drove rapidly down towards Italy, feeling that this was a
fit gateway to the promised land.
At Iselle, on the frontier, they enacted a little farce for the benefit
of the custom-house officers. Lavinia and Amanda had old passports, and
had been told they would be needed. Mat had none, so she was ordered to
try the rôle of maid. Before they arrived, she took out her ear-rings,
tied up her curls under a dingy veil, put on a waterproof, and tried to
assume the demure air of an Abigail.
When they alighted, she was left to guard the wraps in the carriage
while the others went with the luggage, expecting to have much trouble;
for all manner of hindrances had been predicted owing to the unsettled
state of the country. Nothing could be simpler, however; no passports
were demanded, a very careless search of luggage, and it was all over.
So Matilda threw off her disguise, and ascended the diligence in her
own character, for here, alas! they left the cozy little carriage with
the affable driver and the jingling bells.
Only two places could be found in the crowded diligences, and great was
the fuss till Amanda was invited up aloft by a friendly gentleman who
had a perch behind, large enough for two. There they discussed theology
and politics to their hearts' content, and at parting the worthy man cut
his book in two, and gave Amanda half that she might refresh herself
with a portion of some delightfully dry work on Druidical Remains,
Protoplasm, or the state of the church before the flood.
The force of contrast makes the charm of this entry into Italy; for,
after the grandeur of the Alps and the gloomy wildness of Gondo, the
smiling scene is doubly lovely as one drives down to Domo d'Ossola.
Weariness, hunger, and sleep were quite forgotten; and when our
travellers came to Lago Maggiore, glimmering in the moonlight, they
could only sigh for happiness, and look and look and look.
'Victory has perched upon our banners so far, I am sure, for never was a
trip more delightful. It is not every stranger who is fortunate enough
to see sunrise, noonday, sunset, and moonlight in crossing the Alps,'
said Matilda, as she fell into her bed quite exhausted by the excitement
of the day.
'I feel a richer, better woman for it, and don't believe I shall ever
see anything more satisfactory if I stay in Italy ten years,' responded
Lavinia, wrapping the red army-blanket
     'Like a martial cloak around her.'
'Wait till the spell of Rome is upon you, and then see what you will
feel, my Granny' predicted Amanda, who had felt the spell, and had not
yet escaped from it.
'Don't believe it will suit me half so well,' persisted Livy, who would
prefer nature to art, much to Amanda's disgust.
'We shall see,' observed Amanda, with the exasperating mildness of
superior knowledge.
'We shall!' and Livy tied her cap in a hard knot as if to settle the
matter.
V.
ITALY.
Sleep as deep, dreamless, and refreshing as if the beneficent spirit of
Carlo Borromeo still haunted the enchanted lake, prepared the three for
a day of calm delights. The morning was spent floating over the lake in
a luxuriously cushioned boat with a gay awning and a picturesque rower,
to visit Isola Bella. Everyone knows what a little Paradise has been
made to blossom on that rock; so raptures over the flowers, the marbles,
the panniers of lovely fruit, and the dirty, pretty children who offered
them, are unnecessary.
In the afternoon, having despatched the luggage to Florence, our
travellers sailed away to Luini, catching last glimpses of Monte Rosa,
and enjoying the glories of an Italian sunset on an Italian lake. At
Luini the girls caused much excitement by insisting on sitting up with
the driver instead of sharing the coupé with their decorous duenna.
'We must see the lovely views and the moonlight,' said Amanda, and up
she went.
'To sit aloft with a brigandish driver dressed in a scarlet and black
uniform, with a curly horn slung over his shoulder, and to go tearing up
hill and down with four frisky horses, is irresistible,' and up skipped
Matilda.
'You will both catch your death of cold, if you don't break your necks,
so it will be well to have some one to nurse or bury you,' and Lavinia,
finding commands and entreaties vain, entered the coupé with mournful
dignity.
With a toot of the horn, and cheers from the crowd, which the girls
gracefully acknowledged, away rumbled the diligence, with at least two
very happy occupants. How lovely it was! First, the soft twilight
wrapping everything in mysterious shadow, and then the slow uprising of
a glorious full moon, touching the commonest object with its magical
light. Cries of rapture from the girls atop were answered by
exclamations from Livy, hanging half out of the coupé regardless of
night air, or raps on the head from overhanging boughs, as they went
climbing up woody hills, or dashing down steep roads that wound so
sharply round corners, it was a wonder the airy passengers did not fly
off at every lurch. Rattling into quiet little towns with a grand
'tootle-te-too' of the horn was an especial delight, and to see the
people gather so quickly that they seemed to spring from the ground. A
moment's chatter, a drink for the horses, a soft 'Felice notte,'
another toot, and away thundered the diligence for miles more of
moonlight, summer air, and the ecstasy of rapid motion.
What that dear, brown driver with the red vest, the bobtailed, buttony
coat, and the big yellow tassels dancing from his hat brim, thought of
those two American damsels we shall never know. But it may be imagined
that, after his first bewilderment, he enjoyed himself; for Amanda aired
her Italian and asked many questions. Matilda invited him to perform
national airs on all occasions, and both admired him as openly as if he
had been a pretty child.
Lavinia always cherished a dark suspicion that she narrowly escaped
destruction on that eventful night; for, judging from the frequent
melody, and the speed of the horses, she was sure that either Amanda
tooted and Matilda drove, or that both so bewildered the brigand that
he lost his head. However, it was all so delightful that even Granny
felt the charm, and was sure that if they did upset in some romantic
spot, a Doctor Antonio would spring up as quickly as a mushroom, and
mend their bones, marry one of her giddy charges, and end the affair in
the most appropriate manner.
Nothing happened, fortunately, and by nine o'clock they were safely at
Lugano, and, tearing themselves from the dear brigand, were taken
possession of by a shadowy being, who fed them in a marble hall with
statues ten feet high glaring at them as they ate, then led them to a
bower which had pale green doors, a red carpet, blue walls, and yellow
bed covers,--all so gay it was like sleeping in a rainbow.
As if another lovely lake under the windows, and moonlight ad libitum,
was not enough, they had music also. Lavinia scorned the idea of sleep,
and went prowling about the rooms, hanging over the balconies, and doing
the romantic in a style that was a disgrace to her years. She it was who
made the superb discovery that the music they heard came from across the
way, and that by opening a closet window they could look into a theatre
and see the stage.
All rushed at once and beheld an opera in full blast, heartily enjoying
the unusual advantages of their position; for not only could they hear
the warblers, but see them when the curtain was down. What a thing it
was to see Donna Anna do up her black hair, Don Giovanni dance a jig,
and stately Ottavio imbibe refreshment out of a black bottle, and the
ghostly Commander prance like a Punchinello as they got him into
position.
The others soon succumbed to sleep; but, till long after midnight, old
Livy wandered like a ghost from the front balcony, with the lovely lake,
to the closet window and its dramatic joys, feeling that no moment of
that memorable night should be lost, for what other traveller could
boast that she ever went to the opera wrapped in a yellow bedquilt?
On the morrow a few pictures of Luini before breakfast, and then more
sailing over lakes, and more driving in festive diligences to Menaggio,
where a boat like a market waggon without wheels bore them genteelly to
Cadenabbia, and a week of repose on the banks of Lago Como.
Their palace did not 'lift its marble walls to eternal summer' by any
means; for it rained much, and was so cold that some took to their beds
for warmth, stone floors looking like castile-soap not being just the
thing for rheumatism. Hand-organs, dancing-bears, two hotels, one
villa, no road but the lake, and an insinuating boatman with one eye who
lay in wait among the willows, and popped out to grab a passenger when
anyone ventured forth, are all that remains in the memory regarding
Cadenabbia.
A few extracts from Lavinia's note-book may be found useful at this
point, both as a speedy way of getting our travellers to Rome, and for
the bold criticisms on famous places and pictures which they contain:--
'Milan.--Cathedral like a big wedding-cake. "Last Supper" in the
barracks--did not "thrill;" tried to, but couldn't, as the picture is so
dim it can hardly be seen. Ambrosian Library.--Lock of L. Borgia's hair;
tea-coloured and coarse. Don't believe in it a bit. Jolly old books, but
couldn't touch 'em. Fine window to Dante. Saw cathedral illuminated;
very theatrical, and much howling of people over the deputies from Rome.
Don't know why they illuminated or why they howled; didn't ask. Men here
handsome, but rude. Women wear veils and no bonnets,--fat and ugly.
Gloves very good.--Arch of Peace.--More peace and less arch would be
better for Italy.
'Raphael's Marriage of the Virgin.--Stiff and stupid. Can't like
Raphael. Dear, pious, simple, old Fra Angelico suits me better.
'To the Public Garden with A.; saw a black ostrich with long pink legs,
who pranced and looked so like an opera dancer that we sat on the fence
and shrieked with laughter.
'Pavia.--To the Certosa to see the old Carthusian Convent founded in
1396; cloisters, gardens, and twenty-four little dwellings, with chapel,
bedroom, parlour, and yard for each monk, who is never to speak, and
comes out but once a week. A nice way for lazy men to spend their lives
when there is so much work to be done for the Lord and his poor! Wanted
to shake them all round, though they did look well in their gowns and
cowls gliding about the dim cloisters and church. Perhaps they are kept
for that purpose.
'Parma.--Dome of church frescoed by Correggio. All heaven upsidedown;
fat angels turning somersaults, saints like butchers, and martyrs
simpering feebly. Like C.'s babies much better. Heaven can't be painted,
and they'd better not try. Madonna, by Girolamo, was lovely. Room of the
Abbess, with rosy children peeping through the lattice, very charming.
Madonna della Scodella--the boy Christ very charming. The old Farnese
Theatre most interesting; got a scrap of canvas from a mouldy scene.
Dead old place is Parma.
'Bologna.--Drove in a pelting rain to the Academy, and saw many
pictures. A Pietà, by Guido, was very striking. The desolate mother,
with her dead son on her knees, haunted me long afterwards. St. Jerome
and the infant Christ, by Elizabeth Sirani, I liked. Raphael won't suit
yet. Sad for me, but I cannot admire Madonnas with faces like
fashion-plates, or dropsical babies with no baby sweetness about them.
'Florence.--Bought furs. Nice climate to bring invalids into. Always did
think Italy a humbug, and I begin to see I was right. Acres of pictures.
Like about six out of the lot. Can't bear the Venus, or Titian's famous
hussy hanging over it. Like his portraits much. Busts of Roman emperors
great fun. Such bad heads! The Julias, Faustinas, and Agrippinas, with
hair dressed like a big sponge on the brow, were so comical I was never
tired of looking at them. I see now where the present bedlamite style of
coiffure comes from.
'The philosophers, &c., were very interesting. Cicero so like Wendell
Phillips that I could hardly help clapping my hands and saying, "Hear!
hear!"
'Gave A. a sad blow by saying the Campanile looked like an inlaid
work-box. Did not admire it half so much as I did a magnificent stone
pine. Best of all, saw in the old Monastery of St. Marco many works of
Fra Angelico. I love his pictures, for he put his pious heart into them,
and one sees and feels it, and I don't care if his saints do have six
joints to their fingers and impossible noses. A very dear picture of
"Providenza,"--poor monks at an empty table and angels bringing bread.
'Angelico's picture of heaven was more to my mind than any I have seen.
No stern, avenging God, no silly Madonna, but happy souls playing like
children, or singing and piping with devout energy.
'Relics of Savonarola,--his cell, bust, beads, hair-cloth shirt, and a
bit of wood from the pile on which they burnt him. I like relics of one
man who really lived, worked, and suffered, better than armies of
angels, or acres of gods and goddesses.
'Pleasant drives. Saw artists, Casa Guidi windows, and a model baby
house with dolly's name on the door, and steps modelled by hands that
have made famous statues. "Papa's baby house" was best of all his works
to me. A nice little earthquake and a trifle of snow to enhance the
charms of this sweet spot.
'Visited Parker's grave, and was afflicted to find it in such an
unlovely, crowded cemetery. It does not matter after all: his best
monument is in the hearts that love him and the souls he fed. As I stood
there a little brown bird hopped among the vines that covered the grave,
pecked its breakfast from a dry seed-pod, perched on the head-stone with
a grateful twitter, as grace after meat, and flew away, leaving me
comforted by the little sermon it had preached.'
'I don't wish to hurt your feelings, dear, but if this is Rome I must
say it is a very nasty place,' began Lavinia, as they went stumbling
through the mud and confusion of a big, unfinished station on their
arrival at the eternal city.
'People of sense don't judge a place at ten o'clock of a pitch-dark,
rainy night, especially if they are hungry, tired, and, excuse me, love,
rather cross,' returned Amanda, severely, as they piled into a carriage
and drove to Piazzi di Spagna.
'I see a divine fountain! A splendid palace! Now it's a statue of some
sort! I do believe that dark figure was a monk! I know I shall like it
in spite of everything,' cried Matilda excitedly, flattening her nose
against the window.
She had been much disappointed at not being able to enter Rome by
daylight, so that she might clasp her hands and cry aloud, half-stifled
with the overpowering emotions of the moment, 'Roma! Roma! the eternal
city, bursts upon my view!' That was the proper thing to do, and it was
a blow to make so commonplace and ignoble an entry into the city of her
dreams.
Early next morning, Livy was roused from slumber by cries of delight,
and, starting up, beheld her artist sister wrapped in a dressing-gown,
with dishevelled hair, staring out of the window, and murmuring
incoherently,--
'Spanish Steps, that's where the models sit. Propaganda, famous Jesuit
school. Hope I shall see the little students in their funny hats and
gowns. That's the great monument thing put up to settle the Immaculate
Conception fuss. Very fine, but the apostles look desperately tired of
holding it up. Dear old houses! Heavens! there's a trattoria man with
somebody's breakfast on his head! Don't see any costumes. Where are the
sheepskin suits? the red skirts and white head-cloths? Girl with
flowers. Oh, how lovely! Mercy on us, there's an officer staring up
here, and I never saw him!'
In came the blond head, and the blue dressing-gown vanished from the
eyes of the handsome soldier who had been attitudinizing with his high
boots, gray and scarlet cloak, jingling sword, and becoming barrette
cap, for the especial benefit of the enraptured stranger.
'Livy, it is just superb! Get up and come out at once. It is clouding
up, and I must have one look or lose my mind,' said Matilda, flying
about with unusual energy.
'You will have to get used to rain if you stay here long, my child,'
returned the Raven.
And she was right. It poured steadily for two months, with occasional
flurries of snow, also thunder, likewise hurricanes, the tramontàna, the
sirocco, and all the other charming features of an Italian winter. That
nothing might be wanting, a nice little inundation was got up for their
benefit, December 28th.
Sitting peacefully at breakfast on the morning of that day, in their
cosey apartment, with a fire of cones and olive-wood cheerily burning on
the hearth, Jokerella, the big cat, purring on the rug, the little
coffee-pot proudly perched among bread and butter, eggs and fruit, while
the ladies, in dressing-gowns and slippers, lounged luxuriously in
arm-chairs, one red, one blue, one yellow; they (the ladies, not the
chairs) were started by Agrippina, the maid, who burst into the room
like a bomb-shell, announcing, all in one breath, that the Tiber had
risen, inundated the whole city, and instant death was to be the doom of
all.
Rushing to the window to see if the flood had quite covered the steps,
and cut off all retreat, the friends were comforted to observe no signs
of water, except that half-frozen in the basin of the fountain above
which leaned their favourite old Triton, with an icicle on the end of
his nose.
'I must go and attend to this. The poor will suffer; we may be able to
help,' said Livy, forgetting her bones, and beginning to scramble on her
fur boots as if the safety of the city depended on her.
The others followed suit, and leaving Jokerella to ravage the table,
they hurried forth to see what Father Tiber was up to. A most
reprehensible prank, apparently, for the lower parts of the city were
under water, and many of the great streets already as full of boats as
Venice.
The Corso was a deep and rapid stream, and the shopkeepers were
disconsolately paddling about, trying to rescue their property.
'Our dresses, our beautiful new dresses, where are they now!' wailed
the girls, surveying Mazzoni's grand store, with water up to the
balcony, where many milliners wrung their hands, lamenting.
The Piazza del Popolo was a lake, with the four stone lions just
visible, and still spouting water, though it was a drug in the market.
In at the open gate rolled a muddy stream, bearing hay-stacks,
brushwood, and drowned animals along the Corso. People stood on their
balconies wondering what they should do, many breakfastless; for how
could the trattoria boys safely waft their coffee-pots across such
canals of water? Carriages splashed about in shallower parts with
agitated loads, hurrying to drier quarters; many were coming down
ladders into boats, and crowds stood waiting their turn with bundles of
valuables in their hands.
The soldiers were out in full force, working gallantly to save life and
property; making rafts, carrying people on their backs, and going
through the inundated streets with boat-loads of food for the hungry,
shut up in their ill-provided houses. Usually at such times the priests
did this work; but now they stood idly looking on, and saying it was a
judgment on the people for their treatment of the Pope. The people were
troubled because the priests refused to pray for them: but otherwise
they snapped their fingers at the sullen old gentlemen in the Vatican;
and the brisk, brave troops worked for the city quite as well (the
heretics thought better) than the snuffy priests.
In the Ghetto the disaster was truly terrible, for the flood came so
suddenly that the whole quarter was under water in an hour. The scene
was pitiful; for here the Jews live packed like sardines in a box, and
being washed out with no warning, were utterly destitute. In one street
a man and woman were seen wading up to their waists in water, pushing an
old mattress before them, on which were three little children, all they
had saved.
Later in the day, as boats of provisions came along, women and children
swarmed at the windows, crying, 'Bread! bread!' and their wants could
not be supplied in spite of the care of the city authorities. One old
woman who had lost everything besought the rescuers to bring her a
little snuff for the love of heaven; which was very characteristic of
the race. One poor man, in trying to save a sick wife and his little
ones in a cart, upset them, and the babies were drowned at their own
door. Comedy and tragedy side by side.
Outside the city, houses were carried off, people lost, and bridges
swept away, so sudden and violent was the flood. The heavy rains and
warm winds melted the snow on the mountains, and swelled the river till
it rose higher than at any time since 1805.
Many strangers, who came to Rome for the Christmas holidays, sat in
their fine apartments without food, fire, light, or company, till taken
off in boats or supplied by hoisting stores in at the windows.
'We can hold out some time, as we live on a hill, and Pina has laid in
provisions for several days. But if the flood lasts, we shall come to
want; for the wood-yards are under water, the railroads down, and the
peasants can't get into the city to bring supplies, unless the donkeys
swim,' said Amanda, reviewing the situation.
'Never mind; it's so exciting; only we must not forget that we engaged
to go and see the Roastpig Aurora to-day,' answered Matilda, who
insisted on pronouncing Rospigliosi in that improper manner.
'I like this infinitely better than any of your picturesque
refrigerators, and it thrills me more to watch one of those dear, dirty
soldiers save women and babies than to see a dozen "Dying Gladiators"
gasping for centuries in immortal marble,' added Lavinia, who had
shocked her artistic friends by sniffing at the famous statue, and
wishing the man would die and done with it, and not lie squirming there.
'Come away, Mat: she has no soul for art, and it is all in vain to try
and breathe one into her,' said Amanda, with the calm pity of one who
had read up every great picture, studied up every famous statue, and
knew what to admire, when to thrill, and just where the various emotions
should come in.
So they left the outcast perched on a wall, waving her muff at them,
and calling out, 'Nater for ever!' to the great horror of an English
lady, who would have seen all Rome upset without any unseemly
excitement.
That night the gas gave out, and mysterious orders were left at houses
for lamps to be kept burning till morning. Thieves abounded, and the
ladies prepared their arms--one pistol, one dagger, and a large
umbrella--then slept peacefully, undisturbed by the commotion in the
kitchen, where cats, live chickens, and Pina's five grandmothers, all
lived together, rent free.
Amanda's last prediction was, that they would find themselves gently
floating out at the Porta Pia about midnight. Mat wailed for a submerged
gallery in which she had hoped to ice herself on the morrow, and Livy
indulged the sinful hope that the Pope would get his pontifical
petticoats very wet, be a little drowned, and terribly scared by the
flood, because he spoilt the Christmas festivities, and shut up all the
cardinals' red coaches.
Next day the water began to abate, and people made up their minds that
the end of the world was not yet. Gentlemen paid visits on the backs of
stout soldiers, ladies went shopping in boats, and family dinners were
handed in at two-story windows without causing any remark, so quickly do
people adapt themselves to the inevitable.
Hardly had the watery excitement subsided when a new event set the city
in an uproar.
The King was not expected till the tenth of January; but the kind soul
could not wait, and, as soon as the road was passable, he came with
300,000 francs in his hands to see what he could do for his poor Romans.
He arrived at 4 A.M., and though unexpected, the news flew through the
city, and a crowd turned out with torches to escort him to the Quirinal.
Again did the explosive Pina burst in upon her mistresses with the news,
this time in tears of joy, for the people began to think the King would
never come, and therefore were especially touched by this prompt visit
in the midst of their trouble. The handsome damsel was a spectacle
herself, so dramatic was she as she shook her fist at the Pope, and
cheered for the King, with a ladle in one hand, an artichoke in the
other, her fine eyes flashing, and her mellow voice trembling, while she
talked regardless of the polenta going to destruction in the
frying-pan.
On went the bonnets, out flew the ladies, and rushed up to the Quirinal,
where stood a great crowd waiting eagerly for a sight of the King.
There was a great bustle among the officials, and splendid creatures,
in new uniforms, ran about in all directions. Grand carriages arrived,
bringing the high and mighty, gaping but loyal, to greet their lord.
General Marmora--a thin, shabby, energetic man--was everywhere; for the
new order of things seemed a little hitchy. Dorias and Colonnas
gladdened plebeian eyes, and the people cheered every thing, from the
Commander-in-Chief to somebody's breakfast, borne through the crowd by a
stately 'Jeames' in livery, who graciously acknowledged the homage.
For one mortal hour our ladies stood in a pelting rain, and then
retired, feeling that the sacrifice of their best hats was all that
could reasonably be expected of free-born Americans. They consoled
themselves by putting out Pina's fine Italian banner (made in secret,
and kept ready for her King, for the padrona was papalino), and
supporting it by two little American flags, the stars and stripes of
which much perplexed the boys and donkeys disporting themselves in the
Piazza Barberini.
But the excitement was so infectious that the girls could not resist
another run after royalty; so, while Livy consoled herself with the fire
and the cat, they took a carriage and chased the King till they caught
him at the Capitol. They had a fine view of him as he came down the long
steps, almost alone, and at the peril of his life, through a mass of
people cheering frantically, and whitening the streets with waving
handkerchiefs.
The enthusiastic damsels mounted up beside the driver, and hurrahed with
all their hearts and voices, as well they might, for it certainly was a
sight to see. The courage of the King, in trusting himself in a city
full of enemies, touched the people quite as much as the kindly motive
that brought him there, and kept him sacred in their eyes.
The girls had a second view of him on the balcony of the Quirinal; for
the populace clamoured so for another sight of 'Il Rè,' that the Pope's
best velvet hangings were hastily spread, and Victor Emmanuel came out
and bowed to his people, 'who stood on their heads with joy,' as Amanda
expressed it.
He was in citizen's dress, and looked like a stout, brown, soldierly
man, not so ugly as the pictures of him, but not an Apollo by any means.
Hating ceremony and splendour, he would not have the fine apartments
prepared for him, but chose a plain room, saying, 'Keep the finery for
my son, if you like; I prefer this.'
He drove through the Ghetto, and all the desolated parts of the city,
to see with his own eyes the ruin made; and then desired the city
fathers to give to the poor the money they had set apart to make a
splendid welcome for him.
He only spent one day, and returned to Florence at night. All Rome was
at the station to see him off: ladies with carriages full of flowers,
troops of soldiers, and throngs of poor people blessing him like a
saint; for this kingly sympathy of his had won all hearts.
'When he does make his grand entry, we will decorate our balcony, and
have our six windows packed with loyal Yankees who will hurrah their
best for "the honest man," as they call Victor Emmanuel--and that is
high praise for a king.'
