gradually affected Giacomo until he leaned back and fell asleep.
“I won’t take him till it’s time to go back,” thought Phil.
So Giacomo slept on, despite the noises in the street outside and the
confusion incident to every large hotel. As he sat asleep, he attracted
the attention of a stout gentleman who was passing, leading by the hand
a boy of ten.
“Is that your brother?” he asked in a low tone of Phil.
“No, signore; it is my comrade.”
“So you go about together?”
“Yes, sir,” answered Phil, bethinking himself to use English instead of
Italian.
“He seems tired.”
“Yes; he is not so strong as I am.”
“Do you play about the streets all day?”
“Yes, sir.”
“How would you like that, Henry?” asked his father to the boy at his
side.
“I should like to play about the streets all day,” said Henry,
roguishly, misinterpreting the word “play.”
“I think you would get tired of it. What is your name, my boy?”
“Filippo.”
“And what is the name of your friend?”
“Giacomo.”
“Did you never go to school?”
Phil shook his head.
“Would you like to go?”
“Yes, sir.”
“You would like it better than wandering about the streets all day?”
“Yes, sir.”
“Why do you not ask your father to send you to school?”
“My father is in Italy.”
“And his father, also?”
“Si, signore,” answered Phil, relapsing into Italian.
“What do you think of that, Henry?” asked the gentleman. “How should
you like to leave me, and go to some Italian city to roam about all day,
playing on the violin?”
“I think I would rather go to school.”
“I think you would.”
“Are you often out so late, Filippo? I think that is the name you gave
me.”
Phil shrugged his shoulders
“Always,” he answered.
“At what time do you go home?”
“At eleven.”
“It is too late for a boy of your age to sit up. Why do you not go home
sooner?”
“The padrone would beat me.”
“Who is the padrone?”
“The man who brought me from Italy to America.”
“Poor boys!” said the gentleman, compassionately. “Yours is a hard life.
I hope some time you will be in a better position.”
Phil fixed his dark eyes upon the stranger, grateful for his words of
sympathy.
“Thank you,” he said.
“Good-night,” said the stranger, kindly.
“Good-night, signore.”
An hour passed. The City Hall clock near by struck eleven. The time had
come for returning to their mercenary guardian. Phil shook the sleeping
form of Giacomo. The little boy stirred in his sleep, and murmured,
“Madre.” He had been dreaming of his mother and his far-off Italian
home. He woke to the harsh realities of life, four thousand miles away
from that mother and home.
“Have I slept, Filippo?” he asked, rubbing his eyes, and looking about
him in momentary bewilderment.
“Yes, Giacomo. You have slept for two hours and more. It is eleven
o’clock.”
“Then we must go back.”
“Yes; take your violin, and we will go.”
They passed out into the cold street, which seemed yet colder by
contrast with the warm hotel they just left, and, crossing to the
sidewalk that skirts the park, walked up Centre street.
Giacomo was seized with a fit of trembling. His teeth chattered with
the cold. A fever was approaching, although neither he nor his companion
knew it.
“Are you cold, Giacomo?” asked Phil, noticing how he trembled.
“I am very cold. I feel sick, Filippo.”
“You will feel better to-morrow,” said Phil; but the thought of the
beating which his little comrade was sure to receive saddened him more
than the prospect of being treated in the same way himself.
They kept on their way, past the Tombs with its gloomy entrance, through
the ill-lighted street, scarcely noticed by the policeman whom they
passed--for he was accustomed to see boys of their class out late at
night--until at last they reached the dwelling of the padrone, who was
waiting their arrival with the eagerness of a brutal nature, impatient
to inflict pain.
CHAPTER XI
THE BOYS RECEPTION
Phil and Giacomo entered the lodging-house, wholly unconscious of the
threatening storm, The padrone scowled at them as they entered but that
was nothing unusual. Had he greeted them kindly, they would have had
reason to be surprised.
“Well,” he said, harshly, “how much do you bring?”
The boys produced two dollars and a half which he pocketed.
“Is this all?” he asked.
“It was cold,” said Phil, “and we could not get more.”
The padrone listened with an ominous frown.
“Are you hungry?” he asked. “Do you want your supper?”
Phil was puzzled by his manner, for he expected to be deprived of his
supper on account of bringing less money than usual. Why should the
padrone ask him if he wanted his supper? Though he was not hungry, he
thought it best to answer in the affirmative.
“What would you like?” asked the padrone.
Again Phil was puzzled, for the suppers supplied by the padrone never
varied, always consisting of bread and cheese.
“Perhaps,” continued the padrone, meeting no answer, “you would like to
have coffee and roast beef.”
All was clear now. Phil understood that he had been seen going in or out
of the restaurant, though he could not tell by whom. He knew well enough
what to expect, but a chivalrous feeling of friendship led him to try to
shield his young companion, even at the risk of a more severe punishment
to be inflicted upon himself.
“It was my fault,” he said, manfully. “Giacomo would not have gone in
but for me.”
“Wicked, ungrateful boy!” exclaimed the padrone, wrathfully. “It was my
money that you spent. You are a thief!”
Phil felt that this was a hard word, which he did not deserve. The money
was earned by himself, though claimed by the padrone. But he did not
venture to say this. It would have been revolutionary. He thought it
prudent to be silent.
“Why do you say nothing?” exclaimed the padrone, stamping his foot. “Why
did you spend my money?”
“I was hungry.”
“So you must live like a nobleman! Our supper is not good enough for
you. How much did you spend?”
“Thirty cents.”
“For each?”
“No, signore, for both.”
“Then you shall have each fifteen blows, one for each penny. I will
teach you to be a thief. Pietro, the stick! Now, strip!”
“Padrone,” said Phil, generously, “let me have all the blows. It was my
fault; Giacomo only went because I asked him.”
If the padrone had had a heart, this generous request would have touched
it; but he was not troubled in that way.
“He must be whipped, too,” he said. “He should not have gone with you.”
“He is sick, padrone,” persisted Phil. “Excuse him till he is better.”
“Not a word more,” roared the padrone, irritated at his persistence.
“If he is sick, it is because he has eaten too much,” he added, with a
sneer. “Pietro, my stick!”
The two boys began to strip mechanically, knowing that there was no
appeal. Phil stood bare to the waist. The padrone seized the stick and
began to belabor him. Phil’s brown face showed by its contortions the
pain he suffered, but he was too proud to cry out. When the punishment
was finished his back was streaked with red, and looked maimed and
bruised.
“Put on your shirt!” commanded the tyrant.
Phil drew it on over his bleeding back and resumed his place among his
comrades.
“Now!” said the padrone, beckoning to Giacomo.
The little boy approached shivering, not so much with cold as with the
fever that had already begun to prey upon him.
Phil turned pale and sick as he looked at the padrone preparing to
inflict punishment. He would gladly have left the room, but he knew that
it would not be permitted.
The first blow descended heavily upon the shrinking form of the little
victim. It was followed by a shriek of pain and terror.
“What are you howling at?” muttered the padrone, between his teeth. “I
will whip you the harder.”
Giacomo would have been less able to bear the cruel punishment than Phil
if he had been well, but being sick, it was all the more terrible to
him. The second blow likewise was followed by a shriek of anguish. Phil
looked on with pale face, set teeth, and blazing eyes, as he saw the
barbarous punishment of his comrade. He felt that he hated the padrone
with a fierce hatred. Had his strength been equal to the attempt, he
would have flung himself upon the padrone. As it was, he looked at his
comrades, half wishing that they would combine with him against their
joint oppressor. But there was no hope of that. Some congratulated
themselves that they were not in Giacomo’s place; others looked upon his
punishment as a matter of course. There was no dream of interference,
save in the mind of Phil.
The punishment continued amid the groans and prayers for mercy of the
little sufferer. But at the eighth stroke his pain and terror reached
a climax, and nature succumbed. He sank on the floor, fainting. The
padrone thought at first it was a pretense, and was about to repeat
the strokes, when a look at the pallid, colorless face of the little
sufferer alarmed him. It did not excite his compassion, but kindled
the fear that the boy might be dying, in which case the police might
interfere and give him trouble; therefore he desisted, but unwillingly.
“He is sick,” said Phil, starting forward.
“He is no more sick than I am,” scowled the padrone. “Pietro, some
water!”
Pietro brought a glass of water, which the padrone threw in the face of
the fallen boy. The shock brought him partially to. He opened his eyes,
and looked around vacantly.
“What is the matter with you?” demanded the padrone, harshly.
“Where am I?” asked Giacomo, bewildered. But, as he asked this question,
his eyes met the dark look of his tyrant, and he clasped his hands in
terror.
“Do not beat me!” he pleaded. “I feel sick.”
“He is only shamming,” said Pietro, who was worthy to be the servant and
nephew of such a master. But the padrone thought it would not be prudent
to continue the punishment.
“Help him put on his clothes, Pietro,” he said. “I will let you off this
time, little rascal, but take heed that you never again steal a single
cent of my money.”
Giacomo was allowed to seek his uncomfortable bed. His back was so sore
with the beating he had received that he was compelled to lie on his
side. During the night the feverish symptoms increased, and before
morning he was very sick. The padrone was forced to take some measures
for his recovery, not from motives of humanity, but because Giacomo’s
death would cut off a source of daily revenue, and this, in the eyes of
the mercenary padrone, was an important consideration.
Phil went to bed in silence. Though he was suffering from the brutal
blows he had received, the thought of the punishment and suffering of
Giacomo affected him more deeply than his own. As I have said, the two
boys came from the same town in southern Italy. They had known each
other almost from infancy, and something of a fraternal feeling had
grown up between them. In Phil’s case, since he was the stronger, it was
accompanied by the feeling that he should be a protector to the younger
boy, who, on his side, looked up to Phil as stronger and wiser than
himself. Though only a boy of twelve, what had happened led Phil to
think seriously of his position and prospects. He did not know for how
long his services had been sold to the padrone by his father, but he
felt sure that the letter of the contract would be little regarded as
long as his services were found profitable.
What hope, then, had he of better treatment in the future? There seemed
no prospect except of continued oppression and long days of hardship,
unless--and here the suggestion of Mr. Pomeroy occurred to him--unless
he ran away. He had known of boys doing this before. Some had been
brought back, and, of course, were punished severely for their temerity,
but others had escaped, and had never returned. What had become of them
Phil did not know, but he rightly concluded that they could not be any
worse off than in the service of the padrone. Thinking of all this, Phil
began to think it probable that he, too, would some day break his bonds
and run away. He did not fix upon any time. He had not got as far as
this. But circumstances, as we shall find in our next chapter, hastened
his determination, and this, though he knew it not, was the last night
he would sleep in the house of the padrone.
CHAPTER XII
GIACOMO’S PRESENTIMENTS
Phil woke up the next morning feeling lame and sore. His back bore
traces of the flogging he had received the night before. As his eyes
opened, they rested upon twenty boys lying about him, and also upon the
dark, unsightly walls of the shabby room, and the prospect before him
served to depress even his hopeful temperament. But he was not permitted
to meditate long. Pietro opened the door, and called out in harsh tones:
“Get up, all of you, or the padrone will be here with his stick!”
The invitation was heard and obeyed. The boys got up, yawning and
rubbing their eyes, having a wholesome dread of their tyrant and his
stick, which no tenderness of heart ever made him reluctant to use.
Their toilet did not require long to make. The padrone was quite
indifferent whether they were clean or not, and offered them no
facilities for washing.
When they were dressed they were supplied with a frugal breakfast--a
piece of bread and cheese each; their instruments were given them, and
they were started off for a long day of toil.
Phil looked around for Giacomo, who had slept in a different room, but
he was not to be seen.
“Is Giacomo sick this morning, Pietro?” he asked of the padrone’s
nephew.
“He pretends to be sick, little drone!” said Pietro, unfeelingly. “If I
were the padrone, I would let him taste the stick again.”
Phil felt that he would like to see the brutal speaker suffering the
punishment he wanted inflicted on him; but he knew Pietro’s power and
malice too well to give utterance to the wish. A longing came to him to
see Giacomo before he went out. He might have had a secret presentiment
of what was coming.
“Signor Pietro,” he said, “may I see Giacomo before I go out?”
This request would have been refused without doubt, but that Pietro felt
flattered at being addressed as signor, to which his years did not yet
entitle him. Phil knew this, and therefore used the title.
“What do you want to see him for?” he asked, suspiciously.
“I want to ask him how he feels.”
“Yes, you can go in. Tell him he must get up to-morrow. The padrone will
not let him spend his time in idleness.”
So Phil, having already his fiddle under his arm, entered the room where
Giacomo lay. The other occupants of the room had risen, and the little
boy was lying on a hard pallet in the corner. His eyes lighted up with
joy as he saw Phil enter.
“I am glad it is you, Filippo,” he said; “I thought it was the padrone,
come to make me get up.”
“How do you feel this morning, Giacomo?”
“I do not feel well, Filippo. My back is sore, and I am so weak.”
His eyes were very bright with the fever that had now control, and his
cheeks were hot and flushed. Phil put his hand upon them.
“Your cheeks are very hot, Giacomo,” he said. “You are going to be
sick.”
“I know it, Filippo,” said the little boy. “I may be very sick.”
“I hope not, Giacomo.”
“Lean over, Filippo,” said Giacomo. “I want to tell you something.”
Phil leaned over until his ear was close to the mouth of his little
comrade.
“I think I am going to die, Filippo,” whispered Giacomo.
Phil started in dismay.
“No, no, Giacomo,” he said; “that is nonsense. You will live a great
many years.”
“I think you will, Filippo. You are strong. But I have always been weak,
and lately I am tired all the time. I don’t care to live--very much. It
is hard to live;” and the little boy sighed as he spoke.
“You are too young to die, Giacomo. It is only because you are sick that
you think of it. You will soon be better.”
“I do not think so, Filippo. I should like to live for one thing.”
“What is that?” asked Phil, gazing with strange wonder at the patient,
sad face of the little sufferer, who seemed so ready to part with the
life which, in spite of his privations and hardships, seemed so bright
to him.
“I should like to go back to my home in Italy, and see my mother again
before I die. She loved me.”
The almost unconscious emphasis which he laid on the word “she” showed
that in his own mind he was comparing her with his father, who had sold
him into such cruel slavery.
“If you live, Giacomo, you will go back and see her some day.”
“I shall never see her again, Filippo,” said the little boy, sadly. “If
you ever go back to Italy--when you are older--will you go and see her,
and tell her that--that I thought of her when I was sick, and wanted to
see her?”
“Yes, Giacomo,” said Phil, affected by his little companion’s manner.
“Filippo!” called Pietro, in harsh tones.
“I must go,” said Phil, starting to his feet.
“Kiss me before you go,” said Giacomo.
Phil bent over and kissed the feverish lips of the little boy, and then
hurried out of the room. He never saw Giacomo again; and this, though he
knew it not, was his last farewell to his little comrade.
So Phil commenced his wanderings. He was free in one way--he could go
where he pleased. The padrone did not care where he picked up his money,
as long as he brought home a satisfactory amount. Phil turned to go up
town, though he had no definite destination in view. He missed Giacomo,
who lately had wandered about in his company, and felt lonely without
him.
“Poor Giacomo!” he thought. “I hope he will be well soon.”
“Avast there, boy!” someone called. “Just come to anchor, and give us a
tune.”
Phil looked up and saw two sailors bearing down upon him (to use a
nautical phrase) with arms locked, and evidently with more liquor aboard
than they could carry steadily.
“Give us a tune, boy, and we’ll pay you,” said the second.
Phil had met such customers before, and knew what would please them. He
began playing some lively dancing tunes, with so much effect that the
sailors essayed to dance on the sidewalk, much to the amusement of a
group of boys who collected around them.
“Go it, bluejacket! Go it, boots!” exclaimed the boys, designating them
by certain prominent articles of dress.
The applause appeared to stimulate them to further efforts, and they
danced and jumped high in air, to the hilarious delight of their
juvenile spectators. After a time such a crowd collected that the
attention of a passing policeman was attracted.
“What’s all this disturbance?” he demanded, in tones of authority.
“We’re stretching our legs a little, shipmate,” said the first sailor.
“Then you’d better stretch them somewhere else than in the street.”
“I thought this was a free country,” hiccoughed the second.
“You’ll find it isn’t if I get hold of you,” said the officer.
“Want to fight?” demanded the second sailor, belligerently.
“Boy, stop playing,” said the policeman. “I don’t want to arrest these
men unless I am obliged to do it.”
Phil stopped playing, and this put a stop to the dance. Finding there
was no more to be seen, the crowd also dispersed. With arms again
interlocked, the sailors were about to resume their walk, forgetting to
“pay the piper.” But Phil was not at all bashful about presenting his
claims. He took off his cap, and going up to the jolly pair said, “I
want some pennies.”
Sailors are free with their money. Parsimony is not one of their vices.
Both thrust their hands into their pockets, and each drew out a handful
of scrip, which they put into Phil’s hands, without looking to see how
much it might be.
“That’s all right, boy, isn’t it?” inquired the first.
“All right,” answered Phil, wondering at their munificence. He only
anticipated a few pennies, and here looked to be as much as he was
generally able to secure in a day. As soon as he got a good chance he
counted it over, and found four half dollars, three quarters, and four
tens--in all, three dollars and fifteen cents. At this rate, probably,
the sailors’ money would not last long. However this was none of Phil’s
business. It was only nine o’clock in the forenoon, and he had already
secured enough to purchase immunity from blows at night. Still there
was one thing unsatisfactory about it. All this money was to go into
the hands of the padrone. Phil himself would reap none of the benefit,
unless he bought his dinner, as he had purchased supper the evening
before. But for this he had been severely punished, though he could
not feel that he had done very wrong in spending the money he himself
earned. However, it would be at least three hours before the question of
dinner would come up.
He put the money into the pocket of his ragged vest, and walked on.
It was not so cold as the day before. The thermometer had risen
twenty-five degrees during the night--a great change, but not unusual in
our variable climate. Phil rather enjoyed this walk, notwithstanding his
back was a little lame.
He walked up the Bowery to the point where Third and Fourth avenues
converge into it. He kept on the left-hand side, and walked up Fourth
Avenue, passing the Cooper Institute and the Bible House, and, a little
further on, Stewart’s magnificent marble store. On the block just above
stood a book and periodical store, kept, as the sign indicated, by
Richard Burnton. Phil paused a moment to look in at the windows, which
were filled with a variety of attractive articles. Suddenly he was
conscious of his violin being forcibly snatched from under his arm.
He turned quickly, and thought he recognized Tim Rafferty, to whom the
reader was introduced in the third chapter of this story.
CHAPTER XIII
PHIL FINDS A CAPITALIST
To account for Phil’s unexpected loss, I must explain that Tim Rafferty,
whose ordinary place of business was in or near the City Hall Park, had
been sent uptown on an errand. He was making his way back leisurely,
when, just as he was passing Burnton’s bookstore, he saw Phil looking
in at the window. He immediately recognized him as the little Italian
fiddler who had refused to lend him his fiddle, as described in a
previous chapter. In his attempt he was frustrated by Paul Hoffman. His
defeat incensed him, and he determined, if he ever met Phil again, to
“get even with him,” as he expressed it. It struck him that this was a
good opportunity to borrow his fiddle without leave.
When Phil discovered his loss, he determined to run after the thief.
“Give me back my fiddle!” he cried.
But this Tim was in no hurry to do. As he had longer legs than Phil, the
chances were that he would escape. But some distance ahead he saw one of
the blue-coated guardians of the public peace, or, in newsboy parlance,
a cop, and saw that Phil could easily prove theft against him, as it
would be impossible to pass himself off as a fiddler. He must get rid of
the violin in some way, and the sooner the better. He threw it into the
middle of the street, just as a heavy cart was coming along. The wheels
of the ponderous vehicle passed over the frail instrument, crushing it
utterly. Phil ran forward to rescue his instrument, but too late. It
was spoiled beyond recovery. Phil picked up the pieces mechanically, and
took them back with him, but he soon realized that he might as well cast
them away again. Meanwhile Tim, satisfied with the mischief he had done,
and feeling revenged for his former mortification, walked up a side
street, and escaped interference.
Phil had come to one of those crises in human experience when it is
necessary to pause and decide what to do next. The fiddle was not a
valuable one--in fact, it was a shabby little instrument--but it was
Phil’s stock in trade. Moreover, it belonged to the padrone, and however
innocent Phil might be as regarded its destruction, his tyrannical
master was sure to call him to heavy account for it. He was certain to
be severely punished, more so than the evening before, and this was
not a pleasant prospect to look forward to. The padrone was sure not to
forgive an offense like this.
Thinking over these things, a bold suggestion came into Phil’s mind.
Why need he go back at all? Why should he not take this occasion for
breaking his fetters, and starting out into life on his own account?
There was nothing alarming in that prospect. He was not afraid but that
he could earn his own living, and fare better than he did at present,
when out of his earnings and those of his comrades the padrone was
growing rich. Other boys had run away, and though some had been brought
back, others had managed to keep out of the cruel clutches of their
despotic master.
It did not take Phil long to come to a decision. He felt that he should
never have a better chance. He had three dollars in his pocket thanks
to the generosity of the sailors--and this would last him some time.
It would enable him to get out of the city, which would be absolutely
necessary, since, if he remained, the padrone would send Pietro for him
and get him back.
There was only one regret he had at leaving the padrone. It would part
him from his little comrade, Giacomo. Giacomo, at least, would miss
him. He wished the little boy could have gone with him, but this, under
present circumstances, was impossible. By staying he would only incur a
severe punishment, without being able to help his comrade.
It was still but nine o’clock. He had plenty of time before him, as
he would not be missed by the padrone until he failed to make his
appearance at night. Having no further occasion to go uptown, he
decided to turn and walk down into the business portion of the city.
He accordingly made his way leisurely to the City Hall Park, when he
suddenly bethought himself of Paul Hoffman, who had served as his friend
on a former occasion. Besides Giacomo, Paul was the only friend on whom
he could rely in the city. Paul was older and had more experience than
he, and could, no doubt, give him good advice as to his future plans.
He crossed the Park and Broadway, and kept along on the west side of the
street until he reached the necktie stand kept by Paul. The young street
merchant did not at first see him, being occupied with a customer, to
whom he finally succeeded in selling two neckties; then looking up, he
recognized the young fiddler.
“How are you, Phil?” he said, in a friendly manner. “Where have you kept
yourself? I have not seen you for a long time.”
“I have been fiddling,” said Phil.
“But I don’t see your violin now. What has become of it?”
“It is broken--destroyed,” said Phil.
“How did that happen?”
Phil described the manner in which his violin had been stolen.
“Do you know who stole it?”
“It was that boy who tried to take it once in the Park.”
“When I stopped him?”
“Yes.”
“I know him. It is Tim Rafferty. He is a mean boy; I will pay him up for
it.”
“I do not care for it now,” said Phil.
“But what will your padrone say when you come home without it?”
“He would beat me, but I will not go home.”
“What will you do?”
“I will run away.”
“Good for you, Phil! I like your spunk,” said Paul, heartily. “I
wouldn’t go back to the old villain if I were you. Where are you going?”
“Away from New York. If I stay here the padrone would catch me.”
“How much did you earn with your fiddle when you had it?”
“Two dollars, if it was a good day.”
“That is excellent. I’ll tell you what, Phil, if you could stay in the
city, I would invite you to come and live with us. You could pay your
share of the expense, say three or four dollars a week, and keep the
rest of your money to buy clothes, and to save.”
“I should like it,” said Phil; “but if I stay in the city the padrone
would get hold of me.”
“Has he any legal right to your services?” asked Paul.
Phil looked puzzled. He did not understand the question.
“I mean did your father sign any paper giving you to him?”
“Yes,” said Phil, comprehending now.
“Then I suppose he could take you back. You think you must go away from
the city, then, Phil?”
“Yes.”
“Where do you think of going?”
“I do not know.”
“You might go to Jersey--to Newark, which is quite a large city, only
ten miles from here.”
“I should like to go there.”
“I don’t think the padrone would send there to find you. But how are you
going to make your living--you have lost your fiddle?”
“I can sing.”
“But you would make more money with your fiddle.”
“Si, signore.”
“Don’t talk to me in Italian, Phil; I no understand it.”
Phil laughed.
“You can speak English much better than most Italian boys.”
“Some cannot speak at all. Some speak french, because we all stayed in
Paris sometime before we came to America.”
“Parlez-vous Francais?”
“Oui, monsieur, un peu.”
“Well, I can’t. Those three words are all the French I know. But, I say,
Phil, you ought to have a fiddle.”
“I should like to have one. I should make more money.”
“How much would one cost?”
“I don’t know.”
“I’ll tell you what I will do, Phil,” said Paul, after a moment’s
thought. “I know a pawnbroker’s shop on Chatham Street where there is
a fiddle for sale. I don’t think it will cost very much; not more than
five dollars. You must buy it.”
“I have not five dollars,” said Phil.
“Then I will lend you the money. You shall buy it, and when you have
earned money enough you shall come back to New York some day and pay
me.”
“Thank you,” said Phil, gratefully. “I will surely pay you.”
“Of course you will, Phil,” said Paul, confidently. “I can see by your
face that you are honest. I don’t believe you would cheat your friend.”
“I would not cheat you, Signor Paul.”
“I see, Phil, you are bound to make an Italian of me. You may just
call me Paul, and don’t mind about the signor. Now I’ll tell you what I
propose. I cannot leave my business for an hour and a half. You can go
where you please, but come back at that time, and I will take you home
to dinner with me. On the way back I will stop with you at the Chatham
Street store and ask the price of the violin; then, if it doesn’t cost
too much, I will buy it.”
“All right,” said Phil.
“You must come back at twelve o’clock, Phil.”
“I will come.”
Phil strolled down to the Battery, feeling a little strange without his
violin. He was elated with the thought of his coming freedom, and for
the first time since he landed in America the future looked bright to
him.
CHAPTER XIV
THE TAMBOURINE GIRL
Arriving at Trinity Church, Phil turned into Wall Street, looking about
him in a desultory way, for he was at present out of business. Men and
boys were hurrying by in different directions, to and from banks and
insurance offices, while here and there a lawyer or lawyer’s clerk might
be seen looking no less busy and preoccupied. If Phil had had three
thousand dollars instead of three, he, too, might have been interested
in the price of gold and stocks; but his financial education had
been neglected, and he could not have guessed within twenty the day’s
quotations for either.
As he walked along his attention was suddenly drawn to a pair of
Italians, a man and a girl of twelve, the former turning a hand-organ,
the latter playing a tambourine. There was nothing unusual in the group;
but Phil’s heart beat quick for in the girl he thought he recognized a
playmate from the same village in which he was born and bred.
“Lucia!” he called, eagerly approaching the pair.
The girl turned quickly, and, seeing the young fiddler, let fall her
tambourine in surprise.
“Filippo!” she exclaimed, her eyes lighting up with the joy with which
we greet a friend’s face in a strange land.
“Why did you drop your tambourine, scelerata?” demanded the man,
harshly.
Lucia, a pretty, brown-faced girl, did not lose her joyful look even at
this rebuke. She stooped and picked up the tambourine, and began to play
mechanically, but continued to speak to Filippo.
“How long are you in the city?” asked Phil, speaking, of course, in his
native language.
“Only two weeks,” answered Lucia. “I am so glad to see you, Filippo.”
“When did you come from Italy?”
“I cannot tell. I think it is somewhere about two months.”
“And did you see my mother before you came away?” asked Phil, eagerly.
“Yes, Filippo, I saw her. She told me if I saw you to say that she
longed for her dear boy to return; that she thought of him day and
night.”
“Did she say that, Lucia?”
“Yes, Filippo.”
“And is my mother well?” asked Phil, anxiously, for he had a strong love
for his mother.
“She is well, Filippo--she is not sick, but she is thin, and she looks
sad.”
“I will go and see her some day,” said Phil. “I wish I could see her
now.”
“When will you go?”
“I don’t know; when I am older.”
“But where is your fiddle, Filippo?” asked Lucia. “Do you not play?”
Filippo glanced at the organ-grinder, whom he did not dare to take into
his confidence. So he answered, evasively:
“Another boy took it. I shall get another this afternoon.”
“Are you with the padrone?”
“Yes.”
“Come, Lucia,” said the man, roughly, ceasing to play, “we must go on.”
Lucia followed her companion obediently, reluctant to leave Phil,
with whom she desired to converse longer; but the latter saw that her
guardian did not wish the conversation to continue, and so did not
follow.
This unexpected meeting with Lucia gave him much to think of. It carried
back his thoughts to his humble, but still dear, Italian home, and the
mother from whom he had never met with anything but kindness, and a
longing to see both made him for the moment almost sad. But he was
naturally of a joyous temperament, and hope soon returned.
“I will save money enough to go home,” he said to himself. “It will not
take very much--not more than fifty dollars. I can get it soon if I do
not have to pay money to the padrone.”
As may be inferred, Phil did not expect to return home in style. A
first-class ticket on a Cunarder was far above his expectations. He
would be content to go by steerage all the way, and that could probably
be done for the sum he named. So his sadness was but brief, and be soon
became hopeful again.
He was aroused from his thoughts of home by a hand laid familiarly on
his shoulder. Turning, he saw a bootblack, whose adventures have
been chronicled in the volume called “Ragged Dick.” They had become
acquainted some three months before, Dick having acted as a protector to
Phil against some rough boys of his own class.
“Been buyin’ stocks?” asked Dick.
“I don’t know what they are,” said Phil, innocently.
“You’re a green one,” said Dick. “I shall have to take you into my
bankin’ house and give you some training in business.”
“Have you got a bankin’ house?” asked Phil, in surprise.
“In course I have. Don’t you see it?” pointing to an imposing-looking
structure in front of which they were just passing. “My clerks is all
hard to work in there, while I go out to take the air for the benefit of
my constitushun.”
Phil looked puzzled, not quite understanding Dick’s chaffing, and looked
rather inquiringly at the blacking box, finding it a little difficult to
understand why a banker on so large a scale should be blacking boots in
the street.
“Shine your boots, sir?” said Dick to a gentleman just passing.
“Not now; I’m in a hurry.”
“Blackin’ boots is good exercise,” continued Dick, answering the doubt
in Phil’s face. “I do it for the benefit of my health, thus combinin’
profit with salubriousness.”
“I can’t understand such long words,” said Phil. “I don’t know much
English.”
“I would talk to you in Italian,” said Dick, “only it makes my head
ache. What’s come of your fiddle? You haven’t sold it, and bought Erie
shares, have you?”
“A boy stole it from me, and broke it.”
“I’d like to lick him. Who was it?”
“I think his name was Tim Rafferty.”
“I know him,” said Dick. “I’ll give him a lickin’ next time I see him.”
“Can you?” asked Phil, doubtfully, for his enemy was as large as Dick.
“In course I can. My fists are like sledge-hammers. Jest feel my
muscle.”
Dick straightened out his arm, and Phil felt of the muscle, which was
hard and firm.
“It’s as tough as a ten-year-old chicken,” said Dick. “It won’t be
healthy for Tim to come round my way. What made him steal your fiddle?
He ain’t goin’ into the musical line, is he?”
“He was angry because I didn’t want to lend it to him.”
Just then Tim Rafferty himself turned the corner. There was a lull in
his business, and he was wandering along the street eating an apple.
“There he is,” said Phil, suddenly espying his enemy.
Dick looked up, and saw with satisfaction that Phil was right. Tim had
not yet espied either, nor did he till Dick addressed him.
“Are you round collectin’ fiddles this mornin’?” he asked.
Tim looked up, and, seeing that his victim had found an able champion,
felt anxious to withdraw. He was about to turn back, but Dick advanced
with a determined air.
“Jest stop a minute, Tim Rafferty,” said he. “I’m a-goin’ to intervoo
you for the Herald. That’s what they do with all the big rascals
nowadays.”
“I’m in a hurry,” said Tim.
“That’s what the pickpocket said when the cop was gently persuadin’ him
to go to the Tombs, but the cop didn’t see it. I want the pleasure of
your society a minute or two. I hear you’re in the music business.”
“No, I’m not,” said Tim, shortly.
“What made you borrer this boy’s fiddle, then?”
“I don’t know anything about it,” said Tim, in a fright.
“Some folks forgets easy,” returned Dick. “I know a man what went into
Tiffany’s and took up a watch to look at, and carried it off, forgettin’
to pay for it. That’s what he told the judge the next day, and the judge
sent him to the island for a few months to improve his memory. The air
over to the island is very good to improve the memory.”
“You ought to know,” said Tim, sullenly; “you’ve been there times
enough.”
“Have I?” said Dick. “Maybe you saw me there. Was it the ninth time you
were there, or the tenth?”
“I never was there,” said Tim.
“Maybe it was your twin brother.” suggested Dick. “What made you break
my friend’s fiddle? He wouldn’t have minded it so much, only it belonged
to his grandfather, a noble count, who made boots for a livin’.”
“I don’t believe he had a fiddle at all,” said Tim.
“That’s where your forgetfulness comes in,” said Dick “Have you forgot
the lickin’ I gave you last summer for stealin’ my blackin’ box?”
“You didn’t lick me,” said Tim.
“Then I’ll lick you harder next time,” said Dick.
“You ain’t able,” said Tim, who, glancing over his shoulder, saw the
approach of a policeman, and felt secure.
“I will be soon,” said Dick, who also observed the approach of the
policeman. “I’d do it now, only I’ve got to buy some gold for a friend
of mine. Just let me know when it’s perfectly convenient to take a
lickin’.”
Tim shuffled off, glad to get away unharmed, and Dick turned to Phil.
“I’ll give him a lickin’ the first time I catch him, when there isn’t a
cop around,” he said.
Phil left his friend at this point, for he saw by the clock on Trinity
spire that it was time to go back to join Paul Hoffman, as he had
agreed. I may here add that Phil’s wrongs were avenged that same
evening, his friend, Dick, administered to Tim the promised “lickin’”
 with such good effect that the latter carried a black eye for a week
afterwards.
CHAPTER XV
PHIL’S NEW PLANS
As the clock struck twelve Phil reached the necktie stand of his friend,
Paul Hoffman.
“Just in time,” said Paul. “Are you hungry?”
“A little.”
“That’s right. You’re going to dine with me; and I want you to bring a
good appetite with you.”
“What will your mother say?” asked Phil, doubtfully.
“Wait and see. If you don’t like what she says you can go off without
eating. Where have you been?”
“I went down to Wall Street.”
“On business?” inquired Paul, with a smile.
“No,” said Phil, seriously. “I saw Lucia.”
“Who is she?”
“I forgot. You don’t know Lucia. She lived in my home in Italy, and I
used to play with her. She told me of my mother.”
“That’s lucky, Phil. I hope your mother is well.”
“She is not sick, but she is thin. She thinks of me,” said Phil.
“Of course she does. You will go home and see her some day.”
“I hope so.”
“Of course you will,” said Paul, confidently.
“I saw the boy who stole my fiddle,” continued Phil.
“Tim Rafferty?”
“Yes.”
“What did he say?”
“I was with a bootblack--the one they call ‘Ragged Dick.’ Do you know
him?”
“Yes; I know Dick. He is a bully fellow, always joking.”
“Dick wanted to lick him, but a policeman came, and he went away.”
“Does Dick know that he stole your fiddle?”
“Yes.”
“Then he will be sure to punish him. It will save me the trouble.”
The walk was not long. Soon they were at Paul’s door.
“I have brought company to dinner, mother,” said Paul, entering first.
“I am glad to see you, Phil,” said Mrs. Hoffman. “Why have you not come
before?”
“How is that, Phil? Will you stay now?” said Paul.
Mrs. Hoffman looked at Paul inquiringly.
“Phil was afraid he would not be welcome,” he exclaimed.
“He is always welcome,” said Mrs. Hoffman.
“Where is your fiddle?” asked Jimmy.
“A boy took it,” said Phil, “and threw it into the street, and a wagon
went over it and broke it.”
Jimmy was quite indignant for his friend, when the story had been told.
“It’s lucky for Tim Rafferty that he is not here,” said Paul, “or he
might suffer.”
“If I was a big boy I’d lick him,” said Jimmy, belligerently.
“I never saw you so warlike before, Jimmy,” said Paul.
To Phil this sympathy seemed pleasant. He felt that he was in the midst
of friends, and friends were not so plentiful as not to be valued.
“What are you going to have for dinner, mother?” asked Paul.
“I am sorry, Paul, that I have no warm meat. I have some cold roast
beef, some hot potatoes, and an apple pudding.”
“You needn’t apologize, mother. That’s good enough for anybody. It’s as
good as Phil gets at his boarding house, I am sure. He has got rather
tired of it, and isn’t going to stay.”
“Are you going to leave the padrone?” asked Mrs. Hoffman, with interest.
“Si, signora,” said Phil.
“Will he let you go?”
“I shall run away,” said Phil.
“You see, mother, Phil would be sure of a beating if he went home
without his fiddle. Now he doesn’t like to be beaten, and the padrone
gives harder beatings than you do, mother.”
“I presume so,” said Mrs. Hoffman, smiling. “I do not think I am very
severe.”
“No, you spoil the rod and spare the child.”
“Is Phil going to stay in the city?”
“No; the padrone would get hold of him if he did. He is going to New
Jersey to make his fortune.”
“But he will need a fiddle.”
“I am going to lend him money enough to buy one. I know a pawnbroker who
has one for sale. I think I can get it for three or four dollars. When
Phil gets it he is going around giving concerts. How much can you make
in a day, Phil?”
“Sometimes I make two dollars,” answered Phil.
“That is excellent, especially when you are your own padrone. You will
be able to save up money. You will have to buy a pocketbook, Phil.”
“Where will you sleep, Phil?” asked Jimmy, interested.
Phil shrugged his shoulders. He had not thought of that question
particularly.
“I don’t know,” he said. “I can sleep anywhere.”
“Of course he will stop at the first-class hotels, Jimmy,” said Paul,
“like all men of distinction. I shouldn’t wonder if he married an
heiress in six months, and went back to Italy on a bridal tour.”
“He is too young to be married,” said Jimmy, who, it will be perceived,
understood everything literally.
“I don’t know but he is,” said Paul, “but he isn’t too old to be hungry.
So, mother, whenever dinner is ready we shall be.”
“It is all ready except peeling the potatoes, Paul.”
“We can do that ourselves. It is good exercise, and will sharpen our
appetites. You will have to eat fast or there won’t be much left. Jimmy
is the most tremendous eater I ever saw, and won’t leave much for the
rest of us, if we give him the chance.”
“Now, Paul,” expostulated Jimmy, feeling aggrieved at this charge, “you
know I don’t eat as much as you do.”
“Hear him talk, Phil. I don’t eat more than enough to keep a fly alive.”
“It must be a pretty large fly, Paul,” said Jimmy, slyly.
“Good joke, Jimmy. Mother, you must give Jimmy twelve potatoes to-day
instead of the ten he usually eats.”
“Oh, Paul, how can you tell such stories?” exclaimed Jimmy, shocked at
such an extravagant assertion. Phil laughed, for there was something
ludicrous in the idea of Jimmy, who was a slight boy of seven, making
away with such a large quantity, and the little boy began to see that it
was a joke at his expense.
The dinner went off well. All had a good appetite, and did full justice
to Mrs. Hoffman’s cookery. The pudding in particular was pronounced a
success. It was so flaky and well-seasoned, and the sauce, flavored
with lemon, was so good, that everyone except Mrs. Hoffman took a
second piece. For the first time since he had left Italy, Phil felt
the uncomfortable sensation of having eaten too much. However, with the
discomfort was the pleasant recollection of a good dinner, and to the
mind of the little fiddler the future brightened, as it is very apt to
do under such circumstances, and he felt ready to go out and achieve his
fortune.
“Why won’t you stop with us to-night, Phil, and start on your journey
to-morrow?” asked Mrs. Hoffman. “I am sure Jimmy would be glad of your
company.”
“Yes, Phil, stay,” said Paul.
Phil hesitated. It was a tempting invitation, but, on the other hand, if
he remained in the city till the next day he might be in danger from the
padrone.
He expressed this fear.
“I am afraid the padrone would catch me,” he said.
“No, he won’t. You can go out with me and buy the fiddle now, and then
come back and play to mother and Jimmy. To-morrow morning I will go with
you to the Jersey City Ferry myself, and if we meet the padrone, I’ll
give him a hint to be off.”
Phil still hesitated, but finally yielded to the united request. But it
was now one o’clock, and Paul must be back to his business. Phil took
his cap and went with him to purchase the fiddle, promising to come back
directly.
They went into Chatham Street, and soon halted before a small shop,
in front of which were three gilt balls, indicating that it was a
pawnbroker’s shop.
Entering, they found themselves in a small apartment, about twelve feet
front by twenty in depth, completely filled with pawnable articles in
great variety a large part, however, consisting of clothing; for when
the poor have occasion to raise money at a pawnbroker’s, they generally
find little in their possession to pawn except their clothing. Here was
a shawls pawned for a few shillings by a poor woman whose intemperate
husband threw the burden of supporting two young children upon her.
Next to it was a black coat belonging to a clerk, who had been out of
employment for three months, and now was out of money also. Here was a
child’s dress, pawned by the mother in dire necessity to save the
child from starving. There was a plain gold ring, snatched by a drunken
husband from the finger of his poor wife, not to buy food, but to
gratify his insatiable craving for drink.
Over this scene of confusion presided a little old man with blear eyes
and wrinkled face, but with a sharp glance, fully alive to his own
interests. He was an Englishman born, but he had been forty years
in America. He will be remembered by those who have read “Paul the
Peddler.” Though nearly as poverty-stricken in appearance as his poorest
customers, the old man was rich, if reports were true. His business was
a very profitable one, allowing the most exorbitant rates of interest,
and, being a miser, he spent almost nothing on himself, so that his
hoards had increased to a considerable amount.
He looked up sharply, as Paul and Phil entered, and scanned them closely
with his ferret-like eyes.
CHAPTER XVI
THE FASHIONABLE PARTY
Eliakim Henderson, for this was the pawnbroker’s name, did not remember
Paul, though on one occasion our hero had called upon him. Nearly
all his customers came to pawn articles, not to purchase, and Eliakim
naturally supposed that the two boys had come on this errand. Before
entering, Paul said to Phil, “Don’t say anything; leave me to manage.”
As they entered, Phil espied a fiddle hanging up behind the counter,
and he saw at a glance that it was better than the one he had been
accustomed to play upon. But to his surprise, Paul did not refer to it
at first.
“What will you give me on this coat?” asked Paul, indicating the one he
had on.
He had no intention of selling it, but preferred to come to the fiddle
gradually, that the pawnbroker might not think that was his main object,
and so charge an extra price.
Eliakim scanned the garment critically. It was nearly new and in
excellent condition, and he coveted it.
“I will give you a dollar,” said he, naming a price low enough to
advance upon.
“That is too little,” said Paul, shaking his head.
“I might give you fifty cents more, but I should lose if you didn’t
redeem it.”
“I don’t think you would. I paid ten dollars for it.”
“But it is old.”
“No, it isn’t; I have only had it a few weeks.”
“How much do you want on it?” asked Eliakim, scanning Paul sharply, to
see how much he seemed in want of money.
“I don’t want any to-day. If I should want some next week, I will come
in.”
“It will be older next week,” said Eliakim, not wanting to lose the
bargain, for he hoped it would not be redeemed.
“Never mind; I can get along till then.”
“Can I do no business with you this morning?” asked Eliakim,
disappointed.
“I don’t know,” said Paul, looking carelessly around. “My friend here
would like a fiddle, if he can get one cheap. What do you ask for that
one up there?”
Eliakim took down the fiddle with alacrity. He had had it on hand for
a year without securing a customer. It had originally been pawned by a
poor musician, for a dollar and a quarter, but the unfortunate owner had
never been able to redeem it. Among his customers, the pawnbroker had
not found one sufficiently musical to take it off his hands. Here was a
slight chance, and he determined to effect a sale if he could.
“It is a splendid instrument,” he said, enthusiastically, brushing off
the dust with a dirty cotton handkerchief. “I have had many chances to
sell it.”
“Why didn’t you sell it, then?” demanded Paul, who did not believe a
word of this.
“Because it was only pawned. I kept it for the owner.”
“Oh, well; if you can’t sell it, it doesn’t matter.”
“It is for sale now,” said Eliakim, quickly. “He has not come for
it, and I shall keep it no longer. Just try it. See what a sp-l-endid
instrument it is!” said the pawnbroker, dwelling on the adjective to
give emphasis to it.
Paul tried it, but not knowing how to play, of course created only
discord. He did not offer it to Phil, because the young Italian boy
would have made it sound too well and so enhanced the price.
“It don’t sound very well,” said he, indifferently; “but I suppose it
will do to learn on. What do you want for it?”
“Five dollars,” said Eliakim, studying the face of Paul, to observe the
effect of his announcement.
“Five dollars,” repeated Paul. “Take it back, then, and wait till A. T.
Stewart wants one. I haven’t got five dollars to throw away.”
But the pawnbroker did not expect to get his first price. He named it,
in order to have a chance to fall.
“Stay,” he said, as Paul made a motion to leave; “what will you give me
for it?”
“I’ll give you a dollar and a half,” said Paul, turning back.
“A dollar and a half!” exclaimed Eliakim, holding up both hands in
horror. “Do you want to ruin me?”
“No, I think you want to ruin me. I am willing to pay a fair price.”
“You may have it for three dollars and a half.”
“No doubt you’d be glad to get that. Come, Phil, we’ll go.”
“Stay; you may have it for three dollars, though I shall lose by it.”
“So should I, if I paid you that price. I can wait till some other
time.”
But Eliakim did not intend to let this chance slip. He had found the
fiddle rather unsalable, and feared if he lost his chance of disposing
of it, it might remain on his hands for a year more. He was willing,
therefore, to take less than the profit he usually calculated upon in
the sale of articles which remained unredeemed.
“You may have it for two dollars and a half,” he said.
As far as Paul could judge, though he did not know much about the price
of violins, this was a reasonable price. But he knew that Eliakim must
have got it for considerably less, or he would not so soon have come
down to this sum. He did not hesitate, therefore, to try to get it a
little cheaper.
“I’ll give you two dollars and a quarter,” he said, “and not a penny
more.”
Eliakim tried hard to get ten cents more, but Paul saw that he was sure
of his purchase, and remained obdurate. So, after a pretense of putting
up the fiddle, the pawnbroker finally said, “You may have it, but I tell
you that I shall lose money.”
“All right,” said Paul; “hand it over.”
“Where is the money?” asked Eliakim, cautiously.
Paul drew from his pocket a two-dollar bill and twenty-five cents in
currency, and received the fiddle. The pawnbroker scrutinized the money
closely, fearing that it might be bad; but finally, making up his mind
on that point, deposited it in his money drawer.
“Well, Phil, we may as well go,” said Paul. “We’ve got through our
business.”
The pawnbroker heard this, and a sudden suspicion entered his mind that
Paul had been too sharp for him.
“I might have got twenty-five cents more,” he thought regretfully; and
this thought disturbed the complacency he felt at first.
“Well, Phil, how do you like it?” asked Paul, as they emerged into the
street.
“Let me try it,” said Phil, eagerly.
He struck up a tune, which he played through, his face expressing the
satisfaction he felt.
“Is it as good as your old one?”
“It is much better,” said Phil. “I will pay you for it;” and he drew out
the money the sailors had given him in the morning.
“No, Phil,” said his friend, “you may need that money. Keep it, and pay
me when you have more.”
“But I shall be away.”
“You will come to the city some day. When you do you will know where to
find me. Now go and play a tune to Jimmy. He is waiting for you. If you
remain in the streets, your old enemy, Tim Rafferty, may want to borrow
your fiddle again.”
“You are very kind to me, Paolo,” said Phil, raising his dark eyes with
a sudden impulse of gratitude.
“It’s nothing, Phil,” said Paul, modestly; “you would do the same for me
if I needed it.”
“Yes, I would,” said Phil; “but I am poor, and I cannot help you.”
“You won’t be poor always, Phil,” said Paul, cheerfully, “nor I either,
I hope. I mean to be a merchant some time on a bigger scale than now. As
for you, you will be a great player, and give concerts at the Academy of
Music.”
Phil laughed, but still seemed pleased at the prophecy.
“Well, Phil, I must bid you good-by for a little while, or my clerks
will be cheating me. I will see you at supper.”
“Addio, Paolo,” said Phil.
“Addio,” said Paul, laughing. “Wouldn’t I make a good Italian?”
Paul returned to his stand, and Phil took the direction of Mrs.
Hoffman’s rooms. While on his way he heard the sound of a hand-organ,
and, looking across the way, saw, with some uneasiness, his old enemy
Pietro, playing to a crowd of boys.
“I hope he won’t see me,” said Phil to himself.
