"Mustn't it! And there are so many. It is dreadful."
"Don't seem to me it ought to be," said David.
"That is what I think," said Matilda. "And O David,--don't laugh at me
as Norton does,--it seems to me it needn't be. If other people would do
without having everything, these people need not want everything."
David did smile, though, at Matilda's summary way of equalizing things.
"What would you be willing to go without?" he asked. "Come, Tilly; what
of all we have had to-day?"
"A great deal," said the little political economist steadily.
"Meringues and bananas? for instance."
"Why yes, David, and so would you, if it was to give somebody else a
dinner."
But here they remembered that the shop man was still waiting their
orders, and they left talking to attend to business. David began
apparently to amuse himself. He bought a salt cellar, and a broom; and
to Matilda's mingled doubt and delight, a rocking-chair. And then they
ordered the things home and went home themselves.
CHAPTER VI.
The arrangements were all made; the room was ready; the cupboard was
stocked with its hardware; even a carpet lay on the floor, for Mrs.
Lloyd having heard from David a laughing declaration of Matilda's
present longing for an old carpet, had immediately given permission to
the children to rummage in the lumber room and take anything they found
that was not too good. Matilda was very much afraid there would be
nothing that did not come under that description; however, a little old
piece of carpet was found that somehow had escaped being thrown away,
and that would be, she judged, a perfect treasure to Mrs. Staples; it
was sent by the hands of a very much astonished footman to Mrs. Leary's
house, and by Mrs. Leary herself put down on the floor; Matilda having
bargained for the cleaning of the floor as a preliminary.
Her imagination dwelt upon that carpet, and the furnished, comfortable
look it gave the room, with as much recurring delight as other people
often find in the thought of their new dresses and jewels. With more,
perhaps. Everything was ready now. Mr. Wharncliffe was engaged to tell
the good news to Sarah and her mother, and the moving was to take place
on Thursday of the next week. All was arranged; and on Monday Matilda
sickened.
What could be the matter? Nobody knew at first; only it was certain
that the little girl was ill. Dull and feverish and miserable, unable
to hold herself up, or to think much about anything when she was laid
in bed. It was needful to send for the doctor; and Mrs. Laval took her
station by Matilda's pillow.
How time went, for some days thereafter, Matilda but dimly knew. She
was conscious now and then of being very sick, heavy and oppressed and
hot; but much of the time was spent in a sort of stupor. Occasionally
she would wake up to see that Mrs. Laval was bending tenderly over her,
offering a spoonful of medicine or a glass of apple water; it was
sometimes night, with the gas burning low, sometimes the dusk of
evening; sometimes the cool grey of the morning seemed to be breaking.
But of the hours between such points Matilda knew nothing; she kept no
count of days; a general feeling of long weariness and dull headaches
filled up all her consciousness; she reasoned about nothing.
So that it was quite a new experience, at waking one morning, to feel
Mrs. Laval's lips pressed to hers for a kiss, and to hear a cheerful
voice say,--
"My darling is better!"
Matilda looked up.
"I believe I have been sick," she said, in a weak little voice.
"Indeed you have, darling--very sick. But you are better now. How do
you feel?"
"Better," Matilda answered in that same faint, thin little
voice;--"weak."
"Of course you are weak! Here is something to make you stronger."
Mrs. Laval brought a tea-cup presently, and fed Matilda with soda
biscuit dipped in tea; very nice it seemed; and then she went off again
into a sweet deep sleep.
When she awaked from this, it was high day, and the light was let into
the room as it had not been for a good while. It all looked natural,
and yet new; and Matilda's eyes went from one object to another with a
sort of recognizing pleasure; feeling languid too, as if her eyelids
could just keep open and that was all. But the light seemed sweet. And
her gaze lingered long on the figure of Mrs. Laval, who was standing by
the mantle-piece; going over with quiet pleasure every graceful outline
and pretty detail; the flow of her soft drapery; the set of the dainty
little French muslin cap which set lightly on her hair. Till Mrs. Laval
turned, and smiled to see her eyes open.
"Ready for breakfast?" she said gayly.
"I don't believe I could get up, mamma," said the weak little voice.
"Get up! I don't believe you could! But what do you think of having
breakfast in bed? Wait; you shall have your face washed first."
She brought a basin and bathed Matilda's face and hands, first with
water and then with cologne. It was pleasant to be tended so, and the
fine, soft, sweet damask was pleasant, with which the drying was done.
Then Mrs. Laval rang the bell, and presently came up a tray which she
took from the servant's hands and brought to the bedside herself. Then
Matilda was raised up and propped up with pillows, till she could see
what was on the plate.
"How nice that cologne is! I haven't had breakfast in a good while
before, have I?"
"No, my darling." And Mrs. Laval stooped to press her lips fondly.
"What do you say to a little bit of roast bird?"
Matilda was very glad of it; and she enjoyed the delicate thin slice of
toast, and the fragrant tea out of a sort of eggshell cup; the china
was so thin it was semi-transparent. She made a bird's breakfast, but
it was very good, and did her good.
"Mamma," she said, as she drank the last drops from that delicate
cup,--"it must be a dreadful thing to be poor! When one is sick, I
mean."
"You never will be, darling," said Mrs. Laval.
She was slowly but surely mending all that day. The next morning she
had another roast bird for breakfast, and could eat more of it.
"Norton wants to see you dreadfully," Mrs. Laval said as she was
feeding her. "And so does David, I believe. How have you and David got
to be such good friends?"
"I don't know, mamma. I like David very much."
"Do you?" said Mrs. Laval laughing; "perhaps that is the reason. Like
makes like, they say. You are one of the few people that like David
Bartholomew!"
"Am I? Why, mamma? Don't you like him?"
"Certainly; he is my nephew. I ought to like him."
"But that don't make us like people," said Matilda meditatively.
"What? that little word ought? No, I think it works the other way."
"But I think I like everybody," Matilda went on. "Everybody some. I
don't like all people one as much as another."
"No," said Mrs. Laval. "That would be too indiscriminate. Well, David
likes you. That is not strange. And he wants to see you."
"Yes, and Norton. Mamma, I think I would like better to be up, before I
see the boys."
"I shall not let them come in before that."
So one or two days still passed, in sleeping and resting and waking to
feel stronger every time; and then one afternoon Matilda was taken up
and dressed in a warm wrapper, and placed in a delightful easy chair
which Mrs. Laval had had brought up for her. She felt very weak, but
exceedingly comfortable. Then she saw the door of her room slowly
pushed inwards, and the bright head of Norton softly advancing beyond
it. So soon as he caught sight of Matilda in her easy chair, he came in
with two bounds, knelt down before her, and taking her in his arms
kissed her over and over.
"There is one person glad to see you," remarked Mrs. Laval.
Matilda's eyes were glittering with tears; she said not a word.
"Glad?" echoed Norton. "Pink, the house has been too stupid for
anything without you. It's astonishing, what a difference one girl
makes."
"One girl--" said Mrs Laval.
"Ah!" said Norton. "I didn't say anything about the other. It wouldn't
distress me at all to have Judy shut up in her room a few days."
"But not by sickness!" said his mother.
"Not particular how, mamma; do Judy no harm either. She wants taking
down somehow."
"Why, Norton," said Matilda, "I thought you were so busy with your
greenhouse, you wouldn't miss me much. And Judy and you were getting on
nicely with the flowers, I thought."
"Nicely!" repeated Norton. "She doesn't care any more for the flowers
than if they were grown to make door mats of. Greenhouse! why, it's as
much as I can do to prevent her pulling all the buds off; and when
she's got them, as I said, she don't care the least for them. No; the
one thing Judy Bartholomew cares for is mischief; and the second is her
own way."
"Gently, Norton!" said his mother. "I know somebody else that likes his
own way."
"Yes, ma'am, and can't get it--worse luck!"
"O Norton!" said Matilda.
"Well I'd just like to have you tell me then, how I'm to get Judy
Bartholomew out of my greenhouse!"
"How did you get her in?" asked his mother.
"I went into partnership with her."
"And I ask, why?"
"Because she had money, mamma; and I wanted the greenhouse in order;
and Pink wouldn't."
"Couldn't"--said Matilda. She did not feel like using many words just
then.
"Pink, mamma, is the very worst person in the world about having her
own way."
"And the very best person in the world about being sick."
"How, mamma?" said Matilda. "I haven't done anything at all but lie
still and be taken care of."
"Mamma, she looks pale; and her voice sounds thin; aren't you going to
give her something to strengthen her up?"
"She is going to have her supper in a few minutes."
"What are you going to give her?"
"Roast oysters and bread and butter."
"That sounds jolly. I'd stay and have some too; only I have got to see
a fellow round the corner. Good-bye, Pink. I'm off. Eat as many oysters
as you can!"
And off he ran. Matilda was disappointed; she was very fond of him, and
she thought he might have liked better to stay with her this first
evening. A little creeping feeling of homesickness came over her; not
for any place that was once called home, but for the clinging affection
of more hands and voices than one.
"He's a boy, dear," said Mrs. Laval, noticing her look. "Boys cannot
bear to be shut up, even with what they love the best. And you are a
girl--just full of womanly tenderness. I see it well enough. You will
have something to bear in this world, my child. Boys will be boys, and
men will be men; but Norton loves you dearly, for all that."
"I know he does, mamma," said Matilda.
But when a few minutes later, Mrs. Laval was called downstairs to see
somebody, the feeling she had kept back rushed upon her again. She
wanted something she had not got. And she began to think of her best
Friend. Matilda had not forgotten him; yet through these days of
sickness and weakness, and the constant presence of somebody in her
room, she had missed for a long time her Bible readings and all but
very short and scattering prayer. She recollected this now; and longing
after the comfort of a nearer thought of God and closer feeling of his
presence, she got up out of her chair and tottered across the room,
holding by everything in her way, to the place where she kept her
Bible. Once back in her easy chair, she had to rest a bit before she
could read; then she found a place of sweet words that she knew, and
rested herself in a more thorough fashion over them.
She was bending down with her volume in her hand to catch the fading
light from the window, when another visiter came in. It was David
Bartholomew, who having knocked and fancied that he heard the word of
permission, walked in and was at her side before she knew it. Matilda
started, and then looked very much pleased.
"You are not strong enough to be studying," David said kindly.
"O I am not studying."
"What have you got there that interests you so much, then? to be
bending over it like that."
Now Matilda was afraid to say she was reading the Bible, knowing in
what abhorrence David held part of her Bible; so she answered with a
quick sort of instinct, "It was only a chapter in Isaiah, David."
"Isaiah!" he repeated; "our Isaiah? Let me see, please."
He took the book and looked keenly at the page.
"What interested you so here, Matilda?"
"I was reading that little twelfth chapter. I was thinking of those
'wells of salvation.'"
She was trembling with the fear of saying something or other to
displease him, afraid to answer at all; but the simplest answer seemed
the best; and she prayed for wisdom and boldness. David was looking
hard at the page, and alternately at her.
"It is our Isaiah," he said, turning the leaves back and forward; "it
is our Scriptures; but not the Hebrew. I shall learn to read the
Hebrew. What were you thinking about the 'wells of salvation,' Matilda?"
Matilda was getting very nervous; but as before, she answered simply
the truth.
"I was thinking how sweet the water is."
"You?" said David, with a depth of astonishment which might have made
her laugh if she had not been so frightened. "You? what do you know of
them, or think you know? These words belong to the time of Messiah ben
David."
"Yes," said Matilda.
"What do you think you know about them?"
Matilda thought within herself that here was the end of David's
friendship for her. Her heart sank, yet she spoke as before.
"I have drawn water out of them, David; and I know that the water is
sweet."
He stood and looked at her, as if he were full of something to say; but
perhaps he guessed at her reference, or perhaps he saw her too feeble
to be attacked with exciting topics. He shut his mouth and said
nothing; and just then the servant entered bearing the tray with
Matilda's supper. That made a nice diversion. I think David was glad of
it. At any rate he made himself useful; brought up the little table to
Matilda's side; set the tea-pot out of her way and spread her napkin on
her lap. Then, hearing that Mrs. Laval was detained downstairs, he took
the management of things upon himself. He made Matilda's cup of tea; he
spread bread and butter; he opened oysters. Nobody could have done it
better; but it was always acknowledged that David Bartholomew was born
a gentleman. Matilda enjoyed it hugely. She was ready for her oysters,
as a little convalescent child should be; and bread and butter was
good; but to have David helping her and ministering to her gave to both
an exquisite flavour. He was so nice about it, and it was so kind of
him.
"That other supper has been sadly put off, hasn't it?" he said as he
opened Matilda's last oyster.
"What supper?" said Matilda.
"The supper we had arranged so finely, a long while ago. The
celebration of your good woman's moving in."
"My good woman?--O, you mean Mrs. Staples. She hasn't moved in yet?"
"No! we waited for you to get well."
"Waited all this while!" said Matilda. "David, I wonder when I shall be
able to go out?"
"Not in a good while, Tilly, to any such entertainment as that. I dare
say you can go driving in the Park in two or three weeks."
"But she cannot wait all that while!" said Matilda; and then she
stopped. If not, then the moving of Mrs. Staples, and all the delight
of the supper to be prepared for her, and the pleasure of seeing her
pleasure, must be for others; not for the little planner and contriver
of the whole. For a minute Matilda felt as if she could not give it up;
this rare and exquisite joy; such a chance might not come again in a
very long while. She wanted to see how the stove would work; she wanted
to hear the kettle sing, and to set the table with the new cups and
saucers, and to make the tea that first time, and give the in comers a
welcome. Could all that be lost? It seemed very hard. Matilda's eyes
filled with tears.
"What is the matter?" said David kindly.
Matilda struggled to speak. She knew what she must say; but at first
she could hardly get the words out. She hesitated, and David repeated
his question.
"It won't do for them to wait so long," she said, lifting her eyes to
his face.
"Who? your poor people there? Well, it does seem a pity, looking at the
place where they are now."
"It won't do," Matilda repeated. "It is best for them to go right in,
David. But I can't manage it. I can't do anything."
"Will you trust me?"
"O yes! if you'll do it. But won't it be a great trouble to you, David?"
"On the contrary, I shall like it capitally. You tell me exactly what
you want done, and I'll attend to it."
"O thank you! Then you'll have to get the supper things, David."
"Yes, I know all about that."
"And get Mr. Wharncliffe to tell Mrs. Staples."
"Yes."
"And--can you buy some calico for me?"
"Certainly. But I'd put something warmer on them than calico, Tilly."
"What?"
"I don't know," said David laughingly; "I don't know what women wear.
But I suppose I can find out. Something warm, Tilly; the air is
snapping and biting out of doors, I can tell you."
"O well, do see about it as soon as you can, David, and let them move
in by Saturday; can't you?"
David promised. And when he was gone, and Matilda was alone in bed
again at night, she fought out her whole fight with disappointment.
Rather a hard fight it was. Matilda did not see why, when she was about
a very good thing, so much of the pleasure of it should have been taken
away from her. Why could not her sickness have been delayed for one
week? and now the very flower and charm of her scheme must fall into
the hands of others. She dwelt upon the details, from which she had
looked for so much pleasure, and poured out hearty tears over them. She
was as much in the dark nearly as Job had been; as much at a loss to
know why all this should have befallen her. All the comfort she could
get at was in imagining the scenes she could not now see, and fancying
all over and over to herself how Sarah and her mother would look and
feel.
After that day Matilda's improvement was steady. Soon she had Norton
and Judy and even David running in and out at all hours, to see her or
to tell her something.
"Great news," said Norton bursting in as usual one evening. "What do
you think, Pink? David and Judy have been to be catechized."
"Catechized?" Matilda repeated. "Do they learn the catechism?"
"Not yours, I promise you," said Norton. "No, not exactly. But they
have been to a Jewish catechizing; to be examined in the Jews'
Scriptures, you know, and all that. They ought to have been catechized,
it seems, when they were younger; but David and Judy have been
travelling about and there has been no chance. Now they've got it! And
O how Davy has been studying his Bible."
"His Bible is just like ours, isn't it?--all but the New Testament?"
"He thinks that's a pretty large 'all but.'"
"But the rest is just the same as ours?"
"I suppose so; yes, I believe so. And they have had a great time, and
Davy has come off with a blue ribband or something, and been greatly
distinguished."
"Well?" said Matilda eagerly.
"Well. They all went to it, grandma and aunt Judy, and they don't know
whether they are most pleased or most vexed."
"Vexed?" repeated Matilda.
"Yes. You see, their Jew friends and relations are getting great hold
of Davy; and now I suppose he will be more of a Jew than ever."
"How will that make him different?" said Matilda, puzzled.
"Different?" said Norton. "Why, you don't think Jews are like all the
rest of the world, do you?"
"I don't know," Matilda answered. "I think--if I was a Jew--I would
like it."
To which Norton answered at first with a questioning frown; then
cleared his brow and laughed.
"You'd like anything that made you different from the rest of the
world," he said. "But you're a Pink! and that makes it of course."
"You used to say I was a brick," said Matilda.
"So you are. I'll fight any boy that says you aren't."
But that made Matilda laugh so much that Mrs. Laval, coming in, was
afraid she would fatigue herself; and she sent Norton away. Matilda
after this was very curious and a little anxious to see David, and find
out what change his being "more of a Jew than ever" would have made in
him. When he came, she could not find any change. It was Saturday
evening, after tea; so rather late. He came to bring her the news she
wanted.
"Well, it's done, Matilda," he said as he entered.
"And all right, David?"
"Right as can be. Don't you get excited, and I will tell you all about
it."
"You are very kind, David," said Matilda, trying to be quiet; but there
were two pink spots on her pale cheeks.
"The carpet was down, and made the place look like another thing. Then
Mrs. Leary had brightened up the bureau and the chairs and table, and
blacked the stove and made a fire. It seemed quite like a home waiting
for somebody. Mrs. Leary folded her arms, and made me take notice what
she had done, and 'expicted I would consider it,' she said."
"Expected you would consider it?" said Matilda.
"Yes. Don't you know what that means? Expected I would pay her for her
trouble."
"Ah!" said Matilda. "Did you?"
"Yes, of course. But I made her make up the bed and fill the kettle
before she had done. 'An' sure it was iligant, and fit for society,'
she said; whatever that meant."
"Fit for company, I suppose, David. But who made the coffee?"
"Wait a bit: I'm coming to that. I was in a puzzle about it; for I
wasn't sure of Mrs. Leary, and Norton and I didn't know enough."
"Norton? was Norton there?"
"To be sure; at first. He and I got everything else together. Mrs.
Leary had washed the china and the tin ware; and we bought cheese, and
tea and coffee, and herring, and buns, and gingerbread."
"And bread?" said Matilda, looking in tensely interested.
"No; buns. And soap we ordered in too, Tilly; Norton is great on soap.
I should never have thought of it. And when we had done all we could
think of, we sat down to watch the fire and guard the things till some
body came. And we got talking about something else and forgot where we
were; when all of a sudden the door pushed softly open and a girl came
in--"
"Sarah!" cried Matilda.
"Wait. There came in this girl, and stood there, looking. And we
looked. 'Is this Mrs. Leary's?' she asked. 'No,' said I; 'the rest of
the house is. Mrs. Leary's, I believe; but this room belongs to Mrs.
Staples.' 'And you're Sarah, aren't you?' Norton cried out. I wish you
had seen the girl, Tilly! She came a little way further in, and stopped
and looked round, and had all the work in the world to keep herself
from breaking down and crying. Her face flushed all over. She wanted to
know if we were sure if there was no mistake? So I told her about you,
and how you were sick, and how you had commissioned us to get ready all
these things; and Norton shewed her where to hang her bonnet and shawl;
for she was in a bewildered state. And then I bethought me and told her
we wanted somebody to make the coffee. I think, Tilly, she was as near
the condition of Aladdin, when he got into the magician s cave, as ever
a mortal could be in this actual world. But she went to work, and that
helped her to feel she was not dreaming, I suppose. She made the
coffee,--and all the while I could see her fingers trembling;--and she
cooked the herring; and I stood it, herring smoke and all; it was the
best fun I've seen this winter--"
"Since Christmas," Matilda put in, but her own eyes were very bright
and glittering.
"Christmas was nothing to it!"
"I wish I had been there."
"I wish you had. There was nothing else wanting. And I wish you could
have seen Sarah's eyes; I think she was afraid to look around her. She
would give a glance at something, the chest of drawers, or the bed, and
then the tears would spring and she would have just as much as she
could do to mind her cooking and not break down. I didn't know coffee
smelt so good, Tilly."
"Doesn't it!"
"You know about that, eh? Well, we were all ready, and Sarah set the
table, but Norton and I had to bring out the buns and gingerbread and
the cheese; for I don't think she would have dared. And then the door
opened once more, and in came Mr. Wharncliffe, and Sarah's mother and
those two poor little imps of boys."
"I don't know much about them," said Matilda.
"I know they are very ragged. Of course, how could they help it? The
mother looked as if she would easily fall to pieces too. But I saw the
smell of the coffee brightened her up."
"And then you came away, I suppose?"
"Yes, of course. Mr. Wharncliffe just saw that everything was right and
looked after the coal and things; and then we left them to take their
supper in peace."
"I'm so glad!" said Matilda, heaving a deep sigh. "And I am very much
obliged to you, David."
"For nothing," said David. "I had a good time, I can tell you. I should
just like to do the whole thing over again. Why, it didn't cost much."
"Only Mr. Wharncliffe says we have to be very careful to know about
people first, before we give them things; there are so many deceivers."
"Yes, I know that," said David. He stood looking into the light and
thinking. Matilda wondered what he was thinking about; she could not
ask him as she would Norton.
"It isn't right!" he broke out.
"What, David?"
"It isn't right that there should be such a difference in people; we
here, and they there."
"Mr. Wharncliffe says there must be a difference. Some people are
clever and industrious, and others are idle and lazy; and that makes
differences."
"That ought," said David; "but then the people that are not idle or
lazy, but sick or unfortunate, like these people; they ought not to be
left in hunger and cold and rags."
"So I think," said Matilda eagerly; and then she stopped; for she was
not so free with David as to tell him all her thoughts; at least not
unless he asked for them.
"It puzzles me," David went on. "I can't see my way out of the puzzle;
only I am sure there is wrong somewhere."
"And it must be right for each of us to do all he can to help," said
Matilda.
David shook his head. "One goes very little way."
"But that is all we can do. And if every one would--"
"Every one will not, Tilly; there it is."
"No. I know it; but still, David, people have to do so."
"So how?"
"Why, each one by himself, I mean."
"Well," said David, smiling, "that's safe for you. I mean to study the
subject."
CHAPTER VII.
Matilda was slow in getting over her sickness. It would not do to think
of lessons or let her do anything that would weary her. Instead of
that, she was taken to drive, and supplied with materials and patterns
for worsted work, and had books at command. Whatever would please her,
in short; at least whatever Mrs. Laval could think of; for Matilda made
no demands on anybody. She was very happy; feeling well but weak, just
so as to draw out everybody's kindness; and obliged to be quiet enough
to thoroughly enjoy her happiness. She made great progress in the
affections of the family during this rime; they found a sweetness and
grace and modesty in her that presently seemed like to make her the
house darling. "She is not selfish," said Mrs. Lloyd. "She is really a
very graceful little thing," said Mrs. Bartholomew. "She is honest,"
said David. "She is the gentlest, most dutiful child in the world,"
said Mrs. Laval; but Mrs. Laval did not say much about it. She was
growing excessively fond of Matilda. Norton declared she was a brick.
Judy said nothing. Then they would begin again. "She is a thoroughly
courteous child," said Mrs. Lloyd. "I do think she is a good little
thing," said Mrs. Bartholomew. "She has her own opinions," said Norton,
who liked her the better for it. "They are not bad opinions either,"
remarked David.
"Aren't they!" put in Judy. "Wise and extremely courteous she was
about the liqueur glasses, don't you think so?"
"What about the liqueur glasses?" Mrs. Lloyd demanded; and though
Norton and David both tried to stop the recital, out it would come, for
the second time. Judy would not be stopped. Mrs. Lloyd seemed rather
serious but by no means as much disgusted as Judy would have liked.
"She had her own opinions, as Norton says," David remarked; "but she
behaved perfectly well about the whole affair; perfectly courteous,
Judy."
"Very ridiculous, though, for such a child," his mother added.
"How should she be courteous?" said Judy, scornfully. "She has had no
sort of bringing up."
"I should be glad to see you as courteous, and as graceful about it,"
said Mrs. Bartholomew. Whereat Judy tossed her head spitefully and
meditated mischief.
They did not know how it was. All was true they had said respecting
Matilda's manners; and this was the secret of them; she was most simply
trying to live up to her motto. For this Matilda studied her Bible,
watched, and prayed. It was not herself she was thinking of, or trying
to please; her obedience and her pleasantness and her smallest actions
were full of the very spirit of reverence and good-will; no wonder it
was all done gracefully. The days and weeks of sickness and feebleness
had been a good time for the little girl, and the kindness she received
made her heart very tender. She sought ways to please; above all, ways
to please God. It was in doing "all in the name of the Lord Jesus" that
her manners became so lovely and her presence so welcome to almost all
the family; and her happy little face was an attraction for even old
Mrs. Lloyd, who did not confess to finding many things in the whole
world attractive now. But Judy vowed in secret she would disturb this
opinion of Matilda, if she could manage it.
So she chose her time. Mrs. Lloyd, and indeed all the elders of the
family, were extremely particular and punctilious about table manners;
exacting the utmost care and elegance in everything that was done. One
Sunday there was company at dinner; only one or two gentlemen who were
familiar friends, however, so that the young people were not debarred
their weekly pleasure and privilege of dining with their grandmother.
Judy managed to place herself next to Matilda, and held her position,
though Norton as openly as he dared reminded her she had no right to be
there. It was impossible to make a disturbance and he was obliged to
give up the point. Matilda wondered at what she supposed an uncommon
mark of favour in Judy; and resolved to be as nice a neighbour as she
could. There was not much chance, for of course talking, except a low
word now and then, was out of the question. It happened that one of the
servants was for some reason out of the way, and there was not the
usual abundant service of the table. Just when everybody was helped,
Judy somewhat officiously handed somebody's plate to Matilda to be
passed for some oysters. The plate came back to her full; it had meat
and gravy and oysters and maccaroni on it, and was heavy as well as
full. Carefully giving it, as she thought, into Judy's hand, Matilda
was dismayed to find it seemingly slip from her own; and down it went,
taking impartially Judy's dress and her own in its way. Turkey gravy
and oysters lodged on Judy's blue silk; while the maccaroni, rich with
butter and cheese, made an impression never to be effaced on Matilda's
crimson. The little girl absolutely grew pale as she looked down at the
disastrous state of things, and then up at Judy. Judy's eyes were
snapping.
"Did I do that?" said Matilda, in a bewildered consciousness that she
had not done it.
"O, I guess not," replied Judy; in a tone which civilly said, "Of
course you did!" Matilda dared not look at anybody else.
"You had better go up and change your dress, Matilda," said Mrs. Laval
gravely. And Matilda went, greatly disconcerted. She was a very dainty
child herself; rudeness and awkwardness were almost as abhorrent to her
as they were even to Mrs. Lloyd; and now she felt that she had
disgraced herself, mortified Mrs. Laval, and displeased the old lady;
besides drawing down the censure and slighting remark of Mrs.
Bartholomew. But had she done the thing? She was supposed to have
done it, that was clear, from the tone of Mrs. Lloyd's voice and from
Mrs. Laval's command, as well as from Judy's words; that young lady
herself had kept her place in the dining room, for all that appeared.
And Matilda's beautiful crimson dress was spoiled. No doubt about it;
when she had got it off and looked at it she saw that the butter and
cheese had done their work too thoroughly to leave any hope that it
might be undone. No acid or French chalk would be of any avail there.
Poor Matilda! she was very much dismayed. She had a particular fancy
for the colour of that dress; it was a beautiful shade; and Mrs. Laval
liked it; and Matilda wondered if she was displeased; and wondered with
still increasing persuasion that the fault had not lain with her. But
who could prove that? And as it was, the charge of gross carelessness
and inelegance lay at her door; a charge above others that she was
unwilling to bear.
She would not venture down to the dining-room again, not knowing
whether she would be welcome; she sat in the dark thinking, and crying
a little. But when there came a knock at her door, she got rid of all
traces of tears. There was Norton, who had brought her some Chantilly
cake which she was very fond of; and close behind him stood David,
smiling, and bearing on a plate a great slice of ice cream. Matilda's
hands were both filled.
"Oh thank you!" she said from the bottom of her heart; "O how kind you
are!" Then as she glanced again at David's benign face, she half
exclaimed, "Did I do that?"
"No," said David, the smile vanishing.
"She didn't?" cried Norton. "Who did?"
"Judy."
"Judy!" echoed Norton.
"I thought I didn't do it," said Matilda, forgetting her ice cream;
"but I was so bewildered, and Judy seemed to think it was I--"
"I saw the whole thing," said David. "It was not you. You were not to
blame at all. Your fingers had unclosed from the plate before hers did."
"Did she do it on purpose?" said Norton wrathfully, "and let Pink bear
the blame? She shan't bear it two minutes longer!"
He was rushing away, but Matilda made one spring and planted herself
right in his way.
"What are you going to do?"
"Set this thing to rights."
"How?"
"How? Why by telling the truth."
"Stop, Norton; there is company."
"All the more reason. Should you be disgraced before company?"
"Hush, Norton, stop," said Matilda eagerly, and getting both her plates
in one hand that she might lay hold of him with the other. "You
mustn't, Norton. Don't stir, or you'll make me throw down my ice cream,
and then I shall be disgraced."
To prevent the possibility of such a catastrophe, David took the plates
from her, and Matilda grasped Norton with both her little hands.
"I'm going!" he said.
"No, you aren't."
"I am, I tell you, Pink. I'll not stand by and allow it. I'll expose
Judy and clear you, before everybody, this minute."
"Stop, Norton. You can't do it. Listen to me. You mustn't."
"Now is the very time."
"You mustn't do it at all. I'll tell mamma. I may do that; but you must
not say one word about Judy to anybody. I shall get mamma to keep quiet
too. You must, Norton."
"She's right, old fellow, that this isn't the time," said David.
"Grandmamma would stop your argument very short."
"And you must not say a word, Norton. For my sake! You couldn't prove
anything, Norton, and it would only make mischief and do harm. Let it
alone, and then it is nothing."
"Nothing!" cried Norton in great dudgeon.
"Nothing but a little inconvenience to me, and that will be all over by
to-morrow. Promise me, Norton; and then I can eat my ice cream in
peace."
"You must promise quickly then," said David, "for it is beginning to
melt."
Norton scolded and grumbled yet, however Matilda saw that she might
take her cake and cream; and she eat it looking at him, and enjoying it
very much.
"What's the use of being right then," said Norton, "if nobody is to
know it? And you are provoking, Pink! you look just as if nothing was
the matter."
"Nothing is the matter, thank you," said the little girl.
"You don't look angry."
"I don't think I am angry."
"You ought to be."
"I think I'm too happy to be angry," said Matilda, finishing her ice.
And she looked so cool that Norton could not keep hot. He and David
took her empty plates away for her; and so ended that day's trouble.
Nevertheless, fruits of it appeared afterwards.
A little while after this Sunday, Norton sickened with the same fever
Matilda had had. There followed a long, very quiet time, during which
she was much left to herself. Mrs. Laval was in the sick room; for if
she was not a skilled nurse, she was a most affectionate mother; and in
the cases of both her children, she either did herself or watched over
everything that was done. Matilda was not allowed to be with Norton and
help, which she would have liked; it was thought that her strength was
not sufficiently recovered. So the little girl lived in her room; crept
down and up for her meals; was as quiet as a mouse; and endured not a
little mischief from Judy's hands. Judy revelled. She was as full of
life as of mischief, and she made Matilda her butt. The children
generally dining together alone, she had a fair field; for David could
not interpose to prevent Judy's sly provocations. They were too sly,
and too quick and shifting, and too various and unlooked for. Sometimes
she patronized Matilda, as a little country girl; sometimes she
admonished her, very unnecessarily, in the same character; sometimes
Judy took a tone more offensive still and accused her of artful
practices to gain Mrs. Laval's favour. David and others were present;
but they did not always see what was going on; or if they attempted to
put Judy in order, the attempt was too apt to provoke more trouble than
it stopped. Matilda bore a good deal of trial, those weeks; for she was
naturally a spirited child, ready to resent injuries; and besides that,
she was a clever child, quite able to return Judy's sharp speeches. She
said very little to them, however, except what was good-humoured. Her
cheek flushed now and then; sometimes her little head took its old set
on her shoulders, extremely expressive, and equally graceful and
unconscious; the boys would laugh, and Judy toss her own head in a
different fashion. These things gave Matilda a good deal of work in her
own room. She used to hunt out passages that spoke of forgiveness and
kindness and the management of the tongue and the bridling of anger;
and then she used to pray over them, and not once or twice. So Judy
never could prevail much with her. However, Matilda wished for many
reasons that Norton would get strong and well again and Mrs. Laval be
in her old place. As he grew better, she began to be very much in his
room; taking care of him, reading or talking to him, and having very
nice times planning garden for Briery Bank when they should go home.
That would not be early this year, Norton said he was afraid, because
of his school; but at any rate they would run up at the Easter holidays
and set things in train.
One day Matilda was coming upstairs, after an uncomfortable lunch with
Judy alone. She came slowly, for she was weak yet, thinking that Judy
was a very difficult person to get along with. David had not appeared
at the meal. Just as Matilda reached the head of the stairs at her own
door, he came out of his room.
"Tilly," said he in a choked kind of voice, "come here! I want you."
A very odd way for David to speak, she thought; and looking at him she
perceived that he had not his usual calmness and gravity, in face any
more than in voice. He was flushed and agitated, and troubled, it
seemed to her. Matilda obeyed his call instantly and he led the way
into his room and shut the door. Then she waited for him to speak and
tell what he wanted of her; but that seemed to be somehow difficult.
David hesitated, struggling with himself, she could see; yet no words
came. Matilda was too much in awe of him to speak first. David had been
very kind to her lately; but he was older, older even than Norton, and
much graver; and she did not know him so well. She waited.
As for David, he could hardly speak, or he had great difficulty in the
choice of words. He fidgeted a little, taking one or two turns across
the room, flushed and paled again, then faced Matilda and spoke with
desperate resolution.
"Tilly, what do you know about--that person--I mean the One you think
so much of, and call your Messiah?"
Matilda was extremely astonished. "Do you mean--Jesus?" she asked
doubtfully and not a little afraid.
"Yes--yes. What do you know about him?"
Matilda hesitated.
"I know he loves me," she said softly.
"Loves you! How do you know that? how can you know that?"
"Because I love him, David; and I know he loves me. He has said so."
"Said so! I beg your pardon. How has be said so?"
"In a great many places. And in a great many ways, David. He died for
me."
"Died!" repeated David again; then controlling his excitement, which
was very great, he again asked Matilda's pardon. "What do you mean by
saying he died for you? for you, or anybody? He was put to death by
the Romans, because he set himself up for a king."
"He didn't," said Matilda eagerly; "not in the way the people said. He
told Pilate himself that his kingdom was not of this world; and he told
the Jews to pay tribute to Caesar. They accused him for envy."
"Anyhow, he was put to death like any other criminal. Why should you
say he died for you? Have you any reason?"
"Have you got a Bible here, David?"
"Not your Bible. I have the Scriptures of Moses and the prophets."
"Those are what Jesus said told about him. But just let me run and get
my Bible, David; I want to shew you something. I'll be back in one
minute."
He made no objection; and Matilda rushed out to her own room, threw off
her cloak and hat, dropped down on her knees for one instant to pray
that the Lord would teach her what to say to David; then seized her
Bible and ran back to him. She was almost as excited now, outwardly, as
he seemed; her little fingers trembled as she turned the leaves over.
"See here, David," she said. "That night, the night of the passover,
you know; the night before he died; he was at supper with the twelve
disciples--"
"What twelve disciples?"
"Those who were always with him; they were the apostles afterwards.
Look here. He broke bread and told them to eat it, and said it was his
body broken for them; and then a cup of wine; and this is what he said
about that. See."
"Read it," said David.
"'This is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the
remission of sins.' Testament is the same word as covenant, Mr.
Wharncliffe says."
"Covenant!" cried David.
"Yes. In this other place he says, 'This cup is the new testament or
covenant, in my blood, which is shed for you.' That is the new covenant
that Jeremiah promised."
"Jeremiah!" cried David again; "what do you know of Jeremiah? Is that
in your Bible?"
"Certainly it is. Isaiah and Jeremiah, and all of them."
"But what do you mean about that new covenant? you don't know what you
are talking of, Tilly."
"O yes, I do, David. Look here; here is the place in Jeremiah; we had
all about this in our lesson last Sunday. Look here, David. 'Behold,
the days come, saith the Lord, that I will make a new covenant with the
house of Israel and with the house of Judah; not according to the
covenant that I made with their fathers, in the day that I took them by
the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt; which my covenant they
brake, although I was a husband unto them, saith the Lord.
"'But this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of
Israel; After those days, saith the Lord, I will put my law in their
inward parts, and write it in their hearts; and will be their God, and
they shall be my people. And they shall teach no more every man his
neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for they
shall all know me, from the least of them unto the greatest of them,
saith the Lord: for I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember
their sin no more.'"
Matilda stopped and looked up at David.
"I know all that very well," he replied; "that will be in the days of
Messiah."
"Jesus said it was then. He said, 'This cup is the new covenant in my
blood.'"
"How could that be? what meaning is there in that?"
"Why, David,--don't you see? His blood did it."
"Did what?"
"Why! bought forgiveness for us, so that God could give us the new
covenant. It is a covenant to forgive us and make us holy for Jesus'
sake. Mr. Wharncliffe was explaining it only last Sunday."
"I don't want to hear what Mr. Wharncliffe said. Tell me only what you
know."
"Well, David, I know it's all true."
"Tilly, how can you?"
"Why, David,--I know Jesus has taken away my sins; and I think he is
writing his laws on my heart."
"But Tilly!" David exclaimed with a sort of anxious impatience, "you
don't know what you are talking about. You mean that this--Jesus--was
our Messiah."
"Yes," said Matilda. "He said he was."
"He said he was?" exclaimed David.
"Yes, to be sure he did."
"But you don't know. The Scriptures of the prophets declare that
Messiah will be a great king."
"Yes," Matilda answered slowly, looking at him. "Jesus is a great King."
"No!" said David quickly. "He was crucified."
"But he rose again, and went back to heaven."
"They stole his body away," said David, "and made believe he was risen."
"O no, that was what the priests told the soldiers to say; but we
know he rose again, David, for they saw him--the apostles and Mary
Magdalene, and all of them; over and over again."
"But the Scriptures say he shall, I mean Messiah, he shall conquer the
enemies of Israel and deliver us."
"I think that means the true Israel," said Matilda.
"The true Israel!" said David. "Who are the true Israel? I am one of
them. Abraham's children."
The boy spoke proudly, defiantly, as if he felt the noble blood of
kings and prophets in his veins, and the inheritance his own. Matilda
found it very difficult to go on. So far she had been able to answer
him, having given attention to her Sunday school teaching and that
teaching having lately run in a course fitted to instruct her on some
of the points that David started. But she did not know what to say now.
She was silent.
"Look here," said David in the same tone. He seized his Bible which lay
at hand, and turning over the leaves stopped at the prophecy of Daniel,
and read, not after the common English version--
"'I was seeing in the visions of the night, and lo, with the clouds of
the heavens as a son of man was one coming, and unto the Ancient of
Days he hath come, and before him they have brought him near. And to
him is given dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, and all peoples,
nations and languages do serve him; his dominion is a dominion
age-during, that passeth not away, and his kingdom that which is not
destroyed.'" David read, and paused, and looked up at Matilda.
"Yes," said Matilda nodding; "that is just what the angel said about
Jesus."
"What angel?"
"The angel that came to tell that he was coming. See, David,
wait,--I'll find it; here it is! 'He shall be great; and shall be
called the Son of the Highest; and the Lord God shall give unto him the
throne of his father David; and he shall reign over the house of Jacob
for ever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end.'" And in her turn
Matilda looked up at David.
"But what kingdom has he?" David asked, between anxiously and
scornfully.
"Why, I remember he said, 'All power is given unto me, in heaven and in
earth.'"
"It don't shew," said David. "Christians are a small part of the world,
and not the strongest part by any means."
"No, I didn't say they were. I only said Jesus is the King."
"And I say again, Tilly; you have nothing but words to shew for it. How
is he king?"
"O but, David, wait; look here,--I'll find the place in a minute or
two--"
She sought it eagerly, but it took a little while to find any of the
words she wanted. David waited patiently, having evidently much on his
mind. At last Matilda's face lighted up.
"Here, David; this is what I mean; I was afraid to put it in my own
words. 'And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the kingdom of
God should come,'--you see they thought as you do;--'he answered them
and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation; neither shall
they say, Lo, here! or Lo, there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is
within you.' That's it, David, don't you see? He is king in people's
hearts."
"The Messiah is to reign in another fashion than that," David returned.
"The Targum says, 'a King shall arise from Jacob, and Messiah be
exalted from Israel; then he shall kill the great ones of Moab, and he
shall rule over all the children of men;' and 'to him are all the
kingdoms of earth to be subjected.' The Lord will destroy his enemies
who rise to put his people to shame; he will thunder upon them with a
loud voice from the heavens; the Lord shall exact vengeance from Magog,
and from the army of the thundering nations who come with him from the
ends of the earth, and he will give strength to his King, and magnify
the kingdom of his Messiah.'"
"That isn't out of the Bible, is it?" said Matilda, bewildered.
"No; it's the Targums."
"I don't know what the Targum is."
"It is a book, or books rather, of the words of our wise Rabbis;
explaining the Scripture."
"I don't know anything but the Bible," said Matilda meekly; "and I
don't know but a little of that."
"Well, you see, Tilly, that our Messiah is to be King in a grand
fashion, and rule over all kingdoms; and make his people rule with him."
"O that's like the New Testament!" Matilda cried.
"What part of it?"
"I don't know exactly where it is; I'll look; but David, Jesus is going
to reign so by and by, I know."
"You know!" said David.
"Yes; for he said so."
"Who said so?"
"Why, Jesus. Here--stop!--no, here it is, one place. Listen, David,
just to this. 'And as they heard these things, he added and spake a
parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they thought
that the kingdom of God should immediately appear.'--That's what you
thought, David."
"Well, but,--" David began.
"Just listen. 'He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far
country to receive for himself a kingdom and to return.'"
"What's that?" said David.
"Why, don't you understand?"
"No. Not what it has to do with what I was talking about."
"Why, David, the far country is heaven; and Jesus is gone there until
the kingdom is ready, or till he is ready to take it."
"You have nothing but words to shew for it."
"No, of course; but they are God's words, David; so they are true."
"Take care!" said he, and his dark eye fired and glowed; "you mustn't
talk so. You know I don't believe that."
"Believe what?
"That his words are God's words."
"But don't you remember," said Matilda, to whom the words seemed to
come in her puzzle, to help her out,--"don't you remember in the
Psalms--"
"The Psalms of David?"
"Yes, to be sure, the Psalms of David; don't you remember how it
says--Oh, I wish I could find it!--something about 'sitting at my right
hand' till his enemies shall be,--I forget what."
"I know!" said David with a curious change of countenance; and in his
own book he immediately turned to the place.
"'The affirmation of Jehovah to my Lord: Sit at my right hand, till I
make thine enemies thy footstool.'"
"That's it!" cried Matilda. "Jesus is there now, and by and by he is
coming to take the kingdom."
It did not seem as if David heard her; so deep was his pondering over
the passage he had just read. Little Matilda watched him curiously; his
brow was dark, with what sort of thoughts she could not guess; his eye
sometimes flashed and at other times grew intense with looking into
what he was studying. But what struck Matilda most was the look of
trouble; the expression of grave care upon his lip. He lifted up his
head at last, and his eye met her eye, and he was going to speak; when
the clang of the dinner bell pealed through the house. That day, for
some reason, the children were to dine with their elders. Mrs. Lloyd
was particular about attendance at the minute; David and Matilda parted
with one consent and without another word, to make themselves ready to
go down.
CHAPTER VIII.
Before Matilda had any chance for more talk in private with David, the
week came to an end; and Sunday afternoon found her in Sunday school as
usual. But not as usual, she had hardly a word or a minute to spare for
Sarah, who was telling of her progress in learning to use a sewing
machine and of her own and her mother's bettered health. Delightful as
it was, and as Sarah's face was, all luminous with grateful and glad
feeling, Matilda through the whole of it was intent upon Mr.
Wharncliffe and his motions; and the instant Sarah had left her she
sprang to his side.
"Are you busy, sir? can I talk to you?"
"Talk?" said Mr. Wharncliffe; "then we want some time for it, do we?"
"If you please, sir; a little."
"Then we'll talk as we walk. Now, what is it?"
But Matilda waited, until they were out of hearing of all that they
knew; then in the solitude of the wide avenue she began.
"Mr. Wharncliffe, I want some advice. I don't just know how to manage
something."
"Very likely. Let us hear."
"I want to know how to speak to somebody who does not know about Jesus,
and who wants to know."
"That often calls for wisdom," said Mr. Wharncliffe; "but I should
think it would not be difficult in your case. You can tell what you
know; what Jesus has done and is doing for you, and what he has
promised to do for everybody."
"Yes, sir, but it is not that. It is somebody who wants to know
whether Jesus is the Messiah?" And Matilda looked up very eagerly in
her teacher's face.
"Well. When 'somebody' has found out that Jesus is the Saviour, he will
have no doubt that he is the One 'anointed to save.' You know, Messiah,
and Christ, mean simply 'anointed.'"
"Yes, sir, I know. But--this person--"
"What of him?" said Mr. Wharncliffe smiling. "Is he a very difficult
person?"
"Rather," said Matilda slowly; "because--he has never known that Jesus
is the Messiah."
"My dear child, to know that truly, in the full meaning and scope of
the words, is what no one ever does except by the teaching of the
Spirit of God."
"That isn't it," said Matilda. "This person--does not know whether to
believe the New Testament."
"I would not advise you, Matilda, to hold arguments with an infidel,
young or old."
"O he is not an infidel, sir! He is a Jew."
"A Jew!" exclaimed Mr. Wharncliffe.
"Yes. And now, he wants to know whether Jesus is the Messiah."
"Is he in earnest, or talking for talk's sake?"
"Oh, in earnest, sir! very much in earnest."
There came a sudden veil over the clear blue eyes that looked down at
Matilda; then their owner said,
"I must take you home with me."
It was not far, down a cross street. Mr. Wharncliffe left Matilda in
the parlour a few moments, and returned with a book in his hand.
"This is the best I can do for you," he said. "Unless you could bring
your friend to see me?"
"Oh no, sir! he would not. I don't think he has spoken to anybody but
me."
"Nobody but you? Has he no one to speak to?"
"No, sir. Not about this."
"Well, my child, as I said, this is the best thing I can do for you."
"What is it, sir?"
"A first-rate reference Bible."
"I have got a Bible."
"I know that. But this has references, which you will find will explain
a vast many things to you. I advise you not to talk much, because you
might not always know just what to say. Do this. Let your friend bring
any word or promise about the Messiah that he knows of in the Old
Testament Scriptures; you find the place in this little Bible, and see
what passages of the New Testament it refers to; see, here are the
words of the Bible on one page and the references to each verse on the
page opposite. You know what these abbreviations mean?"
"O yes, sir. O thank you, sir!" said Matilda, whose hands had now
received the volume and whose eyes were eagerly scanning it. "I will
take great care of it, sir."
"I hope you will; but not for my sake. I wish you to keep it, Matilda.
It will be useful to you very often. And I shall want to hear how you
get on."
He took back the book to put her name in it, while Matilda coloured
high, and could hardly find words to speak her thanks. Her teacher
smiled at her, escorted her to her own door again, and Matilda went in
a happy child.
She was eager now for another chance to talk with David, and she
fancied he wished for it too; but demands of school on the one hand,
and Norton and Mrs. Laval on the other, for days made it impossible.
For Matilda well understood that the matter was not to be openly spoken
of, and the opportunity must be private when it came. She studied her
new little Bible meanwhile with great assiduity, hoping to prepare
