pieces of mechanism, in which the sober people of this 
region take pleasure. At the hour, a procession of little 
bears goes round, a jolly figure strikes the time, a cock 
flaps his wings and crows, and a solemn Turk opens his 
mouth to announce the flight of the hours. It is more 
grotesque, but less elaborate, than the equally childish 
toy in the cathedral at Strasburg. 
We went Sunday morning to the cathedral ; and the ex- 
cellent woman who guards the portal — where in ancient 
stone the Last Judgment is enacted, and the cheerful and 
conceited wise virgins stand over against the foolish vir- 
gins, one of whom has been in the penitential attitude 
of having a stone finger in her eye now for over three 
hundred years — refused at first to admit us to the German 
Lutheran service, which was just beginning. It seems 
that doors are locked, and no one is allowed to issue 
forth until after service. There seems to be an impres- 
sion that strangers only go to hear the organ, which is a 
sort of rival of that at Freiburg, and do not care much 
for the well-prepared and protracted discourse in Swiss- 
German. We agreed to the terms of admission ; but it 
did not speak well for former travellers that the woman 
should think it necessary to say, " You must sit still, and 
not talk." It is a barn-like interior. The women all sit 
on hard, high-backed benches in the centre of the church, 
and the men on hard, higher-backed benches about the 
sides, enclosing and facing the women, who are more 
directly under the droppings of the little pulpit, hung 
on one of the pillars, — a very solemn and devout con- 
gregation, who sang very well, and paid strict attention 
to the sermon. I noticed that the names of the owners, 
and sometimes their coats-of-arms, were carved or 
painted on the backs of the seats, as if the pews were 
not put up at yearly auction. One would not call it a 
dressy congregation, though the homely women looked 
neat in black waists and white puffed sleeves and broad- 
brimmed hats. 
The only concession I have anywhere seen to women 
in Switzerland, as the more delicate sex, was in this 
church : they sat during most of the service, but the 
men stood all the time, except during the delivery of 
the sermon. The service began at nine o'clock, as it 
ought to with us in summer. The costume of the peas- 
ant-women in and about Berne comes nearer to being 
picturesque than in most other parts of Switzerland, 
where.it is simply ugly. You know the sort of thing in 
pictures, — the broad hat, short skirt, black, pointed stom- 
acher, with white puffed sleeves, and from each breast a 
large silver chain hanging, which passes under the arm 
and fastens on the shoulder behind, — a very favorite 
ornament. This costume would not be unbecoming to 
a pretty face and figure : whether there are any such 
native to Switzerland, I trust I may not be put upon the 
witness-stand to declare. Some of the peasant young 
men went without coats, and with the shirt-sleeves 
fluted ; and others wore butternut-colored suits, the coats 
of which I can recommend to those who like the swal- 
low-tailed variety. I suppose one would take a man 
into the opera in London, where he cannot go in any- 
thing but that sort. The buttons on the backs of these 
came high up between the shoulders, and the tails did 
not reach below the waistband. There is a kind of 
rooster of similar appearance. I saw some of these 
young men from the country, with their sweethearts, 
leaning over the stone parapet, and looking into the pit 
of the bear-garden, where the city bears walk round, or 
sit on their hind legs for bits of bread thrown to them, 
or douse themselves in the tanks, or climb the dead trees 
set up for their gambols. Years ago they ate up a British 
officer who fell in ; and they walk round now ceaselessly, 
as if looking for another. But one cannot expect good 
taste in a bear. 
If you would see how charming a farming country can 
be, drive out on the highway towards Thun. For miles 
it is well shaded with giant trees of enormous trunks, 
and a clean sidewalk runs by the fine road. On either 
side, at little distances from the. road, are picturesque 
cottages and rambling old farmhouses peeping from the 
trees and vines and flowers. Everywhere flowers, be- 
fore the house, in the windows, at the railway stations. 
But one cannot stay forever even in delightful Berne, 
with its fountains and terraces, and girls on red cushions 
in the windows, and noble trees and flowers, and its 
stately federal Capitol, and its bears carved everywhere 
in stone and wood ; nor its sunrises, when all the Bernese 
Alps lie like molten silver in the early light, and the 
clouds drift over them, now hiding, now disclosing, the 
enchanting heights. 
HEARING THE FREIBURG ORGAN.— 
FIRST SIGHT OF LAKE LEMAN. 
FREIBURG, with its aerial suspension-bridges, is 
also on a peninsula, formed by the Sarine ; with its 
old walls, old watch-towers, its piled-up old houses, and 
streets that go up stairs, and its delicious cherries, which 
you can eat while you sit in the square by the famous 
linden-tree, and wait for the time when the organ will 
be played in the cathedral. For all the world stops at 
Freiburg to hear and enjoy the great organ, — all except 
the self-satisfied English clergyman, who says he doesn't 
care much for it, and would rather go about town and 
see the old walls; and the young and boorish French 
couple, whose refined amusement in the railway-carriage 
consisted in the young man's catching his wife's foot in 
the window-strap, and hauling it up to the level of the 
window, and who cross themselves and go out after the 
first tune ; and the two bread-and-butter English young 
ladies, one of whom asks the other in the midst of the 
performance, if she has thought yet to count the pipes, 
— a thoughtful verification of Murray, which is very 
commendable in a young woman travelling for the im- 
provement of her little mind. 
One has heard so much of this organ, that he expects 
impossibilities, and is at first almost disappointed, al- 
though it is not long in discovering its vast compass, 
and its wonderful imitations, now of a full orchestra, 
and again of a single instrument. One has not to wait 
long before he is mastered by its spell. The vox humana 
stop did not strike me as so perfect as that of the organ 
in the Rev, Mr. Hale's church in Boston, though the 
imitation of choir-voices responding to the organ was 
very effective. But it is not in tricks of imitation that 
this organ is so wonderful : it is its power of revealing, 
by all its compass, the inmost part of any musical com- 
position. 
The last piece we -heard was something like this: 
the sound of a bell, tolling at regular intervals, like the 
throbbing of a life begun ; about it an accompaniment 
of hopes, inducements, fears, the flute, the violin, the 
violoncello, promising, urging, entreating, inspiring; the 
life beset with trials, lured with pleasures, hesitating, 
doubting, questioning ; its purpose at length grows more 
certain and fixed, the bell tolling becomes a prolonged 
undertone, the flow of a definite life ; the music goes on, 
twinino; round it, now one sweet instrument and now 
many, in strife or accord, all the influences of earth and 
heaven and the base under world meeting and warring 
over the aspiring soul ; the struggle becomes more earnest, 
the undertone is louder and clearer ; the accompaniment 
indicates striving, contesting passion, an agony of en- 
deavor and resistance, until at length the steep and rocky 
way is passed, the world and self are conquered, and, in 
a burst of triumph from a full orchestra, the soul attains 
the serene summit. But the rest is only for a moment. 
Even in the highest places are temptations. The sun- 
shine fails, clouds roll up, growling of low, pedal thun- 
der is heard, while sharp lightning-flashes soon break in 
clashing peals about the peaks. This is the last Alpine 
storm and trial. After it the sun bursts out again, the 
wide, sunny valleys are disclosed, and a sweet evening 
hymn floats through all the peaceful air. We go out 
from the cool church into the busy streets of the white, 
gray town awed and comforted. 
And such a ride afterwards ! It was as if the organ 
music still continued. All the world knows the exquisite 
views southward from Freiburg ; but such an atmosphere 
as we had does not overhang them many times in a sea- 
son. First the Moleross, and a range of mountains 
bathed in misty blue light, — rugged peaks, scarred sides, 
 white and tawny at once, rising into the clouds which 
hung large and soft in the blue ; soon Mont Blanc, dim 
and aerial, in the south; the lovely valley of the River 
Sense ; peasants walking with burdens on the white 
highway; the quiet and soft-tinted mountains beyond ; 
towns perched on hills, with old castles and towers ; the 
land rich with grass, grain, fruit, flowers ; at Palezieux 
a magnificent view of the silver, purple, and blue moun- 
tains, with their chalky seams and gashed sides, near at 
hand ; and at length, coming through a long tunnel, as 
if we had been shot out into the air above a country 
more surprising than any in dreams, the most wonderful 
sight burst upon us, — the low-lying, deep-blue Lake 
Leman, and the gigantic mountains rising from its shores, 
and a sort of mist, translucent, suffused with sunlight, 
like the liquid of the golden wine the Steinberger 
poured into the vast basin. We came upon it out of 
total darkness, without warning ; and we seemed, from 
our great height, to be about to leap into the splendid 
gulf of tremulous light and color. 
This Lake of Geneva is said to combine the robust 
mountain grandeur of Luzerne with all the softness of 
atmosphere of Lake Maggiore. Surely, nothing could 
exceed the loveliness as we wound down the hillside, 
through the vineyards, to Lausanne, and farther on, near 
the foot of the lake, to Montreux, backed by precipitous 
but tree-clad hills, fronted by the lovely water, and the 
great mountains which run away south into Savoy, 
where Velan lifts up its snows. Below us, round the 
curving bay, lies white Chillon ; and at sunset we row 
down to it over the bewitched water, and wait under its 
grim walls till the failing light brings back the romance 
of castle and prisoner. Our garon had never heard of 
the prisoner ; but he knew about the gendarmes who 
now occupy the castle. 
"IVTOT the least of the traveller's pleasure in Switzerland is derived from the English people who over- 
run it : they seem to regard it as a kind of private park 
or preserve belonging to England ; and they establish 
themselves at hotels, or on steamboats and diligences, 
with a certain air of ownership that is very pleasant. I 
am not very fresh in my geology ; but it is my impression 
that Switzerland was created especially for the English, 
about the year of the Magna Charta, or a little later. 
The Germans who come here, and who don't care very 
Qiuch what they eat, or how they sleep, provided they do 
not have any fresh air in dining-room or bedroom, and 
provided, also, that the bread is a little sour, growl a good 
deal about the English, and declare that they have spoiled 
Switzerland. The natives, too, who live off' the English, 
seem, to thoroughly hate them ; so that one is often com- 
pelled, in self-defence, to proclaim his nationality, which 
is like running from Scylla upon Charybdis ; for, while 
the American is more popular, it is believed that there 
is no bottom to his pocket. 
There was a sprig of the Church of England on the 
steamboat on Lake Leman, who spread himself upon a 
centre bench, and discoursed very instructively to his 
friends, — a stout, fat-faced young man in a white cravat, 
whose voice was at once loud and melodious, and whom 
our manly Oxford student set down as a man who had 
just rubbed through the university, and got into a scanty 
living. 
 
" I met an American on the boat yesterday," the oracle 
was saying to his friends, "who was really quite a 
pleasant fellow. He — a really was, you know, quite a 
sensible man. I asked him if they had any thing like 
this in America; and he was obliged to say that they 
hadn't any thing like it in his country ; they really hadn't. 
He was really quite a sensible fellow ; said he was over 
here to do the European tour, as he called it." 
Small, sympathetic laugh from the attentive, wiry, red- 
faced woman on the oracle's left, and also a chuckle, at 
the expense of the American, from the thin Englishman 
on his right, who wore a large white waistcoat, a blue veil 
on his hat, and a face as red as a live coal. 
" Quite an admission, wasn't it, from an American ? 
But I think they have changed since the wah, you know." 
At the next landing, the smooth and beaming church- 
man was left by his friends ; and he soon retired to the 
cabin, where I saw him self-sacrificingly denying himself 
the views on deck, and consoling himself with a substan- . 
tial lunch and a bottle of English ale. 
There is one thing to be said about the English abroad : 
the variety is almost infinite. The best acquaintances 
one makes will be English, — people with no nonsense 
and strong individuality ; and one gets no end of enter- 
tainment from the other sort. Very different from the 
clergyman on the boat was the old lady at table-dliote 
in one of the hotels on the lake. One would not like to 
call her a delightfully-wicked old woman, like the Bar- 
oness Bernstein ; but she had her own witty and satiri- 
cal way of regarding the world. She had lived twenty- 
five years at Geneva, where people, years ago, coming 
over the dusty and hot roads of France, used to faint 
away when they first caught sight of the Alps. Be- 
lieve they don't do it now. She never did ; was past 
the susceptible age when she first came ; was tired of 
the people.  Honest ? Why, yes, honest, but ixy fond 
of money. Fine Swiss wood-carving? Yes. You'll 
get very sick of it. It's very nice, but I'm tired of it. 
Years ago, I sent some of it home to the folks in Eng- 
land. They thought every thing of it ; and it wasn't 
very nice, either, — a cheap sort. Moral ideas ? I don't 
care for moral ideas : people make such a fuss about 
them lately (this in reply to her next neighbor, an 
eccentric, thin man, with bushy hair, shaggy eyebrows, 
jgend a, high, falsetto voice, who rallied the witty old lady 
all dinner-time about her lack of moral ideas, and accu- 
rately described the thin wine on the table as " water- 
bewitched "). Why didn't the baroness go back to Eng- 
' land, if she was so tired of Switzerland ? Well, she was 
too infirm now ; and, besides, she didn't like to trust 
herself on the railroads. And there were so many new 
inventions now-a-days, of which she read. What was 
this nitro-glycerine, that exploded so dreadfully ? No : 
she thought she should stay where she was. 
There is little risk of mistakino; the Eno;lisliman, with 
or without his family, who has set out to do Switzerland. 
He wears a brandy-flask, a field-glass, and a haversack. 
Whether he has a silk or soft hat, he is certain to wear a 
veil tied round it. This precaution is adopted when he 
makes up his mind to come to Switzerland, I think, be- 
cause he has read that a veil is necessary to protect the 
eyes from the snow-glare. There is probably not one 
traveller in a hundred who gets among tiie ice and snow- 
fields where he needs a veil or green glasses: but it is 
well to have it on the hat; it looks adventurous. The 
veil and the spiked alpenstock are the signs of peril. 
Everybody — almost everybody — has an alpenstock. 
It is usually a round pine stick, with an iron spike in one 
end. That, also, is a sign of peril. We saw a noble 
young Briton on the steamer the other day, who was 
got up in the best Alpine manner. He wore a short 
sack, — in fact, an entire suit of light gray flannel, which 
closely fitted his lithe form. His shoes were of un- 
dressed leather, with large spikes in the soles ; and on 
his white hat he wore a large quantity of gauze, which 
fell in folds down his neck. I am sorry to say that he 
had a red face, a shaven chin, and long side-whiskers. 
He carried a formidable alpenstock ; and at the little 
landino; where we first saw him, and afterward on the 
boat, he leaned on it m a series of the most graceful and 
daring attitudes that I ever saw the human form assume. 
Our Oxford student knew the variety, and guessed 
rightly that he was an army man. He had his face 
burned at Malta. Had he been over the Gemmi ? iBr 
up this or that mountain V asked another English offi- 
cer. "No, I have not." And it turned out that he 
hadn't been anywhere, and didn't seem likely to do any 
thing but show himself at the frequented valley places. 
And yet I never saw one whose gallant bearing I so 
much admired. We saw him afterward at Interlaken, 
enduring all the hardships of that fashionable place. 
There was also there another of the same country, got 
up for the most dangerous Alpine climbing, conspicuous 
in red woollen stockings that came above his knees. I 
could not learn that he ever went up any thing higher 
than the top of a diligence. 
' THE DILIGENCE TO CHAMOUNY. 
THE greatest diligence we have seen, one of the few 
of the old-fashioned sort, is the one from Geneva 
to Chamouny. It leaves early in the morning ; and 
there is always a crowd about it to see the mount and 
start. The great ark stands before the diligence-office, 
and, for half an hour before the hour of starting, the por- 
ters are busy stowing away the baggage, and getting the 
passengers on board. On top, in the banquette, are 
seats for eight, besides the postilion and guard ; in the 
coupe, under the postilion's seat, and looking upon the 
horses, seats for three ; in the interior, for three ; and on 
top, behind, for six or eight. The baggage is stowed in 
the capacious bowels of the vehicle. At seven, the six 
horses are brought out and hitched on, three abreast. 
We climb up a ladder to the banquette : there is an 
irascible Frenchman, who gets into the wrong seat ; and 
before he gets right there is a terrible war of words 
between him and the guard and the porters and the 
hostlers, everybody joining in with great vivacity : in 
front of us are three quiet Americans, and a slim French- 
man with a tall hat and one eye-glass. The postilion 
gets up to his place. Crack, crack, crack, goes the 
whip ; and, amid " sensation " from the crowd, we are 
off at a rattling pace, the whip cracking all the time hke 
Chinese fireworks. The great passion of the drivers is 
noise ; and they keep the whip going all day. No 
sooner does a fresh one mount the box than he gives a 
half-dozea preliminary snaps ; to which the horses pay 
 
no heed, as they know it is only for the driver's amuse- 
ment. We go at a good gait, changing horses every 
six miles, till we reach the Baths of St. Gervais, where 
we dine, from near which we get our first glimpse of Mont 
Blanc through clouds, — a section of a dazzlingly- white 
glacier, a very exciting thing to the imagination. Thence 
we go on in small carriages, over a still excellent bSat 
more hilly road, and begin to enter the real mountain 
wonders ; until, at length, real glaciers pouring down out 
of the clouds nearly to the road meet us, and we enter 
the narrow Valley of Chamouny, through which we drive 
to the village in a rain. 
Everybody goes to Chamouny, and up the Flegere, 
and to Montanvert, and over the Mer de Glace ; and 
nearly everybody down the Mauvais Pas to the Chapeau, 
and so back to the village. It is all easy to do ; and yet 
we saw some French people at the Chapeau who seemed 
to think they had accomplished the most hazardous thing 
in the world in coming down the rocks of the Mauvais 
Pas. There is, as might be expected, a great deal of 
humbug about the difficulty of getting about in the Alps, 
and the necessity of guides. Most of the dangers van- 
ish on near approach.* The Mer de Glace is inferior to 
many other glaciers, and is not nearly so fine as the 
Glacier des Bossons : but it has a reputation, and is easy 
of access ; so people are content to walk over the dirty 
ice. One sees it to better effect from below, or he must 
ascend it to the Jardin to know that it has deep cre- 
vasses, and is as treacherous as it is grand. And yet no 
one will be disappointed at the view from Montanvert, 
of the upper glacier, and the needles of rock and snow 
which rise beyond. 
We met at the Chapeau two jolly young fellows from 
Charleston, S. C, who had been in the war, on the 
wrong side. They knew no language but American, and 
were unable to order a cutlet and an omelet for break- 
fast. They said they believed they were going over the 
Tete Noire. They supposed they had four mules waiting for them somewlaere, and a guide ; but they couldn't 
understand a word he said, and he couldn't understand 
them. The day before, they had nearly perished of 
thirst, because they couldn't make their guide compre- 
hend that they wanted water. One of them had slung 
over his shoulder an Alpine horn, which he blew occa- 
sionally, and seemed much to enjoy. All this while we 
sit on a rock at the foot of the Mauvais Pas, looking out 
upon the green glacier, which here jjiles itself up finely, 
and above to the Aiguilles de Charmoz and the innu- 
merable ice-pinnacles that run up to the clouds, while 
our muleteer is getting his breakfast. This is his third 
breakfast this morning. 
The day after we reached Chamouny, Monseigneur 
the bishop arrived there on one of his rare pilgrimages 
into these wild valleys. Nearly all the way down from 
Geneva, we had seen signs of his coming, in preparations 
as for the celebration of a great victory. I did not know 
at first but the Atlantic cable had been laid, or rather that 
the decorations were on account of the news of it reach- 
ing this region. It was a holiday for all classes; and 
everybody lent a hand to the preparations. First, the 
little church where the confirmations were to take place 
was trimmed within and without ; and an arch of green 
spanned the gateway. At Les Pres, the women were 
sweeping the road, and the men were setting small ever- 
green trees on each side. The peasants were in their 
best clothes ; and in front of their wretched hovels were 
tables set out with flowers. So cheerful and eager were 
they about the bishop, that they forgot to beg as we 
passed : the whole valley was in a fever of expectation. 
At one hamlet on the mule-path over the Tete Noire, 
where the bishop was that day expected, and the wo- 
men were sweeping away all dust and litter from the 
road, I removed my hat, and gravely thanked them for 
their thoughtful preparation for our coming. But they 
only stared a little, as if we were not worthy to be even 
forerunners of Monseigrneur. 
I do not care to write here how serious a drawback to 
the pleasures of this region are its inhabitants. You get 
the impression that half of them are beggars. The other 
half are watching for a chance to prey upon you in other 
ways. I heard of a woman in the Zormatt Valley who 
refused pay for a glass of milk ; but I did not have time 
to verify the report. Besides the beggars, who may or 
may not be horrid-looking creatures, there are the grin- 
ning Cretins, the old women with skins of parchment 
and the goitre, and even young children with the loath- 
some appendage, the most wretched and filthy hovels, 
and the dirtiest, ugliest people in them. The poor 
women are the beasts of burden. They often lead, mow- 
ing in the hayfield ; they carry heavy baskets on their 
backs ; they balance on their heads and carry large wash- 
tubs full of water. The more appropriate load of one 
was a cradle with a baby in it, which seemed not at all 
to fear falling. When one sees how the women are 
treated, he does not wonder that there are so many de- 
formed, hideous children. I think the pretty girl has yet 
to be born in Switzerland. 
This is not much about the Alps ? Ah, well, the Alps 
are there. Go read your guide-book, and find out what 
your emotions are. As I said, everybody goes to Cha- 
mouny. Is it not enough to sit at your window, and 
watch the clouds when they lift from the Mont Blanc 
range, disclosing splendor after splendor, from the 
Aiguille de Goute to the Aiguille Verte, — white needles 
which pierce the air for twelve thousand feet, until, jubi- 
late ! the round summit of the monarch himself is visible, 
and the vast expanse of white snow-fields, the whiteness of 
which is rather of heaven than of earth, dazzles the eyes, 
even at so great a distance ? Everybody who is patient, 
and waits in the cold and inhospitable-looking valley of 
the Chamouny long enough, sees Mont Blanc ; but every 
one does not see a sunset of the royal order. The clouds 
breaking up and clearing, after days of bad weather, 
showed us height after height, and peak after peak, now 
 wreathing the summits, now settling below or hanging in 
patches on the sides, and again soaring above, until we 
had the whole range lying, far and brilliant, in the evening light. The clouds took on gorgeous colors, at length, 
and soon the snow caught the hue, and whole fields were 
rosy pink, while uplifted peaks glowed red, as with inter- 
nal fire. Only Mont Blanc, afar off, remained purely 
white, in a kind of regal inaccessibility. And, after- 
ward, one star came out over it, and a bright light shone 
from the hut on the Grand Mulets, a rock in the waste 
of snow, where a Frenchman was passing the night on 
his way to the summit. 
Shall I describe the passage of the Tete Noire ? My 
friend, it is twenty-four miles, a road somewhat hilly, 
with splendid views of Mont Blanc in the morning, and 
of the Bernese Oberland range in the afternoon, when 
you descend into Martigny, — a hot place in the dusty 
Rhone Valley, which has a comfortable hotel, with a 
pleasant garden, in which you sit after dinner and let 
the mosquitoes eat you. 
IT was eleven o'clock at night when we reached Sion, 
a dirty little town at the end of the Khone -Valley 
Railway, and got into the omnibus for the hotel ; and it 
was also dark and rainy. They speak German in this 
part of Switzerland, or what is called German. There 
were two very pleasant Americans, who spoke American, 
going on in the diligence at half-past five in the morn- 
ing, on their way over the Simplon. One of them was 
accustomed to speak good, broad English very distinctly 
to all races ; and he seemed to expect that he must be 
understood if he repeated his observations in a louder 
tone, as he always did. I think he would force all this 
country to speak English in two months. We all desired 
to secure places in the diligence, which was likely to be 
full, as is usually the case when a railway discharges itself 
into a post-road. 
We were scarcely in the omnibus, when the gentleman 
said to the conductor : — 
" I want two places in the coupe of the diligence in the 
morning. Can I have them ? " 
" Yah," replied the good-natured German, who didn't 
understand a word. 
" Two places, diligence, coupe, morning. Is it full ? " 
" Yah," replied the accommodating fellow. " Hotel, 
man spik English." 
I suggested the banquette as desirable, if it could be 
obtained, and the German was equally willing to give it 
to us. Descending from the omnibus at the hotel, in a 
 
drizzling rain, and amidst a crowd of porters and postil- 
ions and runners, the "man who spoke English " imme- 
diately presented himself; and upon him the American 
pounced with a torrent of questions. He was a willing 
lively little waiter, with his moony face on the top of his 
head ; and he jumped round in the rain like a parchino- 
pea, rolling his head about in the funniest manner. 
The American steadied the little man by the collar 
and began, — ' 
"I want to secure two seats in the coupe of the dili- 
gence in the mornino-," 
" Yaas," jumping l-ound, and looking from one to an- 
other. " Diligence, coupe, morning." 
"I — want — two seats — in — coupe. If I can't get 
them, two — in — banquette." 
" Yaas — banquette, coupe,— yaas, diligence." 
" Do you understand ? Two seats, diligence, Simplon, 
morning. Will you get them ? " 
" Oh, yaas ! morning, diligence. Yaas, sirr." 
" Hang the fellow ! Where is the office ? " And the 
gentleman left the spry little waiter bobbing about in the 
middle of the street, speaking English, but probably com- 
prehending nothing that was said to him. I inquired the 
way to the office of the conductor : it was closed, but 
would soon be open, and I waited; and at length the 
official, a stout Frenchman, appeared, and I secured 
places in the interior, the only ones to be had to Visp. 
I had seen a diligence at the door with three places in 
tl coupe, and one perched behind ; no banquette. The 
office is brightly lighted ; people are waiting to secure 
places; there is the usual crowd of loafers, men and 
women, and the Frenchman sits at his desk. Enter the 
American. 
 " I want two places in coupe, in the mornino-. Or 
banqitte. Two places, diligence." The officiarwaves 
mm off, and says somethintr. 
" What does he say ? " ° 
"He tells you to sit down on that bench till he is 
ready." 
Soon the Frenchman has run over his big way-bills, and 
turns to us. 
" I want two places in the diligence, coupe," &c., &c., 
says the American. 
This remark being lost on the official, I explain to 
him as well as I can what is wanted, at first, — two places 
in the coupe. 
" One is taken," is his reply. 
" The gentleman will take two," I said, having in mind 
the diligence in the yard, with three places in the coupe. 
" One is taken," be repeats. 
" Then the gentleman will take the other two." 
" One is taken ! " he cries, jumping up and smiting the 
table, — " one is taken, I tell you ! " 
" How many are there in the coupe ? ** 
''Two." 
" Oh ! then the gentleman will take the one remaining 
in the coupe, and the one on top." 
So it is arranged. When I come back to the hotel, the 
Americans are explaining to the lively waiter " who 
speaks English " that they are to go in the diligence at 
half-past five, and that they are to be called at half-past 
four, and have breakfast. He knows all about it, — 
" Diligence, half-past four, breakfast. Oh, yaas ! " While 
I have been at the diligence-office, my companions have 
secured rooms, and gone to them ; and I ask the waiter to 
show me to my room. First, however, I tell him that we 
three, two ladies and myself, who came together, are 
going in the diligence at half-past five, and want to be 
called, and have breakfast. Did he comprehend ? 
" Yaas," rolling his face about on the top of his head 
violently. " You three gentleman want breakfast. What 
you hare ? " 
I had told him before what we would have, and now I 
gave up all hope of keeping our parties separate in his 
mind ; so I said, — 
" Five persons want breakfast at five o'clock. Five 
persons, five hours. Call all of them at half-past four." 
And T repeated it, and made him repeat it in English 
and French. He then insisted on putting me into the 
room of one of the American gentlemen ; and then he 
knocked at the door of a lady, who cried out in indigna- 
tion at being disturbed ; and, finally, I found my room. 
At the door I reiterated the instructions for the morn- 
ing; and he cheerfully bade me good-night. But he 
almost immediately came back, and poked in his head 
with, — 
" Is you go by de diligence ? " 
" Yes, you stupid." 
In the morning one of our party was called at half-past 
three, and saved the rest of us from a like fate ; and we 
were not aroused at all, but woke time enough to get 
down and find the diligence nearly ready, and no break- 
fast, but " the man who spoke English " as lively as ever. 
And we had a breakfast brought out, so filthy in all re- 
spects that nobody could eat it. Fortunately, there was 
not time to seriously try ; but we paid for it, and departed. 
The two American gentlemen sat in front of the house, 
waiting. The lively waiter had called them at half-past 
three, — for the railway train, instead of the diligence ; 
and they had their wretched breakfast early. They will 
remember the funny adventure with " the man who speaks 
English," and, no doubt, unite with us in warmly com- 
mending the Hotel Lion d'Or at Sion as the nastiest inn 
in Switzerland. 
A WALK TO THE GORNER-GRAT. 
THEN one leaves the dusty Rhone Valley, and 
turns southward from Visp, he plunges into the 
wildest and most savage part of Switzerland, and pene- 
trates the heart of the Alps. The valley is scarcely 
more than a narrow gorge, with high precipices on 
either side, through which the turbid and rapid Visp 
tears along at a furious rate, boiling and leaping in foam 
over its rocky bed, and nearly as large as the Rhone at 
the junction. From Visp to St. Mcolaus, twelve miles, 
there is only a mule-path, but a very good one, winding- 
along on the slope, sometimes high up, and again de- 
scending to cross the stream, at first by vineyards and 
high stone walls, and then on the edges of precipices, 
but always romantic and wild. It is noon when we set 
out from Visp, in true pilgrim fashion, and the sun is at 
first hot ; but as we slowly rise up the easy ascent, we 
get a breeze, and forget the heat in the varied charms 
of the walk. 
Every thing for the use of the upper valley and 
Zermatt, now a place of considerable resort, must be 
carried by porters, or on horseback ; and we pass or 
meet men and women, sometimes a dozen of them 
together, laboring along under the long, heavy bas- 
kets, broad at the top and coming nearly to a point 
below, which are universally used here for carrying 
every thing. The tubs for transporting water are of the 
same sort. There is no level ground, but every foot is 
cultivated. High up on the sides of the precipices, 
where it seems impossible for a goat to climb, are vine- 
yards and houses, and even villages, hung on slopes, 
nearly up, to the clouds, and with no visible way of com- 
munication with the rest of the world. 
In two hours' time we are at Stalden, a village 
perched upon a rocky promontory, at the junction of the 
valleys of the Saas and the Visp, with a church and 
white tower conspicuous from afar. We climb up to the 
terrace in  front of it, on our way into the town. A 
seedy-looking priest is pacing up and down, taking the 
fresh breeze, his broad-brimmed, shabby hat held down 
upon the wall by a big stone. His clothes are worn 
threadbare ; and he looks as thin and poor as a Method- 
ist minister in a stony town at home, on three hundred 
a year. He politely returns our salutation, and we walk 
on. Nearly all the priests in this region look wretch- 
edly poor, — as poor as the people. Through crooked, nar- 
row streets, with houses overhanging and thrusting out 
corners and gables, houses with stables below, and quaint 
carvings and odd little windows above, — the panes of 
glass hexagons, so that the windows looked like sections 
of honeycomb, — we found our way to the inn, a many- 
storied chalet, with stairs on the outside, stone floors in the 
upper passages, and no end of queer rooms ; built right 
in the midst of other houses as odd, decorated with Ger- 
man-text carving, from the windows of which the occu- 
pants could look in upon us, if they had cared to do so ; 
but they did not. They seem little interested in any 
thing ; and no wonder, with their hard fight with Nature. 
Below is a wine-shop, Avith a little side booth, in which 
some German travellers sit drinking their wine, and 
sputtering away in harsh gutturals. The inn is very 
neat inside, and we are well served. Stalden is high ; 
but away above it on the opposite side is a village on 
the steep slope, with a slender white spire that rivals 
some of the snowy needles. Stalden is high, but the 
hill on which it stands is rich in grass. The secret of 
the fertile meadows is the most thorough irrigation. 
Water is carried along the banks from the river, and dis- 
tributed by numerous sluiceways below; and above the 
little mountain streams are brought where they are 
needed by artificial channels. Old men and women in 
the fields were constantly changing the direction of the 
currents. All the inhabitants appeared to be porters : 
women were transporting on their backs baskets full of 
soil ; hay was being backed to the stables ; burden-bearers 
were coming and going upon the road: we were told 
that there are only three horses in the place. There is 
a pleasant girl who brings us luncheon at the inn ; but 
the inhabitants for the most part are as hideous as those 
we see all day : some have hardly the shape of human 
beings, and they all live in the most filthy manner in the 
dirtiest habitations. A clialet is a sweet thing when you 
buy a little model of it at home. 
After we leave Stalden, the walk becomes more pic- 
turesque, the precipices are higher, the gorges deeper.. It 
required some engineering to carry the footpath round, 
the mountain buttresses and over the ravines. Soon the 
village of Emd appears on the right, — a very considerable 
collection of brown houses, and a shining white church- 
spire, above woods and precipices and apparently un- 
scalable heights, on a green spot which seems painted 
on the precipices; with nothing visible to keep the 
whole from sliding down, down, into the gorge of the 
Visp. Switzerland may not have so much population to 
the square mile as some countries ; but she has a popula- 
tion to some of her square miles that would astonish 
some parts of the earth's surface elsewhere. Farther 
on, we saw a faint, zigzag footpath, that we conjectured 
led to Emd; but it might lead up to heaven. All day 
we had been solicited for charity by squalid little chil- 
dren, who kiss their nasty little paws at us, and ask I'or 
centimes. The children of Emd, however, did not 
trouble us. It must be a serious affair if they ever roll 
out of bed. 
Late in the afternoon thunder besan to tumble about 
the hills, and clouds snatched away from our sight the 
snow peaks at the end of the valley ; and at length the 
rain fell on those who had just arrived and on the un- 
just. We took refuge from the hardest of it in a lonely 
chalet high up on the hillside, where a roughly-dressed, 
frowzy Swiss, who spoke bad German, and said he was 
a schoolmaster, gave us a bench in the shed of his school- 
room. He had only two pupils in attendance, and I did 
not get a very favorable impression of this high school. 
Its master quite overcame us with thanks when we gave 
him a few centimes on leaving. It still rained, and we 
arrived in St. Nicolaus quite damp. 
There is a decent road from St. Nicolaus to Zermatt, 
over which go wagons without springs. The scenery is 
constantly grander as we ascend. The day is not 
wholly clear ; but high on our right are the vast snow- 
fields of the Weishorn, and out of the very clouds near 
it seems to pour the Bies Glacier, In front are the 
splendid Briethorn, with its white, round summit ; the . 
black Riffelhorn ; the sharp peak of the little Matter- 
horn ; and at last the giant Matterhorn itself rising before 
us, the most finished and impressive single mountain in 
Switzerland. Not so high as Mont Blanc by a thousand 
feet, it appears immense in its isolated position and its 
slender aspiration. It is a huge pillar of rock, with 
sharply-cut edges, rising to a defined point, dusted with 
snow, so that the rock is only here and there revealed. 
To ascend it, seems as impossible as to go up the Column 
of Luxor; and one can believe that the gentlemen who 
first attempted it in 1864, and lost their lives, did fall 
four thousand feet before their bodies rested on the 
glacier below. 
We did not stay at Zermatt, but pushed on for the 
hotel on the top of the Rifielberg, — a very stiff and tire- 
some climb of about three hours, an unending pull up a 
stony footpath. Within an hour of the top, and when 
the white hotel is in sight above the zigzag on the 
breast of the precipice, we reach a green and wide-spread 
 
Alp, where hundreds of cows are feeding, watched by- 
two forlorn women, — the " milkmaids all forlorn " of 
poetry. At the rude chalets we stop, and get draughts 
of rich, sweet cream. As we wind up the slope, the 
tinkling of multitudinous bells from the herd comes to 
us, which is also in the domain of poetry. All the way 
up, we have found wild-flowers in the greatest profusion ; 
and the higher we ascend, the more exquisite is their 
color and the more perfect their form. There are pan- 
sies ; gentians of a deeper blue than flower ever was 
before ; forget-me-nots, a pink variety among them ; vio- 
lets, the Alpine rose and the Alpine violet ; delicate pink 
flowers of moss ; harebells ; and quantities for which we 
know no names, more exquisite in shape and color than 
the choicest products of the greenhouse. Large slopes 
are covered with them, — a brilliant show to the eye, and 
most pleasantly beguiling the way of its tediousness. 
As high as I ascended, I still found some of these delicate 
flowers, the pink moss growing in profusion amongst the 
rocks of the Gorner-Grat, and close to the snow-drifts. 
The inn on the Eiffelberg is nearly eight thousand 
feet high, — almost two thousand feet above the hut on 
Mount Washington ; yet it is not so cold and desolate as 
the latter. Grass grows and flowers bloom on its smooth 
upland, and behind it and in front of it are the snow- 
peaks. That evening we essayed the Gorner-Grat, a 
rocky ledge nearly ten thousand feet above the level of 
the sea ; but after a climb of an hour and a half, and a 
good view of Monte Rosa and the glaciers and peaks of 
that range, we were prevented from reaching the sum- 
mit, and driven back by a sharp storm of hail and rain. 
Tlie next morning I started for the Gorner-Grat again, 
at four o'clock. The Matterhorn lifted its huge bulk 
sharply against the sky, except where fleecy clouds 
lightly draped it and fantastically blew about it. As I 
ascended, and turned to look at it, its beautifully-cut 
peak had caught the first ray of the sun, and burned 
with a rosy glow. Some great clouds drifted high in 
the air : the summits of the Breithorn, the Lyscamm, 
and their companions, lay cold and white ; but the snow 
down their sides had a tinge of pink. When I stood 
upon the summit of the Gorner-Grat, the two prominent 
silver peaks of Monte Rosa were just touched with the 
sun, and its great snow-fields were visible to the glacier 
at its base. The Gorner-Grat is a rounded ridge of 
rock, entirely encircled by glaciers and snow-peaks. 
The panorama from it is unexcelled in Switzerland. 
Returning down the rocky steep, I descried, solitary 
in that great waste of rock and snow, the form of a lady 
whom I supposed I had left sleeping at the inn, over- 
come with the fatigue of yesterday's tramp. Lured on 
by the apparently short distance to the back-bone of the 
ridge, she had climbed the rocks a mile or more above 
the hotel, and come to meet me. She also had seen the 
great peaks lift themselves out of the gray dawn, and 
Monte Rosa catch the first rays. We stood a while 
together to see how jocund day ran hither and thither 
along the mountain-tops, until the light was all abroad, 
and then silently turned downward, as one goes from a 
mount of devotion. 
THE BATHS OF LEUK. 
IN order to make the pass of the Gemmi, it is necessary 
to go through the Baths of Leuk. The ascent from 
the Rhone bridge at Susten is full of interest, affording 
fine views of the valley, which is better to look at than 
to travel through, and bringing you almost immediately 
to the old town of Leuk, a queer, old, towered place, 
perched on a precipice, with the oddest inn, and a notice 
posted up to the effect, that any one who drives through 
its steep streets faster than a walk will be fined five 
francs. I paid nothing extra for a fast walk. The road, 
which is one of the best in the country, is a wonderful 
piece of engineering, spanning streams, cut in rock, 
rounding precipices, following the wild valley of the 
Dala by many a winding and zigzag. 
The Baths of Leuk, or Loeche-les-Bains, or Leuker- 
bad, is a little village at the very head of the valley, 
over four thousand feet above the sea, and overhung by 
the perpendicular walls of the Gemmi which rise on all 
sides, except the south, on an average of two thousand 
feet above it. There is a nest of brown houses, clus- 
tered together like bee-hives, into which the few inhabit- 
ants creep to hibernate in the long winters, and several 
shops, grand hotels, and bathing-houses open for the 
season. Innumerable springs issue out of this green, 
sloping meadow among the mountains, some of them 
icy cold, but over twenty of them hot, and seasoned 
with a great many disagreeable sulphates, carbonates, 
and oxides, and varying in temperature from ninety-five 
 
to one hundred and twenty-three degrees Fahrenheit. 
Italians, French, and Swiss resort here in great numbers 
to take the baths, which are supposed to be very effica- 
cious for rheumatism and cutaneous affections. Doubt- 
less many of them do up their bathing for the year while 
here ; and they may need no more after scalding and 
soaking in this water for a couple of months. 
Before we reached the hotel, we turned aside into one 
of the ba,th-houses. We stood inhaling a sickly steam 
in a large, close hall, which was wholly occupied by a 
huge vat, across which low partitions, with bridges, ran, 
dividing it into four compartments. When we entered, 
we were assailed with yells, in many languages, and 
howls in the common tongue, as if all the fiends of the 
pit had broken loose. We took off our hats in obedience 
to the demand ; but the clamor did not wholly subside, 
and was mingled with singing and horrible laughter. 
Floating about in each vat, we at first saw twenty or 
thirty human heads. The women could be distinguished 
from the men by the manner of dressing the hair. Each 
wore a loose woollen gown. Each had a little table 
floating before him or her, which he or she pushed about 
at pleasure. One wore a hideous mask ; another kept 
diving in the opaque pool and coming up to blow, like 
the hippopotamus in the Zoological Gardens ; some were 
taking a lunch from their tables, others playing chess ; 
some sitting on the benches round the edges, with only 
heads out of water, as doleful as owls, while others 
roamed about, engaged in the game of spattering with 
their comrades, and sang and shouted at the top of their 
voices. The people in this bath were said to be second 
class ; but they looked as well and behaved better than 
those of the first class, whom we saw in the establish- 
ment at our hotel afterward. 
It may be a valuable scientific fact, that the water in 
these vats, in which people of all sexes, all diseases, and 
all nations spend so many hours of the twenty-four, is 
changed once a day. The temperature at which the 
batli is given is ninety-eight. The water is let in at 
night, and allowed to cool. At five in the morning, the 
bathers enter it, and remain until ten o'clock, — five hours, 
having breakfast served to them on the floating tables, 
" as they sail, as they sail." They then have a respite 
till two, and go in till five. Eight hours in hot water ! 
Nothing can be more disgusting than the sight of these 
baths. Gustave Dore must have learned here how to 
make those ghostly pictures of the lost floating about in 
the Stygian pools, in his illustrations of the Inferno ; 
and the rocks and cavernous precipice's may have enabled 
him to complete the picture. On what, principle cm?es 
are eifected in these filthy vats, I could not learn. I 
have a theory, that, where so many diseases meet and 
mingle in one swashing fluid, they neutralize each other. 
It may be that the action is that happily explained by 
one of the Hibernian bathmen in an American water- 
cure establishment. " You see, sir," said Jie, " that the 
shock of the water unites with the electricity of the sys- 
tem, and explodes the disease." I should think that' 
the shock to one's feeling of decency and cleanliness, at 
these baths, would explod'e any disease in Europe. But, 
whatever the result may be, I am not sorry to see so 
many French and Italians soak themselves once a year. 
Out of the bath these people seem to enjoy_ life. 
There is a long promenade, shaded and picturesque, 
which they take at evening, sometimes as far as the Lad- 
ders, eight of which are fastened, in a shackling manner, 
to the perpendicular rocks, — a high and somewhat dan- 
gerous ascent to the village of Albinen, but undertaken 
constantly by peasants with baskets on their backs. It 
is in winter the only mode Leukerbad has of communi- 
cating with the world ; and in summer it is the only way 
of reaching Albinen, except by a long journey down the 
Dala and up ancTther valley and height. The bathers 
were certainly very lively and social at table-d'hote, 
where we had the pleasure of meeting some hundred of 
them, dressed. It was presumed that the baths were the 
subject of the entertaining conversation ; for I read in a 
charminor little work which sets forth the delights of 
Leuk, that La poussee forms the staple of most of the 
talk. La poussee, or, as this book poetically calls it, 
" that daughter of the waters of Loeche," — "that eruption 
of which we have already spoken, and which .proves the 
action of the baths upon the skin," — becomes the object, 
and often the end, of all conversation. And it gives 
specimens of this pleasant. eon verse, as : — 
" Comment va vptre .poussee ? " 
" Avez-vous la poussee ? " 
" Je suis en pleine poussee ! " 
"Ma poussee s'est fort bien passee ! " 
Indeed, says this €!titertaining tract, sans poussee, one 
wbuld not be able to hold, at table or in the salon, with 
a neighbor of either sex, the least conversation. Fur- 
ther, it is by "grace a la poussee" that one arrives at 
those intimacies which are the characteristics of the baths. 
Blessed, then, be La poussee, which renders possible such 
a high society and such select and entertaining conver- 
sation ! Long may the bathers of Leuk live to soak and 
converse ! In-'the morning, when we departed for the 
ascent of the Gemmi, we passed one of the bathing- 
houses. I fancied that a hot steam issued out of the 
crevices ; from within came a discord of singing and 
caterwauling ; and, as a door swung open, I saw that the 
heads floating about on the turbid tide were eating 
breakfast from the swimming tables. 
OVER THE GEMMI. 
I SPENT some time, the evening before, studying the 
face of the cliff we were to ascend, to discover the 
path; but I could only trace its zigzag beginning. 
When we came to the base of the rock, we found a way 
cut, a narrow path, most of the distance hewn out of the 
rock, winding upward along the face of the precipice. 
The view, as one rises, is of the break-neck description. 
The way is really safe enough, even on mule-back, as- 
cending ; but one would be foolhardy to ride down. We 
met a lady on the summit who was about to be carried 
down on a chair ; and she seemed quite to like the mode 
of conveyance : she had harnessed her husband in tem- 
porarily for one of the bearers, which made it still more 
jolly for her. When we started, a cloud of mist hung 
over the edge of the rocks. As we rose, it descended 
to meet us, and sunk below, hiding the valley and its 
houses, which had looked like Swiss toys from our height. 
When we reached the summit, the mist came boiling up 
after us, rising like a thick wall to the sky, and hiding 
all that great mountain range, the Vallais Alps, from 
which we had come, and which we hoped to see from 
this point. Fortunately, there were no clouds on the 
other side, and we looked down into a magnificent rocky 
basin, encircled by broken and over-topping crags and 
snow-fields, at the bottom of which was a green lake. 
It is one of the wildest of scenes. 
An hour from the summit, we came to a green Alp, 
where a herd of cows were feeding ; and in the midst of 
it were three or four dirty chalets, where pigs, chickens, 
cattle, and animals constructed very much like human 
beings, lived ; yet I have nothing to say against these 
chalets, for we had excellent cream there. We had, on 
the way down, fine views of the snowy Altels, the Rinder- 
horn, the Finster-Aarhorn, — a deep valley which enor- 
mous precipices guard, but which avalanches nevertheless 
invade, — and, farther on, of the Bllimlisalp, with its sum- 
mit of crystalline whiteness. The descent to Kandersteg 
is very rapid, and in a rain slippery. This village is a 
resort for artists for its splendid views of the range we 
had crossed: it stands at the gate of the mountains. 
From there to the Lake of Thun is a delightful drive, — 
a rich country, with handsome cottages and a charming 
landscape, even if the pyramidal Niesen did not lift up 
its seven thousand feet on the edge of the lake. So, 
through a smiling land, and in the sunshine after the 
rain, we come to Spiez, and find ourselves at a little 
hotel on the slope, overlooking town and lake and moun- 
tains. 
 Spiez is not large : indeed, its few houses are nearly all 
