my eyes were dim. 
I began to be alarmed for Mr. Allen, as he did 
not stir, nor in any way respond to his son 's sorrow 
ful appeals. But in a little while I saw him slowly 
lift his bowed head, yet not rise from his knees. As 
Ned 's arm fell away from his father 's neck, the 
father 's arm was drawn about him. Then they knelt 
 
side by side, and were very still for a few moments, 
after which Mr. Allen again clasped his hands to 
gether in prayer, lifting his face upward. 
Again he said, " O Lord ! have mercy on my poor 
boy ! Pity him, and cause him to repent and turn 
away from sin. I have tried to nurture him for 
thee, but the devices of the wicked have been too 
strong. They have snared him and brought his 
soul into great peril. I am weak and broken and 
helpless, but in thee, O Lord ! is strength, and in thee 
is forgiveness." 
Then he got up, and taking his boy by the hand, 
went out with him, Mr. Ashley going at the same 
time. 
CHAPTER XII. 
ON returning to the bar-room I was beset with 
inquiries as to what had happened up stairs. 
I would rather have kept it all to myself, but this 
could not well be, so I told just what had taken 
place. 
" I wouldn 't have the ruin of that boy on my con 
science for all the world," said one of the men who 
had come in from the bindery. He spoke with 
much feeling. 
" If he hadn 't been a thief at heart, he wouldn 't 
have stolen," retorted Lloyd, who felt that the re 
mark was aimed at us. 
" Let him that is without sin cast the first stone," 
answered the other, with much bitterness of tone, 
and he looked steadily at Lloyd. 
"What do you mean by that?" demanded Lloyd, 
a flash in his eyes. 
" There are many ways of stealing besides taking 
a man 's goods or putting your hand in his pocket," 
was replied with a calm impressiveness that gave 
force to the speaker 's words. " If you deliberately 
corrupt and deprave a man, in order that you may 
get his money, by what name, I pray, do you call 
the act? Is it a fair and honorable and honest 
deed? That poor boy, I take it, was no more a 
thief at heart than you or I when he first began 
coming to this place." 
" I guess you re right there," came in old Jacobs, 
who never lost an opportunity to have his say. 
" He deserves our pity more than our execration," 
continued the other. " We should consider all the 
circumstances of the case." 
" Gammon !" retorted Lloyd. "As if a few glasses 
of beer were going to make a thief out of an honest 
person! You must all feel very much compli 
mented." 
" You can t turn it off in that way," said Jacobs, 
driving up against Lloyd, as he always did when a 
chance offered. " When Ned Allen came here first, 
he was as nice a boy as you could find in a hundred : 
I know that. But beer and bad talk hurt him in 
body and mind, and beer and games, the theatre, 
and maybe worse places, couldn 't be enjoyed with 
out money. The boy was not strong enough to 
swim against the stream on which he was floating, 
and so went down with the current. It is sad 
enough and bad enough. I am not trying to excuse 
him, but don 't  let all the blame and all the curses 
fall on his poor head. There are a good many dol 
lars of the money he took from his employers in 
your till, and you can t make it out any other way." 
I shut my teeth hard and kept silent. Lloyd 
boiled over and swore roundly at Jacobs, but it 
wasn 't of any use. The old pressman had the sym- 
 
 
pathy as well as the convictions of nearly all on his 
side. What he said had the effect of softening every 
one toward Ned Allen and turning harshness into 
pity. 
" If I was his father," was remarked on that same 
evening, but later the men from the bindery and 
printing-office could not get done talking about the 
affair " I 'd send him to the house of refuge at 
once. It 's the only way to save him." 
"Of whom are you speaking?" asked one of two 
well-dressed men who had come in a few minutes 
before and were standing at the bar. 
" Of a boy in 's bindery who was caught 
stealing to-day," was answered. , 
" Did you say his name was Allen ?" 
" Yes, sir Ned Allen. He 's the son of Rev. Mr. 
Allen, more 's the pity." 
The man started, a look of surprise and pain set 
tling over his face. 
" Oh, that can t be, surely !" he said. 
" It 's too true, sir. The thing 's been going on for 
some time, and to-day it all came out. They 'll 
probably hush it up for his father 's sake. But that 
won t save the poor boy from ruin, I'm afraid." 
The man then asked a great many questions, and 
drew out the whole story, which was related even to 
the scene that had occurred up stairs between Ned 
and his father. He seemed very much concerned 
about it, and he and the friend who was with him 
talked the matter over together for a good while. 
 
Once I heard him say, with a great deal of earnest 
ness, 
" I 'll do it for his father 's sake, if for nothing else. 
Dear, good old man ! My heart aches for him." 
" When a boy gets so far gone as that, there isn 't 
much hope for him," the other replied. " And then 
it 's a great risk to take a person whom you know to 
be dishonest." 
" I 'd rather run the risk of losing a few dollars 
than see him go to destruction without an effort 
being made to save him," was the firm answer. 
" Poor old Mr. Allen !" 
Then the two men went out together. One was 
a merchant, and the other was agent for an eastern 
insurance company doing a large business in the 
city. It was the latter who had expressed so deep 
an interest in Mr. Allen 's son. 
Mr. Ashley was very much excited over the mat 
ter, and even went so far as to go before the grand 
jury and try to get us indicted for something or 
other. But he was not able to put them in posses 
sion of any facts sufficiently well authenticated to 
warrant their finding a bill against us. 
One morning, about a week after the occurrence 
just related, I was reading a newspaper, when I 
came upon the following: 
" A GOOD MAN GONE TO HIS REWARD. In the rec 
ord of deaths this morning will be found that of the 
Rev. Edward Allen, who died yesterday. The poor 
and humble, among whom he has worked for so 
 
many years, will sadly miss his gentle face, his ten 
der voice and loving ministrations. Death will be 
his gain, but their irreparable loss. Like the Master 
in whose footsteps he walked, he went about doing 
good. Peace to his memory ! It will be precious 
to hundreds." 
I then turned to the list of deaths and read, 
" On the fourth instant, after a brief illness, Rev. 
Edward Allen, in his sixty-third year." 
And just below, 
" On the evening of the fourth instant, Jane Allen, 
wife of Rev. Edward Allen, in her fifty-eighth year. 
" He giveth his beloved sleep." 
For some minutes I seemed to be in a kind of 
maze. 
" Dead ! That good old man dead !" I said this 
in my thoughts, and kept on repeating it over and 
over. " It can t be possible !" I answered back, and 
lifting the paper, read again. I did not speak of it 
to any one, and tried to banish it from my mind, but 
that was not to be done. 
I missed from the bar-room, after this trouble with 
Ned Allen, several familiar faces. Among them was 
that of John Ashley. Most of the boys had kept 
away, at which -I was better pleased than otherwise. 
We got considerable out of them one week with an 
other, but there was a law against selling to minors, 
and here was about our only danger of getting trip 
ped. Besides, Ned Allen 's fall had caused a great 
deal of talking among the men, and one or two of 
 
them more than hinted that if we did not stop sell 
ing liquor to the lads complaint would be made. 
On the evening after a notice of the death of Mr. 
Allen and his wife appeared in the newspapers, we 
had in an unusual number of workmen from the 
bindery and printing-office. They came to talk 
about the matter, and to learn what they could 
about it from each other. It had caused, I found, a 
good deal of stir. Putting this and that together as 
it came out, I learned that when Mr. Allen got home 
with his son, and the mother came to know of their 
sorrow and disgrace, the poor old lady was stricken 
down as if dead, and did not come to for a long time. 
Adding the shock and alarm of this to the crushing 
weight under which he was trying to hold himself 
up was too much for the heart-broken father to bear, 
and nature kindly gave him ease in unconscious 
ness. 
Out of this he came at length, but in mind and 
body so weak that he seemed almost gone. He ral 
lied but little never sufficient to leave his bed. So 
he lingered on for a week. His wife came up better. 
Anxiety for her husband caused her strength to re 
turn, and she kept about him night and day, doing 
all in her power to save him. But in vain. Body, 
heart and brain had all been overworked too long, 
and there was not enough vitality left to meet the 
sudden and large demand this terrible shock had 
occasioned. And so he passed to his rest. It was 
said that up to the moment of his death his wife 
 
showed no signs of breaking down, but that when 
all was over, and friends tried to lift her face away 
from the dead face of her husband, her life seemed 
to be going out with his. She never spoke to any 
one afterward, nor seemed to hear any voice that 
called to her, but was like one heavy with sleep. In 
a few hours her pulses too were still and her heart 
cold. 
My thoughts troubled me that night. A heavy 
weight lay on my feelings which I tried vainly to 
shake off. Was I not guilty of the death of this good 
old man ? The anguish of spirit, too bitter for human 
strength to bear, that had occasioned it, I helped to 
lay on his stooping and overburdened shoulders. 
And the unhappy boy I had assisted to snare and 
ruin, what was to become of him ? what was to be 
his fate ? 
I tossed through the night, haunted by thoughts 
like these, unable to sleep and longing for the day 
to come. But with the day I went back to my 
work, and pushed them all aside. What had I to 
do with consequences? If men or boys chose to 
drink, steal, rob or commit murder, that was their 
own affair, not mine, and they must reap as they 
sowed. I was sorry if any one suffered, but the 
blame was with him alone. 
For a while after this things went on in the usual 
way, and the death of Mr. Allen became an incident 
of the past, and was rarely mentioned. No one 
seemed to know anything about Ned Allen, but it 
 
was a common impression that he would come to no 
good. John Ashley and other minors from the 
establishment next door drifted back among us and 
enjoyed themselves as before. 
But in the nature of things, we could not be long 
at peace. Affairs would not run smoothly. An 
element of discord was continually showing itself, 
fretting and disturbing us. We were making money, 
but not really enjoying our gains. It was a rare 
thing for me to lie down at night with a tranquil 
mind and peaceful thoughts. Scarcely a day went 
by without some unpleasant incident. Now it would 
be an angry dispute among two half-tipsy custom 
ers ; now a bar-room row, with a show of knives or 
pistols, and sometimes their use ; now the appear 
ance of a father in search of his son, or of a poor 
forlorn-looking mother after her wandering boy ; and 
now the irritating ordeal of being compelled to listen 
to a general discussion about the character of our 
business and the evil we were doing. Hundreds of 
times have I wished myself well out of it. 
Several months had passed since our last visit 
from the strange woman closely veiled who had 
come in with the silent step and movement of a 
ghost, and then, after glancing through the bar 
room, as silently retired, and we did not expect to 
see her again. But one night it was nearly eleven 
o clock as a gentleman named L , well known 
in the city and eminent in his profession, stood at 
the bar drinking, I saw her enter. The gentleman 's 
 
back was turned toward the door, and he did not 
notice her. She was closely veiled, as before. Her 
dress was of some dark but fine material, and fell in 
graceful folds about her tall figure. A rich, dark 
shawl was drawn closely around her shoulders, and 
I saw the sparkle of a brilliant solitaire on one of 
her ungloved hands. Her other was thrust into the 
pocket of her dress. She stood for a moment or 
two in that statue-like way before mentioned, and 
then came swiftly but silently across the room, and 
laid a hand on the gentleman 's arm, at the same time 
drawing back a portion of her veil, so that on turn 
ing, as he did quickly, he could see her face. 
I saw it first, of course. It was the face of a wo 
man past thirty a face strongly marked, but beau 
tiful, the complexion a light brunette and the eyes 
large, black and brilliant. Every look and flash of 
her great eyes showed intense but repressed passion. 
Mr. L , on feeling the touch on his arm, turned 
with a start. As he did so, I saw the hand of the 
woman that still rested in the pocket of her dress 
move as if about to be withdrawn. For an instant 
they looked at each other, while I stood scared and 
breathless, for I had seen murder in the woman 's eyes. 
But only for an instant did she look at Mr. L . 
I saw her catch her breath, while a baffled and dis 
appointed expression swept over her face. Then 
with a swift movement her veil was drawn, and be 
fore the astonished Mr. L could utter a word 
she had vanished from the room. 
 
" Do you know that woman ?" he asked, in un 
feigned astonishment, and with considerable excite 
ment of manner. 
" I do not," I replied. 
" Has she been here before ?" 
" Two or three times, but not for several months 
until to-night." 
" What does she want ?" 
" I do not know. This is the first time she has 
seemed to recognize any one." 
" Indeed !" 
" Yes. When she came in before, she merely took 
a glance through the bar-room, keeping her veil 
down, and then went out quietly. Some called her 
a ghost, her movements were so gliding and noise 
less. I never saw her face before to-night" 
" And you have no idea who she is ?" 
" None in the world," I answered. " But let her 
be whom she may, she has deadly designs on some 
body, and it 's my guess that you made a narrow es 
cape just now." 
" You think so ?" 
" I'm sure of it. Each time she 's been here it has 
been noticed that she kept one hand in her pocket, 
and to-night I saw her move that hand as you turned 
in a way that could not be mistaken. She certainly 
held a pistol or dagger, and when she came spring 
ing across the room with the eager motions of a 
wild animal, I believe it was in her heart to kill 
you." 
 
I saw him shudder. 
" Why did she not do it ?" he asked, after a few 
moments. And he looked at me curiously. 
" Because," I said, " you were not her man." 
" Humph ! Maybe not." It was his only reply. 
Then he walked the floor of the bar-room for a good 
while, his eyes bent down. 
" She 's an ugly customer to be about," he re 
marked, at length, buttoning up his coat, " and if she 
does meet her man as you say, society will have a 
new sensation." 
"Do you know her, Mr. L ?" I asked as I 
saw him make a movement to go away. I put the 
question abruptly, and watched his face. I did not 
make much out of it. 
He only shook his head in reply. I did not be 
lieve him. 
" She mistook you for some one else," I said, try 
ing to lead him on. 
" Of course. If I 'd been her man, as you say, I 
don 't  know what might have happened." 
" She 's a splendid-looking woman," I remarked. 
" Splendid !" 
" I never saw such eyes." 
" Nor anybody else," he returned, a little off his 
guard, I thought. "At least," he added, "judging 
from the single glimpse I got of them. But I must 
go. I don 't  just like the kind of customers you 
have. They re dangerous. Good-night;" and he 
went away. 
CHAPTER XIII. 
I HEARD of the woman next day as having vis 
ited over a dozen drinking-saloons on the night 
she called on us. It was said that she lived in New 
York and was connected with a good family there, 
and that she had become partially deranged in con 
sequence of an unhappy love affair. Others said 
that she belonged to our own city, and that Mr. 
L knew all about her, while others affirmed 
that she was an actress from New Orleans, and was 
after a certain gambler well known in all our prin 
cipal seaboard towns. 
I had often seen this man, and, now that he was 
mentioned, I recalled his face as bearing some re 
semblance to that of Mr. L . And, what was a 
little singular, they had the same name, and for 
aught I knew to the contrary might be relatives. 
But L the gambler was a man of notoriously 
bad character, while L the lawyer stood high in 
the community as a man of honor and integrity. 
On the next afternoon, a little to my surprise, I 
saw L come in with two other well-dressed men. 
He had never before been at " The Retreat " in the 
daytime. I noticed a magnificent diamond pin on 
his bosom, and he wore, besides, a heavy gold chain 
 
 
and other jewelry. I did not remember to have seen 
these on the night before. His companions had 
also a good deal of jewelry about their persons. 
In looking at L as he stood drinking with 
his companions, I was struck with something a little 
strange in his appearance. His face seemed fuller 
and coarser, I thought, and the eyes less clear and 
calm, and not just like the eyes I remembered. 
Then I seemed to lose the old likeness, and to doubt 
if it were really Mr. L , after all. 
The three men, after drinking, walked away from 
the bar, and stood talking together, in undertones 
about something which appeared to both interest 
and disturb them. They looked excited and an 
noyed, I thought. After a while, L came back 
to the bar and handed me a bill to pay for the three 
drinks. As I gave him the change, I said, ventur 
ing to be a little familiar, 
" Hope that little affair didn 't keep you awake last 
night ?" 
" What little affair ?" he asked, with a half-angry 
flash lighting up his eyes. 
" Oh, you know the veiled lady," I answered, 
keeping my voice low and for his ears alone. 
I saw him start. A heavy frown darkened his 
face. He almost glared at me, a hell of passion 
burning in his eyes. And then I knew him. It 
was L the gambler. 
I drew quickly back from him, half afraid of what 
I saw in his countenance, saying, 
 
" Oh, pray excuse me. I mistook you for another 
person." 
" You did, ha ? What other person ?" he de 
manded. 
" I thought you were Mr. L ," I returned. 
" You look so much alike." 
" I am Mr. L . And now, sir, I want you to 
explain yourself." He had been drinking a good 
deal, I could see, and was growing more excited. 
His two companions, seeing that something had gone 
wrong between us, came up to the bar and looked at 
me curiously. , 
" See here, my young friend," said L , taking- 
out a revolver as he spoke and laying the barrel 
across the railing of the bar, " I never permit fel 
lows like you to meddle in my affairs." 
He looked like a devil incarnate, and I don 't  won 
der that I turned pale. 
" Put up that thing, Harry," exclaimed one of his 
friends. " He isn 't the sort of game to deal with in 
this fashion. If he 's insulted you, spit in his face, 
knock him down." 
As soon as I could speak, I said, 
" Beg pardon, sir. I thought you were Mr. L 
the lawyer." 
"The devil you did!" fell in tones of surprise 
from the gambler 's lips. " And what had he to do 
with the veiled lady ?" 
" She came in last night when he was here, and 
 
 
gave him a little start," I replied, not stopping to 
choose my words. 
The three men looked at each other in silence for 
some moments. Then L , speaking in a different 
tone, but with repressed excitement, asked, 
" What sort of a person was this veiled lady ?" 
I described her as minutely as I could, and while 
I did so I saw the men exchange glances and nod 
intelligently to each other. 
" What did she do ?" the gambler asked. 
I described the way in which she almost leaped 
across the room when she saw L , the expression 
of her face when she drew aside her veil, and the 
movement of the hand thrust down into the pocket 
of her dress. 
I saw his countenance darken and his lips draw 
tightly together. 
" A perfect she-devil !" one of the men said, in an 
undertone. 
" Was she ever here before ?" asked L . 
" Not lately. A few months ago she came in two 
or three times." 
What did she do?" 
" Only stood for a moment or two, with her veil 
down, and then went out." 
" You mistook me for Mr. L the lawyer, who 
resides in the city ?" said the gambler. 
" I did." 
" Do we look so much alike ?" 
"The resemblance is strong," I replied. 
 
" Humph !" he ejaculated, and then stood musing 
for a while. 
" You mustn t mind me," he said as he recollected 
himself. " I was a little rough, but it 's my way when 
things get crosswise. I thought you were meddling 
in a matter that did not concern you." 
Without further remark he turned away and went 
out with his friends, but in a little while came back 
alone, looking, I thought, pale and flurried. 
" Have you a private room," he asked, in a ner 
vous sort of way. 
" Yes," I answered. 
" I want it !" He spoke in a quick, imperative tone 
of voice. 
I was coming from behind the bar to show him up 
stairs, when a hand pushed open the street door sud 
denly and with force. I turned, and our lady visitor 
of the night before, with her veil drawn aside, looked 
at us with her large, dark, passion-lighted eyes. 
I saw the gambler blanch. He stood as if par 
alyzed. With a bound the woman sprang upon 
him, and ere he had time to gain an attitude of de 
fence had flung one hand spitefully in his face, and 
with the other stabbed him in the throat. 
I saw the blood gush over the woman 's hand. At 
sight of it she dropped the dagger with which she 
had wounded L and vanished through the door. 
All passed so quickly that it seemed the work of an 
instant. No attempt was made to follow her. 
An exclamation of horror fell from the gambler 's 
lips as he drew his hand from his throat and saw 
that it was covered with blood. Almost at the same 
moment his two friends came in from the street. 
" She 's done it for me," he gasped as they came 
up to where he stood. And then he cursed her with 
a foul profanity such as I had rarely if ever heard. 
No attempt was made to follow the woman. L 
was taken up stairs, and the nearest surgeon sent for. 
In the mean time every possible effort was made to 
stanch the flow of blood. 
The wound proved dangerous, but not fatal. After 
it was closed and dressed by the surgeon, his friends 
took him away in a carriage. An effort was made 
to keep the matter out of the newspapers, but the 
reporters got hold of it, and made it the sensation 
of the hour, at least among the flash and profession 
als. I don 't  know that people generally gave it more 
than a passing thought, but readers of the Police 
Gazette and kindred papers had an appetizing mor- 
ceau served up with quite a variety of sensational 
pictures, not one of which gave the stabbing incident 
correctly. 
Few men can look at blood without a shudder 
human blood, I mean and I am not of the number. 
A thrill of horror ran through me as I saw the glit 
ter of steel in the woman 's hand, the quick, flashing 
stroke and the gush of blood. I was so paralyzed 
for the moment that I could not stir, and L 
stood with his hands dabbling about his throat until 
his two friends came in from the street. They had 
 
met the woman just outside of the door, but not 
knowing what she had done, made no attempt to 
stop her. 
Only a week before, there had been a fight in the 
bar-room, during which a man had been badly cut, 
and now we had another stabbing affair. I could not 
get used to such things. They shocked my nerves 
terribly. If bad-looking fellows came in and we 
saw them pretty often I felt uneasy until they went 
away. If two men who had been drinking freely 
got to arguing with each other in voices raised to a 
higher pitch than usual, I was in a state of uncom 
fortable suspense until the battle of words was over. 
I had seen these little disputes over trifles run too 
often into quarrels that ended in blows. There was 
no counting on men after a glass or two. The most 
quiet were sometimes the most quarrelsome after 
drinking. Over and over again have I seen men 
who had come in with a good-humored face and a 
pleasant word for every one, change in half an hour 
to ill-natured, snarling curs. It kept one on the ten 
ter-hooks of anxiety and fear all the while. 
It took me a good while to get over this affair. I 
have not seen the gambler L in our city since, 
nor have I heard anything of the woman who made 
the attempt on his life. As for the gentleman whose 
resemblance to the gambler came near costing him 
his life, he did not make another call at " The Re 
treat," wherever else he may have gone. 
CHAPTER XIV. 
THE weeks and months passed on, and we gath 
ered in our harvests. " Were they bountiful ?" 
Yes. " But as a man soweth, so shall he reap." We 
had full harvests, but I do not think either Lloyd or 
I carried our sheaves with rejoicing. 
As for me, I had no one to care for or think about 
but myself. I had no wife or children to set them 
selves in opposition to my schemes, or to feel dis 
graced by my business. I went and came, and did 
as I pleased. It was different with my partner, Tom 
Lloyd. The harvest I reaped was not all grain and 
sweet-scented clover no, not by any means but as 
he gathered in he found more of juiceless brambles 
and stinging-nettles than wheat or hay. His harvest 
was indeed accursed. 
I had long since ceased to visit in his family. The 
opposition of his wife and daughter Maggy was so 
strong and unyielding that I found it unpleasant 
from the beginning to meet them. Maggy, as I have 
already said, was unusually attractive, of a sen 
sitive mental organization, and superior to most girls 
in her condition. Lloyd had been very fond and 
proud of her, as well he might be. 
My readers will remember the incident of her faint- 
ing in school, and the utter prostration of mind and 
body that followed. The young teacher Mark Wat 
son never called to see her again, and Maggy never 
went back to school. A gulf had opened suddenly 
between them, and it did not close. 
It was two or three months before Maggy showed 
interest in anything. During most of this time she 
suffered from physical as well as nervous prostration. 
For a whole week after she had the fainting spell at 
school she lay in a dull, half-unconscious state, an 
swering no questions and showing no interest in 
anything. Lloyd was very much alarmed and anx 
ious about her. His old tender love for her came 
back, and I know the thought that he had really 
brought her to this haunted him like a spectre and 
hurt him like a throbbing sore. 
" How is Maggy ?" I asked, one morning, several 
days after her trouble at school. Lloyd had come 
in at a much later hour than usual. His face wore 
an anxious expression. 
He merely shook his head in reply, and shut his 
lips tightly. 
" Not worse ?" I ventured to say. 
" Don 't know. Can t make it out," he replied, 
gloomily. 
" Hasn 't she rallied any within a day or two ?" 
" A little, maybe. She 's more restless, and starts 
and moans in her sleep." 
" Does she answer when you speak to her ?" 
" No. This morning I sat down by her bed, and 
 
taking her hand, squeezed it tightly, saying, Maggy 
dear " 
His voice broke a little, and I saw his lips work 
nervously. But he recovered his self-possession, 
and went on. 
" Maggy dear," I said, is there nothing I can do 
for you ? But for all I could see in her face her 
eyes were shut my voice made no impression. I 
tried again and again. I said, If you love me, 
Maggy, just press my hand. But she did not seem 
to hear. Oh, Hiram, it 's dreadful to see her so. 
I'm frightened about it. I haven t an instant 's peace 
of mind." 
He went back and forth between his home and the 
saloon several times each day. All his old love, 
which had seemed under the excitement and cross 
purposes attendant on the starting of our new busi 
ness wcllnigh crushed out, stirred once more in his 
heart and regained its old power. 
After about two weeks, Maggy began to recover 
from the shock she had received. To my question 
as to how she was, Lloyd answered, with a troubled 
look on his face, 
" I don 't  know what to think about her, Hiram. 
I'm sometimes afraid her mind 's gone. I 'd give al 
most anything to know just what happened at school 
if that teacher said anything wrong to her. Blast 
his heart ! If I was sure he 'd done or said anything 
out of the way, I 'd murder him." 
" That wouldn 't mend matters," I replied. 
 
" It would teach him a lesson, confound him !" he 
answered. 
A few days after, he seemed a little more cheerful, 
and to my question about Maggy said, 
" I hope she 'll come all right. Yesterday she sat 
up for an hour or two and talked a little. But her 
face is so sad, Hiram. I never saw anything like it. 
It makes the tears come into my eyes to look at 
her." 
Slowly her life-pulses came beating back, but 
never with the old strength and fullness. After a 
few weeks she began to take some interest in house 
hold matters, and to care for her two younger broth 
ers, Harvey and Willy, the latter not yet six years 
old. But she remained weak in body, and tired 
easily if she made any unusual effort. Often, for a 
whole hour at a time if not disturbed, she would 
sit with her hands laid across each other on her lap 
and her eyes fixed in an absent way. If spoken to 
at these times, she would give a low sigh, and drift 
back to what was around her like one coming out 
of a dream. Sometimes she would try to force a 
smile to her lips as you disturbed her reverie, but it 
was so faint and fugitive that you scarcely saw it. 
So it went on, month after month, Maggy gaining 
a little all the while, but so little that both father 
and mother gave up all hope of ever seeing the old 
sweet light in her face. Six months passed without 
her foot going over the threshold of her father 's 
house, and no persuasion could draw her out. If 
  
urged too strongly, the answer of her wet eyes and 
trembling lips always closed the argument. Several 
times her father brought a carriage to the door, 
hoping she might consent to ride out with him, but 
she could not be induced to go. If he lost patience 
with her, as he did now and then, particularly after 
he had been drinking a little more than usual, she 
would break into a fit of sobbing and crying, and so 
end the contest. He bought her handsome dresses, 
but she did not wear them ; he gave her a watch ; he 
gave her earrings and breastpins and one pretty trifle 
after another, but they were all laid away in her 
drawers. Her heart was not in them. 
Lloyd was baffled, worried and unhappy. He 
could not understand the case. He did not know a 
woman 's heart. I wonder if any man does ? 
" I shall have to make a change at home," he said 
after we had been in business six months and were 
beginning to get ahead. " Maggy won t go out, and 
she 'll die or get beside herself if there isn 't some 
break in her life. You 'd hardly know her, Hiram, 
she 's so altered. No more color in her face than 
there is in a snowbank. It used to do my heart 
good to hear her laughing and singing about the 
house, and to meet her smiling face when I came 
home. She would put her arm about my neck 
sometimes and kiss me when I came in, saying, 
Poor, dear father, you look so tired. " 
Lloyd stopped and turned his head away. I knew 
what it meant, for I heard a choke in his voice on 
 
the last word. In a little while he went on, drop 
ping his voice to a lower key : 
" But there 's nothing of that now. She hardly 
looks up when I come in, doesn 't seem to hear my 
step, never smiles when I speak to her, and looks at 
me sometimes in such a strange way that it sends a 
kind of creep to my heart." 
" What kind of a change do you think of making ?" 
I asked. 
" I must move out of that little house into a larger 
and better one, and buy new furniture : I can afford 
it now." 
" I have been wondering that you did not do this 
before," I replied. 
" I have thought of it, but when I did move, I 
wanted to make a sort of dash, and I'm not just able 
to do that yet." 
" Never mind about the dash. Get a nice new 
house somewhere in a pleasant neighborhood, and 
set Maggy and her mother at work to furnish it. Let 
them have their own say and gratify their own taste. 
I don 't  know anything more likely to bring Maggy 
round." 
" Glad you think so, Hiram," he answered, bright 
ening. " I don 't  see what else I can do." 
" It will work like a charm ; you may count on 
that," said I, confidently. 
But it didn t. They could not even get Maggy 
out to look at the new house. But after it was taken 
she assisted her mother in moving and arranging 
their new home to the utmost of her strength. After 
that she fell back into her old sluggish state. 
" How are you getting on at home ?" I asked of 
Lloyd after he had been two or three months in his 
new house. 
The question sent a cloud over his face. 
" Isn 't Maggy coming round all right?" 
He shook his head gloomily. 
" I had hoped for a better report by this time." 
" So had I, but I seem to have lost my reckoning 
in this world, and don 't  know that I shall ever find 
it again. Things don 't  come out as they used to. 
If I got a little wrong or out of sorts or troubled in 
my mind, home generally brought me right again. 
I could count on the pleasant faces there, on the rest 
and peace and comfort of my little nook, poor as it 
was. But now I feel a shadow settling down on my 
feelings as I get nearer and nearer my home, and an 
icy chill sometimes when I enter it. Nobody smiles 
there, nobody talks cheerfully and lovingly, nobody 
is happy. Even little Harry and Willy have lost 
their old wild playfulness." 
" How is Thomas getting along ?" I asked. 
The gloomy lines on his forehead deepened. 
" Badly," he answered. 
" Hasn 't left his place, I hope ?" 
" Yes." 
" How came that ?" 
" Don 't know all the ins and outs of it, but he 's at 
home. That much is clear." 
 
"Wouldn 't it be better to try and get him into 
some bindery again ? He 's worked at the trade, and 
it will be safer for him than a place like the one he 
left." 
" Easier said than done. If Ashley wasn 't such 
a spiteful dog, he 'd let him come back again. But 
there 's no use trying him ; besides, Tom 's been away 
from regular and close employment for six months, 
and got idle habits, I'm afraid. Don 't believe he 
could be made to stick to work." 
" So much the worse," I replied. 
" I know, and it 's worrying me dreadfully. The 
boy 'll go to ruin if he 's left on the street, as he now 
is. His mother can t do anything with him, and I 've 
got my hands full here." 
I had no clear advice to give, and so said nothing 
more. But in my heart I was thankful that I had 
neither wife nor children. 
I knew but little of what went on in Lloyd 's fam 
ily after that, but I could see from his countenance 
and state of mind when he came each morning that 
he was still " out of his reckoning," as he had said 
that he had lost his home and was not able to find it. 
The better house and the new furniture had not done 
all that he had expected. They did not ease the 
heartache, nor allay anxiety, nor take away the sense 
of shame and disgrace. They were accepted and 
used, not enjoyed. 
But for one thing, I believe Lloyd would have 
absented himself almost entirely from his home. He 
 
was making some rather dangerous friends sporting 
men, most of them and was beginning to find in their 
society a refuge from the disquiet he so often felt. 
He would frequently ride out with some of them, 
and be away from the saloon in their company for 
hours at a time. But there was one thing that ever 
drew him back to his home, and that was his love 
for his daughter a love that seemed to grow stronger 
every day. I wondered at this sometimes, seeing 
how she had turned herself from him, and how ut 
terly irresponsive to his affection she had become. 
After a year, Maggy 's coldness toward her father 
began to give way. Her heart responded, feebly at 
first, to the tender care and unfailing interest he had 
never ceased to show. She would welcome his com 
ing home with a little faint smile, and when he kissed 
her show that she was pleased. Then he began to 
lavish things upon her, buying now a bit of jewelry, 
now a handsome scarf, now a fan or some pretty 
article for the toilette. 
" It isn 't worth while, father," she would say, when 
he brought such presents. "I 've got more now 
than I know what to do with." 
Even that response was grateful to the father 's 
heart, hungering as it was for the lost love of his 
child. She gave him what she could, and tried to 
give more from a growing sense of filial duty. Little 
as it was in outward sign, Lloyd took it as a 
sweet morsel. 
 
One day he said to me, with a new pleasure in his 
face, 
" I shall not be back this afternoon not before 
night. Going to drive in the park with Maggy and 
her mother." 
I did not express surprise, but looked the pleasure 
I felt. 
" Glad to hear it," I returned. " Hope you 'll have 
a nice time." 
" Guess I will. Mean to have an elegant turnout. 
Ordered a phaeton and pair of the handsomest horses 
in R 's stables." 
He was in high spirits all the morning, and went 
home early to dinner. It was near eight o clock be 
fore he came bapk. The moment he entered the 
door I saw that something had gone wrong. He 
did not look at me as he came to the bar, but reached 
for a decanter of brandy and filled a glass nearly half 
full; adding some water to this, he drank off the 
liquor at a single draught. 
I did not deem it best to say anything to him 
then, for I saw that from some cause he was suffer 
ing deeply, and understood his peculiarities well 
enough to know that I had better let him alone. 
After remaining half an hour he went out, and did 
not return again that night. 
He looked careworn and troubled when he ap 
peared next morning. 
" I hope no one is sick," I remarked. 
He did not answer me, so I let him alone. 
Something very serious had occurred, that was plain. 
I watched his face when he did not observe me, and 
saw that pain, not anger, was below. He drank more 
freely than usual, and was irritable. 
" I shall not be back to-night," he said as he was 
going away, a little after six o clock. 
" All right," I returned, pleasantly. " We can get 
along." 
CHAPTER XV. 
IT all came out on the next day. When Lloyd 
made his appearance in the morning, some of the 
shadows had fallen away from his face, though it still 
wore an anxious look. 
" You haven t told me about your drive in the 
park," I said when a good opportunity offered. 
It was as if I had touched him with a probe. I 
saw the quick flushes of pain break into his face. 
" What has happened, Tom ? There was no ac 
cident, I hope ?" 
" No oh no," he answered. 
" But something went wrong. What was it, Tom ? 
I hope Maggy didn 't get frightened, or take cold, 
or" 
" No, nothing of that," he replied. 
" What then ? I feel anxious to know." Then he 
told me. 
" I had a splendid turnout," he began " as 
handsome a team as you could find on the road. 
Maggy looked sweet. There was just a little color 
in her face, and her eyes were so large and bright ! 
She was dressed like any lady in the land. I did 
feel so proud of her, Hiram. It would have done 
your heart good to see how everybody gazed at her. 
I heard it said, * Who is she ? a dozen times. 
" Every little while I turned to look at Maggy or 
to say something pleasant. Now I pointed out some 
pretty view as we rolled through the park, now tried 
to amuse her by making sport of some of the funny 
turnouts and queer-looking people we met, and now 
asked if she were not enjoying the ride. Her inter 
est in things did not come up to my expectations. 
Still, she was pleased. It was doing her good ; that 
I saw plainly. 
" We had driven through the western park, across 
the river at the Falls, up and down the Wissahickon, 
and were coming back by the river-road. Maggy 
was getting tired, and when I turned, as I did every 
little while, to say something, I noticed that her face 
had lost its color and looked pale and weary. The 
old sad expression I saw, too, settling about her 
mouth. 
" You are feeling tired, Maggy ? I said. 
" Yes, she answered. 
" I'm sorry I drove so far. But we 'll soon get 
home; and I touched the horses to quicken their 
speed. They sprung forward with a sudden bound, 
startling Maggy and sending the color again into 
her cheeks. Just then, a little way in front, I saw a 
handsome buggy coming toward us. It contained 
a young gentleman and lady. They were talking 
familiarly, leaning toward each other, while the 
horse, left almost to himself, walked leisurely. They 
 
were in the middle of the road. We were dashing along 
at a rapid rate. I drew in my horses with a sudden 
pull, and just in time to prevent an accident. For a 
moment our teams stood nearly side by side, and 
both parties, now only a few feet distant, looked into 
each other 's faces, 
"Something in the young man 's countenance 
struck me as familiar, and to my surprise I saw from 
its expression that Maggy was recognized. In the 
next instant we were dashing forward again. 
" When I turned to Maggy, she was leaning back 
against the cushions with her eyes shut and her face 
as white as marble. 
" Look at Maggy! I cried to her mother. She 's 
fainted. 
" Jane caught hold of her in alarm, and called to 
her. 
" It 's nothing, mother. I only feel a little faint,"
Maggy answered, without opening her eyes. 
" She was frightened, Jane said. 
" But I knew better. She didn 't open her eyes all 
the way home, and only answered to our questions 
that she felt a little faint. 
" When we got back, she was so weak that I had 
almost to carry her across the pavement and into 
the house. She lay on the sofa in the parlor until 
I drove the carriage home. On my return I lifted 
her in my arms and took her to her room. 
" I'm sorry to be so much trouble to you, father,"
she said as I laid her upon her bed. She did not 
 
open her eyes as she spoke. But I saw the lids 
quiver and the shine of tears under them. 
" I could not ask what ailed her. I knew that too 
well, and dared not put the question. 
" All her strength seemed suddenly to have died 
out. Her mother brought her some tea, but she 
pushed the hand that offered it gently away, saying 
in a weak voice, 
" Not now, mother. After a while. Let me lie 
here just as I am. I 'll feel better soon maybe. 
" That maybe, spoken to herself oh, Hiram, it 
had in it a longing for death ! I never so felt the 
meaning in a tone of voice before. 
" She lay all night in a still, half-waking sleep. I 
could not go to bed. I was afraid she might die. 
In the morning there was little change. If we 
roused her, she would answer feebly, and then sink 
away, breathing softly like an infant. She made an 
effort to eat when food was brought by her mother, 
swallowing a few mouthfuls. But there was no rel 
ish. She did not want it, and only took a little of 
what was offered from a desire to allay our concern. 
" Don 't be troubled about me, father, she said, 
in reply to my anxious questions as to how she felt. 
I 'll come all right again. I'm sorry to give you so 
much trouble, but I'm very weak, and can t help 
it. 
" All that day she remained in bed, lying with her 
face to the wall, and looking, oh so pale and sad. 
She seemed more like herself last evening, and once, 
 
as I sat holding her hand, she raised mine to her 
lips and kissed it. 
" Like a faithful dog," I could not help saying to 
myself, that kisses the hand of his master after it 
has struck him a death-blow. It was a strange 
thing for me to say in my thought, but the speech 
was from an impulse hardly my own. 
