value him aright. That mistake would rectify itself, by and by. He
could stay a fortnight in Dundee as well as not. Roy had pressed him
to do so, and he began to think he would.
This was what Jessie sang, never dreaming of the audience, fit, but
few, hidden in the blossoming thicket:
    "Sleeping, I dreamed, Love--dreamed, Love, of thee;
    O'er the bright wave, Love, floating were we.
    Light in thy fair hair played the soft wind,
    Gently thy white arms round me were twined;
    And as thy song, Love, swelled o'er the sea,
    Fondly thy blue eyes beamed, Love, on me."
Neither of the cousins stirred until the song was finished, when a
robin in the nearest elm began his vespers.
"This is Arcadia!" said Orrin, ravishing another spray--great white
roses this time, with creamy hearts.
"It is home!" replied the other, softly.
Orrin appeared not to hear him.
"Or the Vale of Cashmere!" he went on, drawing in long breaths of
perfume. "Here are
    "'Timid jasmine buds that keep
    Their odors to themselves all day,
    But when the sunlight dies away
    Let the delicious secret out--'
roses of Kathay and bulbuls--and Nourmahal!"
Roy looked at him over his shoulder.
"If you have pulled enough of Eunice's rare, early roses to pieces
to satisfy your destructive proclivities, we will go in," he said,
pleasantly.
Something in his friend's eye and tone disinclined him to pursue the
theme. He could not suspect him of an intention to ridicule Jessie
or her home, but he felt the absence of sympathy with his own mood.
"Are they hers?" asked the other, brushing the wasted leaves in an
unheeded shower to the floor.
Roy paid no regard to the emphasis. He was strangely averse to
talking about Jessie at that moment.
"They are," he said, leading the way to the house, Orrin treading on
the scattered flakes of fragrance, to gain the door of the bower.
"She is an able florist. There is not another garden like hers for
many miles around."
No one excepting Jessie observed that Mr. Wyllys did not accost her
of his own accord while they were at tea, which was set out upon a
small table near the large window in the parlor. She, used to
petting, and what might have been considered by an impartial judge
more than her share of general attention, and a trifle nervous
withal, in her desire to produce an agreeable impression upon Roy's
kinsman, did remark it, and was conscience-smitten by the fear lest
her chagrin at beholding a man so unlike her preconceived ideal had
been reflected in her manner. She seized an opportunity, therefore,
when Roy rolled the table to its accustomed place in the middle of
the apartment, to court Orrin's notice.
"So you ascended our Mont Blanc this afternoon?" she said, smiling
engagingly. "I must retract my saucy innuendoes touching your
fondness for ease."
He was quite near her, but he must have been inattentive, for he
turned his face to her, with--"Pardon me! I did not catch your
observation!"
"It was nothing so dignified as an observation," she retorted,
coloring and laughing. "If I were to repeat it, you would be
reminded of the poor girl whose complaint--'The soup is hot,'
uttered confidentially to a deaf old lady who chanced to sit next
her at a dinner-party, was the signal for the solemn production of
an ear-trumpet, and the remark--audible to all present--'A very
profound and interesting observation, I doubt not, my dear! Will you
oblige me by repeating it?'"
Mr. Wyllys laughed in well-bred moderation that, somehow, made
Jessie feel that her little story was not very amusing, and had been
tamely told.
"I submit to the consequences of my deafness, rather than annoy you
by the ear-trumpet," was his answer.
Bowing, in quitting her, he followed Mr. Kirke to another window.
"We were speaking of Ruskin's 'Stones of Venice,' to-day," Jessie
heard him begin.
She had read the book, and would have enjoyed listening to their
discussion of it, as did Eunice, to whom Mr. Wyllys appealed at her
re-entrance, setting a chair for her by her father's, and
establishing himself in front of them.
Roy apparently did not object to this arrangement, for he drew a
stool to the sofa, and talked to Jessie, aside, of things that would
have interested her beyond all other subjects, but for the sight of
that group in the moonlight that now flooded the room. It kept astir
the uneasy sensation produced by Mr. Wyllys' marked avoidance of
her at tea-time. While her hand lay within her lover's, and her ear
drank in all he said, and her heart beat, fast and warm, as he only
could make it pulsate, she was ashamed to catch herself watching the
slender figure, bending easily forward, his elbow upon the table at
his side, his chin upon his hand, now in an attitude of respectful
attention, while her father or Eunice spoke, again talking
earnestly--she was sure, eloquently also,--in the low, cleverly
modulated accents of which he was the consummate master. Did he then
regard her as a feather-brained rattle? a forward school girl, of
whose prattle he was already weary, and whom he adjudged incapable
of entering into, or appreciating, intellectual conversation?
"Oh dear!" escaped her, when she reached this point.
Roy looked amazed--almost aghast--as well he might. He was in the
middle of a description of their future home, prefatory of a hint he
deemed it best to drop relative to a petition he had laid before the
trustees of the college in which he was professor. This had asked a
year's leave of absence, that he might pursue the study of the
German language and literature abroad with one or two other branches
of his profession. Orrin Wyllys had brought him letters of
approbation from the body named, and the time had come when he must
feel his way gently to the announcement of the approaching
separation.
"My darling!" he said. "What is it? Are you in pain?"
"Yes! Not my foot!" seeing him look at it. "I have a desperate
heartache! I shall never be good and wise enough for you, Roy! And
you will discover this for yourself, one day."
"That is the only really foolish thing I have ever heard you say!"
returned he, in fond raillery. "I am tormented, without
intermission, by the conviction that I am unworthy of your regard,
so we will let the one fear neutralize the other. Love is a powerful
solvent, dear. It will melt these stubborn doubts--these flintstones
of fancied incompatibility, that fret your heart when you meditate
upon the chances that we shall make one another happy."
"But if I were sedate and discreet; cautious as to what I say, and
to whom I say it,--more learned and beautiful--more like the blessed
old Euna over there. You see"--in real mortification--"I cannot
express the wish to reform without falling into my nonsensical
tricks of speech!"
Roy could not preserve his gravity.
"I am not laughing at you!" he whispered, as she flung her arm over
her eyes. "What has moved you to this sensitiveness--and with me?
I could but liken my sentiments in the imaginary survey of the
pattern bride you would give me to those of Jacob, who was put off
with the demure Leah, when he had bargained for witching wicked
Rachel."
"The comparison is an insult to Euna!" interrupted Jessie, warmly.
"I said you ought to marry a woman like her--pure as a pearl, true
as steel--in principle like adamant. Leah! Bah! I always detested
her! She was a sly, heartless traitor--a smooth-tongued hypocrite,
who cozened the pretty young sister whom she envied--becoming, as
she did, a willing party to her father's fraud. She deserved all
the unhappiness she got!"
"We shall not differ there. The 'tender-eyed' Jewess is no favorite
of mine. But, even supposing that I were to sacrifice inclination to
a sense of what you consider the fitness of things, Eunice or one
like her would never elect to marry me. It is dissimilarity in
certain characteristics that provides the best sauce for courtship.
Your sister, for instance, would be well-mated with a man like Mr.
Wyllys, the salient points of whose character are those which she
has not."
"In other words, you think the interests of the drama demand that I
should do the light comedy as a counter-poise to your heavy
tragedy?" said Jessie, appeased. "I am sure I could never like your
cousin--or one like him--well enough to think of marrying him."
"I don't ask you to do it!" rejoined Roy, playfully. "But do not, on
that account, shut your eyes to his real excellence. He is to be
your brother, remember--for I have no other. His father was my
guardian, and while he lived, I scarcely felt the early loss of my
parents. To Orrin personally, I owe much. He is four years my
senior, and when we were at school, he fought many a battle in my
behalf with boys bigger than either of us. Then, we were separated
for seven years, seeing one another only in vacations and casual
furloughs from business. He is one of the trustees of our college,
and, although he will not admit it, I am persuaded that I am
indebted to his influence, seconded as it was by my dear old friend,
Dr. Baxter's advocacy of my cause,--for my Professorship. You will
like and esteem him when you come to know him. I hope you two will
be great friends in time. As a preliminary to your better
understanding, and consequently your admiration for him--I am going
to ask him for some music."
Orrin obeyed the call, but not with alacrity. He seemed altogether
content with his location and his companions.
"Please do not order lights!" he said to Eunice who arose with him.
"No illumination can be preferable to the mountain moonlight. It is
radiance clarified to purity."
It revealed to him, from his seat upon the music-stool, a picture he
was artist enough to enjoy. Jessie's white dress and pillows were
flecked by the irregular tracery of vine-shadows, but, through an
opening in the leafy lattice, the moon poured a stream of light upon
her face and bust, revealing even the gleam of the betrothal ring
upon the hand supporting her cheek. Roy had opened the piano, and
now stood at her feet in the shade, leaning against the wall--a
dark, motionless sentinel, with folded arms and bowed head,
listening to the music, or watchful of her.
The player essayed no scientific surprises; no juggling complication
of fingers and keys. He began with a moonlight sonata, the original
theme of which might have been rung by fairy hands upon the
jessamine bells, "giving their delicious secrets out" under the
weight of summer dew. From this he strayed into the "Midsummer
Night's Dream,"--thence to the most beautiful of the musical
paradoxes, "Songs Without Words," and there rested.
"More, please!" entreated Jessie, in dreamy delight.
Both hands were folded under her cheek now, and she had not moved
since he finished the fairy sonata.
"This is Elysium!" she added, softly.
"But sing, Orrin--won't you?" asked Roy.
So long as his cousin's music brought his darling more pleasure than
did conversation with himself, the generous fellow would contribute
in this way to her gratification.
"You wouldn't have wondered at or blamed me, if you had ever heard
him sing," said a broken-hearted wife to me once, in reviewing the
circumstances of her early acquaintance with the man who had
married, neglected, brutally ill-used, and finally deserted her. He
was bully, ruffian, liar, cheat, and drunkard, but he sang like an
angel, giving to words and music a depth and delicacy of expression
that sounded to the listeners like heavenly inspiration. With the
visage of a Caliban and the appetites of a satyr, he yet moved
others to smiles, tears, high and holy aspirations, to solemn or
wild enthusiasm, religious or patriotic. His musical genius was the
talisman by which he made himself popular, courted, envied,
passionately beloved. Orrin Wyllys' voice, his exquisite taste in
and knowledge of music would have won him social distinction had he
been awkward in carriage, boorish in manner, and an ignoramus. There
was not another amateur performer in his circle who could ever hope
to equal him in effective and scientific execution. In the keeping
of some--of many--the gift would have been a joy and a beneficence.
He had none more dangerous--and he knew it, lightly as he affected
to esteem it.
If his first selection on this occasion harmonized less perfectly
with the hush and chastened lustre of the evening than his
unsyllabled melodies had done, he was excusable since it developed
the best tones of his voice. It was Mrs. Norton's sea lyric--"The
Outward Bound." His auditors felt the rush of the favoring wind that
had sprung up at dawn; heard the flap of the sails as they filled,
and the creak of the line that strained at the anchor; saw the knot
of parting friends; the close, tight hand-clasp, that helped force
back the tears from eyes that would fain smile farewell.
"It is a fine old song," said Mr. Kirke. "I heard it many years ago.
I thank you, Mr. Wyllys, for reviving the memory."
"This generation has nothing that can compare worthily with the
music of other days," replied Orrin's voice from his shaded corner.
"The true lover of the art must turn from the potpourri of the
modern opera, the unflavored whey of fashionable ballads, with the
craving of him who, having tasted the mellow wine, refuses the
new--for he saith, 'the old is better.'"
Jessie moved like one awaking from a trance--spoke with feigned
lightness.
"'To weep is a woman's part!' I don't like that line of your song,
Mr. Wyllys. If your 'Outward Bound' had admitted mothers, sisters,
and wives to the parting banquet, they would have borne themselves
as bravely as did their masculine comrades, and without the aid of
the 'sparkling brimmer,' which is, I suppose, the poetical name for
a potion known, hereabouts, as 'mountain dew' or 'Dutch courage.'
But if poets of the stronger sex are to be believed, Niobe was the
prototype woman."
"Your quarrel is with one of your own sex, Miss Jessie; not with me
or mine," was the cool rejoinder. "Mrs. Norton wrote the offensive
line."
"There is something very like it in Kingsley's 'Three Fishers,'"
said Roy, to cover Jessie's trifling discomfiture. "Let us have that
next."
Mr. Wyllys sang it, giving to the refrain a weary sadness, exceeding
pathos. He knew how effective this was when he saw Jessie's hand
steal up to her eyes. She did not plead for "more," or cavil at "Men
must work and women must weep," when he left the instrument, and
went back to the window where Eunice was sitting.
"If you and your father are not afraid of the dew, I should like to
see the mountains in this light," he said, persuasively. "Dare you
walk for a little while upon the porch?"
The three went out together.
"Don't stay here, Roy!" begged Jessie. "The view must be fine
to-night. It is not fair that you should be tied to my side all the
time. I feel as if I were defrauding your cousin of his share of
your society."
"You must continue to upbraid yourself with the theft, then,"
answered Roy, reseating himself upon the ottoman, and drawing her
head to his shoulder. "Or, rather, my pet, you must cease to imagine
that I could prefer any society to yours, any scene to the
delightful seclusion of this, our betrothal nook. Orrin knows all.
He has fine tact, and comprehends how precious to me is every hour
passed with you."
This was a plausible solution of the reserve which puzzled and
pained her. Jessie tried to receive it in full faith, and forgot to
watch the forms strolling back and forth before the two windows
which opened upon the piazza. When the party broke up for the night,
she extended her hand to Orrin in cousinly freedom.
"I mean to make my trial effort at sitting up, to-morrow," she
said, blithely. "And we will have some music. Euna doesn't sing, but
she will play our accompaniments, since Mr. Fordham disdains the
piano."
"I threw a number of instrumental duets into my trunk yesterday,"
said Orrin to Miss Kirke. "I did not then know why I did it. I
understand now that I had some intuition of coming enjoyment. May I
bring them up to-morrow?"
Jessie had never been jealous of Eunice in her life. Her disposition
was as generous as it was impetuous. She did not care, she said to
herself, in reviewing the evening that sent her to her pillow tired
but sleepless, that Mr. Wyllys had openly preferred her sister's
companionship to hers; that he had scarcely noticed her proposal
about the music in his desire to play with Eunice. But she was
conscious of a discordant jar in memories that would else have been
all brightness, whenever she reverted to her repeated efforts to
scale the barriers of the strangerhood that ought not to have
existed between them for a moment after he heard Roy's story--and
the adroit rebuffs that had met each of these.
Eunice had helped her undress and seen her comfortably laid in bed,
kissed her affectionately, and promised to be with her early in the
morning. By the time the door was shut, Jessie had propped her head
upon her crossed arms, and lay with wide-open eyes gazing through
the unshuttered windows at the broad, straight brow of Windbeam,
black and majestic in the mountain moonlight; listening to the
stealthy whispers of the vine-leaves about the casement, and living
over the events of the day--an exciting one in her quiet life. Her
thoughts of Roy were all of prideful joy. Her heart was very
tender, very quiet in the glad humility that possessed her as she
pondered upon the fact that he had chosen her--an undisciplined,
unsophisticated country girl, to share the career she was sure would
be noble and distinguished. Something more than usually fond in
Eunice's silent caress at parting from her for the night, brought up
a host of reminiscences of the motherly love with which this sister
had guarded and nurtured her--the youngling of the household. Such a
bright, sweet day her existence had been! In all her sky there was
not a cloud, save this light vapor of discontent with herself that
the introduction to Roy's relative--the first of his old friends
whom she had ever met--should have been so unsatisfactory.
"His reserve actually increased as the hours went on," she
reflected. "His manner was more free and cordial while I was telling
him the story of old Davie Dundee than after Roy had explained to
him what we are to one another. Perhaps he thinks an engaged young
lady should be demure and dutiful, having no eyes or ears for any
one except her betrothed. Perhaps it is as Roy says, and he fears to
intrude upon our tête-à-têtes. I must convince him that we are not
so selfish. Roy declares that his cousin approves heartily of our
engagement--that he said many pleasant things of me, else I should
fear that he had taken a dislike to me, from the beginning, that he
thought Professor Fordham might and ought to have done better. I
must make him like him for myself--not merely because I am his
kinsman's choice."
From which soliloquy the reader will perceive that Mr. Wyllys had
led off with a winning card.
CHAPTER IV.
A week had passed since the Dundee Centennial, and life in the
parsonage had been in outward aspect like the weather--still and
sunny. The oldest Dundeeian had never known before so early and
genial a season. Eunice's roses were in luxuriant bloom; the
clover-meadows were pink and fragrant; the forests had burst into
full leafage; the strawberries upon the southern terrace of the
kitchen-garden were swelling globes, white on the nether, scarlet
upon the upper sides.
The ways of the household, always simple and methodical, were not
otherwise now. Roy spent a couple of hours each forenoon with his
betrothed. Orrin rarely made his appearance until two or three hours
after dinner when the cousins came up from the hotel together, and
did not return to their lodgings before ten o'clock at night. Mr.
Kirke had daily interviews with Mr. Wyllys in the course of the
walks and drives they took in company, and brought home accounts of
his suavity, wit, and varied information, which were endorsed by
Eunice, which Jessie heard with growing bewilderment at the chance
or purpose that withheld her from participation in what was freely
enjoyed by her father and sister. Even their music practice had not
melted the ice that lay, an impassive mass, just beneath the surface
of his deportment whenever he approached or addressed her. Her
liveliest sallies and most friendly overtures, met with a response,
ready and civil, indeed, but so unlike the gentle courtesy, the
kindliness and graceful deference of his behavior to Eunice that
nothing but a spirit determined and unsuspicious of evil as was our
heroine's could have kept her to her resolve to win his friendship.
Roy found her very charming under the light veil of pensiveness this
secret solicitude cast over her. She never intimated to him that his
kinsman had not met her expectation in every respect. She was
thankful, instead, that her betrothed did not see for himself that
all was not right between them. Some day, when the frost was quite
dispelled, they would laugh over it together--over her fears, her
innocent stratagems for the accomplishment of her object, Orrin's
stateliness, and Roy's blindness to her perturbation. She had
patience and hope. She would await the vanishment of the mist,
passing content, meanwhile, with the heart-riches that were hers
beyond peradventure. She had not heard of the German University
scheme. It was unlike Roy Fordham to hang back from making a
revelation which must come in the end, which delays could not
soften, and which could cause no more distress now than if it were
withheld until the close of his vacation. His judgment said that
Jessie would better endure the prospect of the separation while he
was with her, to lead her thoughts to the great and manifest
advantages that would accrue to him from the year of foreign study,
and--overleaping the gulf of absence--to paint the delight of
re-union. Mr. Kirke represented that Jessie was a girl of sense and
strength; that she would be better pleased to be confided in, and
consulted as his future wife, than be blinded and petted as a child;
and Roy, acquiescing in this opinion, still put off the evil hour.
Was it loving consideration for her--or presentiment--that struck
him with dumbness?
The lovers sat on the piazza, one afternoon, just after the sunset
repast. Jessie's "trial effort" had been made with ease that augured
rapid recovery, but she was forbidden to walk without assistance, or
to bear her whole weight upon the injured foot.
"While I feel strong enough to run a race with you down to the
mill," she said, pointing to a venerable building, a quarter of a
mile distant. "You can form no idea of the perversity of the
restless thing that used to be a manageable member, when I had leave
to walk, or sit still as I liked. I have a terrific attack of the
fidgets!"
"Penalty of insubordination--a return to the lounge and
oriel-window!" smiled Roy, in warning.
"That would be no punishment at all! When I am strong and active
again I mean often to play helpless, upon that dear old lounge, to
lie within the window and dream. I love it!"
Her voice sank in an intonation of ineffable tenderness that went to
Roy's heart in a pang, not a thrill. This evening he meant to tell
her that for many months she must sit alone in what he had named
their "betrothal-nook;" that the year they had agreed upon as the
period of their engagement must be passed apart, the one from the
other. He had made up his mind to another thing. If she asked the
sacrifice at his hands, he would abandon the cherished hope of
years, the fruition of which seemed now so near, and she should
never guess the extent of his self-denial. She was so dear to him!
this incarnation of frolic, passion, and of fancies--gay, graceful,
as whimsical as various--but all beautiful to him; she, whose eyes
deepened and softened and glowed with the tender cadence of those
three words--"I love it!" He had never succeeded in telling Orrin
why he loved her. His spoken analysis of her character was cold and
imperfect. Had Orrin uttered aloud his unflattering, "pert
Amaryllis," Roy would have resented the epithet warmly, yet
acknowledged, secretly, that his own portrait of her was hardly more
like the reality. He could not describe her trait by trait, feature
by feature. But for himself, he knew that she was the embodied glory
of his life; that every ray that kept his heart warm and bright with
a very summer of gladness, could be traced to her,--her love, and
the influence the consciousness of this had upon his thoughts of the
present, and dreams of days to come.
"The oriel is enchanted ground to me. We will build one like it, in
our own home, and cover it with jessamine and wisteria," he said,
noting, with loving amusement, the crimson flush that always bathed
her face at direct allusions to their marriage. "Orrin shall sketch
it for me. He is a universal genius, and his taste is marvellous.
His bachelor apartments are a notable exception to any others I ever
saw. They are furnished almost as well, kept almost as neatly, as
if he were married."
"Isn't he a bit of a Sybarite?" queried Jessie, abruptly. "If he has
a fault--or, no! you wouldn't own that he has--but, isn't his foible
a love of luxury--of comfort, if you prefer to call it so--bodily
and mental?"
"He is certainly not indolent. I know no other man who will work
more persistently, although quietly, to gain a coveted end. And if
he loves the ease of the flesh, why so do we all--don't we? His
philosophy teaches that it is folly for one to be miserable, when he
can as readily be happy and comfortable. His has been a prosperous
life, thus far. He has known little of sorrow or trial. Should these
come, they will ripen, not sour him, for the original material is
good. I am the more anxious that you should know and appreciate him
because--"
The gate swung open to admit a visitor--a farmer's lad, in whose
attempts at self-education the young professor took a lively
interest.
"I found this in the field on the other side of the mountain,
to-day," he said, laying a piece of stone in Mr. Fordham's hand. "I
think there's ore in it."
Roy inspected it closely.
"Miss Jessie"--he gave her no more familiar address in the hearing
of common acquaintances--"is your father in his study?"
"I believe so," she replied, eyeing the intruder less amiably than
her lover had done, in the anticipation of the prolonged
interruption.
"Mr. Kirke has an acid that will test this in a few minutes,"
continued Fordham to the boy. "Will you excuse me for a little
while?" turning to Jessie with a smile loving for herself, and
entreating her forbearance for his protégé.
Her ill-humor vanished instantly under the benignant ray.
"Certainly!" she replied, nodding cordially to the bashful lad. "He
is the noblest man GOD ever made!" she said aloud, when she was
alone.
She leaned back in her easy chair, her hands folded in blissful
contentment, enjoying the breeze from the mountains, the sunset
clouds, the incense from the flower-garden, and the hum of the
mill-wheel, mentally recapitulating her hero's perfections, until
her heart ached with happy sighs, and she saw the landscape through
an iridescent haze.
"I am a baby!" was her indignant ejaculation, as she cleared her
eyes with an impatient brush of her hand. "I grow more ridiculous
every day!"
As a means of growing wiser, she fell to watching her sister and
Orrin Wyllys, who were busy tying up wandering rose-bushes in
Eunice's pet labyrinth. Mr. Wyllys had his back to Jessie, when she
first observed them. He was fastening back a branch which Miss Kirke
held in its place, and their hands were very close together. It may
have been this circumstance, it may have been the heat of the day,
or the reflection of a bunch of pink moss-roses overhead--it could
hardly have been anything which her companion was saying which
brought the delicate roseate flush to the face usually pale and
calm. His attitude was far too dignified and respectful to hint the
possibility of gallant badinage on his part. Bonâ-fide love-making
was, of course, out of the question, since they had not known each
other ten days.
"Euna is handsome!" mused her sister in complacent affection.
"What a high-bred face and bearing she has! She looks the lady
in her morning-gowns of print and dimity; but that lawn with the
forget-me-not sprig becomes her rarely. I am glad I insisted
upon her putting it on. But she wouldn't let me fasten the
lilies-of-the-valley in her hair! Her only fault is a tendency to
primness. She and Mr. Wyllys get on admirably together. He
evidently admires her, and it is a treat to her to have the society
of a cultivated gentleman. I know," smiling and blushing anew, "it
is a salvo to my conscience to see them satisfied with each other's
company, needing Roy and myself as little as we need them. I
should else blame myself for our seeming selfishness."
Rambling on discursively, she struck upon an idea, too fraught with
delightsome mischief not to urge her to immediate action. Eunice had
turned her head away, and Orrin was concealed by a tall shrub. The
grassy alley leading from the porch to where they were standing
would not give back the sound of footsteps. How frightened and
amazed the careful elder sister would be, if she were to steal down
the walk and present herself before her! How solemnly Orrin would
look on while she submitted to be lectured for her imprudence, and
how she, in the end would triumph over her custodians, Roy included
(who, by the way, was staying away an unconscionable time), when she
should demonstrate that she knew better than they what she could do
and bear; that she was none the worse for the escapade that had
wrought their consternation. She only regretted that she must lose
the sight of Roy's horrified visage when he should return to
discover her flight.
Her eyes gleaming with mirth, she arose cautiously, favoring the
unused joint, and stepped off the low piazza. Even when she felt
the cool, delicious turf under foot, she steadied herself by
grasping the nearest objects that offered a support. First it was a
clump of box, then the stout prickly branches of a Japan apple-tree,
then a fan-shaped trellis, which would by and by be covered with
Cyprus vines. She would do nothing rashly--would come to her own by
degrees. But when another step would bring her within arms' length
of the florists, she trod firmly upon both feet, and feeling neither
pain nor weakness, laughed aloud in wicked glee, and took that step.
She saw Eunice start and grow white; saw Orrin's grave yet courtly
surprise as he advanced to offer his arm. Ere he could reach her,
the treacherous ankle gave way with a wrench that drove breath and
sense in one quick shuddering breath from her body.
As they left her, she heard, like a strain of far-off music, a voice
say in her ear, "My poor child!" had a dizzy thought that strong
arms--stronger than Eunice's--received her.
Then, all was a blank until she awoke upon her lounge, hair and face
dripping with wet; the scent of sal volatile tingling in her
nostrils, and a cluster of anxious faces about her. Eunice's was the
first she knew, Roy's next. He was on his knees by her, chafing her
hands. She pulled them feebly from his hold, and clasped them about
his neck, hiding her eyes upon his bosom.
"O, Roy! I was very wrong! very foolish! Don't scold me."
"Hush! hush!" he said, soothingly. "Nobody thinks of scolding you!
If you apologize to any one, it must be to this gentleman. He
brought you into the house, and I suspect his arms want looking
after more than your foot does."
He laughed, not quite steadily, in saying it, and Jessie felt his
fingers tighten upon hers. She flushed up rosily--was herself again,
as she looked around for Orrin. He was in the rear of the family
party, as was seemly, but his eyes were bent upon her with a
singular fixedness--the irids closing in upon a spark that flashed
and pierced like steel. Involuntarily, she shut hers, for a second,
as if blinded.
He came forward at that.
"Don't believe him!" said the same voice that had sent its echo
through her swoon. "I am none the worse for the slight exertion. I
consider myself very fortunate in having been near enough to help
you, when you fainted--am very thankful that you are better. Come
with me, Roy! Here is the doctor! If he scolds you, Miss Jessie,
please consider me your champion."
The doctor, being an old friend, did scold the "madcap," who had, he
for a while averred, undone his and Nature's fortnight's work.
Relenting, finally, at Jessie's pretty show of penitence, he
confessed that less harm had been done than he had expected, and
contented himself with sentencing the delinquent to two days' strict
confinement to the sofa, and "serious meditation upon what might
have been the result of her imprudence--her reckless step."
"My misstep, you mean," said the incorrigible patient. "If I had not
lain here so long already as to forget how to walk straightly and
squarely, and to maintain the centre of gravity, this would not have
happened."
Altogether, the evening was gayer than usual to all. Jessie's
spirits were exuberant to a degree her sister feared was hysterical,
and Orrin seconded her sallies with a quieter humor, that amused the
rest and enchanted her.
"It was worth my while to faint!" she owned to him, sotto voce,
when he came up to say "Good-night." "I wish I had done it before!"
Her cheeks were red with excitement; her eyes laughed up into his
with arch meaning that was very bewitching and very indiscreet. His
pupils contracted suddenly to the blue spark, and his left palm
covered the little hand he held within his right.
"You are very kind!" was all he said with his lips.
"What treason are you two whispering there?" questioned Roy.
"Nothing that concerns you in the least!" answered Jessie, saucily.
"We will keep our own counsel--won't we?" to Orrin.
He was too sensible to lie awake thinking, at an hour when people
with accommodating consciences and gutta-percha hearts are wont to
sleep soundly. Nor had he ever contracted the unsafe and irrational
habit of talking audibly to himself--one to which poor Jessie was
addicted. Yet he had his thoughts as he put out the candle in his
bedroom that night.
"She is either a born flirt, and over-anxious to practise her
calling, or she is the most charming, because most novel compound of
naïveté, cleverness, and feeling that has crossed my path for many a
day. In either case, she is a study."
The best and the worst women were with him resolved into
that--studies, all,--and when they had fed his vanity and
ministered to his individual gratification, they were laid aside for
other specimens. As the dissecter of men's bodies soon loses his
reverence for whatever of divinity the common mind may discern in
the human form; as the anemone and the nettle are to the botanist
but different combinations of stamen, pistil, and petal,--so your
professed student of character, your mortal searcher and tryer of
souls, merges heart into head in the practice of his art. Sorrow has
no sacredness; Love no warning purity; Pain no appeal to him.
Sensibilities are interesting only as they quiver and shrink beneath
his touch; Affection is his plaything; blasted hopes, withered and
wounded hearts, are the unconsidered débris of the sacrificial
honors done the ensanguined Moloch of his Self-love.
It is the fashion to call such ornaments of Society. A better,
because truer, name, would be the Thugs of Civilization.
CHAPTER V.
Dr. Septimus Baxter was President of Marion College, situate in the
beautiful town of Hamilton, lying two hundred miles to the
northward, and in another state than the mountain-girded valley of
which the Dundee Church and the surrounding village were the chief
ornaments. Dr. Baxter was the nominal head of the faculty of
professors, and Mrs. Septimus Baxter was virtual autocrat of his
home.
He was a little man, physically, at his best, which was when he was
in his own realm--the area enclosed by the walls of his
lecture-room. There was, in popular phrase, "no fit" to his clothes.
His trousers bagged at the knees, and his coats hung in loose folds
down from his shoulder-blades, on the very day they left the
tailor's shop; were shabby within twenty-four hours. He had a trick
of brushing the nap of his hat the wrong way in his abstracted
moods, and of twisting his forefinger in one bow of his white
cravat until he dragged it into a slovenly loop, two crumpled wisps
depending from it. Another and his most inveterate habit was, to tie
his handkerchief into a succession of tight knots while he lectured,
preached, prayed, and talked. Each marked a step in ratiocination or
a rise in interest in the matter that engaged his mind until the
climax of proof or animation was reached, when he would begin to
untie them, one after the other, timing the process so judiciously
that "Amen!" or "Quod erat demonstrandum!" passed his lips as the
released cambric swept through his hand in a flourish prior to its
restoration to his pocket. Nevertheless, he commanded respect from
students and professors. His courage in grappling with crabbed or
ponderous themes; the eagle eye that penetrated the vapors of
mysticism, detected the insidious thread of sophistry, which,
intertwined with legitimate argument, was gradually but fatally
guiding the inquirer away from the truth; the bursts of real
eloquence, passages of beauty and pathos, that starred the
didacticism of his discourses, electrifying his hearers as the
musical ring from the desiccated tortoise-shell may have startled
the god who tripped over it--these made him a hero to his classes, a
man to be consulted and reverenced by his co-laborers. Moreover, he
had a great heart within his narrow chest, soft as a child's,
generous to self-abnegation, and full of such holy and Christian
graces as love the shade, while their unconscious aroma betrays
their existence to all who pass.
Mrs. Baxter had been a belle, and she would hardly have cast a
second glance upon the small and shabby divine, but for two weighty
reasons. By some unaccountable freak of Cupid, or of Fortune, the
popular Miss Lanneau had counted her thirtieth year without
exchanging her celibate state for that which she languishingly
avowed would be preferable to one of her dependent nature and
seeking sensibilities. She laughed yet with her lips and executed
arch manoeuvres with her speaking eyes, when unfeeling allusion
was made in her presence to the "crooked stick" that awaits the
over-nice fagot gatherer, and to the forlorn and aged virgin, also a
wanderer in woodlands, who answered the owl's "To-who?" all the
freezing night with the despairing--"Anybody!" But at heart she was
growing restless, if not unhappy, when Dr. Baxter fell in her way.
She was a littérateur, as well as a beauty, and her reverend
suitor was a man of note--a distinguished clergyman, a savant and
senior professor in a highly respectable institution of learning.
She had longed for a "career" all her life--for a sphere of decided
influence--social and literary. Would a more promising avenue to
this ever be offered her? She overlooked the ill-fitting coat, the
dragged cravat, the inevitable handkerchief. As she put it, she "set
the subjective where it should always be placed--above the grosser
objective." In direct English she married the doctor, and had for
fifteen years made him an excellent wife. If his testimony were of
importance in this case--and he was a sturdy truth-teller--he wanted
no better.
I have said that he was a little man at his best. He was a pygmy on
a certain evening in the November succeeding the Dundee Centennial
summer. To begin with the most severe of the dwarfing processes to
which he had been subjected. It was a reception night in the
presidential mansion. Mrs. Baxter had given a party the previous
week, and now sat in state, as was the Hamiltonian usage, to receive
the calls demanded from those who had been the invitees on that
occasion. The ceremony in its mildest form would have been
purgatorial to her spouse, but she had aggravated the torture by
personally superintending his toilette. This accomplished, she
entreated him if he had one atom of regard for her, to leave necktie
and handkerchief alone for that night; walked him into the parlor,
and inducted him into an immense easy chair directly beneath a
bracket-light; thrust an illuminated folio--one of her centre-table
ornaments--between his fingers, and withdrew to her own chair a
little way off, to examine the effect.
"You are really picturesque, my love!" she decided, in honeyed
patronage. "If you can only remember to sit upright instead of
slipping down in the lap of your chair until your coat-collar shows
above the back of your neck, you will make a fine study for a sketch
of 'Learned Leisure,' or something of that kind."
The poor man smiled resignedly, and began to turn the leaves of his
book. It was a sacred album, the work of his wife's fair fingers,
although he did not know this.
"I flatter myself you will find some choice bits there?" she said,
modestly.
She was fond of talking about "bits," and "effects," and "tone," and
"depth;" of "chiaro-oscuro," and "bas-reliefs," and "intaglios,"
and "antiques,"--useful cant that forms the stock-in-trade of many
an art-critic, whose decrees pass current with a larger circle than
the clique which eulogized Mrs. Baxter's talents. She was, in
feature and coloring, a pretty woman still, in defiance of her
forty-five or forty-six years. Her brown eyes were lively; the red
of her complexion, if a trifle fixed and hard, seldom outspreading
the distinctly defined round spots upon the cheek-bones, was hers
honestly, as were the glossy curls that showed no frost-lines, and
the pearly teeth she had trained her lips to reveal at every
possible opportunity. Her hands were plump, white, and small, and
would have been smaller had she exercised them less. Like the teeth,
they were too obtrusive. She could not say "Good-day" to a passing
acquaintance without parting her lips in a wide smile over the
milk-white treasures, tucking away their natural covering in an
incredibly narrow fold above the ivory, and stretching it below into
a straight line which lost itself in creases that had once been
dimples. She had been renowned in her youth for her vivacity, and
had cultivated it into what nobody was kind enough to tell her was
frisky affectation. The extent to which the pliant fingers curved,
and twined, and twinkled, and sprawled, in the course of a
conversation of moderate length, was a thing of wonder forever to
the uninitiated spectator of her gambols. She added to this
gesticulation a way of plunging forward from her girdle upward, when
she waxed very animated, that threatened to precipitate her into the
lap of her fellow-colloquist, after which she would lay her hand
upon her heaving bust, and swallow audibly, while awaiting a reply
to her latest deliverance. To sum up description in one word--Mrs.
Baxter's speciality was Manner.
Her friends were correct in one laudation. She was amiable and
kind-hearted in her way, as her husband was in his. If she
trafficked upon this excellence, made the most of it, very much
after the style in which she showed off her teeth and hands, it was
rather because display was her controlling foible, than through any
design upon the answering gratitude of her beneficiaries. She was
dressed in black silk, with a jaunty velvet basquine, a scarlet
scarf of Canton crêpe fastened upon the right shoulder with an
antique cameo, and knotted under the left, the fringed ends falling
low down upon her skirt.
She was just established in her comfortable causeuse, when the
door-bell heralded a visitor.
"My dear Mr. Wyllys!" she cried, fluttering forward to meet him.
"You are doubly welcome when you come alone. One sees you so seldom
except in a crowd, that it is a genuine pleasure to have a few
moments' quiet conversation with you."
"It is like yourself to excuse my unfashionably early call with such
gracious tact," responded the gentleman, bowing low over her hand.
He shook hands with the doctor with less empressement, but most
respectfully, and sank upon a divan near the hostess.
"I have another engagement this evening, but I could not deny myself
the pleasure of paying my devoirs to you in passing. I will not
ask if you have recovered from the fatigue of Thursday night"--with
an expressive look at her blooming face. "I believe, however, it is
never a weariness to you to be agreeable, as it is to us duller and
less benevolent mortals. I am horribly cross, always, on the morning
succeeding a party. It is as if I had overdrawn my account, in the
matter of social entertainment; borrowed too heavily from the
reserve fund intended by Nature for daily expenses. But this rule
applies only to people whose resources of spirits, wit, and general
powers of pleasing, are limited. You are above the need of such
pitiful economy as we find necessary."
"Shall I undeceive you?" beamed the lady. "If the doctor--dear,
patient martyr!--were put into the witness-box, he might tell sad
tales, make divulgations that would demolish your pretty and
flattering theory. Doctor, my love! Mr. Wyllys is anxious to know
what was the status of my spiritual and mental thermometer, on the
morning after our little re-union, last week?"
"Eh, what did you say, my dear?"
He lowered his folio. His eyebrows were perked discontentedly, and
his forefinger was in the doomed bow she had tied not fifteen
minutes before.
Mrs. Baxter tried, unsuccessfully, to frown down the offending digit
before she made reply.
"Mr. Wyllys has heard that I am like champagne, 'stale, flat, and
unprofitable'--with a dash of vinegar--when the effervescence
wrought by social excitement is off," vivified, by her mirthful
misrepresentation of her visitor's words, into radiance that
revealed every molar, and forced her eyelids into utter retirement.
"Ah!" The doctor smiled absently, and re-bent his brows over the
page, protruding his lips in a vicious pout as he read.
"He disdains to notice the slander," resumed Mrs. Baxter, unabashed
at her failure to elicit a conjugal compliment. "Seriously, Mr.
Wyllys, I am thankful for the guidance of reason and will that
counterbalance my mercurial temperament. My spirit resembles nothing
else so much as a mettled steed, whose curvettings are restrained by
an inexorable rein. But for my sober judgment, Impulse would have
led me into an erratic course, I fear."
Relaxing the tension of the fingers and wrist that had pulled hard
at an imaginary curb, and unclenching the teeth from their bite upon
the word "inexorable," she sighed, reflectively.
"The combination is rare--" commenced the gentleman.
"It is preposterous!" ejaculated the doctor, closing the
Russian-leather album with a concussion like the report of a
pocket-pistol.
"I think not, dear," said the wife, gently corrective. "It is, as
Mr. Wyllys says, a rare combination, but certainly not an impossible
one."
"It is preposterous," reiterated the doctor, with a ruinous tug at
his cravat, "that a rational creature, who can read and write,
should waste time in disfiguring good, honest paper with such
incongruous, not to say blasphemous, nonsense as I find here. It was
bad enough for mediæval monks to deck the Word of Life in the motley
wear of a harlequin. Greek, German, black-letter text, are, all of
them, stumbling-blocks to the unlearned, diversions to the
thoughtless. But when the sacred Scriptures are bedizened into
further illegibility by paint and gilding, and illustrated by
birds, beasts, and even fishes, daubed upon fields, azure, argent,
and verde, the offence becomes an abomination. Such profanation is
offered that divinest of pastorals, the twenty-third psalm, in this
volume," elevating it in strong disgust.
Mrs. Baxter arose and took it from his hand in time to save it from
being tossed to the table or floor.
"Tastes differ, my dear husband," was all she said, but her
forbearance and real sweetness of temper called forth a look of
unfeigned respect from the amused spectator.
"I wouldn't keep it in the parlor, if I were in your place, Jane,"
the doctor expostulated, seeing her deposit the folio upon a stand
beyond his reach.
"I will not ask you to look at it again, love,"--still amiably.
She returned to the subject when the critic had helped himself to a
volume which was more to his taste.
"I saw few things when I was abroad, before my marriage, that
interested me more than the illuminated missals and breviaries
preserved in convents, museums, and private collections of vertu,"
she said to Mr. Wyllys. "I am the possessor of a remarkably fine
specimen of the illuminator's art--the gift of a dear friend and
relative, now no more. I had not looked into it for years until
after I commenced my humble album, which, allow me to observe, my
excellent husband does not guess is my handiwork. To return"--the
hands describing an inward curve, and subsiding into an embrace upon
her knee--"the best touches in my work were after my precious
reliquary. I must show it to you. I am chary of displaying it to
non-appreciative or irreverent eyes. Consequently it seldom sees the
light."
Orrin followed her to an escritoire at the back of the room, peeping
covertly at his watch as he went. Mrs. Baxter laid her hand upon her
bust, and choked down some rebellious uprising of memory or regret,
as she unlocked a drawer.
"This is it!" mournfully, taking out a thin volume bound in gilded
leather and carved boards, and redolent of the scent of some Indian
wood.
Orrin examined it in pleased surprise. He had expected to see an
absurdity. He beheld a gem of its kind; a collection of Latin hymns,
including the Stabat Mater, Dies Iræ, and Veni Sancte Spiritus, each
page encircled by a border of appropriate design, and delicate yet
rich coloring.
"I have never seen anything finer. I do not wonder that you prize it
highly. I thank you for showing it to me," he said, sincerely. "By
whom was it executed?"
"My friend ordered it for me of an adept in his art, then resident
at Florence. I forget his name, but you will find it cleverly
concealed from the common eye in some one of the convolutions of the
title-page," was the reply.
The fly-leaf adhered slightly to the page designated, and Orrin read
the inscription upon the former before detaching it.
"'Jane Lanneau, from Ginevra. Florence, January 1st, 18--.' I have
surely seen that handwriting before! 'Ginevra!'" he repeated slowly,
and the pretty name fell musically from his tongue. "There is poetry
in the word!"
"You would have said so, had you known her!" Mrs. Baxter winked away
two unbidden tears that glazed her eyes, without forming and
dropping--swallowed anew and very hard. "She always reminded me of a
plaintive poem set to music. That is, in the later years of an
existence which was all song and sunniness when it was fresh and
new."
Orrin fluttered a few leaves; commented upon the grace and finish
of a decoration here and there, and went back to the inscription. It
was strongly like Jessie Kirke's writing, but the resemblance was
undoubtedly accidental. The one line had been penned, he learned
from the date, before she was born.
"She was the Helena to my Hermia," pursued the hostess. "We lived
the same life until her marriage, which preceded mine by five years.
She was my senior by some months, but in heart and soul we were
twins!"--pressing her hands gradually together, beginning at the
wrists, and passing upward to the finger-tips, to express the idea
of oneness. "And by a most extra-or-di-nary coincidence, we both
married clergymen!"
"Another evidence of the perfect harmony of soul existing between
you. Did I understand you to say that she is not living?"
"Alas! she has been in her grave for fifteen years. I never saw her
after her marriage, which was a surprise to all her friends. We
anticipated a brilliant union for her. But she bestowed herself, her
talents, her beauty, upon a clerical widower who was twelve years
older than herself. My poor Ginevra! it was a strange ending to her
sanguine dreams. Mr. Kirke was a scholarly man, it is true, and a
thorough gentleman, and of his devotion to her there could be no
doubt. It was such worship as few women can inspire. I believe
that he tried faithfully to make her happy, but my personal
acquaintanceship with him was very slight."
"Kirke!" repeated Orrin, more deliberately and with less emphasis
than was his wont, and he was always the reverse of abrupt. His lazy
articulation now was almost a drawl. "I know a gentleman--a
clergyman of that name--Rev. Donald L. Kirke, resident, now, and I
fancy for many years, at Dundee--"
"It is the very same!" Mrs. Baxter started tragically, and leaned
gaspingly toward him, her throat swelling like a pouter pigeon's.
"And you know him, you say? Tell me something about him--about his
family! My sweet cousin left a child, I know. Does it still live?
Dundee! yes! that was the quaint Scotch name of my Ginevra's new
home. I have always associated it with 'The Cotter's Saturday
Night.' You recollect 'Dundee's wild, warbling measures'? Do sit
down and tell me all!"
"You should visit Dundee," said Orrin, sauntering back to the
fireplace, but declining the seat she offered. "It is a beautiful
valley--sheltered from storms by a barricade of picturesque hills. I
was there in May, and the climate and flowers--especially the wealth
of roses, reminded me of sunny Provence. I became quite well
acquainted with Mr. Kirke. He is, as you describe him, a thorough
gentleman--one of the genuine 'old school'--handsome, refined, and
scholarly. His daughters, of whom there are two, are cultivated
ladies. The younger--who is, I presume, the child to whom you
refer--is, I have heard, very like her beautiful mother. You would
be interested in her, first, for your cousin's sake, but very soon
for her own. This matter of family likeness is a curious one. I see
now what was the resemblance that puzzled me last Spring. Miss
Jessie Kirke might easily be mistaken for your daughter."
"If she were, what a happy woman I should be!" cried the flattered
lady, casting up her brown eyes, and raising her clasped hands to a
level with her chin. "The relief afforded by your charming
description is beyond expression. I have never dared inquire
respecting my lost darling's babe. And she is really a Lanneau!
Heaven bless her! I feared--how I feared! to hear that she had
grown up an awkward rustic, whose faint likeness to her parent would
pain, not gratify me. Therefore I have maintained no correspondence
with Mr. Kirke since our exchange of letters immediately after his
wife's decease. 'Jessie Kirke!' what a riante, piquante,
bewitching name!"
"I wish you could prevail upon her father to entrust her to you for
a time. She would be a feature in our society this winter. Her face
and manners are strikingly attractive, and hers is a style of beauty
that will improve with years and knowledge of the world. Her bearing
and conversation have much of the fascination which is, I suspect, a
family gift. She will grow handsomer until--I cannot say when.
Women, like leaves, have their time to fade, and this trying season
lies, with a large majority, a little on the bright side of thirty.
The Lanneaus have not lost the secret they brought from fair
France--the magic that purchases the gift of perennial youth."
"Fie! fie! how you digress! I am dying for information of my beloved
young cousin, and you launch into irrelevant gallantries--flattery
that is thrown away, let me tell you, upon one of my age and
gravity!" frowned Mrs. Baxter with her forehead, her lips openly
refractory, and her eyes dancing with delight. "Do sit down and
tell me more!"
"I cannot, thank you! I have already bored you with a visit three
times as long as I meant it should be. Your cousin does the family
credit. I can award her no higher praise. Au revoir!"
"One second!" she entreated, detaining him. "The discoveries of this
evening seem trifles to you. To me they are an EVENT! I shall write
to the precious lamb to-morrow. Please give me her address in full."
Orrin dictated, and she wrote it upon her ivory tablets.
"Perhaps it would be as well not to mention me in connection with
this renewal of your intercourse with Mr. Kirke's family," he said,
carelessly. "Your friendship will be the more welcome if it is
supposed that it has its root in your fond recollection of your
lamented relative. Excuse the suggestion--but from what I have seen
of father and daughters, I am inclined to think them sensitive and
proud--as they have a right to be. Your tact hardly needed this
hint, however. There is a ring! I have loitered here shamefully! Do
you know that your beautiful drawing-room is likened, about town, to
Circe's cave?"
CHAPTER VI.
Mr. Wyllys was careful not to repeat his visit within a week. He
could trust to the natural growth of the seed he had sown, and he
was too politic to appear solicitous, on his own account, for the
resumption of cousinly intercourse between the houses of Baxter and
Kirke. He did not overrate his influence with the would-be leader of
Hamilton society. Four days after his party call, he had a note from
Jessie.
    "DEAR COUSIN ORRIN:
     "I enclose a letter received last night from Mrs. Baxter, wife
     of the President of Marion College. She is, I have learned from
     this, my nearest living relative, outside my immediate family
     circle, being my mother's first cousin. I never heard of her
     until the arrival of this communication. My father knew her,
     years ago, but did not remember whom she had married. I little
     imagined when I listened to Roy's praises of his friend, Dr.
     Baxter, that I had any personal interest in, or connection
     with his family. Mrs. Baxter writes, you see, in an
     affectionate strain, and is urgent in her request that I should
     pass the winter with her. My father and sister agree with me
     that you are the proper person to consult with regard to my
     answer to the invitation. You are, doubtless, acquainted with
     Mrs. Baxter, and are certainly more au fait to the usages of
     Hamilton polite society than we are.
     "Tell me freely what you think I ought to do--freely as if I
     were in blood, as I am in heart,
    "Your Kinswoman,
    "JESSIE KIRKE."
"Here is an example of hereditary transmission that would stagger
Wendell Holmes himself!" thought Orrin, scanning the epistle, letter
by letter. "The chirography of the girl, who could not write at the
time of her mother's death, is precisely similar to hers--as similar
as it is unlike that of the sister by whom she was educated. It is a
nut to crack for those who carp at the idea that the handwriting is
a criterion of character, who attribute variety of penmanship to
educational influences entirely. What has my fair 'kinswoman'
inherited from her matronal progenitor besides her features and
carriage, and these sloping, slender Italian characters, I wonder?
It may be worth my while to investigate the question as a
psychological phenomenon."
To secure the facilities for doing this, he resolved to run down to
Dundee the next day.
The early train he had condemned in the spring, started now before
daylight, and he called himself a fool, as he took his place in the
cold, smoky car, for making the journey at all. Being mortal, he
was liable to these spasms of prudence and faltering of purpose,
during which he held serious questioning with Common-sense--leaving
feeling out of the discussion--whether he were not squandering time
and thought in prosecuting his favorite pastime of winning and
wasting hearts. He knew that, viewed in the dead white light of
sober judgment, tested by commercial rates, his ambition to stand
chief victor in Cupid's lists, would be ignoble and unremunerative.
He felt that he would himself thus rate it, had he no other aim in
life. Aware, as he was, that he kept step with his fellows in
