more than he expected. , ' 
Sibyl blushed deeply. " No, aunt," she said 
in a low tone, " I gave him my pearls as a 
thank-offering, perhaps I ought to say a sin- 
offering." 
Aunt Faith bent over and kissed the suffused 
cheek ; then the two had a long conversation 
about the future, and gradually and surely a 
more joyous tone crept into their words, as is apt 
to be the case when the talkers hear in the 
distance the sound of future wedding-bells. 
The marriage was to take place before Decem- 
ber, and Mr. Leslie had already selected the 
little house which was to be their home ; Aunt 
Faith, with true housewifely interest, was already 
making plans for the furniture and stores of 
fair linen, which her old-fashioned ideas deemed 
 
a necessary part of the household outfit, and 
even Bessie had set her unskilful fingers to the 
work of manufacturing various little ornaments 
to brighten the simple rooms. But her chief 
present was to be a picture representing the 
piazza of the old stone house with Aunt Faith, 
Hugh, Tom, and herself sitting or standing in 
their accustomed attitudes, while Sibyl going 
down the garden-walk with Mr. Leslie, turned 
her head for a farewell smile , and Gem threw a 
bunch of roses after her. Bessie prided herself 
upon this picture ; the' likenesses were all com- 
pleted save Hugh's, for the first object was to 
finish his portrait before he went East, and from 
that she could fill in the other face at her lei- 
sure. 
"You are all so kind to me, Aunt Faith," 
said Sibyl, as the long conversation came to a 
close ; " I am so happy in your love, and so 
happy in the future opening before me; it is 
almost too much happiness." 
Aunt Faith possessed a fund of native humor 
 
which neither age nor care had been able to 
subdue. As her niece rose to go to her room, 
she said with a merry glance, " By the way, 
Sibyl, how about the smell of the flannels from 
the kitchen on washing-days ? " 
" I will have them washed at the extreme end 
of the back garden," replied Sibyl, echoing 
Aunt Faith's laugh, as she escaped from the 
room. 
The thirty-first of August came, — Hugh's last 
day at home. His departure was hastened by 
his wish to return to Sibyl's wedding ; he hoped 
to get initiated into the duties of his new posi- 
tion, conquer the first difficulties, and gain a few 
 days of leisure for a short visit home before the 
busy winter season commenced. Mr. Hastings, 
the second-cousin who had offered Hugh a place 
in his counting-room, was a New- York mer- 
chant, a stern, practical man, who expected full 
measure of work from all his subordinates. 
Yet, with all his rigor, he had a kind heart in 
his breast, and was inclined to treat his young 
 
relative with favor ; he had seen him but once, 
when, during school-life, Hugh had spent a va- 
cation at his house ; but the old man had been 
more pleased than he would acknowledge, with 
the boy's overflowing spirits and bright intellect. 
He had no sons; his daughters were married, and 
the next year he had written to Aunt Faith pro- 
posing to take Hugh into his business on the 
completion of his education, promising, if the 
young man stood the test well, that he would 
give him a small share of the profits after a 
certain period, and intimating that there would 
be no bar to his becoming a partner eventually, 
if he showed the proper qualifications. The 
business men among Aunt Faith's acquaintances 
told her that this was a fine opening for Hugh, 
that the house of J. B. Hastings & Co. stood 
well in New York, and that they would gladly 
accept such an opportunity for their sons. 
Hugh himself was pleased with the idea, and 
when it was finally decided that he should go, 
he wrote a letter full of enthusiastic thanks and 
hopes to Mr. Hastings, and finished his remain- 
ing two years at college with many pleasant 
visions of his future life floating in his brain. 
'' Tis the last day of summer, left blooming 
alone," chanted Tom, as he entered the dining- 
room where the rest of the family were at 
breakfast. " To-morrow Hugh will be gone, — 
to-morrow Estella Camilla Wales must pine in 
vain for her mistress, who will be engrossed in 
decimal fractions, and to-morrow I must take 
down from the dusty shelf that dismal old 
Latin Prose. I wonder who cares for 
Romulus and Remus! I don't ! " 
" Don't talk about it beforehand," said Gem ; 
" let's pretend it's the very first day of vacation." 
" Oh, what dismal faces ! " said Aunt Faith, 
laughing. " School is not such a trial after all. 
I should be sorry to hear you spell deficiency, 
d-e-f-i-s-h-u-n-s-y,' as Annie Chase did, Gem." 
" Or to say, 4 il est la plus mauvais garcon que 
je sais de^ as Jennie Fish did," added Gem, 
Laughing at the remembrance. 
 
" Or like Ed. Willis in the Bible class, last 
term," said Tom. " Mr. Stone was talking 
about the Jews and Gentiles. ' I'm not a 
Gentile,' said Ed. getting real mad ; 4 I'm a 
Presbyterian.' " 
Everybody laughed at this story, and Aunt 
Faith said, " You are as liable to make mistakes 
as the rest, children, so do not complain about 
your lessons, but rather try to make them a 
pleasure. School-days will be soon over," and 
she looked at Hugh with a half sigh. 
" Come along, Gem," said Tom, when he bad 
finished his breakfast. " Let's have all the fun 
we can to-day ; let's crowd it in, and pack it 
down tight. We'll get all the B. B.'s and have 
a regular training day in the back yard." 
The children vanished, and their merry voices 
came back through the open windows where the 
others still sat at the table. 
" The boat leaves at seven," said Hugh, push- 
ing away his plate, and leaning back in his 
chair. " I am something like Tom ; I feel like 
 
" crowding ' my last day with pleasant things, 
and k packing them in tight.' I hardly know 
where to begin." 
" I will tell you ; begin with the morning and 
give it to me in the studio," said Bessie. 
" Oh no," said Sibyl ; " Hugh is going to 
finish that bracket for me." 
" Hugh will not go away without keeping his 
promise to me ; there is some unfinished read- 
ing for him in my room," said Aunt Faith with 
a smile. 
" My face, my hands, and my tongue are all 
in demand, it seems," said Hugh, laughing. 
" We never know how much we are valued 
until it is too late to fix our price, as the Irish- 
man said, when he lost both arms and could no 
longer saw wood for his family. I cannot sub- 
divide myself, so I had better subdivide the 
time." 
' "Well then, Hugh, I spoke first. Walk 
right upstairs," said Bessie, leading the way. 
" Will you walk into my parlor, said the 
 
spider to the fly," sang Hugh, as he followed 
her. " I go, Bessie, from sheer compassion for 
my nose ; you have made it Grecian, and I am 
sure it is Roman ! " 
" How gay they seem," said Sibyl, as they 
disappeared, " and yet Bessie will miss Hugh 
sadly. They have been devoted companions 
since childhood, and through our school-days 
Bessie was always looking forward to vacation, 
and spending her spare time in writing letters to 
Hugh. They have, of course, been parted for 
months together, but this parting is different. 
Hugh will be back again soon, and he may make 
us many visits, but still his home will now be in 
New York, and, absorbed in his new duties, and 
in the new interests and attractions of a great 
city, he will no longer be the same." 
" Yes ; I too feel this, Sibyl," said Aunt 
Faith ; " I feel it very deeply. My child, my 
little boy, will go from me forever, when I say 
good-bye to Hugh to-night. The young man, 
the kind nephew, the successful merchant may 
 
all come back at different times, but the little 
boy, never ! Hugh is very dear to me. It ia 
hard to let him go. God grant that in the 
clangers of his new life, he may be preserved. 
We can only pray for him, Sibyl." 
Two tears rolled down Aunt Faith's cheeks, 
but she hastily wiped them away as Sibyl 
kissed her affectionately. " Dear Aunt Faith," 
she said, " do not be down-hearted. Hugh has 
the seeds in his heart planted by your faithful 
hand, and although they have not blossomed 
yet, I feel sure they are growing." 
" Yes, dear ; I cannot help feeling as you do," 
replied Aunt Faith, trying to smile. But her 
heart was heavy. 
Upstairs in the studio Bessie was painting 
rapidly, while Hugh in the old arm-chair sat 
gazing out through the open window, much as 
he had done on that bright June morning three 
months before, when Bessie had confessed the 
secret of the unpaid bill. 
"How does the picture progress, Queen 
Bess ? " he asked. 
 
" Very well, excepting the eyes ; I cannot get 
the right expression, I have tried over and over 
again. They are never the same two minutes 
at a time ; I almost wish they were made of 
glass," said Bessie impatiently. 
" Then I would be the bully boy with a glass 
eye," said Hugh, laughing. 
" And a wax nose," said Bessie. 
" And a tin ear," continued Hugh. 
" And a cork leg," added Bessie. 
" And a brass arm, finis," said Hugh ; " the 
weather is too warm for further studies in 
anatomy." 
" What does it all mean, anyway, Hugh ? I 
have heard Tom and his friends say the whole 
string over and over again with the greatest ap- 
parent satisfaction ; but to me they convey not 
a shadow of an idea." 
" Nor to any one else, I imagine," said Hugh. 
" If the phrases ever had any meaning, it has 
long ago vanished into obscurity. I have seen 
explanations given of many popular terms but 
 
never of these. After I am gone, though, Bessie, 
you had better give up slang. It is all very 
well with me, and to tell the truth, I have 
taught you all you know, but it would not do 
with any one else." 
" Just as though I should ever speak a .word 
of it to any one else," said Bessie indignantly. 
" With you, it is different ; you are like another 
myself." 
" Alter ego" said Hugh. 
" I don't know anything about alter ego, but I 
know I shall miss you dreadfully," said Bessie, 
throwing down her brush as the thought of 
Hugh's departure came into her mind with vivid 
distinctness. 
" I shall be back again in November, Bessie." 
" Yes ; but only for a day or two." 
" Perhaps I shall come home in the spring, 
also." 
" But it won't be the same. You will change, 
— I know you will," murmured Bessie, with a 
half sob. 
 
" I shall not change towards any of you here 
at home, but of course I shall grow older, and I 
hope I shall improve. You remember all I told 
you about my plans for the future ? " 
"Yes, Hugh. But it is such a long way off." 
" It does not seem long to me, Bessie ; I have 
so much to accomplish that the time will be 
short. I love to look forward, — I love to think 
of all I shall do, of all the beautiful things I 
shall buy, — of all the unfortunate people I shall 
help. I shall succeed, — I know I shall succeed, 
because I shall work with all my might and 
main, — and also because I shall try to do so 
much good with my money." 
" Yes ; but all this time where shall we be ? 
Where shall I be ? " said Bessie, sadly. 
" You shall come down to visit me with Aunt 
Faith : you have only one more year of school- 
life, and then you can spend a part of every 
winter in New York." 
" That will bo nice," said Bessie, slowly, tak- 
ing up her brush again ; but, child-like, the 
 
present seemed more to her than the future. 
Hugh was silent, gazing out through the window 
over the summer landscape, — the pasture, the 
grove, and the distant lake. " Aunt Faith will 
miss you," said Bessie, after a pause. 
"-Dear Aunt Faith," replied Hugh, " she does 
not know how much I love her ! She will miss 
me, but I shall miss her still more. All my life 
she has been my guardian angel. And to think 
how I have deceived her ! " 
" Oh, Hugh, such little things ! " 
" The principle is the same. I think, before I 
go, I will tell her all, — all the numerous es- 
capades we have been engaged in ; then I shall 
have a clear conscience to start with. After I 
am gone, Bessie, you will not be tempted to 
transgress in that way, and who knows but that 
we shall turn out quite well-behaved people in 
our old age." 
" I have tempted you, not vou me, Hugh." 
" Call it even, then. Wh$ '. what are yon 
crying about, Brownie ? " 
 
" You are going away, — you are going away ! M 
was all that Bessie could say. 
Hugh's eyes softened as he saw his cousin's 
grief. " Don't cry, dear," he said gently. " We 
shall not be parted long. And while we are 
parted, I want to think that you are happy, that 
you, too, are trying to improve as I am trying. I 
want to think that my little Bessie is growing 
into a stately, beautiful Elizabeth. You are part 
of my future, dear, and you can help me to suc- 
ceed." 
" How, Hugh? " said Bessie, wiping away her 
tears. 
" By being happy, trying to improve yourself, 
and writing me all you are doing. Such letters 
will be very pleasant to me when I am working 
hard in the great city. We have never, either of 
us, taken a serious view of life, but for once, to- 
day, I feel very serious, Bessie ; I am going to try 
to be good, — I am going to try to be a good man. 
and I want you to try and be good too." 
" I will try, Hugh," whispered Bessie, affected 
by his serious tone. 
 
" That is right. And now let us have no more 
sadness to spoil my last day at home. What- 
ever the future may bring to me, — and I have 
full confidence in the future, you know, — all of 
you here at home will have the first place in my 
heart. I have a great many plans, and all of 
them are bright ; I have a great many hopes, and 
all of them are certain ; life seems very beautiful 
to me, and I thank my Creator for my health and 
strength. I ask nothing better than what lies 
before me, and I am willing to take the labor for 
the pleasures it will bring. " 
Hugh paused, and an expression of glowing 
hope lit up his face and shone in his blue eyes. 
Bessie seized her brush, and, filled with a sudden 
inspiration, worked intently at her portrait for 
some time in silence. 
" There is the first dinner-bell, Queen Bess," 
said Hugh ; " I have idled away the whole morn- 
ing up here. Good-bye, little studio," he con- 
tinued, rising as he spoke ; " I hope one day to 
see you altered into a beautiful, luxurious abode 
 
of art, filled with striking pictures, the work of 
America's greatest artist, Elizabeth Darrell I" 
"If I should paint the best pictures in the 
world, you would not allow my name to be con- 
nected with them in public, Hugh. You are so 
prejudiced." 
" Prejudiced, is it ? Well, perhaps it is. I 
own I do not think that types adorn a woman's 
name. A woman ought not to appear 4 in the 
papers' but twice ; when she marries, and when 
she dies." 
" So if she don't marry, she never has a chance 
of being anybody until she is dead ; I don't call 
that fair, Hugh." 
" Surely, Elizabeth Darrell, you are not shriek- 
ing for suffrage ! " 
" Never ! " said Bessie, " I'm only shrieking 
for my name." 
" What's in a name ! " replied Hugh, laughing. 
" Paint away, little artist ; I will buy all your 
pictures, and pay you so well for them that you 
won't care for fame. By the way, am I not to 
see my portrait ? " 
 
"No," replied Bessie, moving the easel; "but 
"Tve got your eyes at last ! " 
" I'm glad of that ; good-bye, Brownie," and 
Hugh ran of! down the stairs to prepare for din- 
mer. 
" And my bracket ! " said Sibyl, as he came into 
the dining-room. 
" And my poems !" added Aunt Faith, with a 
smile. 
" All in good time, ladies," replied Hugh. 
" The first hour after dinner is to be devoted to 
packing ; the second, to Sibyl and her bracket ; 
the third, to Aunt Faith and her book ; the fourth 
I give to the family as a collective .whole, and 
all the rest of the time I reserve for tea, general 
farewells, and embarkation." 
" Highly systematic! You are practicing busi- 
ness habits already, I see," said Sibyl. 
" The B. B.'s are all coming to see you off, 
Hugh," said Tom. 
" What an honor ! I am overwhelmed with 
the attention of the band ! What time may I 
expect them'?" 
 
" A little after six. They are going to form 
on both sides of the front walk, and hurrah like 
troopers." 
" Oh Hugh, I am real sorry you are going," 
said Gem suddenly, dropping her knife and fork 
as though the idea had only just become a reality 
to her. "I shall hate to see your empty chair in 
the morning when I come down to breakfast ; I 
know I shall." 
There was an ominous tremor in Gem's voice 
as she spoke. 
" Come, little girl, no tears," said Hugh, bend- 
ing to kiss his little cousin ; " everybody must 
be cheerful or I shall not like it. And as for 
the chair, take it out of the room if you like, 
but be sure and bring it back in November 
when I come home again." 
" I'll keep it in my room, and bring it down 
myself the day you come home," said Gem 
eagerly. 
A little after three, Hugh tapped at Sibyl's 
door. " Is it you, brother ? Come in," said 
 
Sibyl, and entering, Hugh sat down by the table 
and began to work on the half-finished bracket. 
They talked on many subjects, but principally 
on Hugh's New York life, and his plans for the 
future; then gradually they spoke of November, 
and the approaching wedding-day. " Before I 
go, Sibyl, I want to tell you in so many words 
how pleased I am to give you into Mr. Leslie's 
care. If I could have chosen from all the 
* world, I know no one to whom I would more 
willingly have given my only sister ; no one so 
welcome as a brother-in-law." 
" How glad I am that you feel so, Hugh," 
said Sibyl warmly. 
" And you yourself, Sibyl ; you have im- 
proved so much. It is not often that brothers 
and sisters express the affection they feel for 
each other, but you know I do not believe in 
such reserve, and I want you to know, dear, how 
thoroughly I appreciate the change in you. 
Leaving you, as I must, it is very pleasant to 
think that my one sister is growing into a noble 
 
good woman, such as our mother would have 
wished to have her." 
Sibyl threw her arms around Hugh's neck ; 
she was much moved. In her new life and new 
love, her brother had become doubly dear to her, 
and perhaps for the first time, she realized how 
much she loved- him. 
" No tears, I hope, sister," said Hugh, gently 
raising her head. " This is my ' good-bye ' to 
you, clear. You know I do not like formal 
leave-taking. Here is your little bracket all 
done, but I shall bring you a better present 
from New York, a set of wedding pearls. You 
will have to wear them if I give them to you, 
although you are a clergyman's wife." 
Aunt Faith was sitting by the window in her 
room when she heard her nephew's step outside. 
"Come in!" she said; and when he entered 
she pointed to a chair next her own. " My 
dear boy, I cannot realize that you are going to 
leave me." 
" Only for a few weeks, Aunt Faith ; I shall 
be back in November." 
 
'Not to stay, dear. No, I feel that this is 
our first real separation, although for years you 
have been absent at school and college many 
months at a time. You are the first to leave 
the old stone house, — the first bird to fly away 
from the nest." 
"I am the oldest, aunt, and therefore 
naturally the first to go." 
" That is true, but the old bird feels none the 
less sad." 
" You must not feel sad, Aunt Faith ; the 
future looks very bright to me. Let me tell you 
all my plans." Sitting there in the quiet room, 
the young spirit full of hope, told to the old 
spirit full of resignation, all its bright dreams 
and plans. 
" I hope they will all come true, dear," said 
Aunt Faith, after they had talked long on these 
subjects. 
" I hope, — I think they will, if human 
energy can bring it about. But now, aunt, to 
look back on the past, I want to make a con- 
 
fession to you, I want you to hear and forgive 
me before I go." 
Then Hugh told of all the secret horseback 
rides, and many other wild adventures of past 
years, in which he and Bessie had each borne a 
part. " It has been all my fault, Aunt Faith," 
he said, as he concluded. " I was the elder and 
the stronger, and I led Bessie on. Without me 
she would have done none of those things. 
Poor little Bessie ! she is very dear to me. You 
will be kind to her when I am gone ? " 
" I will, Hugh. I, too, am very fond of 
Bessie. But do not take all the blame up- 
on yourself; she is by nature rash and way- 
ward." 
" I know she is, aunt. But, at the same time, 
if it had not been for my influence, Bessie 
would have been a very different girl ; if she 
had thought that I disapproved of any of her 
actions that would have been the last of them, 
whereas instead of this, I have encouraged her. 
Whatever the blame may be I take it all upon 
 
myself. But Bessie is changing, I think; you 
will have no trouble with her hereafter, she will 
grow into a noble woman yet. And now, aunt, 
I will leave no work undone, but finish that 
volume, if you wish it." 
So saying, Hugh took up the book which Aunt 
Faith had placed ready for him, and began read- 
ing aloud ; he read well, and it was one of her 
greatest pleasures to listen to him. She often 
kept volumes by her side for weeks with the 
pages uncut, waiting until he could find time to 
read them aloud. " And now I will say good- 
bye ! " said Hugh, as he finished the little book ; 
" you know I dislike formal leave-takings in the 
presence of all the family." 
" Good-bye, my dear boy ! " said Aunt Faith, 
with a motherly embrace. " May God bless you 
and keep you in all your ways, in danger,- sick- 
ness, temptation and perplexity, for the sake of 
His dear Son, our Saviour Jesus Christ. Oh, 
Hugh, can you not gladden my heart by saying 
those two sentences before you go, — you know 
what I mean ?"  
" I will try to say them soon, aunt. I feel 
that I have changed lately, but I want to know 
that it is not the mere excitement of parting and 
anticipation of a new life which has affected me. 
I am going to try hard to be a good man, — in- 
deed I am ; and if I find that these new feelings 
outlast my present excitement, I will write you 
word. Sometimes I almost feel as though I 
could make my public profession of faith now ; 
but the next two months will show me the exact 
truth, and perhaps, Aunt Faith, the time of 
Sibyl's wedding will also be the time when I 
shall come forward to join the church." 
" God be thanked," said Aunt Faith, fervent- 
ly; " the feelings will last, Hugh, for they are 
holy and true. Go, my boy ; I give you up 
freely now, for you are virtually enrolled in the 
army of the Lord, and He will aid you in all 
times of trial if you call upon Him." 
A little before six all the family, together with 
Mr. Leslie, assembled in the sitting-room ; there 
was an undercurrent of sadness in their minds, 
 
but Hugh would allow no melancholy words or 
looks. 
" First we will have tea, then Bessie shall play 
Bonnie Dundee ' for us, then we will all make 
a triumphal arch of flowers through which I shall 
pass, in token of the grand success which awaits 
me in the mercantile world, and then I shall go. 
No one must accompany me to the boat ; I want 
to see you all on the piazza as the carriage drives 
away, and if there is so much as one tear-drop, 
I shall know it and be ready to inflict condign 
punishment therefor," said Hugh, laying down 
the law with a magisterial air. 
Tea was soon over, and then Bessie with 
trembling fingers managed, with severe self-con- 
trol, to play ' Bonnie Dundee ' to the end without 
a tear. Another note, however, she could not 
play, but replaced the cover of her harp in 
silence. Then Tom and Gem brought in from 
the garden all the flowers they could find, and a 
long wreath was made and twined around and 
over the two pillars of the front piazza. 
 
" There comes the carriage ! " said Tom, 
" and there come the B. B.'s, too. Here, boys, 
form on both sides of the walk ; Hugh's going 
in a minute." 
The trunk was carried out, and Hugh took up 
his coat and valise. " Now I want you all to 
come out on the piazza," he said. " Aunt Faith, 
here is your chair. Gem, you stand by Aunt 
Faith's side. Sibyl and John, please stand opposite
to them ; and Tom, — where is Tom ? " 
" Here I am ! " answered Tom from the back 
of the house ; " I'm getting the dogs together 
for the group." 
" That's right, the dogs by all means, for they 
are an important part of the family," said Hugh, 
laughing. " Sit over that side, Tom, and keep 
them by you. Bessie, I want you to stand in 
the centre just under the arch ; there, that is 
perfect. I shall turn round and look at you all 
when I reach the gate." So saying, Hugh bent 
down and kissed Bessie's pale cheek, and then 
passing under the arch, walked rapidly down 
 
the long garden- walk. The B. B.'s in martial 
array on either side, gave him three cheers as he 
passed, and when he reached the gate he turned 
and looked back with a smile, waving his hat in 
token of farewell. In another moment he was 
gone, then the carriage rolled down the street 
out of sight, and Aunt Faith, rising, said 
solemnly, u May God bless our dear Hugh, now 
and forever." 
" Amen," said Mr. Leslie. 
Bessie had disappeared. 
CHAPTER X. 
THE HOME-COMING. 
FORLORN, gloomy day," said Bessie 
at the breakfast-table the next morning, 
" and I'm glad of it ! " 
" I don't know that I care," said Tom. 
" When a fellow has got to go to school, it don't 
make much difference." 
" It must have rained very hard in the night," 
said Sibyl, looking out into the garden where the 
vine-leaves were strewed all over the ground. 
" It rained, but there was not much wind," 
replied Aunt Faith ; " I was awake part of the 
night and listened to the storm. There was not 
wind enough to make any sea, and Hugh is pro- 
bably in B by this time." 
" What a jolly ride he will have on the cars 
to-day, whirling through the country and getting 
nearer to New York every mile, while I am dig- 
ging away at these old books," said Tom dis- 
contentedly. 
" Hurry, children ! " said Aunt Faith, looking 
at the clock ; " you must not be late the very 
first clay of school." 
" Here comes Mr. Leslie ! " called out Tom, 
slinging his books over his shoulder. 
" John is very early this morning," said Sibyl, 
going out to meet him as he came up the walk. 
" That is the way it will be all the time now, 
I suppose," said Bessie with some irritation ; 
" Hugh gone, and Sibyl so absorbed that she is 
good for nothing as a companion. Aunt Faith, 
you and T are like the last roses of summer left 
blooming alone." 
" Aunt Faith smiled. She was very gentle 
with Bessie this morning ; she remembered her 
 
promise to Hugh, and she saw also that the 
young girl was suffering under her share of the 
sorrow of parting, a sorrow always heavier for 
the one that stays than for the one who goes. 
" I shall go upstairs and paint," said Bessie 
after a pause ; " I succeeded at last in giving 
the right expression to Hugh's eyes. You may 
see the picture, now, Aunt Faith ; it is so like 
him." 
At this moment Mr. Leslie came into the 
sitting-room, but Sibyl was not with him ; his 
face was pale, he went up to Aunt Faith and 
took her hand with tender solemnity. 
" What is it ? " she asked, sinking into a 
chair ; her voice was quiet, she had too often 
endured affliction not to recognize its messenger 
at a glance. Mr. Leslie, in his ministration in 
times of trouble, had learned never to hide or 
alter the plain truth. 
" The morning boat from B has just come 
in," he said. " The captais reports that the 
evening boat of the same line, the America, 
which left Westerton last night, collided with a 
schooner off Shoreton about midnight, and sank 
in ten minutes. The night was very dark, but 
many of the passengers were picked up by the 
 Empire ' as she came along two hours after- 
ward, some clinging to fragments of the wreck, 
and some in one of the America's small boats. 
The other boats are missing, but there is hope 
that they are safe, as the storm was not severe, 
and the lake is now quite calm. The rescued 
passengers think that some may have been 
picked up by a propeller whose lights they saw 
in the distance." 
" You have come to tell us that Huedi is 
among the rescued," said Aunt Faith in a faint 
voice, hoping against hope. 
" Hugh is drowned ! " said Bessie with hard, 
cold distinctness ; then she sat down by the 
table and buried her face in her hands. 
" Hugh is not among those brought back by 
the 4 Empire,' " said Mr. Leslie, " but I have 
strong hope that he is safe. Tugs have already 
 
started for the scene of the accident, the water 
is still at summer heat, and besides, among the 
many vessels and propellers constantly passing 
over that very spot, there is every probability 
that many have been picked up before this time. 
Hugh is very strong, and an excellent swimmer, 
also." 
" Hugh is drowned ! " said Bessie in the same 
hard voice ; " He will never come back to us 
alive." 
" Bessie, Bessie ! " cried Sibyl, rushing into the 
room, " you shall not, you dare not say such 
cruel words ! " Sibyl's face was discolored with 
violent weeping, and her whole frame shook with 
agitation ; she and her cousin seemed to have 
changed places, for Bessie did not shed a tear. 
" I say what is true," she answered ; " Hugh 
is drowned ! Hugh is dead ! " 
Mr. Leslie went over to her, and took her 
cold hand ; " Bessie," he said gently, " why do 
you give up all hope ? There are a great many 
chances for Hugh." 
" Go away ! " said Bessie in the same dull mon- 
otone ; " Hugh is dead, I tell you ! Go put 
crape on the door ! " 
" She is ill," said Mr. Leslie in a low tone to 
Aunt Faith ; " you had better take her upstairs." 
Aunt Faith roused herself from her own grief ; 
;t come, dear," she said, rising. 
" I shall not go," said Bessie ; " T shall wait 
here for Hugh." 
At this moment Tom and Gem ran into the 
room. 
" Oh, Aunt Faith ! what is it?" began Tom. 
" We met some boys and they told us that the 
America was run into last night." 
Gem looked at Bessie and Sibyl, and then 
without a word, she sat down in her little chair 
and began to cry bitterly. Aunt Faith could 
not answer Tom, the sound of Gem's violent 
weeping, and Sibyl's sobs, seemed to choke the 
words on her lips. 
" I don't believe a word of it ! " cried Tom in- 
dignantly. " Hugh can swim better than any 
 
one in Wester ton, and lie's as strong as a lion ! 
I'm going right down to the dock, and you'll see 
him coming back with me before night. " 
" Hugh is dead ! " said Bessie again ; " Hugh 
is dead ! " 
The hours passed slowly in those long min- 
utes of weary waiting in which young hearts 
grow into old age in a single day. Friends and 
neighbors flocked into the old stone house, and 
their voices were hushed as they came and went 
with kindly but useless sympathy. Mr. Leslie 
had gone to the scene of the accident on a fast 
tug, accompanied by some of Hugh's young com- 
panions, and as, during the day, different vessels 
came into port, they were boarded by anxious 
friends and the latest reports eagerly sought. 
The bank of the lake was thronged, people stood 
there with glasses, in spite of the steady rain, 
scanning the eastern horizon in the hope of dis- 
covering the smoke of approaching propellers. 
Others had friends on board the America be- 
sides the family at the old stone house. But 
 
Hugh was well known and well liked, and his 
was the only young life among those still missing 
from Westerton ; the others were middled-aged 
or old, and with that universal sympathy which 
the death of a bright vigorous youth always 
awakens, the whole town mourned for Hugh, and 
stories of his generous, manly nature, flew from 
mouth to mouth, until even strangers felt that 
they knew him, 
At five o'clock a tug returned bringing a man 
and wife exhausted with twelve hours in the 
water lashed to floating spars ; but they soon re- 
vived, and the good news flew through the city, 
and friends told it to the family in the old stone 
house, clustered together around Bessie, who had 
not changed her attitude or tasted food since 
morning. "If they were saved, why not Hugh ? " 
they said hopefully. 
" Hugh is dead ! " repeated Bessie ; " they will 
bring him home, poor drowned Hugh ! " Sibyl 
broke forth into violent weeping, and Aunt Faith 
shuddered at Bessie's words. " Can you not 
 
persuade Bessie to go upstairs and lie down ? " 
said a lady friend, looking apprehensively at the 
young girl's fixed eyes. 
Aunt Faith shook her head. " We must leave 
her to herself for the present," she answered sad- 
ly ; " her grief is beyond expression now." 
Later in the day, the tug Mr. Leslie had taken 
was sighted from the bank, and a crowd assem- 
bled on the dock, with the feeling that suspense 
would soon be over. 
" They would not have come back so soon un- 
less they had found him," said one ; " they would 
have cruised around there for a day^or two as 
long as there was any hope." 
" But they don't hoist any signal," said anoth- 
er ; " they must know we are Avaiting here." 
The little tug came rapidly in, watched by 
hundreds of eyes, and when at last she ap- 
proached the dock, the anxiety grew intense. 
There came no shout from those on board, the 
quiet was ominous, and, chilled by a sudden awe, 
the crowd stepped back, and awaited the result 
in silence. The boat was made fast, and then, 
after a short delay, the young men came forth 
bearing the shrouded form of their late compan- 
ion, now still in death. Hugh was dead, then ? 
Yes, Hugh was dead ! 
But he had not died in vain, and the story of 
his death was repeated from mouth to mouth 
throughout the city ; women heard it and sobbed 
aloud, as they held their darlings closer ; men 
heard it and spoke a few brief words of praise 
and regret to which their wet eyes gave empha- 
sis. 
About half-past eleven the previous night, the 
America had been struck amidships by an 
unknown schooner driving down unseen in the 
intense darkness of the storm. Most of the 
passengers had gone to their state-rooms, but 
Hugh was still in the cabin ; rushing out on 
deck he saw and heard that the boat would sirik, 
and, accompanied by the captain, ran back 
through the cabin, arousing the passengers and 
telling them of the danger. In an instant all 
 
was confusion, agony, and despair ; some of the 
men leaped overboard, buc the women with their 
instinctive shrinking from the dark water, could 
not be persuaded to leave the deck. A few 
passengers and part of the crew got off in one 
of the small boats, but the other boats were 
swamped by the rush into them ; a cry went up 
that the steamer was sinking, and Hugh was 
seen to jump overboard with a little child in his 
arms, a baby whose mother had held it implor- 
ingly towards him, as he tried to persuade her to 
take the dangerous leap. " Take the child," 
she said ; " I will follow you," and then as they 
disappeared, with a wild cry the poor woman 
flunsf herself over after them. In the mean 
time the captain and some of the hands and pas- 
sengers had ascended to the hurricane deck, 
and when the America sank, the force of the 
waves separated the deck from the hull, and it 
floated off, a frail support for the little group it 
carried. The lake was strewn with fragments, 
spars and barrels, and to these many persons 
were clinging. Hugh had managed to secure a 
piece of broken mast with spars attached, and 
with its aid he supported the mother and child 
until an iron-bound cask, caught in the cordage, 
struck him heavily in the darkness. The mother 
heard him groan, and his grasp loosened. 
" Quick ! " he said hoarsely- ; " I cannot hold 
you. I must fasten you with these floating 
ropes ; I am badly hurt, but I think I can hold 
the child." 
He bound the ropes and rigging about her, 
and told her how she could best support herself ; 
then he was silent, but every now and then she 
heard him moaning as though in pain. How 
long they floated in this way the mother could 
not tell ; it seemed to her many hours, — it was, 
in reality, less than four. They saw the lights of 
the Empire in the distance, but they could not 
make themselves heard, although they shouted 
with all their strength. At the first glimmering 
of dawn they discovered the hurricane deck not 
far distant, and Hugh said, " shout with all your 
 
might. I cannot hold on much longer, my head 
is on fire ! " So the mother exerted all her 
strength in a piercing scream, and to her joy, an 
answering cry came back through the rain. 
Hugh made an effort to steer the spars towards 
the floating deck, and those on board pushed 
their raft towards him as well as they could. 
Still it was slow work, and as the dawn grew 
brighter, the mother saw her preserver's haggard 
face, and the blood matted in his curly hair. He 
did not speak, as, holding the baby in one arm, 
with the other he tried to guide the broken 
mast, but his eyes were strangely glazed and the 
shadow of death was on his brow. They 
reached the deck at last, and kind have lifted 
them on board ; it was only a raft, but it seemed 
a support after the deep, dark watc. The 
mother took her baby, and Hugh sank down at 
her feet. Some one had a flask of bra/\dy, and 
they succeeded in pouring a little tV.-ough his 
clenched teeth ; after a moment o? two he 
revived, sat up, looked about him, and murmured 
some incoherent words. Then he tiiecl to take 
out his little note-book, but it was wet, and 
the pencil was gone ; the captain gave him his 
own, and Hugh had scrawled a few words upon 
it, spoke to the mother and smiled when she 
held up the child. But gradually he relapsed 
into unconsciousness, grew more and more 
death-like, and, after breathing heavily for an 
hour, passed away without a struggle The 
mother and her child were safe ; all the others on 
the floating deck were rescued, — but Hugh, 
dear Hugh was dead ! 
Mr. Leslie had preceded the funeral cortege by 
a few moments ; slowly he alighted from the 
carriage and passed up the garden-walk towards 
the old stone house. His heart was heavy, and 
words of comfort came not to his lips ; in the 
presence of so great a sorrow he bowed his 
head in silence. The friends who were in the 
house, came out to meet him, but no one spoke ; 
they knew by his face that the worst was true. 
They did not follow him into the presence of 
 
the mourners, but going down to the gate, they 
waited there. 
' Mr. Leslie entered the sitting-room. " The 
Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away," he 
said solemnly. "Blessed be the name of the 
Lord. Hugh, our dear Hugh is dead." 
Sibyl screamed and fell back fainting, the 
children burst into tears, and Aunt Faith knelt 
down by her chair and hid her face in her hands. 
Bessie alone was calm. " Are they bringing 
him home ? " she asked, lifting her tearless eyes 
to Mr. Leslie's face. 
" Yes Bessie ; they will soon be here, now." 
Without reply she rose, smoothed her dis- 
ordered curls and arranged her dress. " Sibyl," 
she said, " do not cry ; Hugh never could bear 
to hear any one cry! Aunt Faith, Hugh is 
coming. Let us go to meet him." 
Her strange composure awed the violent 
grief of the others into silence, and they followed 
her mechanically as she led the way to the piazza; 
involuntarily they all took the positions of the 
previous evening, and, with Bessie standing 
alone in the centre, they waited for their dead. 
The young men bore their burden up the 
walk slowly and solemnly, and behind followed 
a train of sorrowing friends, two and two, thus 
rendering respect to the youth who had so 
suddenly been taken from them in all the flush 
and vigor of early manhood. On came the sad 
procession, and when the bearers reached the 
piazza, the friends fell back and stood with 
uncovered heads, as up the steps, and under the 
faded triumphal arch, Hugh Warrington came 
home for the last time to the old stone house. 
At midnight Aunt Faith went softly into the 
parlor ; a faint light shone from the chandelier 
upon the still figure beneath, and Bessie with 
her face hidden in her hands, sat by its side. 
She did not move as Aunt Faith came to her ; 
she did not answer when Aunt Faith spoke to 
her ; she seemed almost as cold and rigid as the 
dead. 
" Bessie dear, I have something to show you," 
 
said Aunt Faith, in a low tone ; " I have a letter 
to you from Hugh." 
Bessie started and looked up ; her face was 
pinched and colorless, and her dark eyes wild 
and despairing. 
" I have a letter to you, dear, from Hugh," 
repeated Aunt Faith; "he wrote it on board 
the floating deck just before he died." 
" Give it to me," said Bessie hoarsely, holding 
out her cold hands. 
" In a moment, dear. Come upstairs with me 
and you shall see it," answered Aunt Faith, 
trying to lead her away. But Bessie resisted 
wildly. " I will not go ! " she said. " I shall 
stay with Hugh until the last. Give me my 
letter ! It is mine ! You have no right to keep it. 
Give it to me, I say ! " 
Alarmed at the expression of her eyes, Aunt 
Faith took out the captain's note-book, opened it, 
and handed it to her niece. The words were 
scrawled across the page in irregular lines ; 
there seemed to be two paragraphs. The first 
was this : " Bessie, try to be good, dear ; I love 
you." The second : " I can say the two sen- 
tences, Aunt Faith, — I am saying them now. — 
Hugh." 
The writing was trembling and indistinct, and 
the last words barely legible ; the signature was 
but a blur. 
As Bessie deciphered the two messages, a 
sudden tremor shook her frame ; then she read 
them over again, speaking the words aloud as 
if to give them reality. " Oh Hugh ! Hugh ! " 
she cried, " how can I live without you ! " 
With a quick movement, Aunt Faith turned 
up the gas and threw back the pall ; then she 
put her arms around the desolate girl and raised 
her to her feet. "Look at him, Bessie!" she 
said earnestly ; " look at dear Hugh, and think 
