have sneered had any one predicted so brilliant a future 
for Jessie ! Yet one of the " old women " she always rid- 
iculed had been nobly generous to Jessie, and even in her 
poverty she had attracted a prince among men. No, aunt 
Waltham's creed and philosophy never could attain to any 
such heights. It was narrow, selfish of the earth, earthy. 
Well for her that she had been saved " as by fire." 
There was a household of thankful hearts that night 
For, after all, poverty and care are not such unmixed bless- 
ings that one need desire their continuance. True, wealth 
baa its evila and temptations ; but is poverty exempt ? 
CHAPTER XX. 
THROUGH PLEASANT WATS. 
JESSIE ASHBUKTON offered her project for discussion 
the next day. If the shares she held could be sold at an 
advantage, and Home Nook repurchased, her wildest dream 
would be more than realized. 
Mr. Ashburton listened in silence, too. deeply touched 
for any word. 
"Only on this condition," said Philip, "that when 
Clement returns you shall be quite willing to receive back 
principal and interest. It must be a loan merely." 
"I am not particular about conditions;" and Jessie 
smiled. "My greatest desire is to have our exile at an 
end." 
They knew then how near to her heart it bad been, 
though few words of longing had passed her lips. She 
had made this small abode a place of happiness, with her 
cheeiiul faith, her steady, sunny endurance ; been braver 
than any of them knew. Ah, how Eleanor had misjudged 
her in the beginning ! 
Mr. Graham found that he could realize about fifteen 
thousand dollars on Jessie's stock. She was in earnest to 
have it sold at once. For the next week he failed to see 
Mr. Browning, ci\ account of that gentleman's absence 
from the city. 
He came in one evening graver than usual. No one 
appeared to remark it save Jessie, and at the first oppor- 
tunity she inquired the cause. 
" My little darling," he said, " you have borne so much 
heroically that it seems wrong to add another shadow, 
when we hoped for brightness. But it is something that 
you will have to know ere long." 
" No misfortune has befallen you ? " and her heart beat 
with quick apprehension. 
"No, and yes. It is a greater trial to me than you 
might imagine at first. Think of the keenest disappoint- 
ment next to any pain of mine, for I fancy that I am 
dearer to you than houses or lands." 
" O, Home Nook ! Mr. Browning does not wish to 
leave it," Jessie said, quickly. 
"On the contrary, he is going abroad. His wife has 
been very much worn by the burdens of these later years. 
But Home Nook has been sold already." 
" Sold ! And he promised to give us the first oppor- 
tunity of repurchasing it. O, how could he ! " and her 
soft eyes filled with tears. 
"There is some mystery about it which I do not quite 
understand. It is possible that he had offered it to 
some other person, thinking you would not be able to buy 
it back. He merely left this message for me ; but after a 
perplexing search, I found him, and he was most uncom- 
municative. All he said might be summed up in thi^ 
that he thought he had acted for the best." 
"But who bought it?" 
"That was what I could not learn." 
"It is some one who wishes to keep it. O, if they only 
knew ! It is so hard to reach the summit of one's desires 
a moment too late ! No one can ever love it as we did." 
" And now, my darling, I will tell you that I sounded 
Mr. Browning on this matter almost a month ago. I 
meant that Home Nook should be your bridal gift from 
me. He said nothing of another purchaser then, but he 
seems to have purposely avoided me since. So my disap- 
pointment is exceedingly bitter, as well." 
She was sobbing softly, touched and melted by hu 
tender thought, as well as her own sorrow. 
"Yes, I wanted it to be yours. Since it would be neces- 
sary for us to have a new home, under the peculiar circum- 
stances of the coming year, I thought it might still be 
pleasant for you all to keep together; and as your heart 
was there " 
"How good you were! O, if it could have been !" 
" And your sorrow is mine, though I did not dream of 
having my marriage shadowed in this fashion." 
" It shall not be;" and she looked up bravely, the tears 
still shining in her eyes. " I will not forget that my first 
duty must always be to you." 
" And your pleasure ? " 
" And my pleasure." 
He bent over and kissed her tenderly. 
There was much regret in the household, and a disposi- 
tion to blame Mr. Browning for his rather unfriendly deal- 
ing. The sense of loss came home to each one keenly 
the more so because they had so nearly attained their 
fondest desire. 
" It was too good and delightful to be true," said 
Madge. " We must be exiles for the rest of our lives. 
And do you know that ' about the first of August ' ia 
nearly here ? " 
Jessie blushed. 
" I really believe, mamma, that she doesn't care a bit 
about being married, and Mr. Graham as splendid as a 
prince royal." 
But the wonder and the mystery reached a speedy solu- 
tion. A few days after, while they were still in a chaos 
of regret, a large official-looking document came for Mr. 
Ashburton. 
" Another fortune," laughingly declared Madge. 
Mrs. Ashburton opened it, and ran her eyes over both 
print and writing without taking in the slightest meaning. 
" Why, it is a deed," exclaimed Eleanor, " a deed for 
Home Nook; a gift to papa from Rose Stanhope." 
 
They all glanced at each other in amazement. A deed 
of conveyance, sure enough ; but if it had come from an 
enemy it could hardly have been less welcome. If possi- 
ble, matters were more complicated than before. 
And now there were endless discussions again. Mr. 
Graham's first effort was to find Miss Stanhope, but she 
had left the city on the very day of signing the deed. 
That she had gone abroad again her lawyer admitted ; but 
he had received strict injunctions to preserve her address 
a secret. Mr. Browning could throw no further light upon 
the matter. 
Miss Stanhope had, indeed, made a slight explanation to 
him, representing it as an actual acknowledgment due the 
Ashburtons. When he found that it was to come into 
their possession, he felt that Mr. Graham's wishes would 
be complied with. 
" And I really could not resist her entreaty," he con- 
fessed, in apology. " She declared that it was the one 
great pleasure and duty of her life. Are you quite sure 
that you understand all her reasons ? " 
" Yes," replied Philip. " It is a morbid fancy that has 
seized her brain. If she could have seen the result ! " 
" What a perplexing affair ! " Madge exclaimed. " If 
she can never be found, what are we to do ? " 
It was a serious question. Mr. Browning had made his 
arrangements to leave on the tenth of the month. Most 
of the furniture had been repurchased with the house, 
and to shut it up tenantless appeared an absolute sin. 
"I wonder if we may not be carrying our pride too 
far," said Eleanor, thoughtfully. "I do believe Miss 
Stanhope ife firmly convinced of some wrong, and desirea 
to make reparation." 
" But I never could have been wronged to that amount," 
replied Mr. Ashburton. "At the utmost limit it could 
not have exceeded ten or twelve thousand dollars." 
" And Home Nook has cost twenty thousand." 
" It was a foolish, girlish act, and I am afraid that she 
has impoverished herself. It leaves us under a heavy 
obligation to her." 
" Which we cannot accept," said Madge, decisively. 
It was most true. To go to Home Nook on such 
terms was like living under false pretences. They had no 
claim upon Miss Stanhope's generosity, and this was much 
too extravagant to be justice. 
Mr. Graham's clear head solved the problem at length. 
" Mr. Thurston, Miss Stanhope's lawyer, will have noth- 
ing to do with it," he said ; " but this sum might be held 
in trust for Miss Stanhope or her heirs. That will clear 
our consciences." 
After much discussion this was decided upon. Philip 
wrote to Clement at once. Mr. Graham insisted upon 
making up the sum for the present. Jessie was brim full 
of happiness again. 
Then they began to look the future in the face. The 
incidents had come with such rapidity during the past 
year that before they had grown familiar with one, an- 
other claimed their attention. And this would bring 
about a decided change. 
That they were to go back to Home Nook seemed the 
dearest joy of all. And yet there was a secret pang in 
two hearts; at least, Madge and Eleanor dreaded old 
associations a little, but neither would have marred Jessie's 
perfect content by breathing the faintest word. 
For Eleanor had a remnant of her olden pride. In her 
girlhood days she had rather plumed herself upon her 
refinement and exclusiveness. Her acquaintance had 
been considered an honor by people in her own social 
standing, Now an adverse fate compelled her in some 
degree to be dependent upon her own exertions. In this 
matter she was succeeding beyond her expectations. It 
would be much pleasanter to keep the tender household 
shelter for herself and little Greta than to seek a home 
among strangers ; but she knew too well the distinction 
the world made between the luxury of indolence and 
compulsory toil. 
" But it is unworthy of any true woman to shrink back 
weakly now," she said to herself. " Since they took me 
in destitute and friendless, shall I not do all in my power 
to repay them, without thinking of the world's foolish 
blame or approval?" 
Madge had quite another cause for dread. Not that 
she was hardly likely to meet the Endicotts in any other 
than a casual way ; but, O, there lay betwesn such bitter 
pangs ! Could she glance at that bright, faithless counte- 
nance whose smiles had once been so much to her, and 
keep the shrinking nerves still tense and untrembling? 
Mr. Ashburton would be under the doctor's care for two 
months, at least. He and Mrs. Ashburton were to board 
at Dr. Conway's for the time. Mr. Graham proposed that 
Madge and Eleanor should take charge of the house, as 
by that means Jessie would have the more freedom. 
"It seems so strange not to think of going back to 
school ! " said Madge. " I do believe I shall feel lost with- 
out those perplexing children. I dare say I shall take 
Greta in hand, and make her wise beyond her years." 
Eleanor smiled. 
They went up to Home Nook one afternoon, Philip 
and Mr. Graham accompanying them. If it had changed, 
it was only to grow more beautiful. The evergreens 
made miniature forests, the old honeysuckles were thickets 
of foliage, and the shrubbery had hardly been altered. 
Beds of flowers in their late summer bloom, shady walks, 
clustering vines, haunts endeared to them by a thousand 
fond recollections. Could it be possible that they were to 
return ? 
There were all the old familiar nooks ; but they had 
been despoiled of pictures and the small, graceful article! 
that add a home-like charm. 
Madge ran from room to room, from window to window 
with the gladness of a child. The years of toil and priva- 
tion, and that still keener pang, were forgotten for the 
moment, as she realized the exquisite pleasure of home- 
feeling once more. 
" It is a very lovely nest," said Mr. Graham. " I do not 
wonder at your fondness for it. But can you ever be 
content to call another place home ? " 
Jessie answered by slipping her hand within his. And 
yet how strange it would be to have a new interest to 
go away from them all, perhaps ! 
Their arrangements were perfected after several days' 
consideration. Jessie was not to be married until the 
first of September. Mr. arid Mrs. Ashburton Were to go 
away at the same time, and the three others were to 
superintend the removal. 
The wedding was a very quiet one, in church. Miss 
Hetty was the only invited guest on Jessie's side, and Mr. 
Graham had asked merely his immediate family. They 
all felt more grave than joyful, but there was no tender 
regard lacking. 
Mr. Graham was the only child by an earlier marriage of 
his father, though he had always fraternized very cordially 
with the second family, a host of younger brothers and 
sisters. Mrs. Graham gave Jessie a warm and motherly 
welcome. 
"I was much pleased with her," she said afterwards to a 
friend. " Ward has such peculiar notions about women 
that I should not have been astonished to see him marry 
the most eccentric one he could find. But his wife is a 
very sweet, pretty girl, and quite an heiress." 
Mr. Ashburton kissed his darling fondly. Would he 
ever be able to see the dear face again ? He was becom- 
ing strangely impatient to know his fate, although Dr. 
Otis had assured him that there could be scarcely a doubt 
They bade Jessie farewell at the railroad depot. Sh 
did look lovely in her soft silk as nun-like as she desired 
and all her small belongings chosen with the most ex- 
quisite taste. 
Mr. and Mrs. Ash burton went at once to Dr. Conway's, 
who had decided to take them in for old friendship's sake. 
Philip came home with Madge and Eleanor, Miss Hetty 
accompanying them, as she had insisted upon " lending a 
hand." 
" We may as well begin at once," declared Madge, "or 
we shall sit down and cry over our household ruins. If it 
was any one but Jessie, I should have some misgiving 
about her happiness." 
"There's nothing like work when one is a bit down- 
hearted," said Miss Hetty. " And the quicker you get up 
to Home Nook the better. I shall not have a moment of 
satisfaction until you are there. It was a great comfort 
to my poor sister, thinking you would come back." 
" Which I am glad to do for her dear sake as well as 
cur own," returned Madge. " You would hardly believe 
that I had lost all hope of its ever being accomplished." 
" I knew it must come to pass some way. There's 
never been a night but I've prayed for it ; and when the 
good news came, poor Rachel sat and thought it over in 
amazement, and, finally, says she, ' I shall never want the 
money, Hetty, and if you're willing, I shall leave it to Miss 
Jessie. Maybe it will help her to buy back Home Nook.' 
But she never dreamed then that Miss Jessie's wedding- 
day was so nigh at hand." 
They laid aside their festive attire and went to work at 
once. The woman who usually did their washing had 
been called in for several days, and was there to assist. 
By night most of the furniture and books were packed, 
ready for a start the next morning. 
Miss Hetty kept them in good spirits by her brisk ways 
and homely bits of philosophy. It was well to have her 
there. Eleanor was not tempted to smile at her shrewd 
 
wisdom and old-fashioned ways, for she was able now to 
understand the true worth of such a hearty, generous soul. 
Madge shed a few tears as the familiar objects were 
gathered from nooks and corners. After all, they had 
been happy here. Jessie's roses were still in bloom, and 
there was her father's rustic chair in the grape arbor. 
Philip and Jessie had made it. Poor Philip ! out of his 
trials had come joy and good fortune ; out of Jessie's 
patient work and waiting, happiness. But what was the 
lesson for her? Life was never without its duties, of 
course, but what special grace was to be evolved from her 
trial ? Would it be easier to bear in the old home ? 
She seldom looked it in the face. It seemed braver to 
her to thrust it out of sight. A little girlish shame at 
having been so easily won, and a woman's sensitive pride 
at being as easily forgotten. But to her it had been more 
than a childish regard. 
By noon the little cottage was dismantled, and shortly 
after they were on their way to Riverside. 
"But it doesn't seem quite right to have so few of us," 
said Madge. "Who would fancy we should miss quiet 
Jessie so much ? " 
And crossing the threshold of dear old Home Nook 
once more as possessors indeed, they remembered the sad 
procession of more than five years ago. With what varied 
feelings they had walked down the shaded avenue that 
spring morning ! Was their exile really at an end ? 
One of Mrs. Browning's servants had remained in charge 
a quiet, tidy woman, who soon rendered herself useful 
to the new comers. Baby Margaret was full of childish 
prattle and wonderment, running from window to window, 
in the vain hope of seeing grandpa. 
It took them some time to settle matters to their liking. 
The carpets and furniture were pretty well worn ; indeed, 
many things needed replacing. 
"If we could just bundle these old articles out and have 
new ones," said Philip. " Everything ought to be bright 
and fresh." 
" But we cannot. We are still poor, and must make the 
best of our poverty," replied Eleanor. 
" It would be so delightful for Jessie's sake," said 
Madge, with a sigh. " But Mr. Graham is noble enough 
to understand it ; so there is no use of being ashamed. We 
will do our very best." 
Miss Hetty came over the next day, and Madge re- 
counted the perplexities. 
"Let us take a fair and square look," said the little 
woman, in her brisk, energetic fashion ; and they started 
through the house. 
"If this carpet was ripped apart and turned round 
there, you see how bright it would be in the middle I 
And why don't you turn this great parlor into a general 
sitting-room ? You'll like it as well again ; and then no 
one will expect the shine of new satin and velvet. The 
furniture might be oiled and rubbed, and the dust beaten 
out of the covers. And when the pretty articles from the 
other house come to be unpacked, why, you will hardly 
know the place ! " 
When they started, Madge found that matters settled 
themselves, with a little overlooking. They turned, and 
altered, and freshened up, taking heart with each article, 
that seemed to slip into the position best suited for it. 
"Jessie must have the two spare rooms," said Eleanor. 
" We shall hardly need them for guests." 
"And we will take our old ones back again. I am 
glad mine opens into yours, Nelly, for now I shall bo 
alone." 
Philip came home every evening, and commented on 
what they had done through the day. Miss Hetty ran 
over to see them frequently. 
Tidings came from their parents, and from Jessie, who 
was well and happy. 
The news was not long in being circulated about River- 
side. Mrs. Dormer's will had soon become public prop- 
erty, then Jessie's marriage surprised everybody, and now 
the return completed the astonishment. Bygone friends 
dropped in some from curiosity, perhaps, but many 
with words of sincerest welcome. 
It was stormy on Sunday, and Greta not being very 
well, neither of the girls went out. But Philip brought a 
report at noon. 
" You notice the changes most of all in church," he said. 
"Yet Mr. Kenneth's place seems to be well supplied, and 
there is no lack among the audience. But, O, the strange 
faces ! I can hardly imagine myself at Riverside." 
"But you are not sorry?" Madge asked, just under her 
breath. 
"Sorry! What put such an idea into your head, little 
sister? I enjoyed it all so much, kneeling in the old 
place, and remembering our childish wishes and vague 
aspirations, until I could not help thinking of Jacob at 
Bethel. If we ever made any vows, how scrupulously 
they ought to be fulfilled ! for God has brought us back 
in safety." 
Mr. Maurice, the clergyman, called the ensuing week, 
and they found him a Christian gentleman. He had met 
Jessie at Miss Hetty's, and heard part of their story; so he 
hardly appeared like a stranger. 
When they came to regular living, Madge was installed 
as housekeeper, as Eleanor's duties called her away three 
or four days in the week. But they could hardly consider 
themselves really settled until they had all the household 
back again. 
It was a month before Jessie returned, taking them 
quite by surprise one evening. How pretty she had 
grown, and how happy she looked ! It seemed as if Mr. 
Graham's smile was less grave, and the tender inflections 
of his voice touched Madge with a peculiar nearness to 
tears. 
" O," exclaimed Jessie, " how lovely it all it ! It gives 
one such a sense of home to walk np the avenue under the 
familiar trees, and have the doors open to you vistas of 
remembered pleasure ! You and Nelly have made a bower 
of this library." 
" It was Nelly's taste " 
" And Madge's labor," said Eleanor. 
Madge had worked indeed. The two large bronze lawn 
vases had been brought in, still rich with summer bloom 
and beauty, and stood at either side of the large bay- 
window, the English and German ivy trailing overhead in 
its shadowy greenness. Some rustic baskets, filled with 
mosses and clusters of scarlet berries amid the ferns, de- 
pended here and there. A little fire was burning in the 
grate, lending a ruddy glow, and through all there was a 
sense of warmth and home-tenderness, the sweet and fra- 
grant scents of woody growths, a quiver of leaves and 
depths of cool greenery, as if the recess opened into the 
hush of a forest at summer noon. 
Jessie could scarcely bear to leave it, but Madge had 
a hospitable desire to display the rest of the house. 
" We thought, Nelly and I, that you might like the 
rooms on this side, and we have kept ours as they were. 
Here is the dear old sitting-room. O, Jessie, you remem- 
ber that night, the last dear time we were all so happy 
together! Somehow I had not the heart to put it in 
order. For we shall never be quite the same again, and 
Nelly fancied that you might like it for some purpose. 
For, after all, the whole house is yours." 
"I do not look at it in that light. I believe Mrs. Rachel 
meant that I should do all the good and give all the pleas- 
ure that I could with her legacy. While papa and mamma 
live, it is to be their home, no matter what changes may 
come to the rest of us. I saw mamma to-day." 
" And she was delighted, I know. You heard the good 
news ? " 
 
" That papa's operation was satisfactory, so far ? Yes. 
O, Madge, my darling, it seems as if my life was one con- 
tinual thanksgiving! I wonder how so much happiness 
has come to me ! " 
The lustrous eyes and pure, sweet face were radiant with 
content. 
" One of us ought to be happy," said Madge, gravely. 
Jessie studied her sister's serious mood. Was there the 
shadow of some old pain making a pensive gloom in her 
heart ? 
" Are you satisfied to be here ? " she asked, timidly. 
" Quite. Don't think of that for a moment. Jessie, I 
saw them one Sunday. We came face to face, and they 
all recognized me politely. Since then he has been as one 
utterly lost to me not that there was any hope before, 
you know, only it was like a seal being placed on a coffin 
lid. I seem to understand how he has changed. But let 
it all go." 
Jessie read the underlying depth of pain that Madge 
had hidden. Her own life for the past month told her 
what her more demonstrative sister's hopes had been. 
They returned to the library, where the others were 
waiting, Philip and Mr. Graham in the midst of an ani- 
mated conversation. 
" O, and one thing I came near forgetting, Jessie. Old 
Mrs. Deane is dead. She sent last week for some of us 
to come, and I, being the only available person, went. She 
groaned a great deal over the deceitfulness of riches, and 
thought Mrs. Dormer ought to have given her money to 
a hospital. Then she was very much afraid your husband 
and your fortune would be a snare to lead you astray, and 
supposed that papa had completely lost his faculties by 
this time, and was desperately lugubrious over our affairs, 
What a miserable, unhappy being ! " 
Jessie sighed softly for the poor souls that went astray 
and wondered if they found heaven at the last. 
CHAPTER XXI. 
DAYS BUNNY AND SHADY. 
MADGE ASHBTJRTON, bright, restless, and excited, Jis 
gered by the window again, watching. The fire burned 
brightly, the tremulous leaves swung in the vine-covered 
window, shaking out a faint, summer-like perfume. El- 
eanor sat at the library table copying music, Greta was 
playing with her picture-book and talking to herself, and 
Jessie sewing. Madge, alone, could do nothing but 
watch. 
A carriage turned up the drive, and she flashed through 
the hall, down the steps, and stood in breathless expecta- 
tion, her cheeks flushed, her soft hair blown about by the 
wind. 
Philip sprang out, then Mr. Graham, who assisted Mrs. 
Ashburton; and, last of all, a slender figure, stooping 
slightly now, but still with patriarchal grace and dignity, 
brightened by the flowing beard and hair of silvery tint. 
" Papa ! " 
" Madge, darling ! " 
It was the voice that he knew so well, for the eyes were 
still bandaged. 
But he paused in the hall when Philip had closed the 
door. Mr. Graham removed the band, and with a glad 
cry they were folded to his heart. To see them here again 
in this dear, familiar place I 
"O," he said, brokenly, "how can we thank God for hia 
mercies, which never fail ! " 
They led him to the room, no one making answer. 
Gratitude was too deep for any immediate demonstration 
 
and the sense of relief, after the long strain on hope, and 
faith, and patience, naturally rendered them silent. Step 
by step they could remember each incident of fresh pain 
as it had fallen upon them ; but the joy was like a glowing 
sunrise, sudden and overwhelming. 
There they were, and yet not quite the same household. 
Ward Graham in the place of Clement ; stately Eleanor, 
less proud and self-contained than in the days of yore ; 
sweet Jessie, whose face always suggested a shady lake iv 
summer ; and Madge, changed more than the others, the 
indescribable something lost out of the face of the child , 
little Greta climbing his knee with wondering eyes, a link 
of the past that still appeared strange to him. 
To this deep joy was shortly after added a letter from 
Clement, enclosing an order on a New York banker for 
the sum of ten thousand dollars towards the payment of 
Home Nook. The peculiar and unusual proposal of Miss 
Stanhope could not for a moment be entertained. What- 
ever wrong Mr. Stanhope had done them must be for- 
given, although it was noble in his child to offer atone- 
ment. But since they could never tell how much was 
theirs by right, they would take nothing, save their very 
own. He quite approved of placing the purchase-money 
in trust for Miss Stanhope, and on his return he expected 
to be able to liquidate the whole debt. He congratulated 
Jessie on her good fortune and happy bridal, and hoped to 
join their number while the household was yet unbroken. 
TTW years more of exile, for it had been that. 
"Among our many other mercies we must place Clem- 
ent's loyal and unselfish regard," said their mother. " All 
sons might not have proved so faithful through long 
absence." 
Philip had been advanced to a higher position, with a 
corresponding increase of salary. He had given excellent 
satisfaction, and entirely regained the elder Mr. Graham' 
regard. 
And now they settled themselves into a regular routine 
once more. Mrs. Ashburton, being relieved from the care 
and the nursing of the last few years, again took charge 
of the household. Mr. Ashburton felt at first that he 
could not accept the life of indolent dependence. 
But they all understood how much he had failed, not 
only in health, but in the readiness and strength of his facul- 
ties. The long illness had impaired memory and vigor, 
the weary months when he had been shut out of the busy 
world, and compelled to live in inner solitude of being, 
were not easily overcome at his time of life. It would be 
quite impossible to fill any of the higher positions, and 
those to which much manual labor was attached were still 
beyond his strength. 
"So you must be content," said Philip, in his hearty, 
generous voice. "I know that of old our brightest 
dreams used to cluster around the time when you should 
retire from business, and spend the days in calm content, 
happy to enjoy and study nature, with no perplexing cares 
to intervene." 
"But it was under different circumstances," he made 
answer, with a faint smile. "It is the parents who are 
commanded to lay up for the children." 
"God has seen fit to order it otherwise in this case. 
Dear father, can you not depend upon your children's 
tender love and devotion ? " 
Mr. Ashburton was moved to tears. 
" You have been most noble and unselfish, but I feel as 
if your young life and that of Clement should not be too 
heavily burdened." 
" We have youth, and health, and many years before us, 
in all probability." 
Ward Graham cast his influence on Philip's side. After 
all, when it came to the point, some one was needed to 
supervise a place like this. Mr. Graham had sent up hii 
horses, and would be domesticated with them until Clem 
cut's return, as he proposed to fill a son's place, not only 
in bond, but in reality. 
For between him and the family there had grown a near 
and tender sympathy. In his father's house there was 
nothing cold or positively ungracious; but with a gay, 
worldly woman, like his step-mother, and a family of 
bright, showy girls, educated to think a brilliant marriage 
the greatest good, there had been but little of the fine 
interchange of feeling and affection characterizing the 
Ashburtons. With them poverty had never degenerated 
into coarseness, trials had not rendered them cold or self- 
ishly indifferent towards one another. Not but that there 
had been mistakes, few human lives are perfect, young 
lives least of all, but they had learned some of the nobler 
uses of adversity. 
Eleanor's path had been fraught with the most pain and 
deepest repentance. Pride was a battle-ground that had 
to be contested inch by inch, to-day a little gained, to- 
morrow lost. It was harder to climb from one degree of 
grace to another than to float on the dead level of mere 
outward acquiescence. But her child had won her to the 
strongest effort that a woman can make, and while she 
had health and talent, she could not be dependent upon 
those who had borne so much of the heat and burden. 
She found, too, a very pleasant position at Riverside. 
Mr. and Mrs. Maurice proved most cordial friends, and 
Eleanor's beautiful voice was deemed a great acquisition 
to the church services. 
Another family had interested them all very much 
a Mr. Wyverne, the organist, and his sister, who resided 
in a quaint little cottage not far from the parsonage. Miss 
Wyverne was thirty-six, perhaps, and her brother a year 
or two younger. To look in her sweet, noble face, one 
read that she had reached a calm haven through tempestu- 
ous seas ; that, with her strength and vigor, the battle had 
not been an easy one, but that a higher than human grace 
had helped her to conquer at last. From their first intro- 
duction she had been strongly drawn to Eleanor of all the 
Ashburton household, and little Greta became a great fa 
vorite with both brother and sister. 
Perhaps they all had their duties and spheres mapped 
out more clearly than Madge. To her, after the excite- 
ment had in some degree subsided, and the management of 
the household had been taken into other hands, there came a 
great dearth, a void, a craving for something that she 
could not find in her simple daily duties. For months she 
had been battling against weariness and lassitude, over- 
strained nerves, and the shrinking of a sore and pained 
soul. 
In the hurrying rush of events, she had managed to for- 
get herself, and have others forget the cruel wound that 
had been given to faith and hope. But now she glanced 
at the far future in dismay a long, dreary, purposeless 
woman's life, without any aims or ambitions. A spark of 
genius might have aroused her, but that she fancied she 
did not possess. Any urgent duty would have excited her 
to action, but her mother and Philip insisted that her sea- 
son of rest had come. The heavy eyes and pale cheeks 
needed something besides labor to restore roses and 
brightness. 
The vague rest had in it a deeper unrest. Perhaps it is 
life's dreariest pain to come to a time when circumstances 
invest us again with a halo that rendered us fair in the 
eyes of the world, and yet to feel keenly what the few 
years of exile have taken from us never to be replaced. 
And to young souls, whose vision is still narrow, there will 
come moments when some touch of the cold fingers of 
sorrow strikes upon life's harp and produces discord, when 
no fine sympathy can attune what might have been and 
is not. 
Not that Madge was a love-lorn girl, still brooding over 
her disappointment. She had thrust it out of sight at the 
 
beginning, and bowed to the inevitable. But in the men- 
tal vacuity that fell upon her now, all things lost their 
vital charm. She was exact in her religious duties, but 
the fervor that had once made them so comforting seemed 
no more. She accompanied Jessie on her visits of kind- 
ness and charity, but the too often tiresome stories from 
vapid and narrow souls wearied her exceedingly. 
" I don't see how you can endure it," she said to Jessie, 
" I rather like Bessie Deane, and Hetty Bright has a crisp- 
ness of her own that is quite refreshing. But these old 
women who take your gifts and grumble at you, who 
think their pains and aches so much more severe than 
those of the rest of the world, are an intolerable nuisance. 
How can you listen so patiently ? " 
" Their sorrows and petty trials are very real to them. 
And it is their misfortune that their sphere is so narrow." 
" But they look continually at the four bare walls, in- 
stead of out of the window, where they might catch a 
glimpse of the blue sky." 
"Do we never commit the same fault ourselves? Do 
we never forget that heaven is the bit of blue sky, when 
we refuse to lift our eyes ? " 
Madge colored. Had she been looking steadily at the four 
walls, dark and narrow, with no ray of sympathetic love ? 
" Jessie," after a long pause, " how can you always keep 
so calm and tranquil ? " 
"Do I ? " with a soft little smile. 
" It seems so to me as if nothing ever troubled you." 
" And yet a great many things have troubled and pained 
me. Only since God has asked us to cast our burdens 
upon Him " 
"I am afraid that is what I don't understand," Madge 
answered, thoughtfully. "For when we look about and 
see the many trials that are brought upon us by the self- 
ishness of others, we sometimes question whether God 
has anything to do with it." 
 
" O Madge ! God doesn't mean that we shall question 
the acts of others. It is just the effect upon ourselvea 
that concerns us. It seems to me that all this weary 
wondering with which we perplex ourselves is the part of 
the burden that He is so willing to bear." 
Madge sighed. 
"My darling, do you mean to go treading on thorns 
when there are pleasanter paths ? " said the sweet, plead- 
ing voice. 
"O, Jessie, there is so much, after all, that is wearisome 
in life ! Sometimes I almost wish I was back at the old 
work, when I had no time for thought." 
"But we cannot get away from ourselves; so we must 
divide the burden." 
"How can one do it?" 
"By taking part of some other person's." 
"But it seems to me that you are all so happy now, 
there is nothing left for me to do. I begin to feel that a 
woman's sphere is essentially narrow, unless there is some 
special demand made upon her. And I have a horror of 
falling into the inanities and foolish weakness of some 
people." 
They had been rambling slowly along through this talk. 
It was a mild March day, with a breath of spring in the 
air ; and now they paused, as they saw Mr. Wyverne com- 
ing in the opposite direction, with his hands full of 
trailing arbutus. 
"The first trophies of spring," he said, with a smile. 
"Come in, and share them with me." 
He opened the gate as he spoke, and the two girk 
entered almost involuntarily. 
There, in the cozy sitting-room, they found Miss Wy- 
verne and Miss Hetty. 
"We were having an old maid's gossip," explained Miss 
Wyverne, laughingly, "and were just thinking of starting 
out for Home Nook to hold another solemn conclave. So 
 
we are most glad to welcome you. O, Robert, what a de- 
licious armful of wild flowers ! You have made a pilgrim- 
age to the woods without me." 
"I strayed into it without the slightest intention, I 
assure you. Go on with your talk while I make a bouquet 
for Mrs. Graham. I see that Miss Hetty's face is brimful 
of something." 
The same odd little body, with her head still full of 
silvery curls, and a complexion as fresh as a child's. It 
seemed to Jessie as if she would never grow old. 
"I wanted to see you, my dear," to Jessie. "I had an 
idea in my head, and you know that such a thing can 
never stay there long without causing me a deal of 
trouble." 
" The results of your ideas are so excellent that they 
deserve to be brought forward as soon as possible," said 
Mr. Wyverne, making a mound with his flowers on the 
green leathern-covered library table. 
"And what wag this ?" asked Jessie. 
Miss Hetty colored a little, and for a moment seemed 
hardly ready with a reply. 
"It is a really grand idea," declared Miss Wyverne. 
" A hospital for sick and disabled old ladies." 
Miss Hetty laughed merrily. 
"I suppose you think I shall have it all ready to go into, 
myself, but I mean to keep brisk for many a year yet." 
"What gave you the idea, Miss Hetty?" asked Mr. 
Wyverne. 
* Well, I've had a hospital, as you may say, nearly all 
my life, and I've grown rather fond of nursing. Poor deal 
sister used often to say, for she was always thinking of 
others, *I wish every one who was sick could have as 
good care as I do.' And there's that poor Jenny Yates 
lying helpless in her sister's house, with a crowd of noisy 
children around her, and suffering everything for the wanv 
of a little quiet ar^ care. It makes my heart ache every 
time I look at her. And here I am with oceans of money 
that I don't know what to do with " 
Miss Hetty paused for breath, her little round face 
quite flushed and excited. 
"What a misfortune !" said Mr. Wyverne, with a touch 
of quiet amusement. 
" Well, there's quite a large income, beyond what I can 
use ; and I never did approve of burying any talent that 
might come to me. And I've been casting about as to 
what I could do. You see, there's no kith or kin for me 
to adopt, and it seems now as if I had nothing to busy 
myself with. So if I take in a few of the poor and dis- 
abled" 
"A cup of cold water," said Jessie, softly, slipping her 
hand within Miss Hetty's. 
"But the house is such a little pigeon's nest, and it 
would have to be made larger. I was coming to see Miss 
Jessie about it." 
" O, you must let Madge plan that ! She has a gift for 
such things." 
" The extent of my genius for drawing," said Madge, 
with a laugh. 
" And you really think of undertaking this ? " asked Mr. 
Wyverne, seriously. 
" I ought to improve the time I have left, remembering 
whose it is. And the money, you know, came so like a 
gift we never expected to see a penny of it." 
Miss Hetty still held it in a peculiar awe, as if it was 
hardly her own. 
"It will be a most noble work," said Mr. Wyverne, 
* and many of our great enterprises have been started on 
"smaller scale. But you must be prepared for ingrati- 
tude and misrepresentation. I cannot understand why, 
but nearly all good objects have to make a hard fight in 
the beginning." 
"I am sure if I don't ask any odds of anybody there 
need be little trouble. And if I offer them food, and 
shelter, and care " 
"You will be making the best and highest use of your 
means, and God can but smile upon your undertaking." 
Jessie was delighted with the idea, and insisted that 
Miss Hetty should come and take tea with them, when 
they would discuss it more at length. Mr. Wyverne 
walked over also, sure of a welcome. Madge fell a little 
behind, and accepted him for a companion, and when 
Jessie saw the bright eyes and soft cheeks warm with a 
delicate flush, she smiled inwardly. 
They found that Miss Hetty had digested her ideas 
more thoroughly than appeared on the surface. She was 
in truest earnest; and, with her usual energy, but little 
time was to be lost in considering the feasibility of the 
scheme, as it affected those at a distance. It was good, 
heartsome work, and she was willing to undertake it ; so 
why should she delay ? 
" Only, I couldn't take in more than two or three, as the 
place stands. I have a fancy that I should always like to 
keep Rachel's room as it is, to be a kind of sanctuary to 
me when I am a little tired or discouraged, if such a 
thing ever happens to me. But right at the side we 
might build an addition, and I could have the flower- 
garden left as it is." 
"The plan is very sensible," said Mr. Graham. "You 
will feel more comfortable to have part of your house 
reserved strictly for your own use. But you surely could 
not take care of many invalids. " 
"I could find nurses as I wanted them. One and 
another poor homeless creature would be glad to come ; 
and now, if any one will learn for me what kind of a place 
I could put up, say, for six or seven thousand dollars that 
is as much as I should feel free to spend." 
"Miss Madge," said Mr. Wyv erne, " what was it you! 
sister said about your gift for pla/ming houses?" 
Madge laughed a little. 
"O, it was nothing. Instead of drawing landscapes and 
foliage, I used to fill my paper with cottages, and all man- 
ner of odd rooms, and nooks, and corners. I suppose it 
was because I loved this old house so well." 
"Will you not show them to me ?" 
" They are hardly worth the going over." 
" Still, I desire it." 
Madge brought her portfolio, and the two sat down to 
a little quartet table, and began to inspect the sketches 
that were done with the neatness and fidelity of a steel 
engraving. 
"So you think you have no genius," he said, laugh- 
ingly. 
"Not enough for my ambition. I could never paint a 
picture ; and these are nearly all hints and suggestions 
from things I have seen." 
"What is this?" 
Madge colored warmly. 
" O, this is part of my chapel. I did not know that it 
was here." 
"Miss Ashburton, you ought to study architecture. I 
wonder that this field is not entered by women." 
" Because we go everywhere ? " and she smiled. 
"No, but because women understand so much more 
thoroughly the uses of a house than a man. And thia 
is " 
" My east window. You see, I meant to be very grand. 
I did that not long ago." 
He studied it attentively. The brilliant colors were 
most artistically arranged, and the design perfect. 
Then they were called upon to share some discussion as 
to the plan under consideration, and Madge forgot about 
her chapel until the party broke up, when Mr. Wyverne 
said, 
"I wish to take this window with me may I? It 
interests me very much.'* 
 
Madge nodded acquiescently. 
Miss Hetty begged for a little music, " for it is next t 
hearing it in church," said she. 
Mr. Wyverne sat down to the piano, then asked 
Eleanor to select something. 
Two verses seemed peculiarly touching to both Miss 
Hetty and Madge : 
" In the wilderness astray, 
In the lonely waste they roam, 
Hungry, fainting by the way, 
Far from refuge, shelter, home. 
" To the Lord their God they cry ; 
He inclines a gracious ear, 
Sends deliverance from on high, 
Rescues them from all their fear." 
And if Miss Hetty could find a duty that would be 
both labor and love, would Madge fail if she sought ear- 
nestly ? Looking down the dim future, she seemed to see 
a tall and slender Miss Ashburton, with some silvery 
threads in her bright hair, but the face subdued to the 
womanly sweetness of one who has found rest for her 
soul 
CHAPTER XXTL 
WORK IN EABNEST. 
Miss HETTY encountered some of the difficulties in the 
path the very next day. She called on Jenny Yates, who 
listened to her proposal with the utmost gratitude ; but 
Mrs Brown, her sister, a loud, slatternly kind of woman, 
was roused to indignation. 
"Do you think I'm so poor that I can't take care of 
her myself and rny own sister, too? If she's com- 
plained to you, she's a miserable, ungrateful hussy ! I'm 
sure she has the best of everything, and me a slaving off 
my very finger ends ! " 
"No, I never fancied you unwilling ; but for a woman with 
five small children and a husband, you have work enough 
without the care of an invalid. And Jenny is so helpless 
that she needs much attention, while it seems to me that a 
nice, quiet place would be so much more comfortable for 
her." 
And Miss Hetty could not help glancing round the small, 
untidy room, where the air was close, no clean, wholesome 
smells of spring being admitted. 
" Well, I've never found fault, though she is a sight of 
trouble, hardly being able to stir hand or foot. But if you 
folks get a little money, you come lording it over us ; and 
we're as good flesh and blood as you are. We ain't paupers 
yet, I want you to know." 
" O, don't, Mary, when Miss Hetty is so kind," interposed 
the helpless girl. 
" You hold your tongue ! You're so stuck up now, along 
o' folks comin' in to see you, that you don't think anything 
 
is good enough. But while I have a home, no one shall 
say that I threw you on the town." 
In vain Miss Hetty tried to explain the case ; Mrs. 
Brown grew more unreasonable with every breath ; so the 
former thought it wisdom to depart. 
She went directly over to the Ashburtons, and detailed 
her unfortunate attempt. 
" I am sure I have heard Mrs. Brown complain bitterly 
of having Jenny ill and helpless, until my heart aches for 
the poor child. And those unruly children are enough to 
set one crazy. But Jenny does not look as if she would 
stand it very long." 
" It will be a happy release," said Mrs. Ashburton, " and 
I think Jennie quite prepared for the change." 
" But it is a pity she cannot have a little quiet comfort 
until she finds it in the grave," Miss Hetty rejoined, 
warmly. " And maybe I have made a mistake. Perhaps 
people won't like the idea of charity." 
"I could easily find you one inmate," announced Jessie, 
almost smiling over the great disappointment visible in 
every line of the face. 
"Could you? Who? For now that I have set my 
heart on the idea, I cannot bear to give it up. And I 
know that if Rachel had been hearty and strong, there is 
nothing she would like half so well. God's poor children 
she used to call them." 
a I was in to see old Mrs. Bristow last week, and she 
was full of sorrow. Her son's second wife has never 
treated her kindly, and now he drinks a great deal, and 
seems to have lost all tender regard for his mother. They 
were talking of sending her to the almshouse." 
" What a shame ! and such a good mother as she was to 
him! Why, that will be excellent, Miss Jessie the old 
name comes so handy, you see ; " and Miss Hetty smiled, 
oddly. " But I will be wiser this time. I will ask her to 
come and visit me, and if she likes it, she can stay." 
Madge laughed at this stroke of policy. 
" And if everything else fails, I can go out into the high 
ways and hedges and compel them to come in." 
" She will hardly be able to walk that far," said Jessie, 
thoughtfully. "So, if you would like the carriage " 
" If you think we should not frighten Mrs. Bristow with 
our grand state ; " and Miss Hetty shook her silvery curia 
with a questioning nod. 
They went that very afternoon Miss Hetty was sc 
impatient to begin. The younger Mrs,. Bristow seemed a 
good deal flattered by the call, and entertained her visitois 
with an almost fulsome civility. The poor old lady, in her 
soiled cap and ragged gown, was a rather pitiable object. 
Past seventy, and almost blind, she had come to be con- 
sidered a great encumbrance. 
Miss Hetty gave her invitation in the mildest manner 
possible, fearful of some under-current of objection. 
"To be sure she'll go, and the change 'll do her 
good," said Mrs. Bristow, eagerly. " I should think you 
would be lonesome in that place where your sister died, 
and not a livin' soul to speak to ! Granny, you run up 
stairs and get ready right away. Here, Sarah Jane, you 
go and help her. She mopes about dreadfully, bein' so 
near blind. If I haven't had a hard row, then no woman 
ever had ; and Tom drunk half the time ! " 
It was Mrs. Bristow's habit to detail her troubles to 
every one who came in. The children, and Tom, and 
Granny were her prolific subjects, and the two guests were 
rather glad when they were able to bring the call to an end. 
After her mother-in-law had been helped into the car- 
riage, Mrs. Bristow came with a great bundle. 
" I thought I'd bring her a change of clothes," she 
said. " Old people are queer about such things. And now 
Granny, don't you go to getting homesick ! " 
Miss Hetty smiled again as they drove away. 
"A gladder creature you never saw," she said, a few
 
days after, to Mrs. Ashburton. " Why, when I told her all 
