winter residence, there have twice been frosts severe enough to spoil
the orange-crop, though not materially injuring the trees.
This present winter has been generally a colder one than usual; but
there have been no hurtful frosts. But one great cause of disgust and
provocation of tourists in Florida is the occurrence of these "cold
snaps." It is really amusing to see how people accustomed to the tight
freezes, the drifting snow wreaths, the stinging rain, hail, and snow,
of the Northern winter, will take on when the thermometer goes down to
30° or 32°, and a white frost is seen out of doors. They are perfectly
outraged. "Such weather! If this is your Florida winter, deliver me!"
All the while they could walk out any day into the woods, as we have
done, and gather eight or ten varieties of flowers blooming in the open
air, and eat radishes and lettuce and peas grown in the garden.
Well, it is to be confessed that the cold of warm climates always has a
peculiarly aggravating effect on the mind. A warm region is just like
some people who get such a character for good temper, that they never
can indulge themselves even in an earnest disclaimer without everybody
crying out upon them, "What puts you in such a passion?" &c. So Nature,
if she generally sets up for amiability during the winter months, cannot
be allowed a little tiff now and then, a white frost, a cold rain-storm,
without being considered a monster.
It is to be confessed that the chill of warm climates, when they are
chilly, is peculiar; and travellers should prepare for it, not only in
mind, but in wardrobe, by carrying a plenty of warm clothing, and, above
all, an inestimable India-rubber bottle, which they can fill with hot
water to dissipate the chill at night. An experience of four winters
leads us to keep on about the usual winter clothing until March or
April. The first day after our arrival, to be sure, we put away all our
furs as things of the past; but we keep abundance of warm shawls, and,
above all, wear the usual flannels till late in the spring.
Invalids seeking a home here should be particularly careful to secure
rooms in which there can be a fire. It is quite as necessary as at the
North; and, with this comfort, the cold spells, few in number as they
are, can be easily passed by.
Our great feature in the Northern landscape, which one never fails to
miss and regret here, is the grass. The nakedness of the land is an
expression that often comes over one. The peculiar sandy soil is very
difficult to arrange in any tidy fashion. You cannot make beds or alleys
of it: it all runs together like a place where hens have been
scratching; and consequently it is the most difficult thing in the world
to have ornamental grounds.
At the North, the process of making a new place appear neat and inviting
is very rapid. One season of grass-seed, and the thing is done. Here,
however, it is the most difficult thing in the world to get turf of any
sort to growing. The Bermuda grass, and a certain coarse, broad-leafed
turf, are the only kind that can stand the summer heat; and these never
have the beauty of well-ordered Northern grass.
Now, we have spent anxious hours and much labor over a little plot in
our back-yard, which we seeded with white clover, and which, for a time,
was green and lovely to behold; but, alas! the Scripture was too
strikingly verified: "When the sun shineth on it with a burning heat, it
withereth the grass, and the grace of the fashion of it perisheth."
The fact is, that people cannot come to heartily like Florida till they
accept certain deficiencies as the necessary shadow to certain
excellences. If you want to live in an orange-orchard, you must give up
wanting to live surrounded by green grass. When we get to the new heaven
and the new earth, then we shall have it all right. There we shall have
a climate at once cool and bracing, yet hot enough to mature oranges and
pine-apples. Our trees of life shall bear twelve manner of fruit, and
yield a new one every month. Out of juicy meadows green as emerald,
enamelled with every kind of flower, shall grow our golden orange-trees,
blossoming and fruiting together as now they do. There shall be no
mosquitoes, or gnats, or black-flies, or snakes; and, best of all, there
shall be no fretful people. Everybody shall be like a well-tuned
instrument, all sounding in accord, and never a semitone out of the
way.
Meanwhile, we caution everybody coming to Florida, Don't hope for too
much. Because you hear that roses and callas blossom in the open air all
winter, and flowers abound in the woods, don't expect to find an eternal
summer. Prepare yourself to see a great deal that looks rough and
desolate and coarse; prepare yourself for some chilly days and nights;
and, whatever else you neglect to bring with you, bring the resolution,
strong and solid, always to make the best of things.
For ourselves, we are getting reconciled to a sort of tumble-down, wild,
picnicky kind of life,--this general happy-go-luckiness which Florida
inculcates. If we painted her, we should not represent her as a neat,
trim damsel, with starched linen cuffs and collar: she would be a
brunette, dark but comely, with gorgeous tissues, a general disarray and
dazzle, and with a sort of jolly untidiness, free, easy, and joyous.
The great charm, after all, of this life, is its outdoorness. To be able
to spend your winter out of doors, even though some days be cold; to be
able to sit with windows open; to hear birds daily; to eat fruit from
trees, and pick flowers from hedges, all winter long,--is about the
whole of the story. This you can do; and this is why Florida is life and
health to the invalid.
We get every year quantities of letters from persons of small fortunes,
asking our advice whether they had better move to Florida. For our part,
we never advise people to move anywhere. As a general rule, it is the
person who feels the inconveniences of a present position, so as to want
to move, who will feel the inconvenience of a future one. Florida has a
lovely winter; but it has also three formidable summer months, July,
August, and September, when the heat is excessive, and the liabilities
of new settlers to sickness so great, that we should never wish to take
the responsibility of bringing anybody here. It is true that a very
comfortable number of people do live through them; but still it is not a
joke, by any means, to move to a new country. The first colony in New
England lost just half its members in the first six months. The rich
bottom-lands around Cincinnati proved graves to many a family before
they were brought under cultivation.
But Florida is peculiarly adapted to the needs of people who can afford
two houses, and want a refuge from the drain that winter makes on the
health. As people now have summer-houses at Nahant or Rye, so they
might, at a small expense, have winter-houses in Florida, and come here
and be at home. That is the great charm,--to be at home. A house here
can be simple and inexpensive, and yet very charming. Already, around us
a pretty group of winter-houses is rising: and we look forward to the
time when there shall be many more; when, all along the shore of the St.
John's, cottages and villas shall look out from the green trees.
  [Illustration]
A LETTER TO THE GIRLS.
      MANDARIN, FLA., Feb. 13, 1872.
Yes, the girls! Let me see: who are they? I mean you, Nellie, and
Mary, and Emily, and Charlotte, and Gracie, and Susie, and Carry, and
Kitty, and you of every pretty name, my charming little Pussy Willow
friends! Dear souls all, I bless your bright eyes, and fancy you about
me as a sort of inspiration to my writing. I could wish you were every
one here. Don't you wish that "The Arabian Nights" were true? and that
there were really little square bits of enchanted carpet, on which one
has only to sit down and pronounce two cabalistic words, and away one
goes through the air, sailing off on visits? Then, girls, wouldn't we
have a nice wide bit of carpet? and wouldn't we have the whole bright
flock of you come fluttering down together to play croquet with us under
the orange-trees this afternoon? And, while you were waiting for your
turns to come, you should reach up and pull down a bough, and help
yourselves to oranges; or you should join a party now going out into the
pine-woods to gather yellow jessamine. To-day is mail-day; and, as the
yellow jessamine is in all its glory, the girls here are sending little
boxes of it North to their various friends through the mail. They have
just been bringing in long wreaths and clusters of it for me to look at,
and are consulting how to pack it. Then this afternoon, when we have
done croquet, it is proposed that we form a party to visit Aunt Katy,
who lives about two miles away in the pine-woods, "over on Julington" as
the people here say. "On Julington" means on a branch of the St. John's
named Julington Creek, although it is as wide as the Connecticut River
at Hartford. We put the oldest mule to an old wagon, and walk and ride
alternately; some of us riding one way, and some the other.
The old mule, named Fly, is a worn-out, ancient patriarch, who, having
worked all his days without seeing any particular use in it, is now
getting rather misanthropic in his old age, and obstinately determined
not to put one foot before the other one bit faster than he is actually
forced to do. Only the most vigorous urging can get him to step out of a
walk, although we are told that the rogue has a very fair trot at his
command. If any of the darky tribe are behind him, he never thinks of
doing any thing but pricking up his ears, and trotting at a decent
pace; but, when only girls and women are to the fore, down flop his
ears, down goes his head, and he creeps obstinately along in the
aforementioned contemplative manner, looking, for all the world, like a
very rough, dilapidated old hair-trunk in a state of locomotion.
Well, I don't blame him, poor brute! Life, I suppose, is as much a
mystery to him as to the philosophers; and he has never been able to
settle what it is all about, this fuss of being harnessed periodically
to impertinent carts, and driven here and there, for no valuable purpose
that he can see.
Such as he is, Fly is the absolute property of the girls and women,
being past farm-work; and though he never willingly does any thing but
walk, yet his walk is considerably faster than that of even the most
agile of us, and he is by many degrees better than nothing. He is
admitted on all hands to be a safe beast, and will certainly never
run away with any of us.
As to the choice of excursions, there are several,--one to our neighbor
Bowens to see sugar-making, where we can watch the whole process, from
the grinding of the cane through the various vats and boilers, till at
last we see the perfected sugar in fine, bright, straw-colored crystals
in the sugar-house. We are hospitably treated to saucers of lovely,
amber-colored sirup just on the point of crystallization,--liquid
sugar-candy,--which, of course, we do not turn away from. Then, again,
we can go down the banks of the river to where our neighbor Duncan has
cleared up a little spot in what used to be virgin forest, and where now
a cosey little cottage is beginning to peep through its many windows
upon the river-view. Here a bright little baby--a real little Florida
flower--has lately opened a pair of lovely eyes, and is growing daily
in grace and favor. In front of this cottage, spared from the forest,
are three great stately magnolias, such trees as you never saw. Their
leaves resemble those of the India-rubber tree,--large, and of a glossy,
varnished green. They are evergreen, and in May are covered with great
white blossoms, something like pond-lilies, and with very much the same
odor. The trees at the North called magnolias give no idea whatever of
what these are. They are giants among flowers; seem worthy to be trees
of heaven.
Then there are all sorts of things to be got out of the woods. There are
palmetto-leaves to be pressed and dried, and made into fans; there is
the long wire-grass, which can be sewed into mats, baskets, and various
little fancy articles, by busy fingers. Every day brings something to
explore the woods for: not a day in winter passes that you cannot bring
home a reasonable little nosegay of flowers. Many of the flowers here
do not have their seasons, but seem to bloom the year round: so that,
all the time, you are sure of finding something. The woods now are full
of bright, delicate ferns that no frosts have touched, and that spring
and grow perennially. The book of Nature here is never shut and clasped
with ice and snow as at the North; and, of course, we spend about half
our time in the open air.
The last sensation of our circle is our red-bird. We do not approve of
putting free birds in cages; but Aunt Katy brought to one of our party
such a beautiful fellow, so brilliant a red, with such a smart, black
crest on his head, and such a long, flashing red tail, that we couldn't
resist the desire to keep him a little while, just to look at him. Aunt
Katy insisted that he wouldn't take it to heart; that he would be tame
in a few days, and eat out of our hands: in short, she insisted that he
would consider himself a fortunate bird to belong to us.
Aunt Katy, you must know, is a nice old lady. We use that term with a
meaning; for, though "black as the tents of Kedar," she is a perfect
lady in her manners: she was born and brought up, and has always lived,
in this neighborhood, and knows every bird in the forest as familiarly
as if they were all her own chickens; and she has great skill in getting
them to come to her to be caught.
Well, our red-bird was named Phoebus, of a kind that Audubon calls a
cardinal-grossbeak; and a fine, large, roomy cage was got down for him,
which was of old tenanted by a very merry and rackety cat-bird; and then
the question arose, "What shall we do with him?" For you see, girls,
having a soft place in our heart for all pets, instead of drowning some
of our kittens in the fall, as reasonable people should, we were seduced
by their gambols and their prettiness to let them all grow up together;
and the result is, that we have now in our domestic retinue four adult
cats of most formidable proportions. "These be the generations" of our
cats: first, Liz, the mother; second, Peter, her oldest son; third, Anna
and Lucinda, her daughters. Peter is a particularly martial, combative,
obnoxious beast, very fluffy and fussy, with great, full-moon, yellow
eyes, and a most resounding, sonorous voice. There is an immense deal of
cat in Peter. He is concentrated cathood, a nugget of pure cat; and in
fact we are all a little in awe of him. He rules his mother and sisters
as if he had never heard of Susan Anthony and Mrs. Stanton. Liz, Anna,
and Lucinda are also wonderfully-well-developed cats, with capital
stomachs. Now comes the problem: the moment the red-bird was let into
his cage, there was an instant whisk of tails, and a glare of great
yellow eyes, and a sharpening of eye-teeth, that marked a situation. The
Scripture tells us a time is coming when the lion shall lie down with
the lamb; but that time hasn't come in Florida. Peter is a regular
heathen, and hasn't the remotest idea of the millennium. He has much of
the lion in him; but he never could lie down peaceably with the lamb,
unless indeed the lamb were inside of him, when he would sleep upon him
without a twinge of conscience. Unmistakably we could see in his eyes
that he considered Phoebus as caught for his breakfast; and he sat
licking his chops inquiringly, as who should ask, "When will the cloth
be laid, and things be ready?"
Now, the party to whom the red-bird was given is also the patron-saint,
the "guide, philosopher, and friend," of the cats. It is she who
examines the plates after each meal, and treasures fragments, which she
cuts up and prepares for their repast with commendable regularity. It is
she who presides and keeps order at cat-meals; and forasmuch as Peter,
on account of his masculine strength and rapacity, is apt to get the
better of his mother and sisters, she picks him up, and bears him
growling from the board, when he has demolished his own portion, and is
proceeding to eat up theirs.
Imagine, now, the cares of a woman with four cats and a bird on her
mind! Phoebus had to be carefully pinned up in a blanket the first
night; then the cage was swung by strong cords from the roof of the
veranda. The next morning, Peter was found perched on top of it, glaring
fiendishly. The cage was moved along; and Peter scaled a pillar, and
stationed himself at the side. To be sure, he couldn't get the bird, as
the slats were too close for his paw to go through; but poor Phoebus
seemed wild with terror. Was it for this he left his native wilds,--to
be exposed in a prison to glaring, wild-eyed hyenas and tigers?
The cats were admonished, chastised, "scat"-ed, through all the moods
and tenses; though their patroness still serves out their commons
regularly, determined that they shall not have the apology of empty
stomachs. Phoebus is evidently a philosopher,--a bird of strong sense.
Having found, after two or three days' trial, that the cats can't get
him; having clusters of the most delicious rice dangling from the roof
of his cage, and fine crisp lettuce verdantly inviting through the
bars,--he seems to have accepted the situation; and, when nobody is in
the veranda, he uplifts his voice in song. "What cheer! what cheer!" he
says, together with many little twitters and gurgles for which we have
no musical notes. Aunt Katy promises to bring him a little wife before
long; and, if that be given him, what shall hinder him from being happy?
As April comes in, they shall build their nest in the cage, and give us
a flock of little red-birds.
Well, girls, we are making a long letter; and this must do for this
week.
  [Illustration]
A WATER-COACH, AND A RIDE IN IT.
      MONDAY, Feb. 26, 1872.
Dear girls, wouldn't you like to get into that little white yacht that
lies dancing and courtesying on the blue waters of the St. John's this
pleasant Monday morning?
It is a day of days. Spring has come down with all her smiles and roses
in one hour. The great blue sheet of water shimmers and glitters like so
much liquid lapis lazuli; and now the word comes in from our
neighbor, the owner of the pleasure-yacht, "Wouldn't you like to go
sailing?"
Of course we should! That is exactly what we do want. And forthwith
there is a running and a mustering of the clans, and a flapping of broad
palmetto-hats; and parties from all the three houses file down, and
present themselves as candidates for pleasure. A great basket of oranges
is hoisted in, and the white sails spread; and with "Youth at the prow,
and Pleasure at the helm," away we go, the breezes blowing manfully at
our sails. The river is about five miles from shore to shore, and we
have known it of old for a most enticing and tricksy customer. It gently
wooes and seduces you; it starts you out with all manner of zephyrs,
until you get into the very middle, two miles from land on either side,
when down goes your limp sail, and the breeze is off on some other
errand, and you are left to your reflections. Not immediately did this
happen to us, however; though, when we came to the middle of the river,
our course was slow enough to give plenty of opportunity to discuss the
basket of oranges. We settle it among us that we will cross to Doctor's
Lake. This name is given to a wide bayou which the river makes, running
up into the forest for a track of about nine miles. It is a famous
fishing and hunting region, and a favorite and chosen abode of the
alligators. At the farther end of it are said to be swamps where they
have their lairs, and lay their eggs, and hatch out charming young
alligators. Just at the opening where the river puts into this lake are
the nets of the shad-fishers, who supply the Jacksonville market with
that delicious article. We are minded to go over and fill our
provision-baskets before they go.
Now we near the opposite shore of the river. We see the great tuft of
Spanish oaks which marks the house of the old Macintosh plantation, once
the palmiest in Florida. This demesne had nine thousand acres of land,
including in it the Doctor's Lake and the islands therein, with all the
store of swamps and forests and alligators' nests, wild-orange groves,
and palmetto-jungles. It was a sort of pride of territory that animated
these old aboriginal planters; for, of the whole nine thousand acres
which formed the estate, only about five hundred ever were cleared, and
subject to cultivation. One of these days we are projecting to spend a
day picnicking on this old plantation, now deserted and decaying; and
then we can tell you many curious things in its history. But now we are
coming close alongside the shad-nets. We find no fishermen to traffic
with. Discerning a rude hut on the opposite side of the bayou, we make
for that, expecting there to find them. We hail a boy who lies idly in a
boat by the shore.
"Halloo, my fine fellow! Can you tell us where the people are that tend
that net?"
"Don't know," is the reply that comes over the water.
"Can you sell us any fish?"
"Got a couple o' trout."
"Bring 'em along." And away we go, rippling before the breeze; while the
boy, with the graceful deliberation which marks the movements of the
native population, prepares to come after us.
"I don't believe he understood," said one.
"Oh, yes! He's only taking his time, as they all do down here. He'll be
along in the course of the forenoon."
At last he comes alongside, and shows a couple of great black-looking,
goggle-eyed fish, which look more like incipient cod or haddock than
trout. Such as they are, however, we conclude a bargain for them; and
away goes our boy with fifty cents in his pocket. What he can want of
fifty cents in a hut on the other side of Doctor's Lake is a question.
Can he trade with alligators? But he has a boat; and we foresee that
that boat will make a voyage across to the grocery on the opposite
point, where whiskey, pork, and flour are sold. Meanwhile we looked at
the little rude hut again. It was Monday morning; and a string of
clothes was fluttering on a line, and a good many little garments among
them. There is a mother, then, and a family of children growing up. We
noticed the sheen of three or four orange-trees, probably wild ones,
about the house. Now we go rippling up the bayou, close along by the
shore. The land is swampy, and the forests glister with the shining,
varnished leaves of the magnolias; and we saw far within the waving
green fans of the swamp-palmetto. The gum-trees and water-oaks were just
bursting into leaf with that dazzling green of early spring which is
almost metallic in brilliancy. The maples were throwing out blood-red
keys,--larger and higher-colored than the maples of the North. There is
a whir of wings; and along the opposite shore of the bayou the
wild-ducks file in long platoons. Now and then a water-turkey, with his
long neck and legs, varies the scene. There swoops down a fish-hawk; and
we see him bearing aloft a silvery fish, wriggling and twisting in his
grasp. We were struck with the similarity of our tastes. He was fond of
shad: so were we. He had a wriggling fish in his claws; and we had a
couple flapping and bouncing in the basket, over which we were gloating.
There was but one point of difference. He, undoubtedly, would eat his
fish raw; whereas we were planning to have ours cut in slices, and fried
with salt pork. Otherwise the fish-hawk and we were out on the same
errand, with the same results.
Yet at first view, I must confess, when we saw him rise with a wriggling
fish in his claws, he struck us as a monster. It seemed a savage
proceeding, and we pitied the struggling fish, while ours were yet
flapping in the basket. This eating-business is far from pleasant to
contemplate. Every thing seems to be in for it. It is "catch who catch
can" through all the animal kingdom till it comes up to man; and he eats
the whole, choosing or refusing as suits his taste. One wonders why
there was not a superior order of beings made to eat us. Mosquitoes and
black-flies get now and then a nip, to be sure; but there is nobody
provided to make a square meal of us, as we do on a wild turkey, for
example. But speaking of eating, and discussing fried fish and salt
pork, aroused harrowing reflections in our company. We found ourselves
at one o'clock in the middle of Doctor's Lake, with the dinner-shore at
least five miles away; and it was agreed, nem. con., that it was time
to put about. The fish-hawk had suggested dinner-time.
And now came the beauty of the proceeding. We drove merrily out of
Doctors Lake into the beautiful blue middle of the St. John's: and there
the zephyrs gayly whispered, "Good-by, friends; and, when you get
ashore, let us know." The river was like a molten looking-glass, the sun
staring steadfastly down. There is nothing for it but to get out the
oars, and pull strong and steady; and so we do. It is the old trick of
this St. John's, whereby muscular development is promoted. First two
gentlemen row; then a lady takes one oar, and we work our way along to
the shore; but it is full four o'clock before we get there.
As we approach, we pass brisk little nine-year-old Daisy, who is out
alone in her boat, with her doll-carriage and doll. She has been rowing
down to make a morning call on Bessie, and is now returning. Off on the
end of the wharf we see the whole family watching for our return. The
Professor's white beard and red fez cap make a striking point in the
tableau. Our little friend Bob, and even baby and mamma, are on the
point of observation. It is past four o'clock, dinner long over; and
they have all been wondering what has got us. We walk straight up to the
house, with but one idea,--dinner. We cease to blame the fish-hawk,
being in a condition fully to enter into his feelings: a little more,
and we could eat fish as he does,--without roasting. Doubtless he and
Mrs. Fish-hawk, and the little Fish-hawks, may have been discussing us
over their savory meal; but we find little to say till dinner is
despatched.
The last hour on board the boat had been devoted to a course of
reflections on our folly in starting out without luncheon, and to
planning a more advised excursion up Julington Creek with all the
proper paraphernalia; viz., a kerosene-stove for making coffee, an
embankment of ham-sandwiches, diversified with cakes, crackers, and
cheese. This, it is understood, is to come off to-morrow morning.
Tuesday Morning, Feb. 27.--Such was to have been my programme; but,
alas! this morning, though the day rose bright and clear, there was not
a breath of wind. The river has looked all day like a sheet of glass.
There is a drowsy, hazy calm over every thing. All our windows and doors
are open; and every sound seems to be ringingly distinct. The chatter
and laughing of the children, (God bless 'em!) who are all day long
frolicking on the end of the wharf, or rowing about in the boats; the
leisurely chip, chip, of the men who are busy in mending the steamboat
wharf; the hammer of the carpenters on the yet unfinished part of our
neighbor's house; the scream of the jays in the orange-trees,--all
blend in a sort of dreamy indistinctness.
To-day is one of the two red-letter days of our week,--the day of the
arrival of the mail. You who have a driblet two or three times a day
from the mail cannot conceive the interest that gathers around these two
weekly arrivals. The whole forenoon is taken up with it. We sit on the
veranda, and watch the mail-boat far down the river,--a mere white speck
as she passes through the wooded opening above Jacksonville. She grows
larger and larger as she comes sailing up like a great white stately
swan, first on the farther side of the river till she comes to Reed's
Landing; and then, turning her white breast full toward Mandarin Wharf,
she comes ploughing across, freighted with all our hopes and fears. Then
follows the rush for our mail; then the distribution: after which all
depart to their several apartments with their letters. Then follow
readings to each other, general tidings and greetings; and when the
letters are all read twice over, and thoroughly discussed, come the
papers. Tuesday is "The Christian Union" day, as well as the day for
about a dozen other papers; and the Professor is seen henceforward with
bursting pockets, like a very large carnation bursting its calyx. He is
a walking mass of papers.
The afternoon has been devoted to reflection, gossiping, and various
expeditions. B. and G. have gone boating with Mr. ----; and come home,
on the edge of the evening, with the animating news that they have seen
the two first alligators of the season. That shows that warm weather is
to be expected; for your alligator is a delicate beast, and never comes
out when there is the least danger of catching cold. Another party have
been driving "Fly" through the woods to Julington Creek, and come back
reporting that they have seen an owl. The Professor gives report of
having seen two veritable wild-turkeys and a blue crane,--news which
touches us all tenderly; for we have as yet had not a turkey to our
festive board. We ourselves have been having a quiet game of croquet out
under the orange-trees, playing till we could see the wickets no longer.
So goes our day,--breezy, open-aired, and full of variety. Your world,
Mr. Union, is seen in perspective, far off and hazy, like the opposite
shores of the river. Nevertheless, this is the place to read papers
and books; for every thing that sweeps into this quiet bay is long and
quietly considered. We shall have something anon to say as to how you
all look in the blue perspective of distance.
Meanwhile, we must tell the girls that Phoebus has wholly accommodated
himself to his situation, and wakes us, mornings, with his singing.
"What cheer! what cheer!" he says. Whether he alludes to the four cats,
or to his large cage, or to his own internal determination, like Mark
Tapley, to be jolly, isn't evident.
Last week, Aunt Katy brought a mate for him, which was christened Luna.
She was a pretty creature, smaller, less brilliant, but gracefully
shaped, and with a nice crest on her head. We regret to say that she
lived only a few hours, being found dead in the cage in the morning. A
day or two since, great sympathy was expressed for Phoebus, in view of
the matrimonial happiness of a pair of red-birds who came to survey our
yellow jessamine with a view to setting up housekeeping there. Would not
the view of freedom and wedded joys depress his spirits? Not a bit of
it. He is evidently cut out for a jolly bachelor; and, as long as he has
fine chambers and a plenty of rough rice, what cares he for family life?
The heartless fellow piped up, "What cheer! what cheer!" the very day
that he got his cage to himself. Is this peculiar? A lady at our table
has stated it as a universal fact, that, as soon as a man's wife dies,
he immediately gets a new suit of clothes. Well, why shouldn't he?
Nothing conduces more to cheerfulness. On the whole, we think Phoebus
is a pattern bird.
P. S.--Ask the author of "My Summer in a Garden" if he can't condense
his account of "Calvin's" virtues into a tract, to be distributed among
our cats. Peter is such a hardened sinner, a little Calvinism might
operate well on him.
  [Illustration]
PICNICKING UP JULINGTON.
      MANDARIN, FLA., Feb. 29, 1872.
This twenty-ninth day of February is a day made on purpose for a
fishing-party. A day that comes only once in four years certainly ought
to be good for something; and this is as good a day for picnicking up
Julington as if it had been bespoken four years ahead. A bright sun, a
blue sky, a fresh, strong breeze upon the water,--these are Nature's
contributions. Art contributes two trim little white yachts, "The
Nelly" and "The Bessie," and three row-boats. Down we all troop to the
landing with our luncheon-baskets, kerosene-stove, tea-kettle, and
coffee-pot, baskets of oranges, and fishing-reels.
Out flutter the sails, and away we go. No danger to-day of being left in
the lurch in the middle of the river. There is all the breeze one wants,
and a little more than the timorous love; and we go rippling and racing
through the water in merry style. The spray flies, so that we need our
water-proofs and blankets; but the more the merrier. We sweep gallantly
first by the cottage of your whilom editor in "The Union," and get a
friendly salute; and then flutter by D----'s cottage, and wave our
handkerchiefs, and get salutes in return. Now we round the point, and
Julington opens her wide blue arms to receive us. We pass by Neighbor
H----'s, and again wave our handkerchiefs, and get answering salutes.
We run up to the wharf to secure another boat and oarsman in the person
of Neighbor P----, and away we fly up Julington. A creek it is called,
but fully as wide as the Connecticut at Hartford, and wooded to the
water on either side by these glorious Florida forests.
It is a late, backward spring for Florida; and so these forests are
behindhand with their foliage: yet so largely do they consist of bright
polished evergreen trees, that the eye scarcely feels the need of the
deciduous foliage on which the bright misty green of spring lies like an
uncertain vapor. There is a large admixture in the picture of the cool
tints of the gray moss, which drapes every tree, and hangs in long
pendent streamers waving in the wind. The shores of the creek now begin
to be lined on either side with tracts of a water-lily which the natives
call bonnets. The blossom is like that of our yellow pond-lily; but the
leaves are very broad and beautiful as they float like green islands on
the blue waters. Here and there, even in the centre of the creek, are
patches of them intermingled with quantities of the water-lettuce,--a
floating plant which abounds in these tracts. Along the edges of these
water-lily patches are the favorite haunts of the fish, who delight to
find shelter among the green leaves. So the yachts come to anchor; and
the party divides into the three row-boats, and prepares to proceed to
business.
We have some bustle in distributing our stove and tea-kettle and
lunch-baskets to the different boats, as we are to row far up stream,
and, when we have caught our dinner, land, and cook it. I sit in the
bow, and, being good for nothing in the fishing-line, make myself of
service by holding the French coffee-pot in my lap. The tea-kettle being
at my feet on one side, the stove on the other, and the luncheon-basket
in full view in front, I consider myself as, in a sense, at
housekeeping. Meanwhile the fishing-reels are produced, the lines
thrown; and the professional fishermen and fisherwomen become all
absorbed in their business. We row slowly along the bobbing, undulating
field of broad green bonnet-leaves, and I deliver myself to speculations
on Nature. The roots of these water-lilies, of the size of a man's arm,
often lie floating for yards on the surface, and, with their scaly
joints, look like black serpents. The ribbed and shining leaves, as they
float out upon the water, are very graceful. One is struck with a
general similarity in the plant and animal growths in these regions: the
element of grotesqueness seems largely to enter into it. Roots of plants
become scaly, contorted, and lie in convolutions like the coils of a
serpent. Such are the palmetto-shrubs, whose roots lie in scaly folds
along the ground, catching into the earth by strong rootlets, and then
rising up here and there into tall, waving green fans, whose graceful
beauty in the depths of these forests one is never tired of admiring.
Amid this serpent-like and convoluted jungle of scaly roots, how natural
to find the scaly alligator, looking like an animated form of the
grotesque vegetable world around! Sluggish, unwieldy, he seems a
half-developed animal, coming up from a plant,--perhaps a link from
plant to animal. In memory, perhaps, of a previous woodland life, he
fills his stomach with pine-knots, and bits of board, wherever he can
find one to chew. It is his way of taking tobacco. I have been with a
hunter who dissected one of these creatures, and seen him take from his
stomach a mass of mingled pine-knots, with bits of brick, worn smooth,
as if the digestive fluids had somewhat corroded them. The fore leg and
paw of the alligator has a pitiful and rather shocking resemblance to a
black human hand; and the muscular power is so great, that in case of
the particular alligator I speak of, even after his head was taken off,
when the incision was made into the pectoral muscle for the purpose of
skinning, this black hand and arm rose up, and gave the operator quite a
formidable push in the chest.
We hope to see some of these creatures out; but none appear. The
infrequency of their appearance marks the lateness and backwardness of
our spring. There!--a cry of victory is heard from the forward boat; and
Mademoiselle Nelly is seen energetically working her elbows: a scuffle
ensues, and the captive has a free berth on a boat, without charge for
passage-ticket. We shout like people who are getting hungry, as in truth
we are. And now Elsie starts in our boat; and all is commotion, till a
fine blue bream, spotted with black, is landed. Next a large black
trout, with his wide yellow mouth, comes up unwillingly from the
crystal flood. We pity them; but what are we to do? It is a question
between dinner and dinner. These fish, out marketing on their own
account, darted at our hook, expecting to catch another fish. We catch
them; and, instead of eating, they are eaten.
After all, the instinct of hunting and catching something is as strong
in the human breast as in that of cat or tiger; and we all share the
exultation which sends a shout from boat to boat as a new acquisition is
added to our prospective dinner-store.
And now right in front of us looms up from the depth of a group of pines
and magnolias a white skeleton of a tree, with gnarled arms, bleached by
years of wind and sun, swathed with long waving folds of gray moss. On
the very tip-top of this, proudly above all possibility of capture, a
fish-hawk's nest is built. Full eighty feet in the air, and about the
size of a flour-barrel; built like an old marauding baron's stronghold
in the middle ages, in inaccessible fastnesses; lined within and swathed
without with gray moss,--it is a splendid post of observation. We can
see the white head and shoulders of the bird perched upon her nest; and
already they perceive us. The pair rise and clap their wings, and
discourse to each other with loud, shrill cries, perhaps of indignation,
that we who have houses to dwell in, and beef and chickens to eat,
should come up and invade their fishing-grounds.
The fish-hawk--I beg his pardon, the fish-eagle; for I can see that he
is a bird of no mean size and proportions--has as good a right to think
that the river and the fish were made for him as we; and better too,
because the Creator has endowed him with wonderful eyesight, which
enables him, from the top of a tree eighty feet high, to search the
depths of the river, mark his prey, and dive down with unerring
certainty to it. He has his charter in his eyes, his beak, his claws;
and doubtless he has a right to remonstrate, when we, who have neither
eyes, beaks, nor claws adapted to the purpose, manage to smuggle away
his dinner. Thankful are we that no mighty hunter is aboard, and that
the atrocity of shooting a bird on her nest will not be perpetrated
here. We are a harmless company, and mean so well by them, that they
really might allow us one dinner out of their larder.
We have rowed as far up Julington as is expedient, considering that we
have to row down again; and so we land in the immediate vicinity of our
fish-eagle's fortress, greatly to his discontent. Wild, piercing cries
come to us now and then from the heights of the eyry; but we, unmoved,
proceed with our dinner-preparations.
Do you want to know the best way in the world of cooking fish? Then
listen.
The fish are taken to the river by one, and simply washed of their
superfluous internals, though by no means scaled. A moment prepares them
for the fire. Meanwhile a broad hole has been dug in the smooth white
sand; and a fire of dry light wood is merrily crackling therein. The
kerosene-stove is set a-going; the tea-kettle filled, and put on to
boil; when we disperse to examine the palmetto-jungles. One or two
parties take to the boats, and skim a little distance up stream, where
was a grove of youthful palmetto-trees. The palmetto-shrub is
essentially a different variety from the tree. In moist, rich land, the
shrub rears a high head, and looks as if it were trying to become a
tree; but it never does it. The leaf, also, is essentially different.
The full-grown palm-leaf is three or four yards long, curiously plaited
and folded. In the centre of both palmetto and palm is the bud from
whence all future leaves spring, rising like a green spike. This bud is
in great request for palmetto-hats; and all manner of palm-work; and it
was for these buds that our boating-party was going. A venturesome boy,
by climbing a neighboring tree and jumping into the palm, can succeed in
securing this prize, though at some risk of life and limb. Our party
returned with two palm-buds about two yards long, and one or two of the
long, graceful leaves.
But now the fire has burned low, and the sand-hole is thoroughly heated.
"Bring me," says the presiding cook, "any quantity of those great broad
bonnet-leaves." And forth impetuous rush the youth; and bonnet-leaves
cool and dripping are forthcoming, wherewith we double-line the hole in
the sand. Then heads and points, compactly folded, go in a line of
fish, and are covered down green and comfortable with a double blanket
of dripping bonnet-leaves. Then, with a flat board for our shovel, we
rake back first the hot sand, and then the coals and brands yet
remaining of the fire. Watches are looked at; and it is agreed by old
hands experienced in clam-bakes that half an hour shall be given to
complete our dinner.
Meanwhile the steaming tea-kettle calls for coffee, and the French
coffee-pot receives its fragrant store; while the fish-hawk, from his
high tower of observation, interjects plaintive notes of remonstrance. I
fancy him some hoarse old moralist, gifted with uncomfortable
keen-sightedness, forever shrieking down protests on the ways of the
thoughtless children of men.
What are we doing to those good fish of his, which he could prepare for
the table in much shorter order? An old hunter who has sometimes
explored the ground under the fish-hawk's nest says that bushels of
fish-bones may be found there, neatly picked, testifying to the
excellent appetite which prevails in those cloud-regions, and to the
efficiency of the plan of eating fish au naturel.
We wander abroad, and find great blue and white violets and
swamp-azaleas along the river's brink; and we take advantage of the not
very dense shade of a long-leaved pine to set out the contents of our
luncheon-baskets. Ham-sandwiches, hard-boiled eggs, cakes in tempting
variety, jellies and fruits, make their appearance in a miscellaneous
sort of way. And now comes the great operation of getting out our fish.
Without shovel, other than a bit of inflammable pine-board, the thing
presents evident difficulties: but it must be done; and done it is.
A platter is improvised of two large palmetto-leaves. The fire is raked
off, and the fish emerge from their baking-place, somewhat the worse as
to external appearance; but we bear them off to the feast. In the trial
process we find that the whole external part of the fish--scales, skin,
and fins--comes off, leaving the meat white and pure, and deliciously
juicy. A bit well salted and peppered is forthwith transferred to each
plate; and all agree that never fish was better and sweeter. Then coffee
is served round; and we feast, and are merry. When the meal is over, we
arrange our table for the benefit of the fish-hawks. The fragments of
fish yet remaining, bits of bread and cake and cheese, are all
systematically arranged for him to take his luncheon after we are gone.
Mr. Bergh himself could not ask more exemplary conduct.
For now the westering sun warns us that it is time to be spreading our
sails homeward; and, well pleased all, we disperse ourselves into our
respective boats, to fish again as we pass the lily-pads on the shore.
The sport engages every one on board except myself, who, sitting in the
end of the boat, have leisure to observe the wonderful beauty of the
sky, the shadows of the forests-belts in the water, and the glorious
trees.
One magnolia I saw that deserved to be called an archangel among the
sons of the forest. Full a hundred feet high it stood, with a trunk
rising straight, round, and branchless for full fifty feet, and crowned
with a glorious head of rich, dark, shining leaves. When its
lily-blossoms awake, what a glory will it become, all alone out there in
the silent forest, with only God to see!
No: let us believe, with Milton, that
      "Millions of spiritual creatures walk the earth
      Unseen, both when we wake and when we sleep;"
and the great magnolia-trees may spring and flower for them.
The fishing luck still continues; and the prospects for a breakfast
to-morrow morning are bright. One great fellow, however, makes off with
hook, spoon, and all; and we see him floundering among the lily-pads
with it in his mouth, vastly dissatisfied with his acquisition. Like
many a poor fellow in the world's fishing, he has snapped at a fine
bait, and got a sharp hook for his pains.
Now we come back to the yachts, and the fishing is over. The sun is just
going down as we raise our white sails and away for the broad shining
expanse of the St. John's. In a moment the singers of our party break
forth into song and glee; and catches roll over the water from one yacht
to the other as we race along neck and neck.
The evening wind rises fresh and fair, and we sweep down the beautiful
coast. Great bars of opal and rose-color lie across the western sky:
the blue waves turn rosy, and ripple and sparkle with the evening light,
as we fly along. On the distant wharf we see all the stay-at-homes
watching for us as we come to land after the most successful picnic that
heart could conceive. Each fisherwoman has her fish to exhibit, and her
exploits to recount; and there is a plentiful fish-breakfast in each of
the houses.
So goes the 29th of February on the St. John's.
  [Illustration]
MAGNOLIA.
      MANDARIN, FLA., March 6, 1872.
Magnolia is a name suggestive of beauty; and, for once, the name does
not belie the fact. The boarding-house there is about the pleasantest
winter resort in Florida. We have been passing a day and night there as
guest of some friends, and find a company of about seventy people
enjoying themselves after the usual fashions of summer watering-places.
The house is situated on a little eminence, and commands a fine sweep
of view both up and down the river. In the usual fashion of Southern
life, it is surrounded with wide verandas, where the guests pass most of
their time,--the ladies chatting, and working embroidery; the gentlemen
reading newspapers, and smoking.
The amusements are boating and fishing parties of longer or shorter
duration, rides and walks along the shore, or croquet on a fine, shady
croquet-ground in a live-oak grove back of the house.
We tried them all. First we went in a row-boat about a couple of miles
up a little creek. The shore on either side was ruffled with the green
bonnet-leaves, with here and there a golden blossom. The forest-trees,
which were large and lofty, were almost entirely of the deciduous kind,
which was just bursting into leaf; and the effect was very curious and
peculiar. One has often remarked what a misty effect the first buddings
of foliage have. Here there was a mist of many colors,--rose-colored,
pink, crimson, yellow, and vivid green, the hues of the young leaves, or
of the different tags and keys of the different species of trees. Here
and there a wild plum, sheeted in brilliant white, varied the tableau.
We rowed up to shore, drew down a branch, and filled the laps of the
ladies with sprays of white flowers. The sun beat down upon us with the
power of August; and, had it not been for the fresh breeze that blew up
from the creek, we should have found it very oppressive. We returned
just in time to rest for dinner. The dining-hall is spacious and
cheerful; and the company are seated at small tables, forming social
groups and parties. The fare was about the same as would be found in a
first-class boarding-house at the North. The house is furnished
throughout in a very agreeable style; and an invalid could nowhere in
Florida have more comforts. It is more than full, and constantly obliged
to turn away applicants; and we understand that families are now waiting
at Green Cove for places to be vacated here. We are told that it is in
contemplation, another season, to put up several cottages, to be rented
to families who will board at the hotel. At present there is connected
with the establishment one house and a cottage, where some of the guests
have their rooms; and, as the weather is so generally mild, even
invalids find no objection to walking to their meals.
The house is a respectable, good-sized, old-fashioned structure; and,
being away from the main building, is preferred by some who feel the
need of more entire quiet. Sitting on the front steps in the warm
afternoon sunshine, and looking across to the distant, hazy shores,
miles away, one could fancy one's self in Italy,--an illusion which the
great clumps of aloes, and the tall green yuccas, and the gold-fruited
orange-trees, help to carry out. Groups of ladies were seated here and
there under trees, reading, working, and chatting. We were called off by
the making-up of a croquet-party.
The croquet-ground is under the shade of a fine grove of live-oaks,
which, with their swaying drapery of white moss, form a graceful shade
and shelter. We shared the honor of gaining a victory or two under the
banner of a doctor of divinity, accustomed, we believe, to winning
laurels on quite other fields in the good city of New York. It has been
our general experience, however, that a man good for any thing else is
commonly a good croquet-player. We would notify your editor-in-chief,
that, if ever he plays a game against Dr. C----, he will find a foeman
worthy of his steel.
In the evening the whole company gathered in the parlors, made cheerful
by blazing wood-fires. There were song-singing and piano-playing,
charades and games, to pass the time withal; and all bore testimony to
the very sociable and agreeable manner in which life moved on in their
circle.
Magnolia is about three-quarters of a mile from Green-Cove Springs,
where are two or three large, well-kept boarding-houses. There is a very
pleasant, shady walk through the woods from one place to the other; and
the mail comes every day to Green Cove, and is sent for, from the
Magnolia House, in a daily morning carriage. It is one of the amusements
of the guests to ride over, on these occasions, for a little morning
gossip and shopping, as Magnolia, being quite sequestered, does not
present the opportunity to chaffer even for a stick of candy. Of course,
fair ones that have been accustomed to the periodical excitement of a
shopping-tour would sink into atrophy without an opportunity to spend
something. What they can buy at Green Cove is a matter of indifference.
It is the burning of money in idle purses that injures the nervous
system.
There are no orange-groves on this side of the river. The orange-trees
about the house are entirely of the wild kind; and, for merely
ornamental purposes, no tree more beautiful could be devised. Its vivid
green, the deep gold-color of its clusters of fruit, and the exuberance
with which it blossoms, all go to recommend it. Formerly there were
extensive orange-groves, with thousands of bearing trees, on this side
of the river. The frost of 1835 killed the trees, and they have never
been reset. Oranges are not, therefore, either cheap or plenty at
Magnolia or Green Cove. Nothing shows more strikingly the want of
enterprise that has characterized this country than this. Seedling
oranges planted the very next day after the great frost would have been
in bearing ten years after, and would, ere now, have yielded barrels and
barrels of fruit; and the trees would have grown and taken care of
themselves. One would have thought so very simple and easy a measure
would have been adopted.
At eleven o'clock the next morning we took steamer for Mandarin, and
went skimming along the shores, watching the white-blossoming plum-trees
amid the green of the forest. We stopped at Hibernia, a pleasant
boarding-house on an island called Fleming's, after a rich Col. Fleming
who formerly had a handsome plantation there. There is a fine,
attractive-looking country-house, embowered in trees and with shaded
verandas, where about forty boarders are yearly accommodated. We have
heard this resort very highly praised as a quiet spot, where the
accommodations are homelike and comfortable. It is kept by the widow of
the former proprietor; and we are told that guests who once go there
return year after year. There is something certainly very peaceful and
attractive about its surroundings.
But now our boat is once more drawing up to the wharf at Mandarin; and
we must defer much that we have to say till next week. Phoebus, we are
happy to say to our girl correspondents, is bright and happy, and in
excellent voice. All day long, at intervals, we can hear him from the
back veranda, shouting, "What cheer! what cheer!" or sometimes
abbreviating it as "Cheer, cheer, cheer!"
Since we have been writing, one of those characteristic changes have
come up to which this latitude is subject. The sun was shining, the
river blue, the windows open, and the family reading, writing, and
working on the veranda, when suddenly comes a frown of Nature,--a black
scowl in the horizon. Up flies the wind; the waves are all white-caps;
the blinds bang; the windows rattle; every one runs to shut every thing;
and for a few moments it blows as if it would take house and all away.
Down drop oranges in a golden shower; here, there, and everywhere the
lightning flashes; thunder cracks and rattles and rolls; and the big
torrents of rain come pouring down: but, in the back-porch, Phoebus
between each clap persists in shouting, "What cheer! what cheer!" Like a
woman in a passion, Nature ends all this with a burst of tears; and it
is raining now, tenderly and plaintively as if bemoaning itself.
Well, we wouldn't have missed the sight if we had been asked; and we
have picked up a bushel of oranges that otherwise somebody must have
climbed the trees for.
Meanwhile the mail is closing. Good-by!
  [Illustration]
YELLOW JESSAMINES.
      MANDARIN, FLA., March 14, 1872.
"They talk about Florida being the land of flowers: I'm sure I don't
see where the flowers are."
The speaker was a trim young lady, with pretty, high-heeled boots,
attired in all those charming mysteries behind and before, and up and
down, that make the daughter of Eve look like some bright, strange,
tropical bird. She had come to see Florida; that is, to take board at
the St. James. She had provided herself with half a dozen different
palmetto-hats, an orange-wood cane tipped with an alligator's tooth,
together with an assortment of cranes' wings and pink curlews' feathers,
and talked of Florida with the assured air of a connoisseur. She had
been on the boat up to Enterprise; she had crossed at Tekoi over to St.
Augustine, and come back to the St. James; and was now prepared to speak
as one having authority: and she was sure she did not see why it was
called a land of flowers. She hadn't seen any.
"But, my dear creature, have you ever been where they grow? Have you
walked in the woods?"
"Walked in the woods? Gracious me! Of course not! Who could walk in sand
half up to one's ankles? I tried once; and the sand got into my boots,
and soiled my stockings: besides, I'm afraid of snakes."
"Then, my dear, you will never be a judge on the question whether
Florida is or is not a land of flowers. Whoever would judge on that
question must make up her mind to good long tramps in the woods; must
wear stout boots, with India-rubbers, or, better still, high
India-rubber boots. So equipped, and with eyes open to see what is to be
seen, you will be prepared to explore those wild glades and mysterious
shadows where Nature's beauties, marvels, and mysteries are wrought. The
Venus of these woods is only unveiled in their deepest solitudes."
For ourselves, we claim to have experience in this matter of flowers;
having always observed them in all lands. We were impressed more by the
flowers of Italy than by any thing else there; yes, more than by the
picture-galleries, the statues, the old ruins. The sight of the green
lawns of the Pamfili Doria, all bubbling up in little rainbow-tinted
anemones; the cool dells where we picked great blue-and-white violets;
the damp, mossy shadows in the Quirinal gardens, where cyclamen grow in
crimson clouds amid a crush of precious old marbles and antiques; the
lovely flowers, unnamed of botany, but which we should call a sort of
glorified blue-and-white daisies, that we gathered in the shadowy dells
near Castle Gandolpho,--these have a freshness in our memory that will
last when the memory of all the "stun images" of the Vatican has passed
away.
In our mind's eye we have compared Florida with Italy often, and asked
if it can equal it. The flowers here are not the same, it is true. The
blue violets are not fragrant. We do not find the many-colored anemones,
nor the cyclamen. Both can be planted out here, and will grow readily;
but they are not wild flowers, not indigenous.
"Well, then, are there others to compensate?" We should say so.
The yellow jessamine itself, in its wild grace, with its violet-scented
breath, its profuse abundance, is more than a substitute for the
anemones of Italy.
If you will venture to walk a little way in the sand beyond our
back-gate, we will show you a flower-show this morning such as Chiswick
or the Crystal Palace cannot equal.
About a quarter of a mile we walk: and then we turn in to what is called
here an oak-hammock; which is, being interpreted, a grove of
live-oak-trees, with an underbrush of cedar, holly, and various
flowering-shrubs. An effort has been made to clear up this hammock. The
larger trees have some of them been cut down, but not removed. The work
of clearing was abandoned; and, the place being left to Nature, she
proceeded to improve and beautify it after a fashion of her own. The
yellow jessamine, which before grew under the shadow of the trees, now,
exultant in the sunshine which was let in upon it, has made a triumphant
and abounding growth, such as we never saw anywhere else. It is the very
Ariel of flowers,--the tricksy sprite, full of life and grace and
sweetness; and it seems to take a capricious pleasure in rambling
everywhere, and masquerading in the foliage of every kind of tree. Now
its yellow bells twinkle down like stars from the prickly foliage of the
holly, where it has taken full possession, turning the solemn old
evergreen into a blossoming garland. Now, sure enough, looking up full
sixty feet into yonder water-oak, we see it peeping down at us in long
festoons, mingling with the swaying, crapy streamers of the gray moss.
Yonder a little live-oak-tree has been so completely possessed and
beflowered, that it shows a head of blossoms as round as an apple-tree
in May. You look below, and jessamine is trailing all over the ground,
weaving and matting, with its golden buds and open bells peeping up at
you from the huckleberry-bushes and sedge-grass.
Here is a tree overthrown, and raising its gaunt, knotted branches in
air, veiled with soft mossy drapery. The jessamine springs upon it for a
trellis: it weaves over and under and around; it throws off long sprays
and streamers with two golden buds at the axil of every green leaf, and
fluttering out against the blue of the sky. Its multiform sprays twist
and knot and tie themselves in wonderful intricacies; and still where
every green leaf starts is a yellow flower-bud. The beauty of these buds
is peculiar. They have little sculptured grooves; and the whole looks as
if it might have been carved of fairy chrysolite for a lady's ear-drop.
Our little brown chambermaid wears them dangling in her ears; and a
very pretty picture she makes with them. Coal-black Frank looks
admiringly after her as she trips by with them shaking and twinkling to
his confusion, as he forgets for a moment to saw wood, and looks
longingly after her. No use, Frank. "Trust her not: she is fooling
thee." Her smiles are all for lighter-colored beaux. But still she wears
yellow jessamine in her crapy hair, and orders Frank to bring her
wreaths and sprays of it whenever she wants it; and Frank obeys. That's
female sovereignty, the world over!
In this same hammock are certain tall, graceful shrubs, belonging, as we
fancy, to the high-huckleberry tribe, but which the Floridians call
sparkleberry. It is the most beautiful white ornamental shrub we have
ever seen. Imagine a shrub with vivid green foliage, hanging profusely
with wreaths of lilies-of-the-valley, and you have as near as possible
an idea of the sparkleberry. It is only in bud now, being a little
later than the jessamine, and coming into its glory when the jessamine
is passing away.
The regular employment now of every afternoon is to go out in the
mule-cart with old Fly into the woods, flower-hunting.
It is as lovely an afternoon-work as heart could wish; the sky is so
blue, the air so balmy, and at every step there is something new to
admire. The coming-out of the first leaves and tags and blossom-keys of
the deciduous trees has a vividness and brilliancy peculiar to these
regions. The oak-hammock we have been describing as the haunt of yellow
jessamine is as picturesque and beautiful a tree-study as an artist
could desire. There are tall, dark cedars, in which the gray films of
the long moss have a peculiarly light and airy appearance. There is the
majestic dome of the long-leaved Southern pine, rising high over all the
other trees, as in Italy the stone-pine. Its leaves are from twelve to
eighteen inches long; and the swaying of such pines makes a susurrus
worth listening to. The water-oak is throwing out its bright young
leaves of a gold-tinted green; and the live-oak, whose leaves are
falling now, is bursting into little velvety tags, premonitory of new
foliage. Four species of oaks we notice. The live-oak, the water-oak,
and a species of scrub-tree which they call the olive-leaved oak, are
all evergreens, and have narrow, smooth leaves. Then there are what are
familiarly called black-jacks,--a deciduous oak, which bears a large,
sharply-cut, indented leaf, of a character resembling our Northern ones.
Besides these, the prickly-ash, with its curiously knobbed and pointed
branches, and its graceful, feathery leaves, forms a feature in the
scene. Underneath, great clumps of prickly-pear are throwing out their
queer buds, to be, in turn, followed by bright yellow blossoms.
To an uninstructed eye, the pine-woods in which we ride look like a
flat, monotonous scene. The pines rise seventy, eighty, and a hundred
feet in the air, so that their tops are far above, and cast no shade.
This is a consideration of value, however, for a winter's ride; for one
enjoys the calm sunshine. Even in days when high winds are prevailing
along the river-front, the depth of these pine-woods is calm, sunny, and
still; and one can always have a pleasant walk there. When the hotter
months come on, the live-oaks and water-oaks have thick, new foliage,
and the black-jacks and hickory and sweet-gum trees throw out their
shade to shelter the traveller. Every mile or two, our path is traversed
by a brook on its way to the St. John's. The natives here call a brook a
"branch;" and a branch is no small circumstance, since all the finest
trees and shrubbery grow upon its banks. You can look through the high,
open pillars of the pine-trees, and watch the course of a branch half a
mile from you by the gorgeous vegetation of the trees which line its
shores.
We jog along in our mule-cart, admiring every thing as we go. We are
constantly exclaiming at something, and tempted to get out to gather
flowers. Here and there through the long wire-grass come perfect gushes
of blue and white violets. The blue violets are large, and, of
necessity, are obliged to put forth very long stems to get above the
coarse, matted grass. The white are very fragrant, and perfectly whiten
the ground in some moist places. There is a large, fragrant kind, very
scarce and rare, but of which we have secured several roots. We are
going this afternoon to the "second branch" after azaleas. We stop at a
little distance, when its wall of glossy verdure rises up before us.
There is no accomplishment of a mule in which Fly is better versed than
stopping and standing still. We fancy that we hear him, in his inner
consciousness, making a merit of it, as we all do of our pet virtues. He
is none of your frisky fellows, always wanting to be going, and
endangering everybody that wants to get in or out with prances and
curvets,--not he! He is a beast that may be trusted to stand for any
length of time without an attempt at motion. Catch him running away!
So we leave Fly, and determine to explore the branch.
The short palmettoes here are grown to the height of fifteen feet. Their
roots look like great scaly serpents, which, after knotting and
