he regarded as capital laid up for another use, and at another time.
But it was plain that he had reached the end of his present financial
policy, and must decide whether to adopt the new one suggested by Mrs.
Dinneford or make a failure, and so get rid of his partner. The question
he had to settle with himself was whether he could make more by a
failure than by using Granger a while longer, and then throwing him
overboard, disgraced and ruined. Selfish and unscrupulous as he was,
Freeling hesitated to do this. And besides, the “desperate expedients”
 he would have to adopt in the new line of policy were fraught with
peril to all who took part in them. He might fall into the snare set for
another--might involve himself so deeply as not to find a way of escape.
“To-morrow we will talk this matter over,” he said in reply to Mrs.
Dinneford’s last remark; “in the mean time I will examine the ground
thoroughly and see how it looks.”
“Don’t hesitate to make any use you can of Granger,” suggested the lady.
“He has done his part toward getting things tangled, and must help to
untangle them.”
“All right, ma’am.”
And they separated, Mrs. Dinneford reaching the street by one door of
the hotel, and Freeling by another.
On the following day they met again, Mrs. Dinneford bringing the two
thousand dollars.
“And now what next?” she asked, after handing over the money and taking
the receipt of “Freeling & Granger.” Her eyes had a hard glitter, and
her face was almost stern in its expression. “How are you going to raise
money and keep afloat?”
“Only some desperate expedient is left me now,” answered Freeling,
though not in the tone of a man who felt himself at bay. It was said
with a wicked kind of levity.
Mrs. Dinneford looked at him keenly. She was beginning to mistrust the
man. They gazed into each other’s faces in silence for some moments,
each trying to read what was in the other’s thought. At length Freeling
said,
“There is one thing more that you will have to do, Mrs. Dinneford.”
“What?” she asked.
“Get your husband to draw two or three notes in Mr. Granger’s favor.
They should not be for less than five hundred or a thousand dollars
each. The dates must be short--not over thirty or sixty days.”
“It can’t be done,” was the emphatic answer.
“It must be done,” replied Freeling; “they need not be for the business.
You can manage the matter if you will; your daughter wants an India
shawl, or a set of diamonds, or a new carriage--anything you choose. Mr.
Dinneford hasn’t the ready cash, but we can throw his notes into bank
and get the money; don’t you see?”
But Mrs. Dinneford didn’t see.
“I don’t mean,” said Freeling, “that we are to use the money. Let the
shawl, or the diamond, or the what-not, be bought and paid for. We get
the discounts for your use, not ours.”
“All very well,” answered Mrs. Dinneford; “but how is that going to help
you?”
“Leave that to me. You get the notes,” said Freeling.
“Never walk blindfold, Mr. Freeling,” replied the lady, drawing herself
up, with a dignified air. “We ought to understand each other by this
time. I must see beyond the mere use of these notes.”
Freeling shut his mouth tightly and knit his heavy brows. Mrs. Dinneford
watched him, closely.
“It’s a desperate expedient,” he said, at length.
“All well as far as that is concerned; but if I am to have a hand in it,
I must know all about it,” she replied, firmly. “As I said just now, I
never walk blindfold.”
Freeling leaned close to Mrs. Dinneford, and uttered a few sentences in
a low tone, speaking rapidly. The color went and came in her face, but
she sat motionless, and so continued for some time after he had ceased
speaking.
“You will get the notes?” Freeling put the question as one who has
little doubt of the answer.
“I will get them,” replied Mrs. Dinneford.
“When?”
“It will take time.”
“We cannot wait long. If the thing is done at all, it must be done
quickly. ‘Strike while the iron is hot’ is the best of all maxims.”
“There shall be no needless delay on my part. You may trust me for
that,” was answered.
Within a week Mrs. Dinneford brought two notes, drawn by her husband
in favor of George Granger--one for five hundred and the other for one
thousand dollars. The time was short--thirty and sixty days. On this
occasion she came to the store and asked for her son-in-law. The meeting
between her and Freeling was reserved and formal. She expressed regret
for the trouble she was giving the firm in procuring a discount for her
use, and said that if she could reciprocate the favor in any way she
would be happy to do so.
“The notes are drawn to your order,” remarked Freeling as soon as the
lady had retired. Granger endorsed them, and was about handing them to
his partner, when the latter said:
“Put our name on them while you are about it.” And the young man wrote
also the endorsement of the firm.
After this, Mr. Freeling put the bank business into Granger’s hands.
Nearly all checks were drawn and all business paper endorsed by the
younger partner, who became the financier of the concern, and had the
management of all negotiations for money in and out of bank.
One morning, shortly after the first of Mr. Dinneford’s notes was paid,
Granger saw his mother-in-law come into the store. Freeling was at the
counter. They talked together for some time, and then Mrs. Dinneford
went out.
On the next day Granger saw Mrs. Dinneford in the store again. After
she had gone away, Freeling came back, and laying a note-of-hand on his
partner’s desk, said, in a pleased, confidential way.
“Look at that, my friend.”
Granger read the face of the note with a start of surprise. It was drawn
to his order, for three thousand dollars, and bore the signature of
Howard Dinneford.
“A thing that is worth having is worth asking for,” said Freeling.
“We obliged your mother-in-law, and now she has returned the favor. It
didn’t come very easily, she said, and your father-in-law isn’t feeling
rather comfortable about it; so she doesn’t care about your speaking of
it at home.”
Granger was confounded.
“I can’t understand it,” he said.
“You can understand that we have the note, and that it has come in the
nick of time,” returned Freeling.
“Yes, I can see all that.”
“Well, don’t look a gift-horse in the mouth, but spring into the saddle
and take a ride. Your mother-in-law is a trump. If she will, she will,
you may depend on’t.”
Freeling was unusually excited. Granger looked the note over and over
in a way that seemed to annoy his partner, who said, presently, with a
shade of ill-nature in his voice,
“What’s the matter? Isn’t the signature all right?”
“That’s right enough,” returned the young man, after looking at it
closely. “But I can’t understand it.”
“You will when you see the proceeds passed to our accounted in bank--ha!
ha!”
Granger looked up at his partner quickly, the laugh had so strange a
sound, but saw nothing new in his face.
In about a month Freeling had in his possession another note, signed by
Mr. Dinneford and drawn to the order of George Granger. This one was for
five thousand dollars. He handed it to his partner soon after the latter
had observed Mrs. Dinneford in the store.
A little over six weeks from this time Mrs. Dinneford was in the store
again. After she had gone away, Freeling handed Granger three more
notes drawn by Mr. Dinneford to his order, amounting in all to fifteen
thousand dollars. They were at short dates.
Granger took these notes without any remark, and was about putting them
in his desk, when Freeling said,
“I think you had better offer one in the People’s Bank and another in
the Fourth National. They discount to-morrow.”
“Our line is full in both of these banks,” replied Granger.
“That may or may not be. Paper like this is not often thrown out. Call
on the president of the Fourth National and the cashier of the People’s
Bank. Say that we particularly want the money, and would like them to
see that the notes go through. Star & Giltedge can easily place the
other.”
Granger’s manner did not altogether please his partner. The notes lay
before him on his desk, and he looked at them in a kind of dazed way.
“What’s the matter?” asked Freeling, rather sharply.
“Nothing,” was the quiet answer.
“You saw Mrs. Dinneford in the store just now. I told her last week that
I should claim another favor at her hands. She tried to beg off, but I
pushed the matter hard. It must end here, she says. Mr. Dinneford won’t
go any farther.”
“I should think not,” replied Granger. “I wouldn’t if I were he. The
wonder to me is that he has gone so far. What about the renewal of these
notes?”
“Oh, that is all arranged,” returned Freeling, a little hurriedly.
Granger looked at him for some moments. He was not satisfied.
“See that they go in bank,” said Freeling, in a positive way.
Granger took up his pen in an abstracted manner and endorsed the notes,
after which he laid them in his bank-book. An important customer coming
in at the moment, Freeling went forward to see him. After Granger was
left alone, he took the notes from his bank-book and examined them
with great care. Suspicion was aroused. He felt sure that something
was wrong. A good many things in Freeling’s conduct of late had seemed
strange. After thinking for a while, he determined to take the notes at
once to Mr. Dinneford and ask him if all was right. As soon as his mind
had reached this conclusion he hurried through the work he had on hand,
and then putting his bank-book in his pocket, left the store.
On that very morning Mr. Dinneford received notice that he had a note
for three thousand dollars falling due at one of the banks. He went
immediately and asked to see the note. When it was shown to him, he was
observed to become very pale, but he left the desk of the note-clerk
without any remark, and returned home. He met his wife at the door, just
coming in.
“What’s the matter?” she asked, seeing how pale he was. “Not sick, I
hope?”
“Worse than sick,” he replied as they passed into the house together.
“George has been forging my name.”
“Impossible!” exclaimed Mrs. Dinneford.
“I wish it were,” replied Mr. Dinneford, sadly; “but, alas! it is too
true. I have just returned from the Fourth National Bank. They have a
note for three thousand dollars, bearing my signature. It is drawn
to the order of George Granger, and endorsed by him. The note is a
forgery.”
Mrs. Dinneford became almost wild with excitement. Her fair face grew
purple. Her eyes shone with a fierce light.
“Have you had him arrested?” she asked.
“Oh no, no, no!” Mr. Dinneford answered. “For poor Edith’s sake, if for
nothing else, this dreadful business must be kept secret. I will take up
the note when due, and the public need be none the wiser.”
“If,” said Mrs. Dinneford, “he has forged your name once, he has, in all
probability, done it again and again. No, no; the thing can’t be hushed
up, and it must not be. Is he less a thief and a robber because he is
our son-in-law? My daughter the wife of a forger! Great heavens! has it
come to this Mr. Dinneford?” she added, after a pause, and with intense
bitterness and rejection in her voice. “The die is cast! Never again, if
I can prevent it, shall that scoundrel cross our threshold. Let the law
have its course. It is a crime to conceal crime.”
“It will kill our poor child!” answered Mr. Dinneford in a broken voice.
“Death is better than the degradation of living with a criminal,”
 replied his wife. “I say it solemnly, and I mean it; the die is cast!
Come what will, George Granger stands now and for ever on the outside!
Go at once and give information to the bank officers. If you do not, I
will.”
With a heavy heart Mr. Dinneford returned to the bank and informed the
president that the note in question was a forgery. He had been gone from
home a little over half an hour, when Granger, who had come to ask him
about the three notes given him that morning by Freeling, put his key in
the door, and found, a little to his surprise, that the latch was down.
He rang the bell, and in a few moments the servant appeared. Granger was
about passing in, when the man said, respectfully but firmly, as he held
the door partly closed,
“My orders are not to let you come in.”
“Who gave you those orders?” demanded Granger, turning white.
“Mrs. Dinneford.”
“I wish to see Mr. Dinneford, and I must see him immediately.”
“Mr. Dinneford is not at home,” answered the servant.
“Shut that door instantly!”
It was the voice of Mrs. Dinneford, speaking from within. Granger heard
it; in the next moment the door was shut in his face.
The young man hardly knew how he got back to the store. On his arrival
he found himself under arrest, charged with forgery, and with fresh
evidence of the crime on his person in the three notes received that
morning from his partner, who denied all knowledge of their existence,
and appeared as a witness against him at the hearing before a
magistrate. Granger was held to bail to answer the charge at the next
term of court.
It would have been impossible to keep all this from Edith, even if there
had been a purpose to do so. Mrs. Dinneford chose to break the dreadful
news at her own time and in her own way. The shock was fearful. On the
night that followed her baby was born.
CHAPTER III.
“IT is a splendid boy,” said the nurse as she came in with the
new-born baby in her arms, “and perfect as a bit of sculpture. Just look
at that hand.”
“Faugh!” ejaculated Mrs. Dinneford, to whom this was addressed. Her
countenance expressed disgust. She turned her head away. “Hide the thing
from my sight!” she added, angrily. “Cover it up! smother it if you
will!”
“You are still determined?” said the nurse.
“Determined, Mrs. Bray; I am not the woman to look back when I have once
resolved. You know me.” Mrs. Dinneford said this passionately.
The two women were silent for a little while. Mrs. Bray, the nurse, kept
her face partly turned from Mrs. Dinneford. She was a short, dry, wiry
little woman, with French features, a sallow complexion and very black
eyes.
The doctor looked in. Mrs. Dinneford went quickly to the door, and
putting her hand on his arm, pressed him back, going out into the entry
with him and closing the door behind them. They talked for a short time
very earnestly.
“The whole thing is wrong,” said the doctor as he turned to go, “and I
will not be answerable for the consequences.”
“No one will require them at your hand, Doctor Radcliffe,” replied
Mrs. Dinneford. “Do the best you can for Edith. As for the rest, know
nothing, say nothing. You understand.”
Doctor Burt Radcliffe had a large practice among rich and fashionable
people. He had learned to be very considerate of their weaknesses,
peculiarities and moral obliquities. His business was to doctor them
when sick, to humor them when they only thought themselves sick, and to
get the largest possible fees for his, services. A great deal came under
his observation that he did not care to see, and of which he saw as
little as possible. From policy he had learned to be reticent. He held
family secrets enough to make, in the hands of a skillful writer, more
than a dozen romances of the saddest and most exciting character.
Mrs. Dinneford knew him thoroughly, and just how far to trust him. “Know
nothing, say nothing” was a good maxim in the case, and so she divulged
only the fact that the baby was to be cast adrift. His weak remonstrance
might as well not have been spoken, and he knew it.
While this brief interview was in progress, Nurse Bray sat with the baby
on her lap. She had taken the soft little hands into her own; and evil
and cruel though she was, an impulse of tenderness flowed into her heart
from the angels who were present with the innocent child. It grew
lovely in her eyes. Its helplessness stirred in her a latent instinct of
protection. “No no, it must not be,” she was saying to herself, when the
door opened and Mrs. Dinneford came back.
Mrs. Bray did not lift her head, but sat looking down at the baby and
toying with its hands.
“Pshaw!” ejaculated Mrs. Dinneford, in angry disgust, as she noticed
this manifestation of interest. “Bundle the thing up and throw into that
basket. Is the woman down stairs?”
“Yes,” replied Mrs. Bray as she slowly drew a light blanket over the
baby.
“Very well. Put it in the basket, and let her take it away.”
“She is not a good woman,” said the nurse, whose heart was failing her
at the last moment.
“She may be the devil for all I care,” returned Mrs. Dinneford.
Mrs. Bray did as she was ordered, but with an evident reluctance that
irritated Mrs. Dinneford.
“Go now and bring up the woman,” she said, sharply.
The woman was brought. She was past the prime of life, and had an evil
face. You read in it the record of bad passions indulged and the signs
of a cruel nature. She was poorly clad, and her garments unclean.
“You will take this child?” said Mrs. Dinneford abruptly, as the woman
came into her presence.
“I have agreed to do so,” she replied, looking toward Mrs. Bray.
“She is to have fifty dollars,” said the nurse.
“And that is to be the last of it!” Mrs. Dinneford’s face was pale, and
she spoke in a hard, husky voice.
Opening her purse, she took from it a small roll of bills, and as she
held out the money said, slowly and with a hard emphasis,
“You understand the terms. I do not know you--not even your name. I
don’t wish to know you. For this consideration you take the child away.
That is the end of it between you and me. The child is your own as much
as if he were born to you, and you can do with him as you please. And
now go.” Mrs. Dinneford waved her hand.
“His name?” queried the woman.
“He has no name!” Mrs. Dinneford stamped her foot in angry impatience.
The woman stooped down, and taking up the basket, tucked the covering
that had been laid over the baby close about its head, so that no one
could see what she carried, and went off without uttering another word.
It was some moments before either Mrs. Dinneford or the nurse spoke.
Mrs. Bray was first to break silence.
“All this means a great deal more than you have counted on,” she said,
in a voice that betrayed some little feeling. “To throw a tender baby
out like that is a hard thing. I am afraid--”
“There, there! no more of that,” returned Mrs. Dinneford, impatiently.
“It’s ugly work, I own, but it had to be done--like cutting off a
diseased limb. He will die, of course, and the sooner it is over, the
better for him and every one else.”
“He will have a hard struggle for life, poor little thing!” said the
nurse. “I would rather see him dead.”
Mrs. Dinneford, now that this wicked and cruel deed was done, felt ill
at ease. She pushed the subject away, and tried to bury it out of sight
as we bury the dead, but did not find the task an easy one.
What followed the birth and removal of Edith’s baby up to the time of
her return to reason after long struggle for life, has already been
told. Her demand to have her baby--“Oh, mother, bring me my baby!
I shall die if you do not!” and the answer, “Your baby is in
heaven!”--sent the feeble life-currents back again upon her heart. There
was another long period of oblivion, out of which she came very slowly,
her mind almost as much a blank as the mind of a child.
She had to learn again the names of things, and to be taught their use.
It was touching to see the untiring devotion of her father, and the
pleasure he took in every new evidence of mental growth. He went
over the alphabet with her, letter by letter, many times each day,
encouraging her and holding her thought down to the unintelligible signs
with a patient tenderness sad yet beautiful to see; and when she began
to combine letters into words, and at last to put words together, his
delight was unbounded.
Very slowly went on the new process of mental growth, and it was months
before thought began to reach out beyond the little world that lay just
around her.
Meanwhile, Edith’s husband had been brought to trial for forgery,
convicted and sentenced to the State’s prison for a term of years. His
partner came forward as the chief witness, swearing that he had believed
the notes genuine, the firm having several times had the use of Mr.
Dinneford’s paper, drawn to the order of Granger.
Ere the day of trial came the poor young man was nearly broken-hearted.
Public disgrace like this, added to the terrible private wrongs he was
suffering, was more than he had the moral strength to bear. Utterly
repudiated by his wife’s family, and not even permitted to see Edith, he
only knew that she was very ill. Of the birth of his baby he had but
a vague intimation. A rumor was abroad that it had died, but he could
learn nothing certain. In his distress and uncertainty he called on Dr.
Radcliffe, who replied to his questions with a cold evasion. “It was
put out to nurse,” said the doctor, “and that is all I know about it.”
 Beyond this he would say nothing.
Granger was not taken to the State’s prison after his sentence, but
to an insane asylum. Reason gave way under the terrible ordeal through
which he had been made to pass.
“Mother,” said Edith, one day, in a tone that caused Mrs. Dinneford’s
heart to leap. She was reading a child’s simple story-book, and looked
up as she spoke. Her eyes were wide open and full of questions.
“What, my dear?” asked Mrs. Dinneford, repressing her feelings and
trying to keep her voice calm.
“There’s something I can’t understand, mother.” She looked down at
herself, then about the room. Her manner was becoming nervous.
“What can’t you understand?”
Edith shut her hands over her eyes and remained very still. When
she removed them, and her mother looked into her face the childlike
sweetness and content were all gone, and a conscious woman was before
her. The transformation was as sudden as it was marvelous.
Both remained silent for the space of nearly a minute. Mrs. Dinneford
knew not what to say, and waited for some sign from her daughter.
“Where is my baby, mother?” Edith said this in a low, tremulous whisper,
leaning forward as she spoke, repressed and eager.
“Have you forgotten?” asked Mrs. Dinneford, with regained composure.
“Forgotten what?”
“You were very ill after your baby was born; no one thought you could
live; you were ill for a long time. And the baby--”
“What of the baby, mother?” asked Edith, beginning to tremble violently.
Her mother, perceiving her agitation, held back the word that was on her
lips.
“What of the baby, mother?” Edith repeated the question.
“It died,” said Mrs. Dinneford, turning partly away. She could not look
at her child and utter this cruel falsehood.
“Dead! Oh, mother, don’t say that! The baby can’t be dead!”
A swift flash of suspicion came into her eyes.
“I have said it, my child,” was the almost stern response of Mrs.
Dinneford. “The baby is dead.”
A weight seemed to fall on Edith. She bent forward, crouching down until
her elbows rested on her knees and her hands supported her head. Thus
she sat, rocking her body with a slight motion. Mrs. Dinneford watched
her without speaking.
“And what of George?” asked Edith, checking her nervous movement at
last.
Her mother did not reply. Edith waited a moment, and then lifted herself
erect.
“What of George?” she demanded.
“My poor child!” exclaimed Mrs. Dinneford, with a gush of genuine pity,
putting her arms about Edith and drawing her head against her bosom. “It
is more than you have strength to bear.”
“You must tell me,” the daughter said, disengaging herself. “I have
asked for my husband.”
“Hush! You must not utter that word again;” and Mrs. Dinneford put her
fingers on Edith’s lips. “The wretched man you once called by that name
is a disgraced criminal. It is better that you know the worst.”
When Mr. Dinneford came home, instead of the quiet, happy child he
had left in the morning, he found a sad, almost broken-hearted woman,
refusing to be comforted. The wonder was that under the shock of this
terrible awakening, reason had not been again and hopelessly dethroned.
After a period of intense suffering, pain seemed to deaden sensibility.
She grew calm and passive. And now Mrs. Dinneford set herself to the
completion of the work she had begun. She had compassed the ruin of
Granger in order to make a divorce possible; she had cast the baby
adrift that no sign of the social disgrace might remain as an impediment
to her first ambition. She would yet see her daughter in the position
to which she had from the beginning resolved to lift her, cost what it
might. But the task was not to be an easy one.
After a period of intense suffering, as we have said, Edith grew calm
and passive. But she was never at ease with her mother, and seemed to
be afraid of her. To her father she was tender and confiding. Mrs.
Dinneford soon saw that if Edith’s consent to a divorce from her husband
was to be obtained, it must come through her father’s influence; for
if she but hinted at the subject, it was met with a flash of almost
indignant rejection. So her first work was to bring her husband over to
her side. This was not difficult, for Mr. Dinneford felt the disgrace
of having for a son-in-law a condemned criminal, who was only saved from
the State’s prison by insanity. An insane criminal was not worthy to
hold the relation of husband to his pure and lovely child.
After a feeble opposition to her father’s arguments and persuasions,
Edith yielded her consent. An application for a divorce was made, and
speedily granted.
CHAPTER IV.
OUT of this furnace Edith came with a new and purer spirit. She had
been thrust in a shrinking and frightened girl; she came out a woman in
mental stature, in feeling and self-consciousness.
The river of her life, which had cut for itself a deeper channel, lay
now so far down that it was out of the sight of common observation. Even
her mother failed to apprehend its drift and strength. Her father knew
her better. To her mother she was reserved and distant; to her father,
warm and confiding. With the former she would sit for hours without
speaking unless addressed; with the latter she was pleased and social,
and grew to be interested in what interested him. As mentioned, Mr.
Dinneford was a man of wealth and leisure, and active in many public
charities. He had come to be much concerned for the neglected and
cast-off children of poor and vicious parents, thousands upon thousands
of whom were going to hopeless ruin, unthought of and uncared for by
Church or State, and their condition often formed the subject of his
conversation as well at home as elsewhere.
Mrs. Dinneford had no sympathy with her husband in this direction. A
dirty, vicious child was an offence to her, not an object of pity, and
she felt more like, spurning it with her foot than touching it with
her hand. But it was not so with Edith; she listened to her father, and
became deeply interested in the poor, suffering, neglected little ones
whose sad condition he could so vividly portray, for the public duties
of charity to which he was giving a large part of his time made him
familiar with much that was sad and terrible in human suffering and
degradation.
One day Edith said to her father,
“I saw a sight this morning that made me sick. It has haunted me ever
since. Oh, it was dreadful!”
“What was it?” asked Mr. Dinneford.
“A sick baby in the arms of a half-drunken woman. It made me shiver to
look at its poor little face, wasted by hunger and sickness and purple
with cold. The woman sat at the street corner begging, and the people
went by, no one seeming to care for the helpless, starving baby in her
arms. I saw a police-officer almost touch the woman as he passed. Why
did he not arrest her?”
“That was not his business,” replied Mr. Dinneford. “So long as she did
not disturb the peace, the officer had nothing to do with her.”
“Who, then, has?”
“Nobody.”
“Why, father!” exclaimed Edith. “Nobody?”
“The woman was engaged in business. She was a beggar, and the sick,
half-starved baby was her capital in trade,” replied Mr. Dinneford.
“That policeman had no more authority to arrest her than he had to
arrest the organ-man or the peanut-vender.”
“But somebody should see after a poor baby like that. Is there no law to
meet such cases?”
“The poor baby has no vote,” replied Mr. Dinneford, “and law-makers
don’t concern themselves much about that sort of constituency; and even
if they did, the executors of law would be found indifferent. They are
much more careful to protect those whose business it is to make drunken
beggars like the one you saw, who, if men, can vote and give them place
and power. The poor baby is far beneath their consideration.”
“But not of Him,” said Edith, with eyes full of tears, “who took little
children in his arms and blessed them, and said, Suffer them to come
unto me and forbid them not, for of such is the kingdom of heaven.”
“Our law-makers are not, I fear, of his kingdom,” answered Mr.
Dinneford, gravely, “but of the kingdom of this world.”
A little while after, Edith, who had remained silent and thoughtful,
said, with a tremor in her voice,
“Father, did you see my baby?”
Mr. Dinneford started at so unexpected a question, surprised and
disturbed. He did not reply, and Edith put the question again.
“No, my dear,” he answered, with a hesitation of manner that was almost
painful.
After looking into his face steadily for some moments, Edith dropped her
eyes to the floor, and there was a constrained silence between them for
a good while.
“You never saw it?” she queried, again lifting her eyes to her father’s
face. Her own was much paler than when she first put the question.
“Never.”
“Why?” asked Edith.
She waited for a little while, and then said,
“Why don’t you answer me, father?”
“It was never brought to me.”
“Oh, father!”
“You were very ill, and a nurse was procured immediately.”
“I was not too sick to see my baby,” said Edith, with white, quivering
lips. “If they had laid it in my bosom as soon as it was born, I would
never have been so ill, and the baby would not have died. If--if--”
She held back what she was about saying, shutting her lips tightly. Her
face remained very pale and strangely agitated. Nothing more was then
said.
A day or two afterward, Edith asked her mother, with an abruptness that
sent the color to her face, “Where was my baby buried?”
“In our lot at Fairview,” was replied, after a moment’s pause.
Edith said no more, but on that very day, regardless of a heavy rain
that was falling, went out to the cemetery alone and searched in the
family lot for the little mound that covered her baby--searched, but did
not find it. She came back so changed in appearance that when her mother
saw her she exclaimed,
“Why, Edith! Are you sick?”
“I have been looking for my baby’s grave and cannot find it,” she
answered. “There is something wrong, mother. What was done with my baby?
I must know.” And she caught her mother’s wrists with both of her hands
in a tight grip, and sent searching glances down through her eyes.
“Your baby is dead,” returned Mrs. Dinneford, speaking slowly and with
a hard deliberation. “As for its grave--well, if you will drag up the
miserable past, know that in my anger at your wretched mesalliance I
rejected even the dead body of your miserable husband’s child, and would
not even suffer it to lie in our family ground. You know how bitterly I
was disappointed, and I am not one of the kind that forgets or forgives
easily. I may have been wrong, but it is too late now, and the past may
as well be covered out of sight.”
“Where, then, was my baby buried?” asked Edith, with a calm resolution
of manner that was not to be denied.
“I do not know. I did not care at the time, and never asked.”
“Who can tell me?”
“I don’t know.”
“Who took my baby to nurse?”
“I have forgotten the woman’s name. All I know is that she is dead. When
the child died, I sent her money, and told her to bury it decently.”
“Where did she live?”
“I never knew precisely. Somewhere down town.”
“Who brought her here? who recommended her?” said Edith, pushing her
inquiries rapidly.
“I have forgotten that also,” replied Mrs. Dinneford, maintaining her
coldness of manner.
“My nurse, I presume,” said Edith. “I have a faint recollection of
her--a dark little woman with black eyes whom I had never seen before.
What was her name?”
“Bodine,” answered Mrs. Dinneford, without a moment’s hesitation.
“Where does she live?”
“She went to Havana with a Cuban lady several months ago.”
“Do you know the lady’s name?”
“It was Casteline, I think.”
Edith questioned no further. The mother and daughter were still sitting
together, both deeply absorbed in thought, when a servant opened the
door and said to Mrs. Dinneford,
“A lady wishes to see you.”
“Didn’t she give you her card?”
“No ma’am.”
“Nor send up her name?”
“No, ma’am.”
“Go down and ask her name.”
The servant left the room. On returning, she said,
“Her name is Mrs. Bray.”
Mrs. Dinneford turned her face quickly, but not in time to prevent Edith
from seeing by its expression that she knew her visitor, and that her
call was felt to be an unwelcome one. She went from the room without
speaking. On entering the parlor, Mrs. Dinneford said, in a low, hurried
voice,
“I don’t want you to come here, Mrs. Bray. If you wish to see me send me
word, and I will call on you, but you must on no account come here.”
“Why? Is anything wrong?”
“Yes.”
“What?”
“Edith isn’t satisfied about the baby, has been out to Fairview looking
for its grave, wants to know who her nurse was.”
“What did you tell her?”
“I said that your name was Mrs. Bodine, and that you had gone to Cuba.”
“Do you think she would know me?”
“Can’t tell; wouldn’t like to run the risk of her seeing you here. Pull
down your veil. There! close. She said, a little while ago, that she had
a faint recollection of you as a dark little woman with black eyes whom
she had never seen before.”
“Indeed!” and Mrs. Bray gathered her veil close about her face.
“The baby isn’t living?” Mrs. Dinneford asked the question in a whisper.
“Yes.”
“Oh, it can’t be! Are you sure?”
“Yes; I saw it day before yesterday.”
“You did! Where?”
“On the street, in the arms of a beggar-woman.”
“You are deceiving me!” Mrs. Dinneford spoke with a throb of anger in
her voice.
“As I live, no! Poor little thing! half starved and half frozen. It
‘most made me sick.”
“It’s impossible! You could not know that it was Edith’s baby.”
“I do know,” replied Mrs. Bray, in a voice that left no doubt on Mrs.
Dinneford’s mind.
“Was the woman the same to whom we gave the baby?”
“No; she got rid of it in less than a month.”
“What did she do with it?”
“Sold it for five dollars, after she had spent all the money she
received from you in drink and lottery-policies.”
“Sold it for five dollars!”
“Yes, to two beggar-women, who use it every day, one in the morning and
the other in the afternoon, and get drunk on the money they receive,
lying all night in some miserable den.”
Mrs. Dinneford gave a little shiver.
“What becomes of the baby when they are not using it?” she asked.
“They pay a woman a dollar a week to take care of it at night.”
“Do you know where this woman lives?”
“Yes.”
“Were you ever there?”
“Yes.”
“What kind of a place is it?”
“Worse than a dog-kennel.”
“What does all this mean?” demanded Mrs. Dinneford, with repressed
excitement. “Why have you so kept on the track of this baby, when you
knew I wished it lost sight of?”
“I had my own reasons,” replied Mrs. Bray. “One doesn’t know what may
come of an affair like this, and it’s safe to keep well up with it.”
Mrs. Dinneford bit her lips till the blood almost came through. A faint
rustle of garments in the hall caused her to start. An expression of
alarm crossed her face.
“Go now,” she said, hurriedly, to her visitor; “I will call and see you
this afternoon.”
Mrs. Bray quietly arose, saying, as she did so, “I shall expect you,”
 and went away.
There was a menace in her tone as she said, “I shall expect you,” that
did not escape the ears of Mrs. Dinneford.
Edith was in the hall, at some distance from the parlor door. Mrs. Bray
had to pass her as she went out. Edith looked at her intently.
“Who is that woman?” she asked, confronting her mother, after the
visitor was gone.
“If you ask the question in a proper manner, I shall have no objection
to answer,” said Mrs. Dinneford, with a dignified and slightly offended
air; “but my daughter is assuming rather, too much.”
“Mrs. Bray, the servant said.”
“No, Mrs. Gray.”
“I understood her to say Mrs. Bray.”
“I can’t help what you understood.” The mother spoke with some asperity
of manner. “She calls herself Gray, but you can have it anything you
please; it won’t change her identity.”
“What did she want?”
“To see me.”
“I know.” Edith was turning away with an expression on her face that
Mrs. Dinneford did not like, so she said,
“She is in trouble, and wants me to help her, if you must know. She
used to be a dressmaker, and worked for me before you were born; she got
married, and then her troubles began. Now she is a widow with a house
full of little children, and not half bread enough to feed them. I’ve
helped her a number of times already, but I’m getting tired of it; she
must look somewhere else, and I told her so.”
Edith turned from her mother with an unsatisfied manner, and went up
stairs. Mrs. Dinneford was surprised, not long afterward, to meet her at
her chamber door, dressed to go out. This was something unusual.
“Where are you going?” she asked, not concealing her surprise.
“I have a little errand out,” Edith replied.
This was not satisfactory to her mother. She asked other questions, but
Edith gave only evasive answers.
On leaving the house, Edith walked quickly, like one in earnest about
something; her veil was closely drawn. Only a few blocks from where she
lived was the office of Dr. Radcliffe. Hither she directed her steps.
“Why, Edith, child!” exclaimed the doctor, not concealing the surprise
he felt at seeing her. “Nobody sick, I hope?”
“No one,” she answered.
There was a momentary pause; then Edith said, abruptly,
“Doctor, what became of my baby?”
“It died,” answered Doctor Radcliffe, but not without betraying some
confusion. The question had fallen upon him too suddenly.
“Did you see it after it was dead?” She spoke in a firm voice, looking
him steadily in the face.
“No,” he replied, after a slight hesitation.
“Then how do you know that it died?” Edith asked.
“I had your mother’s word for it,” said the doctor.
“What was done with my baby after it was born?”
“It was given out to nurse.”
“With your consent?”
“I did not advise it. Your mother had her own views in the case. It was
something over which I had no control.”
“And you never saw it after it was taken away?”
“Never.”
“And do not really know whether it be dead or living?”
“Oh, it’s dead, of course, my child. There is no doubt of that,” said
the doctor, with sudden earnestness of manner.
“Have you any evidence of the fact?”
“My dear, dear child,” answered the doctor, with much feeling, “it is
all wrong. Why go back over this unhappy ground? why torture yourself
for nothing? Your baby died long ago, and is in heaven.”
“Would God I could believe it!” she exclaimed, in strong agitation. “If
it were so, why is not the evidence set before me? I question my mother;
I ask for the nurse who was with me when my baby was born, and for the
nurse to whom it was given afterward, and am told that they are dead or
out of the country. I ask for my baby’s grave, but it cannot be found.
I have searched for it where my mother told me it was, but the grave
is not there. Why all this hiding and mystery? Doctor, you said that my
baby was in heaven, and I answered, ‘Would God it were so!’ for I saw a
baby in hell not long ago!”
The doctor was scared. He feared that Edith was losing her mind, she
looked and spoke so wildly.
“A puny, half-starved, half-frozen little thing, in the arms of a
drunken beggar,” she added. “And, doctor, an awful thought has haunted
me ever since.”
“Hush, hush!” said the doctor, who saw what was in her mind. “You must
not indulge such morbid fancies.”
“It is that I may not indulge them that I have come to you. I want
certainty, Dr. Radcliffe. Somebody knows all about my baby. Who was my
nurse?”
“I never saw her before the night of your baby’s birth, and have never
seen her since. Your mother procured her.”
“Did you hear her name?”
“No.”
“And so you cannot help me at all?” said Edith, in a disappointed voice.
“I cannot, my poor child,” answered the doctor.
All the flush and excitement died out of Edith’s face. When she arose to
go, she was pale and haggard, like one exhausted by pain, and her steps
uneven, like the steps of an invalid walking for the first time. Dr.
Radcliffe went with her in silence to the door.
“Oh, doctor,” said Edith, in a choking voice, as she lingered a moment
on the steps, “can’t you bring out of this frightful mystery something
for my heart to rest upon? I want the truth. Oh, doctor, in pity help me
to find the truth!”
“I am powerless to help you,” the doctor replied. “Your only hope lies
in your mother. She knows all about it; I do not.”
And he turned and left her standing at the door. Slowly she descended
the steps, drawing her veil as she did so about her face, and walked
away more like one in a dream than conscious of the tide of life setting
so strongly all about her.
CHAPTER V.
MEANTIME, obeying the unwelcome summons, Mrs. Dinneford had gone to
see Mrs. Bray. She found her in a small third-story room in the lower
part of the city, over a mile away from her own residence. The meeting
between the two women was not over-gracious, but in keeping with their
relations to each other. Mrs. Dinneford was half angry and impatient;
Mrs. Bray cool and self-possessed.
“And now what is it you have to say?” asked the former, almost as soon
as she had entered.
“The woman to whom you gave that baby was here yesterday.”
A frightened expression came into Mrs. Dinneford’s face. Mrs. Bray
watched her keenly as, with lips slightly apart, she waited for what
more was to come.
“Unfortunately, she met me just as I was at my own door, and so found
out my residence,” continued Mrs. Bray. “I was in hopes I should never
see her again. We shall have trouble, I’m afraid.”
“In what way?”
“A bad woman who has you in her power can trouble you in many ways,”
 answered Mrs. Bray.
“She did not know my name--you assured me of that. It was one of the
stipulations.”
“She does know, and your daughter’s name also. And she knows where the
baby is. She’s deeper than I supposed. It’s never safe to trust such
people; they have no honor.”
Fear sent all the color out of Mrs. Dinneford’s face.
“What does she want?”
“Money.”
“She was paid liberally.”
“That has nothing to do with it. These people have no honor, as I said;
they will get all they can.”
“How much does she want?”
“A hundred dollars; and it won’t end there, I’m thinking. If she is
refused, she will go to your house; she gave me that alternative--would
have gone yesterday, if good luck had not thrown her in my way. I
promised to call on you and see what could be done.”
Mrs. Dinneford actually groaned in her fear and distress.
“Would you like to see her yourself?” coolly asked Mrs. Bray.
“Oh dear! no, no!” and the lady put up her hands in dismay.
“It might be best,” said her wily companion.
“No, no, no! I will have nothing to do with her! You must keep her away
from me,” replied Mrs. Dinneford, with increasing agitation.
“I cannot keep her away without satisfying her demands. If you were to
see her yourself, you would know just what her demands were. If you do
not see her, you will only have my word for it, and I am left open
to misapprehension, if not worse. I don’t like to be placed in such a
position.”
And Mrs. Bray put on a dignified, half-injured manner.
“It’s a wretched business in every way,” she added, “and I’m sorry that
I ever had anything to do with it. It’s something dreadful, as I told
you at the time, to cast a helpless baby adrift in such a way. Poor
little soul! I shall never feel right about it.”
“That’s neither here nor there;” and Mrs. Dinneford waved her hand
impatiently. “The thing now in hand is to deal with this woman.”
“Yes, that’s it--and as I said just now, I would rather have you deal
with her yourself; you may be able to do it better than I can.”
“It’s no use to talk, Mrs. Bray. I will not see the woman.”
“Very well; you must be your own judge in the case.”
“Can’t you bind her up to something, or get her out of the city? I’d
pay almost anything to have her a thousand miles away. See if you can’t
induce her to go to New Orleans. I’ll pay her passage, and give her a
hundred dollars besides, if she’ll go.”
Mrs. Bray smiled a faint, sinister smile:
“If you could get her off there, it would be the end of her. She’d never
stand the fever.”
“Then get her off, cost what it may,” said Mrs. Dinneford.
“She will be here in less than half an hour.” Mrs. Bray looked at the
face of a small cheap clock that stood on the mantel.
“She will?” Mrs. Dinneford became uneasy, and arose from her chair.
“Yes; what shall I say to her?”
“Manage her the best you can. Here are thirty dollars--all the money I
have with me. Give her that, and promise more if necessary. I will see
you again.”
“When?” asked Mrs. Bray.
“At any time you desire.”
“Then you had better come to-morrow morning. I shall not go out.”
“I will be here at eleven o’clock. Induce her if possible to leave the
city--to go South, so that she may never come back.”
“The best I can shall be done,” replied Mrs. Bray as she folded the
bank-bills she had received from Mrs. Dinneford in a fond, tender sort
of way and put them into her pocket.
Mrs. Dinneford retired, saying as she did so,
“I will be here in the morning.”
An instant change came over the shallow face of the wiry little woman as
the form of Mrs. Dinneford vanished through the door. A veil seemed to
fall away from it. All its virtuous sobriety was gone, and a smile of
evil satisfaction curved about her lips and danced in her keen black
eyes. She stood still, listening to the retiring steps of her visitor,
until she heard the street door shut. Then, with a quick, cat-like step,
she crossed to the opposite side of the room, and pushed open a door
that led to an adjoining chamber. A woman came forward to meet her. This
woman was taller and stouter than Mrs. Bray, and had a soft, sensual
face, but a resolute mouth, the under jaw slightly protruding. Her eyes
were small and close together, and had that peculiar wily and alert
expression you sometimes see, making you think of a serpent’s eyes. She
was dressed in common finery and adorned by cheap jewelry.
“What do you think of that, Pinky Swett?” exclaimed Mrs. Bray, in a
voice of exultation. “Got her all right, haven’t I?”
“Well, you have!” answered the woman, shaking all over with unrestrained
laughter. “The fattest pigeon I’ve happened to see for a month of
Sundays. Is she very rich?”
“Her husband is, and that’s all the same. And now, Pinky”--Mrs. Bray
assumed a mock gravity of tone and manner--“you know your fate--New
Orleans and the yellow fever. You must pack right off. Passage free and
a hundred dollars for funeral expenses. Nice wet graves down there--keep
off the fire;” and she gave a low chuckle.
“Oh yes; all settled. When does the next steamer sail?” and Pinky almost
screamed with merriment. She had been drinking.
“H-u-s-h! h-u-s-h! None of that here, Pinky. The people down stairs are
good Methodists, and think me a saint.”
“You a saint? Oh dear!” and she shook with repressed enjoyment.
After this the two women grew serious, and put their heads together for
business.
“Who is this woman, Fan? What’s her name, and where does she live?”
 asked Pinky Swett.
“That’s my secret, Pinky,” replied Mrs. Bray, “and I can’t let it go; it
wouldn’t be safe. You get a little off the handle sometimes, and don’t
know what you say--might let the cat out of the bag. Sally Long took the
baby away, and she died two months ago; so I’m the only one now in
the secret. All I want of you is to keep track of the baby. Here is a
five-dollar bill; I can’t trust you with more at a time. I know your
weakness, Pinky;” and she touched her under the chin in a familiar,
patronizing way.
Pinky wasn’t satisfied with this, and growled a little, just showing her
teeth like an unquiet dog.
“Give me ten,” she said; “the woman gave you thirty. I heard her say so.
And she’s going to bring you seventy to-morrow.”
“You’ll only waste it, Pinky,” remonstrated Mrs. Bray. “It will all be
gone before morning.”
“Fan,” said the woman, leaning toward Mrs. Bray and speaking in a low,
confidential tone, “I dreamed of a cow last night, and that’s good
luck, you know. Tom Oaks made a splendid hit last Saturday--drew twenty
dollars--and Sue Minty got ten. They’re all buzzing about it down in our
street, and going to Sam McFaddon’s office in a stream.”
“Do they have good luck at Sam McFaddon’s?” asked Mrs. Bray, with
considerable interest in her manner.
“It’s the luckiest place that I know. Never dreamed of a cow or a hen
that I didn’t make a hit, and I dreamed of a cow last night. She was
giving such a splendid pail of milk, full to the brim, just as old Spot
and Brindle used to give. You remember our Spot and Brindle, Fan?”
“Oh yes.” There was a falling inflection in Mrs. Bray’s voice, as if
the reference had sent her thoughts away back to other and more innocent
days.
The two women sat silent for some moments after that; and when Pinky
spoke, which she did first, it was in lower and softer tones:
“I don’t like to think much about them old times, Fan; do you? I might
have done better. But it’s no use grizzling about it now. What’s done’s
done, and can’t be helped. Water doesn’t run up hill again after it’s
once run down. I’ve got going, and can’t stop, you see. There’s nothing
to catch at that won’t break as soon as you touch it. So I mean to be
jolly as I move along.”
“Laughing is better than crying at any time,” returned Mrs. Bray; “here
are five more;” and she handed Pinky Swett another bank-bill. “I’m going
to try my luck. Put half a dollar on ten different rows, and we’ll go
shares on what is drawn. I dreamed the other night that I saw a flock of
sheep, and that’s good luck, isn’t it?”
Pinky thrust her hand into her pocket and drew out a worn and soiled
dream-book.
“A flock of sheep; let me see;” and she commenced turning over the
leaves. “Sheep; here it is: ‘To see them is a sign of sorrow--11, 20,
40, 48. To be surrounded by many sheep denotes good luck--2, 11, 55.’
That’s your row; put down 2, 11, 55. We’ll try that. Next put down 41
11, 44--that’s the lucky row when you dream of a cow.”
As Pinky leaned toward her friend she dropped her parasol.
“That’s for luck, maybe,” she said, with a brightening face. “Let’s see
what it says about a parasol;” and she turned over her dream-book.
“For a maiden to dream she loses her parasol shows that her sweetheart
is false and will never marry her--5, 51, 56.”
“But you didn’t dream about a parasol, Pinky.”
“That’s no matter; it’s just as good as a dream. 5, 51, 56 is the row.
Put that down for the second, Fan.”
As Mrs. Bray was writing out these numbers the clock on the mantel
struck five.
“8, 12, 60,” said Pinky, turning to the clock; “that’s the clock row.”
And Mrs. Bray put down these figures also.
“That’s three rows,” said Pinky, “and we want ten.” She arose, as she
spoke, and going to the front window, looked down upon the street.
“There’s an organ-grinder; it’s the first thing I saw;” and she came
back fingering the leaves of her dream-book. “Put down 40, 50, 26.”
Mrs. Bray wrote the numbers on her slip of paper.
“It’s November; let’s find the November row.” Pinky consulted her book
again. “Signifies you will have trouble through life--7, 9, 63. That’s
true as preaching; I was born in November, and I’ve had it all trouble.
How many rows does that make?”
“Five.”
“Then we will cut cards for the rest;” and Pinky drew a soiled pack from
her pocket, shuffled the cards and let her friends cut them.
“Ten of diamonds;” she referred to the dream-book. “10, 13, 31; put that
down.”
The cards were shuffled and cut again.
“Six of clubs--6, 35, 39.”
Again they were cut and shuffled. This time the knave of clubs was
turned up.
“That’s 17, 19, 28,” said Pinky, reading from her book.
The next cut gave the ace of clubs, and the policy numbers were 18, 63,
75.
“Once more, and the ten rows will be full;” and the cards were cut
again.
“Five of hearts--5, 12, 60;” and the ten rows were complete.
“There’s luck there, Fan; sure to make a hit,” said Pinky, with almost
childish confidence, as she gazed at the ten rows of figures. “One
of ‘em can’t help coming out right, and that would be fifty
dollars--twenty-five for me and twenty-five for you; two rows would give
a hundred dollars, and the whole ten a thousand. Think of that, Fan!
five hundred dollars apiece.”
“It would break Sam McFaddon, I’m afraid,” remarked Mrs. Bray.
“Sam’s got nothing to do with it,” returned Pinky.
“He hasn’t?”
“No.”
“Who has, then?”
“His backer.”
“What’s that?”
“Oh, I found it all out--I know how it’s done. Sam’s got a backer--a man
that puts up the money. Sam only sells for his backer. When there’s a
hit, the backer pays.”
“Who’s Sam’s backer, as you call him?”
“Couldn’t get him to tell; tried him hard, but he was close as an
oyster. Drives in the Park and wears a two thousand dollar diamond pin;
he let that out. So he’s good for the hits. Sam always puts the money
down, fair and square.”
“Very well; you get the policy, and do it right off, Pinky, or the
money’ll slip through your fingers.”
“All right,” answered Pinky as she folded the slip of paper containing
the lucky rows. “Never you fear. I’ll be at Sam McFaddon’s in ten
minutes after I leave here.”
“And be sure,” said Mrs. Bray, “to look after the baby to-night, and see
that it doesn’t perish with cold; the air’s getting sharp.”
“It ought to have something warmer than cotton rags on its poor little
body,” returned Pinky. “Can’t you get it some flannel? It will die if
you don’t.”
“I sent it a warm petticoat last week,” said Mrs. Bray.
“You did?”
“Yes; I bought one at a Jew shop, and had it sent to the woman.”
“Was it a nice warm one?”
“Yes.”
Pinky drew a sigh. “I saw the poor baby last night; hadn’t anything on
but dirty cotton rags. It was lying asleep in a cold cellar on a little
heap of straw. The woman had given it something, I guess, by the way
it slept. The petticoat had gone, most likely, to Sam McFaddon’s. She
spends everything she can lay her hands on in policies and whisky.”
“She’s paid a dollar a week for taking care of the baby at night and on
Sundays,” said Mrs. Bray.
“It wouldn’t help the baby any if she got ten dollars,” returned Pinky.
“It ought to be taken away from her.”
“But who’s to do that? Sally Long sold it to the two beggar women, and
they board it out. I have no right to interfere; they own the baby, and
can do as they please with it.”
“It could be got to the almshouse,” said Pinky; “it would be a thousand
times better off.”
“It mustn’t go to the almshouse,” replied Mrs. Bray; “I might lose track
of it, and that would never do.”
“You’ll lose track of it for good and all before long, if you don’t get
it out of them women’s bands. No baby can hold out being begged with
long; it’s too hard on the little things. For you know how it is, Fan;
they must keep ‘em half starved and as sick as they will bear without
dying right off, so as to make ‘em look pitiful. You can’t do much at
begging with a fat, hearty-looking baby.”
“What’s to be done about it?” asked Mrs. Bray. “I don’t want that baby
to die.”
“Would its mother know it if she saw it?” asked Pinky.
“No; for she never set eyes on it.”
“Then, if it dies, get another baby, and keep track of that. You can
steal one from a drunken mother any night in the week. I’ll do it for
you. One baby is as good as another.”
“It will be safer to have the real one,” replied Mrs. Bray. “And now,
Pinky that you have put this thing into my head, I guess I’ll commission
you to get the baby away from that woman.”
“All right!”
“But what are we to do with it? I can’t have it here.”
“Of course you can’t. But that’s easily managed, if your’re willing to
