Ursulines' Garden. Two chairs stood confronted there, and it was hard
for either of the young people to pass them without sinking a moment
into one of them, and this appeared always to charm another presence
into the opposite chair. There they often lingered in the soft
forenoons, talking in desultory phrase of things far and near, or
watching, in long silences, the nuns pacing up and down in the garden
below, and waiting for the pensive, slender nun, and the stout, jolly
nun whom Kitty had adopted, and whom she had gayly interpreted to him as
an allegory of Life in their quaint inseparableness; and they played
that the influence of one or other nun was in the ascendant, according
as their own talk was gay or sad. In their relation, people are not so
different from children; they like the same thing over and over again;
they like it the better the less it is in itself.
At times Kitty would come with a book in her hand (one finger shut in to
keep the place),--some latest novel, or a pirated edition of Longfellow,
recreantly purchased at a Quebec bookstore; and then Mr. Arbuton must
ask to see it; and he read romance or poetry to her by the hour. He
showed to as much advantage as most men do in the serious follies of
wooing; and an influence which he could not defy, or would not, shaped
him to all the sweet, absurd demands of the affair. From time to time,
recollecting himself, and trying to look consequences in the face, he
gently turned the talk upon Eriecreek, and endeavored to possess himself
of some intelligible image of the place, and of Kitty's home and
friends. Even then, the present was so fair and full of content, that
his thoughts, when they reverted to the future, no longer met the
obstacles that had made him recoil from it before. Whatever her past had
been, he could find some way to weaken the ties that bound her to it; a
year or two of Europe would leave no trace of Eriecreek; without effort
of his, her life would adapt itself to his own, and cease to be a part
of the lives of those people there; again and again his amiable
imaginations--they were scarcely intents--accomplished themselves in
many a swift, fugitive revery, while the days went by, and the shadow of
the ivy in the window at which they sat fell, in moonlight and sunlight,
upon Kitty's cheeks, and the fuchsia kissed her hair with its purple and
crimson blossom.
X.
MR. ARBUTON SPEAKS.
Mrs. Ellison was almost well; she had already been shopping twice in the
Rue Fabrique, and her recovery was now chiefly retarded by the
dress-maker's delays in making up a silk too precious to be risked in
the piece with the customs officers, at the frontier. Moreover, although
the colonel was beginning to chafe, she was not loath to linger yet a
few days for the sake of an affair to which her suffering had been a
willing sacrifice. In return for her indefatigable self-devotion, Kitty
had lately done very little. She ungratefully shrunk more and more from
those confidences to which her cousin's speeches covertly invited; she
openly resisted open attempts upon her knowledge of facts. If she was
not prepared to confess everything to Fanny, it was perhaps because it
was all so very little, or because a young girl has not, or ought not to
have, a mind in certain matters, or else knows it not, till it is asked
her by the one first authorized to learn it. The dream in which she
lived was flattering and fair; and it wholly contented her imagination
while it lulled her consciousness. It moved from phase to phase without
the harshness of reality, and was apparently allied neither to the
future nor to the past. She herself seemed to have no more fixity or
responsibility in it than the heroine of a romance.
As their last week in Quebec drew to its close, only two or three things
remained for them to do, as tourists; and chief among the few unvisited
shrines of sentiment was the site of the old Jesuit mission at Sillery.
"It won't do not to see that, Kitty," said Mrs. Ellison, who, as usual,
had arranged the details of the excursion, and now announced them. "It's
one of the principal things here, and your Uncle Jack would never be
satisfied if you missed it. In fact, it's a shame to have left it so
long. I can't go with you, for I'm saving up my strength for our picnic
at Château-Bigot to-morrow; and I want you, Kitty, to see that the
colonel sees everything. I've had trouble enough, goodness knows,
getting the facts together for him." This was as Kitty and Mr. Arbuton
sat waiting in Mrs. Ellison's parlor for the delinquent colonel, who had
just stepped round to the Hôtel St. Louis and was to be back presently.
But the moment of his return passed; a quarter-hour of grace; a
half-hour of grim magnanimity,--and still no colonel. Mrs. Ellison began
by saying that it was perfectly abominable, and left herself, in a
greater extremity, with nothing more forcible to add than that it was
too provoking. "It's getting so late now," she said at last, "that it's
no use waiting any longer, if you mean to go at all, to-day; and to-day's
the only day you can go. There, you'd better drive on without him. I
can't bear to have you miss it." And, thus adjured, the younger people
rose and went.
When the high-born Noël Brulart de Sillery, Knight of Malta and courtier
of Marie de Medicis, turned from the vanities of this world and became a
priest, Canada was the fashionable mission of the day, and the noble
neophyte signalized his self-renunciation by giving of his great wealth
for the conversion of the Indian heathen. He supplied the Jesuits with
money to maintain a religious establishment near Quebec; and the
settlement of red Christians took his musical name, which the region
still keeps. It became famous at once as the first residence of the
Jesuits and the nuns of the Hôtel Dieu, who wrought and suffered for
religion there amidst the terrors of pestilence, Iroquois, and winter.
It was the scene of miracles and martyrdoms, and marvels of many kinds,
and the centre of the missionary efforts among the Indians. Indeed, few
events of the picturesque early history of Quebec left it untouched; and
it is worthy to be seen, no less for the wild beauty of the spot than
for its heroical memories. About a league from the city, where the
irregular wall of rock on which Quebec is built recedes from the river,
and a grassy space stretches between the tide and the foot of the woody
steep, the old mission and the Indian village once stood; and to this
day there yet stands the stalwart frame of the first Jesuit Residence,
modernized, of course, and turned to secular uses, but firm as of old,
and good for a century to come. All round is a world of lumber, and
rafts of vast extent cover the face of the waters in the ample
cove,--one of many that indent the shore of the St. Lawrence. A careless
village straggles along the roadside and the river's margin; huge
lumber-ships are loading for Europe in the stream; a town shines out of
the woods on the opposite shore; nothing but a friendly climate is
needed to make this one of the most charming scenes the heart could
imagine.
Kitty and Mr. Arbuton drove out towards Sillery by the St. Louis Road,
and already the jealous foliage that hides the pretty villas and stately
places of that aristocratic suburb was tinged in here and there a bough
with autumnal crimson or yellow; in the meadows here and there a vine
ran red along the grass; the loath choke-cherries were ripening in the
fence corners; the air was full of the pensive jargoning of the crickets
and grasshoppers, and all the subtle sentiment of the fading summer.
Their hearts were open to every dreamy influence of the time; their
driver understood hardly any English, and their talk might safely be
made up of those harmless egotisms which young people exchange,--those
strains of psychological autobiography which mark advancing intimacy and
in which they appear to each other the most uncommon persons that ever
lived, and their experiences and emotions and ideas are the more
surprisingly unique because exactly alike.
It seemed a very short league to Sillery when they left the St. Louis
Road, and the driver turned his horses' heads towards the river, down
the winding sylvan way that descended to the shore; and they had not so
much desire, after all, to explore the site of the old mission.
Nevertheless, they got out and visited the little space once occupied by
the Jesuit chapel, where its foundations may yet be traced in the grass,
and they read the inscription on the monument lately raised by the
parish to the memory of the first Jesuit missionary to Canada, who died
at Sillery. Then there seemed nothing more to do but admire the mighty
rafts and piles of lumber; but their show of interest in the local
celebrity had stirred the pride of Sillery, and a little French boy
entered the chapel-yard, and gave Kitty a pamphlet history of the place,
for which he would not suffer himself to be paid; and a sweet-faced
young Englishwoman came out of the house across the way, and
hesitatingly asked if they would not like to see the Jesuit Residence.
She led them indoors, and showed them how the ancient edifice had been
encased by the modern house, and bade them note, from the deep shelving
window-seats, that the stone walls were three feet thick. The rooms were
low-ceiled and quaintly shaped, but they borrowed a certain grandeur
from this massiveness; and it was easy to figure the priests in black
and the nuns in gray in those dim chambers, which now a life so
different inhabited. Behind the house was a plot of grass, and thence
the wooded hill rose steep.
"But come up stairs," said the ardent little hostess to Kitty, when her
husband came in, and had civilly welcomed the strangers, "and I'll show
you my own room, that's as old as any."
They left the two men below, and mounted to a large room carpeted and
furnished in modern taste. "We had to take down the old staircase," she
continued, "to get our bedstead up,"--a magnificent structure which she
plainly thought well worth the sacrifice; and then she pointed out
divers remnants of the ancient building. "It's a queer place to live in;
but we're only here for the summer"; and she went on to explain, with a
pretty naïveté, how her husband's business brought him to Sillery from
Quebec in that season. They were descending the stairs, Kitty foremost,
as she added, "This is my first housekeeping, you know, and of course it
would be strange anywhere; but you can't think how funny it is here. I
suppose," she said, shyly, but as if her confidences merited some
return, while Kitty stepped from the stairway face to face with Mr.
Arbuton, who was about to follow them, with the lady's husband,--"I
suppose this is your wedding-journey."
A quick alarm flamed through the young girl, and burned out of her
glowing cheeks. This pleasant masquerade of hers must look to others
like the most intentional love-making between her and Mr. Arbuton,--no
dreams either of them, nor figures in a play, nor characters in a
romance; nay, on one spectator, at least, it had shed the soft lustre of
a honeymoon. How could it be otherwise? Here on this fatal line of
wedding-travel,--so common that she remembered Mrs. March half
apologized for making it her first tour after marriage,--how could it
happen but that two young people together as they were should be taken
for bride and bridegroom? Moreover, and worst of all, he must have heard
that fatal speech!
He was pale, if she was flushed, and looked grave, as she fancied; but
he passed on up the stairs, and she sat down to wait for his return.
"I used to notice so many couples from the States when we lived in the
city," continued the hospitable mistress of the house, "but I don't
think they often came out to Sillery. In fact, you're the only pair
that's come this summer; and so, when you seemed interested about the
mission, I thought you wouldn't mind if I spoke to you, and asked you in
to see the house. Most of the Americans stay long enough to visit the
citadel, and the Plains of Abraham, and the Falls at Montmorenci, and
then they go away. I should think they'd be tired always doing the same
things. To be sure, they're always different people."
It was unfair to let her entertainer go on talking for quantity in this
way; and Kitty said how glad she was to see the old Residence, and that
she should always be grateful to her for asking them in. She did not
disabuse her of her error; it cost less to leave it alone; and when Mr.
Arbuton reappeared, she took leave of those kind people with a sort of
remote enjoyment of the wife's mistakenness concerning herself. Yet, as
the young matron and her husband stood beside the carriage repeating
their adieux, she would fain have prolonged the parting forever, so much
she dreaded to be left alone with Mr. Arbuton. But, left alone with him,
her spirits violently rose; and as they drove along under the shadow of
the cliff, she descanted in her liveliest strain upon the various
interests of the way; she dwelt on the beauty of the wide, still river,
with the ships at anchor in it; she praised the lovely sunset-light on
the other shore; she commented lightly on the village, through which
they passed, with the open doors and the suppers frying on the great
stoves set into the partition-walls of each cleanly home; she made him
look at the two great stairways that climb the cliff from the
lumber-yards to the Plains of Abraham, and the army of laborers, each
with his empty dinner-pail in hand, scaling the once difficult heights
on their way home to the suburb of St. Roch; she did whatever she could
to keep the talk to herself and yet away from herself. Part of the way
the village was French and neat and pleasant, then it grovelled with
Irish people, and ceased to be a tolerable theme for discourse; and so
at last the silence against which she had battled fell upon them and
deepened like a spell that she could not break.
It would have been better for Mr. Arbuton's success just then if he had
not broken it. But failure was not within his reckoning; for he had so
long regarded this young girl de haut en bas, to say it brutally, that
he could not imagine she should feel any doubt in accepting him.
Moreover, a magnanimous sense of obligation mingled with his confident
love, for she must have known that he had overheard that speech at the
Residence. Perhaps he let this feeling color his manner, however
faintly. He lacked the last fine instinct; he could not forbear; and he
spoke while all her nerves and fluttering pulses cried him mercy.
XI.
KITTY ANSWERS.
It was dimmest twilight when Kitty entered Mrs. Ellison's room and sank
down on the first chair in silence.
"The colonel met a friend at the St. Louis, and forgot about the
expedition, Kitty," said Fanny, "and he only came in half an hour ago.
But it's just as well; I know you've had a splendid time. Where's Mr.
Arbuton?"
Kitty burst into tears.
"Why, has anything happened to him?" cried Mrs. Ellison, springing
towards her.
"To him? No! What should happen to him?" Kitty demanded with an
indignant accent.
"Well, then, has anything happened to you?"
"I don't know if you can call it happening. But I suppose you'll be
satisfied now, Fanny. He's offered himself to me." Kitty uttered the
last words with a sort of violence, as if since the fact must be stated,
she wished it to appear in the sharpest relief.
"O dear!" said Mrs. Ellison, not so well satisfied as the successful
match-maker ought to be. So long as it was a marriage in the abstract,
she had never ceased to desire it; but as the actual union of Kitty and
this Mr. Arbuton, of whom, really, they knew so little, and of whom, if
she searched her heart, she had as little liking as knowledge, it was
another affair. Mrs. Ellison trembled at her triumph, and began to think
that failure would have been easier to bear. Were they in the least
suited to each other? Would she like to see poor Kitty chained for life
to that impassive egotist, whose very merits were repellent, and whose
modesty even seemed to convict and snub you? Mrs. Ellison was not able
to put the matter to herself with moderation, either way; doubtless she
did Mr. Arbuton injustice now. "Did you accept him?" she whispered,
feebly.
"Accept him?" repeated Kitty. "No!"
"O dear!" again sighed Mrs. Ellison, feeling that this was scarcely
better, and not daring to ask further.
"I'm dreadfully perplexed, Fanny," said Kitty, after waiting for the
questions which did not come, "and I wish you'd help me think."
"I will, darling. But I don't know that I'll be of much use. I begin to
think I'm not very good at thinking."
Kitty, who longed chiefly to get the situation more distinctly before
herself, gave no heed to this confession, but went on to rehearse the
whole affair. The twilight lent her its veil; and in the kindly
obscurity she gathered courage to face all the facts, and even to find
what was droll in them.
"It was very solemn, of course, and I was frightened; but I tried to
keep my wits about me, and not to say yes, simply because that was the
easiest thing. I told him that I didn't know,--and I don't; and that I
must have time to think,--and I must. He was very ungenerous, and said
he had hoped I had already had time to think; and he couldn't seem to
understand, or else I couldn't very well explain, how it had been with
me all along."
"He might certainly say you had encouraged him," Mrs. Ellison remarked,
thoughtfully.
"Encouraged him, Fanny? How can you accuse me of such indelicacy?"
"Encouraging isn't indelicacy. The gentlemen have to be encouraged, or
of course they'd never have any courage. They're so timid, naturally."
"I don't think Mr. Arbuton is very timid. He seemed to think that he had
only to ask as a matter of form, and I had no business to say anything.
What has he ever done for me? And hasn't he often been intensely
disagreeable? He oughtn't to have spoken just after overhearing what he
did. It was horrid to do so. He was very obtuse, too, not to see that
girls can't always be so certain of themselves as men, or, if they are,
don't know they are as soon as they're asked."
"Yes," interrupted Mrs. Ellison, "that's the way with girls. I do
believe that most of them--when they're young like you, Kitty--never
think of marriage as the end of their flirtations. They'd just like the
attentions and the romance to go on forever, and never turn into
anything more serious; and they're not to blame for that, though they
do get blamed for it."
"Certainly," assented Kitty, eagerly, "that's it; that's just what I was
saying; that's the very reason why girls must have time to make up their
minds. You had, I suppose."
"Yes, two minutes. Poor Dick was going back to his regiment, and stood
with his watch in his hand. I said no, and called after him to correct
myself. But, Kitty, if the romance had happened to stop without his
saying anything, you wouldn't have liked that either, would you?"
"No," faltered Kitty, "I suppose not."
"Well, then, don't you see? That's a great point in his favor. How much
time did you want, or did he give you?"
"I said I should answer before we left Quebec," answered Kitty, with a
heavy sigh.
"Don't you know what to say now?"
"I can't tell. That's what I want you to help me think out."
Mrs. Ellison was silent for a moment before she said, "Well, then, I
suppose we shall have to go back to the very beginning."
"Yes," assented Kitty, faintly.
"You did have a sort of fancy for him the first time you saw him, didn't
you?" asked Mrs. Ellison, coaxingly, while forcing herself to be
systematic and coherent, by a mental strain of which no idea can be
given.
"Yes," said Kitty, yet more faintly, adding, "but I can't tell just what
sort of a fancy it was. I suppose I admired him for being handsome and
stylish, and for having such exquisite manners."
"Go on," said Mrs. Ellison. "And after you got acquainted with him?"
"Why, you know we've talked that over once already, Fanny."
"Yes, but we oughtn't to skip anything now," replied Mrs. Ellison, in a
tone of judicial accuracy which made Kitty smile.
But she quickly became serious again, and said, "Afterwards I couldn't
tell whether to like him or not, or whether he wanted me to. I think he
acted very strangely for a person in--love. I used to feel so troubled
and oppressed when I was with him. He seemed always to be making himself
agreeable under protest."
"Perhaps that was just your imagination, Kitty."
"Perhaps it was; but it troubled me just the same."
"Well, and then?"
"Well, and then after that day of the Montgomery expedition, he seemed
to change altogether, and to try always to be pleasant, and to do
everything he could to make me like him. I don't know how to account for
it. Ever since then he's been extremely careful of me, and behaved--of
course without knowing it--as if I belonged to him already. Or maybe
I've imagined that too. It's very hard to tell what has really happened
the last two weeks."
Kitty was silent, and Mrs. Ellison did not speak at once. Presently she
asked, "Was his acting as if you belonged to him disagreeable?"
"I can't tell. I think it was rather presuming. I don't know why he did
it."
"Do you respect him?" demanded Mrs. Ellison.
"Why, Fanny, I've always told you that I did respect some things in
him."
Mrs. Ellison had the facts before her, and it rested upon her to sum
them up, and do something with them. She rose to a sitting posture, and
confronted her task.
"Well, Kitty, I'll tell you: I don't really know what to think. But I
can say this: if you liked him at first, and then didn't like him, and
afterwards he made himself more agreeable, and you didn't mind his
behaving as if you belonged to him, and you respected him, but after all
didn't think him fascinating--"
"He is fascinating--in a kind of way. He was, from the beginning. In a
story his cold, snubbing, putting-down ways would have been perfectly
fascinating."
"Then why didn't you take him?"
"Because," answered Kitty, between laughing and crying, "it isn't a
story, and I don't know whether I like him."
"But do you think you might get to like him?"
"I don't know. His asking brings back all the doubts I ever had of him,
and that I've been forgetting the past two weeks. I can't tell whether I
like him or not. If I did, shouldn't I trust him more?"
"Well, whether you are in love or not, I'll tell you what you are,
Kitty," cried Mrs. Ellison, provoked with her indecision, and yet
relieved that the worst, whatever it was, was postponed thereby for a
day or two.
"What!"
"You're--"
But at this important juncture the colonel came lounging in, and Kitty
glided out of the room.
"Richard," said Mrs. Ellison, seriously, and in a tone implying that it
was the colonel's fault, as usual, "you know what has happened, I
suppose."
"No, my dear, I don't; but no matter: I will presently, I dare say."
"O, I wish for once you wouldn't be so flippant. Mr. Arbuton has offered
himself to Kitty."
Colonel Ellison gave a quick, sharp whistle of amazement, but trusted
himself to nothing more articulate.
"Yes," said his wife, responding to the whistle, "and it makes me
perfectly wretched."
"Why, I thought you liked him."
"I didn't like him; but I thought it would be an excellent thing for
Kitty."
"And won't it?"
"She doesn't know."
"Doesn't know?"
"No."
The colonel was silent, while Mrs. Ellison stated the case in full, and
its pending uncertainty. Then he exclaimed vehemently, as if his
amazement had been growing upon him, "This is the most astonishing thing
in the world! Who would ever have dreamt of that young iceberg being in
love?"
"Haven't I told you all along he was?"
"O yes, certainly; but that might be taken either way, you know. You
would discover the tender passion in the eye of a potato."
"Colonel Ellison," said Fanny with sternness, "why do you suppose he's
been hanging about us for the last four weeks? Why should he have stayed
in Quebec? Do you think he pitied me, or found you so very
agreeable?"
"Well, I thought he found us just tolerable, and was interested in the
place."
Mrs. Ellison made no direct reply to this pitiable speech, but looked a
scorn which, happily for the colonel, the darkness hid. Presently she
said that bats did not express the blindness of men, for any bat could
have seen what was going on.
"Why," remarked the colonel, "I did have a momentary suspicion that day
of the Montgomery business; they both looked very confused, when I saw
them at the end of that street, and neither of them had anything to say;
but that was accounted for by what you told me afterwards about his
adventure. At the time I didn't pay much attention to the matter. The
idea of his being in love seemed too ridiculous."
"Was it ridiculous for you to be in love with me?"
"No; and yet I can't praise my condition for its wisdom, Fanny."
"Yes! that's like men. As soon as one of them is safely married, he
thinks all the love-making in the world has been done forever, and he
can't conceive of two young people taking a fancy to each other."
"That's something so, Fanny. But granting--for the sake of argument
merely--that Boston has been asking Kitty to marry him, and she doesn't
know whether she wants him, what are we to do about it? I don't like
him well enough to plead his cause; do you? When does Kitty think she'll
be able to make up her mind?"
"She's to let him know before we leave."
The colonel laughed. "And so he's to hang about here on uncertainties
for two whole days! That is rather rough on him. Fanny, what made you
so eager for this business?"
"Eager? I wasn't eager."
"Well, then,--reluctantly acquiescent?"
"Why, she's so literary and that."
"And what?"
"How insulting!--Intellectual, and so on; and I thought she would be
just fit to live in a place where everybody is literary and
intellectual. That is, I thought that, if I thought anything."
"Well," said the colonel, "you may have been right on the whole, but I
don't think Kitty is showing any particular force of mind, just now,
that would fit her to live in Boston. My opinion is, that it's
ridiculous for her to keep him in suspense. She might as well answer him
first as last. She's putting herself under a kind of obligation by her
delay. I'll talk to her--"
"If you do, you'll kill her. You don't know how she's wrought up about
it."
"O well, I'll be careful of her sensibilities. It's my duty to speak
with her. I'm here in the place of a parent. Besides, don't I know
Kitty? I've almost brought her up."
"Maybe you're right. You're all so queer that perhaps you're right.
Only, do be careful, Richard. You must approach the matter very
delicately,--indirectly, you know. Girls are different, remember, from
young men, and you mustn't be blunt. Do maneuver a little, for once in
your life."
"All right, Fanny; you needn't be afraid of my doing anything awkward or
sudden. I'll go to her room pretty soon, after she is quieted down, and
have a good, calm old fatherly conversation with her."
The colonel was spared this errand; for Kitty had left some of her
things on Fanny's table, and now came back for them with a lamp in her
hand. Her averted face showed the marks of weeping; the corners of her
firm-set lips were downward bent, as if some resolution which she had
taken were very painful. This the anxious Fanny saw; and she made a
gesture to the colonel which any woman would have understood to enjoin
silence, or, at least, the utmost caution and tenderness of speech. The
colonel summoned his finesse and said, cheerily, "Well, Kitty, what's
Boston been saying to you?"
Mrs. Ellison fell back upon her sofa as if shot, and placed her hand
over her face.
Kitty seemed not to hear her cousin. Having gathered up her things, she
bent an unmoved face and an unseeing gaze full upon him, and glided from
the room without a word.
"Well, upon my soul," cried the colonel, "this is a pleasant,
nightmarish, sleep-walking, Lady-Macbethish little transaction. Confound
it, Fanny this comes of your wanting me to maneuver. If you'd let me
come straight at the subject,--like a man--"
"Please, Richard, don't say anything more now," pleaded Mrs. Ellison
in a broken voice. "You can't help it, I know; and I must do the best I
can, under the circumstances. Do go away for a little while, darling! O
dear!"
As for Kitty, when she had got out of the room in that phantasmal
fashion, she dimly recalled, through the mists of her own trouble, the
colonel's dismay at her so glooming upon him, and began to think that
she had used poor Dick more tragically than she need, and so began to
laugh softly to herself; but while she stood there at the entry window a
moment, laughing in the moonlight, that made her lamp-flame thin, and
painted her face with its pale lustre, Mr. Arbuton came down the attic
stairway. He was not a man of quick fancies; but to one of even slower
imagination and of calmer mood, she might very well have seemed unreal,
the creature of a dream, fantastic, intangible, insensible, arch, not
wholly without some touch of the malign. In his heart he groaned over
her beauty as if she were lost to him forever in this elfish
transfiguration.
"Miss Ellison!" he scarcely more than whispered.
"You ought not to speak to me now," she answered, gravely.
"I know it; but I could not help it. For heaven's sake, do not let it
tell against me. I wished to ask if I should not see you to-morrow; to
beg that all might go on as had been planned, and as if nothing had been
said to-day."
"It'll be very strange," said Kitty. "My cousins know everything now.
How can we meet before them!"
"I'm not going away without an answer, and we can't remain here without
meeting. It will be less strange if we let everything take its course."
"Well."
"Thanks."
He looked strangely humbled, but even more bewildered than humbled.
She listened while he descended the steps, unbolted the street door, and
closed it behind him. Then she passed out of the moonlight into her own
room, whose close-curtained space the lamp filled with its ruddy glow,
and revealed her again, no malicious sprite, but a very puzzled,
conscientious, anxious young girl.
Of one thing, at least, she was clear. It had all come about through
misunderstanding, through his taking her to be something that she was
not; for she was certain that Mr. Arbuton was of too worldly a spirit to
choose, if he had known, a girl of such origin and lot as she was only
too proud to own. The deception must have begun with dress; and she
determined that her first stroke for truth and sincerity should be most
sublimely made in the return of Fanny's things, and a rigid fidelity to
her own dresses. "Besides," she could not help reflecting, "my
travelling-suit will be just the thing for a picnic." And here, if the
cynical reader of another sex is disposed to sneer at the method of her
self-devotion, I am sure that women, at least, will allow it was most
natural and highly proper that in this great moment she should first
think of dress, upon which so great consequences hang in matters of the
heart Who--to be honest for once, O vain and conceited men!--can deny
that the cut, the color, the texture, the stylish set of dresses, has
not had everything to do with the rapture of love's young dream? Are not
certain bits of lace and knots of ribbon as much a part of it as any
smile or sidelong glance of them all? And hath not the long experience
of the fair taught them that artful dress is half the virtue of their
spells? Full well they know it; and when Kitty resolved to profit no
longer by Fanny's wardrobe, she had won the hardest part of the battle
in behalf of perfect truth towards Mr. Arbuton. She did not, indeed,
stop with this, but lay awake, devising schemes by which she should
disabuse him of his errors about her, and persuade him that she was no
wife for him.
XII.
THE PICNIC AT CHATEAU-BIGOT.
"Well," said Mrs. Ellison, who had slipped into Kitty's room, in the
morning, to do her back hair with some advantages of light which her own
chamber lacked, "it'll be no crazier than the rest of the performance;
and if you and he can stand it, I'm sure that we've no reason to
complain."
"Why, I don't see how it's to be helped, Fanny. He's asked it; and I'm
rather glad he has, for I should have hated to have the conventional
headache that keeps young ladies from being seen; and at any rate I
don't understand how the day could be passed more sensibly than just as
we originally planned to spend it. I can make up my mind a great deal
better with him than away from him. But I think there never was a more
ridiculous situation: now that the high tragedy has faded out of it, and
the serious part is coming, it makes me laugh. Poor Mr. Arbuton will
feel all day that he is under my mercilessly critical eye, and that he
mustn't do this and he mustn't say that, for fear of me; and he can't
run away, for he's promised to wait patiently for my decision. It's a
most inglorious position for him, but I don't think of anything to do
about it. I could say no at once, but he'd rather not."
"What have you got that dress on for?" asked Mrs. Ellison, abruptly.
"Because I'm not going to wear your things any more, Fanny. It's a case
of conscience. I feel like a guilty creature, being courted in another's
clothes; and I don't know but it's for a kind of punishment of my deceit
that I can't realize this affair as I ought, or my part in it. I keep
feeling, the whole time, as if it were somebody else, and I have an
absurd kind of other person's interest in it."
Mrs. Ellison essayed some reply, but was met by Kitty's steadfast
resolution, and in the end did not prevail in so much as a ribbon for
her hair.
It was not till well into the forenoon that the preparations for the
picnic were complete and the four set off together in one carriage. In
the strong need that was on each of them to make the best of the affair,
the colonel's unconsciousness might have been a little overdone, but
Mrs. Ellison's demeanor was sublimely successful. The situation gave
full play to her peculiar genius, and you could not have said that any
act of hers failed to contribute to the perfection of her design, that
any tone or speech was too highly colored. Mr. Arbuton, of whom she took
possession, and who knew that she knew all, felt that he had never done
justice to her, and seconded her efforts with something like cordial
admiration; while Kitty, with certain grateful looks and aversions of
the face, paid an ardent homage to her strokes of tact, and after a few
miserable moments, in which her nightlong trouble gnawed at her heart,
began, in spite of herself, to enjoy the humor of the situation.
It is a lovely road out to Château-Bigot. First you drive through the
ancient suburbs of the Lower Town, and then you mount the smooth, hard
highway, between pretty country-houses, toward the village of
Charlesbourg, while Quebec shows, to your casual backward-glance, like a
wondrous painted scene, with the spires and lofty roofs of the Upper
Town, and the long, irregular wall wandering on the verge of the cliff;
then the thronging gables and chimneys of St. Roch, and again many
spires and convent walls; lastly the shipping in the St. Charles, which,
in one direction, runs, a narrowing gleam, up into its valley, and in
the other widens into the broad light of the St. Lawrence. Quiet, elmy
spaces of meadow land stretch between the suburban mansions and the
village of Charlesbourg, where the driver reassured himself as to his
route from the group of idlers on the platform before the church. Then
he struck off on a country road, and presently turned from this again
into a lane that grew rougher and rougher, till at last it lapsed to a
mere cart-track among the woods, where the rich, strong odors of the
pine, and of the wild herbs bruised under the wheels, filled the air. A
peasant and his black-eyed, open-mouthed boy were cutting withes to bind
hay at the side of the track, and the latter consented to show the
strangers to the château from a point beyond which they could not go
with the carriage. There the small habitant and the driver took up the
picnic-baskets, and led the way through pathless growths of underbrush
to a stream, so swift that it is said never to freeze, so deeply sprung
that the summer never drinks it dry. A screen of water-growths bordered
it; and when this was passed, a wide open space revealed itself, with
the ruin of the château in the midst.
The pathos of long neglect lay upon the scene; for here were evidences
of gardens and bowery aisles in other times, and now, for many a year,
desolation and the slow return of the wilderness. The mountain rising
behind the château grounds showed the dying flush of the deciduous
leaves among the dark green of the pines that clothed it to the crest; a
cry of innumerable crickets filled the ear of the dreaming noon.
The ruin itself is not of impressive size, and it is a château by grace
of the popular fancy rather than through any right of its own; for it
was, in truth, never more than the hunting-lodge of the king's
Intendant, Bigot, a man whose sins claim for him a lordly consideration
in the history of Quebec, He was the last Intendant before the British
conquest, and in that time of general distress he grew rich by
oppression of the citizens, and by peculation from the soldiers. He
built this pleasure-house here in the woods, and hither he rode out from
Quebec to enjoy himself in the chase and the carouses that succeed the
chase. Here, too, it is said, dwelt in secret the Huron girl who loved
him, and who survives in the memory of the peasants as the murdered
sauragesse; and, indeed, there is as much proof that she was murdered
as that she ever lived. When the wicked Bigot was arrested and sent to
France, where he was tried with great result of documentary record, his
château fell into other hands; at last a party of Arnold's men wintered
there in 1775, and it is to our own countrymen that we owe the
conflagration and the ruin of Château-Bigot. It stands, as I said, in
the middle of that open place, with the two gable walls and the stone
partition-wall still almost entire, and that day showing very
effectively against the tender northern sky. On the most weatherward
gable the iron in the stone had shed a dark red stain under the lash of
many winter storms, and some tough lichens had incrusted patches of the
surface; but, for the rest, the walls rose in the univied nakedness of
all ruins in our climate, which has no clinging evergreens wherewith to
pity and soften the forlornness of decay. Out of the rubbish at the foot
of the walls there sprang a wilding growth of syringas and lilacs; and
the interior was choked with flourishing weeds, and with the briers of
the raspberry, on which a few berries hung. The heavy beams, left where
they fell a hundred years ago, proclaimed the honest solidity with which
the château had been built, and there was proof in the cut stone of the
hearths and chimney-places that it had once had at least the ambition of
luxury.
While its visitors stood amidst the ruin, a harmless garden-snake
slipped out of one crevice into another; from her nest in some hidden
corner overhead a silent bird flew away. For the moment,--so slight is
the capacity of any mood, so deeply is the heart responsive to a little
impulse,--the palace of the Cæsars could not have imparted a keener
sense of loss and desolation. They eagerly sought such particulars of
the ruin as agreed with the descriptions they had read of it, and were
as well contented with a bit of cellar-way outside as if they had really
found the secret passage to the subterranean chamber of the château, or
the hoard of silver which the little habitant said was buried under it.
Then they dispersed about the grounds to trace out the borders of the
garden, and Mr. Arbuton won the common praise by discovering the
foundations of the stable of the château.
Then there was no more to do but to prepare for the picnic. They chose a
grassy plot in the shadow of a half-dismantled bark-lodge,--a relic of
the Indians, who resort to the place every summer. In the ashes of that
sylvan hearth they kindled their fire, Mr. Arbuton gathering the sticks,
and the colonel showing a peculiar genius in adapting the savage flames
to the limitations of the civilized coffee-pot borrowed of Mrs. Gray.
Mrs. Ellison laid the cloth, much meditating the arrangement of the
viands, and reversing again and again the relative positions of the
sliced tongue and the sardines that flanked the cold roast chicken, and
doubting dreadfully whether to put down the cake and the canned peaches
at once, or reserve them for a second course; the stuffed olives drove
her to despair, being in a bottle, and refusing to be balanced by
anything less monumental in shape. Some wild asters and red leaves and
green and yellowing sprays of fern which Kitty arranged in a tumbler
were hailed with rapture, but presently flung far away with fierce
disdain because they had ants on them. Kitty witnessed this outburst
with her usual complacency, and then went on making the coffee. With
such blissful pain as none but lovers know, Mr. Arbuton saw her break
the egg upon the edge of the coffee-pot, and let it drop therein, and
then, with a charming frenzy, stir it round and round. It was a picture
of domestic suggestion, a subtle insinuation of home, the unconscious
appeal of inherent housewifery to inherent husbandhood. At the crash of
the eggshell he trembled; the swift agitation of the coffee and the egg
within the pot made him dizzy.
"Sha'n't I stir that for you, Miss Ellison?" he said, awkwardly.
"O dear, no!" she answered in surprise at a man's presuming to stir
coffee; "but you may go get me some water at the creek, if you please."
She gave him a pitcher, and he went off to the brook, which was but a
minute's distance away. This minute, however, left her alone, for the
first time that day, with both Dick and Fanny, and a silence fell upon
all three at once. They could not help looking at one another; and then
the colonel, to show that he was not thinking of anything, began to
whistle, and Mrs. Ellison rebuked him for whistling.
"Why not?" he asked. "It isn't a funeral, is it?"
"Of course it isn't," said Mrs. Ellison; and Kitty, who had been
blushing to the verge of tears, laughed instead, and then was consumed
with vexation when Mr. Arbuton came up, feeling that he must suspect
himself the motive of her ill-timed mirth. "The champagne ought to be
cooled, I suppose," observed Mrs. Ellison, when the coffee had been
finally stirred and set to boil on the coals.
"I'm best acquainted with the brook," said Mr. Arbuton, "and I know just
the eddy in it where the champagne will cool soonest."
"Then you shall take it there," answered the governess of the feast; and
Mr. Arbuton duteously set off with the bottle in his hand.
The pitcher of water which he had already brought stood in the grass; by
a sudden movement of the skirt, Kitty knocked it over. The colonel made
a start forward; Mrs. Ellison arrested him with a touch, while she bent
a look of ineffable admiration upon Kitty.
"Now, I'll teach myself," said Kitty, "that I can't be so clumsy with
impunity. I'll go and fill that pitcher again myself." She hurried after
Mr. Arbuton; they scarcely spoke going or coming; but the constraint
that Kitty felt was nothing to that she had dreaded in seeking to escape
from the tacit raillery of the colonel and the championship of Fanny.
Yet she trembled to realize that already her life had become so far
entangled with this stranger's, that she found refuge with him from her
own kindred. They could do nothing to help her in this; the trouble was
solely hers and his, and they two must get out of it one way or other
themselves; the case scarcely admitted even of sympathy, and if it had
not been hers, it would have been one to amuse her rather than appeal to
her compassion. Even as it was, she sometimes caught herself smiling at
the predicament of a young girl who had passed a month in every
appearance of love-making, and who, being asked her heart, was holding
her lover in suspense whilst she searched it, and meantime was
picnicking with him upon the terms of casual flirtation. Of all the
heroines in her books, she knew none in such a strait as this.
But her perplexities did not impair the appetite which she brought to
the sylvan feast. In her whole simple life she had never tasted
champagne before, and she said innocently, as she put the frisking fluid
from her lips after the first taste, "Why, I thought you had to learn
to like champagne."
"No," remarked the colonel, "it's like reading and writing: it comes by
nature. I suppose that even one of the lower animals would like
champagne. The refined instinct of young ladies makes them recognize its
merits instantly. Some of the Confederate cellars," added the colonel,
thoughtfully, "had very good champagne in them. Green seal was the
favorite of our erring brethren. It wasn't one of their errors. I prefer
it myself to our own native cider, whether made of apples or grapes.
Yes, it's better even than the water from the old chain-pump in the back
yard at Eriecreek, though it hasn't so fine a flavor of lubricating oil
in it."
The faint chill that touched Mr. Arbuton at the mention of Eriecreek and
its petrolic associations was transient. He was very light of heart,
since the advance that Kitty seemed to have made him; and in his
temporary abandon he talked well, and promoted the pleasure of the time
without critical reserves. When the colonel, with the reluctance of our
soldiers to speak of their warlike experiences before civilians, had
suffered himself to tell a story that his wife begged of him about his
last battle, Mr. Arbuton listened with a deference that flattered poor
Mrs. Ellison, and made her marvel at Kitty's doubt concerning him; and
then he spoke entertainingly of some travel experiences of his own,
which he politely excused as quite unworthy to come after the colonel's
story. He excused them a little too much, and just gave the modest
soldier a faint, uneasy fear of having boasted. But no one else felt
this result of his delicacy, and the feast was merry enough. When it was
ended, Mrs. Ellison, being still a little infirm of foot, remained in
the shadow of the bark-lodge, and the colonel lit his cigar, and loyally
stretched himself upon the grass before her.
There was nothing else for Kitty and Mr. Arbuton but to stroll off
together, and she preferred to do this.
They sauntered up to the château in silence, and peered somewhat
languidly about the ruin. On a bit of smooth surface in a sheltered
place many names of former visitors were written, and Mr. Arbuton said
he supposed they might as well add those of their own party.
"O yes," answered Kitty, with a half-sigh, seating herself upon a fallen
stone, and letting her hands fall into each other in her lap as her wont
was, "you write them." A curious pensiveness passed from one to the
other and possessed them both.
Mr. Arbuton began to write. Suddenly, "Miss Ellison," said he, with a
smile, "I've blundered in your name; I neglected to put the Miss before
it; and now there isn't room on the plastering."
"O, never mind," replied Kitty, "I dare say it won't be missed!"
Mr. Arbuton neither perceived nor heeded the pun. He was looking in a
sort of rapture at the name which his own hand had written now for the
first time, and he felt an indecorous desire to kiss it.
"If I could speak it as I've written it--"
"I don't see what harm there would be in that," said the owner of the
name, "or what object," she added more discreetly.
--"I should feel that I had made a great gain."
"I never told you," answered Kitty, evasively, "how much I admire your
first name, Mr. Arbuton."
"How did you know it?"
"It was on the card you gave my cousin," said Kitty, frankly, but
thinking he now must know she had been keeping his card.
"It's an old family name,--a sort of heirloom from the first of us who
came to the country; and in every generation since, some Arbuton has had
to wear it."
"It's superb!" cried Kitty. "Miles! 'Miles Standish, the Puritan
captain,' 'Miles Standish, the Captain of Plymouth.' I should be very
proud of such a name."
"You have only to take it," he said, gravely.
"O, I didn't mean that," she said with a blush, and then added, "Yours
is a very old family, then, isn't it?"
"Yes, it's pretty well," answered Mr. Arbuton, "but it's not such a rare
thing in the East, you know."
"I suppose not. The Ellisons are not an old family. If we went back of
my uncle, we should only come to backwoodsmen and Indian fighters.
Perhaps that's the reason we don't care much for old families. You think
a great deal of them in Boston, don't you?"
"We do, and we don't. It's a long story, and I'm afraid I couldn't make
you understand, unless you had seen something of Boston society."
"Mr. Arbuton," said Kitty, abruptly plunging to the bottom of the
subject on which they had been hovering, "I'm dreadfully afraid that
what you said to me--what you asked of me, yesterday--was all through a
misunderstanding. I'm afraid that you've somehow mistaken me and my
circumstances, and that somehow I've innocently helped on your mistake."
"There is no mistake," he answered, eagerly, "about my loving you!"
Kitty did not look up, nor answer this outburst, which flattered while
it pained her. She said, "I've been so much mistaken myself, and I've
been so long finding it out, that I should feel anxious to have you know
just what kind of girl you'd asked to be your wife, before I--"
"What?"
"Nothing. But I should want you to know that in many things my life has
been very, very different from yours. The first thing I can
remember--you'll think I'm more autobiographical than our driver at
Ha-Ha Bay, even, but I must tell you all this--is about Kansas, where we
had moved from Illinois, and of our having hardly enough to eat or wear,
and of my mother grieving over our privations. At last, when my father
was killed," she said, dropping her voice, "in front of our own door--"
Mr. Arbuton gave a start. "Killed?"
"Yes; didn't you know? Or no: how could you? He was shot by the
Missourians."
Whether it was not hopelessly out of taste to have a father-in-law who
had been shot by the Missourians? Whether he could persuade Kitty to
suppress that part of her history? That she looked very pretty, sitting
there, with her earnest eyes lifted toward his. These things flashed
wilfully through Mr. Arbuton's mind.
"My father was a Free-State man," continued Kitty, in a tone of pride.
"He wasn't when he first went to Kansas," she added simply; while Mr.
Arbuton groped among his recollections of that forgotten struggle for
some association with these names, keenly feeling the squalor of it all,
and thinking still how very pretty she was. "He went out there to
publish a proslavery paper. But when he found out what the Border
Ruffians really were, he turned against them. He used to be very bitter
about my uncle's having become an Abolitionist; they had had a quarrel
about it; but father wrote to him from Kansas, and they made it up; and
before father died he was able to tell mother that we were to go to
uncle's. But mother was sick then, and she only lived a month after
father; and when my cousin came out to get us, just before she died,
there was scarcely a crust of cornbread in our cabin. It seemed like
heaven to get to Eriecreek; but even at Eriecreek we live in a way that
I am afraid you wouldn't respect. My uncle has just enough, and we are
very plain people indeed. I suppose," continued the young girl meekly,
"that I haven't had at all what you'd call an education. Uncle told me
what to read, at first, and after that I helped myself. It seemed to
come naturally; but don't you see that it wasn't an education?"
"I beg pardon," said Mr. Arbuton, with a blush; for he had just then
lost the sense of what she said in the music of her voice, as it
hesitated over these particulars of her history.
"I mean," explained Kitty, "that I'm afraid I must be very one-sided.
I'm dreadfully ignorant of a great many things. I haven't any
accomplishments, only the little bit of singing and playing that you've
heard; I couldn't tell a good picture from a bad one; I've never been to
the opera; I don't know anything about society. Now just imagine," cried
Kitty, with sublime impartiality, "such a girl as that in Boston!"
Even Mr. Arbuton could not help smiling at this comic earnestness, while
she resumed: "At home my cousins and I do all kinds of things that the
ladies whom you know have done for them. We do our own work, for one
thing," she continued, with a sudden treacherous misgiving that what she
was saying might be silly and not heroic, but bravely stifling her
doubt. "My cousin Virginia is housekeeper, and Rachel does the sewing,
and I'm a kind of maid-of-all-work."
Mr. Arbuton listened respectfully, vainly striving for some likeness of
Miss Ellison in the figure of the different second-girls who, during
life, had taken his card, or shown him into drawing-rooms, or waited on
him at table; failing in this, he tried her in the character of daughter
of that kind of farm-house where they take summer boarders and do their
own work; but evidently the Ellisons were not of that sort either; and
he gave it up and was silent, not knowing what to say, while Kitty, a
little piqued by his silence, went on: "We're not ashamed, you
understand, of our ways; there's such a thing as being proud of not
being proud; and that's what we are, or what I am; for the rest are not
mean enough ever to think about it, and once I wasn't, either. But
that's the kind of life I'm used to; and though I've read of other kinds
of life a great deal, I've not been brought up to anything different,
don't you understand? And maybe--I don't know--I mightn't like or
respect your kind of people any more than they did me. My uncle taught
us ideas that are quite different from yours; and what if I shouldn't be
able to give them up?"
"There is only one thing I know or see: I love you!" he said,
passionately, and drew nearer by a step; but she put out her hand and
repelled him with a gesture.
"Sometimes you might be ashamed of me before those you knew to be my
inferiors,--really common and coarse-minded people, but regularly
educated, and used to money and fashion. I should cower before them, and
I never could forgive you."
"I've one answer to all this: I love you!"
Kitty flushed in generous admiration of his magnanimity, and said, with
more of tenderness than she had yet felt towards him, "I'm sorry that I
can't answer you now, as you wish, Mr. Arbuton."
"But you will, to-morrow."
She shook her head. "I don't know; O, I don't know! I've been thinking
of something. That Mrs. March asked me to visit her in Boston; but we
had given up doing so, because of the long delay here. If I asked my
cousins, they'd still go home that way. It's too bad to put you off
again; but you must see me in Boston, if only for a day or two, and
after you've got back into your old associations there, before I answer
you. I'm in great trouble. You must wait, or I must say no."
"I'll wait," said Mr. Arbuton.
"O, thank you," sighed Kitty, grateful for this patience, and not for
the chance of still winning him; "you are very forbearing, I'm sure."
She again put forth her hand, but not now to repel him. He clasped it,
and kept it in his, then impulsively pressed it against his lips.
Colonel and Mrs. Ellison had been watching the whole pantomime,
forgotten.
"Well," said the colonel, "I suppose that's the end of the play, isn't
it? I don't like it, Fanny; I don't like it."
"Hush!" whispered Mrs. Ellison.
They were both puzzled when Kitty and Mr. Arbuton came towards them with
anxious faces. Kitty was painfully revolving in her mind what she had
just said, and thinking she had said not so much as she meant and yet so
much more, and tormenting herself with the fear that she had been at
once too bold and too meek in her demand for longer delay. Did it not
give him further claim upon her? Must it not have seemed a very
audacious thing? What right had she to make it, and how could she now
finally say no? Then the matter of her explanation to him: was it in the
least what she meant to say? Must it not give him an idea of
intellectual and spiritual poverty in her life which she knew had not
been in it? Would he not believe, in spite of her boasts, that she was
humiliated before him by a feeling of essential inferiority? O, had
she boasted? What she meant to do was just to make him understand
clearly what she was; but, had she? Could he be made to understand this
with what seemed his narrow conception of things outside of his own
experience? Was it worth while to try? Did she care enough for him to
make the effort desirable? Had she made it for his sake, or in the
interest of truth, merely, or in self-defence?
These and a thousand other like questions beset her the whole way home
to Quebec, amid the frequent pauses of the talk, and underneath whatever
she was saying. Half the time she answered yes or no to them, and not to
what Dick, or Fanny, or Mr. Arbuton had asked her; she was distraught
with their recurrence, as they teased about her like angry bees, and one
now and then settled, and stung and stung. Through the whole night, too,
they pursued her in dreams with pitiless iteration and fantastic change;
and at dawn she was awakened by voices calling up to her from the
Ursulines' Garden,--the slim, pale nun crying out, in a lamentable
accent, that all men were false and there was no shelter save the
convent or the grave, and the comfortable sister bemoaning herself that
on meagre days Madame de la Peltrie ate nothing but choke-cherries from
Château-Bigot.
Kitty rose and dressed herself, and sat at the window, and watched the
morning come into the garden below: first, a tremulous flush of the
heavens; then a rosy light on the silvery roofs and gables; then little
golden aisles among the lilacs and hollyhocks. The tiny flower-beds just
under her window were left, with their snap-dragons and larkspurs, in
dew and shadow; the small dog stood on the threshold, and barked
uneasily when the bell rang in the Ursulines' Chapel, where the nuns
were at matins.
It was Sunday, and a soft tranquillity blest the cool air in which the
young girl bathed her troubled spirit. A faint anticipative homesickness
mingled now with her nightlong anxiety,--a pity for herself that on the
morrow she must leave those pretty sights, which had become so dear to
her that she could not but feel herself native among them. She must go
back to Eriecreek, which was not a walled city, and had not a stone
building, much less a cathedral or convent, within its borders; and
though she dearly loved those under her uncle's roof there, yet she had
to own that, beyond that shelter, there was little in Eriecreek to touch
the heart or take the fancy; that the village was ugly, and the village
people mortally dull, narrow, and uncongenial. Why was not her lot cast
somewhere else? Why should she not see more of the world that she had
found so fair, and which all her aspirations had fitted her to enjoy?
Quebec had been to her a rapture of beautiful antiquity; but Europe, but
London, Venice, Rome, those infinitely older and more storied cities of
which she had lately talked so much with Mr. Arbuton,--why should she
not see them?
Here, for the guilty space of a heat-lightning flash, Kitty wickedly
entertained the thought of marrying Mr. Arbuton for the sake of a bridal
trip to Europe, and bade love and the fitness of things and the
incompatibility of Boston and Eriecreek traditions take care of
themselves. But then she blushed for her meanness, and tried to atone
for it as she could by meditating the praise of Mr. Arbuton. She felt
remorse for having, as he had proved yesterday, undervalued and
misunderstood him; and she was willing now to think him even more
magnanimous than his generous words and conduct showed him. It would be
a base return for his patience to accept him from a worldly ambition; a
man of his noble spirit merited the best that love could give. But she
respected him; at last she respected him fully and entirely, and she
could tell him that at any rate.
The words in which he had yesterday protested his love for her repeated
themselves constantly in her revery. If he should speak them again after
he had seen her in Boston, in the light by which she was anxious to be
tested,--she did not know what she should say.
XIII.
ORDEAL.
They had not planned to go anywhere that day; but after church they
found themselves with the loveliest afternoon of their stay at Quebec to
be passed somehow, and it was a pity to pass it indoors, the colonel
said at their early dinner. They canvassed the attractions of the
different drives out of town, and they decided upon that to Lorette. The
Ellisons had already been there, but Mr. Arbuton had not, and it was
from a dim motive of politeness towards him that Mrs. Ellison chose the
excursion; though this did not prevent her from wondering aloud
afterward, from time to time, why she had chosen it. He was restless and
absent, and answered at random when points of the debate were referred
to him, but he eagerly assented to the conclusion, and was in haste to
set out.
The road to Lorette is through St. John's Gate, down into the outlying
meadows and rye-fields, where, crossing and recrossing the swift St.
Charles, it finally rises at Lorette above the level of the citadel. It
is a lonelier road than that to Montmorenci, and the scattering cottages
upon it have not the well-to-do prettiness, the operatic repair, of
stone-built Beauport. But they are charming, nevertheless, and the
people seem to be remoter from modern influences. Peasant-girls, in
purple gowns and broad straw hats, and not the fashions of the year
before last, now and then appeared to our acquaintance; near one ancient
cottage an old man, in the true habitant's red woollen cap with a long
fall, leaned over the bars of his gate and smoked a short pipe.
By and by they came to Jeune-Lorette, an almost ideally pretty hamlet,
bordering the road on either hand with galleried and balconied little
houses, from which the people bowed to them as they passed, and piously
enclosing in its midst the village church and churchyard. They soon
after reached Lorette itself, which they might easily have known for an
Indian town by its unkempt air, and the irregular attitudes in which the
shabby cabins lounged along the lanes that wandered through it, even if
the Ellisons had not known it already, or if they had not been welcomed
by a pomp of Indian boys and girls of all shades of darkness. The girls
had bead-wrought moccasins and work-bags to sell, and the boys bore bows
and arrows and burst into loud cries of "Shoot! shoot! grand shoot!
Put-up-pennies! shoot-the-pennies! Grand shoot!" When they recognized
the colonel, as they did after the party had dismounted in front of the
church, they renewed these cries with greater vehemence.
"Now, Richard," implored his wife, "you're not going to let those
