HEALTHY MEAL 40.  PHILIP AT THE THEATRE 41.  WHAT PHILIP LEARNED
AT COLLEGE 42.  THE DELEGATE’S INTERESTING GAME 43.  THE PERSON OF
IMPORTANCE 44.  “NOT THAT” 45.  RUTH’S MOTHER MAKES ENQUIRIES 46.  THE
LETTER 47.  CARING FOR THE POOR 48.  ANATOMICAL INVESTIGATIONS 49.  RUTH
LOOKING AT THE “NEW ONE” BY CANDLE LIGHT 60.  “ONLY FOR YOU, BRIERLY”
 51.  AN ACCLIMATED MAN 51.  NO THANKS! GOOD BYE! 52.  “BRESS YOU, CHILE,
YOU DAR NOW” 53.  CAMP LIFE 54.  STRAIGHT FROM THE SHOULDER 55.  JEFF
THOMPSON AS A NIGHTINGALE 56.  BOUND FOR STONE’S LANDING 57.  STONE’S
LANDING 58.  WAITING FOR A RAILROAD 59.  “IT AIN’T THERE” 60.  TAIL
PIECE 61.  CAPTURE OF WASHINGTON 63.  LAURA SWOONED 62.  TAILPIECE
CHAPTER X.
Only two or three days had elapsed since the funeral, when something
happened which was to change the drift of Laura’s life somewhat, and
influence in a greater or lesser degree the formation of her character.
Major Lackland had once been a man of note in the State--a man of
extraordinary natural ability and as extraordinary learning. He had been
universally trusted and honored in his day, but had finally, fallen into
misfortune; while serving his third term in Congress, and while upon the
point of being elevated to the Senate--which was considered the summit
of earthly aggrandizement in those days--he had yielded to temptation,
when in distress for money wherewith to save his estate; and sold his
vote. His crime was discovered, and his fall followed instantly. Nothing
could reinstate him in the confidence of the people, his ruin was
irretrievable--his disgrace complete. All doors were closed against him,
all men avoided him. After years of skulking retirement and dissipation,
death had relieved him of his troubles at last, and his funeral followed
close upon that of Mr. Hawkins. He died as he had latterly lived--wholly
alone and friendless. He had no relatives--or if he had they did not
acknowledge him. The coroner’s jury found certain memoranda upon his
body and about the premises which revealed a fact not suspected by the
villagers before-viz., that Laura was not the child of Mr. and Mrs.
Hawkins.
The gossips were soon at work. They were but little hampered by the
fact that the memoranda referred to betrayed nothing but the bare
circumstance that Laura’s real parents were unknown, and stopped there.
So far from being hampered by this, the gossips seemed to gain all
the more freedom from it. They supplied all the missing information
themselves, they filled up all the blanks. The town soon teemed
with histories of Laura’s origin and secret history, no two versions
precisely alike, but all elaborate, exhaustive, mysterious and
interesting, and all agreeing in one vital particular--to-wit, that
there was a suspicious cloud about her birth, not to say a disreputable
one.
Laura began to encounter cold looks, averted eyes and peculiar nods and
gestures which perplexed her beyond measure; but presently the pervading
gossip found its way to her, and she understood them--then. Her pride
was stung. She was astonished, and at first incredulous. She was about
to ask her mother if there was any truth in these reports, but upon
second thought held her peace. She soon gathered that Major Lackland’s
memoranda seemed to refer to letters which had passed between himself
and Judge Hawkins. She shaped her course without difficulty the day that
that hint reached her.
That night she sat in her room till all was still, and then she stole
into the garret and began a search. She rummaged long among boxes of
musty papers relating to business matters of no interest to her, but
at last she found several bundles of letters. One bundle was marked
“private,” and in that she found what she wanted. She selected six
or eight letters from the package and began to devour their contents,
heedless of the cold.
By the dates, these letters were from five to seven years old. They were
all from Major Lackland to Mr. Hawkins. The substance of them was, that
some one in the east had been inquiring of Major Lackland about a lost
child and its parents, and that it was conjectured that the child might
be Laura.
Evidently some of the letters were missing, for the name of the
inquirer was not mentioned; there was a casual reference to “this
handsome-featured aristocratic gentleman,” as if the reader and the
writer were accustomed to speak of him and knew who was meant.
In one letter the Major said he agreed with Mr. Hawkins that the
inquirer seemed not altogether on the wrong track; but he also agreed
that it would be best to keep quiet until more convincing developments
were forthcoming.
Another letter said that “the poor soul broke completely down when he
saw Laura’s picture, and declared it must be she.”
Still another said:
“He seems entirely alone in the world, and his heart is so wrapped up in
this thing that I believe that if it proved a false hope, it would kill
him; I have persuaded him to wait a little while and go west when I go.”
 Another letter had this paragraph in it:
“He is better one day and worse the next, and is out of his mind a good
deal of the time. Lately his case has developed a something which is a
wonder to the hired nurses, but which will not be much of a marvel
to you if you have read medical philosophy much. It is this: his lost
memory returns to him when he is delirious, and goes away again when he
is himself-just as old Canada Joe used to talk the French patois of his
boyhood in the delirium of typhus fever, though he could not do it when
his mind was clear. Now this poor gentleman’s memory has always broken
down before he reached the explosion of the steamer; he could only
remember starting up the river with his wife and child, and he had an
idea that there was a race, but he was not certain; he could not name
the boat he was on; there was a dead blank of a month or more that
supplied not an item to his recollection. It was not for me to assist
him, of course. But now in his delirium it all comes out: the names of
the boats, every incident of the explosion, and likewise the details of
his astonishing escape--that is, up to where, just as a yawl-boat was
approaching him (he was clinging to the starboard wheel of the burning
wreck at the time), a falling timber struck him on the head. But I will
write out his wonderful escape in full to-morrow or next day. Of course
the physicians will not let me tell him now that our Laura is indeed his
child--that must come later, when his health is thoroughly restored. His
case is not considered dangerous at all; he will recover presently, the
doctors say. But they insist that he must travel a little when he
gets well--they recommend a short sea voyage, and they say he can be
persuaded to try it if we continue to keep him in ignorance and promise
to let him see L. as soon as he returns.” The letter that bore the
latest date of all, contained this clause:
“It is the most unaccountable thing in the world; the mystery remains as
impenetrable as ever; I have hunted high and low for him, and inquired
of everybody, but in vain; all trace of him ends at that hotel in New
York; I never have seen or heard of him since, up to this day; he could
hardly have sailed, for his name does not appear upon the books of any
shipping office in New York or Boston or Baltimore. How fortunate it
seems, now, that we kept this thing to ourselves; Laura still has a
father in you, and it is better for her that we drop this subject here
forever.” That was all. Random remarks here and there, being pieced
together gave Laura a vague impression of a man of fine presence, about
forty-three or forty-five years of age, with dark hair and eyes, and a
slight limp in his walk--it was not stated which leg was defective. And
this indistinct shadow represented her father. She made an exhaustive
search for the missing letters, but found none. They had probably been
burned; and she doubted not that the ones she had ferreted out would
have shared the same fate if Mr. Hawkins had not been a dreamer, void
of method, whose mind was perhaps in a state of conflagration over some
bright new speculation when he received them.
She sat long, with the letters in her lap, thinking--and unconsciously
freezing. She felt like a lost person who has traveled down a long
lane in good hope of escape, and, just as the night descends finds his
progress barred by a bridge-less river whose further shore, if it has
one, is lost in the darkness. If she could only have found these letters
a month sooner! That was her thought. But now the dead had carried
their secrets with them. A dreary, melancholy settled down upon her. An
undefined sense of injury crept into her heart. She grew very miserable.
She had just reached the romantic age--the age when there is a sad
sweetness, a dismal comfort to a girl to find out that there is a
mystery connected with her birth, which no other piece of good luck can
afford. She had more than her rightful share of practical good sense,
but still she was human; and to be human is to have one’s little modicum
of romance secreted away in one’s composition. One never ceases to make
a hero of one’s self, (in private,) during life, but only alters the
style of his heroism from time to time as the drifting years belittle
certain gods of his admiration and raise up others in their stead that
seem greater.
The recent wearing days and nights of watching, and the wasting grief
that had possessed her, combined with the profound depression that
naturally came with the reaction of idleness, made Laura peculiarly
susceptible at this time to romantic impressions. She was a heroine,
now, with a mysterious father somewhere. She could not really tell
whether she wanted to find him and spoil it all or not; but still all
the traditions of romance pointed to the making the attempt as the usual
and necessary course to follow; therefore she would some day begin the
search when opportunity should offer.
Now a former thought struck her--she would speak to Mrs. Hawkins. And
naturally enough Mrs. Hawkins appeared on the stage at that moment.
She said she knew all--she knew that Laura had discovered the secret
that Mr. Hawkins, the elder children, Col. Sellers and herself had kept
so long and so faithfully; and she cried and said that now that troubles
had begun they would never end; her daughter’s love would wean itself
away from her and her heart would break. Her grief so wrought upon
Laura that the girl almost forgot her own troubles for the moment in her
compassion for her mother’s distress. Finally Mrs. Hawkins said:
“Speak to me, child--do not forsake me. Forget all this miserable talk.
Say I am your mother!--I have loved you so long, and there is no other.
I am your mother, in the sight of God, and nothing shall ever take you
from me!”
All barriers fell, before this appeal. Laura put her arms about her
mother’s neck and said:
“You are my mother, and always shall be. We will be as we have always
been; and neither this foolish talk nor any other thing shall part us or
make us less to each other than we are this hour.”
There was no longer any sense of separation or estrangement between
them. Indeed their love seemed more perfect now than it had ever been
before. By and by they went down stairs and sat by the fire and talked
long and earnestly about Laura’s history and the letters. But it
transpired that Mrs. Hawkins had never known of this correspondence
between her husband and Major Lackland. With his usual consideration for
his wife, Mr. Hawkins had shielded her from the worry the matter would
have caused her.
Laura went to bed at last with a mind that had gained largely in
tranquility and had lost correspondingly in morbid romantic exaltation.
She was pensive, the next day, and subdued; but that was not matter for
remark, for she did not differ from the mournful friends about her in
that respect. Clay and Washington were the same loving and admiring
brothers now that they had always been. The great secret was new to some
of the younger children, but their love suffered no change under the
wonderful revelation.
It is barely possible that things might have presently settled down
into their old rut and the mystery have lost the bulk of its romantic
sublimity in Laura’s eyes, if the village gossips could have quieted
down. But they could not quiet down and they did not. Day after day
they called at the house, ostensibly upon visits of condolence, and they
pumped away at the mother and the children without seeming to know
that their questionings were in bad taste. They meant no harm they only
wanted to know. Villagers always want to know.
The family fought shy of the questionings, and of course that was high
testimony “if the Duchess was respectably born, why didn’t they come out
and prove it?--why did they, stick to that poor thin story about picking
her up out of a steamboat explosion?”
Under this ceaseless persecution, Laura’s morbid self-communing was
renewed. At night the day’s contribution of detraction, innuendo and
malicious conjecture would be canvassed in her mind, and then she would
drift into a course of thinking. As her thoughts ran on, the indignant
tears would spring to her eyes, and she would spit out fierce little
ejaculations at intervals. But finally she would grow calmer and say
some comforting disdainful thing--something like this:
“But who are they?--Animals! What are their opinions to me? Let
them talk--I will not stoop to be affected by it. I could hate----.
Nonsense--nobody I care for or in any way respect is changed toward me,
I fancy.”
She may have supposed she was thinking of many individuals, but it was
not so--she was thinking of only one. And her heart warmed somewhat,
too, the while. One day a friend overheard a conversation like
this:--and naturally came and told her all about it:
“Ned, they say you don’t go there any more. How is that?”
“Well, I don’t; but I tell you it’s not because I don’t want to and
it’s not because I think it is any matter who her father was or who he
wasn’t, either; it’s only on account of this talk, talk, talk. I think
she is a fine girl every way, and so would you if you knew her as well
as I do; but you know how it is when a girl once gets talked about--it’s
all up with her--the world won’t ever let her alone, after that.”
The only comment Laura made upon this revelation, was:
“Then it appears that if this trouble had not occurred I could have
had the happiness of Mr. Ned Thurston’s serious attentions. He is well
favored in person, and well liked, too, I believe, and comes of one of
the first families of the village. He is prosperous, too, I hear; has
been a doctor a year, now, and has had two patients--no, three, I think;
yes, it was three. I attended their funerals. Well, other people have
hoped and been disappointed; I am not alone in that. I wish you could
stay to dinner, Maria--we are going to have sausages; and besides, I
wanted to talk to you about Hawkeye and make you promise to come and see
us when we are settled there.”
But Maria could not stay. She had come to mingle romantic tears with
Laura’s over the lover’s defection and had found herself dealing with a
heart that could not rise to an appreciation of affliction because its
interest was all centred in sausages.
But as soon as Maria was gone, Laura stamped her expressive foot and
said:
“The coward! Are all books lies? I thought he would fly to the front,
and be brave and noble, and stand up for me against all the world, and
defy my enemies, and wither these gossips with his scorn! Poor crawling
thing, let him go. I do begin to despise this world!”
She lapsed into thought. Presently she said:
“If the time ever comes, and I get a chance, Oh, I’ll----”
She could not find a word that was strong enough, perhaps. By and by she
said:
“Well, I am glad of it--I’m glad of it. I never cared anything for him
anyway!”
And then, with small consistency, she cried a little, and patted her
foot more indignantly than ever.
CHAPTER XI.
Two months had gone by and the Hawkins family were domiciled in
Hawkeye. Washington was at work in the real estate office again, and
was alternately in paradise or the other place just as it happened
that Louise was gracious to him or seemingly indifferent--because
indifference or preoccupation could mean nothing else than that she was
thinking of some other young person. Col. Sellers had asked him
several times, to dine with him, when he first returned to Hawkeye, but
Washington, for no particular reason, had not accepted. No particular
reason except one which he preferred to keep to himself--viz. that he
could not bear to be away from Louise. It occurred to him, now, that the
Colonel had not invited him lately--could he be offended? He resolved
to go that very day, and give the Colonel a pleasant surprise. It was a
good idea; especially as Louise had absented herself from breakfast that
morning, and torn his heart; he would tear hers, now, and let her see
how it felt.
The Sellers family were just starting to dinner when Washington
burst upon them with his surprise. For an instant the Colonel looked
nonplussed, and just a bit uncomfortable; and Mrs. Sellers looked
actually distressed; but the next moment the head of the house was
himself again, and exclaimed:
“All right, my boy, all right--always glad to see you--always glad
to hear your voice and take you by the hand. Don’t wait for special
invitations--that’s all nonsense among friends. Just come whenever you
can, and come as often as you can--the oftener the better. You can’t
please us any better than that, Washington; the little woman will tell
you so herself. We don’t pretend to style. Plain folks, you know--plain
folks. Just a plain family dinner, but such as it is, our friends are
always welcome, I reckon you know that yourself, Washington. Run along,
children, run along; Lafayette,--[**In those old days the average man
called his children after his most revered literary and historical
idols; consequently there was hardly a family, at least in the West,
but had a Washington in it--and also a Lafayette, a Franklin, and six or
eight sounding names from Byron, Scott, and the Bible, if the offspring
held out. To visit such a family, was to find one’s self confronted by
a congress made up of representatives of the imperial myths and the
majestic dead of all the ages. There was something thrilling about it,
to a stranger, not to say awe inspiring.]--stand off the cat’s tail,
child, can’t you see what you’re doing?--Come, come, come, Roderick
Dhu, it isn’t nice for little boys to hang onto young gentlemen’s coat
tails--but never mind him, Washington, he’s full of spirits and don’t
mean any harm. Children will be children, you know. Take the chair
next to Mrs. Sellers, Washington--tut, tut, Marie Antoinette, let your
brother have the fork if he wants it, you are bigger than he is.”
Washington contemplated the banquet, and wondered if he were in his
right mind. Was this the plain family dinner? And was it all present?
It was soon apparent that this was indeed the dinner: it was all on the
table: it consisted of abundance of clear, fresh water, and a basin of
raw turnips--nothing more.
Washington stole a glance at Mrs. Sellers’s face, and would have given
the world, the next moment, if he could have spared her that. The poor
woman’s face was crimson, and the tears stood in her eyes. Washington
did not know what to do. He wished he had never come there and spied out
this cruel poverty and brought pain to that poor little lady’s heart
and shame to her cheek; but he was there, and there was no escape. Col.
Sellers hitched back his coat sleeves airily from his wrists as who
should say “Now for solid enjoyment!” seized a fork, flourished it and
began to harpoon turnips and deposit them in the plates before him “Let
me help you, Washington--Lafayette, pass this plate to Washington--ah,
well, well, my boy, things are looking pretty bright, now, I tell you.
Speculation--my! the whole atmosphere’s full of money. I would’nt take
three fortunes for one little operation I’ve got on hand now--have
anything from the casters? No? Well, you’re right, you’re right.
Some people like mustard with turnips, but--now there was Baron
Poniatowski--Lord, but that man did know how to live!--true Russian
you know, Russian to the back bone; I say to my wife, give me a Russian
every time, for a table comrade. The Baron used to say, ‘Take mustard,
Sellers, try the mustard,--a man can’t know what turnips are in
perfection without, mustard,’ but I always said, ‘No, Baron, I’m a plain
man and I want my food plain--none of your embellishments for Beriah
Sellers--no made dishes for me! And it’s the best way--high living kills
more than it cures in this world, you can rest assured of that.--Yes
indeed, Washington, I’ve got one little operation on hand that--take
some more water--help yourself, won’t you?--help yourself, there’s
plenty of it.--You’ll find it pretty good, I guess. How does that fruit
strike you?”
Washington said he did not know that he had ever tasted better. He did
not add that he detested turnips even when they were cooked--loathed
them in their natural state. No, he kept this to himself, and praised
the turnips to the peril of his soul.
“I thought you’d like them. Examine them--examine them--they’ll bear
it. See how perfectly firm and juicy they are--they can’t start any like
them in this part of the country, I can tell you. These are from New
Jersey--I imported them myself. They cost like sin, too; but lord bless
me, I go in for having the best of a thing, even if it does cost a
little more--it’s the best economy, in the long run. These are the
Early Malcolm--it’s a turnip that can’t be produced except in just one
orchard, and the supply never is up to the demand. Take some more water,
Washington--you can’t drink too much water with fruit--all the doctors
say that. The plague can’t come where this article is, my boy!”
“Plague? What plague?”
“What plague, indeed? Why the Asiatic plague that nearly depopulated
London a couple of centuries ago.”
“But how does that concern us? There is no plague here, I reckon.”
“Sh! I’ve let it out! Well, never mind--just keep it to yourself.
Perhaps I oughtn’t said anything, but its bound to come out sooner
or later, so what is the odds? Old McDowells wouldn’t like me
to--to--bother it all, I’ll jest tell the whole thing and let it go. You
see, I’ve been down to St. Louis, and I happened to run across old Dr.
McDowells--thinks the world of me, does the doctor. He’s a man that
keeps himself to himself, and well he may, for he knows that he’s got
a reputation that covers the whole earth--he won’t condescend to open
himself out to many people, but lord bless you, he and I are just like
brothers; he won’t let me go to a hotel when I’m in the city--says I’m
the only man that’s company to him, and I don’t know but there’s some
truth in it, too, because although I never like to glorify myself and
make a great to-do over what I am or what I can do or what I know, I
don’t mind saying here among friends that I am better read up in most
sciences, maybe, than the general run of professional men in these days.
Well, the other day he let me into a little secret, strictly on the
quiet, about this matter of the plague.
“You see it’s booming right along in our direction--follows the Gulf
Stream, you know, just as all those epidemics do, and within three
months it will be just waltzing through this land like a whirlwind! And
whoever it touches can make his will and contract for the funeral.
Well you can’t cure it, you know, but you can prevent it. How? Turnips!
that’s it! Turnips and water! Nothing like it in the world, old
McDowells says, just fill yourself up two or three times a day, and you
can snap your fingers at the plague. Sh!--keep mum, but just you
confine yourself to that diet and you’re all right. I wouldn’t have old
McDowells know that I told about it for anything--he never would speak
to me again. Take some more water, Washington--the more water you drink,
the better. Here, let me give you some more of the turnips. No, no,
no, now, I insist. There, now. Absorb those. They’re, mighty
sustaining--brim full of nutriment--all the medical books say so. Just
eat from four to seven good-sized turnips at a meal, and drink from a
pint and a half to a quart of water, and then just sit around a couple
of hours and let them ferment. You’ll feel like a fighting cock next
day.”
Fifteen or twenty minutes later the Colonel’s tongue was still
chattering away--he had piled up several future fortunes out of several
incipient “operations” which he had blundered into within the past week,
and was now soaring along through some brilliant expectations born of
late promising experiments upon the lacking ingredient of the eye-water.
And at such a time Washington ought to have been a rapt and enthusiastic
listener, but he was not, for two matters disturbed his mind and
distracted his attention. One was, that he discovered, to his confusion
and shame, that in allowing himself to be helped a second time to the
turnips, he had robbed those hungry children. He had not needed the
dreadful “fruit,” and had not wanted it; and when he saw the pathetic
sorrow in their faces when they asked for more and there was no more to
give them, he hated himself for his stupidity and pitied the famishing
young things with all his heart. The other matter that disturbed him was
the dire inflation that had begun in his stomach. It grew and grew,
it became more and more insupportable. Evidently the turnips were
“fermenting.” He forced himself to sit still as long as he could, but
his anguish conquered him at last.
He rose in the midst of the Colonel’s talk and excused himself on the
plea of a previous engagement. The Colonel followed him to the door,
promising over and over again that he would use his influence to get
some of the Early Malcolms for him, and insisting that he should not be
such a stranger but come and take pot-luck with him every chance he
got. Washington was glad enough to get away and feel free again. He
immediately bent his steps toward home.
In bed he passed an hour that threatened to turn his hair gray, and
then a blessed calm settled down upon him that filled his heart with
gratitude. Weak and languid, he made shift to turn himself about
and seek rest and sleep; and as his soul hovered upon the brink of
unconciousness, he heaved a long, deep sigh, and said to himself that in
his heart he had cursed the Colonel’s preventive of rheumatism, before,
and now let the plague come if it must--he was done with preventives; if
ever any man beguiled him with turnips and water again, let him die the
death.
If he dreamed at all that night, no gossiping spirit disturbed his
visions to whisper in his ear of certain matters just then in bud in
the East, more than a thousand miles away that after the lapse of a few
years would develop influences which would profoundly affect the fate
and fortunes of the Hawkins family.
CHAPTER XII.
“Oh, it’s easy enough to make a fortune,” Henry said.
“It seems to be easier than it is, I begin to think,” replied Philip.
“Well, why don’t you go into something? You’ll never dig it out of the
Astor Library.”
If there be any place and time in the world where and when it seems easy
to “go into something” it is in Broadway on a spring morning, when one
is walking city-ward, and has before him the long lines of palace-shops
with an occasional spire seen through the soft haze that lies over the
lower town, and hears the roar and hum of its multitudinous traffic.
To the young American, here or elsewhere, the paths to fortune are
innumerable and all open; there is invitation in the air and success
in all his wide horizon. He is embarrassed which to choose, and is not
unlikely to waste years in dallying with his chances, before giving
himself to the serious tug and strain of a single object. He has no
traditions to bind him or guide him, and his impulse is to break away
from the occupation his father has followed, and make a new way for
himself.
Philip Sterling used to say that if he should seriously set himself for
ten years to any one of the dozen projects that were in his brain, he
felt that he could be a rich man. He wanted to be rich, he had a sincere
desire for a fortune, but for some unaccountable reason he hesitated
about addressing himself to the narrow work of getting it. He never
walked Broadway, a part of its tide of abundant shifting life, without
feeling something of the flush of wealth, and unconsciously taking the
elastic step of one well-to-do in this prosperous world.
Especially at night in the crowded theatre--Philip was too young to
remember the old Chambers’ Street box, where the serious Burton led his
hilarious and pagan crew--in the intervals of the screaming comedy, when
the orchestra scraped and grunted and tooted its dissolute tunes, the
world seemed full of opportunities to Philip, and his heart exulted with
a conscious ability to take any of its prizes he chose to pluck.
Perhaps it was the swimming ease of the acting, on the stage, where
virtue had its reward in three easy acts, perhaps it was the excessive
light of the house, or the music, or the buzz of the excited talk
between acts, perhaps it was youth which believed everything, but for
some reason while Philip was at the theatre he had the utmost confidence
in life and his ready victory in it.
Delightful illusion of paint and tinsel and silk attire, of cheap
sentiment and high and mighty dialogue! Will there not always be rosin
enough for the squeaking fiddle-bow?
Do we not all like the maudlin hero, who is sneaking round the right
entrance, in wait to steal the pretty wife of his rich and tyrannical
neighbor from the paste-board cottage at the left entrance? and when
he advances down to the foot-lights and defiantly informs the audience
that, “he who lays his hand on a woman except in the way of kindness,”
 do we not all applaud so as to drown the rest of the sentence?
Philip never was fortunate enough to hear what would become of a man who
should lay his hand on a woman with the exception named; but he learned
afterwards that the woman who lays her hand on a man, without any
exception whatsoever, is always acquitted by the jury.
The fact was, though Philip Sterling did not know it, that he wanted
several other things quite as much as he wanted wealth. The modest
fellow would have liked fame thrust upon him for some worthy
achievement; it might be for a book, or for the skillful management of
some great newspaper, or for some daring expedition like that of Lt.
Strain or Dr. Kane. He was unable to decide exactly what it should be.
Sometimes he thought he would like to stand in a conspicuous pulpit and
humbly preach the gospel of repentance; and it even crossed his mind
that it would be noble to give himself to a missionary life to some
benighted region, where the date-palm grows, and the nightingale’s voice
is in tune, and the bul-bul sings on the off nights. If he were good
enough he would attach himself to that company of young men in the
Theological Seminary, who were seeing New York life in preparation for
the ministry.
Philip was a New England boy and had graduated at Yale; he had not
carried off with him all the learning of that venerable institution, but
he knew some things that were not in the regular course of study. A
very good use of the English language and considerable knowledge of its
literature was one of them; he could sing a song very well, not in time
to be sure, but with enthusiasm; he could make a magnetic speech at a
moment’s notice in the class room, the debating society, or upon any
fence or dry-goods box that was convenient; he could lift himself by one
arm, and do the giant swing in the gymnasium; he could strike out from
his left shoulder; he could handle an oar like a professional and pull
stroke in a winning race. Philip had a good appetite, a sunny temper,
and a clear hearty laugh. He had brown hair, hazel eyes set wide apart,
a broad but not high forehead, and a fresh winning face. He was six feet
high, with broad shoulders, long legs and a swinging gait; one of those
loose-jointed, capable fellows, who saunter into the world with a free
air and usually make a stir in whatever company they enter.
After he left college Philip took the advice of friends and read law.
Law seemed to him well enough as a science, but he never could discover
a practical case where it appeared to him worth while to go to law, and
all the clients who stopped with this new clerk in the ante-room of the
law office where he was writing, Philip invariably advised to settle--no
matter how, but settle--greatly to the disgust of his employer, who
knew that justice between man and man could only be attained by the
recognized processes, with the attendant fees. Besides Philip hated the
copying of pleadings, and he was certain that a life of “whereases”
 and “aforesaids” and whipping the devil round the stump, would be
intolerable.
[Note: these few paragraphs are nearly an autobiography of the life of
Charles Dudley Warner whose contributions to the story start here with
Chapter XII. D.W.]
His pen therefore, and whereas, and not as aforesaid, strayed off into
other scribbling. In an unfortunate hour, he had two or three papers
accepted by first-class magazines, at three dollars the printed page,
and, behold, his vocation was open to him. He would make his mark in
literature.
Life has no moment so sweet as that in which a young man believes
himself called into the immortal ranks of the masters of literature.
It is such a noble ambition, that it is a pity it has usually such a
shallow foundation.
At the time of this history, Philip had gone to New York for a career.
With his talent he thought he should have little difficulty in getting
an editorial position upon a metropolitan newspaper; not that he knew
anything about newspaper work, or had the least idea of journalism;
he knew he was not fitted for the technicalities of the subordinate
departments, but he could write leaders with perfect ease, he was sure.
The drudgery of the newspaper office was too distasteful, and besides
it would be beneath the dignity of a graduate and a successful magazine
writer. He wanted to begin at the top of the ladder.
To his surprise he found that every situation in the editorial
department of the journals was full, always had been full, was always
likely to be full. It seemed to him that the newspaper managers didn’t
want genius, but mere plodding and grubbing. Philip therefore read
diligently in the Astor library, planned literary works that should
compel attention, and nursed his genius. He had no friend wise enough
to tell him to step into the Dorking Convention, then in session, make
a sketch of the men and women on the platform, and take it to the editor
of the Daily Grapevine, and see what he could get a line for it.
One day he had an offer from some country friends, who believed in him,
to take charge of a provincial daily newspaper, and he went to consult
Mr. Gringo--Gringo who years ago managed the Atlas--about taking the
situation.
“Take it of course,” says Gringo, “take anything that offers, why not?”
“But they want me to make it an opposition paper.”
“Well, make it that. That party is going to succeed, it’s going to elect
the next president.”
“I don’t believe it,” said Philip, stoutly, “its wrong in principle,
and it ought not to succeed, but I don’t see how I can go for a thing I
don’t believe in.”
“O, very well,” said Gringo, turning away with a shade of contempt,
“you’ll find if you are going into literature and newspaper work that
you can’t afford a conscience like that.”
But Philip did afford it, and he wrote, thanking his friends, and
declining because he said the political scheme would fail, and ought to
fail. And he went back to his books and to his waiting for an opening
large enough for his dignified entrance into the literary world.
It was in this time of rather impatient waiting that Philip was
one morning walking down Broadway with Henry Brierly. He frequently
accompanied Henry part way down town to what the latter called his
office in Broad Street, to which he went, or pretended to go, with
regularity every day. It was evident to the most casual acquaintance
that he was a man of affairs, and that his time was engrossed in the
largest sort of operations, about which there was a mysterious air. His
liability to be suddenly summoned to Washington, or Boston or Montreal
or even to Liverpool was always imminent. He never was so summoned, but
none of his acquaintances would have been surprised to hear any day that
he had gone to Panama or Peoria, or to hear from him that he had bought
the Bank of Commerce.
The two were intimate at that time,--they had been classmates--and saw
a great deal of each other. Indeed, they lived together in Ninth Street,
in a boarding-house, there, which had the honor of lodging and partially
feeding several other young fellows of like kidney, who have since gone
their several ways into fame or into obscurity.
It was during the morning walk to which reference has been made that
Henry Brierly suddenly said, “Philip, how would you like to go to St.
Jo?”
“I think I should like it of all things,” replied Philip, with some
hesitation, “but what for.”
“Oh, it’s a big operation. We are going, a lot of us, railroad men,
engineers, contractors. You know my uncle is a great railroad man. I’ve
no doubt I can get you a chance to go if you’ll go.”
“But in what capacity would I go?”
“Well, I’m going as an engineer. You can go as one.”
“I don’t know an engine from a coal cart.”
“Field engineer, civil engineer. You can begin by carrying a rod, and
putting down the figures. It’s easy enough. I’ll show you about that.
We’ll get Trautwine and some of those books.”
“Yes, but what is it for, what is it all about?”
“Why don’t you see? We lay out a line, spot the good land, enter it up,
know where the stations are to be, spot them, buy lots; there’s heaps of
money in it. We wouldn’t engineer long.”
“When do you go?” was Philip’s next question, after some moments of
silence.
“To-morrow. Is that too soon?”
“No, its not too soon. I’ve been ready to go anywhere for six months.
The fact is, Henry, that I’m about tired of trying to force myself
into things, and am quite willing to try floating with the stream for a
while, and see where I will land. This seems like a providential call;
it’s sudden enough.”
The two young men who were by this time full of the adventure, went down
to the Wall street office of Henry’s uncle and had a talk with that
wily operator. The uncle knew Philip very well, and was pleased with his
frank enthusiasm, and willing enough to give him a trial in the western
venture. It was settled therefore, in the prompt way in which things are
settled in New York, that they would start with the rest of the company
next morning for the west.
On the way up town these adventurers bought books on engineering, and
suits of India-rubber, which they supposed they would need in a new and
probably damp country, and many other things which nobody ever needed
anywhere.
The night was spent in packing up and writing letters, for Philip would
not take such an important step without informing his friends. If they
disapprove, thought he, I’ve done my duty by letting them know. Happy
youth, that is ready to pack its valise, and start for Cathay on an
hour’s notice.
“By the way,” calls out Philip from his bed-room, to Henry, “where is
St. Jo.?”
“Why, it’s in Missouri somewhere, on the frontier I think. We’ll get a
map.”
“Never mind the map. We will find the place itself. I was afraid it was
nearer home.”
Philip wrote a long letter, first of all, to his mother, full of love
and glowing anticipations of his new opening. He wouldn’t bother her
with business details, but he hoped that the day was not far off when
she would see him return, with a moderate fortune, and something to add
to the comfort of her advancing years.
To his uncle he said that he had made an arrangement with some New York
capitalists to go to Missouri, in a land and railroad operation, which
would at least give him a knowledge of the world and not unlikely offer
him a business opening. He knew his uncle would be glad to hear that he
had at last turned his thoughts to a practical matter.
It was to Ruth Bolton that Philip wrote last. He might never see her
again; he went to seek his fortune. He well knew the perils of the
frontier, the savage state of society, the lurking Indians and the
dangers of fever. But there was no real danger to a person who took care
of himself. Might he write to her often and, tell her of his life. If he
returned with a fortune, perhaps and perhaps. If he was unsuccessful, or
if he never returned--perhaps it would be as well. No time or distance,
however, would ever lessen his interest in her. He would say good-night,
but not good-bye.
In the soft beginning of a Spring morning, long before New York had
breakfasted, while yet the air of expectation hung about the wharves of
the metropolis, our young adventurers made their way to the Jersey City
railway station of the Erie road, to begin the long, swinging, crooked
journey, over what a writer of a former day called a causeway of cracked
rails and cows, to the West.
CHAPTER XIII.
     What ever to say be toke in his entente,
     his langage was so fayer & pertynante,
     yt semeth unto manys herying not only the worde,
     but veryly the thyng.
     Caxton’s Book of Curtesye.
In the party of which our travelers found themselves members, was Duff
Brown, the great railroad contractor, and subsequently a well-known
member of Congress; a bluff, jovial Bost’n man, thick-set, close shaven,
with a heavy jaw and a low forehead--a very pleasant man if you were
not in his way. He had government contracts also, custom houses and dry
docks, from Portland to New Orleans, and managed to get out of congress,
in appropriations, about weight for weight of gold for the stone
furnished.
Associated with him, and also of this party, was Rodney Schaick, a
sleek New York broker, a man as prominent in the church as in the
stock exchange, dainty in his dress, smooth of speech, the necessary
complement of Duff Brown in any enterprise that needed assurance and
adroitness.
It would be difficult to find a pleasanter traveling party, one
that shook off more readily the artificial restraints of Puritanic
strictness, and took the world with good-natured allowance. Money was
plenty for every attainable luxury, and there seemed to be no doubt
that its supply would continue, and that fortunes were about to be made
without a great deal of toil. Even Philip soon caught the prevailing
spirit; Barry did not need any inoculation, he always talked in six
figures. It was as natural for the dear boy to be rich as it is for most
people to be poor.
The elders of the party were not long in discovering the fact, which
almost all travelers to the west soon find out; that the water was
poor. It must have been by a lucky premonition of this that they all had
brandy flasks with which to qualify the water of the country; and it
was no doubt from an uneasy feeling of the danger of being poisoned that
they kept experimenting, mixing a little of the dangerous and changing
fluid, as they passed along, with the contents of the flasks, thus
saving their lives hour by hour. Philip learned afterwards that
temperance and the strict observance of Sunday and a certain gravity of
deportment are geographical habits, which people do not usually carry
with them away from home.
Our travelers stopped in Chicago long enough to see that they could
make their fortunes there in two week’s time, but it did not seem worth
while; the west was more attractive; the further one went the wider the
opportunities opened.
They took railroad to Alton and the steamboat from there to St. Louis,
for the change and to have a glimpse of the river.
“Isn’t this jolly?” cried Henry, dancing out of the barber’s room, and
coming down the deck with a one, two, three step, shaven, curled and
perfumed after his usual exquisite fashion.
“What’s jolly?” asked Philip, looking out upon the dreary and monotonous
waste through which the shaking steamboat was coughing its way.
“Why, the whole thing; it’s immense I can tell you. I wouldn’t give that
to be guaranteed a hundred thousand cold cash in a year’s time.”
“Where’s Mr. Brown?”
“He is in the saloon, playing poker with Schaick and that long haired
party with the striped trousers, who scrambled aboard when the stage
plank was half hauled in, and the big Delegate to Congress from out
west.”
“That’s a fine looking fellow, that delegate, with his glossy, black
whiskers; looks like a Washington man; I shouldn’t think he’d be at
poker.”
“Oh, its only five cent ante, just to make it interesting, the Delegate
said.”
“But I shouldn’t think a representative in Congress would play poker any
way in a public steamboat.”
“Nonsense, you’ve got to pass the time. I tried a hand myself, but those
old fellows are too many for me. The Delegate knows all the points. I’d
bet a hundred dollars he will ante his way right into the United States
Senate when his territory comes in. He’s got the cheek for it.”
“He has the grave and thoughtful manner of expectoration of a public
man, for one thing,” added Philip.
“Harry,” said Philip, after a pause, “what have you got on those big
boots for; do you expect to wade ashore?”
“I’m breaking ‘em in.”
The fact was Harry had got himself up in what he thought a proper
costume for a new country, and was in appearance a sort of compromise
between a dandy of Broadway and a backwoodsman. Harry, with blue eyes,
fresh complexion, silken whiskers and curly chestnut hair, was as
handsome as a fashion plate. He wore this morning a soft hat, a short
cutaway coat, an open vest displaying immaculate linen, a leathern belt
round his waist, and top-boots of soft leather, well polished, that came
above his knees and required a string attached to his belt to keep them
up. The light hearted fellow gloried in these shining encasements of his
well shaped legs, and told Philip that they were a perfect protection
against prairie rattle-snakes, which never strike above the knee.
The landscape still wore an almost wintry appearance when our travelers
left Chicago. It was a genial spring day when they landed at St. Louis;
the birds were singing, the blossoms of peach trees in city garden
plots, made the air sweet, and in the roar and tumult on the long river
levee they found an excitement that accorded with their own hopeful
anticipations.
The party went to the Southern Hotel, where the great Duff Brown was
very well known, and indeed was a man of so much importance that even
the office clerk was respectful to him. He might have respected in him
also a certain vulgar swagger and insolence of money, which the clerk
greatly admired.
The young fellows liked the house and liked the city; it seemed to them
a mighty free and hospitable town. Coming from the East they were struck
with many peculiarities. Everybody smoked in the streets, for one thing,
they noticed; everybody “took a drink” in an open manner whenever he
wished to do so or was asked, as if the habit needed no concealment or
apology. In the evening when they walked about they found people
sitting on the door-steps of their dwellings, in a manner not usual in a
northern city; in front of some of the hotels and saloons the side walks
were filled with chairs and benches--Paris fashion, said Harry--upon
which people lounged in these warm spring evenings, smoking, always
smoking; and the clink of glasses and of billiard balls was in the air.
It was delightful.
Harry at once found on landing that his back-woods custom would not be
needed in St. Louis, and that, in fact, he had need of all the resources
of his wardrobe to keep even with the young swells of the town. But this
did not much matter, for Harry was always superior to his clothes. As
they were likely to be detained some time in the city, Harry told
Philip that he was going to improve his time. And he did. It was an
encouragement to any industrious man to see this young fellow rise,
carefully dress himself, eat his breakfast deliberately, smoke his cigar
tranquilly, and then repair to his room, to what he called his work,
with a grave and occupied manner, but with perfect cheerfulness.
Harry would take off his coat, remove his cravat, roll up his
shirt-sleeves, give his curly hair the right touch before the glass,
get out his book on engineering, his boxes of instruments, his drawing
paper, his profile paper, open the book of logarithms, mix his India
ink, sharpen his pencils, light a cigar, and sit down at the table to
“lay out a line,” with the most grave notion that he was mastering the
details of engineering. He would spend half a day in these preparations
without ever working out a problem or having the faintest conception
of the use of lines or logarithms. And when he had finished, he had the
most cheerful confidence that he had done a good day’s work.
It made no difference, however, whether Harry was in his room in a hotel
or in a tent, Philip soon found, he was just the same. In camp he would
get himself up in the most elaborate toilet at his command, polish his
long boots to the top, lay out his work before him, and spend an hour or
longer, if anybody was looking at him, humming airs, knitting his brows,
and “working” at engineering; and if a crowd of gaping rustics were
looking on all the while it was perfectly satisfactory to him.
“You see,” he says to Philip one morning at the hotel when he was thus
engaged, “I want to get the theory of this thing, so that I can have a
check on the engineers.”
“I thought you were going to be an engineer yourself,” queried Philip.
“Not many times, if the court knows herself. There’s better game. Brown
and Schaick have, or will have, the control for the whole line of the
Salt Lick Pacific Extension, forty thousand dollars a mile over the
prairie, with extra for hard-pan--and it’ll be pretty much all hardpan
I can tell you; besides every alternate section of land on this line.
There’s millions in the job. I’m to have the sub-contract for the first
fifty miles, and you can bet it’s a soft thing.”
“I’ll tell you what you do, Philip,” continued Larry, in a burst of
generosity, “if I don’t get you into my contract, you’ll be with the
engineers, and you jest stick a stake at the first ground marked for a
depot, buy the land of the farmer before he knows where the depot will
be, and we’ll turn a hundred or so on that. I’ll advance the money for
the payments, and you can sell the lots. Schaick is going to let me have
ten thousand just for a flyer in such operations.”
“But that’s a good deal of money.”
“Wait till you are used to handling money. I didn’t come out here for
a bagatelle. My uncle wanted me to stay East and go in on the Mobile
custom house, work up the Washington end of it; he said there was a
fortune in it for a smart young fellow, but I preferred to take the
chances out here. Did I tell you I had an offer from Bobbett and
Fanshaw to go into their office as confidential clerk on a salary of ten
thousand?”
“Why didn’t you take it?” asked Philip, to whom a salary of two thousand
would have seemed wealth, before he started on this journey.
“Take it? I’d rather operate on my own hook;” said Harry, in his most
airy manner.
A few evenings after their arrival at the Southern, Philip and Harry
made the acquaintance of a very agreeable gentleman, whom they had
frequently seen before about the hotel corridors, and passed a casual
word with. He had the air of a man of business, and was evidently a
person of importance.
The precipitating of this casual intercourse into the more substantial
form of an acquaintanceship was the work of the gentleman himself, and
occurred in this wise. Meeting the two friends in the lobby one evening,
he asked them to give him the time, and added:
“Excuse me, gentlemen--strangers in St. Louis? Ah, yes-yes. From the
East, perhaps? Ah; just so, just so. Eastern born myself--Virginia.
Sellers is my name--Beriah Sellers.
“Ah! by the way--New York, did you say? That reminds me; just met
some gentlemen from your State, a week or two ago--very prominent
gentlemen--in public life they are; you must know them, without doubt.
Let me see--let me see. Curious those names have escaped me. I know
they were from your State, because I remember afterward my old friend
Governor Shackleby said to me--fine man, is the Governor--one of the
finest men our country has produced--said he, ‘Colonel, how did you
like those New York gentlemen?--not many such men in the world,--Colonel
Sellers,’ said the Governor--yes, it was New York he said--I remember it
distinctly. I can’t recall those names, somehow. But no matter. Stopping
here, gentlemen--stopping at the Southern?”
In shaping their reply in their minds, the title “Mr.” had a place in
it; but when their turn had arrived to speak, the title “Colonel” came
from their lips instead.
They said yes, they were abiding at the Southern, and thought it a very
good house.
“Yes, yes, the Southern is fair. I myself go to the Planter’s, old,
aristocratic house. We Southern gentlemen don’t change our ways, you
know. I always make it my home there when I run down from Hawkeye--my
plantation is in Hawkeye, a little up in the country. You should know
the Planter’s.”
Philip and Harry both said they should like to see a hotel that had been
so famous in its day--a cheerful hostelrie, Philip said it must have
been where duels were fought there across the dining-room table.
“You may believe it, sir, an uncommonly pleasant lodging. Shall we
walk?”
And the three strolled along the streets, the Colonel talking all
the way in the most liberal and friendly manner, and with a frank
open-heartedness that inspired confidence.
“Yes, born East myself, raised all along, know the West--a great
country, gentlemen. The place for a young fellow of spirit to pick up a
fortune, simply pick it up, it’s lying round loose here. Not a day that
I don’t put aside an opportunity; too busy to look into it. Management
of my own property takes my time. First visit? Looking for an opening?”
“Yes, looking around,” replied Harry.
“Ah, here we are. You’d rather sit here in front than go to my
apartments? So had I. An opening eh?”
The Colonel’s eyes twinkled. “Ah, just so. The country is opening up,
all we want is capital to develop it. Slap down the rails and bring the
land into market. The richest land on God Almighty’s footstool is
lying right out there. If I had my capital free I could plant it for
millions.”
“I suppose your capital is largely in your plantation?” asked Philip.
“Well, partly, sir, partly. I’m down here now with reference to a little
operation--a little side thing merely. By the way gentlemen, excuse the
liberty, but it’s about my usual time”--
The Colonel paused, but as no movement of his acquaintances followed
this plain remark, he added, in an explanatory manner,
“I’m rather particular about the exact time--have to be in this
climate.”
Even this open declaration of his hospitable intention not being
understood the Colonel politely said,
“Gentlemen, will you take something?”
Col. Sellers led the way to a saloon on Fourth street under the hotel,
and the young gentlemen fell into the custom of the country.
“Not that,” said the Colonel to the bar-keeper, who shoved along the
counter a bottle of apparently corn-whiskey, as if he had done it before
on the same order; “not that,” with a wave of the hand. “That Otard if
you please. Yes. Never take an inferior liquor, gentlemen, not in the
evening, in this climate. There. That’s the stuff. My respects!”
The hospitable gentleman, having disposed of his liquor, remarking that
it was not quite the thing--“when a man has his own cellar to go to, he
is apt to get a little fastidious about his liquors”--called for cigars.
But the brand offered did not suit him; he motioned the box away, and
asked for some particular Havana’s, those in separate wrappers.
“I always smoke this sort, gentlemen; they are a little more expensive,
but you’ll learn, in this climate, that you’d better not economize on
poor cigars.”
Having imparted this valuable piece of information, the Colonel lighted
the fragrant cigar with satisfaction, and then carelessly put his
fingers into his right vest pocket. That movement being without result,
with a shade of disappointment on his face, he felt in his left vest
pocket. Not finding anything there, he looked up with a serious and
annoyed air, anxiously slapped his right pantaloon’s pocket, and then
his left, and exclaimed,
“By George, that’s annoying. By George, that’s mortifying. Never had
anything of that kind happen to me before. I’ve left my pocket-book.
Hold! Here’s a bill, after all. No, thunder, it’s a receipt.”
“Allow me,” said Philip, seeing how seriously the Colonel was annoyed,
and taking out his purse.
The Colonel protested he couldn’t think of it, and muttered something to
the barkeeper about “hanging it up,” but the vender of exhilaration made
no sign, and Philip had the privilege of paying the costly shot; Col.
Sellers profusely apologizing and claiming the right “next time, next
time.”
As soon as Beriah Sellers had bade his friends good night and seen them
depart, he did not retire apartments in the Planter’s, but took his way
to his lodgings with a friend in a distant part of the city.
CHAPTER XIV.
The letter that Philip Sterling wrote to Ruth Bolton, on the evening of
setting out to seek his fortune in the west, found that young lady in
her own father’s house in Philadelphia. It was one of the pleasantest
of the many charming suburban houses in that hospitable city, which is
territorially one of the largest cities in the world, and only prevented
from becoming the convenient metropolis of the country by the intrusive
strip of Camden and Amboy sand which shuts it off from the Atlantic
ocean. It is a city of steady thrift, the arms of which might well be
the deliberate but delicious terrapin that imparts such a royal flavor
to its feasts.
It was a spring morning, and perhaps it was the influence of it that
made Ruth a little restless, satisfied neither with the out-doors nor
the in-doors. Her sisters had gone to the city to show some country
visitors Independence Hall, Girard College and Fairmount Water Works
and Park, four objects which Americans cannot die peacefully, even in
Naples, without having seen. But Ruth confessed that she was tired of
them, and also of the Mint. She was tired of other things. She tried
this morning an air or two upon the piano, sang a simple song in a
sweet but slightly metallic voice, and then seating herself by the open
window, read Philip’s letter. Was she thinking about Philip, as she
gazed across the fresh lawn over the tree tops to the Chelton Hills, or
of that world which his entrance, into her tradition-bound life had been
one of the means of opening to her? Whatever she thought, she was not
idly musing, as one might see by the expression of her face. After a
time she took up a book; it was a medical work, and to all appearance
about as interesting to a girl of eighteen as the statutes at large; but
her face was soon aglow over its pages, and she was so absorbed in it
that she did not notice the entrance of her mother at the open door.
“Ruth?”
“Well, mother,” said the young student, looking up, with a shade of
impatience.
“I wanted to talk with thee a little about thy plans.”
“Mother; thee knows I couldn’t stand it at Westfield; the school stifled
me, it’s a place to turn young people into dried fruit.”
“I know,” said Margaret Bolton, with a half anxious smile, “thee chafes
against all the ways of Friends, but what will thee do? Why is thee so
discontented?”
“If I must say it, mother, I want to go away, and get out of this dead
level.”
With a look half of pain and half of pity, her mother answered, “I am
sure thee is little interfered with; thee dresses as thee will, and goes
where thee pleases, to any church thee likes, and thee has music. I had
a visit yesterday from the society’s committee by way of discipline,
because we have a piano in the house, which is against the rules.”
“I hope thee told the elders that father and I are responsible for the
piano, and that, much as thee loves music, thee is never in the room
when it is played. Fortunately father is already out of meeting, so
they can’t discipline him. I heard father tell cousin Abner that he was
whipped so often for whistling when he was a boy that he was determined
to have what compensation he could get now.”
“Thy ways greatly try me, Ruth, and all thy relations. I desire thy
happiness first of all, but thee is starting out on a dangerous path.
Is thy father willing thee should go away to a school of the world’s
people?”
“I have not asked him,” Ruth replied with a look that might imply that
she was one of those determined little bodies who first made up her
own mind and then compelled others to make up theirs in accordance with
hers.
“And when thee has got the education thee wants, and lost all relish for
the society of thy friends and the ways of thy ancestors, what then?”
Ruth turned square round to her mother, and with an impassive face and
not the slightest change of tone, said,
“Mother, I’m going to study medicine?”
Margaret Bolton almost lost for a moment her habitual placidity.
“Thee, study medicine! A slight frail girl like thee, study medicine!
Does thee think thee could stand it six months? And the lectures, and
the dissecting rooms, has thee thought of the dissecting rooms?”
“Mother,” said Ruth calmly, “I have thought it all over. I know I can go
through the whole, clinics, dissecting room and all. Does thee think I
lack nerve? What is there to fear in a person dead more than in a person
living?”
“But thy health and strength, child; thee can never stand the severe
application. And, besides, suppose thee does learn medicine?”
“I will practice it.”
“Here?”
“Here.”
“Where thee and thy family are known?”
“If I can get patients.”
“I hope at least, Ruth, thee will let us know when thee opens an
office,” said her mother, with an approach to sarcasm that she rarely
indulged in, as she rose and left the room.
Ruth sat quite still for a time, with face intent and flushed. It was
out now. She had begun her open battle.
The sight-seers returned in high spirits from the city. Was there any
building in Greece to compare with Girard College, was there ever such a
magnificent pile of stone devised for the shelter of poor orphans? Think
of the stone shingles of the roof eight inches thick! Ruth asked the
enthusiasts if they would like to live in such a sounding mausoleum,
with its great halls and echoing rooms, and no comfortable place in it
