"Yes, you did! I can prove it, and I will prove it, too."
"You are excited, Don John. You don't know what you are talking about."
"I think I do, and I'll bet you'll understand it, too, if there is any
law left in the State of Maine."
"What do you mean by that?"
"I mean what I say, and say what I mean."
"I haven't been near the Maud."
"Yes, you have! Didn't I see you sneaking across the wharf? Didn't I see
your mainsail alongside the pier? You can't humbug me. I know a pint of
soft soap from a pound of cheese," rattled Donald, who could talk very
fast when he was both excited and enraged; and Laud's tongue was no
match for his member.
"I tell you, I haven't been near the Maud."
"Don't tell me! I saw it all; I have two eyes that I wouldn't sell for
two cents apiece; and I'll put you over the road at a two-forty gait."
Laud saw that it was no use to argue the point, and he held his peace,
till the boat-builder had exhausted his rhetoric, and his stock of
expletives.
"What did you do it for, Laud?" asked he, at last, in a comparatively
quiet tone.
"I have told you a dozen times I didn't do it," replied the accused.
"You talk so fast I can't get a word in edgeways."
"It's no use for you to deny it," added Don John.
"Do you think I'd burn your yacht?"
"Yes, I do; and I know you tried to do it. If I hadn't been over by the
shop, you would have done it."
"I didn't do it, I repeat. Do you think I would lie about it? Do you
think I have no sense of honor about me!"
"Confound your honor!" sneered Donald.
"Don't insult me. When you assail my honor, you touch me in a tender
place."
"In a soft place, and that's in your head."
"Be careful, Don John. I advise you not to wake a sleeping lion."
"A sleeping jackass!"
"I claim to be a gentleman, and my honor is my capital stock in life."
"You have a very small capital to work on, then."
"I warn you to be cautious, Don John. My honor is all I have to rest
upon in this world."
"It's a broken reed. I wouldn't give a cent's worth of molasses candy
for the honor of a fellow who would destroy the property of another,
because he got mad with him."
In spite of his repeated warnings, Laud Cavendish was very forbearing,
though Donald kept the boat-hook where it would be serviceable in an
emergency.
"No, Don John, I did not set the Maud afire. Though you went back on me
this afternoon, and served me a mean and shabby trick, I wouldn't do
such a thing as burn your property."
"Who went back on you?" demanded Donald.
"You did; when you could have saved me from being driven out of the
garden, you took the trouble to say, you did not invite me," replied
Laud, reproachfully.
"I didn't invite you; and I had no right to invite you."
"No matter for that; if you had just said that your friend, Mr.
Cavendish, had come in with you it would have been all right."
"My friend, Mr. Cavendish!" repeated Donald, sarcastically. "I didn't
know I had any such friend."
"I didn't expect that of you, after what I had done for you, Don John."
"Spill her on that tack! You never did anything for me."
"I took that boat off your hands, and I suppose you got a commission for
selling her. Wasn't that doing something for you?"
"No!" protested Donald.
"I have always used you well, and done more for you than you know of.
You wouldn't have got the job to build the Maud if it hadn't been for
me. I spoke a good word for you to Mr. Rodman," whined Laud.
"You!" exclaimed Donald, disgusted with this ridiculous pretension. "If
you said anything to Mr. Rodman about it, I wonder he didn't give the
job to somebody else."
"You think I have no influence, but you are mistaken; and if you insist
on quarrelling with me, you will find out, when it is too late, what
folks think of me."
"They think you are a ninny; and when they know what you did to-night,
they will believe you are a knave," replied Donald. "You didn't cover
your tracks so that I couldn't find them; and I can prove all I say. I
didn't think you were such a rascal before."
"You won't make anything out of that sort of talk with me, Don John,"
said Laud, mildly. "You provoke me to throw you overboard, but I don't
want to hurt you."
"I'll risk your throwing me overboard. I can take care of myself."
"I said I didn't want to hurt you, and I don't. I didn't set your boat
afire; I wouldn't do such a thing."
"You can tell that to Squire Peters to-morrow."
"You don't mean to say that you will prosecute me, Don John?"
"Yes; I do mean it."
"I came down from the harbor, and tacked between those two wharves,"
explained Laud. "I was standing off on this tack when you bunted your
skiff into me. That's all I know about it."
"But I saw you on the wharf. No matter; we won't argue the case here,"
said Donald, as he made a movement to go into his skiff.
"Hold on, Don John. I want to talk with you a little."
"What about?"
"Two or three things. I am going off on a long cruise in a day or two. I
think I shall go as far as Portland, and try to get a situation in a
store there."
"I don't believe you will have a chance to go to Portland, or anywhere
else, unless it's Thomaston, where the state prison is located."
"I didn't think you would be so rough on me, Don John. I didn't set your
boat afire; but I can see that it may go hard with me, because I
happened to be near the wharf at the time."
"You will find that isn't the worst of it," added Donald.
"What is the worst of it?"
"Never mind; I'll tell Squire Peters to-morrow, when we come together."
"Don't go to law about it, Don John; for though I didn't do it, I don't
want to be hauled up for it. Even a suspicion is sometimes damaging to
the honor of a gentleman."
"You had better come down from that high horse, and own up that you set
the Maud afire."
"Will you agree not to prosecute, if I do?" asked Laud.
Donald, after his anger subsided, thought more about the "white cross of
Denmark" than he did about the fire; for the latter had done him no
damage, while the former might injure his character which he valued more
than his property.
"I will agree not to prosecute, if you will answer all my questions," he
replied; but I confess that it was an error on the part of the young
man.
Donald fastened the painter of his skiff at the stern, and took a seat
in the standing-room of the Juno.
"I will tell you all I know, if you will keep me out of the courts,"
added Laud, promptly.
"Why did you set the Maud afire?"
"Because I was mad, and meant to get even with you for what you did at
Rodman's this afternoon. You might do me a great service, Don John, if
you would. I like Nellie Patterdale; I mean, I'm in love with her. I
don't believe I can live without her."
"I'll bet you'll have to," interposed Donald, indignantly.
"You don't know what it is to love, Don John."
"I don't want to know yet awhile; and I think you had better live on a
different sort of grub. What a stupid idea, for a fellow like you to
think of such a girl as Nellie Patterdale!"
"Is it any worse for me to think of her, than it is for you to do so?"
asked Laud.
"I never thought of her in any such way as that. We went to school
together, and have always been good friends; that's all."
"That's enough," sighed Laud. "I actually suffer for her sake. If the
quest were hopeless," Laud read novels--"I think I should drown myself."
"You had better do it right off, then," added Donald.
"You can pity me, Don John, for I am miserable. Day and night I think
only of her. My feelings have made me almost crazy, and I hardly knew
what I was about when I applied the incendiary torch to the Maud."
"I thought it was a card of friction matches."
"The world will laugh and jeer at me for loving one above my station;
but love makes us equals."
"Perhaps it does when the love is on both sides," added the practical
boat-builder.
"But I think I am fitted to adorn a higher station than that in which I
was born."
"If so, you will rise like a stick of timber forced under the water; but
it strikes me that you have begun in the wrong way to figure for a
rise."
"But I wish to rise only for Nellie's sake. You can help me, Don John;
you can take me into her presence, where I can have the opportunity to
win her affection."
"I guess not, Laud. Shall I tell you what she said to me this
afternoon?"
"Tell me all."
"She said you were an impudent puppy, and she was sorry I invited you."
"Did she say that?" asked Laud, looking up to the cold, pale moon.
"She did; and I was obliged to tell her that I didn't invite you."
"Perhaps I have been a fool," mused the lover.
"There's no doubt of it. Nellie Patterdale dislikes, and even despises
you. I have heard her say as much, in so many words. That ought to
comfort you, and convince you that it is no use to fish any longer in
those waters."
"Possibly you are right; but it is only because she does not know me. If
she only knew me better--"
"She would dislike and despise you still more," said Donald, sharply.
"If she only knew that you set the Maud afire, she would love you as a
homeless dog likes the brickbats that are thrown at him."
"You will not tell her that, Don John?"
"I will not tell her, or any one else, if you behave yourself. Now I
want to ask some more questions."
"Go on, Don John."
"Where did you get the money you paid for the Juno?" demanded Donald,
with energy.
"Where did I get it?" repeated Laud, evidently startled by the question,
so vigorously put. "I told you where I got it."
"Tell me again."
"Captain Shivernock gave it to me."
"What for?"
"I can't tell you that."
"Why not?"
"Because it is a matter between the captain and me."
"I don't care if it is. You said you would answer all my questions, if I
would not prosecute."
"Questions about the Maud," explained Laud. "I have told you the secret
of my love--"
"Hang the secret of your love!" exclaimed Donald, disgusted with that
topic. "I meant all questions."
"But I cannot betray the secrets of Captain Shivernock. My honor--"
"Stick your honor up chimney!" interrupted Donald. "If you go back on
the agreement, I shall take the fire before Squire Peters. The question
I asked was, why Captain Shivernock gave you four or five hundred
dollars?"
"I wish I could answer you, Don John; but I do not feel at liberty to do
so just now. I will see the captain, and perhaps I may honorably give
you the information you seek."
"You needn't mince the matter with me. I know all about it now; but I
want it from you."
"All about what?" asked Laud.
"You needn't look green about it. Do you remember the Saturday when I
told you the Juno was for sale?"
"I do, very distinctly," answered Laud. "You were in the Juno at the
time."
"I was; we parted company, and you stood over towards the Northport
shore."
"Just so."
"Over there you met Captain Shivernock."
"I didn't say I did."
"But I say you did," persisted Donald. "For some reason best known to
himself, the captain did not want any one to know he was on Long Island
that night."
Laud listened with intense interest.
"Do you know what his reason was, Don John?"
"No, I don't. You saw his boat, and overhauled him near the shore."
"Well?"
"You overhauled him near the shore, and he gave you a pile of money not
to say that you had seen him."
"It is you who says all this, and not I," added Laud, with more spirit
than he had before exhibited. "My honor is not touched."
"I wish you wouldn't say anything more about your honor. It is like a
mustard seed in a haymow, and I can't see it," snapped Donald.
"You can see that I came honorably by the money."
"Honestly by it; I am satisfied on that point," replied Donald. "If I
had not been, I wouldn't have sold you the boat. You see I knew
something of Captain Shivernock's movements about that time. If I
hadn't, I wouldn't have believed that he gave it to you."
"Then you must have seen the captain at the same time."
"I didn't say I saw him," laughed Donald. "But the wind is breezing up,
and we are half way over to Brigadier Island. Come about, Laud."
The skipper acceded to the request, and headed the Juno for Belfast.
CHAPTER XIV.
CAPTAIN SHIVERNOCK'S JOKE.
Donald considered himself shrewd, sharp, and smart, because he had
induced Laud virtually to own that Captain Shivernock had given him the
money to purchase his silence, but Donald was not half so shrewd, sharp,
and smart as he thought he was.
"Mr. Cavendish, it's no use for us to mince this matter," he continued,
determined further to draw out his companion, and feeling happy now, he
was very respectful to him.
"Perhaps not, Don John."
"It can do no harm for you and me to talk over this matter. You saw
Captain Shivernock on that Saturday morning--didn't you?"
"Of course, if I say I did, you will not let on about it--will you?"
"Not if I can help it; for the fact is, I am in the same boat with
you."
"Then you saw the captain."
"Of course I did."
"But what was he doing down there, that made him so particular to keep
shady about it?"
"I haven't the least idea. It was the morning after Hasbrook was pounded
to a jelly in his own house; but I am satisfied that the captain had
nothing to do with it."
"I am not so sure of that," added Laud.
"I am. I went to the captain's house before he returned that day, and
both Sykes and his wife told me he had left home at four o'clock that
morning, and this was after the pounding was done. Besides, the captain
was over on Long Island when I saw him. If he had done the deed, he
would have got home before daylight, for the wind was fresh and fair.
Instead of that, he was over at Turtle Head when I first saw him. The
Juno got aground with him near Seal Harbor, which made him so mad he
would not keep her any longer. He was mad because she wasn't a
centre-boarder. I suppose after we parted he went over to the
Lincolnville or Northport Shore, and hid till after dark in Spruce
Harbor, Saturday Cove, or some such place. At any rate, I was at his
house in the evening, when he came home."
"The old fellow had been up to some trick, you may depend upon it,"
added Laud, sagely.
"I came to the conclusion that his desire to keep dark was only a whim,
for he is the strangest man that ever walked the earth."
"That's so; but why should he give me such a pile if he hadn't been up
to something?"
"And me another pile," added Donald. "We can talk this thing over
between ourselves, but not a word to any other person."
"Certainly; I understand. I am paid for holding my tongue, and I intend
to do so honorably."
"So do I, until I learn that there is something wrong."
"You have told me some things I did not know before, Don John,"
suggested Laud.
"You knew that the captain was down by Long Island."
"Yes, but I didn't know he was at Turtle Head; and I am satisfied now
that he is the man that shook up Hasbrook that night," continued Laud,
in meditative mood.
"Are you? Then I will let the whole thing out," exclaimed Donald.
"No, no! don't do that!" protested Laud. "That wouldn't be fair, at
all."
"I would not be a party to the concealment of such an outrage."
"You don't understand it. Hasbrook is a regular swindler."
"That is no reason why he should be pounded half to death in the middle
of the night."
"He borrowed a thousand dollars of Captain Shivernock a short time
before the outrage. The captain told him he would lend him the money if
Hasbrook would give him a good indorser on the paper. After the captain
had parted with the money, he ascertained that the indorser was not
worth a dollar. Hasbrook had told him the name was that of a rich
farmer, and of course the captain was mad. He tried to get back his
money, for he knew Hasbrook never paid anything if he could help it.
Here is the motive for the outrage," reasoned Laud.
"Why didn't he prosecute him for swindling? for that's what it was."
"Captain Shivernock says he won't trouble any courts to fight his
battles for him; he can fight them himself."
"It was wrong to pound any man as Hasbrook was. Why, he wasn't able to
go out of the house for a month," added Donald, who was clearly opposed
to Lynch law.
Donald was somewhat staggered in his belief by the evidence of his
companion, but he determined to inquire further into the matter, and
even hoped now that Hasbrook would call upon him.
"One more question, Laud. Do you know where Captain Shivernock got the
bills he paid you, and you paid me?" asked he.
"Of course I don't. How should I know where the captain gets his money?"
replied Laud, in rather shaky tones.
"True; I didn't much think you would know."
"What odds does it make where he got the bills?" asked Laud, faintly.
"It makes a heap of odds."
"I don't see why."
"I'll tell you why. I paid three of those bills to Mr. Leach to-night
for the Maud's suit of sails. One of them was a mended bill."
"Yes, I remember that one, for I noticed it after the captain gave me
the money," added Laud.
"Mr. Leach paid that bill to Captain Patterdale."
"To Captain Patterdale!" exclaimed Laud, springing to his feet.
"What odds does it make to you whom he paid it to?" asked Donald,
astonished at this sudden demonstration.
"None at all," replied Laud, recovering his self-possession.
"What made you jump so, then?"
"A mosquito bit me," laughed Laud. But it was a graveyard laugh. "Leach
paid the bill to Captain Patterdale--you say?"
"Yes, and Captain Patterdale says there is something wrong about the
bill," continued Donald, who was far from satisfied with the explanation
of his companion.
"What was the matter? Wasn't the bill good?" inquired Laud.
"Yes, the bill was good; but something was wrong, he didn't tell me
what."
"That was an odd way to leave it. Why didn't he tell you what was
wrong?"
"I don't know. I suppose he knows what he is about, but I don't."
"I should like to know what was wrong about this bill. It has passed
through my hands, and it may affect my honor in some way," mused Laud.
"You had better have your honor insured, for it will get burned up one
of these days," added Donald, as he rose from his seat, and hauled in
his skiff, which was towing astern.
He stepped into the boat, and tossed Laud's basket to him.
"Here is your basket, Laud," added he. "It was my evidence against you;
and next time, when you want to burn a yacht, don't leave it on her
deck."
"You will keep shady--won't you, Don John?" he pleaded.
"That will depend upon what you say and do," answered Donald, as he
shoved off, and sculled to the wharf where the Maud lay, to assure
himself that she was in no danger.
He was not quite satisfied to trust her alone all night, and he decided
to sleep in her cabin. He went to the house, and told Barbara he was
afraid some accident might happen to the yacht, and with the lantern and
some bed-clothes, he returned to her. He swept up the half-burned
shavings, and threw them overboard. There was not a vestige of the fire
left, and he swabbed up the water with a sponge. Making his bed on the
transom, he lay down to think over the events of the evening. He went
to sleep after a while, and we will leave him in this oblivious
condition while we follow Laud Cavendish, who, it cannot be denied, was
in a most unhappy frame of mind. He ran the Juno up to her moorings, and
after he had secured her sail, and locked up the cabin door, he went on
shore. Undoubtedly he had done an immense amount of heavy thinking
within the last two hours, and as he was not overstocked with brains, it
wore upon him.
It was nearly ten o'clock in the evening, but late as it was, Laud
walked directly to the house of Captain Shivernock. There was a light in
the strange man's library, or office, and another in the dining-room,
where the housekeeper usually sat, which indicated that the family had
not retired. Laud walked up to the side door, and rang the bell, which
was promptly answered by Mrs. Sykes.
"Is Captain Shivernock at home?" asked the late visitor.
"He is; but he don't see anybody so late as this," replied the
housekeeper.
"I wish to speak to him on very important business, and it is absolutely
necessary that I should see him to-night," persisted Laud.
"I will tell him."
Mrs. Sykes did tell him, and the strange man swore he would not see any
one, not even his grandmother, come down from heaven. She reported this
answer in substance to Laud.
"I wish to see him on a matter in which he is deeply concerned," said
the troubled visitor. "Tell him, if you please, in regard to the
Hasbrook affair."
Perhaps Mrs. Sykes knew something about the Hasbrook affair herself, for
she promptly consented to make this second application for the admission
of the stranger, for such he was to her.
She returned in a few moments with an invitation to enter, and so it
appeared that there was some power in the "Hasbrook affair." Laud was
conducted to the library,--as the retired shipmaster chose to call the
apartment, though there were not a dozen books in it,--where the captain
sat in a large rocking-chair, with his feet on the table.
"Who are you?" demanded the strange man; and we are obliged to modify
his phraseology in order to make it admissible to our pages.
"Mr. Laud Cavendish, at your service," replied he, politely.
"Mister Laud Cavendish!" repeated the captain, with a palpable sneer;
"you are the swell that used to drive the grocery wagon."
"I was formerly employed at Miller's store, but I am not there now."
"Well, what do you want here?"
"I wish to see you, sir."
"You do see me--don't you?" growled the eccentric. "What's your
business?"
"On the morning after the Hasbrook outrage, Captain Shivernock, you were
seen at Seal Harbor," said Laud.
"Who says I was?" roared the captain, springing to his feet.
"I beg your pardon sir; but I say so," answered Laud, apparently unmoved
by the violence of his auditor. "You were in the boat formerly owned by
Mr. Ramsay, and you ran over towards the Northport shore."
"Did you see me?"
"I did," replied Laud.
"And you have come to levy black-mail upon me," added the captain, with
a withering stare at his visitor.
"Nothing of the sort, sir. I claim to be a gentleman."
"O, you do!"
Captain Shivernock laughed heartily.
"I do, sir. I am not capable of anything derogatory to the character of
a gentleman."
"Bugs and brickbats!" roared the strange man, with another outburst of
laughter. "You are a gentleman! That's good! And you won't do anything
derogatory to the character of a gentleman. That's good, too!"
"I trust I have the instincts of a gentleman," added Laud, smoothing
down his jet mustache.
"I trust you have; but what do you want of me, if you have the instincts
of a gentleman, and don't bleed men with money when you think you have
them on the hip?"
"If you will honor me with your attention a few moments, I will inform
you what I want of you."
"Good again!" chuckled the captain. "I will honor you with my attention.
You have got cheek enough to fit out a life insurance agency."
"I am not the only one who saw you that Saturday morning," said Laud.
"Who else saw me?"
"Don John."
"How do you know he did?"
"He told mo so."
"The young hypocrite!" exclaimed the strange man, with an oath. "I made
it a rule years ago never to trust a man or a boy who has much to do
with churches and Sunday Schools. The little snivelling puppy! And he
has gone back on me."
"It is only necessary for me to state facts," answered Laud. "You can
form your own conclusions, without any help from me."
"Perhaps I can," added Captain Shivernock, who seemed to be in an
unusual humor on this occasion, for the pretentious manners of his
visitor appeared to amuse rather than irritate him.
"Again, sir, Jacob Hasbrook, of Lincolnville, believes you are the man
who pounded him to a jelly that night," continued Laud.
"Does he?" laughed the captain. "Well, that is a good joke; but I want
to say that I respect the man who did it, whoever he is."
"Self-respect is a gentlemanly quality. The man who don't respect
himself will not be respected by others," said Laud, stroking his chin.
"Eh?"
Laud confidently repeated the proposition.
"You respect yourself, and of course you respect the man that pounded
Hasbrook," he added.
"Do you mean to say I flogged Hasbrook?" demanded the strange man,
doubling his fist, and shaking it savagely in Laud's face.
"It isn't for me to say that you did, for you know better than I do; but
you will pardon me if I say that the evidence points in this direction.
Hasbrook has been over to Belfast several times to work up his case. The
last time I saw him he was looking for Don John, who, I am afraid, is
rather leaky."
In spite of his bluff manners, Laud saw that the captain was not a
little startled by the information just imparted.
"The miserable little psalm-singer," growled the strange man, walking
the room, muttering to himself. "If he disobeys my orders, I'll thrash
him worse than--Hasbrook was thrashed."
"It is unpleasant to be suspected of a crime, and revolting to the
instincts of a gentleman," added Laud.
"Do you mean to say that I am suspected of a crime, you long-eared
puppy?" yelled the captain.
"I beg your pardon, Captain Shivernock, but it isn't agreeable to a
gentleman to be called by such opprobrious names," said Laud, rising
from his chair, and taking his round-top hat from the table. "I am
willing to leave you, but not to be insulted."
Laud looked like the very impersonation of dignity itself, as he walked
towards the door.
"Stop!" yelled the captain.
"I do not know that any one but Hasbrook suspects you of a crime," Laud
explained.
"I'm glad he does suspect me," added the strange man, more gently.
"Whoever did that job served him just right, and I envy the man that did
it."
"Still, it is unpleasant to be suspected of a crime."
"It wasn't a crime."
"People call it so; but I sympathize with you, for like you I am
suspected of a crime, of which, like yourself, I am innocent."
"Are you, indeed? And what may your crime be, Mr. Cavendish?"
"It is in this connection that I wish to state my particular business
with you."
"Go on and state it, and don't be all night about it."
"I may add that I also came to warn you against the movements of
Hasbrook. I will begin at the beginning."
"Begin, then; and don't go round Cape Horn in doing it," snarled the
captain.
"I will, sir. Captain Patterdale--"
"Another miserable psalm-singer. Is he in the scrape?"
"He is, sir. He has lost a tin box, which contained nearly fourteen
hundred dollars in cash, besides many valuable papers."
"I'm glad of it; and I hope he never will find it," was the kindly
expression of the eccentric nabob for the Christian nabob. "Was the box
lost or stolen?"
"Stolen, sir."
"So much the better. I hope the thief will never be discovered."
Laud did not say how he happened to know that the tin box had been
stolen, for Captain Patterdale, the deputy sheriff, and Nellie were
supposed to be the only persons who had any knowledge of the fact.
"It appears that in this tin box there was a certain fifty-dollar bill,
which had been torn into four parts, and mended by pasting two strips of
paper upon it, one extending from right to left, and the other from top
to bottom, on the back."
"Eh?" interposed the wicked nabob. "Wait a minute."
The captain opened an iron safe in the room, and from a drawer took out
a handful of bank bills. From these he selected three, and tossed them
on the table.
"Like those?" he inquired, with interest.
"Exactly like them," replied Laud, astonished to find that each was the
counterpart of the one he had paid Donald for the Juno, and had the
"white cross of Denmark" upon it.
"Do you know how those bills happened to be in that condition, Mr.
Cavendish?" chuckled the captain.
"Of course I do not, sir."
"I'll tell you, my gay buffer. I have got a weak, soft place somewhere
in my gizzard; I don't know where; if I did, I'd cut it out. About three
months ago, just after I brought from Portland one hundred of these new
fifty-dollar bills, there was a great cry here for money for some
missionary concern. I read something in the newspaper, at this time,
about what some of the missionaries had done for a lot of sailors who
had been cast away on the South Sea Islands. I thought more of the
psalm-singers than ever before, and I was tempted to do something for
them. Well, I actually wrote to some parson here who was howling for
money, and stuck four of those bills between the leaves. I think it is
very likely I should have sent them to the parson, if I hadn't been
called out of the room. I threw the note, with the bills in it, on the
table, and went out to see a pair of horses a jockey had driven into the
yard for me to look at. When I came back and glanced at the note, I
thought what a fool I had been, to think of giving money to those
canting psalm-singers. I was mad with myself for my folly, and I tore
the note into four pieces before I thought that the bills were in it.
But Mrs. Sykes mended them as you see. Go on with your yarn, my buffer."
"That bill I paid to Don John for the Juno," continued Laud. "He paid it
to Mr. Leach, the sail-maker, who paid it to Captain Patterdale, and he
says it was one of the bills in the tin chest when it was stolen. Don
John says he had it from me."
"Precisely so; and that is what makes it unpleasant to be suspected of a
crime," laughed Captain Shivernock. "But you don't state where you got
the bill, Mr. Cavendish. Perhaps you don't wish to tell."
"I shall tell the whole story with the greatest pleasure," added Laud.
"I was sailing one day down by Haddock Ledge, when I saw a man tumble
overboard from a boat moored where he had been fishing. He was staving
drunk, and went forward, as I thought, to get up his anchor. The boat
rolled in the sea, and over he went. I got him out. The cold water
sobered him in a measure, and he was very grateful to me. He went to his
coat, which he did not wear when he fell, and took from his pocket a
roll of bills. He counted off ten fifties, and gave them to me. Feeling
sure that I had saved his life, I did not think five hundred dollars was
any too much to pay for it, and I took the money. I don't think he would
have given me so much if he hadn't been drunk. I asked him who he was,
but he would not tell me, saying he didn't want his friends in Boston
to know he had been over the bay, and in the bay; but he said he had
been staying in Belfast a couple of days."
"Good story!" laughed the wicked nabob.
"Every word of it is as true as preaching," protested Laud.
"Just about," added the captain, who hadn't much confidence in
preaching.
"You can see, Captain Shivernock, that I am in an awkward position,"
added Laud. "I have no doubt the man I saved was the one who stole the
tin box. He paid me with the stolen bills."
"It is awkward, as you say," chuckled the strange man. "I suppose you
wouldn't know the fellow you saved if you saw him."
"O, yes, I think I should," exclaimed Laud. "But suppose, when Captain
Patterdale comes to me to inquire where I got the marked bill, I should
tell him this story. He wouldn't believe a word of it."
"He would be a fool if he did," exclaimed Captain Shivernock, with a
coarse grin. "Therefore, my gay buffer, don't tell it to him."
"But I must tell him where I got the bill," pleaded Laud.
"Ha, ha, ha!" laughed the eccentric, shaking his sides as though they
were agitated by a young earthquake. "Tell him I gave you the bill!"
The captain seemed to be intensely amused at the novel idea; and Laud
did not object; on the contrary, he seemed to appreciate the joke. It
was midnight when he left the house, and went to the Juno to sleep in
her cabin. If he had gone home earlier in the evening, he might have
seen Captain Patterdale, who did him the honor to make a late call upon
him.
CHAPTER XV.
LAUD CAVENDISH TAKES CARE OF HIMSELF.
Donald did not sleep very well in the cabin of the Maud, not only
because his bed was very hard and uncomfortable, but because he was
troubled; and before morning he fully realized the truth of the saying,
in regard to certain persons, that "they choose darkness, because their
deeds are evil." He wished he had not consented to keep the secret of
either Captain Shivernock or Laud Cavendish, and was afraid he had
compromised himself by his silence. When he turned out in the morning,
he believed he had hardly slept a wink all night, though he had actually
slumbered over six hours; but a person who lies awake in the darkness,
especially if his thoughts are troublesome, lengthens minutes into
hours. But Donald welcomed the morning light when he awoke, and the
bright sun which streamed through the trunk ports. He went to the shop,
and for two hours before his men arrived worked on the tender of the
Maud.
The mast of the yacht was stepped during the forenoon, and after dinner
the rigger came to do his part of the work. Samuel Rodman was now so
much interested in the progress of the labor on the new yacht, that he
spent nearly all his time on board of her. The top mast, gaff, and boom
were all ready to go into their places, and the Maud looked as though
she was nearly completed. All the members of the Yacht Club were
impatient for her to be finished, for the next regatta had been
postponed a week, so that the Maud could take part in the affair; and
the club were to go on a cruise for ten days, after the race.
There was no little excitement in the club in relation to the Maud.
Donald had confidently asserted his belief, weeks before, that she would
outsail the Skylark, not as a mere boast, but as a matter of business.
His father had made an improvement upon the model of the Sea Foam, which
he was reasonably certain would give her the advantage. The young
boat-builder had also remedied a slight defect in the arrangement of
the centre-board in the Maud, had added a little to the size of the jib
and mainsail, and he hoped these alterations would tell in favor of the
new craft, while they would not take anything from her stiffness in
heavy weather.
"I believe the old folks are as much interested in the next race as the
members of the club, Don John," said Rodman, one day, as he came upon
the wharf.
"I am glad they are," replied Donald, laughing. "It will make business
good for Ramsay & Son."
"Half a dozen of them are going to make up a first prize of one hundred
dollars for the regatta; so that the winner of the race will make a good
thing by it," added Rodman.
"That will be a handsome prize."
"If the Maud takes it, Don John, the money shall be yours, as you are to
sail her."
"O, no!" exclaimed Donald. "I don't believe in that. The prize will
belong to the boat."
"If you win the race in the Maud, I shall be satisfied with the glory,
without any of the spoils."
"Well, we won't quarrel about it now, for she may not win the first
prize."
"Well, the same gentlemen will give a second prize of fifty dollars,"
continued Rodman. "But don't you expect to get the first prize, Don
John?"
"I do; but to expect is not always to win, you know."
"You have always talked as though you felt pretty sure of coming in
first," said Rodman, who did not like to see any abatement of confidence
on the part of the boat-builder.
"It is the easiest thing in the world to be mistaken, Sam. If the Maud
loses the first prize, I may as well shut up shop, and take a situation
in a grocery store, for my business would be ruined."
"Not quite so bad as that, I hope," added Rodman.
"Mr. Norwood is waiting to see how she sails, before he orders a yacht
for Frank. Can't you invite Frank and his father to sail with us in the
race?"
"Certainly, if you desire it, Don John," replied Rodman. "Mr. Norwood is
a big man, and he will be a capital live weight for us, if it happens to
blow fresh."
"I hope it will blow; if it don't, the Christabel is sure of the first
prize. I want just such a day as we had when the Sea Foam cleaned out
the Skylark."
"That was a little too much of a good thing. You came pretty near taking
the mast out of the Sea Foam that day."
"Not at all; our masts don't come out so easily as that, though I think
the mast of the Sea Foam would snap before she would capsize."
"I like that in a boat; it is a good thing to have a craft that will
stay right side up. The fellows have got another idea, Don John."
"Well, ideas are good things to have. What is it now?" asked Donald.
"They are going to build a club-house over on Turtle Head."
"On Turtle Head! Why don't they have it down on Manhegan?" which is an
island ten miles from the coast of Maine.
"It will be only a shanty, where the fellows can have a good time, and
get up chowders. They talk of hiring a hall in the city, and having
meetings for mutual improvement during the fall and winter."
"That will be a capital idea."
"We can have a library of books on nautical and other subjects, take the
newspapers and magazines, and hang up pictures of yachts and other
vessels on the walls. I hope, when you get the Maud done, you will not
be so busy, Don John, for you don't attend many of our club meetings."
"I hope to be busier than ever. You see, Sam, I can't afford to run with
you rich fellows. I don't wear kid gloves," laughed Donald.
"No matter if you don't; you are just as good a fellow as any of them."
"Everybody uses me first rate; as well as though my father had been a
nabob."
"Well, they ought to; for it is brains, not money, that makes the man.
We want to see more of you in the club. You must go with us on our long
cruise."
"I am afraid I can't spare the time. Ten days is a good while; but it
will depend upon whether I get the job to build Mr. Norwood's yacht."
Donald would gladly have spent more time with the club, but his
conscience would not permit him to neglect his business. He felt that
his success depended entirely upon his own industry and diligence; and
he never left his work, except when the occasion fully justified him in
doing so. He attended all the regattas as a matter of business, as well
as of pleasure; and he had seen the Sea Foam beaten twice by the
Skylark since he won the memorable race in the former. Edward Patterdale
was fully satisfied, now, that a skilful boatman was as necessary as a
fast boat, in order to win the honors of the club, and he wished Donald
to "coach" him, until he obtained the skill to compete with the
commodore. Donald had promised to do it, as soon as he had time, and the
owner of the Sea Foam hoped the opportunity would be afforded during the
long cruise.
The work on the Maud was hurried forward as rapidly as was consistent
with thoroughness, and in a few days she was ready for the last coats of
paint. The boat-builder was favored with good, dry weather, and on the
day before the great regatta, she was ready to receive her furniture and
stores. The paint was dry and hard; but when the stove-dealer came with
the little galley for the cook-room, the deck was carefully covered with
old cloths, the cushions were placed on the transoms, the oil-cloth
carpet was laid on the floor by Kennedy, who was experienced in this
kind of work, and Samuel Rodman was as busy as a bee arranging the
crockery ware and stores which he had purchased. It only remained to
bend on the sails, which was accomplished early in the afternoon.
With Mr. Rodman, Samuel, and the two workmen on board, Donald made a
trial trip in the new craft. The party went down the bay as far as Seal
Harbor; but the wind was rather light for her, and she had no
opportunity to show her sailing qualities, though with her gaff-topsail
and the balloon-jib, she walked by everything afloat that day.
"I am entirely satisfied with her, Don John," said Mr. Rodman, as the
Maud approached the city on her return. "I think she will sail well."
"I hope she will, sir," replied Donald. "To-morrow will prove what there
is in her."
"She is well built and handsomely finished, and whether she wins the
race or not I shall be satisfied. I never looked upon a handsomer yacht
in my life. You have done your work admirably, Don John."
"Mr. Kennedy did the joiner work," said Donald, willing to have his
foreman, as he called him, share the honors of the day.
"He did it well."
"I only did just what my boss ordered me to do," laughed Kennedy; "and
I want to say, that I didn't do the first thing towards planning any
part of her. Don John hasn't often asked for any advice from me. He is
entitled to all the credit."
"I have no doubt you did all you could to make the job a success," added
Mr. Rodman.
"I did; and so did Walker," said Kennedy, indicating the other ship
carpenter. "Both of us did our very best, never idling a moment, or
making a bad joint; and I can say, there isn't a better built craft in
the United States than this yacht. Not a knot or a speck of rot has been
put into her. Everything has been done upon honor, and she will be stiff
enough to cross the Atlantic in mid-winter. I'd rather be in her than in
many a ship I've worked on."
"I'm glad to know all this," replied Mr. Rodman. "Now, Don John, if the
firm of Ramsay & Son is ready to deliver the Maud, I will give you a
check for the balance due on her."
Donald was all ready, and after the yacht had been moored off the wharf
where she had been completed, the business was transacted in the shop. A
bill of sale was given, and the boat-builder received a check for four
hundred dollars, which he carried into the house and showed to his
mother. Of course the good lady was delighted with the success of her
son, and Barbara laughed till she shook her curls into a fearful snarl.
"You have done well, Donald," said Mrs. Ramsay. "I thank God that you
have been so successful."
"I have paid nearly all my bills, and I shall make about two hundred and
fifty dollars on the job," added the young boat-builder. "I think I can
build the next one for less money."
"You may not get another one to build, my son."
"That depends upon the race to-morrow. If I beat the Skylark, I'm sure
of one."
"Don't be too confident."
"I am to sail the Maud to-morrow, and if there is any speed in her, as I
think there is, I shall get it out of her. To-morrow will be a big day
for me; but if I lose the race, the firm of Ramsay & Son is used up."
Donald put the check in his wallet, and went out to the shop again,
where he found Samuel Rodman looking for him. The owner of the Maud was
so delighted with the craft, that he could not keep away from her, and
he wanted to go on board again.
"Bob Montague is going to give you a hard pull to-morrow, Don John,"
said Rodman, as they got into the tender.
"I hope he will do his best; and the harder the pull, the better,"
replied Donald.
"If we only beat him," suggested Rodman.
"I expect to beat him; but I may be mistaken."
"Bob hauled up the Skylark on the beach this afternoon, and rubbed her
bottom with black lead."
"I am glad to hear it."
"Glad? Why?"
"It proves that he means business."
"Of course he means business."
"I wonder if he knows I am to build a yacht for Mr. Norwood, in case I
win this race."
"I don't believe he does. I never heard of it till you told me."
"He is such a splendid fellow, that I was afraid he would let me beat
him, if he knew I was to make anything by it."
"I think it very likely he would."
"But I want to beat the Skylark fairly, or not at all."
"There comes Laud Cavendish," said Rodman, as the Juno came up the bay,
and bore down upon the Maud. "He was blackballed in the club the other
day, and he don't feel good. Let's go ashore again, and wait till he
sheers off, for I don't want to see him. He will be sure to go on board
of the yacht if we are there, for he is always poking his nose in where
he is not wanted."
Donald, who was at the oars, pulled back to the shore. The Juno ran
close up to the Maud, tacked, and stood up the bay.
"He is gone," said Rodman. "I don't want him asking me why he was
blackballed. He is an intolerable spoony."
"Don John!" called some one, as he was shoving off the tender.
Donald looked up, and saw Mr. Beardsley, the deputy sheriff, who had
been working up the tin box case with Captain Patterdale.
"I want to see you," added the officer.
Donald wondered if Mr. Beardsley wanted to see him officially; but he
was thankful that he was able to look even a deputy sheriff square in
the face.
He jumped out of the tender, and Rodman went off to the yacht alone. We
are somewhat better informed than the young boat-builder in regard to
the visit of the sheriff, and we happen to know that he did come
officially; and in order to explain why it was so, it is necessary to go
back to the point where we left Mr. Laud Cavendish. He slept in the
cabin of the Juno after he left the house of Captain Shivernock. He did
not sleep any better than Donald Ramsay that night; and the long surges
rolled in by the paddle-wheels of the steamer Richmond, as she came into
the harbor early the next morning, awoke him.
The first thing he thought of was his visit to the house of the strange
man; the next was his breakfast, and he decided to go on shore, and get
the meal at a restaurant. The Juno was moored near the steamboat wharf,
where the Portland boat made her landings. This was a convenient place
for him to disembark, and he pulled in his tender to the pier. As he
approached the landing steps, he saw Captain Shivernock hastening down
the wharf with a valise in his hand. It was evident that he was going up
the river, perhaps to Bangor. Laud did not like the idea of the
captain's going away just at that time. Donald had told Captain
Patterdale that the mended bill came from him, and of course the owner
of the tin box would immediately come to him for further information.
"Then, if I tell him Captain Shivernock gave it to me, he will want to
see him; and he won't be here to be seen," reasoned Laud. "I can't
explain why the captain gave me the money, and in his absence I shall be
in a bad fix. I must take care of myself."
Laud went to the restaurant, and ate his breakfast; after which he
returned to the Juno. He took care of himself by getting under way, and
standing over towards Castine, where he dined that day. Then he
continued his voyage down the bay, through Edgemoggin Reach to Mount
Desert, where he staid several days, living upon "the fat of the land"
and the fish of the sea, which go well together. When he was confident
that Captain Shivernock had returned, he sailed for Belfast, and arrived
after a two days' voyage. The strange man had not come back, and Laud
thought it very singular that he had not. Then he began to wonder why
the captain had laughed so unreasonably long and loud when he told him
to say that he had given him the mended bill. Laud could not see the
joke at the time; but now he concluded that the laugh came in because
he was going away on a long journey, and would not be in town to answer
any questions which Captain Patterdale might propose.
Mr. Cavendish was disturbed, and felt that he was a victim of a
practical joke, and he determined to get out of the way again.
Unfortunately for him, he had shown himself in the city, and before he
could leave he was interviewed by Captain Patterdale and Mr. Beardsley.
The white cross of Denmark was pleasantly alluded to again by the
former, and exhibited to Laud. Did he know that bill? Had he ever seen
it before?
He did not know it; had never seen it.
It was no use to say, in the absence of that gentleman, that Captain
Shivernock had given him the bill. It would be equally foolish to tell
the Haddock Ledge story in the absence of the generous stranger, who had
declined to give his name, though he was kind enough to say that he had
spent a few days in Belfast. Since neither of these fictions was
available in the present emergency, Laud "went back" on Donald Ramsay.
He did not love the boat-builder, and so it was not a sacrifice of
personal feeling for him to do it. On the contrary, he would rather
like to get his "rival," as he chose to regard him, out of the way.
"But you paid him a considerable sum of money some two months ago,"
suggested Captain Patterdale.
"Not a red!" protested Laud. "I never paid him any money in my life."
"You bought the Juno of him."
"No, sir; nor of any one else. She don't belong to me."
"But you are using her all the time."
"Captain Shivernock got tired of her, and lets me have the use of her
for taking care of her."
"Didn't you say you owned her, and that you were going to change her
name from Juno to Nellie?" demanded the captain, sternly.
"I did; but that was all gas," replied Laud, with a sickly grin.
"If you would lie about one thing, perhaps you would about another,"
said the captain.
"I was only joking when I said I owned the Juno. If you will go up to
Captain Shivernock's house, he will tell you all about it."
That was a plain way to solve the problem, and they went to the strange
man's house. Laud knew the captain was not at home; but his persecutors
gave him the credit of suggesting this step. Sykes and his wife were at
home. They did not know whether or not Captain Shivernock had given Laud
the use of the Juno, but presumed he had, for the young man was in the
house with him half the night, about ten days before. Thus far
everything looked well for Laud; and the Sykeses partially confirmed his
statements.
"Now, Captain Patterdale, I have answered all your questions, and I wish
you would answer mine. What's the matter?" said Laud, putting on his
boldest face.
"Never mind what the matter is."
"Well, I know as well as you do. I used to think Don John was a good
fellow, and liked him first rate. I didn't think he would be mean,
enough to shove his own guilt upon me," replied Laud.
"What do you mean by that?" demanded Captain Patterdale.
"Though I knew about it all the time, I didn't mean to say a word."
"About what?"
"About your tin trunk. We didn't keep any such in our store! I knew what
you meant all the time; but I didn't let on that Don John had done it."
"Done what?"
"Stolen it. That day I was in the library with Don John and Hasbrook, I
was discharged from Miller's, because I wanted to go away to stay over
Sunday. I had a boat down by Ramsay's shop, and I went there to get off.
Well, captain, I saw Don John have the same tin trunk I saw in your
library."
"Are you telling the truth?"
"Of course I am. I wouldn't go back on Don John if he hadn't tried to
lay it to me. If you search his house and shop, I'll bet you'll find the
tin trunk, or some of the money and papers."
Captain Patterdale was intensely grieved, even to believe Laud's
statement was possibly true; but he decided to have the boat-builder's
premises searched before he proceeded any further against Laud. Mr.
Beardsley was to do this unpleasant duty, and for this purpose he called
on Donald the night before the great race.
The deputy sheriff did his work thoroughly, in spite of the confidence
of Donald and the distress of his mother and sister. Perhaps he would
not have discovered the four fifty-dollar bills concealed in the bureau
if Donald had not assisted him; but he had no help in finding a lot of
notes and other papers hidden under a sill in the shop. The boat-builder
protested that he knew nothing about these papers, and had never seen
them before in his life.
Mrs. Ramsay and Barbara wept as though their hearts would break; but
Donald was led away by the sheriff.
That night Captain Shivernock returned by the train from Portland.
CHAPTER XVI.
SATURDAY COVE.
Mr. Beardsley, the deputy sheriff, conducted Donald to the elegant
mansion of Captain Patterdale. Perhaps no one who saw them walking
together suspected that the boat-builder was charged with so gross a
crime as stealing the tin box and its valuable contents. Some persons do
not like to walk through the streets with sheriffs and policemen; but
Donald was not of that sort, for in spite of all the evidence brought
against him, he obstinately refused to believe that he was guilty. Even
the fact that several notes and other papers had been found in the shop
did not impair his belief in his own innocence. Captain Patterdale was
in his library nervously awaiting the return of the officer, when they
arrived.
"Don John, I hope you will come out of this all right," said he, as they
entered.
"I have no doubt I shall, sir," replied Donald. "If I don't, it will be
because I can't prove what is the truth."
Mr. Beardsley reported the result of the search, and handed the captain
the four fifty-dollar bills with the papers.
"I have no doubt all these were in the tin box," said the nabob, sadly.
"The bills are like those paid me by Hasbrook, and these notes are
certainly mine. I don't ask you to commit yourself, Don John, but--"
"Commit myself!" exclaimed Donald, with a look of contempt, which, in
this connection, was sublime. "I mean to speak the truth, whether I am
committed or not."
"Perhaps you will be able to clear this thing up," added Captain
Patterdale. "I wish to ask you a few questions."
"I will answer them truly. The only wrong I have done was to conceal
what I thought there was no harm in concealing."
"It is not wise to do things in the dark."
"You will excuse me, sir, but you have done the same thing. If I had
known that your tin box was stolen, I should have understood several
things which are plain to me now."
"What, for instance?"
"If I had known it, I should have brought these bills to you as soon as
Laud paid them to me, to see if they belonged to you. And I should have
known why Laud was digging clams on Turtle Head."
"Laud says he paid you no money."
"He paid me three hundred and fifty dollars for the Juno--these four
bills and the three I paid Mr. Leach."
"He persists that he don't own the Juno, and says that Captain
Shivernock lets him have the use of her for taking care of her,"
continued the nabob.
Donald's face, which had thus far been clouded with anxiety, suddenly
lighted up with a cheerful smile, as he produced the cover of an old
tuck-diary, which contained the papers of Ramsay & Son. He opened it,
and took therefrom the bill of sale of the Juno, in the well-known
writing of Captain Shivernock.
"Does that prove anything?" he asked, as he tossed the paper on the
desk, within reach of the inquisitor.
"It proves that Captain Shivernock sold the Juno to you, and
consequently he has not owned her since the date of this bill," replied
the nabob, as he read the paper.
"Is it likely, then, that Captain Shivernock lets Laud have the use of
her for taking care of her?" demanded Donald, warmly.
"Certainly not."
"Is it any more likely that, if I own the Juno, I should let Laud use
her for nothing, for he says he never paid me a dollar?"
"I don't think it is."
"Then you can believe as much as you please of the rest of Laud's story,
which Mr. Beardsley related to me as we walked up," added Donald.
"He says he saw you have the tin box, Don John."
"And I saw him digging clams in the loam on Turtle Head."
"What do you mean by that?"
"I think he buried the tin box there. I saw where he had been digging,
but I didn't know any tin box had been stolen then, and thought nothing
of it," answered Donald.
At this moment there was a tremendous ring at the door bell, a ring
that evidently "meant business." Captain Patterdale opened the door
himself, and Captain Shivernock stalked into the room as haughtily as
though he owned the elegant mansion. He had been to Newport and Cape May
to keep cool, and had arrived a couple of hours before from Portland.
Mrs. Sykes had told him all the news she could in this time, and among
other things informed him that Captain Patterdale and the deputy sheriff
had called to inquire whether Laud had the use of the boat for taking
care of her. By this he knew that the tin trunk matter was under
investigation. He was interested, and possibly he was alarmed; at any
rate, he went to his safe, put the roll of fifty-dollar bills in his
pocket, and hastened over to Captain Patterdale's house.
"When people come to my house, and I'm not at home, I don't like to have
them talk to my servants about my affairs," blustered the strange man.
"I don't think we meddled with your affairs any further than to ask if
Laud Cavendish had the use of the Juno for taking care of her,"
explained Captain Patterdale.
"It don't concern you. Laud Cavendish does have the use of the Juno for
taking care of her."
"Indeed!" exclaimed the good nabob, glancing at Donald.
"Indeed!" sneered the wicked nabob. "You needn't indeed anything I
say. I can speak the truth better than you psalm-singers."
"I am very glad you can, Captain Shivernock, for that is what we are in
need of just now," laughed the good nabob. "And since we have meddled
with your affairs in your absence, it is no more than right that we
should explain the reason for doing so. A tin box, containing nearly
fourteen hundred dollars in bills, and many valuable papers, was stolen
from this room. Three persons, Jacob Hasbrook, Laud Cavendish, and Don
