
"When did he send for you?"

"I got the letter last week."

"Have you got it with you?"

"No, aunt; I may have it at the hotel," said the young man,
hesitating, "but I am not certain."

"Well, it's a good offer.  There isn't nobody in Centreville gets so
large a salary."

"No, I suppose not.  They don't need it, as it is cheap living here."

"I hope when you get out there, Ferdinand, you'll save up money.
You'd ought to save two-thirds of your pay."

"I will try to, aunt."

"You'll be wantin' to get married bimeby, and then it'll be
convenient to have some money to begin with."

"To be sure, aunt.   I see you know how to manage."

"I was always considered a good manager," said Deborah, complacently.
"Ef your poor father had had my faculty, he wouldn't have died as
poor as he did, I can tell you."

"What a conceited old woman she is, with her faculty!" thought
Ferdinand, but what he said was quite different.

"I wish he had had, aunt.  It would have been better for me."

"Well, you ought to get along, with your prospects."

"Little the old woman knows what my real prospects are!" thought the
young man.

"Of course I ought," he said.

"Excuse me a few minutes, nephew," said Aunt Deborah, gathering up
her knitting and rising from her chair.  "I must go out and see about
tea.  Maybe you'd like to read that nice book you brought."

"No, I thank you, aunt.  I think I'll take a little walk round your
place, if you'll allow me."

"Sartin, Ferdinand.  Only come back in half an hour; tea'll be ready
then."

"Yea, aunt, I'll remember."

So while Deborah was in the kitchen, Ferdinand took a walk in the
fields, laughing to himself from time to time, as if something amused
him.

He returned in due time, and sat down to supper Aunt Deborah had
provided her best, and, though the dishes were plain, they were quite
palatable.

When supper was over, the young man said,--

"Now, aunt, I think I will be getting back to the hotel."

"You'll come over in the morning, Ferdinand, and fetch your trunk?"

"Yes, aunt.  Good-night."

"Good-night."

"Well," thought the young man, as he tramped back to the hotel.
"I've opened the campaign, and made, I believe, a favorable
impression.  But what a pack of lies I have had to tell, to be sure!
The old lady came near catching me once or twice, particularly about
the color of my hair.  It was a lucky thought, that about the French
barber.  It deceived the poor old soul.  I don't think she could ever
have been very handsome.  If she was she must have changed fearfully."

In the evening, John Clapp and Luke Harrison came round to the hotel
to see him.

"Have you been to see your aunt?" asked Clapp.

"Yes, I took tea there."

"Have a good time?"

"Oh, I played the dutiful nephew to perfection.  The old lady thinks
a sight of me."

"How did you do it?"

"I agreed with all she said, told her how young she looked, and
humbugged her generally."

Clapp laughed.

"The best part of the joke is--will you promise to keep dark?"

"Of course."

"Don't breathe it to a living soul, you two fellows.  She isn't my
aunt of all!"

"Isn't your aunt?"

"No, her true nephew is in New York--I know him.--but I know enough
of family matters to gull the old lady, and, I hope, raise a few
hundred dollars out of her."

This was a joke which Luke and Clapp could appreciate, and they
laughed heartily at the deception which was being practised on simple
Aunt Deborah, particularly when Ferdinand explained how he got over
the difficulty of having different colored hair from the real owner
of the name he assumed.

"We must have a drink on that," said Luke.  "Walk up, gentlemen."

"I'm agreeable," said Ferdinand.

"And I," said Clapp.  "Never refuse a good offer, say I."

Poor Aunt Deborah!  She little dreamed that she was the dupe of a
designing adventurer who bore no relationship to her.




CHAPTER XIX.

THE ROMANCE OF A RING.

Ferdinand B. Kensington, as he called himself, removed the next
morning to the house of Aunt Deborah.  The latter received him very
cordially, partly because it was a pleasant relief to her solitude to
have a lively and active young man in the house, partly because she
was not forced to look upon him as a poor relation in need of
pecuniary assistance.  She even felt considerable respect for the
prospective recipient of an income of two thousand dollars, which in
her eyes was a magnificent salary.

Ferdinand, on his part, spared no pains to make himself agreeable to
the old lady, whom he had a mercenary object in pleasing.  Finding
that she was curious to hear about the great city, which to her was
as unknown as London or Paris, be gratified her by long accounts,
chiefly of as imaginative character, to which she listened greedily.
These included some personal adventures, in all of which he figured
very creditably.

Here is a specimen.

"By the way, Aunt Deborah," he said, casually, "have you noticed this
ring on my middle finger?"

"No, I didn't notice it before, Ferdinand.  It's very handsome."

"I should think it ought to be, Aunt Deborah," said the young man.

"Why?"

"It cost enough to be handsome."

"How much did it cost?" asked the old lady, not without curiosity.

"Guess."

"I aint no judge of such things; I've only got this plain gold ring.
Yours has got some sort of a stone in it."

"That stone is a diamond, Aunt Deborah!"

"You don't say so!  Let me look at it.  It aint got no color.  Looks
like glass."

"It's very expensive, though.  How much do you think it cost?"

"Well, maybe five dollars."

"Five dollars!" ejaculated the young man.  "Why, what can you be
thinking of, Aunt Deborah?"

"I shouldn't have guessed so much," said the old lady,
misunderstanding him, "only you said it was expensive."

"So it is.  Five dollars would be nothing at all."

"You don't say it cost more?"

"A great deal more."

"Did it cost ten dollars?"

"More."

"Fifteen?"

"I see, aunt, you have no idea of the cost of diamond rings!  You may
believe me or not, but that ring cost six hundred and fifty dollars."

"What!" almost screamed Aunt Deborah, letting fall her knitting in
her surprise.

"It's true."

"Six hundred and fifty dollars for a little piece of gold and glass!"
ejaculated the old lady.

"Diamond, aunt, not glass."

"Well, it don't look a bit better'n glass, and I do say," proceeded
Deborah, with energy, "that it's a sin and a shame to pay so much
money for a ring.  Why, it was more than half your year's salary,
Ferdinand."

"I agree with you, aunt; it would have been very foolish and wrong
for a young man on a small salary like mine to buy so expensive a
ring as this.  I hope, Aunt Deborah, I have inherited too much of
your good sense to do that."

"Then where did you get it?" asked the old lady, moderating her tone.

"It was given to me."

"Given to you!  Who would give you such a costly present?"

"A rich man whose life I once saved, Aunt Deborah."

"You don't say so, Ferdinand!" said Aunt Deborah, interested.  "Tell
me all about it."

"So I will, aunt, though I don't often speak of it," said Ferdinand,
modestly.  "It seems like boasting, you know, and I never like to do
that.  But this is the way it happened.

"Now for a good tough lie!" said Ferdinand to himself, as the old
lady suspended her work, and bent forward with eager attention.

"You know, of course, that New York and Brooklyn are on opposite
sides of the river, and that people have to go across in ferry-boats."

"Yes, I've heard that, Ferdinand."

"I'm glad of that, because now you'll know that my story is correct.
Well, one summer I boarded over in Brooklyn--on the Heights--and used
to cross the ferry morning and night.  It was the Wall street ferry,
and a great many bankers and rich merchants used to cross daily also.
One of these was a Mr. Clayton, a wholesale dry-goods merchant,
immensely rich, whom I knew by sight, though I had never spoken to
him.  It was one Thursday morning--I remember even the day of the
week--when the boat was unusually full.  Mr. Clayton was leaning
against the side-railing talking to a friend, when all at once the
railing gave way, and he fell backward into the water, which
immediately swallowed him up."

"Merciful man!" ejaculated Aunt Deborah, intensely interested.  "Go
on, Ferdinand."

"Of course there was a scene of confusion and excitement," continued
Ferdinand, dramatically.  'Man overboard!  Who will save him?' said
more than one.  'I will,' I exclaimed, and in an instant I had sprang
over the railing into the boiling current."

"Weren't you frightened to death?" asked the old lady.  "Could you
swim?"

"Of course I could.   More than once I have swum all the way from New
York to Brooklyn.  I caught Mr. Clayton by the collar, as he was
sinking for the third time, and shouted to a boatman near by to come
to my help.  Well, there isn't much more to tell.  We were taken on
board the boat, and rowed to shore.  Mr. Clayton recovered his senses
so far as to realize that I had saved his life.

"'What is your name, young man?' he asked, grasping my hand.

"'Ferdinand B. Kensington,' I answered modestly.

"'You have saved my life,' he said warmly.

"'I am very glad of it,' said I.

"'You have shown wonderful bravery."

"'Oh no,' I answered.  'I know how to swim, and I wasn't going to see
you drown before my eyes.'

"'I shall never cease to be grateful to you.'

"'Oh, don't think of it,' said I.

"'But I must think of it,' he answered.  'But for you I should now be
a senseless corpse lying in the bottom of the river,' and he
shuddered.

"'Mr. Clayton,' said I, 'let me advise you to get home as soon as
possible, or you will catch your death of cold.'

"'So will you,' he said.  'You must come with me.'

"He insisted, so I went, and was handsomely treated, you may depend.
Mr. Clayton gave me a new suit of clothes, and the next morning he
took me to Tiffany's--that's the best jeweller in New York--and
bought me this diamond ring.  He first offered me money, but I felt
delicate about taking money for such a service, and told him so.  So
he bought me this ring."

"Well, I declare!" ejaculated Aunt Deborah.

"That was an adventure.  But it seems to me, Ferdinand, I would have
taken the money."

"As to that, aunt, I can sell this ring, if ever I get hard up, but I
hope I sha'n't be obliged to."

"You certainly behaved very well, Ferdinand.  Do you ever see Mr.
Clayton now?"

"Sometimes, but I don't seek his society, for fear he would think I
wanted to get something more out of him."

"How much money do you think he'd have given you?" asked Aunt
Deborah, who was of a practical nature.

"A thousand dollars, perhaps more."

"Seems to me I would have taken it."

"If I had, people would have said that's why I jumped into the water,
whereas I wasn't thinking anything about getting a reward.  So now,
aunt, you won't think it very strange that I wear such an expensive
ring."

"Of course it makes a difference, as you didn't buy it yourself.  I
don't see how folks can be such fools as to throw away hundreds of
dollars for such a trifle."

"Well, aunt, everybody isn't as sensible and practical as you.  Now I
agree with you; I think it's very foolish.  Still I'm glad I've got
the ring, because I can turn it into money when I need to.  Only, you
see, I don't like to part with a gift, although I don't think Mr.
Clayton would blame me."

"Of course he wouldn't, Ferdinand.  But I don't see why you should
need money when you're goin' to get such a handsome salary in San
Francisco."

"To be sure, aunt, but there's something else.  However, I won't
speak of it to-day.  To-morrow I may want to ask your advice on a
matter of business."

"I'll advise you the best I can, Ferdinand," said the flattered
spinster.

"You see, aunt, you're so clear-headed, I shall place great
dependence on your advice.  But I think I'll take a little walk now,
just to stretch my limbs."

"I've made good progress," said the young man to himself, as he
lounged over the farm.  "The old lady swallows it all.  To-morrow
must come my grand stroke.  I thought I wouldn't propose it to-day,
for fear she'd suspect the ring story."




CHAPTER XX.

A BUSINESS TRANSACTION.

Ferdinand found life at the farm-house rather slow, nor did he
particularly enjoy the society of the spinster whom he called aunt.
But he was playing for a valuable stake, and meant to play out his
game.

"Strike while the iron is hot!" said he to himself; "That's a good
rule; but how shall I know when it is hot?  However, I must risk
something, and take my chances with the old lady."

Aunt Deborah herself hastened his action.  Her curiosity had been
aroused by Ferdinand's intimation that he wished her advice on a
matter of business, and the next morning, after breakfast, she said,
"Ferdinand, what was that you wanted to consult me about?  You may as
well tell me now as any time."

"Here goes, then!" thought the young man.

"I'll tell you, aunt.  You know I am offered a large salary in San
Francisco?"

"Yes, you told me so."

"And, as you said the other day, I can lay up half my salary, and in
time become a rich man."

"To be sure you can."

"But there is one difficulty in the way."

"What is that?"

"I must go out there."

"Of course you must," said the old lady, who did not yet see the
point.

"And unfortunately it costs considerable money."

"Haven't you got enough money to pay your fare out there?"

"No, aunt; it is very expensive living in New York, and I was unable
to save anything from my salary."

"How much does it cost to go out there?"

"About two hundred and fifty dollars."

"That's a good deal of money."

"So it is; but it will be a great deal better to pay it than to lose
so good a place."

"I hope," said the old lady, sharply, "you don't expect me to pay
your expenses out there."

"My dear aunt," said Ferdinand, hastily, "how can you suspect such a
thing?"

"Then what do you propose to do?" asked the spinster, somewhat
relieved.

"I wanted to ask your advice."

"Sell your ring.  It's worth over six hundred dollars."

"Very true; but I should hardly like to part with it.  I'll tell you
what I have thought of.  It cost six hundred and fifty dollars.  I
will give it as security to any one who will lend me five hundred
dollars, with permission to sell it if I fail to pay up the note in
six months.  By the way, aunt, why can't you accommodate me in this
matter?  You will lose nothing, and I will pay handsome interest."

"How do you know I have the money?"

"I don't know; but I think you must have.  But, although I am your
nephew, I wouldn't think of asking you to lend me money without
security.  Business is business, so I say."

"Very true, Ferdinand."

"I ask nothing on the score of relationship, but I will make a
business proposal."

"I don't believe the ring would fetch over six hundred dollars."

"It would bring just about that.  The other fifty dollars represent
the profit.  Now, aunt, I'll make you a regular business proposal.
If you'll lend me five hundred dollars, I'll give you my note for
five hundred and fifty, bearing interest at six per cent., payable in
six months, or, to make all sure, say in a year.  I place the ring in
your hands, with leave to sell it at the end of that time if I fail
to carry out my agreement.  But I sha'n't if I keep my health."

The old lady was attracted by the idea of making a bonus of fifty
dollars, but she was cautious, and averse to parting with her money.

"I don't know what to say, Ferdinand," she replied.  "Five hundred
dollars is a good deal of money."

"So it is, aunt.  Well, I don't know but I can offer you a little
better terms.  Give me four hundred and seventy-five, and I'll give
you a note for five hundred and fifty.  You can't make as much
interest anywhere else."

"I'd like to accommodate you," said the old lady, hesitating, for,
like most avaricious persons, she was captivated by the prospect of
making extra-legal interest.

"I know you would.  Aunt Deborah, but I don't want to ask the money
as a favor.  It is a strictly business transaction."

"I am afraid I couldn't spare more than four hundred and fifty."

"Very well, I won't dispute about the extra twenty-five dollars.
Considering how much income I'm going to get, it isn't of any great
importance."

"And you'll give me a note for five hundred and fifty?"

"Yes, certainly."

"I don't know as I ought to take so much interest."

"It's worth that to me, for though, of course, I could raise it by
selling the ring, I don't like to do that."

"Well, I don't know but I'll do it.  I'll get some ink, and you can
write me the due bill."

"Why, Aunt Deborah, you haven't got the money here, have you?"

"Yes, I've got it in the house.  A man paid up a mortgage last week,
and I haven't yet invested the money.  I meant to put it in the
savings bank."

"You wouldn't get but six per cent there.  Now the bonus I offer you
will be equal to about twenty per cent."

"And you really feel able to pay so much?"

"Yes, aunt; as I told you, it will be worth more than that to me."

"Well, Ferdinand, we'll settle the matter now.  I'll go and get the
money, and you shall give me the note and the ring."

"Triumph!" said the young man to himself, when the old lady had left
the room.  "You're badly sold, Aunt Deborah, but it's a good job for
me.  I didn't think I would have so little trouble."

Within fifteen minutes the money was handed over, and Aunt Deborah
took charge of the note and the valuable diamond ring.

"Be careful of the ring, Aunt Deborah," said Ferdinand.  "Remember, I
expect to redeem it again."

"I'll take good care of it, nephew, never fear!"

"If it were a little smaller, you could wear it, yourself."

"How would Deborah Kensington look with a diamond ring?  The
neighbors would think I was crazy.  No: I'll keep it in a safe place,
but I won't wear it."

"Now, Aunt Deborah, I must speak about other arrangements.  Don't you
think it would be well to start for San Francisco as soon as
possible?  You know I enter upon my duties as soon as I get there."

"Yes, Ferdinand, I think you ought to."

"I wish I could spare the time to spend a week with you, aunt; but
business is business, and my motto is, business before pleasure."

"And very proper, too, Ferdinand," said the old lady, approvingly.

"So I think I had better leave Centreville tomorrow."

"May be you had.  You must write and let me know when you get there,
and how you like your place."

"So I will, and I shall be glad to know that you take an interest in
me.  Now, aunt, as I have some errands to do, I will walk to the
village and come back about the middle of the afternoon."

"Won't you be back to dinner?"

"No, I think not, aunt."

"Very well, Ferdinand.  Come as soon as you can."

Half an hour later, Ferdinand entered the office of the "Centreville
Gazette."

"How do you do, Mr. Kensington?" said Clapp, eagerly.  "Anything new?"

"I should like to speak with you a moment in private, Mr. Clapp."

"All right!"

Clapp put on his coat, and went outside, shutting the door behind him.

"Well," said Ferdinand, "I've succeeded."

"Have you got the money?"

"Yes, but not quite as much as I anticipated."

"Can't you carry out your plan?" asked Clapp, soberly, fearing he was
to be left out in the cold.

"I've formed a new one.  Instead of going to California, which is
very expensive, we'll go out West, say to St. Louis, and try our
fortune there.  What do you say?"

"I'm agreed.  Can Luke go too?"

"Yes.  I'll take you both out there, and lend you fifty dollars each
besides, and you shall pay me back as soon as you are able.  Will you
let your friend know?"

"Yes, I'll undertake that; but when do you propose to start?"

"To-morrow morning."

"Whew!  That's short notice."

"I want to get away as soon as possible, for fear the old lady should
change her mind, and want her money back."

"That's where you're right."

"Of course you must give up your situation at once, as there is short
time to get ready."

"No trouble about that," said Clapp.  "I've hated the business for a
long time, and shall be only too glad to leave.  It's the same with
Luke.  He won't shed many tears at leaving Centreville."

"Well, we'll all meet this evening at the hotel.  I depend upon your
both being ready to start in the morning."

"All right, I'll let Luke know."

It may be thought singular that Ferdinand should have made so liberal
an offer to two comparative strangers; but, to do the young man
justice, though he had plenty of faults, he was disposed to be
generous when he had money, though he was not particular how he
obtained it.  Clapp and Luke Harrison he recognized as congenial
spirits, and he was willing to sacrifice something to obtain their
companionship.  How long his fancy was likely to last was perhaps
doubtful; but for the present he was eager to associate them with his
own plans.




CHAPTER XXI.

HARRY IS PROMOTED.

Clapp re-entered the printing office highly elated.

"Mr. Anderson," said he to the editor, "I am going to leave you."

Ferguson and Harry Walton looked up in surprise, and Mr. Anderson
asked,--

"Have you got another place?"

"No; I am going West."

"Indeed!  How long have you had that in view?"

"Not long.  I am going with Mr. Kensington."

"The one who just called on you?"

"Yes."

"How soon do you want to leave?"

"Now."

"That is rather short notice."

"I know it, but I leave town to-morrow morning."

"Well, I wish you success.  Here is the money I owe you."

"Sha'n't we see you again, Clapp?" asked Ferguson.

"Yes; I'll just look in and say good-by.  Now I must go home and get
ready."

"Well, Ferguson," said Mr. Andersen, after Clapp's departure, "that
is rather sudden."

"So I think."

"How can we get along with only two hands?"

"Very well, sir.  I'm willing to work a little longer, and Harry here
is a pretty quick compositor now.  The fact is, there isn't enough
work for three."

"Then you think I needn't hire another journeyman?"

"No."

"If you both work harder I must increase your wages, and then I shall
save money."

"I sha'n't object to that," said Ferguson, smiling.

"Nor I," said Harry.

"I was intending at any rate to raise Harry's wages, as I find he
does nearly as much as a journeyman.  Hereafter I will give you five
dollars a week besides your board."

"Oh, thank you, sir!" said Harry, overjoyed at his good fortune.

"As for you, Ferguson, if you will give me an hour more daily, I will
add three dollars a week to your pay."

"Thank you, sir.  I think I can afford now to give Mrs. Ferguson the
new bonnet she was asking for this morning."

"I don't want to overwork you two, but if that arrangement proves
satisfactory, we will continue it."

"I suppose you will be buying your wife a new bonnet too; eh, Harry?"
said Ferguson.

"I may buy myself a new hat.  Luke Harrison turned up his nose at my
old one the other day."

"What will Luke do without Clapp?  They were always together."

"Perhaps he is going too."

"I don't know where he will raise the money, nor Clapp either, for
that matter."

"Perhaps their new friend furnishes the money."

"If he does, he is indeed a friend."

"Well, it has turned out to our advantage, at any rate, Harry.
Suppose you celebrate it by coming round and taking supper with me?"

"With the greatest pleasure."

Harry was indeed made happy by his promotion.  Having been employed
for some months on board-wages, he had been compelled to trench upon
the small stock of money which he had saved up when in the employ of
Prof. Henderson, and he had been unable to send any money to his
father, whose circumstances were straitened, and who found it very
hard to make both ends meet.  That evening he wrote a letter to his
father, in which he inclosed ten dollars remaining to him from his
fund of savings, at the same time informing him of his promotion.  A
few days later, he received the following reply:--


"MY DEAR SON:

"Your letter has given me great satisfaction, for I conclude from
your promotion that you have done your duty faithfully, and won the
approbation of your employer.  The wages you now earn will amply pay
your expenses, while you may reasonably hope that they will be still
further increased, as you become more skilful and experienced.  I am
glad to hear that you are using your leisure hours to such good
purpose, and are trying daily to improve your education.  In this way
you may hope in time to qualify yourself for the position of an
editor, which is an honorable and influential profession, to which I
should be proud to have you belong.

"The money which you so considerately inclose comes at the right
time.  Your brother needs some new clothes, and this will enable me
to provide them.  We all send love, and hope to hear from you often.

  "Your affectionate father,
    "HIRAM WALTON."


Harry's promotion took place just before the beginning of September.
During the next week the fall term of the Prescott Academy commenced,
and the village streets again became lively with returning students.
Harry was busy at the case, when Oscar Vincent entered the printing
office, and greeted him warmly.

"How are you, Oscar?" said Harry, his face lighting up with pleasure.
"I am glad to see you back.  I would shake hands, but I am afraid you
wouldn't like it," and Harry displayed his hands soiled with
printer's ink.

"Well, we'll shake hands in spirit, then, Harry.  How have you passed
the time?"

"I have been very busy, Oscar."

"And I have been very lazy.  I have scarcely opened a book, that is,
a study-book, during the vacation.  How much have you done in French?"

"I have nearly finished Telemachus."

"You have!  Then you have done splendidly.  By the way, Harry, I
received the paper you sent, containing your essay.  It does you
credit, my boy."

Mr. Anderson, who was sitting at his desk, caught the last words.

"What is that, Harry?" he asked.  "Have you been writing for the
papers?"

Harry blushed.

"Yes, sir," he replied.  "I have written two or three articles for
the 'Boston Weekly Standard.'"

"Indeed!  I should like to see them."

"You republished one of them in the 'Gazette,' Mr. Anderson," said
Ferguson.

"What do you refer to?"

"Don't you remember an article on 'Ambition,' which you inserted some
weeks ago?"

"Yes, it was a good article.  Did you write it, Walton?"

"Yes, air."

"Why didn't you tell me of it?"

"He was too bashful," said Ferguson.

"I am glad to know that you can write," said the editor.  "I shall
call upon you for assistance, in getting up paragraphs occasionally."

"I shall be very glad to do what I can," said Harry, gratified.

"Harry is learning to be an editor," said Ferguson.

"I will give him a chance for practice, then," and Mr. Anderson
returned to his exchanges.

"By the way, Oscar," said Harry, "I am not a printer's devil any
longer.  I am promoted to be a journeyman."

"I congratulate you, Harry, but what will Fitz do now?  He used to
take so much pleasure in speaking of you as a printer's devil."

"I am sorry to deprive him of that pleasure.  Did you see much of him
in vacation, Oscar?"

"I used to meet him almost every day walking down Washington Street,
swinging a light cane, and wearing a stunning necktie, as usual."

"Is he coming back this term?"

"Yes, he came on the same train with me.  Hasn't he called to pay his
respects to you?"

"No," answered Harry, with a smile.  "He hasn't done me that honor.
He probably expects me to make the first call."

"Well, Harry, I suppose you will be on hand next week, when the
Clionian holds its first meeting?"

"Yes, I will be there."

"And don't forget to call at my room before that time.  I want to
examine you in French, and see how much progress you have made."

"Thank you, Oscar."

"Now I must be going.  I have got a tough Greek lesson to prepare for
to-morrow.  I suppose it will take me twice as long as usual.  It is
always hard to get to work again after a long vacation.  So
good-morning, and don't forget to call at my room soon--say to-morrow
evening."

"I will come."

"What a gentlemanly fellow your friend is!" said Ferguson.

"What is his name, Harry?" asked Mr. Anderson.

"Oscar Vincent.  His father is an editor in Boston."

"What! the son of John Vincent?" said Mr. Anderson, surprised.

"Yes, sir; do you know his father?"

"Only by reputation.  He is a man of great ability."

"Oscar is a smart fellow, too, but not a hard student."

"I shall be glad to have you bring him round to the house some
evening, Harry.  I shall be glad to become better acquainted with
him."

"Thank you, sir.  I will give him the invitation."

It is very possible that Harry rose in the estimation of his
employer, from his intimacy with the son of a man who stood so high
in his own profession.  At all events, Harry found himself from this
time treated with greater respect and consideration than before, and
Mr. Anderson often called upon him to write paragraphs upon local
matters, so that his position might be regarded except as to pay, as
that of an assistant editor.




CHAPTER XXII.

MISS DEBORAH'S EYES ARE OPENED.

Aunt Deborah felt that she had done a good stroke of business.  She
had lent Ferdinand four hundred and fifty dollars, and received in
return a note for five hundred and fifty, secured by a diamond ring
worth even more.  She plumed herself on her shrewdness, though at
times she felt a little twinge at the idea of the exorbitant interest
which she had exacted from so near a relative.

"But he said the money was worth that to him," she said to herself in
extenuation, "and he's goin' to get two thousand dollars a year.  I
didn't want to lend the money, I'd rather have had it in the savings
bank, but I did it to obleege him."

By such casuistry Aunt Deborah quieted her conscience, and carefully
put the ring away among her bonds and mortgages.

"Who'd think a little ring like that should be worth so much?" she
said to herself.  "It's clear waste of money.  But then Ferdinand
didn't buy it.  It was give to him, and a very foolish gift it was
too.  Railly, it makes me nervous to have it to take care of.  It's
so little it might get lost easy."

Aunt Deborah plumed herself upon her shrewdness.  It was not easy to
get the advantage of her in a bargain, and yet she had accepted the
ring as security for a considerable loan without once questioning its
genuineness.  She relied implicitly upon her nephew's assurance of
its genuineness, just as she had relied upon his assertion of
relationship.  But the time was soon coming when she was to be
undeceived.

One day, a neighbor stopped his horse in front of her house, and
jumping out of his wagon, walked up to the door and knocked.

"Good-morning, Mr. Simpson," said the old lady, answering the knock
herself; "won't you come in?"

"Thank you, Miss Deborah, I can't stop this morning.  I was at the
post-office just now, when I saw there was a letter for you, and
thought I'd bring it along."

"A letter for me!" said Aunt Deborah in some surprise, for her
correspondence was very limited.  "Who's it from?"

"It is post-marked New York," said Mr. Simpson.

"I don't know no one in New York," said the old lady, fumbling in her
pockets for her spectacles.

"Maybe it's one of your old beaux," said Mr. Simpson, humorously, a
joke which brought a grim smile to the face of the old spinster.
"But I must be goin'.  If it's an offer of marriage, don't forget to
invite me to the wedding."

Aunt Deborah went into the house, and seating herself in her
accustomed place, carefully opened the letter.  She turned over the
page, and glanced at the signature.  To her astonishment it was
signed,

  "Your affectionate nephew,
    "FERDINAND B. KENSINGTON."

"Ferdinand!" she exclaimed in surprise.  "Why, I thought he was in
Californy by this time.  How could he write from New York?  I s'pose
he'll explain.  I hope he didn't lose the money I lent him."

The first sentence in the letter was destined to surprise Miss
Deborah yet more.

"Dear aunt," it commenced, "it is so many years since we have met,
that I am afraid you have forgotten me."

"So many years!" repeated Miss Deborah in bewilderment.  "What on
earth can Ferdinand mean?  Why, it's only five weeks yesterday since
he was here.  He must be crazy."

She resumed reading.

"I have often had it in mind to make you a little visit, but I have
been so engrossed by business that I have been unable to get away.  I
am a salesman for A. T. Stewart, whom you must have heard of, as he
is the largest retail dealer in the city.  I have been three years in
his employ, and have been promoted by degrees, till I now receive
quite a good salary, until--and that is the news I have to write
you--I have felt justifed in getting married.  My wedding is fixed
for next week, Thursday.  I should be very glad if you could attend,
though I suppose you would consider it a long journey.  But at any
rate I can assure you that I should be delighted to see you present
on the occasion, and so would Maria.  If you can't come, write to me,
at any rate, in memory of old times.  It is just possible that during
our bridal tour--we are to go to the White Mountains for a week--we
shall call on you.  Let me know if it will be convenient for you to
receive us for a day.

  "Your affectionate nephew,
    "FERDINAND B. KENSINGTON."


Miss Deborah read this letter like one dazed.  She had to read it a
second time before she could comprehend its purport.

"Ferdinand going to be married!  He never said a word about it when
he was here.  And he don't say a word about Californy.  Then again he
says he hasn't seen me for years.  Merciful man!  I see it now--the
other fellow was an impostor!" exclaimed Miss Deborah, jumping, to
her feet in excitement.  "What did he want to deceive an old woman
for?"

It flashed upon her at once.  He came after money, and he had
succeeded only too well.  He had carried away four hundred and fifty
dollars with him.  True, he had left a note, and security.  But
another terrible suspicion had entered the old lady's mind; the ring
might not be genuine.
