"Oh, no! There's always something floats ashore, you must remember.
Well, he concluded not to kill me, though they have a great festival
dance in honor of their idols; and I only escape by promising to be
his obedient slave. I find some others who have been cast on that
desolate shore, and been treated in the same manner. The chief beats
us, and makes us work, and treats us dreadfully. Then we mutiny, and
have a great battle, for a good many of the natives join us. In the
scrimmage the old fellow is killed; and there's a tremendous rejoicing,
I can tell you, for they all hate him. We divide his treasure, and
it's immense, and go to live in his palace. Well, no boat ever comes
along; so we build one for ourselves, and row to the nearest port and
tell them the chief is dead. They are very glad, for he was a cruel old
fellow. Then we buy a ship, and go back for the rest of our treasures.
We take a great many of the beautiful things out of the palace, and
then we start for home, double-quick. It's been a good many years; and,
when I come back, Granny is old, and walking with a cane, Florence
married to a rich gentleman, and Dot here grown into a handsome girl.
But won't I build a stunning house! There'll be a scattering out of
this old shoe, I tell you."

"Oh, won't it be splendid!" exclaimed Charlie, with a long-drawn
breath. "It's just like a story."

"Now, Hal, it's your turn."

Hal sighed softly, and squeezed Dot a little.

"I shall not go off and be a sailor"--

"Or a jolly young oysterman," said Joe, by way of assistance.

"No. What I'd like most of all"--and Hal made a long pause.

"Even if it's murder, we'll forgive you and love you," went on
tormenting Joe.

"O Joe, don't!" besought Florence. "I want to hear what Hal will
choose, for I know just what I'd like to have happen to me."

"So do I," announced Charlie confidently.

"I don't know that I can have it," said Hal slowly; "for it costs a
good deal, though I might make a small beginning. It's raising lovely
fruit and flowers, and having a great hot-house, with roses and lilies
and dear white blossoms in the middle of the winter. I should love them
so much! They always seem like little children to me, with God for
their father, and we who take care of them for a stepmother; though
stepmothers are not always good, and the poor wicked ones would be
those who did not love flowers. Why, it would be like fairy-land,--a
great long hot-house, with glass overhead, and all the air sweet with
roses and heliotrope and mignonette. And it would be so soft and still
in there, and so very, very beautiful! It seems to me as if heaven must
be full of flowers."

"Could you sell 'em if you were poor?" asked Charlie, in a low voice.

"Not the flowers in heaven! Charlie, you're a heathen."

"I didn't mean that! Don't you suppose I know about heaven!" retorted
Charlie warmly.

"Yes," admitted Joe with a laugh: "he could sell them, and make lots of
money. And there are ever so many things: why, Mr. Green paid six cents
apiece for some choice tomato-plants."

"When I'm a man, I think I'll do that. I mean to try next summer in my
garden."

"May I tell now?" asked Charlie, who was near exploding with her secret.

"Yes. Great things," said Joe.

"I'm going to run away!" And Charlie gave her head an exultant toss,
that, owing to the darkness, was lost to her audience.

Joe laughed to his utmost capacity, which was not small. The old garret
fairly rang again.

Florence uttered a horrified exclamation; and Kit said,--

"I'll go with you!"

"Girls don't run away," remarked Hal gravely.

"But I mean to, and it'll be royal fun," was the confident reply.

"Where will you go? and will you beg from door to door?" asked Joe
quizzically.

"No: I'm going out in the woods," was the undaunted rejoinder. "I mean
to find a nice cave; and I'll bring in a lot of good dry leaves and
some straw, and make a bed. Then I'll gather berries; and I know how to
catch fish, and I can make a fire and fry them. I'll have a gay time
going off to the river and rambling round, and there'll be no lessons
to plague a body to death. It will be just splendid."

"Suppose a bear comes along and eats you up?" suggested Joe.

"As if there were any bears around here!" Charlie returned with immense
disdain.

"Well, a snake, or a wild-cat!"

"I'm not afraid of snakes."

"But you'd want a little bread."

"Oh! I'd manage about that. I do mean to run away some time, just for
fun."

"You'll be glad to run back again!"

"You see, now!" was the decisive reply.

"Florentina, it is your turn now. We have had age before beauty."

Florence tossed her soft curls, and went through with a few pretty
airs.

"I shouldn't run away," she said slowly; "but I'd like to go, for
all that. Sometimes, as I sit by the window sewing, and see an elegant
carriage pass by, I think, what if there should be an old gentleman in
it, who had lost his wife and all his children, and that one of his
little girls looked like--like me? And if he should stop and ask me for
a drink, I'd go to the well and draw a fresh, cool bucketful"--

"From the north side--that's the coldest," interrupted Joe.

"Hush, Joe! No one laughed at you!"

"Laugh! Why, I am sober as an owl."

"Then I'd give him a drink. I wish we could have some goblets: tumblers
look so dreadfully old-fashioned. I mean to buy one, at least, some
time. He would ask me about myself; and I'd tell him that we were all
orphans, and had been very unfortunate, and that our grandmother was
old"--

    "'Four score and ten of us, poor old maids,--
            Four score and ten of us,
            Without a penny in our puss,
                    Poor old maids,'"

sang Joe pathetically, cutting short the purse on account of the
rhyme.

"O Joe, you are too bad! I won't tell any more."

"Yes, do!" entreated Hal. "And so he liked you on account of the
resemblance, and wanted to adopt you."

"Exactly! Hal, how could you guess it?" returned Florence, much
mollified. "And so he would take me to a beautiful house, where there
were plenty of servants, and get me lovely clothes to wear; and there
would be lots of china and silver and elegant furniture and a piano.
I'd go to school, and study music and drawing, and never have to sew or
do any kind of work. Then I'd send you nice presents home; and, when
you were fixed up a little, you should come and see me. And maybe, Hal,
as you grew older, he would help you about getting a hot-house. I think
when I became a woman, I would take Dot to educate."

"I've heard of fairy godmothers before, but this seems to be a
godfather. Here's luck to your old covey, Florrie, drunk in imaginary
champagne."

"Joe, I wish you wouldn't use slang phrases, nor be so disrespectful."

"I'm afraid I'll have to keep clear of the palace."

"Oh, if it only could be!" sighed Hal. "I think Flo was meant for a
lady."

Florence smiled inwardly at hearing this. It was her opinion also.

"Here, Kit, are you asleep?" And Joe pulled him out of the pile by one
leg. "Wake up, and give us your heart's desire."

Kit indulged in a vigorous kick, which Joe dodged.

"It'll be splendid," began Kit, "especially the piano. I've had my
hands over my eyes, making stars; and I was thinking"--

"That's just what we want, Chief of the Mohawk Valley. Don't keep us in
suspense."

"I'm going to save up my money, like some one Hal was reading about the
other day, and buy a fiddle."

A shout of laughter greeted this announcement, it sounded so comical.

Kit rubbed his eyes in amazement, and failed to see any thing amusing.
Then he said indignantly,--

"You needn't make such a row!"

"But what will you do with a fiddle? You might tie a string to Charlie,
and take her along for a monkey; or you might both go round singing in
a squeaky voice,--

    'Two orphan boys of Switzerland.'"

"You're real mean, Joe," said Kit, with his voice full of tears.

"Kit, I'll give you the violin myself when I get rich," Florence
exclaimed in a comforting tone, her soft hand smoothing down the
refractory scalp-lock; "but I would say violin, it sounds so much
nicer. And then you'll play."

"Play!" enunciated Kit in a tone that I cannot describe, as if that
were a weak word for the anticipated performance. "I'd make her talk!
They'd sit there and listen,--a whole houseful of people it would
be, you know; and when I first came out with my fiddle,--violin.
I mean,--they would look at me as if they thought I couldn't do
much. I'd begin with a slow sound, like the wind wailing on a winter
night,--I guess I'd have it a storm, and a little lost child, for
you can make almost any thing with a violin; and the cries should
grow fainter and fainter, for she would be chilled and worn out;
and presently it should drop down into the snow, and there'd be the
softest, strangest music you ever heard. The crowd would listen and
listen, and hold their breath; and when the storm cleared away, and the
angels came down for the child, it would be so, so sad"--and there was
an ominous falter in Kit's voice, "they couldn't help crying. There'd
be an angel's song up in heaven; and in the sweetest part of it all,
I'd go quietly away, for I wouldn't want any applause."

"But you'd have it," said Hal softly, reaching out for the small
fingers that were to evoke such wonderful melody. "It almost makes me
cry myself to think of it! and the poor little girl lost in the snow,
not bigger than Dot here!"

"Children!" called Granny from the foot of the stairs, "ain't you going
to come down and have any supper? I've made a great pot full of mush."

There was a general scrambling. Hal carried Dot in his arms, for she
was fast asleep. Two or three times in the short journey he stopped to
kiss the soft face, thinking of Kit's vision.

"Oh, we've been having such a splendid time!" announced Charlie. "All
of us telling what we'd like to do; and, Granny, Joe's going to build
you an elegant house!" with a great emphasis on the word, as Charlie
was not much given to style, greatly to the sorrow and chagrin of
Florence.

Granny gave a cheerful but cracked treble laugh, and asked,--

"What'll he build it of, my dear,--corn-cobs?"

"Oh, a real house! He's going to make lots of money, Joe is, and get
shipwrecked."

Granny shook her head, which made the little white curls bob around
oddly enough.

"How you do mix up things, Charlie," said Joe, giving her a poke with
his elbow. "You're a perfect harum-scarum! I don't wonder you want to
live in the woods. Go look at your head: it stands out nine ways for
Sunday!"

Charlie ran her fingers through her hair, her usual manner of arranging
it.

"Granny, here's this little lamb fast asleep. She's grown to be one of
the best babies in the world;" and Hal kissed her again.

He had such a tender, girlish heart, that any thing weak or helpless
always appealed to him. Their sleek, shining Tabby had been a poor,
forlorn, broken-legged kitten when he found her; and there was no end
to the birds and chickens that he nursed through accidents.

But for a fortnight Dot had been improving, it must be confessed,
being exempt from disease and broken bones.

"Poor childie! Just lay her in the bed, Hal."

There was a huge steaming dish of mush in the middle of the table; and
the hungry children went at it in a vigorous manner. Some had milk,
and some had molasses; and they improvised a dessert by using a little
butter, sugar, and nutmeg. They spiced their meal by recounting their
imaginary adventures; but Granny was observed to wipe away a few tears
over the shipwreck.

"It was all make believe," said Joe sturdily. "Lots of people go to
sea, and don't get wrecked."

"But I don't want you to go," Granny returned in a broken tone of voice.

"Pooh!" exclaimed Joe, with immense disdain. "Don't people meet with
accidents on the land? Wasn't Steve Holder killed in the mill. And if I
was on the cars in a smash-up, I couldn't swim out of that!"

Joe took a long breath, fancying that he had established his point
beyond a cavil.

"But sailors never make fortunes," went on Granny hesitatingly.

"Captains do, though; and it's a jolly life. Besides, we couldn't all
stay in this little shanty, unless we made nests in the chimney like
the swallows; and I don't know which would tumble down first,--we or
the chimney."

Charlie laughed at the idea.

"I shall stay with you always, Granny," said Hal tenderly. "And Dot,
you know, will be growing into a big girl and be company for us. We'll
get along nicely, never fear."

Some tears dropped unwittingly into Granny's plate, and she didn't want
any more supper. It was foolish, of course. She ought to be thankful to
have them all out of the way and doing for themselves. Here she was,
over fifty, and had worked hard from girlhood. Some day she would be
worn out.

But, in spite of all their poverty and hardship, she had been very
happy with them; and theirs were by no means a forlorn-looking set of
faces. Each one had a little beauty of its own; and, though they were
far from being pattern children, she loved them dearly in spite of
their faults and roughnesses. And in their way they loved her, though
sometimes they were great torments.

And so at bed-time they all crowded round to kiss the wrinkled face,
unconsciously softened by the thought of the parting that was to come
somewhere along their lives. But no one guessed how Granny held little
Dot in her arms that night, and prayed in her quaint, fervent fashion
that she might live to see them all grown up and happy, good and
prosperous men and women, and none of them straying far from the old
home-nest.

I think God listened with watchful love. No one else would have made
crooked paths so straight.




CHAPTER III.

  A CHANCE FOR FLOSSY.


The vacation had come to an end, and next week the children were to go
to school again. Florence counted up her small hoard; for though she
did not like to sweep, or wash dishes, she was industrious in other
ways. She crocheted edgings and tidies, made lamp-mats, toilet-sets,
and collars, and had earned sixteen dollars. Granny would not have
touched a penny of it for the world.

So Florence bought herself two pretty delaine dresses for winter wear,
and begged Granny to let Miss Brown cut and fit them. Florence had a
pretty, slender figure; and she was rather vain of it. Her two dresses
had cost seven dollars, a pair of tolerably nice boots three and a
half, a plaid shawl four, and then she had indulged in the great luxury
of a pair of kid gloves.

It had come about in this wise. Mrs. Day had purchased them in New
York, but they proved too small for her daughter Julia. She was owing
Florence a dollar; so she said,--

"Now, if you have a mind to take these gloves, Florence, I'd let you
have them for seventy-five cents. I bought them very cheap: they ask
a dollar and a quarter in some stores;" and she held them up in their
most tempting light.

Florence looked at them longingly.

"They are lovely kid, and such a beautiful color! Green is all the
fashion, and you have a new green dress."

There was a pair of nice woollen gloves at the store for fifty cents;
and although they were rather clumsy, still Florence felt they would be
warmer and more useful.

"I don't know as I can spare you the dollar now," continued Mrs. Day,
giving the dainty little gloves a most aggravating stretch.

"I'd like to have them," said Florence hesitatingly.

"I suppose your grandmother won't mind? Your money is your own."

Now, Mrs. Day knew that it was wrong to tempt Florence; but the gloves
were useless to her, and she felt anxious to dispose of them.

"Grandmother said I might spend all my money for clothes," was the
rather proud reply.

"Kid gloves always look so genteel, and are so durable. You have such a
pretty hand too."

"I guess I will take them," Florence said faintly.

So Mrs. Day gave her the gloves and twenty-five cents. Florence
carried them home in secret triumph, and put them in her drawer in
Granny's big bureau. She had not told about them yet; and sometimes
they were a heavier burden than you would imagine so small a pair of
gloves could possibly be.

Joe had earned a little odd change from the farmers round, and bought
himself a pair of new trousers and a new pair of boots; while Hal had
been maid-of-all-work in doors, and head gardener out of doors.

"Just look at these potatoes!" he said in triumph to Granny. "There's
a splendid binful, and it'll last all winter. And there'll be cabbage
and pumpkins and marrow-squash and Lima beans, and lots of corn for the
chickens. The garden has been a success this summer."

"And you've worked early and late," returned Granny in tender triumph.
"There isn't such another boy in the State, I'll be bound!" And she
gave him the fondest of smiles.

"But the best of all is Dot. She's actually getting fat, Granny; and
she has a dimple in her cheek. Why, she'll be almost as pretty as
Flossy!"

Granny gave the little one a kiss.

"She's as good as a kitten when she is well," was the rejoinder, in a
loving tone.

Kit and Charlie still romped like wild deers. They had made a cave in
the wood, and spent whole days there; but Charlie burned her fingers
roasting a bird, and went back to potatoes and corn, that could be put
in the ashes without so much risk.

The old plaid cloak had been made over for a school-dress, and Charlie
thought it quite grand. Kit and Hal had to do the best they could about
clothes.

"Never mind me, Granny," Hal said cheerfully; though he couldn't help
thinking of his patched Sunday jacket, which was growing short in the
sleeves for him.

So on Saturday the children scrubbed and scoured and swept, and made
the place quite shine again. Hal arranged the flowers, and then they
all drew a restful breath before the supper preparations began.

"There's Mrs. Van Wyck coming!" and Charlie flew up the lane, dashing
headlong into the house, to the imminent peril of her best dress, which
she had been allowed to put on for an hour or two.

"Mrs. Van Wyck!"

Granny brushed back her bobbing flaxen curls, washed Dot's face over
again with the nearest white cloth, which happened to be Flossy's best
handkerchief that she had been doing up for Sunday.

"Oh!" the young lady cried in dismay, and then turned to make her
prettiest courtesy. Mrs. Van Wyck was very well off indeed, and lived
in quite a pretentious cottage,--villa she called it; but, as she had a
habit of confusing her V's and W's, Joe re-christened it the Van Wyck
Willow.

"Good-afternoon, Mrs. Kenneth. How d'y do, Florence?"

Florence brought out a chair, and, with the most polite air possible,
invited her to be seated.

Mrs. Van Wyck eyed her sharply.

"'Pears to me you look quite fine," she said.

Florence wore a white dress that was pretty well outgrown, and had
been made from one of her mother's in the beginning. It had a good many
little darns here and there, and she was wearing it for the last time.
She had tied a blue ribbon in her curls, and pinned a tiny bouquet on
her bosom. She looked very much dressed, but that was pretty Flossy's
misfortune.

Mrs. Van Wyck gathered up her silk gown,--a great staring brocade in
blue and gold, that might have been her grandmother's, it looked so
ancient in style.

"I've come over on some business," she began, with an important air and
a mysterious shake of the head.

Granny sat down, and took Dot upon her lap. Kit and Charlie peered out
of their hiding-places, and Joe perched himself upon the window-sill.

"How do you ever manage with all this tribe?" And Mrs. Van Wyck gave
each of them a scowl.

"There's a houseful," returned Granny, "but we do get along."

"Tough scratching, I should say."

"And poor pickings the chickens might add, if they had such an old
hen," commented Joe soto voce. "There'd be something worse than
clucking."

Hal couldn't help laughing. Mrs. Van Wyck was so ruffled and frilled,
so full of ends of ribbon about the head and neck, that she did look
like a setting hen disturbed in the midst of her devotions.

"Them children haven't a bit of manners," declared Mrs. Van Wyck, in
sublime disregard of syntax. "Trot off, all of you but Florence: I have
something to say to your grandmother."

Joe made a somerset out of the window, and placed himself in a good
listening position; Hal went out and sat on the doorstep; and Charlie
crawled under the table.

"I don't see how you manage to get along with such a houseful. I always
did wonder at your taking 'em."

"Oh! we do pretty well," returned Granny cheerily.

"They're growing big enough to help themselves a little. Why don't you
bind Joe out to some of the farmers. Such a great fellow ought to be
doing something besides racing round and getting into mischief."

Joe made a series of such polite evolutions, that Hal ran to the gate
to have a good laugh without being heard.

"He's going to school," said Granny innocently. "They all begin on
Monday."

"Going to school?" And Mrs. Van Wyck elevated her voice as if she
thought them all deaf. "Why, I never went to school a day after I
was twelve year old, and my father was a well-to-do farmer. There's no
sense in children having so much book-larnin'. It makes 'em proud and
stuck up, and good for nothing.

"Oh! where's that dog? Put him out! Put him out! I can't bear dogs. And
the poorer people are, the more dogs they'll keep."

Joe, the incorrigible, was quite a ventriloquist for his years and
size. He had just made a tremendous ki-yi, after the fashion of the
most snarling terrier dog, and a kind of scrabbling as if the animal
might be under Mrs. Van Wyck's feet.

"Oh, my! Take the nasty brute away. Maybe he's full of fleas or has the
mange"--

"It is only Joe," explained Florence, as soon as she could put in a
word.

"I'd Joe him, if I had him here! You're a ruining of these children
as I've always said; and you may thank your stars if Joe escapes the
gallows. I've positively come on an errand of mercy."

"Not for Joe," declared the owner of the name with a sagacious shake of
the head, while Mrs. Van Wyck paused for breath.

"Yes. Not one of them'll be worth a penny if they go on this way. Now,
here's Florence, growing up in idleness"--

"She keeps pretty busy," said Granny stoutly.

"Busy! Why, you've nothing for her to do. When I was a little girl,
my mother made me sit beside her, and sew patchwork; and before I was
twelve year old I had finished four quilts. And she taught me the
hymn,--

    'Satan finds some mischief still
    For idle hands to do.'"

"They always learn a verse for Sunday," said Granny deprecatingly.

"But you let 'em run wild. I've seen it all along. I was a talkin' to
Miss Porter about it; and says I, 'Now, I'll do one good deed;' and the
Lord knows it's needed."

Everybody listened. Joe from the outside made a pretence of picking his
ears open with the handle of a broken saucepan.

"Florence is getting to be a big girl, and it's high time she learned
something. As I was a sayin' to Miss Porter, 'I want just such a girl;
and it will be the making of Florence Kenneth to fall into good hands.'"

"But you don't mean"--and Granny paused, aghast.

"I mean to make the child useful in her day and generation. It'll be a
good place for her."

Mrs. Van Wyck nodded her head until the bows and streamers flew in
every direction.

Granny opened her eyes wide in surprise.

"What do you want of her, Mrs. Van Wyck?"

Charlie peeped out from between the legs of the table to hear, her
mouth wide open lest she should lose a word.

"Want of her?" screamed the visitor. "Why, to work, of course! I don't
keep idle people about me, I can tell you. I want a girl to make beds,
and sweep, and dust, and wash dishes, and scour knives, and scrub, and
run errands, and do little chores around. It'll be the making of her;
and I'm willing to do the fair thing."

Granny was struck dumb with amazement. Florence could hardly credit her
ears. Hal sprang up indignantly, and Joe doubled his fists as if he
were about to demolish the old house along with Mrs. Van Wyck.

"Yes. I've considered the subject well. I always sleep on a thing
before I tell a single soul. And, if Florence is a good smart girl,
I'll give her seventy-five cents a week and her board. For six dollars
a month I could get a grown girl, who could do all my work."

Granny looked at Florence in helpless consternation; and Florence
looked at Granny with overwhelming disdain.

"Well! why don't you answer?" said the visitor. She had supposed they
would jump at the offer.

"I don't expect to go out doing housework, Mrs. Van Wyck," said
Florence loftily.

"Hoity-toity! how grand we are! I've never been above doing my own
housework; and I could buy and sell the whole bunch of you, a dozen
times over."

"Florence wouldn't like it, I'm afraid," said Granny mildly.

"A fine way to bring up children, truly! You may see the day when
you'll be thankful to have a home as good as my kitchen."

There was a bright red spot in Florence's cheeks.

"Mrs. Van Wyck," Florence began in a quiet, ladylike manner, although
she felt inclined to be angry, "grandmother is right: I should not like
it. I have no taste for housework; and I can earn more than you offer
to give by doing embroidering and crocheting. Through the six weeks of
vacation I earned sixteen dollars."

"Fancy work! What is the world coming to? Children brought up to
despise good, honest employment."

"No, I don't despise it," amended Florence; "but I do not like it, and
I think it a hard way of earning a little money. If I can do better, of
course I have the right."

Granny was amazed at the spirit Florence displayed.

"You'll all be paupers on the town yet, mark my words. Flaunting round
in white dresses and ribbons, and"--

She glanced around for some further vanity to include in her inventory.

"I am sure we are obliged to you," said Granny mildly. "But Florence"--

"Yes, Florence is too good to work. There's no sense in such high-flown
names. I'd have called her plain Peggy. She must curl her hair, and
dress herself--oh my lady, if I had you, you'd see!"

And Mrs. Van Wyck arose in great wrath, her streamers flying wildly.

"You'll remember this when you come to beggary,--refusing a good home
and plenty. Your grandmother is a foolish old woman; and you're a lazy,
shiftless, impudent set! I wash my hands of the whole lot."

"I'm sorry," began Granny.

"There's no use talking. I wouldn't have the girl on any account. I can
get her betters any day. You'll come to no good end, I can tell you!"

With that, Mrs. Van Wyck flounced out; but at the first turn tumbled
over Kit, who had rolled himself in a ball on the doorstep.

Down she went, and Joe set up a shout. Hal couldn't help laughing, and
Charlie ran to pull out Kit.

"You good-for-nothing, beggarly wretches!"

While she was sputtering and scrambling about, Joe began a hideous
caterwauling.

"Drat that cat! Pity I hadn't broken his neck! And my second-best
bonnet!"

Kit hid himself in his grandmother's gown, sorely frightened, and a
little bruised.

[Illustration]

"It's the last time I'll ever step inside of this place. Such an awful
set of children I never did see!"

To use Joe's expressive phraseology, she "slathered" right and left,
her shrill voice adding to the confusion.

Granny watched the retreating figure with the utmost bewilderment.

"The mean old thing!" began Florence, half crying. "Why, I couldn't
stand her temper and her scolding, and to be a common kitchen-girl!"

"She meant well, dear. In my day girls thought it no disgrace to live
out."

"Wasn't it gay and festive, Granny? I believe I've burst every button,
laughing; and you'll have to put a mustard plaster on my side to draw
out the soreness. And oh, Kit, what a horrible yell you gave! How could
you be the ruin of that second best bonnet?"

"'Twasn't me," said Kit, rubbing his eyes. "But she most squeezed the
breath out of me."

"Flossy, here is your fortune, and your coach-and-four. My dear child,
I hope you will not be too much elated, for you must remember"--

    "'Satan finds some mischief still,' &c."

Joe whisked around, holding Dot's apron at full length in imitation of
a streamer.

"I wonder if she really thought I would go. Scouring and scrubbing, and
washing dishes. I'd do with one meal a day first."

"She is a coarse, ill-bred woman," said Hal; "not a bit like Mrs.
Kinsey."

"We will not be separated just yet," exclaimed Granny, with a sigh for
the time that must come.

"And I don't mean to live out," was the emphatic rejoinder of Florence.

"My dear, you mustn't be too proud," cautioned Granny.

"It isn't altogether pride. Why should I wash dishes when I can do
something better?"

"That's the grit, Flossy. I'll bet on you!"

"O Joe! don't. I wish you would learn to be refined. Now, you see all
Mrs. Van Wyck's money cannot make her a lady."

Joe put on a solemn face; but the next moment declared that he must
keep a sharp look out, or some old sea-captain would snap him up, and
set him to scrubbing decks, and holystoning the cable.

And yet they felt quite grave when the fun was over. Their merry
vacation had ended, and there was no telling what a year might bring
forth.

"I think I should like most of all to be a school-teacher," Florence
declared.

"You'll have to wait till you're forty. Who do you s'pose is going to
mind a little gal?"

"Not you; for you never mind anybody," was the severe reply.

Florence felt quite grand on the following day, attired in her new
green delaine, and her "lovely" gloves. Granny was so busy with the
others that she never noticed them; and Florence quieted her conscience
by thinking that the money was her own, and she could do what she liked
with it. She kept self generally in view, it must be admitted.

Mrs. Van Wyck's overture was destined to make quite a stir. She
repeated it to her neighbors in such glowing terms that it really
looked like an offer to adopt Florence; and she declaimed bitterly
against the pride and the ingratitude of the whole Kenneth family.

Florence held her head loftily, and took great pains to contradict the
story; and Joe became the stoutest of champions, though he teased her
at home.

"But it's too bad to have her tell everybody such falsehoods; and,
after all, three dollars a month would be very low wages. Why, Mary
Connor gets a dollar a week for tending Mrs. Hall's baby; and she never
scrubs or scours a thing!"

Truth to tell, Florence felt a good deal insulted.

But the whole five went to school pretty regularly. Hal was very
studious, and Florence also, in spite of her small vanities; but Joe
was incorrigible everywhere.

Florence gained courage one day to ask Mr. Fielder about the prospect
of becoming a teacher. She was ambitious, and desired some kind of a
position that would be ladylike.

"It's pretty hard work at first," he answered with a smile.

"But how long would I have to study?"

"Let me see--you are fourteen now: in three years you might be able
to take a situation. Public schools in the city are always better for
girls, for they can begin earlier in the primary department. A country
school, you see, may have some troublesome urchins in it."

Florence sighed. Three years would be a long while to wait.

"I will give you all the assistance in my power," Mr. Fielder said
kindly. "And I may be able to hear of something that will be to your
advantage."

Florence thanked him, but somehow the prospect did not look brilliant.

Then she thought of dressmaking. Miss Brown had a pretty cottage,
furnished very nicely indeed; and it was her boast that she did it all
with her own hands. She kept a servant, and dressed quite elegantly;
and all the ladies round went to her in their carriages. Then she had
such beautiful pieces for cushions and wonderful bedquilts,--"Though
I never take but the least snip of a dress," she would say with a
virtuous sniff. "I have heard of people who kept a yard or two, but to
my mind it's downright stealing."

There was a drawback to this picture of serene contentment. Miss Brown
was an old maid, and Florence hoped devoutly that would never be her
fate. And then Miss Skinner, who went out by the day, was single also.
Was it the natural result of the employment?




CHAPTER IV.

  THE IDENTICAL SHOE.


They did pretty well through the fall. Joe came across odd jobs,
gathered stores of hickory-nuts and chestnuts; and now and then of an
evening they had what he called a rousing good boil; and certainly
chestnuts never tasted better. They sat round the fire, and told
riddles or stories, and laughed as only healthy, happy children can.
What if they were poor, and had to live in a little tumble-down shanty!

Sometimes Joe would surprise them with a somerset in the middle of the
floor, or a good stand on his head in one corner.

"Joe," Granny would say solemnly, "I once knowed a man who fell that
way on his head off a load of hay, and broke his back."

"Granny dear, 'knowed' is bad grammar. When you go to see Florence in
her palace, you must say knew, to rhyme with blew. But your old man's
back must have grown cranky with rheumatism, while mine is limber as an
eel."

"He wasn't old, Joe. And in my day they never learned grammar."

"Oh, tell us about the good old times!" and Hal's head was laid in
Granny's lap.

The children were never tired of hearing these tales. Days when
Granny was young were like enchantment. She remembered some real
witch stories, that she was sure were true; and weddings, quiltings,
husking-bees, and apple-parings were full of interest. How they went
out sleigh-riding, and had a dance; and how once Granny and her lover,
sitting on the back seat, were jolted out, seat and all, while the
horses went skimming along at a pace equal to Tam O'Shanter's. And how
they had to go to a neighboring cottage, and stay ever so long before
they were missed.

"There'll never be such times again," Joe would declare solemnly.

Florence would breath a little sigh, and wonder if she could ever
attain to beaux and merriment, and if any one would ever quarrel about
dancing with her. How happy Granny must have been!

Dot had a dreadful cold, and Granny an attack of rheumatism; but they
both recovered before Christmas. Every one counted so much on this
holiday. All were making mysterious preparations. Joe and Hal and
Florence had their heads together; and then it was Granny and Florence,
or Granny and Hal.

"I don't dare to stir out," said Joe lugubriously, "lest you may say
something that I shall not hear."

Hal killed three fine young geese. Two were disposed of for a dollar
apiece, and the third he brought to the kitchen in triumph.

"There's our Christmas dinner, and a beauty too!" he announced.

Hal had sold turkeys and chickens enough to buy himself a good warm
winter coat.

Granny had a little extra luck. In fact, it was rather a prosperous
winter with them; and there was nothing like starvation, in spite of
Mrs. Van Wyck's prediction.

They all coaxed Granny to make doughnuts. Joe dropped them in the
kettle, and Hal took them out with the skimmer. How good they did smell!

Kit and Charlie tumbled about on the floor, and were under everybody's
feet; while Dot sat in her high chair, looking wondrous wise.

"How'll we get the stockings filled?" propounded Joe, when the
supper-table had been cleared away.

They all glanced at each other in consternation.

"But where'll you hang 'em?" asked Kit after a moment or two of
profound study.

"Some on the andirons, some on the door-knob, some on the kettle-spout,
and the rest up chimney."

"I say, can't we have two?" was Charlie's anxious question.

"Lucky if you get one full. What a host of youngsters! O Granny! did
you know that last summer I discovered that you were the old woman who
lived in a shoe?"

"O Joe! don't;" and Hal raised his soft eyes reproachfully.

Granny laughed, not understanding Hal's anxiety.

"Because I had so many children?"

"Exactly; but I think you are better tempered than your namesake."

Granny's eyes twinkled at this compliment.

"It was an awful hot day, and Dot was cross enough to kill a cat with
nine lives."

"But she's a little darling now," said Hal, kissing her. "I think the
sand-man has been around;" and he smiled into the little face with its
soft drooping eyes.

"Yes, she ought to be in bed, and Kit and Charlie. Come, children."

"I want to see what's going to be put in my stocking," whined Charlie
in a very sleepy tone.

"No, you can't. March off, you small snipes, or you will find a whip
there to-morrow morning."

That was Joe's peremptory order.

They had a doughnut apiece, and then went reluctantly. Charlie was very
sure that she was wider awake than ever before in her life, and could
not get asleep if she tried all night. Kit didn't believe that morning
would ever come. Hal put on Dot's nightgown, and heard her say, "Now I
lay me down to sleep;" while Joe picked up the cat, and irreverently
whispered,--

    "Now I lay me down to sleep,
    All curled up in a little heap.

    If I should wake before 'tis day,
    What do you s'pose the doctor'd say?"

"O Joe!" remonstrated Granny.

"That's Tabby's prayers. Tabby is a high principled, moral, and
intellectual cat. Now go to sleep, and dream of a mouse."

Tabby winked her eyes solemnly, as if she understood every word; and
it's my firm belief that she did.

Then Granny, Florence, Joe, and Hal sat in profound thought until the
old high clock in the corner struck nine.

"Well," said Joe, "what are we waiting for?"

Hal laughed and answered,--

"For some one to go to bed."

"What is to be done about it?"

Florence looked wise, and said presently,--

"We'll all have to go in the other room except the one who is to put
something in the stockings."

"That's it. Who will begin?"

"Not I," rejoined Joe. "I don't want to be poked down into the toe."

"And I can't have my gifts crushed," declared Florence.

"Hal, you begin."

Hal was very cheerful and obliging. Granny lighted another candle, and
the three retired. He disposed of his gifts, and then called Joe.

Joe made a great scrambling around. One would think he had Santa Claus
himself, and was squeezing him into the small stocking, sleigh, ponies,
and all.

"Now, Granny, it's your turn."

Granny fumbled about a long while, until the children grew impatient.
Afterward Florence found herself sorely straitened for room; but she
had a bright brain, and what she could not put inside she did up
in papers and pinned to the outside, giving the stockings a rather
grotesque appearance, it must be confessed. There they hung in a row,
swelled to dropsical proportions, and looking not unlike stumpy little
Dutchmen who had been beheaded at the knees.

"Now, Granny, you must go to bed," said Joe with an air of importance.
"And you must promise to lie there until you are called to-morrow
morning,--honor bright!"

Granny smiled, and bobbed her flaxen curls.

"Now," exclaimed Florence, bolting the middle door so they would be
sure of no interruption.

Joe went out to the wood-shed, and dragged in a huge shoe. The toe was
painted red, and around the top a strip of bright yellow, ending with
an immense buckle cut out of wood.

"Oh, isn't it splendid!" exclaimed Florence, holding her breath.

"That was Hal's idea, and it's too funny for any thing. Granny could
crawl into it head first. If we haven't worked and conjured to keep Kit
and Charlie out of the secret, then no one ever had a bit of trouble
in this world."

